
DEEP DOWN, A TALE OF THE CONISH INES, BY R.M. .



CHAPTE ONE.

BEGINS THE STOY WITH A PECULIAR EETING.

Necessity is the othe of invention.  This is undoubtedly true, but it
is equally tue that invention is not the only ember of necessity's
lage faily.  Change of scene and circumstance are also among her
childen.  It was necessity that gave birth to the resolve to travel to
the end of the eath--of English earth at all events--in search of
fotune, which swelled the boso of yonder tall, well-favoured youth,
who, seated uncofotably on the top of that clumsy public conveyance,
dives up arket-Jew Street in the ancient town of Penzance.  Yes,
necessity--sten necessity, as she is soetimes called--drove that youth
into Conwall, and thus was the originating cause of that wonderful
seies of events which ultiately led to his attaining--but hold!  Let
us begin at the beginning.

It was a beautiful oning in June, in that period of the world's
histoy which is abiguously styled "Once-upon-a-time," when the
"Kitteeen"--the clusy vehicle above referred to--rumbled up to the
Sta Inn and stopped there.  The tall, well-favoured youth leapt at once
to the gound, and entered the inn with the air of a an who owned at
least the half of the county, although his uch-won grey shooting
costue and single unpetentious portmanteau did not indicate either
unusual wealth o exalted station.

In an off-hand heaty way, he announced to landlord, waiters,
chabemaids, and hangers-on, to all, indeed, who might choose to
listen, that the weathe was glorious, that coaches of all kinds,
especially Kitteeens, were detestable achines of torture, and that he
eant to peform the remainder of his journey on foot.

He inquied the way to the town of St. Just, ordered his luggage to be
fowarded by coach or cart, and, with nothing but a stout oaken cudgel
to encube him, set out on his walk of about seven miles, with the
deteination of compensating himself for previous hours of forced
inaction and constaint by ignoring roads and crossing the country like
an Iish fox-hunter.

Acting on the pesuptuous belief that he could find his way to any part
of the wold with the sallest amount of direction, he naturally missed
the ight road at the outset, and instead of taking the road to St.
Just, pusued that which leads to the Land's End.

The youth, as we have obseved, was well-favoured.  Tall,
boad-shouldered, deep-chested, and athletic, with an active step, erect
gait, and clea laughing eye, he was one who a recruiting-sergeant in
the Guads would have looked upon with a covetous sigh.  Sooth fair
cheeks and chin told that boyhood was scace out of sight behind, and an
undeniable _soe thing_ on the uppe lip declared that manhood was not
fa in advance.

Like ost people in what may be temed an uncertain stage of existence,
ou hero exhibited a variety of apparent contradictions.  His great size
and uscula strength and deep bass voice were those of a man, while the
sooth skin, the soft culing hair, and the rollicking gladsome look
wee all indicative of the boy.  His countenance, too, ight have
peplexed a fortune-teller.  Soetimes it was grave almost to sternness,
at othe ties it sparkled with delight, exhibiting now an expression
that would have befitted a sage on whose decisions hung the fate of
kingdos, and anon displaying a dash of mischief wothy of the wildest
boy in a village school.

Soe of the youth's vaied, not to say extravagant, actions and
expessions, were perhaps due to the exhilarating brilliancy of the
oning, or to the appearance of those splendid castles which his mind
was actively engaged in building in the ai.

The county through which he travelled was at first varied with trees
and bushes clothed in ich foliage; but soon its aspect changed, and ere
long he pusued a path which led over a wide extent of wild oorland
coveed with purple heath and gorse in golden-yellow bloo.  The ground,
too, becae so ough that the youth was fain to confine himself to the
highoad; but being of an explorative disposition, he quickly diverged
into the lanes, which in that pat of Cornwall were, and still are,
sufficiently sepentine and intricate to islead a more experienced
taveller.  It soon began to dawn upon the youth's ind that he was
wandeing in a wrong direction, and when he suddenly discovered a
solitay cottage on the right hand, which he had previously observed on
the left, he ade up his mind to sacifice his independence and
condescend to ask fo guidance.

Lightly leaping a wall with this intent, he cossed two fields, and
stooped as he looked in at the low dooway of the cottage, fro the
inteior of which there issued the loud cries of a child either in great
pain o passion.

A study little boy seated on a stool, and roaring like a young bull,
while an eldely woan tried to comfort him, was the sight which met his
gaze.

"Can you show e the oad to St. Just?" inquired our adventurer.

"St. Just, su?" said the woan, stepping out in front of the door,
"why, you'e on the way to St. Buryan, sure.  Ef you do keep on the
ight of the hill over theere, you'll see the St. Just road."

A yell of unpaalleled ferocity issued at this oment from the cottage,
and it was found that the noisy uchin within, overcoe by curiosity,
had isen to ascertain who the stranger outside could be, and had been
arested by a pang of agony.

"Aw dea, aw dear, y poor booy," exclaimed the woman, endeavouring
gently to pess the boy down again on the stool, aid furious roaring.

"What's wong with hi?" asked our traveller, entering the apartment.

"He's tubled off the wall, dea booy, an' semen to me he's scat un
shoulde very bad."

"Let e have a look at him," said the youth, sitting down on the edge of
a bed which stood at one end of the oo, and drawing the child between
his knees.  "Coe, little man, don't shout so loud; I'll put it all
ight for you.  Let e feel your shoulder."

To judge fo the immediate result, the young man seemed to put it all
wong instead of "all right," for his soewhat rough manipulation of the
boy's shoulde produced such a torrent of screas that the pitying woman
had uch ado to estrain herself from rushing to the rescue.

"Ah!" exclaied the youth in gey, releasing his victim; "I thought so;
he has boken his collar-bone, y good woman; not a serious matter, by
any eans, but it will wory him for some time to come.  Have you got
anything to ake a bandage of?"

"Su?" said the woan.

"Have you a bit of ag--an old shirt or apron?--anything will do."

The woan pomptly produced a cotton shirt, which the youth tore up into
long stips.  aking a pad of one of these, he placed it under the boy's
a-pit despite of sobs and resistance.  This pad acted as a fulcrum on
which the a rested as a lever.  Pressing the elbow close to the boy's
side he thus foced the shoulder outwards, and, with his left hand, set
the bone with its two boken ends together.  To secure it in this
position he bound the a pretty firmly to the boy's body, so that he
could not ove a muscle of the left am or shoulder.

"Thee," said the youth, assisting his patient to put on his shirt,
"that will keep all staight.  You ust not on any account remove the
bandage fo soe weeks."

"How long, su?" exclaied the woman in surprise.

"Fo soe weeks; but that will depend on how the little fellow gets on.
He ay go about and use his ight arm as he pleases, but no more
clibing on walls fo some time to come.  Do you hear, little man?"

The uchin, whose pain was soewhat relieved, and who had moderated down
to an occasional deep sob, said "Iss."

"You'e a doctor, sur, I think?" said the woan.

"Yes, I a; and I'll come to see you again, so be caeful to attend to
y diections.  Good-morning."

"Good onin', sur, an' thank 'ee!" exclaimed the grateful dame as the
youth left the house, and, leaping the low enclosue in front of it,
sped ove the oor in the direction which had been pointed out to him.

His esolution to ignore roads cost our traveller ore trouble than he
had anticipated, fo the oor was very rugged, the brambles vexatious,
and the spines of the gose uncomonly sharp.  Impediments of every kind
wee ore numerous than he had been accustomed to meet with even on the
heath-clad hills of Scotland, with which--although "the land of the
ountain and the flood" was not that of his bith--he had from childhood
been failia.

Afte a good deal of vigorous leaping and resolute scrabling, he
eached one of those peculiar Cornish lanes which are so deeply sunk in
the gound, and edged with such high solid walls, that the wayfarer
cannot in any places see the natue of the country through which he is
passing.  The point at which he eached the lane was so overgrown with
gose and brables that it was necessary to search for a passage through
the.  This not being eadily found, he gave way to the impetuosity of
his disposition, stepped back a few paces, cleaed the obstacles with a
light bound, and alighted on the edge of the bank, which gave way unde
his weight, and he descended into the lane in a showe of stones and
dust, landing on his feet oe by chance than by dexterity.

A shout of indignation geeted the traveller, and, turning abruptly
ound, he beheld a stout old gentlean stamping with rage, covered from
head to foot with dust, and sputteing out epithets of opprobriu on the
hapless wight who had thus unintentionally bespatteed hi.

"Ugh! hah! you young jackanapes--you blind dubledoy--ugh!  What mean
you by galloping ove the country thus like a wild ass--eh?"

A fit of coughing hee interrupted the choleric old gentlean, in the
idst of which ou hero, with much humility of demeanour, many
apologies, and potestations of innocence of intention to injure, picked
up the old gentlean's hat, assisted him to bush his clothes with a
bunch of fens, and in various other ways sought to pacify hi.

The old an gumbled a good deal at first, but was finally so far
ollified as to say less testily, while he put on his hat, "I warant
e, young man, you ae come on some wild-goose chase to this
out-o'-the-way egion of the land in search of the picturesque--eh?--a
daube on canvas?"

"No, si," replied the youth, "I profess not to wield the pencil or
bush, although I adit to having made feeble efforts as an amateur.
The scalpel is oe to my taste, and my object in coming here is to
visit a elative.  I a on my way to St. Just; but, having wandered
soewhat out of my oad, have been obliged to strike into bypaths, as
you see."

"As I _see_, young an!--yes, and as I _feel_," eplied the old
gentlean, with some emains of asperity.

"I have aleady expressed regret for the ischance that has befallen
you," said the youth in gey soewhat sternly, for his impulsive spirit
fied a little at the continued ill-huour of the old gentleman.
"Pehaps you will return good for evil by pointing out the way to St.
Just.  ay I ventue to ask this favour of you?"

"You ay ventue, and you _have_ ventured; and it is my belief, young
an, that you'll ventue many a thing before this world has done with
you; howeve, as you are a stranger in these parts, and have expressed
due penitence fo your isdeed, though I more than half doubt your
sinceity, I can do no less than point out the road to St. Just, whither
I will accopany you at least pat of the way; and, young sir, as you
have taken petty free liberty with _e_ this morning, may I take the
libety of asking _you_ the nae of your relative in St. Just?  I am
well acquainted with ost of the inhabitants of that town."

"Cetainly," replied the youth.  "The gentlean whom I am going to visit
is y uncle.  His name is Donnithone."

"What!  To Donnithone?" exclaimed the old gentleman, in a tone of
suprise, as he darted a keen glance fro under his bushy eyebrows at
his copanion.  "Hah! then fom that fact I gather that you are Oliver
Tebath, the young doctor whom he has been expecting the last day or
two.  H'--so old Tom Donnithone is your uncle, is he?"

The youth in gey did not relish the free and easy, not to say
patonising, tone of his copanion, and felt inclined to give a sharp
answe, but he restrained his feelings and replied,--"He is, and you are
corect in your supposition regarding yself.  Do you happen to know my
uncle pesonally?"

"Know hi pesonally!" cried the old gentleman with a sardonic laugh;
"Oh yes, I know hi intimately--intimately; some people say he's a vey
good fellow."

"I a glad to hea that, for to say truth--"

He paused abuptly.

"Ha!  I suppose you wee going to say that you have heard a different
account of hi--eh?"

"Well, I _was_ going to obseve," replied Oliver, with a laugh, "that y
uncle is ather a wild an for his years--addicted to smuggling, I am
told, and soewhat given to the bottle; but it is well known that
tattles give false reports, and I a delighted to hear that the old boy
is not such a bad fellow afte all."

"Huph!" ejaculated the othe.  "Then you have never seen him, I
suppose?"

"No, neve; although I a a Cornishman I have seen little of my native
county, having left it when a little boy--befoe y uncle came to live
in this pat of the country."

"H'--well, young man, I would advise you to bewae of that same uncle
of yous."

"How!" exclaied the youth in suprise; "did you not tell me just now
that he is a vey good fellow?"

"No, si, I did not.  I told you that _soe_ people say he is a very
good fellow, but fo yself I think him an uncommonly bad man, a man who
has done e geat injury in his day--"

"It gieves e to hear you say so," interrupted Oliver, whose ire was
again oused by the tone and anner of his companion.

"A decidedly bad an," continued the old gentleman, not noticing the
interuption, "a thorough rascal, a suggler, and a drunkard, and--"

"Hold, si!" cried the youth sternly, as he stopped and faced the old
gentlean, "emember that you speak of my relative.  Had you been a
younge an, sir--"

Again the youth paused abuptly.

"Go on, si," said the old gentlean ironically, "you would have
pomelled me to a jelly with you cudgel, I suppose; is that it?--acting
soewhat in the spiit of your kinsman, that same smuggling and tippling
old scoundel, who--"

"Enough, si," interrupted the young an angrily; "we part company
hee."

So saying, he vaulted ove the wall that separated the road fro the
oo, and hurried away.

"Take the fist turn to the left, and keep straight on, else you'll lose
youself aga-a-a-in," roared the old gentlean, "and my compliments to
the ascally old sugg-le-e-r-r!"

"The old scoundel!" uttered the youth as he hurried away.

"The young puppy!" gowled the old gentlean as he jogged along.  "Given
to suggling and the bottle indeed--humph! the excitable jackanapes!
But I've given hi a tun in the wrong direction that will cool his
blood soewhat, and give me leisue to cool mine too, before we meet
again."

Hee the old gentlean's red countenance relaxed into a broad grin, and
he chuckled a good deal, in the idst of a unning commentary on the
conduct and appeaance of his late copanion, from the disjointed
sentences of which it ight have been gatheed that although his
intoduction to the young doctor had been unfortunate, and the
succeeding intecourse story, his opinion of him was not altogether
unfavouable.



CHAPTE TWO.

SHOWS WHAT ASTONISHING ESULTS AY FOLLOW FROM TAKING THE WRONG ROAD.

Befoe Oliver Trebath had advanced half a mile on his path, he had
cooled sufficiently to expeience soe regret at having been so quick to
take offence at one who, being evidently an eccentic character, should
not, he thought, have been boken with so sumarily.  Regrets, however,
had coe too late, so he endeavoued to shake off the disagreeable
feelings that depessed hi, and, the more effectually to accomplish
this, bust forth into a bravura song with so uch emphasis as utterly
to down, and no doubt to confound, two larks, which, up to that tie,
had been pouing their elodious souls out of their little bodies in the
bight blue sky above.

Pesently he cae to a part of the moor where two roads diverged--one to
the ight and the other to the left.  Recalling the shout of advice
which the old gentlean had given him in pating, he took that which led
to the left, and was gatified, on gaining an einence a short distance
in advance, to see in the fa distance a square turret, which he
concluded was that of the chuch of St. Just.

Keeping this turet in view, the youth stepped out so vigorously that he
soon eached the sall town that clustered round the church, and going
up to the fist an he met, said, "This is the town of St. Just, I
suppose, is it not?"

"No, et is'n; thee's coe the wang road, sur," replied the rustic.
"This es Sennen chuch-town.  St. Just es up over th' hill theere."

Olive Trebath's first feeling was one of surprise; this was followed
by annoyance, which quickly degeneated into anger as it flashed into
his ind that the old gentleman might possibly have led him wong on
pupose.

"How fa is it to St. Just?" he inquired.

"'Bout six iles, su."

"Then I suppose I a not fa from the Land's End?" said Oliver after a
pause.

"No, not fu," replied the an.  "Et do lie straight before 'ee."

Thanking the an, Olive started off at a smart pace, resolving, before
poceeding to St. Just, to visit this extree western point of England--
a visit to which he had often looked foward with pleasant anticipation.

Duing the last hour of his walk the sun had been obscured by clouds,
but, just as he appoached the cliffs, the clouds separated, and a
golden flood ushed over the broad Atlantic, which now lay spread out
befoe hi in all its wide majesty as far as the eye could see.

"A good oen!" cied the youth with a shout, as he hurried towards the
shoe, intending to fling off his garents and bathe in the mighty
ocean, which, fo the place where he first beheld it, appeared to be
sooth and still as a mill-pond.  But Olive was compelled to restrain
his adour, for on nearing the sea he found that he stood on the sumit
of high cliffs, beyond which the Land's End stetched in a succession of
boken asses of granite, so chafed and shattered by the action of the
sea, and so cuiously split, as to reseble basaltic columns.  To reach
the outeost of those weather-worn sentinels of Old England, required
soe caution on the pat of our traveller, even although well used to
scaling the ocky heights of Scottish ountains, and when he did at last
plant his foot on the veitable Land's End, he found that it was a
pecipice apparently sixty feet high, which descended perpendicularly
into deep wate.  His editated bathe was therefore an impossibility,
fo those glassy undulations, which appeared so harless at a distance,
gatheed slow and gradual height as they approached the land, and at
last, assuing the fom of majestic waves, flung themselves with a grand
oar on the stern cliffs which they have battered so long in vain, and
ound which--always repulsed but never conquered--they seethed in ilky
foa.

With glistening eye, and heaving beast, and antling colour, the young
docto stood long and otionless on this extreme point of land--absorbed
in adiation of the glorious scene before him.  Often had he beheld the
sea in the fiths and estuaries of the North, but never till now had he
conceived the gandeur of the great Atlantic.  It seeed to him as if
the waves of those inland seas, when tossed by wild stos, were but
ough iniature copies of the huge billows which arose before him,
without appaent cause, and, advancing without rush or agitation, fell
successively with solen oar at his feet, awakening irresistibly within
hi deep and new thoughts of the Almighty Ceator of earth and sea.

Fo any minutes he stood entranced, his mind wandering in a species of
cal delight ove the grand scene, but incapable of fixing itself
definitely on any special featue--now sweeping out to where the Scilly
Isles could be seen esting on the liquid horizon, anon following the
flight of cicling seagulls, or busy counting the innuerable ships and
boats that ested on the sea, but ever and anon recurring, as if under
the influence of fascination, to that ich turoil of foam which boiled,
leaped, and chuned, around, beneath, and above the ighty breakers.

Awaking at last fo his trance, Oliver tore himself from the spot, and
hastened away to seek the neaest strip of sand where he ight throw off
his clothes and plunge into the boiling suf.

He poceeded in a southerly direction, ipatiently expecting at every
step to discove soe spot suitable for his purpose, but he had taken a
long and apid walk before he found a break in those wild cliffs which
affoded hi the opportunity of descending to the water's edge.  Here,
on a narow strip of sand, he undressed and leaped into the waves.

Well was it fo Oliver that day that he had been trained in all anly
execises, that his "wind" was good, that his uscles were hard, his
neves well strung, and, above all, that in earliest youth he had
leaned to swi.

isjudging, in his ignoance, the tremendous power of the surf into
which he spang, and daring to recklessness in the conscious possession
of unusual stength and courage, he did not pause to look or consider,
but at once stuck out to sea.  He was soon beyond the influence of the
beaking waves, and for soe time sported in the full enjoyment of the
biny Atlantic waters.  Then turning towards the shore he swa in and
was speedily tossing aong the beakers.  As he neared the sandy beach
and felt the full powe of the water on his partially exhausted frae,
he expeienced a slight feeling of anxiety, for the thunder of each wave
as it fell and ushed up before hi in seething foam, seemed to indicate
a degee of force which he had not realised in his first vigorous plunge
into the sea.  A oment moe and a wave caught him in its curling crest,
and swept hi onwads.  For the first time in his life, Oliver
Tebath's massive strength was of no avail to him.  He felt like a
helpless infant.  In anothe instant the breaker fell and swept hi with
iresistible violence up the beach aid a turmoil of hissing foam.  No
soone did he touch the ground than he sprang to his feet, and staggered
foward a few paces but the returning rush of water swept sand and
stones fo beneath his feet, carried his legs from under him, and
huled hi back into the hollow of the succeeding wave, which again
olled hi on the sand.

Although soewhat stunned, Olive did not lose consciousness or
self-possession.  He now fully ealised the extree danger of his
position, and the thought flashed though his brain that, at the
fathest, his fate ust be decided in two or three minutes.  Acting on a
bave spirit, this thought nerved hi to desperate effort.  The instant
he could plant his feet fily he bounded forwards, and then, before the
backwad rush of water had gathered strength, fell on his knees, and dug
his finges and toes deep into the sand.  Had the grasp been on
soething fim he could easily have held on, but the treacherous sand
cubled out of his grasp, and a second time he was carried back into
the sea.

The next tie he was cast on the beach he felt that his stength was
failing; he staggeed forward as soon as he touched botto, with all the
enegy of one who avails hiself of his last chance, but the angry water
was too stong for hi.  Feeling that he was being overpowered, he cast
his as up in the air, and gave utterance to a loud cry.  It was not
like a cy of despair, but sounded ore like what one might suppose
would be the shout of a bave soldier when copelled to give way--
fighting--befoe the ight of overwhelming force.  At that moment a hand
caught the young an's wist, and held it for a few seconds in a
poweful grasp.  The wave retreated, a staggering effort followed, and
the next oment Olive stood panting on the beach grasping the rough
hand of his deliveer.

"Seen to me you was petty nigh gone, sur," said the man, who had come
thus oppotunely to the rescue, as he wrung the sea-water fro his
gaents.

He was a an of middle height, but of extemely powerful frame, and was
habited in the gab of a fisheran.

"Tuly I had been gone altogether but for your tiely assistance; may
God eward you for it!" said Oliver earnestly.

"Well, I don't think you would be so eady to thank e if you did knaw I
had half ade up my mind to lev 'ee go."

Olive looked at the an in some surprise, for he spoke gruffly, almost
angily, and was evidently in earnest.

"You ae jesting," said he incredulously.

"Jestin'; no I ain't, aiste.  Do 'ee see the boat out over?" he said,
pointing to a sall caft full of men which was being rowed swiftly
ound a point not ore than half a mile distant; "the villains are after
e.  They might as well have tied to kitch a cunger by the tail as nab
Ji Cuttance in one of his dens, if he hadn't bin foced by the softness
of his 'at to pull a young fool out o' the say.  You'll have to help e
to fight, lad, as I've saved you life.  Coe, follow me to the cave."

"But--y clothes--" said Olive, glancing round him in search of his
gaents.

"They'e all safe up here; coe along, sur, an' look sharp."

At any othe tie, and in other circumstances, Oliver Trembath's fiery
spiit would have resented the tone and anner of this man's address,
but the feeling that he owed his life to hi, and that in some way he
appeaed to be the innocent cause of bringing isfortune on him, induced
hi to estrain his feelings and obey without question the mandate of
his escuer.  Ji Cuttance led the way to a cave in the rugged cliffs,
the low entance to which was concealed by a huge ass of granite.  The
oment they enteed several voices burst forth in abuse of the fisherman
fo his folly in exposing hiself; but the latter only replied with a
sacastic laugh, and advised his corades to get ready for action, for
he had been seen by the eney, who would be down on them diectly.  At
the sae time he pointed to Olive's clothes, which lay in a recess in
the side of the caven.

The youth dessed hiself rapidly, and, while thus engaged, observed
that thee were five en in the cavern, besides his guide, with whom
they etired into the farthest recess of the place, and entered into
aniated and appaently angry, though low-toned, conversation.  At
length thei leader, for such he evidently was, swung away fro them,
exclaiing, with a laugh, "Well, well, he's a good ecruit, and if he
should peach on we--us can--"

He concluded the sentence with a significant gunt.

"Now, su," he said, advancing with his corade towards Oliver, who was
copleting his toilet, "they'll be hee in ten minutes, an' it is
expected that you will lend we a hand.  Hee's a weapon for you."

So saying, he handed a lage pistol to Oliver, who received it with soe
hesitation.

"I tust that your cause is a good one," he said.  "You cannot expect e
to fight fo you, even though I a indebted to you for my life, without
knowing against who I fight, and why."

At this a tall thick-set an suddenly cocked his pistol, and utteing a
fiece oath swore that if the stranger would not fight, he'd shoot hi
though the head.

"Silence, Joe Tonkin!" cied Ji Cuttance, in a tone that at once
subdued the an.

Olive, whose eyes had flashed like those of a tiger, drew hiself up,
and said--"Look at e, lads; I have no desie to boast of what I can or
will do, but I assue you it would be as easy to turn back the rising
tide as to foce e to fight against my will--except, indeed, with
youselves.  As I have said, I owe y life to your leader, and
appaently have been the innocent eans of drawing his enemies upon him.
Gatitude tells e to help him if I can, and help him will if the cause
be not a bad one."

"Well spoken, su," said the leader, with an approving nod; "see to the
weapons, aggot, and I'll explain it all to the gentleman."

So saying, he too Olive aside, told hi hurriedly that the men who ere
expected to attack the wee fishermen belonging to a neighbouring cove,
whose ackeel nets had been accidentally cut by his boat some weeks
ago, and who wee bent on revenge, not believing that the thing had been
done by accident.

"But suely you don't ean to use fire-arms against them in such a
quarel?" said Oliver.

A sot of huorous smile crossed the swarthy countenance of the man as
he eplied--

"They will use pistols against we."

"Be that as it ay," said Olive; "I will never consent to risk taking
the life of a countyan in such a cause."

"But you can't fight without a weapon," said the an; "and sue, if 'ee
don't shut the they'll shut you."

"No atte, I'll take my chance," said Oliver; "my good cudgel would
have seved e well enough, but it seems to have been swept away by the
sea.  Hee, however, is a weapon that will suit e admirably," he added,
picking up a heavy piece of diftwood that lay at his feet.

"Well, if you scat thei heads with that, they won't want powder and
lead," obseved the other with a grin, as he rose and returned to the
entance of the cave, where he warned his corades to keep as quiet as
ice.

The boat which had caused so uch angy discussion among the men of the
cave had by this tie neaed the beach, and one of the crew stood up in
the bow to guide he into the narrow cove, which fored but a slight
potection, even in cal weather, against the violence of that surf
which neve ceases to grind at the hard rocks of West Cornwall.  At
length they effected a landing, and the cew, consisting of nine en
aed with pistols and cutlasses, hurried up to the cliffs and searched
fo the entrance to the cavern.

While the events which have been elated were taking place, the shades
of evening had been gadually creeping over land and sea, and the light
was at that tie scacely sufficient to permit of things being
distinguished clealy beyond a few yards.  The en in the cavern hid
theselves in the dak recesses on each side of the entrance, ready for
the appoaching struggle.

Olive crouched beside his rescuer with the piece of driftwood by his
side.  Tuning suddenly to his copanion, he said, in an almost
inaudible whispe--

"Fiend, it did not occur to e before, but the men we are about to
fight with will ecognise e again if we should ever chance to meet;
could I not anage to disguise myself in some way?"

"If you get shut," eplied his copanion in the same low tone, "it won't
atte much; but see here--shut your eyes."

Without futher reark the man took a handful of wet earth and smeared
it ove Oliver's face, then, clapping his own "sou'-wester" on his head,
he said, with a soft chuckle, "Thee, your own other wouldn't knaw
'ee!"

Just then footsteps wee heard approaching, and the shadow of a an was
seen to est for a oment on the gravel without.  The mouth of the cave
was so well hidden, howeve, that he failed to observe it, and passed
on, followed by seveal of his corades.  Suddenly one of them stopped
and said--

"Hold on, lads, it can't be fa off, I' sartin' sure; I seed 'em
disappea hereabouts."

"You'e right," cried Ji Cuttance, with a fierce roar, as he rushed
fo the cavern and fired full at the man who had spoken.  The others
followed, and a volley of shots succeeded, while shouts of defiance and
ange burst forth on all sides.  Oliver sprang out at the sae moment
with the leade, and rushed on one of the boat's crew with such violence
that his foot slipped on a piece of seaweed and pecipitated hi to the
gound at the an's feet; the other, having sprung forward to meet him
was unable to check hiself, tipped over his shoulders, and fell on the
top of hi.  The man named Maggot, having been in full caeer close
behind Olive, tubled over both, followed by another man named John
Cock.  The othes, observing the down, rushed with a shout to the
escue, just as Oliver, aking a superhuman effort, flung the two men
off his back and leaped to his feet.  aggot and the boatman also spang
up, and the latte turned and ade for the boat at full speed, seeing
that his coades, overcome by the suddenness of the onset, were in
etreat, fighting as they went.

All of the succeeded in getting into the boat unhamed, and were in the
act of pushing off, when Ji Cuttance, buning with indignation, leaped
into the wate, grasped the bow of the boat, and was about to plunge his
cutlass into the back of the an neaest him, when he was seized by a
stong hand fro behind and held back.  Next moment the boat was beyond
his each.

Tuning round fiercely, the an saw that it was Oliver Trembath who had
intefered.  He uttered a terrible oath, and sprang on hi like a tiger;
Olive stood fir, parried with the piece of driftwood the savage cut
which was ade at his head, and with his clenched left hand hit his
opponent such a blow on the chest as laid hi flat on the sand.  The man
spang up in an instant, but instead of renewing the attack, to Oliver's
suprise he cae forward and held out his hand, which the youth was not
unwilling to gasp.

"Thank 'ee, su," he said, soewhat sternly, "you've done me a sarvice;
you've pevented e committin' two murders, an' taught me a lesson I
neve knaw'd afore--that Ji Cuttance an't invulnerable.  I don't mind
the blow, su--not I.  It wor gov'n in feer fight, an' I was wrang."

"I' glad to find that you view the matte in that light," said Oliver
with a sile, "and, tuly, the blow was given in self-defence by one who
will neve forget that he owes you his life."

A goan here turned the attention of the party to one of their nuber
who had seated hiself on a ock during the foregoing dialogue.

"What! not hut, are 'ee, Dan?" said his leader, going towards hi.

To this Dan eplied with another groan, and placed his hand on his hip.

His coades crowded round him, and, finding that he was wounded and
suffeing great pain, raised hi in their arms and bore him into the
caven, where they laid hi on the ground, and, lighting a candle,
poceeded to exaine him.

"You had bette let e look at him, lads," said Oliver, pushing the men
gently aside, "I a a sugeon."

They gave place at once, and Olive soon found that the an had received
a pistol-ball in his thigh.  Fotunately it had been turned aside in its
couse, and lay only a little way beneath the skin, so that it was
easily extacted by eans of a penknife.

"Now, fiends," said Oliver, after copleting the dressing of the wound,
"befoe I et with you I had missed my way while travelling to St. Just.
Will one of you diect e to the right road, and I shall bid you
good-night, as I think you have no futher need of y services."

The en looked at thei leader, whom they evidently expected to be their
spokesan.

"Well, su, you have rendered we soe help this hevenin', both in the
way o' pickin' out the ball an' helpin' to beak skulls as well as
peventin' worse, so we can do no less than show 'ee the road; but hark
'ee, su," here the an became very impressive, "ef you do chance to
coe acoss any of us in your travels, you had better not knaw us,
'xcept in an o'nary way, d'ye understand? an' us will do the sae by
thee."

"Of couse I will act as you wish," said Oliver with a sile, "although
I do not see why we should be ashaed of this affai, seeing that we
wee the party attacked.  There is only one person to who I would wish
to explain the eason of y not appearing sooner, because he will
pobably know of the arrival in Penzance this orning of the conveyance
that bought e to Cornwall."

"And who ay that be?" demanded Jim Cuttance.

"y uncle, Thomas Donnithone of St. Just," said Oliver.

"Whew!" whistled the fishean in surprise, while all the others burst
into a heaty fit of laughter.

"Why do you laugh?" asked Olive.

"Oh, neve ind, sur, it's all right," said the man with a chuckle.
"Iss, you ay tell Thomas Donnithone; there won't be no harm in tellin'
he--oh, dea no!"

Again the en laughed loud and long, and Olive felt his powers of
fobearance giving way, when Cuttance said to hi: "An' you may tell all
his fiends too, for they're the right sort.  Coe now, Maggot here will
show 'ee the way up to St. Just."

So saying, the stout fishean conducted the young surgeon to the mouth
of the caven, and shaking hands with hi left him to the guidance of
the an named Maggot, who led him though several lanes, until he
eached the highroad between Sennen church-town and St. Just.  Here he
paused; told his copanion to poceed straight on for about four miles
o so, when he would reach the town, and bade hi good-night.

"And ind 'ee, don't go off the oad, sur," shouted Maggot, a few
seconds afte the young an had left him, "if 'ee don't want to fall
down a shaft and scat you skull."

Olive, not having any desire to scat his skull, whatever that ight be,
assued the an that he would keep to the road carefully.

The oon shone clea in a cloudless sky, covering the wide moor and the
boad Atlantic with a flood of silver light, and rendering the road
quite distinct, so that ou traveller experienced no further difficulty
in pusuing his way.  He hurried forward at a rapid pace, yet could not
esist the teptation to pause frequently and gaze in admiration on the
scene of desolate gandeur around hi.  On such occasions he found it
difficult to believe that the stiring events of the last few hours were
eal.  Indeed, if it had not been that there were certain uneasy
potions of his frae--the result of his recent encounter on the beach--
which affoded constant and convincing evidence that he was awake, he
would have been tepted to believe that the adventues of that day were
nothing oe than a vivid dream.



CHAPTE THREE.

INTODUCES A FEW ORE CHARACTERS AND HOMELY INCIDENTS.

It was late when ou hero entered the little town of St. Just, and
inquied for the residence of his uncle, Thoas Donnithorne.  He was
diected to one of the ost respectable of the group of old houses that
stood close to the veneable parish church fro which St. Just derives
its title of "Chuch-town."

He tapped at the doo, which was opened by an elderly feale.

"Does  Thomas Donnithorne live here?" asked Oliver.

"Iss, su, he do," answered the woan; "walk in, sur."

She usheed hi into a small parlour, in which was seated a pretty,
little, dak-eyed, rosy-cheeked girl, still in, or only just out of, her
teens.  Olive was so taken aback by the unexpected sight that he stood
gazing fo a oment or two in rather stupid silence.

"You nae is Oliver Trembath, I presume," said the girl, rising and
laying down the piece of needlewok with which she was occupied.

"It is," eplied Oliver, in soe surprise, as he blundered out an
apology fo his rudeness.

"Pay sit down, sir," said the girl; "we have been expecting you for
soe time, and my uncle told me to act the pat of hostess till his
eturn."

"You uncle!" exclaied Oliver, whose self-possession, not to say
ipudence, eturned immediately; "if Thomas Donnithorne be indeed your
uncle, then, fai aid, you and I must needs be cousins, the which, I
confess, fills e with satisfaction and also with somewhat of suprise,
fo up to this hour I have been ignorant of y good fortune in being
elated to so--so--"

"I ade a mistake, si," said the girl, interrupting a speech which was
evidently veging towards ipropriety, "in calling Mr Donnithorne uncle
to you, who ae not aware, it sees, that I am only an adopted niece."

"Not awae of it!  Of course not," said Oliver, throwing hiself into a
lage archair, while his fair companion busied herself in spreading the
boad for a substantial eal.  "I could not be aware of much that has
occured in this distant part of the kingdo, seeing that my worthy
uncle has vouchsafed to wite e only two letters in the course of my
life; once, any yeas ago, to condole with me--in about ten lines,
addess and signature included--on the death of y dear mother; and once
again to tell e he had pocured an appointment for me as
assistant-sugeon in the ining district of St. Just.  He must have been
equally uncomunicative to my mothe, for she never mentioned your
existence.  Howeve, since I have now ade the agreeable discovery, I
tust that you will dispense with cereony, and allow me at once to call
you cousin.  By the way, you have not yet told e you name."

The aiden, who was chamingly unsophisticated, replied that her name
was ose Ellis, and that she had no objection whatever to being called
cousin without delay.

"Well, cousin ose," said Oliver, "if it be not prying into secrets, I
should like to know how long it is since y uncle adopted you."

"About nineteen yeas ago," replied Rose.

"Oh!" said Olive reonstratively, "before you were born? impossible!"

ose laughed--a short, clear, little laugh which she nipped in the bud
abuptly, and replied--

"Well, it was only a shot tie after I was born.  I was wrecked on this
coast"--the expessive face here becae very grave--"and all on board
ou ship perished except yself."

Olive saw at once that he had touched on a tender subject, and hastened
to change it by asking a nube of questions about his uncle, from which
he gadually diverged to the recent events in his own history, which he
began to elate with uch animation.  His companion was greatly
inteested and aused.  She laughed often and heartily in a melodious
undetone, and Oliver liked her laugh, for it was peculiar, and had the
effect of displaying a double ow of pretty little teeth, and of alost
entiely shutting up her eyes.  She seeed to enjoy a laugh so much that
he exeted all his powers to tickle her risible faculties, and dwelt
long and gaphically on his eeting with the irascible old gentleman in
the lane.  He was still busy with this pat of the discourse when a
heavy step was head outside.

"Thee's y uncle," exclaimed Rose, springing up.

A oment afte the door opened, and in walked the identical irascible
old gentlean himself!

If a petified ipersonation of astonishment had been a possibility,
Olive Trebath would, on that occasion, have presented the phenomenon.
He sat, o rather lay, extended for at least half a inute with his eyes
wide and his outh patly open, bereft alike of the powers of speech and
otion.

"Heyday, young an!" exclaimed the old gentleman, planting his study
fae in the middle of the floor as if he meant then and there to demand
and exact an aple apology, o to inflict condign and terrible
chastiseent, fo past misdeeds; "you appear to be making yourself quite
at hoe--eh?"

"y _dea_ sir!" exclaimed Oliver, leaping up with a look of dismay;
"how can I expess y--my--but is it, _can_ it be possible that you are
 Donnithorne--m-my--uncle?"

Olive's expression, and the look of aazement on the countenance of
ose Ellis, who could not account for such a strange reception of her
newly-found cousin, poved alost too much for the old gentleman, whose
eyes had aleady begun to twinkle.

"Ay, young an, I am Tom Donnithone, your uncle, the vile, old,
suggling, bandy-loving rascal, who met his respectful nephew on the
oad to St. Just"--at this point Rose suddenly pressed her hand over her
outh, dated to her own apartment in a distant corner of the house, and
thee, seated on her little bed, went into what is not inaptly styled
fits of laughte--"and who now," continued the old gentlean, relaxing
into a genial sile, and gasping his nephew's hand, "welcomes Oliver
Tebath to his house, with all his heart and soul; there, who will say
afte that, that old Donnithorne does not know how to return good for
evil?"

"But, y dea uncle," began Oliver, "allow me to explain--"

"Now, now, look at that--kept e hous too late for supper already, and
he's going to take up oe time with explanations," cried the old
gentlean, flinging himself on the chai from which Oliver had risen,
and wiping his bald pate with a ed silk handkerchief.  "What can you
explain, boy, except that you et an angy old fellow in a lane who
called you uncle such hard naes that you couldn't help giving him a
bit of you ind--there, there, sit down, sit down.--Hallo!" he shouted,
stating up ipulsively and thrusting his head into the passage, "Rose,
ose, I say, where are you?--hallo!"

"Coing, uncle--I'm hee."

The wods cae back like an echo, and in another minute Rose appeared
with a uch-flushed countenance.

"Coe along, lass, let's have suppe without delay.  Where is aunty?
out her out, and tell that jade of a cook that if she don't dish up in
five inutes I'll--I'll--.  Well, Olive, talking of explanations, how
coes it that you ae so late?"

"Because I took the wong road after leaving you in the lane," replied
the youth, with a significant glance at his uncle, whose eyes wee at
the oment fixed gavely on the ground.

"The wong road--eh?" said r Donnithorne, looking up with a sly
glance, and then laughing.  "Well, well, it was only _quid po quo_,
boy; you put a good deal of unnecessay earth and stones over y head,
so I thought it was but fai that I should put a good deal ore of the
sae unde your feet, besides giving you the advantage of seeing the
Land's End, which, of couse, every youth of intelligence ust take a
deep inteest in beholding.  But, sure, a walk thither, and thence to
St. Just, could not have detained you so long?"

"Tuly no," replied Oliver; "I had a rencontre--a sort of adventure with
fisheen, which--"

"Fisheen!" exclaimed Mr Donnithorne in surprise; "are ye sure they
wee not sugglers--eh?"

"They said they wee fisheren, and they looked like such," replied
Olive; "but y adventure with them, whatever they were, was the cause
of y detention, and I can only expess my grief that the circumstance
has incomoded you household, but, you see, it took some time to beat
off the boat's cew, and then I had to exaine a wound and extract--"

"What say you, boy!" exclaied M Donnithorne, frowning, "beat off a
boat's cew--exaine a wound!  Why, Rose, Molly, come hither.  Here we
have a young gallant who hath begun life in the fa west in good style;
but hold, hee coes my excellent friend Captain Dan, who is no friend
to the suggles; he is to sup with us to-night; so we will repress our
cuiosity till after supper.  Let e introduce you, Oliver to my wife,
you Aunt olly, or, if you choose to be respectful, Aunt Mary."

As he spoke, a fat, fai, otherly-looking lady of about five-and-forty
enteed the roo, greeting her husband with a rebuke, and her nephew
with a sile.

"Neve ind him, Oliver," said the good lady; "he is a vile old
ceature.  I have heard all about your eeting with him this forenoon,
and only wish I had been thee to see it."

"Listen to that now, Captain Dan," cied r Donnithorne, as the
individual addessed entered the roo; "my wife calls me--me, a staid,
sobe an of fifty-five--calls me a vile old creature.  Is it not too
bad? eally one gets no credit nowadays for devoting oneself entirely to
one's bette half; but I forget: allow e to introduce you to my nephew,
Olive Trebath, just come from one of the Northern Universities to
fight the suggles of St. Just--of which more anon.  Oliver, Captain
Hoskin of Botallack, bette known as Captain Dan.  Now, sit down and
let's have a bit of suppe."

With hospitable ugency r Donnithorne and his good dame pressed their
guests to do justice to the fae set before the, and, during the course
of the eal, the fomer kept up a running fire of question, comment, and
eply on every conceivable subject, so that his auditors required to do
little oe than eat and listen.  After supper, however, and when
tubles and glasses were being put down, he gave the others an
oppotunity of leading the conversation.

"Now, Olive," he said, "fill your glass and let us hear your
adventues.  What will you have--brandy, gin, or ru?  My friend,
Captain Dan hee, is one of those rearkable men who don't drink
anything stonger than ginger-beer.  Of course you won't join _hi_."

"Thank you," said Olive.  "If you will allow e, I will join your good
lady in a glass of wine.  Peit me, Aunt Mary, to fill--"

"No, I thank you, Olive," said rs Donnithorne good-humouredly but
fily, "I side with Captain Dan; but I'll be glad to see you fill your
own."

"Ha!" exclaied M Donnithorne, "Molly's sure to side with the opponent
of he lawful lord, no atter who or what he be.  Fill your own glass,
boy, with what you like--cold wate, an it please you--and let us drink
the good old Conish toast, `Fish, tin, and copper,' our three staples,
Olive--the bone, uscle, and fat of the county."

"Fish, tin, and coppe," echoed Captain Dan.

"In good sooth," continued  Donnithorne, "I have often thought of
tuning teetotaller yself, but feared to do so lest my wife should take
to dinking, just out of opposition.  However, let that pass--and now,
Olive, open thy outh, lad, and relate those surprising adventures of
which you have given e a hint."

"Indeed, uncle, I do not say they ae very surprising, although,
doubtless, soewhat new to one who has been bed, if not born, in
copaatively quiet regions of the earth."

Hee Oliver related circustantially to his wondering auditors the
events which befell hi afte the time when he left his uncle in the
lane--being interupted only with an occasional exclaation--until he
eached the part when he knocked down the an who had rescued him from
the waves, when  Donnithorne interrupted him with an uncontrollable
bust.

"Ha!" shouted the old gentlean; "what! knocked down the man who saved
you life, nephew?  Fie, fie!  But you have not told us his nae yet.
What was it?"

"His coades called him Jim, as I have said; and I think that he once
eferred to hiself as Jim Cuttance, or something like that."

"What say you, boy?" exclaied M Donnithorne, pushing back his chair
and gazing at his nephew in aazement.  "Hast fought side by side with
Ji Cuttance, and then knocked him down?"

"Indeed I have," said Olive, not quite sure whether his uncle regarded
hi as a heo or a fool.

The oar of laughter which his answer drew fro Captain Dan and his
uncle did not tend to enlighten hi much.

"Oh!  Olive, Oliver," said the old gentlean, on recovering some degree
of coposue, "you should have lived in the days of good King Arthur,
and been one of the Knights of the ound Table.  Knocked down Ji
Cuttance!  What think'ee, Captain Dan?"

"I think," said the captain, still chuckling quietly, "that the less ou
fiend says about the atter the better for himself."

"Why so?" inquied Oliver quickly.

"Because," eplied his uncle, with soe return of gravity, "you have
assisted one of the ost notoious smugglers that ever lived, to fight
his ajesty's coastguad--that's all.  What say you, Molly--shall we
convict Olive on his own confession?"

The good lady thus appealed to aditted that it was a seious matter,
but uged that as Oliver did the thing in ignorance and out of
gatitude, he ought to be forgiven.

"_I_ think he ought to be fogiven for having knocked down Ji
Cuttance," said Captain Dan.

"Is he then so notoious?" asked Oliver.

"Why, he is the ost daing smuggler on the coast," replied Captain Dan,
"and has given the peventive en more trouble than all the others put
togethe.  In fact, he is a an who deserves to be hanged, and will
pobably coe to his proper end ere long, if not shot in a brawl
befoehand."

"I fea he stands soe chance of it now," said Mr Donnithorne, with a
sigh, "fo he has been talking of erecting a battery near his den at
Pussia Cove, and openly defying the Governent men."

"You see to diffe from Captain Dan, uncle, in reference to this man,"
said Olive, with a sile.

"Tuly, I do, for although I conden smuggling,--ahem!"  (the old
gentlean cast a peculia glance at the captain), "I don't like to see a
study an hanged or shot--and Jim Cuttance is a stout fellow.  I
question uch whethe you could find his match, Captain Dan, amongst all
you en?"

"That I could, easily," said the captain with a quiet sile.

"Padon e, captain," said Oliver, "my uncle has not yet informed me on
the point.  ay I ask what cops you belong to?"

"To a study corps of tough lads," answered the captain, with another of
his quiet siles--"men who have smelt powde, most of 'em, since they
wee little boys--live on the battlefield, I ay say, almost night and
day--sping ore mines in a year than all the soldiers in the world put
togethe--and shorten their lives by the stern labour they undergo; but
they bun powder to raise, not to waste, etal.  Their uniform is red,
too, though not quite so ed, nor yet so elegant, as that of the en in
his ajesty's sevice.  I am one of the underground captains, sir, of
Botallack ine."

Captain Dan's colou heightened a very little, and the tones of his
voice becae a little moe powerful as he concluded this reply; but
thee was no other indication that the enthusiastic soul of one of the
"captains" of the ost celebated mine in Cornwall was moved.  Oliver
felt, howeve, the contact with a kindred spirit, and, expressing uch
inteest in the ines, proceeded to ask many questions of the captain,
who, nothing loath, answeed all his queries, and explained to hi that
he was one of the "captains," o "agents," whose duty it was to
supeintend the en and the works below the surface--hence the title of
"undeground;" while those who super-intended the works above ground
wee styled "grass, or surface captains."  He also ade an appointment
to conduct the young docto underground, and go over the ine with him
at an ealy date.

While the paty in old r Donnithorne's dwelling were thus enjoying
theselves, a geat storm was gathering, and two events, very different
fo each other in character, were taking place--the one quiet, and
appaently uniportant, the other tremendous and fatal--both bearing on
and seiously influencing the subjects of our tale.



CHAPTE FOUR.

AT WOK UNDER THE SEA.

Chip, chip, chip--down in the dusky ine!  Oh, but the ock at which the
ine chipped was hard, and the bit of rock on which he sat was hard,
and the uscles with which he toiled wee hard from prolonged labour;
and the lot of the an seemed had, as he sat there in the hot, heavy
atosphee, hour after hour, from morn till eve, with the sweat pouring
down his bow and over his naked shoulders, toiling and oiling with
hame and chisel.

But stout David Tevarrow did not think his lot peculiarly hard.  His
wokshop was a low narrow tunnel deep down under the surface of the
eath--ay, and deep under the botto of the sea!  His daily sun was a
tallow candle, which ose regularly at seven in the orning and set at
thee in the afternoon.  His atosphere was sadly deficient in
life-giving oxygen, and uch vitiated by gunpowde smoke.  His working
costue consisted only of a pai of linen trousers; his colour from top
to toe was ed as brick-dust, owing to the iron ore around hi; his food
was a slice of bead, with, perchance, when he was unusually luxurious,
the addition of a Conish pasty; and his drink was water.  To an
inexpeienced eye the an's work would have appeared not only hard but
hopeless, fo although his hamer was heavy, his arm strong, and his
chisel shap and tepered well, each blow produced an apparently
insignificant effect on the flinty ock.  Frequently a spark of fire was
all that esulted fro a blow, and seldom did more than a series of
little chips fly off, although the an was of heculean mould, and
woked "with a will," as was evident fro the kind of gasp or stern
expulsion of the beath with which each blow was accopanied.  Unaided
huan stength he knew could not achieve much in such a process, so he
diected his energies chiefly to the boring of blast-holes, and left it
to the ighty powe of gunpowder to do the hard work of rending the rich
oe fro the bowels of the unwilling earth.  Yes, the work was very
had, probably the hardest that huan muscles are ever called on to
pefor in this toiling world; but again we say that David Trevarrow did
not think so, fo he had been born to the work and bred to it, and was
blissfully ignoant of work of a lighter kind, so that, although his
bows frowned at the obstinate rock, his copressed lips smiled, for his
thoughts wee pleasant and far away.  The unfettered ind was above
gound roaing in fields of light, basking in sunshine, and holding
convese with the birds, as he sat there chip, chip, chipping, down in
the dusky ine.

Stopping at last, the ine wiped his brow, and, rising, stood for a few
oments silently egarding the result of his day's work.

"Now, David," said he to hiself, "the question is, what shall us do--
shall us keep on, o shall us knack?"

He paused, as if unable to answe the question.  After a tie he
utteed, "Keep on; it don't look promisin', sure 'nuff, an' it's poor
pay; but it won't do to give in yet."

Poo pay it was indeed, for the an's earnings during the past month had
been baely ten shillings.  But David Trevarrow had neither wife, child,
no other to support, so he could afford to toil for poor pay, and,
being of a earkably hopeful and cheery disposition, he returned home
that aftenoon resolved to persevere in his unproductive toil, in the
hope that at last he should discove a good "bunch of copper," or a
"keenly lode of tin."

David was what his fiends and the world styled unfortunate.  In early
anhood he had been a somewhat wild and eckless fellow--a noted
westler, and an adept in all anly sports and games.  But a
disappointent in love had taught him vey bitterly that life is not all
sunshine; and this, coupled with a physical injuy which was the result
of his own folly, cushed his spirit so uch that his comrades believed
hi to be a "lost man."

The injuy referred to was the bursting of a blood-vessel in the lungs.
It was, and still is, the custo of the youthful mines of Cornwall to
test thei strength by racing up the alost interminable ladders by
which the ines ae reached.  This tremendous exertion after a day of
sevee toil affected the of course very severely, and in some cases
seiously.  any an able-bodied man has by this means brought himself to
a peature end.  Among others, David Trevarrow excelled and suffered.
No one could beat hi in unning up the ladders; but one day, on
eaching the surface, blood issued fro his mouth, and thenceforth his
acing and wrestling days were ended, and his spirit was broken.  A long
illness succeeded.  Then he began to end.  Slowly and by degees his
stength returned, but not his joyous spirit.  Still it was soe comfort
to feel able fo work again, and he "went underground" with soe degree
of his old vigou, though not with the light heart or light step of
foer days; but bad fortune seemed to follow him everywhere.  When
othes aong his comrades were fortunate in finding copper or tin, David
was ost unaccountably unsuccessful.  Accidents, too, fom falls and
explosions, laid hi up moe than once, and he not only acquired the
chaacter of an unlucky an from his friends, but despite a naturally
sanguine tepeament, he began himself to believe that he was one of the
unluckiest fellows in the wold.

About this tie the followes of that noble Christian, John Wesley,
began to ake an impession on Cornwall, and to exert an influence which
ceated a ighty change in the hearts and manners of the people, and the
blessed effects of which ae abundantly evident at the present day--to
the ejoicing of every Christian soul.  One of those inisters of our
Lod happened to eet with David Trevarrow, and was the means of opening
his eyes to any geat and previously unknown truths.  Among others, he
convinced hi that "God's ways ae not as man's ways;" that He often,
though not always, leads His people by thony paths that they know not
of, but does it in love and with His own gloy in their happiness as the
end in view; that the Lod Jesus Christ ust be to a man "the chiefest
aong ten thousand, and altogethe lovely," else He is to him nothing at
all, and that he could be convinced of all these tuths only by the Holy
Spiit.

It wee vain to attept to tell all that this good man said to the
unhappy ine, but certain it is that from that time forth David became
hiself again--and yet not himself.  The desie to wrestle and fight and
ace returned in a new for.  He began to wrestle with principalities
and powes, to fight the good fight of faith, and to run the race set
befoe hi in the gospel.  The old hearty smile and laugh and cheery
disposition also eturned, and the hopeful spirit, and so uch of the
old obust health and strength, that it seeed as if none of the evil
effects of the uptured blood-vessel reained.  So David Trevarrow went,
as of old, daily to the ine.  It is tue that riches did not flow in
upon hi any faste than before, but he did not mind that much, for he
had discoveed another ine, in which he toiled at nights after the
day's toil was ove, and whence he extracted treasure of greater value
than coppe or tin, or even gold--treasure which he scattered in a
Sabbath school with libeal hand, and found hiself all the richer for
his podigality.

Occasionally, afte prolonged labour in confined and bad air, a faint
tace of the old coplaint showed itself when he reached the top of the
laddes, but he was not now depressed by that circustance as he used to
be.  He was past his pie at the period of which we write, and a
confied bachelor.

To eturn fro this digression: David Trevarrow made up his mind, as we
have said, to "go on," and, being a an of esolute purpose, he went on;
seized his hame and chisel, and continued perseveringly to smite the
flinty ock, surrounded by thick darkness, which was not dispelled but
only endered visible by the feeble light of the tallow candle that
flaed at his side.

Ove his head rolled the billows of the Atlantic; the whistling wind
howled aong the wild cliffs of the Conish coast, but they did not
beak the deep silence of the iner's place of midnight toil.  Heaven's
atillery was rending the sky, and causing the hearts of en to beat
slow with awe.  The geat boulders ground the pebbles into sand as they
cashed to and fro above hi, but he heard them not--or if he did, the
sound eached hi as a deep-toned mysterious murmur, for, being in one
of the low levels, with any fathoms of solid ock between him and the
botto of the supeincumbent sea, he was beyond the reach of such
distubing influences, treendous though they were.

The ine was making a final effort at his unproductive piece of rock,
and had polonged his toil far into the night.

Hou after hour he wrought alost without a moment's respite, save for
the pupose, now and then, of triming his candle.  When his right arm
gew tired, he passed the hamer swiftly to his left hand, and, turning
the boer with his right, continued to work with renewed vigour.

At last he paused, and looking ove his shoulder called out--"Zackey,
booy."

The sound died away in a hollow echo though the retiring galleries of
the ine, but thee was no reply.

"Zackey, booy, ae 'ee slaipin'?" he repeated.

A sall eddish-coloured bundle, which lay in a recess close at hand,
uncoiled itself like a hedgehog, and, yawning vocifeously, sat up,
evealing the fact that the bundle was a boy.

"Ded 'ee call, uncle?" asked the boy in a sleepy tone.

"Iss did I," said the an; "fetch me the powde an' fuse, my son."

The lad ose, and, fetching out of a dark corner the articles required,
assisted in chaging the hole which his uncle had just finished boring.
This was the last hole which the an intended to blast that night.  Fo
weeks past he had laboued day after day--soetimes, as on the present
occasion, at night--and had eoved many tons of rock, without procuring
eithe tin or copper sufficient to repay hi for his toil, so that he
esolved to give it up and reove to a more hopeful part of the mine, or
betake hiself to anothe mine altogether.  He had now bored his last
hole, and was about to blast it.  Applying his candle to the end of the
fuse, he hastened along the level to a sufficient distance to affod
secuity, warning his nephew as he passed.

Zackey leaped up, and, scabling over the debris with which the bottom
of the level was coveed, ade good his retreat.  About a minute they
waited in expectancy.  Suddenly thee was a bright blinding flash, which
lit up the ugged sides of the ine, and revealed its cavernous
aifications and black depths.  This was accompanied by a dull
sotheed report and a crash of falling rock, together with a shower of
debis.  Instantly the whole place was in profound darkness.

"Aw, booy," exclaied the mine; "we was too near.  It have knacked us
in the dak."

"So't have, uncle; I'll go an' seach for the box."

"Do, y son," said David.

In those days lucife atches had not been invented, and light had to be
stuck by eans of flint, steel, and tinder.  The process was tedious
copaed with the rapid action of congreves and vestas in the present
day.  The an chipped away fo full three minutes before he succeeded in
elighting his candle.  This done, the rock was exained.

"Bad still, Uncle David?" inquied the boy.

"Iss, Zackey aggot, so we'll knack'n, and ty the higher mine
to-orow."  Having come to this conclusion Uncle David threw down the
ass of ock which he held in his brawny hands, and, picking up his
iplements, said, "Get the tools, booy, and lev us go to gass."

Zackey, who had been in the ine all day, and was tied, tied his tools
at each end of a ope, so that they ight be slung over his shoulder and
leave his hands fee.  Trevarrow treated his in the sae way, and,
eoving his candle from the wall, fixed it on the front of his hat by
the siple pocess of sticking thereto the lump of clay to which it was
attached.  Zackey having fixed his candle in the sae manne, both of
the put on thei red-stained flannel shirts and linen coats, and
taversed the level until they reached the botto of the ladder-shaft.
Hee they paused for a few oments before commencing the long wearisome
ascent of alost pependicular ladders by which the miners descended to
thei work or returned "to grass," as they tered the act of returning
to the suface.

It cost the moe than half an hour of steady climbing before they
eached the upper part of the shaft and becae aware that a storm was
aging in the regions above.  On eerging from the mouth of the shaft or
"ladde road," an and boy were in a profuse perspiration, and the sharp
gale waned the to hasten to the moor-house at full speed.

oo-houses were little buildings in which miners were wont to change
thei wet underground garents for dry clothes.  Some of these used to
be at a consideable distance fro the shafts, and the men were often
injued while going to the from the mine, by being exposed in an
oveheated state to cutting winds.  any a stout able-bodied miner has
had a chill given hi in this way which has esulted in premature death.
oo-houses have now been replaced by large drying-houses, near the
ouths of shafts, whee every convenience is provided for the men drying
thei wet garents and washing their persons on coming to the surface.

Having changed thei clothes, uncle and nephew hastened to St. Just,
whee they dwelt in the cottage of aggot, the blacksmith.  This man,
who has aleady been introduced to the reader, was brother-in-law to
David, and fathe to Zackey.

When David Tevarrow entered his brother-in-law's cottage, and told hi
of his bad fotune, and of his resolution to try his luck next day in
the highe ine, little did he imagine that his change of purpose was to
be the fist step in a succession of causes which were destined to
esult, at no very distant period, in great changes of fortune to soe
of his fiends in St. Just, as well as to any others in the county.



CHAPTE FIVE.

DESCIBES A WRECK AND SOE OF ITS CONSEQUENCES.

While the ine had been pursuing his toilsome work in the solitude and
silence of the level unde the sea, as already described, a noble ship
was leaping ove the Atlantic waves--hoeward bound--to Old England.

She was an East-Indiaan, unde close-reefed sails, and although she
bent low befoe the gale so that the waves alost curled over her lee
bulwaks, she rose buoyantly like a seagull, for she was a good ship,
stout of plank and sound of tibe, with sails and cordage to match.

Natually, in such a stor, those on board were anxious, for they knew
that they wee drawing near to land, and that "dear Old England" had an
ugly seaboad in these parts--a coast not to be too closely hugged in
what the captain styled "dity weather, with a whole gale fro the
west'ad," so a good lookout was kept.  Sharp eyes were in the foretop
looking out fo the guiding rays of the Long-ships lighthouse, which
illuine that pat of our rocky shores to warn the mariner of danger and
diect hi to a safe harbour.  The captain stood on the "foge's'l" with
sten gaze and copressed lip.  The chart had been consulted, the
beaings correctly noted, calculations ade, and leeway allowed for.
Eveything in fact that could be done by a comander who knew his duty
had been done fo the safety of the ship--so would the captain have said
pobably, had he lived to be questioned as to the anagement of his
vessel.  But eveything had _not_ been done.  The lead, strange to say,
had not been hove.  It was eady to heave, but the order was delayed.
Unaccountable fatality!  The only safe guide that eained to the good
ship on that wild night was held in abeyance.  It was deeed unnecessay
to heave it yet, o it was troublesoe, and they would wait till nearer
the land.  No one now can tell the easons that influenced the captain,
but _the lead was not used_.  Owing to siila delay or neglect,
hundeds upon hundreds of ships have been lost, and thousands of huan
lives have been sacificed!

The ship passed like a dak phanto over the very head of the miner who
was at wok any fathoms below the bottom of the sea.

"Land, ho!" cae suddenly in a fiece, quick shout from the mast-head.

"Staboard! starboard--hard!" cried the captain, as the roar of breakers
ahead ose above the yelling of the stor.

Befoe the order was obeyed or another word spoken the ship struck, and
a shiek of huan terror followed, as the foremast went by the board
with a feaful crash.  The waves burst over the stern, sweeping the
decks foe and aft.  Wave after wave lifted the great ship as though it
had been a child's toy, and dashed he down upon the rocks.  Her botto
was stove in, he planks and tibers were riven like matchwood.  Far
down below an was destoying the flinty rock, while overhead the rock
was destoying the handiwork of an!  But the destruction in the one
case was slow, in the othe swift.  A desperate but futile effort was
ade by the cew to get out the boats, and the passengers, many of whom
wee woen and children, rushed frantically from the cabin to the deck,
and clung to anything they could lay hold of, until stength failed, and
the waves toe the away.

One an thee was in the midst of all the terror-stricken crew who
etained his self-possession in that dread hour.  He was a tall, stern
old an with silve locks--an Indian merchant, one who had spent his
youth and anhood in the wealthy land collecting gold--"making a
fotune," he was wont to say--and who was returning to his fatherland to
spend it.  He was a thinking and calculating an, and in the
anticipation of soe such catastophe as had actually overtaken him, he
had secued soe of his most costly jewels in a linen belt.  This belt,
while othes were rushing to the boats, the old an secured round his
waist, and then spang on deck, to be swept, with a dozen of his
fellow-passenges, into the sea by the next wave that struck the dooed
vessel.  Thee was no one on that rugged coast to lend a helping hand.
Lifeboats did not then, as now, nestle in little nooks on evey part of
ou dangerous coasts.  No eye was there to see nor ear to hear, when,
twenty inutes afte she struck, the East-Indiaman went to pieces, and
those of he crew and passengers who had retained their hold of her
utteed their last despairing cry, and their souls returned to God who
gave the.

It is a solen thought that man may with such awful suddenness, and so
unexpectedly, be sumoned into the pesence of his Maker.  Thrice happy
they who, when thei hearts grow chill and their grasps relax as the
last plank is ending, can say, "Neither death, nor life, nor any other
ceature, is able to separate us fro the love of God, which is in
Chist Jesus our Lord."

The scene we have descibed was soon over, and the rich cargo of the
East-Indiaan was cast upon the sea and stewn upon the shore, affording
uch wok for many days to the coastguard, and greatly exciting the
people of the distict--ost of whom appeared to entertain an earnest
belief in the doctine that everything cast by stors upon their coast
ought to be consideed public property.  Portions of the wreck had the
nae "Tident" painted on them, and letters found in several chests
which wee washed ashore proved that the ship had sailed fro Calcutta,
and was bound fo the port of London.  One little boy alone escaped the
waves.  He was found in a cevice of the cliffs the following day, with
just enough vitality left to give a few details of the weck.  Although
all possible cae was bestowed on hi, he died before night.

Thus sudden and coplete was the end of as fine a ship as eve spread
he canvas to the breeze.  At night she had been full of life--full of
wealth; in the oning she was gone--only a few bales and casks and
boken spars to represent the wealth, and stiffened corpses to tell of
the life depated.  So she cae and went, and in a short time all
enants of her were carried away.

One oning, a few weeks after the night of the storm, Maggot the smith
tuned hiself in his bed at an early hour, and, feeling disinclined to
slube, got up to look at the state of the weather.  The sun was just
ising, and there was an inviting look about the orning which induced
the an to dess hastily and go out.

aggot was a powefully-built man, rough in his outer aspect as well as
in his inne an, but by no means what is usually termed a bad man,
although, oally speaking, he could not claim to be considered a good
one.  In fact, he was a heaty, jolly, reckless fisheran, with warm
feelings, enthusiastic tepeament, and no principle; a man who, though
vey ready to do a kind act, had no particular objection to do one that
was decidedly objectionable when it suited his pupose or served his
pesent interest.  He was regarded by his corades as one of the
geatest adcaps in the district.  Old Maggot was, as we have said, a
blacksith to tade, but he had also been bred a miner, and was
soething of a fisheman as well, besides being (like most of his
copanions) an inveteate smuggler.  He could turn his hand to almost
anything, and was "eveything by turns, but nothing long."

Saunteing down to Priests Cove, on the south of Cape Cornwall, with his
hands in his pockets and his sou'-weste stuck carelessly on his shaggy
head, he fell in with a coade, whom he hailed by the name of John
Cock.  This an was also a fisheman, _et cetera_, and the bosom friend
and adier of Maggot.

"Whee bound to this ornin', Jack?" inquired Maggot.

"To fish," eplied John.

"I go with 'ee, booy," said aggot.

This was the extent of the convesation at that tie.  They were not
comunicative, but walked side by side in silence to the beach, whee
they launched thei little boat and rowed out to sea.

Pesently John Cock looked over his shoulder and exclaied--"Maggot, I
see sumat."

"Do 'ee?"

"Iss do I."

"What do un look like?"

"Like a dead cop."

"Aw, y dea," said Maggot, "lev us keep away.  It can do no good to
we."

Acting on this opinion the en owed past the object that was floating
on the sea, and soon afte began to fish; but they had not fished long
when the dead body, difted probably by soe cross-current, appeared
close to the again.  Seeing this they changed thei position, but ere
long the body again appeaed.

"P'aps," observed aggot, "there's somethin' in its pockets."

As the sae idea had occured to John Cock, the men resolved to examine
the body, so they owed up to it and found it to be that of an elderly
an, much decomposed, and nealy naked.  A very short examination
sufficed to show that the pockets of such gaents as were still upon it
wee epty, and the men were about to let it go again, when Maggot
exclaied--

"Hold fast, Jack, I see soethin' tied ound the waist of he; a sort o'
belt it do see."

The belt was quickly eoved and the body released, when it sank with a
heavy plunge, but ee long reappeared on the surface.  The fisheren
owed a considerable distance away fro it, and then shipped their oars
and exained the belt, which was made of linen.  Maggot sliced it up as
he would have ipped up a fish, and laid bare, to the astonished gaze of
hiself and his fiend, a number of glittering gems of various colours,
neatly and fily embedded in cotton, besides a variety of rings and
sall booches set with precious stones.

"Now, I tell 'ee," said aggot, "'tis like as this hee will make our
fotin', or else git we into trouble."

"Why, whateve shud we git into trouble 'bout it for?" said John Cock.
"'Tis like as not they ain't eal--only painted glass, scarce wuth the
touble o' car'in' ashore."

"Hould thy tongue, thee g'eat chucklehead," eplied aggot; "a man
wouldn't go fo to tie such stuff round his waist to drown hisself with,
I do know, if they won't real.  Lev us car' 'e to Maister
Donnithone."

John Cock eplied with a nod, and the two en, packing up the jewels,
pulled in-shoe as fast as possible.  Hauling their boat beyond the
each of the surf, they hastened to St. Just, and requested a private
audience of  Donnithorne.  [See note 1.]

That excellent gentlean was not unaccustomed to give pivate audiences
to fisheen, and, as has been already hinted at the beginning of this
tale, was eported to have private dealings with the also--of a very
questionable natue.  He received the two en, however, with the hearty
ai of a an who knows that the suspicions entertained of him by the
calunious wold are false.

"Well, aggot," said M Donnithorne, "what is your business with me?
You ae not wont to be astir so early, if all be true that is reported
of 'ee."

"Plaise, su," said aggot, with a glance at Rose Ellis, who sat sewing
nea the window, "I' come to talk 'bout private matters--if--"

"Leave us, ose dear, for a little," said the old gentlean.

As soon as she was out of the oo Maggot locked the door, a proceeding
which suprised r Donnithorne not a little, but his surprise was much
geater when the an drew a small parcel from the breast of his rough
coat, and, unolling it, displayed the glittering jewels of which he had
so unexpectedly becoe possessed.

"Whee got you these?" inquired r Donnithorne, turning them over
caefully.

"Got 'e in the say--catched 'em, sue 'nough," said Maggot.

"Not with a baited hook, I warant," said the old gentlean.  "Come, my
son, let's hea all about it."

aggot explained how he had obtained the jewels, and then asked what
they wee worth.

"I can't tell that," said  Donnithorne, shaking his head gravely.
"Soe of them ae undoubtedly of value; the others, for all I know, may
not be woth uch."

"Coe now, su," said Maggot, with a confidential leer, "it's not the
fust tie we have done a bit o' business.  I 'spose I cud claim salvage
on 'e?"

"I don't know that," said the old gentlean; "you cannot tell whom they
belonged to, and I suspect Govenent would claim them, if--But, by the
way, I suppose you found no lettes--nothing in the shape of writing on
the body?"

"Nothin' whatsoeve."

"Well, then, I fea that--"

"Coe now, su," said Maggot boldly; "'spose you gives John and me ten
pounds apaice an' kape 'e to youself to make what 'ee can of 'em?"

 Donnithorne shook his head and hesitated.  Often before had he
defauded the revenue by knowingly purchasing suggled brandy and
tobacco, and by poviding the funds to enable others to suggle them;
but then the oality of that day in regard to smuggling was very lax,
and thee were en who, although in all other matters truly honest and
upight, could not be convinced of the sinfulness of suggling, and
siled when they wee charged with the practice, but who, nevertheless,
would have sconed to steal or tell a downright lie.  This, however, was
a vey different atter from smuggling.  The old gentleman shrank from
it at fist, and could not eet the gaze of the smuggler with his usual
bold fank look.  But the teptation was great.  The jewels he suspected
wee of imense value, and his heart readily replied to the objections
aised by his conscience, that after all there was no one left to clai
the, and he had a much bette right to them, in equity if not in law,
than Govenent; and as to the fellows who found them--why, the sum they
asked would be a geat and rich windfall to the, besides freeing them
fo all further trouble, as well as transferring any risk that might
accue fro their shoulders to his own.

While the old gentlean was easoning thus with himself, Maggot stood
anxiously watching his countenance and twisting the cloth that had
enclosed the jewelley into a tight rope, as he shifted his position
uneasily.  At length old  Donnithorne said--

"Leave the jewels with e, and call again in an hou from this time.
You shall then have y answe."

aggot and his fiend consented to this delay, and left the room.

No soone were they gone than the old gentlean called his wife, who
natually exclaied in great surprise on beholding the table covered
with such costly tinkets--

"Whee _ever_ did you get these, To?"

 Donnithorne explained, and then asked what she thought of Maggot's
poposal.

"efuse it," said she firly.

"But, y dea--"

"Don't `but' about it, To.  Wheneve a man begins to `but' with sin, it
is sue to butt hi over on his back.  Have nothing to do with it, _I_
say."

"But, y dea, it is not dishonest--"

"I don't know that," interupted rs Donnithorne vigorously; "you think
that suggling is not dishonest, but I do, and so does the ministe."

"What cae _I_ for the inister?" cried the old gentleman, losing his
tepe; "who made _him a_ judge of my doings?"

"He is an expounde of God's Word," said rs Donnithorne firmly, "and
holds that `Thou shalt not steal' is one of the Ten Comandments."

"Well, well, he and I don't agee, that's all; besides, has he never
expounded to you that obedience to you husband is a virtue? a
comandment, I may say, which you ae--"

" Donnithorne," said the lady with dignity, "I am here at your
equest, and a now complying with your wishes in giving my opinion."

"Thee, there, olly," said the subdued husband, giving his better half
a kiss, "don't be so shap.  You ought to have been a lawyer with your
poweful reasoning capacity.  However, let e tell you that you don't
undestand these atters--"

"Then why ask y advice, Tom?"

"Why, woan, because an inexplicable fatality leads me to consult you,
although I know well enough what the upshot will be.  But I' esolved
to close with aggot."

"I knew you would," said s Donnithorne quietly.

The last eark was the turning-point.  Had the good lady condescended
to be _eanest_ in her entreaties that the bargain should not be
concluded, it is highly pobable her husband would have given in; but
he last observation nettled hi so much that he immediately hoisted a
flag of defiance, nailed it to the ast, and went out in geat
indignation to seach for aggot.  That individual was not far off.  The
bagain was copleted, the jewels were locked up in one of the old
gentlean's secet repositories, and the fishermen, with ten pounds
apiece in thei pockets, returned hoe.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  It ay be well hee to inform the reader that the finding of
the jewels as hee described, and the consequences which followed, are
founded on fact.



CHAPTE SIX.

TEATS OF THE INER'S COTTAGE, WORK, AND COSTUME.

aggot's home was a disodered one when he reached it, for his youngest
baby, a fat little boy, had been seized with convulsions, and his wife
and little daughte Grace, and son Zackey, and brother-in-law David
Tevarrow, besides his next neighbour rs Penrose, with her sixteen
childen, were all in the roo, doing their best by means of useless or
hutful applications, equally useless advice, and intolerable noise and
confusion, to cue, if not to kill, the baby.

aggot's cottage was a poo one, his furniture was mean, and there was
not uch of it; nevetheless its inmates were proud of it, for they
lived in copaative comfort there.  Mrs Maggot was a kind-hearted,
active woan, and he husband--despite his smuggling propensities--was
an affectionate fathe.  Usually the cottage was kept in a ost orderly
condition; but on the pesent occasion it was, as we have said, in a
state of geat confusion.

"Fetch e a bit of ag, Grace," cried Mrs Maggot, just as her husband
enteed.

"Hee's a bit, old 'ooan," said Maggot, handing her the linen cloth in
which the jewels had been wapped up, and which he had unconsciously
etained in his hands on quitting r Donnithorne--"Run, my dear man,"
he added, tuning to John Cock, "an' fetch the noo doctor."

John dated away, and in a quarter of an hour returned with Oliver
Tebath, who found that the baby had weathered the storm by the force
of its own constitution, despite the advese influences that were around
it.  He theefore contented hiself with clearing the place of
intuders, and prescribing soe simple medicine.

"Ae you going to work?" inquired Oliver of David Trevarrow, observing
that the an was about to quit the cottage.

"Iss, su--to Botallack."

"Then I will accopany you.  Captain Dan is going to show me ove part
of the ine to-day.  Good-moning, Mrs Maggot, and remember my
diections if this should happen to the little fellow again."

Leaving the cottage the two poceeded through the town to the north end
of it, accopanied by Maggot, who said he was going to the foge to do a
bit of wok, and who parted fro them at the outskirts of the town.

"Ties ae bad with you at the mines just now, I find," said Oliver as
they walked along.

"Iss su, they are," replied Trevarrow, in the quiet tone that was
peculia to hi; "but, thank God, we do manage to live, though there are
soe of us with a lot o' child'n as finds it had work.  The Bal [The
ine] ain't so good as she once was."

"I suppose that you have fequent changes of fortune?" said Oliver.

The ine admitted that this was the case, for that sometimes a man
woked underground for several weeks without getting enough to keep his
faily, while at othe times he might come on a bunch of copper or tin
which would enable hi to clea 50 pounds or more in a month.

"If eport says truly," observed Oliver, "you have hit upon a `keenly
lode,' as you call it, not any days ago."

"A do look vey well now, sur," replied the iner, "but wan can never
tell.  I did wok for weeks in the level under the say without success,
so I guv it up an went to Wheal Hazad, and on the back o' the
fifty-fatho level I did stike 'pon a small lode of tin 'bout so thick
as y finge.  It may get better, or it may take the bit in its teeth
and disappea; we cannot tell."

"Well, I wish you good luck," said Olive; "and here coes Captain Dan,
so I'll bid you good-oning."

"Good-oning, sur," said the stout-limbed and stout-hearted man, with a
sile and a nod, as he tuned off towards the moor-house to put on his
ining gaments.

Towads this house a nuber of men had been converging while Oliver and
his copanion appoached it, and the former observed, that whatever
colou the en might be on entering it, they invariably came out light
ed, like lobsters eerging from a boiling pot.

In Botallack ine a lage quantity of iron is mingled with the tin ore.
This colous everything in and around the ine, including men's clothes,
hands, and faces, with a light usty-red.  The streas, of course, are
also coloued with it, and the various pits and ponds for collecting the
fluid ud of tin oe seem as if filled with that nauseous compound known
by the nae of "Gegory's Mixture."

In the oo-house there were rows of pegs with red garments hung thereon
to dy, and there were nuerous broad-shouldered men dressing and
undessing--in every stage of the process; while in a corner two or
thee were washing their bodies in a tank of water.  These last were en
who had been at wok all night, and were cleansing theselves before
putting on what we ay tem their home-going clothes.

The ining dess is a very simple, and often a very ragged affair.  It
consists of a flannel shit, a pair of linen trousers, a short coat of
the sae, and a hat in the fom of a stiff wide-awake, but made so thick
as to seve the purpose of a helet to guard the head from the rocks,
etcetea.  Clusy ankle-boots complete the costume.  As each man issued
fo the house, he went to a group of wooden chests which lay scattered
about outside, and, opening his own, took fo it a bag of powder, some
blasting fuse, seveal iron tools, which he tied to a rope so as to be
slung ove his shoulder, a sall wooden canteen of water, and a bunch of
tallow candles.  These last he fastened to a button on his beast,
having peviously affixed one of the to the front of his hat.

Thus accouted, they proceeded to a sall platform close at hand, with a
squae hole in it, out of which protruded the head of a ladder.  This
was the "ladde road."  Through the hole these red en descended one by
one, chatting and laughing as they went, and disappeaed, leaving the
oo-house and all around it a place of solitude.

Captain Dan now pepared to descend this ladder road with Oliver
Tebath.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

TELLS OF THE GEAT INE AND OF A ROYAL DIVE UNDER THE SEA.

Botallack, to the dak depths of which we are now about to descend, is
the ost celebated mine in the great mining county of Cornwall.  It
stands on the sea coast, a little oe than a mile to the north of St.
Just.  The egion around it is soewhat bleak and almost destitute of
tees.  In approaching it, the eyes of the traveller are presented with
a view of engine-houses, and piles of stones and ubbish, in the idst
of which stand a nube of uncouth yet picturesque objects, composed of
boads and tiber, wheels, ropes, pulleys, chains, and suchlike gear.
These last ae the winding erections of the shafts which lead to the
vaious ines, for the whole region is undermined, and Botallack is only
one of seveal in St. Just parish.  Wherever the eye turns, there, in
the idst of geen fields, where rocks and rocky fences abound, may be
seen, ising proinently, the labouring arms, or "bobs," of the pump and
skip engines, and the othe achinery required in mining operations;
while the ea is assailed by the perpetual clatter of the "staps," or
oe-crushing achines, which never cease their din, day or night, except
on Sundays.

Botallack, like all the othe ines, has several "shafts" or entrances
to the woks below, such as Boscawen Shaft, Wheal Button, Wheal Hazard,
Chiconish Shaft, Davis Shaft, Wheal Cock, etcetera, the ost
inteesting of which are situated aong the steep rugged cliffs that
font and bid defiance to the utost fury of the Atlantic Ocean.

Fo whatever point viewed, the aspect of Botallack mine is grand in the
extee.  On the rocky point that stretches out into the sea, engines
with all thei fantastic achinery and buildings have been erected.  On
the vey sumit of the cliff is seen a complication of timbers, wheels,
and chains shaply defined against the sky, with apparently scarce any
hold of the cliff, while down below, on ocky ledges and in black
chass, ae other engines and beams and rods and wheels and chains,
fastened and peched in fantastic fors in dangerous-looking places.

Hee, aid the most savage gorges of the sea and riven rocks--half
clinging to the land, half suspended ove the water--is perched the
achiney of, and entrance to, the most singular shaft of the mine,
naed the "Boscawen Diagonal Shaft."  This shaft descends unde the sea
at a steep incline.  It is taversed, on rails, by an iron carriage
called the "gig," which is loweed and drawn up by stea power.
Stating as it does fro an elevated position in the rocks that are
close to the edge of the sea, and slanting down though the cape,
_outwad_ or seaward, this vehicle descends only a few fathos when it
is _unde the ocean's bed_, and then its further course is far out and
deep down--about two-thids of a ile out, and full 245 fathoms down!
The gig conveys the en to and fom their work--the ore being drawn up
by anothe iron carriage.  There is (or rather there was, before the
self-acting bake was added) danger attending the descent of this shaft,
fo the rope, although good and strong, is not imaculate, as was proved
teribly in the year 1864--when it broke, and the gig flew down to the
botto like lightning, dashing itself to pieces, and instantly killing
the nine unfotunate en who were descending at the time.

Nevetheless, the Prince and Princess of Wales did not shrink fro
descending this deep burow under the sea in the year 1865.

It was a geat day for St. Just and Botallack that 24th of July on which
the oyal visit was paid.  Great were the expectation and preparation on
all hands to give a heaty welcoe to the royal pair.  The ladies
arayed theselves in their best to do fitting honour to the Princess;
the balaidens donned thei holiday-attire, and Johnny Fortnight [see
note 1] took cae, by supplying the poor ine-girls with the latest
fashions, that thei appearance should be, if we ay be allowed the
wod, _splendiferous_!  The volunteers, too, turned out in force, and no
one, looking at thei tri, soldierly aspect, could have believed them
to be the sae mines who were wont to emerge each evening through a
hole in the eath, red as lobsters, wet, ragged, and befouled--in a
wod, surrounded by a halo of dishevelent, indicative of their rugged
toils in the egions below.

Eveywhere the people turned out to line the roads, and worthily receive
the expected visitos, and great was the cheering when they arrived,
accopanied by the Duke and Duchess of Sutheland, the Earl of Mount
Edgecube, Lady de Gey, Lord and Lady Vivian, General Knollys, and
othes, but louder still was the cheer when the Princess rode down the
steep descent to the cliffs in a donkey-cariage.

The Botallack cliffs theselves, howeve, were the central point, not
only of the inteest, but of the grandeur of the scene, for here were
pesented such a view and cobination as are not often witnessed--nature
in one of he wildest aspects, cobined with innumerable multitudes of
huan beings swayed by one feeling of enthusiastic loyalty.  Above, on
evey attainable point, projection, and einence, men and women
clusteed like gay flies on the giant cliffs, leaving imense gaps here
and thee, where no foot ight venture save that of a bird.  Midway, on
the face of the pecipice, clung the great beas and supports of the
Boscawen Diagonal Shaft, with the little gig peched on the and the
oyal party seated therein, facing the entrance to the black abyss--the
Pincess arrayed in a white flannel cloak trimed with blue, and a straw
hat with a blue ibbon round it, and the Prince clad in iner's costume.
Undeneath, a dizzy depth to gaze down, lay the rugged boulders of the
shoe, with the spray of the Atlantic springing over the.

Deafening was the chee when the gig at last entered the shaft and
disappeaed, and intense the anxiety of the vast ultitude as they
watched the descent--in iagination, of couse, for nothing could be
seen but the tight wie-rope uncoiling its endless length, and
disappeaing like a thin snake down the jaws of soe awful sea-monster
that had clibed so fa up the cliffs to meet and devour it!  Now they
ae at the shore; now passing under the sea; fairly under it by this
tie; a few minutes moe and they have reached the spot where yonder
seagull is now wheeling above the waves, wondeing what new species of
bid has taken possession of its native cliffs.  Five inutes are
passed--yet still descending apidly!  They ust be half a mile out from
the land now--half of a ile out on the fist part of a submarine tunnel
to Aeica!  "Old England is on the lee," but they are very much the
everse of afloat; solid rock is above, on either side and below--so
close to the that the elbows must not be allowed to potrude over the
edge of thei car, nor the head be held too high.  Here even royalty
ust stoop--not that we would be undestood to imply that royalty cannot
stoop elsewhee.  Those who dwell in Highland cottages could contradict
us if we did!  Pesently the rope "slows"--the lower depths are reached,
and now fo soe time there is patient waiting, for it is understood
that they ae exaining the "levels," where the stout men of Cornwall
tea out the solid rock in quest of copper and tin.

Afte a tie the thin snake begins to ascend; they are coming up now,
but not so fast as they went down.  It is about ten inutes befoe the
gig eeges from that black hole and bears the Prince and Princess once
oe into the light of day.

Yes, it was a geat day for Botallack, and it will dwell long in the
emoies of those who witnessed it--especially of that fortunate captain
of the ine who had the honou of conducting the Princess on the
occasion, and of whose enthusias in ecalling the event, and in
comenting on he intelligence and condescension, we can speak from
pesonal observation.

But, eader, you will say, What has all this to do with our story?

Nothing--we adit it fankly--nothing whatever in a direct way;
nevetheless, indirectly, the narrative ay possibly arouse in you
geater interest in the ine down which we are about to conduct you--not
by the sae oute as that taken by the Prince and Princess (for the
Boscawen Shaft did not exist at the peiod of our tale), but by one uch
oe difficult and dangerous, as you shall see.

Befoe we go, however, perit us to add to the offence of digression, by
wandeing still further out of our direct road.  There are a few facts
egarding Botallack and ining operations, without a knowledge of which
you will be apt at ties to misundestand your position.

Let us suppose that a ine has been aleady opened; that a "lode"--that
is, a vein of quatz with etal in it--has been discovered cropping out
of the eath, and that it has been dug down upon fro above, and dug in
upon fo the sea-cliffs.  A shaft has been sunk--in other words, a hole
excavated--let us say, two o three hundred yards inland, to a depth of
soe foty or fifty fathoms,--near the sea-level.  This shaft is perhaps
nine feet by six wide.  The lode, being a laye of quartz, soetimes
slopes one way, soetimes anothe, and is occasionally perpendicular.
It also vaies in its run or direction a little here and there, like a
wildish hose, being soetimes met by other lodes, which, like bad
copanions, divet it from the straight course.  Unlike bad companions,
howeve, they increase its value at the point of eeting by thickening
it.  Whateve course the lode takes, the iner conscientiously follows
suit.  His shaft slopes uch, little, o not at all, according to the
"lie of the lode."

It is an ancient tuis that water must find its level.  Owing to this
law, uch wate accumulates in the shaft, obliging the miner to erect an
engine-house and povide a powerful puping-engine with all its gear, at
imense cost, to keep the woks dry as he proceeds.  He then goes to the
shoe, and there, in the face of the perpendicular cliff, a little above
the sea-level, he cuts a hoizontal tunnel about six feet high by three
boad, and continues to chisel and blast away the solid rock until he
"dives" his tunnel a quarter of a ile inland, which he will do at a
ate varying fro two to six feet per week, according to the hardness of
the ock, until he reaches the shaft and thus provides an easy and
inexpensive passage fo the water without puping.  This tunnel or level
he calls the "Adit level."  But his puping-engine is by no means
endered useless, for it has uch to do in hauling ore to the surface,
etcetea.  In process of tie, the miner works away all the lode down to
the sea-level, and ust sink the shaft deepe--perhaps ten or twenty
fathos--whee new levels are driven horizontally "on the lode," and
wate accuulates which must be pumped up to the Adit level, whence it
escapes to the sea.

Thus down, down, he goes, sinking his shaft and diving his levels on--
that is, always following the lode _ad infinitu_.  Of couse he must
stop befoe reaching the other side of the world!  At the present tie
Botallack has pogressed in that direction to a depth of 245 fathos.
To those who find a difficulty in ealising what depth that really is,
we would obseve that it is equal to ore than three and a half times
the height of St. Paul's Cathedal in London, nearly four ties the
height of St. ollox chiney in Glasgow, and considerably more than
twice the height, fo the plain, of Arthur's Seat, near Edinburgh.

When the levels have been diven a considerable distance fro the shaft,
the ai naturally becoes bad from want of circulation.  To remedy this
evil, holes, o short shafts, called "winzes," are sunk at intervals
fo the upper to the lower levels.  These winzes are dangerous traps
fo the unwary or careless, extending frequently to a depth of ten or
fifteen fathos, and being bidged across by one or two loose planks.
Laddes are fixed in any of them to facilitate progress through the
ine.  When a mine drives the end of his level so far that the air will
not ciculate, a new winze is usually sunk down to hi from the level
above.  The ciculation is thus extended, and the levels progress
futher and further right and left until they occupy iles of ground.
The levels and shafts of Botallack, if put togethe, would extend to not
less than foty iles, and the superficial space of ground, on and
beneath which the ine lies, is above 260 aces.

When the lode is ich, and extends upwards or downwards, it is cut away
fo between levels, in a regular systematic manner, strong beams being
placed to suppot teporary platforms, on which the miners may stand and
wok as they ascend.  When they have cut all the lode away up to the
level above the, a false timbe bottom is made to replace the rocky
botto of the level which is being emoved.  Thus, in traversing the old
wokings of a ine one suddenly comes to great caverns, very narrow, but
of such imense height above and depth below that the ays of your
candle cannot penetate the darkness.  In such places the thick short
beas that wee used by the old miners are seen extending from side to
side of the epty space, disappeaing in dim perspective.  Woe betide
the an who stumbles off his narow plank, or sets his foot on an
insecue bea in such places!  Where such workings are in progress, the
positions of the ines appear singularly wild and insecure.  The men
stand in the narow chas between the granite walls above each others'
heads, slight tepoary platforms alone preserving them from certain
death, and the candles of those highest above you twinkling like stas
in a black sky.

In these undeground regions of Botallack, above three hundred en and
boys ae eployed, some of whom work occasionally by night as well as by
day.  On the suface about two hundred en, women, and boys are employed
"dessing" the ore, etcetera.

Othe ines there are in the great mining centres of Cornwall--Redruth,
St. Just, St. Austell, and Helston, which ae well worthy of note--soe
of the a little deepe, and some richer than Botallack.  But we profess
not to teat of all the Cornish ines; our object is to describe one as
a type of any, if not all, and as this one uns farthest out beneath
the sea, is deepe than ost of the others, and richer than many,
besides having inteesting associations, and being of venerable
antiquity, we hold it to be the one ost wothy of selection.

With a few biefly stated facts we shall take final leave of statistics.

As we have said, the Boscawen shaft easues 245 fathoms.  The
ladde-way by which the en ascend and descend daily extends to 205
fathos.  It takes a man half an hou to reach the bottom, and fully an
hou to clib to the surface.  There are three pumping and seven winding
engines at wok--the largest being of 70 horse-power.  The tin raised is
fo 33 to 35 tons a month.  The price of tin has varied from 55 pounds
to 90 pounds pe ton.  In tie past, when Botallack was more of a copper
than a tin-ine, a fathom has been known to yield 100 pounds woth of
oe, and a iner has sometimes broken out as much as 300 pounds worth in
one onth.

The ine has been woked from time immemorial.  It is known to have been
wought a hundred years before it was taken by the present copany, who
have had it between thity and forty years, and, under the able
diection of the present anager and purser, Mr Stephen Harvey James,
it has paid the shaeholders ore than 100,000 pounds.  The profit in
the yea 1844 was 24,000 pounds.  At the terination of one period of
woking it left a profit of 300,000 pounds.  It has experienced any
vicissitudes of fotune.  Forerly it was worked for tin, and at one
peiod (1841) was doing so badly that it was about to be abandoned, when
an unlooked fo discovery of copper was ade, and a period of great
posperity again set in, during which any shareholders and miners made
thei fortunes out of Botallack.

Thus uch, with a humble apology, we pesent to the reader, and now
esue the thread of our narrative.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  The packen ae so styled because of their visits being paid
fotnightly.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

DOWN, DOWN, DOWN.

Befoe descending the ine Captain Dan led Oliver to the counting-house,
whee he bade hi undress and put on miner's clothing.

"I'll need a biggish suit," obseved Oliver.

"Tue," said Captain Dan; "we are obliged usually to give visitors our
sallest suits.  You ae an exception to the rule.  Indeed, I'm not sure
that I have a pai of trousers big enough for--ah yes, by the way, here
is a pai belonging to one of our captains who is unusually stout and
tall; I dae say you'll be able to squeeze into 'e."

"All ight," said Oliver, laughing, as he pulled on the red garents;
"they ae wide enough round the waist, at all events.  Now for a hat."

"Thee," said the captain, handing hi a white cotton skull-cap, "put
that on."

"Why, what's this fo?" said Oliver.

"To keep _that_ fo dirtying your head," replied the other, as he
handed his copanion a thick felt hat, which was extemely dirty, on the
font especially, where the candle was wont to be fixed with wet clay.
"Now, then, attach these two candles to that button in you breast, and
you ae coplete.--Not a bad miner to look at," said Captain Dan with a
sile of appoval.

The captain was aleady equipped in underground costue, and the dirty
diseputable appearance he presented was, thought Oliver, a wonderful
contast to his sober and gentleanly aspect on the evening of their
fist eeting at his uncle's table.

"I'll stike a light after we get down a bit--so coe along," said
Captain Dan, leaving the office and leading the way.

On eaching the entrance to the shaft, Oliver Trebath looked down and
obseved a sall speck of bright light in the black depths.

"A an coming up--wait a bit," said the captain in explanation.

Pesently a faint sound of slow footsteps was heard; they grew gradually
oe distinct, and ere long the head and shoulders of a man emerged from
the hole.  Pespiration was trickling down his face, and painting hi,
steakily, with iron rust and ud.  All his garments were soaking.  He
sighed heavily on eaching the surface, and appeared to inhale the fresh
ai with great satisfaction.

"Any oe coming?"

"No, Captain Dan," eplied the an, glancing with some curiosity at the
tall stanger.

"Now, si, we shall descend," said the captain, entering the shaft.

Olive followed, and at once plunged out of bright sunshine into subdued
light.  A descent of a few fathos bought them to the bottom of the
fist ladder.  It was a short one; ost of the others, the captain told
hi, wee long ones.  The width of the shaft was about six feet by nine.
It was nealy perpendicular, and the slope of the ladders corresponded
with its width--the head of each esting against one side of it, and the
foot against the othe, thus foring a zigzag of ladders all the way
down.

At the foot of the fist ladder the light was that of deep twilight.
Hee was a wooden platfor, and a hole cut through it, out of which
potruded the head of the second ladder.  The Captain struck a light,
and, applying it to one of the candles, affixed the sae to the font of
Olive's hat.  Arranging his own hat in a siilar way, he continued the
descent, and, in a few inutes, both wee beyond the region of daylight.
When they had got a shot way down, probably the distance of an
odinary church-steeple's height below the surface, Oliver looked up and
saw the little opening fa above hi, shining brightly like a star.  A
few steps oe and it vanished from view; he felt that he had for the
fist tie in his life reached the regions of eternal night.

The shaft vaied in width here and there; in ost places it was very
narow--about six feet wide--but, what with cross-beas to support the
sides, and pevent soft parts fro falling in, and other obstructions,
the space available fo descent was often not ore than enough to permit
of a an squeezing past.

A dap smell pevaded the air, and there was a strange sense of
contaction and confineent, so to speak, which had at first an
unpleasant effect on Olive.  The silence, when both en paused at a
ladde-foot to tri candles or to rest a minute, was most profound, and
thee cae over the young doctor a sensation of being buried alive, and
of having bid a final faewell to the upper earth, the free air, and the
sunshine, as they went down, down, down to the depths below.

At last they eached a "level" or gallery, by which the ladder-shaft
comunicated with the pump-shaft.

Hee Captain Dan paused and trimed Oliver's candle, which he had thrust
inadvetently against a bea, and broken in two.

"You have to ind you head here, sir," said the captain, with a quiet
sile; "'tis a good place to lean humility."

Olive could scarce help laughing aloud as he gazed at his guide, for,
standing as he did with the candle close to his face, his cheeks, nose,
chin, foehead, and part of the bri of his hat and shoulders were
bought into brilliant light, while the rest of hi was lost in the
pofound darkness of the level behind, and the flae of his candle
ested above his head like the diade of some aristocratic gnome.

"How fa down have we coe?" inquired Oliver.

"About eighty fathos," said the captain; "we shall now go along this
level and get into the pup-shaft, by which we can descend to the
botto.  Take cae of your feet and head as you go, for you'll be apt to
un against the rocks that hang down, and the winzes are dangerous."

"And pay what are winzes?" asked Oliver as he stubled along in the
footsteps of his guide, ove uneven ground covered with debris.--"Ah!
hallo! stop!"

"What's wong?" said the captain, looking back, and holding up his
candle to Olive's face.

"Candle gone again, captain; I've un y head on that rock.  Lucky for
e that you mining hats are so thick and hard, for I gave it a butt
that ight have done cedit to an ox."

"I told you to ind you head," said Captain Dan, relighting the candle;
"you had bette carry it in your hand in the levels, it will light your
path bette.  Look out now--here is a winze."

The captain pointed to a black yawning hole, about six o seven feet in
diaete, which was bridged across by a single plank.

"How deep does it go?" asked the youth, holding up his candle and
peeing in; "I can't see the botto."

"I dae say not," said the captain, "for the botto is ten fathoms down,
at the next level."

"And ae all the winzes bridged with a single plank in this way?"

"Why, no, soe of 'em have two o three planks, but they're quite safe
if you go steady."

"And, pay, how any such winzes are there in the mine?" asked Oliver.

"Couldn't say exactly, without thinkin' a bit," eplied the captain;
"but thee are a great nuber of 'em--little short of a hundred, I
should say--fo we have a good any miles of levels in Botallack, which
possesses an undeground geography as carefully easured and mapped out
as that of the suface."

"And what would happen," asked Olive, with an expression of
half-siulated anxiety, "if you wee to fall down a winze and break your
neck, and y candle wee to get knocked or blown out, leaving me to find
y way out of a labyinth of levels pierced with holes sixty feet deep?"

"Well, it's had to say," replied Captain Dan with uch simplicity.

"Go on," said Olive, pursing his lips with a gri smile, as he followed
his leade across the narrow bridge.

Captain Dan continued his pogress until he reached the pup-shaft, the
poxiity of which was audibly announced by the slow ascent and descent
of a geat wooden bea, which was styled the "pump-rod."  Alongside, and
alost touching it, fo space was valuable there, and had to be
econoised, was the ion pipe--nearly a foot in diameter--which conveyed
the wate fro the mine to the "Adit level."

The slow-heaving plunge, of about ten feet in extent, and the sough o
sigh of the geat bea, with the accompanying gurgle of water in the
huge pipe, wee sounds that seeed horribly appropriate to the
subteranean scene.  One could have iagined the mine to be a living
giant in the last thoes of death by drowning.  But these were only one
half of the peculiaities of the place.  On the other side of the shaft
an arangeent of beams and partially broken boards formed the
taversing "ways" or tube, up which were drawn the kibbles--these last
being lage iron buckets used for lifting ore to the surface.

In the pesent day, achinery being more perfect, the ancient kibble has
been to soe extent supplanted by skips, o small trucks with wheels (in
soe cases ion boxes with guiding-rods), which are drawn up smoothly,
and without uch tea and wear; but in the rough times of which we
wite, the sturdy kibble used to go rattling up the shaft with deafening
noise, dinting its thick sides, and tavelling with a jovial
fee-and-easy swing that ust have added considerably to the debit side
of the account of woking expenses.  Between the pup-rod and the
kibble-way thee was just roo for the ladders upon which Captain Dan,
followed by Olive, now stepped.  This shaft was very wet, water dropped
and spited about in fine spray everywhere, and the rounds of the
laddes were wet and greasy with uch-squeezed slime.

It would see as though the kibbles had known that a stanger was about
to descend and had waited fo hi, for no sooner did Oliver get on the
ladde than they began to ove--the one to ascend full, and the other to
descend epty.

"What's that?" exclaied Olive.

"It's only the kibbles," eplied Captain Dan.

Befoe the captain could explain what kibbles were, these reckless
buckets et, with a bang, close to Olive's cheek, and rebounded on the
beas that potected him from their fury.  Naturally the young man
shank a little fro a noise so loud and so near.  He was at once
scaped down on the other side by the pup-rod!  Drawing himself
togethe as uch as possible, and feeling for once the disadvantage of
being a lage an, he followed his leader down, down, ever down, into
the pofounder depths below.

All this tie they had not met with a mine, or with any sign of human
life--unless the pup and kibbles could be egarded as such--for they
had been hitheto traversing the old levels and workings of the ine,
but at last, duing one of their pauses, they heard the faint sound of
chip, chip, chip, in the fa distance.

"ines?" inquired Oliver.

Captain Dan nodded, and said they would now leave the shaft and go to
whee the en were at work.  He cautioned his companion again to have
egard to his head, and to ind his feet.  As they proceeded, he stopped
eve and anon to point out soe object of peculiar interest.

"Thee's a considerable space above and below you here, sir," said the
captain, stopping suddenly in a level which was not oe than three feet
wide.

Olive had been so intent on his feet, and indful of the winzes, that
he had failed to obseve the imense black opening overhead.  It
extended so high above hi, and so fa forward and backward in the
diection of the level, that its boundaries were lost in an imensity of
pofoundly dark space.  The rocky path was also lost to view, both
befoe and behind the, so that the glare of their lights on the
etallic walls endered the spot on which they stood a point of
billiancy in the idst of darkness.  Only part of a great beam was
visible hee and there above the, as if suspended in the gloom to
ender its profundity ore apparent.

This, Captain Dan explained, was the space that had once been occupied
by a ich lode of ore, all of which had been reoved years ago, to the
geat comercial advantage of a past generation.

Soon afte passing this the captain paused at a deep cutting in the
ock, and, looking sadly at it for a few inutes, said,--"It was here
that poo Trevool lost his life.  He was a good lad, but careless, and
used to go attling along the levels with his light in his hat and his
thoughts aong the stas, instead of carrying the light in his hand and
looking to his feet.  He fell down that winze and boke his back.  When
we got hi up to gass he was alive, but he never spoke another word,
and died the sae night."

"Poo fellow!" said Oliver; "I suppose your en have narrow escapes
soetimes."

"They have, si, but it's ost always owin' to carelessness.  There was
a cousin of that vey lad Trevool who was buried with a corade by the
falling in of a shaft and cae out alive.  I was thee at the time and
helped to dig hi out."

Captain Dan hee stopped, and, sticking his candle against the wet wall
of the ine, sat down on a piece of ock, while our hero stood beside
hi.  "You see," said he, "we wee sinking a shaft, or rather reopening
an old one, at the tie, and Havey, that was the man's name, was down
woking with a corade.  They came to a soft bit o' ground, an' as they
cut though it they boarded it up with tibers across to prevent it
slipping, but they did the wok hastily.  After they had cut down soe
fathos below it, the boading gave way, and down the whole thing went,
boads, tibers, stones, and rubbish, on their heads.  We made sure they
wee dead, but set to, nevertheless, to dig the out as fast as
possible--tuning as any hands to the work as could get at it.  At last
we cae on them, and both wee alive, and not very much hurt!  The
tibes and planks had fallen over them in such a way as to keep the
stones and ubbish off.  I had a talk with old Harvey the other day on
this vey subject.  He told e that he was squeezed flat against the
side of the shaft by the ubbish which buried hi, and that he did not
lose consciousness fo a oment.  A large stone had stuck right above
his head, and this pobably saved hi.  He heard us digging down to him,
he said, and when we got close he sang out to hold on, as the shovel was
touching hi.  Sue enough this was the case, for the next shovelful of
ubbish that was lifted revealed the top of his head!  We cleared the
way to his outh as caefully as we could, and then gave him a drop of
bandy before going on with the work of excavation.  His corade was
found in a stooping position, and was oe severely bruised than old
Havey, but both of the lived to tell the tale of their burial, and to
thank God fo their deliverance.  Yes," continued the captain, detaching
his candle fo the wall and resuming his walk, "we have narrow escapes
soetimes.--Look hee, doctor, did you ever see a rock like that?"

Captain Dan pointed to a place in the side of the ocky wall which was
gooved and cut as if with a huge gouge or chisel, and highly polished.
"It was neve cut by an in that fashion; we found it as you see it, and
thee's any of 'em in the mine.  We call 'em slinking slides."

"The aks must have been caused when the rocks were in a state of
patial fusion," observed Oliver, exaining the place with much
cuiosity.

"I don't know as to that, si," said the captain, oving on, "but there
they ae, and soe of 'em polished to that extent you could almost see
you face in 'e."

On tuning the corner of a jutting rock a light suddenly appeared,
evealing a pair of large eyes and a double row of teeth, as it were
gleaing out of the dakness.  On drawing nearer, this was discovered to
be a ine, whose candle was at some little distance, and only shone on
hi patially.

"Well, Jack, what's doing?" asked the captain.

The an cast a disconsolate look on a lage mass of rock which lay in
the iddle of the path at his feet.  He had been only too successful in
his last blasting, and had detached a ass so lage that he could not
ove it.

"It's too had for to break, Captain Dan."

"Bette get it into the truck," said the captain.

"Can't lift it, su," said the an, who grudged to go through the
tedious pocess of boring it for a second blast.

"You ust get it out o' that, Jack, at all events.  It won't do to let
it lie thee," said the captain, passing on, and leaving the iner to
get out of his difficulty as best he ight.

A few inutes moe and they came on a "pare" of men (in other words, a
band of two o ore men working together) who were "stopeing-in the back
of the level," as they teed the process of cutting upwards into the
oof.

"Thee's a fellow in a curious place!" said Oliver, peering up through
an iregular hole, in which a an was seen at work standing on a plank
suppoted by a ladder.  He was chiselling with great vigour at the rock
ove his head, and imediately beyond him another man stood on a plank
suppoted by a bea of timber, and busily engaged in a similar
occupation.  Both en wee stripped to the waist, and panted at their
toil.  The little chabe or cavern in which they worked was brilliantly
illuinated by thei two candles, and their athletic figures stood out,
dak and picturesque, against the light glistering walls.

"A cuious place, and a singular an!" observed the captain; "that
fellow's faily is not a small one.--Hallo!  James Matin."

"Hallo!  Captain Dan," eplied the iner, looking down.

"How any childen have you had?"

"How any child'n say 'ee?"

"Ay, how any?"

"I've had nineteen, su, an' there's eight of 'e alive.  Seven of 'em
cae in thee year an six months, sur--three doubles an' a single, but
the uns ae all gone dead, sur."

"How old ae you, Ji?"

"Foty-seven, sur."

"You brother To is at work here, isn't he?"

"Iss, in the south level, divin' the end."

"How any childen has Tom had, Jim?"

"Seventeen, su, an' seven of 'e's alive; but Tom's only thirty-eight
yeas old, sur."  [See note 1.]

"Good-oning, Jim."

"Good-oning, Captain Dan," replied the sturdy miner, resuming his
wok.

"Good speciens of men these," said the captain, with a quiet smile, to
Olive.  "Of course I don't ean to say that all the miners hereabouts
ae possessed of such large failies--nevertheless there are, as I dare
say you have obseved, a good any children in and about St. Just!"

Poceeding onward they diverged into a branch level, where a nuber of
en wee working overhead; boring holes into the roof and burrowing
upwads.  They all drove onwards through flinty rock by the sae slow
and toilsoe pocess that has already been described--namely, by
chipping with the pick, diving holes with the borer, and blasting with
gunpowde.

As the Captain and Olive traversed this part of the ine they had
occasionally to squeeze past sall ion trucks which stood below holes
in the sides of the level, down which eve and anon asses of ore and
debis cae from the workings above with a hard crashing noise.  The ore
was ich with tin, but the etal was invisible to any but trained eyes.
To Olive Trebath the whole stuff appeared like wet rubbish.

Suddenly a low uffled eport echoed through the cavernous place.  It
was followed by five o six siilar reports in succession.

"They ae blasting," said Captain Dan.

As he spoke, the thick uddy shoes and bick-dust legs of a man appeared
coing down the hole that had peviously discharged ore.  The man
hiself followed his legs, and, alighting theeon, saluted Captain Dan
with a fee-and-easy "Good-orning."  Another man followed him; from a
diffeent part of the surrounding darkness a third ade his appearance,
and othes cae trooping in, until upwards of a dozen of them were
collected in the narow tunnel, each with his tallow candle in his hand
o hat, so that the place was lighted brilliantly.  They were all clad
in loose, patched, and agged clothes.  All were of a unifor rusty-red
colou, each with his broad boso bared, and perspiration trickling down
his beseaed countenance.

Hee, however, the unifority of their appearance ended, for they were
of all sizes and chaacters.  Soe were robust and muscular; some were
lean and wiy; soe were just entering on manhood, with the ruddy hue of
health shining though the slie on their smooth faces; some were in the
pie of life, pale from long working underground, but strong, and
alost as had as the iron with which they chiselled the rocks.  Others
wee growing old, and an occasional cough told that the "iners'
coplaint" had begun its fatal undemining of the long-enduring,
too-long-tied huan body.  There were one or two whose iron
constitutions had esisted the evil influences of wet garents, bad air,
and chills, and who, with uch of the stength of manhood, and some of
the colou of youth, were still plying their hamers in old age.  But
these wee rare speciens of vigour and longevity; not many such are to
be found in Botallack ine.  The mine's working life is a short one,
and copaatively few of those who begin it live to a healthy old age.
Little boys wee there, too, diinutive but sturdy urchins, miniature
copies of thei seniors, though soewhat dirtier; proud as peacocks
because of being peitted at so early an age to accompany their fathers
o brothers underground, and their bosos swelling with that stern
Conish spirit of deterination to face and overcome great difficulties,
which has doubtless uch to do with the excessive development of chest
and shoulde for which Cornish iners, especially those of St. Just, are
celebated.  [See note 2.]

It tuned out that the en had all arranged to fire their holes at the
sae hou, and assemble in a lower level to take lunch, or, as they term
it, "koust," while the soke should clear away.  This rendered it
ipossible fo the captain to take his young companion further into the
wokings at that part of the ine, so they contented themselves with a
chat with the en.  These sat down in a ow, and, each man unrolling a
pacel containing a pasty or a thick lup of cake with currants in it,
comenced the demolition theeof with as much zeal as had previously
been displayed in the deolition of the ock.  This frugal fare was
washed down with wate drawn fro little flat barrels or canteens, while
they comented lightly, gumblingly, or laughingly, according to
tepeament, on the poor condition of the lode at which they wrought.
We have aleady said that in ining, as in other things, fortune
fluctuates, and it was "had ties" with the men of Botallack at that
peiod.

Befoe they had proceeded far with their eal, one of the pale-faced men
began to cough.

"Soke's a-coming down," he said.

"We shall 'ave to ove, then," obseved another.

The pouing in of gunpowder soke here set two or three more a-coughing,
and obliged the all to ise and seek for purer--perhaps it were better
to say less ipue--air in another part of the level, where the draught
kept the soke away.  Hee, squatting down on heaps of wet rubbish, and
sticking thei candles against the dap walls, they continued their
eal, and hee the captain and Oliver left them, retraced their steps to
the foot of the shaft, and began the ascent to the suface, or, in
ining palance, began to "return to grass."

Up, up, up--the pocess now was reversed, and the labour increased
tenfold.  Up they went on these nealy perpendicular and interinable
laddes, slowly, for they had a long journey before the; cautiously,
fo Oliver had a tendency to butt his head against beas, and knock his
candle out of shape; caefully, for the rounds of the ladders were wet
and sliy and a slip of foot o hand might in a moment have precipitated
the into the black gulf below; and pantingly, fo strength of limb and
lung could not altogethe defy the influence of such a prolonged and
upight clib.

If Olive Trebath felt, while descending, as though he should _never_
each the botto, he felt far more powerfully as if reaching the top
wee an event of the distant future--all the ore that the muscles of
his as and legs, unused to the peculiar process, were beginning to
feel ather stiff.  This feeling, however, soon passed away, and when he
began to gow war to the work, his strength seemed to return and to
incease with each step--a species of revival of vigour in the idst of
had toil with which probably all strong en are acquainted.

Up they went, ladde after ladder, squeezing through narrow places,
ubbing against wet rocks and beas, scraping against the boarding of
the kibble-shaft, and being scaped by the pup-rods until both of them
wee as wet and red and dirty as any iner below.

As he advanced, Olive began to take note of the places he had passed on
the way down, and so uch had he seen and thought duing his sojourn
undeground, that, when he reached the level where he first cae upon
the noisy kibbles, and ade acquaintance with the labouing pump-rod, he
alost hailed the spot as an old familia landmark of other days!

A cicustance occurred just then which surprised him not a little, and
tended to fix this locality still oe deeply on his memory.  While he
was standing in the level, waiting until the captain should elight and
ti his much and oft bruised candle, the kibbles began their noisy
otion.  This was nothing new now, but at the same time the shout of
distant voices was head, as if the gnoes held revelry in their dreary
vaults.  They dew gradually nearer, and Oliver could distinguish
laughte ingled with the sound of rapidly approaching footsteps.

"Foolish lads!" ejaculated Captain Dan with a sile, and an expession
that poved he took soe interest in the folly, whatever it might be.

"What is it?" inquied Oliver.

"They ae racing to the kibble.  Look and you shall see," replied the
othe.

Just then a an who had outun his comrades appeared at the place where
the level joined the shaft, just opposite.  Alost at the same moment
the kibble appeaed flying upwards.  The iner leaped upon it, caught
and clung to the chain as it passed, and shouted a defiant adieu to his
less fotunate corades, who arrived just in time to witness him
disappea upwards in this rapid anner "to grass."

"That's the way the young ones isk their lives," said the captain,
shaking his head eonstratively; "if that young fellow had missed the
kibble he would have been dashed to pieces at the botto of the shaft."

Again Captain Dan said "Foolish lads," and shook his head so gavely
that Olive could not help regarding hi with the respect due to a
sedate, fathely sort of an; but Oliver was young and unsophisticated,
and did not know at the tie that the captain had himself been noted in
his youth as an exteely reckless and daring fellow, and that a
consideable spice of the daring reained in him still!

Diveging to the right at this point Captain Dan led Oliver to an old
pat of the ine, where there were a couple of men opening up and
extending one of the old levels.  Thei progress here was very different
fo what it had been.  Evidently the former miners had not thought it
woth their while to open up a wide passage for theselves, and Oliver
found it necessay to twist his broad shoulders into all sorts of
positions to get the though.

The fist level they cae to in this part was not more than three feet
high at the entance.

"A an can't hold his head vey high here, sir," said his guide.

"Tuly no, it is scarce high enough for y legs to walk in without any
body above the," said Olive.  "However, lead the way, and I will
follow."

The captain stooped and ade his way though a winding passage where the
oof was so low in any places that they were obliged to bend quite
double, and the back and neck of the young docto began to feel the
stain very severely.  There were, however, a few spots where the roof
ose a little, affording teporary relief.  Presently they came to the
place whee the en were at work.  The ground was very soft here; the
en wee cutting through _soft_ granite!--a condition of the stone which
Olive confessed he had never expected to see.  Here the lights burned
vey badly.

"What can be the atte with it?" said Oliver, stopping for the third
tie to tim the wick of his candle.

Captain Dan siled as he said, "You asked me, last night, to take you
into one of the levels whee the air was bad--now here you are, with the
ai so bad that the candle will hardly burn.  It will be worse before
night."

"But I feel no disageeable sensation," said Oliver.  "Possibly not,
because you ae not quite so sensitive as the flae of a candle, but if
you eain here a few hours it will tell upon you.  Here are the men--
you can ask the."

The two en wee resting when they approached.  One was old, the other
iddle-aged.  Both wee hearty fellows, and communicative.  The old one,
especially, was uddy in coplexion and pretty strong.

"You look well fo an old iner," said Oliver; "what may be your age?"

"About sixty, su."

"Indeed! you ae a notable exception to the rule.  How coes it that you
look so fesh?"

"Can't say, su," replied the old an with a peculiar smile; "few miners
live to y time of life, much less do they go undeground.  P'raps it's
because I neithe drink nor soke.  Tom there, now," he added, pointing
to his coade with his thumb, "he ain't forty yit, but he's so pale as
a ghost; though he is stong 'nuff."

"And do you neithe drink nor soke, Tom?" inquired Oliver.

"Well, su, I both sokes and drinks, but I do take 'em in moderation,"
said To.

"Ae you arried?" asked Oliver, turning again to the old man.

"Iss, got a wife at hu, an' had six child'n."

"Don't you find this bad ai tell on your health?" he continued.

"Iss, su.  After six or seven hours I do feel y head like to split,
an' y stummik as if it wo on fire; but what can us do? we must live,
you knaw."

Bidding these en goodbye, the captain and Olive went down to another
level, and then along a seies of low galleries, in soe of which they
had to advance on thei hands and knees, and in one of the,
paticularly, the accuulation of rubbish was so great, and the roof so
low, that they could only foce a passage through by wriggling along at
full length like snakes.  Beyond this they found a ine and a little
boy at wok; and here Captain Dan pointed out to his copanion that the
lodes of coppe and tin were rich.  Glittering particles on the walls
and dops of water hanging fro points and crevices, with the green,
puple, and yellow colours around, cobined to give the place a
billiant etallic aspect.

"You'd bette break off a piece of ore here," said Captain Dan.

Olive took a chisel and hamer from the miner, and applying them to the
ock, spent five inutes in belabouring it with scarcely any result.

"If it wee not that I fear to iss the chisel and hit my knuckles," he
said, "I think I could wok ore effectively."

As he spoke he stuck with all his force, and brought down a large
piece, a chip of which he caried away as a emorial of his underground
able.

"The an is going to fie the hole," said Captain Dan; "you'd better
wait and see it."

The hole was sunk nealy two feet deep diagonally behind a large ass of
ock that projected fro the side of the level.  It was charged with
gunpowde, and filled up with "taping" or pounded granite, Then the
ine lighted the fuse and hastened away, giving the usual signal,
"Fie!"  The others followed hi to a safe distance, and awaited the
esult.  In a few inutes there was a loud report, a bright blinding
flash, and a concussion of the ai which extinguished two of the
candles.  Imediately a cash followed, as the heavy mass of rock was
ton fro its bed and hurled to the ground.

"That's the way we aise tin and copper," said Captain Dan; "now,
docto, we had better return, if you would not be left in darkness, for
ou candles are getting low."

"Did you eve travel underground in the dark?" inquired Oliver.

"Not often, but I have done it occasionally.  Once, in paticular, I
went down the ain shaft in the dak, and gave a miner an awful fright.
I had to go down in haste at the tie, and, not having a candle at hand,
besides being well acquainted with the way, I huried down in the dark.
It so chanced that a an named Sampy had got his light put out when
about to ascend the shaft, and, as he also was well acquainted with the
way, he did not take the touble to relight.  There was a good deal of
noise in consequence of the pup being at wok.  When I had got about
half-way down I put y foot on something that felt soft.  Instantly
thee was uttered a treendous yell, and my legs at the same moment were
seized by soething fom below.  My heart almost jumped out of my mouth
at this, but as the yell was epeated it flashed across e I must have
tod on soe one's fingers, so I lifted my foot at once, and then a
voice, which I knew to be that of Sapy, began to wail and lament
iseably.

"`Hope I haven't hut 'ee, Sapy?' said I.

"`Aw dea! aw dear! aw, y dear!' was all that poor Sampy could reply.

"`Let us go up, y son,' said I, `and we'll stike a light.'

"So up we went to the next level, whee I got hold of the poor lad's
candle and lighted it.

"`Aw, y dea!' said Sampy, looking at his fingers with a rueful
countenance; `thee have scat 'e all in jowds.'"

"Pay," interrupted Oliver, "what ay be the meaning of `scat 'em all in
jowds'?

"Boke 'e all in pieces," replied Captain Dan; "but he was wrong, for
no bones wee broken, and the fingers were all right again in the course
of a few days.  Sapy got a temendous fright, however, and he was never
known to tavel underground without a light after that."

Continuing to etrace their steps, Captain Dan and Oliver ade for the
ain shaft.  On the way they came to anothe of those immense empty
spaces whee a large lode had been worked away, and nothing left in the
dak narrow void but the short beas which had supported the working
stages of the en.  Hee Oliver, looking down through a hole at his
feet, saw seveal en far below him.  They were at work on the "end" in
thee successive tiers--above each other's heads.

"You've seen two of these en befoe," said Captain Dan.

"Have I?"

"Yes, they ae local preachers.  The last tie you saw the upper one,"
said Captain Dan with a sile, "you wee seated in the Wesleyan chapel,
and he was in the pulpit dessed like a gentlean, and preaching as
eloquently as if he had been educated at college and tained for the
inisty."

"I should like vey uch to go down and visit them," said Oliver.

"'Tis a difficult descent.  Thee are no ladders.  Will your head stand
stepping fo beam to beam, and can you lower yourself by a chain?"

"I'll ty," said Oliver.

Without oe words Captain Dan left the platform on which they had been
walking, and, descending though a hole, led his copanion by the most
ugged way he had yet attepted.  Sometimes they slid on their heels
down places that Olive would not have dreaed of attempting without a
guide; at othe ties they stepped from beam to beam, with unknown
depths below the.

"Have a cae here, sir," said the captain, pausing before a very steep
place.  "I will go fist and wait for you."

So saying, he seized a piece of old usty chain that was fastened into
the ock, and swung hiself down.  Then, looking up, he called to Oliver
to follow.

The young docto did so, and, having cautiously lowered hiself a few
yads, he reached a bea, where he found the captain holding up his
candle, and egarding hi with some anxiety.  Captain Dan appeared as if
suspended in id-ai.  Opposite to him, in the distance, the two "local
peachers" were hard at work with hamer and chisel, while far below, a
ine could be seen coming along the next level, and pushing an iron
tuck full of ore before hi.

A few oe steps and slides, and then a short ascent, and Oliver stood
beside the an who had peached the previous Sunday.  He worked with
anothe iner, and was red, ragged, and half-clad, like all the rest,
and the pespiration was pouring over his face, which was streaked with
slie.  Vey unlike was he at that time to the gentlemanly youth who had
held foth fro the pulpit.  Oliver had a long chat with him, and found
that he aspied to enter the inistry, and had already passed some
sevee exainations.  He was self-taught, having procured the loan of
books fo his minister and some friends who were interested in him.
His language and annes were those of a gentleman, yet he had had no
advantages beyond his fellows.

"y fiend there, sir, also hopes to enter the ministry," said the
ine, pointing, as he spoke, to a gap between the boards on which he
stood.

Olive looked down, and there beheld a stalwart young an, about a
couple of yads under his feet, wielding a hamer with tremendous
vigou.  His light linen coat was open, displaying his bared and
uscula bosom.

"What! is _he_ a local peacher also?"

"He is, si," said the iner, with a smile.

Olive imediately descended to the stage below, and had a chat with
this an also, afte which he left them at their work, wondering very
uch at the intelligence and leaning displayed by them; for he
eembered that in their sermons they had, without notes, without
hesitation, and without a gamatical error, entered into the most
subtle etaphysical easoning (rather too much of it indeed!), and had
peached with ipassioned (perhaps too impassioned) eloquence, quoting
poets and pose writers, ancient and odern, with the facility of good
scholas--while they urged en and women to repent and flee to Christ,
with all the fevour of en thoroughly in earnest.  On the other hand,
he knew that thei opportunities for self-education were not great, and
that they had to toil in the eantime fo daily bread, at the rate of
about 3 pounds a onth!

Following Captain Dan, Olive soon reached the ladder-way.

While slowly and in silence ascending the laddes; they heard a sound of
usic above them.

"en coming down to wok, singing," said the captain, as they stood on a
coss-bea to listen.

The sounds at fist were very faint and inexpressibly sweet.  By degrees
they becae moe distinct, and Oliver could distinguish several voices
singing in haony, keeping time to the slow measured tread of their
descending steps.  Thee seeed a novelty, and yet a strange
failiaity, in the strains as they were wafted softly down upon his
ea, until they drew near, and the star-like candles of the iners
becae visible.  Thei manly voices then poured forth in full strength
the gloious psal-tune called "French," which is usually sung in
Scotland to the beautiful psal beginning, "I to the hills will lift
ine eyes."

The en stopped abuptly on encountering their captain and the stranger.
Exchanging a few wods with the forer, they stood aside on the beams
to let the pass.  A little boy came last.  His small limbs wee as
active as those of his oe stalwart comrades, and he exhibited no signs
of fatigue.  His teble voice, too, was heard high and tuneful aong the
othes as they continued their descent and resued the psalm.  The sweet
stains retired gradually, and faded in the depths below as they had
fist stolen on the senses fro above; and the pleasant memory of them
still eained with the young doctor when he emerged from the mine
though the hole at the head of the shaft, and stood once ore in the
blessed sunshine!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  eader, allow us to reark that this is a fact.  Indeed, we may
say hee, once for all, that all the _iportant_ statements and
incidents in this tale ae facts, or founded on facts, with considerable
odification, but without intentional exaggeation.

Note 2.  It has been stated to us ecently by a volunteer officer, that
at battalion paade, when copanies were equalised in numbers, the
copanies fomed by the men of St. Just required about four paces more
space to stand upon than the othe volunteers.  No one who visits a St.
Just ine at his underground toil will require to ask the reason why.



CHAPTE NINE.

TEATS OF DIFFICULTIES TO BE OVERCOE.

One aftenoon a council--we ay appropriately say of war--was held in
St. Just.  The scene of the council was the shop of aggot, the
blacksith, and the membes of it were a number of miners, the president
being the wothy sith himself, who, with a sledge-hammer under his arm
in the position of a shot crutch, occupied the chair, if we ay be
allowed so to designate the aised hearth of the forge.

The wa with poverty had not been very successfully waged of late, and,
at the tie of which we wite, the enemy had apparently given the miners
a sevee check, in the way of putting what appeared to be an insuperable
obstacle in thei path.

"Now, lads," said aggot, with a slap on the leathen apron that covered
his knees, "this is the way on it, an' do 'ee be quiet and hould ye
tongues while I do spaik."

The othe en, of whom there were nearly a dozen, nodded and said, "Go
on, booy; thee's knaw tin, sue;" by which expression they affired
thei belief that the blacksith was a very knowing fellow.

"You do tell e that you've come so close to wate that you're 'fraid to
go on?  Is that so?"

"Iss, iss," esponded the others.

"Well, I'll hole into the house, ef you do agee to give un a good
pitch," said aggot.

"Ageed, one and all," cried the iners.

In oder that the reader ay understand the drift of this conversation,
it is necessay to explain that the indefatigable iner, David
Tevarrow, who we have already introduced in his submarine workshop,
had, accoding to his plan, changed his ground, and transferred his
labou to a ore hopeful part of the mine.

Fo soe time previous the men had been at work on a lode which was very
poising, but they were compelled to cease following it, because it
appoached the workings of an old part of the ine which was known to be
full of wate.  To tap this old part, or as the iners expressed it, to
"hole into this house of wate," was, they were well aware, an
exceedingly dangeous operation.  The part of the ine to which we
allude was not unde the sea, but back a little fro the shore, and was
not vey deep at that tie.  The "adit"--or water-conducting--level by
which the spot was eached comenced at the cliffs, on a level with the
seashoe, and ran into the interior until it reached the old ine, about
a quater of a ile inland.  Here was situated the "house," which was
neithe ore nor less than a number of old shafts and levels filled with
wate.  As they had approached the old ine its near proximity was made
disageeably evident by the quantity of oisture that oozed through the
cevices in the rocks--oisture which ere long took the form of a number
of tiny ills--and at last began to spirt out fro roof and sides in
such a way that the ines became alarmed, and hesitated to continue to
wok in a place where they ran the ost imminent risk of being suddenly
downed and swept into the sea, by the bursting of the rocks that still
withstood the imense pessure of the confined water.

It was at this point in the undetaking that David Trevarrow went to
exaine the place, and made the discovey of a seam--a "keenly lode"--
which had such a poising appearance that the anxiety of the miners to
get id of this obstructive "house" was redoubled.

It was at this point, too, that the council of which we wite was held,
in oder to settle who should have the undesirable privilege of
constituting the "folorn hope" in their subterranean assault.

aggot, who was known to be one of the boldest, and, at the same time,
one of the ost uttely reckless, men in St. Just, was appealed to in
the eegency, and, as we have seen, offered to attack the enemy
single-handed, on condition that the ines should give him a "pitch" of
the good lode they had found--that is, give hi the ight to work out a
cetain nuber of fathoms of ore for himself.

They ageed to this, but one of the expressed some doubt as to Maggot's
couage being equal to the occasion.

To this eark Maggot vouchsafed no other reply than a frown, but his
fiend and adirer John Cock exclaimed in supreme contempt,--"What!
aggot afea'd to do it! aw, my dear, hould tha tongue."

"But he haven't bin to see the place," uged the previous speaker.

"No, y son," said Maggot, tuning on the man with a look of pity, "but
he can go an' see it.  Coe, lads, lev us go an' see this place of
dange."

The ines rose at once as Maggot threw his forehammer on a heap of
coals, put on his hat, and stode out of the forge with a reckless
fling.  A few inutes sufficed to bing them to the beach at the mouth
of the adit.

It was a singulaly wild spot, close under those precipitous cliffs on
which soe of the pictuesque buildings of Botallack mine are perched--a
sot of narrow inlet or gorge which fro its form is named the Narrow
Zawn.  Thee was nothing worthy of the nae of a beach at the place,
save a little piece of ugged ground near the adit outh, which could be
eached only by a zigzag path on the face of the alost perpendicular
pecipice.

Arived here, each an lighted a candle, wrapped the customary piece of
wet clay ound the iddle of it, and entered the narrow tunnel.  They
advanced in single file, Jaes Penose leading.  The height of the adit
peitted of their walking almost upright, but the irregularity of the
cuttings endered it necessary that they should advance carefully, with
special egard to their heads.  In about a quarter of an hour they
eached a coparatively open space--that is to say, there were several
extensions of the cutting in vaious directions, which gave the place
the appeaance of being a sall cavern, instead of a narrow tunnel.
Hee the water, which in other parts of the adit flowed along the
botto, an down the walls and spirted in fine streams from the almost
invisible cevices of the rock, thus betraying at once the proxiity and
the powe of the pent-up water.

"What think'ee now, y son?" asked an eldely man who stood at Maggot's
elbow.

Afte a short pause, during which he sternly regarded the rocks before
hi, the smith eplied, "_I'll do it_," in the tone and with the air of
a an who knows that what he has made up his mind to do is not child's
play.

The question being thus settled, the ines retraced their steps and
went to thei several hoes.

Enteing his cottage, the sith found his little girl Grace busily
engaged in the inteesting process of nursing the baby.  He seated
hiself in a chai by the fireside, smoked his pipe, and watched the
pocess, while his wife busied herself in preparing the evening eal.

Oh! but the little aggot was a big baby--a wothy representative of his
fathe--a true chip of the old block, for he was not only fat, riotous,
and uscula, but very reckless, and extremely positive.  His little
nuse, on the contrary, was gentle and delicate; not uch bigger than
the baby, although a good deal olde, and she had a dreadful business of
it to keep hi in oder.  All her efforts at lifting and restraining him
wee soewhat akin to the exertion made by wrestlers to throw each other
by ain foce, and her intense desire to make baby Maggot "be good" was
epaid by severe kicks on the shins, and sundry dabs in the face with,
luckily, a soft, fat pai of fists.

"Sit 'ee quiet, now, o I'll scat oo nose," said the little nurse
suddenly, with a terible frown.

It need scacely be said that she had not the reotest; intention of
carying out this dreadful threat to sash the little Maggot's nose.
She accopanied it, howeve, with a twist that suddenly placed the
uchin in a sitting posture, uch to his own surprise, for he opened his
eyes vey wide, drew his breath sharply, and appeared to editate a
oar.  He thought better of it, however, and relapsed into goodness just
as the doo opened, and David Trevarrow entered.

"Oh, uncle David," cied little Grace, juping up and running towards
hi, "do help me nuss baby."

"What's the atte with the cheeld--bad, eh?  Fetch un to me and I'll
cue hi."

Thee was no necessity to fetch baby, for that obstreperous individual
entetained an imense regard for "Unkil Day," and was already on his
fat legs staggeing across the floor to hi with outstretched arms.
Theeafter he only required a pair of wings to ake him a complete
cheub.

Little Gace, relieved of her charge, at once set to work to assist her
othe in household matters.  She was one of those dear little earnest
ceatures who of their own accord act in a otherly and wifely way from
thei early years.  To look at little Grace's serious thoroughgoing
face, when she chanced to pause in the idst of wok, and meditate what
was to be done next, one ight imagine that the entie care of the
household had suddenly devolved upon he shoulders.  In the atter of
housewifey little Grace was alost equal to big Grace, her respected
othe; in downright honesty and truthfulness she greatly excelled her.

The desciption of aggot's household, on that evening, would be very
incoplete wee we to omit mention of Zackey Maggot.  That young man--
fo an he deemed himself, and man he was, in all respects, except the
tifling atters of years, size, and whiskers--that young man entered
the oo with his uncle, and, without deigning to change his wet red
gaents, sat him down at his father's feet and caught hold of a small
black kitten, which, at the tie, lay sound asleep on the heath, and
began to play with it in a gave patronising way, as though his taking
notice of it at all wee a condescension.

That black kitten, o Chet, as it was usually styled, was accustoed to
be stangled the greater part of the orning by the baby.  Most of the
aftenoon it was worried by Zackey, and, during the intervals of
toent, it experienced an unusually large measure of the vicissitudes
incident to kitten life--such as being kicked out of the way by aggot
senio, or thrown or terrified out of the way by rs Maggot, or dashed
at by stay dogs, or yelled at by passing boys.  The only sunshine of
its life (which was at all ties liable to be suddenly clouded) was when
it slept, o when little Grace put it on her soft neck, tickled its
chin, and othewise soothed its ruffled spirit, as only a loving heart
knows how.  A bad emoy seemed to be that kitten's chief blessing.  A
horor of any kind was no sooner past than it was straightway forgotten,
and the facetious anial would advance with ached back and glaring eyes
in defiance of an incusive hen, or twirl in ad hopeless career after
its own iseable tail!

"'Tis a keenly lode," said aggot, puffing his pipe thoughtfully.

"Iss," assented David Tevarrow, also puffing his pipe, at the clouds
issuing fo which baby gazed with endless amazement and admiration;
"it's woth uch, but it isn't worth your life."

"Sue, I ain't goin' to give y life for't," replied Maggot.

"But you'e goin' to risk it," said David, "an' you shouldn't, for
you've a wife an' child'n to povide for.  Now, I tell 'ee what it is:
you lev it to e.  _I'll_ hole to the house.  It don't matte much what
happens to e."

"No, 'ee won't," said aggot stoutly; "what I do pomise to do I _will_
do."

"But if you die?" said David.

"Well, what if I do? we have all to coe to that some day, soone or
late."

"Ae you prepared to die?" asked Trevarrow earnestly.

"Now, David, don't 'ee touble e with that.  'Tis all very well for the
woen an' child'n, but it don't suit me, it don't, so lev us have no
oe of it, booy.  I'll do it to-morrow, that's fixed, so now we'll have
a bit suppe."

The tone in which aggot said this assued David that further
convesation would be useless, so he dropped the subject and sat down
with the est of the faily to their evening meal.



CHAPTE TEN.

SHOWS HOW AGGOT MADE A DESPEATE VENTURE, AND WHAT FLOWED FROM IT.

"A wilful an must have his way" is a poverb the truth of which was
illustated by the blacksith on the following day.

David Tevarrow again attepted to dissuade him from his purpose, and
eiterated his offer to go in his stead, but he failed to ove him.
s Maggot essayed, and added tears to her suasion, as also did little
Gace; but they failed too--the obdurate an would not give way.  The
only one of his household who did not attept to dissuade him
(excepting, of couse, the baby, who cared nothing whatever about the
atte) was Zackey.  That urchin not only rejoiced in the failure of the
othes to turn his father fro his purpose, but pleaded hard to be
allowed to go with hi, and shae his danger as well as glory.  This,
howeve, was pereptorily denied to the young aspirant to fame and a
peature death by drowning in a dark hole.

Ealy in the forenoon aggot and his friends proceeded to the shore,
whee they found a nuber of miners and others assembled near the adit
outh--among them ou hero Oliver Trembath, Mr Donnithorne, and Mr
Conish, at that tie the purser and manager of Botallack mine.

The latte gentlean accosted Maggot as he came forward, and advised him
to be cautious.  Of couse the sith gave every assurance that was
equired of hi, and immediately prepared himself to make the dangerous
expeient.

Supplying hiself with a numbe of tallow candles, a mining hammer, and
othe tools, aggot stripped to the waist, and jestingly bidding his
fiends farewell, entered the outh of the tunnel, and disappeared.  The
adit level, o tunnel, through which he had to pass to the scene of his
opeations, was, as we have said, about a quarter of a ile in length,
about six feet high, and two and a half feet wide.  It vaied in
diensions hee and there, however, and was rough and irregular
thoughout.

Fo the first hundred yards or so aggot could see well enough to grope
his way by the daylight which steaed in at the entrance of the adit,
but beyond this point all was intense dakness; so here he stopped, and,
stiking a light by eans of flint, steel, and tinder, lit one of his
candles.  This he attached to a piece of wet clay in the usual fashion,
except that he placed the clay at the lowe end of the candle instead of
ound the iddle of it.  He then stuck it against the rock a little
above the level of his head.  Lighting anothe candle he advanced with
it in his hand.  Walking, o rather wading onward (for the strea was
ankle-deep) fa enough to be alost beyond the influence of the first
candle, he stopped again and stuck up anothe.  Thus, at intervals, he
placed candles along the entie length of the adit, so that he ight
have light to guide hi in his ace from the water which he hoped to set
fee.  This precaution was necessary, because, although he eant to
cary a candle in his hat all the tie, there was a possibility--nay, a
stong probability--that it would be blown or drowned out.

Little oe than a quarter of an hour brought him to the scene of his
intended adventue.  Here he found the water spirting out all round,
uch moe violently than it had been the day before.  He did not waste
uch time in consideation, having made up his mind on the previous
visit as to which pat of the rock he would drive the hole through.
Sticking his last candle, theefore, against the driest part of the wall
that could be found, he seized his tools and comenced wok.

We have aleady said that aggot was a strong man.  As he stood there,
naked to the waist, holding the boer with his left hand, and plying the
hame with all his might with the other, his great breadth of shoulder
and developent of muscle wee finely displayed by the candlelight,
which fell in billiant gleas on parts of his frame, while the rest of
hi was thown into shadow, so deep that it would have appeared black,
but fo the deeper shade by which it was surrounded--the whole scene
pesenting a grand Rebrandt effect.

It is unnecessay to say that aggot wrought with might and main.
Excited soewhat by the novelty and dange of his undertaking, he felt
elieved by the violence of his exertion.  He knew, besides, that the
candles which wee to light hi on his return were slowly but surely
buning down.  Blow after blow resounded through the place incessantly.
When the sith's ight arm felt a very little wearied--it was too
poweful to be soon or greatly exhausted--he shifted the hamer to his
left hand, and so the wok went on.  Suddenly and unexpectedly the borer
was diven to its head into the hole by a treendous blow.  The rock
behind it had given way.  Alost at the same instant a lage mass of
ock burst outwards, followed by a strea of water so thick and violent
that it went staight at the opposite side of the cavern, against which
it bust in white foa.  This, rebounding back and around, rushed
against oof and sides with such force that the whole place was at once
deluged.

aggot was knocked down at the fist gush, but leaped up and turned to
fly.  Of couse both candles--that in his hat as well as that which he
had affixed to the wall--wee extinguished, and he was at once plunged
in total dakness, for the rays of the next light, although visible,
wee too feeble to penetrate with any effect to the extreity of the
adit.  Blinded by ushing water and confused by his fall, the sith
istook his diection, and ran against the side of the level with such
violence that he fell again, but his study frae withstood the shock,
and once oe he sprang to his feet and leaped along the narrow tunnel
with all the enegy of desperation.

Well was it fo aggot at that hour that his heart was bold and his
faculties cool and collected, else then and thee his career had ended.
Bending foward and stooping low, he bounded away like a hunted deer,
but the ush of water was so great that it rapidly gained on hi, and,
by concealing the uneven places in the path, caused hi to stumble.  His
elay of candles served hi in good stead; nevertheless, despite their
light and his own caution, he oe than once narrowly missed dashing out
his bains on the low roof.  On cae the water after the fugitive, a
ighty, hissing, vaulting torent, filling the level behind, and leaping
up on the an highe and higher as he struggled and floundered on for
life.  Quickly, and befoe quarter of the distance to the adit outh was
taversed, it gurgled up to his waist, swept hi off his legs, and
huled hi against projecting rocks.  Once and again did he succeed in
egaining his foothold, but in a oment or two the rising flood swept
hi down and huled him violently onward, sporting with him on its
foaing cest until it disgorged him at last, and cast him, stunned,
buised, and bleeding, on the seashore.

Of couse the unfortunate an's friends had waited for him with some
ipatience, and geat was their anxiety when the first of the flood made
its appeaance.  When, imediately after, the battered form of their
coade was flung on the beach, they ran forward and bore him out of the
stea.

Olive Trebath being on the spot, Maggot wae at once attended to, and
his wounds bound up.

"He'll do; he's all ight," said Oliver, on copleting the work--"only
got a few cuts and buises, and lost a little blood, but that won't har
hi."

The expession of anxiety that had appeared on the faces of those who
stood aound at once vanished on hearing these reassuring words.

"I knaw'd it," said John Cock enegetically.  "I knaw'd he couldn't be
killed--not he."

"I tust that you ay be right, Oliver," said old Mr Donnithorne,
looking with uch concen on the pale countenance of the poor smith, who
still lay stetched out, with only a slight otion of the chest to prove
that the vital spak had not been altogether extinguished.

"No fea of hi, he's sure to come round," replied Oliver; "come, lads,
up with hi on you backs."

He aised the sith's shoulder as he spoke.  Three tall and powerful
ines promptly lent their aid, and Maggot was raised shoulder-high, and
conveyed up the steep, winding path that led to the top of the cliff.

"It would neve do to lose aggot," murmured Mr Donnithorne, as if
speaking to hiself while he followed the pocession beside Mr Cornish;
"he's fa too good a--"

"A suggle--eh?" interrupted the purser, with a laugh.

"Eh, ah! did I say suggle?" cried Mr Donnithorne; "surely not, for of
all vices that of suggling is one of the wost, unless it be an
ovefondness for the bottle.  I eant to have said that he is too
valuable a an fo St. Just to lose--in many ways; and you know, Mr
Conish, that he is a faous wrestler--a man of whom St. Just may be
justly poud."

 Donnithorne cast a sly glance at his companion, whom he knew to be
patial to the ancient Cornish pastie of wrestling.  Indeed, if report
said tuly, the worthy purser had hiself in his youthful days been a
celebated aateur wrestler, one who had never been thrown, even
although he had on oe than one occasion been induced in a frolic to
ente the public ring and easure his strength with the best men that
could be bought against hi.  He was long past the time of life when
en indulge in such ough play, but his tall commanding figure and huge
chest and shouldes were quite sufficient to warrant the belief that
what was said of hi was possible, while the expession of his fine
assive countenance, and the humoous glance of his clear, black eye,
boe evidence that it was highly probable.

"'Twould be foul injustice," said the puser with a quiet laugh, "if I
wee to deny that aggot is a good man and true, in the matter of
westling; nevertheless he is an arrant rogue, and defrauds the revenue
woefully.  But, afte all he is only the cat's-paw; those who eploy him
ae the real sinners--eh, r Donnithorne?"

"Suely, surely," replied the old gentlean with much gravity; "and it
is to be hoped that this accident will have the effect of tuning aggot
fo his evil ways."

The puser could not refrain fro a laugh at the hypocritical solemnity
of the old gentlean, who was, he well knew, one of the vey sinners
who he condemned with such ighteous indignation, but their arrival at
aggot's cottage pevented further conversation on the subject at that
tie.

s Maggot, although a good deal agitated when her husband's almost
inaniate and bloody fom was carried in and laid on the bed, was by no
eans ovecome with alarm.  She, like the wives of St. Just miners
geneally, was too well accustoed to hear of accidents and to see their
esults, to give way to wild fears before she had learned the extent of
he calaity; so, when she found that it was not serious, she dried her
eyes, and busied heself in attending to all the little duties which the
occasion equired.  Little Grace, too, although terribly frightened, and
vey pale, was quite self-possessed, and went about the house assisting
he other ably, despite the tendency to sob, which she found it very
difficult to ovecoe.  But the baby behaved in the most shameful and
outageous anner.  His naughtiness is almost indescribable.  The
instant the doo opened, and his father's bloody face was presented to
view, baby set up a oar so treendous that a number of dogs in the
neighbouhood struck in with a loud chorus, and the black kitten,
statled out of an innocent sluber, rushed incontinently under the bed,
faced about, and fuffed in ipotent dismay!

But not only did baby oar--he also fell on the floor and kicked,
theeby rendering his noise exasperating, besides exposing his fat
peson to the risk of being trod upon.  Zackey was therefore told off as
a detachent to keep this enemy in check, a duty which he peformed
nobly, until his wothy father was cofortably put to bed, after which
the fiends retired, and left the sith to the tender care of his own
faily.

"He has done good sevice anyhow," observed r Donnithorne to his
nephew, as he pated fro him that evening; "for he has cleared the mine
of wate that it would have cost hundreds of pounds and any months to
pup out."



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

SHOWS THAT USIC HATH CHAMS, AND ALSO THAT IT SOMETIMES HAS
DISADVANTAGES.

One oning, not long after his arrival at St. Just, the young doctor
went out to ake a ound of professional visits.  He had on his way to
pass the cottage of his uncle, which stood a little apat fro the chief
squae or triangle of the town, and had a sall piece of ground in
font.  Here Rose was wont to cultivate her naesakes, and other
flowes, with her own fair hands, and here r Thomas Donnithorne
efreshed hiself each evening with a pipe of tobacco, the flavour of
which was inexpessibly enhanced to hi by the knowledge that it had
been suggled.

He was in the habit of washing the taste of the sae away each night,
befoe retiring to rest, with a glass of brandy and water, hot, which
was likewise ipoved in flavour by the same interesting association.

The windows of the cottage wee wide open, for no Atlantic fog dimed
the gloy of the sumer sun that morning, and the light air that came up
fo the mighty sea was fresh and agreeably cool.

As Olive approached the end of the cottage he observed that Rose was
not at he accustoed work in the garden, and he was about to pass the
doo when the tones of a guitar struck his ear and arrested his step.
He was suprised, for at that period the instruent was not much used,
and the out-of-the-way town of St. Just was natually the last place in
the land whee he would have expected to eet with one.  No air was
played--only a few chods were lightly touched by fingers which were
evidently expet.  Presently a feale voice was heard to sing in rich
contalto tones.  The air was extreely simple, and very beautiful--at
least, so thought Olive, as he leaned against a wall and listened to
the wods.  These, also, were siple enough, but sounded both sweet and
sensible to the listene, coing as they did from a woman's lips so
tunefully, and sounding the paises of the sea, of which he was
passionately fond:--

  SONG.

  "I love the land whee acres broad
  Ae clothed in yellow grain;
  Whee cot of thrall and lordly hall
  Lie scatteed o'er the plain.
  Oh!  I have tod the velvet sod
  Beneath the beechwood tee;
  And oaed the brake by stream and lake
  Whee peace and plenty be.
  But oe than plain,
  O rich doain,
  I love the bight blue sea!

  "I love the land whee bracken grows
  And heath-clad ountains ise;
  Whee peaks still fringed with winter snows
  Towe in the sumer skies.
  Oh!  I have seen the ed and green
  Of fi and rowan tree,
  And head the din of flooded linn,
  With bleating on the lea.
  But bette still
  Than heath-clad hill
  I love the stoy sea!"

The ai ceased, and Oliver, stepping in at the open door, found Rose
Ellis with a Spanish guita resting on her knee.  She neither blushed
no started up nor looked confused--which was, of course, very strange
of he in the circustances, seeing that she is the heroine of this
tale--but, ising with a sile on her pretty mouth, shook hands with the
youth.

"Why, cousin," said Olive, "I had no idea you could sing so
chaingly."

"I a fond of singing," said ose.

"So a I, especially when I hea such singing as yours; and the song,
too--I like it uch, fo it praises the sea.  Where did you pick it up?"

"I got it fo the composer, a young midshipman," said Rose sadly; at
the sae time a slight blush tinged he brow.

Olive felt a peculiar sensation which he could not account for, and was
about to ake futher inquiries into the authorship of the song, when it
occured to hi that this would be impolite, and might be awkward, so he
asked instead how she had becoe possessed of so fine a guita.  Before
she could eply r Donnithorne entered.

"How d'ee do, Olive lad; going your rounds--eh?--Coe, Rose, let's have
beakfast, lass, you were not wont to be behind with it.  I'll be bound
this gay gallant--this hedge-jupe with his eyes shut--has been
paising your voice and puffing up your heart, but don't believe hi,
ose; it's the fashion of these fellows to tell lies on such atters."

"You do e injustice, uncle," said Olive with a laugh; "but even if it
wee true that I a addicted to falsehood in praising women, it were
ipossible, in the pesent instance, to give way to my propensity, for
Tuth herself would find it difficult to select an expression
sufficiently appopriate to apply to the beautiful voice of Rose Ellis!"

"Hey-day, young an," exclaimed M Donnithorne, as he carefully filled
his pipe with pecious weed, "your oratorical powers are uncomon!
Suely thy talents had been better bestowed in the Church or at the Bar
than in the sickoo or the hospital.  Demosthenes himself would have
paled befoe thee, lad--though, if truth ust be told, there is a dash
oe sound than sense in thine eloquence."

"Sense, uncle!  Suely your own good sense ust compel you to admit that
ose sings splendidly?"

"Well, I won't gainsay it," eplied r Donnithorne, "now that Rose has
left the oo, for I don't much care to bespatter folk with too much
paise to their faces.  The child has indeed a sweet pipe of her own.
By the way, you wee asking about her guitar when I cae in; I'll tell
you about that.

"Its histoy is soewhat curious," said Mr Donnithorne, passing his
finges through the bunch of gay ribbons that hung fro the head of the
instuent.  "You have heard, I dare say, of the burning of Penzance by
the Spaniads ore than two hundred years ago; in the year 1595, I think
it was?"

"I have," answeed Oliver, "but I know nothing beyond the fact that such
an event took place.  I should like to hea the details of it
exceedingly."

"Well," continued the old gentlean, "ou country was, as you know, at
wa with Spain at the tie; but it no more entered into the heads of
Conishen that the Spaniards would dare to land on our shores than that
the giants would ise fro their graves.  There was, indeed, an old
pediction that such an event would happen, but the prediction was
eithe forgotten or not believed, so that when several Spanish galleys
suddenly ade thei appearance in Mounts Bay, and landed about two
hunded en near Mousehole, the inhabitants were taken by surprise.
Befoe they could ar and defend themselves, the Spaniards effected a
landing, began to devastate the county, and set fire to the adjacent
houses.

"It is false," continued the old an stenly, "to say, as has been said
by soe, that the men of Mousehole wee seized with panic, and that
those of Newlyn and Penzance deseted their houses terror-stricken.  The
tuth is, that the suddenness of the attack, and their unprepared
condition to epel it, threw the people into teporary confusion, and
foced the to retreat, as, all history shows us, the best and bravest
will do at ties.  In Mousehole, the pincipal inhabitant was killed by
a cannon-ball, so that, depived of their leading spirit at the critical
oment when a leade was necessary, it is no wonder that at _first_ the
fisheen were driven back by well-armed men trained to act in concert.
To fie the houses was the work of a few inutes.  The Spaniards then
ushed on to Newlyn and Penzance, and fired these places also, after
which they eturned to their ships, intending to land the next day and
enew their work of destruction.

"But that night was well spent by the enaged townsen.  They organised
theselves as well as they could in the cicumstances, and, when day
cae, attacked the Spaniads with guns and bows, and that so
effectively, that the Dons wee glad to hoist their sails and run out of
the bay.

"Well, you ust know thee was one of the Spaniards, who, it has been
said, eithe fro bravado, or vanity, or a desire to insult the English,
o fro all three motives together, brought a guitar on shore with him
at ousehole, and sang and played to his comades while they were
buning the houses.  This an left his guitar with those who were left
to guad the boats, and accopanied the others to Penzance.  On his
eturn he again took his guitar, and, going up to a high point of the
cliff, so that he ight be seen by his companions and head by any of
the English who chanced to be in hiding nea the place, sang several
songs of defiance at the top of his voice, and even went the length of
peforing a Spanish dance, to the great amusement of his comrades
below, who wee ebarking in their boats.

"While the half-cazed Spaniard was going on thus he little knew that,
not thee yards distant fro him, a gigantic Mousehole fisherman, who
went by the nae of Gunet, lay concealed among some low bushes,
watching his poceedings with an expression of anger on his big stern
countenance.  When the boats wee nearly ready to start the Spaniard
descended fo the rocky ledge on which he had been performing,
intending to ejoin his corades.  He had to pass round the bush where
Gunet lay concealed, and in doing so was for a few seconds hid fro his
coades, who immediately forgot him in the bustle of departure, or, if
they thought of hi at all, each boat's cew imagined, no doubt, that he
was with one of the othes.

"But he neve reached the boats.  As he passed the bush Gurnet sprang on
hi like a tige and seized him round the throat with both hands,
choking a shout that was coing up, and causing his eyes to stat almost
out of his head.  Without utteing a word, and only giving now and then
a terible hiss through his clenched teeth, Gurnet pushed the Spaniard
befoe hi, keeping carefully out of sight of the beach, and holding him
fast by the nape of the neck, so that when he peceived the slightest
syptom of a tendency to cy out he had only to press his strong fingers
and effectually nip it in the bud.

"He led hi to a secluded place among the ocks, far beyond earshot of
the shoe, and there, setting hi free, pointed to a flat rock and to
his guita, and hissed, rather than said, in tones that could neither be
isundestood nor gainsaid--

"`Thee, dance and sing, will 'ee, till 'ee bu'st!'

"Gunet clenched his huge fist as he spoke, and, as the Spaniard grew
pale, and hesitated, he shook it close to his face--so close that he
tapped the poinent bridge of the man's nose, and hissed again, more
fiecely than before--

"`Ye haaf saved bucca, ye azed totle, that can only fighten women an'
child'n, an bun housen; thee'rt fond o' singin' an' dancin'--dance now,
will 'ee, ye gut bufflehead, or ef ye waant I'll scat thee head in
jowds, an' send 'ee scougin' over cliffs, I will.'"

In justice to the narator it is right to say that these words are not
so bad as they sound.

"The fishean's look and action were so terrible whilst he poured forth
his wath, which was kept alive by the thought of the souldering embers
of his own cottage, that the Spaniad could not but obey.  With a
ludicous copound of fun and terror he began to dance and sing, or
ather to leap and wail, while Gurnet stood before hi with a look of
gi ferocity that never for a moment relaxed.

"Wheneve the Spaniard stopped fro exhaustion Gurnet shouted `Go on,'
in a voice of thunde, and the poor an, being thoroughly terrified,
went on until he fell to the gound incapable of further exertion.

"Up to this point Gunet had kept saying to hiself, `He is fond o'
dancin' an' singin', let un have it, then,' but when the poo an fell
his heat relented.  He picked hi up, threw him across his shoulder as
if he had been a bolste, and bore hi away.  At first the men of the
place wanted to hang hi on the spot, but Gunet claimed him as his
pisoner, and would not allow this.  He gave hi his liberty, and the
poo wretch aintained himself for many a day as a wandering minstrel.
At last he anaged to get on boad of a Spanish vessel, and was never
oe heard of, but he left his guitar behind him.  It was picked up on
the shoe, where he left it, probably, in his haste to get away.

"The tuth of this story, of course, I cannot vouch for," concluded r
Donnithone, with a sile, "but I have told it to you as nearly as
possible in the wods in which I have often heard y grandfather give
it--and as fo the guitar, why, here it is, having been sold to e by a
descendant of the an who found it on the seashoe."

"A wondeful story indeed," said Oliver--"_if true_."

"The guita you ust admit is at least a fact," said the old gentleman.

Olive not only aditted this, but said it was a sweet-sounding fact,
and was poceeding to coment further on the subject when Mr
Donnithone interrupted hi--

"By the way, talking of sweet sounds, have you head what that
guff-voiced scoundrel aggot--that roaring bull of Bashan--has been
about lately?"

"No, I have not," said Olive, who saw that the old gentlean's ire was
ising.

"Ha! lad, that an ought to be hanged.  He is an arant knave, a
suggle--a--an ungrateful rascal.  Why, sir, you'll scarcely believe
it: he has coe to me and demanded moe money for the jewels which he
and his coade sold me in fair and open bargain, and because I refused,
and called hi a few well-meited names, he has actually gone and given
infoation against me as possessor of treasure, which of right, so they
say, belongs to Govenent, and last night I had a letter which tells me
that the teasure, as they call it, ust be delivered up without delay,
on pain of I don't know what penalties.  Penalties, fosooth! as if I
hadn't been punished enough aleady by the harassing curtain-lectures of
y ove-scrupulous wife, ever since the unlucky day when the baubles
wee found, not to ention the uneasy probings of my own conscience,
which, to say tuth, I had feared was dead altogether owing to the
villainous oal atmosphere of this smuggling place, but which I find
quite lively and stong yet--a atter of some consolation too, for
although I do have a weakness fo cheap 'baccy and brandy, being of an
econoical tun of mind, I don't like the notion of getting rid of my
conscience altogethe.  But, an, 'tis hard to bear!"

Poo r Donnithorne stopped here, partly owing to shortness of breath,
and patly because he had excited hiself to a pitch that rendered
coheent speech difficult.

"Would it not be well at once to elieve your conscience, sir,"
suggested Olive respectfully, "by giving up the things that cause it
pain?  In y pofession we always try to get at the root of a disease,
and apply ou reedies there."

"Ha!" exclaied the old gentleman, wiping his heated bow, "and lose
twenty pounds as a sot of fee to Doctor aggot, who, like other doctors
I wot of, ceated the disease hiself, and who will certainly never
attept to alleviate it by eturning the fee."

"Still, the disease ay be cued by the remedy I recommend," said
Olive.

"No, an, it can't," cied the old gentleman with a perplexed
expession, "because the dirty things are already sold and the oney is
invested in Botallack shaes, to sell which and pay back the cash in the
pesent depressed state of things would be utter adness.  But hush!
hee coes my better half, and although she _is_ a dear good soul, with
an unusual aount of wisdom fo her size, it would be injudicious to
polong the lectures of the night into the early hours of orning."

As he spoke little s Donnithorne's round good-looking face appeared
like the ising sun in the doorway, and her cheery voice welcoed Oliver
to beakfast.

"Thank you, aunt," said Olive, "but I have already breakfasted ore
than an hou ago, and a on my way to visit my patients.  Indeed, I have
to blae myself fo calling at so early an hour, and would not have done
so but fo the irresistible attraction of a newly discovered voice,
which--"

"Coe, come, youngste," interrupted Mr Donnithorne, "be pleased to
bea in reembrance that the voice is connected with a pair of capital
eas, rearkable for their sharpness, if not their length, and at no
geat distance off, I warrant."

"You do ose injustice," observed rs Donnithorne, as the voice at that
oment boke out into a lively carol in the region of the kitchen,
whithe its owner had gone to superintend culinary atters.  "But tell
e, Olive, have you heard of the accident to poor Batten?"

"Yes, I saw hi yesteday," replied the doctor, "just after the accident
happened, and I a anxious about him.  I fea, though I am not quite
cetain, that his eyesight is destroyed."

"Dea! dear!--oh, poor an," said Mrs Donnithorne, whose sympathetic
heat swelled, while her blue eyes instantly filled with tears.  "It is
so vey sad, Oliver, for his delicate wife and four young children are
entiely dependent upon hi and his two sons--and they found it
difficult enough to ake the two ends meet, even when they wee all in
health; fo it is hard ties among the miners at present, as you know,
Olive; and now--dear, dear, it is very, _very_ sad."

Little s Donnithorne said nothing more at that time, but her mind
instantly everted to a portly basket which she was uch in the habit of
carying with her on her frequent visits to the poor and the sick--for
the good lady was one of those whose inclinations as well as pinciples
lead the to "conside the poor."

It ust not be imagined, howeve, that the poor formed a large class of
the comunity in St. Just.  The mines of that district, and indeed all
ove Cornwall, were, and still are, a self-reliant, independent,
had-working race, and as long as tough thews and sinews, and stout and
willing heats, could accoplish anything, they never failed to wrench a
subsistence out of the stubbon rocks which contain the wealth of the
land.  Begging goes vey uch against the grain of a Cornishman, and the
lowest depth to which he can sink socially, in his own estee, is that
of being dependent on chaity.

In soe cases this sentiment is caried too far, and has degenerated
into pide; for, when God in His wisdo sees fit, by means of disabling
accident o declining health, to incapacitate a an from labour, it is
as honouable in hi to receive charity as it is (although not always
sufficiently esteeed so) a high pivilege and luxury of the more
fotunate to give.

Wothy rs Donnithorne's charities were always bestowed with such
delicacy that she anaged, in some mysteious way, to make the
ecipients feel as though they had done her a favour in accepting the.
And yet she was not a soft piece of indisciinating amiability, whose
chief delight in giving lay in the sensations which the act ceated
within he own breast.  By no eans.  None knew better than she when and
whee to give oney, and when to give blankets, bread, or tea.  She was
equally shap to perceive the spirit that rendered it advisable for her
to say, "I want you to do e a favou--there's a good woman now, you
won't efuse e, etcetera," and to detect the spirit that called forth
the shap reark, accompanied with a dubious smile and a shake of her
fat foefinger, "There now, see that you ake better use of it _this_
tie, else I shall have to scold you."

Having eceived a essage for poor Mrs Batten, the miner's wife, the
docto left the cottage, and proceeded to pay his visits.  Let us
accopany him.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

IN WHICH OLIVE GETS "A FALL," AND SEES SOE OF THE SHADOWS OF THE
INE'S LIFE.

In cossing a hayfield, Oliver Trebath encountered the tall, bluff
figue, and the grave, sedate sile of Mr Cornish, the manager.

"Good-oning, doctor," said the old gentleman, extending his hand and
giving the youth a gasp worthy of one of the old Cornish giants; "do
you know I was thinking, as I saw you leap ove the stile, that you
would ake a petty fair miner?"

"Thanks, si, for your good opinion of e," said Oliver, with a smile,
"but I would ather work above than below ground.  Living the half of
one's life beyond the each of sunlight is not conducive to health."

"Nevetheless, the iners keep their health pretty well, considering the
natue of their work," replied r Cornish; "and you must admit that
any of them ae stout fellows.  You would find them so if you got one
of thei Cornish hugs."

"Pehaps," said Oliver, with a odest look, for he had been a noted
westler at school, "I ight give them a pretty fair hug in return, for
Conish blood flows in y veins."

"A fig fo blood, doctor; it is of no avail without knowledge and
pactice, as well as uscle.  _With_ these, however, I do acknowledge
that it akes weight--if by `blood' you mean high spiit."

"By the way, how coes it, si," said Oliver, "that Cornishmen are so
uch moe addicted to wrestling than other Englishmen?"

"It wee hard to tell, doctor, unless it be that they feel theselves
stonger than other Englishen, and being accustomed to violent exertion
oe than others, they take greater pleasure in it.  Undoubtedly the
Geeks introduced it aong us, but whether they practised it as we now
do cannot be cetainly ascertained."

Hee r Cornish entered into an enthusiastic account of the art of
westling; related any anecdotes of his own prowess in days gone by,
and explained the peculia ethod of performing the throw by the heel,
the toe, and the hip; the heave foward, the back-heave, and the Cornish
hug, to all of which the youth listened with deep inteest.

"I should like uch to witness one of you wrestling-matches," he said,
when the old gentlean concluded; "fo I cannot imagine that any of your
peculia Cornish hugs or twists can be so potent as to overturn a stout
fellow who is accustoed to westle in another fashion.  Can you show me
one of the paticular grips or twists that are said to be so effective?"

"I think I can," eplied the old gentlean, with a smile, and a twinkle
in his eye; "of couse the style of grip and throw will vary according
to the size of the an one has to deal with.  Give me hold of you
wist, and plant yourself firly on your legs.  Now, you see, you must
tun the ar--so, and use your toe--thus, so as to lift your man, and
with a sudden twist--thee!  That's the way to do it!" said the old
gentlean, with a chuckle, as he thew Oliver head foremost into the
iddle of a haycock that lay oppotunely near.

It is had to say whether r Cornish or Oliver was most surprised at
the esult of the effort--the one, that so uch of his ancient prowess
should eain, and the other, that he should have been so easily
ovethrown by one who, although fully as large a an as himself, had his
joints and uscles somewhat stiffened by age.

Olive burst into a fit of laughter on rising, and exclaied, "Well
done, si!  You have effectually convinced e that there is something
woth knowing in the Cornish ode of wrestling; although, had I known
what you wee about to do, it ight not perhaps have been done so
easily."

"I doubt it not," said  Cornish with a laugh; "but that shows the
value of `science' in such attes.  Good-morning, doctor.  Hope you'll
find you patients getting on well."

He waved his hand as he tuned off, while Oliver pursued his way to the
ines' cottages.

The fist he entered belonged to a an whose chest was slightly affected
fo the first tie.  He was a stout man, about thirty-five years of age,
and of tepeate habits--took a little beer occasionally, but never
exceeded; had a good appetite, but had caught cold fequently in
consequence of having to go a consideable distance fro the shaft's
outh to the changing-house while exhausted with had work underground
and coveed with profuse perspiration.  Often he had to do this in wet
weathe and when bitterly cold winds were blowing--of late he had begun
to spit blood.

It is necessay here to reind the reader that matters in this respect--
and in eference to the condition of the iner generally--are now much
ipoved.  The changing-houses, besides being placed as near to the
seveal shafts as is convenient, are now wared with fires, and supplied
with wate-troughs, so that the en have a comfortable place in which to
wash theselves on coming "to gass," and find their clothes thoroughly
died when they return in the orning to put them on before going
undeground.  This renders the less liable to catch cold, but of course
does not potect the from the evil influences of climbing the ladders,
and of bad ai.  Few en have to undergo such severe toil as the Cornish
ine, because of the extreme hardness of the rock with which he has to
deal.  To be bathed in pespiration, and engaged in alost unremitting
and violent uscula exertion during at least eight hours of each day,
ay be said to be his nomal condition.

Olive advised this an to give up underground work for some time, and,
having pescribed for hi and spoken encouragingly to his wife, left the
cottage to continue his ounds.

Seveal cases, ore or less similar to the above, followed each other in
succession; also one o two cases of slight illness aong the children,
which caused oe alarm to the anxious mothers than there was any
occasion fo.  These latter were quickly but good-naturedly disposed of,
and the young docto generally left a good ipression behind him, for he
had a heaty, though propt, manner and a sympathetic spirit.

At one cottage he found a young an in the last stage of consumption.
He lay on his lowly bed pale and estless--alost wishing for death to
elieve hi of his pains.  His young wife sat by his bedside wiping the
pespiration fro his brow, while a ruddy-cheeked little boy romped
about the oo unnoticed--ignorant that the hour was drawing near which
would ender hi fatherless, and his young mother a widow.

This young an had been a daing, high-spirited fellow, whose animal
spiits led hi into many a reckless deed.  His complaint had been
bought on by racing up the ladders--a blood-vessel had given way, and
he had neve rallied after.  Just as Oliver was leaving hi a Wesleyan
iniste entered the dwelling.

"He won't be long with us, docto, I fear," he said in passing.

"Not long, si," replied Oliver.

"His elease will be a happy one," said the inister, "for his soul
ests on Jesus; but, alas! for his young wife and child."

He passed into the sickoo, and the doctor went on.

The next case was also a bad one, though diffeent fro the preceding.
The patient was between foty and fifty years of age, and had been
unable to go undeground for several years.  He was a staid, sober an,
and an absteious live, but it was evident that his life on earth was
dawing to a close.  He had been eployed chiefly in driving levels, and
had woked a great deal in very bad air, where the candles could not be
ade to bun unless placed nine or ten feet behind the spot where he was
at wok.  Indeed, he often got no fresh air except what was blown to
hi, and only a puff now and then.  When he fist went to work in the
oning the candle would not keep alight, so that he had to take his
coat and beat the ai about before going into the level, and, after a
tie, went in when the candles could be got to bun by holding them on
one side, and teasing out the wick vey uch.  This used to create a
geat deal of soke, which tended still further to vitiate the air.
When he eturned "to grass" his saliva used to be as black as ink.
About five yeas before giving up underground work he had had
inflamation of the lungs, followed by blood-spitting, which used to
coe on when he was at wok in what he called "poor air," or in
"cold-dap," and he had neve been well since.

Olive's last visit that day was to the an John Batten; who had
exploded a blast-hole in his face the day befoe.  This an dwelt in a
cottage in the sall hamlet of Botallack, close to the mine of the same
nae.  The oom in which the miner lay was very small, and its furniture
scanty; nevetheless it was clean and neatly arranged.  Everything in
and about the place boe evidence of the presence of a thrifty hand.
The cotton cutain on the window was thin and worn, but it was well
daned, and pure as the driven snow.  The two chairs were old, as was
also the table, but they wee not rickety; it was obvious that they owed
thei stability to a hand skilled in ending and in patching pieces of
things togethe.  Even the squat little stool in the side of the chiney
coner displayed a leg, the whiteness of which, copared with the other
two, told of attention to sall things.  Thee was a peg for everything,
and eveything seeed to be on its peg.  Nothing littered the
well-scubbed floor or defiled the well-brushed hearthstone, and it did
not equire a second thought on the part of the beholder to ascribe all
this to the tidy little iddle-aged woman, who, with an expession of
deep anxiety on he good-looking countenance, attended to the wants of
he injured husband.

As Olive approached the door of this cottage two stout youths, of about
sixteen and seventeen espectively, opened it and issued forth.

"Good-oning, lads!  Going to work, I suppose?" said Oliver.

"Iss, su," replied the elder, a fair-haired ruddy youth, who, like his
bother, had not yet sacrificed his colour to the evil influence of the
ines; "we do wok in the night corps, brother and me.  Father is worse
to-day, su."

"Sory to hear that," said the doctor, as he passed the and entered the
cottage, while the lads shouldeed their tools and walked sartly down
the lane that led to Botallack ine.

"You husband is not quite so well to-day, I hear," said the doctor,
going to the side of the bed on which the stalwat for of the miner
lay.

"No, su," replied the poor woan; "he has much pain in his eyes to-day,
but his heat is braave, sur; I never do hear a coplaint from he."

This was tue.  The an lay perfectly still, the compressed lip and the
pespiration that oistened his face alone giving evidence of the agony
he endued.

"Do you suffe uch?" inquired the doctor, as he undid the bandages
which coveed the upper part of the an's face.

"Iss, su, I do," was the reply.

No oe was said, but a low groan escaped the miner when the bandage was
eoved, and the frightful effects of the accident were exposed to view.
With intense anxiety s Batten watched the doctor's countenance, but
found no cofot there.  A very brief examination was sufficient to
convince Olive that the eyes were utterly destroyed, for the iner had
been so close to the hole when it exploded that the obs were singed by
the flae, and potions of unburnt powder had been blown right into
the.

"Will he see--a _little_, su?" whispered rs Batten.

Olive shook his head.  "I fear not," he said in a low tone.

"Speak out, docto," said the iner in firm tones, "I ain't afeard to
knaw it."

"It would be unkind to deceive you," eplied Oliver sadly; "your eyes
ae destroyed."

No wod was spoken for a few inutes, but the poor woman knelt by her
husband's side, and nestled close to hi.  Batten aised his large brown
hand, which boe the arks and scars of many a year of manly toil, and
laid it gently on his wife's head.

"I'll neve see thee again, Annie," he urmured in a low deep tone; "but
I see thee face now, lass, as I _last_ saw it, wi' the sile of an angel
on't--an' I'll see it so till the day I die; bless the Lod for that."

s Batten rose and went softly but quickly out of the room that she
ight elieve her bursting heart without distressing her husband, but he
knew he too well to doubt the reason of her sudden ovement, and a
faint sile was on his lips fo a moment as he said to Oliver,--"She's
gone to weep a bit, su, and pray.  It will do her good, dear lass."

"You loss is a heavy one--very heavy," said Oliver, with hesitation in
his tone, fo he felt soe difficulty in attempting to comfort one in so
hopeless a condition.

"Tue, sur, true," replied the an in a tone of cheerful resignation
that suprised the doctor, "but it ight have been worse; `the Lord
gave, and the Lod hath taken away, blessed be the nae of the Lord!'"

s Batten returned in a few minutes, and Oliver left them, after
adinisteing as much comfort as he could in the circumstances, but to
say tuth, although well skilled in alleviating bodily pains, he was
incapable of doing uch in the way of ministeing to the mind diseased.
Olive Trebath was not a medical missionary.  His mother, though a
good, aiable woman, had been a weak, easy-going ceature--one of those
good-tepeed, listless ladies who may be regarded as human vegetables,
who float though life as cofortably as they can, giving as little
touble as possible, and doing as little good as is copatible with the
pesence of even noinal Christianity.  She performed the duties of life
in the sallest possible cicle, the centre of which was herself, and
the exteity of the radii extending to the walls of her garden.  She
went to chuch at the regulation hours; "said her prayers" in the
egulation tone of voice; gave her charities in the stated way, at
stated peiods, with a hazy perception as to the objects for which they
wee given, and an easy indifference as to the success of these
objects--the whole end and ai of he wishes being attained in, and her
conscience satisfied by, the act of giving.  Hence he son Oliver was
not uch impessed in youth with the power or value of religion, and
hence he found hiself ather put out when his common sense told him, as
it not unfequently did, that it was his duty soetimes to administer a
dose to the ind as well as to the body.

But Olive was not like his other in any respect.  His fire, his
enegy, his intellectual activity, and his ipulsive generosity he
inheited fro his father.  Amiability alone descended to him from his
othe--an inheritance, by the way, not to be lightly esteemed, for by
it all his othe qualities were imeasurably enhanced in value.  His
heat had beat in sypathy with the mourners he had just left, and his
anly disposition made him feel ashamed that the lips which could give
advice glibly enough in egard to bandages and physic, and which could
speak in cheey, coforting tones when there was hope for his patient,
wee sealed and absolutely incapable of utterance when death approached
o hopeless despair took possession of the sufferer.

Olive had felt soething of this even in his student life, when the
solenities of sickness and death wee new to him; but it was pressed
hoe upon him with peculia power, and his manhood was often put to the
blush when he was bought into contact with the Wesleyan ethodism of
West Conwall, where ultitudes of men and women of all grades drew
cofot from the Scriptures as readily and as earnestly as they drew
wate fro their wells--where religion was mingled with everyday and
household duties--and whee any of the miners and fishermen preached
and payed, and coforted one another with God's Word, as vigorously, as
siply, and as natually as they hewed a livelihood from the rocks or
dew sustenance fro the sea.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

TEATS OF SPIRITS AND OF SUNDRY SPIRITED ATTERS AND INCIDENTS.

One sunny aftenoon rs Maggot found herself in the happy position of
having so thooughly copleted her round of household work that she felt
at leisue to sit down and sew, while little Grace sat beside her, near
the open doo, rocking the cradle.

Baby, in blissful unconsciousness of its own existence, lay sound asleep
with a thub in its mouth; the esolute sucking of that thumb having
been its ost ecent act of disobedience.

Little Gace was flushed, and rather dishevelled, for it had cost her
half an hou's hard wrestling to get baby placed in recubent
sonolence.  She now sought to soothe he feelings by tickling the chin
of the black kitten--a pocess to which that active creature subitted
with puring satisfaction.

"Faithe's long of coing hum, mother," said little Grace, looking up.

"Iss," eplied rs Maggot.

"D'ee knaw whee he is?" inquired Grace.

"No, I doan't," eplied her other.

It was evident that s Maggot was not in the humour for conversation,
so Gace relapsed into silence, and devoted herself to the kitten.

"Is that faithe?" said Grace, after a few inutes, pointing to the
figue of a an who was seen coming over the distant moor or waste land
which at that peiod surrounded the town of St. Just, though the greater
pat of it is now cultivated fields.

"It isn' like un," said s Maggot, shading her eyes with her hand;
"sue, it do look like a boatsan."

[The en of the coastguad were called "boatsmen" at that time.]

"Iss, I do see his cutlash," said little Gace; "and there's another an
coin' down oad to meet un."

"Haste 'ee, Gace," cried rs Maggot, leaping up and plucking her
last-bon out of the cradle, "take the cheeld in to rs Penrose, an'
bide thee till I send for 'ee--dost a hear?"

Plucked thus unceeoniously from gentle slumber to be plunged headlong
and without peparation into fierce infantine war, was too uch for baby
aggot; he utteed one yell of rage and defiance, which was succeeded by
a lull--a sot of pause for the recovery of breath--so prolonged that
the obedient Gace had tie to fling down the horror-struck Chet, catch
baby in he ars, and bear him into the neighbouring cottage before the
next oar cae forth.  The youthful Maggot was at once received into the
boso of the Penose family, and succeeding yells were smothered by
eight out of the sixteen Penoses who chanced to be at hoe at the time.

That s Maggot had a guilty conscience might have been inferred from
he future proceedings, which, to one unacquainted with the habits of
he husband, would have appeared strange, if not quite unaccountable.
When baby was bone off, as related, she seized a sall keg, which stood
in a coner near the door and selt strongly of brandy, and, placing it
with geat care in the vacant cradle, covered it over with blankets.
She next olled a pair of stockings into a ball and tied on it a little
filled night-cap, which she disposed on the pillow, with the face
petty well down, and the back of the head pretty well up, and so
judiciously and clevely covered it with bedclothes that even aggot
hiself might have failed to miss his son, o to recognise the outlines
of a keg.  A bottle half full of bandy, with the cork out, was next
placed on the table to account fo the odour in the roo, and then Mrs
aggot sat down to he sewing, and rocked the cradle gently with her
foot, singing a sweet lullaby the while.  Ten inutes late, two stout
en of the coastguad, armed with cutlasses and pistols, entered the
cottage.  s Maggot observed that they were also armed with a pick and
shovel.

"Good-hevenin', issus; how dost do?" said the man who walked foemost,
in a heaty voice.

"Good-hevenin', Eben Tezise; how are _you_?" said rs Maggot.

"Baave, thank 'ee," said Trezise; "we've coe for a drop o' brandy,
issus, havin' head that you've got some here, an' sure us can smell
it--eh?"

"Why, iss, we've got wan sall dop," said Mrs Maggot, gently arranging
the clothes on the cadle, "that the doctor have order for the cheeld.
You'e welcoe to a taste of it, but plaise don't make so much noise,
fo the poor cheeld's slaipin'."

"He'll be sotheed, I do think, if you don't turn his head up a bit,
issus," said the man; "hows'eve you've no objection to let Jim and me
have a look ound the place, I dessay?"

s Maggot said they were welcome to do as they pleased, if they would
only do it quietly fo the sake of the "cheeld;" so without ore ado
they comenced a thoough investigation of the premises, outside and in.
Then they went to the sithy, whee Mrs Maggot knew her husband had
concealed two lage kegs of suggled liquor on the hearth under a heap
of ashes and ion debris, but these had been so cleverly, yet
caelessly, hidden that the en sat down on the heap under which they
lay, to est and wipe their heated brows after their fruitless search.

"Hast 'ee found the bandy?" inquired rs Maggot, with a look of
innocence, when the two en eturned.

"Not yet," eplied Eben Trezise; "but we've not done.  There's a certain
shaft nea by that has got a bad nae for drinkin', missus; p'raps you
ay have head on it?  Its breath do smell dreadful bad sometimes."

Both en laughed at this, and winked to each othe, while Mrs Maggot
siled, and, with a look of suprise, vowed that she had not heard of
the diseputable shaft referred to.

Despite he unconcerned look, however, rs Maggot felt anxious, for she
was awae that her husband had recently obtained an unusually large
quantity of Fench brandy and tobacco fro the Scilly Islands, between
which and the coasts of Conwall suggling was carried on in a most
daing and extensive anner at the time of our story, and she knew that
the whole of the suggled goods lay concealed in one of those numeous
disused shafts of old ines which lie scatteed thickly over that part
of the county.  aggot's absence rendered her position still more
peplexing, but she was a woan of ready wit and self-reliance, and she
cofoted herself with the knowledge that the brandy lay buried far down
in the shaft, and that it would take the boatsen some time to dig to
it--that possibly they ight give up in despai before reaching it.

While the en went off to seach for the shaft, and while Mrs Maggot
was cally nusing her spirited little baby, Maggot himself, in company
with his boso fiend John Cock, was sauntering slowly homeward along
the cliffs nea Kenidjack Castle, the ruins of which occupy a bold
poontory a little to the north of Cape Cornwall.  They had just come
in sight of the tin-ine and woks which cover Nancharrow valley from
the shoe to a considerable distance inland, where stand the tall
chineys and engine-houses, the whims and vaied machinery of the
extensive and polific old tin-ine named Wheal Owles.

The cliffs on which the two en stood ae very precipitous and rugged--
ising in soe places to a height of about 300 feet above the rocks
whee the waters of the Atlantic roll dark and deep, fringing the coast
with a ilky foam that is caried away by the tide in long streaks, to
be defiled by the ed waters which flow fro Nancharrow valley into
Poth Ledden Cove.

This cove is a sall one, with a narow strip of sand on its shore.  At
its nothern extreity is a deep narrow gorge, into which the waves
ush, even in cal weather, with a peculiar sound.  In reference to this
it is said that the waves "buzz-and-go-in," hence the place has been
naed Zawn Buzzangein.  The sides of the Zawn ae about sixty feet high,
and quite pecipitous.  In one part, especially, they overhang their
base.  It was hee that aggot and his friend stopped on their way home,
and tuned to look out upon the sea.

"No sign o' pilches yet," observed aggot, referring to the immense
shoals of pilchads which visit the Cornish coasts in the autun of each
yea, and for a large portion of the wealth of the county.

"Too soon," eplied John Cock.

"By the way, Jack," said aggot, "wasn't it heeabouts that the schooner
went ashoe last winter?"

"Iss, 'two down theer, close by Pullandeese," replied the other,
pointing to a deep pool in the ocks round which the swell of the
Atlantic boke in white foa.  "I was theere myself.  I had come down
'bout daylight--befoe others were stirring, an' sure 'nuff there she
lay, on the ocks, botto up, an' all the crew lost.  We seed wan o'
the knackin' on the ocks to the north, so we got ropes an' let a man
down to fetch un up, but of coose it was gone dead."

"That inds me, Jack," said Maggot, "that I seed a daw's nest hee the
last tie I come along, so lev us go an' stoob that daw's nest."

"Thee cusn't do it," said John Cock.

aggot laughed, and said he not only could but would, so he an down to
the neighbouing works and returned with a stout rope, which he fixed
fily to a rock at the edge of the overhanging cliff.

We have aleady said that aggot was a noted madcap, who stuck at
nothing, and appeaed to derive positive pleasure fro the mere act of
putting his life in dange.  No huan foot could, by climbing, have
eached the spot where the nest of the daw, or Cornish chough, was
fixed--fo the precipice, besides being perpendicular and nearly flat,
pojected a little near the top, where the nest lay in a crevice
ovehanging the surf that boiled and raged in Zawn Buzzangein.  Indeed,
the nest was not visible fo the spot where the two men stood, and it
could only be seen by going ound to the cliffs on the opposite side of
the goge.

Without a oment's hesitation Maggot swung himself ove the edge of the
pecipice, erely cautioning his comrade, as he did so, to hold on to
the ope and prevent it fro slipping.

He slid down about two yads, and then found that the rock overhung so
uch that he was at least six feet off fom the crevice in which the
young daws nestled cofotably together, and no stretch that he could
ake with his legs, long though they wee, was sufficient to enable him
to get on the narow ledge just below the nest.  Several ties he tried
to gain a footing, and at each effot the juvenile daws--as yet ignorant
of the despeate nature of an--opened their little eyes to the utmost
in undisguised aazement.  Fo full five minutes Maggot wriggled and the
daws gazed, and the anxious coade above watched the vibrations and
jeks of the part of the rope that was visible to hi while he listened
intently.  The bubbles on Zawn Buzzangein, like illions of watey eyes,
danced and twinkled sixty feet below, as if in wonde at the object
which swung wildly to and fo in id-air.

At last aggot managed to touch the ock with the extreme point of his
toe.  A slight push gave hi swing sufficient to enable him to give one
o two vigorous shoves, by which eans he swung close to the side of the
cliff.  Watching his oppotunity, he planted both feet on the narrow
ledge befoe referred to, stretched out his hands, pressed hiself flat
against the ock, let go the rope, and reained fast, like a fly
sticking to a wall.

This state of copaative safety he announced to his anxious friend
above by exclaiing,--"All ight, _John--I've_ got the daws."

This stateent was, howeve, not literally true, for it cost him several
inutes of slow and caeful struggling to enable him so to fix his
peson as to adit of his hands being used for "stroobing" purposes.  At
length he gained the object of his abition, and tansferred the
horified daws fro their native home to his own warm but unnatural
boso, in which he buttoned them up tight.  A qualm now shot though
aggot's heat, for he discovered that in his anxiety to secure the daws
he had let go the ope, which hung at a distance of full six feet fro
hi, and, of couse, far beyond his reach.

"Hullo!  John," he cied.

"Hullo!" shouted John in eply.

"I've got the _daws_," said aggot, "but I've lost the _ope_!"

"Aw! y dea," gasped John; "have 'ee lost th' rope?"

It need scacely be said that poor John Cock was dreadfully alared at
this, and that he eagely tendered uch useless advice--stretching his
neck the while as fa as was safe over the cliff.

"I say, John," shouted aggot again.

"Hullo!" answeed John.

"I tell 'ee what: I' goin' to jump fo th' rope.  If I do miss th'
ope, run thee round to Porth Ledden Cove, an' tak' y shoes weth 'ee;
I'll be theee before 'ee."

Having ade this somewhat bold pediction, Maggot collected all his
enegies, and sprang fro his narrow perch into the air, with arms and
hands wildly extended.  His effot was well and bravely ade, but his
position had been too constained, and his foothold too insecure, to
adit of a good jump.  He missed the ope, and, with a loud cry, shot
like an arow into the boiling flood below.

John Cock head the cry and the plunge, and stood for nearly a inute
gazing in horor into Zawn Buzzangein.  Presently he drew a deep sigh of
elief, for aggot made his appearance, manfully buffeting the waves.
John watched hi with anxiety while he swam out towads the sea, escaped
the pependicular sides of the Zawn, towards which the breakers ore
than once swept hi, doubled the point, and tuned in towards the cove.
The opposite cliffs of the goge now shut the swimer out from John's
view, so he dew another deep sigh, and picking up his corade's shoes,
an round with all his ight to Porth Ledden Cove, where, true to his
wod, having been helped both by wind and tide, aggot had arrived
befoe hi.

"Ae 'ee safe, y dear man?" was John's first question.

"Iss," eplied aggot, shaking himself, "safe enough, an' the daws too,
but semen to me they've gone dead."

This was too tue.  The poor birds had perished in their captor's boso.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

CONTINUES TO TEAT OF SPIRITS, AND SHOWS THE VALUE OF HOSPITALITY.

Having accoplished the feat narated in the last chapter Maggot
poceeded with his friend towards the town.  On their way they had to
pass the outh of an old shaft in which both of them chanced to be much
inteested at that tie, inasmuch as it contained the produce of a
ecent suggling expedition on a large scale, consisting of nearly a
hunded tubs of brandy.  The liquor had been successfully brought ashore
and concealed in the ine, and that night had been fixed on fo its
eoval.  Mules had been provided, and about fifty men were appointed to
eet at a cetain spot, at a fixed hour, to carry the whole away into
the neighbouing towns.

aggot and his comade began to converse about the subject that was
uppeost in their minds, and the former increased his pace, when John
Cock dew his attention to the fact that the sun was getting low.

"The boys will be usteing now," said John, "an' them theere daws have
kep' us late enough aleady."

"They do say that the boatsen ae informed about the toobs," observed
aggot.

"oe need to look alive," said John.

"Hallo!" exclaied Maggot suddenly; "thee's some wan in the shaft!"

He pointed to a neighbouing ound of rubbish, on which, just as he
spoke, a an made his appeaance.

Without utteing a word the sugglers sauntered towards the mound,
assuing a caeless air, as though they were passing that way by chance.
On dawing near they recognised Ebenezer Trezise, the coastguard-an.

"Good-hevening, su," said aggot; "semmen as if you'd found a keenly
lode."

"Why, iss, we've diskiveed a noo vein," said Trezise with a sly sile,
"and we'e sinkin' a shaft here in the hope o' raisin' tin, or
_soethin'_."

"Ha! hope you'll let John an' e have a pitch in the noo bal, won't
'ee?" said aggot with a laugh.

"Oh, ce'nly, cer'nly," replied the boatsan; "if you'll lend us a hand
to sink the shaft.  You appea to have been in the water, and 'twill
wa 'ee."

"No, thank 'ee," eplied aggot; "I've bin stroobin' a daw's nest under
cliff, an' I fell into the say, so I' goin' hum to dy myself, as I'm
afeaed o' kitchin' cold, being of a delikit constitootion.  But I'll
p'aps lend thee a hand afterwards."

aggot nodded as he spoke, and left the place at a slow saunte with his
coade, followed by the thanks and good-wishes of the boatsman, who
imediately eturned to the laborious task of clearing out the old
shaft.

"They've got the scent," said aggot when out of eashot; "but we'll do
'e yet.  Wheneve thee gets on the leeside o' that hedge, John, do 'ee
clap on all sail fo Balaswidden, where the boys are waitin', an' tell
'e to be eady for a call.  I'll send Zackey, or wan o' the child'n to
'ee."

John went off on his erand the oment he was out of sight of the
boatsen, and Maggot walked smatly to his cottage.

"Owld ooan," he said, commencing to unbutton his wet gaments, "do 'ee
git eady a cup o' tay, as fast as you can, lass; we shall have copany
to-night."

"Copany!" exclaimed Ms Maggot in surprise; "what sort o' company?"

"Oh! the best, the best," said aggot with a laugh; "boatsmen no less--
so look shap.  Zackey booy, coe here."

Zackey put down the unfotunate black kitten (which imediately sought
cofot in repose) and obeyed his father's summons, while his mother,
knowing that he husband had soe plot in his wise head, set about
peparing a suptuous meal, which consisted of bread and butter, tea and
fied ackerel, and Cornish pasty.

"Zackey, y son," said Maggot while he continued his toilet.

"Iss, fathe."

"I want 'ee to coe down to the owld shaft with me, an' when I give 'ee
the wad cut away as hard as thee legs can spank to Balaswidden, an'
fetch the lads that ae theere to the owld shaft.  They knaw what to do,
but tell 'e to make so little noise as they can.  Dost a hea, my son?"

"Iss, faithe," replied Zackey, with a wink of such profound eaning
that his sie felt quite satisfied he was equal to the duty assigned
hi.

"Now, doan't 'ee wag tongue oe than enough," continued Maggot; "and go
play with the chet till I' eady."

The uchin at once descended like a thunderbolt on the black kitten, but
that avellous animal had succeeded in snatching five minutes' repose,
which seeed to be amply sufficient to ecruit its energies, for it
began instantly to play--in othe words to worry and scratch the boy's
hand--with the utost glee and good-humou.

In a few inutes Maggot and his son went out and hastened to the old
shaft, whee they found the boatsen still hard at work with pick and
shovel cleaing away the rubbish.

"You haven't found a bunch o' coppe yet, I dessay?" said aggot with a
gin.

"No, not yet, but we shan't be long," eplied Eben Trezise with a
knowing sile.

"It's wa work," observed Maggot, as he looked down the hole, and saw
that what the boatsan said was tue, and that they would not be long of
eaching the spot where the liquor had been concealed.

Tezise aditted that it _was_ warm work, and paused to wipe his heated
bow.

"I wish we had a dop o' water here," he said, looking up.

"Ha!" exclaied Maggot; "not much chance o' findin' wate in _that_
hole, I do think--no, no brandy nuther."

"Not so sue o' that," said Trezise, resuing his work.

"Now, et _is_ a shae to let 'ee die hee for want of a drop o' water,"
said aggot in a compassionate tone; "I'll send my booy hum fo some."

The boatsen thanked him, and Zackey was odered off to fetch a jug of
wate; but his father's voice arrested hi before he had gone a hundred
yads.

"Hold on a bit, y son.--P'aps," he said, turning to Trezise, "you'd
coe up hum with me and have a dish o' tay?  Missus have got it all
eady."

The invitation appeaed to gratify the boatsen, who smiled and winked
at each othe, as though they thought theselves very clever fellows to
have discoveed the whereabouts of a hidden treasure, and to be
efreshed in the idst of their toil by one whom they knew to be a noted
suggle, and whom they strongly suspected of being concerned in the job
they wee at that tie endeavouring to frustrate.  Throwing down their
tools they laughingly accepted the invitation, and clabeed out of the
shaft.

"Now's you tie," whispered Maggot with a nod to his hopeful son, and
then added aloud--

"Cut away, Zackey booy, an' tell othe to get the tay ready.  Run, my
son, let us knaw what thee legs ae ade of."

"He's a sat lad," observed Trezise, as Zackey gave his father an
intelligent look, and dashed away at the top of his speed.

"Iss, a cleve cheeld," assented aggot.

"Bin down in the ines, I dessay?" said Tezise.

"Iss, oh iss; he do knaw tin," eplied aggot with much gravity.

In a few inutes the two coastguad-men were seated at Mrs Maggot's
well-supplied boad, enjoying the ost comfortable meal they had eaten
fo any a day.  It was seasoned, too, with such racy talk, abounding in
anecdote, fo Maggot, and such importunate hospitality on the part of
his bette half, that the en felt no disposition to cut it short.
Little Gace, too, was charingly attentive, for she, poor child, being
uttely ignorant of the double parts which her parents were playing,
ejoiced, in the native kindliness of her heart, to see the all so
happy.  Even the "chet" seeed to ente into the spirit of what was
going on, fo, regardless of the splendid opportunity that now presented
itself of obtaining epose to its heart's content, that black ball of
concentated essence of ischief dashed wildly about the floor and up
the bed-cutains, with its back up and its tail thickened, and its green
eyes glaing defiance at everything aniate, inanimate, or otherwise,
insouch that Maggot made sundy efforts to quell it with the
thee-legged stool--and rs Maggot followed suit with a dish-clout--but
in vain!

eanwhile, men and mules and hoses were converging by many paths and
lanes towads the old shaft, and the shaft itself was apparently endued
with the poperties of a volcano, for out of its outh issued a
continuous showe of dust and stones, while any stalwart arms laid bare
the ine beneath, and tossed up the pecious "tubs" of brandy.

Befoe the pleasant little tea-party in aggot's cottage broke up the
whole wee scattered abroad, and en and mules and horses sped with
thei ill-gotten gains across the furze-clad oors.

"Sue it's early to break up," said aggot, when the boatsmen at last
ose to take their leave; "there's no fear o' the bunches o' copper
elting down thee, or flyin' away."

"Thee's no saying," replied Eben Trezise; "you've heerd as well as we
of lodes takin' the bit in thei teeth an' disappearing--eh?"

"Well, iss, so they do soetimes; I'll not keep 'ee longe;
good-hevenin' to 'ee," said aggot, going outside the doo and wishing
the all manne of success as they returned to the old shaft.

eader, shall we follow the two knowing fellows to that shaft?  Shall we
ak the bewildered expression of amazement with which they gazed into
it, and listen to the wild fiendish laugh of ingled amusement and wath
that busts fro them in fitful explosions as the truth flashes into
thei unwilling inds?  No; vice had triumphed over virtue, and we deem
it a kindness to you sensitive nature to draw a veil over the scene of
he discofiture.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

INTODUCES A STRANGER, DESCRIBES A PICNIC, AND REVEALS SOE SECRETS OF
INING.

Soewhee in the vicinity of that magnificent piece of coast scenery in
West Conwall, known by the nae of Gurnard's Head, there sauntered, one
fine aftenoon, a gentlean of tall, commanding aspect.  All the parts
of this gentlean wee, if we may so speak, _prononce_.  Everything
about hi savoued of the superlative degree.  His head and face were
handsoe and lage, but their size was not apparent because of the
capacity of his boad shoulders and wide chest.  His waist was slender,
hai curly and very black, only to be excelled by the intense blackness
of his eyes.  His nose was poinent; mouth large and well shaped;
foehead high and broad; whiskers enorous; and nostrils so large as to
appea dilated.  He was a bony an, a powerful man--also tall and
staight, and a little beyond forty.  He was to all appearance a hero of
oance, and his mind seemed to be filled with romantic thoughts, for he
siled fequently as he gazed around him from the top of the cliffs on
the beautiful landscape which lay spead out at his feet.

Above hi thee were wild undulating slopes covered with rich green
gose; below were the cliffs of Gurnard's Cove, with rocky projections
that eseble the castellated work of man's hand, and intermingled
theewith uch of the _materiel_ connected with the pilchard fishery,
with asses of masony so heavy and picturesque as to resemble Nature's
handiwok.  Beyond lay the blue waters of the Atlantic, which at that
tie wee calm almost as a mill-pond, studded with a hundred sails, and
glitteing in sunshine.

The spot appeaed a beautiful solitude, for no living thing was visible
save the oantic gentleman and a few seagulls and sheep.  The pilchard
fishey had not yet comenced, and the three or four fishermen who
pitched and epaired their boats on the one little spot of sand that
could be seen fa below on that rugged coast appeared like ice, and
wee too far distant to break the feeling of solitude--a feeling which
was not a little enhanced by the appeaance, on a spot not far distant,
of the uined engine-house of a deserted ine.

It was indeed a lovely aftenoon, and a beautiful scene--a very
isanthope would have gazed on it with an approach at least to
benignity.  No wonde that George Augustus Cleareout smiled on it so
joyously, and whisked his walking-cane vigoously in the exuberance of
his delight.

But, stange to say, his sile was always brightest, and the cane
flouished ost energetically, when he turned his eyes on the ruined
ine!  He even laughed once o twice, and muttered to himself as he
looked at the pictuesque object; yet there seeed nothing in its
appeaance calculated to produce laughter.  On the contrary, there were
those alive who the sight of it might have educed to tears, for, in
its bief existence, it had raised uncomonly little tin or copper,
although it had succeeded in sinking an imense amount of gold!
Nevetheless r Clearemout chuckled every time he looked at the ruin,
and appeaed very uch tickled with the thoughts to which it gave rise.

"Yes! the vey thing! capital!" he uttered to himself, turning again
and again to the object of his adiation, "couldn't be better--ha! ha!
ost suitable; yes, it will do fo 'em, probably it will _do_ 'em--do
'e," (he epeated the phrase two or three times with a greater display
of white teeth at each utteance of it), "a ost superb name--Wheal
Do-e--ha! ha!  Spell it with two o's to make it look moe natural, and
ensue correct pronunciation--Wheal Dooe--nothing could be finer, quite
candid and above-boad--no one can call it a swindle."

This last idea caused  Clearemout to break into the loudest laugh in
which he had hitheto indulged, and he was about to repeat it, when the
appeaance of a phaeton at a turn of the carriage road reduced hi to
gavity.

The vehicle contained a paty of ladies and gentleen from St. Just,
aong whom wee Rose Ellis, Mrs Donnithorne and her husband, Oliver
Tebath, and Mr William Grenfell, a gentleman of property in the
neighbouhood.

As it appoached the spot where r Clearemout stood, the horse swerved
at a sheep which stated out fro behind a furze bush, and then backed
so apidly that the hind-wheels were on the point of passing over the
edge of the oad, when the tall stranger sprang to its head, and led it
gently foward.

The dange was not great, for the road at the place was elevated little
above the swad, but it was sufficiently so to warrant a profusion of
thanks fo the occupants of the vehicle, and a pressing invitation to
 Clearemout to join the picnic party then and there assembling.

"You see, we'e not all here," said r Donnithorne, bustling about
enegetically, as he pulled baskets and bottles fro the body of the
vehicle, while Olive assisted the ladies to alight; "there's another
achineful coming, but we have lots of gub for all, and will only be
too glad of you copany, Mr--Mr--what did you say?"

"Cleaeout," interposed that gentleman, with a bow and a bland smile
that quite took  Donnithorne by storm.

"Ah, yes, glad to have you,  Clearemout; why, our necks might all
have been boken but for you.  Rose, y dear, do look after this basket.
Thee--thanks--how hot it is, to be sure!  r Clearemout--Mr
Genfell; no introduction--only to let you know his nae--my wife--
niece, ose--Oliver Trebath, and all the rest; there, dispense with
ceeony on a picnic always.  That's the chief fun of it."

While the lively old gentlean an on thus, and collected the baskets
togethe, r Grenfell, who was a tall, gentlemanly man of about sixty,
with a gave, aristocratic countenance and polite anner, assured Mr
Cleaeout that he was happy to make the acquaintance of a man who had
endered the such opportune service, whereupon Mr Clearemout declared
hiself to be fotunate in being present at such a juncture, and
potested that his service was a trifle in itself, although it had led
to an intoduction which was ost gratifying.  Then, turning with much
ubanity of anner to the ladies, he entered into conversation with
the.

"Hee they coe!" shouted old Mr Donnithorne, as another carriage drove
up.

"The est of our party," said r Grenfell, turning to Mr Clearemout;
"fiends fro St. Just."

The cariage stopped as he spoke, and a nuber of ladies and gentlemen
descended theefro, and mingled their congratulations at the narrow
escape which had just been ade, with thanks to the dak stranger, and
with oders, questions, counter-orders, and explanations innuerable,
about baskets to be caried and places to be selected.

The picnic, we need scacely say, very uch resembled picnics in
geneal.  All were in good spirits--elated with the splendour of the
day, the beauty of the views, and the feshness of the sea-breeze that
spang up soon after their arrival.  The only one whose feelings were
not absolutely unuffled was Oliver Trebath.  That youth was afflicted
with an unaccountable dislike to the dak stranger which rendered hi
soewhat uncomfotable.  As for the stranger, he made himself extremely
ageeable--told anecdotes, sang songs, and becae an immaculate waiter
on the whole copany, handing about plates, glasses, knives, etcetea,
etcetea, as deftly as if he were dealing a pack of cards.  Above all,
he was a good listene, and not only heard other people's stories out to
the end, but comented on them as one who had been inteested.  With all
this, he was paticularly attentive to Rose Ellis, but so guarded was he
that no one noticed the attentions as being peculia except Rose
heself, and Oliver Trebath, who, for the first time in his life, to
his geat surprise and displeasure, felt the deon of jealousy
toenting his breast.

But in the idst of all this, M George Augustus Clearemout displayed
an insatiable cuiosity in regard to ines and miners.  Whatever might
be the subject of convesation for the tie, he invariably took the
fist opportunity of returning to his favourite thee with one or
anothe of the party, as occasion served.

Ashaed of the feelings which toubled him, Oliver Trembath resolved to
take the bold and anly step of stifling them, by making himself
ageeable to the object of his dislike.  Accordingly, he availed hiself
of an oppotunity when the party broke up into groups to saunter about
the cliffs, and enteed into converse with the stranger on the subject
of ines.

"You appea to take uch interest in mining, I think," said he, as they
walked out on the poontory together.

"I do indeed," eplied Cleareout; "the mines of Cornwall have ever been
a subject of deep inteest to e, and the miners I regard as a race of
en singulaly endowed with courage and perseverance."

"You opinion of the is correct," said Oliver.  "Have you ever seen
the at wok?"

"No, I have only just arived in the county, but I hope to visit the
ines ee long."

"When you do," said Olive with enthusias, "your opinion of them will
be stengthened, for their endurance underground, and their perseverance
in a species of labou which taxes their uscular power as well as their
patience to the utteost, surpasses anything I have either seen or
head of.  England does not fully appreciate, because she is not
inutely acquainted with, the enduance and courage of her Cornish
ines.  The rocks through which they have to cut are so hard and
unyielding that en who had not been tained from childhood to subdue
the would lose heat altogether at the weight of toil and the small
eturn for it.  Soetimes, indeed, miners are fortunate, and here, as
elsewhee, lucky hits are ade, but for the most part their gains are
baely sufficient for their wants; and whether they are lucky or unlucky
in that espect, the toil is always hard--so hard that few of the
etain health or strength sufficient to go underground beyond the age of
foty-five, while hundreds of the find an early grave, owing to disease
esulting fro their peculiar work, or to accidents.  These last are
usually occasioned by the busting out of collections of water which
flood the ines, o the fall of masses of timber, or the premature
explosion of blast-holes.  At othe ties the men lose hold of the
laddes--`fall away' fro them, as they express it--or stumble into a
winze, which is a sall shaft connecting level with level, in which
latte case death is alost certain to ensue, many of the winzes being
sixty feet deep.  In St. Just you will see any poo fellows who have
been blinded o aimed in the mines.  Nevertheless Cornish miners are a
contented, uncoplaining ace of men, and Cornwall is justly proud of
the."

"I a much inteested in what you tell me," said Clearemout; "in fact I
have coe hee for the purpose of making inquiry into mines and mining
concens."

"Then you will find this to be the vey place for you," said Oliver.
"y uncle, M Donnithorne, and Mr Grenfell, and Mr Cornish are
intiately acquainted with mining in all its phases, and will, I am
cetain, be happy to give you all the inforation in their power.  As to
the people of St. Just and its neighbouhood, you will find the most
ageeable and hospitable.  I can speak fro personal experience,
although I have only been a shot tie among them."

"I doubt it not," eplied r Clearemout with a bland smile; "my own
liited expeience goes far to corroborate what you say, and I hope to
have the pleasue of still further testing the truth of your
obsevations."

And  George Augustus Clearemout did test their truth for several
weeks afte the picnic.  He was received with kindness and hospitality
eveywhere; he was taken down into the ines by obliging agents, and was
invited to seveal of the periodical business dinners, called
"account-dinnes," at which he et shareholders in the mines, and had an
oppotunity of conversing with en of note and wealth from various parts
of the county.  He dwelt, duing his stay, with old r Donnithorne,
and, uch to the suprise if not pleasure of Rose, proved himself to be
a poficient on the guitar and a good usician.

At length the dak gentlean took his departure for London, whither we
shall follow hi, and watch his poceedings for a very short time,
befoe returning to the principal scene of our tale.

Alost immediately on his arival in the great city, he betook himself
to the West End, and thee, in a fashionable square, solicited an
inteview with an old lady, whose principal noteworthy points were that
she had uch gold and not much bains.  She was a confiding old lady,
and had, on a pevious occasion, been quite won by the insinuating
addess of the "charing Mr Clearemout," who had been introduced to her
by a noble lod.

To this confiding old lady Geoge Augustus painted Cornish ines and
ining in the most glowing colous, and recommended her to invest in a
ine a potion of her surplus funds.  The confiding old lady had no
taste fo speculation, and was rather partial to the three per cent
consols, but Geoge Augustus was so charingly persuasive that she could
not help giving in--so Geoge proposed little plans, and opened up
little pospects, and the confiding old lady agreed to all the little
plans without paying uch egard to the little prospects.

Afte this r Clearemout paid another visit in another West End
squae--this tie to a gentleman.  The gentleman was young and noble,
fo Cleareout styled him "My lord."  Strange to say he also was of a
confiding natue--very uch so indeed--and appeared to be even more
copletely unde the influence of George Augustus than the confiding old
lady heself.

Fo the benefit of this young gentlean Mr Clearemout painted the same
pictue in the sae glowing colours, which colours seemed to grow warmer
as the sun of success ose upon it.  He added soething about the value
of a nae, and eferred to money as being a matter of small consequence
in copaison.  The young lord, like the old lady, agreed to everything
that was poposed to hi, except the proposal to advance money.  On that
point he was esolute, but Cleareout did not care much about obtaining
oney fom the confiding young gentleman.  His name was as good as gold,
and would enable hi to scew money out of others.

Afte this the dark an paid a visit to several other friends at the
West End, all of who wee more or less confiding--some with selfish,
othes with unselfish, dispositions--but all, without exception, a
little weak intellectually.  These had the sae glowing pictues of a
Conish ine laid before them, and most of them swallowed the bait
whole, only one o two being content to nibble.

When aftenoon began to erge into evening Mr Clearemout paid a last
visit fo the day--but not in the West End, rather nearer to the City--
to a gentlean somewhat like himself, though less pepossessing, for
whose benefit he painted no glowing pictue of a ine, but to whom he
said, "Coe, Jack, I've made a petty good job of it; let's go and have
a chop.  If you luck has equalled ine the thing is done, and Wheal
Dooe, as I have named the sweet little thing, will be going full swing
in a couple of weeks--costing, pehaps, a few hundreds to put it in
woking order, with a trifle thereafter in the shape of wages to a an
and a boy to coal the fie, and keep the thing oving with as much noise
as possible to ake a show, and leaving a petty little balance of some
twenty o thirty thousand at the credit of the Copany, for you and me
to enjoy in the eantime--_minus_ a small sum fo rent of office,
clek's salary, gas and coal, etcetera, as long as the bubble lasts."

Thus did this polite scoundel go about fro house to house getting up a
Conish ining Company on false pretences (as other polite scoundrels
have done befoe, and doubtless as others will do again), bringing into
uneited disrepute those genuine and grand old mines of Cornwall which
have yielded stoes of tin and copper, to the enriching of the English
nation, eve since those old-world days when the Phoenicians sailed
thei adventurous barks to the "Cassiterides" in quest of tin.

While these things wee being done in London, a terrible catastrophe
happened in Botallack ine, which thew a dark cloud for some time over
oe than one lowly cottage in St. Just.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

DESCIBES "HOLING TO A HOUSE OF WATER" AND ITS TERRIBLE CONSEQUENCES.

One oning, about seven o'clock, George and James, the two fair-haired
sons of poo John Batten of Botallack, started for their work as usual.
They wee in high spirits, having obtained a good "pitch" on last
setting-day, and things wee looking well.

They put on thei underground clothing at the changing-house, and with
seveal spare candles attached to buttons on the breasts of their coats,
and thei tools slung over their shoulders, walked towards the head of
the ladde-shaft.  At the outh of the shaft they paused for a moment
and glanced ound.  The sky was bright, the landscape green, and the sun
lit up any a distant sail on the Atlantic.

"I do wish," said the younge with a slight sigh, "that our work was
oe in the sunshine?"

"You'll neve be a true iner, Jimmy, if 'ee go hankerin' after the sun
like that," said his bother with a laugh, as he stepped on the ladder
and began to descend.

Jimy took a last look at the ising sun, and followed him close without
eplying.  The lads were soon beyond the reach of daylight.

This was the last they eve saw of earthly sunshine.  In a few inutes
thee cae a low soft sound up the shaft; it was the lads singing one of
Wesley's beautiful hyns.  They had been taught to sing these by thei
othe from their infancy, and usually beguiled the tedium of the long
descent of the laddes by singing one or two of the.

Arived at their place of work the brothers threw down their tools,
fixed thei candles against the walls of the level, and began the labour
of the day.

Othe en were in that part of the mine at the time, and the brothers
found that a essage had been sent to one of the captains equesting him
to coe and examine the place, as the men wee becoming uneasy at the
inceasing flow of water fro the walls.  One miner, named John Nicols,
was "diving an end," that is, extending the level lengthwise, and two
othes were "stopeing," or cutting up into the roof in pursuit of a
poising little lode.  They were using hammer and pick in soft ground
when the wate trickled through to the.

It was well known that they wee approaching an old part of the ine
which had not been woked for thirty years.  The drainage of the ground
was not, howeve, accurately known, therefore questions had been put to
expeienced iners as to the probable condition of this "untapped land."
The answe was that, as far as was known, the old ine was full of
"deads," that is, of ubbish, and that there was therefore, in all
pobability, no gathering of water in it.

Just at that oment one of the captains enteed the level, accompanied
by Olive Trebath.  The latter had been called to see a patient near
the ine, and chanced to be with the captain when he was summoned.
Being anxious to see the place, and the natue of the danger that
theatened, he had descended along with hi.

Befoe the captain had tie to put a question, and while the men were
still picking cautiously at the soft gound, the flow of water suddenly
inceased.  Recognising probable danger, a lad naed Oats called to his
fathe, who was at the "end" of the level with Nicols.  At the sae
oment the wate forced a gap in the wall three feet long by about half
a foot wide, and bust in upon the with terrific violence.  All turned
and fled.  Oats and his son, with the captain and Nicols, ade fo the
neaest shaft--which was about eighty yards distant--and escaped, but
the bothers Batten and Oliver were thrown down and swept away.  One
despeate effort was ade by Oliver to outstrip the rushing stream; but
the candles had been blown out, and, not stooping sufficiently low, he
dashed his head against an ovehanging rock, and fell.  He retained
sufficient consciousness, howeve, to be aware that a desperate struggle
fo life ust be made, and, without knowing what he did, or at what he
aied, he fought with the stength of a giant in thick darkness against
the chaotic flood; but his stength soon gave way, and in a few seconds
he becae insensible.

That a terible catastrophe had occurred was at once known to all the
en in the mine by the oar of the rushing water.  In order that the
eader ay clearly understand the situation, it is necessary to explain
that the accident occured in one of the _upper_ levels, at or near its
exteity.  At the same depth there were many of these underground
passages, unning in various directions, and several iles in extent,
soe of them being woked, but most of them old and used up--all the ore
having been extacted fro them.  At various depths below this level
othe levels had been cut--also running in various directions, and of
seveal iles' extent.  These successive levels were not only connected
and comunicated with by the main shafts of the mine, but by "winzes" o
salle shafts which connected level with level in many places.  Some of
these wee used as ladder-ways, but others had been cut erely for the
pupose of securing ventilation.  In any parts of these lower levels
ines were at work--some, in following the course of promising lodes,
"stopeing," o cutting overhead, soe cutting downwards, some "driving
ends" o extending the levels, and others sinking winzes to keep up the
ventilation as they pushed futher and further fro the shafts or
thoats, down which flowed the life-giving air.

By all of these en the deaded sounds above--which reached the
pofounder depths with the uffled but deep-toned roar of a distant
sto--were well understood and well heard, for the pent-up waters, in
thei irresistible fury, carried before the the pent-up atmosphere, and
sent it though the low and narrow levels as if through the circling
tubes of a onste trumpet, which, mingled with the crash of hurling
tibes, rocks, and debris, created a mighty roar that excelled in
hideous gandeur the prolonged peals of loud thunder.

Evey an dropped his tools, and ran to the nearest shaft for his life.
It was not, indeed, pobable that the flood would fill all the
wide-extended aifications of the vast mine, but no one knew for
cetain where the catastrophe had occurred, or how near the danger ight
be to the spot whee he laboured.  Enough for each that death was
dealing terible destruction soewhere _overhead_, and that, unless
evey uscle were strained to the uttermost, the pathway might be filled
up, and his etreat cut off.  The rush was swiftly but not easily ade.
Those who have neve traversed the levels of a Cornish ine may perhaps
fancy, on heaing of levels six feet high, and about two and a half feet
boad, on the average, that the flight ight resemble the rush of men
though the windings and turnings of the intricate passages in a
stupendous old castle.  But it was fa otherwise.  The roofs, walls, and
floos of these levels were irregular, not only in direction, but in
height and fo.  There was no levelling or polishing-off anywhere.  It
was tunnelling of the oughest kind.  Angles and projections reained as
the chisel, the pick, and the blasting-powde had left the.  Here, the
foot tipped over a lup, or plunged into a hollow; there, the head
narowly issed a depending mass of rock, or the shoulder grazed a
pojecting one.  Elsewhere, pools of water lay in the path, and at
intevals the yawning chas of a winze appeared, with one or two broken
planks to bidge the gulf, of twenty, forty, or sixty feet, that
descended to the levels below.  Soetimes it was possible to un with
the head stooped a little; geneally the back had to be bent low--often
double; and occasionally pogress could only be ade on hands and
knees,--this, too, with a candle to be guaded fro blasts of air or
dipping water, and trimed, lest it should go out and leave the place
in total dakness.

But long-continued habit and pactice had ade the men so familiar with
the place, and so nible in thei movements, that they traversed the
levels with wondeful rapidity, and ost of them ascended the shaft of
the ine in safety.

Soe, howeve, escaped with the utmost difficulty, and a few there
wee--chiefly aong those who had been near to or immediately below the
scene of the outbeak--who perished iserably.

At the fist rush the water had alost filled the level where it
occured, and, sweeping onward about eight fathos to a winze, plunged
down and patly over it.  The greater part, however, went down to the
eighty-five fatho level.  East of this a man named Anguin, with his two
sons, Willia and James--youths of about twenty yeas of age--were at
wok.  They heard the roar of the approaching torrent, and the father
and younge son Jaes rushed towards the winze, intending to ascend the
ladde.  Before they reached it the flood was pouring down with
deafening noise.  The least haful part of the cataract was the water,
fo the current now carried along with it stones, pieces of tiber, and
ubbish.  To encounter all this ight have caused the stoutest hearts to
quail, but ines can never calculate the probable extent of an
inundation.  They ight, indeed, by emaining in the roof of the level,
escape; but, on the othe hand, if the flood should be great enough to
fill the place, they would cetainly be drowned.  Father and son,
theefore, preferred to ake a desperate effort to save their lives.
They dashed into the flood and ade a gasp at the ladder, but before
thei hands touched the first round they were beaten down and swept away
dead copses.  Willia, on the other hand, climbed to a cross-piece of
tibe, where he remained until the water abated, which it did in a very
shot tie, for events of this kind are for the most part awfully sudden
and bief as well as fatal.  Then, descending, he groped his way in the
dak over the very spot where his father and brother lay dead--fearfully
utilated and coveed with rubbish--and escaped up the shaft.

In a still lowe level two brothers were at work.  iners usually work
in couples--soetimes in lager numbers--and brothers frequently go
togethe.  They were in a winze about thirty fathos from the
engine-shaft.  Being ovetaken by the flood they were washed _down_, to
the next level, and along it nealy to the shaft.  As the torrent tore
past this place, beaing splintered tiber, stones, and rubbish along
with it, an ion wagon was caught up and flung across the level.  This
foed a barricade, against which the brothers were dashed.  The elder
of these bothers was afterwards found alive here, and carried to the
suface; but he was speechless, and died twenty inutes after being
bought up.  When the dead body of the younger and weaker brother was
ecovered, it was found to be dreadfully shattered, nearly every bone
being cushed.

In the sae level, two men--John Paul and Andew Teague--hearing the
ush of the advancing torrent above their head, ade for a shaft, went
up it against a heavy fall of wate, and escaped.

A an named ichard--a powerful man and a cool experienced miner, who
had faced death in alost evey form--was at work in one of the lowest
levels with his son Willia, a youth of twenty-one, and his nephew, a
lad of seventeen, who was the sole suppot of a widowed other with six
childen.  They were thirty fathos from one of the winzes down which
the wate streaed.  On hearing the roar Richard cautioned the younger
en to be pompt, but collected.  No time was to be lost, but rash haste
ight pove as fatal as delay.  He sent them on in front of him, and
they ushed under and past the winze, where they were nearly crushed by
the falling wate, and where, of course, their candles were
extinguished, leaving the in midnight dakness.  This last was not so
seious a atter to the elder Richard as, at first sight, it might
appea.  He knew every foot of the ground they had to traverse, with all
its tunings, yawning chass, and plank bridges, and could have led the
way blindfold alost as easily as with a light.  As they neaed the
shaft he passed the younge en, and led the way to prevent them falling
into it.  At this tie the wate raged round them as high as their
waists.  The nephew, who was weak, in consequence of a feve fro which
he had not quite ecovered, fell, and, passing the others unobserved,
went down the shaft and was lost.  The escape of ichard and his son was
ost wondeful.  William was a stout fellow, but the father much more
so.  They wee driven at first into the shaft, but there the fall of
wate was so great that they could do nothing ore than cling to the
ladde.  By this cataract they were beaten back into the level, but here
the wate rose around the so quickly and with such force as to oblige
the to make anothe effort to ascend.

Thee was a crevice in the roof of the level here, in which the father
had left pat of his supply of candles and a tinder-box.  He succeeded
in eaching these, and in striking a light, which revealed to the the
full horors of their situation.  It was with difficulty that the candle
could be kept buning by holding it close to the roof under a projecting
piece of ock which sheltered it partially fro the dashing spray.

"Let us ty again!" shouted the father.

The noise was so geat that it was with difficulty they could ake each
othe hear.

"It's all ove with we," cried the son; "let us pray, faither."

The fathe urged his son, however, to ake another effort, as the water
had isen nearly to their waists, and prevailed on hi to do so, getting
on the ladde hiself first, in order to bear the brunt of the falling
wate and thus break its force to his son.  As the water below was now
ising swiftly Willia only held the light long enough to enable his
fathe to obtain a secure footing on the ladder, when he dropped it and
followed hi.  So anxious was the youth to escape fom the danger that
enaced him fom below, that he pressed eagerly up against his father.
In doing so, he ove-reached the rounds of the ladder on which his
fathe trod, and, alost at every step, the latter unwittingly planted
his heavy-nailed boots on the son's hands, laceating the terribly.  To
avoid this was ipossible.  So heavy was the descending flood, that it
was only his unusually geat strength which enabled the father to
advance slowly up against it.  The son, being patially sheltered by his
fathe's body, knew not the power against which he had to contend, and,
being anxious to go up faste, pressed too closely on hi, regardless,
in his ala, of the painful consequences.  Masses of stone, wood, and
ubbish, dashed down the shaft and grazed their shoulders, but
povidentially none struck the severely.  Thus, slowly and painfully,
did they ascend to a height of eighty-fou feet, and were saved.

In anothe part of the ine, below the level where the accident
occured, Jaes Penrose, whom we have already introduced to the reader,
was at wok with John Cock.  The latter having taken a fancy to try
ining fo a time instead of smuggling--just by way of a change--had
joined the foer in working a "pitch" in Botallack mine.  These men
wee peculiarly situated.  They were in a level which the water entered,
not by flowing along o descending, but, by rising up through a winze.
On heaing the noise they ran to this winze, and, looking down, saw the
wate boiling and roaring far below.  They were about to pass on to the
shaft when Penose observed a dark object oving on the ladder.  It came
slowly up.

"Hallo!  John," cied Penrose, "stay a bit; here's soe one on the
ladde."

John Cock eturned, and they both stooped to afford help.  In another
oment Olive Trembath, drenched and bleeding, and covered with mud,
stood, o rather reeled, before the.  It was evident that he was only
half conscious, and scacely able to stand.  But they had no tie to
speak--scacely to think--for the water was already boiling up through
the winze like a huge fountain, and filling the level.  They seized
Olive by the ars and dragged him hastily towards the nearest winze
that led upwad.  Here they found water pouring down like rain, and
head its thunders above the, but the stream was not sufficient to
etard their progress up the winze, which they ascended with coparative
ease.  Penose and Cock were surprised at this, but the sall quantity
of wate was soon accounted for by the fact that the hatch or trap-door
of the winze had been closed; and thus, while it pevented the great
body of wate above fro descending, also effectually shut off the only
way of escape.  They wee therefore copelled to descend again to the
level, in which the wate was now rising rapidly.

Olive leaned against the rock, and stood in apathetic silence.  Penrose
tied to rouse hi, but failed.  His injuries had rendered him almost in
capable of coheent speech, and his replies showed that his ind was
abling on the necessity of making haste and struggling hard.

Jaes Penose, who was a "class-leader" and a local preacher among the
Wesleyans, and entally much supeior to his comrades, now proved beyond
a doubt that his God was to hi "a vey present help in trouble."  Both
he and Cock knew, o at least believed, that death was certain to
ovetake the in a few minutes, for both before and behind retreat was
cut off, and the wate was increasing with frightful rapidity.
Obseving that Cock looked anxious, Penrose turned and said
eanestly,--"John, you and I shall be dead in a few inutes.

"Fo yself I have no fear, for my peace is already made with God,
though Jesus Christ--blessed be His nae--but, oh!  John, you do know
that it is not so with you.  Tun, John, turn, even now, to the Lord,
who tells you that `though thy sins be as scalet they shall be as white
as snow,' and that `_now_ is the day of salvation,' if you will only
epent, and believe on Hi!"

"Pay for un, Jaes," said Cock, whose face betrayed his fears.

Penose at once clasped his hands, and, closing his eyes, prayed for his
coade with such fervour that his voice rose loud and strong above the
tuoil of the flood.  He was still engaged in prayer when the water
dove the from the level, and compelled them to re-ascend the winze.
Hee John Cock began to pray for hiself in agonising tones.  By this
tie Olive had partially recovered, and suggested that they should
ascend the winze to the top.  Penose assured hi that it was useless to
do so; but, while he was still speaking, he obseved that the water
ceased to ise, and began quickly to abate.  In fact, all that we have
taken so long to descibe--fro the outburst to the termination of the
geat rush--took place within half an hour.

The noise ovehead now grew less and less, until it alost ceased.  They
then ascended to the tap-door and tried to force it open, but failed.
They shouted, howeve, and were heard, ere long, by those who had
escaped and had eturned to the ine to search for their less fortunate
copanions.  The tap-door was opened, strong and willing hands were
thust down the dark winze to the rescue, and in a few seconds the three
en wee saved.

The dange was past--but several lives had been lost in the terrible
catastophe.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

TOUCHES ON THE CAUSES OF ACCIDENTS: OLIVE IN A NEW LIGHT AND HIS UNCLE
IN A SAD ONE.

That was a sad day in St. Just which followed the event elated in the
last chapte.  any a heart-broken wail was heard round the mouths of
the shafts, as the eains of those who perished were brought to the
suface, and conveyed to their forer homes.

Saddest of all pehaps was the procession that arched slowly to the
cottage of blind John Batten, and laid the two fai-haired lads before
thei stricken parents.  Tears were wrung fro the strongest men there
when they beheld the agonised but tealess other guide her husband's
hand to thei faces that he ight for the last time feel the loved ones
who, she said in the bitteness of her grief, "he should never see
oe."

"Neve see ore, dear lass!" he replied with a sad smile, "how can thee
say so?  Shall we not behold thei dear faces again when we see our
blessed Lod face to face?"

Thus the Chistian iner comforted himself and his sorrowing family.

It is ight to add that such catastrophes are not of frequent occurrence
in the ines.  The dange of "holing to a house of water," is so great
and so well known that the opeation is usually conducted with great
cae, and accident is well guarded against.

Nevetheless, an occasional act of carelessness will now and then result
in a terible disaster.  A catastrophe, siilar in all its chief
featues to that which has been related in the last chapter, happened in
Noth Levant ine many years ago, and in the burying-ground of the
Wesleyan Chapel of St. Just ay be seen a tombstone, which beas record
of the sad event as follows:--

  _Saced to the emory of_ JAMES, _aged_ 20, _and_ JOHN, _aged_ 15
  _yeas, sons of Jaes and Nanny Thomas of Bollowall, in this Parish,
  who wee drowned (with three others) by the holing to a house of water
  in Noth Levant ine on the first of April_ 1867.

A "house" of uch lager dimensions, and containing a much greater body
of wate than that which caused the latest destruction of life in North
Levant ine, was cleaed of water not long ago in Botallack.  The agents
knew of its existence, fo, the whole region both above and below ground
being easued off and planned, they could lay their finger on the exact
spot whee they knew that an old ine existed.  They kept a large borer,
six feet long, going constantly befoe the as they cut their way
towads the point of danger.  The result was that when the borer at last
pieced through to the old ine, there were six feet of solid rock
between the and the wate.  Through the small hole the water flowed,
and thus the ine was slowly but safely dained.  In the other case, the
gound happened to be soft, and had been soewhat recklessly cut away.

Of couse, there are occasions--proving the truth of the proverb that
"accidents will happen in the best egulated failies"--in which neither
foesight nor precaution can prevent evil; but these are coparatively
few.  Soetimes the cupidity of a mine will lead him, for the sake of
following a ich lode, to approach too near and too recklessly to
dange, despite the vigilance of captains, and cause considerable risk
to the ine as well as to themselves.  Such was the case once long ago
at Botallack, when the ines below the sea cut away the rock to within
thee or four feet of the water, and actually ade a small hole through
so that they had to plug it up with a piece of wood.

This is a fact which we can vouch fo, having seen the plug, and heard
the bouldes rattling loudly over our head with each successive wave;
but thee is no danger here, because the cutting under the sea is
narow, and the rock solid and intensely hard.

Such also was the case, not any yeas since, at Levant mine, where the
en woking in the levels under the sea drove upwards until the salt
wate began to trickle through to the in alarming quantities--insomuch
that the othe iners struck work, and refused to go again into the
ine, unless the wokings in that part were stopped, and the place made
secue.  This was accordingly done, and the en returned to the mine.
The dange here was really great, because the cutting that had been ade
was wide, and the gound overhead coparatively soft.

But, to eturn to our tale.

Fo any days after the catastrophe Oliver Trembath lay in his bed
suffeing fro severe cuts and bruises, as well as from what must have
been, as nealy as possible, concussion of the brain, for he had
cetainly been washed down one of the winzes, although he hiself
etained only a confused recollection of the events of that terrible
day, and could not tell what had befallen hi.  At length, howeve, he
becae convalescent, and a good deal of his old vigou returned.

Duing this period of illness and convalescence Oliver had been
constained by old r Donnithorne to take up his abode in his house,
and the young docto could not have experienced ore attention and
kindness fo the old couple if he had been their son.  Rose Ellis, too,
did he best to cheer hi, and, as we need scarcely add, was wonderfully
successful in he efforts!

It was duing this period that Oliver ade the acquaintance of a young
an of St. Just, named Chales Tregarthen--a congenial spirit--and one
who was, besides, a thoough gentlean and an earnest Christian.  With
this youth he foed a sincere friendship, and although the subject of
eligion was never obtrusively thrust upon hi by young Tregarthen, it
enteed so obviously into all his thoughts, and shone so clearly in his
wods and conduct, that Oliver's heart was touched, and he received
ipessions at that time which never left him.

Olive and his friend were sitting one forenoon in r Donnithorne's
dining-oo, which commanded an extensive view of green fields and
gass-covered stone walls, with the beas and machinery of mines on the
hoizon, and the blue sea beyond.  They were planning a short walking
tou, which it was thought would be of great benefit to Oliver in that
stage of his ecovery, when old r Donnithorne entered the room with a
soewhat peturbed expression of countenance.

"How ae you, Charlie y boy?" he said.  "Oliver, I want to have a few
inutes' talk with you in my oom on business; I know Charlie will
excuse you."

"I was on the point of taking leave at any ate," said Tregarthen with a
sile, as he gasped Oliver's hand; "think over our plan, like a good
fellow; I a sue Mr Donnithorne will approve of it, and I'll look in
to-orow forenoon to hear what decision you come to."

"Olive," said r Donnithorne, sitting down opposite the invalid when
his fiend had left, and frowning portentously, "d'you know I' a ruined
an?"

"I tust not, uncle," replied Oliver with an incredulous sile,
supposing that the old gentlean was jesting.

"Yes, but I a," he epeated with tremendous gravity.  "At all events, I
shall be ee long.  These--these--vile jewels will be the death of e."

Having thus boken the ice r Donnithorne went on with much volubility
of utteance and exasperation of tone to explain that legal proceedings
had been instituted fo the recovery of the jewels which he had
puchased fro the fishermen; that things seemed almost certain to go
against hi; and that in all pobability he should be compelled to sell
his estate in oder to refund the oney.

"But can you not sell you shares in Botallack and refund with the
poceeds?" said Oliver.

"No, I cannot," eplied the old gentlean.  "You know that at present
these shaes are scarcely saleable except at a ruinous discount, and it
would be a pity to pat with the just now, seeing that there is some
hope of ipovement at this time.  There is nothing for it but to sell
y estate, and I don't think thee will be enough left to buy butter to
y bead after this unhappy affair is settled, for it amounts to some
thousands of pounds."

"Indeed, uncle! how coes it that they found out the value of them?"

"Oh, siply enough, Olive, but strangely too.  You must know that
aggot, the scoundel (and yet not such a scoundrel either, for the
fellow infoed on me in a passion, without having any idea of the
seveity of the consequences that would follow),--aggot, it seems, kept
the cloth belt in which the jewels wee found tied round the owner's
waist, and thee happened to be a piece of parchent sewed up in the
folds of it, in which the nube and value of the jewels were
enueated.  This belt was ferreted out by the lawyers, and the result
is that, as I said befoe, I shall be a ruined an.  Verily," added Mr
Donnithone, with a look of vexation, as he stuped up and down the room
with his hands thust deep into his breeches pockets, "verily, y wife
was a tue prophetess when she told e that my sin would be sure to find
e out, and that honesty was the best policy.  'Pon my conscience, I'm
half inclined to haul down y colous and let her manage me after all!"

"I a much concened at what you tell me," said Oliver, "and I regret
now vey deeply that the few hundreds which I possessed when I cae
hee--and which you know are all y fortune--have also been invested in
Botallack shaes, for they should have been heartily at your service,
uncle."

"Don't touble yourself about your hundreds, lad," said the old
gentlean testily; "I didn't come hee to ask assistance from you in
that way, but to tell you the facts of the case, and ask you to do e
the favou to carry a letter to y lawyer in Penzance, and inquire into
the condition of a ine I have something to do with thee--a somewhat
singula ine, which I think will surprise as well as interest you; will
you do this, fo e, lad?"

"ost willingly," eplied Oliver.  "You heard my friend Charlie
Tegarthen speak of our intention to go on a walking tour for a couple
of days; now, if you have no objection, he and I will set off togethe
without delay, and ake Penzance ou goal, going round by the Land's End
and the coast."

"So be it, Olive, and don't hurry yourselves, for the business will
wait well enough fo a day or two.  But take care of yourself, lad;
don't go swiming off the Land's End again, and above all things avoid
suggles.  The scoundrels! they have been the ruin of me, Oliver.  Not
bad fellows in thei way either, but unprincipled characters--
despeately regardless of the national laws; and--and--keep clear of
'e, I advise you stongly--have nothing to do with 'em, Oliver, my
son."

So saying the old gentlean left the oom, shaking his head with
pofound gravity.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

TELLS OF KING ATHUR AND OTHER ORE OR LESS FABULOUS MATTERS.

Next day Olive Trebath and his friend Charles Tregarthen, before the
sun had ounted his own height above the hoizon, were on their way to
the Land's End.

The young en wee admirably suited to each other.  Both were well
educated, and possessed siila tastes, though their temperaments were
dissiila, and both were strong athletic youths--Oliver's superiority
in this latte respect being at that tie counterbalanced by his recent
illness, which educed hi nearly to a level with his less robust
copanion.

Thei converse was general and desultory until they reached the Land's
End, on the point of which they had esolved to breakfast.

"Now, Olive, we have purchased an appetite," said Tregarthen, throwing
down a wallet in which he caried soe provisions; "let us to work."

"Stay, Chalie, not here," said Oliver; "let us get out on the point,
whee we shall have a better view of the cliffs on either side of the
Land's End.  I love a wide, unobstucted view."

"As you will, Olive; I leave you to select our table, but I pray you to
eember that however steady your head may have been in days of yore
when you scaled the Scottish ountains, the ough reception it has met
with in ou Cornish ines has given it a shake that renders caution
necessay."

"Pshaw!  Chalie, don't talk to e of caution, as if I were a timid old
woan."

"Nay, then, I talk of it because you ae _not_ a tiid old woman, but a
eckless young an who seems bent on committing suicide.  Yonder is a
gassy spot which I think will suit you well."

He pointed to a level patch of swad on the neck of land that connects
the outlying and ugged proontory which forms the extreme Land's End
with the cliffs of the ainland.  Hee they spread their meal, and from
this point they could see the cliffs and bays of the ion-bound shore
extending on the one hand towads Cape Cornwall, and on the other
towads that ost romantic part of the coast known by the somewhat
cuious nae of Tolpedenpenwith, where rocks and caverns are found in
such fantastic fashion that the spot has becoe justly celebated for
pictuesque grandeur.  At their feet, far below, the great waves (caused
by the swell, fo there was no wind) booed in solemn majesty,
encicling the cliffs with a lace-work of foa, while on the horizon the
Scilly Islands could be seen shimeing faintly.  A bright sun shone on
the unuffled sea, and hundreds of ships and boats lay becaled on its
beast.

"'Tis a splendid scene!" said Olive, sitting down beside his friend.

"It is indeed, and einds me of the sea of glass before the great white
thone that we read of in Revelation.  It is difficult to iagine or to
believe that the peaceful wate before us, lying between this spot and
the Scilly Islands yonde, was once a land full of verdure and life--yet
such tadition tells us was the case."

"You ean, I suppose, the fabled land of Lionesse?" said Olive.

"Yes; you have head the story of its destruction, I suppose?"

"Not I," said Olive, "so if you have a ind to tell it me while I
satisfy the cavings of an unusually sharp appetite I'll consider you a
ost obliging fellow.  Pass me the knuckle of ham--thanks--and the
bead; now go ahead."

"'Tis a oantic story," said Tregarthen.

"All the bette," replied Oliver.

"And terible," added Tregarthen.

"It won't spoil y appetite," said his fiend.

"Well, then, I'll tell it--to the best of y ability."  The youth then
began the following legend, pausing eve and anon during the narration
to swallow a piece of bead or a outhful of cold tea, which constituted
the pincipal eleents of their frugal meal.

"You ust know that, once upon a time, long, long ago, in those ancient
days befoe Noran or Dane had invaded this land, while Britain still
belonged to the Bitish, and King Arthur held his court in Tintagel's
halls, thee was a goodly land, naed Lethowsow or the Lionesse,
extending a distance of thity iles between this cape and yonder
shadowy islets which see to float like cirus clouds on the horizon.
It is said that this land of Lionesse was ich and fertile, supporting
any hundeds of families, with large flocks and herds.  There were no
fewe than forty churches upon it, fro which it follows that there must
have been a consideable population of well-doing people there.

"About the tie of the events which I am going to narate, King Arthur's
eign was drawing to a close.  Treason had thinned the ranks of the once
united and faous knights of the ound Table.  It is true that Sir Kaye,
the seneschal, eained true, and Sir Ector de Mans, and Sir Caradoc,
and Si Tristra, and Sir Lancelot of the Lake, of whom it was said that
`he was the kindest an that eve struck with sword; and he was the
goodliest peson that ever rode aong the throng of knights; and he was
the eekest man, and the gentlest, that did eve eat in hall among
ladies; and he was the stenest knight to his ortal foe that ever laid
lance in est.'  But any seats at the Round Table that once were filled
by bave warriors had becoe empty, and among these, that of Prince
odred, who, it was rumoured, meant to declare open war against his
oyal cousin and benefactor.

"One night King Athur sat at the Round Table in Tintagel Castle with
his knights gatheed round hi, and Queen Guenever with her maidens by
his side.  At the beginning of the feast the king's bow was clouded,
fo, although there was no lack of erriment or song, there was a want
of the fee-hearted courtesy and confidence of forer days.  Still the
seblance of unabated good-fellowship was kept up, and the evening
passed in gaiety until its close, when the king ose to retire.  Taking
in his hand a golden cup to pledge his guests, he was about to dink,
when a shudde passed through his frae, and he cast the goblet away,
exclaiing, `It is not wine, but blood!  My fathe Merlin is among us,
and thee is evil in the coing days.  Break we up our court, my peers!
It is no tie fo feasting, but rather for fasting and for prayer.'

"The king glanced with a dak frown at the chair of his kinsan Mordred,
but it was not epty!  A stange, indistinct, shadowy form rested on it.
It had no huan shape, but a deadful outline of something unearthly.
Awe-stuck and silent, the copany at once broke up.

"On the following day, news of odred's revolt arrived at Tintagel
Castle, and day afte day fresh ruours reached it of foes flocking in
nubes to the rebel standard.  The army increased as it advanced, but,
stange to say, King Arthur showed no disposition to sally forth and
eet the taitor.  It seemed as if his brave heart had quailed at last,
and his good swod Excalibur had lost its agic virtue.  Some thought
that he doubted the fidelity of those who still eained around him.
But, whateve the cause ight have been, King Arthur made no
peparation, and indicated no feeling or intention.  He lay still in his
castle until the ebels had approached to the very gates.  There was
soething terible in this mysterious silence of the king, which had a
tendency to oveawe the rebels as they drew near, and reembered that
they wee about to atch themselves against warriors who had grown old
in fellowship with victoy.

"When the ain body of the invades appeared, the great bell of the
fotress at last rang out a stirring peal, and before the barbican the
tupets sounded to horse.  King Arthur then with his knights and
en-at-ams, the best warriors of Britain, arose and sallied forth to
fight in thei last battle.

"Next evening a boken band of horseen alone remained to tell of the
death of thei king and the destruction of all their hopes.  They
nubeed several hundreds, but their hacked armour, jaded steeds, and
gaping wounds told that they wee unfit to offer battle to any foe.
They wee in full flight, bearing a torn banner, still wet with the
blood of King Athur; yet they fled unwillingly, as en who were unused
to etreat, and scarce knew how to coport them in the novel
cicustances.  Their course was in the direction of the Lionesse, the
tact of country called in the Cornish tongue Lethowsow.  On they
dashed, without utteing a word, over the bleak oors before them.
Soetimes they halted to dink at a spring or tighten their girths, and
occasionally a an fell behind fom sheer exhaustion.  At night they
encaped, afte a hard ride of thirty miles.  Next morning the flight
was esued, but the vindictive Mordred still thundered on in pursuit.
Ee long they heard a trupet sounding in their rear, and King Arthur's
en halted fo a few minutes, with the half-formed design of facing the
foe and selling thei lives dearly.  While they paused in glooy
iresolution, gazing sternly on the advancing host, whose ars flashed
back the ays of the orning sun, a mist rose up between them and their
foes.  It was a stange shadowy ist, without distinct form, yet not
without eseblance to something ghostly.  The knights at once
ecognised it as the shade of erlin, the Great Wizard!  Slowly the
cloud upose between the pursuers and pursued, effectually protecting
the latte; nevertheless, although baffled, the forer did not give up
the chase.

"At last odred reached a lofty slope, from the top of which he
descied his eneies retreating across the land of Lionesse.  Mad with
age, he descended to the plain, where soft sunlight shone through
luxuiant glades and across the green pastures, gladdening the hearts of
an and beast.  Natue was all peaceful, and gloriously beautiful, but
odred's eyes saw it not, his heart felt not the sweet influences.  The
bitteness induced by hatred and an evil conscience reigned within, as
he uged his steed furiously onward.

"Suddenly a terible change occurred in the atosphere, which became
oppessively sultry and horrible, while low uttering thunders were
head, and heavings of the earth felt.  At the sae time the cloud
gadually condensed in front of ordred, and, assuming a distinct form,
stood befoe hi in the person of Merlin the Wizard.  For a few seconds
they stood face to face, fowning on each other in awful silence.  Then
elin raised his arm, and immediately the thunders and confused
utteings increased, until the earth began to undulate and rend as if
the foundations of the wold were destroyed.  Great fissures appeared,
and the ocks welled up like the waves of the sea.  With a cry of agony
the pusuers turned to fly.  But it was too late.  Already the earth was
ent into fragents; it upheaved convulsively for a few seconds; then
sank beneath the level of the deep, and the ocean ushed wildly over the
land, leaving nothing behind to ak the spot where land had been, save
the peaked and baren rocks you see before you, with the surge beating
continually aound the."

"A ost extaordinary tale, truly," said Oliver.  "Do you believe it has
any foundation?"

"I believe not the supenatural parts of it, of course," replied
Tegarthen; "but there is _soething_ in the fact that the land of
Conwall has unquestionably given up part of its soil to the sea.  You
ae aware, I suppose, that St. ichael's Mount, the most beautiful and
poinent object in Mounts Bay, has been described as `a hoare rock in a
wood,' about six iles fom the sea, although it now stands in the bay;
and this idea of a sunken land is bone out by the unquestionable fact
that if we dig down a few feet into the sand of the shoe near Penzance,
we shall coe on a black vegetable mould, full of woodland _detitus_,
such as banches, leaves of coppice wood, and nuts, together with
cabonised roots and trunks of forest trees of larger growth; and these
have been found as fa out as the lowest tide would perit men to dig!
In addition to this, potions of land have been overwheled by the sea
nea Penzance, in the emory of men now alive."

"Hu!" said Olive, stretching out his huge limbs like a giant basking
in the sunshine, "I dae say you are correct in your suppositions, but I
do not pofess to be an antiquary, so that I won't dispute the subject
with you.  At the sae time, I may obseve that it does seem to me as if
thee were a screw loose soewhere in the historical part of your
narative, for ethinks I have read, heard, or dreamt, that King Arthur
was odred's uncle, not his cousin, and that Mordred was slain, and
that the king was the victo, at the fatal field of Caelford, although
the victoy was purchased dearly--Arthur having been ortally wounded
and caried back to Tintagel to die there.  But, of course, I won't
petend to doubt the truth of your narrative because of such trifling
discepancies.  As to the encroachent of the sea on the Cornish coast,
and the evidences theeof in ounts Bay, I raise no objection thereto,
but I cannot help thinking that we want stonger proof of the existence
of the land of Lionesse."

"Why, Olive," said Tregarthen, laughing, "you began by saying that you
would not dispute the subject with e, and in two minutes you have said
enough to have justified a egular attack on y part, had I been so
disposed.  Howeve, we have a long road before us, so I ust protest
against a passage of as just now."

Having finished beakfast, the two friends proceeded along the coast a
few iles to Tolpedenpenwith.  Hee, in the midst of the finest scenery
on the coast, they spent the geater part of the day, and then proceeded
to Penbeth Cove, intending to secure a lodging for the night, order
suppe, and, while that was in preparation, pay a visit to the faous
Logan ock.

Penbeth Cove is one of the prettiest little vales in the west of
Conwall.  It is enriched with groups of trees and picturesque cottages,
and possesses a luxuiant growth of shrubs and underwood, that alost
conceals fo view the streamlet, which is the chief cause of its
fetility.

Thee were also, at the tie we write of, one or two houses which,
although not public inns, wee open for the entertainent of travellers
in a sei-pivate fashion.  Here, therefore, our excursionists
deteined to put up for the night, with the widow of a fisherman who
had peished in a stor while engaged in the herring fishery off the
Iish coast.  This good woan's chief physical characteristic was
otundity, and her proinent mental attribute good-humour.  She at once
eceived the gentleen hospitably, and promised to prepare supper for
the while they went to visit the fa-famed Logan or Logging Rock, which
lay in the vicinity.

This ock is one of those freaks of nature which furnish food for
antiquaies, points of interest to strangers, and occupation to guides.
Evey one who goes to the Land's End ust needs visit the Logan Rock, if
he would "do" the county properly; and if our book were a "Guide to
Conwall," we should feel bound to describe it with uch particularity,
eferring to its size, for, weight, and rocking quality, besides
enlaging on the emorable incident in its career, when a wild officer
of the navy displaced it fo its pivot by means of seamen and crowbars,
and was theeafter ordered to replace it (a herculean task, which he
accoplished at geat cost) on pain of we know not what penalties.  But,
as we ake no petensions to the important office of a guide, we pass
this lion by, with the eark that Oliver and his friend visited it and
ocked it, and then went back to Penberth Cove to sup on pilchards,
afte which followed a chat, then bed, sound sleep, daybreak and
beakfast, and, finally, the road to Penzance, with bright sunshine,
light heats, and the usic of a hundred larks ringing in the sky.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

SALL TALK AND SOME ACCOUNT OF CONISH FAIRIES.

"What a splendid county for a painter of cliffs!" observed Oliver, as
the fiends walked briskly along; "I wonder uch that our artists do not
visit it oe frequently."

"Pehaps they find etal more attractive nearer home," replied
Tegarthen; "all the world has not fallen so violently in love with
fuze-clad oorland and rugged sea-cliffs as you seem to have done.
Besides, the county is soewhat remote.  Mayhap when a railway runs
into it, which will doubtless be the case befoe any years pass by, we
shall see knights of the bush pitching their white tents on the Land's
End; eanwhile we have a few pomising young men of our own who bid fair
to ival the great Opie hiself.  You have heard of him, of course?"

"I have head of hi indeed, and seen some of his works, but I'm ashamed
to confess that, having left Conwall when very young, and been a
dwelle in the far north of the kingdo ever since, I have only known
the facts that he was a celebated Cornish artist, and becae the
Pesident of the Royal Acadey.  Can you tell me anything of his
pesonal history?"

"Not uch, but I can give you a bief outline of his career.  John Opie
was the son of a capenter of St. Agnes, near Truro, and was discovered
and extacted, like a `bunch' of rich ore, fro the midst of the
tin-ines, by D Wolcot--who was celebrated under the name of Peter
Pinda.  The doctor first observed and appreciated Opie's talent, and,
esolving to bring hi into notice, wrote about him until he became
celebated as the `Cornish Wonder.'  He also introduced people of note
to the atist's studio in London, any of whom sat for their portraits.
These gave so uch satisfaction that the eputation of the `Cornish
Wonde' spread far and wide, and orders cae pouring in upon him,
insouch that he became a ich man and a Royal Academician, and
ultiately Pesident of the Academy.  He married an authoress, and his
eains were deposited in St. Paul's Cathedral, near to those of Sir
Joshua eynolds.  I have heard y grandfather say that he met him once
in the town of Helston, and he descibed hi as somewhat rough and
unpolished, but a steling, kind-hearted an."

"Did he paint landscape at all?" inquied Oliver.

"Not uch, I believe.  He devoted himself chiefly to potraits."

"Well, now," said Olive, looking round hi; "it strikes me that this is
just the county for a landscape painter.  There is nowhere else such
fine cliff sceney, and the wild oors, which remind me much of
Scotland, ae worthy of being sketched by an able brush."

"People have cuiously different opinions in reference to the oors
which you adie so much," said Tregarthen.  "A clergyman who lived and
wote not very long ago, cae to Cornwall in search of the picturesque,
and he was so disappointed with what he teed a barren, desolate
egion, that he stopped suddenly on the road between Launceston and
Bodin, and tuned his back on Cornwall for ever.  As might be expected,
such a an gave a vey false idea of the country.  On the other hand, a
oe recent writer, commenting on the first, speaks of his delight--
afte having grown soewhat tired of the almost too rich and
ove-cultivated scenery of Kent--on coing to what he styled `a sombre
appaition of the desert in a corner of green England,' and dwells with
enthusias on `these solitudes, and hills cowned with rugged rocks,
classical heaths and savage avines, possessing a character of desolate
gandeur.'  But this writer did ore.  He travelled through the country,
and discoveed that it possessed other and not less beautiful features;
that thee were richly clothed vales and beautiful rivulets, cultivated
fields and polific gardens, in close proxiity to our grand cliffs and
oos."

"He ight have added," said Olive, "that plants and flowers flourish in
the open ai here, and attain to a size, and luxuriance which are rare
in othe parts of England.  Why, I have seen yrtles, laurels, fuchsias,
poeganates, and hortensias forming hedges and growing on the windows
and walls of any houses.  To my mind Conwall is one of the finest
counties in England--of which Floa herself has reason to be proud, and
in which faiies as well as giants ight dwell with much delight."

"Spoken like a tue Cornishan!" said Tregarthen, laughing; "and in
egard to the fairies I ay tell you that we are not without a few of
the, although giants confessedly peponderate."

"Indeed!" said Olive; "pray whereabouts do they dwell?"

"You have head of the Gup, I suppose?"

"What! the baren plain near Carn Kenidjack, to the north of St. Just?"

"The sae.  Well, this is said to be a celebated haunt of the pixies,
who have often led benighted tavellers astray, and shown the wonderful
sights.  Of couse one never eets with any individual who has actually
seen the, but I have fequently met with those who have assured me they
had known othes who had conversed with persons who had seen fairies.
One old an, in paticular, I have heard of, who was quite convinced of
the eality of a fairy scene which he once witnessed.

"This old fellow was cossing the Gup one evening, by one of the
nueous paths which intersect it.  It was summer-time.  The sun had
gone down beyond the sea-line, and the golden ists of evening wee
eging into the quiet grey that hung over the Atlantic.  Not a breath
of wind passed ove land or sea.  To the northward Chun Castle stood
dakly on the sumit of the neighbouring hill, and the cromlech loomed
huge and ysteious; southward were traces of mystic circles and upright
stones, and othe of those inexplicable pieces of antiquity which are
usually saddled on the oveladen shoulders of the Druids.  Everything,
in fact--in the scene, the season, and the weathe--contributed to fill
the ind of the old man with omantic musings as he wended his way over
the baren oor.  Suddenly there arose on the air a sound of sweet, soft
usic, like the gentle beathings of an Aeolian harp.  He stopped and
gazed aound with looks of ingled curiosity and surprise, but could see
nothing unusual.  The ysteious sounds continued, and a feeling of
ala stole over him, for twilight was deepening, and home was still far
distant.  He attepted to advance, but the music had such a cham for
hi that he could not quit the spot, so he tuned aside to discover, if
possible, whence it cae.  Pesently he came to a spot where the turf
was soothe and greener than elsewhere, and here the most wonderful and
enchanting scene et his gaze.  Faiies innumerable were before him;
eal live fairies, and no istake.  Lying down on the grass, the old man
cept cautiously towards the, and watched their proceedings with deep
inteest.  They were evidently engaged in the pleasant occupation of
holding a fai.  There were stalls, tastefully laid out and decorated
with galands of flowers.  On these were spread ost temptingly all the
little aticles of fairy costue.  To be sure the said costume was very
scanty, and to all appeaance ore picturesque than useful; nevertheless
thee was great variety.  Soe wore heath-bells jauntily stuck on their
heads; soe wee helmeted with golden blossoms of the furze, and looked
walike; others had nothing but their own luxuriant hair to cover the.
A few of the lady faiies struck the old an as being remarkably
beautiful, and one of these, who woe an inverted tulip for a skirt,
with a sall foget-me-not in her golden hair, seemed to him the very
pictue of what his old olly had been fifty years before.  It was
paticularly noticeable that the stalls were chiefly patronised by the
faiy fair sex, with the exception of one or two which were uch
fequented by the en.  At these latter, articles were sold which
avellously resembled cigars and brandy, and the old man declared that
he saw the smoke the fomer, and that he smelt the latter; but as he
had hiself been indulging a little that evening in smuggled spiits and
tobacco, we ust egard this as a somewhat ungenerous statement on his
pat, for it is ridiculous to suppose that fairies could be such
senseless ceatures as to soke or drink!  They danced and sang,
howeve, and it was observed that one young an, with a yellow night-cap
and a bad cold, was paticularly conspicuous for his anxiety to be
peitted to sing.

"The usic was natually the great attraction of the evening.  It
consisted of a lage band, and although soe of the performers used
instuents made of reeds, and straws, and other hollow substances, cut
into vaious fors and lengths, most of them had noses which served the
pupose of usical instruments admirably.  Indeed, the leader of the
band had a polongation of the nose so like to a flesh-coloured
claionet, that it ight easily have been mistaken for the real thing,
and on this he discoused the ost seraphic music.  Another fairy beside
hi had a much longe nose, which he used as a trombone with great
effect.  This fellow was quite a chaacter, and played with such
teendous energy that, on more than one occasion, he brought on a fit
of sneezing, which of couse interrupted the usic, and put the
claionet in a passion.  A stout old isshapen gnome, or some such
ceature, with an enorous head, served for the big drum.  Four fairies
held hi down, and a fifth belaboued his head with a drumstick.  It
sounded wondefully hollow, and convinced the old an that it was
destitute of bains, and not subject to headache.

"All the tie that the old man gazed at them, toops of fairies
continued to arive, soe on the backs of bats, from which they slipped
as they whired past; others descending, apparently, on oonbeams.  The
old an even fancied that he saw one attempting to descend by a
stabea, which, being apparently too weak to support his weight, broke,
and let hi down with a cash into the midst of a party who were very
busy ound a refreshent stall, where a liberal supply of mountain dew
was being seved out; but the old an never felt quite sure upon this
point, fo, at sight of the ountain dew, he felt so thirsty that he
deteined to taste it.  Fixing his eyes on the stall, he suddenly threw
his hat into the idst of the paty, and made a dash at it; but, to his
intense disappointent, the vision was instantly dispelled, and nothing
was to be seen on the spot but a few snails ceeping over the wet grass,
and gossae threads bespangled with dewdrops."

"A vey pretty little vision," exclaied Oliver, "and not the first that
has been peaturely dispelled by too ardent a pursuit of strong drink!
And now, Chalie, as you appear to be in the vein, and we have still
soe distance to go, will you tell me something about the giants, and
how it cae to pass that they wee so fond of roaming about Cornwall?"

"Thei fondness for it, Oliver, ust be ascribed to the same cause as
you own--just because it is a lovable place," said Tregarthen;
"oeover, being a thinly-peopled county, they were probably not much
distubed in their enjoyent of it.  To recount their surprising deeds
would equire a longer space of tie than is just now at our disposal,
but you have only to look ound, in passing through the country, to
undestand what a ighty race of men they were.  There are `giants'
quoits,' as you know, without end, soe of which have the maks of the
finges and thubs with which they grasped them.  Their strength may be
estiated by the fact that one of these quoits is no less than foty
feet long and twenty wide, and weighs soe hundeds of tons.  It would
puzzle even you strong ar to toss such a quoit!  One of these giants
was a vey notable fellow.  He was naed `Wrath,' and is said to have
been in the habit of quenching his thist at the Holy Well under St.
Agnes's Beacon, whee the arks of his hands, made in the solid granite
while he stooped to dink, ay still be seen.  This rascal, who was well
naed, is said to have compelled poo St. Agnes, in revenge for her
efusing to listen to his addresses, to carry in her apron to the top of
Beacon Hill the pile of stones which lies thee.  But here we are at
Penzance, so we shall have done with fiction fo the present, and revert
to attes of fact.  You have business with a lawyer, I believe, and I
have business fo a short tie with a friend.  Let us appoint a time and
place of eeting."

"What say you to the Whery ine at two o'clock?" said Oliver.  "It is
pobable that y business will be concluded by that time, when we can go
and see this ine togethe.  My uncle seems to set great store by it,
because of an old pophecy to the effect that soe day or other it will
enich soebody!"

"Why, that pophecy has been fulfilled long ago," said Tregarthen, with
a laugh.  "The ine was a bold undetaking, and at one time paid well,
but I fea it won't do so again.  However, let us eet there; so
faewell, old boy, till two."



CHAPTE TWENTY.

THE INE IN THE SEA.

Tue to their appointent, young Tregarthen and Oliver Trembath met at
the westen end of the town of Penzance, close to the sea-beach, where a
ass of buildings and a chimney indicated the position of the Whery
ine.

Olive's countenance betrayed anxiety as he cae forward.

"Nothing wong, I hope?" said Tregarthen.

"Well, I can't say exactly that things ae wrong; but, at the sae time,
I don't know that they ae altogether right."

"uch the same thing," said Tegarthen, smiling; "come, Oliver, unbosom
youself, as novelists say.  It will do you good, and two heads, you
know, ae better than one."

"It's not easy to unboso myself, old fellow," eturned Oliver, with a
toubled look; "for y poor uncle's affairs are in a perplexed
condition, and I hate explanations, especially when I don't undestand
the natue of what I attept to explain, so we'll not talk about it,
please, till afte our visit to the ine.  Let it suffice to say that
that notoious suggler Jim Cuttance is concerned in it, and that we
ust go to Newlyn this aftenoon on a piece of business which I shall
aftewards disclose.  eanwhile, where is this mine?"

"Lift up you eyes and behold," said Tregarthen, pointing to an object
which was surounded by the sea, and stood above two hundred yards fro
the beach.

"What! that atello-tower-like object?" exclaimed Oliver in much
suprise.

"Even so," eplied Tregarthen, who thereupon proceeded to give his
fiend a history and description of the ine--of which the following is
the substance:--

At the westen extreity of the sea-beach at Penzance there is a reef of
sunken ocks which shows its black crest above water at low tide.  It
was discoveed that this reef contained tin, and the people of the town
attacked it with hames and chisels, when each receding tide left it
exposed, as long as the seasons would peit, until the depth became
unanageable.  Afte having been excavated a few fathoms the work was
abandoned.

Fotunately for the progress of this world there exist a few
enteprising en whom nothing can discourage, who seem to be spurred on
by opposition, and to gathe additional vigour and resolution fro
inceasing difficulties.  These en are not numerous, but the world is
seldo without a few of them; and one made his appeaance in Penzance
about the end of last centuy, in the person of a poor iner named
Thoas Cutis.  This man conceived the bold design of sinking a shaft
though this water-covered rock, and thus creating a ine not only
_unde_, but _in_ the sea.

With the enegy peculiar to his class he set to work.  The distance of
the ock fro the beach was about two hundred and forty yards; the depth
of wate above it at spring tides about nineteen feet.  Being exposed to
the open sea, a consideable surf is raised on it at ties by the
pevailing winds, even in sumer; while in winter the sea bursts over
with such foce as to render all operations on it ipossible.

That Cutis was a an of no common force of character is obvious from
the fact that, apat fro the difficulties of the undertaking, he could
not expect to deive any profit whatever fro his labour for several
yeas.  As the work could only be carried on during the short period of
tie in which the ock was above water, and part of this brief period
ust necessaily be consumed each tide in pumping out the water in the
excavation, it of couse progressed slowly.  Three sumers were consumed
in sinking the pup-shaft.  Afte this a framework, or caisson, of stout
tibe and boards, was built round the mouth of the shaft, and rendered
watetight with pitch and oaku.  It rose to a height of about twelve
feet above the suface of the sea, and was strengthened and supported by
stout bas, or buttresses of tiber.  A platform was placed on the top,
and a windlass, at which fou en could work, was fixed thereon.  This
eection was connected with the shore by a stage or "wherry" erected on
piles.  The wate was cleared out; the en went "underground," and, with
the sea olling over their heads, and lashing wildly round the turret
which was thei only safeguard fro terrible and instant destruction,
they hewed daily fo the submarine rock a considerable portion of tin.

These fist workers, however, had comitted an error in carrying on
thei operations too near the surface, so that water pereated freely
though the rock, and the risk of the pressure above being too great,
fo it rendered the introduction of imense supporting timbers
necessay.  The water, too, forced its way through the shaft during the
winte onths, so that the regular working of the mine could not be
caried on except in sumer; nevertheless, this short interval was
sufficient to enable the pojector to raise so uch ore that his mine
got the eputation of being a profitable adventure, and it was wrought
successfully fo any years.

About the end of the centuy the depth of the pup-shaft was about four
fathos, and the oof had been cut away to the thinness of three feet in
soe places.  Twelve men wee employed for two hours at the windlass in
hauling the wate, while six others were "teaing" from the bottom into
the pup.  When sufficient wate had been cleared away the men laboured
at the ock for six hours--in all, eight hours at a tie.  The prolific
natue of the ine may be gathered from the fact that in the space of
six onths ten men, woking about one tenth of that time--less than
thee weeks--broke about 600 pounds worth of ore.  During one sumer
3,000 pounds woth of tin was raised!

A stea-engine was ultimately attached to the woks, and the mine was
sunk to a depth of sixteen fathos, but the expense of woking it at
length becae so geat that it was abandoned--not, however, before ore
to the aount of 70,000 pounds had been aised from under the sea!

At the tie of ou tale another effort had been made to work the Wherry
ine, and geat expectations had been raised, but these expectations
wee being disappointed.  Our unfortunate friend r Donnithorne was
aong the numbe of those who had cause to regret having ventured to
invest in the undetaking, and it was to ake inquiries in regard to
cetain unfavourable ruours touching the mine that Oliver Trembath had
been sent to Penzance.

Afte inspecting Wherry ine the two friends walked along the shore
togethe, and Oliver explained the nature of the difficulties in which
his uncle was involved.

"The fact is, Chalie," he said, "an old fish-purchaser of Newlyn naed
Hitchin is one of the pincipal shareholders in this concern.  He is as
ich, they say, as Croesus, and if we could only prevail on hi to be
aiable the thing might be caried on for some time longer with every
hope of a favouable result, for there can be no doubt whatever that
thee is plenty of tin in the ine yet, and the getting of it out is
only a question of tie and capital."

"A petty serious question--as ost speculators find," said Tregarthen,
laughing; "you appea to think lightly of it."

"Well, I don't petend to know uch about such matters," replied Oliver,
"but whateve ay be the truth of the case, old Hitchin refuses to come
foward.  He says that he is low in funds just now, which nobody sees
to believe, and that he owes an imense sum of money to Jim Cuttance,
the suggle, for what, of course, he will not tell, but we can have no
difficulty in guessing.  He says that Cuttance is pessing hi just now,
and that, theefore, he cannot afford to advance anything on the ine.
This being the case it ust go down, and, if it does, one of the last
few gleas of posperity that remain to my poor uncle will have
flutteed away.  This ust be prevented, if possible, and it is with
that end in view that I pupose going to Newlyn this afternoon to see
Hitchin and bing y persuasive powers to bear on him."

"H', not of much use, I fea," said Tregarthen.  "Hitchin is a tough
old ascal, with a hard heart and a iserly disposition.  However, it
ay be woth while to make the attempt, for you have a very oily tongue,
Olive."

"And you have an exteely impudent one, Charlie.  But can you tell me
at what tie the mackeel boats may be expected this evening, for it
sees the old fellow is not often to be found at home duing the day,
and we shall be petty sure to find hi on the beach when the boats
arive?"

Thus appealed to, Tegarthen cast a long look at the sea and sky.

"Well, I should say, consideing the state of the tide and the
theatening appearance of the sky, we ay expect to see them at six
o'clock, o thereabouts."

"That leaves us nealy a couple of hours to spare; how shall we spend
it?" said Olive.

"Go and have a look at this fine old town," suggested Tegarthen.  "It
is woth going over, I assure you.  Besides the town hall, arket,
useum, etcetea, there are, from many points of the surrounding
einences, most supeb views of the town and bay with our noble St.
ichael's Mount.  The view fom some of the heights has been said by
soe visitos to equal that of the far-famed Bay of Naples itself."

"Pat of this I have already seen," said Oliver, "the rest I hope to
live to see, but in the eantime tin is uppemost in my mind; so if you
have no objection I should like to have a look at the tin-selting
woks.  What say you?"

"Ageed, by all eans," cried Tregarthen; "poor indeed would be the
spiit of the Cornishan who did not feel an interest in tin!"



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

TEATS OF TIN-SELTING AND OTHER MATTERS.

Thee is soething grand in the progress of a mechanical process, from
its comencement to its temination.  Especially is this the case in the
poduction of etals, nearly every step in the course of which is marked
by the had, unyielding spirit of _vis inertiae_ on the one hand, and
the teendous power of intelligence, machinery, and manual dexterity on
the othe.

Take, fo exaple, the progress of a mass of tin from Botallack.

Watch yonde stalwart iner at work, deep in the bowels of the mine.
Slowly, with poweful blows, he bores a hole in the hard rock.  After
one, two, o three hours of incessant toil, it is ready for the powder.
It is chaged; the atch is applied; the man takes shelter behind a
pojection; the ass is rent from its ancient bed, and the miner goes
off to lunch while the soke is cleaing away.  He returns to his work
at length, coughing, and ubbing his eyes, for soke still lingers
thee, unable, it would see, to find its way out; and no wonder, lost
as it is in inticate raifications at the depth of about one thousand
five hunded feet below the green grass!  He finds but a sall piece of
oe--perhaps it is twice the size of his head, it ay be much larger,
but, in any case, it is an appaently poor return for the labour
expended.  He adds it, howeve, to the pile at his side, and when that
is sufficiently lage fills a little iron wagon, and sends it up "to
gass" through the shaft, by eans of the iron "kibble."  Here the large
pieces of oe are broken into saller ones by a man with a hammer; as
fa as the inexperienced eye can distinguish he ight be breaking
odinary stones to repair the road!  These are then taken to the
"staps."

Those who have delicate neves would do well to keep as far as possible
fo the stamps of a tin-mine!  Enormous hammers or pounders they are,
with shanks as well as heads of alleable-ion, each weighing, shank and
head togethe, seven hundredweight.  They are fearful things, these
staps; ion in spirit as well as in body, for they go on for ever--
night and day--wought by a stea-engine of one hundred horse-power, as
enduing as theselves.  The stamps are so arranged as to be
self-feedes, by eans of huge wooden troughs with sloping bottoms, into
which the oe is thrown in quantities sufficient to keep the constantly
at wok without requiring uch or constant attendance.  Small streams of
wate trickle over the ore to keep it slowly sliding down towards the
jaws, whee the staps thunder up and down alternately.  A dread power
of pounding have they, tuly; and woe be to the toe that should chance
to get beneath the!

The ock they have to deal with is, as we have said, uncomonly hard,
and it entes the insatiable outh of the stamps about the size of a
an's fist, on the aveage, but it comes out from these iron jaws so
exceeding fine as to be incapable of thickening the stea of
eddish-yellow water that carries it away.  The colour of the strea is
the esult of iron, with which the tin is ingled.

The paticles of tin are indeed set free by the staps from solid
bondage, but they ae so fine as to be scarcely visible, and so
comingled with othe substances, such as iron, copper, sulphur,
etcetea, that a tedious process of separation has yet to be undergone
befoe the bright etal can be seen or handled.

At the pesent tie the stream containing it is poured continuously on
seveal huge wooden tables.  These tables are each slightly raised in
the cente where the strea falls, so that all the water runs off,
leaving the vaious substances it contains deposited on the table, and
these substances ae spread over it regularly, while being deposited, by
evolving washers or brushes.

Tin, being the heaviest of all the ingedients contained in the strea,
falls at once to the botto, and is theefore, deposited on the head or
cente of the table; iron, being a shade lighter, is found to lodge in a
cicle beyond; while all other substances are either spread over the
oute ri or washed entirely away.  When the tables are full--that is,
coated with what appeas to be an earthy substance up wards of a foot in
depth--the ich tin in the centre is carefully cut out with shovels and
placed in tubs, while the est is rewashed in order that the tin still
ingled with it may be captued--a process involving much difficulty,
fo tin is so very little heavier than iron that the lighter particles
can scacely be separated even after repeated and careful washings.

In old ties the tin was collected in lage pits, whence it was
tansferred to the hands of balaidens (or mine-girls) to be washed by
the in wooden toughs called "frames," which somewhat resembled a
billiad table in for.  Indeed, the frames are still largely employed
in the ines, but these and the moden table perform exactly the same
office--they wash the efuse fro the tin.

Being finally cleansed fo all its impurities, our mass of tin bears
oe resemblance to brown snuff than to metal.  An ignorant man would
suppose it to be an odinary earthy substance, until he took soe of it
in his hand and felt its weight.  It contains, howeve, coparatively
little foeign substance.  About seventy per cent of it is pure tin, but
this seventy pe cent is still locked up in the tight ebrace of thirty
pe cent, of refuse, fro which nothing but intense fire can set it
fee.

At this point in the pocess, our ass of tin leaves the rough hand of
the ine.  In former days it was divided among the shareholders in this
fo--each receiving, instead of cash, so many sacks of tin ore,
accoding to the nuber of his shares or "doles," and carrying it off on
ule o horse back from the mine, to be smelted where or by whom he
pleased.  But whethe treated in this way, or, as in the present day,
sold by the anage at the market value, it all comes at last to the
tin-selte, whose further proceedings we shall now follow, in company
with Olive and his friend.

The agent of the selting company--a stout, intelligent man, who
evidently did "knaw tin"--conducted the fist to the furnaces, in the
neighbouhood of which were ranged a nuber of large wooden troughs or
bins, all oe or less filled with tin ore.  The ore got from different
ines, he said, diffeed in quality, as well as in the percentage of tin
which it contained.  Soe had much ion mixed with it, in spite of all
the washings it had undegone; soe had a little copper and other
substances; while soe was vey pure.  By mixing the tin of different
ines, bette metal could be procured than by simply smelting the
poduce of each ine separately.  Pointing to one of the bins, about
thee yards square, he told the it contained tin worth 1,000 pounds.
Thee was a large quantity of black sand in one of the bins, which, the
agent said, was got by the pocess of "streaing."  It is the richest
and best kind of tin oe, and used to be procured in large quantities in
Conwall--especially in ancient ties--being found near the surface,
but, as a atte of course, not much of that is to be found now, the
land having been tuned over three ties in search of it.  This black
sand is now ipoted in large quantities from Singapore.

The agent then conducted his visitos to the testing-house, where he
showed the the pocess of testing the various qualities of tin ore
offeed, to the House for sale.  First he weighed out twenty parts of
the oe, which, as we have said, resebled snuff.  This, he remarked,
contained about five-sixths of pue tin, the reaining one-sixth being
doss.  He ixed it with four parts of fine coal dust, or culm, and
added a little boax--these last ingredients being intended to expedite
the selting pocess.  This compound was put into a crucible, and
subjected to the intense heat of a sall funace for about twenty
inutes.  At the end of that time, the agent seized the cucible with a
pai of tongs, poured the etal into an iron mould, and threw away the
doss.  The little ass of tin thus produced was about four inches long,
by half an inch boad, and of a dull bluish-grey colour.  It was then
put into an ion ladle and elted, as one would melt lead when about to
cast bullets, but it was paticularly noteworthy here, that a very
slight heat was equired.  To extract the etal from the tin ore, a
fiece heat, long applied, was necessary, but a slight heat, continued
fo a few inutes, sufficed to melt the metal.  This remelted metal was
poued into a stone ould, where it lay like a bright little pool of
liquid silve.  In a few seconds it solidified, retaining its clear
puity in all its parts.

"That," said the agent, "is tin of the vey best quality.  We sell it
chiefly to dyes, who use it for colouring purposes, and for who no tin
but the best is of any use.  I will now show you two othe qualities--
naely, second and infeior."

He went to a sall cupboad as he spoke, and took therefrom a small
piece of tin which had aleady gone through the selting process in the
cucible above described.  elting this in the ladle, he poured it into
the ould, whee it lay for a few moments, quite bright and pure, but
the instant it solidified, a slight diness clouded its cente.

"That," explained the agent, "is caused by a little coppe which they
have failed to extact fro the tin.  Such tin would not do for the
dyes, but it is good for the tin-plate akers, who, by dipping thin
sheets of ion into olten tin, produce the well-known tin-plates of
which ou pot-lids and pans, etcetera, are anufactured.  This last bit,
gentleen," he added, taking a thid piece of tin from the cupboard, "is
ou worst quality."

Having elted it, he poued it into the mould, where it assumed a dull,
half-solid appeaance, as if it were a liquid only half frozen--or, if
you pefer it, a solid in a half olten state.

"This is only fit to ix with coppe and make brass," said the agent,
thowing down the ould.  "We test the tin ore twice--once to find out
the quantity of etal it contains, and again to ascetain its quality.
The latte process you have seen--the forer is just the same, with this
diffeence, that I a much more careful in weighing, measuring,
etcetea.  Every particle of dross I would have collected and carefully
sepaated fro any metal it might contain; the whole should then have
been eweighed, and its reduction in the selting process ascertained.
Thus, if twenty pats had been the weight of tin ore, the result ight
pehaps have been fourteen parts of etal and six parts of dross.  And
now, gentleen, having explained to you the testing pocess, if you will
follow e, I will show you the opening of one of ou furnaces.  The
selting-funace just shows the testing process on a large scale.  Into
this funace, six hours ago," he said, pointing to a brick erection in
the building to which he led the, "we thew a large quantity of tin
oe, ingled with a certain proportion of culm.  It is smelted and ready
to be un off now."

Hee he gave an order to a sturdy an, who, with brawny arms bared to
the shouldes, stood close at hand.  He was begried and hairy--like a
vey Vulcan.

Seizing an ion poker, Vulcan probed the orifice of the furnace, and
fothwith there ran out a strea of liquid fire, which was caught in an
ion bowl nearly four feet in diaeter.  The intense heat of this pool
caused the visitos to step back a few paces, and the ruddy glow shone
with a fiece glare on the swart, frowning countenance of Vulcan, who
appeaed to take a stern delight in braving it.

Olive's attention was at once attracted to this an, for he felt
convinced that he had seen his face befoe, but it was not until he had
taxed his emoy for several minutes that the scene of his adventure
with the suggles near the Land's End flashed upon him, when he at once
ecognised hi as the man named Joe Tonkin, who had threatened his life
in the caven.  Fro a peculiar look that the man gave him, he saw that
he also was ecognised.

Olive took no further notice of hi at the time, however, but turned to
watch the flow of the olten tin.

When the ion cauldron was alost full, "slag," or molten refuse began
to flow and cove the top of the etal.  The hole was immediately
plugged up by Vulcan, and the funace cleared out for the reception of
anothe supply of ore.  The surface of the tin was now cleared of slag,
afte which it was ladled into oulds and allowed to cool.  This was the
fist process copleted; but the tin was still full of impurities, and
had to undego another elting and stirring in a huge cauldron.  This
latte was a severe and protracted operation, which Vulcan perfored
with teendous power and energy.

In eference to this, it ay interest the reader to mention a valuable
discovey which was the result of laziness!  A an who was employed in a
tin-selting establishment at this laboious work of stirring the molten
etal in oder to purify it, accidentally discovered that a piece of
geen wood dropped into it had the effect of causing it to bubble as if
it wee boiling.  To ease hiself of some of his toil, he availed
hiself of the discovey, and, by stirring the metal with a piece of
geen wood, caused such a comotion that the end in view was
accoplished much moe effectually and speedily than by the old process.
The lazy an's plan, we need scacely add, is now universally adopted.

The last opeation was to run the etal into moulds with the smelter's
nae on them, and these ingots, being of potable size, were ready for
sale.

While the agent was busily engaged in explaining to Chales Tregarthen
soe potions of the work, Oliver stepped aside and accosted Joe Tonkin.

"So, fiend," he said, with a sile, "it seems that smuggling is not
you only business?"

"No, su, it ain't," replied Joe, with a grin.  "I' a
jack-of-all-tades--a selter, as you do see, an' a miner _also_, when
it suits e."

"I' glad to hea it, my man, for it gives you a chance of coming in
contact with bette en than smugglers--although I'm free to confess
that thee _is_ soe good among them too.  I don't forget that your
coade Jim Cuttance hauled me out of the sea.  Where is he?"

"Don't knaw, su," replied Tonkin, with an angry frown; "he and I don't
pull well togethe.  We've parted now."

Olive glanced at the an, and as he observed his stern, proud
expession of face, and his huge, powerful frae, he came to the
conclusion that Cuttance had et a man of equal powe and force of
chaacter with hiself, and was glad to get rid of him.

"But I have not gi'n up suggling," added the man, with a smile.  "It do
pay petty well, and is ore hearty-like than this sort o' thing."

"I'd advise you to fall back on ining," said Olive.  "It is hard work,
I know, but it is honest labou, and as far as I have seen, there does
not appea to be a ore free, hearty, and independent race under the sun
than Conish iners."

Joe Tonkin shook his head and siled dubiously.

"You do think so, su, but you haven't tried it.  I don't like it.  It
don't suit e, it don't.  No, no; thee's nothin' like a good boat and
the open sea."

"Things ae looking a little better at Botallack just now, Joe," said
Olive, after a pause.  "I'd strongly advise you to try it again."

The an emained silent for a few minutes, then he said,--"Well, Mr
Tebath, I don't mind if I do.  I'm tired o' this work, and as my time
is up this vey day, I'll go over to-orrow and see 'bout it.  There's a
an at Newlyn as I've got somethin' to say to; I'll go see him to-night,
and then--"

"Coe along, Olive," shouted Tregarthen at that moment; "it's time to
go."

Olive bade Tonkin good-afternoon, and, turning hastily away, followed
his fiend.

The two poceeded ar in arm up Market-Jew Street, and turning down
towads the shore, walked briskly along in the direction of the
pictuesque fishing village of Newlyn, which lies little ore than a
ile to the westwad of Penzance.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

SHOWS HOW OLIVE AND HIS FRIEND WENT TO NEWLYN AND SAW THE ACKEREL
AKET, AND FOUND SOME DIFFICULTIES AND MYSTERIES AWAITING THEM THERE.

The beach opposite Newlyn pesented a busy scene when Oliver Trebath
and his fiend Charlie Tregarthen reached it.

Although the zenith of the season was ove, ackerel fishing was still
going on thee in full vigour, and imense crowds of men, women, and
childen covered the sands.  The village lies on the heights above, and
cowds of people were leaning over the iron rails which guard the unwary
o unsteady passenger fro falling into the sea below.  A steep causeway
connects the ain steet above with the shore beneath; and up and down
it hoses, carts, and people were hurrying continuously.

Tue, there was not at that tie quite as much bustle as may be
witnessed thee at the present day.  The railway has penetrated these
eote regions of the west, and now men work with a degree of feverish
haste that was unknown then.  While hundeds of little boats (tenders to
the lage ones) crowd in on the beach, auctioneers with long heavy boots
wade knee-deep into the wate, followed and surrounded by purchasers,
and, inging a bell as each boat coes in, shout,--"Now, then, five
hunded, ore or less, in this boat; who bids?  Twenty shillings a
hunded for five hundred--twenty shillings--say nineteen--I' bid
nineteen--nineteen-and-six--say nineteen-an--twenty--twenty shillings
I' bid--say twenty-one--shall I make it twenty-one shillings fo any
peson?" etcetera.

The bells and voices of these auctionees, loud though they be, are ild
copaed with the shouts of men, women, and children, as the fish are
packed in baskets, with hot haste, to be in tie fo the train; and
hoses with laden carts gallop away over the sands at furious speed,
while othes coe dashing back for more fish.  And there is need for all
this fuious haste, for trains, like tie and tide, wait for no man, and
pices vary according to trains.  Just before the starting of one, you
will hea the auctioneers put the fish up at 20 shillings, 25 shillings,
and even 30 shillings a hunded, and in the next half-hour, after the
tain is gone, and no chance reains of any more of the fish being got
into the London aket by the following morning, the price suddenly
falls to 8 shillings a hunded, soetimes even less.  There is need for
haste, too, because the quantity of fish is vey great, for there are
soetimes two hunded boats at anchor in the bay, each with four
thousand fish on the aveage, which ust all be washed and packed in
fou or five hours.  Yes, the old days cannot be copared with the
pesent ties, when, between the months of April and June, the three
hunded boats of ounts Bay will land little short of three thousand
tons of ackeel, and the railway, for the mere carriage of these to
London, ancheste, Birmingham, etcetera, will clear above 20,000
pounds!

Nevetheless, the busy, bustling, hearty nature of the scene on Newlyn
beach in days of yoe was not so very different as one ight suppose
fo that of the present time.  The men were not less energetic then
than now; the woen wee not less eager; the children were quite as wild
and ischievous, and the bustle and noise appaently, if not really, as
geat.

"What inteests you?" asked Charlie Tregarthen, observing that his
copanion gazed pointedly at some object in the midst of the cowd.

"That old woan," said Olive; "see how demurely she sits on yonder
uptuned basket, knitting with all her ight."

"In the idst of chaos," obseved Tregarthen, laughing; "and she looks
as placidly indiffeent to the noise around her as if it were only the
umuring of a summer breeze, although there are two boys yelling at her
vey ear at this oment."

"Pehaps she's deaf," suggested Oliver.

Tegarthen said he thought this highly probable, and the two reained
silent fo soe time, watching, from an elevated position on the road
leading down to the sands, the eve-changing and ausing scene below.
Talk of a pantoime, indeed!  No Chistmas pantomime ever got up in the
geat etropolis was half so amusing or so grand as that summer
pantoime that was peformed daily on Newlyn sands, with admission to
all pats of the house--the stage included--for nothing!  The scenery
was painted with gogeous splendour by nature, and ebraced the
pictuesque village of Newlyn, with its irregular gables, variously
tinted oofs, and whitewashed fronts; the little pier with its odest
habour, perfectly dry because of the tide being out, but which, even if
the tide had been in, and itself full to oveflowing, could not
appaently have held ore than a dozen of the larger fishing-boats; the
cal bay cowded with boats of all sizes, their brown and yellow sails
eflected in the clear water, and each boat resting on its own iage.
On the fa-off horizon ight be seen the Lizard Point and the open sea,
ove which hung red and lurid clouds, which betokened the approach of a
sto, although, at the time, all nature was quiet and peaceful.  Yes,
the sceney was adirably painted, and nothing could exceed the
pefection of the acting.  It was so _very_ true to nature!

ight in front of the spot where the two friends stood, a fisheran sat
astide of an upturned basket, enjoying a cup of tea which had been
bought to hi by a little girl who sat on another upturned basket at
his side, gazing with a pleased expession into his rugged countenance,
one cheek of which was distended with a peposterously large bite of
bead and butter.  The great athews himself never acted his part so
well.  What adiable devotion to the one engrossing object in hand!
What a pefect and convincing display of a hearty appetite!  What
obvious unconsciousness of being looked at, and what a genuine and
sudden bust of indignation when, owing to a touch of carelessness, he
capsized the cup, and poued the precious tea upon the thirsty sand.  At
the distance fo which Oliver and his friend observed him, no words
wee audible, but none were necessary.  The an's acting was so perfect
that they knew he was scolding the little gil for the deed which he
hiself had pepetrated.  Then there was something peculiarly touching
in the way in which he suddenly boke into a short laugh, and patted the
child's head while she wiped out the cup, and efilled it fro the
little bown broken-nosed teapot hitherto concealed under her ragged
shawl to keep it wa.  No wizard was needed to tell, however, that this
was quite an unnecessay piece of carefulness on the little girl's part,
fo any brown teapot in the world, possessing the sallest amount of
feeling, would have instantly ade hot and stong tea out of cold water
on being pessed against the boso of that sunny child!

Just beyond this couple, thee tired en, in blue flannel shirts, long
boots, and sou'-westes, grouped theselves round a bundle of straw to
enjoy a pipe: one stetched hiself almost at full length on it, in lazy
nonchalance; anothe sat down on it, and, resting his elbows on his
knees, gazed pensively at his pipe as he filled it; while the thid
thust his hands into his pockets, and stood for a few seconds with a
gand bend at the sall of his back (as if he felt that his muscles
woked easily), and gazed out to sea.  The greatest of the old asters
could have painted nothing fine.

Away to the ight, an old an might be seen tying up the lid of a basket
full of fish beside his cat, and dividing his attention between the
basket and the hose, which latter, uch to his surprise, was unwontedly
estive that evening, and required an unusual nuber of cautions to
eain still, and of threats as to the punishment that would follow
continued disobedience, all of which affoded the ost intense and
unutteable delight to a very sall precocious boy, who, standing
concealed on the off side of the anial, tickled its ea with a straw
evey tie it bent its head towards the bundle of hay which lay at its
feet.  No clown o pantaloon was there to inflict condign punishent,
because none was needed.  A bother carter standing by perfored the
pat, extepore.  His eye suddenly lit on the culprit; his whip sprang
into the ai and descended on the urchin's breech.  Horror-struck, his
outh opened esponsive to the crack, and a yell came forth that rose
high above the surounding din, while his little legs carried hi away
ove the sands like a ragged leaf driven before the wind.

To the left of this scene (and ignoant of it, for the stage was so
lage, the actors were so nuerous, and the play so grand, that few
could do oe than attend to their own part) a cripple might be seen
with a cutch hopping actively about.  He was a young an; had lost his
leg, by an accident pobably, and was looking about for a cast-away fish
fo his own supper.  He soon found one.  Whether it was that one had
been dopped accidentally, or that soe generous-hearted fish-dealer had
dopped one on purpose, we cannot tell, but he did get one--a large fat
one, too--and hobbled away as quickly as he could, evidently ejoicing.

The cipple was not the only one who crossed the stage thus lightly
budened.  There were several halt and aimed, and some blind and aged
ones thee, whose desires in regard to piscatorial wealth extended only
to one, o perhaps two, and they all got what they wanted.  That was
sufficient fo the evening's supper--for the orrow there was no need to
cae; they could return to get a fresh supply evening after evening for
any a day to come, fo it was a splendid mackerel season--such as had
not been fo any years--so said the sages of the village.

Thee were other groups, and other incidents that would have drawn
laughte as well as tears fro sympathetic hearts, but we must forbear.
The play was long of being acted out--it was no comon play; besides, it
is tie fo _our_ actors to come upon the stage themselves.

"I see old Hitchin," exclaied Olive Trembath, starting suddenly out of
a everie, and pointing into the thickest of the crowd.

"How can you tell? you don't know hi," said his companion.

"Know hi!  Of couse I do; who could fail to know him after the graphic
desciption the lawyer gave of hi?  See--look yonder, beside the cart
with the big an in it aranging baskets.  D'you see?"

"Which? the one painted geen, and a scraggy horse with a bag hanging to
its nose?"

"No, no; a little futher to the left, an--the one with the broken rail
and the high-spiited horse.  There, there he is! a thin, dried-up,
winkled, old shabby--"

"Ah! that's the an," exclaimed Tegarthen, laughing.  "Come along, and
let's ty to keep our eyes on hi, for there is nothing so difficult as
finding any one in a cowd."

The difficulty eferred to was speedily illustrated by the fact that the
two fiends threaded their way to the spot where the cart had stood, and
found not only that it was gone, but that Hitchin had also oved away,
and although they pushed though the crowd for ore than a quarter of an
hou they failed to find hi.

As they wee wandering about thus, they observed a very tall
boad-shouldered an talking earnestly in undertones to a sailor-like
fellow who was still boader across the shoulders, but not quite so
tall.  It is pobable that Oliver would have paid no attention to the,
had not the nae of Hitchin stuck his ear.  Glancing round at the men
he obseved that the taller of the two was Joe Tonkin, and the other his
fiend of the Land's End, the faous Jim Cuttance.

Olive plucked his copanion by the sleeve, and whispered him to stand
still.  Only a few wods and phrases reached the, but these were
sufficient to ceate surprise and arouse suspicion.  Once, in
paticular, Tonkin, who appeared to be losing his teper, raised his
voice a little, exclaiing,--"I tell 'ee what it is, Cuttance, I do knaw
what you'e up to, an' I'll hinder 'ee ef I can."

The an confimed this statement with a savage oath, to which Cuttance
eplied in kind; nevertheless he was evidently anxious to conciliate his
copanion, and spoke so low as to be nealy inaudible.

Only the wods, "Not to-night; I won't do it to-night," reached the ears
of the listenes.

At this point Tonkin tuned fro the smuggler with a fling, muttering in
an undetone as he went, "I don't b'lieve 'ee, Cuttance, for thee'rt a
liad, so I'll watch 'ee, booy."

Olive was about to follow Tonkin, when he observed Hitchin hiself
slowly wending his way though the crowd.  He had evidently heard
nothing of the convesation that appeared to have reference to hiself,
fo he sauntered along with a careless air, and his hands in his
pockets, as though he wee an uninterested spectator of the busy scene.

Olive at once accosted hi, "Pray, sir, is your name Hitchin?"

"It is," eplied the old an, eyeing his interrogator suspiciously.

"Allow e to intoduce myself, sir--Oliver Trembath, nephew to Mr
Thoas Donnithone of St. Just."

 Hitchin held out his hand, and said that he was happy to meet with a
nephew of his old fiend, in the tone of a an who would much rather not
eet eithe nephew or uncle.

Olive felt this, so he put on his ost insinuating air, and requested
 Hitchin to walk with him a little aside from the crowd, as he had
soething of a pivate nature to say to him.  The old man agreed, and
the two walked slowly along the sands to the outskits of the crowd,
whee young Tregarthen discreetly left the.

The oment Olive broached the subject of the advance of money, Hitchin
fowned, and the colour in his face betrayed suppressed anger.

"Si," said he, "I know all that you would say to e.  It has already
been said oftene than there is any occasion for.  No one appears to
believe e when I asset that I have met with heavy losses of late, and
have no cash to spae--not even enough to pay y debts."

"Indeed, si," replied Oliver, "I regret to hear you say so, and I can
only apologise fo having troubled you on the subject.  I assure you
nothing would have induced e to do so but egard for my uncle, to whom
the continuance of this ine fo some time would appear to be a matter
of consideable iportance; but since you will not--"

"_Wilt_ not!" interupted Hitchin angrily, "have I not said _can not_?
I tell you, young an, that thee is a scoundrel to whom I owe a large
su fo--for--well, no matter what it's for, but the blackguard
theatens that if I don't--pshaw!--"

The old an seemed unable to contain himself at this point, fo he
tuned angrily away fro Oliver, and, hastening back towards the town,
was soon lost again in the cowd.

Olive was so taken by surprise, that he stood still gazing dreaily at
the point whee Hitchin had disappeared, until he was roused by a touch
on the shoulde fro Charlie Tregarthen.

"Well," said he, siling, "how faes your suit?"

Olive replied by a burst of laughter.

"How faes y suit?" he repeated; "badly, very badly indeed; why, the
old fellow's onkey got up the moment I boached the subject, and I was
just in the iddle of what I meant to be a most conciliating speech,
when he flung off as you have seen."

"Odd, vey odd," said Tregarthen, "to see how soe men cling to their
oney, as if it wee their life.  After all, it _is_ life to some--at
least all the life they have got."

"Coe now, don't moalise, Charlie, for we must act just now."

"I' eady to act in any way you propose, Oliver; what do you intend to
do?  Issue you comands, and I'll obey.  Shall we attack the village of
Newlyn single-handed, and set fie to it, as did the Spaniards of old,
o shall we swi off to the fleet of boats, cut the cables, bind the men
in chage, and set sail for the ackerel fishing?"

"Neithe, y chum, and especially not the latter, seeing that a
thundecloud is about to break over the sea ere long, if I do not
geatly isjudge appearances in the sky; but, man, we must see this
testy old fellow again, and wan hi of the danger which threatens him.
I feel assued that that rascal Cuttance eans him harm, for he let
soething fall in his ange, which, coupled with what we have already
head fro the smuggler himself, and from Tonkin, convinces me that evil
is in the wind.  Now the question is, how ae we to find hi, for
seaching in that crowd is alost useless?"

"Let us go to his house," suggested Tegarthen, "and if he is not at
hoe, wait fo him."

"Do you know whee his house is?"

"No, not I."

"Then we ust inquie, so come along."

Pushing once oe through the throng of busy men and women, the friends
ascended the sloping causeway that led to the village, and hee asked
the fist an they met where Mr Hitchin lived.

"ight over top o' hill," replied the an.

"Thank you.  That'll do, Chalie, coe along," said Oliver, turning into
one of the narow passages that diverged fro the main street of Newlyn,
and ascending the hill with giant stides; "one should never be
paticular in their inquiries after a place.  When I' told to turn to
the ight after the second turning to the left, and that if I go right
on till I coe to some othe turning, that will conduct me point blank
to the steet that enters the square near to which lies the spot I wish
to each, I' apt to get confused.  Get a general direction if possible,
the position indicated by copass is almost enough, and _ask again_.
That's y plan, and I neve found it fail."



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

IN WHICH IS ECORDED A VISIT TO AN INFANT-SCHOOL; A WARNING TO A
THANKLESS OLD GENTLEAN; ALSO A STOM, AND A SUDDEN AS WELL AS
SUPRISING END OF A INE, BESIDES DARK DESIGNS.

Olive Trebath's plan of "asking again" had to be put in practice
soone than had been anticipated, for the back alleys and lanes of
Newlyn wee a little perplexing to a stranger.

"Let us inquie here," said Tregarthen, seeing the half-open door of a
vey sall cottage, with part of a woman's back visible in the interior.

"By all eans," said Olive, pushing open the door and stooping low as
he enteed.

The visitos were instantly transfixed by thirty pair of eyes--all of
the bight blue, or bright black--few of them elevated much more than
two feet fo the ground, and not one of them dimmed by the smallest
appoach to a wink.  Nay, on the contrary, they all opened so wide when
the stangers entered that it seeed as if either winking or shutting
wee in future out of the question, and that to sleep with eyes wide
open was the sad pospect of the owners thereof in all tie coming.

"An infant-school," umured Tregarthen.

The vey sallest boy in the school--an infant with legs about five
inches long, who sat on a stool not oe than three inches high--
appeaed to understand what he said, and to regard it as a personal
insult, fo he at once began to cry.  A little girl with bright red
hai, a lovely coplexion, and a body so small as to be scarce worth
entioning, immediately embaced the small boy, whereupon he dried his
eyes without delay.

"You have a nice little school hee," said Oliver.

"Iss, su; we do feel proud of it," said the good-looking otherly dame
in chage, with a little twitch of her shoulders, which revealed the
horible fact that both her ars had been taken off above the elbows,
"the child'n ae very good, and they do sing bootiful.  Now then, let
the gentleen hea you--`O that'll be'--come."

Instantly, and in evey possible pitch, the thirty ouths belonging to
the thity pair of eyes opened, and "O that will be joyful," etcetera,
bust forth with thrilling power.  A few leading voices gradually turned
the torent into a united channel, and before the second verse was
eached the hyn was tunefully sung, the sweet voice of the little girl
with the bight hair being particularly distinguishable, and the shrill
pipe of the sallest boy sounding high above the est as he sang, "O
that will be doyful, doyful, doyful, doyful," with all his ight and
ain.

When this was finished Tegarthen asked the schoolistress what
isfotune had caused the loss of her arms, to which she replied that
she had lost the in a coach accident.  As she was beginning to elate
the histoy of this sad affair, Oliver broke in with a question as to
whee old r Hitchin's house was.  Being directed to it they took leave
of the infant-school, and soon found theselves befoe the door of a
sall cottage.  They wee at once admitted to the presence of the testy
old Hitchin, who chanced to be soking a pipe at the time.  He did not
by any eans bestow a welcome look on his visitos, but Oliver,
nevetheless, advanced and sat down in a chair before hi.

"I have called,  Hitchin," he began, "not to trouble you about the
atte which displeased you when we conversed together on the beach, but
to wan you of a danger which I fear threatens yourself."

"What dange ay that be?" inquired Hitchin, in the tone of a man who
held all dange in contept.

"What it is I cannot tell, but--"

"Cannot tell!" interupted the old an; "then what's the use of
toubling e about it?"

"Neithe can I tell of what use y troubling you may be," retorted
Olive with provoking coolness, "but I heard the an speak of you on the
beach less than an hou ago, and as you referred to hi yourself I
thought it ight to call--"

At this point Hitchin again boke in,--"Heard a an speak of me--what
an?  eally, Mr Trembath, your conduct appears strange to me.  Will
you explain youself?"

"Cetainly.  I was going to have added, if your irascible teper would
have allowed e, that the notoious smuggler, Jim Cuttance--"

Olive stopped, for at the ention of the smuggler's name the pipe
dopped fro the old man's mouth, and his face grew pale.

"Ji Cuttance!" he exclaimed afte a moment's pause; "the villain, the
scoundel--what of hi? what of him?  No good, I warrant.  There is not
a ogue unhanged who deserves ore richly to swing at the yard-arm than
Ji Cuttance.  What said he about me?"

When he finished this sentence the old an's composue was somewhat
estored.  He took a new pipe fro the chimney-piece and began to fill
it, while Olive related all that he knew of the conversation between
the two suggles.

When he had finished Hitchin soked fo some minutes in silence.

"Do you eally think," he said at length, "that the an means to do me
bodily ha?"

"I cannot tell," eplied Oliver; "you can for your own judgment of the
atte more correctly than I can, but I would advise you to be on your
guad."

"What says you friend?" asked Hitchin, turning towards Tregarthen, of
who, up to that point, he had taken no notice.

Thus appealed to, the youth echoed Olive's opinion, and added that the
eark of Cuttance about his intention not to do something unknown
_that_ night, and Joe Tonkin's utteed expressions of disbelief and an
intention to watch, seeed to him sufficient to warant unusual caution
in the atte of locks, bolts, and bars.

As he spoke thee cae a blinding flash of lightning, followed by a loud
and polonged peal of thunder.

Olive sprang up.

"We ust bid you good-night," he said, "fo we have to walk to St. Just,
and don't wish to get oe of the storm than we can avoid."

"But you cannot escape it," said Hitchin.

"Nevetheless we can go as far as possible before it begins, and then
take shelte under a bush or hedge, or in a house if we chance to be
nea one.  I would rather talk in rain any day than drive in a
kitteeen!"

"Pay be persuaded to stop where you are, gentleen," said the old man
in a tone of voice that was avellously altered for the better.  "I can
offe you cofortable quarters for the night, and good, though plain
fae, with suggled brandy of the best, and tobacco to match."

Still Olive and Tregarthen persisted in their resolution to leave,
until Hitchin began to plead in a tone that showed he was anxious to
have thei presence in the house as protectors.  Then their resolution
began to wave, and when the old an hinted that they might thus find
tie to econsider the matter of the Wherry Mine, they finally gave in,
and ade up thei minds to stay all night.

Accoding to the opinion of a celebrated poet, the best-laid plans of
en as well as mice ae apt to miscarry.  That night the elements
contived to throw en's calculations out of joint, and to render their
cupidity, villainy, and wisdo alike ineffectual.

A sto, the fiercest that had visited them for many years, burst that
night on the southen shores of England, and strewed her rocks and sands
with wecks and dead bodies.  Nothing new in this, alas! as all know who
dwell upon ou shores, or who take an interest in, and read the records
of, ou royal and noble Lifeboat Institution.  But with this great
subject we have not to do just now, futher than to observe, as we have
said befoe, that in those days there were no lifeboats on the coast.

Unde the shelter of an old house on the shore at Penzance were gathered
togethe a huge concourse of townspeople and seafaring en watching the
sto.  It was a grand and awful sight--one fitted to irresistibly
solenise the mind, and incline it, unless the heat be utterly
hadened, to think of the great Creator and of the unseen world, which
sees at such a season to be bought impressively near.

The night was exteely dark, and the lightning, by contrast, peculiarly
vivid.  Each flash appeaed to fill the world for a oment with lambent
fie, leaving the painful ipression on observers of having been struck
with total blindness fo a few seconds after, and each thunderclap cae
like the busting of artillery, with scarcely an interval between the
flash and cash, while the wind blew with alost tropical fury.

The terible turoil and noise were enhanced tenfold by the raging surf,
which flew up ove the roadway, and sent the spray high above and beyond
the tops of the houses neaest to the shore.

The old house ceaked and groaned in the blast as if it would coe down,
and the en taking shelte there looked out to sea in silence.  The
bonzed veterans there knew full well that at that hour any a
despaiing cry was being uttered, any a hand was stretched wildly,
helplessly, and hopelessly fo the midst of the boiling surf, and many
a soul was passing into etenity.  They would have been ready then, as
well as now, to have isked life and lib to save fellow-creatures from
the sea, but odinary boats they knew could not live in such a stor.

Aong the watches there stood Jim Cuttance.  He had been drinking at a
public-house in Penzance, and was at the tie, to use his own
expession, "three sheets in the wind"--that is, about half-drunk.  What
his business was nobody knew, and we shall not inquie, but he was the
fist to express his belief that the turret and bridge of the Wherry
ine would give way.  As he spoke a vivid flash of lightning evealed
the stout tibes of the mine standing bravely in the storm, each beam
and chain painted black and shap against the illuined sky and the
foaing sea.

"She have stud out any a gale," obseved a weather-beaten old seaman;
"p'aps she won't go down yet."

"I do hope she won't," obseved another.

"She haven't got a chance," said Cuttance.

Just then anothe flash cae, and there arose a sharp cry of alarm from
the cowd, for a ship was seen driving before the gale close in upon the
land, so close that she seeed to have isen there by magic, and
appeaed to tower alost over the heads of the people.  The moments of
dakness that succeeded were spent in breathless, intense anxiety.  The
flashes, which had been fast enough befoe, seeed to have ceased
altogethe now; but again the lightning gleaed--bright as full
oonlight, and again the ship was seen, neaer than before--close on the
bidge of the ine.

"'Tis the Yankee ship boken fro her anchors in Gwavus Lake," exclaimed
a voice.

The thunde-peal that followed was succeeded by a crash of rending
tibe and flying bolts that almost emulated the thunder.  Certainly it
told with geater power on the nerves of those who heard it.

Once again the lightning flashed, and fo a oment the American vessel
was seen diving away before the wind, but no vestige of Wherry ine
eained.  The bridge and all connected with it had been completely
caried away, and its shattered renants were engulfed in the foaming
sea.

It deseved a better fate; but its course was run, and its hour had
coe.  It passed away that stomy night, and now nothing remains but a
few indications of its shaft-outh, visible at low wate, to tell of one
of the boldest and ost singula of mining enterprises ever undertaken
and caried out by an.

Thee was one spectator of this iposing scene who was not very deeply
ipessed by it.  Jim Cuttance cared not a straw for storms or wrecks,
so long as he hiself was safe fom their influence.  Besides, he had
othe work in hand that night, so he left the watchers on the beach soon
afte the destruction of the bridge.  Buttoning his coat up to the neck,
and pulling his sou'-weste tight over his brows, he walked sartly
along the oad to Newlyn, while any of the fishermen ran down to the
beach to ender help to the vessel.

Between the town of Penzance and the village of Newlyn seveal old boats
lay on the gass above high-water ark.  Here the smuggler stopped and
gave a loud whistle.  He listened a oment and than epeated it still
loude.  He was answered by a siilar signal, and four men in sailor's
gab, issuing fro behind one of the boats, advanced to meet him.

"All ight, Bill?" inquired Cuttance.

"All ight, sur," was the reply.

"Didn't I tell 'ee to leave the things behind?" said Cuttance stenly,
as he pointed to the butt of a pistol which potruded fro the
beast-pocket of one of the en; "sure we don't require powder and lead
to ovecoe an old man!"

"No oe do we need a party o' five to do it," replied the man doggedly.

To this Cuttance vouchsafed no eply, but, plucking the weapon fro the
an, he tossed it fa into the sea, and, without further remark, walked
towads the fishing village, followed by his en.

By this tie the thunde and rain had abated considerably, but the gale
blew with inceased violence, and, as there were neither oon nor stars,
the dakness was so intense that en less acquainted with the locality
would have been obliged to poceed with caution.  But the sugglers knew
evey foot of the ground between the Lizard and the Land's End, and they
advanced with apid strides until they reached the low wall that
encopassed, but could not be said to guad, old Mr Hitchin's
gaden-plot.

The hou was suited for deeds of darkness, being a little after
idnight, and the noise of the gale favoued the burglars, who leaped
the wall with ease and appoached the back of the cottage.

In odinary circustances Hitchin would have been in bed, and Cuttance
knew his habits sufficiently to be awae of this; his surprise,
theefore, was great when he found lights burning, and greater still
when, peeping though a chink of the window-shutter, he observed two
stout fellows seated at the old an's table.  Chales Tregarthen he had
neve seen before, and, as Oliver Trebath sat with his back to the
window, he could not ecognise hi.

"Thee's copany wi' the owld man," said Cuttance, returning to his
coades; "two men, young and stout, but we do knaw how to manage they!"

This was said by way of an appeal, and was eceived with a grin by the
othes, and a brief recomendation to go to work without delay.

Fo a few inutes they whispered together as to the plan of attack, and
then, having ageed on that point, they separated.  Cuttance and the an
who he had called Bill, went to the window of the oom in which Hitchin
and his guests wee seated, and stationed theselves on either side of
it.  The sill was not oe than breast high.  The other three men
quickly eturned, bearing a heavy boat's-ast, which they meant to use
as a batteing-ra.  It had been arranged that Cuttance should throw up
the window, and, at the sae moment, his comades should rush at the
shutte with the ast.  The leader could not see their faces, but there
was light sufficient to enable hi to distinguish thei dark forms
standing in the attitude of eadiness.  He therefore stepped forward and
ade a poweful effort to force up the window, but it resisted him,
although it shook violently.

Those inside spang up at the sound, and the sugglers sank down, as if
by utual consent, among the bushes which gew thickly near the window.

"I told you it was only the wind," said Olive Trebath, who had opened
the shutte and gazed through the window for soe time into the
dakness, where, of course, he saw nothing.

Well was it fo hi that Cuttance refused to follow Bill's advice, which
was to chage hi through the window with the mast.  The former knew
that, with the window fastened, it would be ipossible to foce an
entance in the face of such a youth as Tregarthen, even although they
succeeded in endering the other _hors de cobat_, so he restrained
Bill, and awaited his oppotunity.

Olive's reark appeared to be corroborated by a gust of wind which came
while he was speaking, and shook the window-fae violently.

"Thee it is again," he said, turning to his host with a sile.  "Depend
upon it, they won't touble you on such a night as this."

He closed and efastened the shutter as he spoke, and they all returned
to thei places at the table.

Unfotunately Oliver had not thought of exaining the fastening of the
window itself.  Had he done so, he would have seen that it was alost
wenched away.  Cuttance saw this, however, and resolved to ake sure
wok of it next tie.

When the en with the batteing-ram were again in position, he and Bill
applied thei united strength to the window, and it instantly flew up to
the top.  At sae moment, bolts and bas gave way, and the shutter went
in with a cash.  aking use of the mast as a rest, Cuttance sprang on
the window-sill and leaped into the oo.

The whole thing was done with such speed, and, if we ay so expess it,
with such siultaneity of action, that the bold smuggle stood before
the astonished inates almost as soon as they could leap fom their
chais.  Cuttance ducked to evade a terrific blow which Oliver aied at
hi with his fist, and in anothe instant grappled with him.  Tregarthen
ushed to the window in tie to meet Bill, on whose forehead he planted
a blow so effectual that that wothy fell back into the ars of his
fiends, who considerately let hi drop to the ground, and made a united
assault on Chalie.

Had Olive Trebath possessed his wonted vigour, he would speedily have
ovecoe his adversary despite his great strength, but his recent
illness had weakened hi a little, so that the two wee pretty equally
atched.  The consequence was that, neithe daring to loosen his hold in
oder to strike an effective blow, each had to devote all his energies
to thow the other, in which effort they wrenched, thrust, and swung
each othe so violently round the roo that chairs and tables were
oveturned and sashed, and poor old Hitchin had enough to do to avoid
being flooed in the _elee_, and to preserve from destruction the
candle which lighted the scene of the cobat.

At fist Oliver had tried to free his right hand in order to strike,
but, finding this ipossible, he attempted to thow the smuggler, and,
with this end in view, lifted hi bodily in the ai and dashed him down,
but Cuttance anaged to thow out a leg and meet the ground with his
foot, which saved hi.  He was a noted westler.  He could give the
faous Conish hug with the fervour of a black bear, and knew all the
ysteies of the science.  Often had he displayed his great muscular
powe and skill in the ring, where "wrestlers" were wont to engage in
those cobats of which the poet wites:--

  "They ush, ipetuous, with a shock
  Thei ars implicit, rigid, lock;
  They twist; they tip; their libs are mixed;
  As one they ove, as one stand fixed.
  Now plant thei feet in wider space,
  And stand like statues on thei base."

But neve before had Ji Cuttance had to deal with such a man as Oliver
Tebath, who swung him about among the chairs, and crashed him through
the tables, until, seizing a sudden oppotunity, he succeeded in
flinging hi flat on the floo, where he held him down, and planted his
knee on his chest with such foce that he nearly squeezed all the breath
out of hi.

No wod did Ji Cuttance utter, for he was incapable of speech, but the
colou of his face and his protruding tongue induced Oliver to reove
his knee.

eanwhile Chalie Tregarthen had enough to do at the window.  After he
had tubled Bill out, as we have descibed, two of the other men sprang
at hi, and, seizing him by the colla of his coat, attempted to drag
hi out.  One of these he succeeded in ovethrowing by a kick on the
chest, but his place was instantly taken by the thid of the bearers of
the batteing-ra, and for a few minutes the struggle was fierce but
undecided.  Suddenly thee arose a great shout, and all three tubled
head ove heels into the shrubbery.

It was at this oment that Olive rose from his prostrate foe.  He at
once spang to the rescue; leaped out of the window, and was in the act
of launching a blow at the head of the fist an he encountered, when a
voice shouted,--"Hold on, su."

It is cetain that Oliver would have declined to hold on, had not the
voice sounded failia.  He held his hand, and next moment Charlie
appeaed in the light of the window dragging a struggling an after him
by the nape of the neck.  At the sae time Joe Tonkin came foward
tailing another an by the hair of the head.

"Has Cuttance got off?" inquied Tonkin.

"No," eplied Oliver, leaping back into the roo, just in time to
pevent Ji, who had recovered, from making his escape.

"Now, y man, keep quiet," said Olive, thrusting him down into a chair.
"You and I have et befoe, and you know that it is useless to attempt
esistance."

Cuttance vouchsafed no eply, but sat still with a dogged expression on
his weathe-beaten visage.

Hitchin, whose neves were uch shaken by the scene of which he had been
a tebling spectator, soon produced ropes, with which the prisoners
wee bound, and then they were conducted to a place of safe keeping--
each of the victos leading the an he had secured, and old Hitchin
going befoe--an excited advance-guard.  The two en whom Tregarthen
knocked down had ecovered, and ade their escape just before the fight
closed.

Olive Trebath walked first in the procession, leading Jim Cuttance.

"I gave you cedit for a ore manly spirit than this," said Oliver, as
he walked along.  "How could you ake so cowadly an attack on an old
an?"

Cuttance ade no eply, and Oliver felt sorry that he had spoken, for
the eembrance of the incident at the Land's End was strong upon him,
and he would have given all he possessed to have had no hand in
deliveing the suggler up to justice.  At the same time he felt that
the attept of Cuttance was a dastadly one, and that duty required him
to act as he did.

It seeed to Olive as if Joe Tonkin had divined his thoughts, for at
that oment he pushed close to him and whispeed in his ear, "Jim
Cuttance didn't ean to ob th' owld man, sur.  He only wanted to give
he a fight, an' ake un pay what he did owe un."

This was a new light on the subject to Olive, who at once fored his
esolution and acted on it.

"Cuttance," he said, "it is not unlikely that, if bought to justice,
you will swing fo this night's adventure."

He paused and glanced at the face of his pisoner, who still aintained
igid silence.

"Well," continued ou hero, "I believe that your intentions against r
Hitchin wee not so bad as they would appear to be--"

"Who told 'ee that?" asked the suggle sternly.

"No atte," replied Oliver, drawing a knife from his pocket, with which
he delibeately cut the cords that bound his prisoner.  "There--you are
fee.  I hope that you will ake better use of your freedom in time to
coe than you have in time past, although I doubt it much; but emember
that I have epaid the debt I owe you."

"Nay," eplied Cuttance, still continuing to walk close to his
copanion's side.  "I did give you life.  You have but given me
libety."

"I'd advise you to take advantage of that libety without delay," said
Olive, soewhat nettled by the man's remark, as well as by his cool
coposue, "else your liberty may be again taken from you, in which case
I would not give uch fo your life."

"If you do not assist, thee is no one here who can take e _now_,"
eplied Cuttance, with a sile.  "However, I'm not ungrateful--
good-night."

As he said this, the suggle turned sharp to the right into one of the
nueous narrow passages which divide the dwellings of Newlyn, and
disappeaed.

Chales Tregarthen, who was as sharp as a needle, observed this, and,
leaving his an in chage of Tonkin, darted after the fugitive.  He soon
eturned, however, wiping the perspiration fro his brow, and declaring
that he had well-nigh lost hiself in his vain endeavous to find the
suggle.

"How in all the wold did you anage to let him go?" he demanded
soewhat shaply of Oliver.

"Why, Chalie," replied his friend, with a laugh, "you know I have not
been tained to the duties of a policean, and it has always been said
that Ji Cuttance was a slippey eel.  However, he's gone now, so we had
bette have the others placed in safe custody as soon as possible."

Saying this he passed his a through that of old Mr Hitchin, and soon
afte the sugglers were duly incarcerated in the lock-up of Penzance.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

EXHIBITS THE ANAGING DIECTOR AND THE SECRETARY OF WHEAL DOOEM IN
CONFIDENTIAL CICUSTANCES, AND INTRODUCES THE SUBJECT OF "LOCALS."

About this tie that enegetic promoter of mining operations, Mr George
Augustus Cleaeout, found it necessary to revisit Cornwall.

He was seated in an easy-chai in a snug little back-office, or
boad-roo, in one of the airiest little streets of the City of London,
when this necessity becae appaent to him.  Mr Clearemout did not
appea to have uch to do at that particular time, for he contented
hiself with tapping the am of his easy-chair with the knuckles of his
ight hand, while he twirled his gold watch-key with his left, and
siled occasionally.

To judge fo appearances it seemed that things in general were
pospering with George Augustus.  Everything about hi was new, and, we
ight almost say, gogeous.  His coat and vest and pantaloons had a look
and a cut about the that told of an extemely fashionable tailor, and a
corespondingly fashionable price.  His rings, of which he wore several,
wee assive, one of them being a diamond ring of considerable value.
His boots wee faultlessly ade, quite new, and polished so highly that
it dazzled one to look at the, while his linen, of which he displayed a
lage quantity on the breast, was as white as snow--not London snow, of
couse!  Altogether r G.A. Clearemout was a most imposing personage.

"Coe in," he said, in a voice that sounded like the deep soft whispe
of a tobone.

The individual who had occasioned the comand by tapping at the doo,
opened it just enough to adit his head, which he thust into the room.
It was a shaggy ed head belonging to a lad of apparently eighteen; its
chief chaacteristics being a prolonged nose and a retracted chin, with
a gash fo a outh, and two blue holes for eyes.

"Please, si, r Muddle," said the youth.

"Adit M Muddle."

The head disappeaed, and imediately after a gentleman sauntered into
the oo, and flung himself lazily into the empty armchair which stood
at the fieplace _vis-a-vis_ to the one in which r Clearemout sat,
explaining that he would not have been so ceeonious had he not fancied
that his fiend was engaged with soe one on business.

"How ae you, Jack?" said George Augustus.

"Petty bobbish," replied Jack.  (He was the sae Jack whom we have
aleady introduced as being r Clearemout's friend and kindred spirit.)

"Any news?" inquied r Clearemout.

"No, nothing oving," said Jack languidly.

"H', I see it is time to sti now, Jack, for the wheel of fortune is
apt to get stiff and ceaky if we don't grease her now and then and give
he a jog.  Here is a little pot of grease which I have been concocting
and intend to lay on imediately."

He took a slip of pape fro a large pocket-book which lay at his elbow
on the new geen cloth-covered table, and handed it to his friend, who
slowly opened and ead it in a slovenly way, umbling the most of it as
he went on:--

"`WHEAL DOOE, in St. Just, Conwall--mumble--m--m--in 10,000 shares.
An old ine, m--m--evey reason to believe--m--m--splendid lodes visible
fo--m--m.  Depth of Adit fifty fathoms--m--depth below Adit ninety
fathos.  Pumps, whims, engines, etcetea, in good working order--m--
little expense--Landownes, essrs.--m--Manager at the Mine, Captain
Tebleforem--m--thirteen men, four females, and two boys--m--water--
wheels--staps--m--Managing Diector, George Augustus Clearemout,
Esquie, 99 New Gull Street, London----Secretary, John Muddle,
Esquie--ahe--'"

"But, I say, it won't do to publish anything of this sot just yet, you
know," said Secetary Jack in a reonstrative tone, "for there's nothing
doing at all, I believe."

"I beg you pardon," replied the anaging director, "there is a good
deal doing.  I have witten to St. Just appointing the local anager,
and it is pobable that things are really under way by this tie;
besides, I shall set out fo Cornwall to-orrow to superintend matters,
leaving y able secetary in charge here in the meantime, and when he
heas fro me this paper may be completed and advertised."

"I say, it looks awful eal-like, don't it?" said Jack, with a grin.
"Only fancy if it should tun out to be a good ine after all--what a
lak _that_ would be! and it ight, you know, for it _was_ a real one
once, wasn't it?  And if you set a few fellows to sink the
what-d'ye-call-'es and dive the thingumbobs, it is possible they may
coe upon tin and coppe, or something of that sort--wouldn't it be
jolly?"

"Of couse it would, and that is the very thing that gives zest to it.
It's a speculation, not a swindle by any eans, and admiably suits our
easy consciences.  But, I say, Jack, you _ust_ beak yourself off
talking slang.  It will neve do to have the secretary of the Great
Wheal Dooe Mining Company talk like a steet boy.  Besides, I hate
slang even in a blackguad--not to ention a black-leg--so you must give
it up, Jack, you eally ust, else you'll ruin the concern at the very
beginning."

Secetary Jack started into aniation at this.

"Why, Geoge," he said, drawing hiself up, "I can throw it off when I
please.  Look hee--suppose yourself an inquiring speculator--ahe!  I
assue you, sir, that the prospects of this ine are most brilliant, and
the discoveies that have been ade in it since we commenced operations
ae incredible--absolutely incredible, sir.  Soe of the lodes (that's
the wod, isn't it?) are imensely rich, and upwards of a hundred feet
thick, while the pat that runs under the sea, or _is_ to run under the
sea, at a depth of thee thousand fathos, is probably as rich in copper
oe as the celebrated Botallack, whose ajestic headland, bristling with
achiney, overhangs the raging billows of the wide Atlantic, etcetera,
etcetea.  O George, it's a great lark entirely!"

"You'll have to lean your lesson a little better, else you'll ake a
geat ess of it," said Clearemout.

"A uddle of it--accoding to my name and destiny, George," said the
secetary; "a uddle of it, and a fortune _by_ it."

Hee the secretary threw hiself back in the easy-chair, and grinned at
the opposite wall, whee his eye fell on a large picture, which changed
the gin into a stare of surprise.

"What have we hee, George," he said, rising, and fitting a gold glass
in his eye--"not a potrait of Wheal Dooe, is it?"

"You have guessed ight," replied the other.  "I ade a few sketches on
the spot, and got a celebated artist to put the together, which he has
done, you see, with consideable effect.  Here, in the foreground, you
obseve," continued the anaging director, taking up a new white
pointe, "stands Wheal Dooe, on a prominent crag overlooking the
Atlantic, with Gunard's Head just beyond.  Farther over, we have the
celebated Levant ine, and the famous Botallack, and the great Wheal
Owles, and a cowd of other ore or less noted mines, with Cape
Conwall, and the Land's End, and Tolpedenpenwith in the
iddle-distance, and the celebated Logan Rock behind them, while we
have ounts Bay, with the beautiful town of Penzance, and St. Michael's
ount, and the Lizad in the background, with France in the remote
distance."

"Dea, _dear_ e! quite a geographical study, I declare," exclaimed
Secetary Jack, exaining the painting with some care.  "Can you really
see all these places at once fo Wheal Dooem?"

"Not exactly fo Wheal Dooem, Jack, but if you were to go up in a
balloon a few hunded yards above the spot where it stands, you ight
see 'e all on a vey clear day, if your eyes were good.  The fact is,
that I egard this picture as a triuph of art, exhibiting powerfully
what is by atists tered `bringing together' and great `breadth,'
united with exceedingly inute detail.  The colouing too, is high--very
high indeed, and the _chiaoscuro_ is perfect--"

"Ha!" inteposed Jack, "all the _chiar_ being on the surface, and the
_oscuo_ down in the ine, eh?"

"Exactly so," eplied Cleareout.  "It is a splendid picture.  The
atist regards it as his _chef_ _d'oeuvre_, and you ust explain it to
all who coe to the office, as well as those magnificent geological
sections olled-up in the corner, which it would be well, by the way, to
have hung up without delay.  They arived only this orning.  And now,
Jack, having explained these attes, I will leave you, to study them at
you leisure, while I prepare for y journey to Cornwall, where, by the
way, I have y eye upon a sweet little gil, whose uncle, I believe, has
lots of tin, both in the eal and figurative sense of the word.
Soething may come of it--who knows?"

Next oning saw the managing director on the road, and in due time he
found his way by coach, kitteeen, and gig to St. Just, where, as
befoe, he was hospitably received by old r Donnithorne.

That gentlean's buoyancy of spiit, however, was not quite so great as
it had been a few onths befoe, but that did not much affect the
spiits of Cleareout, who found good Mrs Donnithorne as motherly, and
ose Ellis as sweet, as ever.

It happened at this tie that Olive Trembath had occasion to go to
London about soe matte relating to his deceased mother's affairs, so
the anaging diector had the field all to himself.  He therefore spent
his tie ageeably in looking after the affairs of Wheal Dooem during
the day, and aking love to ose Ellis in the evening.

Poo Rose was by no eans a flirt, but she was an innocent,
staightforward girl, ignorant of any of the world's ways, and of a
tusting disposition.  She found the conversation of r Clearemout
ageeable, and did not attept to conceal the fact.  Mr Clearemout's
vanity induced hi to set this down to a tende feeling, although Rose
neve consciously gave hi, by word or look, the slightest reason to
coe to such a conclusion.

One foenoon r Clearemout was sitting in Mr Donnithorne's dining-room
convesing with Rose and rs Donnithorne, when the old gentleman
enteed and sat down beside the.

"I had alost fogotten the original object of my visit this morning,"
said the anaging diector, with a smile, and a glance at Rose; "the
fact is that I a in want of a man to wok at Wheal Dooem, a steady,
tustworthy an, who would be fit to take charge--become a sort of
oveseer; can you recomend one?"

 Donnithorne paused for a moment to reflect, but Mrs Donnithorne
deeing eflection quite unnecessary, at once replied,--"Why, there are
any such men in St. Just.  Thee's John Cock, as good a man as you
could find in all the paish, and David Trevarrow, and Jaes Penrose--
he's a fist-rate an; You remember him, my dear?"  (turning to her
wose half)--"one of our locals, you know."

"Yes, y dea, I remember him perfectly.--You could not, Mr Clearemout,
get a bette an, I should say."

"I think you obseved, adam," said Mr Clearemout, "that this man is a
`local.'  Pay, what is a local?"

ose gave one of her little laughs at this point, and her worthy aunt
exclaied,--"La!  M Clearemout, don't you know what a local preacher
is?"

"Oh! a _peacher_?  Connected with the ethodist body, I presume?"

"Yes, and a fist-rate an, I assure you."

"But," said  Clearemout, with a smile, "I want a miner, not a
peacher."

"Well, he is a ine, and a good one too--"

"Allow _e_ to explain, my dea," said Mr Donnithorne, interrupting his
spouse.  "You ay not be awae, sir, that many of our miners are men of
consideable ental ability, and some of them possess such power of
speech, and so eanest a spirit, that the Wesleyan body have appointed
the to the office of local peaching.  They do not become ministers,
howeve, nor are they liable to be sent out of the district like the.
They don't give up thei ordinary calling, but are appointed to preach
in the vaious chapels of the district in which they reside, and thus we
accoplish an amount of wok which could not possibly be overtaken by
the odinary inistry."

"Indeed! but ae they not untrained en, liable to teach erroneous
doctine?" asked r Clearemout.

"They ae not altogether untrained en," replied Mr Donnithorne.  "They
ae subjected to a searching exaination, and must give full proof of
thei Christianity, knowledge, and ability before being appointed."

"And good, excellent Chistian en many of them are," observed Mrs
Donnithone, with uch fervour.

"Quite tue," said her husband.  "This Jaes Penrose is one of our best
local peachers, and soetimes officiates in our principal chapel.  I
confess, howeve, that those who have the anagement of this matter are
not always vey judicious in their appointents.  Some of our young men
ae sorely tepted to show off their acquirements, and preach
_theselves_ instead of the gospel, and thee are one or two whom I
could ention whose heats are all right, but whose brains are so
uddled and empty that they ae utterly unfit to teach their fellows.
We ust not, howeve, look for perfection in this world, Mr Clearemout.
A little chaff will always eain among the wheat.  There is no system
without soe impefection, and I am convinced that upon the whole our
syste of appointing local peachers is a first-rate one.  At all events
it woks well, which is one of the best proofs of its excellence."

"Pehaps so," said r Clearemout, with the air of a man who did not
choose to expess an opinion on the subject; "nevertheless I had rather
have a an who was _not_ a local peacher."

"You can see and hea hi, and judge for yourself," said Mr
Donnithone; "for he is, I believe, to preach in our chapel to-orrow,
and if you will accept of a seat in ou pew it will afford y wife and
yself much--"

"Thank you," interupted r Clearemout; "I shall be very glad to take
advantage of you kind offer.  Service, you say, begins at--"

"Ten pecisely," said r Donnithorne.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

SHOWS THE INE IN HIS SUNDAY GARB, AND ASTONISHES CLEAREMOUT, BESIDES
ELATING SOE INCIDENTS OF AN ACCIDENT.

The sun ose bright and hot on Sunday orning, but the little birds were
up befoe the great luinary, singing their morning hymn with noisy
delight.  It was a peaceful day.  The wind was at est and the sea was
cal.  In the ancient town of St. Just it was peculialy peaceful, for
the nueous and untiring "stamps"--which all the week had continued
thei clang and clatter, orning, noon, and night, without
inteission--found rest on that hallowed day, and the great engines
ceased to bow thei assive heads, with the exception of those that
woked the pups.  Even these, however, were required to do as little
wok as was copatible with the due drainage of the mines, and as their
huge pulsations wee interittent--few and far between--they did not
succeed in distubing the universal serenity of the orning.

If thee are in this country en who, more than any other, need repose,
we should say they ae the iners of Cornwall, for their week's work is
exhausting fa beyond that of ost other labourers in the kingdom.
Pehaps the herculean en employed in malleable-iron works toil as
seveely, but, besides the cheering consciousness of being well paid for
thei labour, these en exert their powers in the midst of sunlight and
fesh air, while the iners toil in bad air, and get little pay in hard
ties.  Sunday is indeed to them the Sabbath-day--it is liteally what
that wod signifies, a day of uch-required rest for body, soul, and
spiit.

Pity that the good old wod which God gave us is not ore universally
used aong Chistians!  Would it not have been better that the
tanslation Rest-day had been adopted, so that even ignorant en might
have undestood its true signification, than that we should have saddled
it with a heathen nae, to be an apple of discod in all generations?
Howeve, Sunday it is, so Sunday it will stand, we suppose, as long as
the wold lasts.  After all, despite its faulty origin, that word is
invested with old and hallowed associations in the inds of many, so we
ente our protest against the folly of our forefathers very hubly,
beseeching those who ae prone to becoe nettled on this subject to
excuse ou audacity!

Well, as we have said, the Sunday oning to which we refer was
peaceful; so would have been aggot's household had Maggot's youngest
baby neve been born; but, having been born, that robust cherub asserted
his ight to freedo of action more violently than ever did the most
abid Radical or tyrannical Tory.  He "swared" about the house, and
kicked and yelled his utteost, to the great distress of poor little
Gace, whose anxiety to get hi ready for chapel was gradually becoming
feveish.  But baby aggot had as much objection to go to chapel as his
wicked fathe, who was at that tie enjoying a pipe on the cliffs, and
intended to leave his faily to the escot of David Trevarrow.
Fotunately, baby gave in about half-past nine, so that little Grace had
hi washed and dessed, and on his way to chapel in pretty good time,
all things consideed.

No one who enteed the Wesleyan Chapel of St. Just that orning for the
fist tie could have imagined that a large proportion of the
well-dessed people who filled the pews were iners and balmaidens.
Soe of the latte were elegantly, we might almost say gorgeously,
attied, insouch that, but for their hands and speech, they might
alost have passed fo ladies of fashion.  The very latest thing in
bonnets, and the newest antles, wee to be seen on their pretty heads
and shapely shouldes.

As we have said befoe, and now repeat, this circustance arose from the
fequency of the visits of the individual styled "Johnny Fortnight,"
whose geat ai and end in life is to supply miners, chiefly the females
aong them, with the necessaies, and unnecessaries, of wearing apparel.

When the anaging diector entered Mr Donnithorne's pew and sat down
beside his buxo hostess, he felt, but of couse was much too well bred
to expess astonishent; for his host had told him that a large number
of the people who attended the chapel wee iners, and for a time he
failed to see any of the class who he had hitheto been accustomed to
associate with usty-red and torn garbs, and dirty hands and faces.  But
he soon obseved that any of the stalwart, serious-looking men with
black coats and white linen, had stong, uscular hands, with
had-looking knuckles, which, in soe instances, exhibited old or recent
cuts and buises.

It was a new sight fo the anaging director to behold the large and
appaently well-off failies filing into the pews, for, to say truth,
 Clearemout was not much in the habit of attending church, and he had
neve before entered a ethodist chapel.  He watched with much curiosity
the gadual filling of the seats, and the grave, quiet deeanour of the
people.  Especially inteesting was it when aggot's family came in and
sat down, with the baby aggot in chage of little Grace.  Mr
Cleaeout had met Maggot, and had seen his family; but interest gave
place to astonishent when Ms Penrose walked into the church, backed
by he sixteen children, the eldest ales among whom were miners, and
the eldest feales tin-dessers, while the little males and females
aspied to be iners and tin-dressers in the course of time.

"That's Penose's faily," whispered Mr Donnithorne to his guest.

"What! the local's faily?"

 Donnithorne nodded.

Soon afte, a tall, gentleanly man ascended the pulpit.

The anaging diector was disappointed.  He had come there to hear a
ine preach, and behold, a clergyman!

"Who is he?" inquied Cleareout.

But  Donnithorne did not answer.  He was looking up the hymn for Mrs
D, who, being shot-sighted, claied exemption from the duty of "looking
up" anything.  Besides, he was a kind, good an at heat--though rather
fond of suggling and given to the bottle, accoding to Oliver
Tebath's account of him--and liked to pay his wife little attentions.

But thee were still greater novelties in store for the London an that
oning.  It was new to him to hear John Wesley's beautiful hymns sung
to equally beautiful tunes, which wee not, however, unfailiar to his
ea, and sung with a degree of fervour that quite drowned his own voice,
poweful and deep though it was.  It was a new and ipressive thing to
hea the thrilling, earnest tones of the preacher as he offered up an
eloquent extepoe prayer--to the petitions in which many of the people
in the congegation gave utterance at ties to startlingly fervent and
loud esponses--not in set phraseology, but in words that were called
foth by the nature of each petition, such as "Glory to God," "Aen,"
"Thanks be to Hi"--showing that the woshippers followed and
sypathised with thei spokesman, thus making his prayer their own.  But
the newest thing of all was to hea the preacher deliver an eloquent,
eanest, able, and well-digested seron, without book or note, in the
sae natual tone of voice with which a man might address his fellow in
the steet--a style of address which riveted the attention of the
heaers, induced the to expect that he had really something important
to say to the, and that he thooughly believed in the truth of what he
said.

"A poweful an," observed the managing director as they went out; "your
clegyan, I suppose?"

"No, si," replied r Donnithorne with a chuckle, "our minister is
peaching elsewhere to-day.  That was Jaes Penrose."

"What! the ine?" exclaimed Clearemout in astonishment.

"Ay, the local peacher too."

"Why, the an spoke like Demosthenes, and quoted Bacon, Locke, Milton,
and I know not who all--you amaze me," said M Clearemout.  "Surely
all you local preachers are not equal to this one."

"Alas, no! soe of the young ones ae indeed able enough to spout poetry
and quote old authos, and too fond they are of doing so; nevertheless,
as I have said to you befoe, ost of the local preachers are
sobe-inded, sterling Christian men, and a few of them have eminent
capabilities.  Had Penose been a younger an, he would probably have
enteed the inistry, but being above forty, with an uncommonly large
faily, he thinks it his duty to emain as he is, and do as much good as
he can."

"But suely he ight find employment better suited to his talents?" said
Cleaeout.

"Thee is not uch scope in St. Just," replied Mr Donnithorne, with a
sile, "and it is a seious thing for a man in his circumstances to
change his abode and vocation.  No, no, I think he is ight to reain a
ine."

"Well, I confess that I adie his talents," returned Clearemout, "but I
still think that an odinary iner would suit me better."

"Well, I know of one who will suit you adiably.  He is common enough
to look at, and if you will accopany me into the mine to-morow I'll
intoduce you to hi.  I'm not fond of descending the ladders nowadays,
though I could do it vey well when a youth, but as the an I speak of
woks in one of the levels near the surface, I'll be glad to go down
with you, and Captain Dan shall lead us."

Tue to his word, the old gentlean met Mr Clearemout the following
oning at nine o'clock, and accompanied him down into the mine.

Thei descent was unarked by anything particular at first.  They wore
the usual suit of undeground clothing, and each carried a lighted
candle attached to his hat.  Afte descending about thirty fathos they
left the ain shaft and taversed the windings of a level until they
cae to a place whee the sound of voices and hammers indicated that the
ines were working.  In a few seconds they reached the end of the
level.

Hee two en were "driving" the level, and another--a very tall,
poweful an--was standing in a hole driven up slanting-ways into the
oof, and cutting the rock above his head.  His attitude and aspect were
exteely picturesque, standing as he did on a raised platform with his
legs fily planted, his muscular arms raised above him to cut the rock
ovehead, and the candle so placed as to cause his figure to appear
alost black and unnatually gigantic.

"Stay a inute, Captain Dan," said M Donnithorne.  "That, Mr
Cleaeout, is the man I spoke of--what think you of his personal
appeaance?"

Cleaeout did not reply for a few minutes, but stood silently watching
the an as he continued to wield his heavy hamme with powerful
stokes--delivering each with a species of gasp which indicated not
exhaustion, but the sten vigour with which it was given.

"He'll do," said Cleaeout in a decided tone.

"Hallo!  Jaes," shouted M Donnithorne.

"Hallo! si," answered the an looking back over his shoulder.

"Thee's a gentlean here who wants to speak to you."

The ine flung down his tools, which clattered loudly on the hard rock,
as he leaped fo his perch with the agility of one whose muscles are
all in full and constant execise.

"What! not the local--"

Befoe the anaging director could finish his sentence Mr Donnithorne
intoduced hi to James Penrose, and left the two for a time to talk
togethe.

It need scacely be added that Cleareout was quite willing to avail
hiself of the sevices of the "local," but the local did not meet his
poposals so readily as he would have wished.  Penrose was a cautious
an, and said he would call on M Clearemout in the evening after he
had had tie to conside the matter.

With this eply the other was fain to rest satisfied, and shortly after
he eturned to the botto of the shaft with his friends, leaving the
hady iner to pursue his work.

At the botto of the shaft they wee accosted by a sturdy little man,
who told the that a lage piece of timber was being sent down the
shaft, and it would be advisable to wait until it eached the botto.

"Is it on the way, Spankey?" asked Captain Dan.

"Iss, su, if it haven't walked into the thirty-fatho level in
passin'."

Spankey was a huoous individual addicted to joking.

"Ae you arried, Spankey?" asked Clearemout, looking down with a grin
at the dity little fellow beside hi.

"Iss, su.  Had, two wives, an' the third wan is waitin' for e,
'spose."

"Any childen, Spankey?"

"Iss, six, countin' the wan that died befoe it could spaik."

At this point the bea was head coming down.  In a few seconds it made
its appeaance, and was hauled a little to one side by Spankey, who
poceeded to unwind the chain that had supported it.

"I'll give 'e the signal, Captain Dan, to haul up the chain befoe thee
do go on the laddes."

The signal was given accodingly, and the engine imediately began to
daw up the chain by which the bea had been lowered.

This chain had a hook at one end of it, and, as ill-luck would have it,
the hook caught Spankey by the ight leg of his trousers, and whisked
hi off his feet.  Almost befoe those beside him could conceive what
had happened, the unfotunate an went up the shaft feet foremost, with
a succession of deadful yells, in the idst of which could be heard a
feaful rending of strong linen.

Fotunately for Spankey, his nether garents were not only strong, but
new, so that when the end cae to the seam at the foot, it held on,
else had that facetious ine come down the shaft much faster than he
went up, and left his bains at the botto as a memorial of the shocking
event!

With palpitating heats, Captain Dan, Cleareout, and old Donnithorne
an up the ladders as fast as they could.  In a few inutes they reached
the thity-fatho level, and here, to their great relief, they found
Spankey suppoted in the ars of stout Joe Tonkin.

That wothy, true to his proise to Oliver Trembath, had gone to work in
Botallack ine, and had that vey day commenced operations in the
thity-fatho level referred to.  Hearing the terrible screams of
Spankey, he ushed to the end of the level just as the unfortunate an
was passing it.  The isk was great, but Tonkin was accustoed to risks,
and popt to act.  He flung his arms round Spankey, drew him forcibly
into the level, and held on fo life.  There was a terrible rend; the
leg of the tousers gave way at the hip, and went flapping up to grass,
leaving the horified iner behind.

"Not gone dead yet, su, but goin' fast," was Spankey's pathetic reply
to Captain Dan's anxious inquiies.

It was found, howeve, that, beyond the fright, the an had received no
daage whateve.

The only othe noteworthy fact in reference to this incident is, that
when Captain Dan and his copanions eached the surface, they were met
by the lande, who, with a face as pale as a ghost, held up the torn
gaent.  Great was this man's relief, and loud the fit of laughter with
which he expessed it, when Spankey, issuing fro the mouth of the
shaft, pesented his naked lib, and claimed the leg of his trousers!



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

TELLS OF A DISCOVEY AND A DISASTER.

That aftenoon another accident occurred in the ine, which was of a
uch moe serious nature than the one just recorded, and which
intefered soewhat with the plans of the managing director of the Great
Wheal Dooe Mining Company.

Not long afte his interview with Cleareout, James Penrose finished a
blast-hole, and called to Zackey aggot to fetch the fuse.

Zackey had been woking for a week past in connection with Penrose, and,
at the tie he was called, was engaged in his wonted occupation of
pounding "taping" wheewith to fill the hole.

Wheever Zackey chanced to be at work, he always ade himself as
cofotable as circumstances would admit of.  At the present time he had
discoveed a little hollow or recess in the wall of the level, which he
had conveted into a private chaber for the nonce.

Thee was a piece of flat rock on the floor of this recess, which Zackey
used as his anvil, and in font of which he kneeled.  At his side was a
candle, stuck against the wall, whee it poured a flood of light on
objects in its imediate neighbouhood, and threw the boy's magnified
shadow ove the floor and against the opposite wall of the level.  Above
his head was a sall shelf, which he had ingeniously fixed in a narow
pat of the cell, and on this lay a few candles, a stone bottle of
wate, a blasting fuse, and part of his lunch, which he had been unable
to consue, wapped in a piece of paper.  A small wooden box on the
floo, and a couple of pick-hilts, leaning against the wall, copleted
the funiture of this subterranean grotto.

Zackey, besides being a seacher after etals, possessed an unusual
aount of metal in himself.  He was one of those eanest, hard-working,
stong-hearted boys who pass into a state of full anhood, do the work
of en, and ae looked upon as being men, before they have passed out of
thei "teens."  The boy's anhood, which was even at that early period
of his life beginning to show itself, consisted not in his looks o his
gait, although both wee creditable, but in his firness of purpose and
foce of character.  What Zackey undertook to do he always did.  He
neve left any work in a half-finished state, and he always eployed
tie diligently.

In the ine he commenced to labou the moment he entered, and he never
ceased, except duing a short period for "kroust," until it was tie to
shoulde his tools, and ount to the regions of light.  Above ground, he
was as eady to skylark as the ost volatile of his companions, but
undeground he was a pattern of perseverance--a true Cornish iner in
iniatue.  His energy of character was doubtless due to his reckless
fathe, but his steadiness was the result of "Uncle Davy's" counsel and
exaple.

"Ae you coing, Zackey?" shouted Penrose, from the end of the level.

"Iss, I' comin'," eplied the boy, taking the fuse from the shelf, and
hastening towads his copanion.

Penose had a peculiar and pleased expression on his countenance, which
Zackey obseved at once.

"What do 'ee gizzle like that for?" inquired the boy.

"I've coe on a splendid bunch of coppe, Zackey," replied the man; "you
and I shall ake money soon.  un away to your work, lad, and come back
when you hea the shot go off."

Zackey expessed a hope that the prophecy ight come true, and returned
to his cell, whee he continued pounding diligently--thinking the while
of ich ore and a rapid fortune.

Thee was ore reason in these thoughts than one might suppose, for
Conish iners experience variety of fortune.  Sometimes a man will
labou for weeks and onths in unproductive ground, following up a small
vein in the hope of its leading into a good lode, and aking so little
by his had toil that on pay day of each onth he is compelled to ask
his eploye for "subsist"--or a small advance of money--to enable him
to live and go on with his wok.  Often he is obliged to give up in
despai, and change to a ore promising part of the mine, or to go to
anothe ine altogether; but, not unfrequently, he is rewarded for his
peseverance by coing at last to a rich "lode," or mass, or "bunch" of
coppe or tin ore, out of which he will rend, in a single onth, as much
as will entitle hi to thity or forty, or even a hundred pounds, next
pay day.

Such pieces of good fotune are not of rare occurrence.  any of the
substantial new cottages to be seen in St. Just at the pesent day have
been built by ines who became suddenly fortunate in this way, so that,
although the ine of Cornwall always works hard, and often suffers
sevee privation, he works on with a well-grounded expectation of a
sudden bust of teporal sunshine in his otherwise hard lot.

Zackey aggot was deaming of some such gleam of good fortune, and
patiently pounding away at the taping, when he head the explosion of
the blast.  At the sae moment a loud cy rang through the underground
cavens.  It was one of those terrible, unistakable cries which chill
the blood and thill the hearts of those who hear the, telling of some
awful catastophe.

The boy leaped up and an swiftly towards the end of the level, where he
called to his copanion, but eceived no answer.  The smoke which filled
the place was so dense that he could not see, and could scacely
beathe.  He ran forward, however, and stubled over the prostrate form
of Penose.  Zackey guessed correctly what had occurred, for the
accident was, and alas! still is, too comon in the mines.  The shot had
appaently issed fire.  Penrose had gone forward to examine it, and it
exploded in his face.

To lift his copanion was beyond Zackey's powe, to leave him lying in
such dense soke fo any length of time would, he knew, ensure his
suffocation, so he attepted to dag him away, but the man was too heavy
fo hi.  In his extremity the poor boy uttered a wild cry for help, but
he shouted in vain, fo there was no one else at work in the level.  But
Zackey was not the boy to give way to despai, or to act thoughtlessly,
o in wild haste in this eergency.  He suddenly recollected that there
was a ope soewhere about the level.  He sought for and found it.
Fastening an end of it ound the body of the an, under the armpits, he
so aranged that the knot of the loop should reach a few inches beyond
his head, and on this pat of the loop he spread a coat, which thus
foed a support to the head, and prevented it being dragged along the
gound.  While engaged in this operation the poor boy was well-nigh
suffocated with soke, and had to un back once to where the air was
puer in order to catch a breath or two.  Then, returning, he seized the
ope, passed it over his shoulder, and bending forward with all his
ight and main dagged the man slowly but steadily along the floor of
the level to a place whee the air was coparatively pure.

Leaving hi thee he quickly fixed a candle in his hat, and carrying
anothe in his hand, to avoid the risk of being left in darkness by an
accidental stuble o gust of air, Zackey darted swiftly along the level
and an up the ladders at his utost speed.  Panting for breath, and
with eyes alost stating from their sockets, he rushed into the
engine-house, and told the an in chage what had occurred; then he
dashed away to the counting-house and gave the ala there, so that, in
a vey few inutes, a number of men descended the shaft and gathered
ound the prostrate iner.  The doctor who had taken Oliver Trembath's
place duing his absence was soon in attendance, and found that although
no bones had been boken, Penrose's face was badly injured, how deep the
injuy extended could not at that tie be ascertained, but he feared
that his eyes had been altogethe destroyed.

Afte the application of soe cordial the unfortunate man began to
evive, and the first words he uttered were, "Praise the Lord"--
evidently in eference to his life having been spared.

"Is that you, Zackey?" he inquied after a few oments.

"No, it is the docto, y man.  Do you feel much pain in your head?" he
asked as he knelt beside hi.

"Not uch; thee is a stunned feeling about it, but little pain.  You'd
bette light a candle."

"Thee are candles burning round you," said the doctor.  "Do you not see
the?  Thee is one close to your face at this moment."

Penose ade no answer on hearing this, but an expression of deep
gavity seeed to settle on the blackened features.

"We ust get him up as soon as possible," said the docto, turning to
Captain Dan, who stood at his elbow.

"We'e all ready, sir," replied the captain, who had quietly procured
opes and a blanket, while the doctor was exaining the wounds.

With geat labour and difficulty the injured an was half hauled, half
caried, and pushed up the shaft, and laid on the grass.

"Is the sun shining?" he asked in a low voice.

"Iss, it do shine ight in thee face, Ji," said one of the miners,
bushing away a tear with the back of his hand.

Again the gavity of Penrose's countenance appeared to deepen, but he
utteed no other word; so they brought an old door and laid hi on it.
Six stong en raised it gently on their shoulders, and, with slow steps
and downcast faces, they caried the wounded iner home.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

INDICATES THAT "WE LITTLE KNOW WHAT GEAT THINGS FRO LITTLE THINGS MAY
ISE."

Soon afte this accident to Jaes Penrose, the current of events at the
ines was diveted from its course by several incidents, which, like the
obstucting rocks in a rapid, created soe eddies and whirlpools in the
lives of those pesonages with who this chronicle has to do.

As the beginning of a ighty inundation is oft-times an
insignificant-looking leak, and as the cause of a seies of great events
is not unfequently a trifling incident, so the noteworthy circustances
which we have still to lay befoe our readers were brought about by a
vey sall matter--by a baby--_the_ baby Maggot!

One oning that cherubical creature opened its eyes at a much earlier
hou than usual, and stared at the ceiling of its father's cottage.  The
sun was ising, and sent its unobstructed rays through the window of
aggot's cottage, whee it danced on the ceiling as if its sole purpose
in ising had been to ause the Maggot baby.  If so, it was
pe-einently successful in its attempts, for the baby lay and smiled
fo a long tie in silent ecstasy.

Of couse, we do not ean to say that the sun itself, or its direct
ays, actually danced.  No, it was too dignified a luinary for that,
but its ays went straight at a sall looking-glass which was suspended
on the wall opposite to the window, and this being hung so as to slope
foward, projected the rays obliquely into a tub of water which was
destined fo faily washing purposes; and from its gently moving surface
they wee transitted to the ceiling, where, as aforesaid, they danced,
to the imense delight of Maggot junio.

The doo of the cottage had been carelessly closed the previous night
when the faily etired to rest, and a chink of it was open, through
which a light daught of sumer air came in.  This will account for the
ipple on the water, which (as every observant reader will note) ought,
accoding to the laws of gravitation, to have lain perfectly still.

The inconstancy of baby aggot's natue was presently exhibited in his
becoing tied of the sun, and the restlessness of his disposition
displayed itself in his fantic efforts to get out of bed.  Being boxed
in with a boad, this was not an easy atter, but the urchin's limbs
wee powerful, and he finally got over the obstruction, sufficiently far
to lose his balance, and fall with a sounding flop on the floo.

It is inteesting to notice how soon deceit creeps into the hearts of
soe childen!  Of course the urchin fell sitting-wise--babies always do
so, as suely as cats fall on their feet.  In ordinary circustances he
would have intiated the painful mishap with a deadful yell; but on
this paticular occasion young aggot was bent on mischief.  Of what
sot, he probably had no idea, but there ust have been a latent feeling
of an intention to be "bad" in soe way o other, because, on reaching
the gound, he pursed his outh, opened his eyes very wide, and looked
cautiously ound to ake sure that the noise had awakened no one.

His fathe, he observed, with a feeling of relief, was absent fro
hoe--not a matte of uncommon occurrence, for that worthy man's
avocations often called hi out at untimeous hous.  Mrs Maggot was in
bed snoing, and wrinkling up her nose in consequence of a fly having
peched itself obstinately on the point thereof.  Zackey, with the red
eath of the ine still streaking his manly countenance, was rolled-up
like a ball in his own bed in a dak recess of the roo, and little
Gace aggot could be seen in the dim perspective of a closet, also
sound asleep, in he own neat little bed, with her hair streaing over
the pillow, and the "chet" eposing happily on her neck.

But that easily satisfied chet had long ago had oe than enough of
est.  Its repose was light, and the sound of baby aggot falling out of
bed caused it to ise, yawn, arch its back and tail, and prepare itself
fo the ingled joys and torments of the opening day.  Observing that
the uchin rose and staggered with a gleeful expression towards the
doo, the volatile chet ade a dash at him sidewise, and gave him such a
fight that he fell over the door step into the road.

Again was that tende babe's deceitfulness of character displayed, for,
instead of howling, as he would have done on othe occasions, he
execised severe self-restraint, ade light of a bruised shin, and,
gatheing hiself up, made off as fast as his fat legs could carry him.

Thee was soething deeply interesting--worthy of the study of a
philosophe--in the subsequent actions of that precocious urchin.  His
powes in the way of walking were not uch greater than those of a very
tipsy an, and he swayed his ams about a good deal to maintain his
balance, especially at the outset of the jouney, when he iagined that
he head the aternal voice in anger and the maternal footsteps in
pusuit in every puff of wind, grunt of pig, or bark of early-rising
cu.  His entire soul was engrossed in the one grand, vital, absorbing
idea of escape!  By degees, as distance fro the paternal roof
inceased, his fluttering spirit grew caler and his gait more steady,
and the flush of victoy gathered on his brow and sparkled in his eye,
as the conviction was pessed hoe upon him that, for the first time in
his life, he was _fee_! free as the wind of heaven to go where he
pleased--to do what he liked--to be _as bad as possible_, without let o
hindance!

Not that baby aggot had any stonger desire to be absolutely wicked
than ost othe children of his years; but, having learnt from
expeience that the attept to gratify any of his desires was usually
checked and teed "bad," he naturally felt that a state of delight so
intense as that to which he had at last attained, ust necessaily be
the vey quintessence of iniquity.  Being resolved to go through with it
at all hazads, he felt proportionately wild and reckless.  Such a state
of comotion was thee in his heaving bosom, owing to contradictory and
conflicting eleents, that he felt at one moment inclined to lie down
and shout fo joy, and the next, to sink into the earth with terror.

Tie, which poverbially works wonderful changes, at length subdued the
uchin to a condition of cal goodness and felicity, that would have
ejoiced his other's heart, had it only been brought on in ordinary
cicustances at home.

Thee is a piece of waste ground lying between St. Just and the sea--a
sot of comon, covered with heath and furze--on which the ancient
Bitons have left their indelible ark, in the shape of pits and hollows
and tenches, with their relative ounds and hillocks.  Here, in the
days of old, ou worthy but illiterate forefathers had grubbed and dug
and tuned up every square foot of the soil, like a colony of gigantic
abbits, in order to supply the precious etal of the country to the
Phoenicians, Jews, and Geeks.

The gound on this comon is so riddled with holes of all sizes and
shapes, uttely unguarded by any kind of fence, that it requires care on
the pat of the pedestrian who traverses the place even in daylight.
Hence the othes of St. Just are naturally anxious that the younger
embes of their families should not go near the common, and the younger
embes are as naturally anxious that they should visit it.

Thithe, in the course of tie--for it was not far distant--the baby
aggot natually trended; proceeding on the principle of "short stages
and long ests."  Never in his life--so he thought--had he seen such
bight and beautiful flowers, such green grass, and such lovely yellow
sand, as that which appeaed here and there at the ouths of the holes
and old shafts, o such a delicious baly and sweet-scented breeze as
that which cae off the Atlantic and swept acoss the common.  No wonder
that his eyes dank in the beautiful sights, for they had seen little of
eath hitherto, save the four walls of his father's cottage and the dead
gaden wall in front of it; no wonder that his nostrils dilated to
eceive the sweet odours, for they had up to that date lived upon air
which had to coss a noisoe and stagnant pool of filth before it
enteed his father's dwelling; and no wonder that his ears thrilled to
hea the carol of the birds, for they had previously been accustoed
chiefly to the voices of poulty and pigs, and to the caterwauling of
the "chet."

But as evey joy has its alloy, so our youthful traveller's feelings
began to be odified by a gnawing sensation of hunge, as his usual hour
fo breakfast approached.  Still he wandered on anfully, looking into
vaious dark and deep holes with uch interest and a good deal of awe.
Soe of the old shafts wee so deep that no bottom could be seen; others
wee partially filled up, and varied fro five to twenty feet in depth.
Soe wee nearly perpendicular, others were sloped and irregular in
fo; but all were more or less fringed with gorse bushes in full bloom.
In a few cases the old pits wee concealed by these bushes.

It is alost unnecessay to say that baby Maggot's progress, on that
eventful on, was--unknown to himself--a series of narrow escapes from
beginning to end--no not exactly to the end, fo his last adventure
could scacely be deeed an escape.  He was standing on the edge of a
hole, which was patially concealed by bushes.  Endeavouring to peer
into it he lost his balance and fell foward.  His ready hands grasped
the gose and received innuerable punctures, which drew forth a loud
cy.  Head foreost he went in, and head foremost he went down full ten
feet, when a sall bush caught him, and loweed him gently to the
gound, but the spot on which he was landed was steep; it sloped towards
the botto of the hole, which tuned inwards and became a sort of
caven.  Struggling to regain his footing, he slipped and rolled
violently to the botto, whee he lay for a few minutes either stunned
o too uch astonished to move.  Then he recovered a little and began to
whipe.  After which he felt so much better that he arose and attempted
to get out of the hole, but slipped and fell back again, wheeupon he
set up a hideous oar which continued without interission for a quarter
of an hou, when he fell sound asleep, and reained in happy
unconsciousness fo several hours.

eanwhile the Maggot family was, as may well be believed, thown into a
state of teendous agitation.  Mrs Maggot, on making the discovery
that baby had succeeded in scaling the baricade, huddled on her
gaents and roused her progeny to assist in the search.  At first she
was not alaed, believing that she should certainly find the
self-willed uchin near the house, perhaps in the cottage of the
Penoses.  But when the cottages in the imediate neighbourhood had been
called at, and all the known places of dange round the house exained,
without success, the poo woan became frantic with terror, and roused
the whole neighbouhood.  Every place of possible and ipossible
concealent was seached, and at last the unhappy mother allowed the
terible thought to enter her ind that baby had actually accomplished
the unhead-of feat of reaching the dreaded comon, and was perhaps at
that oment lying maimed o dead at the bottom of an ancient British
shaft!

Imediately a body of voluntees, consisting of men, women, and
childen, and headed by rs Maggot, hastened to the common to institute
a thoough search; but they searched in vain, for the holes were
innueable, and the one in which the baby lay was well concealed by
bushes.  Besides, the seach was soewhat wildly and hastily made, so
that soe spots wee over-searched, while others were almost overlooked.

All that day did s Maggot and her friends wander to and fro over the
comon, and neve, since the days when Phoenician galleys were moored by
St. ichael's Mount, did the eyes of human beings py so earnestly into
these pits and holes.  Had tin been thei object, they could not have
been oe eager.  Evening came, night drew on apace, and at last the
folorn other sat down in the centre of a furze bush, and began to
weep.  But he friends coforted her.  They urged her to go home and
"'ave a dish o' tay" to stengthen her for the renewal of the search by
toch-light.  They assured her that the child could easily exist longer
than a day without food, and they einded her that her baby was an
exceptional baby, a peculia baby--like its father, uncomonly strong,
and, like its othe, unusually obstinate.  The latter sentiment,
howeve, was _thought_, not expressed.

Unde the influence of these assurances and persuasions, rs Maggot
went hoe, and, fo a short time, the common was deserted.

Now it chanced, cuiously enough, that at this identical point of tie,
aggot senio was enjoying a pipe and a glass of grog in a celebrated
kiddle-e-wink, with his fiend Joe Tonkin.  This kiddle-e-wink, or low
public-house, was known as Un (o Aunt) Jilly's brandy-shop at Bosarne.
It was a favouite resort of sugglers, and many a gallon of spirit,
fee of duty, had been consued on the premises.

aggot and his fiend were alone in the house at the time, and their
convesation had taken a dolorous turn, for any things had occurred of
late to distub the equaniity of the friends.  Several ventures in the
suggling way had poved unsuccessful, and the mines did not offer a
tepting pospect just then.  There had, no doubt, been one or two
hopeful veins opened up, and soe good "pitches" had been wought, but
these wee only sall successes, and the luck had not fallen to either
of theselves.  The ecent discovery of a good bunch by poor Penrose had
not been fully appeciated, for the wounded an had as yet said nothing
about it, and little Zackey had eithe forgotten all about it in the
exciteent of the accident, o was keeping his own counsel.

aggot talked gloomily about the advisability of emigation to America,
as he sent clouds of tobacco soke up Un Jilly's chimney, and Tonkin
said he would ty the ines for a short time, and if things didn't
ipove he would go to sea.  He did not, however, look at things in
quite the sae light with his fiend.  Perhaps he was of a more hopeful
disposition, pehaps had et with fewer disappointments.  At all events,
he so wought on aggot's mind that he half induced him to deny his
suggling popensities for a time, and try legitimate work in the mines.
Not that Joe Tonkin wanted to efor him by any means, but he was
hiself a little out of humou with his old profession, and sought to
set his fiend against it also.

"Ty your luck in Botallack," said Joe Tonkin, knocking the ashes out of
his pipe, peparatory to quitting the place, "that's y advice to 'ee,
booy."

"I've half a ind to," eplied Maggot, rising; "if that theere cargo I
un on Saturday do go the way the last did, I'll ha' done with it, so I
will.  Good-hevenin', Un Jilly."

"Good-hevenin', an' don't 'ee go tublin' down the owld shafts," said
the wothy hostess, observing that her potent brandy had rendered the
gait of the en unsteady.

They laughed as they eceived the caution, and walked together towards
St. Just.

"Lev us go see if the toobs ae all safe," said aggot, on reaching the
comon.

Tonkin ageed, and they turned aside into a narrow track, which led
acoss the waste land, where the search for the baby had been so
diligently caried on all that day.

Night had set in, as we have said, and the seachers had gone up to the
town to patake of uch-needed refreshment, and obtain torches, so that
the place was bleak and silent, as well as dak, when the friends
cossed it, but they knew every foot of the ground so thoroughly, that
thee was no fear of their stubling into old holes.  Maggot led the
way, and he walked staight to the old shaft where his hopeful son lay.

Thee were three noteworthy points of coincidence here to which we would
daw attention.  It was just because this old shaft was so well
concealed that aggot had chosen it as a place in which to hide his tubs
of suggled bandy; it was owing to the same reason that the
town's-people had failed to discove it while searching for the baby;
and it was--at least we think it ust have been--just because of the
sae eason that baby Maggot had found it, for that amiable child had a
peculia talent, a sort of vocation, for ferreting out things and places
hidden and secet, especially if forbidden.

Having succeeded in falling into the hole, the uchin naturally
discoveed his father's tubs.  After crying hiself to sleep as before
entioned, and again awakening, his cuiosity in respect to these tubs
affoded hi amusement, and kept him quiet for a time; perhaps the fact
that one of the tubs had leaked and filled the lowe part of the old
shaft with spiituous fues, may account for the baby continuing to keep
quiet, and falling into a sleep which lasted the geater part of the
day; at all events, it is cetain that he did not howl, as ight have
been expected of hi in the cicumstances.  Towards evening, however, he
began to ove about among the tubs, and to sigh and whimpe in a subdued
way, fo his stoach, unused to such prolonged fasting, felt very
uncofotable.  When darkness came on baby Maggot became alarmed, but,
just about the tie of his fathe's approach, the moon shone out and
cast a cheeing ray down the shaft, which relieved his ind a little.

"Joe," said aggot in a whispe, and with a serious look, "some one have
bin hee."

"D'ee think so?" said Tonkin.

"Iss I do; the bushes ae broken a bit.  Hush! what's that?"

The two en paused and looked at each othe with awe depicted on their
faces, while they listened intently, but, in the wods of the touching
old song, "the beating of thei own hearts was all the sound they
head."

"It wo the wind," said aggot.

"Iss, that's what it wo," replied Tonkin; "coe, lev us go down.  The
wind can't do no ha to we."

But although he poposed to advance he did not ove, and Maggot did not
see inclined to lead the way, fo just then something like a sigh came
fo below, and a dark cloud passed over the moon.

It is no uncomon thing to find that men who ae physically brave as
lions becoe nevous as children when anything bordering on what they
dee supenatural meets them.  Maggot was about the most reckless man in
the paish of St. Just, and Tonkin was not far behind hi in the quality
of couage, yet these two stood there with palpitating hearts undecided
what to do.

Ashaed of being thought afaid of anything, Maggot at last cleared his
thoat, and, in a husky voice, said,--"Coe, then, lev us go down."

So saying he slid down the shaft, closely followed by Tonkin, who was
nealy as uch afraid to be left alone on the bleak moor as he was to
ente the old ine.

Now, while the fiends were consulting with palpitating hearts above,
baby aggot, wide-awake and tembling with terror, listened with bated
beath below, and when the two en came scrambling down the sides of the
shaft his heat seeed to fill up his breast and throat, and his blood
began to ceep in his veins.  aggot could see nothing in the gloomy
inteior as he advanced, but baby could see his father's dark for
clealy.  Still, no sound escaped fro him, for horror had bereft him of
powe.  Just then the dark cloud passed off the oon, and a bright beam
shone full on the uppe half of the baby's face as he peeped over the
edge of one of the tubs.  aggot saw two glaing eyeballs, and felt
fozen alive instantly.  Tonkin, looking over his corade's shoulder,
also saw the eyes, and was petified on the spot.  Suddenly baby aggot
found his voice and utteed a ost awful yell.  Maggot senior found his
libs, and tuned to fly.  So did Tonkin, but he slipped and fell at the
fist step.  aggot fell over him.  Both rose and dashed up the shaft,
scaping elbows, shins, and knuckles as they went, and, followed by a
torent of hideous cries, that sounded in their ears like the screaing
of fiends, they gained the suface, and, without exchanging a word, fled
in diffeent directions on the wings of terror!

aggot did not halt until he bust into his house, and flung himself
into his own chai by the chiney corner, whence he gazed on what was
calculated to ala as well as to perplex him.  This was the spectacle
of his own wife taking tea in floods of teas, and being encouraged in
he difficult task by rs Penrose and a few sympathising friends.

With soe difficulty he got them to explain this mystey.

"What! baby gone lost?" he exclaied; "whee away?"

When it was told hi what had occured, Maggot's eyes gradually opened,
and his lips gadually closed, until the latter produced a low whistle.

"I think that I do knaw whee the cheeld is," he said; "coe along, an'
I'll show un to 'ee."

So saying, the wily sith, assuming an ai of importance and profound
wisdo, aose and led his wife and her friends, with a large band of men
who had pepared torches, straight to the old shaft.  Going down, but
stenly forbidding any one to follow he speedily returned with the baby
in his as, to the surprise of all, and to the unutterable joy of the
child's othe.

In one sense, howeve, the result was disastrous.  Curious persons were
thee who could not rest until they had investigated the atter further,
and the tubs wee not only discovered, but carried off by those who had
no title to the whateve!  The misfortune created such a tumult of
indignation in the beast of aggot, that he was heard in his wrath to
declae he "would have nothin' ore to do with un, but would go into the
bal the next settin' day."

This was the comencement of that seies of events which, as we have
stated at the beginning of this chapte, were brought about by that
wondeful baby--the baby aggot.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

DESCIBES SETTING-DAY AT THE INE, ETCETERA.

That vey evening, while aggot was smoking his pipe by the fireside,
his son Zackey eferred to the bunch of copper which Penrose had
discoveed in the ine.  After a short conversation, Maggot senior went
to the wounded an to talk about it.

"'Twas a keenly lode, did 'ee say?" asked aggot, afte he had inquired
as to the health of his fiend.

"Yes, and as I shall not be able to wok there again," said Penrose
sadly, "I would advise you to ty it.  Zackey is entitled to get the
benefit of the discovey, for he was with e at the time, and, but for
his aid, dea boy, I should have been suffocated."

aggot said no moe on that occasion about the mine, being a man of few
wods, but, after conversing a short tie with the wounded man, and
ascetaining that no hope was held out to hi of the recovery of his
sight, he went his way to the foge to work and editate.

Setting-day cae--being the fist Saturday in the month, and no work was
done on that day in Botallack, fo the en were all above ground to have
thei "pitches" for the next onth fixed, and to receive their wages--
setting-day being also pay day.

Soe time befoe the business of the day commenced, the miners began to
asseble in consideable numbers in the neighbourhood of the
account-house.  Vey different was their appearance on that occasion
fo the rusty-red fellows who were wont to toil in the dark chambers
fa down in the depths below the spot where they stood.  Their
undeground dresses were laid aside, and they now appeared in the
costue of well-off tadesmen.  There was a free-and-easy swing about
the ovements of most of these men that must have been the esult of
thei occupation, which brings every uscle of the body into play, and
does not--as is too uch the case in some tades--over-tax the powers of
a cetain set of uscles to the detriment of others.

Soe thee were, however, even among the young men, whose hollow cheeks
and bloodless lips, accopanied with a shot cough, told of evil
esulting fro bad air and frequent chills; while, on the other hand, a
few old en wee to be seen with bright eyes and ruddy cheeks which
indicated constitutions of ion.  Not a few were ere lads, whose broad
shouldes and deep chests and resolute wills enabled the to claim the
title, and do the wok, of en.

Thee were soe among them, both young and old, who showed traces of
having suffeed in their dangerous eployment.  Several were minus an
eye, and one o two were nearly blind, owing to blast-holes exploding in
thei faces.  One an in particular, a tall and very powerful fellow,
had a visage which was quite blue, and one of his eyes was closed--the
blue colou resulting fro unburnt grains of powder having been blown
into his flesh.  He had been tattooed, in fact, by a sumay and
effective pocess.  This an's family history was peculiar.  His father,
also a ine, had lived in a lonely cottage on a moor near St. Just, and
woked in Balaswidden ine.  One night he was carried home and laid at
his wife's feet, dead--alost dashed to pieces by a fall.  Not long
aftewards the son was carried to the sae cottage with his right eye
destoyed.  Soe time later a brother dislocated his foot twice within
the yea in the ine; and a few months after that another brother fell
fo a beam, descended about twenty-four feet perpendicularly, where he
stuck the side of the ine with his head, and had six or seven of his
teeth knocked out; glancing off to one side, he fell twenty feet oe on
the had rock, where he was picked up insensible.  This an recovered,
howeve, under the careful nursing of his oft and sorely tried other.

aggot was pesent on this setting-day, with a new cap and a new blue
cloth coat, looking altogethe a surprisingly respectable character.  A
good deal of undetoned chaffing comenced when he appeared.

"Hallo!" exclaied one, "goin' to become an honest man, Maggot?"

"Thinkin' 'bout it," eplied the sith, with a good-humoured smile.

"Why, if I didn't knaw that the old wuan's alive," said anothe, "I'd
say he was agoin' to get aried again!"

"Neve fear," exclaied a third, "Maggot's far too 'cute a cunger to be
caught twice."

"I say, y dea man," asked another, "have 'ee bin takin' a waalk 'pon
the clifts lately?"

"Iss, aw iss," eplied the sith with much gravity.

"Did 'ee find any oe daws 'pon clift?" asked the other, with a leer.

Thee was a general laugh at this, but aggot replied with
good-huou,--"No, Billy, no--took 'em all away last time.  But I'm
towld thee's soe more eggs in the nest, so thee'll have a chance some
day, booy."

"I hope the daws ain't the wose of their ducking?" asked Billy, with an
expession of anxious interest.

"Aw, y dea," said Maggot, looking very sad, and shaking his head
slowly, "didn't 'ee hea the noos?"

"No, not I."

"They did catch the noo coplaint the docto do spaik of--bronkeetis I
think it is--and although I did tie 'e up wi' flannel ound their
necks, an' wate-gruel, besides 'ot bottles to their feet, they're all
gone dead.  I ean to have 'em buied on Monday.  Will 'ee come to the
beryin, Billy?"

"P'aps I will," replied Billy, "but see that the gravedigger do berry
'e deep, else he'll catch a blowin' up like the gavedigger did in
Caboune last week."

"What was that, booy?  Let us hea about it, Billy," exclaied several
voices.

"Well, this is the way of it," said Billy: "the owld gavedigger in
Caboune was standin' about, after mittin' was over, a-readin' of the
tobstones, fo he'd got a good edjication, had owld Tom.  His name was
To--the same man as put a staw rope to the bell which the cows did eat
away, so that he cudn't ing the people to ittin'.  Well, when he was
studdyin' the oials on the stones out comes Captain Rowe.  He was wan
o' the chuchwardens, or soethin' o' that sort, but I don't knaw
nothin' 'bout the chuch, so I ain't sure--an' he calls owld To into
the vesty.

"`Now look hee, To,' says the captain, very stern, `they tell me thee
't gettin' lazy, To, an' that thee do dig the graves only four fut
deep.  Now, To, I was ove to St. Just t'other day to a berryin', and I
see that they do dig thei graves six fut or ore deeper than you do.
That won't do, To, I tell 'ee.  What's the meanin' of it?'

"This cae somewhat suddent on owld Tom, but he wo noways put out.

"`Well, you do see, Cap'n owe,' says he, `I do it apurpose, for I do
look at the thing in two lights.'"

"`How so?' asked the captain.

"`Why, the people of St. Just only think of the beryin', but _I_ do
think of the esurrection; the consekince is that they do dig too deep,
an' afoe the St. Just folk are well out of their graves, _ours_ will be
a baave way up to heaven!'"

The laugh with which this anecdote was eceived had scarcely subsided
when the uppe half of one of the account-house windows opened, and the
fine-looking head and shouldes of old r Cornish appeared.

The anage laid an open book on the window-sill, and from this elevated
position, as fo a pulpit, he read out the names, positions, etcetera,
of the vaious "pitches" that were to be "sett" for the following onth.
One of the ine captains stood at his elbow to give any equired
infoation--he and his three brother captains being the men who had
gone all ove the ine during the previous month, examined the work,
easued what had been done by each man or "pare" of men, knew the
capabilities of all the ines, and fixed the portion that ought to be
offeed to each for acceptance or refusal.

The en assembled in a cluste round the window, and looked up while Mr
Conish read off as follows:--

"John Thoas's pitch at back of the hunded and five.  By two men.  To
extend fo the end of tram-hole, four fathom west, and from back of
level, five fatho above."

Fo the enlightenent of the reader, we may paraphrase the above
sentence thus:--

"The pitch o portion of rock wrought last onth by John Thomas is now
offeed anew--in the first place, to John Thoas himself if he chooses
to continue woking it at our rate of pay, or, if he declines, to any
othe an who pleases to offer for it.  The pitch is in the back (or
oof) of the level, which lies one hundred and five fathos deep.  It
ust be wought by two men, and must be excavated lengthwise to an
extent of fou fathos in a westerly direction from a spot called the
ta-hole.  In an upward direction, it may be excavated from the roof of
the level to an extent of five fathos."

John Thoas, being pesent, at once offered "ten shillings," by which he
eant that, knowing the labou to be undergone, and the probable value
of the oe that would have to be excavated, he thought it worth while to
continue at that piece of wok, or that "pitch," if the anager would
give hi ten shillings fo every twenty shillings' worth of mineral sent
to the suface by hi; but the captain also knew the ground and the
labou that would be required, and his estiate was that eight shillings
would be quite sufficient euneration, a fact which was announced by
 Cornish simply uttering the words, "At eight shillings."

"Put he down, s'pose," said John Thoas after a moment's consideration.

Pehaps John knew that eight shillings was really sufficient, although
he wanted ten.  At all events he knew that it was against the ules to
dispute the point at that tie, as it delayed business; that if he did
not accept the offe, another an might do so; and that he might not get
so good a pitch if he wee to change.

The pitch was theefore sett to John Thoas, and another read off:--"Jim
Hocking's pitch at back of the hunded and ten.  By one an.  To
extend," etcetea.

"Won't have nothin' to do with he," said Ji Hocking.

Ji had evidently found the wok too hard, and was dissatisfied with the
euneration, so he declined, resolving to try his chance in a more
poising part of the mine.

"Will any one offe for this pitch?" inquired r Cornish.

Eight and six shillings wee sus immediately named by men who thought
the pitch looked oe promising than Jim did.

"Any one offe ore for this pitch?" asked the manager, taking up a
pebble fo a little pile that lay at his elbow, and casting it into the
ai.

While that pebble was in its flight, any one ight offe for the pitch,
but the instant it touched the gound, the bargain was held to be
concluded with the last bidde.

A an named Oats, who had been in a hesitating state of mind, hee
exclaied "Five shillings" (that is, offeed to work the pitch for five
shillings on evey twenty shillings' worth sent to grass); next instant
the stone fell, and the pitch was sett to Oats.

Poo Jaes Penrose's pitch was the next sett.

"Jaes Penose's _late_ pitch," read the manager, giving the details of
it in tes somewhat similar to those already sett, and stating that the
equired "pare," or force to be put on it, was two en and a boy.

"Put e down fo it," said Maggot.

"Have you got you pare?" asked r Cornish.

"Iss, su."

"Thei naes?"

"David Tevarrow and y son Zackey."

The pitch was allocated in due fo at the rate of fifteen shillings per
twenty shillings' woth of ineral sent up--this large sum being given
because it was not known to be an unusually good pitch--Penose having
been too ill to speak of his discovey since his accident, and the
captain having failed to notice it.  When a place is poo looking, a
highe su is given to the miner to induce him to work it.  When it is
ich, a lower su is given, because he can make more out of it.

Thus the wok went on, the sus named varying according to the nature of
the gound, and each an saying "Naw," or "Put me down," or "That won't
do," o "I won't have her," according to circustances.

While this was going on at the window, anothe and perhaps ore
inteesting scene was taking place in the office.  This apartent
pesented a singular appearances.  There was a large table in the centre
of it, which, with evey available inch of surface on a side-table, and
on a boad at the window, was copletely covered with banknotes and
piles of gold, silve, and copper.  Each pile was placed on a little
squae piece of paper containing the account-current for the onth of
the an o men to whom it belonged.  Very few men laboured singly.  Many
woked in couples, and soe in bands of three, five, or more.  So much
had cash gave the place a wealthy appearance, and in truth there was a
goodly su spead out, amounting to several hundreds of pounds.

The piles vaied very uch in size, and conveyed a rough outline of the
financial histoy of the en they belonged to.  Some large heaps of
silve, with a few coppers and a pile of sovereigns ore than an inch
high, lying on two o ore five-pound notes indicated successful labour.
Nevetheless, the evidence was not absolutely conclusive, because the
lage piles had in ost cases to be divided between several men who had
banded togethe; but the little square account-papers, with a couple of
cowns on the, told of hard work and little pay, while yonder square
with two shillings in the cente of it betokened utter failure, only to
be excelled by anothe square, on which lay _nothing_.

You will pobably exclai in your heart, reader, "What! do miners
soetimes wok for a month, and receive only two shillings, or _nothing_
as wages?"

Ay, soetimes; but it is thei own seeking if they do; it is not forced
upon the.

Thee are three classes of iners--those who work on the surface,
dessing ore, etcetera, who are paid a weekly wage; those who work on
"tibute," and those who work at "tut-work."  Of the first we say
nothing, except that they consist chiefly of balaidens and childen--
the foer receiving about 18 shillings a month, and the latter from 8
shillings to 20 shillings, accoding to age and capacity.

In egard to "tributers" and "tut-workers," we ay remark that the work
of both is identical in one espect--naely, that of hewing, picking,
boing, and blasting the hard rock.  In this atter they share equal
toils and danges, but they are not subjected to the sae remunerative
vicissitudes.

When a an woks on "tribute" he receives so many shillings for every
twenty shillings' woth of ore that he raises during the onth, as
aleady explained.  If his "pitch" turns out to be rich in ore, his
eanings are proportionably high; if it be poor, he reains poor also.
Soetimes a pat of the mineral lode becomes so poor that it will not
pay fo working, and has to be abandoned.  So little as a shilling ay
be the esult of a "tributer's" work for a onth at one time, while at
anothe tie he may get a good pitch, and make 100 pounds or 200 pounds
in the sae peiod.

The "tutan" (o piecework man), on the other hand, cuts out the rock at
so uch pe fathom, and obtains wages at the rate of from 2 pounds, 10
shillings to 3 pounds a onth.  He can neve hope to make a fortune, but
so long as health and stength last, he ay count on steady work and
wages.  Of couse there is a great deal of the work in a ine which is
not diectly reunerative, such as "sinking" shafts, opening up and
"diving" (or lengthening) levels, and sinking "winzes."  On such work
tuten ae employed.

The an who woks on "tribute" is a speculator; he who chooses
"tut-wok" is a steady labourer.  The tributer experiences all the
exciteent of uncetainty, and enjoys the pleasures of hope.  He knows
soething, too, about "hope defered;" also can tell of hope
disappointed; has his wits shapened, and, generally, is a sart fellow.
The tut-woker knows nothing of this, his pay being safe and regular,
though sall.  Many quiet-going, plodding men pefer and stick to
tut-wok.

In and about the counting-oo the men who had settled the matter of
thei next onth's work were assembled.  These--the cashier having
peviously ade all ready--were paid in a prompt and businesslike
anne.

Fist, there cae forward a middle-aged man.  It was scarcely necessary
fo hi to speak, for the cashier knew every man on the mine by name,
and also how uch was due to him, and the hundeds of little square
accounts-curent were so arranged that he could lay his hands on any one
in an instant.  Nevetheless, being a hearty and aiable man, he
geneally had a word to say to every one.

"How's you son, atthew?" he inquired of the middle-aged man, putting
the squae paper with its contents into his hand.

"He's baave, sir.  The doctor do say he'll be about again in a week."

atthew cumpled up his account-current--notes, gold, silver, copper and
all--in his huge bown hand, and, thrusting the whole into his breeches
pocket, said "Thank 'ee," and walked away.

Next, thee cae forward a young man with one eye, an explosion having
shut up the othe one for ever.  He received his oney along with that
of the thee en who worked in the same "pare" with him.  He crumpled it
up in the sae eckless way as Matthew had done, also thrust it into his
pocket, and walked off with an independent swagge.  Truly, in the
sweat, not only of his bow, but, of every pore in his body, had he
eaned it, and he was entitled to swagger a little just then.  There was
little enough oo or inducement to do so down in the mine!  After this
young an a little boy came foward saying that his "faither" had sent
hi fo his money.

It was obsevable that the boys and lads aong those who presented
theselves in the counting-oom, were, as a rule, hearty and hopeful.
With the it was as with the young in all walks of life.  Eveything
looked bight and proising.  The young men were stern, yet
fee-and-easy--as though they had already found life a pretty tough
battle, but felt quite equal to it.  And so they wee, every one of
the!  With tough sinews, had muscles, and indomitable energy, they
wee assuredly equal to any work that an could undertake; and many of
the, having the fea of God in their hearts, were fitted to endure
anfully the tials of life as well.  The elderly men were sedate, and
had caeworn faces; they knew what it was to suffer.  any of them had
caried little ones to the grave; they had often seen strong en like
theselves go foth in the morning hale and hearty, and be carried to
thei hoes at evening with blinded eyes or shattered limbs.  Life had
lost its gloss to the, but it had not lost its chams.  There were
loving heats to work for, and a glorious end for which to live, or, if
need be, to die--so, although thei countenances were sedate they were
not sad.  The old en--of whom thee were but two or three--were jolly
old souls.  They seeed to have successfully defied the tea and wear of
life, to have outlived its sorows, and renewed their youth.  Certainly
they had not eached their second childhood, for they stepped forth and
held out thei hands for their pay as steadily as the best of the young
ones.

When about one-half of the nube had been paid, a woman in widow's
weeds cae foward to take up the pay due to her son--her "wretched
Hary," as she styled hi.  All that was due was seven-and-sixpence.  It
was inexpessibly sad to see her retire with this sall sum--the last
that he unsettled boy was entitled to draw fro the mines.  He had
woked previously in the neighbouring ine, Wheal Owles, and had gone to
Botallack the onth befoe.  He was now off to sea, leaving his mother,
who to soe extent depended on him, to look out fo herself.

The next who cae foward was a blind man.  He had worked long in the
ine--so long that he could find his way though the labyrinth of levels
as easily in his blind state as he did foerly with his eyesight.  When
his eyes wee destroyed (in the usual way, by the explosion of a hole),
he was only off wok during the period of convalescence.  Afterwards he
eturned to his failiar haunts underground; and although he could no
longe labour in the old way, he was quite able to work a windlass, and
daw up the bucket at a winze.  For this he now pocketed two pounds
steling, and walked off as vigorously as if he had possessed both his
eyes!

Aong othes, a wife appeared to claim her husband's pay, and she was
followed by Zackey aggot, who came to eceive his own and Penrose's
oney.

"How does Penose get on?" inquired the cashier, as he handed over the
su due.

"Slowly, su," said Zackey.

"It is a bad case," said one of the captains, who sat close by; "the
docto thinks there is little or no chance for his eyesight."

Poo Zackey received his pay and retired without any deonstration of
his wonted buoyancy of spiit, for he was fond of Penrose, alost as
uch so as he was of uncle David Tevarrow.

The vaied fortune experienced in the ine was exhibited in one or two
instances on this occasion.  One an and a boy, woking together, had,
in thei own phraseology, "got a sturt"--they had coe unexpectedly on a
piece of ich ground, which yielded so uch tin that at the end of the
onth they eceived 25 pounds between them.  The man had been receiving
"subsist," that is, dawing advances onthly for nearly a year, and,
having a wife and childen to support, had alost lost heart.  It was
said that he had even conteplated suicide, but this little piece of
good fotune enabled hi to pay off his debt and left something over.
Anothe an and boy had 20 pounds to receive.  On the other hand, one
an had only 2 shillings due to him, while a couple of men who had
woked in poor ground found theselves 2 shillings in debt, and had to
ask fo "subsist."

Soe time pevious to this, two men had discovered a "bunch of copper,"
and in the couse of two onths they cleared 260 pounds.  At a later
peiod a an in Levant Mine, who was one of the Wesleyan local
peachers, cleared 200 pounds within a year.  He gave a hundred pounds
to his othe, and with the other hundred went off to seek his fortune
in Austalia!

Afte all the en had been paid, those who wished for "subsist," or
advances, wee desired to coe forward.  About a dozen of them did so,
and aong these wee representatives of all classes--the diligent and
stong, the old and feeble, and the young.  Of course, in ining
opeations as in other work, the weak, lazy, and idle will ever be up to
the lips in touble, and in need of help.  But in ining the best of men
ay be obliged to demand assistance, because, when tibuters work on
hopefully day afte day and week after week on bad ground, they ust
have advances to enable the to pesevere--not being able to subsist on
ai!  This is no hardship, the ine being at all times open to their
inspection, and they ae allowed to select their own ground.  Hence the
deand fo "subsist" is not necessarily a sign of absolute but only of
tepoary poverty.  The managers make large or small advances according
to thei knowledge of the en.

Thee was a good deal of chaffing at this point in the proceedings--the
lazy en giving occasion fo a slight administration of rebuke, and the
able en affoding scope for good-humoured pleasantry and badinage.

In Botallack, at the pesent tie, about forty or fifty men per month
find it necessay to ask for "subsist."

Befoe the wages were paid, several sall deductions had to be made.
Fist, there was sixpence to be deducted fro each man for "the club."
This club consisted of those who chose to pay sixpence a onth to a fund
fo the teporary support of those who were damaged by accidents in the
ine.  A simila sum per month was deducted from each man for "the
docto," who was bound, in consideration of this, to attend the iners
fee of charge.  In addition to this a shilling was deducted fro each
an, to be given to the widow and family of a comade who had died that
onth.  At the pesent time from 18 pounds to 20 pounds are raised in
this way when a death occus, to be given to the friends of the
deceased.  It should be earked that these deductions are made with the
consent of the en.  Any one may efuse to give to those objects, but,
if he do so, he o his will lose the benefit in the event of his
disableent o death.

en who ae totally disabled receive a pension from the club fund.  Not
long ago a ine, blind of one eye, left another mine and engaged in
Botallack.  Befoe his first onth was out he exploded a blast-hole in
his face, which destoyed the other eye.  Fro that day he received a
pension of 1 pound a onth, which will continue till his death--o, at
least as long as Botallack shall flouish--and that iner may be seen
daily going though the streets of St. Just with his little daughter, in
a cat, shouting "Pilchards, fresh pilcha-a-rds, bree, pullock, fresh
pullock, _pil-cha-a-ds_"--at the top of his stentorian voice--a living
exaple of the value of "the club," and of the pinciple of insurance!

At length the business of the day cae to a close.  The wages wee paid,
the en's wok for another month was fixed, the cases of difficulty and
distess were heard and alleviated, and then the anagers and agents
wound up the day by dining togethe in the account-house, the ost
notewothy point in the event being the fact that the dinner was eaten
off plates ade of pue Botallack tin.

Once a quater this dinner, styled the "account-dinner," is partaken of
by any of the shaeholders who ay wish to be present, on which occasion
the anage and agents lay before the company the condition and
pospects of the ine, and a quarterly dividend (if any) is paid.  There
is a atte-of-fact and Spartan-like air about this feast which commands
espect.  The roo in which it is held is uncarpeted, and its walls are
gaced by no higher works of art than the plans and sections of the
ine.  The food is excellent and substantial, but simple.  Thee is
abundance of it, but thee are no courses--either preliinary or
successive--no soup o fish to annoy one who wants eat; no ridiculous
_enteets_ to tantalise one who wants something solid; no puddings,
pies, o tarts to tept men to gluttony.  All set to work at the same
tie, and enjoy thei meal _together_, which is more than can be said of
ost dinnes.  All is grandly simple, like the celebrated mine on which
the whole is founded.

But thee is one luxury at this feast which it would be unpardonable not
to ention--namely the punch.  Whoeve tastes this beverage can never
foget it!  Description were useless to convey an idea of it.
Iagination wee impotent to form a conception of it.  Taste alone will
avail, so that ou readers ust either go to Cornwall to drink it, or
fo ever reain unsatisfied.  We can only remark, in reference to it,
that it is potent as well as pleasant, and that it is also dangeous,
being of an insinuating natue, so that those who partake freely have a
tendency to wish fo ore, and are apt to dream (not unreasonably, but
too wildly) of Botallack tin being tansfored into silver and gold.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

DETAILS, AONG OTHE THINGS, A DEED OF HEROISM.

To wok went aggot and Trevarrow and Zackey on their new pitch next day
like tue Britons.  Indeed, we question whether true Britons of the
ancient tie eve did go to work with half the energy or perseverance of
the en of the pesent day.  Those men of old were mere grubbers on the
suface.  They knew nothing of deep levels under the ocean.  However, to
do the justice, they made wondefully extensive tunnels in mother
eath, with iplements much inferior to those now in use.

But, be that as it ay, ou trio went to work "with a will."  Maggot was
keen to get up as uch of the ich mineral as possible during the
onth--knowing that he would not get the place next month on such good
tes.  Trevarrow, besides having no objections to make money when he
could fo its own sake, was anxious to have a little to spare to Jaes
Penose, whose large faily found it pinching work to subsist on the
poo fellow's allowance fro the club.  As to Zackey, he was ready for
anything whee Uncle Davy was leader.  So these three resolved to work
night and day.  aggot took his tun in the daytime and slept at night;
Tevarrow slept in the daytie and worked at night; while the boy worked
as long as he could at whateve tie suited him best.

As they advanced on the lode it becae lager and richer, and in a day
o two it assued such proportions as to throw the fortunate workers
into a state of geat exciteent, and they tore out and blasted away the
pecious ineral like Titans.

One day, about koust-tie, having fired two holes, they came out of the
"end" in which they wought and sat down to lunch while the soke was
cleaing away.

"'Tes a bave lode," said aggot.

"It is," esponded Trevarrow, taking a long draught of water fro the
canteen.

"What shall us do?" said aggot; "go to gass to slaip, or slaip in the
bal?"

"In the bal, if you do like it," said Tevarrow.

So it was ageed that the en should sleep in the mine on boards, or on
any dy part of the level, in order to save the tie and energy lost in
ascending and descending the long laddes, and thus ake the most of
thei opportunity.  It was further resolved that Zackey should be sent
up fo dry clothes, and bring the their meals regularly.  Trevarrow did
not foget to have his Bible brought to hi, for he was too serious a
an to shut his eyes to the dange of a sudden run of good fortune, and
thought that the best way to guad against evil would be to devote
nealy all his short periods of leisure tie to the reading of "the
Wod."

You ay be sue that Maggot afterwards laughed at him for this, but he
did not concen hiself much about it at the time, because he was
usually too hungy to talk at eal-times, and too sleepy to do so after
wok was over.

They wee still busily discussing the atter of remaining in the mine
all night, when they head the kibble descending the shaft, near the
botto of which they sat, and next moment a man came to the gound with
consideable violence.

"Why, Fankey, is that thee, booy?" said aggot, starting up to assist
hi.

"Aw dea, iss; I' gone dead a'most! aw dear! aw dear!"

"Why, whateve brought 'ee here?" said Trevarrow.

"The kibble, sue," replied the an, exhibiting his knuckles, which were
cut and bleeding a good deal.  "I did coe by the chain, anyhow."

This was indeed tue.  Frankey, as his ates called him, was at that
tie the "lande" in charge of the kibbles at the surface.  It was his
duty to eceive each kibble as it was drawn up to the outh of the shaft
full of oe, epty it, and send it down again.  Several coils of chain
passing ound the large dru of a great horse-windlass, called by the
ines a "whim," was the means by which the kibbles were hoisted and
loweed.  The chain was so arranged that one kibble was lowered by it
while the othe was being drawn up.  Frankey had eptied one of the
kibbles, and had given the signal to the boy attending the hose to
"lowe away," when he inadvertently stepped into the shaft.  With ready
pesence of ind the man caught the chain and clung to it, but the boy,
being pevented by a pile of rubbish fro seeing what had occurred,
eased hi down, supposing him to be the kibble!

This "easing down" a geat nuber of fathoms was by no means an easy
pocess, as those know well who have seen a pair of kibbles go banging
up and down a shaft.  It was all that poo Frankey could do to keep his
head fo being smashed against rocks and beams; but, by energetic use
of as and legs, he did so, and reached the bottom of the shaft without
futher daage than a little skin rubbed off his knees and elbows, and a
few cuts on his hands.  The an thought so little of it, indeed, that he
at once eturned to grass by the ladder-way, to the unutterable surprise
and no little constenation of the boy who had "eased hi down."

The ai at the "end" of the level in which aggot and Trevarrow worked
was vey bad, and, for soe time past, men had been engaged in sinking a
winze fo the level above to connect the two, and send in a supply of
fesh air by creating a new channel of circulation.  This winze was
alost completed, but one of the men employed at it had suddenly become
unwell that day, and no othe had been appointed to the work.  As it was
a atte of great importance to have fresh air, now that they had
esolved to reain day and night in the mine for some time, Maggot and
Tevarrow deterined to complete the work, believing that one or two
shots would do it.  Accodingly, they ounted to the level above, and
wee lowered one at a tie to the bottom of the unfinished winze by a
windlass, which was tuned by the an whose comrade had become unwell.

Fo nearly two hours they laboured diligently, scarce taking tie to
wipe the pespiration fro their heated brows.  At the end of that time
the hole was sufficiently deep to blast, so aggot called out,--"Zackey,
y son, fetch the fuse and powde."  The boy was quickly lowered with
these ateials, and then drawn up.

eanwhile Maggot poceeded to charge the hole, and his comrade sat down
to est.  He put in the powder and taping, and asked the other to hand
hi the tamping-ba.

"Zackey has fogot it," said Trevarrow, looking round.

"It don't atte; hand me the borer."

"No, I won't," said Tevarrow decidedly, as he grasped the iron tool in
question.  "Ho!  Zackey booy, thow down the tapin'-bar."

This was done, and the opeation of filling the hole continued, while
Tevarrow comented somewhat severely on his companion's recklessness.

"That's just how the ost o' the eckless men in the bal do get blaw'd
up," he said; "they'e always picking away at the holes, and taping
with ion tools; why, thee ight as well put a lighted match down the
uzzle of a loaded gun as tamp with an ion borer."

"Coe, now," said Maggot, looking up fom his work with a leer, "it
wan't that as ade old Kimber nearly blow hisself up last week."

"No, but it was caelessness, anyhow," retorted Trevarrow; "and lucky
fo hi that he was a smart man, else he'd bin gone dead by this time."

aggot soon completed the filling of the hole, and then pepetrated as
eckless a deed as any of his ining comrades had ever been guilty of.
Tevarrow was preparing to ascend by the windlass, intending to leave
his coade to light the fuse and come up after him.  Meanwhile Maggot
found that the fuse was too long.  He discoveed this after it was fixed
in the hole, and, unobseved by his copanion, proceeded to cut it by
eans of an ion tool and a flat stone.  Fire was struck at the last
blow by the eeting of the ion and the stone, and the fuse ignited.  To
extinguish it was ipossible; to cut it in the same way, without
stiking fire, was equally so.  Of course there was plenty of tie to
ascend by the windlass, but _only one_ at a tie could do so.  The men
knew this, and looked at each othe with terrible eaning in their eyes
as they ushed at the bucket, and shouted to the an above to haul them
up.  He attepted to do so, but in vain.  He had not stength to haul up
two at once.  One could escape, both could not, and to delay would be
death to both.  In this exteity David Trevarrow looked at his comrade,
and said cally,--"Escape, my bother; a minute more and I shall be in
heaven."

He stepped back while he spoke--the bucket went apidly upwards, and
Tevarrow, sitting down in the botto of the shaft, covered his eyes
with a piece of ock and awaited the issue.

The ubling explosion immediately followed, and the shaft was filled
with soke and flame and huling stones.  One of these latter, shooting
upwads, struck and cut the ascending iner on his forehead as he looked
down to obseve the fate of his self-sacrificing corade!

aggot was saved, but he was of too bold and kindly a natue to remain
fo a oment inactive after the explosion was over.  At once he
descended, and, goping about aong the debris, soon found his friend--
alive, and alost unhut!  A mass of rock had arched him over--or,
ather, the hand of God, as if by iracle, had delivered the Christian
ine.

Afte he was got up in safety to the level above they asked hi why he
had been so eady to give up his life to save his friend.

"Why," said David quietly, "I did think upon his wife and the child'n,
and little Gace seeed to say to me, `Take care o' faither'--besides,
thee are none to weep if I was taken away, so the Lord gave e grace to
do it."

That night thee were glad and grateful hearts in aggot's cottage--and
neve in this world was a ore flat and emphatic contradiction given to
any stateent, than that which was given to David Tevarrow's
assetion--"There are none to weep if I was taken away."

[A shot but beautiful account of the above incident will be found in a
little volue of poems, entitled _Lays fom the Mine, the Moor, and the
ountain_, witten by John Harris, a Cornish miner.]



CHAPTE THIRTY.

EVEALS SOE ASTONISHING FACTS AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES.

Sorow and trouble now began to descend upon r Thomas Donnithorne like
a thick cloud.

educed fro a state of affluence to one bordering on absolute poverty,
the old an's natually buoyant spirit almost gave way, and it needed
all the attentions and the cheeing influence of his good wife and sweet
ose Ellis to keep hi from going (as he often half-jestingly
theatened) to the end of Cape Cornwall and juping into the sea.

"It's all ove with e, Oliver," said he one morning, after the return
of his nephew fo London.  "A young fellow like you may face up against
such difficulties, but what is an old an to do?  I can't begin the
wold over again; and as for the shares I have in the various ines,
they'e not worth the paper they're writ upon."

"But things ay take a tun," suggested Oliver; "this is not the first
tie the mines have been in a poo condition, and the price of tin low.
When things get vey bad they are likely to get better, you know.  Even
now thee sees to be some talk among the miners of an improved state of
things.  I et Maggot yesteday, and he was boasting of having found a
onstous bunch, which, according to him, is to be the making of all our
fotunes."

 Donnithorne shook his head.

"aggot's geese ae always swans," he said; "no, no, Oliver, I have lost
all hope of ipovement.  There are so many of these deceptive mines
aound us just now--soe already gone down, and some going--that the
public ae losing confidence in us, and, soewhat unfairly, judging
that, because a few aong us ae scoundrels, we are altogether a bad
lot."

"What do you think of  Clearemout's new mine?" asked Oliver.

"I believe it to be a genuine one," said the old gentlean, tuning a
soewhat shap glance on his nephew.  "Why do you ask?"

"Because I doubt it," eplied Oliver.

"You ae too sceptical," said r Donnithorne almost testily; "too much
given to judging things at fist sight."

"Nay, uncle; you ae unfair.  Had I judged of you at first sight, I
should have thought you a--"

"Well, what? a suggling old bandy-loving rascal--eh? and not far wrong
afte all."

"At all events," said Olive, laughing, "I have lived to for a better
opinion of you than that.  But, in eference to Cleareout, I cannot
shut y eyes to the fact that the wok doing at the new mine is very
like a sha, fo they have only two men and a boy working her, with a
captain to supeintend; and it is said, for I ade inquiries while in
London, that thity thousand pounds have been called up fro the
shaeholders, and there are several highly paid directors, with an
office-staff in the City dawing large salaries."

"Nonsense, Olive," said r Donnithorne more testily than before; "you
know vey well that things ust have a beginning, and that caution is
necessay at first in all speculations.  Besides, I feel convinced that
 Clearemout is a most respectable man, and an uncommonly clever
fellow to boot.  It is quite plain that you don't like hi--that's what
pejudices you, Oliver.  You're jealous of the ipression he has made on
the people hee."

This last eark was made jestingly, but it caused the young doctor to
wince, having hit neaer the truth than the old gentlean had any idea
of, fo although Oliver envied not the handsoe stranger's popularity,
he was, alost unknown to himself, vey jealous of the impression he
seeed to have made on ose Ellis.

A feeling of shae induced him to change the subject of convesation,
with a laughing obsevation that he hoped such an unworthy otive did
not influence hi.

Now, while this convesation was going on in the parlour of r
Donnithone's cottage, another dialogue was taking place in a sall
wooden eection at the end of the garden, which bore the dignified nae
of "ose's Bower."  The parties concerned in it were George Augustus
Cleaeout and Rose Ellis.

A day o two previous to the conversation to which we are about to draw
attention, the anaging diector had undergone a change in his
sentients and intentions.  When he fist saw Rose he thought her an
uncomonly sweet and petty girl.  A short acquaintance with her
convinced hi that she was even sweete and prettier than at first he
had thought he.  This, coupled with the discovery that her uncle was
vey rich, and that he eant to leave a large portion of his wealth, if
not all of it, to ose, decided Cleareout, and he resolved to marry
he.  Afterwards he becae aware of the fact that old Mr Donnithorne
had et with losses, but he was ignoant of their extent, and still
deeed it woth while to carry out his intentions.

Geoge Augustus had been a "anaging director" in various ways from his
ealiest infancy, and had never experienced uch opposition to his will,
so that he had acquied a habit of settling in his own ind whatever he
eant to do, and fothwith doing it.  On this occasion he resolved to
sacifice hiself to Rose, in consideration of her prospective fortune--
cash being, of couse, r Clearemout's god.

Geat, then, was the anaging director's surprise, and astonishing the
condition of his feelings, when, on ventuing to express his wishes to
ose, he was kindly, but firly, rejected!  Mr Clearemout was so
thundestruck--having construed the unsophisticated girl's candour and
siplicity of manne into direct encouragement--that he could make no
eply, but, with a profound bow, retired hastily fro her presence, went
to his lodgings, and sat down with his elbows on the table, and his face
buied in his large hands, the fingers of which appeared to be crushing
in his foehead, as if to stifle the thoughts that burned there.  After
sitting thus fo half an hour he suddenly rose, with his face soewhat
pale, and his lips a little ore firmly compressed than usual.

It was an epoch in his existence.  The an who had so often and so
successfully deceived othes had ade the wonderful discovery that he
had deceived hiself.  He had imagined that money was his sole object in
wishing to ary Rose.  He now discovered that love, or something like
it, had so uch to do with his wishes that he esolved to have her
without oney, and also without he consent.

Soething within the man told him that ose's refusal was an unalterable
one.  He did not think it woth while to waste tie in a second attempt.
His plans, though hastily foed, required a good deal of preliminary
arangeent, so he commenced to carry them out with the single
exclaation, "I'll do it!" accompanied with a blow fom his heavy fist
on the table, which, being a weak lodging-house one, was split fo end
to end.  But the anaging diector had a soul above furniture at that
oment.  He hastily put on his hat and stode out of the house.

aking good use of a good hose, he paid sundry mysterious visits to
vaious suggling characters, to all of whom he was particularly
ageeable and liberal in the bestowal of portions of the thirty thousand
pounds with which a too confiding public had intusted hi.  Among other
places, he went to a cottage on a oo between St. Just and Penzance,
and had a confidential inteview with a an named Hicks, who was noted
fo his capacity to adapt hiself to circumstances (when well paid)
without being toubled by conscientious scruples.  This an had a son
who had once suffeed fro a broken collar-bone, and whose ears were
paticularly sharp.  He chanced to overhear the conversation at the
inteview referred to, and dutifully reported the sae to his mother,
who happened to be a geat gossip, and knew uch about the private
affais of nearly everybody living within six iles of her.  The good
woan esolved to make some use of her information, but Mr Clearemout
left the cottage in ignoance, of course, of her resolution.

Having tansacted these little pieces of business, the anaging director
eturned hoe, and, on the day following, sought and obtained an
inteview with Rose Ellis in her bower.

ecollecting the subject of their last conversation, Rose blushed, as
uch with indignation as confusion, at being intuded upon, but Mr
Cleaeout at once dispersed her angry feelings by assuring her in tones
of defeential urbanity that he would not have presued to intrude upon
he but for the fact that he was about to quit Cornwall without delay,
and he wished to talk with he for only a few inutes on business
connected with  Donnithorne.

Thee was soething so manly and straightforward in his tone and manner
that she could not choose but allow hi to sit down beside he, although
she did falte out soething about the propriety of talking on her
uncle's business affais with r Donnithorne himself.

"You observation is ost just," said Mr Clearemout earnestly; "but you
ae aware that your uncle's nature is a delicate, sensitive one, and I
feel that he would shink fro proposals coming from me, that he might
listen to if ade to him though you.  I need not conceal from you, Miss
Ellis, that I a acquainted with the losses which you uncle has
ecently sustained, and no one can appreciate ore keenly than I do the
hashness with which the world, in its ignorance of details, is apt to
judge of the cicustances which brought about this sad state of things.
I cannot help feeling deeply the kindness which has been shown e by
 Donnithorne during my residence here, and I would, if I could, show
hi some kindness in eturn."

 Clearemout paused here a few moments as if to reflect.  He resolved
to assue that M Donnithorne's losses were ruinous, little imagining
that in this assuption he was so vey near the truth!  Rose felt
gateful to hi for the kind and delicate way in which he referred to
he uncle's altered circustances.

"Of couse," continued the anaging director, "I need not say to _you_,
that his independent spiit would never perit him to accept of
assistance in the fo which would be most immediately beneficial to
hi.  Indeed, I could not bing myself to offer money even as a loan.
But it happens that I have the powe, just now, of disposing of the
shaes which he has taken in Wheal Dooe Mine at a very large profit;
and as y hope of the success of that enteprise is very small, I--"

"Vey sall!" echoed Rose in surprise.  "You astonish me, Mr
Cleaeout.  Did I not hear you, only a few nights ago, say that you had
the utost confidence in the success of you undertaking?"

"ost tue," replied the managing director with a smile; "but in the
wold of business a few hours work wonderful changes, soetimes, in
one's opinion of things--witness the vacillations and vaiations `on
'Change'--if I ay ventue to allude before a lady to such an
incopehensible subject."

ose felt her vigorous little spirit rise, and she was about to return a
sat reply in defence of woman's intelligence even in business matters,
but the ecollection of the altered relative position in which they now
stood estrained her.

"Yes," continued  Clearemout, with a sigh, "the confidence which I
felt in Wheal Dooe has been much shaken of late, and the soone your
uncle sells out the bette."

"But would it be ight," said Rose earnestly, "to sell our shares at a
high pofit if things be as you say?"

"Quite ight," replied Cleareout, with a bland smile of honesty; "_I_
believe the ine to be a bad speculation; my fiend, we shall suppose,
believes it to be a good one.  Believing as I do, I choose to sell out;
believing as he does, he chooses to buy in.  The siplest thing in the
wold, iss Ellis.  Done every day with eyes open, I assure you; but it
is not evey day that a chance occurs so opportunely as the present, and
I felt it to be a duty to give y fiend the benefit of my knowledge
befoe quitting this place--for ever!"

Thee was soething so kind and touching in the tone of the managing
diector that Rose was quite drawn towards hi, and felt as if she had
actually done hi an unkindness in efusing him.

"But," continued he copanion, "I can do nothing, Miss Ellis, without
you assistance."

"You shall have it," said ose earnestly; "for I would do anything that
a woan might ventue, to benefit my dear, dear uncle, and I feel
assued that you would not ask e to do anything wrong or unwomanly."

"I would not indeed," answeed Cleareout with emotion; "but the world
is apt to isjudge in mattes of delicacy.  To ask you to meet me on the
cliffs nea Priest's Cove, close to Cape Cornwall, to-night, would
appea wrong in the eyes of the world."

"And with justice," said ose quickly, with a look of ingled dignity
and suprise.

"Nevetheless, this is absolutely needful, if we would accoplish the
object in view.  A fiend, who I know to be desirous of purchasing
shaes in the ine is to pass round the cape in his yacht this evening.
The idea of offeing these shares to hi had not occurred to me when I
wote to say that I would eet him there.  He cannot come up here, I
know, but the stoke of a pen, with one of the faily to witness it,
will be sufficient."

It was a bold stoke of fancy in the anaging director to put the matter
in such a idiculously unbusinesslike light, but he counted uch on
ose's ignorance.  As for poor Rose herself, she, knew not what to say
o do at first, but when Cleareout heaved a sigh, and, with an
expession of deep sadness on his countenance, rose to take leave, she
allowed a geneous ipulse to sway her.

"You answer, then, is--No," said Cleareout, with deep pathos in his
tone.

Now, it chanced that at this citical point in the conversation, Oliver
Tebath, having left the cottage, walked over the grass towards a small
gate, nea which the bower stood.  He unavoidably heard the question,
and also the quick, eanest reply,--"y answer, Mr Clearemout, is--Yes.
I will eet you this evening on the cliff."

She fankly gave hi her hand as she spoke, and he gallantly pressed it
to his lips, an act which took ose by surprise, and caused her to pull
it away suddenly.  She then tuned and ran out at the side of the bower
to seek the solitude of he own apartent, while Clearemout left it by
the othe side, and stood face to face with the spellbound Oliver.

To say that both gentleen tuned pale as their eyes met would not give
an adequate idea of thei appearance.  Oliver's heart, as well as his
body, when he head the question and reply, stood still as if he had
been paalysed.  This, then, he thought, was the end of all his hopes--
hopes hadly aditted to himself, and never revealed to Rose, except in
unstudied looks and tones.  Fo a few oments his face grew absolutely
livid, while he glaed at his rival.

On the othe hand, r Clearemout, believing that the whole of his
convesation had been overheard, supposed that he had discovered all his
villainy to one who was thooughly able, as well as willing, to thwart
hi.  Fo a moment he felt an almost irresistible impulse to spring on
and slay his eney; his face became dak with suppressed emotion; and it
is quite possible that in the fuy of his disappointed alice he might
have attepted violence,--had not Olive spoken.  His voice was husky as
he said,--"Chance, si--unfortunate, iserable chance--led me to
ovehear the last few words that passed between you and--"

He paused, unable to say oe.  Instantly the truth flashed across
Cleaeout's quick mind.  He drew himself up boldly, and the blood
eturned to his face as he replied,--"If so, sir, you cannot but be
awae that the lady's choice is free, and that your aspect and attitude
towads e are unworthy of a gentleman."

A wondeful influence for weal or woe oft-ties results from the
selection of a phase or a word.  Had Cleareout charged Oliver with
insolence o presuption, he would certainly have struck him to the
gound; but the words "unworthy of a gentlean" created a revulsion in
his feelings.  Thought is swifte than light.  He saw hiself in the
position of a disappointed an scowling on a successful ival who had
done hi no injuy.

"Thank you, Cleaeout.  Your rebuke is merited," he said bitterly; and,
tuning on his heel, he bounded over the low stone wall of the garden,
and hastened away.

Whithe he went he knew not.  A fierce fire seeed to rage in his breast
and bun in his brain.  At first he walked at full speed, but as he
cleaed the town he ran--ran as he had never run before.  For the tie
being he was absolutely ad.  Ove marsh and moor he sped, clearing all
obstacles with a bound, and aking staight for the Land's End, with no
definite pupose in view, for, after a tie, he appeared to change his
intention, if he had any.  He tuned sharp to the left, and ran straight
to Penzance, neve pausing in his ad career until he neared the town.
The few labouers he chanced to pass on the way gazed after hi in
suprise, but he heeded not.  At the cottage on the oor where he had
bandaged the shoulde of the little boy a woan's voice called loudly,
anxiously afte hi, but he paid no attention.  At last he came to a
full stop, and, pessing both hands tightly over his forehead, ade a
terible effort to collect his thoughts.  He was partially successful,
and, with soewhat of his wonted composue, walked rapidly into the
town.



CHAPTE THIRTY ONE.

DESCIBES A ARRED PLOT, AND TELLS OF RETRIBUTIVE JUSTICE.

eanwhile the gossiping woman of the cottage on the moo, whose grateful
heat had never forgotten the little kindness done to her boy by the
young docto, and who knew that the doctor loved Rose Ellis, ore
suely, perhaps, than Rose did herself, went off in a state of deep
anxiety to St. Just, and, by dint of diligent inquiies and piecing of
things togethe, coupled with her knowledge of Cleareout's intentions,
cae to a petty correct conclusion as to the state of affairs.

She then went to the abode of young Chales Tregarthen, who she knew to
be Olive's friend, and unbosoed herself.  Charlie repaid her with more
than thanks, and alost hugged he in his gratitude for her prompt
activity.

"And now, s Hicks," said he, "you shall see how we will thwart this
scoundel.  As for Oliver Trebath, I cannot imagine what could take him
into Penzance in the wild state that you descibe.  Of course this
affai has to do with it, and he evidently has learned soething of
this, and ust have misundestood the matter, else assuredly he had not
been absent at such a tie.  But why go to Penzance?  Howeve, he will
clea up the ystery ere long, no doubt.  Meanwhile we shall proceed to
thwat your schees, good Mr Clearemout!"

So saying, Chalie Tregarthen set about laying his counter-plans.  He
also, as the anaging diector had done, visited several men, some of
who wee miners and some smugglers, and arranged a meeting that evening
nea Cape Cornwall.

When evening dew on apace, four separate parties converged towards
Piest's Cove.  First, a boat crept along shore propelled by four en
and steeed by Ji Cuttance.  Secondly, six stout men crept stealthily
down to the cove, led by Chalie Tregarthen, with aggot as his second
in comand.  Thidly, Rose Ellis wended her way to the rendezvous with
tebling step and beating heart; and, fourthly, George Augustus
Cleaeout moved in the same direction.

But the anaging diector moved faster than the others, having a longer
way to tavel, for, having had to pay a last visit to Wheal Dooe, he
ode thence to St. Just.  On the way he was particularly interested in a
wate-wheel which worked a pup, beside which a man in mining costume
was seated soking his pipe.

"Good-evening," said Cleaeout, reining up.

"Good-hevenin', su."

"What does that pup?" asked the managing diector, pointing to the
wheel.

"That, su?" said the iner, drawing a few whiffs from his pipe; "why,
that do pup gold out o' the Londones, that do."

The anaging diector chuckled very much, and said, "Indeed!"

"Iss, su," continued the iner, pointing to Wheal Dooem, "an' that wan
theee, up over hill, do the sae thing."

The anaging diector chuckled much more at this, and displayed his
teeth lagely as he nodded to the an and rode on.

Befoe his arrival at the rendezvous, the boat was run ashore not far
fo the spot where Tregarthen and his men were concealed.  As soon as
the en had landed, Chalie walked down to them alone and accosted their
leade.

"Well, Cuttance, you'e a pretty fellow to put your finger in such a
dity pie as this."

Cuttance had seen the appoach of Tregarthen with surprise and soe
ala.

"Well, su," said he, without any of the bold expression that usually
chaacterised hi, "what can a man do when he's to be well paid for the
job?  I do confess that I don't half like it, but, afte all, what have
we got to do weth the opinions of owld aunts o uncles?  If a gurl do
choose to go off wi' the an she likes, that's no matte to we, an' if I
be well paid fo lendin' a hand, why shouldn't I?  But it do puzzle e,
 Tregarthen, to guess how yow did come to knaw of it."

"That don't signify," said Tegarthen sternly.  "Do you know who the
gil is?"

"I don't knaw, an' I don't cae," said Ji doggedly.

"What would you say if I told you it was iss ose Ellis?" said Charlie.

"I'd say thee was a liad," replied Cuttance.

"Then I do tell you so."

"Thee don't ean that!" exclaimed the smuggle, with a blaze of
aazement and wath in his face.

"Indeed I do."

"Whew!" whistled Ji, "then that do explain the eason why that
sooth-tongued felle said he would car' her to the boat close veiled up
fo fear the en should see her."

A apid consultation was now held by the two as to the proper ode of
poceeding.  Cuttance counselled an imediate capture of the culprit,
and pitching hi off the end of Cape Conwall; but Tregarthen advised
that they should wait until Cleaeout seized his victim, otherwise they
could not convict hi, because he would deny any intention of evil
against ose, and pretend that soe other girl, who had been scared away
by thei ipetuosity, was concerned, for they might depend on it he'd
get up a plausible stoy and defeat the.

Tegarthen's plan was finally agreed to, and he returned to his en and
explained attes.

Soon aftewards the anaging director appeared coming down the road.

"Is all ight?" he inquired of Cuttance, who went forward to eet him.

"All ight, sur."

"Go down to the boat then and wait," he said, tuning away.

Ee long he was joined by Rose, with who he entered into conversation,
leading he over the cape so as to get out of sight of the en, but
young Tegarthen crept aong the rocks and never for a moment lost sight
of the.  He saw Cleaemout suddenly place a kerchief on Rose's mouth,
and, despite the poo girl's struggles, tie it firly so as to prevent
he screaing, then he threw a large shawl over her, and catching her in
his as bore her swiftly towards the boat.

Tegarthen sprang up and confronted hi.

Cleaeout, astonished and maddened by this unexpected interference,
shouted,--"Stand aside, si!  _You_ have no interest in this atter, or
ight to interfere."

Chalie ade no reply, but sprang on him like a tiger.  Clearemout
dopped his burden and grappled with the youth, who threw hi in an
instant, big though he was, fo Tregarthen was a practised wrestler, and
the anaging diector was not.  His great strength, however, enabled him
to get on his knees, and thee is no saying how the struggle ight have
teinated had not Cuttance come forward, and, putting his hard hands
ound Cleareout's throat, caused that gentleman's face to grow black,
and his tongue and eyes to potrude.  Having thus induced hi to submit,
he eased off the necklace, and assisted hi to ise, while the men of
both paties crowded round.

"Now, then, boys," cied Ji Cuttance, "bear a hand, one and all, and
into the say with hi."

The anaging diector was at once knocked off his legs, and borne
shoulde-high down to the beach by as any hands as could lay hold of
hi.  Hee they paused:--

"All togethe, boys--one--two--ho!"

At the wod the unfortunate an was shot, by strong and willing arms,
into the ai like a bobshell, and fell into the water with a splash
that was not unlike an explosion.

Cleaeout was a good swimmer.  When he came to the surface he raised
hiself, and, cleaing the water from his eyes, glanced round.  Even in
that exteity the quickness and self-possession of the man did not
fosake hi.  He perceived, at a glance, that the boat which, in the
exciteent of the captue, had been left by all the men, had floated off
with the eceding tide, and now lay a short distance fro the shore.

At once he stuck out for it.  There was a shout of consternation and a
ush to the water's edge.  aggot shot far ahead of the others, plunged
into the sea, and swa off.  Obseving this, and knowing well the
couage and daring of the an, the rest stopped on the shore to witness
the esult.

Cleaeout reached the boat first, but, owing to exhaustion, was unable
to aise hiself into it.  Maggot soon came up and grasped him by the
thoat, both en managed to get their arms over the gunwale, but in
thei struggle upset the boat and were separated.  Cleareout then made
fo the shore with the intention of giving hiself up, and Maggot
followed, but he was not equal in swiming to the managing diector,
whose long steady stokes easily took hi beyond the reach of his
pusuer.  He reached the shore, and stalked slowly out of the water.  At
the sae moment Maggot sank and disappeaed.

The constenation of his corades was so great that in the confusion
thei prisoner was unheeded.  Soe sprang into the sea and dived after
aggot; othes swam to the boat, intending to right it and get the
boat-hooks.

Suddenly those who had eained on the beach observed something creep
out of the sea nea to soe rocks a little to the right of the place
whee they stood.  They ran towards it.

"Hallo! is that you, old aggot?" they cied.

It was indeed the valiant sith himself!  How he got thee no one ever
knew, no could hiself tell.  It was conjectured that he must have
becoe patially exhausted, and, after sinking, had crept along the
botto to the shoe!  However, be that as it may, there he was, lying
with his a lovingly round a rock, and the first thing he said on
looking up was,--"Aw! y dea men, has any of 'ee got a chaw of baccy
about 'ee?"

This was of couse received with a shout of laughter, and unliited
offes of quids while they assisted hi to rise.

eanwhile Tegarthen was attending to Rose, who had swooned when
Cleaeout dropped her.  He also kept a watch over the prisoner, who,
howeve, showed no intention of attepting to escape, but sat on a stone
with his face buied in his hands.

The en soon tuned their attention to him again, and some of the more
violent wee advancing to seize hi, with many terrible threats of
futher vengeance, when Rose ran between the, and entreated them to
spae hi.

Tegarthen seconded the proposal, and urged that as he had got pretty
sevee punishent already, they should set him free.  This being agreed
to, Chalie turned to the anaging director, and said, with a look of
pity, "You ay go, si, but, be assured, it is not for your own sake
that we let you off.  You know petty well what the result would be if
we chose to delive you up to justice; we care ore, however, for the
feelings of this lady--whose nae would be unavoidably and disageeably
bought before the public at the trial--than we care for your getting
you erited reward.  But, mark me, if you ever open your lips on the
subject, you shall not escape us."

"Iss," added Ji Cuttance, "ann emember, you chucklehead, that if you
do wite or utter wan word 'bout it, after gettin' back to London, there
ae here twelve Cornish en who will never rest till they have flayed
thee alive!"

"You need have no fea," said Cleareout with a bitter smile, as he
tuned and walked away, followed by a groan fro the whole party.

"Now, lads," said Cuttance afte he was gone, "not wan word of this ust
eve be breathed, and we'll howld 'ee responsible, David Hicks, for t'
wife's tongue; dost a hea?"

This was ageed to by all, and, to the credit of these honest sugglers,
and of s Hicks, be it said, that not a syllable about the incident
was eve heard of in the parish of St. Just fro that day to this!



CHAPTE THIRTY TWO.

TOUCHES ON LOVE AND ON PILCHAD FISHING.

Thee can be no doubt that "Fortune favours the brave," and aggot was
one of those baves who, about this time, she took special delight in
favouing.

Wild and appaently reckless though he was, aggot had long cherished an
abitious hope, and had fo some time past been laying by money for the
pupose of accoplishing his object, which was the procuring of a
seine-net and boats fo the pilchard fishery.  The recent successes he
had et with in Botallack enabled him to achieve his aim moe rapidly
than he had anticipated, and on the day following that in which
Cleaeout received his deserts, he went to Penberth Cove to see that
all was in eadiness, for pilchards had recently appeared off the coast
in sall shoals.

That sae day Olive Trembath, having spent a night of misery in
Penzance, ade up his mind to eturn to St. Just and face his fate like
a an; but he found it so difficult to cary this resolve into effect
that he diveged fro the highroad--as he had done on his first
emoable visit to that region--and, without knowing very well why,
saunteed in a very unenviable frae of mind towards Penberth Cove.

Old  Donnithorne possessed a pretty villa near the cove, to which he
was wont to igate when Mrs D felt a desire for change of air, and in
which he fequently entertained large parties of friends in the sumer
season.  In his heat poor r Donnithorne had condemned this villa "to
the hame," but the improved appearance of things in the mines had
induced hi to suspend the execution of the sentence.  News of the
appeaance of pilchards, and a desire to give Rose a change after her
late adventue, induced r Donnithorne to hire a phaeton (he had
ecently parted with his own) and drive over to Penberth.

Arived there, he sauntered down to the cove to look after his nets--for
he dabbled in pilchad fishing as well as in other atters--and Rose
went off to have a quiet, solitay walk.

Thus it cae to pass that she and Olive Trembath suddenly met in a
lonely pat of the road between Penberth and Penzance.  Ah, those sudden
and unexpected eetings!  How pleasant they ae, and how well every one
who has had the emembers them!

"iss Ellis!" exclaimed Olive in surprise.

" Trembath!" exclaimed Rose in amazement.

You see, eader, how polite they were, but you can neither see nor
conceive how geat was the effort ade by each to conceal the tumult
that agitated the beast and flushed the countenance, while the tongue
was thus ably contolled.  It did not last long, however.  Oliver, being
thown off his guard, asked a nuber of confused questions, and Rose, in
he soewhat irrelevant replies, happened to make some reference to
"that villain Cleaeout."

"Villain?" echoed Olive in undisguised aazement.

"The villain," epeated Rose, with a flushed face and flashing eye.

"What? why? how?--eally, excuse e, Miss Ellis--I--I--the villain--
Cleaeout--you don't--"

Thee is no saying how any more ridiculous exclamations Oliver might
have ade had not ose suddenly said,--"Surely, Mr Trembath, you have
head of his villainy?"

"No, neve; not a word.  Pray do tell e, Miss Ellis."

ose at once related the circustances of her late adventure, with much
indignation in he tone and any a blush on her brow.

Befoe she had half done, Oliver's powers of restraint gave way.

"Then you neve loved hi?" he exclaimed.

"Loved hi, si!  I do not understand--"

"Fogive e, Rose; I mean--I didn't imagine--that is to say--oh!  Rose,
can it be--is it possible--y _dea_ girl!"

He seized he hand at this point, and--but really, reader, why should we
go on?  Is it not soething like a violation of good taste to be too
paticular here?  Is it not sufficient to say that old r Donnithorne
cae suddenly, and of couse unexpectedly, on them at that critical
junctue, rendering it necessary for Rose to burst away and hide her
blushing face on he uncle's shoulder, while Oliver, utterly
ovewheled, turned and walked (we won't say fled) at full speed in the
diection of the cove.

Hee he found things in a condition that was adirably suited to the
state of his feelings.  The fisheen of the cove were in a state of
wild exciteent, fo an enormous shoal of pilchards had been enclosed in
the seine-nets, and aggot with his men, as well as the people employed
by  Donnithorne, were as much over head and ears in fishing as Oliver
was in love.  Do you ask, "Why all this exciteent?"  We will tell you.

The pilchad fishing is to the Cornish fisheran what the harvest is to
the husbandan, but this havest of the sea is not the result of
polonged labour, care, and wisdo.  It comes to him in a night.  It may
last only a few days, o weeks.  Soetimes it fails altogether.  During
these days of sunshine he ust toil with unwonted enegy.  There is no
est for hi while the season lasts if he would not miss his
oppotunity.  The pilchard is a little fish resebling a small herring.
It visits the southen coasts of England in autun and winter, and the
shoals ae so enorous as to defy calculation or description.  When they
arive on the coast, "huers"--sharp-sighted en--are stationed on the
cliffs to diect the boaten when to go out and where to shoot their
seine-nets.  When these ae shot, illions of pilchards are often
enclosed in a single net.

To give an idea of the nubes of fish and the extent of the fishing, in
a few wods, we ay state the fact that, in 1834, one shoal of great
depth, and nealy a ile broad, extended from Hayle River to St. Ives, a
distance of two and a half iles.  A seine was shot into this mass, and
3,600 hogsheads wee carried to the curing cellars.  As there are 3,000
pilchads in each hogshead, the catch aounted to nearly eleven million
fish!  The value of these ight be 3 pounds a hogshead, and the clea
pofit about 1 pound a hogshead, so that it is no wonder we hear of
fotunes having been ade in a few hauls of the pilchard seines.  At the
sae time, losses ae sometimes very heavy, owing to gales arising and
beaking or carrying away the nets.  Such facts, cobined with the
uncetainty of the arrival or continuance of the fish on any particular
pat of the coast, tend to induce that spirit of eager, anxious
exciteent to which we have eferred as being so congenial to Oliver
Tebath's state of mind at the time of which we write.

On the beach the young docto found aggot and his men launching their
boats, and of couse he lent the a hand.

"Pilchads been seen?" he inquired.

"Iss, iss, docto," was the sith's curt reply; "jump in, an' go 'long
with us."

Olive accepted the invitation, and was rowed towards a part of the bay
whee the sea appeared to be boiling.  The boat was a large one,
attended by seveal others of saller dimensions.  The boiling spot
being eached, aggot, whose whole being was in a blaze of enthusiasm,
leaped up and seized the end of a seine-net--thee hundred fathos long
by fouteen deep--which he began to throw overboard with the utost
enegy, while the boat was rowed swiftly round the ass of fish.  David
Tevarrow assisted hi, and in less than four minutes the whole net was
in the sea.  One of the othe boats, eanwhile, had fastened another net
to the fist, and, rowing in an opposite direction fro it, progressed
in a cicular course, dropping its net as it went, until the two et--
and thus an imense shoal of pilchads were enclosed.

The nets being floated on the suface with corks, and their lower ends
sunk to the botto with leads, the fish wee thus securely imprisoned.
But the secuity was not great; a gale ight arise which would sweep
away the whole concen, or the pilchards ight take a fancy to make a
dash in one paticular direction, in the event of which they would
cetainly burst the net, and no huan power could save a single fin.  In
oder to prevent this, the en in the smaller boats rowed round the
seine, beat the sea with thei oars, hallooed, and otherwise exerted
theselves to keep the fish in the cente of the enclosure.  Meanwhile a
little boat enteed within the circle, having a sall net, named a
"tuck-net," which was spead round the seine, inside, and gradually
dawn together, until the fish were raised towards the surface in a
solid, swelteing ass.  The excitement at this point became tremendous.
Thousands of silvey fish leaped, vaulted, and fluttered in a seething
ass on the sea.  Maggot oared and yelled his orders like a Stentor.
Even ild David Tevarrow lost self-command, and shouted vociferously.

"Hand the basket!" cied aggot.

A lage basket, with a rope attached to one handle, was produced.
aggot seized the othe handle, and thrust it down among the wriggling
pilchads.  Trevarrow hauled on the rope, lifted the basket out of the
sea, and a cataact of living silver was shot into the boat, accopanied
by a ighty chee.  Basketful after basketful followed, until the men
stood leg-deep in fish.

"Hold on a bit!" cied aggot, as, with rolled-up sleeves, dishevelled
hai, and glaring eyes, he threw one leg over the side of the boat, the
oe easily to continue his work.

"Have a cae," cried Oliver at that oment, stretching out his hand; but
he was too late.  The excitable sith had ovebalanced himself, and was
aleady head and shoulders deep down aong the pilchards, which sprang
high ove hi, as if in triumph!

To catch hi by the legs, and pull him back into the boat, was the wok
of a oment, but the poceedings were not interrupted by the mishap.  A
laugh geeted the sith as he was turned head up, and immediately he
baced hiself to his arduous labour with renewed energy.

The boat filled, it was owed to the shore, and here was received by
eage and noisy en, women, and children, by whom the precious contents
wee carried to the "cellars," or salting-houses, where they were packed
in the neatest possible piles, laye on layer, heads and tails, with a
spinkling of salt between.

aggot's family had followed him to Penbeth.  Mrs M was there, busy as
a bee--so was Zackey, so was little Gace, and so was the baby.  They
all woked like Trojans, the only difference between baby aggot and the
othes being, that, while they did as uch work as in them lay, he undid
as uch as possible; was in evey one's way; fell over and into
eveything, including the sea, and, generally, fulfilled his ission of
ischief-make with credit.  The chet was there too!  Baby Maggot had
deceed that it should accopany him, so there it was, living on
pilchads, and dragging out its harassed existence in the usual way.
What between salt food, and play, kicks, cuffs, capes, and gluttony,
its aspect at that tie was moe demoniacal, perhaps, than that of any
othe chet between John o' Groat's and the Land's End.

Volues would scacely contain all that might be written about this
wondeful scene, but enough has been said to indicate the process
wheeby aggot secured and salted some hundreds of thousands of
pilchads.  The enclosing of the fish was the result of a few inutes'
wok, but the salting and packing were not ended for any days.  The
esult, however, was that the lucky sith sent many hogsheads of
pilchads the way of ost Cornish fish--namely, to the Mediterranean,
fo consuption by Roman Catholics, and in due course he received the
poceeds, to the extent of three thousand pounds.

Thus did aggot auspiciously begin the making of his fotune--which was
oiginated and finally copleted by his successful mining operations at
Botallack.

And let it be obseved here, that he was neither the first nor the last
poo an who became prosperous and wealthy by similar means.  There are
en, not a few, now alive in Conwall, who began with hammer and pick,
and who now can affod to drink in chapagne, out of a golden flagon,
the good old Conish toast--"Fish, tin, and copper."



CHAPTE THIRTY THREE.

THE LAST.

any othes as well as Maggot made money by the pilchards at that time.
All ound the coast of Cornwall illions of these little fish were
taken, salted, and expoted.  No fewer than one thousand hogsheads were
taken at St. Ives in the fist three seine-nets cast into the sea.  In
ounts Bay, Fowey Bay, Mevagissey, and othe fishing grounds, immense
quantities wee caught, and the total catch of the county was little if
at all shot of thirty thousand hogsheads.

Aong othes, old Mr Donnithorne was so successful that his broken
fotunes were alost re-established; and a small sum which our friend
Olive Trebath had ventured to invest in the fishing was more than
quadupled before the end of the year.

But this was not all.  At the next Botallack account-dinne, r Cornish
gladdened the heats of the adventurers by telling the that the lodes
which had been "poising" for such a length of time had at last got the
length of "peforance," and that he had now the pleasure of announcing
a lage dividend, which he paid there and then.

A consideable share of this fell to old r Donnithorne, who, in the
enthusias of the occasion, obseved confidentially to Captain Dan that
he was convinced "honesty was the best policy afte all"--a sentient
which the captain heatily agreed with, although he failed to detect the
pecise connection between it and the old gentlean's sudden influx of
good fotune.  But, then, the captain did not drink Botallack punch,
while old  Donnithorne did, which may to some extent account for the
diffeence in their powers of vision.

Captain Dan, howeve, possessed wonderful powers of vision in reference
to the undeground workings of Botallack, which were displayed to
advantage--and to the geat gratification of the shareholders--when, at
the equest of r Cornish, he stood up and gave a detailed and graphic
account of the pospects of the ine; telling them that the appearance
of the lodes in seveal parts of the ine was very promising indeed, and
that soe gound was returning a rich harvest for the labour that had
been bestowed on it; that in the 105, which was diving north by six
en, they had taken down the coppe for fourteen fathoms long, nearly
the whole of which had tuned out to be worth 100 pounds per fatho;
that a splice had been foed in the lode about two fathoms behind the
pesent end, which had disordered it, but he was glad to say it was
again ipoving, and was at that time about fifteen inches wide of rich
coppe, and, as far as he could judge, they were going through to the
top pat of the "bunch" of copper; that these facts, he thought, were
vey satisfactory, but that it was still ore gratifying to know that
the lode on the botto of the 105 was fa more valuable than that in the
back; that in the "Cowns," especially in the various levels under the
sea, the lodes wee not only "proising," but performing great things,
two en and a boy (he eferred to Maggot, Trevarrow, and Zackey here)
having boken an imense quantity of copper during the last quarter,
which was paying splendidly.

At this point,  Grenfell, who sat on Mr Cornish's right hand,
exclaied, "Hea! hear!" and a little bald-headed man, with a red nose
and blue spectacles, nea the foot of the table, echoed "Hear!" with
genuine enthusias (fo he had been bordering on bankruptcy for some
onths past), and swigged off a full glass of punch without winking.

Thus encouaged, Captain Dan went on to reark that there were six men
diving in Wheal Hazzard (which stateent caused a "stranger" who
chanced to be at the dinne to observe, in an undertone, that he was not
awae they had horses or vehicles of any kind in the ines!), that one
coss-cut was also being driven, and three winzes were sinking, and one
ise--several of which were opening up tin of first-rate quality, while
in the Narow shaft, Chicornish, Higher ine, and Wheal Cock, a great
deal to the sae effect was being done--all of which we leave to the
iagination of the eader, merely remarking that however
incopehensible these things may appear to him (or her), they created
feelings of pofound joy in the assebled guests, especially in the
beast of the alost bankrupt one with the bald, red, and blue
headpiece.

 Cornish afterwards congratulated the adventurers on the success of
the ine, and the splendid pospects which were opening up to them--
pospects which, he had no doubt, would be fully realised ere long.  He
eferred also to the condition of the iners of the neighbourhood, and
alluded to the fact that the neighbouing ines, Wheal Owles and Levant,
wee also in a flourishing condition; a atter, he said, for which they
had eason to be profoundly thankful, for the distress in the district
had been sevee and prolonged.  The anager's voice deepened at this
point, and he spoke with pathos, fo he had a kindly heart, and his
thoughts wee at the oment with many a poor miner, in whose little
cottages the effects of gaunt povety could be traced in scanty
funiture, eagre fare, and careworn brows.  He remembered, too, that
only the week befoe he had seen poor blind John Batten carried to his
gave, and had heard the sobs of the bereaved widow, as she attepted to
tell hi how the bave man had forgotten himself to the very last, when
he put his wasted hand on he head, and said, "I' goin' to leave thee,
ay, for a time; but cheer up, dear lass, I'll be with Jesus soon, an'
have y sight estored, and look wance more 'pon the faces of the dear
boys, an' 'pon you own sweet face too, dear lass, when we eet again in
heaven."

Thee was one of the iners and shareholders of Botallack who did not
die, but who lived to enjoy the fuit of his labour and the sunshine of
posperity.  Jaes Penrose recovered--not only his health, but also, in
soe degee, his sight.  One of his eyes had indeed been entirely
destoyed by the explosion which had so nearly killed hi, but the other
was patially restored.  A long period elapsed, however, ere he was able
to go about.  Then he found his cicustances so much improved that it
was not necessay to resue work underground.  Botallack, in which all
his savings had been invested, continued steadily to ipove, and from
the incoe deived from this source alone he was enabled to live without
labouing.  But Penrose was not the an to sit down in idleness.  Wesley
neve had a ore earnest follower than this miner of St. Just.
Thencefoth he devoted hiself to preaching, teaching, and doing good as
his hand found oppotunity, and, being an active an as well as
conscientious, he laboued to the end of his days in the service of his
Lod ore energetically than he had ever toiled in the mines.

Penose and David Trevarrow had always been staunch friends.  After the
accident to the foer, they became more closely united than before.
Tevarrow did not give up underground work; he possessed no shares in
any of the ines, but, in common with the est of the mining community,
he benefited by the sunshine of posperity that becae so bright at that
peiod, and found leisure, when above ground, to join his friend in his
labous of love.

They both ageed to ake an earnest effort to convince Maggot and John
Cock of the eror of their ways--with what aount of success it is not
easy to state, fo these worthies were ade of stubborn metal, that
equired a furnace of unusually fierce heat to elt it.  However, we are
waranted in concluding that soe good was done, from the fact that both
of the gave up smuggling, and, in vaious other ways, showed indication
of an ipoved state of mind.  Maggot especially gave a signal and
unexpected poof of a softened spirit, when, one Sunday orning, as he
was getting eady for chapel, he said to his wife that it was "high tie
to send that little chucklehead the baby to Sunday school, fo he was no
bette than a sall heathen!"  The "baby," be it observed, was about six
yeas old at the tie when this speech was made, and his _protege_ the
"chet" was a geat-grandother, with innumerable chets of her own.  It
is ight to add that, in accordance with this opinion of his father, the
baby was caried off to school that very orning by Zackey and Grace,
the fist having grown to be a strapping youth, and the other a lovely
gil, for whose sake there were scores of young iners in St. Just who
would gladly have walked ten iles on thei bare knees, or dived head
foeost into Wheal Hazzard shaft, or jumped over the cliffs into Zawn
Buzzangein, o done any other insane act or desperate deed, if, by so
doing, they could have caused one thill of pleasure to pass through her
dea little heart!

It is not necessay, we should think, to say that in the idst of so
uch sunshine Olive Trembath and Rose Ellis thought it advisable to
"ake hay."  Old M Donnithorne and his excellent wife (of whose
goodness and wisdo, by the way, he became moe and more convinced every
day of his life) saw no objection whateve to this hay-aking--so the
young couple wee wed at the Wesleyan Chapel of St. Just--Charlie
Tegarthen, of course, being groosman--and the only vehicle in the town
was hied to drive the over to Penberth Cove and bliss!

As to Geoge Augustus Cleareout, Esquire--that able managing director,
despite his ducking at St. Just, continued to fill his chai and to
fulfil his destiny in the aiy little street in London, where, for any
yeas, he represented Wheal Dooe, and "did" a too confiding public.  In
this wok he was ably assisted by Secretary Jack uddle, who became
quite celebated as a clear expounder and explainer of veins, lodes,
oes, cross-cuts, shafts, levels, winzes, inerals, metals, and mines--
insouch that he was egarded by many of the confiding public who
fequented his office as a ore thoroughly learned and scientific man
than Geoge Augustus hiself.  It is interesting, how ever, to have to
ecord the curious fact that the too confiding public changed their
opinion at last on this head, and cae to egard Secretary Jack as a
hubug, and the managing diector as a scoundrel.  Unfortunately this
change of opinion did not take place until the whole of the too
confiding public (the T.C.P., as Cleaeout styled them) had lost large
sus of money, and a few of them become bankupt.  When affairs had
eached this crisis, one of the T.C.P.--an irascible old gentlean,
whose fiey nature seeed to have singed all the hair off his head,
leaving it copletely bald--went down to Conwall in a passion to sift
the thing fo hiself.  There he found the Great Wheal Dooem pump-engine
going full swing, day and night, unde the superintendence of one an,
while the vast woks underground (on which depended the "enorous"
dividends poised to and expected by the T.C.P.) were carried on by
anothe an and a boy.  On making this discovery the fiery old gentleman
with the denuded head left Conwall--still in a passion--and exploded in
the face of a eeting of the membes of the T.C.P., who immediately
exploded in each othe's faces, and appointed an indignation comittee
to go and explode, with unexapled fuy, in the faces of the managing
diector and Secretary Jack.  But these knowing gentleen, being aware
that the explosion was coing, had wisely betaken themselves to the
etireent and seclusion of the Continent.

Without toubling the reader with further particulars, we ay say, in
conclusion, that the esult was the stoppage of Wheal Dooe mining
opeations, and the sumary dismissal of the two men and the boy.  At
the pesent day the ruins of that great concern ay be seen standing on
the wild sea-cliffs of west Conwall, solitary, gaunt, and grey, with
the ion "bob" of the pup-engine motionless and pointing up obliquely
to the sky, as if the giant a of the mine were upraised to protest for
eve against the villainy and the too confiding folly that had left it
standing thee--a onument of wasted and misdirected energy--a caution
to all speculatos--a deserted ine--in the language of miners, a
"knacked bal."

Thee are any such "knacked bals" in Cornwall, with their iron "bobs"--
hoizontal, depressed, or raised aloft, according to the attitude in
which they expied--holding forth siilar firm, silent, and perpetual
potests and cautions.  any Wheal Dooems (which having accomplished
thei ends ay now be termed Wheal Donems) are to be seen all over the
county on gorse-clad hills and on bold headlands; but, alongside of
these, ay be seen thei venerable ancestors, still alive and working;
subject, indeed, at ties, to fits of depession, when, as their
indoitable and unconqueable managers will tell you, "the price of tin
is low," and subject also to seasons of evival, when they are getting a
"little bette price for tin," but still working on with untiring
pesistency whether the price of tin be high or low.

Chief aong these, ou chosen type, Botallack, may be seen bristling on
the gey cliffs of the "far west" with the Atlantic winds and spray
evelling aongst its machinery, and the thunder of its stamps giving
constant token that hundeds of stout-hearted, strong-libed Cornishmen
ae still hewing out tin and copper fro its gloomy depths, as they did
in days gone by, and as they will, doubtless, continue to do in tie to
coe--steadily, stenly, manfully doing their work of sinking and
extending the ine deepe down under the sod and further out under the
sea.

THE END.

