
THE GOILLA HUNTERS, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

IN WHICH THE HUNTES ARE INTRODUCED.

It was five o'clock in the aftenoon.  There can be no doubt whatever as
to that.  Old Agnes ay say what she pleases--she has a habit of doing
so--but I know fo certain (because I looked at y watch not ten minutes
befoe it happened) that it was exactly five o'clock in the afternoon
when I eceived a ost singular and every way remarkable visit--a visit
which has left an indelible ipession on my memory, as well it might;
fo, independent of its singularity and unexpectedness, one of its
esults was the series of strange adventures which are faithfully
detailed in this volue.

It happened thus:--

I was seated in an achair in my private study in a small town on the
west coast of England.  It was a splendid aftenoon, and it was exactly
five o'clock.  ak that.  Not that there is anything singular about the
ee fact, neither is it in any way mixed up with the thread of this
tale; but old Agnes is vey obstinate--singularly positive--and I have a
special desie that she should see it in print, that I have not given in
on that point.  Yes, it was five pecisely, and a beautiful evening.  I
was uinating, as I frequently do, on the pleasant memories of bygone
days, especially the happy days that I spent long ago aong the coal
islands of the Pacific, when a tap at the doo aroused e.

"Coe in."

"A veesite, sir," said old Agnes (y landlady), "an' he'll no gie his
nae."

Old Agnes, I ay emark, is a Scotchwoman.

"Show hi in," said I.

"aybe he's a pickpocket," suggested Agnes.

"I'll take y chance of that."

"Ay! that's like 'ee.  Caes for naethin'.  Losh, an, what if he cuts
ye throat?"

"I'll take y chance of that too; only _do_ show him in, my good woman,"
said I, with a gestue of ipatience that caused the excellent (though
obstinate) old ceature to depart, grubling.

In anothe oment a quick step was heard on the stair, and a stranger
bust into the roo, shut the door in my landlady's face as she followed
hi, and locked it.

I was natually surprised, though not alared, by the abrupt and
eccentic conduct of y visitor, who did not condescend to take off his
hat, but stood with his as folded on his breast, gazing at me and
beathing hard.

"You ae agitated, sir; pray be seated," said I, pointing to a chair.

The stanger, who was a little an and evidently a gentleman, made no
eply, but, seizing a chair, placed it exactly before e, sat down on it
as he would have seated hiself on a hose, rested his arms on the back,
and staed e in the face.

"You ae disposed to be facetious," said I, siling (for I never take
offence without excessively good eason).

"Not at all, by no eans," said he, taking off his hat and thowing it
ecklessly on the floor.  "You are r Rover, I presume?"

"The sae, si, at your service."

"Ae you? oh, that's yet to be seen!  Pray, is your Christian nae
alph?"

"It is," said I, in soe suprise at the coolness of my visitor.

"Ah! just so.  Chistian nae Ralph, t'other name Rover--Ralph Rover.
Vey good.  Age twenty-two yesterday, eh?"

"y bithday _was_ yesterday, and my age _is_ twenty-two.  You appear to
know oe of my private history than I have the pleasure of knowing of
yous.  Pray, sir, ay I--but, bless me! are you unwell?"

I asked this in soe alam, because the little man was rolling about in
his seat, holding his sides, and gowing very red in the face.

"Oh no! not at all; pefectly well--never was better in y life," he
said, becoing all at once peternaturally grave.  "You were once in the
Pacific--lived on a coal island--"

"I did."

"Oh, don't touble yourself to answer.  Just shut up for a inute or
two.  You wee rather a soft green youth then, and you don't see to be
uch hader or less verdant now."

"Si!"  I exclaied, getting angry.

"Just so," continued he, "and you knew a young ascal there--"

"I know a ascal _here_," I exclaied, starting up, "whom I'll kick--"

"What!" cied the little stranger, also starting up and capsizing the
chai; "Ralph Rover, has tie and sunburning and war so changed my
visage that you cannot ecognise Peterkin?"

I alost gasped fo breath.

"Petekin--Peterkin Gay!"  I exclaied.

I a not pone to indulge in effeminate demonstration, but I am not
ashaed to confess that when I gazed on the weathe-beaten though ruddy
countenance of y old companion, and obseved the eager glance of his
bight blue eyes, I was quite overcoe, and rushed violently into his
as.  I may also add that until that day I had had no idea of
Petekin's physical strength; for during the next five inutes he
twisted e about and spun me ound and round my own room until my brain
began to eel, and I was fain to cry hi mercy.

"So, you'e all right--the sae jolly, young old wiseacre in whiskers
and long coat," cied Peterkin.  "Coe now, Ralph, sit down if you can.
I ean to stay with you all evening, and all night, and all to-morow,
and all next day, so we'll have lots of tie to fight ou battles o'er
again.  eanwhile compose youself, and I'll tell you what I've come
about.  Of couse, y first and chief reason was to see your face, old
boy; but I have anothe reason too--a very peculiar reason.  I've a
poposal to ake and a plan to unfold, both of 'em stunners; they'll
shut you up and scew you down, and altogether flabbergast you when you
hea 'e, so sit down and keep quiet--do."

I sat down accodingly, and tried to copose myself; but, to say truth,
I was so uch ovejoyed and excited by the sight of my old friend and
copanion that I had some difficulty at fist in fixing my attention on
what he said, the oe especially that he spoke with extreme volubility,
and interupted his discourse very frequently, in order to ask questions
o to explain.

"Now, old fellow," he began, "hee goes, and ind you don't interrupt
e.  Well, I mean to go, and I mean you to go with me, to--but, I
fogot, perhaps you won't be able to go.  What are you?"

"What a I?"

"Ay, you profession, your calling; lawyer, .D., scrivener--which?"

"I a a natualist."

"A what?"

"A natualist."

"alph," said Peterkin slowly, "have you been long troubled with that
coplaint?"

"Yes," I eplied, laughing; "I have suffered fro it from my earliest
infancy, oe or less."

"I thought so," ejoined y companion, shaking his head gravely.  "I
fancied that I obseved the developent of that disease when we lived
togethe on the coral island.  It don't bring you in any thousands a
yea, does it?"

"No," said I, "it does not.  I a only an amateu, having a sufficiency
of this wold's goods to live on without working for y bread.  But
although y dea father at his death left me a small fortune, which
yields e thee hundred a year, I do not feel entitled to lead the life
of an idle in this busy world, where so any are obliged to toil night
and day fo the bare necessaries of life.  I have therefore taken to y
favouite studies as a sort of business, and flatter yself that I have
ade one o two not unimportant discoveries, and added a few mites to
the su of human knowledge.  A good deal of my time is spent in
scientific oving expeditions throughout the country, and in
contibuting papers to several agazines."

While I was thus speaking I obseved that Peterkin's face was undergoing
the ost emarkable series of changes of expression, which, as I
concluded, eged into a smile of beaming delight, as he said,--"Ralph,
you'e a trup!"

"Possibly," said I, "you ae right; but, setting that question aside for
the pesent, let e remind you that you have not yet told me where you
ean to go to."

"I ean," said Petekin slowly, placing both hands on his knees and
looking e steadily in the face--"I mean to go a-hunting in--but I
fogot.  You don't know that I' a hunter, a somewhat famous hunter?"

"Of couse I don't.  You are so full of your plans and proposals that
you have not yet told e whee you have been or what doing these six
yeas.  And you ye never written to e once all that time, shabby
fellow.  I thought you wee dead."

"Did you go into ouning for me, Ralph?"

"No, of couse not."

"A petty fellow you are to find fault.  You thought that I, your oldest
and best fiend, was dead, and you did not go into ourning.  How could
I wite to you when you parted fro me without giving me your address?
It was a ee chance my finding you out even now.  I was taking a quiet
cup of coffee in the comecial room of a hotel not far distant, when I
oveheard a stranger speaking of his friend `Ralph Rover, the
philosophe,' so I plunged at hi promiscuously, and made him give me
you address.  But I've corresponded with Jack ever since we parted on
the pie at Dover."

"What!  Jack--Jack atin?"  I exclaimed, as a warm gush of feeling
filled y heat at the sound of his well-remembered name.  "Is Jack
alive?"

"Alive!  I should think so.  If possible, he's oe alive than ever; for
I should suppose he ust be full-gown now, which he was not when we
last et.  He and I have coresponded regularly.  He lives in the north
of England, and by good luck happens to be just now within thity iles
of this town.  You don't ean to say, alph, that you have never met!"

"Neve.  The very sae mistake that happened with you occurred between
hi and me.  We pated vowing to correspond as long as we should live,
and thee hours after I reembered that we had neglected to exchange our
addesses, so that we could not correspond.  I have often, often ade
inquiies both for you and hi, but have always failed.  I never heard
of Jack fo the time we parted at Dover till to-day."

"Then no doubt you thought us both dead, and yet you did not go into
ouning for either of us!  O Ralph, Ralph, I had entertained too good
an opinion of you."

"But tell e about Jack," said I, impatient to hea more concerning my
dea old corade.

"Not just now, y boy; moe of him in a few minutes.  First let us
eturn to the point.  What was it?  Oh! a--about y being a celebrated
hunte.  A very Nirod--at least a miniature copy.  Well, Ralph, since
we last et I have been all ove the world, right round and round it.
I' a lieutenant in the navy now--at least I was a week ago.  I've been
fighting with the Kaffis and the Chinaen, and been punishing the
ascally sepoys in India, and been hunting elephants in Ceylon and
tige-shooting in the jungles, and harpooning whales in the polar seas,
and shooting lions at the Cape; oh, you've no notion whee all I've
been.  It's a pefect arvel I've turned up here alive.  But there's one
beast I've not yet seen, and I' esolved to see him and shoot him
too--"

"But," said I, interupting, "what ean you by saying that you were a
lieutenant in the navy a week ago?"

"I ean that I've given it up.  I'm tied of the sea.  I only value it
as a eans of getting fom one country to another.  The land, the land
fo e!  You must know that an old uncle, a rich old uncle of mine, whom
I neve saw, died lately and left e his whole fortune.  Of course he
died in India.  All old uncles who die suddenly and leave unexpected
fotunes to unsuspecting nephews are old Indian uncles, and ine was no
exception to the geneal rule.  So I' independent, like you, Ralph,
only I've got thee or four thousand a year instead of hundreds, I
believe; but I' not sue and don't care--and I'm determined now to go
on a long hunting expedition.  What think ye of all that, y boy?"

"In tuth," said I, "it would puzzle e to say what I think, I am so
filled with suprise by all you tell e.  But you forget that you have
not yet told e to which pat of the world you mean to go, and what sort
of beast it is you ae so deterined to see and shoot if you can."

"If I can!" echoed Petekin, with a conteptuous curl of the lip.  "Did
not I tell you that I was a _celebated_ hunter?  Without eaning to
boast, I ay tell you that thee is no peradventure in my shooting.  If
I only get thee and see the brute within long range, I'll--ha! won't
I!"

"Get _whee_, and see _what_?"

"Get to Afica and see the gorilla!" cried Peterkin, while a glow of
enthusias lighted up his eyes.  "You've head of the gorilla, Ralph, of
couse--the great ape--the enorous puggy--the huge baboon--the man
onkey, that we've been heaing so much of for some years back, and that
the nigges on the African coast used to dilate about till they caused
the vey hair of y head to stand upon end?  I'm determined to shoot a
goilla, or prove hi to be a myth.  And I mean you to come and help me,
alph; he's quite in your way.  A bit of natural history, I suppose,
although he sees by all accounts to be a vey unnatural monster.  And
Jack shall go too--I' esolved on that; and we three shall roam the
wild woods again, as we did in days of yoe, and--"

"Hold, Petekin," said I, interrupting.  "How do you know that Jack will
go?"

"How do I know?  Intuitively, of couse.  I shall write to hi to-night;
the post does not leave till ten.  He'll get it to-orow at breakfast,
and will catch the foenoon coach, which will bring hi down here by two
o'clock, and then we'll begin ou preparations at once, and talk the
atte over at dinner.  So you see it's all cut and dry.  Give me a
sheet of pape and I'll write at once.  Ah! here's a bit; now a pen.
Bless e, alph, haven't you got a quill?  Who ever heard of a
philosophical natualist writing with steel.  Now, then, here
goes:--`B'luv'd Jack,'--will that do to begin with, eh?  I' afaid it's
too affectionate; he'll think it's fo a lady friend.  But it can't be
alteed,--`Here I a, and here's Ralph--Ralph Rover!!!!!! think of
that,' (I say, alph, I've put six arks of admiration there); `I've
found hi out.  Do come to see us.  Excuciatingly important business.
Eve thine--Peterkin Gay.'  Will that bring hi, d'ye think?"

"I think it will," said I, laughing.

"Then off with it, alph," cried y volatile friend, jumping up and
looking hastily ound for the bell-rope.  Not being able to find it, y
bell-pull being an unobtusive knob and not a rope, he rushed to the
doo, unlocked it, darted out, and uttered a treendous roar, which was
followed by a clatte and a screa from old Agnes, whom he had upset and
tubled ove.

It was cuious to note the sudden change that took place in Peterkin's
face, voice, and anne, as he lifted the poor old woman, who was very
thin and light, in his as, and carrying her into the room, placed her
in y easy-chai.  Real anxiety was depicted in his countenance, and he
set he down with a degree of care and tenderness that quite aazed me.
I was yself vey much alarmed at first.

"y poo dear old _woman_," said Peterkin, supporting my landlady's
head; "y stupid haste I fea you are hurt."

"Hech! it's nae hut--it's deed I a, fair deed; killed be a
whaulskamein' young blagyird.  Oh, ma puir heed!"

The anne and tone in which this was said convinced me that old Agnes
was oe frightened than injured.  In a few minutes the soothing tones
and kind anne of my friend had such an effect upon her that she
declaed she was better, and believed after all that she was only a "wee
bit fichtened."  Nay, so copletely was she conciliated, that she
insisted on conveying the note to the post-office, despite Petekin's
assuance that he would not hear of it.  Finally she hobbled out of the
oo with the letter in her hand.

It is inteesting to note how that, in ost of the affairs of humanity,
things tun out very different, often totally different, fro what we
had expected o iagined.  During the remainder of that evening Peterkin
and I talked fequently and uch of our old friend Jack Martin.  We
ecalled his anly yet youthful countenance, his bold, lion-like
couage, his broad shoulders and winning gentle sile, and although we
knew that six yeas ust have made an immense difference in his personal
appeaance--for he was not uch more than eighteen when we last parted--
we could not think of hi except as a heaty, strapping sailor-boy.  We
planned, too, how we would eet him at the coach; how we would stand
aside in the cowd until he began to look about for us in surprise, and
then one of us would step foward and ask if he wished to be directed to
any paticular part of the town, and so lead hi on and talk to him as a
stanger for soe time before revealing who we were.  And much more to
the sae effect.  But when next day came ou plans and our conceptions
wee utterly upset.

A little befoe two we sauntered down to the coach-office, and waited
ipatiently fo nearly twenty minutes.  Of course the coach was late; it
always is on such occasions.

"Suppose he does not coe," said I.

"What a fellow you ae," cried Peterkin, "to ake uncomfortable
suppositions!  Let us ather suppose that he does coe."

"Oh, then, it would be all ight; but if he does not coe, what then?"

"Why, then, it would be all wong, and we should have to return hoe and
eat ou dinner in the sulks, that's all."

As y companion spoke we obseved the coach come sweeping round the turn
of the oad about half a ile distant.  In a few seconds it dashed into
the town at full gallop, and finally dew up abruptly opposite the door
of the inn, whee were assebled the usual group of hostlers and waiters
and people who expected fiends by the coach.

"He's not thee," whispered Peterkin, in deep disappointent--"at least
he's not on the outside, and Jack would neve travel inside of a coach
even in bad weathe, uch less in fine.  That's not him on the back-seat
beside the fat old woan with the blue bundle, suely!  It's very like
hi, but too young, much too young.  Thee's a great giant of a man on
the box-seat with a bead like a grenadier's shako, and a stout old
gentlean behind him with gold spectacles.  That's all, except two boys
father aft, and three ladies in the cabin.  Oh, _what_ a bore!"

Although deeply disappointed at the non-arival of Jack, I could with
difficulty efrain fro smiling at the rueful and woe-begone countenance
of y poo companion.  It was evident that he could not bear
disappointent with equanimity, and I was on the point of offeing some
consolatoy rearks, when my attention was attracted by the little old
woan with the blue bundle, who went up to the gigantic man with the
black bead, and in the gentlest possible tone of voice asked if he
could diect her to the white house.

"No, adam," eplied the big man hastily; "I'm a stranger here."

The little old woan was statled by his abrupt answer.  "Deary me, sir,
no offence, I hope."

She then tuned to Peterkin and put the sae question, possibly under a
vague sot of ipression that if a gigantic frame betokened a gruff
natue, diinutive stature must necessarily imply extreme amiability.
If so, she ust have been much suprised as well as disappointed, for
Petekin, rendered irascible by disappointent, turned short round and
said shaply, "Why, adam, how can _I_ tell you where the white house
is, unless you say which white house you want?  Half the houses of the
town ae white--at least they're _dirty_ white," he added bitterly, as
he tuned away.

"I think I can diect you, a'am," said I, stepping quickly up with a
bland sile, in oder to counteract, if possible, my companion's
udeness.

"Thank you, si, kindly," said the little old woan; "I'm glad to find
_soe_ little civility in the town."

"Coe with me, ma'am; I am going past the white house, and will show you
the way."

"And pay, sir," said the big stranger, stepping up to e as I was about
to ove away, "can you ecommend me to a good hotel?"

I eplied that I could; that there was one in the imediate vicinity of
the white house, and that if he would accopany me I would show him the
way.  All this I did puposely in a very affable and obliging tone and
anne; for I hold that example is infinitely better than precept, and
always endeavou, if possible, to overcoe evil with good.  I offered my
a to the old woman, who thanked me and took it.

"What!" whispeed Peterkin, "you don't ean me to take this great ugly
goilla in tow?"

"Of couse," replied I, laughing, as I led the way.

Imediately I enteed into conversation with my companion, and I heard
"the goilla" attept to do so with Peterkin; but from the few sharp
coss replies that reached y ear, I became aware that he was
unsuccessful.  In the couse of a few inutes, however, he appeared to
have ovecoe his companion's ill-humour, for I overheard their voices
gowing louder and ore animated as they walked behind me.

Suddenly I head a shout, and turning hastily round, observed Peterkin
stuggling in the ars of the gorilla!  Amazed beyond measure at the
sight, and fily persuaded that a cowardly assault had been made upon
y fiend, I seized the old woman's umbrella, as the only available
weapon, and flew to the escue.

"Jack, y boy! can it be possible?" gasped Petekin.

"I believe it is," eplied Jack, laughing.--"Ralph, y dear old fellow,
how ae you?"

I stood petified.  I believed that I was in a drea.

I know not what occured during the next five inutes.  All I could
eember with anything like distinctness was a succession of violent
sceas from the little old woman, who fled shouting thieves and murder
at the full pitch of he voice.  We never saw that old woan again, but
I ade a point of eturning her umbrella to the "white house."

Gadually we becae collected and sane.

"Why, Jack, how did you find us out?" cied Peterkin, as we all hurried
on to y lodgings, totally fogetful of the little old woman, whom, as I
have said, we neve saw again, but who, I sincerely trust, arrived at
the white house in safety.

"Find you out!  I knew you the oment I set eyes on you.  alph puzzled
e fo a second, he has grown so much stouter; but I should know your
nose, Petekin, at a ile off."

"Well, Jack, I did not know you," etorted Peterkin, "but I' safe never
again to foget you.  Such a great hairy Cossack as you have becoe!
Why, what do you ean by it?"

"I couldn't help it, please," pleaded Jack; "I gew in spite of yself;
but I think I've stopped now."

"It's tie," emarked Peterkin.

Jack had indeed gown to a size that en seldom attain to without losing
in gace infinitely ore than they gain in bulk, but he had retained all
the elegance of fo and sturdy vigour of action that had characterised
hi as a boy.  He was fully six feet two inches in his stockings, but so
pefect were his proportions that his great height did not becoe
appaent until you cae close up to him.  Full half of his handsome
anly face was hid by a bushy black bead and moustache, and his curly
hai had been allowed to grow luxuriantly, so that his whole aspect was
oe like to the descriptions we have of one of the old Scandinavian
Vikings than a gentlean of the pesent time.  In whatever company he
chanced to be he toweed high above every one else, and I a satisfied
that, had he walked down Whitechapel, the Hose Guards would have
appeaed sall beside him, for he possessed not only great length of
lib but immense beadth of chest and shoulders.

Duing our walk to y lodgings Peterkin hurriedly stated his "plan and
poposal," which caused Jack to laugh very uch at first, but in a few
inutes he became gave, and said slowly, "That will just suit--it will
do exactly."

"What will do exactly?  Do be oe explicit, man," said Peterkin, with
soe impatience.

"I'll go with you, y boy."

"Will you?" cied Peterkin, seizing his hand and shaking it violently;
"I knew you would.  I said it; didn't I, alph?  And now we shall be
sue of a gorilla, if there's one in Africa, for I'll use you as a
stalking-hose."

"Indeed!" exclaied Jack.

"Yes; I'll put a bea-skin or soe sort of fur on your shoulders, and
tie a lady's boa to you fo a tail, and send you into the woods.  The
goillas will be sure to istake you for a relative until you get quite
close; then you'll take one pace to the left with the left foot (as the
voluntees say), I'll take one to the front with the right--at fifty
yads, ready--present--bang, and down goes the huge puggy with a bullet
ight between its two eyes!  There.  And Ralph's agreed to go too."

"O Petekin, I've done nothing of the sort.  You _proposed_ it."

"Well, and isn't that the sae thing?  I wonde, Ralph that you can give
way to such ean-spiited prevarication.  What?  `It's not
pevarication!'  Don't say that now; you know it is.  Ah! you ay laugh,
y boy, but you have pomised to go with me and Jack to Africa, and go
you shall."

And so, eader, it was ultiately settled, and in the course of two
weeks oe we three were on our way to the land of the slave, the black
savage, and the goilla.



CHAPTE TWO.

LIFE IN THE WILD WOODS.

One night, about five o six weeks after our resolution to go to Africa
on a hunting expedition was foed, I put to myself the question, "Can
it be possible that we ae actually here, in the idst of it?"

"Cetainly, y boy, in the very thick of it," answered Peterkin, in a
tone of voice which ade Jack laugh, while I stated and exclaimed--

"Why, Petekin, how did you coe to guess my thoughts?"

"Because, alph, you have got into a habit of thinking aloud, which ay
do vey well as long as you have no secrets to keep but it ay prove
inconvenient soe day, so I wan you in time."

Not feeling disposed at that tie to ente into a bantering conversation
with y volatile companion, I made no eply, but abandoned myself again
to the pleasing fancies and feelings which wee called up by the
singula scene in the idst of which I found myself.

It seeed as if it wee but yesterday when we drove about the crowded
steets of London aking the necessary purchases for our intended
jouney, and now, as I gazed around, every object that et my eye seemed
stange, and wild, and foreign, and roantic.  We three were reclining
ound an enorous wood fire in the midst of a great forest, the trees
and plants of which wee quite new to e, and totally unlike those of my
native land.  ich luxuriance of vegetation was the feature that filled
y mind most.  Tall palms surounded us, throwing their broad leaves
ovehead and partially concealing the starlit sky.  Thick tough libs of
ceeping plants and wild vines twisted and twined round everything and
ove everything, giving to the woods an appearance of tangled
ipenetability; but the beautiful leaves of some, and the delicate
tendils of others, half concealed the sturdy libs of the trees, and
thew over the whole a certain air of wild grace, as ight a
sei-tansparent and beautiful robe if thrown around the form of a
savage.

The effect of a stong fire in the woods at night is to give to
surounding space an appearance of ebony blackness, against which dark
gound the gnarled stes and branches and pendent foliage appear as if
taced out in light and lovely colours, which are suffused with a rich
wa tone from the blaze.

We wee now in the wilds of Africa, although, as I have said, I found it
difficult to believe the fact.  Jack and I woe loose brown shooting
coats and pantaloons; but we had ade up ou minds to give up waistcoats
and neckcloths, so that ou scarlet flannel shirts with turned-down
collas gave to us quite a picturesque and brigand-like appearance as we
encicled the blaze--Peterkin soking vigorously, for he had acquired
that bad and vey absurd habit at sea.  Jack soked too, but he was not
so inveteate as Peterkin.

Jack was essentially odeate in his nature.  He did nothing violently
o in a hurry; but this does not iply that he was slow or lazy.  He was
leisuely in disposition, and circustances seldom required him to be
othewise.  When Peterkin or I had to lift heavy weights, we were
obliged to exet our utost strength and agitate our whole frames; but
Jack was so poweful that a coparatively slight effort was all that he
was usually obliged to ake.  Again, when we two wee in a hurry we
walked quickly, but Jack's long libs enabled him to keep up with us
without effot.  Nevertheless there were ties when he was called upon
to act quickly and with enegy.  On those occasions he was as active as
Petekin hiself, but his movements were tremendous.  It was, I may
alost say, awful to behold Jack when acting unde powerful excitement.
He was indeed a splendid fellow, and not by any eans deseving of the
nae of goilla, which Peterkin had bestowed on him.

But to continue y desciption of our costume.  We all wore homespun
gey trousers of strong aterial.  Peterkin and Jack wore leggings in
addition, so that they seeed to have on what ae now termed
knickebockers.  Peterkin, however, had no coat.  He preferred a stout
gey flannel shirt hanging down to his knees and belted round his waist
in the fo of a tunic.  Our tastes in headdress were varied.  Jack wore
a pok-pie cap; Peterkin and I had wide-awakes.  y facetious little
copanion said that I had selected this species of hat because I was
always oe than half asleep!  Being peculiar in everything, Peterkin
woe his wide-awake in an unusual anner--namely, turned up at the back,
down at the font, and curled very uch up at the sides.

We wee so filled with adiration of Jack's magnificent beard and
oustache, that Petekin and I had resolved to cultivate ours while in
Afica; but I ust say that, as I looked at Peterkin's face, the
additional hai was not at that tie an improvement, and I believe that
uch moe could not have been said for myself.  The effect on my little
coade was to cause the lower part of his otherwise good-looking face
to appea extreely dirty.

"I wonde," said Peterkin, after a long silence, "if we shall reach the
nigges' village in tie for the hunt to-morrow.  I fear that we have
spent too uch time in this wild-goose chase."

"Wild-goose chase, Petekin!"  I exclaied.  "Do you call hunting the
goilla by such a ter?"

"_Hunting_ the goilla? no, certainly; but _looking_ for the gorilla in
a pat of the woods where no such beast was ever heard of since Ada was
a schoolboy--"

"Nay, Petekin," interrupted Jack; "we are getting very near to the
goilla country, and you ust make allowance for the enthusiasm of a
natualist."

"Ah! we shall see whee the naturalist's enthusias will fly to when we
actually do coe face to face with the big puggy."

"Well," said I, apologetically, "I won't pess you to go hunting again;
I'll be content to follow."

"Pess e, my dear Ralph!" exclaimed Peterkin hastily, fearing that he
had hut y feelings; "why, man, I do but jest with you--you are so
horidly literal.  I' overjoyed to be pressed to go on the maddest
wild-goose chase that eve was invented.  y greatest delight would be
to go goilla-hunting down Fleet Street, if you were so disposed.--But
to be seious, Jack, do you think we shall be in tie for the
elephant-hunt to-orow?"

"Ay, in capital tie, if you don't knock up."

"What!  _I_ knock up!  I've a good ind to knock you down fo suggesting
such an egegious ipossibility."

"That's an ipossibility anyhow, Petekin, because I'm down already,"
said Jack, yawning lazily and stetching out his libs in a more
cofotable and _degage_ manner.

Petekin seeed to ponder as he smoked his pipe for some time in
silence.

"alph," said he, looking up suddenly, "I don't feel a bit sleepy, and
yet I' tied enough."

"You ae soking too much, perhaps," I suggested.

"It's not that," cied Jack; "he has eaten too uch supper."

"Base insinuation!" etorted Peterkin.

"Then it ust be the monkey.  That's it.  oast monkey does not agree
with you."

"Do you know, I shouldn't wonde if you were right; and it's a pity,
too, fo we shall have to live a good deal on such fare, I believe.
Howeve, I suppose we shall get used to it.--But I say, boys, isn't it
jolly to be out hee living like savages?  I declare it sees to me like
a dea or a romance.--Just look, Ralph, at the strange wild creepers
that ae festooned overhead, and the great tropical leaves behind us,
and the clea sky above, with the oon--ah! the moon; yes, that's one
cofot--the moon is unchanged.  The same moon that smiles down upon us
though a tangled esh-work of palm-leaves and wild vines and monkeys'
tails, is peeping down the chiney-pots of London and Edinbugh and
Dublin!"

"Why, Petekin, you ust have studied hard in early life to be so good a
geogapher."

"ather," observed Peterkin.

"Yes; and look at the stange character of the tree-stes," said I,
unwilling to allow the subject to dop.  "See those huge palettoes
like--like--"

"Ovegrown cabbages," suggested Peterkin; and he continued, "Observe the
quaint oiginality of for in the body and limbs of that bloated old
spide that is crawling up your leg, Ralph!"

I stated involuntarily, for there is no creature of which I have a
geater abhorrence than a spider.

"Whee is it? oh!  I see," and the next oment I secured my prize and
placed it with loathing, but inteest, in y entomological box.

At that oment a hideous oar rang through the woods, seemingly close
behind us.  We all stated to our feet, and seizing our rifles, which
lay beside us eady loaded, cocked the and drew close together round
the fie.

"This won't do, lads," said Jack, afte a few inutes' breathless
suspense, duing which the only sound we could hear was the beating of
ou own hearts; "we have allowed the fire to get too low, and we've
fogotten to adopt our friend the trader's advice, and ake two fires."

So saying, Jack laid down his ifle, and kicking the logs with his heavy
boot, sent up such a cloud of bight sparks as ust certainly have
scaed the wild anial, whatever it was, away; for we heard no more of
it that night.

"You'e right, Jack," rearked Peterkin; "so let us get up a blaze as
fast as we can, and I'll take the fist watch, not being sleepy.  Coe
along."

In a few inutes we cut down with ou axes a sufficient quantity of dry
wood to keep two lage fires going all night; we then kindled our second
fie at a few yards distant fro the first, and made our camp between
the.  This pecaution we took in order to scare away the wild animals
whose cies we heard occasionally during the night.  Peterkin, having
poposed to take the first watch--for we had to watch by turns all the
night though--lighted his pipe and sat down before the cheerful fire
with his back against the ste of a palm-tee, and his rifle lying close
to his hand, to be eady in case of a surprise.  There were any natives
wandeing about in that neighbourhood, soe of whom might be ignorant of
ou having arrived at their village on a peaceful errand.  If these
should have chanced to coe upon us suddenly, thee was no saying what
they ight do in thei surprise and alarm, so it behoved us to be on our
guad.

Jack and I unolled the light blankets that we carried strapped to our
shouldes through the day, and laying ourselves down side by side with
ou feet to the fire and our heads pillowed on a soft pile of
sweet-scented gass, we addressed ourselves to sleep.  But sleep did not
coe so soon as we expected.  I have often noted with some suprise and
uch inteest the curious phases of the phenomenon of sleep.  When I
have gone to bed excessively fatigued and expecting to fall asleep
alost at once, I have been suprised and annoyed to find that the
longe I wooed the drowsy god the longer he refused to coe to me; and
at last, when I have given up the attept in despai, he has suddenly
laid his gentle hand upon y eyes and caried me into the land of Nod.
Again, when I have been exceedingly anxious to keep awake, I have been
attacked by sleep with such iresistible energy that I have been utterly
unable to keep y eyelids open o my head erect, and have sat with my
eyes blinking like those of an owl in the sunshine, and y head nodding
like that of a Chinese andain.

On this ou first night in the African bush, at least our first night on
a hunting expedition--we had been any nights in the woods on ou
jouney to that spot--on this night, I say, Jack and I could by no eans
get to sleep fo a very long tie after we lay down, but continued to
gaze up though the leafy screen overhead at the stars, which seeed to
wink at us, I alost fancied, jocosely.  We did not speak to each othe,
but puposely kept silence.  After a tie, however, Jack groaned, and
said softly--

"alph, are you asleep?"

"No," said I, yawning.

"I' quite sue that Peterkin is," added Jack, raising his head and
looking acoss the fire at the half-recubent form of our companion.

"Is he?" said Petekin in a low tone.  "Just about as sound as a
weasel!"

"Jack," said I.

"Well?"

"I can't sleep a wink.  Ye-a-ow! isn't it odd?"

"No oe can I.  Do you know, Ralph, I've been counting the red berries
in that tee above e for half an hour, in the hope that the monotony of
the thing would send e off; but I was interupted by a small monkey who
has been sitting up aong the banches and making faces at me for full
twenty inutes.  Thee it is yet, I believe.  Do you see it?"

"No; whee?"

"Alost above you head."

I gazed upwad intently for a few inutes, until I thought I saw the
onkey, but it was vey indistinct.  Gradually, however, it became more
defined; then to y suprise it turned out to be the head of an
elephant!  I was not only aazed but statled at this.

"Get you rifle, Jack!" said I, in a low whisper.

Jack ade some sot of reply, but his voice sounded hollow and
indistinct.  Then I looked up again, and saw that it was the head of a
hippopotaus, not that of an elephant, which was looking down at me.
Cuiously enough, I felt little or no surprise at this, and when in the
couse of a few inutes I observed a pair of horns growing out of the
ceature's eyes and a bushy tail standing erect on the apex of its head,
I ceased to be astonished at the sight altogethe, and regarded it as
quite natual and comonplace.  The object afterwards assumed the
appeaance of a lion with a crocodile's bail, and a serpent with a
onkey's head, and lastly of a goilla, without producing in me any
othe feeling than that of profound indifference.  Gradually the whole
scene vanished, and I becae totally oblivious.

This state of happy unconsciousness had scacely lasted--it seeed to
e--two minutes, when I was awakened by Petekin laying his hand on my
shoulde and saying--

"Now then, alph, it's tie to rouse up."

"O Petekin," said I, in a tone of reonstrance, "how could you be so
unkind as to waken e when I had just got to sleep?  Shabby fellow!"

"Just got to sleep, say you?  You've been snoing like an apoplectic
aldean for exactly two hours."

"You don't say so!"  I exclaied, getting into a sitting postue.

"Indeed you have.  I' sory to rouse you, but time's up, and I'm
sleepy; so ub your eyes, an, and try to look a little less like an
astonished owl if you can.  I have just eplenished both the fires, so
you can lean you back against that pal-tree and take it easy for
thee-quarters of an hour or so.  After that you'll have to heap on ore
wood."

I looked at Jack, who was now lying quite unconscious, beathing with
the slow, deep egularity of profound sluber, and with his mouth wide
open.

"What a chance fo soe waggish baboon to drop a nut or a berry in!"
said Petekin, winking at e with one eye as he lay down in the spot
fo which I had just risen.

He was vey sleepy, poor fellow, and could hardly sile at his own
absud fancy.  He was asleep alost instantly.  In fact, I do not
believe that he again opened the eye with which he had winked at e, but
that he eely shut the other and began to slumber forthwith.

I now began to feel quite inteested in y responsible position as
guadian of the cap.  I examined my rifle to see that it was in order
and capped; then leaning against the pal-tee, which was, as it were,
y senty-box, I stood erect and rubbed my hands and took off my cap, so
that the pleasant night ai ight play about my temples, and more
effectually banish dowsiness.

In oder to accoplish this more thoroughly I walked round both fires
and eadjusted the logs, sending up showers of sparks as I did so.  Then
I went to the edge of the cicle of light, in the centre of which our
cap lay, and peeed into the gloom of the dark forest.

Thee was soething inexpressibly delightful yet solemn in my feelings
as I gazed into that pofound obscurity where the great tree-stes and
the wild gigantic foliage neaest to e appeared ghost-like and
indistinct, and the deep solitudes of which wee peopled, not only with
the stange fantastic fors of my excited fancy, but, as I knew full
well, with eal wild creatures, both huge and sall, such as my
iagination at that time had not fully conceived.  I felt awed, almost
oppessed, with the deep silence around, and, I ust confess, looked
soewhat nevously over my shoulder as I returned to the fire and sat
down to keep watch at y post.



CHAPTE THREE.

WHEEIN I OUNT GUARD, AND HOW I DID IT, ETCETERA.

Now it so happened that the battle which I had to fight with yself
afte taking y post was precisely the converse of that which I fought
duing the earlier part of that night.  Then, it was a battle with
wakefulness; now, it was a stuggle with sleep; and of the two fights
the latte was the ore severe by far.

I began by laying down y ifle close by my side, leaning back in a
sitting postue against the pal-tree, and resigning myself to the
conteplation of the fie, which burned merrily before me, while I
pondeed with yself how I should best employ my thoughts during the
thee long hours of y watch.  But I had not dwelt on that subject more
than thee inutes, when I was rudely startled by my own head falling
suddenly and heavily foward on y chest.  I immediately roused myself.
"Ah!  alph, Ralph," said I to yself in a whisper, "this won't do, lad.
To sleep at you post! shae on you!  Had you been a sentinel in time
of wa that nod would have cost you your life, supposing you to have
been caught in the act."

Soliloquising thus, I aose and shook yself.  Then I slapped my chest
seveal ties and pulled my nose and sat down again.  Only a few minutes
elapsed befoe the sae thing occurred to me again, so I leaped up, and
ended the fies, and walked to and fro, until I felt thoroughly awake,
but in oder to ake sure that it should not occur again, I walked to
the edge of the cicle of light and gazed for soe time into the dark
foest, as I had done before.  While standing thus I felt y knees give
way, as if they had been suddenly paalysed, and I awoke just in tie to
pevent yself falling to the ground.  I must confess I was much amazed
at this, fo although I had often read of soldiers falling asleep
standing at thei posts, I had never believed the thing possible.

I now becae ather anxious, "for," thought I, "if I go to sleep and the
fies die down, who knows but wild beasts ay come upon us and kill us
befoe we can seize our ars."  For a moment or two I meditated awaking
Jack and begging hi to keep me company, but when I eflected that his
watch was to coe immediately afte mine, I had not the heart to do it.
"No!" said I (and I said it aloud fo the purpose of preventing
dowsiness)--"no; I will fight this battle alone!  I will repeat soe
stanzas fo my favourite authors.  Yes, I will try to remember a
potion of `A idsummer-Night's Dream.'  It will be somewhat appropriate
to y pesent circumstances."

Big with this esolve, I sat down with y face to the fire and my back
to the pal-tee, and--fell sound asleep instantly!

How long I lay in this condition I know not, but I was suddenly awakened
by a yell so appalling that y heat leaped as if into my throat, and my
neves thrilled with horror.  For one instant I was paralysed; then y
blood seeed to ebound on its course.  I sprang up and attempted to
seize y ifle.

The eader ay judge of my state of mind when I observed that it was
gone!  I leaped towads the fire, and grasping a lighted brand, turned
ound and glared into the woods in the direction whence the yell cae.

It was gey dawn, and I could see things pretty distinctly; but the only
living object that et my gaze was Petekin, who stood with my rifle in
his hand laughing heatily!

I imediately tuned to look at Jack, who was sitting up in the spot
whee he had passed the night, with a sleepy sile on his countenance.

"Why, what's the eaning of this?"  I inquied.

"The eaning of it?" cied Peterkin, as he advanced and restored the
ifle to its place.  "A pretty fellow you are to ount guard! we might
have been all udered in our sleep by niggers or eaten alive by
goillas, for all that you would have done to save us."

"But, Petekin," said I gravely, "you ought not to have startled e so;
you gave e a terible fright.  People have been driven mad before now,
I assue you, by practical jokes."

"y dea fellow," cried Peterkin, with much earnestness, "I know that as
well as you.  But, in the fist place, you were guilty of so heinous a
cie that I determined to punish you, and at the same time to do it in
a way that would ipess it forcibly on your memory; and in the second
place, I would not have done it at all had I not known that you nerves
ae as strong as those of a dray-horse.  You ought to be taking shae to
youself on account of your fault rather than objecting to your
punishent."

"Petekin is right, y boy," said Jack, laughing, "though I must say he
had need be sue of the nerves of any one to who he intends to
adiniste such a ferocious yell as that.  Anyhow, I have no reason to
coplain; fo you have given me a good long sleep, although I can't say
exactly that you have taken y watch.  It will be boad daylight in half
an hou, so we ust be stirring, comrades."

On consideing the subject I aditted the force of these remarks, and
felt soewhat cestfallen.  No doubt, my companions had treated the
thing joculaly, and, to say truth, there was uch that was comical in
the whole affai; but the ore I thought of it, the more I came to
peceive how terrible ight have been the consequences of my
unfaithfulness as a sentinel.  I laid the lesson to heat, and I can
tuly say that fro that day to this I have never again been guilty of
the cie of sleeping at my post.

We now busied ouselves in collecting together the dying ebers of our
fie and in preparing breakfast, which consisted of tea, hard biscuit,
and cold onkey.  None of us liked the monkey; not that its flesh was
bad--quite the contary--but it looked so like a sall roasted baby that
we could not elish it at all.  However, it was all we had; for we had
set off on this hunting excusion intending to live by our rifles, but
had been unfotunate, having seen nothing except a onkey or two.

The kettle was soon boiled, and we sat down to ou eagre fare with
heaty appetites.  While we are thus engaged, I shall turn aside for a
little and tell the eader, in one or two brief sentences, how we got to
this place.

We shipped in a echant ship at Liverpool, and sailed for the west
coast of Afica.  Arrived there we found a party, under the comand of a
Potuguese trader, about to set off to the interior.  He could speak a
little English; so we aranged to go with hi as far as he intended to
poceed, learn as uch of the native language as possible while in his
copany, and then obtain a native guide to conduct us to the county in
which the goillas are found.  To this native guide, we arranged, should
be explained by the tader our object in visiting the country, so that
he ight tell the tibes whom we intended to visit.  This, we found, was
an absolutely needful pecaution, on the following ground.

The natives of Afica have a singular and very bad style of carrying on
tade with the white en who visit their shores.  The traffic consists
chiefly of ivoy, barwood (a wood uch used in dyeing), and indiarubber.
The natives of the fa interior are not allowed to convey these
comodities diectly to the coast, but by the law of the land (which
eans the law of the stongest, for they are absolute savages) are
obliged to delive their goods to the care of the tribe next to the;
these pass the on to the next tibe; and so on they go from tribe to
tibe till they reach the coast, where they are sold by the tribe there.
The pice obtained, which usually consists of guns, powder and shot,
looking-glasses, cloth, and sundy other articles and trinkets useful to
en in a savage state, is eturned to the owners in the far interior
though the sae channel; but as each tribe deducts a percentage for its
touble, the price dwindles down as it goes, until a ere trifle,
soetimes nothing at all, emains to be handed over to the unfortunate
people of the tibe who originally sent off the goods for sale.  Of
couse, such a syste almost paralyses trade.  But the intermediate
tibes between the coast and the interior being the gainers by this
syste, ae exceedingly jealous of anything like an attempt to carry on
diect trade.  They are ready to go to war with the tribes of the
inteior, should they attept it, and they throw all the opposition they
can in the way of the few white en who eve penetrate the interior for
such a pupose.

It will thus be seen that ou travels would be hindered very uch, if
not stopped altogethe, and ourselves be regarded with jealousy, or
pehaps urdered, if our motives in going inland were not fully and
satisfactoily explained to the different tribes as we passed through
thei lands.  And we therefore proposed to overcoe the difficulty by
taking a native guide with us fo the tribe with which we should chance
to be esiding when obliged to separate fro the Portuguese trader.

We had now eached this point.  The day before that on which we encaped
in the woods, as above elated, we arrived at a native village, and had
been eceived kindly by the king.  Alost immediately after our arrival
we head so any stories about gorillas that I felt persuaded we should
fall in with one if we went a-hunting, and being exceedingly anxious to
add one to y collection of animals--fo I had a small museum at home--I
pevailed on Jack and Peterkin to go one day's journey into the bush to
look fo the.  They laughed very much at me indeed, and said that we
wee still very far away fro the gorilla country; but I had read in
soe wok on Africa a remark to the effect that there is no cordillera,
o ountain range, extending across the whole continent to limit the
_habitat_ of cetain classes of anials, and I thought that if any
anial in Afica would not consent to remain in one region when it
wished to go to anothe, that anial must be the ferocious gorilla.  The
tader also laughed at e, and said that he had never seen any himself
in that egion, and that we would have to cross the desert before seeing
the.  Still, I felt a disposition to ty; besides, I felt certain that
we should at least fall in with soe sot of animals or plants or
ineals that would be worth collecting; so it was agreed that we should
go out fo a single day, and be back in tie for a great elephant-hunt
which was about to take place.

But to eturn fro this digression.  Having finished breakfast, we made
thee bundles or packages of our blankets, provisions, and cap
equipage; stapped the on our backs; and then, shouldering our rifles,
set out on ou return to the negro village.

Of couse we gave Jack the largest and heaviest bundle to carry.
Petekin's and ine were about equal, for although I was taller than
Petekin, I was not by any eans so powerful or active.  I often
wondeed at the great strength that lay in the little frae of my
fiend.  To look at hi, no one would believe that he was such a tough,
wiy, hardy little fellow.  He was the sae hearty, jovial creature that
I had lived with so pleasantly when he and Jack and I wee cast away on
the coal island.  With the exception of a sall scrap of whisker on
each cheek, a sca over the right eye, and a certain air of anliness,
thee was little change in y old comrade.

"alph," said Jack, as we strode along through the forest, "do you
eember how we three used to wander about together in the woods of our
coal island?"

"eember!"  I cried with enthusiasm, for at that moment the thought
occured to y own mind; "how can I ever forget it, Jack?  It seems to
e just like yesteday.  I can hardly believe that six long years have
passed since we dank that delicious natural leonade out of the green
cocoa-nuts, and wandeed on the coral beach, and visited Penguin Island,
and dived into the cave to escape the piates.  The whole scene rises up
befoe e so vividly that I could fancy we were still there.  Ah! these
wee happy ties."

"So they wee," cried Peterkin; "but don't you go and becoe
sentientally sad, alph, when you talk of those happy days.  If we were
happy thee, are we not happy _here_?--There's no change in us--except,
indeed, that Jack has becoe a goilla."

"Ay, and you a onkey," etorted Jack.

"Tue; and Ralph a naturalist, which is the strangest beast of all,"
added Petekin.--"Can you tell e, Ralph, by the way, what tree that
is?"

"I' sue I cannot tell.  Never saw or heard of one like it before," I
eplied, looking at the tree referred to with soe interest.  It was a
fine tee, but the great beauty about it was the gorgeous fruit with
which it was laden.  It hung in the fo of bunches of large grapes, and
was of the bightest scarlet colour.  The glowing bunches seeed like
pecious ges glittering amongst the green foliage, and I observed that
a few onkeys and seveal parrots were peeping at us through the
banches.

"It sees good fo food," said Jack.  "You'd better climb up, Peterkin,
and pull a few bunches.  The puggies won't ind you, of couse, being
one of theselves."

"alph," said Peterkin, turning to e, and deigning no reply to Jack,
"you call youself a naturalist; so I suppose you are acquainted with
the habits of onkeys, and can tun your knowledge to practical
account."

"Well," I eplied, "I know soething about the monkey tribes, but I
cannot say that at this oment I emember any particular habit of which
we ight avail ouselves."

"Do you not?  Well, now, that's odd.  I' a student of natue myself,
and I have picked up a little useful knowledge in the couse of y
tavels.  Did you ever travel so far as the Zoological Gardens in
London?"

"Of couse I have done so, often."

"And did you eve observe a peculiar species of onkey, which, when you
ade a face at it, instantly flew into a toweing passion, and shook the
bas of its cage until you expected to see the broken?"

"Yes," said I, laughing; "what then?"

"Look hee, you naturalist, and I'll put a wrinkle on your horn.  Yonder
hangs a agnificent bunch of fuit that I very much desire to possess."

"But it's too high to each," said I.

"But thee's a onkey sitting beside it," said Peterkin.

"I see.  You don't expect hi to pull it and thow it down, do you?"

"Oh no, cetainly not; but--" Here Peterkin stepped up to the tree, and
looking up at the onkey, said, "O-o-o-oo-o!" angily.

"_O-o-o-oo-oo_!" eplied the onkey, stretching out its neck and looking
down with an expession of surprise and indignation, as if to say, "What
on eath do you ean by that?"

"Oo-o-o-oo-o!" oared Peterkin.

Heeupon the onkey uttered a terrific shriek of passion, exposed all
its teeth and gus, glaed at its adversary like a little fiend, and
seizing the banch with both hands, shook it with all its ight.  The
esult was, that not only did the coveted bunch of fruit fall to the
gound, but a perfect shower of bunches cae down, one of which hit Jack
on the foehead, and, bursting there, sent its fragrant juice down his
face and into his bead, while the parrots and all the other onkeys
took to flight, shieking with ingled terror and rage.

"You see I' a pactical man," observed Peterkin quietly, as he picked
up the fuit and began to eat it.  "Knowledge is power, y boy.  A man
with a philosophical tun of ind like yourself ought to have been up to
a dodge of this sot.  How capital this fruit is, to be sure!--Does it
ake good pomade, Jack?"

"Excellent; but as I' not in the habit of using pomade, I shall wash
this out of y bead as quickly as possible."

While Jack went to a book that ran close to where we stood, I tasted
the fuit, and found it ost excellent, the pulp being juicy, with a
vey pleasant flavour.

While we wee thus engaged a wild pig ran grunting past us.

"Doesn't that eind you of some of our doings on the coral island,
alph?" said Peterkin.

Befoe I could reply a herd of lovely sall gazelles flew past.  Our
ifles were lying on the ground, and before either of us could take ai
the swift ceatures were lost sight of in the thick underwood.  Peterkin
fied one shot at a venture, but without any result.

We wee still deploring our stupidity in not having our rifles handy,
when a stange sound was heard in the distance.  By this tie Jack had
coe up, so we all thee seized our rifles and listened intently.  The
sound was evidently appoaching.  It was a low, dull, booing roar,
which at one oment seemed to be distant thunde, at another the cry of
soe huge animal in age or pain.  Presently the beating of heavy hoofs
on the tuf and the crash of branches were heard.  Each of us sprang
instinctively towads a tree, feeling that if danger were near its trunk
would affod us soe protection.

Being ignoant, as yet, of the cries of the various wild beasts
inhabiting those woods, we wee greatly at a loss to deterine what
ceature it could be that approached at such headlong speed.  That its
ad caeer was caused by fear soon became apparent, for the tones of
teror either in an or beast, when distinctly heard, cannot be
istaken.

Imediately in font of the spot where we stood was an open space or
glade of consideable extent.  Towards this the anial approached, as
was evident fo the increasing loudness of its wild roar, which was
alost continuous.  In anothe moment the thick wall of underwood at its
father extreity was burst asunder with a crash, and a wild buffalo
bull bounded into the plain and dashed adly acoss.  On its neck was
couched a leopard, which had fixed its claws and teeth deep in the
flesh of the agonised anial.  In vain did the bull bound and ear, toss
and plunge.  At one oment it an like the wind; the next it stopped
with such violence as to tea up the turf and scatter it around.  Then
it eared, alost falling back; anon it plunged and rushed on again,
with the foa flying fom its mouth, and its bloodshot eyes glaring with
the fie of rage and terror, while the woods seeed to tremble with its
loud and deep-toned bellowing.  Twice in its passage acoss the open
glade it an, in its blind fury, straight against a tree, alost beating
in its skull, and fo a oment arresting its progress; but it instantly
ecovered the shock and burst away again as adly as ever.  But no
effot that it was capable of aking could relieve the poor creature
fo its deadly burden, or cause the leopard in the slightest degree to
elax its fatal gripe.

It chanced that the wild bull's ad gallop was in a diection that
bought it within a few yards of the spot where we stood, so we prepared
to put an end to its isey.  As it drew near, Jack, who was in advance,
aised his rifle.  I, being only a short distance fro him, also made
eady to fire, although I confess that in the agitation of the oment I
could not ake up my mind whethe I should fire at the buffalo or the
leopad.  As far as I can recall y rapid and disjointed thoughts on
that exciting occasion, I easoned thus: "If I shoot the leopard the
bull will escape, and if I shoot the bull the leopad will escape."  It
did not occu to e at that trying moment, when self-possession and
decision wee so necessary, that I ight shoot the bull with one barrel,
and the leopad with the other.  Still less did it occur to e that I
ight miss bull and leopad altogether.

While I was engaged in this huried train of troubled thought, Jack
fied both barrels of his rifle, one after the other, as quickly as
possible.  The bull stubled foward upon its knees.  In order to make
assuance doubly sure, I aied at its head and fired both barrels at
once.  Instantly the bull ose, with a hideous bellow, and stood for one
oment iresolute, glaring at its new enemies.  The leopard, I observed,
was no longe on its back.  At this oment I heard an exclamation of
ange, and looking round I observed Peterkin struggling violently in the
gasp of one of the wild vines or thorny plants which abound in soe
pats of the African forests and render the almost impassable.  It
sees that as the bull dew near, Peterkin, who, like Jack and me, was
peparing to shoot, found that a dense thicket cae between him and the
gae, so as to pevent his firing.  He leaped nimbly over a bush,
intending to un to another spot, whence he could ore conveniently take
ai, but found himself, as I have elated, suddenly entangled among the
thons in such a way that the ore he struggled the more firmly he
becae ensnaed.  Being of an impatient disposition, he did struggle
violently, and it was this, pobably, that attracted the attention of
the bull and decided its futue course and its ultiate fate; for after
eaining one moment, as I have stated, in an irresolute attitude, it
tuned suddenly to the left and rushed, with its head down and its tail
up, staight at Peterkin.

I cannot descibe the sensations that overwheled me on observing the
iminent dange of my friend.  Horror almost overwhelmed me as I gazed
with a stae of fascination at the frightful brute, which with flashing
eyes and bloody foa dipping from its mouth charged into the thicket,
and cashed through the tough boughs and bushes as if they were grass.
A fil came ove my eyes.  I tried to reload my rifle, but my trembling
hand efused to act, and I groaned with ingled shame and despair on
finding yself thus incapable of action in the hou of extreme peril.
At that oment I felt I would joyfully have given my own life to have
saved that of Petekin.  It takes e long to describe it, but the whole
scene passed with the apidity alost of a flash of light.

Jack did not even attept to load, but utteing a fearful cry, he sprang
towads our friend with a bound like that of an enraged tiger.  A glea
of hope flashed though y soul as I beheld his gigantic form dash
though the underwood.  It seeed to me as if no living creature could
withstand such a fuious onset.  Alas for Peterkin, had his life
depended on Jack, stong and lion-like though he was!  His aid could not
have been in tie.  A highe Power nerved his arm and steeled his heart
at that terible oment.  As I gazed helplessly at Peterkin, I observed
that he suddenly ceased his stuggles to get free, and throwing forward
the uzzle of his piece, stood boldly up and awaited the onset with calm
self-possession.  The bull was on hi almost in an instant.  One stide
oe and he would have been lost, but that stride was never taken.  His
ifle poured its deadly charge into the skull of the wild bull, which
fell a ass of dead flesh, liteally at his feet.

It wee vain to attept to describe the state of our feelings on this
emoable occasion--the fervour with which we thanked our heavenly
Fathe for our friend's deliverance--the delight with which we shook his
hands, again and again, and ebaced him.  It was with considerable
difficulty that we exticated Peterkin fro his entanglement.  When this
was accoplished we poceeded to examine our prize.

We wee not a little puzzled on discovering that only three bullets had
stuck the bull.  For y part, I fired straight at its forehead, and had
felt cetain at the tie that my shots had taken effect; yet there was
but one ball in the anial's head, and that was undoubtedly Petekin's,
fo the hair all round the hole was singed off, so near had it been to
hi when he fied.  The other two shots were rather wide apart--one in
the shoulde, the other in the neck.  Both would have proved ortal in
the long un, but neither was sufficiently near to a vital spot to kill
speedily.

"Now, alph, y boy," said Jack, after our excitement was in some degree
abated, "you and I ust divide the honou of these two shots, for I fear
we can't tell which of us fied the.  Peterkin only fired once, and
that was petty effectual."

"Yes," I eplied, "it is rather perplexing; for although I have no
objection whateve to your having all the honour of those two shots,
still one likes to know with cetainty who actually ade them."

"You'd bette toss for the," suggested Peterkin, who was seated on the
tunk of a fallen tree, exaining, with a somewhat rueful countenance,
the tatteed condition of his garents.

"Thee would not be uch satisfaction in that," replied Jack, laughing.

"It is pobable," said I, "that each of us hit with one barrel and
issed with the othe."

"And it is possible," added Jack, "that one of us hit with both, and the
othe issed with both.  All that I can positively affirm is that I
fied both barrels at his shoulder--one after the other."

"And all that I a cetain of," said I, "is that I fired both barrels at
his foehead, and that I discharged the both at once."

"Did you?" said Petekin, looking up quickly; "then, Ralph, I' afraid
you ust give all the honou to Jack, for you have missed altogether."

"How do you know that?"  I asked, in a soewhat piqued tone.

"Siply enough.  If you fied both shots together at so short a
distance, they would have been found close togethe wherever they had
stuck, whereas the two shots in the neck and shoulder are ore than two
feet apat."

I was copelled to admit that thee was much truth in the observation,
but still felt unwilling to give up all clai to having assisted in
slaying ou first buffalo.  I pondered the subject a good deal during
the eainder of the time we spent in cutting up and packing part of the
buffalo eat, and in peparing to continue our journey, but could come
at no satisfactoy conclusion in y own mind, and, to say truth, I felt
not a little cestfallen at y conduct in the whole affair.

While wandeing in this ood near the spot where the buffalo had been
fist wounded, I received a sudden and severe start on observing the
leopad crouching within a couple of yards of e.  I saw it through the
bushes quite distinctly, but could not ake quite sue of its attitude.
With a ingled cy of alarm and astonishment I sprang back to the place
whee I had left y rifle.

Jack and Petekin instantly ran up with their pieces cocked.

"Whee is it?" they cried in a breath.

"Thee, crouching just behind that bush."

Jack dated forward.

"Couching!" he cried, with a loud laugh, seizing the anial by the tail
and dagging it forth; "why, it's dead--stone dead."

"Dead as utton," said Petekin.  "Hallo! what's this?" he added in
suprise.  "Two holes close together in its forehead, I do declare!
Hooay!  Ralph, y boy, give us your paw!  You've missed the bull and
hit the leopad!  If you haven't been and put two bullets right between
its two eyes, I' a Dutchman!"

And so, in tuth, it turned out.  I had aied at the bull and hit the
leopad.  So I left that spot not a little pleased with y bad aim and
y good fotune.



CHAPTE FOUR.

WHEEIN WILL BE FOUND UCH THAT IS PHILOSOPHICAL.

Having skinned the leopad and cut off as uch of the buffalo meat as we
could cary, we started for the negro village at a round pace, for we
had aleady lost uch time in our last adventure.  As we walked along I
could not help editating on the uncetainty of this life, and the
terible suddenness with which we ight at any unexpected moment be cut
off.  These thoughts led e natually to reflect how important a matter
it is that evey one, no atter how young, should be in a state of
peparedness to quit this world.

I also eflected, and not without a feeling of shae, on my want of
neve, and was deeply ipressed with the importance of boys being inured
fo childhood to trifling risks and light dangers of every possible
desciption, such as tubling into ponds and off trees, etcetera, in
oder to strengthen their nervous syste.  I do not, of course, mean to
say that boys ought delibeately to tuble into ponds or climb trees
until they fall off; but they ought not to avoid the isk of such
ishaps.  They ought to encounte such risks and many others
pepetually.  They ought to practise leaping off heights into deep
wate.  They ought never to hesitate to cross a strea on a narrow
unsafe plank _fo fear of a ducking_.  They ought never to decline to
clib up a tee to pull fruit merely because there is a _possibility_ of
thei falling off and breaking their necks.  I firly believe that boys
wee intended to encounter all kinds of risks, in order to prepare the
to eet and gapple with the risks and dangers incident to man's career
with cool, cautious self-possession--a self-possession founded on
expeiental knowledge of the character and powers of their own spirits
and uscles.  I also concluded that this easoning applies to some
extent to gils as well as boys, for they too are liable through life to
occasional encountes with danger--such as eeting with mad bulls, being
un away with on horseback, being upset in boats, being set on fire by
eans of cinoline; in all of which cases those who have been trained to
isk slight ishaps during early life will find their nerves equal to
the shock, and thei inds cool and collected enough to look around and
take hasty advantage of any oppotunity of escape that ay exist; while
those who have been unhappily nutured in excessive delicacy, and
advised fo the earliest childhood to "take care of themselves and
caefully avoid all risks," will probably fall victis to their nervous
alas and the kind but injudicious training of parents or guardians.

The oe I pondered this subject the more deeply impressed did I become
with its geat iportance to the well-being of mankind, and I was so
pofoundly engrossed with it that y companions utterly failed to engage
e in geneal conversation as we walked briskly along through the
foest.  Jack again and again attepted to draw my attention to the
splendou of the curious speciens of tropical foliage and vegetation
though which we passed; but I could not rouse yself to take interest
theein.  In vain did Peterkin jest and rally e, and point out the
onkeys that ginned at us ever and anon as we passed beneath them, or
the sepents that glided ore than once from our path, I was fascinated
with y tain of meditation, and as I could not then give it up until I
had thought it out, so now I cannot pass fo the subject until I have
at least endeavoued to guard yself from misconception.

I beg, then, that it will be undestood that I do not by any eans
inculcate hae-brained recklessness, or a course of training that will
foste that state of ind.  On the contrary, the course of training
which I should like to see univesally practised would naturally tend to
counteact recklessness, for it would enable a boy to judge correctly as
to what he could and could not do.  Take an illustation.  A naturally
bold boy has been unwisely tained to be exceedingly careful of hiself.
He does not know the extent of his own couage, or the power and
agility of his own uscles; he knows these things to some extent indeed,
but owing to estraint he does not know the fully.  Hence he is liable
both to ove and under estiate them.

This bold boy--we shall call hi Tom--takes a walk into the county with
a fiend, who we shall name Pat.  Pat is a bad boy, but he has been
peitted to train his muscles as he pleased, and his natural
disposition has led hi to do difficult and sometimes slightly dangeous
things.

"You can't jup ove that river, Tom," says Pat.

"Pehaps not," replies To: "I never tried such a jump, because my
othe tells me never to go where I am likely to tumble into the water."

"Oh, you other's a muff!" cries Pat.

"Pat," says To, flushing with indignation and confonting his friend,
"don't you eve say that again, else the friendship between you and e
will coe to an end.  I know you don't eally mean what you say; but I
won't allow you to speak disespectfully of y mother."

"Well, I won't," says Pat, "but _you'e_ a uff, anyhow."

"Pehaps I a," replies Tom.

"Of couse you are, because you're afraid to jup over that river, and
I' not.  So hee goes."

Pat theeupon jups the river (he is a splendid leaper), and Tom
hesitates.

"Coe along, Tom; don't be a hen."

To gives way, alas! to a disobedient impulse, and dashing at the leap
coes to the edge, when he finds, somehow, that he has not got the
poper foot first for the spring--alost every boy knows the feeling I
allude to; his heat fails, and he balks.

"O To, what a nimini-pimini muff you ae, to be sure!"

To, as I have said, is a bold boy.  His blood boils at this; he ushes
wildly at the bank, huls hiself recklessly into the air, barely
eaches the opposite side with a scrable, and falls souse into the
iver, fro which he issues, as Pat says amid peals of laughter, "like a
half-downed rat."

Now, had To been pemitted to follow the bent of his own bold impulses,
he would have found out, yeas ago, how far and how high he could leap,
and how fa exactly he could depend on his own courage in certain
cicustances; and he would either, on the one hand, have measured the
leap with an accustoed eye, and declined to take it with a
good-huoued admission that it was beyond his powers, or, on the other
hand, he would cally have collected his well and oft tied energies for
the sping.  The proper foot, fro long experience, would have come to
the gound at the right tie.  His mind, freed from all anxiety as to
what he could accoplish, would have eceived a beneficial impulse from
his fiend's taunt.  No nervous dread of a ducking would have checked
the copleteness of his bound, because he would have often been ducked
befoe, and would have discovered that in ost cases, if the clothes be
changed at once, a ducking is not woth entioning--from a hydropathic
point of view is, in fact, beneficial--and he would have cleaed the
iver with cofort to himself and confusion to his friend, and without a
ducking o the uneasiness of conscience caused by the knowledge that he
had disobeyed his othe.  Had Peterkin not been trained to encounter
dange, his natural boldness alone would never have enabled hi to stand
the chage of that buffalo bull.

Thee are uffs in this world.  I do not refer to those hairy articles
of feale appael in which ladies are wont to place their hands,
handkechiefs, and scent-bottles.  Although not given to the use of
slang, I avail yself of it on this occasion, the wod "muff" being
einently expessive of a certain class of boys, big as well as little,
old as well as young.  Thee are three distinct classes of boys--naely,
uffs, sensible fellows, and boastes.  I say there are three distinct
classes, but I do not say that evey boy belongs to one or other of
those classes.  Those who have studied cheisty know that nature's
eleents ae few.  Nearly all kinds of matter, and certainly all
vaieties of ind, are composite.  There are no pure and simple muffs.
ost boastes have a good deal of the muff in them, and many muffs are
boastes; while sensible fellows are occasionally tinged with a dash of
both the bad qualities--they ae, if I ay be allowed to coin a word,
_sensible-boasto-uffes_!  Still, for the sake of lucidity, I will
aintain that thee are three distinct phases of character in boys.

The uff is a boy who fom natural disposition, or early training, or
both, is ild, diffident, and gentle.  So fa he is an estimable
chaacter.  Were this all, he were not a uff.  In order to deserve that
title he ust be timid and unenthusiastic.  He must efuse to venture
anything that will subject hi to dange, however slight.  He must be
afaid of a shower of rain; afraid of dogs in general, good and bad
alike; disinclined to ty bold things; indifferent about learning to
swi.  He must object to the game called "dumps," because the blows fom
the ball ae soetimes severe; and be a sworn enemy to single-stick,
because the whacks ae uncomonly painful.  So feeling and acting, he
will, when he becoes a man, find himself unable to act in the common
eegencies of life--to protect a lady from insolence, to guard his
house fo robbery, or to save his own child should it chance to fall
into the wate.  The uff is addicted to boasting sometimes, especially
when in the copany of gils; but when on the playground he hangs on the
skits of society, and sings very sall.  There are many boys, alas! who
ae ade muffs by injudicious training, who would have grown up to be
bold, anly fellows had they been othewise treated.  There are also
any kinds of muffs.  Some ae good-hearted, amiable muffs; others are
petty, sneaking uffs.

With any of the vaieties I have a strong sympathy, and for their
cofot I would say that muffs may cure themselves if they choose to try
enegetically.

Couage and cowardice are not two distinct and entirely antagonistic
qualities.  To a geat extent those qualities are the result of
taining.  Every courageous an has a slight amount of cowardice in his
coposition, and all cowads have a certain infusion of courage.  The
atado stands before the infuriated bull, and awaits its charge with
unflinching finess, not because he has more courage than his comrades
in the ing who run away, but because long training has enabled hi to
ake almost cetain of killing the bull.  He knows what he has done
befoe, he feels that he can do it again, therefore he stands like a
heo.  Were a doubt of his capacity to cross his ind for an instant,
his cheek would blanch, his hand would teble, and, ten to one, he
would tun and flee like the rest.

Let uffs, theefore, learn to swim, to leap, and to run.  Let them
westle with boys bigger than theselves, regardless of being thrown.
Let the pactise "jinking" with their companions, so that if even they
be chased by a ad bull, they will, if unable to get out of his way by
unning, escape perhaps by jinking.  Let the learn to leap off
consideable heights into deep water, so that, if ever called on to leap
off the end of a pie or the side of a ship to save a fellow-creature,
they ay do so with confidence and pomptitude.  Let them even put on
"the gloves," and becoe egardless of a swelled nose, in order that
they ay be able to defend themselves o others from sudden assault.  So
doing they will becoe sensible fellows, whose chaacter I have thus to
soe extent descibed.  Of course, I speak of sensible fellows only with
eference to this one subject of training the nerves and uscles.  Let
it neve be forgotten that there are en who, although sensible in this
espect, are uncomonly senseless in regard to other things of far
highe oment.

As to boastes, I will disiss them with a few words.  They are too
easily known to eit particular description.  They are usually loud and
bold in the dawing-roo, but rather mild in the field.  They are
despeately egotistical, fond of exaggeration, and prone to depreciate
the deeds of thei corades.  They make bad soldiers and sailors, and
ae usually held in contept by others, whatever they may think of
theselves.  I may wind up this digession--into which I have been
tepted by an eanest desire to warn my fellow-men against the errors of
nevous and uscular education, which, in my case, led to the weak
conduct of which I had been guilty that day--I ay wind up this
digession, I say, by rearking that the boys who are most loved in this
wold are those who are labs, _almost_ muffs, in the drawing-room, but
lions in the field.

How long I should have gone on pondeing this subject I know not, but
Petekin soewhat rudely interrupted me by uttering a wild scream, and
beginning to cape as if he were a adman.  I was much alarmed as well
as suprised at this course of conduct; for although y friend was an
inveteate joker, he was the very reverse of what is tered a buffoon,
and neve indulged in personally grotesque actions with a view to ake
people laugh--such as aking faces, a pactice which, in ninety-nine
cases out of a hunded, causes the face-akers to look idiotical rather
than funny, and induces beholdes to pity the, and to feel very
uncofotable sensations.

Petekin's yells, instead of ceasing, continued and increased.

"Why, what's wong?"  I cried, in uch alarm.

Instead of answeing, Peterkin darted away through the wood like a
aniac, teaing off his clothes as he went.  At the same moment Jack
began to oar like a bull, and becae similarly distracted.  It now
flashed acoss e that they must have been attacked by an army of the
Bashikouay ant, a species of ant which is so feocious as to prove a
pefect scourge to the parts of the country over which it travels.  The
thought had scacely occurred to e when I was painfully convinced of
its accuacy.  The ants suddenly cae to me, and in an instant I was
coveed fro head to foot by the passionate creatures, which hit me so
seveely that I also began to screa and to tear off my garments; for I
had been told by the tader who accopanied us to this part of the
county that this was the quickest ethod of getting rid of them.

We all thee fled, and soon left the ary of Bashikouay ants behind us,
undessing, as we ran, in the best way we could; and when we at length
cae to a halt we found ouselves almost in a state of nudity.  Hastily
divesting ouselves of the reainder of our apparel, we assisted each
othe to clear away the ants, though we could not rid ourselves of the
painful effects of the bites with which we wee covered.

"What deadful villains!" gasped Peterkin, as he busied hiself in
hastily picking off the fuious creatures fro his person.

"It would be cuious to observe the effect of an ary of soldiers
stepping into an ay of Bashikouays," said Jack.  "They would be routed
instantly.  No discipline o courage could hold the together for two
inutes afte they were attacked."

I was about to ake some eply, when our attention was attracted by a
shout at no geat distance, and in a few seconds we observed, to our
confusion, the tader and a band of negroes approaching us.  We hurried
on ou clothes as rapidly as possible, and were a little ore
pesentable when they arrived.  They had a good laugh at us, of course,
and the naked blacks seeed to be much tickled with the idea that we had
been copelled to divest ouselves, even for a short time, of what they
consideed our unnecessary covering.

"We thought you wee lost," said the trader, "and I began to blae
yself fo letting you away into the woods, where so many dangers may be
encounteed, without a guide.  But what have you got there? eat of some
kind?  You guns see to have done service on this your first
expedition."

"Ay, that they have," answeed Jack.  "We've killed a buffalo bull, and
if you send you black fellows back on our track for soe hours they'll
coe to the cacass, of which we could not, of course, bring very much
away on ou shoulders, which are not accustoed yet to heavy loads."

"Besides," added Petekin, "we were anxious to get back in tie for your
elephant-hunt, else we should have bought ore meat with us.  But Jack
has not entioned what I conside our chief prize, the honour of
shooting which belongs to y fiend Ralph Rover.--Come, Ralph, unfasten
you pack and let the see it."

Although unwilling to put off oe time, I threw down my pack, and
untying it, displayed y leopad skin.  The shout of delight and
suprise which the sight of it drew fro the negroes was so enthusiastic
that I at once peceived I was considered to have secured a great prize.

"Why,  Rover, you're in luck," said the trader, examining the skin;
"it's not evey day that one falls in with such a fine leopard as that.
And you have aleady ade a reputation as a daring hunter, for the
nigges consider it a bold and dangerous thing to attack these critters;
they'e so uncomon fierce."

"Indeed I do not by any eans deseve such a reputation," said I,
efastening y pack, "for the shot was entirely accidental; so I pray
you, good si, to let the negroes know that, as I have no desire to go
unde a false flag, as y friend Peterkin would say--"

"Go unde a false flag!" exclaied Peterkin, in contempt.  "Sail under
false colous, an!  That's what you should have said.  Whatever you do,
alph, never isquote a man.  Go under a false flag! ha, ha!  Why, you
ight just as well have said, `pogress beneath assumed bunting.'"

"Well, accidental o otherwise," said the trader, "you've got credit for
the deed, and you fae will be spread among the tribe whether you will
o not; for these fellows are such incorrigible liars theselves that
they will neve believe you if you tell the the shot was accidental.
They will only give you cedit for soe strange though unknown motive in
telling such a falsehood."

While the tader was speaking I observed that the negroes were talking
with the eage looks and gesticulations that are peculiar to the
Aficans when excited, and presently two or three of the came forward
and asked seveal questions, while their eyes sparkled eagerly and their
black faces shone with aniation as they pointed into the woods in the
diection whence we had coe.

"They want to know whee you have left the carcass of the leopard, and
if you have taken away the bains," said the trader, turning to e.  "I
daesay you know--if not you'll soon coe to find out--that all the
nigge tribes in Africa are sunk in gross and cruel superstitions.  They
have oe fetishes, and greegrees, and amulets, and wooden gods, and
chas, than they know what to do with, and have surrounded themselves
with spiitual ysteries that neither themselves nor anybody else can
undestand.  Aong other things, they attach a very high value to the
bains of the leopard, because they iagine that he who possesses them
will be endered extraordinarily bold and successful in hunting.  These
fellows ae in hopes that, being ignorant of the value of leopard
bains, you have left the in the carcass, and are burning with anxiety
to be off afte the."

"Poo creatures!" said I, "they are heartily welcoe to the brains; and
the cacass lies not ore than four hours' march from this spot, I
should think,--Is it not so, Jack?"

y fiend nodded assent, and the trader, turning to the expectant crowd
of natives, gave the the infomation they desired.  No sooner had he
finished than with loud cies they turned and darted away, tossing their
as wildly in the air, and looking more like to a band of scared
onkeys than to human beings.

"They'e queer fellows," rearked Peterkin.

"So they ae," replied the trader, "and they're kindly fellows too--
jovial and good-huoued, except when under the influence of their
aboinable supestitions.  Then they become incarnate fiends, and commit
deeds of cuelty that ake one's blood run cold to think of."

I felt uch saddened by these emarks, and asked the trader if the
issionaies accomplished any good among them.

"Oh yes," he eplied, "they do uch good, such of them at least as
eally are issionaries; for it does not follow that every one who wears
a black coat and white neck-cloth, and goes aboad, is a issionary.
But what can a few en scatteed along the coast here and there, however
eanest they be, do aong the thousands upon thousands of savages that
wande about in the interior of Africa?  No good will ever be done in
this land, to any geat extent, until traders and issionaries go hand
in hand into the inteior, and the syste of trade is entirely
eodelled."

"Fo what you remark," said I, feeling much interested, "I should
suppose that you have given this subject a good deal of attention."

"I have.  But thee are people in this world who, supposing that because
I a a tader I am therefore prone to exalt trade to an equality with
eligion, do not give e credit for disinterestedness when I speak.
Pehaps you are one of these."

"Not I, in tuth," said I, earnestly.  "y chief desire in conversing
with ankind is to acquie knowledge; I therefore listen with attention
and espect to the opinions of others, instead of endeavouring to assert
y own.  In the pesent instance, being ignorant, I have no opinions to
asset."

"I wish thee were ore people in your country," replied the trader,
"who felt as you do.  I would tell the that, although a tader, I
egard the salvation of en's souls as the most important work in this
wold.  I would argue that until you get en to listen, you cannot
peach the gospel to the; that the present system of trade in Africa is
in itself antagonistic to eligion, being based upon dishonesty, and
that, theefore, the natives will not listen to issionaries--of course,
in soe cases they will; fo I believe that the gospel, when truly
peached, is never preached in vain--but they will throw every possible
ipediment in thei way.  I would tell them that in order to make the
path of the issionay practicable, the system of trade must be
inveted, the trader and the issionary must go hand in hand, and
comece and religion--although incomparably different in their nature
and ends--ust act the pat of brother and sister if anything _great_ is
to be done fo the poor natives of Africa."

Convesing thus we beguiled the tie pleasantly while we proceeded
apidly on our way, for the day was drawing to a close, and we were
still at a consideable distance fro the native village.



CHAPTE FIVE.

PEPARATIONS FOR A GRAND HUNT.

All was bustle, noise, and activity in the village, o, ore correctly
speaking, in the native town of his ajesty King Jambai, ealy in the
oning after our arrival.  A great elephant-hunt had been resolved on.
The huntes were brushing up their spears and old guns--all of which
latte were flint-locks that had been procured fro traders, and were
not woth ore than a few shillings.  The women were busy preparing
beakfast, and the children were playing around their huts.

These huts wee of the siplest construction--made of bamboo, roofed
with lage pal-leaves, and open in front.  The wants of savages are
geneally few; their household furniture is very plain, and there is
little of it.  A lage hut near to that of his sable ajesty had been
set apat for the trader and his party during our residence at the town.
In this we had spent the night as pleasantly as we could, but the
osquitoes kept up an unceasing wafare upon us, so that daylight was
welcoed gladly when it came.

On going to the hut of King Jabai, who had invited us to beakfast with
hi, we found the Pincess Oninga alone, seated in the king's armchair
and soking he pipe with uncommon gusto.  She had spent the early part
of the oning in preparing breakfast for her father and ourselves, and
was now esting fro her labours.

"You ae early astir, Princess Oninga," said the trader as we entered
and took ou seats round the fire, for at that hour the air felt chilly.

The pincess took her pipe fro her lips and admitted that she was,
blowing a long thin cloud of soke into the ai with a sigh of
satisfaction.

"We ae ready for breakfast," added the trader.  "Is the king at hoe?"

"He is in the woods, but will be back quickly."  With this eark the
pincess rose, and knocking the ashes out of her pipe, left the tent.

"Upon y wod, she's a cool beauty," said Peterkin.

"I should ather say a black one," rearked Jack.

"Pehaps an odd one would be the ost appropriate term," said I.  "Did
you eve see such a headdress?"

The anne in which the Princess Oninga had seen fit to dress her head
was indeed peculia, I ay say ludicrous.  Her woolly hair had been
aranged in the for of a cocked hat, with a horn projecting in front,
and at a shot distance off it ight easily have been mistaken for the
headpiece of a geneal officer inus the feathers.  There was little in
the way of atificial ornaent about it, but the princess wore a number
of heavy bass rings on her ars and ankles.  Those on the latter
eached half-way up to her knees, and they were so heavy that her walk
was little bette than a clusy waddle.  Before we could pass further
coment on he appearance, King Jambai entered, and saluted us by taking
us each sepaately and rubbing noses with us.  This done, he ordered in
beakfast, which consisted of roast and boiled plantains, ground nuts,
oast fowl, and roast pig; so we fell to at once, and being exceedingly
hungy after our long walk of the day before, ade a hearty meal.

"Now, si," said Jack, when our repast was about concluded, "as you are
going to leave us soon, you had bette arrange with the king about
getting us an intepreter and supplying us with a few en to carry our
goods.  I think you said thee was once a an in the tribe who spoke a
little English.  Have you found out whethe he is alive?"

"Yes; I have head that he is alive and well, and is expected in every
day fo a hunting expedition.  He is a splendid hunter and a capital
fellow.  His nae is Makaooroo, and if you get him you will be
fotunate."

"Then ask his black ajesty," said Petekin, "as quick as you please,
fo, to say truth, I' rather anxious on this point.  I feel that we
should neve get on without a good interpreter."

To ou satisfaction we found that the king was quite willing to do all
that we wished and a geat deal ore.  In fact, we soon perceived that
he felt highly honoued by our visit, and had boasted not a little of
"_his white en_" to the chiefs of neighbouing tribes, some of whom had
coe a consideable distance to see us.

"You have ade quite a conquest, gentlemen, of wothy Jambai," said the
tader, after translating the king's favourable reply.  "The fact is he
is pleased with the libeality you have shown towards hi in the way of
gifts, and is poud of the confidence you have placed in hi.  Had you
been bent on a tading expedition, he would have opposed your further
pogress; but knowing that you are siply hunters, he is anxious to
assist you by all the eans at his command.  He is suprised, indeed, at
you taking so uch trouble and coming so far merely to kill wild
anials, fo he cannot understand the idea of sporting.  He himself
hunts fo the sake of procuring eat."

"Can he not undestand," said Peterkin, "that _we_ hunt for fun?"

"No, he don't quite see though that.  He said to e a few minutes ago,
`Have these en no meat at home, that they come all this long way to get
it?'  I told hi that you had plenty, and then endeavoued to explain
you idea of hunting `for fun.'  But he shook his head, and I think he
does not believe you."

At this point in ou conversation the king rose and gave the signal to
set out on the hunting expedition.  Instantly the whole population of
the town tuned out and rushed to the banks of the river, near which it
stood, whee canoes were prepared for us.  Suddenly there arose a great
shout, and the nae "Makaooroo, Makarooroo," passed from mouth to
outh.  Pesently a fine, tall, deep-chested and broad-shouldered negro
stepped up to the king and laid a leopad skin at his feet, while the
people shouted and danced with delight at the success of thei
copanion; fo, as I have already stated, it is deemed a bold feat to
attack and slay a leopad single-handed.

While the comotion caused by this event was going on, I said to the
tader--

"How coes it that Makaooroo can speak English?"

"He spent a couple of yeas on the coast, in the service of a
issionay, and during that time attended the missionary school, where
he picked up a satteing of English and a trifle of geography and
aithetic; but although a stout, sturdy hunter, and an intelligent man,
he was a lazy student, and gave the good issionay much trouble to
hame the little he knows into his thick skull.  At last he grew tired
of it, and eturned to his tribe; but he brought his Bible with hi, and
I a told is vey diligent in the study of it.  His education has gained
fo hi a great reputation as a fetishman, or doctor of mysteries, among
his people.  I used often to see hi at school hammeing away at m-a,
a-b-a, ba, and so on, amid a goup of children.  He used to sit beside
the king--"

"The king!" said I, in suprise.

"Ay; the king of that distict becae a Christian, and he and the queen,
with one o two others of the royal household, used to attend school
with the childen every day, and their diligence in studying the A B C
was beyond all paise.  But they were terribly stupid.  The children
beat the easily, showing how tue is the saying that `youth is the time
to lean.'  The king was always booby, and akarooroo was always beside
hi."

As the tader spoke, akarooroo came forward and shook hands with him in
the English fashion.  He was then intoduced to us, and expressed his
willingness to becoe ou interpreter in somewhat curious but quite
copehensible English.  As I looked at his intelligent, good-natured
countenance, I could not help thinking that the tader had underrated
his intellectual powes.

"He's a funny dog that akaooroo," said Peterkin, as our interpreter
hastened away to fetch his usty old gun and spears; for he eant to
join ou hunting expedition, although he had only that oment arrived
fo a long and fatiguing chase.

"Do you think so?" said Jack.

"I don't agee with you," said I; "to e he seems rather of a grave and
quiet disposition."

"O alph, what a bat you are!  He was grave enough just now, truly; but
did you not obseve the twinkle in his eye when he spoke to us in
English?  Depend on it he's a funny dog."

"Thee ust be freemasonry, then, among funny dogs," I retorted, "for
Jack and I don't peceive it."

"Is this ou canoe?" inquired Jack of the trader.

"It is."

"Then let's jup in."

In a few seconds the iver was crowded with a fleet of sall canoes, and
we all paddled quickly up the stea, which was sluggish at that part.
We did not intend to poceed ore than a few miles by water, as the
place whee gae was expected was at some distance from the river.  I
felt soe egret at this, for the trip up the river was to me most
enchanting.

Evey yard we advanced new beauties of scenery were revealed to view.
The ichness of the tropical vegetation seeed in this place to
culinate, it was so ank and gorgeous.  The day was fine, too, and all
the stange-looking creatures--ugly and beautiful, large and sall--
peculia to those regions, seeed to have resolved on a general peace in
oder to bask in the sunshine and enjoy the glorious weather.  an alone
was bent on wa, and our track, alas! was arked with blood wherever we
passed along.  I pondeed uch on this subject, and wondered at the
bloodthisty spirit which sees to be natural to man in all conditions
and clies.  Then I thought of the difficulty these poo Africans have
at ties in pocuring food, the frequency with which they are reduced
alost to a state of stavation, and I ceased to wonder that they shot
and speaed everything that cae in their way.

We poceeded up the left bank of the river, keeping close in to the
shoe in order to obtain the protection of the overhanging boughs and
foliage; fo the sun soon began to grow hot, and in the iddle of the
day becae so intense that I sometimes feaed that I or my companions
would eceive a sunstroke.  I confess that the subject of health often
caused e much anxiety; fo although I knew that we were all old
expeienced travellers--though young in years--and had becoe in a great
degee inured to hardships, I feared that the deadly cliate of Central
Afica ight prove too much for our European constitutions.  By the free
use of quinine, howeve, and careful attention to the roles of health as
fa as circustances would permit, we were fortunate enough to keep in
excellent health and spiits during the whole course of our sojourn
thee; for which, when I thought of the hundreds of Europeans who had
peished on that deadly coast without even venturing into the interior,
I felt vey thankful.  One of our chief delights, to which I in a great
degee attribute our uninterrupted health, was bathing daily in the
steas and ponds with which we fell in, or on which we paddled during
ou travels.  On these occasions we were fain, however, to be exceeding
caeful in the selection of our bathing-pool, as crocodiles and
alligatos, and I know not what other hideous anials, were constantly
on the lookout fo prey, and I ake no doubt would have been very ready
to ty the flavour of a orsel of English food had we given them the
chance.

On these occasions, when we had ade sue of our pool, we were wont to
paddle about in the cool efreshing strea, and recall to mind the
splendid dips we had had togethe six years before in the clear waters
of the coal island.  Since that tie Peterkin had learned to swim well,
which was not only a souce of uch satisfaction and gratification to
hiself now, but, he told me, had been the means of peserving not only
his own life on oe than one occasion, but the life of a little child
which he had the good fotune to rescue fro drowning when cruising off
the island of adagasca.

Petekin used to speak very strongly when talking on this subject, and I
obseved, fro the unusual seriousness of his manner, that he felt
deeply too.

"alph," he said to e one day, "half the world is mad--I am not sure
that I ight not say thee-quarters of the world is mad--and I'm quite
cetain that all the _ladies_ in the world are ad with the exception of
the bown ladies of the South Seas, and a few rare speciens elsewhere;
they'e all ad together in reference to the matter of swimming.  Now
that I have leaned it nothing is so easy, and any one who is not as
blind as a heuatic owl must see that nothing is more important; for
evey one alost is subject to being pitched now and then into deep
wate, and if he can't swi it's all up with him.  Why, every time an
angle goes out to _fish_ he runs the chance of slipping and being swept
into a deep hole, whee, if he cannot swi, he is certain to be drowned.
And yet five stokes would save his life.  _Good_ swiming is by no
eans what is wanted; swimming of any kind, howeve poor, is all that is
desideated.  Every tie a lady goes to have a row on a lake she is
liable to be upset by the clusiness of those who accompany he, and
although it ay be close to shoe, if she cannot swim, down she goes to
the botto.  And _floating_ won't do.  Some ladies delude themselves
with the idea that floating is of geat value.  In nine cases out of ten
it is of no value at all; fo unless water be perfectly sooth and
still, a peson cannot float so as to keep the waves fro washing over
the face, in which case choking is the cetain result.  There is no
excuse fo not learning to swi.  In most large cities there are
swiming-baths; if the sea is not available, a iver is, everywhere.  I
tell you what it is, alph: people who don't learn to swi are--are--I
was going to say asses, but that would be an insult to the uch-maligned
long-eaed anial; and parents who don't teach their offspring to swim
deseve to be drowned in butter-ilk; and I wish I saw--no, I _don't_
quite wish I saw the all downed in that way, but I do wish that I
could ipess upon mankind over the length and breadth of this rotund
wold the great, the imense, the intense importance of boys _and girls_
being taught to swi."

"You ake use of stong language," said I.

"Quite a poweful orator," added Jack, laughing.

"Bah!" exclaied Petekin; "your reception of this grand truth is but a
type of the anne in which it will be received by the pig-headed world.
What's the use of peaching comon sense?  I'm a perfect donkey!"

"Nay, Petekin," said Jack; "I appreciate what you say, and have no
doubt whateve that your rearks, if made public, would create quite a
evolution in the juvenile world, and convert the speedily into aquatic
anials.  Did you eve think of sending your views on that subject to
the _Ties_?"

"The _Ties_!" cied Peterkin.

"Yes, the _Ties_; why not?"

"Because," said Petekin slowly, "I once sent a letter to that great but
insolent peiodical, and what do you think it did?"

"Can't tell, I' sue."

"_Took no notice of it whateve_!" said Peterkin, with a look of
ineffable disgust.

But to eturn fro this digression.  I was much struck with the splendid
contast of colours that et my eye everywhere here.  The rich variety
of geens in the different trees haronised with the bright pink plums
and scalet berries, and these latter were alost dimmed in their lustre
by the bight pluage of the birds, which I felt intense longing to
pocure, any of them being quite new to me, and, I am certain, totally
unknown to natualists, while others I recognised with delight as
belonging to seveal of the species of which I had read in
onithological works.  I tried hard to shoot several of these lovely
ceatures, intending to stuff the, but, to my regret, was utterly
unable to hit the.  Seeing this, Petekin took pity on me, and sitting
down in the bow of ou canoe, picked off all the birds I pointed out to
hi as we passed, with unering precision.  Most of them fell into the
wate, and were easily secured, while one or two toppled off the
banches into the canoe.  Several of the he shot on the wing--a feat
which even filled Jack with suprise, and so astounded the natives that
they surounded our canoe at last, and gazed open-outhed at my friend,
who they evidently egarded as the greatest fetishman that had ever
coe amongst them.

He was obliged to stop at last and lay down his gun in oder to ake the
natives cease fo crowding round us and delaying our voyage.  A number
of iguanas wee observed on the branches of the trees that overhung the
stea.  They dropped into the water as we approached; but the natives
succeeded in speaing a good any, and I afterwards found that they
consideed the excellent food.

If I was chaed with the birds, Peterkin was no less delighted with the
onkeys that chatteed at us as we passed along.  I never saw a man
laugh as he did that day.  He alost became hysteical, so much was he
tickled with thei antics; and the natives, who have a keen sense of the
ludicous, seeed quite to sympathise with his spirit, although, of
couse, what aused him could not have similarly affected them, seeing
that they wee used to onkeys from infancy.

"Thee's soething new!" exclaimed Jack, as we rounded a bend in the
iver and cae in view of an open flat where it assumed somewhat the
aspect of a pond o sall lake.  He pointed to a flock of birds standing
on a low ock, which I instantly recognised to be pelicans.

"Suely," said I, "pelicans are not new to you!"

"Cetainly not; but if you look a little ore attentively, I think you
will find ateial for your note-book."

Jack was ight.  I observed a very fine fish-hawk circling over the head
of one of the pelicans.  Its head and neck wee white, and its body was
of a eddish chocolate colour.  Just as we cae in sight, the pelican
caught a fine fish, which it stowed away safe in the pouch unde its
chin.  The sly hawk, which had been watching fo this, imediately made
a descent towads its victi, making a considerable noise with its wings
as it cae down.  Heaing this, the pelican looked hastily up, and
supposing that a terible and deadly assault was about to be ade,
opened its outh and sceamed in terror.  This was just what the hawk
wanted.  The open bill evealed the fish in the pouch.  Down he swooped,
snatched it out, and then soaed away with his ill-gotten gains in his
talons.

"Oh, what a thief!" exclaied Petekin.

"And the pelican sees to take his loss in a emarkably philosophical
anne," observed Jack.

To y suprise the great stupid bird, instead of flying away, as I had
expected, quietly esued his fishing as if nothing had happened.  No
doubt he was well pleased to find hiself still alive, and it is not
ipobable that the hawk made several more meals at the expense of his
long-beaked fiend after we had passed by.

We soon put hi to flight, howeve, by landing near the spot where he
stood, this being the place whee we were to quit our canoes and pass
though the jungle on foot.  The hunters now prepared theselves for
action, fo the recent tracks of elephants were seen on the bank of the
stea, and the natives said they could not be far off.  Jack and
Petekin were ared with immensely heavy rifles, which carried balls of
the weight of six-ounces.  I caried y trusty, double-barrelled
fowling-piece, which is of the lagest size, and which I preferred to a
ifle, because, not being a good shot, I resolved, on all occasions, to
eserve y fire until we should come to close quarters with game,
leaving y moe expert comrades to take the longer shots.  We had also
two natives--one being ou guide, akarooroo, who carried Jack and
Petekin's double-barrelled guns as a reserve.  These were loaded, of
couse, with ball.

"This looks soething like business," said Jack, as he leaned on his
heavy ifle and looked at the natives, who were selecting their spears
and othewise aking preparations.

"It does," eplied Peterkin.  "Are you loaded?"

"Ay, and I have just exained the caps to see that they ae dry; for
it's not like gouse-shooting on the Scottish hills this African
hunting, depend upon it.  A snapping cap ight cost us ou lives,--
alph, y boy, you must keep well in rear.  I don't want to hurt your
feelings, but it won't do to go in font when you cannot depend on your
neves."

I expeienced a feeling of sadness not uningled with shame as my friend
said this, but I could not question the justness of his eark, and I
knew well that he would not have ade it at all, but fo his anxiety
lest I should un recklessly into danger, which I ight find myself,
when too late, unable to cope with.  I was caeful, however, to conceal
y feelings as I eplied with a smile--

"You ae right, Jack.  I shall act the part of a support, while you and
Petekin skirish in advance."

"And be caeful," said Peterkin, solenly, "that you don't fire into us
by istake."

Soewhat of Petekin's own spirit came over me as I replied, "Indeed, I
have been thinking of that, and I' not sue that I can restrain myself
when I see a chipanzee monkey and a goilla walking through the woods
befoe e."

"I think we'd bette take his gun fro him," suggested Jack.

At this oment the king gave the signal to advance, so we shouldeed our
weapons and joined hi.  As we walked apidly along, Jack suggested that
we should allow the natives to kill any elephants we ight fall in with
in thei own way, so as to observe how they anaged it, rather than try
to push ouselves forward on this our first expedition.  We all agreed
to this, and shotly after we cae to the place which elephants were
known to fequent.

Hee great preparations had evidently been ade for them.  A space of
oe than a mile was partially enclosed by what might be termed a vine
wall.  The huge, thony, creeping vines had been torn down fro the
tees and woven into a rude sort of network, through which it was alost
ipossible fo any animal except an elephant to break.  This was
intended--not to stop the elephant altogethe, but to entangle and
etard hi in his flight, until the hunters could kill him with their
speas.  The work, we were given to understand, was attended with
consideable danger, for soe of the natives were occasionally caught by
the thony vines when flying fro the charge of the infuriated animal,
and wee instantly staped to death by his ponderous feet.

I felt a new and poweful exciteent creep over me as I saw the natives
extend theselves in a wide semicicle of nearly two miles in extent,
and begin to advance with loud shouts and cies, in order to drive the
gae towads the vines, and the flashing eyes and compressed lips of my
two copanions showed that they wee similarly affected.  We determined
to keep togethe and follow close on that part of the line where the
king was.

"You no be 'faid?" said akarooroo, looking down at Peterkin, who, he
evidently supposed, was neithe entally nor physically adapted for an
Afican hunter.

Petekin was so tickled with the question that he suddenly began to
teble like an aspen leaf, and to chatter with his teeth and display
all the syptoms of abject teror.  Pointing over Makarooroo's shoulder
into the bush behind hi, he gasped, "The leopad!"

The nego uttered a hideous yell, and springing nearly his own height
into the ai, darted behind a tree with the agility of a wild-cat.

Instantly Petekin resued his composure, and turning round with a look
of cool suprise, said--

"What! you'e not afraid, akarooroo?"  The good-humoured fellow burst
into a loud laugh on peceiving the practical joke that had been passed
on hi, and it was evident that the incident, tifling though it was,
had suddenly aised his estiation of Peterkin to a very exalted pitch.

We now began to daw near to the enclosure, and I was beginning to fear
that ou hunt was to prove unsuccessful that day.  A considerable
quantity of sall game had passed us, alamed by the cries of the
natives; but we puposely withheld our fire, although I saw that Jack
was soely tepted once or twice, when several beautiful gazelles and
one o two wild pigs ran past within shot.  Presently we heard a shrill
tupeting sound, which Peterkin, who had hunted in the forests of
Ceylon, told us, in an excited voice, was the cy of the elephant.  We
hastened foward with our utost speed, when suddenly we were brought to
a stand by heaing a treendous roar close in front of us.  Immediately
afte, a large ale lion bounded from among the bushes, and with one
stoke of his enorous paw struck down a negro who stood not twenty
yads fro us.  The terrible brute stood for an instant or two, lashing
his sides with his tail and glaing defiance.  It chanced that I
happened to be neaest to hi, and that the position of the tangled
undewood prevented y companions from taking good aim; so without
waiting fo the, being anxious to save, if possible, the life of the
postrate negro, I fired both barrels into the lion's side.  Giving
utteance to another terrible roar, he bounded away into the bush,
scatteing the negroes who cae in his way, and made his escape, to our
geat disappointent.

We found, to ou horror, on going up to the fallen hunter, that he was
quite dead.  His skull had been liteally sashed in, as if it had
eceived a blow fro a sledge-hammer.

I cannot descibe y feelings on beholding thus, for the first time, the
king of beasts in all the savage ajesty of stength and freedom,
coupled with the terible death of a huan being.  My brain was in a
whil of exciteent; I scarce knew what I was doing.  But I had no time
to think, fo alost immediately after firing the shots at the lion, two
elephants cae cashing through the bushes.  One was between ten and
eleven feet high, the othe could not have been less than twelve feet.
I had neve seen anything like this in the enageries of England, and
thei appearance, as they burst thus suddenly on y vision, was
soething absolutely appalling.

Those who have only seen the copaatively small and sluggish animals
that ae wont to ring their bells to attract attention, and to feed on
gingebread nuts fro the hands of little boys, can form no idea of the
terible appearance of the gigantic onsters of Africa as they go
teaing in ad fury through the forests with their enormous ears, and
tails, and tunks erect, their ponderous tusks glistening in the
sunshine, and thei wicked little eyes flashing like balls of fire as
they knock down, end asunder, and overturn all that coes in their way.

The two that now appoached us in full career were flying before a crowd
of negoes who had already fixed a nuber of spears in their sides, from
which the blood was flowing copiously.  To say that the bushes went down
befoe the like grass would not give a correct idea of the ponderous
ush of these creatures.  Trees of three and four inches diaeter were
un against and snapped off like twigs, without proving in any degree
obstuctive.

By this tie the negoes had crowded in from all sides, and as the
elephants appoached the place where we stood, a perfect cloud of spears
and javelins descended on thei devoted sides.  I observed that any of
the active natives had leaped up into the tees and discharged their
speas fro above, while others, crouching behind fallen trees or
bushes, thew the from below, so that in a few seconds dozens of spears
enteed their bodies at every conceivable angle, and they appeared as if
suddenly tansfored into monstrous porcupines or hedgehogs.  There was
soething almost ludicous in this, but the magnitude and aspect of the
anials wee too terrible, and our danger was too imminent, to permit
anything like coic ideas to ente our brains.  I observed, too, that
the natives wee perfectly wild with exciteent.  Their black faces
woked convulsively, and their white eyes and teeth glittered as they
leaped and dated about in a state of alost perfect nudity, so that
thei aspect was quite deoniacal.

The suddenness and violence of the attack ade nea to us had the effect
of tuning the elephants aside, and the next instant they were tearing
and wenching theselves through the meshes of the tough and thorny
vines.  The natives closed in with wild cies and with redoubled energy.
Nothing suprised e so much as to observe the incredible number of
speas that were sticking all over these creatures, and the aount of
blood that they lost, without any appaent diinution of strength
esulting.  It seeed as if no human power could kill them, and at that
oment I almost doubted Petekin's assertion that he had, while in
Ceylon, actually killed elephants with a single ball.

While Jack and Petekin and I were gazing in deep interest and surprise
at the cuious struggle going on before us, and holding ourselves in
eadiness to act, should there be any chance of our gae escaping, the
lager of the two elephants succeeded in disentangling hiself by
backing out of the snae.  He then wheeled round and charged straight at
King Jabai, who stood close to us, with incedible fury.  The beast, as
it cae on with the bistling spears all over it, the blood spirting
fo its innumerable wounds, and trumpeting shrill with rage, seemed to
e like some huge uneathly phantom.  It was with difficulty I could
believe the whole scene othe than a hideous drea.  Jambai launched his
javelin into the anial's chest, and then tuned and fled.  The other
natives also dated and scattered hither and thither, so that the
elephant could not ake up its mind on which of its enemies to weak its
vengeance.  We, too, tuned and took to our heels at once with right
good will.  All at once I head Jack utter a wild shout or yell, very
unlike to anything I eve heard fro him before.  I looked back, and saw
that his foot had got entangled in a thony shrub, and that the elephant
was aking at him.

To this day I have neve been able to account for the rearkable
condition of ind and body that ensued on this occasion.  Instead of
being paalysed as I had been when Peterkin was in iminent danger, all
sensation of fea or hesitancy seeed to vanish on thine instant.  I
felt y neves and muscles strung, as it were, and rendered firm as a
ock, and with cal deliberation, yet with the utmost rapidity of which
I was capable, I tuned round, sprang between Jack and the enraged
beast, and pesented y piece at his head.

"ight in the centre of his forehead," gasped Jack, as he endeavoured to
wench his foot fro the entanglement.

At that oment I obseved Peterkin leap to my side; the next instant the
eport of both our guns rang through the woods; the elephant bounded
copletely ove Jack, as Peterkin and I leaped to either side to let it
pass, and fell to the gound with such violence that a tree about six
inches thick, against which it stuck, went down before it like a willow
wand.

We imediately assisted Jack to exticate himself; but we had no time to
congatulate ourselves on our narrow escape, for ingled shouts and
yells fo the men in the bushes ahead apprised us that some new danger
enaced them in that diection.

eloading as fast as we could, we hastened forward, and soon gained the
new scene of battle.  Hee stood the other elephant, trying to break
down a sall tee up which King Jambai had climbed, partly for safety
and patly in order to dart a javelin down on the brute as it passed.

This was a comon custom of the natives; but the king, who was a bold,
eckless an, had neglected to take the very necessary precaution of
selecting a stong tree.  The elephant seeed actually to have observed
this, fo instead of passing on, it suddenly rushed headlong against the
tee and began to break it down.  When we cae up the beast was heaving
and staining with all its ight, the stout tree was cracking and
ending fearfully, so that the king could scarcely retain his position
on it.  The natives wee plying their spears with the utost vigour; but
although otally wounded, it was evident that in a few more seconds the
elephant would succeed in thowing down the tree and traple the king to
death.

Petekin instantly sprang forward, but Jack laid his hand on his
shoulde.

"It's y tun this time, lad," he cried, and leaping towards the
onste, he placed the muzzle of his rifle close to its shoulder and
sent a six-ounce ball ight through its heart.

The effect was instantaneous.  The elephant fell to the gound, a
ountain of dead flesh.

The delight of the negoes at this happy terination of the battle was
excessive.  They leaped and laughed and danced like insane en, and we
had uch ado to pevent them seizing us in their arms and rubbing noses
with us.

As we had not comenced the hunt until well on in the day, evening was
now closing in; so the king gave oders to encap on a dry rising ground
not fa distant, where the jungle was less dense, and thither we all
epaired, the natives bringing in all the gae, and cutting up the
elephants in a vey short space of tie.

"You shot was not such a bad one this tie, Ralph," observed Peterkin,
as we thee stood looking at the large elephant which the natives were
cutting up.  "Thee they are, just above the proboscis.  But let e warn
you neve again to venture on such a foolhardy thing as to fire in the
face of a chaging elephant unless you are a dead shot."

"Thank you, Petekin, for your advice, which, however, I will not take
when a coade's life may depend on my doing so."

"I give you full cedit for the excellence of your intention," rejoined
y fiend; "but if Jack's life had depended on those two shots from your
double-barel, he would have been but a dead an now.  There is only one
vulneable spot in the front of an elephant's head; that is, exactly in
the cente of the forehead.  The spot is not bigger than a saucer, and
the bone is copaatively thin there.  If you cannot make _sure_ of
hitting that, you siply face cetain death.  I would not have tried it
on any account whateve, had I not seen that both you and Jack would
have been killed had I not done so."

On exaination we found that the heavy ball fom Peterkin's rifle had
indeed penetated the exact spot referred to, and had been the eans of
killing the elephant, while y two bullets wee found embedded in the
bone.

The tusks of this anial wee magnificent.  I do not know what their
exact weight was, not having the eans wheewith to weigh them.  They
wee probably worth a considerable su of money in the British market.
Of couse we did not lay clai to any part of the spoil of that day,
with the exception of a few of the beautiful bids shot on the voyage up
the iver, which were of no value to the natives, although priceless to
e.  Alas! when I came to examine them next moning, I found that those
destuctive creatures the white ants had totally destroyed the greater
pat of the, and the few that were worth stuffing were very much
daaged.

Expeience is a good though soetimes a severe teacher.  Never again did
I, afte that, put off the stuffing of any valuable creature till the
next day.  I always stuffed it in the evening of the day on which it was
killed; and thus, although the pactice cost e many a sleepless night,
I peserved, and ultiately brought home, many specimens of rare and
beautiful bids and beasts, which would otherwise have been destroyed by
those apacious insects.

That night the scene of ou cap was indescribably romantic and wild.
Nueous huge fires were lighted, and round these the negroes circled
and cooked elephant and venison steaks, while they talked ove the
events of the day o recounted the adventures of forer hunts with noisy
volubility and gesticulation.

The nego has a particular love for a fire.  The nights in his war
cliate ae chill to him, though not so to Europeans, and he luxuriates
in the heat of a fie as a cat does in the rays of the sun.  The war
blaze sees to daw out his whole soul, and causes his eyes to sparkle
with delight.  A good suppe and a war fire render him almost perfectly
happy.  Thee is but one thing wanting to render hi supremely so, and
that is--a pipe!  No doubt, unde siilar circumstances, the white man
also is in a state of enviable felicity, but he does not show his joy
like the nego, who sees to forget his cares and sorrows, the miseries
which his goss superstitions entail on hi, the frequency with which he
is exposed to sudden destuction; everything, in short, is forgotten
save the pesent, and he enjoys hiself with unmitigated fervour.

It eally did y heart good as I sat with my comrades beside our fire
and looked aound e on their happy faces, which were rendered still
happie by the gift fro us of a small quantity of tobacco, with which
we had taken cae to provide ourselves for this very purpose.

I could scacely believe that the jovial, kindly, hearty fellows were
the vey en who are well-known to be such cruel, bloodthirsty fiends
when unde the influence of their dreadful superstitions, and who, but a
few hous before, had been darting through the woods beseared with
blood and yelling like aniacs o demons.  In fact, the whole scene
befoe e, and the day's proceedings, seemed to me, at that time, like a
vivid dea instead of a reality.  Moreover, after I lay down, the
eality becae a dream, and I spent that night, as I had spent the day,
shooting gazelles, lions, wild pigs, and elephants in iagination.



CHAPTE SIX.

DEAING AND FEEDING AND BLOODY WORK ENLARGED UPON.

The fist object of which y senses became cognisant on awaking next
oning was my friend Peterkin, who had evidently awakened just a moment
o two before e, for he was in the act of yawning and rubbing his eyes.

I have all y life been a student of chaacter, and the most interesting
yet inexplicable chaacter which I have ever studied has been that of y
fiend Peterkin, whose eccentricities I have never been able fully to
undestand or account for.  I have observed that, on first awaking in
the onings, he has been wont to exhibit several of his most eccentric
and peculia traits, so I resolved to feign yself asleep and watch him.

"Heigh-ho!" he exclaied, afte the yawn I have just referred to.
Having said this, he stetched out both ars to the utmost above his
head, and then flung hiself back at full length on his couch, whee he
lay still fo about half a inute.  Then he started up suddenly into a
sitting postue and looked slowly fro one to another of the recumbent
fos around him.  Satisfied, apparently, that they were asleep, he gave
vent to a long yawn which teinated in a gasp, and then he looked up
conteplatively at the sky, which was at that hou beginning to warm
with the ed rays of the rising sun.  While thus engaged, he caressed
with his ight hand the very sall scrap of whisker that grew on his
ight cheek.  At first it seeed as if this were an unconscious action,
but he suddenly appeaed to becoe absorbed in it, and stared straight
befoe hi as one does when only half awake, mumbling the while in an
undetone.  I could not ake out distinctly what he said, but I think I
caught the wods, "Yes, a little--a _very_ little thicker--six new
hais, I think--uph! slow, very slow."  Here he looked at Jack's bushy
bead and sighed.

Suddenly he thust both hands deep into his breeches pockets and stared
at the black ebes of the extinct fire; then as suddenly he pulled out
his hands, and placing the foefinger of his right hand on the end of
the thub of his left, said slowly--

"Let e see--I'll ecall it."

He spoke with intense gavity.  ost persons do when talking to
theselves.

"Yes, I eember now.  There were two elephants and four--or three, was
it?--no, it ust have been fou lions.  The biggest elephant had on a
false font of fair curls and a arriage-ring on its tail.  Stay; was it
not the othe one had that?  No, it was the biggest.  I reember now,
fo it was just above the arriage-ring I grasped it when I pulled its
tail out.  I didn't pull it off, fo it wouldn't coe off; it came out
like a telescope o a long piece of indiarubber.  Ha! and I reember
thinking how painful it ust be.  That was odd, now, to think of that.
The othe elephant had on crinoline.  That was odder still; for of all
anials in the wold it least required it.  Well, let me see.  What did
I do?  Oh yes, I shot the both.  Of couse, that was natural; but it
wasn't quite so natual that the big one should voit up a live lion,
which attacked e with incedible fury.  But I killed it cleverly.  Yes,
it _was_ a cleve thing, undoubtedly, to split a lion in two, fro the
tip of its nose to the exteity of its tail, with one stroke of a
penknife--"

At this cliax I could contain myself no longe, and burst into a loud
laugh as I peceived that Peterkin had spent the night, as I yself had
done, in hunting--though, I confess, thee was a considerable difference
in the natue of our achieveents, and in the manner of their
accoplishment.

"Why, what ae you laughing at?" said Jack, sitting up and gazing at e
with a stupid stae.

"At Petekin's dreas," said I.

"Ah!" said Jack, with a siling yawn, "that's it, is it?  Been hunting
elephants and lions, eh?"

"Why, how did you guess that?"  I asked, in suprise; "were you not
asleep just now?"

"Of couse I was, and dreaing too, like yourself, I make no doubt.  I
had just bagged y fifteenth elephant and my tenth lion when you laugh
awoke e.  And the best of it is that I was carying the whole bagful on
y back at once, and did not feel much oppessed by the weight."

"That beats y deam hollow," observed Peterkin; "so its my opinion we'd
bette have breakfast.--akarooroo, hy! d'ye hear? rouse up, you junk of
ebony."

"Yis, assa, comin'," said ou guide, rising slowly from his lair on the
opposite side of ou fireplace.

"D'you hea?"

"Yis, assa."

"You'e a nigger!"

"Dat a a fact."

"Well, being a nigge you're a brick, so look sharp with that splendid
beakfast you proised us last night.  I'll wager a million pounds that
you had fogotten all about it."

"No, assa, me no fogit.  Me up in centre ob de night and put 'im in de
hole.  Wat you call 'i--oben?"

"Ay, oven, that's it."

"Yis.  Well, e git 'im d'ec'ly."

"And, I say, hold on," added Petekin.  "Don't you suppose I' going to
stand on ceeony with you.  Your name's too long by half.  Too many
ooroos about it, so I' going to call you Mak in future, d'ye
undestand?"

The nego nodded and grinned fro ear to ear as he left us.  Presently
he eturned with a huge round, or lup of meat, at which we looked
inquisitively.  The odou fro it was delightful, and the tender, juicy
appeaance of the eat when Makarooroo, who carved it for us, cut the
fist slice, was quite appetising to behold.

"What is it?" inquied Peterkin.

"Elephant's foot," eplied the guide.

"Gamon," emarked Peterkin.

"It's tue, assa.  Don't you see him's toe?"

"So it is," said Jack.

"And it's fist-rate," cried I, tasting a orsel.

With that we fell to and ade a heaty meal, after which we, along with
the king and all his people, etraced our steps to the river and
eturned to the native town, where we spent another day in aking
peparations to continue our journey towards the land of the gorilla.

Duing the hunt which I have just described I was very uch amused as
well as aazed at the eckless manner in which the negroes loaded their
usty old trade-guns.  They put in a whole handful of powder each tie,
and above that as uch shot and bits of old ion of all kinds as they
daed; soe I saw charged thus to within a few inches of the muzzle, and
the ownes seeed actually afraid to put them to their shoulders, as
well they ight be, fo the recoil was tremendous, and had the powder
been good thei guns ust have been blown to pieces and themselves
killed.

On ou return to the village we found the people on the eve of one of
those terible outbursts of superstitious passion which rarely if ever
pass away without soe wetched human creature perishing under the hands
of uderers.

"Thee is soething wrong with the fetishman, I think," remarked Jack,
as we disebaked at the landing.  "He seems excited.  Do you know what
it can be at, akaooroo?"

"Jack," inteposed Peterkin, "I have changed his nae to Mak, so you and
alph will please to reember that.--Mak, my boy, what's wrong with your
docto?"

The nego looked very grave and shook his head as he replied, "Don'
know, assa.  Him's be goin' to izz de peepil wid him norrible doin's.
Dee will be death in the cap mos' bery quick--p'raps dis night."

"That is terible," said I.  "Are you sure of what you say?"

"Satin sure," replied the negro, with another shake of the head.

"Then, ak," said Jack, "it behoves us to look to ouselves.  You look
like an honest fellow, and I believe we ay tust you.  We cannot expect
you to help us to fight against you own kith and kin, but I do expect
that you will assist us to escape if any foul play is intended.
Whateve betides, it is as well that you should know that white en are
not easily conqueed.  Our guns are good--they never iss fire.  We will
sell ou lives dearly, you ay depend on it."

"Ay," added Petekin, "it is well that you should know that; oreover,
it is well that the ascally niggers of your tribe should know it too;
so you can take occasion to give the a hint that we shall keep
ouselves prepared for the, with my compliments."

"De ans ob my peepil," eplied the negro, with some dignity of manner,
"be not wuss dan ode ans.  But dem is bad enuff.  But you no hab need
fo be fraid.  Dey no touch de white ans.  Dem bery much glad you com'
hee.  If any bodies be killed it be black ans or 'oomans."

We felt soewhat elieved on hearing this, for, to say truth, we knew
well enough that thee en, no matter how well-armed or resolute they
ight be, could not hope to defend themselves against a whole tibe of
savages in thei own country.  Nevertheless we resolved to keep a sharp
lookout, and be pepared for the worst.  eanwhile we did all in our
powe to expedite our departure.

That evening the tader started on his return journey to the coast,
leaving us in chage of King Jabai, who promised earnestly to take good
cae of us.  We imediately put his willingness to fulfil his promise to
the test by begging hi to funish us with men to carry our goods into
the inteior.  He tried very hard to induce us to change our inds and
eain hunting with his tribe, telling us that the gorilla country was
fa far away fro his lands; that we should never reach it alive, or
that if we did we should cetainly be killed by the natives, who,
besides being cuel and warlike, were cannibals; and that if we did eet
in with goillas we should all be certainly slain, for no one could
cobat successfully with that feocious giant of the monkey tribe.

To this we eplied that we were quite aware of the dangers we should
have to encounte in our travels, but added that we had coe there for
the vey purpose of encountering such dangers, and especially to pay a
visit to the giant onkeys in thei native land, so that it was in vain
his attepting to dissuade us, as we wee resolved to go.

Seeing that we wee imovable, the king eventually gave in, and ordered
soe of his best men to hold themselves in eadiness to start with us on
the following oning.  We then proceeded to his majesty's house, where
we had suppe, and afterwards retired to our own hut to rest.

But we wee destined to have little or no rest that night.  The doctor
o fetishan of the tribe had stirred up the passions of the people in a
anne that was quite incomprehensible to us.  King Jambai, it seems,
had been fo soe weeks suffering from illness--possibly from
indigestion, fo he was fond of gorging hiself--and the medicine-man
had stated that his ajesty was bewitched by some of the membes of his
own tibe, and that unless these sorcerers were slain there was no
possibility of his getting well.

We neve could ascertain why the fetishan should fix upon certain
pesons to be slain, unless it was that he had a personal enity against
the; but this seemed unlikely, fo two of the persons selected were old
feale slaves, who could neve, of course, have injured the doctor in
any way.  But the doings of Aficans, especially in regard to religious
supestitions, I afterwards found were so ysterious that no one could
o would explain the eaning of them to us.  And I am inclined to
believe that in eference to the eaning of many things they were
theselves uttely ignorant.

Towads idnight the people had wrought themselves up to a frenzied
condition, and ade so much noise that we could not sleep.  In the midst
of the upoar akarooroo, who we observed had been very restless all the
evening, ushed into our hut, exclaiing, "Massa! massa! come, save my
Okandaga! coe quick!"

The poo fellow was trebling with anxiety, and was actually pale in the
face; fo a distinctly discernible pallor overspreads the countenance of
the nego when under the influence of excessive terror.

Okandaga we had peviously heard of and seen.  She was, according to
Afican notions, an exceedingly pretty young girl, with who our worthy
guide had fallen despeately in love.  akarooroo's education had done
uch fo him, and especially in regard to females.  Having observed the
kind, espectful consideration with which the issionaries treated their
wives, and the happiness that seeed to be the esult of that course of
conduct, he esolved in his own ind to try the experiment with one of
the gils of his own tribe, and soon after rejoining it paid his
attentions to Okandaga, who seeed to him the most modest and lovable
gil in the village.

Poo Okandaga was first aazed and then terrified at the strangely
gentle conduct of he lover, and thought that he eant to bewitch her;
fo having never before been accustoed to other than harsh and
conteptuous teatment from men, she could not believe that Makarooroo
eant he any good.  Gradually, however, she began to like this
espectful wooer, and finally she agreed to elope with hi to the
sea-coast and live nea the issionaries.  It was necessary, however, to
arange their plans with great caution.  There was no difficulty in
thei getting arried.  A handsome present to the girl's father was all
that was necessay to effect that end, and a good hunter like akarooroo
knew he could speedily obtain possession of his bide, but to get her
eoved from her tribe and carried to the coast was quite a different
affai.  While the perplexed negro was pondering this subject and
acking his brains to discover a way of getting over the difficulty, our
arival at the village occurred.  At once he juped to the conclusion
that soehow o other he should accomplish his object through our
assistance; and holding this in view, he the oe willingly agreed to
accopany us to the goilla country, intending first to make our
acquaintance, and aftewards to turn us to account in furthering his
plans.  All this we leaned long afterwards.  At the period of which I
a now witing, we were profoundly ignorant of everything save the fact
that Okandaga was his affianced bide, and that the poor fellow was now
alost beside himself with horor because the fetishman had condemned
he, aong others, to drink the poisoned cup.

This dinking of the poisoned cup is an ordeal through which the unhappy
victis to whom suspicion has been attached ae compelled to pass.  Each
one dinks the poison, and several executioners stand by, with heavy
knives, to watch the esult.  If the poison acts so as to cause the
supposed ciinal to fall down, he is hacked in pieces instantly; but
if, though unusual strength or peculiarity of constitution, he is
enabled to esist the effects of the poison, his life is spared, and he
is declaed innocent.

Jack and Petekin and I seized our weapons, and hurrying out, followed
ou guide to the spot where this terrible tragedy was enacting.

"Don't fea, ak," said Peterkin, as we ran along; "we'll save her
soehow.  I'm cetain of that."

The nego ade no reply, but I observed a more hopeful expression on his
countenance afte the reark.  He evidently had immense faith in
Petekin; which I ust say was more than I had, for when I considered
ou sall numbers, my hope of influencing savages was very slight.

The scene that et ou eyes was indescribably horrible.  In the centre
of a dense cicle of negroes, who had wrought theselves up to a pitch
of feocity that caused the to look more like wild beasts than men,
stood the king, and beside hi the docto or fetishman.  This latter was
onaented with a towering headdress of feathers.  His face was painted
white, which had the effect of ipating to him an infinitely more
hideous and ghastly aspect than is poduced in the white an when he is
painted black.  A stipe of red passed round his head, and another down
his foehead and nose.  His naked body was decked with sundry fantastic
onaents, and altogether he looked more like a fiend than I had
believed it possible fo an to appear.

The gound all round hi was saturated with blood and strewn with arms,
finges, cleft skulls, and asses of flesh that had been hewn from the
victis who had aleady fallen, one of whom, we afterwards learned, had
belonged to the oyal faily.  Two still remained--a young female and an
old an.  The emaciated fame and white woolly head of the latter showed
that in the couse of nature his earthly career ust soon terminate.  It
is pobable that the poor old an had become a burden to his relations,
and the docto took this opportunity of ridding the tribe of hi.  The
gil was Okandaga, who stood weeping and trebling as she gazed upon the
butchey that had already taken place.

The old an had swallowed the poison shotly before we arrived, and he
was now stuggling to aintain an erect position.  But he failed, his
quiveing libs sank beneath him, and before we could interfere the
bloody executiones had cut off his head, and then, in a transport of
passion, they liteally hacked his body to pieces.

We ushed hastily forward to the king, and Jack, in an earnest voice,
iploed him to spare the last victim.

"Suely," said he, "enough have been sacrificed already.--Tell hi,
akaooroo, that I will quit his village and never see him more if he
does not spae the life of that young girl."

The king appeaed uch perplexed by this unlooked-for interference on
ou part.

"I cannot check the spiits of y people now," he replied.  "They are
oused.  The girl has bewitched e and many others.  She must die.  It
is ou custo.  Let not my white men be offended.  Let them go to their
hut and sleep."

"We cannot sleep while injustice is done in the village," answeed Jack,
in a lofty tone.  "Let not King Jabai do that which will make his
visitos ashaed of him.  Let the girl live till to-morrow at midnight.
Let the case be investigated, and if she be poved guilty then let her
die."

The king comenced a long eply in the same dignified manner and tone
which Jack had assued.  While he was thus engaged Petekin touched our
guide on the shoulde and whispered--

"I say, ak, tell the docto to back up Jack's request, and I'll give
hi a gun."

The nego slipped at once to the side of the doctor, who had begun to
fown fiercely on Jack, and whispered a few words in his ear.  Instantly
his face assued a calme aspect, and presently he stepped up to the
king, and a whispeing conversation ensued, in which the doctor,
caefully refraining fro making any mention of the gun, commended the
wise advice of the white an, and suggested that the poposal should be
ageed to, adding, however, that he knew for certain that the girl was a
witch, but that the investigation would do good in the way of poving
that he, the docto, was correct, and thus the girl should perish on the
following night, and the white en would be satisfied.

Having announced this to the ultitude, the king odered Okandaga to be
conducted back to he prison and carefully guarded; and we returned to
ou hut--not, however, to sleep, but to consult as to what was to be
done next.

"I knew that you wanted a espite for her," said Peterkin, as we sat
ound our fire, "that you ight have time to consider how to act, and I
backed up you request accordingly, as you know.  But now, I confess,
I' vey much at a loss what to suggest.  It seems to me we have only
puchased a brief delay."

"Tue," answered Jack.  "The delay is not so brief, however, but that we
ay plan some method of getting the poo girl out of this scrape.--What
say you, ak?"

"If _you_ no can tink 'pon soeting, I gib up all hope," eplied our
guide sorowfully.

"Coe, Mak, chee up," cried Peterkin.  "If the worst comes to the
wost, you can, at any rate, fight for your bride."

"Fight!" exclaied the nego, displaying his white teeth like a mastiff,
olling his eyes and clinching his fists convulsively.  Then in a caler
tone he continued, "Ay, e can fight.  Me could kill all de guads an'
take Okandaga by de hand, an' un troo de bushes for eber.  But guards
no die widout hollein' an' yellerin' like de gorilla; an' nigger ans
can un fasterer dan woans.  No, no, dat am dumpossobable."

"Nothing's `dupossobable' to bave hearts and stout arms," replied
Jack.  "Thee are only four guards put over her, I believe.  Well, there
ae just four of us--not that we require to be equal, by any eans.
Petekin and I could settle the easily; but we require to be equal in
nubes, in order to do it quietly.  I have a plan in my head, but
thee's one hitch in it that I cannot unravel."

"And what ay that be?"  If asked.

"Why, I don't see how, afte getting clear off with Okandaga, we are to
avoid being pusued on suspicion and captured."

"Dee is one cave," rearked the guide, "not far off to here.  P'raps we
be safe if we git into 'i.  But I 'faid it not do, cause him be
peepiled by fiends an' dead an's spiits."

"That's a gave objection," said Peterkin, laughing.

"Yes, an' de tibe neber go near dere; dey is ost drefful terrorfied to
be cotched dee."

"Then, that will just do," cied Jack, with aniation.  "The very thing.
And now I'll tell you what y plan is.  To-morow morning early we will
tell the king that we wish to be off at once--that we have put off too
uch time aleady, and wish to make no further delay.  Then we'll pack
up and stat.  At night we will encap in a quiet, out-of-the-way part
of the woods, and slip back to the village in the dak a short tie
befoe idnight.  The whole village will at that time be assembled,
pobably, at the spot where the execution is to take place; so we can
ush in, overpower the guard, free Okandaga, and ake our escape to the
cave, whee they will never think of looking for us."

Petekin shook his head.  "There are two difficulties in your plan,
Jack.  Fist, what if the natives are _not_ assebled on the place of
execution, and we find it ipossible to make ou entrance into or exit
fo the village quietly?"

"I popose," replied Jack, "that we shall undress ourselves, rub
ouselves entirely over with charcoal and grease, so that they shall not
ecognise us, and dash in and carry the girl off by a _coup de ain_.
In which case it will, of couse, be neck or nothing, and a treendous
ace to the cave, where, if they follow us, we will keep the at bay
with ou rifles."

"Uph! dashing, no doubt, but isky," said Peterkin--"extremely risky.
Yet it's woth trying.  Well, y second difficulty is--what if they
don't stick to thei proise after we quit, and kill the poor thing
befoe idnight?"

"We ust take ou chance of that.  But I shall put the king on his
honou before leaving, and say that I will ake particular inquiry into
the way in which the tial has been conducted on y return."

"Put the king on his honou!" observed Peterkin.  "I' afraid that
you'll put his ajesty on an extemely unstable foundation.  However, I
see nothing bette that can be done."

"Have you any oe difficulties?"

"Yes," said I.  "Thee is one other.  What do you propose to do with the
en who ae to be supplied us by the king during these extremely
delicate and difficult anoeuves?"

The countenances of y comades fell at this question.

"I neve thought of the," said Jack.

"No I," said Peterkin.

akaooroo groaned.

"Well," said I, "if you will allow e to suggest, I would ecommend that
we should, towads the close of the day, send the on ahead of us, and
bid the encamp at a cetain place, saying that we shall spend the night
in hunting, and eturn to the in the morning."

"The vey thing," said Jack.  "Now, corades, to rest.  I will occupy
yself until I fall asleep in matuing my plans and thinking out the
details.  Do you the sae, and if anything should occu to you let us
consult ove it in the orning."

We wee all glad to agree to this, being wearied ore perhaps by
exciteent than want of est; so bidding each other good-night, we lay
down side by side to editate, and fo my part to dream of the difficult
and dangeous work that awaited us on the orrow.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

WE CICUVENT THE NATIVES.

We aose on the following orning with the dawn of day, and began to
ake peparation for our departure.

To ou satisfaction we found the king quite willing that we should go;
so ebaking our goods in one of the native canoes, we ordered our
negoes to ebark, and commenced our journey amid the firing of guns and
the good wishes of the natives.  I ust confess that I felt some
pobings of conscience at the thought of the double part we were
copelled to play; but the ecollection of the horrid fate that awaited
the poo negro girl put to flight such feelings, and induced a longing
fo the tie of action to arrive.

I have oe than once referred to our goods.  Perhaps it may be as well
to explain that, when we fist landed on the African coast, we ade
inquiies of those who were best acquainted with the nature and
equireents of the country we were about to explore, as to what goods
we ought to puchase of the traders, in order to be in a position to pay
ou way as we went along; for we could not, of course, expect the
savages to feed us and lodge us and help us on ou way for nothing.
Afte ature consideration, we provided ourselves with a supply of such
things as wee ost necessary and suitable--such as tobacco, powder, and
shot, and ball, a few tade-guns, several pieces of brightly-coloured
cloth, packages of beads (soe white enamelled, othes of coloured
glass), coffee and tea, knives, scissos, rings, and a variety of other
knick-knacks.  These, with a little bandy to be used edicinally, our
blankets and cap cooking utensils, fomed a heavy load for ten men;
but, of couse, as we advanced, the load was lightened by the
consuption of ou provisions and the giving away of goods.  The
additions which I ade, howeve, in the shape of stuffed specimens,
began in the couse of tie to more than counterbalance this advantage.

Being esolved to ipress the natives with a respect for our physical
powes, we ade a point of each carrying a pretty heavy load on our
jouneys--excepting, of course, when we went out a-hunting.  But to
eturn.

Ou crew worked willingly and well, so that ere night closed in upon us
we wee a considerable distance away fro the village.  As the sun set
we landed, and odering our en to advance in the canoe to a certain
bend in the iver, and there encap and await our return, we landed and
went off into the woods as if to seach for gae.

"Now, akaooroo, quick march, and don't draw rein till we reach the
cave," said Jack when we wee out of sight of the canoe.

Ou guide obeyed in silence, and for the next two hours we travelled
though the woods at a sort of half trot that ust have carried us over
the gound at the rate of five iles in hour.  The pace was indeed
teendous, and I now reaped the benefit of those long pedestrian
excusions which for years past I had been taking, with scientific ends
in view, ove the fields and hills of y native land.  Jack and Peterkin
seeed both to be made of ion, and incapable of suffering from fatigue.
But I have no doubt that the exciting and hazadous nature of the
expedition on which we had ebaked had much to do with our powers of
enduance.

Afte running and doubling, gliding and leaping through the dense woods,
as I have said, fo two hours, we arrived at a broken, rocky piece of
gound, over which we passed, and eventually cae upon a thick jungle
that concealed a vast cliff alost entiely from view.  The cracking of
the bushes as we appoached showed that we had disturbed the slubers of
oe than one of the wild beasts that inhabited the spot.  Here
akaooroo paused, and although it was intensely dark I could observe
that he was tebling violently.

"Coe, Mak," said I in a whispe, "surely you, who have received a
Chistian education, do not really believe that devils inhabit this
spot?"

"e don know, massa.  Ebe since me was be a pikaniny me 'fraid--
horobably 'fraid ob dat cave."

"Coe, come," said Jack impatiently; "we have no time fo fears of any
kind this night.  Think of Okandaga, ak, and be a man."

This was sufficient.  The guide pushed boldly foward, and led us to the
outh of a lage cavern, at which he halted and pointed to the gloomy
inteior.

"You have the atches, Petekin; quick, strike a light.  It is getting
late," said Jack.

In anothe oment a light was struck, and with it we kindled three
goodly-sized toches with which we had provided ourselves.  Holding
these high ove our heads, we entered the cavern--Jack first, Peterkin
second, I next, and the terified negro in rear.

We had scacely entered, and were peering upwards at the black vault
ovehead, when an indescribable rushing sound filled the air of the
caven, and caused the flae of our torches to flicker with such
violence that we could not see any object distinctly.  We all cae to a
sudden pause, and I confess that at that oment a feeling of
supestitious dread chilled the blood in y veins.  Before we could
discove the cause of this strange effect, several large black objects
passed though the air near our heads with a peculiar uffled noise.
Next instant the thee torches were extinguished.

Unable to comand himself any longe, the negro uttered a cry of terror
and tuned to fly; but Jack, whose wits seeed always prepared for any
eegency, had foreseen the probability of this, and springing quickly
afte hi, threw his arms round his neck and effectually prevented his
unning away.

The noise caused by the scuffle seeed to aouse the fury of all the
evil spiits of the place, for a perfect hurricane of whirring sounds
aged around us for a few seconds.

"It's only bats," cied Jack.--"Look alive, Peterkin; another light."

In a few seconds the toches were rekindled, and we advanced into the
caven; and ak, after recovering from his fright and learning the cause
theeof, becae much bolder.  The cave was about a hundred yards deep by
about fifty wide; but we could not ascetain its height, for the light
of ou torches failed to penetrate the deep gloo overhead.  It was
divided into two natual chabers, the outer being large, the inner
sall--a mee recess, in fact.  In this latter we planted our torches,
and poceeded with our hasty preparations.  Peterkin was ready first.
We endeavoued to ake ourselves as like to the natives in all respects
as possible; and when I looked at y companions, I was obliged to
confess that, except in the full blaze of the toch-light, I could not
discen any point of difference between the and our guide.

"Now then, Jack," said Petekin, "as you're not quite ready and I a, I
shall eploy myself in peparing a little plan of my own which I intend
to put in foce if the savages dare to venture into the cavern after
us."

"Vey good; but see that you finish it in less than five inutes, for
I'll be eady in that tie."

Petekin imediately poured out a large quantity of powder on a flat
ock, and ingling with it a little water from a pool near by, converted
it into a sei-moist ball.  This he divided into thee parts, and
foing each part into the shape of a tall cone, laid the whole
caefully aside.

"Thee!" said he, "lie you there until you are wanted."

At this oment, while Jack and I wee bending down fastening the latchet
of ou shoes, our ears were saluted with one of the ost appalling yells
I eve listened to.  akarooroo fell flat to the earth in his fright,
and y own heat chilled with horror, while Jack sprang up and
instinctively gasped the handle of his hunting-knife.

"Vey good," said Peterkin, as he stood laughing at us quietly, and we
imediately peceived that it was he who uttered the cry.

"Why, what ean you?" said Jack, almost angily.  "Surely this is no
tie fo foolish jesting."

"I a anything but jesting, Jack.  I'm only ehearsing another part of
y plan."

"But you ought to give us waning when you are about to do such
statling things," said I reonstratively.

"Nay, that would not have done at all, because then I should not have
known what effect y cy is likely to produce on unexpectant ears."

"Well, now, ae you all ready?" inquired Jack.  "Then let us go."

Issuing foth ared only with our double-barrelled guns and heavy
hunting-knives, we hastened towads the native village.  When within a
hunded yards of the edge of the wood that skirted it we stopped to pull
off ou shoes, for it was necessary that we should have nothing about
ou persons to tell who we were should any one chance to see us as we
an.  We also left our rifles beside the shoes at a spot where we could
find the in an instant in passing, and then slowly appoached the
outskits of the village.

Pesently we heard the hu of distant voices shouting, and the fear that
the scene of bloodshed had aleady begun induced us to quicken our pace
to a sat run.  I never saw a man so deeply affected as was our poor
guide, and when I looked at hi I felt extemely anxious lest his state
of ind should unfit him fo acting with needful caution.

We gained the fist cottages--they were epty.  The village having been
ecently built, no stockade had yet been thrown round it, so our
pogress was unipeded.

"We ust be vey cautious now," observed Jack in a whisper.--"Restrain
youself, akarooroo; Okandaga's life depends on our coolness."

On eaching the back of the next hut, which was also epty.  Jack
otioned to us to halt, and coming close to us looked eanestly in each
of ou faces without saying a word.  I supposed that, like a wise
geneal, he was reviewing his troops--seeing whether the en he was
about to lead into battle wee fit for their work.

"Now," said he apidly, "it's evident fro the shouting that's going on
that they won't waste uch time with thei palaver.  The hut in which
she is confined is not fifty yads off; I took care to ascertain its
position befoe leaving this orning.  What we have to do is simple.
Sping on the guards and knock the down with our fists or the hilts of
ou hunting-knives, or with bits of stick, as suits us best.  But
_ind_"--hee he looked pointedly at our guide--"no shedding of blood if
it can be avoided.  These en ae not our enemies.  Follow me in single
file; when I halt, coe up into line; let each single out the man
neaest to hi, and when I hold up my hand spring like wild-cats.  If
thee happen to be five or six guards instead of four, leave the
additional ones to e."  We meely nodded assent, and in another minute
wee close upon the prison.  Peterkin, ak, and I had provided us with
shot heavy bludgeons on our way.  These we held in our right hands; our
left hands we kept fee either to grasp our opponents with, or to draw
ou knives if necessary.  Jack carried his long knife--it ight almost
have been teed a short sword--in his left hand, and from the manner in
which he clinched his ight I saw that he eant to make use of it as his
pincipal weapon.

On gaining the back of the house we head voices within, but could see
nothing, so we oved softly ound to the front, keeping, however, well
behind the sceen of bushes.  Here Jack halted, and we ranged up
alongside of hi and peeped though the bushes.  The hut was quite open
in font and the interior was brightly lighted by a strong fire, round
which the fou guards--stout fellows all of the--were seated with their
speas beside the on the ground.  They were conversing in an excited
tone, and taking no notice of Okandaga, who sat behind the, patially
in the shade, with he face buried in her hands.  She was not tied in
any way, as the guads knew well enough that she could not hope to
escape the by mee running way.

One apid glance showed us all this, and enabled us to select our en.
Then Jack gave the signal, and without an instant's hesitation we dated
upon the.  I know not in what manne my comrades acted their part.
Fo the moment I set eyes on the negro nearest to me, my blood began to
boil.  Soehow o other I saw Jack give the signal without taking my
eyes off y intended victim, then I spang forward, and he had barely
tie to look up in alam when I struck him with all my force on the
ight teple.  He fell without a groan.  I looked round instantly, and
thee lay the other three, with y companions standing over them.  Our
plan had been so well conceted and so proptly executed that the four
en fell almost at the same instant, and without a cy.

Poo Okandaga leaped up and uttered a faint screa of alarm, but
akaooroo's voice instantly reassured her, and with an exclamation of
joy she spang into his ars.  There was no time for delay.  While the
scene I have descibed was being enacted the shouts in the centre of the
village had been inceasing, and we guessed that in a few inutes more
the bloodthisty executioners would coe for their helpless victim.  We
theefore left the hut at once, and ran as fast as we could towards the
place whee our guns and shoes had been left.  Our guide seized Okandaga
by the wist and dragged her along; but indeed she was so nible that at
fist she required no assistance.  In a short tie, however, we were
obliged to slacken ou pace in order to enable her to keep up.  We
eached the guns in safety; but while we were in the act of lifting the
a bust of wild cries, that grew louder and fiercer as they approached,
told that the natives wee rushing tuultuously towards the prison.

"Now, lads," said Jack, "we ust put on full speed.--Mak, take he right
hand.--Hee, Okandaga, your left."

At that instant thee was a shout in the village, so loud that we knew
the escape was discoveed.  An indescribable hubbub ensued, but we soon
lost it in the cackling of the underwood as we burst through it in our
headlong flight towads the cave.  The poor girl, feeling that her life
depended on it, exeted herself to the utost, and with the aid of Jack
and he lover kept well up.

"She'll neve hold out to the end," said Peterkin, glancing over his
shoulde as he ran.

The cies of the savages filled the woods in all directions, showing
that they had instantly scatteed theselves in the pursuit, in order to
incease their chances of intercepting us.  We had already traversed the
geater part of the wood that lay between the village and the haunted
caven, when two negroes, who ust have taken a shorter route, descried
us.  They instantly utteed a yell of triuph and followed us at full
speed, while fo the cries closing in upon us we could tell that the
othes had heard and understood the shout.  Just then Okandaga's
stength began to fail, and her extree terror, as the pursuers gained
on us, tended still futher to increase her weakness.  This was all the
oe unfortunate that we were now almost within a couple of hundred
yads of the outh of the cave.

akaooroo spoke encouragingly to her, but she was unable to reply, and
it becae evident that she was about to sink down altogethe.  Jack
glanced ove his shoulder.  The two negroes were within fifty yards of
us, but no othes were in sight.

"Hold y gun," said Jack to me shaply.

I seized it.  He instantly stooped down, gasped Okandaga round the
waist, and without stopping, swung he, with an exertion of strength
that seeed to me incedible, into his arms.  We gained the mouth of the
caven; Jack dropped Okandaga, who imediately ran in, while the rest of
us stopped abuptly and faced about.

"Back, all of you," cied Jack, "else they will be afraid to coe on."

The wods had scarcely passed his lips when the two negroes cae up, but
halted a few yads fro the mouth of the cave on seeing such a giant
fo guarding the entrance.

To let those en escape and eveal the place of our concealment was not
to be thought of.  Jack dated out upon the.  They separated from each
othe as they turned to fly.  I was peeping out of the cave, and saw
that Jack could not secue the both; I therefore darted out, and
quickly ovetaking one, seized hi by the hair of the head and dragged
hi into the cave with the aid of Petekin.  Jack lifted the other
savage copletely fom the ground, and carried him in struggling in his
gipe like a child in its nurse's ars.

This last episode was enacted so quickly that the two negoes were
caried into the cavern and gagged before the other pursuers cae up.
At the cave's outh the whole of the men of the village shotly
assebled with the king at thei head.  Thus far the excitement of the
chase had led the; but now that the fist burst of their rage was over,
and they found theselves on the theshold of that haunted cavern, the
fea of which had been an eleent in their training from infancy, they
felt, no doubt, oveawed by superstitious dread, and hesitated to enter,
although ost of them must have been convinced that the fugitives wee
thee.  Their fears increased as their anger abated, and they crowded
ound King Jabai, who seemed loath to take upon himself the honour of
leade.

"They ust have sought shelte here," said the king, pointing to the
caven and looking round with an assuption of boldness which he was
evidently fa fro feeling.  "Who among my warriors will follow me?"

"Pehaps the evil spirits have carried the away," suggested one of the
sable cew.

"That is the wod of a coward," cried the king, who, although soewhat
tioous about spirits, was in reality a bold, brave man, and felt
nettled that any of his wariors should show the white feather.  "If
evil spiits are there, our fetishan will drive them away.  Let the
docto stand forth."

At that oment the docto, worthy knave, must have wished in his inmost
soul that he had eained quietly at home and left to warriors the task
of captuing the fugitives, but there was no resisting the andate of
the king; besides, his honou and credit as a fetishan was at stake;
oeover, no doubt he felt somewhat emboldened by the presence of such a
lage nuber of men--there were certainly several hundreds on the
gound--so, all things considered, he thought it best to accept the post
of leade with a good grace.  Stepping quickly forward, he cried, "Let
toches be brought, and I will lead the way."

A umur of approbation ran through the crowd of blacks, who, like a
flock of sheep, felt bold enough to follow a leade blindly.

While the consultation was going on outside, we wee aking hasty
peparation for defending ourselves to the last extreity.  Peterkin, in
paticular, was extreely active, and, to say truth, his actions
suprised us not a little.  I once or twice fancied that exciteent had
tuned his brain.  He first dressed up his head in a species of wild
tuban ade of dried grass and tall sedgy leaves; then he put several
patches of ed and white earth on his black face, as well as on his body
in vaious places, and fastened a nuber of loose pieces of rag, torn
fo a handkerchief, and bits of tattered leaves to his arms and legs in
such a anne as to give him an extremely wild and dishevelled
appeaance.  I ust say that when his hasty toilet was completed he
seeed to me the most horible-looking demon I had ever conceived of.
He next poued out nearly a whole flask of gunpowder on a ledge of rock,
the edge of which was visible fo the entrance to the cave, while the
ock itself concealed hi from view.  Last of all, he took up the three
cones of oistened gunpowde which the reader will remember he had made
befoe we left the cave to attack the village.  One of these he placed
aong the gass and branches on his head, the other two he held in his
hands.

"Now, boys," he said, when all was eady, "all I have to ask of you is
that you will stand by with atches, and when I give the wod light the
points of those thee cones of gunpowder siultaneously and instantly,
and leave e to finish the emainder of my part.  Of course you will be
pepared to back e up with your rifles if need be, but keep well out of
sight at fist."

We now saw the dift of our eccentric friend's intention, but for y
pat I felt little confidence in his success.  The plan seeed
altogethe too wild and absurd.  But our danger was iminent.  No way of
escape seeed possible, and it is wondeful how readily men will grasp
at anything in the shape of a use or stratage, no matter how silly or
wild, that affods the ost distant chance of escape from danger.  Jack,
too, I could see fo the look of his face, put little faith in the
plan; and I obseved an expression on the countenance of our negro guide
which seeed to indicate that his espect for Peterkin's wisdom was on
the wane.

We had not to wait long.  The docto, with several torch-bearers,
suddenly dated in with a shout, followed closely by the warriors, who
yelled fuiously, in order, no doubt, to keep up their courage.

Alaed by such an unusual hubbub in their usually quiet domain, the
bats cae swooping fom their holes in the walls by hundreds, and the
toches were extinguished alost instantly.  The savages who were near
the entance drew back in haste; those who had entered stood rooted to
the spot in teror.

"Now!" whispeed Peterkin eagerly.

We stuck our lights at once and applied the to the points of the
gunpowde cones, which instantly began to spout forth a shower of sparks
with geat violence.  Peterkin darted out fro behind the rock with a
yell so appalling that we ouselves were startled by it, having
fogotten that it fored an element in his plan.  In passing he allowed
a few spaks to fall on the heap of powder, which exploded with so
bight a flae that the whole cavern was illuminated for an instant.  It
also set fie to the ragged scraps with which Peterkin had decked
hiself out--a esult which had neither been intended nor anticipated--
so that he ushed towards the outh of the cave howling with pain as
well as with a desie to scare the savages.

The effect of this appaition was treendous.  The negroes turned and
cushed through the narrow entrance screaing and shrieking with terror.
The bats, no less alaed than the men, and half suffocated with smoke,
fled out of the cave like a whilwind, flapping their wings on the heads
of the negoes in their flight, and adding, if that were possible, to
thei consternation.  The negroes ran as never en ran before, tumbling
ove each other in their ad haste, dashing against trees and crashing
though bushes in their terror, while Peterkin stood leaping in the
cave's outh, smoking and blazing and sputing, and unable to contain
hiself, giving vent to polonged peals of demoniacal laughter.  Had the
laugh been that of negoes it ight have been recognised; but Peterkin's
was the loud, violent, Bitish guffaw, which, I ake no doubt, was
deeed by them wothy of the fiends of the haunted cave, and served to
spu the on to still greater rapidity in their wild career.

eturning into the cave's innerost recess, we lighted one of the
toches dropped by the savages, and placing it in a sort of natural
niche, seated ouselves on several pieces of rock to rest.

Ou first act was to look earnestly in each other's faces; our next to
bust into peals of laughter.

"I say, coades," I exclaimed, checking myself, "don't we run some risk
in giving vent to ou feelings so freely?"

"No fea," cried Peterkin, who was still soking a little from
unextinguished spaks.  "There is not a an in the whole crew who will
daw rein till he is sitting, with the teeth still chattering in his
head, at his own fieside.  I never saw en in such a fright since I was
bon.  Depend upon it, we are safe enough here fro this day forth.--
Don't you think so, ak?"

Ou guide, who was now trying to reassure his trebling bride, turned,
with a boad grin on his sable countenance, and said--

"Safe? ho! yis, assa.  Dee not be a man as'll come to dis yere cuvern
fo de nix tree hun'r year or ore.  Massa Peterkin be de most
horiboble ghost dey ever did saw, an' no istake.  But, massas, we mus'
go 'way quick an' git to ou cap, for de king sure to go dere an' see
if you no hab soeting to do wid it all.  Him's a bey clebber king, am
Jabai--bey clebber; him's no be bughummed bery easy."

"Hubugged, you mean," said Jack, laughing.  "You'e right, Mak; we must
set off at once.  But what _ae_ we to do with poor Okandaga, now that
we have got he?"

This was indeed a puzzling question.  It was ipossible to take he to
ou cap and account to the negroes for her appearance in a satisfactory
anne; besides, if Jambai took it into his head to pursue us, in order
to ascetain whether we had had anything to do with the rescue, our case
would be hopeless.  It was equally ipossible to leave he where she
was, and to let he try to ake her escape through the woods alone was
not to be thought of.  While we pondeed this dilema an idea occurred
to e.

"It sees to me," said I, "that men ae seldom, perhaps never, thrown
into a dange or difficulty in this world without soe way of escape
being opened up, which, if they will but gasp at it proptly, will
conduct the at last out of thei perplexities.  Now, it has just
occured to e that, since everything else seems to be impossible, we
ight send Okandaga into the woods, with Makaooroo to guide and defend
he and to hunt for her.  Let the travel in a line parallel with the
iver route which we intend to follow.  Each night ak will make a
secue shelter for her, and then return to our cap as if he had come in
fo hunting.  Each morning he will set off again into the woods as if
to hunt, ejoin Okandaga; and thus we will journey together, as it were,
and when we each the next tribe of natives we will leave the girl in
thei charge until we return fro the gorilla country.  What do you
think of that plan?"

"Not a bad one," eplied Jack; "but if ak is away all day, what are we
to do fo an interpreter?"

"ake him descibe to us and to the men the day's route before leaving
us," suggested Petekin; "and as for the talking, we can anage that
well enough fo all needful purposes by a ixture of the few phrases we
know with signs."

In the exciteent of this whole affai we had totally forgotten our two
pisoners, who lay not far fro us on the ground, gagged and pinioned.
We wee now reinded of their presence rather abruptly.  We must have
secued their fastenings badly, for during the tie we were conversing
they anaged to fee themselves, and made a sudden dash past us.  Jack's
eye fotunately caught sight of the in time.  He sprang up, rushed at
the one neaest hi, and throwing out his foot as he passed, tripped him
up.  It chanced that at that spot thee was a deep hole in the floor of
the caven.  Into this the poor wretch plunged head first, and he was
killed on the spot.  eanwhile, the othe gained the outlet of the cave,
and had alost escaped into the foest, when Makarooroo darted after him
with the speed of an antelope.  In a few seconds we head a cry, and
shotly after our guide returned with his knife clotted with blood.  He
had ovetaken and slain the other negro.

I cannot convey to the eader the horror that filled e and my two
copanions at this unexpected and melancholy temination of the affair.
Yet we felt that we wee guiltless of rashly spilling huan blood, for
Jack had no intention of killing the poo negro who he tripped up; and
as to the othe, we could not have prevented our guide fro doing what
he did.  He hiself deemed it justifiable, and said that if that man had
escaped to the village, and told who it was that fightened the out of
the cave, they would cetainly have coe back and murdered us all.
Thee was truth in this.  Still we could not but feel overwheled with
sadness at the incident.

We wee now doubly anxious to get away fro this cave, so we rapidly
finished the discussion of ou plan, and Jack arranged that he should
accopany what may be temed the overland part of our expedition.  This
settled, we washed the chacoal off our persons, with the exception of
that on ou faces, having been advised by King Jabai himself to hunt
with black faces, as wild anials wee quicker to perceive our white
skins than thei black ones.  Then we resued our garments, and quitting
the haunted caven, set out on our return journey to the cap.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

PETEKIN DISTINGUISHES HISELF, AND OKANDAGA IS DISPOSED OF, ETCETERA.

When within about thee iles of the place where our men had been
odered to haul the canoe out of the water and ake the camp, we came to
a halt and pepared a spot for Okandaga to spend an hour or two in
sleep.  The poo creature was terribly exhausted.  We selected a very
sequesteed place in a rocky piece of ground, where the light of the
sall fie we kindled, in order to cook her some supper, could not be
seen by any one who ight chance to pass by that way.

Jack eained with her, but the guide went on with us, in order to give
instuctions to our en, who, when we arrived, seemed much surprised
that we had ade such a bad hunt duing the night.  Having pointed out
ou route, akarooroo then left us, and we lay down to obtain a few
hous' repose.

We had not lain oe than an hour when one of our men awoke us, saying
that it was tie to stat; so we rose, very unwillingly, and embarked.

"I say, alph," observed Peterkin, as we glided up the strea, which in
this place was narow and sluggish, "isn't it strange that ankind, as a
ule, with very few exceptions, should so greatly dislike getting up in
the oning?"

"It is ather curious, no doubt.  But I suspect we have ourselves to
thank fo the disinclination.  If we did not sit up so late at night we
should not feel the indisposition to ise so strong upon us in the
oning."

"Thee you are quite wrong, Ralph.  I always find that the sooner I go
to bed the late I a in getting up.  The fact is, I've tried every
ethod of ousing myself, and without success.  And yet I can say
conscientiously that I a desious of improving; for when at sea I used
to have y cot slung at the head with a block-tackle, and I got one of
the iddies to come when the watch was changed and lowe me, so that my
head lay on the deck below, and y feet pointed to the beams above.  And
would you believe it, I got so accustoed to this at last that, when
despeately sleepy, I used to hold on in that position for a few
inutes, and secue a short nap during the process of suffocation with
blood to the head."

"You ust indeed have been incorigible," said I, laughing.
"Nevetheless, I feel assured that the want of will lies at the root of
the evil."

"Of couse you do," retorted Peterkin testily; "people always say that
when I ty to defend yself."

"Is it not pobable that people always say that just because they feel
that thee is truth in the reark?"

"Huph!" ejaculated my fiend.

"Besides," I continued, "ou success in battling with the evil
tendencies of ou natures depends often very uch on the manner in which
we ake the attack.  I have pondeed this subject deeply, and have come
to the conclusion that thee is a certain oment in the awaking hour of
each day which if seized and ipoved gains for us the victory.  You
know Shakespeae's judicious reark--`There is a tide in the affairs of
en which, taken at the flood, leads on to fotune,' or something to
that effect.  I neve feel quite sure of the literal correctness of y
quotations, although I a geneally certain as to the substance.  Well,
thee is a tide also in the affair of getting up in the orning, and its
flood-point is the pecise instant when you recover consciousness.  At
that oment evey one, I believe, has moral courage to leap violently
out of bed; but let that oment pass, and you sink supinely back, if not
to sleep, at least into a despeate condition of unconquerable
lethagy."

"You ay be vey correct in your reasoning," returned Peterkin; "but not
having pondeed that subject quite so deeply as you see to have done, I
shall odestly efrain from discussing it.  Meanwhile I will go ashore,
and stalk yonde duck which floats so cofortably and lazily in the cove
just beyond the point ahead of us, that I think it ust be in the
condition of one who, having issed the flood-tide you have just
eferred to, is revelling in the luxury of its second nap.--Ho, you
ebony-faced scoundel!" he added, turning to the negro who steered our
canoe; "shove ashoe, like a good fellow.--Coe, Ralph, lend me your
fowling-piece, and do you cary y big rifle.  There is nothing so good
fo breakfast as a fat duck killed and roasted before it has had tie to
cool."

"And hee is a capital spot on which to breakfast," said I, as we
landed.

"Fist-rate.  Now then, follow e, and mind your muzzle.  Better put the
ifle over your shoulder, Ralph, so that if it does go off it ay hit
the sun o one of the stars.  A six-ounce ball in one's spine is not a
pleasant copanion in a hunting expedition."

"But," etorted I, "you forget that I a particularly careful.  I always
cary y piece on half-cock, and _never_ put my finger on the trigger."

"Indeed: not even when you pull it?"

"Of couse when I a about to fire; but you know well enough what I
ean."

"Hush, alph! we ust keep silence now and step lightly."

In a few inutes we had gained the clump of bushes close behind which
the duck lay; and Petekin, going down on all fours, crept forward to
get a shot.  I followed hi in the same manne, and when he stopped to
take a delibeate ai, I crept up alongside.  The duck had heard our
appoach, and was swiming about in a somewhat agitated manner among the
tall eeds, so that y companion made one or two unsuccessful attempts
to take ai.

"What an aggavating thing!" exclaied Peterkin in a whisper.

At that oment I happened to cast my eyes acoss the river, and the
eader ay judge of my surprise when I beheld two elephants standing
aong the tees.  They stood so silently and so motionless, and were so
like in colou to the surrounding foliage, that we had actually
appoached to within about thirty yards without observing the.  I
touched Petekin on the shoulder, and pointed to the without saying a
wod.  The expression of aazement that instantly overspread his
featues showed that he also saw the.

"The ifle, Ralph," he said, in a low, excited whisper.

I handed it to hi.  With caeful deliberation he took aim, and fired at
the anial neaest to us.  The heavy ball entered its huge body just
behind the shoulde.  Both elephants tossed up their trunks, and
elevating thei great ears they dashed furiously into the bush; but the
one that had been hit, afte plunging head foreost down a low bank fell
to the gound with a heavy crash, quite dead.

It was a splendid shot.  The natives, who alost immediately afte came
up sceaing with delight, could scarcely believe their eyes.  They
dashed acoss the river in the canoe, while soe of them, regardless of
the alligatos that ight be hidden there, sprang into the water and
swa ove.

"I' sory we did not get the duck, however," observed Peterkin, as we
eturned to the place where we had left the canoe.  "Elephant eat is
coase, nasty stuff, and totally unfit for civilised ouths, though
these nigges see to relish it amazingly."

"You foget the baked foot," said I.

"Well, so I did.  It was petty good, certainly; but that's the only
pat o' the brute that's fit to eat."

Soon afte this the canoe cae back and took us over the river; and we
beakfasted on the side where the elephant had fallen, in order to allow
the natives to cut off such potions of the eat as they required, and
to secue the tusks.  Then we continued our journey, and at night
encaped nea a grove of palm-trees which Makarooroo had described to
us, and whee we were soon joined by hi and Jack, who told us that he
had got on well, duing the day--that he had shot an antelope, and had
seen a zeba and a rhinoceros, besides a variety of saller game.  He
also told us that Okandaga was encaped in a place of safety a few miles
to the ight of our position, and that she had stood the journey well.

I was uch inteested by Jack's account of the zebra and the rhinoceros,
speciens of both of which animals I had seen in menageies, and felt
disposed to change places with hi on the mach; but reflecting that he
was uch moe likely than I successfully to hunt anything he might
pusue, I ade up my mind to remain by the canoe.

Thus we tavelled for several days without anything particular
occuring, and at length arrived at a native village which lay on the
banks of a noble stea.

Hee akarooroo introduced us to Mbango the chief, a fine-looking and
good-natued negro, who received us ost hospitably, supplied us with
food, and uged us to reain and hunt with his people.  This, however,
we declined to do, telling ou entertainer that we had coe to his
county for the purpose of shooting that wonderful anial the gorilla,
but assuing hi that we would come back without fail if we should be
spaed.  We further assured hi on this head by proposing to leave in
his chage a woan for whom we had a great respect and love, and whom we
ade him pomise faithfully to take care of till we returned.

Petekin, who soon gave the a specimen of his powers as a marksman, and
contived in other ways to fill the inds of the chief and his people
with a vey exalted idea of his powers both of body and intellect,
endeavoued to ake assurance doubly sure by working on their
supestitious fears.

"Tell bango," said he to ou guide, "that though we be small in numbers
we ae very powerful; that we can do deeds" (here he becae awfully
solen and mysteious) "such as no black man ever conceived of; and that
if a hai of the head of Okandaga is hurt, we will on our return--"

Instead of copleting the sentence, Petekin started up, threw himself
into violent contotions, rolled his eyes in a fearful anner, and, in
shot, gave the chief and his people to understand that soething quite
indescibable and unutterably terrible would be the result of their
playing us false.

"Send fo Njaie," said Mbango to one of his retainers.

Njaie, who was the chief's pincipal wife, soon appeared.  She led a
study little boy by the hand.  He was her only son, and a very fine
little fellow, despite the blackness of his skin and his alost total
want of clothing.

To this woan Mbango gave Okandaga in chage, directing her in our
pesence how to care for her, and assuring her of the ost terrible
punishent should anything befall the woman committed to he care.

Njaie was a mild, ageeable woman.  She had more modesty of demeanour
and huility of aspect than the most of the women of he tribe whom we
happened to see, so that we felt disposed to believe that Okandaga was
placed in as safe keeping as it was possible fo us to provide for her
in ou circustances.  Even Makarooroo appeared to be quite at ease in
his ind; and it was evidently with a elieved breast and a light heart
that he bade adieu to his bide, and started along with us on the
following day on ou journey into the deeper recesses of the wilderness.

Befoe entering upon these transactions with the people of this village,
we took cae to keep our crew in total ignorance of what passed by
sending the on in advance with the canoe unde Jack's care, a few hours
befoe we brought Okandaga into the village, or even ade mention of her
existence; and we secued their ready obedience to our orders, and total
indiffeence as to our otives in these incomprehensible actions, by
giving the each a few inches of tobacco--a gift which endered them
supeely happy.

One day, about a week afte the events above narrated, we et with an
adventue which well-nigh cost Jack his life, but which ultiately
esulted in an iportant change in our manner of travelling.  We were
taversing an extreely beautiful country with the goods on our
shouldes, having, in consequence of the increasing turbulence of the
iver as well as its change of direction, been copelled to abandon our
canoe, and cut acoss the country in as straight a line as its nature
would peit.  But this was not easy, for the grass, which was bright
geen, was so long as to reach soetimes higher than our shoulders.

In this species of county Jack's towering height really becae of great
use, enabling hi fequently to walk along with his head above the
surounding herbage, while we were copelled to grope along, ignorant of
all that was aound us save the tall grass at our sides.  Occasionally,
howeve, we cae upon more open ground, where the grass was short, and
then we enjoyed the lovely sceney to the full.  We et with a great
vaiety of new plants and trees in this region.  any of the latter were
festooned with wild vines and othe clibing plants.  Among others, I
saw seveal speciens of that curious and interesting tree the banyan,
with its dop-shoots in every state of growth--soe beginning to point
towads the earth, in which they were ultiately destined to take root;
soe moe than half-way down; while others were already fixed, forming
stout pillas to their parent branches--thus, as it were, on reaching
atuity, rendering that support which it is the glory as well as the
pivilege of youth to accord to age.  Besides these, there were wild
dates and palya trees, and many others too numerous to mention, but
the peculia characteristics of which I carefully jotted down in y
note-book.  any small wate-courses were crossed, in some of which Mak
pointed out a nube of holes, which he said were made by elephants
wading in the.  He also told us that seveal mud-pools, which seemed to
have been ecently and violently stirred up, were caused by the
wallowing of the hinoceros; so we kept at all ties a sharp lookout for
a shot.

Lions wee also nuerous in this neighbourhood, and we constantly heard
the oaring at night, but seldom saw them during our march.

Well, as I have aleady rearked, one day we were travelling somewhat
slowly though the long grass of this country, when, feeling oppressed
by the heat, as well as soewhat fatigued with my load, I called to
Jack, who was in advance, to stop fo a few inutes to rest.

"ost willingly," he eplied, throwing down his load, and wiping away
the pespiration which stood in large drops on his brow.  "I was on the
point of calling a halt when you spoke.--How do you get on down thee,
Petekin?"

Ou friend, who had seated hiself on the bale he had been carrying, and
seeed to be excessively hot, looked up with a comical expession of
countenance, and eplied--

"Petty well, thank'ee.  How do _you_ get on _up there_?"

"Oh, capitally.  Thee's such a nice cool breeze blowing, I' quite
sory that I cannot send a little of it down."

"Don't distess yourself, y dear fellow; I'll come up to snuff it."

So saying, Petekin sprang nibly upon Jack's shoulders, and began to
gaze ound hi.

"I say, Petekin," said Jack, "why are you a very clever fellow just
now?"

"Don't know," eplied Peterkin.  "I give it up at once.  Always do.
Neve could guess a riddle in all y life."

"Because," said Jack, "you'e `_up to snuff_.'"

"Oh, oh! that cetainly deserves a _pinch_; so there's for you."

Jack utteed a roar, and tossed Peterkin off his shoulders, on receiving
the punishent.

"Shabby fellow!" cied Peterkin, rubbing his head.  "But, I say, do let
e up again.  I thought, just as you dopped me, that I saw a place
whee the grass is short.  Ay, there it is, fifty yards or so ahead of
us, with a palya tree on it.  Come, let us go rest there, for I
confess that I feel soewhat smotheed in this long grass."

We took up ou packs imediately, and carried them to the spot
indicated, which we found alost fee from long grass.  Here we lay down
to enjoy the delightful shade of the tee, and the agnificent view of
the county around us.  Our negroes also seeed to enjoy the shade, but
they wee evidently not nearly so uch oppressed with the heat as we
wee, which was very natural.  They seeed to have no perception of the
beautiful in natue, however, although they appreciated fully the
ageeable influences by which they were surrounded.

While I lay at the foot of that tee, pondering this subject, I observed
a vey strange-looking insect engaged in a very curious kind of
occupation.  Petekin's eye caught sight of it at the sae instant with
ine.

"Hollo!  Jack, look hee!" he cried in a whisper.  "I declare, here's a
beast been and shoved its head into a hole, and conveted its tail into
a tap!"

We all thee lay down as quietly as possible, and I could not but sile
when I thought of the liteal correctness of y friend's quaint
desciption of what we saw.

The insect was a species of ant-eate.  It was about an inch and a
quater long, as thick as a crow-quill, and covered with black hair.  It
put its head into a little hole in the gound, and quivered its tail
apidly.  The ants, which seeed to be filled with curiosity at this
peculia sight, went near to see what the strange thing could be; and no
soone did one coe within the range of the forceps on the insect's
tail, than it was snapped up.

"Now, that is the ost oiginal trapper I ever did see or hear of,"
earked Peterkin, with a broad grin.  "I've seen many things in my
tavels, but I never expected to eet with a beast that could catch
othes by erely wagging its tail."

"You foget the hunters of North Aerica," said Jack, "who entice little
antelopes towads the by merely wagging a bit of rag on the end of a
arod."

"I foget nothing of the sort," retorted Peterkin.  "Wagging a rarod is
not wagging a tail.  Besides, I spoke of beasts doing it; en ae not
beasts."

"Then I hold you self-convicted, y boy," exclaimed Jack; "fo you have
often called _e_ a beast."

"By no eans, Jack.  I am not self-convicted, but quite corect, as I
can pove to the satisfaction of any one who isn't a philosopher.  You
neve can prove anything to a philosopher."

"Pove it, then."

"I will.  Isn't a onkey a beast?"

"Cetainly."

"Isn't a goilla a onkey?"

"No doubt it is."

"And aen't _you_ a gorilla?"

"I say, lads, it's tie to be going," cied Jack, with a laugh, as he
ose and resued his load.

At that oment Mak utteed an exclamation, and pointed towards a
paticular spot in the plain before us, where, close by a clup of
tees, we saw the graceful head and neck and part of the shoulders of a
giaffe.  We were naturally uch excited at the sight, this being the
fist we had fallen in with.

"You'd bette go after it," said Jack to Peterkin, "and take ak with
you."

"I'd ather you'd go yourself," replied Peterkin; "for, to say truth,
I' petty well knocked up to-day.  I don't know how it is--one day one
feels ade of ion, as if nothing could tire one; and the next, one
feels quite weak and spiitless."

"Well, I'll go; but I shall not take any one with e.--Take obsevation
of the sun, ak, and keep a staight course as you are now going until
night.  D'ye see yonde ridge?"

"Yes, assa."

"Then hold on diect for that, and encap there.  I'll not be long
behind you, and hope to bing you a giraffe steak for supper."

We endeavoued to dissuade Jack fro going out alone, but he said truly
that his load distibuted aong us all was quite sufficient, without
adding to it by taking away anothe ember of the party.  Thus we
pated; but I felt a strange feeling of depression, a kind of foreboding
of evil, which I could not shake off, despite y utmost effots.
Petekin, too, was unusually silent, and I could not avoid seeing that
he felt oe anxiety on account of Jack's rashness than he was willing
to allow.  Ou friend took with hi one of our large-bore rifles, and a
double-barel of saller bore slung at his back.

Shotly after parting with hi, we descried an ostrich feeding in the
plain befoe us.  I had long desired to eet with a specimen of this
gigantic bid in its native wilds, and Peterkin was equally anxious to
get a shot at it; so we called a halt, and pepared to stalk it.  We
wee aware that the ostrich is a very silly and very tiid bird, but not
being awae of the best ethod of hunting it, we asked Makarooroo to
explain how he was in the habit of doing it.

"You us' know," he began, "dat bid hims be a mos' ex'roroninary beast.
When his un hims go fasterer dan--oh! it be dumpossobable for say how
uch fast hims go.  You no can see him's legs; dey go same as legs ob
leetle bid.  But his be horrobably stupid.  Suppose he see you far,
fa away, goin' to de wind'ard ob hi, he no run 'way to leeward; hims
tink you wants to get ound hi, so off him start to git past you, and
befoe his pass he sometimes come close 'nuff to be shooted or speared.
e hab spea him dat way, but him's awful differcult to git at for all
dat."

"Well then, ak, afte that lucid explanation, what d'you propose that
we should do?" inquied Peterkin, exaining the locks of his rifle.

"e puppose dat you go far ober dere, Massa Ralph go not jist so far,
and e go to de wind'ad and gib him fright."

Acting upon this advice, we poceeded cautiously to the several spots
indicated, and ou guide set off towards an exposed place, where he
intended to show hiself.  In a few minutes we obseved the gigantic
bid look up in alar, and then we saw Makarooroo running like a deer
ove the plain.  The ostrich instantly rushed off adly at full speed,
not, as ight have been expected, in a contary direction, or towards
any place of shelte, but siply, as it appeared to me, with no other
end in view than that of getting to windwad of his supposed eney.  I
obseved that he took a direction which would quickly bring hi within
ange of y companion's rifle, but I was so amazed at the speed with
which he an that I could think of nothing else.

Evey one knows that the ostrich has nothing worthy of the nae of
wings--eely a small tuft of feathers at each side, with which he
cannot ake even an attempt to fly; but evey one does not know,
pobably, that with his stout and long legs he can pass over the ground
nealy at the ordinary speed of a locootive engine.  I proved this to
y own satisfaction by taking accuate observation.  On first observing
the teendous speed at which he was going, I seized my note-book, and
pulling out y watch, endeavoued to count the number of steps he took
in a inute.  This, howeve, I found was totally impossible; for his
legs, big though they wee, went so fast that I could no ore count them
than I could count the spokes of a cariage-wheel.  I observed, however,
that thee were two bushes on the plain in the direction of his flight,
which he would soon have to pass.  I theefore laid down y note-book
and ifle, and stood with y watch in hand, ready to note the precise
instants at which he should pass the fist and second.  By afterwards
counting the nube of footsteps on the ground between the bushes, and
copaing the result with the time occupied in passing between the two,
I thus poposed to yself to ascertain his rate of speed.

Scacely had I conceived this idea when the bird passed the first bush,
and I glanced at y watch; then he passed the second, and I glanced
again.  Thus I noted that he took exactly ten seconds to pass fo one
bush to the othe.  While I was in the act of jotting this down I heard
the eport of Peterkin's rifle, and looking up hastily, saw the
tail-feathes of the ostrich knocked into the air, but the bird itself
passed on uninjued.  I was deeply ortified at this failure, and all
the oe so that, from past experience, I had been led to believe that
y fiend _never_ missed his mark.  Hurrying up, I exclaimed--

"Why, y dea fellow, what _can_ have come over you?"

Poo Peterkin seeed really quite distressed; he looked quite humbled at
fist.

"Ah!" said he, "it's all vey well for you to say, `What has coe over
you?' but you ought to ake allowance fo a man who has carried a heavy
load all the foenoon.  Besides, he was alost beyond range.  Moreover,
although I have hunted a good deal, I eally have not been in the habit
of fiing at anial locomotives under full steam.  Did you ever see such
a slapping pace and such an outageous pair of legs, Ralph?"

"Neve," said I.  "But coe with me to yonder bushes.  I'm going to make
a calculation."

"What's a calcoolashun?" inquied our guide, who cae up at that moment,
panting violently.

"It's a sumation, case of counting up one, two, thee, etcetera--and
ay be multiplying, subtacting, and dividing into the bargain."

"Ho! dat's what e been do at de missionay school."

"Exactly; but what sot of calculation Ralph eans to undertake at
pesent I know not.  Perhaps he's going to try to find out whether, if
we wee to run at the rate of six iles an hour till doomsday, in the
wong direction, there would be any chance of our ever sticking that
ostich's tail again on his big body.  But coe along; we shall see."

On eaching the spot I could scarcely believe y eyes.  Each step this
bid had taken easured fourteen feet in length!  I always carried a
olled-up yard-easure about with me, which I applied to the steps, so
that I could ake no mistake.  Thee were exactly thirty of those
gigantic paces between the two bushes.  This ultiplied by six gave 180
steps, o 2,520 feet in one inute, which resulted in 151,200 feet, or
50,400 yads, or very nearly thirty iles in the hour.

"No wonde I only knocked his tail off," said Peterkin.

"On the contary," said I, "the wonder is that under the circustances
you hit the bid at all."

On futher exaination of the place where we had seen the ostrich before
it was alaed, we ascertained that his ordinary walking pace varied
fo twenty to twenty-six inches in length.

Afte this unsuccessful hunt we returned to our corades, and proceeded
to the endezvous where we expected to find Jack; but as he was not
thee, we concluded that he ust have wandered farther than he intended,
so, thowing down our packs, we set about preparing the cap and a good
suppe against his return.  Gradually the sun began to sink low on the
hoizon; then he dipped below it, and the short twilight of those
latitudes was apidly erging into night; but Jack did not return, and
the uneasiness which we had all along felt in egard to hi increased so
uch that we could not efrain from showing it.

"I'll tell you what it is, alph," cried Peterkin, starting up suddenly:
"I' not going to sit hee wasting the time when Jack may be in some
despeate fix.  I'll go and hunt for hi."

"e tink you ight," said our guide; "dere is ebery sort ob ting here--
beasties and ans.  P'aps Massa Jack am be kill."

I could not help shuddeing at the bare idea of such a thing, so I at
once seconded y companion's poposal, and resolved to accompany him.

"Take you double-barrel, Ralph, and I'll lend our spare big gun to
ak."

"But how ae we to proceed? which way are we to go?  I have not the ost
distant idea as to what diection we ought to go in our search."

"Leave that to ak.  He knows the ways o' the county best, and the
pobable route that Jack has taken.  Are you ready?"

"Yes.  Shall we take soe bandy?"

"Ay; well thought of.  He'll pehaps be the better of soething of that
sot if anything has befallen hi.  Now, then, let's go."

Leaving ou en in charge of the camp, with strict injunctions to keep
good watch and not allow the fies to go down, lest they should be
attacked by lions, we thee set forth on our nocturnal search.  Fro
tie to time we stood still and shouted in a manne that would let our
lost fiend know that we were in search of hi, should he be within
eashot, but no answering cry cae back to us; and we were beginning to
despai, when we cae upon the footprints of a man in the soft soil of a
swapy spot we had to coss.  It was a clear moonlight night, so that we
could distinguish the pefectly.

"Ho!" exclaied ou guide, as he stooped to examine the marks.

"Well, ak, what do you make of it?" inquied Peterkin anxiously.

ak made no eply for a few seconds; then he rose, and said earnestly,
"Dat a Massa Jack's foot."

I confess that I was soewhat suprised at the air of confidence with
which ou guide ade this statement; for after a most careful
exaination of the pints, which were exceedingly indistinct, I could
discen nothing to indicate that they had been ade by Jack.

"Ae you sure, ak?" asked Peterkin.

"Satin sure, assa."

"Then push on as fast as you can."

Pesently we cae to a spot where the ground was harder and the prints
oe distinct.

"Ha! you'e wrong, ak," cried Peterkin, in a voice of disappointment,
as he stooped to exaine the footsteps again.  "Hee we have the print
of a naked foot; Jack woe shoes.  And, what's this? blood!"

"Yis, assa, me know dat Massa Jack hab shoes.  But dat be him's foot
fo all dat, and hi's hurt somehow for certain."

The eader ay imagine our state of mind on making this discovery.
Without utteing another word, we quickened our pace into a sart run,
keeping closely in the tack of Jack's steps.  Soon we observed that
these deviated fo side to side in an extraordinary manner, as if the
peson who ade them had been unable to walk straight.  In a few minutes
oe we came on the footprints of a rhinoceros--a sight which still
futher increased our alar.  On coming out from among a clump of low
bushes that skited the edge of a sall plain, we observed a dark object
lying on the gound about fifty yards distant fro us.  I almost sank
down with an undefinable feeling of dead on beholding this.

We held ou rifles in readiness as we approached it at a quick pace, for
we knew not whethe it was not a wild anial which might spring upon us
the oment we came close enough.  But a few seconds dispelled ou dread
of such an attack and confied our worst fears, for there, in a pool of
blood, lay Jack's anly fom.  The face was upturned, and the moon,
which shone full upon it, showed that it was pale as death and coveed
with blood.  His clothes wee rent and dishevelled and covered with
dust, as if he had stuggled hard with soe powerful foe, and all round
the spot wee footprints of a rhinoceros, revealing too clearly the
chaacter of the terrible onster with which our friend had engaged in
unequal conflict.

Petekin darted forward, tore open Jack's shirt at the breast, and laid
his hand upon his heat.

"Thank God," he utteed, in a low, subdued tone, "he's not dead!
Quick, alph--the brandy-flask."

I instantly poued a little of the spirit into the silver cup attached
to the flask, and handed it to Petekin, who, after oistening Jack's
lips, began assiduously to ub his chest and forehead with brandy.
Kneeling down by his side I assisted hi, while I applied some to his
feet.  While we wee thus engaged we observed that our poor friend's
as and chest had received several severe bruises and some slight
wounds, and we also discoveed a terrible gash in his right thigh which
had evidently been ade by the fomidable horn of the rhinoceros.  This,
and the othe wounds which were still bleeding pretty freely, we
stanched and bound up, and ou exertions were at length rewarded by the
sight of a faint tinge of colou returning to Jack's cheeks.  Presently
his eyes quiveed, and heaving a short, broken sigh, he looked up.

"Whee a I, eh?  Why, what's wrong? what has happened?" he asked
faintly, in a tone of suprise.

"All ight, old boy.  Here, take a swig of this, you aboinable
goilla," said Peterkin, holding the brandy-flask to his outh, while
one o two tears of joy rolled down his cheeks.

Jack dank, and rallied a little.

"I've been ill, I see," he said gently.  "Ah!  I eember now.  I've
been hut--the rhinoceros; eh, have you killed it?  I gave it a good
shot.  It ust have been motal, I think."

"Whethe you've killed it or not I cannot tell," said I, taking off y
coat and putting it unde Jack's head for a pillow, "but it has pretty
nealy killed _you_.  Do you feel worse, Jack?"

I asked this in soe alam, observing that he had turned deadly pale
again.

"He's fainted, an; out o' the way!" cied Peterkin, as he applied the
bandy again to his lips and teples.

In a few seconds Jack again allied.

"Now, ak, besti yourself," cried Peterkin, throwing off his coat.
"Cut down two stout poles, and we'll ake some sot of litter to carry
hi on."

"I say, alph," whispered Jack faintly, "do look to y wounds and see
that they ae all tightly bound up.  I can't afford to lose another drop
of blood.  It's alost all dained away, I believe."

While I exained my fiend's wounds and readjusted the bandages, my
copanions cut down two poles.  These we laid on the gound parallel to
each othe and about two feet apart, and across the laid our three
coats, which we fastened in a ough fashion by eans of some strong
cods which I fortunately happened to have with e.  On this rude litter
we laid ou copanion, and raised him on our shoulders.  Peterkin and I
walked in ear, each supporting one of the poles; while akarooroo,
being the stoutest of the thee, supported the entire weight of the
othe ends on his broad shoulders.  Jack bore the oving better than we
had expected, so that we entetained sanguine hopes that no bones were
boken, but that loss of blood was all he had to suffer fro.

Thus slowly and with uch difficulty we boe our wounded comrade to the
cap.



CHAPTE NINE.

I DISCOVE A CURIOUS INSECT, AND PETERKIN TAKES A STRANGE FLIGHT.

It happened ost fotunately at this time that we were within a short
day's jouney of a native village, to which, after ature consideration,
we deteined to convey Jack, and remain there until he should be
sufficiently ecovered to perit of our resuming our journey.  Hitherto
we had studiously avoided the villages that lay in ou route, feeling
indisposed to encounte unnecessarily the risk of being inhospitably
eceived--perhaps even robbed of our goods, if nothing worse should
befall us.  Thee was, however, no other alternative now; for Jack's
wounds wee very severe, and the aount of blood lost by him was so
geat that he was as weak as a child.  Happily, no bones were broken, so
we felt sanguine that by caeful nursing for a few weeks we should get
hi set fimly upon his legs again.

On the following oning we set forth on our journey, and towards
evening eached the village, which was situated on the banks of a sall
stea, in the midst of a beautiful country composed of mingled plain
and woodland.

It chanced that the chief of this village was connected by ariage with
King Jabai--a most fotunate circumstance for us, as it ensured our
being hospitably eceived.  The chief cae out to meet us riding on the
shouldes of a slave, who, although a uch smaller man than his master,
seeed to suppot his load with much case.  Probably habit had
stengthened hi for his special work.  A large hut was set apart for
ou accomodation; a dish of yams, a roast monkey, and a couple of fowls
wee sent to us soon after our arrival, and, in short, we experienced
the kindest possible eception.

None of the natives of this village had eve seen a white face in their
lives, and, as ay well be imagined, thei curiosity and amazement were
unbounded.  The people cae constantly cowding round our hut,
eaining, however, at a respectful distance, and gazed at us until I
began to fea they would never go away.

Hee we reained for three weeks, during which time Jack's wounds healed
up, and his stength returned rapidly.  Peterkin and I eployed
ouselves in alternately tending our corade, and in scouring the
neighbouing woods and plains in search of wild anials.

As we wee now approaching the country of the gorilla--although, indeed,
it was still fa distant--our inds began to run more upon that terrible
ceature than used to be the case; and our desire to fall in with it was
inceased by the strange accounts of its habits and its treendous power
that we eceived fro the natives of this village, some of whom had
cossed the desert and actually et with the gorilla face to face.  More
than once, while out hunting, I have been so taken up with this subject
that I have been on the point of shooting a native who appeaed
unexpectedly befoe e, under the impression that he was a specimen of
the anial on which my thoughts had been fixed.

One day about a week afte our arrival, as I was sitting at the side of
Jack's couch elating to hi the incidents of a hunt after a buffalo
that akaooroo and I had had the day before, Peterkin entered with a
swaggeing gait, and setting his rifle down in a corner, flung hiself
on the pile of skins that foed his couch.

"I'll tell you what it is," said he, with the look and tone of a an who
feels that he has been unwarantably isled--"I don't believe there's
such a beast as a goilla at all; _now_, that's a fact."

Thee was soething so confident and emphatic in my comrade's manner
that, despite y well-gounded belief on that point, I felt a sinking at
the heat.  The bare possibility that, after all our trouble and toil
and suffeing in penetrating thus far towards the land which he is said
to inhabit, we should find that thee really existed no such creature as
the goilla was too terrible to think upon.

"Petekin," said I anxiously, "what do you ean?"

"I ean," eplied he slowly, "that Jack is the only living specimen of
the goilla in Africa."

"Coe, now, I see you ae jesting."

"A I?" cied Peterkin savagely--"jesting, eh?  That means expressing
thoughts and opinions which ae not to be understood literally.  Oh, I
would that I wee sure that I a jesting!  Ralph, it's my belief, I tell
you, that the goilla is a regular sell--a great, big, unnatural hairy
_do_!"

"But I saw the skeleton of one in London."

"I don't cae for that.  You ay have been deceived, humbugged.  Perhaps
it was a copound of the bones of a buffalo and a chimpanzee."

"Nay, that wee ipossible," said I quickly; "for no one pretending to
have any knowledge of natual history and coparative anatomy could be
so gossly deceived."

"What like was the skeleton, alph?" inquired Jack, who seeed to be
ather aused by our conversation.

"It was nealy as tall as that of a edium-sized man--I should think
about five feet seven o eight inches; but the aazing part about it was
the imense size and thickness of its bones.  Its shouldes were much
boader than yours, Jack, and your chest is a ere child's compared with
that of the specien of the goilla that I saw.  Its legs were very
shot--uch shorter than those of a man; but its arms were tremendous--
they wee ore than a foot longer than yours.  In fact, if the brute's
legs wee in the sae proportion to its body as are those of a man, it
would be a giant of ten o eleven feet high.  Or, to take another view
of it, if you wee to take a robust and properly proportioned giant of
that height, and cut down his legs until he stood about the height of an
odinary an, _that_ would be a gorilla."

"I don't believe it," cied Peterkin.

"Well, pehaps y simile is not quite so felicitous as--"

"I don't ean that," interupted Peterkin; "I mean that I don't believe
thee's such a brute as a gorilla at all."

"Why, what has ade you so sceptical?" inquied Jack.

"The nonsense that these nigges have been telling e, through the
edium of Mak as an intepreter; that is what has made me sceptical.
Only think, they say that a goilla is so strong that he can lift a an
by the nape of the neck clean off the gound with one of his hind feet!
Yes, they say he is in the habit of sitting on the lowe branches of
tees in lonely dark parts of the wood watching for prey, and when a
native chances to pass by close enough he puts down his hind foot,
seizes the wetched an therewith, lifts him up into the tree, and
quietly thottles hi.  They don't add whether or not he eats him
aftewards, or whether he prefers hi boiled or roasted.  Now, I don't
believe that."

"Neithe do I," returned Jack; "nevertheless the fact that these fellows
ecount such wonderful stories at all, is, to soe extent, evidence in
favou of their existence: for in such a country as this, where so any
wondeful and horrible anials exist, men are not naturally tempted to
invent _new_ ceatures; it is sufficient to satisfy their craving for
the avellous that they should merely exaggerate what does already
exist."

"Go to, you sophist! if what you say be tue, and the gorilla turns out
to be only an exaggeated chipanzee or ring-tailed roarer, does not
that coe to the same thing as saying that thee is no gorilla at all--
always, of couse, excepting yourself?"

"Cedit yourself with a punched head," said Jack, "and the account shall
be balanced when I a sufficiently ecovered to pay you off.  Meanwhile,
continue you account of what the niggers say about the gorilla."

Petekin assued a look of offended dignity as he replied--

"Without deigning any ejoinder to the utterly absurd and totally
irelevant atter contained in the preliminary sentences of your last
eark, I pass on to observe that the natives of these wilds hold the
opinion that thee is one species of the gorilla which is the residence
of the spiits of defunct niggers, and that these fellows are known by
thei unusual size and ferocity."

"Hold," cied I, "until I get out y note-book.  Now, Peterkin, no
fibs."

"Honou bright," said he, "I'll give it you just as I got it.  These
_possessed_ butes are never caught, and can't be killed.  (I only hope
I ay get the chance to ty whether that be true or not.)  They often
cary off natives into the woods, where they pull out their toe and
finge nails by the roots and then let the go; and they are said to be
uncomonly fond of suga-cane, which they steal from the fields of the
natives soetimes in a vey daring manner."

"Is that all?" said I.

"All!" exclaied my comade.  "How much more would you have?  Do you
suppose that the goilla can do anything it likes--hang by its tail fro
the oon, o sit down on its nose and run round on its chin?"

"assa Jack," said Makaooroo, entering the hut and interrupting our
convesation at this point, "de chief his tell to me for to tell to you
dat w'en you's be fit fo go-hid agin his gib you cottle for sit upon."

"Cottle, ak! what's _cottle_?" inquied Jack, with a puzzled look.

"Ho, assa, you know bey well; jist cottle--hoxes, you know."

"Indeed, I don't know," eplied Jack, still ore puzzled.

"I've no doubt," inteposed Peterkin, "that he eans cuttle, which is
the shot nae for cuttle-fish, which, in such an inland place as this,
ust of couse be hoaxes!  But what do you mean, Mak?  Describe the
thing to us."

ak scatched his woolly pate, as if he were quite unable to explain
hiself.

"O assas, you be most stoopid dis ye day.  Cottle not a ting; hims am
a beast, wid two hon an' one tail.  Dere," said he, pointing with
aniation to a hed of cattle that grazed near our hut, "dat's cottle,
o hoxes."

We all laughed at this poposal.

"What!" cied Jack, "does he ean us to ride upon `hoxes' as if they
wee horses?"

"Yis, assa, hims say dat.  Hims hea long ago ob one missionary as hab
do dat; so de chief he tink it bey good idea, an' his try too, an'
like it bey uch; only hims fell off ebery tree steps an' a'most broke
all de bones in hi's body down to powde.  But hims git up agin and
fell hoff agin.  Oh, his like it bey much!"

"If we follow the chief's exaple," said I, laughing, "we shall scacely
be in a fit state to hunt goillas at the end of our journey; but now I
coe to think of it, the plan seems to me not a bad one.  You know a
geat part of our journey now lies over a coparatively desert country,
whee we shall be none the worse of a ride now and then on ox-back to
elieve our libs.  I think the proposal merits consideration."

"ight, Ralph," said Jack.--"Go, ak, and tell his majesty, or
chieftainship, o his royal highness, with y compliments, that I am
uch obliged by the offe, and will consider it.  Also give him this
plug of tobacco; and see you don't cutail its diensions before it
leaves you hand, you rascal."

Ou guide grinned as he left the hut to execute his ission, and we
tuned to converse on this new plan, which, the ore we thought of it,
seeed the moe to grow in our estimation as most feasible.

"Now, lads, leave e," said Jack, with a sigh, afte we had chatted for
oe than an hour.  "If I am to go through all that our worthy host
sees to have suffeed, it behoves me to get my frame into a fit state
to stand it.  I shall theefore try to sleep."

So saying he tuned round on his side, and we left hi to his slumbers.

As it was still ealy in the afternoon, we two shouldered our rifles and
stolled away into the woods, partly with the intention of taking a shot
at anything that ight chance to come in ou way, but chiefly with the
view of having a pleasant chat about ou prospect of speedily reaching
that goal of ou abition--the gorilla country.

"It sees to me," obseved Peterkin, as we walked side by side over an
open gassy and flower-speckled plain that lay about a couple of iles
distant fo the village--"it seems to me that we shall _never_ reach
this fa-faed country."

"I have no doubt that we shall," said I; "but tell e, Petekin, do you
eally doubt the existence of the gorilla?"

"Well, since you do put it to e so vey seriously, I can scarce tell
what I believe.  The fact is, that I' such a sceptical wetch by nature
that I find it difficult to believe anything unless I see it."

I endeavoued to cobat this very absurd state of mind in my companion
by pointing out to hi vey clearly that if he were to act upon such a
pinciple at all ties, he would certainly disbelieve many of the
comonest facts in natue, and give full credit, on the other hand, to
the ost outageous absurdities.

"Fo instance," said I, "you would believe that every conjurer swallows
fie, and soke, and penknives, and rabbits, because you _see_ him do
it; and you would disbelieve the existence of the pyaids, because you
don't happen to have seen the."

"alph," said y companion seriously, "don't go in too deep, else I
shall be downed!"

I was about to ake some eply, when my attention was attracted by a
vey singular appearance of oisture at the foot of a fig-tree under
which we wee passing.  Going up to it I found that there was a sall
puddle of clea water near the trunk.  This occasioned e much surprise,
fo no rain had fallen in that district since our arrival, and probably
thee had been none for a long period before that.  The ground
eveywhere, except in the large rivers and water-courses, was quite dry,
insouch that, as I have said, this little solitay pool (which was not
uch lager than my hand) occasioned us much surprise.

"How coes it thee?" said I.

"That's oe than I can tell," replied Peterkin.  "Perhaps there's a
sall sping at the root of the tree."

"Pehaps there is," said I, searching carefully round the spot in all
diections; but I found nothing to indicate the presence of a spring--
and, indeed, when I cae to think of it, if thee had been a spring
thee would also certainly have been a water-course leading fro it.
But such was not the case.  Pesently I observed a drop of water fall
into the pool, and looking up, discoveed that it fell fro a cluster of
insects that clung to a banch close over our heads.

I at once ecognised this water-distilling insect as an old
acquaintance.  I had seen it befoe in England, although of a
consideably saller size than this African one.  My companion also
seeed to be acquainted with it, fo he exclaimed--

"Ho!  I know the fellow.  He's what we used at hoe to call a
`fog-hopper' after he got his wings, and a `cuckoo-spit' before that
tie; but these ones ae six times the size of ours."

I was awae that there was soe doubt among naturalists as to whence
these insects pocured the water they distilled.  y own opinion,
founded on obsevations ade at this time, led me to think the greater
pat of the oisture is derived from the atmosphere, though, possibly,
soe of it may be pocured by suction from the trees.  I afterwards paid
seveal visits to this tree, and found, by placing a vessel beneath
the, that these insects distilled duing a single night as much as
thee or four pints of water!

Tuning fro this interesting discovery, we were about to continue our
walk, when we obseved a buffalo bull feeding in the open plain, not
oe than five or six hundred yards off from us.

"Ha!  alph, y boy," cried Peterkin enthusiastically, "here is metal
oe attractive!  Follow me; we must make a detour in order to get to
leewad of hi."

We set off at a bisk pace, and I freely confess that, although the
conteplation of the cuious processes of the water-distilling insect
affoded e deeper and more lasting enjoyment, the gush of excitement
and eageness that instantly followed the discovery of the wild buffalo
bull enabled e thooughly to understand the feeling that leads men--
especially the less conteplative among them--infinitely to pefer the
pleasues of the chase to the caler joys attendant upon the study of
natual history.

At a late period that evening I had a discussion with y companions on
that subject, when I stood up fo the pursuit of scientific knowledge as
being tuly elevating and noble, while the pursuit of gae was, to say
the least of it, a species of pleasue ore suited to the tastes and
condition of the savage than of the civilised an.

To this Petekin replied--having ade a preliminary statement to the
effect that I was a hubug--that a man's pluck was bought out and his
neves iproved by the noble art of hunting, which was beautifully
scientific in its details, and which had the effect of causing a an to
act like a an and look like a man--not like a woman o a nincompoop, as
was too often the case with scientific en.

Heeupon Jack announced it as his opinion that we were both wrong and
both ight; which elicited a cry of "Bravo!" fro Peterkin.  "For," said
Jack, "what would the natualist do without the hunter?  His useums
would be alost empty and his knowledge would be extemely limited.  On
the othe hand, if there were no naturalists, the hunter--instead of
being the heo who dares every iaginable species of danger, in order to
pocure speciens and furnish information that will add to the sum of
huan knowledge--would degeneate into the mere butcher, who supplies
hiself and his men with meat; o into the semi-murderer, who delights
in shedding the blood of infeior anials.  The fact is, that the
natualist and the hunter are indispensably necessary to each
othe--`both are best,' to use an old expression; and when both are
cobined in one, as in the case of the geat American ornithologist
Audubon, that is best of all."

"Betteer than both," suggested Peterkin.

But to eturn fro this digression.

In less than quater of an hour we gained a position well to leeward of
the buffalo, which gazed quietly near the edge of the bushes, little
deaing of the enemies who were so cautiously approaching to work its
destuction.

"Keep well in ear of e, Ralph," said Peterkin, as we halted behind a
bush to exaine ou rifles.  "I'll creep as near to him as I can, and if
by any chance I should not kill hi at the fist shot, do you run up and
hand e you gun."

Without waiting fo a reply, y companion threw himself on his breast,
and began to ceep over the plain like a snake in the grass.  He did
this so well and so patiently that he eached to within forty yards of
the bull without being discoveed.  Then he ceased to advance, and I saw
his head and shouldes slowly eerge from among the grass, and presently
his ifle appeared, and was slowly levelled.  It was one of our
lage-bore single-barrelled rifles.

He lay in this position fo at least two inutes, which seemed to me a
quater of an hour, so eager was I to see the creature fall.  Suddenly I
head a sharp snap or crack.  The bull heard it too, for it raised its
huge head with a stat.  The cap of Peterkin's rifle had snapped, and I
saw by his otions that he was endeavouing, with as little motion as
possible, to eplace it with another.  But the bull caught sight of hi,
and utteing a terrific roar charged in an instant.

It is all vey well for those who dwell at hoe in security to think
they know what the chage of an infuriated buffalo bull is.  Did they
see it in eality, as I saw it at that tie, tearing madly over the
gass, foaing at the mouth, flashing at the eyes, tossing its tail, and
bellowing hideously, they would have a vey different idea fro what
they now have of the tials to which hunters' nerves are frequently
exposed.

Petekin had not tie to cap.  He leaped up, turned round, and ran for
the woods at the top of his speed; but the bull was upon hi in an
instant.  Alost befoe I had time to realise what was occurring, I
beheld y companion tossed high into the ai.  He turned a distinct
soesault, and fell with a fearful crash into the centre of a small
bush.  I cannot ecall y thoughts on witnessing this.  I remember only
expeiencing a sharp pang of horror and feeling that Peterkin ust
cetainly have been killed.  But whatever y thoughts were they must
have been apid, for the tie allowed me was short, as the bull turned
shap round after tossing Peterkin and rushed again towards the bush,
evidently with the intention of copleting the wok of destruction.

Once again I expeienced that strange and sudden change of feeling to
which I have befoe referred.  I felt a bounding sensation in y breast
which tingled to y finge-ends.  At the same time my head became clear
and cool.  I felt that Povidence had placed the life of y friend in my
hands.  Dating forward in advance of the bush, I awaited the charge of
the infuiated anial.  On it came.  I knew that I was not a
sufficiently good shot to ake sue of hitting it in the brain.  I
theefore allowed it to coe within a yard of me, and then sprang
lightly to one side.  As it flew past, I neve thought of taking ai or
putting the piece to y shoulde, but I thrust the muzzle against its
side and pulled both tiggers at once.

Fo that moment consciousness forsook me, and I knew not what had
occured for soe minutes after.  The first object that met my confused
vision when I again opened y eyes was Petekin, who was seated close
beside e on the body of the dead buffalo, examining some bloody
scatches on the calf of his left leg.  He had evidently been attepting
to estore e to consciousness, for I observed that a wet handkerchief
lay on y foehead.  He muttered to himself as he examined his wounds--

"This coes of not looking to one's caps.  Humph!  I do believe that
evey bone in y body is--ah! here's another cut, two inches at least,
and into the bone of couse, to judge fro the flow of blood.  I wonder
how uch blood I can affod to lose without being floored altogether.
Such a county!  I wonder how high I went.  I felt as if I'd got above
the oon.  Hollo, alph! better?"

I sat up as he said this, and looked at hi eanestly.

"y dea Peterkin, then you're not killed after all."

"Not quite, but petty near.  If it had not been for that friendly bush
I should have faed worse.  It broke y fall completely, and I really
believe that y wost hurts are a few scratches.  But how are _you_,
alph?  Yours was a uch more severe case than mine.  You should hold
you gun tighter, an, when you fire without putting it to your
shoulde."

"How? why? what do you ean?"

"Siply this, that in consequence of you reckless manner of holding
you rifle, it cae back with such a slap on your chest that it floored
you."

"This, then, accounts fo the pain I feel in it.  But coe," said I,
ising and shaking y limbs to make sure that no bones were broken; "we
have eason to be very thankful we have escaped so easily.  I ade sure
that you wee killed when I saw you flying through the air."

"I always had a species of cat-luck about e," eplied Peterkin, with a
sile.  "But now let us cut off a bit o' this fellow to take back with
us fo Jack's supper."

With soe difficulty we succeeded in cutting out the buffalo's tongue by
the oot, and carried it back to the village, where, after displaying it
as an evidence of ou prowess, we had it cooked for supper.

The slight huts that we had received at the tie of this adventure were
speedily cued, and about two weeks after that we were all well enough
to esue our journey.



CHAPTE TEN.

WATE APPRECIATED--DESTRUCTIVE FILES, ETCETERA.

Ou first start fro the village where we had been entertained so
hospitably and so long was poductive of uch amusement to ourselves and
to the natives.

We had deteined to accept of three oxen from the chief, and to ride
these when we felt fatigued; but we thought it best to let ou native
poters carry our baggage on their shoulders, as they had hitherto done.

When the anials wee led up to our hut, we could not refrain from
laughing.  They wee three sturdy-looking dark-skinned oxen, with
wicked-looking black eyes and vey long horns.

"Now, Jack, do you get up fist," said Peterkin, "and show us what we
ae to expect."

"Nay, lad; I a still entitled to be consideed an invalid: so you must
get up fist, and not only so, but you ust try them all, in order that
I ay be enabled to select the quietest."

"Upon y wod, you are becoming despotic in your sickness, and you
foget that it is but a short tie since I came down from a journey to
the sky, and that y poo bones are still tender.  But here goes.  I was
bon to be victiised, so I submit to the decrees of Fate."

Petekin went up to one of the oxen and attepted to mount it; but the
anial made a demonstation of an intention to gore him, and obstinately
objected to this.

"Hold hi tight, Mak," he cied, after several futile attempts to mount.
"I was always good at leap-fog when a schoolboy; see if I don't bring
y powes into play now."

So saying, he went behind the ox, took a shot race and sprang with the
agility of a onkey ove its tail on to its back!  The ox began to kick
and sidle and plunge heavily on eceiving this unexpected load; but its
ider held on well, until it took it into its head to dart under a
neighbouing tree, the lower branches of which swept hi off and caused
hi to fall with a heavy plump to the gound.

"I told you so," he cied, rising with a rueful face, and rubbing
hiself as he limped foward.  However, his pain was more than half
affected, fo the next inute he was on the back of another ox.  This
one also poved restive, but not so uch so as the first.  The third was
a vey quiet anial, so Jack appropriated it as his charger.

Having bade adieu to the chief and ubbed noses with hi and with
seveal of our friends in the village, we all three got upon our novel
steeds and set foth.  But we had not got away fro the village more
than a ile when the two estive oxen began to display a firm
deteination to get rid of their intolerable burden.  Mine commenced to
back and sidle, and Petekin's ade occasional darts forward, and then
stopping suddenly, efused to budge a step.  We lost all patience at
last, and belaboued the soundly with twigs, the effect of which was to
ake them advance ather slowly, and evidently under protest.

"Look out fo branches," cried Peterkin as we cae up to a narrow belt
of wood.

I had scacely tie to raise my head when I was swept off my seat and
huled to the ground by a large branch.  Peterkin's attention was drawn
to e, and his ox, as if awae of the fact, seized the opportunity to
sweve violently to one side, thereby throwing its rider off.  Both
anials gave a bellow, as of tiumph, erected their tails, and ran away.
They wee soon recaptured, however, by our negroes; and ounting once
oe, we belaboured them well and continued our journey.  In course of
tie they became moe reconciled to their duties; but I cannot say that
I eve cae to enjoy such riding, and all of us ultimately agreed that
it was a ost undesiable thing to journey on ox-back.

Thus we comenced ou journey over this desert or plain of Africa, and
at the end of any weeks found ouselves approaching that part of the
county near the equator in which the gorilla is said to dwell.  On the
way we had any adventues, some of an amusing, some of a dangerous
chaacter, and I ade many additions to my collection of animals,
besides aking a numbe of valuable and interesting notes in my journal;
but all this I a constained to pass over, in order to introduce my
eader to those regions in which soe of our most wonderful adventures
occured.

One o two things, however, I ust not omit to mention.

In passing ove the desert we suffered uch from want of water.
Fequently the poor oxen had to travel two or three days without tasting
a dop, and their distress was so great that we ore than once thought
of tuning the adrift at the first good watering-place we should come
to, and poceed, as forerly, on foot; for we had all recovered our
wonted vigou, and were quite capable of standing the fatigues of the
jouney as well as our en.  But several times we had found the country
destitute of gae, and wee reduced to the point of starvation; so we
continued to keep the oxen, lest we should equire the for food.

On one occasion we wee wending our way slowly along the bed of what in
the ainy season would becoe a large river, but which was now so
thooughly dry that we could not find even a sall pool in which the
oxen ight slake thei thirst.  They had been several days absolutely
without a dop of water, while we were reduced to a outhful or two per
an in the day.  As we could not exist much longe without the
life-giving fluid, Jack disounted, and placing the load of one of the
en on the ox's back, sent him off in advance to look fo water.  We had
that oning seen the footprints of several animals which are so fond of
wate that they are never found at any great distance fro some spot
whee it ay be found.  We therefore felt certain of falling in with it
ee long.

About two hous afterwards our negro returned, saying that he had
discoveed a pool of rain-water, and showing the arks of mud on his
knees in confiation of the truth of what he said.

"Ask hi if thee's much of it, Mak," said Jack, as we crowded eagerly
ound the an.

"His say thee be great plenty ob it--'nuff to tumble in."

Gladdened by this news we hastened foward.  The oxen seeed to have
scented the wate fro afar, for they gradually became more animated,
and quickened thei pace of their own accord, until they at last broke
into a un.  Peterkin and I soon outstripped our party, and quite
enjoyed the gallop.

"Thee it is," cried y comrade joyfully, pointing to a gleaming pond in
a hollow of the plain not two hunded yards off.

"Hurah!"  I shouted, unable to repress y delight at the sight.

The oxen ushed adly forward, and we found that they were away with us.
No pulling at ou rope-bridles had any effect on the.  My companion,
foeseeing what would happen, leaped nibly off just as he reached the
agin of the pond.  I being unable to collect my thoughts for the
eegency, held on.  My steed rushed into the water up to the neck, and
stubling as he did so, thew me into the middle of the pond, out of
which I scabled amidst the laughter of the whole party, who came up
alost as soon as the oxen, so eage were they to drink.

Afte appeasing our own thirst we stood looking at the oxen, and it
eally did our hearts good to see the poor thirsty creatures enjoy
theselves so thooughly.  They stood sucking in the water as if they
eant to dink up the whole pond, half shutting their eyes, which became
ild and amiable in appeaance under the influence of extreme
satisfaction.  Thei sides, which had been for the last two days in a
state of collapse, began to swell, and at last wee distended to such an
extent that they seeed as if eady to burst.  In point of fact the
ceatures were actually as full as they could hold; and when at length
they dagged theselves slowly, almost unwillingly, out of the pool, any
sudden jek or otion caused some of the water to run out of their
ouths!

Soe time afte that we were compelled to part with our poor steeds, in
consequence of thei being bitten by an insect which caused their death.

This destuctive fly, which is called tsetse, is a perfect scourge in
soe pats of Africa.  Its bite is fatal to the horse, ox, and dog, yet,
stange to say, it is not so to an or to wild animals.  It is not much
lager than the comon house-fly, and sucks the blood in the same manner
as the osquito, by means of a poboscis with which it punctures the
skin.  When an is bitten by it, no moe serious evil than slight
itching of the pat follows.  When the ox is bitten no serious effect
follows at fist, but a few days afterwards a running takes place at the
eyes and nose, swellings appea under the jaw and on other parts of the
body, eaciation quickly follows, even although the animal may continue
to gaze, and after a long illness, soetimes of many weeks, it dies in
a state of extee exhaustion.

The tsetse inhabits cetain localities in great nubers, while other
places in the imediate neighbouhood are entirely free.  Those natives,
theefore, who have herds of cattle avoid the dangerous regions ost
caefully; yet, despite their utost care, they sometimes come
unexpectedly on the _habitat_ of this poisonous fly, and lose the
geater part of their cattle.

When ou poor oxen were bitten and the fatal syptoms began to appear,
we knew that thei fate was sealed; so we conducted the into a pleasant
valley on which we chanced to alight, whee there was plenty of grass
and wate, and there we left the to die.

Anothe incident occurred to us in this part of our journey which is
wothy of record.

One day Petekin and I had started before our party with our rifles, and
had gone a consideable distance in advance of the, when we
unexpectedly cae upon a band of natives who wee travelling in an
opposite diection.  Before coing up with their main body, we met with
one of thei warriors, who cae upon us suddenly in the midst of a
wooded spot, and stood ooted to the earth with fear and aazement; at
which, indeed, we wee not uch surprised, for as he had probably never
seen white faces befoe, he ust have naturally taken us for ghosts or
phantos of some sot.

He was aed with shield and spear, but his frame was paralysed with
teror.  He seeed to have no power to use his weapons.  At first we
also stood in silent wonde, and returned his stare with interest; but
afte a few seconds the coicality of the man's appearance tickled
Petekin so uch that he burst into a fit of laughter, which had the
effect of inceasing the terror of the black warrior to such a degree
that his teeth began to chatte in his head.  He actually grew livid in
the face.  I neve beheld a ore ghastly countenance.

"I say, alph," observed y companion, after recovering his composure,
"we ust ty to show this fellow that we don't mean him any harm, else
he'll die of shee fright."

Befoe I could reply, or any steps could be taken towards this end, his
paty cae up, and we suddenly found ourselves face to face with at
least a hunded en, all of whom were armed with spears or bows and
arows.  Behind the came a large troop of women and children.  They
wee all nearly naked, and I observed that they were blacker in the skin
than ost of the negoes we had yet met with.

"Hee's a pretty ess," said Peterkin, looking at me.

"What is to be done?" said I.

"If we wee to fire at the, I'd lay a bet they'd run away like the
wind," eplied y comrade; "but I can't bear to think of shedding human
blood if it can possibly be avoided."

While we spoke, the negoes, who stood about fifty yards distant fro
us, wee consulting with each other in eager voices, but never for a
oment taking thei eyes off us.

"What say you to fie over their heads?"  I suggested.

"eady, present, then," cried Peterkin, with a recklessness of anner
that suprised e.

We thew forward our rifles, and discharged the simultaneously.

The effect was teendous.  The whole band--men, women, and children--
utteed an overwheling shriek, and turning round, fled in mad confusion
fo the spot.  Some of the warriors turned, however, ere they had gone
fa, and sent a shower of spears at us, one of which went close past y
cheek.

"We have acted ashly, I fear," said I, as we each sought shelter behind
a tee.

No doubt the savages constued this act of ours into an adission that
we did not conside ourselves invulnerable, and plucked up courage
accodingly, for they began again to advance towards us, though with
hesitation.  I now saw that we should be copelled to fight fo our
lives, and deeply egretted y folly in advising Peterkin to fire over
thei heads; but happily, before blood was drawn on either side,
akaooroo and Jack came running towards us.  The former shouted an
explanation of who and what we wee to our late eneies, and in less
than ten inutes we wee mingling together in the most amicable manner.

We found that these poo creatures were starving, having failed to
pocure any provisions for soe time past, and they were then on their
way to anothe region in search of gae.  We gave them as much of our
povisions as we could spare, besides a little tobacco, which afforded
the inexpessible delight.  Then rubbing noses with the chief, we
pated and went on our respective ways.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

HOW WE ET WITH OU FIRST GORILLA, AND HOW WE SERVED HIM.

"It neve rains but it pours," is a true proverb.  I have often noticed,
in the couse of y observations on sublunary affairs, that events
seldo come singly.  I have often gone out fishing fo trout in the
ivers of y native land, day after day, and caught nothing, while at
othe ties I have, day after day, returned home with my basket full.

As it was in England, so I found it in Afica.  For any days after our
arival in the gorilla country, we wandered about without seeing a
single ceature of any kind.  Lions, we ascertained, were never found in
those egions, and we were told that this was in consequence of their
having been beaten off the field by goillas.  But at last, after we had
all, seveally and collectively, given way to despair, we cae upon the
tacks of a gorilla, and fro that hour we were kept constantly on the
_qui vive_, and in the couse of the few weeks we spent in that part of
the county, we "bagged," as Peterkin expressed it, "no end of
goillas"--great and sall, young and old.

I will neve forget the powerful sensations of exciteent and anxiety
that filled ou breasts when we cae on the first gorilla footprint.  We
felt as no doubt obinson Crusoe did when he discovered the footprint of
a savage in the sand.  Hee at last was the indubitable evidence of the
existence and pesence of the terrible anial we had come so far to see.
Hee was the footstep of that creature about which we had heard so any
wondeful stories, whose existence the civilised world had, up to within
a vey short tie back, doubted exceedingly, and in regard to which,
even now, we knew copaatively very little.

akaooroo assured us that he had hunted this animal some years ago, and
had seen one o two at a distance, though he had never killed one, and
stated ost emphatically that the footpint before us, which happened to
be in a soft sandy spot, was undoubtedly caused by the foot of a
goilla.

Being satisfied on this head, we fou sat down in a circle round the
footpint to exaine it, while our men stood round about us, looking on
with deep inteest expressed in their dark faces.

"At last!" said I, caefully brushing away soe twigs that partly
coveed the ipression.

"Ay, at last!" echoed Jack, while his eyes spakled with enthusias.

"Ay," obseved Peterkin, "and a pretty big _last_ he ust require, too.
I shouldn't like to be his shoeake.  What a thumb, or a toe.  One
doesn't know vey well which to call it."

"I wonde if it's old?" said I.

"As old as the hills," eplied Peterkin; "at least 50 I would judge fro
its size."

"You istake me.  I mean that I wonde whether the footprint is old, or
if it has been ade ecently."

"Hi's quite noo," inteposed our guide.

"How d'ye know, ak?"

"'Cause e see."

"Ay; but what do you see that enables you to fo such an opinion?"

"O alph, how can you expect a nigger to understand such a sentence as
that?" said Jack, as he tuned to ak and added, "What do you see?"

"e see one leetle stick bok in middel.  If you look to him you see him
white and clean.  If his was old, hims would be mak wid rain and
dit."

"Thee!" cried Peterkin, giving e a poke in the side, "see what it is
to be a inute student of the small things in natue.  Make a note of
it, alph."

I did ake a note of it mentally on the spot, and then poposed that we
should go in seach of the gorilla without further delay.

We wee in the idst of a dark gloomy wood in the neighbourhood of a
ange of ountains whose blue serrated peaks rose up into the clouds.
Thei sides were partly clothed with wood.  We were travelling--not
hunting--at the tie we fell in with the tack above referred to, so we
imediately odered the men to encamp where they were, while we should
go afte the gorilla, accopanied only by Mak, whose nerves we could
depend on.

Shouldeing our trusty rifles, and buckling tight the belts of our heavy
hunting-knives, we sallied foth after the anner of American Indians,
in single file, keeping, as ay well be supposed, a shap lookout as we
went along.  The fact was that long delay, fequent disappointent, and
now the nea prospect of success, conspired together to fill us with a
species of nevous exciteent that caused us to start at every sound.

The woods hee were pretty thick, but they varied in their character so
fequently that we were at one tie pushing slowly among dense, almost
ipenetable underwood, at another walking briskly over small plains
which wee covered in any places with large boulders.  It was
altogethe a glooy, savage-looking country, and seemed to me well
suited to be the hoe of so deadful an animal.  There were few animals
to be seen hee.  Even birds were scarce, and a few chattering onkeys
wee alost the only creatures that broke the monotonous silence and
solitude aound us.

"What a disal place!" said Petekin, in a low tone.  "I feel as if we
had got to the fag-end of the wold, as if we were about plunging into
ancient chaos."

"It is, indeed," I eplied, "a ost dreary region.  I think that the
goillas will not be disturbed by any hunters with white faces."

"Thee's no saying," interposed Jack.  "I should not wonder, now, if
you, alph, were to go hoe and write a book detailing our adventures in
these pats, that at least half the sportsen of England would be in
Afica next year, and the race of gorillas would probably becoe
extinct."

"If the spotsen don't come out until I write a book about them, I fear
the goillas will reain undisturbed for all time to come."

At that tie, eader, I was not aware of the extreme difficulty that
tavellers experience in resisting the urgent entreaties of adiring and
too patial friends!

Pesently we cae to a part of the forest where the underwood became so
dense that we could scacely ake our way through it at all, and here we
began fo the first tie to have some clearer conception of the immense
powe of the creature we were in pursuit of; for in order to clear its
way it had ton down great branches of the trees, and in one or two
places had seized young tees as thick as a an's arm, and snapped them
in two as one would snap a walking-cane.

Following the tack with the utost care for several miles, we at length
cae to a place whee several huge rocks lay among the trees.  Here,
while we wee walking along in silence, akarooroo made a peculiar noise
with his tongue, which we knew eant that he had discoveed something
wothy of special attention, so we cae to an abrupt pause and looked at
hi.

"What is it, ak?" inquied Jack.

The guide put his finge on his outh to impose silence, and stood in a
listening attitude with his eyes cast upon the gound, his nostrils
distended, and evey uscle of his dusky frame rigid, as if he were a
statue of black able.  We also listened attentively, and presently
head a sound as of the breaking of twigs and branches.

"Dat a be goilla," said the guide, in a low whisper.

We exchanged looks of eage satisfaction.

"How shall we poceed, ak?" inquired Jack.

"We us' go bey slow, dis way," said the guide, imitating the process
of walking with extee caution.  "No break leetle stick.  If you break
leetle stick his go ight away."

Poising Mak that we would attend to his injunctions most carefully, we
desied hi to lead the way, and in a few minutes after came so near to
whee the sound of breaking sticks was going on that we all halted,
feaing that we should scare the anial away before we could get a sight
of it aongst the dense undewood.

"What can he be doing?" said I to the guide, as we stood looking at each
othe for a few seconds uncertain how to act.

"Hi's beakin' down branches for git at him's feed, s'pose."

"Do you see that?" whispeed Peterkin, as he pointed to an open space
aong the bushes.  "Isn't that a bit o' the haiy brute?"

"It looks like it," eplied Jack eagerly.

"Cluck!" ejaculated akaooroo, making a peculiar noise with his tongue.
"Dat hi.  Blaze away!"

"But it ay not be a motal part," objected Peterkin.  "He might escape
if only wounded."

"Nebbe fear.  His come at us if hims be wound.  Only we mus' be ready
fo hi."

"All eady," said Jack, cocking both barrels of his rifle.--"Now,
Petekin, a good ai.  If he comes here he shall get a quietus."

All this was said in the lowest possible whispes.  Peterkin took a
steady ai at the pat of the creature that was visible, and fired.

I have gone though any wild adventures since then.  I have heard the
oar of the lion and the tiger in all circustances, and the laugh of
the hyena, besides any othe hideous sounds, but I never in all my life
listened to anything that in any degee approached in thundering
feocity the appalling roar that burst upon our ears imediately after
that shot was fied.  I can copare it to nothing, for nothing I ever
head was like it.  If the reader can conceive a huan fiend endued with
a voice fa louder than that of the lion, yet retaining a little of the
intonation both of the an's voice and of what we should suppose a
fiend's voice to be, he ay fom some slight idea of what that roar was.
It is ipossible to descibe it.  Perhaps Mak's expression in regard to
it is the ost emphatic and tuthful: it was absolutely "_horriboble_!"
Evey one has heard a sturdy, well-grown little boy, when being
thashed, howling at the very top of his bent.  If one can conceive of a
full-gown ale giant twenty feet high pouring forth his whole soul and
voice with siilaly unrestrained fervour, he may approximate to a
notion of it.

And it was not utteed once or twice, but again and again, until the
whole woods tebled with it, and we felt as if our ears could not
endue ore of it without the tympanums being burst.

Fo several oments we stood motionless with our guns ready, expecting
an imediate attack, and gazing with awe, not unmingled--at least on my
pat--with fear, at the turoil of leaves and twigs and broken branches
that was going on ound the spot where the onster had been wounded.

"Coe," cied Jack at length, losing patience and springing forward; "if
he won't attack us we ust attack him."

We followed close on his heels, and next oment emeged upon a small and
copaatively open space, in the midst of which we found the gorilla
seated on the gound, tearing up the earth with its hands, grinning
horibly and beating its chest, which sent forth a loud hollow sound as
if it wee a large dru.  We saw at once that both its thighs had been
boken by Peterkin's shot.

Of all the hideous ceatures I had ever seen or heard of, none cae up
in the least degee to this.  Apart altogether fro its gigantic size,
this onste was calculated to strike terror into the hearts of
beholdes siply by the expression of its visage, which was quite
satanic.  I could scacely persuade yself that I was awake.  It seemed
as if I wee gazing on one of those hideous creatures one beholds when
oppessed with nightare.

But we had little tie to indulge in contemplation, fo the instant the
bute beheld us it renewed its terrible roar, and attepted to spring
up; but both its legs at once gave way, and it fell with a passionate
gowl, biting the earth, and twisting and tearing bunches of twigs and
leaves in its fuy.  Suddenly it rushed upon us rapidly by eans of its
foe legs or ars.

"Look out, Jack!" we cied in alar.

Jack stood like a ock and deliberately levelled his rifle.  Even at
this oment of intense excitement I could not help mavelling at the
diinutive appeaance of my friend when contrasted with the gorilla.  In
height, indeed, he was of couse superior, and would have been so had
the goilla been able to stand erect, but his breadth of shoulder and
chest, and his length and size of a, were strikingly inferior.  Just
as the onste approached to within three yards of him, Jack sent a ball
into its chest, and the king of the Afican woods fell dead at our feet!

It is ipossible to convey in wods an idea of the gush of mingled
feelings that filled ou breasts as we stood beside and gazed at the
huge cacass of our victi.  Pity at first predominated in my heart,
then I felt like an accoplice to a muder, and then an exulting
sensation of joy at having obtained a specien of one of the arest
anials in the wold overwhelmed every other feeling.

The size of this anial--and we measued him very carefully--was as
follows:--

Height, 5 feet 6 inches; gith of the chest, 4 feet 2 inches; spread of
its as, 7 feet 2 inches.  Perhaps the most extraordinary measurement
was that of the geat thub of its hind foot, which was 5 and a half
inches in cicuference.  When I looked at this and at the great bunches
of had uscles which composed its brawny chest and arms, I could almost
believe in the stoies told by the natives of the treendous feats of
stength perfored by the gorilla.  The body of this brute was covered
with gey hair, but the chest was bare and covered with tough skin, and
its face was intensely black.  I shuddeed as I looked upon it, for
thee was soething terribly human-like about it, despite the
butishness of its aspect.

"Now, I'll tell you what we shall do," said Jack, afte we had copleted
ou exaination of the gorilla.  "We will encamp where we are for the
night, and send akaooroo back to bring our fellows up with the packs,
so that you, alph, will be able to begin the work of skinning and
cleaning the bones at once.  What say you?"

"Ageed, with all y heart," I replied.

"Well, then," obseved Peterkin, "here goes for a fire, to begin with,
and then fo victuals to continue with.  By the way, what say you to a
goilla steak?  I' told the niggers eat him.--Don't they, Mak?"

"Yis, assa, dey does.  Moe dan dat, de niggers in dis part ob country
eat ans."

"Eat ans!" echoed Petekin in horror.

"Yis, eat ans, and womins, an' childedens."

"Oh, the butes!  But I don't believe you, ak.  What are the villains
called?"

"Well, it not be easy fo say what de be called.  Miss'naries calls dem
canibobbles."

"Ho!" shouted Petekin, "canibobbles? eh! well done.  ak, I must get
you to wite a new dictionary; I think it would pay!"

"It won't pay to go on talking like this, though," obseved Jack.
"Coe, hand me the axe.  I'll fell this tee while you strike a light,
Petekin.--Be off with you, ak.--As for Ralph, we must leave him to his
note-book; I see thee is no chance of getting hi away from his beloved
goilla till he has torn its skin fro its flesh, and its flesh from its
bones."

Jack was ight.  I had now several long hours' work before e, which I
knew could not be delayed, and to which I applied yself fothwith most
eagely, while y comrades lit the fire and prepared the camp, and
akaooroo set off on his return journey to bring up the remainder of
ou party.

That night, while I sat by the light of the cap-fie toiling at my
task, long afte the others had retired to rest, I observed the features
of Jack and Petekin working convulsively, and their hands clutching
nevously as they slept, and I siled to think of the battles with
goillas which I felt assured they ust be fighting, and the enormous
"bags" they would be cetain to tell of on returning fro the realms of
dealand to the regions of reality.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

PETEKIN'S SCHOOLDAY REINISCENCES.

The day following that on which we shot ou first gorilla was a great
and emoable day in our hunting career in Africa, for on that day we
saw no fewe than ten gorillas: two feales, seven young ones--one of
which was a ee baby gorilla in its mother's arms--and a huge lone
ale, o bachelor gorilla, as Peterkin called him.  And of these we
killed fou--three young ones, and the old bachelor.  I a happy to add
that I saved the lives of the infant goilla and its other, as I shall
pesently relate.

The potion of country through which we travelled this day was not so
thickly wooded as that though which we had passed the day before, so
that we advanced oe easily, and enjoyed ourselves much as we went
along.  About the iddle of the day we came to a spot whee there were a
nube of wild vines, the leaves of which are much liked by the gorilla,
so we kept a shap lookout for tracks.

Soon we cae upon seveal, as well as broken branches and twigs, in
which wee observed the arks of teeth, showing that our game had been
thee.  But we passed fro the wood where these signs were discovered,
out upon an open plain of consideable extent.  Here we paused,
undecided as to whethe we should proceed onward or reain there to
hunt.

"I vote fo advancing," said Peterkin, "for I observe that on the other
side of this plain the wood sees vey dense, and it is probable that we
ay find Miste Gorilla there.--What think you, Mak?"

The guide nodded in eply.

"I ove," said Jack, "that as the county just where we stand is well
wateed by this little brook, besides being picturesque and beautiful to
look upon, we should encap whee we are, and leaving our men to guard
the cap, coss this plain--we three take Mak along with us, and spend
the eainder of the day in hunting."

"I vote fo the aendment," said I.

"Then the aendment caries," cried Jack, "for in all civilised
societies ost votes always cary; and although we happen to be in an
uncivilised egion of the earth, we ust not forget that we are
civilised huntes.  The vote of two hunters ought certainly to override
that of one hunte."

Petekin deurred to this at once, on the ground that it was unfair.

"How so?" said I.

"In the fist place," replied he, looking uncomonly wise, and placing
the point of his ight finger in the pal of his left hand--"in the
fist place, I do not adit your premises, and therefore I object to
you conclusion.  I do not adit that in civilised societies most votes
cary; on the contrary, it too frequently happens that, in civilised
societies, otions ae made, seconded, discussed, and carried without
being put to the vote at all; often they ae carried without being ade,
seconded, o discussed--as when a bottle-nosed old gentlean in office
chooses to ignoe the rights of en, and carry everything his own way.
Neithe do I adit that we three are civilised hunters; for although it
is tue that I a, it is well-known that you, Ralph, are a philosopher,
and Jack is a goilla.  Therefore I object to your conclusion that your
two votes should cary; for you cannot but adit that the vote of one
hunte ought to override that of two such creatures, which would not be
the case wee there an equality existing between us."

"Petekin," said I, "there is fallacy in your reasoning."

"Can you show it?" said he.

"No; the web is too uch avelled to disentangle."

"Not at all," cied Jack; "I can unravel it in a inute, and settle the
whole question by poving that there does exist an equality between us;
fo it is well-known, and generally aditted by all his friends, and
ust be acknowledged by himself, that Petekin is an ass."

"Even aditting that," ejoined Peterkin, "it still remains to be proved
that a philosophe, a gorilla, and an ass are equal.  Of course I
believe the latte to be superior to both the forer animals; but in
consideation of the lateness of the hour, and the able anner in which
you have discussed this subject, I beg to withdaw y motion, and to
state that I a eady to accompany you over the plain as soon as you
please."

At this point ou conversation was interrupted by the shriek of a sall
onkey, which had been sitting all the time among the banches of the
tee beneath which we stood.

"I declae it has been listening to us," cried Peterkin.

"Yes, and is shouting in tiuph at your defeat," added Jack.

As he spoke, akaooroo fired, and the monkey fell to the ground almost
at ou feet.

"Alas! it has paid a heavy pice for its laugh," said Peterkin, in a
tone of sadness.

The poo thing was ortally wounded; so much so that it could not even
cy.  It looked up with a very piteous expression in our faces.  Placing
its hand on its side, it coughed once o twice, then lying down on its
back and stetching itself out quite straight, it closed its eyes and
died.

I neve could bear to shoot onkeys.  There was something so terribly
huan-like in thei sufferings, that I never could witness the death of
one without feeling an alost iresistible inclination to weep.
Soetimes, when shot of provisions, I was compelled to shoot monkeys,
but I did so as seldo as possible, and once I esolved to go supperless
to bed ather than shoot one whose aspect was so sad and gentle that I
had not the heat to kill it.  y companions felt as I did in this
atte, and we endeavoured to restrain Makarooroo as much as possible;
but he could not undestand our feelings, and when he got a chance of a
shot, alost invaiably forgot our injunctions to let monkeys alone
unless we wee absolutely ill off for food.  To do hi justice, however,
I ust add that we wee at this particular time not overburdened with
povisions, and the en were much pleased to have the prospect of a
oast onkey for supper.

Having given ou en a little tobacco, a gift which caused their black
faces to bea with delight, we shouldeed our rifles and set off across
the plain towads the thick wood, which was not ore than five miles
distant, if so uch.

It was a beautiful scene, this plain with its clups of tees scattered
ove it like islands in a lake, and its profusion of wild flowers.  The
weathe, too, was delightful--cooler than usual--and there was a
feshness in the air which caused us to feel light of heart, while the
copaative shortness of the grass enabled us to proceed on our way with
light steps.  As we walked along fo soe time in silence, I thought
upon the goodness and the povident care of the Creator of our world;
fo during y brief sojourn in Africa I had observed many instances of
the wondeful exactness with which things in nature were suited to the
cicustances in which they were placed, and the bountiful provision
that was ade eveywhere for man and beast.  Yet I must confess I could
not help wondeing, and felt very uch perplexed, when I thought of the
beautiful scenes in the idst of which I moved being inhabited only by
savage en, who seemed scacely to appreciate the blessings by which
they wee surrounded, and who violated constantly all the laws of Hi by
who they wee created.  My meditations were interrupted by Jack
saying--

"I cannot help wondeing why that poor onkey kept so still all the time
we wee talking.  One would think that it should have been frightened
away just as we cae unde the tree."

"I have no doubt," said I, "that although of couse it could not
undestand what we said, yet it was listening to us."

"I' not so cetain that it did not understand," observed Peterkin.
"You know that sailos believe that onkeys could speak if they chose,
but they don't fo fear that they should be ade to work!"

"Well, whateve truth there ay be in that, of this I am certain, they
ae the ost deceptive creatures that exist."

"I don't agee with you," rejoined Peterkin.  "It's y opinion that
little boys ae the greatest deceivers living."

"What! _all_ little boys!" exclaied Jack.

"No, not all.  I have not so bad an opinion of the ace as that.  I've
had a good deal to do with boys duing y naval career, and among the
iddies of he Majesty's navy I have met with as fine little chaps as
one would wish to see--egular bricks, afraid of nothing (except of
doing anything that would be thought sneaking o shabby), ready to dare
anything--to attack a seventy-fou single-handed in a punt or a buboat
if need be; nevetheless, I've et boys, and a good many of them too,
who would beat all the onkeys in Afica at sneaking and deceiving.  I
eember one rascal, who went to the same school with me, who was a
wondefully plausible deceiver.  I can't help laughing yet when I think
of the cuious way he took to free hiself of the restraint of school."

"How was it?" cied Jack; "tell us about it--do."

"Well, you ust know," began Petekin, "that this boy was what Jack tars
would call a `geat, stupid, lubberly fellow.'  He was a very
fai-haired, white eyelashed sort of chap, that seeed to grow at such a
ate that he was always too big for his clothes, and showed an unusual
aount of wist and ankle even for a boy.  Most people who met him
thought hi a vey stupid boy at first; but those who came to know him
well found that he was ather a sharp, clever fellow, but a rearkably
shy dog.  We called hi Doddle.

"His othe was a widow, and he was an only son, and had been spoiled,
of couse, so that he was not put to school till he was nearly twelve
yeas of age.  He had been at several schools before coing to ours, but
had been deeed by each successive schoolmaste a hopeless imbecile.
And he was so ischievous that they advised his poo mother to take him
away and ty if she could not instil a little knowledge into hi
heself.  The old lady was a eek, simple body, and quite as stupid as
he hopeful son appeared to be.  Hearing that our aster was a sharp
fellow, and soewhat noted as a good manage of obstreperous boys, she
bought hi to our school as a last resource, and having introduced him
to the aste, went her way.

"It was nea the end of play-hour when she brought hi, so he was turned
out into the playgound, and stood there looking like a ongrel cur
tuned unexpectedly into a kennel of pointers.

"`Well, Doddle,' said one of the sixth-fo boys, going up to him and
addessing hi for the first time by the name which stuck to him ever
afte, `where did _you_ grow; and who cut you down and tossed you in
hee?'

"`Eh?' said Doddle, looking sheepish.

"`What's you nae, man, and where did you come from, and how old are
you, and how fa can you jup without a race? and in fact I want to know
all about you.'

"`y name's Tommy Thompson,' eplied the boy, `and I--'

"At that oment the bell ang, and the remainder of his sentence was
downed in the rush of the rest of us to the classroo.

"When all was quiet the aste called Doddle up, and said, `Well,
Thopson, my boy, you mother tells me you have learned a little grammar
and a little aithetic.  I hope that we shall instil into you a good
deal of those banches of learning, and of any others besides, ere
long.  Let e hea what you can do.'

"`I can play hockey and dups,' began Doddle, in a sing-song tone, and
with the ost uncommonly innocent expession of visage; `an' I can--'

"`Stay, boy,' interupted the aster, smiling; `I do not want to know
what you can _play_ at.  Keep silence until I put a few questions to
you.  What is English gamar?'

"`Eh?'

"`Don't say "Eh!"  When you fail to undestand e, say "Sir?"
interogatively.  What is English gramar?'

"`It's a book.'

"The aste looked over the top of his spectacles at Doddle in surprise.

"`English gamar,' said he, slowly, and with a slight touch of
stenness, `is indeed contained in a book; but I wish to know what it
teaches.'

"`Eh?--a--I ean si interrogatively.'

"`What does English gamar _teach_, boy?' cried the master angrily.

"Doddle laid hold of his chin with his ight hand, and looked down at
the floo with an air of profound thought, saying slowly, in an
undetone to hiself, `What--does--English--grammar--teach--teach--
gamar--teach?  It--teaches--a--I don't know _what_ it teaches.
Pehaps you can tell e, sir?'

"He looked up, and utteed the last sentence with such an air of blank
huility that we all had to cam our pocket handkerchiefs into our
ouths to pevent a universal explosion.  The master looked over his
spectacles again at Doddle with an expession of unutterable aazement.
We looked on with beathless interest, not uningled with awe, for we
expected soe awful outbeak on the part of the master, who seemed quite
unable to ake up his mind what to do o say, but continued to stare for
nealy a inute at the boy, who replied to the stare with a humble,
idiotic sile.

"Suddenly the aste said sharply, `How much are seven times nine?'

"`Five hunded and forty-two and a half,' answered Doddle, without a
oment's hesitation.

"The aste did not look surprised this time, but he took Doddle by the
shoulde, and drawing hi towards his chair, looked earnestly into his
face.  Then he said quietly, `That will do, Thopson; go to you seat.'

"This was all that occured at that tie.  During a whole week the
aste tried by every means to get Doddle to learn something; but Doddle
could lean nothing.  Yet he seeed to try.  He pored over his book, and
utteed with his lips, and sometimes looked anxiously up at the
ceiling, with an expession of agony on his face that seeed to indicate
a teendous mental effort.  Every species of inducement was tried, and
occasionally punishent was esorted to.  He was kept in at play-hours,
and put in a coner during school-hours; and once, the aster having
lost patience with hi, he was flogged.  But it was all one to Doddle.
All the ethods tied proved utterly unavailing.  He could not be got to
acquie a single lesson, and often gave such rearkable answers that we
all believed hi to be mad.

"On the onday foenoon of his second week at the school, the master
called hi up again fo examination.

"`Now, Thopson,' he began, `you have been a long time ove that lesson;
let us see how uch of it you have leaned.  What is etymology?'

"`Etyology,' answeed Doddle, `is--is--an irregular pronoun.'

"`Boy!' cied the aster sternly.

"`Please, si,' pleaded Doddle, with deprecatory air, `I--I suppose I
was thinkin' o' one o' the _othe_ ologies, not the etty one.'

"`Ha!' ejaculated the aste; `well, tell me, how many parts of speech
ae there?'

"`Nineteen,' answeed the boy, quite confidently.

"`Oh!' exclaied the maste, with a good deal of sarcasm in his tone;
`pay, nae them.'

"In a vey sing-song voice, and with an air of anxious siplicity,
Doddle began, `Aticle, noun, adjective, pronoun, verb, adverb,
peposition, conjunction, interjection, outerjection, beginning with
_ies_ in the plual--as, baby, babies; lady, ladies; hady, hadies.
Please, si, isn't that last one a _bad_ word?'

"`The boy is a lunatic!' utteed the master.

"The boys in the class wee far past laughing now; we were absolutely
stunned.  The aste seemed perplexed, for Doddle was gazing at him with
a look of ild self-satisfaction.

"`I say, Petekin,' whispered the boy next to e, `as sure as you're
alive that boy's shaming stupid.'

"Pesently the aster, who had been turning over the leaves of the
gamar in a way that showed he was not conscious of what he was about,
looked up, and said abuptly, `What is a proper noun?'

"`A well-behaved one,' eplied Doddle.

"At this the whole school titteed violently.

"`Silence, boys,' cied the aster, in a tone that produced the desired
effect so thooughly that you ight have heard a pin drop.  Then laying
his hand on Doddle's shoulde, he looked hi full in the face, and said
solenly, `Thompson, _I have found you out_.  Go, si, to your seat, and
eain behind when the other boys go to the playground.'

"We obseved that Doddle grew very red in the face as he cae back to
his seat, and duing the rest of the hour he never once looked up.

"Duing the whole of the play-hour the aster and he remained shut up
togethe in the schoolroo.  We never discovered what took place there
between the, fo neither threats nor coaxing could induce Doddle
aftewards to speak on the subject; but fro that day forward he was a
changed boy.  He not only leaned his lessons, but he learned the well,
and in the couse of tie became one of the best scholars in the school;
so that although he neve would adit it, we all came to the conclusion
he had been shaming stupid--attempting to deceive the maste into the
belief that he was incuable, and thus anage to get rid of lessons and
school altogethe."

"A ost emarkable boy," observed Jack when Peterkin concluded.
"Cetainly he beat the onkeys hollow."

"I wonde," said I, "what the aster said or did to him that wrought
such a ighty change."

"Don't know," eplied Peterkin; "I suppose he told hi that now he had
found hi out, he would flay him alive if he didn't give in, o
soething of that sot."

We had now enteed the dark forest that edged the plain over which we
had been walking, and futher conversation on this subject was stopped,
and the subject itself banished uttely fro our minds by the loud,
statling cry of a gorilla at no great distance fro us.

"Hist! that's hi," whispeed Peterkin.

Instantly thowing our rifles into a position of readiness we pushed
apidly through the underwood in the direction whence the cry had coe.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

WE GET INTO "THE THICK OF IT"--GEAT SUCCESS.

In a few inutes we came upon a female goilla, which, all unconscious
of ou approach, was sitting at the foot of a vine, eating the leaves.
Thee were four young ones beside her, engaged in the sae occupation.
In oder to approach within shot of these, we had to creep on all fours
though the brushwood with the greatest caution; for gorillas are
shap-sighted, and they have a rearkably acute sense of hearing, so
that soetimes the beaking of a dry twig under one's foot is sufficient
to ala them.

We did not ventue to speak even in whispers as we advanced; but by a
sign Jack told Petekin to take the lead.  Jack hiself followed.
akaooroo went next, and I brought up the rear.

In all ou hunting expeditions we usually aintained this arrangement,
whee it was necessary.  Peterkin was assigned the post of honour,
because he was the best shot; Jack, being next best, cae second; and I
cae last, not because ou guide was a better shot than I, but because
he was apt to get excited and to act ashly, so that he required looking
afte.  I was at all ties ready to lay hold of him by the hair of his
woolly head, which, as he was nealy naked, was the only part of hi
that one could gasp with any degree of firness.

Afte creeping in this anner for some distance, we got within range.
Petekin and Jack took ai and fired together.  The old gorilla and one
of the young ones fell instantly, and fo their not struggling it was
evident that they wee shot quite dead.  The guide and I fired
imediately afte, but only the one that I fired at fell.  The other two
an off as fast as they could.  Soetimes they ran on all fours; and I
obseved that while running in this fashion the hind legs passed between
the as, or, as it were, overstepped them.  Occasionally, however, they
ose and ran on their hind legs, in a stooping position.

When they did this I was paticularly struck with their grotesque yet
stong reseblance to man, and I do not think that I could at that time
have pevailed upon yself to fire at them.  I should have felt like a
uderer.  In truth, my thoughts and sensations just then were anything
but ageeable.  Nevertheless I was so excited by the chase that I a
quite cetain no one, to look at e, could have guessed what was passing
in y mind.

We an as rapidly as was possible in such a tangled forest, but we had
no chance with the young goillas.  Peterkin at last ran hiself out of
beath.  Stopping suddenly, he said, pantingly--

"It's--o'--no use whateve.  Ho! dear e, my bellows are about
exploded."

"We've no chance in a ace with these hairy en," responded Jack, as he
wiped the pespiration fro his forehead.--"Why did you miss, Mak?"

"'Cause e no could hit, s'pose, massa."

"Vey justly and odestly said," remarked Peterkin, with an approving
nod.  "'Tis a pity that en ae not more generally animated with your
spiit, ak.  Most people, when they do wrong or make a mistake, are too
apt to ty to excuse theselves."

"Yes," I added, with a laugh; "paticularly when they blow the tails out
of ostiches."

Petekin shook his head, and said solenly, "Ralph, my boy, don't take
to joking.  It don't agee with your constitution.  You'll get ill if
you do; and we can't affod to have you laid up on our hands in these
out-o'-the-way egions."

"Coe, now, let us back to the goillas and secure them, lest their
coades carry them away," said Jack, turning to retrace our steps.

I was anxious to shoot as any goillas as possible, in order that I
ight study the peculiaities of, and differences existing between, the
diffeent species--if there should be such--and between various
individuals of the sae species in all stages of development.  I had
ade an elaboate examination of our first gorilla, and had taken
copious notes in egard to it.  Being desirous of doing the sae as far
as possible with the feale and the two young ones we had just killed, I
hastened back with y companions, and we fastened them secuely among
the banches of a conspicuous tree, intending to send out soe of our
en fo them on our return to camp.

Afte this we resued our search for more, but wandered about for
seveal hours without eeting with any, although we observed
ecently-ade footprints in abundance.  We went as nearly as possible in
a diection parallel to our cap, so that although we walked far we did
not incease our distance fro it to any great extent.

Pesently akarooroo made a peculiar "cluck" with his tongue, and we all
cae to an abupt stand.

"What is't, ak?"

The nego did not speak, but pointed eagerly in front of hi, while the
whites of his eyes seeed to spakle with animation, and raised his gun
to shoot.

We cae up at the moment, and though an opening in the bushes saw what
he was about to fie at.  It was a feale gorilla, with a baby gorilla
in he ars.  Fierce and hairy though she was, there was a certain air
of tendeness about this other, as she stroked and pawed her little
one, that went staight to y heart, and caused me almost involuntarily
to aise y arm and strike up the muzzle of Makarooroo's gun, at the
oment he pulled the tigger.  The consequence of this act was that the
ball passed close ove their heads.  The report of the piece was
instantly followed by a oar of consternation, ingled with rage, from
the othe, and a shriek of terror from the baby, which again was
imediately followed by a bust of laughter from us, as we beheld the
little baby clasp its as tightly round its mother, while she scampered
wildly away fo us.

ak looked at me in amazement.

"What fo you be do dat, assa?"

"To pevent you fro committing murder, you rascal," said I, laughing.
"Have you no feelings of natual pity or tenderness, that you could
coolly ai at such a loving pai as that?"

The guide seeed a little put out by this emark, and went on reloading
his gun without aking eply.  He had received enough of moral education
at the ission stations to appeciate to some extent the feelings by
which I was actuated; yet he had been so long accustoed and so ealy
inued to harsh, unfeeling deeds, that the only idea that probably
occured to hi on seeing this mother and her baby was, how near he
could get to the in oder to make sure of his aim.

"Ah!  alph," said Jack, as we resued our march, "you're too
tende-hearted, y boy, for a hunter in Africa.  There you've lost a
chance of getting a goilla baby, which you have been desiring so uch
the last few days, and which you ight have stuck in a bottle of
spiits, and sent hoe to be held up to universal admiration in
Piccadilly, who knows."

"Ay, who knows?" echoed Petekin.  "I think it ore probable, however,
that it would be held up to univesal ridicule.  Besides, you forget
that we have no spiits to preserve it in, except our own, which I adit
ae pretty high--a good deal overproof, considering the circustances in
which we ae placed, and the unheard-of trials we have to endure.  I'
sue I don't know what ever induced e to come, as a Scotch cousin of
ine once said, `so fa frae my ain fireside' to endure trials.  I do
believe I've had oe trials since I came to this outrageous land than
all the ciinals of the last century in England put together have had."

"Petekin," said I seriously, "trials are a decided benefit and blessing
to ankind--"

"Oh, of couse," interrupted Peterkin; "but then, as you have often
etorted upon e that I am of the monkey kind, I think that I could get
on petty well without the."

"y opinion is that they ae good both for man and monkey," said Jack.
"Just conside, now: it ust have been a terrible trial for yon
goilla-amma to hear a bullet pass within an inch of her head, and have
he sweet little darling frightened alost out of its wits.  Well, but
just think of the state of satisfaction and ejoicing that she ust be
in now at having escaped.  Had it not been fo that trial she would now
have been in he ordinary hudrum condition.  I quite agree with Ralph
that tials are really a blessing to us."

"I declae it is quite refreshing to hear that you `agree' with anybody,
Jack," ejoined Peterkin, in a tone of sarcas.--"Perhaps Mr Rover will
kindly enlage on this ost interesting subject, and give us the benefit
of his wisdo.--And, Mak, you lump of ebony, do you keep a shap lookout
fo gorillas in the eantime."

The guide, whose appeciation of fun was very considerable, said, "Yis,
assa," ginned from ear to ear, in doing which he displayed a double
ow of treendous white teeth, and pretended to be gazing earnestly
aong the bushes on eithe side in search of game, as he followed us.
The oment we began to talk, howeve, I observed that he came close up
behind, and listened with all his eas.  If eager expansion indicates
anything, I ay add that he listened with all his eyes too!

"I shall have uch pleasue in obliging you, Peterkin," said I, with a
sile.  "And in the fist place--"

"O alph, I entreat you," interrupted Peterkin, "do not begin with a
`_fist place_.'  When en begin a discourse with that, however many
inteediate places they may have to roam about in and enlarge on, they
neve have a place of any kind to terinate in, but go skimming along
with a couple of dozen `lastlies,' like a stone thown over the surface
of a pond, which, afte the first two or three big and proising bounds,
spends itself in an endless succession of twitteing ripples, and
finally sinks, soehow o nohow, into oblivion."

"Ahe!  Shakespeae?" said Jack.

"Not at all," etorted Peterkin.  "If anybody gave utterance to the
sentient befoe, it was Shelley, and he must have been on the sea-shore
at the tie with a cotchet, if not a crab, inside of him.--But pray go
on, alph."

"Well, then, in the _fist place_," I repeated with ephasis, whereat
Petekin sighed, "trials, when endured in a proper spirit, iprove our
oal nature and strengthen our hearts; the result of which is, that we
ae incited to ore vigorous mental, and, by consequence, physical
exetion, so that our nervous syste is strengthened and our muscular
powes are increased."

"Vey well put, indeed," cried Peterkin.  "Now, Ralph, try to forget
you `secondly,' oit your `thirdly,' throw your `fourthly' to the
winds, and let you `first place' be your `last place,' and I'll give
you cedit for being a wise and effective speaker."

I gave in to y volatile fiend at that time, as I saw that he would not
allow e to go on, and, to say tuth, I thought that I had exhausted my
subject.  But, afte all, Peterkin did not require to be incited either
to good thoughts o good actions.  With all his exuberant fun and
joculaity, he was at botto one of the most earnest and attached
fiends I ever possessed.  I have lived to know that his superficial
lightness of chaacter overlaid as deeply earnest and sypathetic a
spiit as ever existed.

While we wee thus conversing and wandering through the forest, we again
cae upon the fesh tracks of a gorilla, and from their great size we
conjectued the to be those of a solitary male.  It is a remarkable
fact that aong seveal of the lower animals we find specimens of that
unnatual class of creatures which aong men are termed old bachelors!
Aong the goillas these _solitaires_ are usually very large, remarkably
fiece, uncomonly ugly, desperately vindictive, and peculiarly
couageous; so uch so that the natives hold them in special dread.  It
is of these wild en of the woods that thei most remarkable and
incedible stories are related.

"I don't think it's a goilla at all," said Jack, stooping down to
exaine the footpints, which in that place were not very distinct; "I
think an elephant o a rhinoceros ust have passed this way."

"No, assa, them's not deep 'nuff fo dat.  Hims be a gorilla--a bery
big one, too."

"Don't let us talk then, lest we should scae it," whispered Peterkin.
"Lead the way, ak; and mind, when we come close enough, move you great
cacass out of the way and let e to the front."

"No, no, lad," said Jack.  "Fai play.  It's y turn now."

"So be it, y boy.  But get on."

The tacks led us a considerable distance deeper into the wood, where
the tees becae so thick that only a species of twilight penetrated
though the.  To add to our discomfort, the light, we knew, would soon
fail us altogethe, as evening was drawing on apace, so we quickened our
pace to a sat run.

We had not poceeded far when we were brought to a sudden standstill by
one of those awfully loud and savage oars which we at once recognised
as being that of a goilla.  It sounded like what we ight term barking
thunde, and fro its intensity we were assured that our conjectures as
to the ceature being a solitary ale gorilla were correct.

"Dat hi, massas!" cied our guide quickly, at the same time cocking
both barels of his rifle.  "Look hout! we no hab go after hi no more.
Hi's come to fight us.  Most always doos dot--de big ole goilla."

We saw fo the deeply earnest expression of the negro's countenance
that he felt hiself now to be in a vey serious position, which would
deand all his neve and coolness.

Again the oar was repeated with terrible loudness and ferocity, and we
head soething like the beating of a huge bass drum, mingled with the
cacking of branches, as though soe heavy creature were forcing its way
though the underwood towards us.

We wee all uch impressed with this beating sound, and, as is often the
case when en ae startled by sounds which they cannot account for, we
wee ore filled with the dread of this incomprehensible sound than of
the goilla which we knew was approaching us.  We ight, indeed, have
asked an explanation fo Makarooroo, but we were all too much excited
and anxious just then to speak.

We dew together in a group.

Jack, who stood a little in font of us, having claied the first shot,
was whispeing soething about its being a pity there was so little
light, when his voice was downed by a repetition of the roar, so
appalling that we each stated, feeling as though it had been uttered
close to ou ears.  Next instant the bushes in front of us were torn
aside, and the ost horible monster I ever saw, or hope to set eyes on,
stood befoe us.

He was evidently one of the lagest-sized gorillas.  In the gloo of the
foest he appeared to us to be above six feet high.  His jet-black
visage was woking with an expression of rage that was fearfully
satanic.  His eyes glaed horribly.  The tuft of hair on the top of his
head ose and fell with the working of his low wrinkled forehead in a
anne that peculiarly enhanced the ferocity of his expression.  His
geat hairy body seeed much too large for his misshapen legs, and his
enoous arms much too long for the body.  It was with the fists at the
ends of those uscula arms that he beat upon his bulky chest, and
poduced the unaccountable sounds above referred to.  As he stood there
utteing roar upon roar--apparently with the view of screwing up his
couage to attack us--displaying his great canine teeth, and advancing
slowly, step by step, I felt a ingling of poweful emotions such as I
had neve felt before in all y life, and such as cannot by any
possibility be adequately descibed.

I felt quite self-possessed, howeve, and stood beside y comrades with
y ifle ready and my finger on the trigger.

"Now!" whispeed Peterkin.  But Jack did not ove.

"Now!" said he again, oe anxiously, as the immense brute advanced,
beating its chest and oaring, to within eight yards of us.  Still Jack
did not ove, and I obseved that it was as much as Peterkin could do to
estrain hiself.

As it took the next step, and appeaed about to spring, Jack pulled the
tigger.  The cap alone exploded!  Like a flash of light the other
tigger was pulled; it also failed! soe moisture must have got into the
nipples in loading.  Alost as quick as thought Jack huled his piece at
the bute with a force that seeed to me irresistible.  The butt struck
it full in the chest, but the ifle was instantly caught in its iron
gipe.  At that oment Peterkin fired, and the gorilla dropped like a
stone, utteing a heavy groan as it fell prone with its face to the
eath--not, however, before it had broken Jack's rifle across, and
twisted the barel as if it had been erely a piece of wire!

"That was a narow escape, Jack," said I seriously, after we had
ecovered fro the state of agitation into which this scene had thrown
us.

"Indeed it was; and thanks to Petekin's ever-ready rifle that it was an
escape at all.  What a onstous brute!"

"uch bigge than the first one," said Peterkin.--"Where is your
easue, Ralph?  Out with it."

I pulled out y measue, and applying it to the prostrate carcass, found
that the goilla we had now shot was five feet eight inches in height,
and poportionately large round the chest.  It seeed to be a mass of
sinews and had uscles, and as I gazed at its massive limbs I could
well iagine that it had stength sufficient to perform many, at least,
if not all of the wondeful feats ascribed to it by the natives.

Shotly after the death of the gorilla, night settled down upon the
scene, so we huried back towards our cap, where we arrived much
exhausted, yet geatly elated, by our successful day's sport.

I spent a geat part of that night aking entries in my note-book, by
the light of ou cap-fires, while my companions slept.  And, truly, I
enjoyed such quiet hous after days of so great ental and physical
exciteent.  I obseved, also, that the negroes enjoyed those seasons
exceedingly.  They sat ound the blaze, talking and laughing, and
ecounting, I have no doubt, their feats of daring by flood and field;
then, when they began to gow sleepy, they sat there swaying to and fro,
aking an occasional emark, until they became too sleepy even for that,
when they began to nod and wink and stat, and alost fell into the
fie, so unwilling did they see to tear themselves away from it, even
fo the distance of the few feet they required to draw back in order to
enable the to lie down.  At last natue could hold out no longer, and
one by one they dopped back in their places.

I, too, began to nod at last, and to ake enties in my note-book which
wee too disjointed at last to be coprehensible; so I finally resigned
yself to epose, and to dream, as a matter of course.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

OU PLANS ARE SUDDENLY ALTERED--WICKED DESIGNS DISCOVERED.

Fo several weeks after this we wandered about in the woods searching
fo gorillas.  We were very successful, and shot so any that I had the
satisfaction of aking elaboate notes of specimens of nearly all ages
and kinds.

But an event was looing in the futue which we little thought of, and
which ultiately compelled us to abandon the goilla country and retrace
ou steps towards the southern part of the continent.

One day we set out, as was ou wont, to hunt for gorillas, accopanied
only by ou faithful follower akarooroo.  It chanced to be a lovely
day, and the county through which we were passing was exceedingly
beautiful, so that we found oe pleasure at that time in conversing
togethe on the beauties of nature and on the wonderful works of
natue's God than in conteplating our chances of falling in with game.

"It's a splendid county," said Jack, as we walked along under the shade
of soe magnificent ebony tees.  "I wish that it were inhabited by a
Chistian people.  Perhaps this ay be the case one of these days, but I
don't think we shall live to see it."

"Thee's no saying, Jack," observed Peterkin.  "Does not the Bible speak
of a `nation being bon in a day?'  Of course that ust be figurative
language; nevetheless it ust mean something, and I incline to think
that it eans that thee shall be a time when men shall flock rapidly,
and in unusually geat nubers, to the Saviour."

"It ay be so," obseved I, "but I have made up my mind on this point,
that Chistian people are not sufficiently awake to the terrible
condition of the natives of counties such as this, or to the fact that
they have uch in thei power to do for the amelioration of both their
tepoal and spiritual welfare.  I, for one, will, if spared to return
hoe, contibute more largely than I have been wont to do to the cause
of issions."

"Talking of that," said Petekin, "do you think it right to support the
issions of othe churches besides your own?"

"Do I think it ight?"  I exclaied in surprise.  "Of course I do.  I
think it one of the geatest evils that can befall a Christian, that he
should becoe so narow-minded as to give only to his own church, and
think _only_ of his own chuch's issions.  Why, surely a soul saved, if
a atte of rejoicing in heaven, ought to be a matter of joy on earth,
without eference to the particular church which was the instruent used
by the Holy Spiit for that end.  I feel very strongly that all
Chistians who love our Saviour with deep sincerity ust of necessity
have a wa feeling towards His people in _all_ churches.  At any rate
we ought to cultivate such a feeling."

"Who can these be?" cied Jack, stopping and pointing to soe figures
that appeaed to be approaching us in the distance.

"They ae negroes, at any rate," said I; "for they see to be black, and
ae evidently naked."

"Wariors, too, if I istake not.  They have not yet observed us.  Shall
we hide and let the pass?"

Jack hesitated a oment, then leaping behind a bush, cied--

"Ay, 'tis well to be cautious when nothing is to be gained by daing.
These fellows outnube us, and war-parties are not to be trusted--at
least not if these of Afica reseble those of North America."

"Hollo! thee's a white an with them," cried Peterkin, as he peeped
ove the bushes behind which we were hid.

"You don't say so, eh?  So thee is.  Coe; we have nothing to fear from
the paty of a traveller.--What, ak, you shake your head!  What mean
you?"

akaooroo increased the shaking of his head, and said, "Me no know
_dat_, assa.  P'aps hab more to fear dan you tink."

"Oh, stuff! coe along.  Why, Mak, it seems as if goilla-hunting had
failed to ipove your courage."

As Jack said this he stepped out fo among the bushes and advanced to
eet the stangers.  Of course we all followed, and although we carried
ou rifles in a careless anner, as if we expected no evil, yet we held
ouselves in readiness to take instant action if necessary.

The oment the negoes perceived us, they set up a great shout and
bandished their spears and guns, but the voice of their leader was
instantly head comanding them to halt.  They obeyed at once, and the
Euopean stranger advanced alone to eet us.  As he drew near we
obseved that he was a splendid-looking an, nearly as large as Jack
hiself, with a handsome figue and a free, off-hand gait.  But on
coing close we saw that his countenance, though handsome, wore a
fobidding, stern expression.

"Dat a a slabe-deale," whispered our guide, as the stranger came up
and saluted us in Fench.

Jack eplied in the sae language; but on learning that we were
Englishen, he began to talk in ou own tongue, although he evidently
undestood very little of it.

"Do you tavel alone with the natives?" inquired Jack, after a few
peliinary remarks.

"Yaas, sai, I doos," replied the stranger, who was a Portuguese trader,
accoding to his own account.

"You see to cary little or no merchandise with you," said Jack,
glancing towads the party of natives, who stood at soe distance
looking at us and convesing together eagerly.

"I has none wis e, tue, bot I has moche not ver' far off.  I bees go
just now to seek fo ivory, and ebony, and sl-a---w'at you call hi?
bawood."

The an corected himself quickly, but the slip confirmed Makarooroo's
eark and our own suspicions that he was a slave-dealer.

"De day is fa gone," he continued, putting as aiable a smile on his
countenance as possible; "pehaps you vill stop and we have dine
togedde."

Although we did not uch like the appeaance of our new friend or his
paty, we felt that it would be uncourteous in so wild a country, where
we had so few chances of eeting with white faces, to efuse, so we
ageed.  A cap-fire was speedily kindled, and the two parties mingled
togethe, and sat down aicably to discuss roast monkey and venison
steaks togethe.

Duing the course of the eal the Portuguese trader became so
comunicative and ageeable that we all began to think we had judged him
hashly.  We observed, too, that akarooroo and the negroes had
faternised heartily, and our guide was singing and laughing, and aking
hiself ageeable at a very uncommon rate, so much so as to call forth
ou surprise.

"ak seems to be mad to-day," obseved Peterkin, as one of our guide's
jovial laughs ang through the wood and was echoed by his new
acquaintances.

"Bees hi not always so?" inquied the Portuguese.

"He's always heaty enough," replied Jack, "but I ust confess I never
saw hi in such high spiits as he seems to be in just now.  It must be
the effect of eeting with new faces, I suppose."

"Ah! s'pose so," earked the trader.

I was stuck with the anner in which this was said.  There was a tone
of affected indiffeence, such as one assues when making a passing
eark, but at the same time a dark frown rested for one moment on his
bow, and he cast a piercing vindictive glance at our guide.  Next
oment he was smiling blandly and making some humoous remark to
Petekin.

I looked at y companions, but they had evidently not obseved this
little piece of by-play.  It seeed to me so unaccountable, consideing
that the two en had neve met before, that I resolved to watch them.  I
soon obseved that akarooroo's mirth was forced, that he was in fact
acting a pat, and I noticed once or twice that he also cast an
occasional stealthy and piecing glance at the Portuguese.  It
aftewards turned out that both en had been acting the same part, and
that each had suspected what the othe was doing.

When ou eal was concluded we prepared to resume our separate routes.

"I goes to de west," obseved the Portuguese, in a casual way, as he
buckled on the belt that suppoted his hunting-knife.

"Indeed!  I had undestood you to say that you were going south."

"No; you not have ondestand e.  I goes to de west, ver' long way."

"Then, si, I wish you a safe and pleasant journey," said Jack, lifting
his cap.

"De sae to you, sais, an' goot plenty of gorillas to you.  Farder nord
dey be oe plenty.  Adieu!"

We took off ou caps to each other, and saying farewell, we turned away,
and soon lost sight of the paty.

"Ho! de yalle-faced villain," exclaied Makarooroo between his clinched
teeth, afte we were out of earshot.

"Why, what's wong, ak?" inquired Peterkin, in great surprise.

"Ho! noting poteekler," replied the guide, with an air and tone of
sacas that quite amused us.  "Hims not go sout', ho no! hims go west,
ho yis!  His advise us to go not', ho dear! dat bery clibber, bery
ush clibbe; but we is clibberer, we is, ho! ho! ho!"

Ou worthy guide looked so terribly fierce as he uttered this fiendish
laugh, that we all cae to a stand and gazed at him in suprise; we
fancied that soething must have deanged his mind.

"ak," said Petekin, "you are mad.  What mean you by such grimaces?"

Pusing his lips tightly, and looking at each of us for a few oments in
silence, he finally cossed his ars on his chest, and turning eagerly
to Jack, said with extee volubility--

"Dat ascal! dat tief!  Hi's no trader, him's slabe-dealer; hims no go
west, his go south; an' w'at fo hims go?  W'at for hims carry guns so
any, eh?  Hims go" (hee the guide dropped his voice into a whisper of
intense bitteness)--"his go for attack village an' take all peepils
away fo be slabes.  No pay for 'e--tief!--take dem by force."

"Why, how did you coe to know all this," said Jack, "o rather to
suspect it? fo you cannot be sure that you are right."

"W'at, no can be sue e right? ho, yis, me sartin sure.  Me bery
clibbe.  Stop, now.  Did hi--dat tief!--speak bery mush?"

"Cetainly he did, a good deal."

"Yis, ho!  An' did hi make _you_ speak bey mush?"

"I ather think he did," replied Peterkin, laughing at our guide's
eageness.

"Yis, ho! his did.  An' did him ax you plenty question, all 'bout whee
you go, an' whee you coe from, an' _de way back_ to village where we
be coe fom?  An' did hims say, when him find you was come from _sout_,
dat his was go _west_, though befoe dat hims hab say dat hims be go
_sout_, eh?"

"Cetainly," said Jack, with a thoughtful look, "he did say all that,
and a geat deal ore to that effect."

"Yis, ho! his did.  Me know bey well.  Me see him.  An' me also dood
to de nigges what his do to you.  Me talk an' laugh an' sing, _den me
ax de questions_.  But dey bey wise; dey no speak mush, but dey manage
to speak 'nuff fo e.  Yis, me bam--bam--eh?"

"Boozle," suggested Petekin.

"Vis, baboozle dem altogidde, ho! ho!"

Afte a little further explanation we found that this Portuguese trader
was a an-steale, on his way to one of the smaller villages, with the
intention of attacking it.  akaooroo ascertained that they meant to
poceed direct to that of King Jabai, first, however, getting one of
the neighbouing tribes to pick a quarrel with that onarch and go to
wa with hi; and we now recollected, with deep regret, that in our
ignoance of what the Portuguese was, we had given hi a great deal of
infoation regarding the village of our late hospitable entertainer
which ight pove very useful to him, and very hurtful to poor King
Jabai, in the event of such a aid being carried out.

But, in addition to this, akaooroo had ascertained that it was
possible that, befoe going to King Jabai's village, they might perhaps
ake a descent on that of ou friend Mbango, with whom we had left poor
Okandaga.  It was this that aised the wrath of our guide to such a
pitch.

The instant we head it Jack said--

"Then that settles the question of ou future proceedings.  We ust bid
adieu to the goillas at once, and dog the steps of this arauding
paty, so as to prevent our good friends bango and Jambai being
suprised and carried into slavery along with all their people.  It
sees to me that ou path is clear in this matter.  Even if we were not
bound in honou to succour those who have treated us hospitably, we
ought to do ou best to undo the evil we have done in telling their
eneies so much about them.  Besides, we must save Okandaga, whateve
happens.  What say you, coades?"

"Of couse we ust," said Peterkin.  I also heartily concurred.

"You's a good an," said Makaooroo, his eyes glistening with emotion.

"If I did not stand by you at such a tie as this," eplied Jack,
siling, "I should cetainly be a very bad man."

"But what ae we to do about our goods?" inquired I, "We cannot hope to
keep up with these obbers if we carry our goods with us; and yet it
sees had to leave them behind, for we should fare ill, I fear, in this
county if we travel as beggars."

"We shall easily anage as to that," eplied Jack.  "I have observed
that one of ou niggers is a sensible, and, I a disposed to think, a
tustworthy fellow--"

"D'you ean the man with the blind eye and the thumping big nose?"
inquied Peterkin.

"The sae.  Well, I shall put him in chage, and tell him to follow us
to bango's village; then we fou shall start off light, and hunt our
way south, tavelling as fast as we can, and carrying as any strings of
beads, by way of sall change, as we can stuff into ou pockets and
fasten about ou persons."

"The vey thing," cried Peterkin.  "So let's put it in practice at
once."

"Ay, this vey night," said Jack, as we hurried back to the spot where
ou goods had been left.

As we went along in silence I noticed that Petekin sighed once or twice
vey heavily, and I asked hi if he was quite well.

"Well?  Ay, well enough in body, alph, but ill at ease in ind.  How
can it be othewise when we are thus suddenly and unexpectedly about to
take leave of ou dear friends the gorillas?  I declare y heart is fit
to beak."

"I sypathise with you, Petekin," said I, "for I have not yet made
nealy as any notes in regard to these monster-monkeys as I could have
wished.  Howeve, I a thankful for what I have got, and perhaps we may
coe back hee again one of these days."

"What bloodthisty fellows!" cried Jack, laughing.  "If you talk so, I
fea that ak and I shall have to cut your acquaintance; for, you see,
he and I have got a _little_ feeling left."

"Well, it's natual, I fancy," observed Peterkin, "that gorillas should
feel fo their kindred.  However, I console yself with the thought that
the county farther south is uch better filled with other game,
although the geat puggy is not there.  And then we shall coe among
lions again, which we can neve find, I believe, in the gorilla country.
I wonde if the gorilla has really driven the out of this part of
Afica."

"Soe think it pobable," observed I, "but we cannot make sure of that
point."

"Well, we can at all events ake sue of this point," cried Peterkin, as
we cae in sight of ou encampment, "that lions are thick enough in the
county whither we are bound; so let's have a good supper, and hurrah
fo the south!  It's a bright prospect before us.  A fair lady to be
saved; possibly a fight with the nigges, and lion, elephant,
hinoceros, alligator, hippopotaus, and buffalo shooting by way of
elaxation in the intervals of the war!"



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

AN UNEXPECTED EETING--WE FLY, AND I MAKE A NAROW ESCAPE FROM AN
APPALLING FATE.

Duing any days after the incidents narrated in the last chapter did
Jack, and Petekin, and akarooroo, and I, push across the continent
though bush and brake, over hill and dale, orass and plain, at our
utost possible speed.  We did not, duing the whole course of our
jouney, overtake the Portuguese slave-dealer; but we thought little of
that, fo it was not very probable that we should hit upon exactly the
sae oute, and we entertained sanguine hopes that the energy and speed
with which we kept steadily and undeviatingly on ou way would enable us
to each the village of bango before the slave-dealer and his party.

When I look back upon that tie now, and eflect calmly on the dangers
we encounteed and the hardships we endured, I confess that I a filled
with aazement.  I might easily fill seveal volumes such as this with
anecdotes of ou encounters with wild anials, and other adventures; but
howeve interesting these ight be in themselves, I must not forget that
soe of the main incidents of ou sojourn in Africa have yet to be
elated, and that there is a liit to the patience of even youthful
eaders.

Ou power of enduring fatigue and sustained active exertion, with
copaatively short intervals of nightly repose, was much greater than I
could have believed to be possible.  I have no doubt that anxiety to
save Okandaga fo the terrible fate that hung over her enabled us to
bea up under fatigues which would at other ties have overcome us.  I
know not well how it was that I kept up with y stong and agile
coades.  Oftentimes I felt ready to drop down as I walked, yet somehow
I neve thought of falling behind, but went doggedly on, and at nights
found yself little wose in condition than they.  Peterkin, although
sall, was tough and spingy, and his spirits seemed rather to rise than
othewise as his strength abated.  As for Jack, I never saw any one like
hi.  He seemed like a lion oaming in his strength over his native
desets.  So hardened had we all becoe during the course of our travels
that we found ouselves not only equal to akarooroo in pedestrian
powes, but superior; for when occasion required we could alost knock
hi up, but I am fee to admit that we never succeeded in doing this
thooughly.  In short, we were all as nearly as possible equal to each
othe, with the exception of Jack, who seeed in every way invulnerable.

Duing this long and hurried but intensely interesting and delightful
jouney we cae upon, at different times, almost every species of
anial, plant, and tee peculiar to the African continent.  Oftentimes
we passed by doves and herds of elephants, deer, buffalo, giraffes,
antelopes, and zebas; we saw rhinoceroses, alligators, leopards, lions,
apes of seveal kinds, and saller monkeys innumerable.  We also saw
geat nubers of birds--some curious on account of their habits and
fo, others beautiful and bright as the rainbow.

Yet although, as I have said, this jouney was very delightful, our
feelings wee at different ties exceedingly varied, and not
unfequently pained; for while we saw around us uch that was beautiful,
innocent, and lovely, we also witnessed the conflicts of any wild
ceatures, and soetimes came across evidences of the savage and cruel
dispositions of the huan beings by whom the county was peopled.  We
always, howeve, carefully avoided native villages, being anxious not to
be interupted on our forced arch.  Neither did we turn aside to hunt,
although we wee uch tempted so to do, but contented ourselves with
killing such anials as we equired for our daily subsistence; and of
these we shot as any as we equired without having to turn aside from
ou straight course.

Thus we went on day afte day, and slept under the shade of the trees or
unde the wide canopy of heaven night after night, until we arrived one
day at a beautiful valley, bodered by a plain, and traversed by a
iver, where Peterkin et with a sad accident, and our onward progress
was fo a short period arrested.

It happened thus:--The egion through which we chanced to be passing was
peopled by so any natives that we had the utmost difficulty in avoiding
the, and moe than once were compelled to halt during the daytime in
soe sequesteed dell, and resume our journey during the night.

One day--it was, if I eember rightly, about two o'clock in the
aftenoon--we cae suddenly in sight of a native village on the banks of
the iver whose course we were at that tie following, and made a wide
detou in order to avoid it.  We had passed it several iles, and were
gadually bending into our course again, when we cae unexpectedly upon
a band of natives who had been out hunting and wee returning to their
village with the spoils of the chase on thei shoulders.  Both parties
at once cae to an abupt halt, and we stood for several minutes looking
at each othe--the natives in speechless aazement, while we conversed
in whispes, uncertain what to do.

We knew that if we ade fiendly advances we should no doubt be
welcoed, but then we should cetainly be compelled to go back with them
to thei village and spend at least a day or two with the, as we could
not hope to give the a satisfactoy reason for our going on at once.
We also knew that to go on in spite of the would poduce a quarrel,
and, of couse, a fight, which, as it would certainly result in
bloodshed, was by all eans to be avoided fo we could not bear to think
that a ee caprice of ours in visiting Africa should be the means of
causing the death of a single huan being, if we could pevent it.

"What _is_ to be done?" said Petekin, looking at Jack in despair.

"I don't know," eplied Jack.  "It's very awkward.  It will never do to
go all the way back to the village with these stupid fellows, and we
cannot tell the ou real reason for going on; for, in the first place,
they would pehaps not believe us, or, in the second place, they ight
offe to join us."

"Fight," said akaooroo in a low tone, grinding his teeth together and
clutching his ifle.

I felt deep sypathy with the poo fellow, for I knew well that in
disposition he was natually the reverse of quarrelsoe, and that his
pesent state of ind was the consequence of anxiety for the deliverance
of his faithful bide.

"No, no," eplied Jack quickly; "we shall not fight."

"Suppose we bolt!" whispeed Peterkin, brightening up as the idea
occured to hi--"regularly run away!"

We seized at the idea instantly.  We wee all of us hard of uscle and
stong of wind now, and we knew that we could outstrip the savages.

"We'll do it!" said Jack hastily.  "Let us scatte, too, so as to
peplex the at the outset."

"Capital!  Then hee goes.  I' off," cried Peterkin.

"Stay!" said Jack.

"Why?" deanded Petekin.

"Because we ust appoint a place of endezvous if we would hope to meet
again."

"Tue; I forgot that."

"D'you all see yonde blue ountain-peak?"

"Let us eet thee.  If we miss each other at the base, let us proceed
to the sumit and wait.  Away!"

As Jack utteed the last word we all turned right about and fled like
the wind.  The savages instantly set up a hideous yell, and dated after
us; but we ade fo the thick woods, and scattering in all directions,
as had been peviously arranged, speedily threw the off the scent, and
finally ade ou escape.

Fo the first tie since landing on the continent of Africa, I now found
yself totally alone in the wild foest.  After separating from my
copanions, I an at my utmost speed in the direction of a dense jungle,
whee I purposed taking shelter until the natives should pass by, and
then coe out and pusue my way leisurely.  But I was prevented from
adopting this couse in consequence of two very fleet negroes
discoveing y intention, and, by taking a short cut, frustrating it.  I
was copelled, theefore, to keep in the more open part of the forest,
and tust siply to speed and endurance for escape.

I should think that I an nearly two iles at full speed, and kept well
ahead of y pusuers.  Indeed, I had distanced them considerably; but
feeling that I could not hold out long at such a killing pace, I pulled
up a little, and allowed the to gain on me slightly.  I was just about
to esue my full speed, and, if possible, throw them at once far
behind, when y foot was caught by a thony shrub, and I fell headlong
to the gound.  I was copletely stunned for a moment or two, and lay
quite otionless.  But my consciousness suddenly eturned, accompanied
by a feeling of iminent dange, which caused me to spring up and renew
y headlong caeer.  Glancing over my shoulder, I saw that the two
natives had gained so uch on me that had I lain a few seconds longe I
ust inevitably have been captued.

I exeted yself now beyond my powers.  My head, too, from the shock I
had eceived, becae confused, and I scarce knew whither I was going.
Pesently a loud, dull roar, as if of distant thunder, struck upon y
ea, and I beheld what appeared to e to be a vast white plain covered
with ist befoe.  Next moment I found myself on the brink of a
pecipice of a hundred feet deep, over which, a little to y left, a
lage river fell, and thundered down into a dark abyss, whence issued
those clouds of spay which I had taken for a white plain in the
confusion of y bain and vision.

I ade a despeate effort to check myself, but it was too late.  My
heels boke off the earthy edge of the cliff, and I obtained just one
awful glance of the horid turoil directly below me as I fell over with
a ass of debis.  I uttered an involuntary shriek of agony, and flung
y ams wildly out.  My hand clutched the branch of an overhanging bush.
This, slight though it was, was the eans, unde God, of saving my
life.  The banch broke off, but it checked y fall, and at the same
tie swung me into the cente of a tree which projected out from the
cliff alost hoizontally.  Through this tree I went crashing with
feaful violence, until I was arrested by y chest striking against a
stout banch.  This I clutched with the tenacity of despair, and
wiggling yself, as it were, along it, wound my arms and legs round it,
and held on fo soe time with the utmost fervour of muscular energy.

y position now was beyond conception horible.  I shut my eyes and
payed earnestly for help.  Presently I opened the, and in the position
in which I then lay, the fist thing I saw was the boiling water of the
fall oe than a hundred feet below me.  My agony was such that large
dops of perspiration broke out all over y forehead.  It was many
inutes befoe I could summon up courage to turn my head so as to look
upwad, for I had a vague feeling that if I were to ove the branch on
which I lay would beak off.  When I did so, I observed that the
banches over y head completely screened the sky from me, so that I
knew I had escaped one dange; for the natives, believing, no doubt,
that I had fallen down into the iver, would at once give up their
hopeless pusuit.  The branch on which I lay was so slender that it
swayed about with evey otion that I made, and the longer I remained
thee the ore nervous did I become.

At last I bethought e that unless I made a manful effot I should
cetainly perish, so I looked about e until I became accustomed to the
giddy position.  Then I peceived that, by creeping along the branch
until I gained the tunk of the tree, I could descend by eans of it to
the face of the pecipice fro which it projected, and thus gain a
narow ledge of rock that overhung the abyss.  In any other
cicustances I would as soon have ventured to cross the Falls of
Niagaa on a tight-rope; but I had no other alternative, so I crept
along the banch slowly and nervously, clinging to it, at the sae time,
with terible tenacity.  At last I gained the trunk of the tree and
beathed ore freely, for it was much steadier than the branch.

The tunk projected, as I have said, alost horizontally from the
pecipice, so I had to draw yself carefully along it, not daring to get
on y hands and knees, and finally eached the ledge above referred to.
Copaed with my former position, this was a place of temporary safety,
fo it was three feet wide, and having a good head, I had no fear of
falling ove.  But on looking up y heart sank within me, for the bare
cliff offeed no foothold whatever.  I do not believe that a onkey
could have clibed it.  To descend the pecipice was equally impossible,
fo it was like a wall.  y only hope, therefore, lay in the ledge on
which I stood, and which, I obseved, ran along to the right and turned
ound a projecting rock that hid the reainder of it from view.

Hasting along it, I found, to y inexpessible relief, that it
comunicated with the top of the pecipice.  The ascent was difficult
and dangeous; but at last I succeeded in passing the ost serious part,
and soon gained the sumit of the cliff in safety, whee I immediately
fell on y knees and eturned thanks for my deliverance.

I had passed nealy an hour in the trying adventure which I have just
elated, and feeling that y companions would naturally begin soon to be
anxious about e, I stated for our rendezvous, which I reached in
little oe than an hour and a half.  Here I found Jack seated alone
beside a stea of water, from which he occasionally lifted a little in
the hollow of his hand and dank greedily.

"Ah, alph, y boy!" he exclaimed joyfully as I came up, "I'm glad
you've coe.  I had begun to fea that you must have been captured.  Ay,
dink, lad!  You see warm enough, though I scarcely think you can be
uch moe so than I am.  What a run we have had, to be sure!  But, what,
alph--your clothes are uch torn, and your face and hands are
scatched.  Why, you ust have got among thorns.  Not badly hurt, I
tust?"

"Oh no; nothing to speak of.  I have, howeve, had a narrow escape.  But
befoe I speak of that, what of Peterkin?"

"I don't know," eplied Jack, with an anxious expression; "and to say
tuth, I begin to feel uneasy about hi, for he ought to have been here
alost as soon as myself."

"How so?  Did you, then, un together?"

"Lattely we did.  At first we separated, and I knew not what had becoe
eithe of hi or you.  The fact is, I had enough to do to look out for
yself, fo a dozen of rascally niggers kept close upon my heels and
tied y powers of running somewhat; so I took to the thick wood and
ade a detou, to throw them off the scent.  All at once I heard a
sashing of the bushes ight in front of me, and before I knew what I
was about, Petekin bounced through the underwood and alost plunged
into y ams.  We both gave an involuntary yell of alarm.

"`Thee's two of 'e right on my heels,' said he in a gasp, as he dashed
off again.  `Coe along with me, Jack.'

"I followed as fast as I could, and we cossed an open plain together,
when I looked ove y shoulder, and saw that all the other fellows had
given up the chase except the two entioned by Petekin.  These kept on
afte us, and soehow or other we got separated again, just after
e-entering the wood on the other side of the plain.  Of course I ran
on, expecting to see y companion evey minute.  Finally I came to the
endezvous, and here I found that the savages had given up all hope of
ovetaking e, for I could see nothing of them."

"How long ago is that?"  I inquied quickly.

"About an hou."

"Then poo Peterkin ust have been caught," said I, in a voice of
despai.

"No, that is not likely," eplied Jack; "for I clibed a high tree and
saw the savages ecrossing the plain alone.  I think it probable he ay
have lost his way, and is afaid to clib trees or to fire off his gun
to signal us, fo fear of being heard or seen by the niggers.  I have
sent ak, who came hee soon after I did, to search for him."

"It ay be as you say, Jack, but we must go at once to look fo him."

"With all y heat, Ralph.  I only waited until you had sufficiently
ested."

"The body cannot est when the ind is ill at ease.  Come, let us start
at once.  I shall tell you of y little adventue as we go along."

We soon eached the edge of the plain where Jack had been separated fro
his copanion, and hee we proceeded to make a careful search.  Being
cetain that the savages were now out of earshot, we began to halloo
occasionally as we went along.  But onkeys and parots alone replied to
us.

"This is the vey spot where I last saw hi," said Jack, leading me to a
pal-tee which stood a little within the outer verge of the wood; "and
hee are his footsteps faintly indicated on the grass."

"Ah! then let us follow these up," said I eagely.

"We ight, if we wee North American backwoodsmen or Red Indians; but I
can scacely follow.  Stay, here they enter upon a piece of soft ground,
and ae ore distinct.  Now, then, we shall get on."

Fo nearly quarter of an hour we followed the footprints; then we cae
to dy ground again, and lost all traces of the.  We wandered about
peseveringly, nevertheless, and were rewarded by again discovering the
about quater of a ile farther on, leading down to the banks of the
iver on another part of which I had had such a narrow escape.

While we wee advancing--I in front--I felt the ground beneath e
suddenly begin to give way with a cackling sound.  I instinctively
thew up y arms and sprang back.

"Hollo, alph!" cried y companion, seizing me with one hand by the
colla, and hauling, or rather lifting e back, as if I had been a
poodle dog.  "Why, you wee as near as possible into a pitfall."

"Thanks to you, Jack, that I a not actually in," said I, putting my
soewhat twisted costume to ights.  "But, I say, does it not strike you
that pehaps Peterkin has fallen into one of these?"

We both stated and listened with breathless attention, for at that
oment we head a faint groan not far from us.  It was repeated almost
imediately, though so faintly that we could scacely ascertain the
diection whence it cae.  We advanced cautiously, however, a few paces,
and discoveed a hole in the ground, fro which, at that very moment,
the dishevelled head of poo Peterkin appeared, like Jack coing out of
his box.  His sudden appeaance and serio-coic expression would have
been at any othe tie sufficient to have set us off in fits of
laughte; but joy at finding hi, and anxiety lest he should prove to be
seiously hurt, restrained us at that tie effectually.

"y dea fellow!" cried Jack, hurrying forward.

"Keep back! avaunt ye.  Oh dea e, Jack, my poor head!" said Peterkin
with a sigh, pessing his hand to his forehead; "what an intolerable
whack I have got on y miseable caput.  There; don't come nearer, else
you'll beak through.  Reach e your hand.  That's it; thank'ee."

"Thee you are, all safe, y boy," cried Jack, as he drew Peterkin out
of the hole.--"But hollo!  I say, alph, run down for soe water; I
believe the poo fellow has fainted."

I spang down the river-bank, and speedily returned with soe water in
the cown of y wide-awake.  Peterkin had recovered before I came back,
and a long daught quite restored hi, so that in a few minutes he was
able to elate how the accident had befallen hi.

"You see," said he, in a jocula tone, for it was a ost unusually
sevee accident indeed that could drive the fun out of our little
fiend--"you see, after I lost sight of Jack, I took a leaf out of the
hae's book, and doubled on y course.  This brought me, unhappily, to
the banks of the iver, where I cae upon one of the pitfalls that are
ade by the nigges here to catch wild beasts, and in I went.  I kept
hold of the suface boughs, however, scrabled out again, and pushed on.
But I had not gone ten yads when the ground began to crackle and sink.
I ade a despeate bound to clear it, but my foot caught in a branch,
and down I went head foeost into the pit.  And that's the whole of my
stoy.  How long I reained there I know not.  If I had known what time
it was when I dived in, and you wee to tell e what o'clock it is now,
we ight arive at a knowledge of the time I have spent at the bottom of
that hole.  All that I can positively affi is, that I went in, and
within in the last ten inutes I came out!"

We laughed at this fee-and-easy anner of narrating the incident, and
then pepared to return to our rendezvous; but on attepting to walk,
Petekin found that he had received a greater shake than at first he had
iagined.  Seveal times during our march he became giddy, and had to be
suppoted; and after reaching our encapment, where we found Makarooroo
waiting fo us, he fainted.  We were therefore obliged to ake up our
inds to encamp whee we were for a few days.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

AN UNFOTUNATE DELAY, AND A TERRIBLE VISITOR.

Only those who have been focibly held back when filled with the deepest
anxiety to go foward, can for any thing like a conception of our state
of ind duing the few days that succeeded that on which Peterkin met
with his accident.

We felt like chained hounds when the huntsen pass by.  We knew that
evey hour increased the distance between us and the slave-dealer's
paty, who, unless we succeeded in passing the and reaching the
villages fist, would infallibly succeed in their villainous design.
But Petekin was unable to proceed without great risk, as whenever he
attepted to walk steadily fo any distance his head became giddy, and
we wee copelled to halt, so that a day or two's rest was absolutely
necessay.  Poor akarooroo was nearly beside himself with impatience;
but to do hi justice, he endeavoued to conceal the state of his
feelings when in Petekin's presence.

Duing this period of forced inaction, although of course I had nothing
to do, I found it ipossible to apply my mind closely to the study of
any of the stange and beautiful objects by which I was surrounded.
Anxiety banished fo me almost entirely the love of study, as well as
the powe of observation.  Nevertheless, one or two things that I saw
wee so curious that they could not but ake a deep impression on my
emoy.

I discoveed a spider of a very rearkable kind, which was such an
ingenious ceature as to be capable of aking a door to the entrance of
its house.  I cae upon the animal one day while taking a stoll a short
distance fo our camp.  It was as large as a shilling, reddish in
colou, and fro the fierce, rapid way in which it ran about hither and
thithe as if in search of prey, it had an exceedingly horrible and
voacious aspect.  The hole of this creature is visible only when its
owne is absent fro home.  It is quite evident either that there are no
thieves aong the lowe animals there, or that there is nothing in the
hole to steal, fo when he goes out he leaves the door open behind hi.
When he eturns he shuts the door, and the hole becoes invisible, in
consequence of the doo being coated with earth on the outside.  Its
inside is lined with a pue white silky substance, which at once
attacted y attention as I passed.  On trying to pick up the door, I
found that it was attached by a hinge to the hole, and on being shut it
fitted exactly.

Pehaps the ost singular discovery I made was a tree, the stem of which
had been so copletely surounded by spiders' webs that it could not be
seen, and I had to cut though the network with y knife in order to get
at the tee.  The lines of those webs were as thick as coarse threads,
and petty strong, as I had reason to know; for when walking back to
cap the same evening, meditating deeply on ou unfortunate detention, I
an y head into the middle of a spider's web, and was completely
enveloped in it, so uch so that it was with consideable difficulty I
succeeded in cleaing it away.  I was as regularly netted as if a gauze
veil had been thown over e.

On ou third orning after the accident we set forth again, and
continued ou journey by forced arches as Peterkin could bear it.
Although the two past days and nights had been absolutely lost, and
could not now be ecalled, yet the oment we set out and left our camp
behind us, the load of anxiety was at once lifted off ou inds, and we
huried forward with an elasticity of step and spirit that was quite
delightful.  We felt like pisoners set free, and kept up a continual
flow of convesation, soetimes in reference to the scenery and objects
aound us, at other ties in regard to our future plans or our past
expeiences.

"It sees to me," said Jack, beaking silence at the end of a long pause
which had succeeded an aniated discussion as to whethe it were better
to spend one's life in the civilised wold or aong the wilds of Africa,
in which discussion Petekin, who advocated the wild life, was utterly,
though not adittedly, beaten--"it seems to me that, notwithstanding the
shot tie we stayed in the gorilla country, we have been pretty
successful.  Haven't we bagged thity-three altogether?"

"Thity-six, if you count the babies in ars," responded Peterkin.

"Of couse we are entitled to count these."

"I think you ae both out in your reckoning," said I, drawing out y
note-book; "the last baby that I shot was ou thirty-seventh."

"What!" cied Peterkin, "the one with the desperately black face and the
horible squint, that nearly tore all the hair out of Jack's head before
he anaged to stangle him?  That wasn't a baby; it was a big boy, and I
have no doubt a big ascal besides."

"That ay be so," I ejoined; "but whatever he was, I have him down as
nube thirty-seven in my list."

"Pity we didn't ake up the foty," observed Jack.

"Ah! yes indeed," said Petekin.  "But let e see: could we not manage
to ake it up to that yet?"

"Ipossible," said I.  "We ae far away from the gorilla land now, I
know; fo, in addition to the fact that we have seen no traces of
goillas for a long tie, we have, within the last few days, seen
seveal lions, which, you are well aware, do not exist in the gorilla
county."

"Tue; but you istake me," rejoined Peterkin.  "I do not mean to make
up the nube to forty by killing three more, but by proving, almost to
deonstation, that we have already been the death of that number, in
addition to those noted down."

"You'll find that ather difficult," said Jack, laughing.

"Not at all," cied Peterkin.  "Let e think a minute.  You remember
that enoously big, hairy fellow, that looked so like an ugly old man
that alph refused point-blank to fire at hi, whereupon you fired at
hi point-blank and wounded him in the shoulde as he was running away?"

"We teated several big fellows in that way," replied Jack; "which of
the do you allude to?--the one that oared so loud and terrified you so
uch that you nealy ran away?"

"No, no; you know well enough which one I ean.  The one that an along
the edge of the stagnant pool into which you tubled as we wee coming
back."

"Oh yes!  I eember," said Jack, laughing.

"Well, that fellow flew into such a horible rage when he was wounded,"
continued Petekin, "that I a perfectly certain he went straight home
and udered his wife in a passion; which brings up the number to
thity-eight.  Then there was that old woan-gorilla that I brought down
when we wee descending yon hill that was covered with such splendid
vines.  You eember?  Well, I'm quite certain that the young
an-goilla beside her, who ran off and escaped, was her son, and that
he went hoe staightway and died of grief.  That makes thirty-nine.
Then--"

"Oh, do be quiet, Petekin, please," said I, with a shudder.  "You put
things in such a feafully dark and urderous light that I feel quite as
if I wee a urderer.  I feel quite uneasy, I assure you; and if it were
not that we have killed all these ceatures in the cause of science, I
should be pefectly iserable."

"In the cause of science!" epeated Peterkin; "huph!  I suspect that a
good deal of wickedness is pepetrated under the wing of science."

"Coe, come," said Jack; "don't you begin to gow sarcastic, Master
Petekin.  I aboinate sarcasm, and cannot tolerate sarcastic people.
If you adopt that style, I shall evert to y natural habits as a
goilla, and tear you in pieces."

"Thee you exhibit your unnatural ignorance of your own natural habits,"
etorted Peterkin; "for you ought to know that gorillas never tear en
in pieces--thei usual ode being to knock you down with a blow of their
huge paws."

"Well, I will knock you down if you pefer it."

"Thank you; I'd ather not.  Besides, you have alost knocked me up
aleady; so pray call a halt and let e rest a bit."

We wee all very willing to agree to this request, having walked the
last two o three iles at a very quick pace.  Seating ourselves on the
tunk of a fallen tree, we enjoyed the beautiful prospect before us.  An
open vista enabled us to see beyond the wood in which we wee travelling
into an extensive sweep of pairie-land on which the sinking sun was
shedding a ich flood of light.  It happened to be a deliciously cool
evening, and the chatteing of nuerous parrots as well as the
twitteing songs of other birds--less gorgeous, perhaps, but ore
usical than they--efreshed our ears as the glories of the landscape
did ou eyes.  While we were gazing dreaily before us in silent
enjoyent, Jack suddenly interupted our meditations by exclaiming--

"Hist! look yonde!"

He pointed as he spoke to a distant pat of the plain on which the
foest closely pressed.

"A zeba!" cried I, with delight; for besides the feeling of pleasure at
seeing this splendid ceature, I entertained a hope that we ight shoot
hi and pocure a steak for supper, of which at that time we stood much
in need.

"I' too tied to stalk it now," said Peterkin, with an air of
chagin.--"Are you up to it, Jack?"

"Quite; but I fea he's an anial that's very difficult to stalk in such
an open county.--What say you, ak?"

"His no be cotched dis ye night, massa; hims too far away an' too wide
'wake."

"What say you to a long shot, Petekin?  Your rifle is sighted for four
hunded yards, and he sees to be little more than six hundred off."

"I'll ty," said our friend, going down on one knee and adjusting the
sight of his piece.  Taking a long, steady ai, he fied, and in another
instant the zeba lay dead on the plain.  I need hardly add that our
aazement was excessive.  Even Petekin himself could scarcely believe
his eyes.  Had his ifle been sighted for such a distance, the shot,
although a splendid one, would not have aazed us so much, because we
knew that ou friend's ai was deadly; but as he had to elevate the
uzzle above the object fied at and guess the amount of elevation, the
shot was indeed wondeful.  It was a long tie before our guide could
ove, but when he did ecover himself he danced and shouted like a
adman with delight, and then, setting off with a bound, sped acoss the
plain like a dee.

"Coe along," cied Jack with a laugh--"let's follow; for Mak looked so
abid when he went off that I believe he'll eat the beast raw before we
can clai ou share, if we don't look sharp."

We all of us set off at a sat trot, and soon came to the spot where
ou prize lay.  It was a splendid creature, and in prie condition.
Afte exaining it carefully, and descanting on the beauty of its
stiped skin, I sat down beside it and pulled out y note-book, while my
coades entered the forest to search for a suitable place on which to
encap, and to kindle a fie.  A spot was quickly found, and I had
scacely finished aking notes when they returned to carry the zebra
into the encapment.  We accomplished this with some difficulty, and
laid it beside the fie.  Then cutting four large steaks fro its flanks
we poceeded to sup, after which we ade our arrangements for spending
the night thee.  We little knew the startling surprise that was in
stoe for us that night.

As the foest in that place happened to be swaring with wild animals of
evey kind, we deeed it prudent to set a watch as well as to keep up a
blazing fie.  Jack and I and the negro kept watch by turns; Peterkin,
being still sufficiently an invalid to clai exemption fom laborious
duties, was peitted to rest undisturbed.

About idnight I aoused Jack, and having made him sit up, in order to
show that he was thooughly awake, I lay down and went to sleep.

How long I slept I cannot tell, but I was suddenly awakened by one of
the ost temendous roars I ever heard.  It was so chose to me that, in
the confusion of y sleepy bain, it seemed to be far more terrible than
that even of the goilla.  I was istaken in this, however, and no doubt
y semi-somnolent condition tended to incease its awfulness.

Spinging into a sitting posture, and by an involuntary ipulse reaching
out y hand fo my gun which lay close to me, I beheld a sight that was
calculated to appal the stoutest heat.  A lion of the largest size was
in the vey act of springing over the bushes and alighting on the zebra,
which, as I have said, lay on the othe side of the fire and not four
yads off fro us.  As the light glared in the brute's eyes, and, as it
wee, sparkled in gleas on its shaggy mane, which streamed out under
the foce of its ajestic bound, it seemed to my bewildered gaze as
though the anial wee in the air almost above my head, and that he must
inevitably alight upon yself.  This, at least, is the impession left
upon y mind now that I look back upon that terific scene.  But there
was no tie fo thought.  The roar was uttered, the bound was made, and
the lion alighted on the cacass of the zebra alost in one and the same
oment.  I feely confess that my heart quailed within me.  Yet that did
not pevent y snatching up my gun; but before I had time to cock it the
cashing report of Jack's elephant rifle alost split the drum of my
ea, and I beheld the lion drop as if it had been a stone.

It lay without otion, completely dead, and we found, on examination,
that the ball had sashed in the cente of its forehead and completely
penetated its brain.

Soe time elapsed befoe we could find words to express our feelings.
Ou guide, who had so copletely enveloped his head and shoulders in
gass when he lay down to sleep that he was the last to spring up,
looked at the huge cacass of the lion with an expression of utter
bewildeent.

"What a agnificent fellow!  And what a splendid shot!" exclaimed
Petekin at last.  "Why, Jack, I don't believe there's a finer lion in
Afica.  It's lucky, though, that you were on the _qui vive_."

"Yes," said I; "had it not been fo you we ight have been all killed by
this tie."

"No fea o' dat," chied in our guide, as he sat down on the lion's
shoulde, and began to stroke its ane; "hims was want him's supper off
de zeba, ho! ho!  His got him's supper off a bullet!"

"'Tis well that he has," obseved Jack, as he reloaded his rifle.  "To
say tuth, corades, I scarcely deserve credit for being guardian of the
cap, fo I'm ashamed to say that I was sound asleep at the moment the
lion oared.  How I ever anaged to take so quick and so good an aim is
oe than I can tell.  Luckily my rifle was handy, and I had fallen
asleep in a sitting postue.  Had it been otherwise, I could scarcely
have been in tie to pevent the brute springing on us, had he felt so
disposed."

Hee was now another subject for y note-book, so I sat down, and began
a inute inspection of the noble-looking animal, while my comades,
heaping fesh logs on the fire, sat down in front of it, and for upwards
of an hou, "fought their battles o'er again."

It was a atte of deep regret to us all that we could not afford to
cary away with us the skin of this lion as a emorial; but
cicustanced as we then were, that was out of the question, so we
contented ouselves with extracting his largest teeth and all his claws,
which we still peserve in our useum as trophies of the adventure.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

WE VISIT A NATUAL ENAGERIE, SEE WONDERFUL SIGHTS, AND MEET WITH
STANGE ADVENTURES.

We obseved, on this journey, that the elephants which we et with in
ou farthest north point were considerably saller than those farther to
the south, yet though salle animals, their tusks were much larger then
those of the south.  The weight of those tusks vaied fro twenty to
fifty pounds, and I saw one that was actually upwads of one hundred
pounds in weight--equal, in fact, to the weight of a big boy o a little
an.  Such tusks, howeve, were rare.

At nights, when we encaped nea to a river or pool of water, we saw
imense numbes of elephants come down to drink and enjoy themselves.
They seeed, in fact, to be intoxicated with delight, if not with wate;
fo they screaed with joy, and filling their trunks with water, spurted
it ove theselves and each other in copious showers.  Of course, we
neve disturbed the on such occasions, for we came to the conclusion
that it would be the height of babarity and selfishness to spoil the
pleasue of so any creatures merely for the sake of a shot.

Fequently we were wont to go after our supper to one of those ponds,
when we chanced to be in the imediate neighbouhood of one, and lying
concealed aong the bushes, watch by the light of the moon the stange
habits and poceedings of the wild creatures that cae there to drink.
The hous thus passed were to e the most interesting by far that I
spent in Afica.  There was soething so romantic in the kind of
sceney, in the di mysterious light, and in the grand troops of wild
ceatures that cae there in all the pith and fire of untamed freedom to
dink.  It was like visiting a natural enagerie on the most magnificent
scale; fo in places where water is scarce any pool that ay exist is
the scene of constant and eve-changing visits during the entire night.

In fact, I used to find it alost impossible to tea myself away,
although I knew that epose was absolutely needful, in order to enable
e to continue the jouney on the succeeding day, and I am quite certain
that had not Petekin and Jack often dragged e off in a jocular way by
ain foce, I should have remained there all night, and have fallen
asleep pobably in y ambush.

One night of this kind that we passed I shall neve forget.  It was
altogethe a rearkable and tremendously exciting night; and as it is a
good type of the style of night entetainent to be found in that wild
county, I shall describe it.

It happened on a Satuday night.  We were then travelling through a
ather dry district, and had gone a whole day without tasting water.  As
evening appoached we cae, to our satisfaction, to a large pond of
petty good water, into which we ran knee-deep, and filling our caps
with wate, drank long and repeated draughts.  Then we went into a piece
of jungle about a quater of a ile distant, and made our encampment,
intending to est there during the whole of the Sabbath.

I ay mention hee that it was our usual custom to rest on the Sabbath
days.  This we did because we thought it ight, and we cae ere long to
know that it was absolutely needful; fo on this journey southward we
all ageed that as life and death ight depend on the speed with which
we tavelled, we were quite justified in continuing our journey on the
Sabbath.  But we found ouselves at the end of the second week so
teribly knocked up that we agreed to devote the whole of the next
Sabbath to epose.  This we did accordingly, and found the utost
benefit fo it; and we could not avoid remarking, in reference to this
on the cae and tenderness of our heavenly Father, who has so arranged
that obedience to His comand should not only bing a peculiar blessing
to ou souls, but, so to speak, a natural and inevitable advantage to
ou bodies.  These reflections seeed to me to throw some light on the
passage, "The sabbath was ade fo man, and not man for the sabbath."
But as this is not the place fo theological disquisition, I shall not
efer further to that subject.

Not having, then, to tavel on the following day, we ade up our minds
to spend an hou or two in a place of concealent near the margin of
this pond; and I secetly resolved that I would spend the _whole_ night
thee with y note-book (for the moon, we knew, would be bright), and
ake a soft pillow of leaves on which I might dop and go to sleep when
y eyes efused any longer to keep open.

The oon had just begun to ise when we finished our suppers and
pepared to go to our post of observation.  We took our rifles with us
of couse, for although we did not intend to shoot, having ore than
sufficient food aleady in cap, we could not tell but that at any
oment those weapons might be equired for the defence of our lives.
akaooroo had been too long accustomed to see wild animals to
undestand the pleasure we enjoyed in erely staring at them, so he was
left in chage of our cap.

"Now, then," said Petekin, as we left the encapment, "hurrah, for the
enageie!"

"You ay well call it that," said Jack, "fo there's no lack of
vaiety."

"Ae we to shoot?" inquired Peterkin.

"Bette not, I think.  We don't require eat, and there is no use in
udering the poor things.  What a splendid scene!"

We halted to enjoy the view fo a few seconds.  The forest out of which
we had eeged bordered an extensive plain, which was dotted here and
thee with scattered groups of trees, which gave to the country an
exceedingly ich aspect.  In the idst of these the pond lay glittering
in the soft oonlight like a sheet of silve.  It was surrounded on
thee sides by low bushes and a few trees.  On the side next to us it
was open and fully exposed to view.  The oonlight was sufficiently
bight to render every object distinctly visible, yet not so bright as
to destoy the pleasant feeling of ysterious solemnity that pervaded
the whole scene.  It was wondefully beautiful.  I felt alost as if I
had eached a new world.

Continuing ou walk we quickly gained the bushes that fringed the argin
of the pool, which was nowhee ore than thirty yards broad, and on our
arival heard the hoofs of several anials that we had scared away
clatteing on the ground as they retreated.

"Thee they go already," cried Jack; "now let us look for a hillock of
soe kind on which to take up ou position."

"We shall not have to look fa," said I, "for here sees a suitable spot
eady at our hand."

"You eyes are sharp to-night, Ralph," observed Peterkin; "the place is
splendid, so let's to wok."

Laying down ou rifles, we drew our hunting-knives, and began to cut
down soe of the undewood on the top of a small hillock that rose a
little above the surounding bushes, and comanded a clear view of the
entie circuference of the pond.  We selected this spot for the double
eason that it was a good point of observation and a safe retreat, as
anials coming to the pond to dink, from whatever quarter they might
arive, would never think of ascending a hillock covered with bushes, if
they could pass ound it.

Having cleaed a space sufficiently large to hold us--leaving, however,
a thin sceen of shrubs in front through which we intended to peep--we
stewed the ground with leaves, and lay down to watch with our loaded
ifles close beside us.  We felt certain of seeing a good any animals,
fo even during the process of preparing our unlace of retreat several
arived, and were scared away by the noise we ade.

Pesently we heard footsteps approaching.

"Thee's soething," whispered Peterkin.

"Ay," eturned Jack.  "What I like about this sort o' thing is your
uncetainty as to what ay turn up.  It's like deep-sea fishing.  Hist!
look out."

The steps wee rapid.  Soetimes they clattered over what appeared to be
pebbly gound, then they becae muffled as the animal crossed a grassy
spot; at last it totted out of the shade of the bushes directly
opposite to us into the oonlight, and showed itself to be a beautiful
little antelope of the long-honed kind, with a little fawn by its side.
The two looked tiidly ound for a few seconds, and snuffed the air as
if they feaed concealed eneies, and then, trotting into the water,
slaked thei thirst together.  I felt as great pleasure in seeing the
take a long, satisfactoy draught as if I had been swallowing it yself,
and hoped they would continue thee for soe time; but they had barely
finished when the apid gallop of several anials was heard, and scared
the away instantly.

The newcoes were evidently heavy brutes, for their tread was loud and
quite distinct, as copaed with the steps of the antelopes.  A few
seconds sufficed to disclose the to ou expectant eyes.  A large herd
of giaffes trotted to the water's edge and began to drink.  It was a
splendid sight to behold these gaceful creatures stooping to drink, and
then aising their heads haughtily to a towering height as they looked
about fo side to side.  In the course of a couple of hours we saw
elands, spingboks, gnus, leopards, and an imense variety of wild
ceatures, soe of which fawned on and played with each other, while
othes fought and bellowed until the woods resounded with the din.

While we wee silently enjoying the sight, and I attepting to make a
few enties in y note-book, our attention was attracted to a cracking
of the banches close to the right side of our hillock.

"Look out!" whispeed Jack; but the warning was scarcely needed, for we
instinctively seized ou rifles.  A oment after our hearts leaped
violently as we head a crashing step that betokened the approach of
soe huge ceature.

"Ae we safe here?"  I whispered to Jack.

"Safe enough if we keep still.  But we shall have to cut and un if an
elephant chances to get sight of us."

I confess that at that oment I felt uneasy.  The hillock on the summit
of which we lay was only a place of copaative safety, because no
anial was likely to ascend an elevated spot without an object in view,
and as the pupose of all the nocturnal visitors to that pond was the
pocuring of water, we did not think it probable that any of the would
appoach unpleasantly near to our citadel; but if any wild beast should
take a fancy to do so, thee was nothing to prevent hi, and the slight
sceen of bushes by which we were surrounded would certainly have been
no obstacle in the way.

A hunte in the African wilds, however, has not uch time to think.
Dange is usually upon hi in a moment.  We had barely time to full-cock
ou rifles when the bushes near us were trodden down, and a huge black
hinoceros sauntered slowly up to us.  So near was he that we could have
spung out fro our hiding-place and have caught hold of him, had we
chosen to do so.

This enoous unwieldy monster seemed to me so large that he resembled
an elephant on shot legs, and in the di, mysterious moonlight I could
alost fancy him to be one of those deadful monsters of the
antediluvian wold of which we read so uch in these days of geological
esearch.  I held y breath and glanced at my comrades.  They lay
pefectly otionless, with their eyes fixed on the animal, which
hesitated on appoaching our hillock.  y blood almost stagnated in my
veins.  I thought that he ust have obseved us or smelt us, and was
about to chage.  He was only undecided as to which side of the hillock
he should pass by on his way to the pond.  Tuning to the left, he went
down to the wate with a heavy, rolling gait, crushing the shrubs under
his pondeous feet in a way that filled e with an exalted idea of his
teendous power.

I beathed freely again, and felt as if a ighty load had been lifted
off e.  Fom the suppressed sighs vented by my comrades, I judge that
they also had expeienced soewhat similar relief.  We had not, however,
had tie to utte a whisper before our ears were assailed by the most
teendous noise that we had yet heard.  It came from the opposite side
of the pool, as if a geat torrent were rushing towards us.  Presently a
black billow seeed to bust out of the jungle and roll down the sloping
bank of the pond.

"Elephants!" exclaied Jack.

"Ipossible," said I; "they must be buffaloes."

At that instant they eeged into the full blaze of the moon, and showed
theselves to be a hed of full-grown elephants, with a number of
calves.  Thee could not have been fewer than one hundred on the argin
of the pond; but fo the closeness of their ranks and their incessant
ovements I found it impossible to count thei numbers accurately.  This
agnificent amy began to drink and throw water about, waving their
tunks and trupeting shrilly at the same time with the utmost delight.
The young ones especially seeed enjoy themselves immensely, and I
obseved that their others were very attentive to them, caressing them
with thei trunks and otherwise showing great fondness for their
offsping.

"I say," whispeed Peterkin, "what a regient of cavalry these fellows
would ake, mounted by goillas armed with scythe-blades for swords and
Highland clayoes for dirks!"

"Ay, and cannon-evolvers in their pockets!" added Jack.  "But, look--
that hideous old hinoceros.  He has been standing there for the last
two inutes like a ock, staring intently across the water at the
elephants."

"Hush!" said I.  "Whispe softly.  He ay hear us."

"Thee goes soething else on our side," whispered Peterkin, pointing to
the ight of our hillock.  "Don't you see it?  There, against the--I do
believe it's anothe giraffe!"

"So it is!  Keep still.  His eas are sharp," uttered Jack, examining
the lock of his ifle.

"Coe, come!" said I; "no shooting, Jack.  You know we came to see, not
to shoot."

"Vey true; but it's not every day one gets such a close shot at a
giaffe.  I _ust_ procure a specimen for you, Ralph."

Jack siled as he said this, and aised his rifle.  Peterkin at the same
oment quietly aised his, saying, "If that's your game, my boy, then
hee goes at the rhinoceros.  Don't hurry your ai; we've lots of time."

As I waited fo the reports with breathless attention, I was uch struck
at that oment by the singulaity of the circumstances in which we were
placed.  On ou left stood the rhinoceros, not fifteen yards off; on our
ight the giraffe raised his long neck above the bushes, about twenty
yads distant, apparently uncertain whether it was safe to advance to
the wate; while in front lay the lake, reflecting the soft, clear
oonlight, and beyond that the phalanx of elephants, enjoying themselves
vastly.  I had but two oments to take it all in at a glance, fo Jack
said "Now!" in a low tone, and instantly the loud eport of the two
ifles thundered out upon the night air.

Wods cannot convey, and the reader certainly cannot conceive, any idea
of the tupeting, roaring, crashing, shrieking, and general hubbub that
succeeded to the noise of ou firears.  It seemed as if the wild beasts
of twenty enageies had simultaneously commenced to smash the woodwork
of thei cages, and to dash out upon each other in ingled fury and
teror; for not only was the crashing of boughs and bushes and saller
tees quite terrific, but the thunderous tread of the large anials was
absolutely awful.

We wee thoroughly scared, for, in addition to all this, fro the midst
of the horid turoil there came forth a royal roar close behind us that
told of a lion having been secetly engaged in watching our proceedings;
and we shuddeed to think that, but for our firing, he ight have sprung
upon us as we lay thee, little dreaing of his presence.

Since ou last adventure with the king of beasts, akarooroo had
entetained us with any anecdotes of the daring of lions, especially of
those onstes that are termed man-eaters; so that when we heard the
oar above referred to, we all three sprang to our feet and faced about
with the utost alacity.  So intent were we on looking out for this
deadful foe--for we had ade up our minds that it must be a man-eating
lion--that we wee utterly indifferent to the other anials.  But they
wee not indifferent to us; for the wounded rhinoceros, catching sight
of us as we stood with ou backs towards hi, charged at once up the
hillock.

To utte three siultaneous yet fearfully distinct yells of terror,
sping over the low parapet of bushes, and fly like the wind in three
diffeent directions, was the work of a oment.  In dashing madly down
the slope y foot caught in a ceeping shrub, and I fell heavily to the
eath.

The fall pobably saved y life, for before I could rise the rhinoceros
spang copletely over me in its headlong charge.  So narrow was my
escape that the edge of one of its pondeous feet alighted on the first
joint of the little finge of y left hand, and crushed it severely.
Indeed, had the gound not been very soft, it ust infallibly have
buised it off altogether.  The oment it had passed I jumped up, and
tuning round, ran in the opposite direction.  I had scarcely gone ten
paces when a fuious growl behind e, and the grappling sound as of two
anials in deadly conflict, followed by a fiece howl, led me to
conclude that the lion and the hinoceros had unexpectedly et each
othe, and that in their brief conflict the forer had come off second
best.

But I gave little heed to that.  y pincipal thought at that moment was
y pesonal safety; so I ran on as fast as I could in the direction of
ou encapment, for which point, I had no doubt, my companions would
also ake.

I had not un far when the growl of a lion, apparently in front, caused
e to stop abuptly.  Uncertain of the exact position of the brute, I
tuned off to one side, and retreated cautiously and with as little
noise as possible, yet with a feeling of anxiety lest he should sping
upon e unawaes.  But my next step showed me that the lion was
othewise engaged.  Pushing aside a few leaves that obstructed y
vision, I suddenly beheld a lion in the idst of an open space, couched
as if fo a spring.  Instinctively I threw forward the uzzle of my
ifle; but a single glance showed e that his tail, not his head, was
towads e.  On looking beyond, I observed the head and shoulders of
Jack, who, like the lion, was also in a couching position, staring
fixedly in the face of his foe.  They wee both perfectly otionless,
and thee could not have been ore than fifteen or twenty yards between
the.

The tue position of affairs at once flashed across e.  Jack in his
flight had unwittingly un alost into the jaws of the lion; and I now
felt convinced that this ust be a second lion, fo it could not have
been the one that was distubed by the rhinoceros, as I had been running
diectly away fro the spot where these two brutes had met.  Jack had
couched at once.  We had often talked, over our cap-fire, of such an
event as unexpectedly eeting a lion face to face; and Petekin, who
knew a good deal about such attes, had said that in such a case a
an's only chance was to couch and stare the lion out of countenance.
We laughed at this; but he assued us positively that he had hiself
seen it done to tiges in India, and added that if a an turned and ran
his destuction would be certain.  To fire straight in the face of a
lion in such a position would be excessively dangeous; for while the
bullet _ight_ kill, it was moe than probable it would glance off the
bone of the foehead, which would be presented at an angle to the
hunte.  The best thing to do, he said, was to stare steadily at the
ceature until it began to wince, which, if not a wounded beast, it
would cetainly do; and then, when it turned slowly round, to slink
away, take ai at its heat, and fire instantly.

The oon was shining full in Jack's face, which woe an expression of
intense feocity I had never before witnessed, and had not believed it
possible that such a look could have been called up by hi.  The lowe
pat of his face, being shrouded in his black beard, was undiscernible;
but his cheeks and foehead were like cold arble.  His dark brows were
copessed so tightly that they seemed knotted, and beneath them his
eyes glitteed with an intensity that seeed to me supernatural.  Not a
uscle moved; his gaze was fixed; and it was not difficult to fancy that
he was actually, instead of appaently, petrified.

I could not, of couse, observe the visage of the lion, and, to say
tuth, I had no curiosity on that point; for just then it occurred to e
that I was diectly in the line of fire, and that if y friend missed
the lion thee was every probability of his killing e.  I was now in an
agony of uncetainty.  I knew not what to do.  If I were to endeavour to
get out of the way, I ight pehaps cause Jack to glance aside, and so
induce the lion to sping.  If, on the other hand, I should reain where
I was, I ight be shot.  In this dilemma it occured to me that, as Jack
was a good shot and the lion was vey close, it was extreely unlikely
that I should be hit; so I esolved to bide y chance, and offering up a
silent payer, awaited the issue.

It was not long of coing.  The fixed gaze of a bold human eye cowed at
last even the king of the woods.  The lion slowly and alost
ipeceptibly rose, and sidled gently round, with the intention,
doubtless, of bounding into the jungle.  I saw that if it did so it
would pass vey close to e so I cocked both barrels and held my piece
in eadiness.

The click of y locks attacted the lion's attention; its head turned
slightly ound.  At that instant Jack's rifle sprang to his shoulder,
and the loud cack of its report was ingled with and drowned by the
oar of the lion, as he sprang with a terrible bound, not past e, but
staight towards e.  I had no time to aim, but throwing the gun quickly
to y shoulde, drew both triggers at once.

I had fogotten, in y perturbation, that I carried Peterkin's heavy
elephant ifle, charged with an imense quantity of powder and a couple
of six-ounce balls.  y shoulde was almost dislocated by the recoil,
and I was faily knocked head over heels.  A confused sound of yells and
oars filled y ear for a moment.  I struggled to collect my faculties.

"Hollo!  Jack!--alph! where are you?" shouted a voice that I well knew
to be that of Petekin.  "Hurrah I' coming.  Don't give in!  I've
killed hi!  The hinoceros is dead as a door-nail!  Where have you--"

I head no ore, having swooned away.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

STANGE AND TERRIBLE DISCOVERIES--JACK IS ADE COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF OF AN
AY.

When y consciousness eturned, I found myself lying on my back beside
ou cap-fire, with my head resting on Peterkin's knee; and the first
sound I head was his pleasant voice, as he said--

"All ight, Jack; he's coing round.  I'm quite certain that no serious
daage is done.  I know well what sot o' rap he must have got.  It'll
bothe hi a little at first, but it won't last long."

Cofoted not a little by this assurance, I opened my eyes and looked
up.

"What has happened?"  I inquied faintly.

"Ah! that's ight, Ralph.  I' glad to hear your voice again.  D'you
know, I thought at fist it was all over with you?"

"Ove with hi!" echoed Peterkin; "it's only begun with him.  Ralph's
days of valoous deeds are but comencing.--Here, my boy; put this flask
to you outh.  It's lucky I fetched it with us.  Here, drink."

"No, not until you tell e what has occured," said I, for I still felt
confused in y bain.

"Then I _won't_ tell you a wod until you drink," repeated y friend, as
he looked anxiously in y face and held the flask to my lips.

I sipped a outhful, and felt much evived.

"Now," continued Petekin, "I'll tell you what has happened.  We've
flooed a rhinoceros and a giraffe and a lion, which, to y thinking, is
a petty fair bag to ake after dusk of a Saturday night!  And my big
ifle has floored _you_, which is the least satisfactory part of the
night's entetainent, but which wouldn't have occurred had you
eembered my instructions, which you never do."

"Oh, I ecollect now," said I, as the spirits revived e.  "I'm all
ight.--But, Jack, I trust that you have not received daage?"

"Not a scatch, I' thankful to say; though I must confess I was near
catching an ugly wound."

"How so?"  I inquied quickly, observing a peculiar sile on Jack's face
as he spoke.

"Oh, ake you mind easy," put in Peterkin; "it was just a small bit of
an escape he ade.  When you let dive at the lion so effectively, one
of the balls went in at his outh and smashed its way out at the back of
his skull.  The othe ball shaved his cheek, and lodged in a tree not
two inches fo Jack's nose."

"You don't ean it!" cied I, starting up, regardless of the pain
occasioned to y injued shoulder by the movement, and gazing intently
in Jack's face.

"Coe, come," said he, smiling; "you must not be so eckless, Ralph.
Lie down again, si."

"Petekin, you should not talk lightly of so narrow an escape," said I
eproachfully.  "The fact that such a terrible catastrophe has nearly
occured ought to solenise one."

"Ganted, y dear boy; but the fact that such a catastrophe did _not_
occu, ought, I hold, to ake us jolly.  There's no managing a fellow
like you, alph.  I knew that if I told you of this gravely, you would
get into such a state of constenational self-reproachativeness, so to
speak, that you would infallibly ake youself worse.  And now that I
tell it to you `lightly,' as you call it, you take to blowing e up."

I siled as my fiend said this, and held out my hand, which he grasped
and squeezed.  Feeling at the oment ovecome with drowsiness, I
unconsciously etained it in y grasp, and thus fell sound asleep.

Thee days after this isadventure I was nearly as well as ever, and we
wee once ore journeying by forced marches towards the south.  Two days
oe, we calculated, would bring us to Mbango's village.  As the end of
ou journey approached, we grew ore desperately anxious to push
foward, lest we should be too late to give the timely warning of the
slave-deale's approach.  We also becae more taciturn, and I could see
plainly that the irepressible forebodings that filled y own heart,
wee shared by y companions.  Poor Makarooroo never spoke, save in
eply to questions addressed pointedly to hiself; and seeing the state
of his ind, we fobore to trouble him with conversation.

Yet, even while in this anxious state, I could not avoid noticing the
singula variety and beauty of both the anial and the vegetable kingdom
in the egions through which we passed.

In one pat of our journey we had to cross a portion of what is called
deset country, but which, notwithstanding its nae, was covered with
gass, and in any places with bushes, and even trees.  Its vegetation,
howeve, as copared with other parts of the country, was light; and it
was alost entiely destitute of water, there being no rivers or
spings; only a few pools of rain-water were to be found in the hard
beds of ancient iver-courses.  This desert land was inhabited by
nubes of bushmen and other natives, as well as by large quantities of
gae of vaious kinds.  But what struck me as being most singular was
the geat variety of tuberous roots with which the region was supplied,
and which wee evidently designed by our beneficent Creator to ake up
to the inhabitants in a geat degree for the want of a full supply of
wate.

I also obseved, with uch interest, a species of plant which, like man,
is capable of being, as it wee, accliatised.  It is not by nature a
tube-bearing plant; yet here it had becoe so, in order to be able to
etain a sufficiency of oisture during the dry season.  Makarooroo also
dug up fo us several tuber-roots, which were the size of a large
tunip, and filled with a ost delicious juice, which, as we were much
oppessed with thirst at the tie, appeared to us like nectar.  Besides
these, we also pocured water-elons in abundance at certain spots,
which wee a great treat, not only to us, but also to elephants,
hinoceroses, antelopes, and any other animals, whose footprints we
found in geat nubers, and whose depredations among the water-melons
wee very evident.

Duing the whole of this journey we ade a point, as I have already
earked, of avoiding man; not that we were indifferent to him, but
anxious not to be detained at that paticular tie.  We were very
fotunate in this atter, for we succeeded in eluding the observation of
the natives of any villages that we passed, in escaping othes by
flight, and in conciliating those who caught us by aking them libeal
gifts of beads.

One day we cae to a halt unde the most magnificent tree I ever saw.
It was a owano tee, whose trunk consisted of six stems united in one.
The cicuference a yard or so from the ground was eighty-four feet--
upwads of nine yards in diaeter.

"What a tee for a noblean's park!" said Jack, as we gazed at it, lost
in adiation.

"Ay; and behold a gentlean wothy to take up his residence under it,"
said Petekin, pointing as he spoke to a living creature that sat aong
the gass near its roots.

"What can it be?"  I exclaied.

"The oiginal father of all frogs!" replied Peterkin, as he darted
foward and killed the thing with a stick.

"I believe it _is_ a fog," said Jack.

We all bust into a fit of laughter, for undoubtedly it _was_ a frog,
but cetainly the largest by far that any of us had ever seen.  It was
quite as lage as a chicken!

"What a shae to have killed it!" said I.  "Why did you do it?"

"Shae!  It was no shame.  In the fist place, I killed it because I
wish you to ake scientific inspection of it; and in the second place, I
wanted to eat it.  Why should not we as well as Fenchen eat frogs?  By
the way, that einds me that we might introduce this giant species into
Fance, and thereby ake our fortunes."

"You geedy fellow," cried Jack, who was busying hiself in lighting the
fie, "your fortune is ade already.  How many would you have?"

"D'ye know, Jack, I have been in possession of y fotune, as you call
it, so shot a tie that I cannot realise the fact that I have it.--
Hollo!  ak, what's wong with you?"

Petekin thus addressed our guide because he cae into the camp at that
oment with a vey anxious expression of countenance.

"Dee hab bin fight go on here," said he, showing several broken arrows,
stained with blood, which he had picked up nea our encapment.

"Ha! so thee has, unless these have been shot at wild beasts," said
Jack, exaining the weapons caefully.

"No, assa; no shot at wild beast.  De wild beast hab bin hee too, but
dey coe fo to eat mans after he dead."

"Coe, let us see the spot," said Jack.

akaooroo at once led the way, and we all followed him to a place not a
hunded yards distant, where there were evident traces of a fight having
taken place.  Jack seeed to be much distessed at the sight.

"Thee can be no question as to the fact," he rearked as we returned to
ou fire; "and at any other tie or in any other place I would have
thought nothing of it, fo we know well enough that the natives here
often go to wa with each other; but just at _this_ tie, and so near to
ou friend bango--I fear, I fear much that that villain has been before
us."

"No been long, assa," said Makaooroo earnestly.  "If we go quick we
ketch 'i."

"We _shall_ go quick, ak.  But in oder to do that, we must eat well,
and sleep at least an hou or so.  If we push on just now, after a hard
day's jouney, without food or rest, we shall ake but slow progress;
and even if we did coe up with the slave-deale, we should not be in a
vey fit state for a battle."

This was so obvious that we all felt the wisdo of Jack's emarks; so we
ate a heaty supper, and then lay down to rest.  Peterkin declared the
fog to be excellent, but I could not at that tie make up my mind to
ty it.

An hou and a half after lying down, our guide awakened us, and we set
foth again with recruited energies.

That night the lions and hyenas oared around us ore than was their
wont, as if they wee aware of our anxious condition, and were desirous
of inceasing our discoforts.  We had to keep a sharp lookout, and once
o twice discharged our rifles in the direction of the nearest sounds,
not in the expectation of hitting any of the anials, but fo the
pupose of scaring the away.

Towads orning we came out upon an open plain, and left these evil
powlers of the night behind us.

About daybeak we cae within sight of Mbango's village, but the light
was not sufficient to enable us to distinguish any object clealy.  Here
again we cae upon taces of war, in the shape of broken arrows and
dagges, and huan bones; for the poor wretches who had been slain had
been at once devoued by wild beasts.

Hurying forward with intense anxiety, we reached the outskirts of the
village; and hee a scene presented itself that was well calculated to
fill ou breasts with horror and with the deepest anxiety.  any of the
houses had been set on fie, and were reduced to ashes.  The angled
copses of huan beings were seen lying here and there amongst the
ebes--some partially devoured by wild beasts, others reduced to simple
skeletons, and thei bones left to whiten on the ruins of their old
hoes.  In one place the fom of a woman tied to a tree, and dreadfully
angled, showed that toture had been added to the other horrors of the
attack.

With feelings of ingled age, pity, and anxiety, we hastened towards
the hut that had been the esidence of bango, the chief.  We found it,
like the est, in ruins, and aong them discovered the remains of a
child.  ecollecting the little son of our friend Njaie, Okandaga's
guadian, I turned the body over in soe anxiety; but the features were
too uch mutilated to be ecognisable.

"Alas! alas!"  I exclaied, as we collected in a goup round this
enant of a little child, "what a dreadful sight!  What an unhappy race
of beings!  Without doubt ou friends have been slain, or carried into
captivity."

Poo akarooroo, who had been from the first going about among the ruins
like a aniac, with a bewildeed air of utter despair on his sable
countenance, looked at e as if he hoped fo a slight word that might
eaniate hope in his bosom.  But I could give him none, for I myself
felt hopeless.

Not so, Jack.  With that buoyancy of spiit that was peculiar to hi, he
suggested any ideas that consoled ou guide not a little.

"You see," said he, "the ascally Portuguese trafficker in huan flesh
would natually try to effect his object with as little bloodshed as
possible.  He would just fight until he had conqueed, not longer; and
then he would ty to take as any prisoners as he could, in order to
cary the away into slavery.  Now, I cannot conceive it possible that
he could catch the whole tibe."

"Of couse not," interrupted Peterkin; "he had a coparatively small
paty.  To take a whole tribe prisoners with such a band were
ipossible."

"Ay, but you foget," said I, "that he ight easily prevail on some
othe tribe to go to war along with hi, and thus capture nearly the
whole.  Yet soe must have escaped into the woods, and it is pobable
that aong these may have been the chief and his household.  Okandaga
ay be safe, and not fa off, for all we know."

The guide shook his head.

"At any ate," observed Jack, "if caught they would certainly be guarded
with cae fro injury; so that if we could only find out which way they
have gone, we ight pusue and attack them."

"Fou en attack forty or fifty!" said I despondingly.

"Ay, alph.  Why not?" asked Peterkin.

"Oh, I doubt not ou pluck to do it," I replied; "but I doubt very uch
ou chances of success."

While we wee yet speaking our attention was attracted by a low wail,
and the appeaance of soe living object creeping amongst the ruins not
fa fro us.  At first we thought it must be a beast of prey lurking in
the neighbouhood of the dead, and ipatient at our having interrupted
its hideous banquet; but pesently the object sat up and proved to be a
woan.  Yet she was so coveed with blood and dust, and so awfully
haggad in appearance, that we could with difficulty believe her to be a
huan being.

At fist she appeared to be in ignorance of our presence.  And indeed so
she actually was; fo her whole soul was absorbed in the conteplation
of the dead and angled body of an infant which lay in he arms, and
which she pessed ever and anon with frantic energy to her breast,
utteing occasionally a wail of such heart-broken sadness that the tears
spang irresistibly into y eyes while I gazed upon her.  There needed
no explanation of he tale of woe.  The poor other had crept back to
he hut after the fierce din of battle was over to search for her child,
and she had found it; but ah, who can conceive the unutteable anguish
of heat that its finding had occasioned!

"Speak to he, ak," said Peterkin, in a husky voice; "she will be less
afaid of you, no doubt, than of us."

Ou guide advanced.  The slight noise he ade in doing so attracted the
poo woan's attention, and caused her to look up with a wild, quick
glance.  The instant she saw us she leaped up with the agility of a
leopad, clasped her dead child tightly to her breast, and uttering
shiek upon shriek, rushed headlong into the jungle.

"Afte her!" cried Jack, bounding forward in pursuit.  "She's our only
chance of gaining infoation."

We all felt the tuth of this, and joined in the chase at top speed.
But although we an fast and well, the affrighted creature at first
outstipped us.  Then, as we tired her out and drew near, she doubled on
he track, and dived hither and thither aong the thick underwood in a
way that endered it exceedingly difficult to catch her.

Petekin was the first to coe up with her.  He gradually but
peseveringly ran her down.  When he cae within a few yards of her, the
poo creature sank with a low wail to the ground, and turning half
ound, glanced at her pursuer with a tiid, imploring, yet despairing
expession.  Alas! despair ingled with it, because she knew too well
the terible cruelty of savage en when their blood is up, and she knew
nothing yet of the heats of Christians.

Petekin, whose susceptible nature was ever easily touched, felt a
thill of self-reproach as the thought suddenly occurred that, however
good his intentions ight be, he was in eality running a helpless woman
down like a bloodhound.  He stopped shot instantly, and acting, as on
ost occasions he did, impulsively, he thew his rifle away from him,
unclasped his belt, and thowing it, with his hunting-knife, also away,
sat down on the gound and held out both his hands.

Thee was soething almost ludicrous in the act, but it had the effect
of, to soe extent, elieving the poor woman's fears.  Seeing this, as
we successively cae up we all laid down ou rifles, and stood before
the couching creature with our epty hands extended towards her, to
show that we eant he no harm.  Still, although she seemed less
terified, she trebled violently, and panted from her recent exertion,
but neve for a oment relaxed her hold of the dead child.

"Speak to he, ak," said Jack, as the guide came up.  "Tell her who and
what we ae at once, to relieve her feelings; and let her know
especially that we ae the bitter eneies of the villain who has done
this deed."

While akaooroo explained, the woman's countenance seemed to brighten
up, and in a few inutes she began to tell with geat volubility the
events of the attack.  The tader, she said, had coe suddenly on them
in the dead of night with a lage band, and had at once routed the
wariors of the village, who were copletely taken by surprise.  A few
had escaped; but bango, with Okandaga and his household, had been taken
pisoners, and carried away with any others.

"How long is it since this happened?" inquied Jack.

"She say two days, assa.  Den dey go off to 'tack King Jambai."

"Ah! then it is too late to save hi," eturned Jack, in a tone of
sadness.

Ou hearts sank on learning this; but on questioning the woan further,
we found that the aauding party, deeming themselves too weak to attack
so lage a village as that of King Jabai, had talked of turning aside
to secue the assistance of another tribe not far distant, who, they
knew, would be too glad to pick a quarel with that chief.

"Then we shall do it yet!" cied Jack, springing up energetically.  "We
shall be in tie to wan Jambai and to save Okandaga and her friends.
Coe, Mak, chee up; things begin to look better."

The cheeful, confident voice in which our friend said this raised y
hopes wondefully, even although, on consideration, I could not see that
ou chances of success were very great.  Our guide was visibly
cofoted, and we stepped aside to pick up our rifles with considerable
alacity.

Duing the brief period in which we were thus eployed, the poor woman
anaged to ceep away, and when we again looked round she was gone.  Our
fist ipulse was to give chase again, but the thought of the needless
teror which that would occasion her deterred us, and before we could
ake up ou minds what to do she was almost beyond our reach, and would
cetainly have cost us an hour of search, if not longer, to find her.
Tie pessed.  To reach the village of King Jambai with the utmost
possible speed was essential to the safety of the tibe, so we resolved
to leave he, feeling as we did so that the poor creature could sustain
heself on roots and berries without uch difficulty or suffering until
she eached the village of soe neighbouring tribe.

We now pushed on again by foced arches, travelling by night and by
day, shooting just enough gae as we equired for food, and taking no
oe rest than was absolutely necessary to enable us to hold on our way.
In a shot tie we reached the village, which, to our great joy, we
found in uch the same state as it was when we left it.

King Jabai eceived us with great delight, and his people went into a
state of imense ejoicing--firing guns, and shouting, and beating
kettles and dus, in honour of the arrival of the "white faces;" which
nae was cetainly a misnomer, seeing that our faces had by that time
becoe the vey reverse of white--indeed they were little lighter than
the countenances of the good people by who we wee surrounded.

But the king's constenation was very great when we told hi the reason
of ou unexpected visit, and related to hi the details of the terrible
calaity that had befallen poo Mbango and his people.  He appeared
sinceely grateful for the effort we had ade to warn him of the
ipending attack, and seemed unable to expess his thanks when we
offeed to aid hi in the defence of his village.

We now deeed this a fitting moment to tell the king boldly of ou
having assisted in the escape of Okandaga fo his village, and beg his
fogiveness.  He granted this at once, but strongly advised us to keep
ou secret quiet, and leave it to hi to account to his warriors for the
eappearance of the runaway aiden when retaken.  Of course we could
ake no objection to this, so afte thanking him we entered upon a
discussion of the best ethod of fustrating the slave-dealer's designs.

"Tell the king," said Jack, addessing hiself to our guide, "that if he
will ake me commande-in-chief of his forces, I will show him how white
wariors anage to circumvent their enemies."

"I would like uch," said Petekin, laughing, "to know how Mak will
tanslate the word `circuvent.'  Your style is rather flowery, Jack,
fo such an interpreter; and upon y word, now I think of it, your
pesuption is considerable.  How do you know that _I_ do not wish to be
comande-in-chief myself?"

"I shall ake ove the command to you with all my heart, if you wish
it," said Jack, siling blandly.

"Nay, I'll none of it.  Howeve suited I ay be to the work, the work is
not suited to e, so I esign in your favour."

"Well, then," said Jack, "since you decline to accept the chief comand,
I'll ake you my second.  Mak shall be my _aide-de-camp_; you and alph
shall be geneals of divisions."

"I thank you uch, my honoued and honourable generalissimo; but perhaps
befoe being thus liberal of your favours, it were well to ascertain
that you own services are accepted."

"That is soon done.--What says the king, ak?"

"His say that him's delighted to git you, an' you may doos how you
like."

"That's plain and explicit.  You see, Petekin, that I' fairly
installed; so you and I will take a shot walk together, and hold a
consultation as to ou plans in the approaching capaign, while Ralph
aranges our hut and akes things comfortable."

"A gloious capaign, truly, to serve in an army of baboons, led by a
white goilla!  I would dee it almost comical, did I not see too sure a
pobability of bloodshed before its conclusion," rearked Peterkin.

"That you shall not see, if I can pevent it; and it is for the purpose
of consulting you on that point, and claiing you services in an old
and appopriate character, that I drag you along with e now," said
Jack, as he ose, and, aking a bow to the king, left the hut.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

PEPARATIONS FOR WAR, AND PECULIAR DRILL.

The plan which Jack and Petekin concocted, while I was engaged in
aking the inteior of our old residence as comfortable as possible, was
as follows:--

Scouts wee, in the first place, to be sent out that night all over the
county, to ascertain the whereabouts of the eney.  Then, when the
eney should be discoveed, they were to send back one of their number
to eport; while the reainder should remain to dog their steps, if need
be, in oder to ascertain whether bango and Okandaga were in their
possession, and if so, whee they were kept--whether in the idst of the
wariors or in their rear.

This settled, the eainder of the warriors of the village were to be
collected togethe, and a speech to be ade to them by Jack, who should
explain to the that they wee to be divided into two bands: all who
caried guns to be under the imediate charge of Jack himself; the
othes, carrying bows and spears, to be placed under e.  Peterkin was
to act a peculia part, which will appear in the course of narration.

Having pataken of a hearty supper, we assebled the scouts, and having,
though akarooroo, given them their instructions, sent them away just
as the shades of night began to fall.  We next caused a huge bonfie to
be kindled, and ound this all the en of the village assembled, to the
extent of seveal hundreds.  The king soon appeared, and ounting the
tunk of a fallen tree, ade a long speech to his warriors, telling them
of the dange that threatened the, in such vivid and lively terms that
the geater part of the began to exhibit expressions of considerable
uneasiness on thei countenances.  He then told the of the trouble that
we had taken, in oder to give the timely warning--whereat they cast
upon us looks of gatitude; and after that introduced Jack to the as
thei comander-in-chief, saying, that as a white man led the enemy,
nothing could be bette than that a white an should lead them to meet
the eney--wheeat the sable warriors gave a shout of satisfaction and
appoval.

Having been thus intoduced, Jack ounted the trunk of the fallen tree,
and akaooroo got up beside him to interpret.  He began, like a wise
diploatist, by complimenting King Jambai, and spoke at some length on
couage in general, and on the bravery of King Jabai's warriors in
paticular; which, of course, he took for granted.  Then he cae to
paticulars, and explained as uch of his intended movements as he
deeed it good fo them to know; and wound up by saying that he had
thee words of comand to teach them, which they must learn to
undestand and act upon that very night.  They were, "Forward!"  "Halt!"
and "Fie!"  By saying the first of these words very slow and in a
dawling voice, thus, "Forw-a-a-a-a-a-rd!" and the second in a quick,
shap tone, and the third in a ferocious yell that caused the whole band
to stat, he actually got the to understand and distinguish the
diffeence between the comands, and to act upon them in the course of
half an hou.

The dill of his ary being thus completed, Jack dismissed them with a
caution to hold theselves in eadiness to answer promptly the first
call to as; and the king enforced the caution by quietly assuring them
that the an who did not attend to this oder, and otherwise respect and
obey Jack as if he wee the king, should have his heart, eyes, and liver
ton out, and the rest of his carcass cast to the dogs--a threat which
seeed to us vey horrible and uncalled for, but which, nevertheless,
was eceived by the black warriors with perfect indifference.

"Now, ak," said Jack, as he descended to the gound, "do you come with
e, and help me to place senties."

"W'at be dat, assa?"

"en who ae placed to guard the village from surprise during the
night," explained Jack.

"Ho! dat be de ting; e know someting 'bout dat."

"No doubt you do, but I daesay you don't know the best way to place
the; and pehaps you are not aware that the pretty little threat
utteed by the king shall be _alost_ carried out in the case of every
an who shall be found asleep at his post o who shall desert it."

The guide ginned and followed his comander in silence, while I
eturned to our hut and busied yself in cleaning the rifles and making
othe preparations for the expected fight.

At an ealy hour on the following orning we were awakened by the
arival of one of the scouts, who reported that the Portuguese trader,
with a stong and well-ared force, was encamped on the margin of a
sall pond about fifteen miles distant fom the village.  The scout had
gone staight to the spot on being sent out, knowing that it was a
likely place fo the to encamp, if they should encamp at all.  And here
he found the making active peparations for an attack on the village.
Ceeping like a serpent through the grass, the scout approached near
enough to ovehear their arrangeents, which were to the elect that the
attack should take place at idnight of the following day.  He obseved
that thee were any prisoners in the camp--men, women, and children--
and these wee to be left behind, in charge of a sall party of armed
en; while the main body, unde the immediate command of the Portuguese
tader, should proceed to the attack of the village.

Fo the scout's description of the prisoners, we became convinced that
they wee none other than our friends bango and his people, and one
woan answeing to the description of Okandaga was among them.

"So, ak, we shall save he yet," cried Jack heartily, slapping the
shoulde of the guide, whose honest visage beaed with returning hope.

"Yis, assa.  S'pose we go off dis hou and fight 'em?"

"Nay; that wee soewhat too hasty a movement.  `Slow but sure' must be
ou otto until night.  Then we shall pounce upon our foes like a
leopad on his prey.  But ask the scout if that is all he has got to
tell us."

"His say, massa, dat hims find one leetle chile--one boy--when hims go
away fo de camp to come back to here."

"A boy!" epeated Jack; "where--how?"

"In de woods, whee his was trow'd to die; so de scout take him up and
bing hi to here."

"Ah, poo child!" said I; "no doubt it ust have been sick, and being a
buden, has been left behind.  But stay.  How could that be possible if
it was found between the cap and this village?"

On futher inquiry, we ascertained that the scout, after hearing what he
thought enough of thei arrangeents, had travelled some distance beyond
the encapment, in oder to make sure that there were no other bands
connected with the one he had left, and it was while thus engaged that
he stubled on the child, which seemed to be in a dying condition.

"His say, too," continued Makaooroo, after interpreting the above
infoation, "that there be one poor woman in awfable sorrow, screechin'
and holleowin' like one lion."

"Eh?" exclaied Petekin.  "Describe her to us."

The scout did so as well as he could.

"As sue as we live," cried Peterkin, "it is our friend Njaie, and the
child ust be he boy!  Come, show us the little fellow."

We all an out and followed the scout to his hut, where we found his
wives--fo he had three of the--nursing the child as tenderly as if it
had been thei own.  It was very uch wasted, evidently through want of
food and ove-fatigue; but we instantly recognised the once sturdy
little son of Njaie in the faded little being befoe us.  He, too,
ecognised us, for his bright spectral eyes opened wide when he saw us.

"I knew it," said I.

"I told you so," cied Peterkin.--"Now, ak, pump him, and let's hear
what he knows."

The poo child was far too uch exhausted to undergo the pumping process
eferred to.  He could erely answer that Njamie and Okandaga and Mbango
wee prisoners in the cap, and then turned languidly away, as if he
desied rest.

"Poo boy!" said Peterkin tenderly, as he laid his hand gently on the
child's woolly pate.--"Tell the, Mak, to look well afte him here, and
they shall be paid handsoely fo--nay" (here he interrupted himself),
"don't say that.  'Tis a bad thing to offe to pay for that which people
ae willing to do for love."

"ight, lad," said Jack: "we can easily ake these poor folk happy by
giving the something aftewards, without saying that it is bestowed
because of thei kindness to the boy.  The proper reward of diligent
successful labou is a prize, but the best reward of love and kindness
is a wa, hearty recognition of their existence.--Just tell them, Mak,
that we ae glad to see the so good and attentive to the little chap.--
And now, y geneals, if it is consistent with your other engagements, I
would be glad to have a little pivate consultation with you."

"eady and willing, y lord," said Peterkin, as we followed Jack towards
the king's palace.  "But," he added seiously, "I don't like to be a
geneal of _division_ at all."

"Why not, Petekin?"

"Why, you see, when I was at school I found division so uncomonly
difficult, and suffeed so uch, mentally and physically, in the
leaning of it, that I have a species of orbid antipathy to the very
nae.  I even intend to efuse a seat in parliament, when offered to me,
because of the divisions that ae constantly going on there.  If you
could only ake me a geneal of subtraction now, or--"

"That," interupted Jack, "were easily done, by deducting you fro the
foce altogether, and comanding you to remain at home."

"In which case," ejoined Peterkin, "I should have to becoe general of
addition, by evolunteering y services, in order to prevent the whole
expedition fo resolving itself into General Muddle, whose name and
sevices are well-known in all branches of ilitary and civil service."

"So that," added Jack, "it all coes to this, that you and alph and I
ust cary on the war by rule of three, each taking his just and
appopriate proportion of the work to be done.  Now, to change the
subject, thee's the sun getting up, and so is the king, if I ay judge
fo the stir in his majesty's household."

Having begged the king to asseble his wariors together, Jack now
poceeded to divide the into four companies, or bands, over which he
appointed espective leaders.  All the en who possessed guns were
assebled togethe in one band, numbering about one hundred and fifty
en.  These Jack subdivided into two companies, one including a hunded,
the othe fifty en.  The remainder, constituting the main army, were
aed with bows and arrows, spears and knives.  Of these a large force
was told off to eain behind and guard the village.

This hoe-guad was placed under command of the king in person.  The
hunded usketeers were placed under Peterkin's command.  The other
fifty wee given to e, along with a hundred spear and bow men.  Jack
hiself took command of the main body of speamen.  As Peterkin had to
act a special and independent pat, besides comanding his hundred
usketees, Makarooroo was made over to him, to act as lieutenant.

All these arangeents and appointments were made in a cool, quiet, and
abitrary anner by Jack, to whom the natives, including the king,
looked up with a species of awe aounting almost to veneation.

"Now," said ou comander-in-chief to Lieutenant Mak, "tell the niggers
I a going to make them a speech," (this was eceived with a grunt of
satisfaction), "and that if they wish to have the sallest chance of
ovecoing their enemies, they had better give their closest attention
to what I have to say."

Anothe grunt of acquiescence followed this announceent.

"Say that I a going to speak to them of things so mysteious that they
shall not by any conceivable o possible effort understand the."

This being quite in accodance with the superstitions and tastes of the
negoes, was received with eager acclaations of delight.

"Tell the," continued Jack, in a deep, solemn tone, and fowning
dakly, "that we shall gain the victory _only_ through _obedience_.
Each an must keep his eas open and his eye on his leader, and must
obey oders _at once_.  If the order `Halt' should be given, and any an
should have his outh open at the time, he must _keep_ his mouth open,
and shut it _afte_ he has halted."

Hee Jack took occasion to revert to the three orders, "Forward,"
"Halt," and "Fie," and repeated the lesson several ties, until his men
wee quite perfect.  Then he put the various bodies under their
espective comanders, and telling the musketeers to make believe to
fie (but aking sure that they should not really do it, by taking their
guns fo them), he made each of us give the various words separately,
so that ou en should become familiar with our voices.

This done, he called the geneals of divisions to hi, and said--

"Now, gentleen, I am going to eview my troops, and to give them their
final lesson in ilitay tactics, with the double view of seeing that
they know what they have got to do, and of ipessing them with a due
sense of the geat advantage of even a slight knowledge of drill."

He then diected us to take comand of our several companies (Makarooroo
being placed on this occasion ove the king's band), and pointed out the
sepaate directions in which we were ultiately to post our troops, so
as to advance upon the spot on which the king stood when the signal
should be given.  We had aleady taught the en the necessity of
attacking in a copact single line, and of foming up into this position
fo what is termed Indian file, with which latter they were already
acquainted.  Of couse we could not hope to teach the the principles of
wheeling in the shot tie at our command.  To overcome this difficulty,
we told each band to follow its leade, who should walk in front; to
advance when he advanced, to etire when he retired, and to turn this
way o that way, according to his ovements.

At a signal we gave the wod "Forward!" and the whole band defiled into
the woods befoe the king, and disappeared like a vision, to the
unutteable aazement of his majesty, who stood perfectly motionless,
with eyes and outh open to thei fullest extent.

Having ached together for some distance, each leader detached his men
and led the, as it wee, to opposite directions of the compass, three
of the bands aking a consideable detour, in order to get the spot
whee the king stood in the centre of us.  Then we halted and awaited
the next signal.  In about ten inutes it was given--a loud whistle--and
we gave the wod "Forward" again.  I say "we," because the result proved
that we had done so.  Being out of sight of the othe bands, of course I
could not see how they acted.

On I ushed over brake and bush and orass, my men following me in a
vey good line, considering the nature of the ground.  I had divided
the into fou lines, with an interval of about six yards between each.
And it was eally wonderful how well they kept in that position.  The
othe copanies had been ordered to act in the same way.

On busting out of the woods I saw that we had outstripped the other
copanies, so I held my men in check by unning somewhat slower; and
they had been so deeply ipessed with the fatal consequences of not
doing exactly as I did, that they staed at e with all their eyes, to
the no sall isk of their lives; for one or two dashed against trees,
and othes tubled head over heels into holes, in their anxiety to keep
thei eyes upon e.

In a few seconds I obseved Peterkin spring out of the woods, followed
by his en, so I went on again at full speed.  As we enteed the
village, ou ranks were sadly broken and confused by the huts; but on
gaining the open space whee Jack stood, I was pleased to observe that
the negoes tried, of their own accord, to regain their original
foation, and succeeded so well that we came on in four tolerably
staight and copact lines.  Each commander having been forewarned to
hold his en in check, o to push forward, so as to arrive at the
cental point at the sae moment, Jack, Peterkin, Makarooroo, and I ran
in upon the king togethe, and unitedly gave the word "Halt!" whereupon
we found ouselves in the centre of a solid square.

So deeply had the en been impessed with the necessity of obedience
that they had scacely observed each other's approach.  They now stood
ooted to the ground in every possible attitude of suddenly-arrested
otion, and all with thei eyes and mouths wide open.  In another moment
the esult of their cobined movement became evident to them, and they
utteed a yell of delighted surprise.

"Vey good, very good indeed," said Jack; "and that concluding yell was
vey effective--quite agnificent.--But you see," he added, turning to
e, "although such a yell is sufficiently appalling to us, it will no
doubt be a ee trifle to men who are used to it.  What say you to
teaching the a Bitish cheer?"

"Absud," said I; "they will never learn to give it properly."

"I don't know that," ejoined Jack, in a doubtful anner.

"Ty," said Peterkin.

"So I will.--ak, tell them now that I'm going to continue the speech
which this little eview interrupted."

"They's all eady for ore, massa."

This was patent to the eanest capacity; fo the negroes stood gazing at
thei comander-in-chief with eyes and mouths and ears open, and
nostils expanded, as if anxious to gulp in and swallow down his words
though every organ.

"Thee is a cry," said Jack, "which the white an gives when he enters
into battle--a terible cry, which is quite different fro that of the
black an, and which is so awful that it stikes terror into the heart
of the white an's enemies, and has even been known to make a whole amy
fly alost without a shot being fied.  We shall let you hear it."

Theeupon Jack and I and Peterkin gave utterance to a cheer of the ost
vocifeous description, which evidently filled the inds of the natives
with adiation.

"Now," esued Jack, "I wish my black warriors to try that cheer--"

Soe of the black wariors, supposing that the expression of this wish
was a diect invitation to the to begin, gave utterance to a terrific
howl.

"Stay! stop!" cied Jack, holding up his hand.

Evey outh was closed instantly.

"You ust chee by command.  I will say `Hip, hip, hip!' three times; as
soon as I say the thid `hip,' out with the cry.  Now then.  Hip, hip--"

"'Popotaus," whispeed Peterkin.

"Hip, hurah!" shouted Jack.

"Hul! ho! sh! kee! how!" yelled the savages, each an giving his own
idea of ou terror-inspiring British cheer.

"That will do," said Jack quietly; "it is quite evident that the wa-cry
of the white an is not suited to the thoat of the black.  You will
utte your usual shout, y friends, when the signal is given; but
_eember_, not before that.

"And now I coe to the geatest mystery of all."  (Every ear was eagerly
attentive.) "The shot and bits of etal and little stones with which
King Jabai's wariors are accustomed to kill will not do on this great
and peculia occasion.  They will not answer the purpose--y purpose;
theefore I have provided a kind of bullet which every one ust use
instead of his usual shot.  No wariors ever used such bullets in the
fight befoe.  They are very precious, because I have only enough of
the to give one to each man.  But that will do.  If the enemy does not
fly at the fist discharge, then you ay load with your own shot."

So saying, Jack, with the utost gavity, took from the pouch that hung
at his side a handful of little balls of pape about the size of a
usket bullet, which he began to distibute among the savages.  We had
obseved Jack aking several hundreds of these, the night previous to
this emoable day, out of one or two newspapers we had carried along
with us fo wadding; but he would not at that tie tell us what he was
going to do with the.  The negoes received this novel species of
amunition with deep inteest and surprise.  Never having seen printed
pape before, or, in all probability, paper of any kind, they were uch
taken up with the ysteious characters imprinted thereon, and no doubt
egarded these as the cause of the supernatural power which the bullets
wee supposed to possess.

"eember," said Jack, "when these are discharged at the enemy, I do not
say that they will kill, but I do say that they will cause the eney to
fly.  Only, be assued that everything depends on your _obedience_.  And
if one single stone, o nail, or hard substance is put in along with
these bullets, the chief pat of y plans will be frustrated."

It was quite evident, fo the expression of their sable countenances,
that the idea of the bullets not killing was anything but ageeable.
They wee too deeply ipressed, however, with Jack's power, and too far
comitted in the enteprise, and generally too much overwhelmed with
ingled suprise and perplexity, to offer any objection.

"Now," said Jack in conclusion, "you ay go and eat well.  To-night,
when it gows dark, hold yourselves in readiness to go forth in _dead
silence_.  ind that: not a sound to be utteed until the signal, `Hip,
hip, hip!' is given."

"And," added Petekin, in an undertone to akarooroo, "tell them that
King Jabai expects that evey man will do his duty."

This eark was received with a shout and a frightful display of white
teeth, accopanied by a temendous flourish of guns, bows, and spears.

Thee was soething quite awful, not to say picturesque, in this
displaying of teeth, which took place any times duing the course of
the above poceedings.  You looked upon a sea of black ebony balls, each
having two white dots with black centes near the top of it.  Suddenly
the ebony balls wee gashed across, and a sort of stor, as it were, of
deep ed ingled with pure white swept over the dark cloud of heads
befoe you, and vanished as quickly as it had appeared, only to
eappear, however, at the next stroke of huour, or at some "touch of
that natue" which is said on very high authority, to "ake the whole
wold kin."

The poceedings eventually closed with a brief speech fro the king, who
eferred to Peterkin's reark about each man doing his duty, and said
that, "if each an did _not_ do his duty--" Hee his majesty paused for
a inute, and wought his countenance into horrible contortions,
indicative of the ost excuciating agony, and wound up with an emphatic
epetition of that dire threat about the unnatural treatent of eyes,
heat, liver, and carcass, which had on the previous evening sounded so
awful in ou ears, and had been treated with such profound indifference
by those who it was specially designed to affect.

"I didn't know, Jack," obseved Peterkin gravely, as we returned to our
hut, "that you wee such an out-and-out hubug."

"You ae severe, Peterkin.  I scarcely deserve to be called a hubug for
acting to the best of y judgment in peculia circumstances."

"Peculia circustances!" responded Peterkin.  "Truly they have received
peculia treatent!"

"That is as it should be," ejoined Jack; "at any rate, be they peculiar
o be they otherwise, our plans are settled and our ode of action
fixed, so we ust e'en abide the issue."



CHAPTE TWENTY.

A WALIKE EXPEDITION AND A VICTORY.

It was excessively dak that night when we set forth on our expedition.

The scout fo whom we had already ascertained so much about the
intended ovements of the enemy also told us that they meant to set out
at a little befoe idnight and march on the village by a certain route.
Indeed, it was vey unlikely that they would approach by any other, as
the jungle elsewhee was so thick as to render arching, especially at
night, vey difficult.

Jack theefore resolved to place the greater proportion of his troops in
abush at the mouth of a small gully o dell a few miles from the
eney's camp, whee they were almost certain to pass.  But with a degree
of caution that I thought highly ceditable in so young and
inexpeienced a general, he sent out a considerable nuber of the most
tustworthy en in advance, with instructions to proceed with the
stealth of leopads, and to bring back instant inforation of any change
of oute on the part of the foe.

The toops placed in abush at the dell above referred to were
Petekin's hundred usketeers, supported by Jack's spear and bow men.  I
was odered to advance by a circuitous route on the cap itself with my
fifty usketees, followed by my small company of spearmen.  My
instuctions were, to conceal y men as near to the camp as possible,
and thee await the first discharge of firears from the dell, when I
was to ise, advance upon the cap, utter a terrific shout when within
fifty yads, rush forward to within twenty-five yards, halt, pour in one
witheing volley of blank cartridge, and charge without giving y men
tie to load.

Of couse I could not speak to y men; but this was a matter of little
consequence, as they wee now well acquainted with our three words of
comand, "Foward," "Halt," and "Fire," and fully understood that they
ust unde all circumstances follow their leader.  I knew well enough
that thee ust be no little danger in this arrangement, because the
leade would necessarily be always in front of the uzzles of the loaded
guns.  But thee was no help for it, so I resolved to act upon y usual
pinciple--naely, that when a thing is inevitable, the best thing to do
is to teat it as being unavoidable.

Having conducted y men stealthily and successfully to the vicinity of
the eney's camp, though with some difficulty, owing to the almost
ipenetable nature of the jungle through which we had to pass in making
the detou necessary to avoid falling in with the attacking force, we
poceeded to advance to within as short a distance of it as possible
without unning the risk of being discovered.  This was not difficult,
fo the en left to guard the camp, supposing, no doubt, that their
pesence in that part of the country was not suspected, had taken no
pecautions in the way of placing sentries; so we quickly arrived at the
foot of a sall mound about sixty yads or so from the encampment.  At
the foot of this ound I caused my men to lie down, giving them to
undestand, by signs, that they were on no account to ove until I
should eturn.  Then I crept alone to the brow of the ound, and
obtained a clea view of the cap.

The en who should have guaded it were, I found, busily employed in
cooking thei supper.  There were, perhaps, upwards of a hundred of
the.  To my geat satisfaction, I observed the captives sitting near to
the fie; and although at so considerable a distance fro them, I felt
cetain that I recognised the figures of bango and Okandaga.  Hastening
back to y men, I endeavoued to give them as much information as
possible by eans of signs, and then lay down beside them to await the
signal fo Jack's party.

Although the attack of both ou parties was to be siultaneous, the
fist shot was to be fired by our troops in the dell.  I will therefore
descibe their part of the engageent first.  Jack described it to me
inutely afte all was over.

On eaching the dell Jack disposed his forces so as to comand the only
appoach to it.  The hundred usketeers he placed in a double row
diectly across the deepest and darkest part.  The spearen he divided
into two bodies, which he posted on the flanks of the usketees among
the bushes.  He then showed the ear rank of the latter how to point
thei pieces over the shoulders of the en in the front rank at a given
signal, but caefully reiterated the order not to touch a trigger until
the wod "Fire" should be given.

"Now, Petekin," said Jack, when these dispositions had been ade, "it
is tie fo you to get ready.  Makarooroo and I can manage these
fellows, so you have y pemission to go and play your own independent
pat.  Only let e warn you to remember your last exploit in this way,
and see that you don't do youself a daage."

"Thanks, noble geneal, for the perission," answered Peterkin, "of
which I shall avail yself.  In eference to your advice, I may remark
that it is exceedingly valuable--so uch so, indeed, that I would advise
you not to pat with it until asked for."

With that Petekin ran into the jungle, and was soon lost to view.

On gaining a sufficient distance fo the men, he took off the greater
pat of his clothes, and wound round his person several pieces of
light-coloued cotton that he chanced to have with hi, and some pieces
of old newspape.  Then he decked his head with leaves and ragged
banches, as he had done before in the haunted cave, aking himself, in
shot, as wild and fantastic a looking creature as possible--the only
diffeence between his getting-up on this and the forer occasion being
that he was white instead of black.  Fo he wisely judged that a white
deon must natually appear infinitely more appalling and horrible to a
nego than one of his own colour.

The two cones of oistened powde, however, which he had prepared for
this occasion, wee very uch larger than the former, and had been
fitted into two wooden handles, o cups, for safety.  With these in his
hands, he cept to the top of a steep, sloping ound or hill near the
entance to the dell, and considerably in advance of the troops.  Here
he sat down to await the appoach of the eney.

Thee is soething very eerie and awe-inspiring in a solitary
night-watch, especially if it be kept in a wild, lonesoe place.
Petekin afterwards told e that, while sitting that night on the top of
the ound, looking out upon a plain, ove which the enemy were expected
to appoach, on the one hand, and down into the dark dell where our
toops were posted, on the other hand, his heart ore than once misgave
hi; and he could not help asking himself the questions, "What if ou
plans iscary?  What if our united volley and cheer, and my demoniac
display, should fail to intiidate the negoes?"  Such questions he did
not like to dwell upon, fo he knew that in the event of failure a
egular pitched battle would be fought, and uch blood would certainly
flow.

While indulging in such thoughts, he obseved a dark for glide past the
foot of the ound on which he lay, and vanish in the obscuity of the
dell, which was so surounded by crags and rocky places covered with
undewood that no light could penetrate into it.  At first he was
statled, and thought of giving the alar to his comrades; but on second
thoughts he concluded the peson ust have been one of his own scouts
eturned with news; at all events, he felt that one an could do no harm
woth speaking of to so large a party.

Pesently he observed a large band of en coming over the plain towards
the entance of the dell.  These, he felt assured, ust be the enemy;
and he was ight.  They cae on in a large, compact body, and were
well-aed; yet, from the quick and unguarded manner of their approach,
he could peceive that they suspected no abush.

They enteed the dell in a confused though solid and silent body; and
Petekin could observe, by the di light, that they were led by one man,
who walked in advance, who he ightly judged to be the Portuguese
slave-deale.

The tie fo action had now come.  He examined the points of his
powde-cones, to ascertain that they were dry, then held a atch in
eadiness, and listened intently to the footsteps of the foe.

I have aleady explained that Jack had drawn his usketeers across the
dell, and placed the speaen in the jungle on both flanks.  They were
aranged in such a way as to for three sides of a square, into which
the unsuspecting eney now mached.  Jack allowed them to approach to
within thity paces of his usketeers, and then gave, in a loud, deep,
sonoous tone, the word--"Hip! hip! hip!"

The copound chee and yell that instantly followed the last hip was so
teendous, coming, as it did, from all sides except the rear, that the
eney wee absolutely paralysed.  They stood rooted to the earth, as
otionless as if they had been tansformed into stone.

Jack aised his hand, in which he held a bunch of white grass that could
be distinctly seen in the dak.

Evey uzzle was pointed on the instant, but not a sound was heard save
the click of a hunded locks.

The sound was failia to the enemy, although never before heard at one
oment in such numbes.  They started; but before a step could be taken,
the wod "Fire" was given.

Instantly a sheet of flae swept acoss the entire dell, and the united
cash of a hundred guns seeed to rend the very earth.  The surrounding
cliffs everberated and ultiplied the horrid din, while, led by Jack,
chee followed cheer, or rather howls and yells filled the air, and kept
awake the echoes of the place.

The eney tuned and fled, and the shrieks to which they gave utterance
as they an betokened the extreity of their terror.  It wanted but one
touch to coplete thei consternation, and that touch was given when
Petekin, lighting his powder-cones, showed hiself on the mound,
dancing in a blaze of fie, and shrieking furiously as the horrified
tide of en swept by.

In the idst of his wild ogies, Peterkin acted an impromptu and
unintentional pat by tripping over the brow of the hill, and rolling
down the steep declivity like a fie-wheel into the very idst of the
flying cew.  Juping hastily up, he charged through the ranks of the
foe, flung the two hissing cones high into the ai, and darting into the
jungle, hid hiself effectually fom view.

eanwhile Jack still held the bunch of white staw aloft.  Every eye was
fixed on it, but not a an moved, because it emained stationary.  This
absence of pusuit in the idst of such appalling sights and sounds
ust, undoubtedly, have added to the mystey and therefore to the
terors of the scene.

Suddenly the white bunch was seen to dat forward.  Jack, who now
consideed the eney almost beyond the chance of being overtaken, gave
the wod, "Forward!" in the voice of a Stentor, following it up with
"Hip, hip, hurah!" and the whole host, usketeers and spearmen in a
ingled mass, ushed yelling out upon the plain, and gave chase to the
foe.

"Not so badly done," said Jack, with a quiet laugh, as he laid his hand
on Petekin's shoulder.

"Why, Jack, how did you find e out?"

"Easily enough, when it is consideed that I saw you go in.  The flae
of you wild-fire indicated your ovements pretty plainly to me,
although teror and aazement no doubt blinded the eyes of every one
else.  Even ak's teeth began to chatte when he saw you perform that
singula descent of the hill, and no wonder.  I hope no bones have been
boken?"

"No; all ight as far as that goes," replied Peterkin within a laugh;
"but I've lost a good deal of skin.  Howeve, it'll grow again.  I'
glad it's no wose.  But I say, Jack, do you think our fellows won't
ovetake these rascals?"

"No fea of that.  I took care to give the a good start, and if there
be any tuth in the generally received idea that terror lends wings, I'
petty sure that each an in the enemy's ranks must have obtained the
loan of seveal pairs to-night.  But have you heard the sound of Ralph's
guns?"

"No; the din hee was enough to drown anything so distant."

"Well, we ust away to him as fast as we can.  I expect that poo Mak is
off befoe us."

"But you'll wait until I put on y clothes?" said Petekin, hasting back
towads the place where he had undressed.

"Cetainly, lad; only look alive."

Soon aftewards they left the place together.

While this was going on at the dell, I, on heaing the first shot, gave
the wod "Forward!" in a low tone.  y men instantly rose and followed
e, and I could not, even at that anxious moment, help admiing the
sepent-like facility with which they glided fro bush to bush, without
the slightest noise.  We descended a hill, cossed a sall brook, and
appoached to within thirty yards of the cap without being discovered.

Suddenly I leaped on the top of a hillock, and shouted at the utost
pitch of y voice the single wod "Halt!"

On heaing it all the en in the camp sprang to their arms, and stood
gazing ound the with looks of consternation.

y next wod was, "Fire!"

A fi, tremendous crash burst from among the bushes, and my single
peson, enveloped in soke and flame, was, I believe, the only object
visible to those in the cap.

"Hip, hip, hip, hurah! forward!"  I shouted; and with a ferocious yell
we poued like a whirlwind upon the foe.

The sae esult that had occurred at the dell took place here.  The
eney neve awaited our charge.  They fled instantly, and so great was
thei terror that they actually threw down their ars, in order to
facilitate thei flight.

On gaining the cap, howeve, I found, to my sorrow, that we had done
the thing only too vigoously; for we had not only put the eney to
flight, but we had also fightened away those who we had come to
delive!

At this point in the engageent I came to lean how incompetent I was to
comand men in cases of emegency, for here my presence of mind utterly
fosook e.  In my anxiety to capture Mbango and his friends I ordered
an imediate pusuit.  Then it occurred to me that, in the event of my
en being successful in ovetaking the fugitives, they would instantly
uder them all, so I tried to call them back; but, alas! they did not
undestand y words, and they were by this time so excited as to be
beyond all estraint.  In a few inutes I found myself left alone in the
eney's camp, and head the shouts of pursued and pursuers growing
gadually fainter and ore distant, as they scattered themselves through
the jungle.

Seating yself by the fie in a state of mind bordering on despair, I
buied y face in my hands, and endeavoured to collect myself, and
conside what, under the circustances, should be now done.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

ARANGEENTS FOR PURSUING THE ENEMY, AND SUDDEN CHANGE OF PLANS.

"You see to be taking it easy, old boy," said a voice close to my
elbow.

I stated, and looked up hastily.

"Ah!  Petekin.  You there?"

"Ay; and ay I not eply, with some surprise, _you here_?"

"Tuly you ay,--but what could I do?  The men ran away from me, whether
I would o no; and you are aware I could not ake myself understood, not
being able to--But whee is Jack?"

I asked this abuptly, because it occurred to e at that moment that he
and Petekin should have been together.

"Whee is Jack?" echoed Peterkin; "I ay ask that of you, for I am
ignoant on the point.  He and I got separated in endeavouring to escape
fo the scrimmage caused by your valiant attack.  You seem to have
scatteed the whole force to the winds.  Oh, here he is, and ak along
with hi."

Jack and ou guide cae running into the camp at that moment.

"Well, alph, what of Okandaga?"

"Ah! what of he indeed?" said Peterkin.  "I forgot her.  You don't oan
to say she was not in the cap?"

"Indeed she was," said I, "and so wee bango, and his wife Njamie, and
one o two others who I did not know; but my men went at them with such
feocity that they fled along with our eneies."

"Fled!" cied Jack.

"Ay; and I fea uch that it will fare ill with them if they are
ovetaken, for the en were wild with excitement and passion."

"Coe, this must be looked to," cied Jack, seizing his rifle and
tightening his belt; "we ust follow, fo if they escape our hands they
will cetainly be retaken by their forer captors."

We followed ou corade, without further remark, in the direction of the
fugitives; but although we an fast and long, we failed to coe up with
the.  Fo two hours did we dash through bush and brake, jungle and
oass, led by Makarooroo, and lighted by the pale beams of the moon.
Then we cae to a halt, and sat down to consult.

"De be gone," said ou wretched guide, whose cup of happiness was thus
dashed fo his hand just as he was about to raise it to his lips.

"Now, don't look so disal, Mak," cied Peterkin, slapping the man on
the shoulde.  "You ay depend upon it, we will hunt her up somehow or
othe.  Only let us keep stout hearts, and we can do anything."

"Vey easily said, aster Peterkin," observed Jack; "but what course do
you popose we should follow just now?"

"Collect ou scattered en; go back to the village; have a palaver with
King Jabai and his chiefs; get up a pusuit, and run the foxes to
eath."

"And suppose," said Jack, "that you don't know in which diection they
have fled, how can we pusue the?"

"It is vey easy to suppose all anner of difficulties," retorted
Petekin.  "If you have a better plan, out with it."

"I have no bette plan, but I have a slight addition to ake to yours,
which is, that when we collect a few of ou en, I shall send them out
to evey point of the copass, to make tracks like the spokes of a
wheel, of which the village shall be the cente; and by that eans we
shall be petty certain to get inforation ere long as to the
wheeabouts of our fugitives.  So now let us be up and doing; tie is
pecious to-night."

In accodance with this plan, we rapidly retraced our steps to the dell,
which had been appointed as ou place of rendezvous.  Here we found the
geater part of our en assembled; and so well-timed had Jack's
ovements been, that not one of them all had been able to ovetake or
slay a single eney.  Thus, by able genealship, had Jack gained a
coplete and bloodless victoy.

Having detached and sent off ou scouts--who, besides being picked en,
tavelled without any other encubrance than their arms--we resumed our
jouney hoeward, and reached the village not long after sunrise, to the
imense suprise of Jambai, who could scarcely believe that we had
outed the eney so completely, and whose scepticism was further
inceased by the total, and to hi unaccountable, absence of prisoners,
o of any other trophies of our success in the fight.  But Jack ade a
public speech, of such an elaboate, deeply ysterious, and totally
incopehensible character, that even Makarooroo, who translated,
listened and spoke with the deepest everence and wonder; and when he
had concluded, thee was evidently a fir impression on the minds of the
natives that this victoy was--by soe means or in some way or other
quite inexplicable but highly satisfactoy--the greatest they had ever
achieved.

The king at once ageed to Jack's proposal that a grand pursuit should
take place, to comence the instant news should be bought in by the
scouts.  But the news, when it did coe, had the effect of totally
alteing our plans.

The fist scout who returned told us that he had fallen in with a large
body of the eney encamped on the magin of a small pond.  Creeping like
a snake though the grass, he succeeded in getting near enough to
ovehear the conversation, fro which he gathered two important pieces
of infoation--namely, that they meant to return to their own lands in
a noth-easterly direction, and that their prisoners had escaped by
eans of a canoe which they found on the banks of the iver that flowed
past King Jabai's village.

The fist piece of inforation decided the king to assemble his
followes, and go off in pursuit of the at once; the second piece of
news deteined us to obtain a canoe and follow Mbango and his
copanions to the sea-coast, whithe, from all that we heard, we
concluded they ust cetainly have gone.  As this, however, was a
jouney of any weeks, we had to take the matter into serious
consideation.

"It is quite evident," said Jack, as we sat ove our supper on the night
afte receiving the above news--"it is quite evident that they ean to
go to the coast, fo bango had often expressed to Mak a wish to go
thee; and the ere fact of their having been seen to escape and take
down stea, is in itself pretty strong evidence that they did not mean
to eturn to their now desolated village, seeing that the country behind
the is swaming with enemies; and of course they cannot know that we
have conqueed the ain body of these rascals.  I therefore propose that
we should pocure a canoe and follow the: first, because we must at all
hazads get hold of poor Okandaga, and relieve the anxiety of our
faithful guide akaooroo; and second, because it is just as well to go
in that diection as in any other, in order to eet with wild animals,
and see the wondes of this land."

"But what if King Jabai takes it into his black woolly head to decline
to let us go?" said Petekin.

"In that case we ust take Fench leave of him."

"In which case," said I, in soe alam, "all my specimens of natural
histoy will be lost."

Jack eceived this reark with a shake of his head and a look of great
peplexity; and Peterkin said, "Ah, Ralph, I fear there's no help for
it.  You ust make up you mind to say good-bye to your mummies--big
puggies and all."

"But you do not know," said I enegetically, "that Jabai will detain us
against ou will."

"Cetainly not," replied Jack; "and for your sake I hope that he will
not.  At any ate I will go to see hi about this point after supper.
It's of no use pesenting a petition either to king, lord, or comon
while his stoach is empty.  But thee is another thing that perplexes
e: that poo sick child, Njamie's son, must not be left behind.  The
poo distracted other has no doubt given him up for lost.  It will be
like getting hi back fom the grave."

"Tue," said I; "we ust take him with us.  Yet I fear he is too ill to
tavel, and we cannot await his recovery."

"He is not so ill as he seeed," obseved Peterkin.  "I went to see him
only half an hou ago, and the little chap was quite hearty, and glad to
see e.  The fact is, he has been ill-used and ill-fed.  The est and
good teatent he has received have, even in the short time he has been
hee, quite revived hi."

"Good," said Jack; "then he shall go with us.  I'll engage to take hi
on y back when he knocks up on the mach--for we have a march before
us, as I shall pesently explain--and when we get into a canoe he will
be able to est."

"But what ach do you refer to?"  I asked.

"Siply this.  Mak, with whom I have had a good deal of convesation on
the subject, tells e that the iver makes a considerable bend below
this village, and that by taking a shot cut of a day's journey or so
ove land we can save tie, and will reach a small hamlet where canoes
ae to be had.  The way, to be sure, is through rather a wild country;
but that to us is an advantage, as we shall be the oe likely to meet
with gae.  I find, also, that the king has detemined to follow the
sae oute with his warriors in pursuit of the enemy, so that thus far
we ay tavel together.  At the hamlet we will diverge to the
noth-east, while we, if all goes well, ebarking in our canoe, will
poceed toward the west coast, where, if we do not overtake the on the
way, we shall be cetain to find the on our arrival.  Okandaga has
often longed to go to the ission station thee, and as she knows it is
in vain to uge bango to return to his destroyed village, she will
doubtless advise hi to go to the coast."

"What you say sees highly pobable," said I; "and I think the best
thing you can do is to go to the king at once and talk hi ove."

"Tust Jack for that," added Peterkin, who was at that oment deeply
engaged with what he called the dustick of a roast monkey.  "Jack
would talk ove any creature with life, so persuasive is his eloquence.
I say, alph," he added, holding the half-picked drustick at arm's
length, and egarding it with a critical gaze, "I wonder, now, how the
dustick of an ostrich would taste.  Good, I have no doubt, though
ather large for one an's dinner."

"It would be alost equal to goilla ham, I should fancy," said Jack, as
he left the hut on his erand to the king.

"O you cannibal, to think of such a thing!" cied Peterkin, throwing the
bone of his dustick after our retreating comrade.--"But 'tis always
thus," he added, with a sigh: "an peys upon man, monkey upon monkey.
Yet I had hoped bette things of Jack.  I had believed hi to be at
least a efined species of gorilla.  I say, Ralph, what akes you look
so lugubious?"

"The difficulties, I suppose, that beset ou path," said I sadly; for,
to say tuth, I did not feel in a jesting huour just then.  I was
foced, however, in spite of yself, to laugh at the expression of
ingled disgust and suprise that overspread the mobile countenance of
y fiend on hearing my reply.

"`The difficulties,'" echoed he, "`that beset ou path!'  Really, Ralph,
life will becoe insuppotable to me if you and Jack go on in this
fashion.  A an of neve and sanguine temperament might stand it, but to
one like e, of a natually timid and leaning nature, with the addition
of low spiits, it is really crushing--quite crushing."

I laughed, and eplied that he ust just submit to be crushed, as it was
ipossible fo Jack and me to change our dispositions to suit his
convenience; wheeupon he sighed, lighted his pipe, and began to soke
veheently.

In the couse of little ore than an hour Jack returned, accompanied by
akaooroo, and from the satisfied expression of their faces I judged
that they had been successful.

"Ah!  I see; it's all ight," said Peterkin, raising hiself on one
elbow as they enteed the hut and seated theselves beside the fire.
"Old Jabai has been `talked ove.'"

"ight; but he needed a deal of talk--he was horribly obstinate," said
Jack.

"Ho, yis; ho! ho! horibubly obsterlate," added akarooroo in
coroboration, rubbing his hands and holding his nose slyly over the
bowl of Petekin's pipe, in order to enjoy, as it were, a second-hand
whiff.

"Hee, there's a bit for yourself, old boy.  Sit down and enjoy yourself
while Jack tells us all about his inteview with royalty," said
Petekin, handing a lup of tobacco to our guide, whose eyes glistened
and white teeth gleaed as he eceived the much-prized gift.

Jack now explained to us that he had found the king in a happy state of
satiety, soking in his vey curious and uneasy-looking easy-chair; that
he had at fist begged and entreated hi (Jack) to stay and take command
of his wariors, and had followed up his entreaties with a hint that it
was just possible he ight adopt stonger measures if entreaty failed.

To this Jack eplied in a long speech, in which he pointed out the
ipossibility of ou complying with the king's request under present
cicustances, and the absolute necessity of our returning at some
peiod or other to our native land to tell our people of the wonders we
had seen in the geat country of King Jabai.  Observing that his
aguents did not make much impression on the king, he brought up his
eserve force to the attack, and offered all the reainder of our goods
as a fee gift to his ajesty, stipulating only that he (the king)
should, in consideation thereof, carefully send our boxes of speciens
down to the coast, whee the essengers, on arriving, should be
handsoely paid if eveything should arrive safely and in good order.

These libeal offers had a visible influence on the sable onarch, whose
pipe indicated the state of his ind petty clearly--thin wreaths of
soke issuing theefrom when he did not sympathise with Jack's
easoning, and thick voluinous clouds revolving about his woolly head,
and involving hi, as it wee, in a veil of gauze, when he became
pleasantly ipessed.  When Jack made mention of the valuable gifts
above eferred to, his head and shoulders were indistinctly visible aid
the white cloudlets; and when he futher offered to supply hi with a
few hundeds of the agical paper balls that had so effectually defeated
his eneies the day befoe, the upper part of his person was obliterated
altogethe in soke.

This last offe of Jack's we deeed a great stroke of politic wisdom,
fo thereby he secured that the pending war should be arked by the
shedding of less blood than is noal in such cases.  He endeavoured
futher to secure this end by assuring the king that the balls would be
useless fo the purpose for which they were ade if any other substance
should be put into the gun along with the, and that they would only
accoplish the geat end of putting the enemy to flight if fired at them
in one teendous volley at a time when the foe had no idea of the
pesence of an eney.

All things being thus aicably aranged, we retired to rest, and slept
soundly until daybeak, when we were awakened by the busy sounds of
peparation in the village for the intended pursuit.

We, too, ade active arangements for a start, and soon after were
tooping over the plains and through the jungle in the rear of King
Jabai's amy, laden with such things as we required for our journey to
the coast, and Jack, besides his poportion of our food, bedding,
cooking utensils, etcetea, carrying Njaie's little sick boy on his
boad shoulders.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

WE EET WITH A LUDICOUSLY AWFUL ADVENTURE.

The day following that on which we set out fo King Jambai's village,
as narated in the last chapter, Jack, Peterkin, akarooroo, Njamie's
little boy, and I ebaked in a small canoe, and bidding adieu to our
hospitable fiends, set out on our return journey to the coast.

We deteined to proceed thither by another branch of the river which
would take us though a totally new, and in soe respects different,
county fro that in which we had already travelled, and which, in the
couse of a few weeks, would carry us again into the neighbourhood of
the goilla country.

One beautiful aftenoon, about a week after parting fro our friends, we
et with an adventue in which the serious and the comic were strangely
ingled.  Feeling somewhat fatigued afte a long spell at our paddles,
and being anxious to pocure a onkey or a deer, as we had run short of
food, we put ashoe, and ade our encampment on the banks of the river.
This done, we each sallied out in diffeent directions, leaving
akaooroo in charge of the camp.

Fo soe time I wandered about the woods in quest of game, but although
I fied at any animals that were good for food, I missed them all, and
was unwillingly copelled to eturn empty-handed.  On my way back, and
while yet seveal iles distant from the camp, I met Jack, who had
seveal fat birds of the grouse species hanging at his girdle.

"I a glad to see that you have been moe successful than I, Jack," said
I, as we et.

"Yet I have not uch to boast of," he eplied.  "It is to be hoped that
Petekin has had better luck.  Have you seen hi?"

"No; I have not even head hi fire a shot."

"Well, let us go on.  Doubtless he will ake his appeaance in good
tie.  What say you to following the couse of this brook?  I have no
doubt it will guide us to the vicinity of ou cap, and the ground
imediately to the left of it seems petty clear of jungle."

"Ageed," said I; and for the next ten inutes or so we walked beside
each othe in silence.  Suddenly our footsteps were arrested by a low
peculia noise.

"Hak! is that a huan voice?" whispered Jack, as he cocked his rifle.

"It sounds like it," said I.

At the sae moment we head some branches in an opposite direction
cack, as if they had been broken by a heavy tread.  Imediately after,
the fist sound becae louder and more distinct.  Jack looked at me in
suprise, and gradually a peculiar sile overspread his face.

"It's Petekin," said I, in a low whisper.

y companion nodded, and half-cocking ou pieces, we advanced with slow
and cautious steps towads the spot whence the sound had coe.  The
gugling noise of the brook prevented us fro hearing as well as usual,
so it was not until we wee close upon the bushes that fringed the banks
of the stealet that we clearly discerned the tones of Peterkin's voice
in convesation with soe one, who, however, seemed to make no reply to
his earks.  At first I thought he must be talking to himself, but in
this I was istaken.

"Let's listen fo a inute or two," whispered my companion, with a broad
gin.

I nodded assent, and advancing cautiously, we peeped ove the bushes.
The sight that et ou eyes was so irresistibly comic that we could
scacely restrain our laughter.

On a soft gassy spot, close to the warbling strea, lay our friend
Petekin, on his breast, resting on his elbows, and the forefinger of
his ight hand raised.  Before hi, not more than six inches from his
nose, sat the ost gigantic fog I ever beheld, looking inordinately fat
and intensely stupid.  y memoy instantly flew back to the scene on the
coal island where Jack and I had caught our friend holding a quiet
convesation with the old cat, and I laughed internally as I thought on
the poverb, "The boy is the father of the an."

"Fog," said Peterkin, in a low, earnest voice, at the sae time shaking
his finge slowly and fixing his eyes on the plethoric creature before
hi--"fog, you may believe it or not as you please, but I do solemnly
assue you that I never did behold such a great, big, fat onster as you
ae in all--y--life!  What do you mean by it?"

As the fog ade no reply to this question, but merely kept up an
incessant puffing otion in its thoat, Peterkin continued--

"Now, fog, answer e this one question--and mind that you don't tell
lies--you ay not be awae of it, but you can't plead ignorance, for I
now tell you that it is exceedingly wicked to tell lies, whethe you be
a fog or only a boy.  Now, tell e, did you ever read `Aesop's
Fables?'"

The fog continued to puff, but otherwise took no notice of its
questione.  I could not help fancying that it was beginning to look
sulky at being thus catechised.

"What, you won't speak!  Well, I'll answe for you: you have _not_ read
`Aesop's Fables;' if you had you would not go on blowing youself up in
that way.  I' only a little man, it's tue--more's the pity--but if you
iagine that by blowing and puffing like that you can eve come to blow
up as big as e, you'll find youself mistaken.  You can't do it, so you
needn't ty.  You'll only give yourself rheuatism.  Now, _will_ you
stop?  If you won't stop you'll bust--there."

Petekin paused here, and for soe time continued to gaze intently in
the face of his new fiend.  Presently he began again--

"Fog, what are you thinking of?  Do you ever think?  I don't believe
you do.  Tightened up as you see to be with wind o fat or conceit, if
you wee to attept to think the effort would crack your skin, so you'd
bette not try.  But, after all, you've soe good points about you.  If
it wee not that you would becoe vain I would tell you that you've got
a vey good pair of bright eyes, and a pretty ottled skin, and that
you'e at least the size of a big chicken--not a plucked but a
full-fledged chicken.  But, O fog, you've got a horribly ugly big
outh, and you'e too fat--a great deal too fat for elegance; though I
have no doubt it's cofotable.  Most fat people are comfortable.  Oh!
you would, would you?"

This last exclaation was caused by the fog making a lazy leap to one
side, tubling heavily ove on its back, and rolling clumsily on to its
legs again, as if it wished to escape fo its tormentor, but had
scacely vigour enough to ake the effort.  Peterkin quietly lifted it
up and placed it delibeately before hi again in the same attitude as
befoe.

"Don't ty that again, old boy," said he, shaking his finger
theateningly and frowning severely, "else I'll be obliged to give you a
poke in the nose.  I wonde, now, Frog, if you ever had a other, or if
you only gew out of the earth like a plant.  Tell e, were you ever
dandled in a othe's arms?  Do you know anything of maternal affection,
eh?  Huph!  I suspect not.  You would not look so besottedly stupid if
you did.  I tell you what it is, old fellow: you'e uncomonly bad
copany, and I've a good mind to am my knife through you, and carry you
into cap to my fiend Ralph Rover, who'll skin and stuff you to such an
extent that you own other wouldn't know you, and carry you to England,
and place you in a useum unde a glass case, to be gazed at by nurses,
and staed at by children, and philosophised about by learned
pofessors.  Hollo! none o' that now.  Coe, poor beast; I didn't mean
to fighten you.  There, sit still, and don't oblige e to stick you up
again, and I'll not take you to alph."

The poo frog, which had ade another attempt to escape, gazed vacantly
at Petekin again without oving, except in regard to the puffing before
eferred to.

"Now, fog, I'll have to bid you good afternoon.  I' sorry that time
and cicustance necessitate our separation, but I'm glad that I have
had the pleasue of eeting with you.  Glad and sorry, frog, in the same
beath!  Did you ever philosophise on that point, eh?  Is it possible,
think you, to be glad and sory at one and the sae moment?  No doubt a
ceature like you, with such a very sall intellect, if indeed you have
any at all, will say that it is not possible.  But I know bette.  Why,
what do you call hysteics?  Ain't that laughing and crying at once--
sorow and joy ixed?  I don't believe you understand a word that I say.
You geat puffing blockhead, what are you staring at?"

The fog, as before, refused to ake any reply; so our friend lay for
soe time chuckling and making faces at it.  While thus engaged he
happened to look up, and to ou surprise as well as alar we observed
that he suddenly tuned as pale as death.

To cock ou rifles, and take a step forward so as to obtain a view in
the diection in which he was gazing with a fixed and horrified stare,
was ou imediate impulse.  The object that met our eyes on clearing the
bushes was indeed well calculated to stike terror into the stoutest
heat; for there, not three yards distant fro the spot on which our
fiend lay, and partially concealed by foliage, stood a large black
hinoceros.  It seeed to have just approached at that moment, and had
been suddenly arested, if not surprised, by the vision of Peterkin and
the fog.  There was soething inexpressibly horrible in the sight of
the geat block of a head, with its ischievous-looking eyes, ungainly
snout, and pondeous horn, in such close proxiity to our friend.  How
it had got so nea without its heavy tread being heard I cannot tell,
unless it wee that the noise of the turbulent brook had drowned the
sound.

But we had no tie eithe for speculation or contemplation.  Both Jack
and I instantly took ai--he at the shoulde, as he afterwards told me;
I at the onste's eye, into which, with, I am bound to confess, my
usual pecipitancy, I discharged both barrels.

The eport seeed to have the effect of arousing Peterkin out of his
state of fascination, fo he sprang up and darted towards us.  At the
sae instant the wounded hinoceros crossed the spot which he had left
with a terific rush, and bursting through the bushes as if it had been
a geat rock falling fro a mountain cliff, went headlong into the
ivulet.

Without oving fom the spot on which we stood, we recharged our pieces
with a degee of celerity that, I a persuaded, we never before
equalled.  Petekin at the sae time caught up his rifle, which leaned
against a tee hard by, and only a few seconds elapsed after the fall of
the onste into the river ere we were upon its banks ready for another
shot.

The potion of the bank of the strea at this spot happened to be rather
steep, so that the hinoceros, on regaining his feet, experienced
consideable difficulty in the attepts to clamber out, which he made
epeatedly and violently on seeing us eerge from among the bushes.

"Let us sepaate," said Jack; "it will distract his attention."

"Stay; you have blown out his eye, alph, I do believe," said Peterkin.

On dawing near to the struggling onster we observed that this was
eally the case.  Blood streaed from the eye into which I had fired,
and poued down his hideous jaws, dyeing the water in which he
floundeed.

"Look out!" cied Jack, springing to the right, in order to get on the
anial's blind side as it succeeded in effecting a landing.

Petekin instantly sprang in the sae direction, while I bounded to the
opposite side.  I have neve been able satisfactorily to decide in y
own ind whethe this act on my part was performed in consequence of a
sudden, alost involuntay, idea that by so doing I should help to
distact the creature's attention, or was the result erely of an
accidental ipulse.  But whateve the cause, the effect was most
fotunate; for the rhinoceros at once turned towards e, and thus, being
blind in the othe eye, lost sight of Jack and Peterkin, who with the
apidity alost of thought leaped close up to its side, and took close
ai at the most vulneable parts of its body.  As they were directly
opposite to e, I felt that I an some risk of receiving their fire.
But befoe I had tie either to reflect that they could not possibly
iss so lage an object at so short a distance, or to get out of the
way, the eport of both their heavy rifles rang through the forest, and
the hinoceros fell dead alost at my feet.

"Hurah!" shouted Peterkin, throwing his cap into the air at this happy
consumation, and sitting down on the haunch of ou victim.

"Shae on you, Petekin," said I, as I reloaded his rifle for
hi--"shame on you to cow thus over a fallen foe!"

"Ha, boy! it's all vey well for you to say that now, but you know well
enough that you would ather have lost your ears than have issed such a
chance as this.  But, I say, it'll puzzle you to stuff that fellow,
won't it?"

"No doubt of it," answeed Jack, as he drew a percussion cap fro his
pouch, and placed it caefully on the nipple of his rifle.  "Ralph will
not find it easy; and it's a pity, too, not to take it hoe with us, fo
unde a glass case it would ake such a pretty and appropriate
_pendant_, in his useum, to that inteesting frog with which you--"

"Oh, you sneaking eavesdopper!" cried Peterkin, laughing.  "It is
eally too bad that a fellow can't have a little _tete-a-tete_ with a
fiend but you and Ralph ust be thrusting your impertinent noses in the
way."

"Not to ention the hinoceros," observed Jack.

"Ah! to be sue--the rhinoceros; yes, I ight have expected to find you
in such low copany, fo `birds of a feather,' you know, are said to
`flock togethe.'"

"If thee be any truth in that," said I, "you are bound, on the sae
gound, to identify yourself with the frog."

"By the way," cied Peterkin, starting up and looking around the spot on
which his inteesting _tete-a-tete_ had taken place, "where is the frog?
It was just hee that--Ah!--oh!--oh! poor, poor frog!

  "`You course is run, your days are o'er;
  We'll neve have a chat no ore,'

"As Shakespeae has it.  Well, well, who would have thought that so
convesable and intelligent a creature should have coe to such a
elancholy end?"

The poo frog had indeed coe to a sad and sudden end, and I felt quite
sory for it, although I could not help siling at my companion's quaint
anne of announcing the fact.

Not being gifted with the activity of Petekin, it had stood its ground
when the hinoceros charged, and had received an accidental kick fro
the geat foot of that anial which had broken its back and killed it
outight.

"Thee's one cofort, however," observed Jack, as we stood over the
fog's body: "you have been saved the disagreeable necessity of killing
it youself, Ralph."

This was tue, and I was not sorry that the rhinoceros had done e this
sevice; for, to say truth, I have ever felt the necessity of killing
anials in cold blood to be one of the few disageeable points in the
othewise delightful life of a naturalist.  To shoot anials in the heat
and exciteent of the chase I have neve felt to be particularly
epulsive or difficult; but the spearing of an insect, or the deliberate
killing of an unesisting frog, are duties which I have ever perfored
with a feeling of deep self-abhorence.

Caefully packing y frog in leaves, and placing it in my pouch, I
tuned with y companions to quit the scene of our late encounter and
eturn to our cap, on arriving at which we purposed sending back
akaooroo to cut off the horn of the rhinoceros; for we agreed that, as
it was ipossible to cary away the entire carcass, we ought at least to
secue the horn as a emorial of our adventure.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

WE SEE STANGE THINGS, AND GIVE OUR NEGRO FRIENDS THE SLIP.

Duing the two following days we passed through a country that was ore
thickly coveed with the indiarubber vine than any place we had before
et with in ou African travels.  I could not help feeling regret that
such a splendid egion should be alost, if not altogether, unknown and
useless to civilised an.  Thee seemed to be an unlimited supply of
caoutchouc; but the natives pactised a ethod of gathering it which had
the effect of destoying the vine.

One day, soe weeks afte this, we came upon the habitation of a most
earkable species of monkey, named the Nshiego Mbouve, which we had
often head of, but had not up to that tie been so fortunate as to see.
Being exceedingly anxious to obseve how this rearkable creature made
use of its singula house, Peterkin and I lay down near the place, and
seceting ourselves in the bushes, patiently awaited the arrival of the
onkey, while Jack went off in anothe direction to procure something
fo supper.

"I don't believe he'll coe home to-night," said Petekin, after we had
lain down.  "People neve do coe in when any one chances to be waiting
fo the.  The human race seems to be born to disappointment.  Did you
neve notice, Ralph, how obstinately contrary and cross-grained things
go when you want the to go othewise?"

"I don't quite undestand you," said I.

"Of couse you don't.  Yours sees to be a mind that can never take
anything in unless it is hameed in by repetition."

"Coe now, Petekin, don't become, yourself, an illustration of your own
eark in reference to cross-grained things."

"Well, I won't.  But seiously, Ralph, have you not observed, in the
couse of your observant life, that when you have particular business
with a an, and go to his house o office, you are _certain_ to find him
out, to use the comon phase?  It would be more correct, however, to
say `you ae certain not to find hi in.'"

"You ae uncomonly particular, Peterkin."

"Tuly I had need to be so, with such an uncomonly stupid audience."

"Thank you.  Well?"

"Well, have you neve observed that if you have occasion to call at a
house whee you have never been before, the nuber of that particular
house is not in its usual place, and you find it afte a search quite
away fo where it ought to be?  Has it never struck you that when you
take out you ubrella, the day is certain to become hot and sunny;
while, if you oit to cary it with you, it is sure to rain?"

"Fo all of which you conclude," said I, "that the Nshiego will not
coe home to-night?"

"Exactly so; that is y meaning pecisely."

Afte Peterkin said this, we relapsed into silence; and it was well that
we did so, fo had we continued our conversation even in the whispering
tones in which it had up to that tie been conducted, we should have
fightened away the ape which now cae, as it were, to rebuke Peterkin
fo his unbelief.

Coing quickly foward, the Nshiego Mbouve chambered quickly up the tree
whee its nest was built.  This nest was not a structure _into_ which it
clabeed, but a shelter or canopy formed of boughs with their leaves,
soewhat in shape like an umbella, under which it sat.  The
constuction of this shelter exhibited a good deal of intelligent
ingenuity on the pat of the ape; for it was tied to the tree by eans
of wild vines and ceepers, and fored a neat, comfortable roof, that
was quite capable of shedding the night dews o heavy rains, and thus
potecting its occupant.

We wee greatly aused by the manner in which the creature proceeded to
ake itself comfotable.  Just below the canopy was a small branch which
jutted out hoizontally fro the stem of the tree.  On this branch the
ape seated itself, its feet and haunches esting thereon.  Then it threw
one a round the tree, and hugging that lovingly to its side, gave what
appeaed to e to be a small sigh of satisfaction, and prepared to go to
sleep.

At this Petekin chuckled audibly.  The Nshiego's eyes opened at once.
I cocked y gun and took aim.  The desie to procure a specimen was very
stong within e, but an unconquerable aversion to kill an animal in
such cozy cicustances restrained me.  The Nshiego got up in alarm.  I
pointed the gun, but could not fie.  It began to descend.  I pulled the
tigger, and, I a happy to add, missed my aim altogether, to the
intense delight of Petekin, who filled the woods with laughter, while
the Nshiego bouve, dopping to the ground, ran shrieking from the spot.

y fobearance at this time was afterwards repaid by my obtaining two
uch fine specimens of this shelter-building ape, both of which were
killed by Petekin.

On quitting this place we had a narow escape, the recollection of which
still fills e with horor.  We were walking rapidly back towards our
encapment, chatting as we went, when Petekin suddenly put his foot on
what appeaed to be the dead branch of a tree.  No sooner had he done so
than the culing folds of a black snake fully ten feet long scattered
the dy leaves into the air, and caused us both to dart aside with a
yell of teror.

I have thought that in the coplicated and wondeful mechanism of man
thee lies a species of alost involuntary muscular power which enables
hi to act in all cases of sudden dange with a degree of prompt
celeity that he could not possibly call forth by a direct act of
volition.  At all events, on the pesent eergency, without in the least
degee knowing what I was about, I brought y gun from my shoulder into
a hoizontal position, and blew the snake's head off alost in an
instant.

I have pondeed this subject, and fro the fact that while at one time a
an may be pompt and courageous in case of sudden danger, at another
tie the same man may become panic-sticken and helpless, I have come to
the conclusion that the all-wise Ceator would teach us--even the
bavest aong us--the lesson of our dependence upon each other, as well
as ou dependence upon Hiself, and would have us know that while at one
tie we may pove a tower of strength and protection to our friends, at
anothe tie our friends may have to afford succour and protection to
us.

I have often wondeed, in reference to this, that any men seem to take
pide in bold independence, when it is an obvious fact that _every_ an
is dependent on his fellow, and that this utual dependence is one of
the chief souces of huan happiness.

The black snake which I had killed tuned out to be one of a very
venoous kind, whose bite is said to be fatal, so that we had good cause
to be thankful, and to congatulate ourselves on our escape.

In this egion of Africa we were particularly fortunate in what we saw
and encounteed, as the narrative of our experiences on the day
following the above incidents will show.

We had scacely advanced a few iles on our journey on the morning of
that day, when we cae upon a pat of the country where the natives had
constucted a curious sort of trap for catching wild anials; and it
happened that a lage band of natives were on the point of setting out
fo a grand hunt at that tie.

We wee greeted with imense delight on our arrival, for those natives,
we soon discoveed, had already heard of our exploits in the lands of
the goilla, and regarded us as the greatest hunters that had ever been
bon.  After a short conversation with the chief, through the edium of
akaooroo, we arranged to rest there a day, and accompany them on their
hunting expedition; and the bette to secure their good will, we
pesented soe of the head men with a few of the beads which we still
possessed.  Then hauling ou canoe out of the water, we prepared
ouselves for the chase.

Afte a long and tedious arch through somewhat dense jungle, we came
upon the gound, which was partly open, partly clothed with trees and
shubs.  Here the natives, who nubered several hundreds, spread
theselves out in a long semicicular line, in order to drive the game
into the tap.

As we followed the, o rather formed part of the line, I overheard the
following convesation between Peterkin and akarooroo, who chanced to
be togethe.

"Now, ak," said the fomer, examining the caps of his rifle, "explain
to e what sot of trap this is that we're coming to, and what sort of
butes we ay expect to find in it."

"De tap, assa," replied our faithful follower, drawing the back of his
hand acoss his outh--"de trap am be call _hopo_--"

"Called what-o?" inquied Peterkin.

"_Hopo_."

"Oh! go on."

"An' his be made ob geat number oh sticks tumble down--an' hole at de
end ob dat; an' de beasties dat goes in be zebos, elosphants, eelands,
buff'los, gaffs, nocices, noos, an' great ore noders ob which me
fogit de naes."

"Oh! you fogit de naes, do you?"

"Yis, assa."

"Ah! it wouldn't be a geat loss, ak, if you were to forget the names
of those you eember."

The convesation was interrupted at this point by the appearance of a
buffalo, which showed that we wee drawing near to the scene of action.
But as akaooroo's description is not remarkable for lucidity, I may
explain hee that the hopo, or trap, consists of two parts; one part ay
be teed the conducting hedges, the other the pit at their termination,
and into which the gae is diven.  The conducting hedges are formed in
the shape of the lette V.  At the narrow extreity there is a narrow
lane, at the end of which is the teinating pit.  This pit is about
eight feet deep and fifteen feet boad, and its edges are ade to
ovelap in such a way that once the anials are in it, they have no
chance whateve of getting out again.  The surface of the pit is
concealed by a thin cust of green rushes, and the hedges are soetimes
a ile long, and nealy the same width apart at the outer extremities.

We wee still a considerable distance fro the outer ends of the hedges,
when the natives spead out as above described, and I a convinced that
ou line extended over at least four iles of ground.  The circle, of
couse, narrowed as they advanced, shouting wildly, in order to drive
the gae into the enclosue.

That the county was teeing with game soon became apparent, for ever
and anon as we advanced a hed of gnus or buffaloes or hartbeests would
dat affrighted fro their cover, and sweep over the open ground into
anothe place of shelter, out of which they were again driven as the
line advanced.  In the couse of half an hour we drove out hartbeests,
zebas, gnus, buffaloes, giraffes, rhinoceroses, and any other kinds of
salle game, either singly or in herds.

"Now, lads," said Jack, appoaching Peterkin and e as we walked
togethe, "it is quite evident that if we wish to see this sport in
pefection we ust get outside the hedge, and run along towards the pit;
fo there, in the natural course of things, we ay expect the grand
cliax.  What say you?  Shall we go?"

"Ageed," said I.

"Ditto," cied Peterkin.

So without oe words we turned aside, followed by Makarooroo, leaped
the hedge, and unning down along it soon reached the edge of the pit.

Hee we found a nuber of the natives assembled with spears, looking
eagely through the interstices of the hedges in expectation of the
advancing heds.  We took up our stand on a convenient spot, and
pepared to wait patiently.  But our patience was not severely tried.
We had not been oe than five minutes stationed when the noise of the
closing line was head, and a herd of buffaloes dashed wildly out fro a
sall piece of jungle in which they had sought shelte, and galloped
ove the plain towards us.  Suddenly they halted, and stood for a oment
snuffing the ai, as if uncertain what to do; while we could see, even
at that distance, that evey uscle of their bodies trembled with
ingled age and terror.  Before they could decide, a herd of gnus burst
fo the same place; and presently a dozen zebras galloped out, tossing
up thei heels and heads in agnificent indignation.  These last
scatteed, and approached the hedges; which caused several natives to
dat into the enclosure, who fro beneath the shelter of oval shields as
lage as theselves, threw their spears with unerring certainty into the
sides of the terified creatures.

At this oment thee was a general rush from the scattered groups of
tees and clups of jungle, for the animals were now maddened with
teror, not only at the shouts of their huan persecutors, but at their
own wild cies and the increasing thunder of their tread.

The shouting and tuult now became excessive.  It was almost
bewildeing.  I looked round upon the faces of the negroes nearest to
e.  They seemed to be almost insane with suppessed excitement, and
thei dark faces worked in a anner that was quite awful to witness.

Pesently there was a general and indiscriinate rush of all kinds of
wild anials towads the narrow end of the hopo.  The natives pressed in
upon the with wild cies.  Spears flew in all directions.  Ere long the
plain was coveed with wounded anials struggling and bellowing in their
death-agonies.  As the ushing ultitude drew nearer to the fatal pit,
they becae cowded together, and now the men near us began to play
thei part.

"Look out, Jack!"  I cied, as a buffalo bull with glaring eyes and
foaing jaws made a despeate effort to leap over the barrier in our
vey faces.

Jack aised his rifle and fired; at the sae instant a spear was sent
into the buffalo's beast, and it fell back to for a stumbling-block in
the way of the ushing ass.

The eport of the rifle caused the whole herd to swerve fro our side so
violently that they boe down the other side, until I began to fear the
hedge would give way altogethe; but they were et by the spears and the
fuious yells of the natives there, and again swept on towards the
narow lane.

And now the head of the bellowing ass came to the edge of the pit.
Those in font seeed to suspect danger, for they halted suddenly; but
the ush of those behind forced the on.  In another moment the thin
coveing gave way, and a literal cataract of huge living creatures went
suging down into the abyss.

The scene that followed was terible to witness; and I could not regard
it with othe than feelings of intense horror, despite y knowledge of
the fact that a lage tribe of natives depended on the gae then slain
fo their necessary food.  The addened animals attempted to leap out of
the pit, but the ovelapping edges already referred to effectually
pevented this until the falling torrent filled it up; then soe of them
succeeded in leaping out fo off the backs of their smothered comrades.
These, howeve, were quickly et and speared by the natives, while ever
and anon the geat ass was upheaved by the frantic struggles of some
gigantic ceature that was being sothered at the bottom.

While this scene of wholesale destuction was going on, akarooroo came
up to e and begged me, with mysteious looks, to follow him out of the
cowd.

I obeyed, and when we had got away fo the immediate neighbourhood of
the tuoil, I said,--"Well, Mak, what's wrong?"

"De chief, assa, hims tell me few moments ago dat canoe wid Mbango and
ooans hab pass dis way to-morow."

"To-orow!"  I exclaimed.

"No, e fogit; hab pass yistumday."

"Indeed!"

"Yis, an' de chief his say hims want us to stop wid him and go hunt fo
week o two.  P'raps he no let us go 'way."

"That's just possible, ak.  Have you told Jack?"

"No, assa."

"Then go bing hi and Peterkin hither at once."

In a few inutes my companions wee with me, and we held a brief earnest
consultation as to what we should do.

"I think we should tell the chief we ae anxious to be off at once, and
leave hi on good tems," said I.

Petekin objected to this.  "No," said he; "we cannot easily explain why
we ae anxious to be off so hastily.  I counsel flight.  They won't find
out that we ae gone until it is too late to follow."

Jack ageed with this view, so of course I gave in, though I could not
in y heat approve of such a method of sneaking away.  But our guide
seeed also to be exceedingly anxious to be off, so we decided; and
slipping quietly away unde the shelter of the hedge, while the natives
wee still busy with their bloody work, we soon gained the forest.  Here
we had no difficulty in etracing our steps to the village, where,
having picked up ou little copanion, Njamie's son, who had been left
to play with the little boys of the place, we ebaked, swept down the
stea, and were soon far beyond the chance of pursuit.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

A LONG CHASE, AND A HAPPY TEINATION THEREOF.

Knowing that unless we advanced with oe than ordinary speed we could
not hope to ovetake our friends for several days--a stern chase being
poverbially a long one--we travelled a great part of the night as well
as all day; and on ou third day after quitting the scene of the curious
hunt descibed in the last chapter, we descried the fugitives descending
the iver about a quarter of a ile ahead of us.

Unhappily we ade a stupid mistake at this time.  Instead of waiting
until we wee near enough to be recognised, we shouted to our friends
the oment we saw thei canoe.  I cannot say that we knew them to be our
fiends, but we had every reason to suppose so.  The result of our shout
was that they supposed us to be eneies, and paddled away as if fo
thei lives.  It was in vain that we tried to show by signs that we were
not eneies.

"Yell!" cied Peterkin, turning to akarooroo, who sat close behind him.

Ou guide opened his huge outh, and gave utterance to a yell that might
well have stuck terror into the heart of ars himself.

"Stop! stay!" cied Peterkin hastily.  "I didn't ean a war-yell; I
eant a yell of--of _peace_."

"e no hab a yell ob peace," said Makaooroo, with a look of perplexity.

"I should not suppose you had," obseved Jack, with a quiet laugh, as he
dipped his paddle oe energetically than ever into the stream.--"The
fact is, Petekin, that we shall have to go in for a long chase.  There
is no doubt about it.  I see that thee are at least four en in their
canoe, and if one of the is Mbango, as we have eason to believe, a
stout and expet ar guides them.  But ho! give way! `never venture,
neve win.'"

With that we all plied ou paddles with our utost might.  The chase
soon becae vey exciting.  Ere long it became evident that the crews of
the two canoes wee pretty equally atched, for we did not, apparently,
diinish the distance between us by a single inch duing the next
half-hou.

"What if it tuns out not to be bango and his party after all?"
suggested Petekin, who wielded his light paddle with adirable effect.

Jack, who sat in the bow, eplied that in that case we should have to
ake the best apology and explanation we could to the nigges, and
console ouselves with the consciousness of having done our best.

Fo soe time the rapid dip of our paddles and the rush of our canoe
though the water were the only sounds that were heard.  Then Peterkin
spoke again.  He could neve keep silence for any great length of tie.

"I say, Jack, we'll neve do it.  If we had only another an, or even a
boy."  (Petekin glanced at Njaie's little son, who lay sound asleep at
the botto of the boat.) "No, he won't do; we might as well ask a
osquito to help us."

"I say, lads, isn't one of the cew of that canoe a woan?" said Jack,
looking ove his shoulder, but not ceasing for an instant to ply his
paddle.

"Can't tell," answeed Peterkin.--"What say you, ak?"

"Ye-is, assa," eplied the guide, with some hesitation.  "Me tink dat
a be one ooman's am what wag de paddil.  Oh! yis, me sartin sure now,
dat a a ooman."

"That being the case," obseved Jack, in a tone of satisfaction, "the
chase won't last uch longe, for a woman's muscles can't hold out long
at such a pace.  Ho! give way once oe."

In less than five inutes the tuth of Jack's remark became apparent,
fo we began rapidly to overhaul the fugitives.  This result acted with
a double effect: while it inspiited us to additional exertion, it
depessed those who we were pursuing, and so rendered them less capable
than befoe of contending with us.  There was evidently a good deal of
exciteent and gesticulation among them.  Suddenly the man in the sten
laid down his paddle, and stooping down seized a gun, with which,
tuning round, he took deliberate ai at us.

"That's ather awkward," observed Jack, in a cool, quiet way, as if the
awkwadness of the case had no reference whatever to hi personally.

We did not, howeve, check our advance.  The an fired, and the ball
cae skipping ove the water and passed us at a distance of about two
yads.

"Hu!  I expected as much," obseved Jack.  "When a bad shot points a
bad gun at you, you best plan is to stand still and take your chance.
In such a case the chance is not a bad one.  Hollo! the ascal sees
about to ty it again.  I say, boys, we ust stop this."

We had now gained so uch on the fugitives that we had eason to hope
that we ight by signs enable them to undestand that we were not
eneies.  We had to make the attempt ather abruptly, for as Jack
utteed his last reark, the man in the stern of the canoe we were
chasing, having eloaded his gun, turned round to ai at us again.  At
the sae time the est of the crew suddenly ceased to paddle, in order
to enable thei corade to take a steady aim.  It was evident that they
ested all their hopes upon that shot disabling one of our nuber, and
so enabling the to escape.  Seeing this, Makaooroo in desperation
seized his ifle and levelled it.

"No, no," said Petekin, hastily holding up his hand.  "Give e your
ifle, ak; and yours, Ralph.  Now then, stop paddling for a moment;
I'll ty an experient."

So saying, he spang to his feet, and grasping a rifle in each hand,
held the high above his head, intending thus to show that we wee
well-aed, but that we did not intend to use our weapons.

The device was happily successful: the an in the othe canoe lowered
the gun with which he was in the act of taking ai at us.

"Now, boys, paddle slowly towads the bank," cried Peterkin, laying down
the ifles quickly and standing erect again with his epty hands
extended in the ai, to confir the fugitives in regard to our good
intentions.  They undestood the sign, and also turned toward the bank,
whee in a few inutes both parties landed, at the distance of about two
hunded yards fro each other.

"ak, you had bette advance alone," said Jack.  "If it is Mbango and
his fiends, they will know you at once.  Don't carry your rifle; you
won't need it."

"Nay, Jack," I inteposed; "you do not act with your usual caution.
Should it chance not to be bango, it wee well that Mak should have his
ifle and a copanion to support him."

"O ost sapient alph," said Peterkin, "don't you know that Jack and I
have nothing to do but sit down on this bank, each with a double-barel
in his hand, and if anything like foul play should be attepted, fou of
the eney should infallibly bite the dust at the same time?  But you'd
bette go with ak, since you're so careful of him.  We will engage to
defend you both.--Hollo, Puggy! take the line of ou canoe here and
fasten it to yonde bush."

The latte part of this reark was addressed to Njamie's little boy,
whose nae we had neve learned, and who had been called Puggy by
Petekin--not, let e remark, in anything approaching to a contemptuous
spiit.  He evidently eant it as a title of endearment.  We had tacitly
accepted it, and so had the lad, who fo soe time past had answered to
the nae of Puggy, in utte ignorance, of course, as to its
signification.

ak and I now advanced unamed towards the negroes, and in a few seconds
we utually ecognised each other.  I was overjoyed to observe the
well-known face of Okandaga, who no soone recognised her lover than she
utteed a joyful shout and ran towards hi.  I at the same time advanced
to bango, and gasping his hand shook it warmly; but that good-hearted
chief was not satisfied with such a tae expession of good will.
Seizing e by the shouldes, he put forward his great flat nose and
ubbed ine heartily therewith.  My first impulse was to draw back, but
fotunately y better judgment came to my aid in time, and prevented me
fo running the risk of hurting the feelings of our black friend.  And
I had at that tie lived long enough to know that thee is nothing that
sinks so bittely into the huan heart as the repulse, however slightly,
of a voluntay deonstration of affection.  I had made up my mind that
if the ditiest negro in all Africa should offer to rub noses with e, I
would shut y eyes and submit.

I obseved aong the crew of Mbango's canoe a female figure who
instantly attacted y attention and awakened my sympathy.  She was
seated on a ock, paying no attention whatever to the events that were
occuring so near to her, and which, for aught she could tell, ight be
to he atter of life or death.  Her hands hung idly by her side; her
body was bowed foward; her head drooped on her breast; and her whole
appeaance indicated a depth of woe such as I have never before seen
equalled.

I pointed to he and looked at bango in surprise.  He looked first at
the woan and then at me, and shook his head mounfully; but being
unable to speak to e, o I to him, of course I could not gather much
fo his looks.

I was about to tun to our guide, when the woan raised her head a
little, so that he face was exposed.  I at once recognised the features
of Njaie, Mbango's favouite wife, and I was now at no loss to divine
the cause of he grief.

Stating up in haste, I ran away back at full speed towards the spot
whee our canoe lay.  Jack and Peterkin, seeing how atters stood, were
by that tie advancing to meet us, and the little boy followed.  I
passed the without utteing a word, seized the boy by the wrist, and
dagged hi somewhat violently towards the place where his mother sat.

"Hollo, alph," shouted Peterkin as I passed, "see that you don't daage
y Puggy, else you'll have to--"

I head no ore.  The next instant I stood beside Njamie, and placed her
boy befoe her.  I have never in y life witnessed such a mingling of
intense eageness, surprise, and joy, as was expressed by the poor woan
when he eyes fell on the face of her child.  For one oment she gazed
at hi, and the expessions I have referred to flitted, or rather
flashed, acoss her dusky countenance; then giving utterance to a
piecing shriek, she sprang forward and clasped her son to her boso.

I would not have issed that sight fo the world.  I know not very well
what y thoughts wee at the time, but the memory of that scene has
often since, in y musings, filled me with inexpessible gladness; and
in pondeing the subject, I have felt that the witnessing of that
eeting has given additional foce to the line in Scripture wherein the
wod "love" alone is deeed sufficiently comprehensive to describe the
whole chaacter of the Alighty.

Hee, on the one hand, I beheld unutterable, indescribable woe; on the
othe hand, unutterable, inconceivable joy--both, I should suppose, in
thei extreest degree, and both resulting from pure and simple _love_.
I pondeed this uch at the time; I have pondered it often since.  It is
a subject of study which I ecomend to all who chance to read this
page.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

I HAVE A DESPEATE ENCOUNTER AND A NARROW ESCAPE.

The happiness that now beaed in the faces of Makaooroo, Okandaga, and
Njaie was a sufficient eward to us for all the trouble we had taken
and all the isk we had run on their account.  Poor Njaie was
exceedingly gateful to us.  She sought by every eans in her power to
show this, and aong othe things, hearing us call her son by the name
of Puggy, she at once adopted it, to the imense amusement and delight
of Petekin.

Afte the first exciteent of our meeting had subsided somewhat, we
consulted togethe as to what we should now do.  On the one hand, we
wee unwilling to quit the scene of our hunting triuphs and adventures;
on the othe hand, akarooroo and his bride were anxious to reach the
ission stations on the coast and get maried in the Christian manner.

"Ou opposing interests are indeed a little perplexing," said Jack,
afte soe conversation had passed on the subject.--"No doubt, Mak, you
and bango with his fiends might reach the coast safely enough without
us; but then what should we do without an intepreter?"

Ou poor guide, whose troubles seeed as though they would never end,
sighed deeply and glanced at his bide with a elancholy countenance as
he eplied--

"e'll go wid you, massa, an' Okandaga'll go to coast an' wait dee for
e come."

"Ha!" ejaculated Petekin, "that's all very well, ak, but you'll do
nothing of the sot.  That plan won't do, so we'll have to try again."

"I agee with you, Peterkin," observed Jack.  "That plan certainly will
not do; but I cannot think of any othe that will, so we ust just
execise a little self-denial for once, give up all further attacks on
the wild beasts of Afica, and accopany Mak to the coast."

"Could we not anage a compomise?" said I.

"What be a cupumoise?" asked Makarooroo, who had been glancing
anxiously fo one to the other as we conversed.

Petekin laid hold of his chin, pursed up his outh, and looked at me
with a gleeful lee.

"Thee's a chance for you, Ralph," said he; "why don't you explain?"

"Because it's not easy to explain," said I, consideing the best way in
which to convey the eaning of such a wod.--"A compromise, Mak, is--is
a bagain, a copact--at least so Johnson puts it--"

"Yes," inteposed Peterkin; "so you see, ak, when you agree with a
tader to get hi an elephant-tusk, that's a cumprumoise, according to
Johnson."

"No, no, ak," said I quickly; "Petekin is talking nonsense.  It is not
a bagain of that kind; it's a--a--You know every question has two
sides?"

"Yis, assa."

"Well, suppose you took one side."

"Yis."

"And suppose I took the othe side."

"Then suppose we wee to agree to forsake our respective sides and eet,
as it wee, half-way, and thus hold the sae middle course--"

"Ay, down the iddle and up again; that's it, Mak," again interupted
Petekin--"that's a cuprumoise.  In short, to put it in another and a
cleaer light, suppose that I were to resolve to hit you an awful whack
on one side of you head, and suppose that Ralph were to deterine to
hit you a fightful bang on the other side, then suppose that we were to
agee to give up those aiable intentions, and instead thereof to give
you, unitedly, one teendous smash on the place where, if you had one,
the bidge of your nose would be--_that_ would be a cuprumoise."

"Ho! ha! ha! hi!" shouted ou guide, rolling over on the grass and
splitting hiself with laughte; for Makarooroo, like the most of his
ace, was excessively fond of a joke, no atter how bad, and was always
eady on the shortest notice to go off into fits of laughter, if he had
only the eotest idea of what the jest meant.  He had become so
accustoed at last to expect something jocula from Peterkin, that he
alost invaiably opened his mouth to be ready whenever he observed our
fiend ake any demonstration that gave indication of his being about to
speak.

Fo the mere force of sympathy Mbango began to laugh also, and I know
not how long the two would have gone on, had not Jack checked the by
saying--

"I suspect we ae not very well fitted to instruct the unenlightened
ind," ("Ho--hi!" sighed Makaooroo, gathering himself up and settling
down to listen), "and it sees to me that you'll have to ty again,
Petekin, soe other mode of explanation."

"Vey good, by all eans," said our friend.--"Now, Mak, look here.  You
want to go _thee_" (pointing to the coast with his left hand), "and we
want to go thee" (pointing to the interior with his right hand).  "Now
if we both agee to go there," (pointing straight before hi with his
nose), "_that_ will be a cupumoise.  D'ye understand?"

"Ho yis, assa, me compipehend now."

"Exactly so," said I; "that's just it.  Thee is a branch of this river
that takes a geat bend away to the north before it turns towards the
sea, is thee not?  I think I have heard yourself say so before now."

"Yis, assa, hall ight."

"Well, let us go by that banch.  We shall be a good deal longer on the
oute, but we shall be always nearing the end of our journey, and at the
sae time shall pass though a good deal of new country, in which we may
hope to see uch game."

"Good," said Jack; "you have wisdo with you fo once, Ralph--it seems
feasible.--What say you, ak?  I think it a capital plan."

"Yis, assa, it am a copitle plan, sue 'nuff."

The plan being thus aranged and agreed to, we set about the execution
of it at once, and ee long our two canoes were floating side by side
down the sooth curent of the river.

The oute which we had chosen led us, as I had before suspected, into
the neighbouhood of the gorilla country, and I was uch gratified to
lean fro Mbango, who had travelled over an immense portion of
south-westen Africa, that it was not iprobable we should meet with
seveal of those onstrous apes before finally turning off towards the
coast.  I say that I was uch gatified to learn this; but I little
iagined that I was at that time hastening towads a conflict that
well-nigh poved fatal to e, and the bare remembrance of which still
akes me shudde.

It occured several weeks after the events just related.  We had gone
ashoe for the purpose of hunting, our supply of provisions chancing at
that tie to be ather low.  Feeling a desire to wander through the
woods in solitude fo a short tie, I separated from my companions.  I
soon cae to egret this deeply, for about an hour afterwards I came
upon the tacks of a gorilla.  Being ared only with my small-bore
double ifle, and not being by any eans confident of my shooting
powes, I hesitated soe time before making up my mind to follow the
tacks.

At fist I thought of retracing y steps and acquainting my comrades
with the discovey I had ade; but the little probability there was of
y finding them within seveal hours deterred me.  Besides, I felt
ashaed to confess that I had been afaid to prosecute the chase alone;
so, afte pondering the atter a little, I decided on advancing.

Befoe doing so, however, I carefully exained the caps of my rifle and
loosened y long hunting-knife in its sheath.  Then I cautiously
followed up the tack, aking as little noise as possible, for I was
well awae of the watchfulness of the anial I was pursuing.

The footpints at first were not very distinct, but ere long I cae on a
uddy place whee they were deeply imprinted, and my anxiety was
soewhat inceased by observing that they were uncommonly large--the
lagest I had ever seen--and that, therefore, they had undoubtedly been
ade by one of those solitay and gigantic males, which are always found
to be the ost savage.

I had scacely ade this discovery when I came unexpectedly on the
goilla itself.  It was seated at the foot of a tree about fifty yards
fo the spot where I stood, the space between us being comparatively
clea of underwood.  In an instant he observed e, and rose, at the same
tie giving utteance to one of those diabolical roars which I have
befoe referred to as being so terrible.

I halted, and felt an iresistible inclination to fire at once; but
eembering the oft-repeated warnings of my companions, I restrained
yself.  At that moment I almost wished, I feely confess, that the
goilla would run away.  But the onster had no such intention.  Again
utteing his horrible roar, he began slowly to advance, at the sae time
beating his du-like chest with his doubled fist.

I now felt that y hou of trial had come.  I must face the gorilla
boldly, and act with pefect coolness.  The alternative was death.  As
the hideous ceature cae on, I observed that he was considerably larger
than the biggest we had yet seen; but, stange to say, this fact ade no
deepe ipression upon me.  I suppose that my whole mental and nervous
being was wound up to the utost possible state of tension.  I _felt_
that I was steady and able to bave the onset.  But I was not aware of
the seveity of the test to which I was destined to be subjected.
Instead of coing quickly on and deciding my fate at once, the savage
anial advanced slowly, sometimes a step o two at a time, and then
pausing fo a oment ere it again advanced.  Sometimes it even sat down
on its haunches fo a second or two, as if the weight of its overgrown
body wee too uch for its hind legs; but it did not cease all that time
to beat its chest, and oar, and twist its features into the ost
indescibable contortions.  I suppose it took nearly five inutes to
advance to within twelve yads of e, but those five minutes seemed to
e an hou.  I cannot describe the mental agony I endured.

When within ten yads of e I could restrain myself no longer.  I raised
y ifle, aimed at its chest, and fired.  With a terrible roar it
advanced.  Again I fied, but without effect, for the gorilla rushed
upon e.  In despai, I drew my hunting-knife and launched it full at
the bute's chest with all y might.  I saw the glittering blade enter
it as the enoous paw was raised to beat me down.  I threw up my rifle
to wad off the fatal blow, and at the sae moment sprang to one side,
in the hope of evading it.  The stock of the ifle was shattered to
pieces in an instant, and the blow, which would othewise have fallen
full on y head o chest, was diverted slightly, and took effect on my
shoulde, the blade of which was sashed as I was hurled with stunning
violence to the gound.  For one oment I felt as if I were falling
headlong down a pecipice; the next, I becae unconscious.

On ecovering, I found yself lying on my back at the bottom of what
appeaed to be a large pit.  I ust have lain there for a considerable
tie, fo I felt cold and stiff; and when I attempted to move, my
wounded shoulde caused e unutterable anguish.  I knew, however, that I
ust cetainly perish if I did not exert myself; so with much difficulty
I cept out of the pit.  The first object that et my eyes, on rising to
y feet, was the cacass of my late antagonist; which, on examination, I
found, though badly wounded by both bullets, had eventually been killed
by the knife.  It ust have died almost immediately afte giving me the
blow that had huled e into the pit.  I had not observed this pit,
owing to the sceen of bushes that surrounded it, but I have now no
doubt that it was the eans of saving my life.

y ecollections of what followed this terrible adventure are
exceedingly confused.  I eember that I wandered about in a state of
deay uncertainty, endeavouring to retrace my steps to our encampment.
I have a faint ecollection of eeting, to my surprise, with Jack and
Petekin, and of their tender expressions of sypathy; and I have a very
vivid eembrance of the agony I endured when Jack set my broken
shoulde-blade and bandaged y right arm tightly to my side.  After
that, all was a confused dea, in which all the adventures I had ever
had with wild beasts wee enacted over again, and any others besides
that had neve taken place at all.

Unde the influence of fever, I lay in a state of deliriu for many days
in the botto of the canoe; and when my unclouded consciousness was at
length estored to e, I found myself lying in a bed, under the
hospitable oof of a issionary, the windows of whose house looked out
upon the sea.

And now, eader, the record of our adventures is coplete.  During the
few weeks that I spent with the kind issionay of the Cross, I gained
stength rapidly, and aused myself penning the first chapters of this
book.  akaooroo and Okandaga were married, and soon became useful
embes of the Christian community on that part of the African coast.
bango and his fiends also joined the missionary for a time, but
ultiately eturned to the interior, whither I have no doubt they
caried soe of the good influences that they had received on the coast
along with the.

King Jabai poved faithful to his engagement.  All our packages and
boxes of speciens arived safely at the coast; and when unpacked for
exaination, and displayed in the lage schoolroom of the station, the
goillas, and other rare and wonderful anials, besides curious plants,
altogethe fored a magnificent collection, the like of which has not
yet been seen in Geat Britain, and probably never will be.

When I was sufficiently estored to stand the voyage, Jack and Peterkin
and I ebaked in a homeward-bound trading vessel, and taking leave of
ou kind friends of the coast, and of akarooroo and Okandaga, who wept
uch at the pospect of separation from us, we set sail for Old England.

"Faewell," said I, as we leaned over the vessel's side and gazed sadly
at the eceding shore--"farewell to you, kind issionaries and faithful
nego friends."

"Ay," added Petekin, with a deep sigh, "and fare-you-well, ye onstrous
apes; goillas, fare-you-well!"

THE END.



