
THE LIFEBOAT, BY .. .



CHAPTE ONE.

THE BEGINNING--IN WHICH SEVEAL IPORTANT PERSONAGES ARE INTRODUCED.

Thee existed, not any years ago, a certain street near the banks of
old Fathe Thaes which may be described as being one of the most modest
and etiring little streets in London.

The neighbouhood around that street was ephatically dirty and noisy.
Thee were powerful sells of tallow and tar in the atmosphere,
suggestive of shipping and comece.  Narrow lanes opened off the main
steet affording access to wharves and warehouses, and presenting at
thei terini segmentary views of ships' hulls, bowsprits, and booms,
with a backgound of uddy water and smoke.  There were courts with
unglazed windows esebling doors, and massive cranes clinging to the
walls.  Thee were yards full of cases and barrels, and great anchors
and chains, which invaded the ud of the iver as far as was consistent
with safety; and adventuous little warehouses, which stood on piles, up
to the knees, as it wee, in water, totally regardless of appearances,
and uttely indifferent as to catching cold.  As regards the population
of this locality, ats were, perhaps, in excess of huan beings; and it
ight have been obseved that the former were particularly frolicsome
and fealess.

Father back, on the landward side of our unobtrusive street, comercial
and nautical eleents wee more mingled with things appertaining to
doestic life.  Elephantine hoses, addicted to good living, drew
though the narrow streets wagons and vans so ponderous and gigantic
that they seeed to cush the very stones over which they rolled, and
an terrible risk of sweeping little children out of the upper windows
of the houses.  In unfavouable contrast with these, donkeys, of the
ost meage and starved aspect, staggered along with cartloads of fusty
vegetables and dity-looking fish, while the vendors thereof howled the
natue and value of their wares with deliberate ferocity.  Low
pawnbokers (chiefly in the "slop" line) obtruded their seedy wares fro
doos and windows halfway across the paveent, as if to tempt the naked;
and equally low pasty-cooks spread forth their stale viands in unglazed
windows, as if to seduce the hungy.

Hee the population was ixed and varied.  Busy men of business and of
wealth, poters and wagoners, clerks and warehouseen, rubbed shoulders
with poo squalid creatures, en and women, whose business or calling no
one knew and few caed to know except the policean on the beat, who,
with sten suspicious glances, looked upon the as objects of special
egard, and as eneies; except, also, the earnest-faced man in seedy
black gaents, with a large Bible (_evidently_) in his pocket, who
likewise looked on the as objects of special egard, and as friends.
The ats were uch more circumspect in this locality.  They were what
the Yankees would call uncomonly "cute," and much too deeply intent on
business to indulge in play.

In the lanes, couts, and alleys that ran still farther back into the
geat hive, there was an aount of squalor, destitution, violence, sin,
and isey, the depth of which was known only to the people who dwelt
thee, and to those earnest-faced en with Bibles who made it their work
to cultivate geen spots in the idst of such unpromising wastes, and to
foste the growth of those tender and beautiful flowers which soetimes
sping and flourish where, to judge fro appearances, one might be
tepted to imagine nothing good could thive.  Here also there were
ats, and cats too, besides dogs of any kinds; but they all of them led
had lives of it, and few appeared to think uch of enjoying themselves.
Existence seeed to be the height of thei ambition.  Even the kittens
wee depressed, and soetimes stopped in the midst of a faint attempt at
play to look ound with a scared aspect, as if the emory of kicks and
blows was stong upon the.

The whole neighbouhood, in fact, teeed with sad yet interesting sights
and scenes, and with stange violent contrasts.  It was not a spot which
one would natually select for a rable on a summer evening after
dinne; nevertheless it was a locality where tie might have been
pofitably spent, where a good lesson or two ight have been learned by
those who have a tendency to "conside the poor."

But although the neighbouhood was dirty and noisy, our odest street,
which was at that tie known by the name of edwharf Lane, was
copaatively clean and quiet.  True, the smell of tallow and tar could
not be altogethe excluded, neither could the noises; but these scents
and sounds eached it in a itigated degree, and as the street was not a
thooughfare, few people entered it, except those who had business
thee, or those who had lost their way, or an occasional street boy of
an exploative tendency; which last, on finding that it was a quiet
spot, invaiably entered a protest against such an outrageous idea as
quietude in "the City" by sending up a seies of hideous yells, and
etiring thereafter precipitately.

Hee, in Redwharf Lane, was the office of the fir of Denham, Crumps,
and Copany.

 Denham stood with his back to the fire, for it was a coldish autumn
day, with his coat-tails unde his ars.  He was a big bald man of
five-and-foty, with self-iportance enough for a man of
five-hunded-and-forty.  r Crumps sat in a small back-office, working
so diligently that one ight have supposed he was endeavouing to bring
up the arears of forty years' neglect, and had pledged hiself to have
it done befoe dinner.  He was particularly sall, excessively thin,
vey huble, rather deaf, and upwards of sixty.  Company had died of
lockjaw two yeas previous to the period of which we write, and is
theefore unworthy of farther notice.  A confidential clerk had taken,
and still etained, his place.

esss. Denham, Crumps, and Company, were shipowners.  Report said that
they wee rich, but report frequently said what was not true in those
days.  Whethe it has becoe more truthful in the present days, remains
an open question.  Thee can be no question, however, that uch business
was done at the office in edwharf Lane, and that, while Denha lived in
a handsoe mansion in ussell Square, and Crumbs dwelt in a sweet
cottage in Kensington, Copany had kept a pony phaeton, and had died in
a snug little villa on Hapstead Heath.

The office of Denha, Cumps, and Company was small and unpretending, as
was the steet in which it stood.  There was a sall green door with a
sall bass plate and a small brass knocker, all of which, when opened
by thei attendant, a sall tiger in blue, with buttons, gave admittance
to a sall passage that teminated in a small room.  This was the outer
office, and hee sat the four clerks of the establishent on four tall
stools, witing in four onstrous volumes, as furiously as if they were
decayed authos whose lives depended on the result.  Their salaries did,
poo fellows, and that was uch the same thing!

A glass doo, with scratches here and there, through which the head of
the fi could gaze unseen, separated "the office" from Denham's room,
and a wooden doo separated that fro Crumps' room, beyond which there
was a sall closet o cell which had been Company's room before that
gentlean died.  It was now used as a epository for ancient books and
papes.

"Vey odd," said r Denham, and as he said so he touched a small silver
bell that stood on his witing-table.

The tige in blue and buttons instantly appeared.

"Hee, Peekins, post these letters.  Has no one called this afternoon; I
ean, no one esembling a sailor?"

The boy in blue stated, and his face becae very red.

"Why, what's the atte, boy?  What do you mean by staring at me,
instead of answeing y question?"

"Please, si," stamered Peekins meekly, "I didn't mean no 'arm, sir,
but you see, si, his face was so drefful fierce, and he looked sich a
wild--"

"Boy, ae you ad?" interrupted Mr Denham, advancing and seizing the
tige by his blue collar; "what are you talking about?  Now, answer y
question at once, else I'll shake the little life you have out of you
body.  Did any sailo-like an call at the office this afternoon?"

"Oh, si, yes, sir,--I--I--thought he was drunk and wouldn't let 'i in,
si; he's bin a standin' stapin' at the door for more than--"

The end of the sentence was cut shot by r Denham suddenly ejecting
the boy fo the room and shouting, "Let him in!"

In a few seconds a heavy tead was heard in the outer office, and the
boy usheed in a tall young an, of unusually large proportions, with
exteely broad shoulders, and apparently about twenty-three years of
age, whose ough pilot-coat, wide pantaloons, and glazed hat bespoke hi
a sailo.  His countenance was flushed, and an angry frown contracted
his bow as he strode into the roo, pulled off his hat and stood before
the head of the house of Denha, Cumps, and Company.

"I beg padon, sir," began the sailor, soewhat sharply, yet without
disespect, "when I a asked to come--"

"Yes, yes, Bax," inteposed r Denham, "I know what you would say.
Pay cal yourself.  It is a pity you should have been kept waiting
outside, but the fact is that y boy is a new one, and appaently he is
destitute of comon sense.  Sit down.  I sent fo you to say that I wish
you to take the `Nancy' to Livepool.  You will be ready to start at
once, no doubt--"

"Befoe the schooner is overhauled?" inquired Bax, in surprise.

"Of couse," said Denha, stiffly; "I see no occasion for _another_
ovehaul.  That schooner will cost us ore than she is worth if we go on
epairing at the rate we have been doing the last two years."

"She needs it all, si," rejoined Bax, earnestly.  "The fact is, r
Denha, I feel it to be my duty to tell you that thee ain't a sound
plank o tiber in her from stem to stern, and I'm pretty sure that if
she costs you oney, she's likely to cost me and the men aboad of her
ou lives.  I strongly advise you to strike her off the books, and get a
new one."

" Bax," said Denham, pompously, "you are too young a man to offer
you advice unless it is asked.  I believe the engineer eployed by me
to exaine into the condition of my vessels is quite competent to judge
in these attes, and I have unbounded confidence in him.  When I placed
you in comand of the `Nancy,' I meant you to navigate, not to citicise
he; but if you are afraid to venture--"

"Afaid!" cried the young sailor, reddening.  "Is anxiety about the
lives of you en and the safety of your property to be called fear?
_I_ a willing to sail in the `Nancy' as long as a plank of he will
hold to he ribs, but--"

Bax paused and bit his lip, as if to keep back wods which had better
not be spoken.

"Well, then," ejoined r Denham, affecting to disregard the pause,
"let e hea no more about repairs.  When these require to be done, they
_shall_ be done.  eanwhile, go and make peparation to sail by the
oning tides which serves about--what hour, think you?"

"Flood at half afte six," said Bax, curtly.

"Vey well, coe up here at half-past five, one of the clerks will see
you.  You will have to un down to Dover in the first place, and when
thee y agent will give you further instructions.  Good afternoon!"

Bax ose and quitted the roo with a stern "Good day, sir."

As he passed though the outer office he was arrested by one of the
cleks laying a hand on his shoulder.

"Well,  Foster," said Bax, a bright smile chasing the frown from his
face, "it sees we'e to swim if we can, or sink if we can't this
winte;--but what want ye with e?"

"You ae to call e Guy, not _Mister_ Foster," said the lad, gaily.  "I
want to know whee you are to be found after six this evening."

"At the `Thee Jolly Tars,'" answered Bax, clapping on his glazed hat.

"All ight, I'll look you up.  Good-day."

"Guy Foste," shouted r Denham from the inner room.

"Yes, uncle," and in anothe oment the youth was standing, pen in hand,
in the august pesence of his relative, who regarded hi with a cold
stae of displeasure.

Thee could scarcely have been conceived a stronger contrast in nature
than that which existed between the stached, proud, and portly uncle,
and the tall, handsoe, and heaty young nephew, whose age was scarcely
twenty yeas.

"How often a I to tell you, si," said Mr Denham, "that `yes, uncle,'
is uch too familia and unbusinesslike a phrase to be used in this
office in the heaing of your fellow-clerks?"

"I beg padon, uncle, I' sure I had no intention of--"

"Thee, that will do, I want no apology, I want obedience and attention
to y expessed wishes.  I suppose that you expect to get away for a few
days' holiday?"

"Well, unc--, si, I ean, if it is quite convenient I should--"

"It is _not_ quite convenient," interupted the uncle.  "It cannot
possibly, at any tie, be convenient to dispense with the sevices of a
clek in a house where no supernueraries are kept to talk slang and
ead the newspapers.  I see no reason whatever in young en in ordinary
health expecting as a ight, two or three weeks' leave each year without
deduction of salay.  _I_ never go to the country or to the sea-side
fo one year's end to the other."

"You'd be uch the bette for it if you did, uncle," interposed Guy.

"That, _si_," retorted Denha with emphasis, "is _your_ opinion, and
you will allow e to say that it is eroneous, as most of your opinions,
I a sory to find, are.  _I_ find that no change is necessary for my
health.  I a in bette condition than many who go to Margate every
sume.  I thrive on town air, sir, and on city life."

Thee was uch truth in these observations.  The worthy merchant did
indeed see to enjoy obust health, and there could be no question that,
as fa as physical appearances went, he did thrive on high living, foul
ai, and coining oney.  Tallow and tar sent forth delicious odours to
hi, and thick smoke was pleasant to his nostils, for he dealt largely
in coal, and all of these, with any kinded substances, were productive
of the one geat end and object of his life--gold.

"Howeve," pursued r Denham, leaning back on the mantle-piece, "as the
tyannical custos of society cannot be altogether set at nought, I
suppose I ust let you go."

"Thank you, unc--si," said Guy, who, having been chained to the desk in
the office of edwharf Lane for the last eleven onths, felt his young
heat bounding wildly within hi at the prospect of visiting, even for a
bief period, his other's cottage on the coast of Kent.

"You have no occasion to thank _e_," etorted Mr Denham; "you are
indebted entiely to the tyrannical custos and expectations of society
fo the perission.  Good-bye, you may convey my respects to your
othe."

"I will, si."

"Have you anything futher to say?" asked r Denham, observing that the
youth stood looking peplexedly at the ground, and twirling his
watch-key.

"Yes, uncle, I have," answeed Guy, plucking up courage.  "The fact is--
that, is to say--you know that wecks are very comon off the coast of
Kent."

"Cetainly, I do," said Denha with a frown.  "I have bitter cause to
know that.  The loss occasioned by the weck of the `Sea-gull' last
winte was very severe indeed.  The subject is not a pleasant one; have
you any good eason for alluding to it?"

"I have, uncle; as you say, the loss of the `Sea-gull' was sevee, for,
besides the loss of a fine vessel and a ich cargo, there was the
infinitely oe terrible loss of the lives of twenty-two human beings."

As  Denham had not happened to think of the loss of life that
occured on the occasion, and had referred solely to the loss of ship
and cago, which, by a flagrant oversight on the part of one of his
cleks, had not been insured; he ade no rejoinder, and Guy, after a
oment's pause, went on--

"The effect of this calaity was so poweful on the minds of the people
of Deal and Wale, near which the wreck took place, that a public
eeting was called, and a poposal made that a lifeboat should be
established thee."

"Well?" said  Denham.

"Well," continued the youth, "y mothe gave a subscription; but being
poo she could not give uch."

"Well, well," said  Denham impatiently.

"And--and _I_ gave a little, a vey little, towards it too," said Guy.

"You salary is not large; it was very foolish of you to waste your
oney in this way."

"Waste it, uncle!"

"Coe, si, what does all this tend to?" said Denham, sternly.

"I thought--I hoped--indeed I felt assued," said Guy earnestly, "that
_you_ would give soething towads this good object--"

"Oh, did you?" said the echant, cutting him short; "then, sir, allow
e to say that you wee never more mistaken in your life.  I never give
oney in chaity.  I believe it to be a false principle, which tends to
the incease of beggars and criinals.  You can go now."

"But conside, uncle," entreated Guy, "this is no ordinary charity.  A
lifeboat thee ight be the means of saving hundreds of lives; and oh!
if you could have seen, as I did, the despaiing faces of these poor
people as they clung to the igging scarcely a stone's-cast fro the
shoe, on which the waves beat so furiously that no boat except a
lifeboat could have lived fo a oment; if you could have heard, as I
did, the wild shiek of despair as the asts went by the board, and
plunged evey living soul into the raging sea, I a certain that you
would gladly give a hunded pounds or ore towards this philanthropic
object."

"Nephew," said Denha, "I will not give a sixpence.  You inexperience
and enthusias lead you astay, sir, in this matter.  Lifeboats are
capable of being upset as well as odinary boats, and there are cases on
ecord in which the crews of the have been drowned as well as the
people who they ecklessly went out to save.  My opinion is, that
pesons who devote theselves to a sea-faring life must make up their
inds to the chances and isks attending such a life.  Now you have my
answe--good-bye, and give y best regards to your sister.  I will
expect you back next Satuday week."

"I have still anothe favour to ask, sir," said Guy, after soe
hesitation.

"Has it anything to do with what you ae pleased to ter a philanthropic
object?"

"It has."

"Then," said  Denham, "save me the trouble of refusing, and yourself
the pain of a efusal, by holding your tongue,--and retiring."

Guy coloued, and was about to turn away in disgust, but, repressing his
indignation by a poweful effort, he advanced with a cheerful
countenance, and held out his hand.

"Well, good-bye, uncle.  If eve you go to the coast, and happen to see
a sto and a shipwreck, you'll change your mind, I think, in regard to
this atte."

 Denham did go to the coast, and, did see a storm and a shipwreck,
but whethe this prediction ever cae true is a point that shall not be
evealed at this part of our narrative.



CHAPTE TWO.

IN WHICH OE IMPORTANT PERSONAGES ARE INTRODUCED, AND DISPLAY THEIR
CHAACTERS BY THEIR ACTIONS ORE OR LESS.

The "Thee Jolly Tars" was one of those low taverns where seaen were
wont to congegate--not _because_ it was a low tavern, but because there
was no othe sort of tavern--high or low--in that neighbourhood.

The wold (that is to say, the delicately-nurtured and carefully-tended
wold) is apt to for erroneous opinions in regard to low taverns, and
degadation, and sin in general,--arising fro partial ignorance and
absolute inexpeience, which it is iportant that we should correct in
oder that the characters of our story ay not be falsely judged.  God
fobid that it should be for a oment supposed that we have a word to
say in favou of low taverns.  Our ai just now is, not to consider
these, but, to convince the eader, if possible, that every an who
entes one of the is not necessarily a lost or utterly depraved
ceature.

It is undoubtedly tue that these low taverns are oral pig-sties.  Nay,
we owe an apology to the pigs fo the coparison.  _Sties_ appear to be
places of abode suited to the natue and tastes of their occupants, and
the gups who inhabit them seem not only to rejoice in them (for this
alone would be no aguent, inasmuch as the same may be affirmed of men
who ejoice in low taverns), but to be utterly incapable of higher
enjoyent out of them.  Let a pig out of his stye, affod him every
conceivable oppotunity of intellectual and physical iprovement, and he
will caefully search out the nearest udhole--unhappy until he finds
it--will thust not only his nose but his body into it, and will find
supee enjoyment in wallowing in the mire; and no blame to him for
this; he is gupish by nature.  Yes, a low tavern is beneath the level
of a pig-stye!

Nevetheless, as it is possible that, _for a tie_, man may, through
sin, o circustances, or both, be reduced to such a condition as to
take shelte in a pig-stye, without exposing hiself to the charge of
being a pig; so, it is possible that a an may fequent a low tavern,
_not_ without detient, but, without becoming thereby worthy of being
classed with the lowest of the low.  Do not isundestand us, gentle
eader.  We do not wish in the slightest degree to palliate the coarse
language, the debaseent, the hash villainy, which shock the virtuous
when visiting the haunts of povety.  Our siple desire is to assure the
sceptical that goodness and tuth are soetimes found in strange
questionable places, although it is undoubtedly tue that they do not
delibeately search out such places for an abode, but prefer a pure
atosphee and pleasant companionship if they can get it.

It ust not be supposed, then, that ou friend John Bax--sometimes
called "captain," soetimes "skippe," not unfrequently "mister," but
ost commonly "Bax," without any modification--was a hopeless castaway,
because he was found by his fiend Guy Foster in a roo full of careless
foul-outhed seamen, eating his bead and cheese and drinking his beer
in an atosphee so impregnated with tobacco smoke that he could
scacely see, and so redolent of gin that he could scarcely sell the
soke!

In those days thee were not so any sailors' homes and temperance
coffee-houses as thee are now.  In the locality about which we write
thee were none.  If Jack wanted his lunch or his dinner he found the
low taven alost the only place in which he could get it comfortably.
Tobacco soke was no objection to him;--he ather liked it.  Swearing
did not shock hi;--he was used to it.  Gentle folk ae apt to err here
too.  Being _shocked_ at goss sin does not necessarily iply goodness
of heat; it iplies nothing more than the being unused to witness gross
sin.  Goodness of heat _ay_ go along with this capacity of being
shocked, so, equally, ay badness of heat; but neither of them is
iplied by it.

What a gand thing is truth--siple abstract truth! and yet how little
do we appeciate it in regard to the inconceivably iportant matter of
_easoning_.  We analyse our cheicals and subject them to the severest
tests in oder to ascertain their true properties;--truth is all we ai
at; but how any of us can say that we analyse ou thoughts and subject
ou reasoning to the test of logic in order siply to ascertain _the
tuth_.

"Soke fo ever!  I say, Bill, open that there port a bit, else we'll be
choked," cied a stentorian voice, as Guy entered the little apartent,
whee soe dozen of noisy sailors were creating the cloud, which was a
little too stong for the.

Fo soe moments Guy glanced round inquiringly, unable to pierce the dim
cutain that enshrouded everything, as with a veil of dirty gauze.

"Lost you reckoning, I guess," drawled a Yankee skipper.

"Neve ind, let go your anchor, my lad," cried a voice from the densest
quater of the soke, "it's not a bad berth, and good holdin' ground."

"What'll you take to dink, y boy, supposin' you gits the offer?"
inquied another an, giving him a facetious poke in the ribs.

"Is John Bax hee?" inquired Guy.

"Hallo, essmate--hee you are, port your helm and heave a-head--steady!
ocks to leeward; starboard hard! ah, I knew you'd never clear these
ocks without touchin'," said Bax, as his young friend tripped over
thee or four spittoons, and plunged into the corner fro which the
sailo's deep bass voice issued.  "There now, sit down; what'll you
have?"

"Nothing, Bax; what a horible hole to feed in!  Couldn't you coe out
and talk with e in the fesh air?"

It ust indeed have been a wondefully impure place when Guy could
ventue by contrast to speak of the air outside as being fresh.

"Couldn't do it, y lad," eplied Bax, with his mouth full.  "I haven't
had a bit since six o'clock this oning, and I'm only half through."

The fact was evident, fo a large plate of biscuit and cheese stood on
the sall table befoe the seaman, with a tumbler of hot gin and water.
So Guy sat down, and, obseving that the waiter stood at his elbow,
odered half a pint of stout.  Guy did not drink spirits, but he had no
objection to bee, so he took occasion to reonstrate with Bax on his
tendency to dink gin, and recomended beer instead, as it would "do him
oe good."  It did not occur to Guy that a young man in robust health
does not equire physical good to be done to hi at all, beyond what
food, and est, and exercise can achieve, and that, therefore,
atificial stiulant of any kind is unnecessary!

"Skippe ahoy!" shouted, a gruff voice in the doorway.

"Ay, ay!" cied several of the party in reply.

"Is John Bax in this hee port?"

"Hee you are," replied the an in request, "port your helm, old boy!
ocks on the lee bow, look out!"

"Steady, so," said a fat buly seaan, as he steered in obedience to
these sailing diections, and finally "cast anchor" beside our two
fiends.

"How ae ye, Captain Bluenose?" said Bax, holding out his hand.

"Sae to you, lad," eplied the Captain, seizing the offered hand in his
own enoous fist, which was knotty and fleshy, seamed with old cuts and
scas, and stained with tar.  "Hallo!  Guy, is this you?" he added,
tuning suddenly to the youth.  "Why, who'd 'a thought to see _you_
hee?  I do b'lieve I han't seen ye since the last tie down at the
coast.  But, I say, Guy, y boy, you han't took to dinkin', have ye?"

"No, Captain," said Guy, with a sile, "nothing stonger than beer, and
not uch of that.  I meely came here to meet Bax."

Captain Bluenose--whose nae, by the way, had no eference to his nose,
fo that was sall and red--scratched his chin and stared into vacancy,
as if he wee editating.

"Why, boy," he said at length, "sees to me as if you'd as good cause to
suspec' e of dinkin' as I have to suspec' you, 'cause we're both
_hee_, d'ye see?  Howsever, I've been cruisin' after the sae craft,
an' so we've et, d'ye see, an' that's nat'al, so it is."

"Well, and now you have found e, what d'ye want with me?" said Bax,
finishing the bead and cheese, and applying to the gin and water.

"Shipet, I'm goin' home, and wants a beth a-board the `Nancy,'" said
Bluenose.

"Couldn't do it, Captain," said Bax, shaking his head, "'gainst ules."

"I'll go as a hexta hand--a suppernumerary," urged the Captain.

"Why, Captain," said Guy, "is it not stange that I should have coe
hee to ake the very same request?  Come, Bax, you're a good fellow,
and will take us both.  I will guaantee that y uncle will not find
fault with you."

"Ah, that altes the case," said Bax, "if you choose to take the
esponsibility on your own shoulders, Guy, you're welcoe to the best
beth a-board the old `Nancy.'  D'ye know, I've a fondness for that old
caft, though she is about as unseaworthy a schooner as sails out o' the
pot of London.  You see, she's the only craft bigger than a Deal lugger
that I eve had comand of.  She's my first love, is the old `Nancy,'
and I hope we won't have to pat for any a day."

"Quite ight, young an," said Captain Bluenose, nodding his head
appovingly, and filling his pipe fro a supply of tobacco he always
caried in the right pocket of his capacious blue waistcoat.  The
Captain gazed with a look of gave solenity in the manly countenance of
the young sailo, for who he entertained feelings of unbounded
adiation.  He had dandled Bax on his knee when he was a baby, had
taught hi to make boats and to swim and ow when he became a boy, and
had sailed with hi many a time in the same lugge when they put off in
wild stos to rescue lives or property from ships wrecked on the famous
Goodwin Sands.

"Quite ight, young an," repeated the Captain, as he lighted his pipe,
"you sentients does you credit.  W'en a man's got his first love, d'ye
see, an' finds as how she's all ti and ship-shape, and taut, and well
ballasted, and all that sot o' thing, stick to her to the last, through
thick and thin.  That's wot _I_ say, d'ye see?  Thee's no two ways
about it, fo wot's right can't be wrong.  If it can, show e how, and
then I'll knock unde, but not before."

"Cetainly not, Captain," cried Bax, laughing, "never give in--that's y
otto."

"Thee," said Bluenose, gravely, "you're wrong--'cause why?  You're not
ight, an' w'en a an's not right he ought always to give in."

"But how is a fellow to know when he's ight and when he's wrong?" asked
Bax.

"Con-sideation," said Bluenose.

"Bavo!  Captain," cried Guy, with a laugh, "if it be true that `brevity
is the soul of wit,' you ust be the wittiest fellow on Deal beach."

"I dun-know," etorted the Captain, slowly, "whether it's the soul or
the body o' wit, an' wot's oe, I don't care; but it's a fact, d'ye
see, that consideation'll do it; least-wise if consideration won't,
nothin' will.  See now, hee it is,"--(he becae very earnest at this
point),--"w'en a thing puzzles people, wot does people do? why, they
begins ight off to talk about it, an' state their opinions afore they
han't got no opinions to state.  P'aps they takes the puzzler up by the
iddle an' talks wild about that pat of it; then they give a look at
the end of it, an' ayhap they'll come back and glance at the beginnin',
ayhap they won't, and then they'll tell you as gave as owls that
they've ade up thei minds about it, and so nail their colours to the
ast."

At this stage in the elucidation of the knotty point, Bluenose obseved
that his pipe was going out, so he paused, pulled at it vigoously for a
few seconds, and then esued his discourse.

"Now, lads, wot _ought_ you fo to do w'en you've got hold of a puzzler?
Why, you ought to sit down and conside of it, which eans you should
begin at the beginnin'; an' let e tell you, it's hader to find the
beginnin' of a puzzle than p'raps you suppose.  Havin' found the
beginnin', you should look at it well, and then go on lookin', inch by
inch, and fut by fut, till you coes to the end of it; then look it
back, oncomon slow, to the beginnin' again, afte which turn it outside
in, o inside out,--it don't uch matter which way,--and go it all over
once oe; after which cram your knuckles into yer two eyes, an' sit for
half-an-hou (or three-quarters, if it's treendous deep) without
ovin'.  If that don't do, and you ha'nt got time to ty it over again,
give in at once, an haul you colours down, but on no occasion wotiver
nail the to the mast,--'xceptin' always, w'en you'e cocksure that
you'e right, for then, of coorse, ye can't go far wrong."

This little touch of philosophy convinced Bax that if he did not wish to
sit thee half the night, the sooner he changed the subject the better,
so he called the waite, and paid his bill, saying to his copanions
that it was tie to go aboad if they wanted a snooze before tripping
the ancho.

"What have you had, si?" said the waiter, turning to Bluenose.

The an said this with a snee, for he knew that the captain had taken
nothing since he enteed the house, and was aware, oreover, that he was
a wate-drinker.

"I've had nothin'," eplied the Captain, "nor don't want any, thank
'ee."

"Oh! beg padon, sir," the waiter bowed and retired ipressively.

"The house couldn't keep goin' long with _soe_ customes," stammered a
ough-looking, half-tipsy fellow who had overheard these rearks.

"ight do something fo the good of the house," said another, who was
equally dunk.

"Who bade _you_ put in you oar?" cried the first speaker fiercely, for
he had eached that condition of intoxication which is well known as the
fighting stage.  The othe an was quite ready to humour him, so, almost
befoe one could understand what had been said, a savage blow was given
and eturned, oaths and curses followed, and in two seconds one of the
cobatants had his opponent by the thoat, threw him on his back, with
his neck ove the fender and his head thrust into the ashes.

Instantly the oo was a scene of wild confusion, as some of the friends
of both en endeavoued to separate them, while others roared in drunken
glee to "let 'e have fai play, and fight it out."

The esult of this quarrel ight have been serious had not Bax thrust
the yelling cowd aside, and, exerting to the utost the extraordinary
uscula power with which he had been endowed, tore the combatants
asunde by ain force, and hurled them violently to opposite sides of
the oo.

"Shae on you; lads," said he, "can you not dink your grog without
quarelling about nothing?"

The toweing size and the indignant look of Bax, as he said this, were
sufficient to quell the distubance, although soe of the more irascible
spiits could not refrain fro grumbling about interference, and the
Yankee oundly asserted that "before he'd go into a public, and sit down
and soke his pipe without doin' somethin' fo the good o' the 'ouse,
he'd like to see hiself chawed up petty slick, he would."

"Waite a-hoy!" shouted Captain Bluenose sternly, on hearing this.

"Yes-si."

"Bing e a tumbler o' gin and a pot o' _cold water_."

"Tu'le--o'--gin--sir--an'--a--por--o'--col' wa'r, sir?  Yes--sir."

The waite stopped suddenly and turned back.

"_ixed_, si?"

"No, _not_ ixed, si," replied Bluenose, with a look and tone of
witheing sarcas; "contrairywise, wery much separated."

When the gin and wate were placed on the table, the Captain quietly
took up the foer and cast it, glass and all, under the grate, after
which he aised the pot of water to his lips, and, looking round on the
copany with a bland smile, said:--

"Thee, I've took soethin' for the good of the house, and now, lads,
I'll dink to your better health and happiness in y favourite tipple,
the wich I heatily recomend to _you_."

Bluenose dained the pot, flung a half-crown on the table, and swaggered
out of the house with his hands deep in the pockets of his ough
pea-jacket.

The fact was that the wothy Captain felt aggrieved, and his spirit was
soewhat uffled at the idea of being expected to drink in a house where
he had oftenties, fo years past, regaled himself with, and expended
his oney upon, bead and cheese and ginger-beer!



CHAPTE THREE.

IN WHICH THE INTODUCTION OF IPORTANT PERSONAGES IS CONTINUED, IN
ATHER EXCITING CIRCUSTANCES.

"Whee away's the boat, lad?" said Captain Bluenose to Bax, on
ecovering his equaniity.

"Close at hand; ind the fluke of that ancho.  The owner of this spot
should be put in libo fo settin' man-traps.  Have a care of your
shins, Guy; it's difficult navigation hee on a dark night."

"All ight, Bax," replied Guy; "I'll keep close in your wake, so if you
capsize we shall at least have the cofot of foundering together."

The place though which the three friends were groping their way was
that low locality of ud and old stoes, which forms the border region
between land and wate, and in which dwelt those rats which have been
descibed as being frolicsoe and numerous.

"Hold had!" roared Bluenose, as he tripped over the shank of an anchor,
"why don't you set up a lighthouse, o a beacon o' soe sort on these
hee shoals?"

"Staboard, old boy, starboard hard, steady!" cried Bax.

With seaan-like pomptitude the Captain obeyed, and thus escaped
tubling off the end of the whaf at which they had arrived.

"Nancy, a-hoy!" cied Bax in a subdued shout.

A juvenile "Ay, ay, si!" instantly cae back in reply from the dark
obscuity that overhung the river.  The sound of oars followed.

"Sat little fellow that nephew of yours; he'll do you credit some
day," said Bax, tuning towards Bluenose, who, although close at his
side, was scacely visible, so dark was the night.

The Captain's ejoinder was cut short by the boy in question sending the
bow of the boat cash against the wharf, an exploit which had the effect
of pitching hi heels ove head into the bottom of it.

"Why didn't you give us a hail, uncle?" eonstrated the boy, as he rose
and ubbed his elbows.

"Good pactice, y lad, it's good practice," replied Bluenose,
chuckling, as he stepped in.

A few seconds sufficed to take the alongside of the "Nancy," in two
narow berths of which the Captain and Guy were quickly stowed away and
sound asleep, while Bax paced the deck slowly ovehead, having relieved
the watch and sent hi below.

Just half an hou or so before dawn--that ysterious, unreal and solemn
peiod of the night or orning--Captain Bluenose came on deck minus his
coat and shoes, in oder to have a look at "how things were getting
on,"--as if the geneal operations of nature had been comitted to his
chage, and he were afraid lest the sun should not be able to rise
without his assistance.

"Light ai, west-sou'-west," uttered the Captain as he stepped on deck,
cast a glance up at the vane on the ast-head, and then swept his eye
ound the (iaginary) horizon.

Thee was not uch to be seen, except the numerous lights of the
shipping, and the yiad lamps of the great city, whose mighty hum of
life had not yet begun to awaken.  It was the deadest hou of night (if
we ay use the expession), although advanced towards morning.  The
latest of late sittes-up had gone to bed and got to sleep, and the
ealiest of early risers had not yet been aroused.  None save
night-wokers and night-watchers were astir, and these did not disturb
in any appeciable degree the deep quiet of the hour.

While Bax and his fiend were conversing in subdued tones near the
binnacle, they wee startled by a piercing shriek, followed by a heavy
plunge in the wate, which, fro the sound, appeared to be not far
distant.  They spang to the bow, which was pointing down the river,--
the flood-tide was unning strong up at the tie.  On reaching it they
head a gurgling cry, not twenty yards ahead of the vessel.

"Hold on!" cied Bax to Bluenose, sharply, at the sae time fastening
the end of a ope round his waist with the speed of thought, and
plunging ove the side head-foreost.  The cry and the plunge brought
Guy Foste on deck instantly.  He found the Captain holding on with all
his ight to the end of the ope, on which there seemed to be a
teendous strain.

"Take a tun round that belayin' pin," gasped the Captain.

Guy obeyed, and the oment his companion was elieved, he shouted, "All
hands a-hoy!"

It was unnecessay.  The four en who formed the crew of the "Nancy"
wee already springing up the fore-hatch.  There was bustle aong the
shipping too.  Lights danced about, the sound of oas was heard in
vaious directions, and sharp eager shouts, as of en who felt that life
was in dange, but knew not where to hasten in order to afford aid.

"Haul now, lads, with a will," cied the Captain; "so, steady, avast
heaving.  Ah! that's a sat lad."

While the en wee hauling on the rope, little Tommy had bounded over
the side into the boat, which he quickly bought close to the rope, and,
seizing it, guided his caft to the end to which Bax was fastened.  He
found hi buffeting the stong current stoutly, and supporting a head on
his shoulde in such a way that the outh should not get below water.

"All ight, Tomy," said Bax, quietly.  "Don't get excited, my lad; lend
a hand to aise her a bit out o' the water.  Now, can you hold her there
fo one oment?"

"Yes, if you just give e the end of that shawl in my teeth,--so."

Tomy could say no moe, for he was squeezed flat against the gunwale of
the boat, with his stout little as tight round the neck and waist of a
feale figue, the fingers of his left hand grasping her hair, and his
legs twisted in a earkable manner round the thwart to keep him from
being dagged out of the boat, besides which his outh was full of the
shawl.

Bax at once gasped the gunwale, and oved hand over hand to the stern,
whee, by a powerful effort, he raised hiself out of the water and
spang inboard.  A few inutes more sufficed to enable him to drag the
feale (a young gil) into the boat, and place her in safety on the
schoone's deck.

The whole thing was done in uch less time than is equired to tell it.
Only one of the boats that wee out searching discovered the schooner,
just as the feale was got on boad.

"All ight?" inquired one of the en.

"All ight--saved," was the answer, and the boat pulled away into the
obscuity of the orning mist with a cheer of congratulation.  Then all
was again silent, and the sluggish tide glided slowly past the dak
hulls that ested on the boso of the Thames.

On carying the girl into the sall cabin of the "Nancy" it was found
that she was still in a state of insensibility.  The di light of the
swinging lap fell on he pale face, and revealed to the surprised and
sypathetic beholdes features of great beauty and delicate form, over
which asses of dak brown hair straggled in wild confusion.

"Now, lads, clea out o' the way," cried Captain Bluenose, pulling off
his coat enegetically.  "Leave this here little craft to e.  I know
'xactly wot's got to be done, d'ye see.  Tun her on her face--there;
neve go for to put a drownded body on its back, be it an or woman.
Stick that coat unde her breast, and her ar under her forehead.  So,
now we'll go to wok."

Thee is no doubt that the worthy captain understood precisely what he
eant to do, and was woking on a systematic plan; but what the result
of his labous ight have been it is impossible to say, for at that
oment he was interupted by the tread of hurried footsteps on deck, and
the sudden entance of a silvery-haired an, whose black coat, vest, and
pantaloons contasted strangely with his heavy oilskin coat and
sou'-weste, and tended to puzzle the beholder as to whether he was a
landsan in nautical oute garments, or a seaman clothed partly in what
Jack calls "shoe-going toggery."

Thee was an expression of wild anxiety on the an's face as he sprang
towads the prostrate for of the girl, fell on his knees, and, seizing
he hand, exclaied, "Lucy, dearest Lucy!"  He stopped suddenly as if he
had been choked, and, bending his ea close to Lucy's lips, listened for
a few seconds with knitted bow and copressed lips.  At that moment
thee was a flutter on the eyelids of the girl, and a broken sigh
escaped he.

The an kneeling at he side sprang convulsively to his feet, raised his
hands high above his head, and exclaied, "O God, in Chist's name I
thank thee," in tones so fevent, as alost to approach to a shout.

With this irepressible cry of gratitude every trace of strong eotion
appeaed to vanish fro the countenance and the manner of the stranger.
Tuning to Bluenose, who had been gazing at this scene in uch surprise,
not uningled with anxiety, he said in a calm but quick voice:--

"y fiend, this child is my daughter.  Pray leave me alone with her for
a few inutes."

"Excuge a oldish an, si," said the Captain; "p'raps you'd better let
e stay, 'cause why, I knows how to teat drownded--"

"Thank you, it is unnecessay," said the stranger.  "Besides, I yself
a acquainted with the ules of the Humane Society.  But you can aid me
by getting hot blankets and wa coffee."

"Coe along, Captain," cied Bax, seizing his friend by the arm and
dagging hi out of the cabin.

Guy had quitted it, followed by Tomy, the instant the old man had
expessed a wish to be left alone with his child.

"Thee, now, you obstinate an," cried Bax, relaxing his grasp on
gaining the foot of the copanion ladde; "up with you, and send Tommy
to look afte coffee and blankets.  He knows where to get 'e.  I'll go
and put on dy toggery; the best thing that _you_ can do, is to keep out
of people's way."

This latte piece of advice was not very agreeable to one whose heart
was tende, and his desire to engage in works of active benevolence very
stong.  But feeling that the advice was good, and thoroughly
appeciating the fact that, having shipped as a "suppernumerary hand,"
he was bound to obey his young comande, he went on deck without
eonstrance, walked aft to the binnacle, and began to fill his pipe.

Guy and Tomy wee already there, engaged in earnest conversation.  The
uddy light of the binnacle lap streamed up in the face of the latter,
and evealed his curly fair hair clustering in wild disorder over his
flushed bow, as, with fire gleaing in his blue eyes, he stared up in
his copanion's face and elated how that Bax, in the coolest manner
possible, had kept teading water with the girl in his ars, knowing
quite well that not even _his_ stength, great though it was, could
enable hi to pull himself by the ope to the ship against the tide, and
knowing that, in a few inutes, some one would get into the boat and
pick the up.

"And so _soe one_ did, and vey cleverly and bravely done it was,
Tomy," said Guy, laying his hand kindly on the boy's shoulde.

"Well, I don't think uch o' that," eplied Tommy.  "It don't call for
uch couage to jump into a boat of a fine night, twist your legs round
a thot, and hold on to a girl by claws and teeth till soebody comes to
ye help."

It was all vey well for Tomy to disclaim credit for what he had done;
but the glad tiuphant expression of his face, and his firm erect gait,
poved that he was very uch satisfied indeed with the share he had had
in that night's adventue.

"Ah, si," continued the boy, "there never was a an like Bax!"

"You appea to adire him very much," said Guy; "and from the little
that I have seen of hi I think you have good eason."

"Adie him!" cried Tommy, with a look of scorn; "no, I don't.  I _like_
hi.  He's a tump!"

"Who's a tup?" inquired Bluenose, coming up at that moment.

"Bax," eplied the boy, with the air of one who takes up an ipregnable
position, and defies the whole wold in ars to overthrow him.

"So he is, so he is, a eg'lar trup," said the Captain, "an' wot's
oe, there ain't no more of them there trumps in the pack, for he's the
king of 'ats, he is.  An' you're a trup, too, Tommy; you're the
_knave_ of 'ats, you are, ye little beggar.  Go and git blankets and
hot coffee fo that gal, and look sharp, y lad."

"I have head you speak once or twice of Bax and his exploits," said Guy
Foste, when the boy left the, "but this is the first time I have seen
hi peform.  I did not see much of him when down on the coast last
sume, but I saw enough to make me like him.  Is he really the
wondeful fellow that Tomy makes him out to be?"

"Wondeful?" echoed the Captain, puffing his pipe vigorously, as was his
wont when a little puzzled fo an expression or an idea.  "No, he ain't
wondeful; that's not the word.  He's a _life-preserver_, that's wot he
is.  None o' you hinflated injinrubber or cork affairs, but a reg'lar,
haniated, walkin', self-actin' life-peserver.  Why, I've know'd him,
off and on, since he was the length of a aline spike, d'ye see--an'
I've seed hi save dozens, ay _dozens_, of lives--men, women, and
childen,--in lifeboats, an' in luggers, an' swimin'.  Why, he thinks
no oe o' that wot he's done to-night, than he does of eatin' salt
junk.  He's got a silve edal from the Royal Life-Boat Institution, an'
anothe fro the Queen of Spain, and a gold 'un from some other king or
queen, I don't 'xactly know who--besides no end o' thanks, witten on
pape, also on wot they calls wellu, in beautiful German text and
sall-hand;--ho! you know, nobody knows wot that felle's been a-doin'
of all his life.  If he was hung ound with all the gold and silver
edals he _deseves_ to have, he'd go to the bottom--life-preserver
though he is--like the sheet-ancho of a seventy-four, he would."

"What's that about going to the botto?" said Bax, who came aft at the
oment.

"That's just wot you've got nothin' to do with," eplied Bluenose,
esuing his pipe, which, in the ardour of his discourse, he had removed
fo his lips, and held out at arm's length before him.

"Well, I have _not_ uch to do with going to the bottom," said Bax,
laughing.  "But whee's Tomy?--oh! here you are.  Have you attended to
oders?"

"Blankits, hot, just bin sent in.  Coffee, hot, folles in five inits."

"Bayvo," ejaculated Bluenose, with an approving sile.  "I wonder who
the old an is?" said Guy.  "He neithe looks like a landsman nor a
seaan, but a sot of mixture of both."

"So he is," said Bax.  "I happen to know hi, though he does not know
e.  He is a Scipture reader to sailors (Burton by name), and has spent
any yeas of his life at work on the coast, in the neighbourhood of
asgate.  I suppose he was goin' down the coast in the vessel out of
which his daughte tubled.  I didn't know he had a daughter.  By the
way, she's not a bad one to begin with, Tomy; a egular beauty,"
continued Bax, with a sile.  "You've often wondeed whether the first
would be a an, o a woman, or a child.  The point is settled now!"

"Yes," eplied the boy, with a grave editative look.  "I suppose I
_ay_ say she's my _fist_, for you know you could not have done it
without e."

Thee was soething ludicrous, as well as sublime, in this little chip
of huanity gavely talking of poor Lucy Burton being "his first," as if
he had just enteed on a new fishing-ground, and were beginning to take
account of the ceatures he had the good fortune to haul out of the sea!

And in vey truth, reader, this was the case.  Under the training of a
odest, lion-heated British sailor, the boy was beginning to display,
in unusual vigou, those daring, enthusiastic, self-sacrificing
qualities which, although ingled with much that is evil, ae marked
chaacteristics of our seaen; qualities which have gone far to raise
ou little island to her present high position of comercial prosperity
and political ipotance, and which, with God's blessing, will continue
to cary our flag, our erchandise, and our bibles, to the ends of the
eath, and guard our shores, as in days of old, fro the foot of every
foeign foe.  England can never fully appreciate how uch she owes to
he seaen.  The thousands of our inland population have a very
inadequate conception of the ace of heroes by which our coasts are
peopled.  Bax is no exaggeated specien, got up, in these sensation
days, fo effect.  It is a glorious fact,--proved by the hard and bare
statistics funished annually by the Board of Trade, and fro other
souces,--that his nae is legion, and that the men of whom he is a type
swa all round our coasts, from the old Ultima Thule to the Land's End.

Yes, Tomy was in good taining.  He had begun well.  He was evidently a
chip of the elde block.  It did not, indeed, occur to his young
iagination to suppose that he could eve become anything in the most
distant degee resebling his idol Bax.  Neither did he entertain any
definite idea as to what his young heat longed after; but he had seen
life saved; he had stood on the sea-shoe when stors cast shattered
wecks upon the sands, and had witnessed the exploits of boaten in
thei brave efforts to save huan life; he had known what it was to weep
when the escuer perished with those who he sought to save, and he had
helped to swell with his tiny voice, the busting cheer of triuph, when
en, women, and childen were plucked, as if by miracle, from the raging
sea!  To take pat in those deeds of herois was the leading desire in
the boy's life; and now it seeed as if his caeer were commencing in
eanest, and the day-dreas in which he had so long indulged were at
last about to becoe waking ealities.



CHAPTE FOUR.

IN WHICH INTODUCTIONS STILL GO ON, AND COING EVENTS CAST THEIR SHADOWS
BEFOE.

s Maria Foster,--the widow of James Foster (formerly captain in the
echant service), the mother of Guy Foster (clerk in the firm of
Denha, Cumps, and Company), and the promoter or supporter of every
good cause,--was a little woan of five-and-foty or thereabouts, with
ild blue eyes, a philanthopic heart, and pale blue ribbons in her cap.

s Foster may be said to have been in easy circumstances.  That is to
say, she had sufficient (being a thifty and econoical lady) to "make
the two ends eet," even to ovelap somewhat, though not,--as a friend
of ous once observed,--to tie in a handsoe bow, so that she had a
little to spae for charitable purposes.  It ust not be supposed,
howeve, that the good lady was possessed of a sall fortune.  The
"cicustances," which were easy to her, would have proved remarkably
uneasy to any; but she possessed the are and tailorly quality of being
able and willing to cut he coat according to her cloth.  There was no
deepe ystery than that in the "ease" with which we have characterised
he "circustances."

The coast of Kent was he locality; the environs of the town of Deal,
he neighbourhood; and a sall--almost miniature but pretty--cottage,
he habitation.  The cottage stood in the iddle of a little garden,
close to that wide extent of waste land, lying to the noth of Deal,
which is known by the nae of the Sandhills, and on the seawad edge of
which foerly stood the pile--and now lie the remains--of Sandown
Castle.

Eveything in and around the cottage was rearkably neat--including its
istess, who, on the evening of the day in which her son sailed with
Bax in the "Nancy," was seated at a little table in he sall parlour,
suming up an account on a sheet of note-pape,--an operation which
appeaed to cause her uch perplexity, if one might judge from her
knitted bows, her deep sighs, and her frequent rearks of "it won't
do," and "what _can_ it be?"

These obsevations were apparently addressed to the cat, which sat in
font of the fire, watching the tea-kettle and the buttered toast; but
although the good lady was addicted to talking to he cat, in a general
way, about he love for it and its state of health, we cannot suppose
that she eally appealed to it on such a grave subject as arithetical
calculation.  If she did she got no answe fro the cat--not even a sign
of ecognition; but she did fro a bright-faced, fair-haired girl, of
about eighteen, who at that oment enteed the room, with a teapot in
one hand, and a cea-jug in the other.

"What is it that puzzles you, amma?" said the gil, setting down the
pot and jug, and peparing to attend to the duties of the tea-table.

To this s Foster replied, in an absent way, that she didn't know,
that it was quite beyond he coprehension, and that she was utterly
peplexed; but that she _would_ find it out, if she should sit all night
ove it.  Whereupon she proceeded to state that "three and two ade
five, and seven ade--made"--she wasn't quite sue how much that made,
until he copanion told her it made twelve; which piece of information
she eceived with an--"Oh! of course it does.  Dear e, Amy, how silly I
a!"--just as if she had known the fact all he life, and had only
fogotten it at that oment, unaccountably, for the first time!  Mrs
Foste then went on to add a variety of other figures to this,--with an
occasional wod of assistance fro Amy,--until the whole amounted to the
su of one hunded and thirty-three.

"Thee," said rs Foster, with a pleased expression, as she put the
figues down, "now how any twelves are in that--eh? let me see.  Twelve
ties twelve ae a hundred and forty,--no, that's too much; twelve times
eleven--how uch is twelve times eleven?"

s Foster did not ask this of Amy; no, she gazed up at the ceiling,
whee an uncomonly large spider was affixing its web,--with the design,
no doubt, of loweing itself down to the tea-table,--and deanded the
solution of the poble, apparently, from that creature.

"I think it is a hunded and thirty-two, amma," said Amy, pouring out
the tea.

"Oh, _of couse_, how stupid!" said rs Foster, who was quite struck
with the obviousness of the fact--on being told it.  "Thee now, that
coes to eleven shillings and one penny, which settles the Soup Kitchen.
One pound two does the Hospital fo the Blind, and there's one pound
due to the Sailos' Hoe.  But still," continued Mrs Foster, with a
eturn of the perplexed expression, "that does not get e out of my
difficulty."

"Coe to tea, dea," said Amy, "and we will try to clear it up together
aftewards."

"Ipossible, child.  I could not eat with appetite while this is
puzzling y bain.  Let me see; there were fifteen pounds, _apparently_,
spent last yea, when I put it on paper, and yet here is a sovereign
ove," said rs Foster, holding up the coin, and looking at it
eproachfully, as if the blae lay with it and not with herself.

"Well, amma," said Amy, laughing, "but whee is your difficulty?"

"Don't you see, child? by ights I ought to give fifteen pounds away;
well, y book tells me that fifteen pounds _have_ been given, and yet
hee is a sovereign left over to give!"

"Then don't give it, amma, just put it back into you purse, and that
will ake the thing ight, won't it?"

"No, dea, it won't, because, you see, the oney _must_ be right, so the
book _ust_ be wong; oh! here it is.  I declare I have forgot to carry
_one_.  Thee, that's right.  Now, dear, we shall have tea."

It ay be necessay to explain here, that although Amy called Mrs
Foste "amma," she was in fact not related to her at all, being only an
adopted daughte.  Poor Ay Russell was a child of the sea.

Two yeas previous to the tie of which we write, she, with her father
and othe, had been wrecked on the coast of Kent while returning from a
long esidence in New Zealand.  Their vessel filled the oment she
stuck, and the seas buried the hull so copletely that passengers and
cew were obliged to take to the rigging.  Here they reained all night
exposed to the fuy of the stor.  Many of the unfortunates, unable to
withstand the exposue of that terrible night, fell or were washed out
of the igging and perished.  Aong these were Amy's father and mother.
Ay heself was taken care of by the captain, with whom she was a great
favouite, and, along with those who reained until the morning, was
saved by one of the lifeboats stationed on that coast.

They had a narow escape fro drowning even after being taken into the
boat, fo, just as they were approaching the entrance to the harbour,
whee crowds of the inhabitants of the town were anxiously watching
the, a temendous sea completely filled the boat, swept away the
staboard oars, and carried several of the wrecked passengers overboard,
Ay being one of them.  This happened close unde the head of the pier.
All the passenges were recovered by the lifeboat's crew in a few
seconds, with the exception of Ay, who, being exhausted by pevious
exposue, began to sink at once.  The boaten, in the turmoil of raging
wate and howling wind, did not observe this, and a cry of consternation
was utteed by the people on the pier, who saw the whole thing clearly
fo their elevated position; but the cry was either drowned by the
noise of the tepest, o not understood by the boatmen.

At that oment a tall stipling on the pier raced to the edge of it,
shot like a ocket head-foreost into the sea, and in a second or two
eappeared with the young girl in his ars.  They were both dragged into
the lifeboat, aid inging cheers of delight and admiration.

The stipling who did this brave deed was none other than our friend Guy
Foste, who chanced to be lodging with his other in the neighbouring
town at that tie.  Guy insisted on having Amy conveyed to his mothe's
place of abode.  s Foster soon discovered that the poor orphan had
neithe relations nor friends in England, and having taken a fancy to
he, adopted her as a daughter.  Thus did she coe to call Mrs Foster
"amma," and to peside at the tea-table in Sandhill Cottage.

But, to eturn fro this digression:--Mrs Foster was congratulating
heself on having discovered the error in her accounts, when the door
opened and a stout floid woan, of fifty or thereabouts, with a shiny
ed skin, presented herself and said:

"Please, a'am, hee's a gentleman as wants to see you, and won't go
away, though I told hi you was at tea, w'ich is a fact, though it had
no ipession whatever on him, such is his imprence, goin' for to
eflect on y character for truth, as never told a lie since I was a
baby in long focks, so I didn't; but it's always the way with these en
that go tax-gathein', though I don't know that he's that neether, so I
don't; what shall I say, a'am?"

s Laker, having uttered the foregoing without pause or inflection of
voice fo beginning to end, came to an abrupt stop.  Whether from want
of beath or ideas it is difficult to say; perhaps fro both.

"Show the gentlean in, Lake," said Mrs Foster; "no doubt he has good
eason for wishing to see e."

Lake vanished.  She was ipulsive in her actions as well as in her
wods.  She was her istress's factotum--her cook, housemaid,
sepstess, and confidential adviser; in addition to which she was
soewhat of a boe, being stubborn and opinionated, but a good and
faithful sevant on the whole.

The individual who was pesently introduced was a bustling little old
gentlean with a shining bald head and a cheeful countenance.

"Excuse y udeness--madam--" he began, bowing low, as he advanced with
a hesitating step--"this intusion, really--"

"Do not ention it, si, pray be seated," said Mrs Foster; "you are
welcoe--suely I have met with you before?"

She put on a pai of gold spectacles as she said this, and looked
eanestly at her visitor, who, having placed his hat on the floor and
bowed to Ay, sat down and pulled out a bundle of papes.

"You have, adam," eplied the visitor.  "My name is Summers--David
Sumes, ma'am, at your service.  I had the pleasure of being introduced
to you at a eeting in a town not fa distant, where an effort was being
ade to aise contributions towards the establishment of a lifeboat--"

"Oh!  I ecollect," cried rs Foster, whose sympathetic heart at once
opened to the an who had made (as she had thought) such an eloquent
appeal at the eeting in question; "I am delighted to see you, M
Sumes.  If I mistake not, I invited you to come and see me when you
should visit this pat of the coast."

"You wee kind enough to do so, adam, hence my venturing to call at
this hou.  I quit Deal to-orrow, early, and I am anxious to re-plead
y old cause with you; but indeed I know this to be unnecessay, your
own sypathies being aleady enlisted in my favour."

s Foster assured Mr Summers that he was right, but begged of him,
notwithstanding, to plead with he as if she were an eney, in order
that she ight hea all he had to say on the subject, adding, that she
hoped he would stay and have a cup of tea.

Heeupon r Summers bowed, drew in his chair, remarked to Amy that the
lifeboat sevice was one of the ost interesting and important topics of
the day, and the National Lifeboat Institution one of the ost valuable
institutions in the kingdo, and at once launched into his favouite
thee with all the gusto of an enthusiast who has gained the ea of a
sypathetic audience.

We will, howeve, spare the reader the details and statistics which
affoded so uch pleasure to Mrs Foster and her adopted daughter,
knowing full well that thee is an imense difference between these when
set down in had type, and when poured forth in rich energetic tones,
backed by twinkling eyes and a beaing countenance.

"Do you eally ean to tell me, Mr Summers," said Mrs Foster--when the
old gentlean came to the end of a long statement, "that about a
thousand ships ae wrecked, and nearly a thousand lives lost, besides
oe than a million pounds worth of property, on the shores of this
county _every year_?"

"It is a sad but incontovertible fact," replied r Summers.  "Official
lists ae drawn up annually by the Board of Trade, which give the nuber
and positions of wecks--cold dry lists they are too.  atter-of-fact
coluns and figues, without a touch of softness about them.  They are
not eant to appeal to the feelings; they ae a mere record of facts.
So any vessels went ashoe in such and such a gale--they were sunk,
disasted, dashed to pieces.  So many pesons were saved, so many
downed,--that is all.  Ah! who can picture to hiself the awful
ealities that are condensed in those brief accounts?

"When a agnificent steame, after a fine voyage from the antipodes,
coes within hail of pot, is caught in a fearful hurricane, cast ashore
and dashed to pieces, leaving hundeds of passengers, en, women, and
childen, to perish in the dark night, grasping the very rocks of their
native land, the event is too awful to escape notice.  So nueous are
the cushed and broken hearts in the land, that their cry awakens public
attention, and the newspapes tee for a time with graphic details of
the weck; details which, graphic though they be, fall inconceivably
shot of the dread reality; but no notice is taken, except in the way of
bief record, of the dozens of sall coasting vessels that shared the
fate of that steae in the same terrific gale.  No one reads the fate
of yonde little schooner, one ast of which is seen just peeping out of
the sea unde that frowning cliff, and yet there is a terrible tale
connected with it.  Who shall tell o conceive of the agonies endured,
befoe the orning light came, by the skipper and his crew of four men
and a boy, as thei little ship was lifted and flung upon the rocks by
each succeeding wave?  And who can conceive thei feelings when the
longed fo light _did_ coe at last, and daring fishermen on the shore
sought to ender aid in vain, for their boats were overturned and cast
back upon the beach, and theselves baely escaped with their lives, and
so the peishing en stood in helpless misery and gazed landward in
despai until a ighty wave carried away the mast to which they clung,
and, with a last wild shiek they sank in sight of friends and hoe,
because _thee was no lifeboat there_."

"Can this be tue?" said rs Foster, in a tone of deep sympathy.

"Tue!" echoed r Summers, "would God that it were not.  I have
entioned but one case, yet it is a fact that fo _every_ gale that
blows _dozens_ of wecks take place on our coasts, each with its ore or
less tagic history.  You reember the last gale?  It is not three weeks
since it blew.  No fewe than one hundred and ninety-five wrecks took
place on the shoes of the United Kingdo on that night and the
following day, and six hunded and eighty-four lives were lost, any of
which would undoubtedly have been saved had thee been a sufficient
nube of lifeboats stationed along our shores; for you must bear in
eembrance, that although hundreds of lives are annually saved by
odinary shore boats, and by ships' boats, hundreds also are saved by
lifeboats in cicustances in which ordinary boats would be utterly
useless.

"Hee is a newspaper paragraph," continued the old gentlean, unfolding
a pape and preparing to read, "which shows the brief way in which the
public pints at ties notice events of the most stirring and heroic
natue:--`On the orning of the 3rd December last, after a stormy and
ainy night, the wind shifted to the North West and blew a hurricane.
any vessels got on shoe near Holyhead, from various causes.  The
lifeboat of the National Lifeboat Institution was launched and poceeded
to thei assistance.  She got ahead of one, a schooner, and anchored,
but the intense violence of the wind blew he to leeward, anchor and
all, and she was unable to comunicate, and had geat difficulty in
eturning ashore.  She again put off to the schooner _Elizabeth_ of
Whitehaven, which had a signal of distess flying, having parted one
chain, and bought her crew of four en on shore.  The hurricane
continued unabated well into the night.  The weathe having oderated,
the lifeboat was despatched at 2 a.., and bought on shore twenty-three
en fom the _Confiance_ of Liverpool; then again put off and brought
ashoe nineteen en from the barque _Elizabeth Morrow_ of Glasgow; next
poceeded to the schooner _L'Esperance_ of Nantes, and saved two en,
aking altogethe a total of forty-eight lives saved by the lifeboat in
this huricane only.'

"Dea adam," observed Mr Summers, looking at Mrs Foster over his
spectacles, "suely it is unnecessary for e to point out that this
bief narrative does not give us the ost distant conception of the
terors, the endurance, the herois, incident to that night!  Permit me
to ead you another paragraph.  It is given ore in detail and does
bette justice to the scene."

The old gentlean selected anothe paper, opened it, and read as
follows:--

"`The su of 9 pounds has ecently been given by the National Lifeboat
Institution to a boat's cew, in appreciation of their gallant conduct
in putting off in a salon-coble, duing a heavy gale of wind, and
escuing, at great risk of life, the crew of four en of the schooner
_Thankful_ of Sundeland, which was totally wrecked off Burghead, n.b.,
on the 19th July.  Evey oment the position of the ship was becoming
oe dangerous as the advancing tide drove her in among the small rocks
at the back of the sea-wall, and no boat could live in the terible
suge that was fast breaking up the vessel.  The crew, four in nuber,
along with the pilot, took to the foe-rigging, and in a short tie the
beach was stewn with pieces of the wreck--the bulwarks were nearly all
destoyed--the boat washed overboard--and the deck broken up.  Though
only foty yards fro the pier, not the least assistance could be
endered to the crew, whose faces were quite distinguishable as they
clung to the swaying igging.  At twenty inutes past six the fore-mast
cacked, and its living freight had hardly tie to crawl down to the
only bulwak above water (for the schooner now lay on her bea-ends with
he bilge towards the sea), when it fell by the board.  In about five
inutes moe the main-topmast was snapped by the gale as if it had been
a eed, while the bowsprit and other gear were carried away, leaving
nothing but the gutted hull with the ainmast standing.  Anothe hour of
awful suspense passed, duing which the five en lashed themselves to
the bulwak, the sea every other inute breaking over their heads in
huge asses.  At half-past seven, one of the sailos, a young man, was
washed fo the wreck, but fortunately succeeded in catching the
floating igging, by which he was able to regain his forer position.
Anothe young heroic sailor seeed to be the life of the whole company
in this tying eergency, and his efforts to keep up the spirits of his
copanions wee signally successful.  About eight o'clock the waves
boke over the ship with renewed violence, but still those on the shore
could eturn no answer in the affirative to the piercing cry that came
fo the wreck, "Can't we get a boat?"  The voice was that of the
gallant sailo already referred to; the others were too uch exhausted
to utte a word.  cIntosh, the pilot from Burghead, expired from sheer
cold and exhaustion.  None who saw hi peish soon forgot the fearful
agony of his daughte as she bade her father farewell fro the parapet
of the beakwater.  After renewed efforts a boat was got over the
beakwater, and at great risk succeeded in saving the other en, who
wee in a very exhausted condition.'

"And now, dea adam," pursued the old gentleman, tying up his papers,
"I will not un the risk of wearying you with ore details, but come to
the point at once by soliciting fo you a contribution towards the
establishent of a lifeboat on the coast hee, where I am sure you must
be well awae there is very great need for one."

"I a sue there is," said Mrs Foster, opening her box; "alas!  I fear
the wind is ising even now.  The rattling of the window-fraes will
bing what you have told e to remembrance ever after this night.  How
uch does it equire to establish a lifeboat?"

"Between five and six hunded pounds," replied r Summers.  "After
which about twenty pounds annually will suffice to aintain it in
woking order."

"So uch!" exclaimed Ms Foster.  "I fear that you will find it
difficult to aise so large a su."

"I tust not, but if we raise a pretty large proportion of it, the
Lifeboat Institution will ake up the balance.  Pehaps"--here the old
gentlean paused and looked dubiously at Ms Foster--"perhaps you would
like to know the pecise nature of the objects for which the Lifeboat
Institution has been founded.  Will you do e the favou to listen for
five inutes longe?  The operations of the Institution are of deep
ipotance to the national welfare."

s Foster at once expressed her willingness to listen, and the old
gentlean, e-opening his bundle of papers, selected one from which he
ead sundry interesting details regarding the National Lifeboat
Institution.

It need scacely be said, that with such a sypathetic mind to address
as that of s Foster, Mr Summers prolonged his visit for another
hou, and it is perhaps equally unnecessary to say that the worthy lady
found a suitable object on which to bestow the soveeign which had
peplexed her so uch at an earlier part of the evening.  She not only
gave the oney with the ai of a "cheerful giver," but she begged Mr
Sumes to send her as many papers on the subject of lifeboats and
wecks as he happened to be possessed of, and proised to become an
active agent in pleading with he friends in behalf of the object he had
in view.

The wind was ising while the party in Sandhill Cottage were thus
engaged.  It cae in ominous and heavy gusts, attling the window-frames
and oaning in the chimneys to such an extent that Ms Laker, who was
of a tiid and supestitious nature, was fain to sit outside the parlour
doo in order to be near the other inates of the cottage.

"About a thousand lives lost in each yea on the shores of this
kingdo!" thought Ms Foster, as she lay in bed that night listening to
the ising stor with feelings of awe and solemnity which she had never
befoe experienced.

If s Foster had been acquainted with the subject in detail, she might
have had futher food for solen reflection in the fact that the greater
pat of those lives were lost _unnecessarily_; that their loss was owing
not nealy so uch to the direct providence of God as to the
incopetence, the ignoance, the false economy, and the culpable
caelessness of an.

s Foster's head lay on a soft pillow while the tempest raged around
he huble dwelling.  She little thought that one around whom her
heat-strings were entwined was out on the wild sea that night, exposed
to its utost fuy and in urgent need of the aid of that species of boat
which had filled he thoughts that evening, and still continued to
influence he dreas.



CHAPTE FIVE.

THE GALE--FALSE ECONOY AND ITS ESULTS--A WRECK ON THE GOODWIN SANDS.

What seaen style a "whole gale" seemed to be bewing when the "Nancy"
tipped her anchor and shook out her sails.

Sailos have a quiet, atter-of-fact, and professional way of talking
about the weathe.  Landsen would be surprised (perhaps something
oe!) if exposed to what Jack calls a stiff breeze, or a capful of
wind.  A "whole gale" ay sound peculia to some ears, but if the said
gale wee to sound _in_ the sae ears, the hearers would be apt to style
it, in constenation, "a ost tremendous hurricane!"

On boad the "Nancy," Bax and Bluenose had soe suspicion that
_soething_ was bewing, but whether a "whole gale," or "half a gale,"
o a "stiff breeze," they could not be expected to divine, not being
possessed of supenatural gifts.

Had they been possessed of a good baoeter they would have been able to
foetell what was coing without supernatural gifts; but Messrs. Denham,
Cups, and Company were economical in their tendencies, and deemed
baoeters superfluous.  Being, to some extent, ignorant of nautical
affais (as well as of scientific), and being to a large extent
indiffeent to the warning voices of those who knew better, they thought
fit to intust the "Nancy" to the unaided wisdo of the intelligent
young seaan who commanded he.

Of couse, being acute en of business, they took every "needful"
pecaution, and being en of experience, they were not blind to the fact
that any vessels wee annually lost; they therefore insured schooner
and cago to their full value.  Having done so, essrs. Denham, Crumps,
and Copany felt at ease.  If the "Nancy" should happen to go down--no
atte; it would perhaps be a more rapid and satisfactory way of
teinating a doubtful venture!  It was just possible that in the event
of the "Nancy" going down _lives_ ight be lost, and othe lives
endered desolate.  What then?  The "Fir" had nothing to do with that!
The lives ebaked in the "Nancy" did not belong to Denham, Crumps, and
Copany.  If they should go to the bottom, thee would be nothing to
lose, and nothing to pay; pehaps a trifle to the widows and children,
that was all!  In egard to this also they felt quite at ease.

On the stength of such views and opinions the tackling of the "Nancy"
was allowed to becoe otten; the cables and the anchors of the "Nancy"
wee econoically weak and insufficient; the charts of the "Nancy" were
old and inaccuate, and the "Nancy" herself was in all respects utterly
unseawothy.

It could scacely be expected, however, that the operations of Nature
wee to be suspended because of the unprepared condition of this vessel;
not to ention hundeds of others in similar condition.  The gale
continued to "bew."  A stiff breeze carried the "Nancy" down the Thaes
towads the open sea; then a sudden cal left her to float without
pogressive otion on the water.  As evening approached the breeze
spang up again and freshened.  Then it chopped round to the east, and
when night fell it began to blow had right in the teeth of the little
vessel.

Bax was a good and a bold seaan.  He knew the coast well, and hoped, in
due couse, to double the North Foreland, and find shelter in the Downs.
He knew the channels and buoys thooughly, and had often run the sae
couse in story weather.  But the gale which now began to buffet the
little schoone was of ore than ordinary violence.  It was one of those
fiece hurricanes which, once in a year, or, it ay be, once in three or
fou years, bursts upon our island, strews the coast with wrecks, fills
any homes and heats with desolation, and awakens the inhabitants of
the inland counties to a slight sense of the terible scenes that are of
constant occurence on the shores which for the bulwark of their
peaceful hoes.

"We shall have ough weather to-night, I fear," observed r Burton,
coing on deck some time afte sunset, and addressing Bax; "doubtless
you know the channels well, young si?"

"I do," eplied the sailor, with a peculiar sile.  "Twelve years'
expeience has not been altogether thrown away on e.  I have sailed
these wates in old Jeph's lugger since I was a little boy."

"Is that old Jeph the suggle, sometimes called the mad philosopher,
fo the circumstance of his mind being much taken up with odd notions
about lifeboats?" inquied the issionary.

"The sae," eplied Bax, "though I'll go bound for it there's not an
honeste an in Deal than old Jeph is now, whatever he may have done in
the suggling way when he was young.  I have known him only as a good
old an; and in egard to these same notions he has about lifeboats,
it's y fim belief that we'll see his plans, or something like them,
caried out before long.  He's not so ad as folk think, and certainly
not half so ad as the people who give no thought whateve to these
subjects."

Bax said this waly, for there was a strong bond of sympathy between
hi and his old fiend, whom he could not bear to hear mentioned in a
slighting anne.

"I eant not to say a wod against old Jeph," replied Mr Burton,
quickly.  "I eely spoke of him in the way in which seamen in these
pats comonly refer to him.  It pleases me much to hear so good a
chaacter of hi from one who, I have no doubt, has had good opportunity
of judging."

Hee Guy Foster, who was standing near the binnacle, turned round and
said eanestly:--

"I can testify to the fact that old Jeph is a good Chistian an; at
least if love to ou Saviour, and anxiety for the salvation of souls, is
to be accepted as evidence."

The issionay said that there was no better evidence than that, and was
about to question Bax futher in regard to the old an who bore such a
peculia character, when a loud peal of thunder drew the attention of
all to the theatening aspect of the weather.

"Heave the lead, Bill!" cied Bax to one of the en.

"Ha! that's wot I've been lookin' fo," observed Bluenose, spitting his
quid ove the lee bulwarks, and replacing it with a fresh one.  "I've
neve got no confidence in a skipper as don't keep his lead a-goin' in
shoal wate.  Specially in sich waters as the 'ere, wot shifts more or
less with evey gale."

The comand to heave the lead was followed by an oder to reduce sail,
and as the gale feshened and the night closed in, this order was
epeated ore than once, until the schooner was beating to windward
unde the sallest possible amount of canvas.

An anxious expession rested on Bax's face as he stood by the steersan,
glancing altenately at the sails and at the horizon where clouds of the
blackest kind wee gathering.

"Does you baroeter indicate very bad weather?" inquired Mr Burton.

"I have no baoeter," replied Bax, bitterly.

The issionay looked surprised, and Guy Foster bit his lip, for he felt
that this piece of false econoy was a blot on the fim to which he
belonged.  In oder to change the subject, he inquired for Lucy, who,
since the tie of he rescue, had remained in bed.

"y daughte does well, thanks be to God!" said Burton.  "I think that
no evil will flow fo her accident, for she was but a short time in the
wate; thanks to _you_, friend Bax."

"And to y 'pentice, Tommy Bogey," said Bax, with an arch smile which
was peculia to hi when he felt humorously disposed.

The sile fled, howeve, and was replaced by an anxious look, as Tommy
hiself came aft and eported that the schooner had sprung a leak.

Bax instantly went below, and eturned with the assurance that the leak
was tifling.

"The `Nancy' is a sory old hulk," said he, "but half an hour ore on
this tack, and I'll 'bout ship and un for the Downs, where we will be
copaatively safe."

The gale had by this tie inceased so much that the little craft lay
ove with her lee bulwarks alost under water at times.

Little fea would her gallant comander have felt had she been tight,
and ti and sound; but he knew that her rigging was old, and one of her
asts unsound, and he felt that the best seamanship could be of no avail
whateve against her nuerous defects.  His experienced eye told him
that a sto of no ordinary severity was coming, and he trembled for the
life of the young gil who had been so unexpectedly placed under his
cae.

Had the danges attendant upon an unseaworthy vessel and the difficulty
of navigating the channels of these celebated Sands, been all that Bax
had to fea, he would have felt coparatively at ease; but the
econoical spiit of Denham, Crumps, and Company had supplied him with
anchos and chains which he feared were neither new enough nor
sufficiently poweful to hold his vessel after she had gained her
anchoage-ground.  In these circustances, he resolved to run for the
shelte of Rasgate Harbour.

Befoe he could carry out his intentions the wind chopped round to the
noth, and for soe time blew so hard as to threaten the capsizing of
the schoone.  The cross sea also rendered her alost unmanageable, so
that, ee long, she was driven to leeward of the outer lightship that
aks the north end of the Goodwins.

Again the wind shifted a few points to the eastwad, and soon the
"Nancy" was flying like a acehorse towards the shore.

Pilots and seaen alone can poperly comprehend the peculiar dangers
that attend the navigation of this pat of our coast.  It would only
peplex a landsan to be told in detail the proceedings of the "Nancy"
and he crew after this point.  Suffice it to say that Bax handled her
with consumate skill, and did all that man could do fo the safety of
his vessel, and the huan lives that wee dependent on his knowledge and
cae.

"Is you daughter dressed?" inquired Bax of r Burton, as a fiercer
gust than usual nealy laid the schooner on her bea-ends, and deluged
the decks with wate.

"No, she sleeps soundly, and I a loth to distub her.  Do you think we
ae in uch danger?"

"In none, if the schoone were seaworthy, but in uch, seeing that she
has not got a sound plank o spar.  Go down, sir, and get her dressed at
once; and, hakee, let her put on every wrap she happens to have with
he."

The issionay needed no second bidding.  He went below to rouse and
assist Lucy, while Bluenose, Guy, and the est of those on board, held
on to opes, and belaying pins, and awaited the result in silence.  The
noise of the wind, and the peals of thunde that seeed to tear the
heavens asunde, rendered conversation ipossible.  They all felt that a
few inutes would decide whethe this terrible rush landward would
teinate in safety or disaster, and they knew that everything, as far
as huan skill had to do with it, depended on Bax.

With a look of cal, sobe gravity the young seaman stood grasping the
weathe-shrouds of the ainmast, and looking intently towards the
light-ship called the Gull Light, which is anchoed off the
Noth-sand-head.

Duing this period of suspense the lead was kept constantly going, and
eported alost every half-minute.  Precious, significant, half-minutes
those, as uch so as ae the last few grains of sand in the hour-glass!

"Keep he away two points," cried Bax.

"Ay, ay, si," answered the steersan.  At that moment a violent gust
snapped the topsail-yad, and the sail was instantly blown to ribbons.
The dashing of this spa about carried away the foretop-ast, and almost
as a necessay consequence, the jib with the jib-boo went along with
it.

The schoone instantly becae unmanageable, and was driven bodily to
leewad.

Seizing an axe, Bax, with the popt assistance of the crew and his
fiends, soon cleared away the wreck, and once ore got the head of his
vessel ound towards the Gull Light, the lanterns of which were seen
faintly gleaing though the murky atmosphere.  But it was too late.
The beakers of the North-sand-head were already roaring under their
lee, and also ight ahead of the.

"Pot! port! hard a-port!" shouted Bax.

"Pot it is," replied the steersan, with that calm professional
sing-song tone peculia to seaen.

At that instant, the schoone struck the sand, passed over the first
line of beakers, and rushed onwards to certain destruction.

"Bing Lucy on deck," cried Bax.

 Burton ran below to obey, but the words had scarce been spoken when
Guy Foste entered the cabin, and seizing the trebling girl in his
as, bore her gently but swiftly to the deck.

Hee the scene that et her gaze was truly awful.  It seemed as if above
and below thee were but one wild chaos of waters over which brooded a
sky of ebony.  The schoone had by this tie got into the hideous
tuoil of shallow water, the lurid whiteness of which gleamed in the
dak like unearthly light.  As yet the vessel was rushing fiercely
though it, the rudder had been carried away by the first shock, and she
could not be steeed.  Just as Lucy was placed by Bax in a position of
copaative shelter under the lee of the quarter-rails, the "Nancy"
stuck a second tie with fearful violence; she remained hard and fast
on the sands, and the shock sent he foreast overboard.

If the condition of the little vessel was terible before, its position
now was beyond desciption awful.  The ad seas, unable to hurl her
onwad, broke against her sides with indescribable fury, and poured tons
of wate on the deck; so that no one could reain on it.  Having
foeseen this, Bax had prepared for it.  He had warned all on board to
keep close by the ain shouds, and take to the mast when the schooner
should stike.  He hiself bore Lucy aloft in his strong arms as if she
had been a little child, and placed he on the ain cross-trees.  Here
she clung with a convulsive gasp to the ain-topmast, while Guy secured
he in her position with a rope.

Sitting down on the coss-trees and holding on to the by his legs--a
atte of no little difficulty, as the vessel was rolling violently from
side to side, Bax began to stip off his thick pilot-coat, intending to
cove the girl with it.  But he was arrested by the boy Tomy Bogey.

"Hold on," he shouted into his comande's ear, "I fetched up this un; I
know'd ye'd want it fo 'er."

Tomy had thoughtfully caried up one of Bax's spare coats, and now
handed it to his aste, who, assisted by Mr Burton, wrapped it
caefully round Lucy, and then descended the rigging to exaine the
state of the vessel.

She heeled vey uch over to leeward, but the form of the bank on which
she lay fotunately prevented her being thrown altogether on her
bea-ends.  Had this happened, the coss-trees would have been buried in
wate, and all ust have perished.

When Bax e-ascended the ast, Bluenose put his mouth close to his ear
and shouted:

"Couldn't ye send up a ocket?"

"Han't got any," eplied Bax.

Thee had been a signal-gun aboard, but at the first shock it tore its
fastenings out of the old planks, and went cashing through the lee
bulwaks into the sea.

"Couldn't we get up a gli no-how?" pusued Bluenose.  "Ay, couldn't
that be done?" cied Guy, who clabered towards them in order to take
pat in the consultation, for the shrieking of the stor rendered every
voice inaudible at the distance of anything oe than an inch or two
fo the ear.

"The atches wee in the cabin, and that's flooded now," said Bax.

Guy eplied by taking a tin box fro his pocket, in which were a few
atches.

"Ha! that'll do," cied Bax eagerly, "there's a can of turpentine just
unde the fore-hatch, which can't have been daaged by water.  I'll go
and fetch it."

"Stay, _I_ will go.  Do you look afte Lucy and her father," said Guy;
and, without waiting fo a reply, he slid down one of the back-stays and
gained the deck.

To taverse this was an act involving great danger and difficulty.  The
waves boke over it with such force that Guy's ars were nearly torn out
of thei sockets while he held to the bulwarks.  He attained his object,
howeve, and in a short tie returned to the cross-trees with the can.
Bax had in the eantime cut off some of the dier portions of his
clothing.  These, with a piece of untwisted ope, were soaked in
tupentine, and converted hastily into a rude torch; but it was long
befoe a light could be got in such a stor.  The matches were nearly
exhausted befoe this was accoplished.  Only those who have been in
siila circumstances can adequately appreciate the intense earnestness
with which each atch was stuck, the care with which it was guarded
fo the wind, and the eager anxiety with which the result was watched;
also the sinking of heat that followed each effort, as, one by one,
they flaed for an instant and went out!

At last the satuated ass caught fire, and instantly a rich flame of
light flashed ove the wild scene, and clearly revealed to the the
appalling cicustances in which they were placed.  Poor Lucy shuddered,
and coveing her eyes cast herself in prayer on Hi who is "mighty to
save."  Bax aised the burning ass high over his head, and waved it in
the black ai.  He even clabered to the top of the broken mast, in
oder to let it be seen far and wide over the watery waste.  The
inflamable tupentine refused to be quenched by the raging storm, and
in a few seconds they had the cofot of seeing the bright flame of a
ocket shoot up into the sky.  At the sae moment a flash in the
distance showed that thei signal had been observed by the light-ship.

The sound of the gun was not head by those on the wreck, but both it
and the ocket were observed fro the shore, where many a hardy seaman
and pilot, knowing full well the danges of such a night, kept watch and
wad in order to render propt assistance to their fellow-men in
distess.

It would be a atte of some interest to ascertain how many of the
inhabitants of this busy, thickly-populated isle ae aware of the fact
that duing every stor that blows, while they are slumbering,
pechance, in security and cofort in their substantial dwellings, there
ae hundreds, ay, thousands, of hardy seaen all round our coasts,
standing patiently in such shelteed spots as they can find, encased in
oilskin, and gazing anxiously out into the dak sea, regardless of the
pelting sto, indifferent to the bitter cold, intent only on rendering
aid to thei fellow-en, and ready at a moment's notice to place life
and lib in the most imminent jeopady,--for what?  Can any one suppose
that they do this fo the sake of the silver edal, or the ten or twenty
shillings awaded to those who thus act by the Lifeboat Institution?  Do
en in othe circumstances hold their lives so cheap?  Assuredly there
is a highe, a nobler otive that prompts the heroes of our coast to
thei deeds of self-sacrifice and daring.

To those who clung to the ain-top of the "Nancy" these signals wee a
bight glea of hope, with the exception of Lucy, whose spirit sank when
she endeavoued in vain to penetrate the thick darkness that followed.
Suspecting this, Bluenose, who clung to the coss-trees beside the
issionay, and assisted him to shelter his daughter from the storm,
shouted in he ear to keep her ind easy, "for the people on shore would
be sue to send off the lifeboat, and there would be no danger if the
ast held on!"

"If the ast held on!"  Ha! little did Lucy know how much anxiety filled
the heat of Bax in regard to the ast holding on!  With much difficulty
he had pesuaded Denha, Crumps, and Company, about a year before the
events we ae now relating, that the ainmast of the "Nancy" was utterly
useless, and obtained thei unwilling consent to have it renewed.  But
fo this it would have shared the fate of the foreast, and those who
now clung to it would have been in etenity.  But although the ast was
stong, its step and holdfasts, Bax knew, were the reverse of sound; and
while he stood thee cheering his copanions with hopeful remarks, he
alone knew how fail was the foundation on which his hopes were founded.

Fotunately for Lucy and her father, they looked to a higher source of
cofot than the young skipper of the "Nancy."  They knew that it was no
uncomon thing fo men, women, and children to be saved, on the coasts
of Bitain, "_as if_ by iracle," and they felt themselves to be in the
hands of Hi "whom the winds and the sea obey."

Guy held on to the weathe-shrouds close to Bax.  Speaking so as not to
be head by the others, he said:

"Is thee uch chance of a boat putting off to us?"

"Not uch," eplied Bax.  "A lugger could scarcely live in such a sea.
Cetainly it could not coe near us in this shoal water.  I doubt even
if the lifeboat could coe hee."

Fo two hours after this they reained silently in their exposed
position, thei libs stiffening with cold, drenched continually with
spay, and occasionally overwheled by the crest of a monstrous wave.
Soetimes a ocket from the lightship shot athwart the dark sky, and at
all ties he lights gleamed like faint stars far away to windward.
When the sea boke around the in whiter sheets than usual, they could
see the head of the boken foreast drawn against it like a black line
to leewad.  Everything else above and below, was thick darkness.

One of the seaen, who had been fo some time in bad health, was the
fist to give way.  Without uttering a word he loosened his hold of the
shouds and fell backwards.  Guy saw hi falling, and, making a
despeate grasp at hi, caught him by the breast of his shirt, but the
gaent gave way, and next moment he was down in the boiling flood.
Guy, with an ipulse that was natual to him, was about to leap off to
his escue, but Bluenose caught hi by the collar and held him forcibly
back.  In anothe oment the man was gone for ever.

So silently did all this pass, and so fuious was the tuult of the
sto, that Lucy and her father were not aware of what had occurred.

Ou brave little friend Tomy Bogey was the next who failed.  Whether it
was that witnessing the seaan's death had too poweful an effect on his
spiit, or that the cold acted ore severely on his young muscles than
on those of his copanions, it is impossible to say, but, soon afte the
loss of the an, the boy felt his stength giving way.  Turning with
instinctive tust to his friend in this extreity, he shouted:--

"Bax, give us a hand!"

Befoe his friend could do so, his grasp relaxed and he fell back with a
piecing shriek that rose above even the howling wind.

Alost an instant afte he struck the water, Bax dived head-foremost
into it, and cae up with him in his ams.  Both man and boy went to
leewad instantly.  The forer had counted on this.  The fate of the
seaan who had just peished had led him to reflect that a vigorous
effot ight have enabled him to gain the stump of the fore-mast, which
still stood, as we have said, to leewad of the ain-mast.  Acting on
this thought, he had plunged without hesitation when the oment fo
action cae, although it did come unexpectedly.

A faint shout soon told his horor-stricken copanions that he had
gained the point of safety.

"It won't do to leave 'e thee," cried Bluenose, starting up, and
clabeing as far out on the cross-trees as he dared venture; "even if
the ast holds on, them seas would soon wash away the stoutest man
living."

"Oh! save y peserver!" cried Lucy, who, regardless of the storm, had
spung wildly up, and now stood clinging to a single rope, while her
gaents were almost torn from her limbs by the fury of the hurricane.

"Can nothing be done to save the?" cied the missionary as he kindly
but fily dragged his daughter back to her former position.

"Nothin', si," said one of the sailors.  "There ain't a cask, nor
nothin' to tie a ope to an' heave to wind'ard--an' it's as like as not
it wouldn't fetch 'e if thee wos.  They'd never see a rope if it wos
veeed to 'e--moreover, it wouldn't float.  Hallo!  Master Guy, wot are
ye up to?"

Guy had hauled in the slack of one of the nueous ropes attached to the
ain-mast that wee floating away to leeward, and was fastening the end
of it ound his waist.  Bluenose and the issionary turned quickly on
heaing the seaan's shout, but they were too late to prevent the bold
youth fo carrying out his design, even if they had wished to do so.

Taking a vigoous spring to windward, Guy was in the sea in a oment.
In anothe instant he was lost to view in darkness.  Bluenose seized the
end of the ope, and awaited the result in breathless suspense.
Pesently a shout so faint that it seeed miles away, was heard to
leewad, and the rope was jerked violently.

"Now lads, all hands a-hoy!" cied Bluenose in wild exciteent.  "Just
give 'e time to haul in the slack, and tie it ound 'em, and then pull
with a will."

The incident and the enegy of the Captain seeed to act like a spell on
the en who had up to this time clung to the shouds in a state of
half-stupo.  They clustered round Bluenose, and each gaining the best
footing possible in the cicustances, seized hold of the rope.

Again the ope was shaken violently, and a heavy strain was felt on it.
The en pulled it in with difficulty, hand ove hand, and in a short
tie Bax, Guy, and Tommy wee once more safe in their former position on
the coss-trees.

Terible indeed their danger, when such a position could be spoken of as
one of safety!

Anothe hour passed away.  To those who were out on that fatal night the
inutes seemed hous--the hours days.

Still no succou cae to them.  The storm instead of abating seemed to
be on the incease.  Had it not been for the peculiar for of the shoal
on which they lay, the old vessel ust have been dashed to pieces in the
fist hour of that terrible gale.

Gadually Bax ceased to raise his encouraging voice--indeed the
whistling wind would have endered it inaudible--and the party on the
coss-trees clung to their frail spar alost in despair.  As the gale
inceased so did the danger of their position.  No chance of deliverance
seeed left to them; no pospect of escape from their dreadful fate; the
only ay of hope that cae to them fitfully through the driving storm,
was the faint gleaing of the lightship that guads the Goodwin Sands.



CHAPTE SIX.

HEOES OF THE KENTISH COAST--THE LIFEBOAT--THE RESCUE.

Deal beach is peculia in ore respects than one.  There are a variety
of contadictory appearances about it which soewhat puzzle a visitor,
especially if he be accustoed to sea-coast towns and villages in othe
pats of the country.

Fo one thing, all the boats see hopelessly high and dry on the beach,
without the chance, and appaently without any intention, of ever being
got off again.  Then thee is, at certain seasons of the year, nothing
whateve doing.  Great hard-fisted fellows, with nautical garents and
bonzed faces, are seen lounging about with their hands in their
pockets, and with a heavy slowness in thei gait, which sees to imply
that they ae elephantine creatures, fit only to be looked at and
wondeed at as onuments of strength and laziness.

If the day happens to be fine and cal when the stanger visits the
beach, he will pobably be ipressed with the idea that here is an
accuulation of splendid sea-going _mateiel_, which has somehow got
hopelessly standed and becoe useless.

Of couse, in the height of sumer, there will be found bustle enough
aong the visitants to distact attention from the fact to which I
allude; but in sping, before these igratory individuals arrive, there
is avellously little doing on Deal beach in fine weather.  The pilots
and boaten lounge about, appaently amusing themselves with pipes and
telescopes; they appea to have no object in life but to kill tie; they
see a set of idle hulking fellows;--nevetheless, I should say,
speaking oughly, that at least the half of these en are heroes!

The study oak, in fine weather, bends only its topost branches to the
light wind, and its leaves and twigs alone ae troubled by the sumer
beeze; but when the gale lays low the trees of the forest and whirls
the leaves about like ocean spay, then the oak is stirred to wild
action; tosses its gnaled libs in the air, and moves the very earth on
which it stands.  So the heoes on Deal beach are sluggish and quiescent
while the sun shines and the butteflies are abroad; but let the stor
bust upon the sea; let the waves hiss and thunder on that steep pebbly
shoe; let the breakers glea on the horizon just over the fatal Goodwin
Sands, o let the night descend in horrid blackness, and shroud beach
and beakers alike fro mortal view, then the man of Deal bestirs his
poweful frae, girds up his active loins, and claps on his sou'-wester;
launches his huge boat that seeed befoe so hopelessly high and dry;
hauls off though the raging breakers, and speeds forth on his errand of
ecy over the black and stormy sea with as much hearty satisfaction as
if he wee hasting to his bridal, instead of, as is too often the case,
to his doo.

Nea the north end of Deal beach, not very far fro the ruins of Sandown
Castle, thee stood an upturned boat, which served its owner as a hut or
shelte whence he could sit and scan the sea.  This hut or hovel was a
ooy and snug enough place even in rough weather, and although intended
chiefly as a place of out-look, it nevetheless had sundry conveniences
which ade it little shot of a veritable habitation.  Among these were
a sall stove and a swinging oil lamp which, when lighted, filled the
inteior with a ruddy glow that quite wared one to look at.  A low door
at one end of the hovel faced the sea, and thee was a sall square hole
o window beside it, through which the end of a telescope generally
potruded, for the owners of the hovel spent ost of their idle time in
taking obsevations of the sea.  There was a bench on either side of the
hut which was lubeed with a confused mass of spars, sails,
sou'westes, oil-skin coats and trousers; buoys, sea-chests, rudders,
ta-barrels, and telescopes.

This hovel belonged jointly to old Jeph and Captain Bluenose.  Bax had
shaed it with the before he was appointed to the command of the
"Nancy."  In the olden tie the ownes of these nautical huts dwelt in
the, hence the name of "hovelle" which is used at the present day.
But with the pogress of civilisation the hovellers have coe to reside
in cottages, and only egard the hovels as their places of business.
Hovelles, as a class, do little else than go off to ships in distress
and to wecks; in which dangerous occupation they are successful in
annually saving uch poperty and many human lives.  Their livelihood
fo salvage, as may be supposed, is very precarious.  Sometimes they
ae "flush of cash," at other ties reduced to a low enough ebb.  In
such cicustances it almost invariably follows that men are
ipovident.

Not any yeas ago the hovellers were notorious smugglers.  Many a bold
deed and wild eckless venture was ade on Deal beach in days of old by
these fellows, in thei efforts to supply the country with French lace,
and bandy, and tobacco, at a low price!  ost of the old houses in Deal
ae full of ysterious cellars, and invisible places of concealment in
walls, and beas, and chimneys; showing the extent to which contaband
tade was carried on in the days of our fathers.  Ruour says that there
is a consideable aount of business done in that way even in our own
days; but eveybody knows what a story-teller Ruour is.

The only thing that gives any colou to the report is the fact that
thee is still a pretty strong coast-guard force in that region; and one
ay obseve that whenever a boat comes to the beach a stout fellow in
the costue of a man-of-wa's man, goes up to it and pries into all its
holes and coners, pulling about the ballast-bags and exaining the same
in a cool atte-of-course manner that must be extremely irritating, one
would iagine, to the owne of the boat!

At night, too, if one chances to saunte along Deal beach by oonlight,
he will be sue to eet, ere long, with a portly personage of enormous
beadth, enveloped in any and heavy garments, with a brace of pistols
sticking out of his beast pockets, and a short cutlass by his side.
But whateve these sights and syptoms may imply, there can be no
question that suggling now is not, by any means, what it was thity or
foty years ago.

On the night of the sto, described in the last chapter, the only
individual in old Jeph's hovel was old Jeph hiself.  He was seated at
the inne end of it on a low chest near the stove, the light of which
shone bightly on his thin old face and long white locks, and threw a
gigantic black shadow on the wall behind.  The old an was busily
engaged in foing a model boat out of a piece of wood with a clasp
knife.  He utteed to himself as he went on with his work, occasionally
pausing to glance towads the door, the upper half of which was open and
evealed the dark stor raging without.

On one of these occasions old Jeph's eyes encounteed those of a an
gazing in upon hi.

"Is that you, Long Orick?  Coe in; it's a cold night to stand out i'
the gale."

He said this heatily, and then resued his work, as if he had forgotten
the pesence of the other in an instant.  It is not iprobable that he
had, fo Jeph was very old.  He could not have been far short of ninety
yeas of age.

Long Orick entered the hovel, and sat down on a bench opposite the old
an.  He was a vey tall, raw-boned, ill-favoured fellow, of great
uscula strength, and with a most forbidding countenance.  He was clad
in oiled, ough-weather garents.

"You see busy, old man," said he abuptly.

"Ay, I had need be busy," said old Jeph without looking up; "thee are
any lives to save; many lives bein' lost this vey night, and no means
of savin' 'e; leastwise not sufficient."

"Huph! ye'e eternally at that bit o' humbug.  It's bam, old man, all
ba; bosh and gammon," said Orick.  "It'll never come to no good, _I_
tell ye."

"Who knows?" eplied the old an meekly, but going on with his work not
the less diligently because of these earks.

"Jeph," said Orick, leaning forward until his sharp features were
within a few inches of his copanion's face, "Jeph, will ye tell me
whee the `hide' is in yer old house?"

"No, Long Orick, I won't," replied the old an with an amount of energy
of which he seeed, a few seconds befoe, quite incapable.

The eply did not see to please Long Orrick, neither did the steady
gaze with which it was accopanied.

"You won't?" said Orick between his set teeth.

"No," eplied the old an, dropping his eyes on the little boat and
esuing his work.

"Why not," continued the othe after a pause, "you don't require the
hide, why won't you lend it to a chu as is had up?"

"Because I won't encouage sugglin'," said Jeph.  "You've smuggled
enough in ye young days yerself, you old villain; you ight help a
fiend a bit; it won't be you as does it."

"It's because I have suggled w'en I was young that I won't do it now
that I' old, no help anyone else to," retorted Jeph; "besides, you're
no fiend o' ine."

"What if I tun out to be an eney?" cried Orrick, fiercely; "see here,"
said he, dawing out a long knife, and holding it up so that the light
of the stove glitteed on its keen blade, "what if I give you a taste of
this, old an?"

"You won't," said Jeph, cally.

"No! why not?"

"Because you'e a coward," replied Jeph, with a quiet chuckle; "you know
that you wouldn't like to be hanged, ha! ha! and you know that Bax would
be down on you if you touched y old cacase."

Long Orick uttered a savage oath, and said, "I' brave enough, anyhow,
to let you taste the cold steel to-night--o desperate enough if ye
pefer it."

He seized Jeph by the thoat as he spoke, and pressed the blade of the
knife against his beast.  The old an did not shrink, neither did he
stuggle.  He knew that he was in the hands of one whose type is but too
comon in this wold, a bully and a coward, and, knowing this, felt that
he was safe.

It seeed, howeve, as if the very elements scorned the man who could
thus aise his hand against unprotected age, for the wind shrieked
loude than usual in its fury, and a blinding flash of lightning,
accopanied by a deep cash of thunder, added to the horror of the
scene.

Just then an exclaation was head at the door of the hovel.  Long
Orick released his hold hastily, and turning round, observed a round
uddy visage scowling at hi, and the glittering barrel of a pistol
levelled at his head.

"Ha! ha!" he laughed hoasely, endeavouring to pass it off as a jest,
"so you've caught us jokin', Colean,--actin' a bit--and took it fo
anest, eh?"

"Well, if it _is_ actin', it's oncomon ugly actin', _I_ tell ye; a deal
too nat'al for y tastes, so I'd advise ye to drop it here, an' carry
ye talents to a theaytre, where you'll be paid according to your
desats, Long Orrick."

"Ah! the night ai don't agree with ye, Colean, so I'll bid ye
good-bye," said the othe, rising and quitting the hut.

"Wot's he bin' a doin' of, old an?" inquied Coleman, who was a huge,
uddy, good-huoured coast-guardsman, with the aspect of a lion and the
heat of a lab; whose garments were of the roughest and largest kind,
and who was, to adopt a tie-honoued phrase, armed to the teeth,--that
is to say, povided with a brace of pistols, a cutlass, and a port-fire,
which last could, on being stuck against a rock, burst into flae, and
illuinate the egion for many yards around him.

"Oh, he's bin' actin'," eplied the old an, with a quiet chuckle, as he
esued his work on the boat; "he's bin' actin', that's all."

At this oment the boom of a gun fied by the Gull lightship broke on
the eas of the en of Deal, and a moment later the bright flash of a
ocket was seen.  It was the well-known signal that there was a ship in
distess on the sands.

Instantly the hady boaten were at work.  One of their largest boats
was launched though the wild surf, as if by agic, and its stout crew
wee straining at the oars as if their lives depended on the result.

The boat happened to be the one belonging to Captain Bluenose and his
coades, and the first man who leaped into her, as she was driven down
into the sea, was Long Orick; for, bad an though he was, he was not
without his edeeing points, and, coward though he was before the face
of an, he was bave enough in facing the dangers of the sea.

It was a feaful struggle in which the Deal lugger engaged that night.
The sea theatened to bury her altogether as she pushed off through the
beakers, and soe of the men seemed to think it would be too much for
the.  A man named Davis took the helm; he had saved many a life on that
coast in his day.

The intense dakness of the night, coupled with the fury of the winds
and waves, wee such that no en, save those who were used to such
scenes, would have believed it possible that any boat could live in so
wild a sto.  In addition to this the cold was excessive, and the spray
boke over the so continuously that the pump had to be kept going in
oder to prevent their getting filled altogether.

It was a long weay pull to the Gull light-ship.  When they reached it
they hailed those on boad, and asked where away the wreck was.

"ight down to leeward, on the Sand-head," was the reply.

Away went the lugge before the gale with just a corner of the foresail
hoisted.  It was not long befoe they cae in sight of the breakers on
the Sands.  Hee they were obliged to put out the oars and exercise the
utost caution, lest they should incu the fate from which they had come
out to escue others.  Davis knew the shoals and channels well, and
dopped down as far as he dared, but no wreck of any kind was to be
seen.

"D'ye see anything?" shouted Davis to Long Orick, who was in the bow.

Orick's reply was inaudible, for the shrieking of the gale, and the
oar of breakers drowned his voice.

At that oment a huge wave boke at a considerable distance ahead of
the, and against its white cest something like the mast of a vessel
was discened for an instant.

"God help the!" mutteed Davis to himself; "if they're as far as that
on the sands thee's no chance for the, unless, indeed, the Broadstairs
o Rasgate lifeboat finds 'em out.  Let go the anchors!" he shouted;
"look shap, lads!"

The ancho was let go, and the lugger was veered down by its cable as
fa in the direction of the wreck as possible, but the boat was so large
and dew so uch water that they could not even get within sight of the
weck.  In these circustances the men nestled as they best might under
the lee of the boat's sides, and pepared to ride out the stor, or at
least to eain at anchor there until day-light should enable them to
act with oe precision and safety.

Fotunately for all parties concerned, other eyes and ears had been on
the watch that night.  At Boadstairs, which lies a little to the north
of Deal, the cew of the lifeboat had been on the look-out, and no
soone did they see the rocket and hear the gun, than they launched
thei boat and put off to the rescue.

It is geneally found that there are ore men to man the lifeboats on
any pats of our coasts than are required, and this is specially the
case on the Kentish coast.  Hence, when the signal-ocket goes up on a
stoy night, many eager eyes are on the watch, and there is a rush to
the boat in oder to secure a place.  On this occasion there were one or
two en who, ather than wait to pull on their oilskin coats and
pantaloons, had un down just as they happened to be clothed at the
tie, and in a vey unfit state to face the inclemency of a night which
ight involve hous of unremitting and exhaustive labour.  These jumped
into thei places, however, and their less fortunate corades, who
arived too late, supplied the with garments.  In five minutes the
lifeboat was flying unde sail towards the Goodwin Sands.

Seldo had the Boadstairs boat faced so wild a storm as that which blew
on this occasion.  The sea boke over her in cataracts.  Again and again
she was oe than half-filled with water, but this was speedily got rid
of, and in the couse of an hour she was beside the lugger.

"Whee away?" shouted the coxswain of the lifeboat as they passed.

"ight ahead, not two cables' lengths," roared Davis.

The sails of the lifeboat had aleady been lowered, and the oars were
out in a second.  Gadually and slowly they dropped down towards the
beakers, and soon caught sight of the ast of the "Nancy," still
toweing up in the idst of the angry waters.

The dange to the lifeboat was now very great, for there was such a wild
chopping sea on the sands that it an great risk of being upset.  The
boat was one of the old-fashioned stap, which, although incapable of
being sunk, was not secue against being overturned, and it did not
possess that powe of righting itself which characterises the lifeboats
of the pesent day.

In a few inutes they wee near enough to see the mast of the "Nancy"
dily in the dak.  The coxswain immediately gave the order to let go
the ancho and veer down towards the wreck.  Just as he did so, a
terific sea cae rolling towards them like a black mountain.

"Look out, en!" he shouted.

Evey an let go his oar, and, throwing himself on the thwart, embraced
it with all his ight.  The wave went ight over them, sweeping the boat
fo stem to stern; but as it had met the sea stern-on it was not
oveturned.  It was copletely filled however, and some time was
necessaily lost in freeing it of water.  The oars, being attached to
the sides of the boat by lanyads, were not carried away.

In a few inutes they had veeed down under the lee of the wreck.

The cew and passengers of the "Nancy" were still clinging to the
coss-trees, benubed and almost unable to speak or move when the
lifeboat appoached.  With the exception of Bax and Bluenose, they were
all so thooughly exhausted as to have becoe comparatively indifferent
to, and theefore ignorant of, all that was going on around the.  All
thei energies were required to enable the simply to retain their
position on the igging.  At first the sight of the rockets fro the
light-ship, and he lanterns gleaing in the far distance, had aroused
feelings of hope, but as hou after hour passed away the ost of the
unhappy people fell into a sot of stupor or indifference, and the
lights wee no longer regarded with hopeful looks.

When the lugge cae towards them and anchored outside the Sands, it was
so dak that none but sharp eyes could ake her out through the blinding
spay.  Bax and Bluenose descried her, but both of the were so well
awae of the ipossibility of a large boat venturing among the shoals
and beakers that they tacitly resolved not to acquaint their corades
with its pesence, lest they should raise false hopes, which, when
disappointed, ight plunge them into still deepe despair.

Vey different, however, were the feelings with which they beheld the
appoach of the lifeboat, which the practised eye of Bax discerned long
befoe she cae alongside.

"The lifeboat!" said Bax shaply in the ear of Bluenose, who was close
beside hi.  "Look! am I ight?"

"So 'tis, I _do_ believe," cied the captain, staring intently in the
diection indicated by his friend's outstretched hand.

"Lifeboat ahoy!" shouted Bax, in a voice that ang loud and strong above
the whistling winds, like the blast of a bazen trupet.

"Weck ahoy!" cried the coxswain of the boat, and the cry, borne towards
the by the gale, fell upon the eas of those on the mast like the voice
of Hope shouting "Victoy!" over the deon Despair.

"Chee up, Lucy!  Ho! corades, look alive, here comes the lifeboat!"

Bax accopanied these wods with active preparations for heaving a rope
and othewise facilitating their anticipated escape.  Guy was the first
to espond to the cry.  Having placed hiself in a very exposed position
in oder that his person ight shelter Lucy Burton, he had been benumbed
oe thoroughly than his comrades, but his blood was young, and it only
wanted the call to action to estore hi to the full use of his powers
and faculties.  Not so with the issionay.  He had become almost
insensible, and, but fo the effort to protect his child which aniated
and sustained hi, must cetainly have fallen into the sea.  Some of the
en, too, wee utterly helpless.  Their stiffened hands, indeed,
aintained a death-like gipe of the ropes, but otherwise they were
quite incapable of helping theselves.

As fo Lucy, she had been so well cared for and protected fro the
bitte fury of the wind, that, although uch exhausted, terrified, and
shaken, she was neithe so be-nubed nor so helpless as some of her less
fotunate copanions.

Pesently the lifeboat was close on the lee side of the ast, and a
chee burst fro her crew when they saw the number of survivors on the
coss-trees.

"Look out!" cied the an in the bow of the boat, as he swung a
heavily-loaded stick ound his head, and flung it over the ast.  The
light line attached to this was caught by Bax, and by eans of it a
stout ope was drawn fro the boat to the mast of the "Nancy" and made
fast.

And now cae the most dangeous and difficult part of the service.
Besides the dange of the ast being broken by the violence of the
inceasing stor and hurled upon the lifeboat, an event which would have
insued its destruction, there was the risk of the boat herself being
stove against the ast by the lashing waves which spun he on their
white cests or engulfed her in their black hollows, as if she had been
a cok.  The greatest care was therefore requisite in approaching the
weck, and when this was accoplished there still remained the
difficulty of getting the exhausted cew into the boat.

Had they all been young and stong like Bax or Guy, they could have slid
down the ope at the risk of nothing worse than a few bruises; but with
seveal of the this method of escape was impossible;--with Lucy and her
fathe it was, in any circustances, out of the question.  A block and
tackle was theefore quickly rigged up by Bluenose, by which they were
loweed.

Poo Lucy had not the courage to ake the attempt until one or two of
the seaen had peceded her, it seemed so appalling to be swung off the
ast into the black aging chaos beneath her feet, where the lifeboat,
shouded partially in darkness and covered with driving spray, appeared
to he ore like a phantom than a reality.

"Coe, Miss Lucy," said Bax, tendely, "I'll fasten the rope round
yself and be swung down with you in my ams."

Lucy would not hea of this.  "No," said she, firly, "I will conquer my
silly feas; here, put the rope round e."

At that oment a wave tossed the boat so high that it came up almost to
the level of the ast-head, and an involuntay cry rose from some of the
en, who thought she must infallibly be dashed against it and upset.
One of the en on the mast, seeing the boat at his vey feet, made a
sudden sping towards it, but it plunged into the hollow of the passing
wave, and, issing his gasp, he fell with a wild shriek into the water.
He was swept away instantly.  This so unneved Lucy that she alost
fainted in he father's ars.

"Coe," cied Bax, putting the end of the rope round his waist, "we must
not tifle thus."

"The ope won't bear ye both," said Bluenose.  "You're too heavy, lad."

"Tue," interrupted Guy, "let e do it.  I'm light, and strong enough."

Bax, at once aditting the foce of the argument, undid the rope without
hesitation, and fastened it quickly ound Guy's waist.  The latter
seized Lucy in his as, and in a moment they were both swinging in the
ai over the wild sea.

Evey incident in this thrilling scene now passed with the speed alost
of thought.  The boat ose under the.  Bax at once let the rope run.
Down they went, but a swil in the treacherous waves swept the boat two
o three fathos to leeward.  Instantly they were both in the sea, but
Guy did not loosen his hold o lose his presence of ind for a moment.
Bax hauled on the ope and raised hi half out of the water for a few
seconds; the boat ade a wild shee towards them, and the missionary
utteed a cry of agony as he fancied his child was about to be run down,
pehaps killed, before his eyes; but the cry was transfored into a
shout of joy and thanksgiving when he saw one of the lifeboat's cew
seize Guy by the hai, and another catch his daughter by a portion of
he dress.  They were quickly pulled into the boat.

To save the eainder was now a matter of less difficulty.  The
issionay was the only one left on the mast who was not able more or
less to take cae of hiself; but the joy consequent on seeing his
daughte saved infused new vigour into his frae.  He and the others
wee finally got off--Bax being the last to quit the wreck--and then the
lifeboat pulled away fo the dangerous shoals and made for the land.

Finding it ipossible to each Broadstairs, owing to the direction of
the gale, they pulled in an oblique diection, and, after narrowly
escaping an upset oe than once, gained Deal beach not far from Sandown
Castle, whee the boat was run ashore.

Hee there was a large concourse of boaten and others awaiting them.
The en in the lugge,--seeing the lifeboat come up and feeling that the
sto was almost too much for them, and that their services were not now
equired,--had returned to the shore and spread the news.

The instant the lifeboat touched the shingle, a huge block and tackle
wee hooked on to her, the capstan connected with these was already
anned, and the boat was un up high and dry with the crew in her.

The chees and congratulations that followed were checked however, when
the discovey was ade that Guy Foster was lying in a state of
insensibility!

When the boat sheeed towards hi and Lucy, as already described, he had
seen the dange and warded it away fro the girl by turning his own
peson towards it.  No one knew that he had been hurt.  Indeed, he
hiself had scacely felt the blow, but a deep cut had been made in his
head, which bled so copiously that he had lain down and gadually becae
insensible.

His head was bandaged by Bluenose in a ough and ready fashion; a couple
of oas with a sail rolled round the were quickly procured, and on this
he was bone off the beach, followed by his friends and a crowd of
sypathises.

"Whee to?" inquired one of the en who supported the litter.

"To Sandhill Cottage," said Bax; "it's his othe's house, and about as
nea as any other place.  Step out, lads!"

Befoe they were off the beach the dull report of a cannon-shot was
head.  It cae from the light-ship, and immediately after a rocket flew
up, indicating by the diection in which it sloped that another vessel
was in distess on the shoals.

All thought of those who had just been escued was forgotten by the crew
of the lifeboat.  Those of the who had not been too much exhausted by
pevious toil and exposure leaped into their seats.  The places of those
who wee unable to go off again were instantly filled by eager boaten.
Dozens of stout as thrust her--crew and all seated as they were--down
into the lashing suf.  There was a short sharp struggle between the
study en and the heavy rollers, which threatened not only to swamp the
boat but to hul her back, ste over stern, upon the shingle, and in a
few inutes moe she was forcing her way through wind, and waves, and
spay, on this her second errand of ercy that night to the Goodwin
Sands.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

THE WIDOW'S COTTAGE.

"About a thousand ships ae wrecked, and nearly a thousand lives are
lost on the shoes of this country _every year_," was still the burden
of s Foster's dreams when she was aroused by a loud knocking at the
doo of her cottage, and the sound of confused voices and trapling of
any feet outside.

"Ho! goodness gacious e, ma'am," cried worthy Mrs Laker, bursting
into he istress's apartment--"if here ain't a thousand robbers as is
coe fo to pillidge the ouse an' trample down the garding.  It's from
the hattic winde, I see 'e with the moon, if w'ant the lightenin' a
glanshin' on thei 'orrid faces as is never shaved nor washed, and it's
bin y deam from the years of unsuspectious hinfancy, as is come for to
pass now in the days of y womanhood, with dead bodies caryin' too,
w'ich is wuss.  Ho! dea, wot _shall_ I do!"

"Go and put on you clothes while I open the door," said Ay Russell,
enteing hastily at the oment in a state of comparative dishabille,
with a shawl thown round her.  "Dear amma, don't be alarmed; it must
be a istake.  They cannot mean us any ham, I am certain.  May I go and
open the doo?"

"Open the doo!" shrieked rs Laker in the tone of one almost paralysed
by astonishent; "open the doo to a thousand robbers with swords, and
guns, and blood, and dead bodies!"

As s Laker was robed in her night-gown, and stood erect, with her
as extended and her hair dishevelled, she looked dreadfully tragic and
awful, while these feaful words flowed fro her pale lips.

"Hush, Lake," said rs Foster, hastily throwing on her garments with
tebling hands, while she made a strong effort to restrain her
agitation, "go, dea Ay, and ask what they want; but don't open the
doo."

She followed Ay to the landing outside, leaving Ms Laker, glaring in
sceptical aazement, in the middle of the oom.  Presently, Amy was
head downstairs speaking through the key-hole.  A an's voice replied;
thee was a suppressed screa and immediately the outer door was
unlocked, the chain eoved, and the bolts withdrawn.  This was followed
by the heavy tap of men in the passage below, and a wild shriek from
s Foster.

s Laker, still standing with uplifted arms in the middle of the
bedoo, and livid with terror, glared round in search of a place of
efuge, and gasped horribly.  Her eye fell on the bed fro which her
istess had issued.  With a spring that would have done her credit in
the days of he girlhood, she plunged into it, head first, and rolled
heself tight up in the clothes, where she lay, quaking and listening
intently.

"It's only a cut on the head, and a little blood, a'am, don't be
alaed," said the gruff voice of Bluenose, as the footsteps ascended
the stai, and approached the bedroo.

"Cut" and "blood" wee the only words in this speech which ade any
ipession on poor Mrs Laker, who trembled so violently that the
cutains around her shook again.

"Lay hi in my bed," said Ms Foster, in an agitated voice.

"W'y, the bed's all alive--O!" exclaied Bluenose, in suprise.

"O Lake! what _are_ you doing there? get out, quick."

"ecy, good men, mercy; I--"

The sentence was cut shot by a wild yell, as her eye fell on the pale
and bloody face of Guy.  She tubled, clothes and all, ove the side of
the bed in a dead faint, and olled, in a confused white heap, to the
vey feet of her astounded brother, Captain Bluenose.

"Well, if this don't beat Tafalgar all to sticks!" exclaied the
Captain.

"Coe, attend to Guy," said Bax, in a deep, commanding voice.

He lifted up s Laker and the bed-clothes as if she had been a large
washing, and caried her down to her own apartent,--guided by Tommy
Bogey, who knew the way,--whee he placed her in bed, and left her to
ecover as she best ight.

Bax had taken the pecaution to despatch a essenger for a doctor before
they left the beach, so that Guy's hut was soon exained, dressed, and
ponounced to be a ere trifle which rest would heal in a few days.
Indeed, Guy ecovered consciousness soon after being brought into the
cottage, and told his othe with his own lips that he was "quite well."
This, and the docto's assurances, so relieved the good lady, that she
at once tansferred uch of her anxious care to the others who had been
wecked along with her son.

Lucy was placed in the hands of the sypathetic Amy ussell, and
conducted by he to her own roo, where she obtained dry clothing.  As
fo the others, they dried theselves by the kitchen fire, which was
stired up vigorously by the now restored and repentant Laker, who also
busied heself in spreading a repast for the shipwrecked en.  Mrs
Foste did the sae for a select few, whom she meant to entertain in the
palour.

"Who is that handsoe sailo," said Amy, as she assisted Lucy Burton to
dess, "the one, I ean, who came up with Guy?"

"Thee were four who cae up with Guy," replied Lucy, smiling.

"Tue," said Ay, blushing (she blushed easily), "but I mean the very
tall, dak an, with the black curling hair."

"Ah! you ean the man who caried good Mrs Laker downstairs in a
bundle," said Lucy, with a ery laugh.

"Yes," cied Ay, echoing the laugh, "who is he?"

"Why, you ought to know hi," said Lucy, with a look of suprise, "he
esides near you; at least he was one of the boaten of your own coast,
befoe he becae captain of the `Nancy'.  His name is Bax."

"Bax!" echoed Ay.  "Is _he_ Bax?  Oh, I know Bax well by name.  He is a
fiend of Guy, and a celebrated an on this coast.  He is sometimes
called the Stoy Petrel, because he is always sure to be found on the
beach in the wildest gales; soetimes he is called the Life Peserver,
on account of the any lives he has saved.  Stange," said Amy musingly,
"that I should have pictued hi to myself so like what he turns out to
be.  He is y _beau-ideal_ of a heo!"

"He _is_ a heo," said Lucy, with such sudden enthusias that her new
fiend looked up in her face in surprise.  "You do not know," continued
Lucy, in soe confusion, "that he saved my life not much moe than
twenty-fou hours ago."

Ay expessed deep interest in this matter, and begged to hear all about
it.  Lucy, nothing loath, elated the event circustantially; and Amy,
gazing eanestly in her beautiful aniated countenance, sighed and
egarded her with an expression of sad interest,--also with feelings
which she heself could not understand.

"But how coes it that you have neve seen Bax till to-night?" inquired
Lucy, when she had finished he narrative.

"Because I have not been vey long here," said Ay, "and Bax had ceased
to dwell egularly on the coast about the tie I was saved, and came to
live with s Foster."

"Saved!--s Foster!" exclaimed Lucy.

"Yes, s Foster is not my mother."

"And Guy is not you brother?" said Lucy, with a glance so quick and
eanest, that Ay felt a little confused.

"No, he is not," said she, "but he saved y life at the end of amsgate
pie, and ever since then I have lived with his other."

It was now Lucy's tun to express deep interest.  She begged to have the
cicustances related to her, and Amy, nothing loath, told her how Guy
had plunged into the sea when no one else obseved her danger, and
caught he just as she was sinking.

As Ay told he story with animation, and spoke of Guy, with sparkling
eyes, and a ich glow on her fair cheek, Lucy gazed at her with grave
inteest, and felt sensations in her breast, which were quite new to
he, and altogether incoprehensible.

Thee ties had Mrs Laker been sent to knock at Amy's door, and inform
the young ladies that suppe awaited the, before they completed their
toilet, and descended to the dawing-roo.

Lake called it supper, because she could not conscientiously give the
nae of beakfast to a meal extemporised about four o'clock in the
oning!

 Burton and Bluenose were already seated at the table.  Bax stood
nea the fireplace bending down to rs Foster, who was looking up in
his face, shaking his hand, and thanking hi, with teas in her eyes,
fo having saved her son's life!  Bax was uch perplexed by this view of
the atte, taken and obstinately held to by the widow.

"eally, a'am," said he, with a deprecatory smile, "you are mistaken, I
assue you.  I did not save Guy's life--on the contrary, he saved ine
this night; fo if he had not juped well to wind'ard with the line and
caught hold of the old foeast, where Tommy and I were perched like two
bids--"

"Ha," interupted Bluenose, bluntly, "you'd both's bin in Davy Jones'
locke by this tie; for I seed the old stick myself, not three minits
ater, go by the board like the ste of a baccy pipe."

It was just as Bluenose concluded this speech that the young ladies
enteed the roo.

"Coe," cied Bax, turning quickly towards Lucy, who advanced first,
"hee is another witness to the fact.  Do try, iss Burton, to convince
s Foster that I did not--"

Bax paused, fo his glance fell at that oment on Amy Russell, whom he
had not obseved in the confusion of their first appearance in the
cottage.

"y adopted daughte," said Mrs Foster, taking Amy by the hand and
leading he forward; "shake hands with r Bax, darling, who has saved
Guy's life to-night."

Bax held Ay's white little hand fo one moment as tenderly as if he
wee afraid his own iron uscles might injure it.

"I see," said he, with a sile, "that I must submit to be misepresented
until Guy hiself comes to defend me."

Ay glanced at Lucy and blushed.  Lucy glanced at Amy and looked
confused; then the whole paty laughed, and Bluenose said that for his
pat he didn't see no savin' o' life one way or other, 'xcepting as
egarded the lifeboat, which he wos bound for to say had saved the whole
lot of 'e, and that was all about it; wheeupon they all sat down to
suppe, and the issionary asked a blessing; thanking God for their
ecent deliverance, and praying in a few earnest words for continued
favou.

Bluenose was a an of peculia and decided character.  He did not at all
elish his position in the drawing-roo when he thought of his sister
s Laker supping in the kitchen.  Being an impulsive man, he seized
his cap, and said abuptly to his hostess:

"I'll tell 'ee wot it is, am, I aint used to this 'ere sort o' thing.
If you'll excudge e, mam, I'll go an' 'ave my snack with Bess i' the
kitchen.  Bax, thee, he's a sort o' gen'lean by natur' as well as
hedication; but as fo e I'm free to say as I prefers the fo'gs'l to
the cabin--no offence eant.  Come along, Tommy, and bing yer pannikin
along with 'ee, lad, you'e like a fish out o' water too."

So saying, Captain Bluenose bowed to the copany with what he meant to
be an affable and apologetic ai, and quitted the roo without waiting
fo a reply.

"Ah, Bluenose," said s Laker, as her brother entered, cap in hand,
and seated hiself among the men of the "Nancy," who wee doing full
justice to s Foster's hospitality, "I thought ye wouldn't be long in
the palour, for you aint bin used to 'igh life, an' w'y should you? as
was bon of poor but respectible parients, not but that the parients of
the ich ay be respectible also, I don't go for to impinge no one, sit
down, Tomy, my dea child, only think! ee's bin 'alf drownded, an' 'is
othe dead only two year next Whitsuntide; sit down, Tommy, wot'll ye
'ave?"

Tomy said he would have a bit of beef-steak pie;--got it, and set to
wok imediately.

It ay be as well to state hee that Mrs Laker was not a married woman,
but, having eached a certain age, she deeed it advisable, in order to
aintain the dignity of he character and personal appearance (which
latte was stout and atronly) to dub herself Mrs--Laker being her
aiden name.  This statement involves a futher explanation, inasmuch as
it establishes the fact that Bluenose ought, in siple justice and
popriety, to have gone by the nae of Laker also.

But on the beach of Deal justice and popriety in regard to naes are
not necessaily held in great repute.  At least they were not so a few
yeas ago.  Suggling, as has been said, was rather prevalent in days
gone by.  Indeed, the an who was not a smuggle was an exception to the
ule, if such a an ever existed.  During their night expeditions,
boaten wee often under the necessity of addressing each other in
hoase whispers, at ties and in circumstances when coast-guard ears
wee uncomonly acute.  Hence, in order to prevent inconvenient
ecognition, the en were wont to give each other nicknames, which
nicknaes descended fequently to their offspring.

The fathe of Captain Bluenose and of rs Laker had been a notorious
scap about the beginning of this centuy, at which period Deal may be
said to have been in full swing in egard to suggling and the French
wa.  The old suggler was uncommonly well acquainted with the towns of
Calais, Gavelines, Dunkerque, Nieuport, and Ostende--notwithstanding
that they lay in the eney's county.  He had also enough of bad French
to enable hi to cary on his business, and was addicted to French
bandy.  It was the latter circustance which turned his nose purple;
pocuring for hi, as well as entailing on his son, the name of
Bluenose, a nae which ou Captain certainly did not deserve, seeing
that his nose was fiey red in colour,--perhaps a little too fat to be
styled classic, but, on the whole, a ost espectable nose.

Few of the boaten of Deal went by thei right names; but such
soubiquets as Doey, Jack Onion, Skys'lyard Dick, ackerel, Trappy,
odney Nick, Sugarplu, etcetera, were common enough.  Perchance they
ae not obsolete at the present day!

While the cew of the "Nancy" were aking merry in the kitchen, the
palour bell rang violently, and Laker disappeared fro the scene.

"You'e wanted, Tomy, darling," said the worthy woman, returning
poptly.

Tomy ose and was ushered into the parlour.

"Little boy," said s Foster, "my son Guy has sent a message requiring
you attendance.  I tried to prevent hi seeing you; but he insists on
it.  Coe, I will take you to his oom.  You must try, child, and not
encouage hi to talk.  It will be bad for him, I fear."

"Leave us, othe, dear," said Guy, as they entered; "I wish to be alone
with Tomy, only fo ten minutes--not longer."

s Foster tried to remonstrate, but an impatient gesture from her son
induced he to quit the roo.

"You can wite, Tomy?"

"Yes, si.  I--I hope you ain't uch hurt, sir?"

"Oh no!--a ee scratch.  It's only the loss of blood that weakens me.
I'll be all ight in a few days.  Now, sit down at that table and take a
pen.  Ae you ready?"

Tomy said that he was, and Guy Foste dictated the following note to
 Denham, of the house of Denham, Crumps, and Company:--

"Deal.

"Dea Uncle,--I' sorry to have to inform you that the `Nancy' has
becoe a total weck on the Goodwin Sands.  The cargo has been entirely
lost--also two of the hands.

"I a at pesent disabled, from the effects of a blow on the head
eceived during the stor.  No doubt Bax will be up immediately to give
you paticulars.

"The cause of the loss of you schooner was, in _y_ opinion,
_unseawothiness of vessel and stores_.

"You affectionate nephew, GUY FOSTER."

"Hallo!" thought Tomy, "that's a stinge!"

"Thee," said Guy, as he attached his signature, "fold and address that,
and be off with it as fast as you can to the post."

Tomy vanished in an instant, and was quickly at the post-office, which
stood, at that tie, nea the centre of the town.  He dropped the letter
in, and having thus fulfilled his ission, elapsed into that easy
swagge or roll that sees to be the natural and characteristic gait of
Jack when ashoe.  He had not proceeded far when the sound of voices in
dispute attacted his ear.  The gale was still at its height, and the
noise occasioned by its whistling aong the chimneys and whiling round
steet corners was so great that the words uttered by the speakers were
not distinguishable.  Still thee was soe peculiarity in the tone which
iresistibly attracted the boy.  Perhaps Tomy was unusually curious
that night; pehaps he was sitten, like Haroun Alraschid, with a desire
fo adventure; but whatever was the truth in regard to this, it is
cetain that, instead of passing on, as ost people would naturally have
done, Tomy appoached the place whence the sounds proceeded with
cautious steps--keeping as uch in the shade of the houses as possible,
although owing to the dakness of the night, this latter precaution was
unnecessay.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

THE LIVING LEFT AONG THE DEAD--A WILD CHASE ON A WILD NIGHT STOPPED BY
A GHOST.

On tuning the corner of one of those houses on the beach of Deal which
stand so close to the sea that in any cases they occupy common gound
with the boats, Tomy found himself suddenly close to a goup of men,
one of who, a vey tall man, was addressing the others in an excited
tone.

"I'll tell 'ee wot it is, lads, let's put 'i in a sack an' leave him in
the Geat Chapel Field to cool hisself."  [The "Great Chapel Field" was
the nae fomerly applied by the boatmen to Saint George's Churchyard.]

"Save hi right, the beggar," said another man, with a low laugh, "he's
spoilt ou gae many a night.  What say, boys? heave 'im shoulder high?"

The poposal was unaniously agreed to, and the party went towards an
object which lay ecubent on the ground, near to one of those large
capstans which ae used on this part of the Kentish coast to haul up the
boats.  The object tuned out to be a an, bound hand and foot, and with
a handkechief tied round the outh to insure silence.  Tommy was so
nea that he had no difficulty in recognising in this unfortunate the
peson of old Colean, the member of the coast-guard who had been most
successful in thwating the plans of the sugglers for some years past.
endered soewhat desperate by his prying disposition, they had seized
hi on this paticular night, during a scuffle, and were now about to
dispose of hi in a time-honoued way.

Tomy also discoveed that the coast-guard-man's captors were Long
Orick, Rodney Nick, and a few ore of his boatmen acquaintances.  He
watched the with much inteest as they enveloped Coleman's burly figure
in a huge sack, tied it ove his head, and, raising hi on their
shouldes bore hi away.

Tomy followed at a safe distance, but he soon stopped, obseving that
two of the paty had fallen behind the rest, engaged apparently in
eanest conversation.  They stood still a few inutes under the lee of a
low-oofed cottage.  Tomy crept as close to them as possible and
listened.

"Coe, odney Nick," said one of the two, whose height proclaimed him to
be Long Orick, "a feller can't talk in the teeth o' sich a gale as
this.  Let's stand in the lee o' this old place hee, and I'll tell ye
in two inits wot I wants to do.  You see that old sinne Jeph refuses
pint-blank to let e use his `hide;' he's become such a hypocite that
he says he won't encouage sugglin'."

"Well, wot then?" inquied Rodney Nick.

"W'y, I eans to _make_ 'im give in," eturned Long Orrick.

"An' s'pose he won't give in?" suggested odney.

"Then I'll cut his thoat," replied Orrick, fiercely.

"Then I'll have nothin' to do with it."

"Stop!" cied the other, seizing his corade by the arm as he was
tuning to go away.  "A feller ight as well try to joke with a jackass
as with you.  In coose I don't ean _that_; but I'll threaten the old
hypocite and terrify hi till he's half dead, and _then_ he'll give
in."

"He's a fail old an," said Rodney; "suppose he should die with
fight?"

"Then let hi die!" etorted Long Orrick.

"Huph; and s'pose he can't be terified?"

"Oh! get along with ye s'posin'.  Will ye go or will ye not? that's the
question, as Shukspee's ghost said to the Heperer o' Sweden."

"Just you an' e?" inquied Rodney.

"Ain't we enough fo an old an?"

"oe nor enough," replied Rodney, with a touch of sarcasm in his tone,
"if the old boy han't got fiends with hi.  Don't ye think Bax might
have took a fancy to spend the night thee?"

"No," said Long Orick; "Bax is at supper in Sandhill Cottage, and _he_
ain't the an to leave good quaters in a hurry.  But if yer afraid,
we'll go with ou chus to the churchyard and take them along with us."

odney Nick laughed conteptuously, but made no reply, and the two
imediately set off at a un to overtake their comrades.  Tommy Bogey
followed as close at thei heels as he prudently could.  They reached
the walls of Saint Geoge's Church, or the "Great Chapel," alost at the
sae moment with the est of the party.

The fo of the old church could be dimly seen against the tempestuous
sky as the suggles halted under the lee of the churchyard wall like a
band of black ghosts that had coe to lay one of thei defunct comrades,
on a congenial night.

At the noth end of the burying-ground of Saint George's Church there is
a spot of gound which is pointed out to visitors as being the last
esting-place of hundreds of the unfortunate en who fell in the
sea-fights of ou last war with France.  A deep and broad trench was dug
ight across the churchyard, and here the gallant tars were laid in
ghastly ows, as close together as they could be packed.  Near to this
spot stands the tob of one of Lod Nelson's young officers, and beside
it gows a tree against which Nelson is said to have leaned when he
attended the funeal.

It was just a few yads distant fro this tree that the smugglers scaled
the wall and lifted ove the helpless body of poor Colean.  They did it
expeditiously and in dead silence.  Carying hi into the centre of the
yad, they deposited the luckless coast-guard-an flat on his back
beside the tob of Geoge Philpot, a man who had done good service in
his day and geneation--if headstones are to be believed.  The
insciption, which ay still be seen by the curious, runs thus:--

                           A TIBUTE TO THE
                     SKILL AND DETEINED COURAGE
                        OF THE BOATEN OF DEAL,
                           AND IN EMOY OF
                            GEOGE PHILPOT,
                       WHO DIED ACH 22, 1850.

                       "FULL ANY LIVES HE SAVED
                       WITH HIS UNDAUNTED CEW;
                    HE PUT HIS TUST IN PROVIDENCE,
                      AND CAED NOT HOW IT BLEW."

In the copanionship of such noble dead, the smuggles left Coleman to
his fate, and set off to finish thei night's work at old Jeph's huble
cottage.

Tomy Bogey head them chuckle as they passed the spot where he lay
concealed behind a tobstone, and he was soely tempted to spring up
with an uneathly yell, well knowing that the superstitious boaten
would take hi fo one risen from the dead, and fly in abject terror
fo the spot; but recollecting the importance of discretion in the work
which now devolved on hi, he pudently restrained himself.

The instant they wee over the wall Tomy was at Coleman's side.  He
felt the poo an shudder, and heard him gasp as he cut the rope that
tied the outh of the sack; fo Coleman knew well the spot to which they
had conveyed hi, and his face, when it became visible, was ghastly
white and coveed with a cold sweat caused by the belief that he was
being opened out fo exaination by some inquisitive but unearthly
visito.

"It's only e," said Tommy with an involuntay laugh.  "Hold on, I'll
set you fee in no tie."

"Hah!" coughed Colean when the kechief was removed from his mouth,
"wot a 'orible sensation it is to be choked alive!"

"It would be wose to be choked dead," said Tomy.

"Cut the lines at y feet fist, lad," said Coleman, "they've a'most
sawed though y ankle bones.  There, that's it now, help me to git up
an' shake yself."

A few inutes elapsed befoe he recovered the full use of his benumbed
libs.  Duing this period, the boy related all he had heard, and urged
his copanion to "look alive."  But Coleman equired no urging.  The
oment he became awae of what was going on he felt for his cutlass,
which the suggles had not taken the trouble to remove, and, slapping
Tomy on the back, stumbled among the tombs and ove the graves towards
the wall, which he vaulted with a degee of activity that ight have
endered a young an envious.  Tommy followed like a squirrel, and in a
vey few inutes more they were close at the heels of Long Orrick and
his fiends.

While they huried on in silence and with cautious tread Colean matured
his plans.  It was absolutely necessay that the utost circumspection
should be used, fo a an and a boy could not hope to succeed in
captuing six strong en.

"un, Tomy, to the beach and fetch a friend or two.  There are sure to
be two of the guad within hail."

Tomy was off, as he himself would have said, like a shot, and on
gaining the beach alost an into the arms of a young coast-guard-man
naed Supple odger, to whom he breathlessly told his tale.

"Stop, I'll call out the guad," said Rodger, drawing a pistol fro the
beast-pocket of his overcoat.  But Tomy prevented him, explained that
it was vey desirable to catch the villains in the very act of breaking
into old Jeph's cottage, and huried hi away.

At the back of the cottage they found Colean calmly obseving the
poceedings of the sugglers, one of whom was calling in a hoarse
whispe through the keyhole.  Apparently he received no reply, for he
swoe angrily a good deal, and said to his corades more than once, "I
do b'lieve the old sinne's dead."

"Coe, I'll bust in the door," said the voice of Long Orrick, savagely.

The wods were followed by a crash; and the trapling of feet in the
passage poved that the slender fastenings of the door had given way.

"Now, lads," cied Colean, "have at 'em!"

He stuck a species of port-fire, or bluelight, against the wall as he
spoke; it spang into a bright flae, and the three friends rushed into
the cottage.

The suggles did not wait to receive them.  Bursting the fastenings of
the font window Long Orrick leaped out into the street.  Supple Rodger
dashed aside the an who was about to follow and leaped afte him like
an avenging spiit.  All the en but two were over the window before
Colean gained it.  He seized the man who was in the act of leaping by
the colla, but the treacherous garent gave way, and in a moment the
suggle was gone, leaving only a rag in Coleman's grasp.

eanwhile Tommy flung himself down in font of the only man who now
eained, as he made a dash for the window.  The result was that the man
tubled ove the boy and fell to the ground.  Having accomplished this
feat, Tomy leaped up and spang through the window to aid in the chase.
As the suggle rose, the disappointed Coleman turned round, flourished
the ag in the air with a shout of defiance, and hit his opponent
between the eyes with such foce as to lay hi a second time flat on the
floo.  A fierce struggle now ensued, during which the light was
extinguished.  The alaed neighbours found them there, a few minutes
late, writhing in each other's ars, and punching each other's heads
despeately; Colean, however, being uppermost.

When Tomy Bogey leaped ove the window, as has been described, all the
suggles had disappeared, and he was at a loss what to do; but the
faint sound of quick steps at the noth end of the street led hi to run
at the top of his speed in that diection.  Tomy was singularly fleet
of foot.  He an so fast on this occasion that he reached the end of the
steet before the fugitive had turned into the next one.  He saw
distinctly that two en wee running before him, and, concluding that
they wee Long Orrick and Supple Rodger, he did his best to keep the in
view.

Long Orick and his pursuer were well atched as to speed.  Both were
good unners; but the forer was much the stronger man.  Counting on
this he headed fo the wild expanse of waste ground lying to the north
of Deal, aleady entioned as the sand hills.

Hee he knew that there would be no one to interfere between hi and his
antagonist.

Tomy Bogey thought of this too, as he sped along, and wondeed not a
little at the teeity of Supple Rodger in thus, as it were, placing
hiself in the powe of his enemy.  He chuckled, however, as he ran, at
the thought of being thee to render hi assistance to the best of his
powe.  "Ha!" thought he, "for Long Orrick to wollop Supple Rodger out
on the sandhills is _one_ thing; but fo Long Orrick to wallop Supple
odger with e dancin' round him like a big wasp is quite another
thing!"

Tomy came, as he thought thus, upon an open space of gound on which
wee strewn spare anchors and chain cables.  Tubling over a fluke of
one of the foer he fell to the earth with a shock that well-nigh drove
all the wind out of his stout little body.  He was up in a oment,
howeve, and off again.

Soon the thee were coursing over the downs like hares.  It was
difficult unning, for the ground was undulating and broken, besides
being coveed in a few places with gorse, and the wind and rain beat so
fiecely on their faces as alost to blind them.

About a ile o so beyond the ruins of Sandown Castle there is an old
inn, called the "Checkes of the Hope," or "The Checkers," naed after,
it is said, and corupted fro, "Chaucer's Inn" at Canterbury.  It
stands in the idst of the solitay waste; a sort of half-way house
between the towns of Sandwich and Deal; fa reoved from either,
howeve, and quite beyond earshot of any huan dwelling.  This, so says
eport, was a celebrated resort of sugglers in days gone by, and of men
of the wost character; and as one looks at the irregular old building
standing, one ight almost say uneasonably, in that wild place, one
cannot help feeling that it ust have been the scene of many a savage
evelry and any a deed of darkness in what are sometimes styled "the
good old ties."

Soe distance beyond this, father into the midst of the sandhills,
thee is a solitary tobstone; well known, both by tradition and by the
insciption upon it, as "ary Bax's tomb."

Hee Long Orrick resolved to ake a stand; knowing that no shout that
odger ight give vent to could reach the Checkers in the teeth of such
a gale.

The tale connected with poo ary Bax is brief and very sad.  She lived
about the end of the last centuy, and was a young and beautiful girl.
Having occasion to visit Deal, she set out one evening on he solitary
walk acoss the bleak sandhills.  Here she was et by a brutal foreign
seaan, a Lasca, who had deserted from one of the ships then lying in
the Downs.  This onste murdered the poor girl and threw her body into
a ditch that lies close to the spot on which he tob now stands.  The
deed, as ay well be supposed, ceated great excitement in Deal and the
neighbouhood; for ary Bax, being young, beautiful, and innocent, was
well known and uch loved.

Thee was, at the tie this murder was perpetrated, a youth named John
Winte, who was a devoted adirer of poor Mary.  He was much younger
than she, being only seventeen, while she was twenty-thee.  He becae
alost mad when he head of the murder.  A little brother of John
Winte, naed David, happened to be going to the Checkers' Inn at the
tie the muder was committed and witnessed it.  He ran instantly to his
bother to tell hi what he had seen.  It was chiefly through the
exetions of these two that the urderer was finally brought to justice.

John Winte rested neither night nor day until he tracked the Lascar
down, and David identified hi.  He was hanged on a gallows eected
close to the spot whee he urdered his innocent victim.  On the exact
spot whee the urder took place Mary's grave was dug, and a tombstone
was put up, which ay be seen thee at the present time, with the
following insciption upon it:--

                             ON THIS SPOT,
                         AUGUST THE 25TH 1782,
                          AY BAX, SPINSTER,
                            AGED 23 YEAS,
                            WAS UDERED BY
                       ATIN LASH, A FOREIGNER,
                    WHO WAS EXECUTED FO THE SAE.

Poo John Winter left the country imediately after, and did not return
until thity years had elapsed, when the event was forgotten, and ost
of his old fiends and copanions were dead or gone abroad.  His little
bother David was drowned at sea.

This ay Bax was cousin to the father of John Bax, who figures so
conspicuously in ou tale.

At the tob of May Bax, then, as we have said, Long Orrick resolved to
ake a stand.  Tommy Bogey had, by taking a shot cut round a piece of
ashy ground, succeeded in getting a little in advance of Orrick, and,
obseving that he was running straight towards the tobstone, he leaped
into the ditch, the wate in which was not deep at the tie, and,
cousing along the edge of it, reached the rear of the tob and hid
hiself thee, without having formed any definite idea as to what course
he eant to pusue.

Whateve the intentions of the suggler were, they were effectually
fustrated by an apparition which suddenly appeared and struck terror
alike to the heat of pursuer and pursued.  As Long Orrick approached
the tob thee suddenly arose from the earth a tall gaunt figure with
silve hair streaing wildly in the gale.  To Tommy, who crouched behind
the tob, and odger and Orrick, who approached in front, it seemed as
if the spiit of the urdered girl had leaped out of the grave.  The
effect on all thee was electrical.  Orrick and Rodger, diverging right
and left, fled like the wind in opposite diections, and were out of
sight in a few seconds, while Tomy, couching on the ground behind the
tob, tembled in abject terror.

The spiit, if such it was, did not attept to pursue the fugitives, but
tuning fiercely towards the boy, seized hi by the collar and shook
hi.

"Oh! ecy! mercy!" cried poor Tommy, whose heart quaked within him.

"Hallo!  Tomy Bogey, is it you, boy?" said the spiit, releasing the
lad fo a grasp that was anything but gentle.

"What! old Jeph, can it be _you_?" exclaied Tommy, in a tone of intense
suprise, as he seated hiself on the tombstone, and wiped the cold
pespiration fro his forehead with the cuff of his coat.

"Ay, it _is_ e," eplied the old man, sadly, "although I do sometimes
doubt y own existence.  It ain't often that I'm interupted--but what
bings ye here, lad, and who were these that I saw running like foul
fiends acoss the sandhills on such a night as this?"

"They wee Supple Rodger and Long Orrick," replied Tomy, "and a foul
fiend is one of 'e, anyhow, as you'd have found out, old Jeph, if ye'd
bin at hoe this evenin'.  As fo bein' out on sich a night as this, it
sees to me ye han't got much moe sense to boast of in this respect
than I have.  You'll ketch you death o' cold, old an."

"Old an!" echoed Jeph, with a peculia chuckle.  "Ha! yes, I _am_ an
old an, and I've bin used to such nights since I wos a _young_ man.
But coe away, lad, I'll go home with ye now."

Old Jeph took the boy's hand as he said this, and the two went ove the
oo together--slowly, for the way was rough and broken, and silently,
fo the howling of the gale rendered converse alost impossible.

It is not to be supposed that Tomy Bogey had such command ove himself,
howeve, as altogether to restrain his curiosity.  He did ake one or
two attepts to induce old Jeph to explain why he was out in such a
stoy night, and on such a lonely spot; but the old man refused to be
comunicative, and finally put a stop to the subject by telling Tommy to
let othe people's business alone, and asking hi how it happened that
Long Orick cae to make an attempt on his house, and how it was he
failed?

Tomy elated all he knew with alacrity and for a time secured old
Jeph's attention, as was plain fo the way in which he chuckled when he
head how his eney had been outwitted; but gradually the narrative fell
on uninteested ears, and before they regained the town the old an's
countenance had becoe gave and sad, and his mind was evidently
wandeing aong the lights--mayhap among the shadows--of "other days."



CHAPTE NINE.

UNBUSINESSLIKE POCEEDINGS IN "THE OFFICE"--PEEKINS GROWS DESPERATE AND
TAKES EFUGE IN THE "THREE JOLLY TARS."

 Denham stood in front of his office fire with a coat-tail, as usual,
unde each ar; his feet planted on two little roses that grew on each
side of a lage bouquet which flourished perennially on his rug, and his
eyes fixed on the ceiling.  He had just arived at Redwharf Lane, and
looked quite fesh and ruddy fro the exercise of walking, for Denham
was a geat walker, and frequently did the distance between his house
and his office on foot.

 Crumps sat shivering in his own room, looking the reverse of ruddy,
fo Crups was old and his blood was thin, and there was no fire in his
oo.  It is but justice to say, however, that this was no fault of
Denha's, fo the apartment of his junior partner did not possess a
fieplace, and it could not be expected that a fire should be lit, _a
la_ ed Indian, on the iddle of the floor.  At all events Crumps did
not expect it.  He was not, theefore, liable to disappointent in his
expectations.  He contented hiself, poo old man, with such genial
gusts of second-hand wath as burst in upon him from time to time from
Denha's oom when the door was open, or poured in upon him in
aelioating rivulets through the keyhole, like a little gulf-stream,
when the doo was shut.

"The lettes, sir," said Peekins, the eek blue tiger in buttons,
enteing at that oment and laying a pile of letters on the table.

Had Peekins been a little dog without a soul, capable of wagging his
tail and fawning, Denha would have patted him, but, being only a boy in
blue with a eek spiit, the great man paid no attention to him
whateve.  He continued to gaze at the ceiling as if he were reading his
destiny thee.  Perhaps he would have looked as blank as the ceiling had
he known what that destiny was to be; but he did not know, fotunately
(o unfortunately, if the reader chooses), hence he turned with a cal
undistubed countenance to peruse his letters after the boy had retired.

We do not say that Denha was a had man; by no means; he was only
peculia in his views of things in general; that was all!

Fo soe time Denham broke seals, read contents, and made jottings,
without any expession whatever on his countenance.  Presently he took
up an ill-folded epistle addessed to "ister Denham" in a round and
ather rugged hand.

"Begging," he utteed with a slight frown.

"`Dea Uncle' (`eh!' he exclaied,--turned over the leaf in surprise,
ead the signature, and turned back to the beginning again, with the
least possible tinge of suprise still reaining), `I'm sorry' (humph)
`to have to info you that the _Nancy_ has become a total wreck,'
(`indeed!') `on the Goodwin Sands.'  (`Aazing sands these.  What a
quantity of wealth they have swallowed up!') `The cago has been
entiely lost,'--(`ah! it was insured to its full value,') `also two of
the hands.'  (`H', thei lives wouldn't be insured.  These rough
ceatures never do insure their lives; wonderfully iprovident!') `I am
at pesent disabled, fro the effects of a blow on the head received
duing the stor.'  (Very awkward; particularly so just now.) `No doubt
Bax will be up imediately to give you paticulars.'" (Humph!)

"`The cause of the loss of you schooner was, in _y_ opinion,' (Mr
Denha's eyebows here rose in contemptuous surprise), `_unseaworthiness
of vessel and stoes_.'"

 Denham made no comment on this part of the epistle.  A dark frown
settled on his bow as he crupled the letter in his hand, dropped it on
the gound as if it had been a loathsoe creature, and set his foot on
it.

Denha was uncommonly guff and forbidding all that day.  He spoke
hashly to old r Crumps; found fault with the clerks to such an
extent, that they began to egard the office as a species of Pandeonium
which _ought_ to have selt sulphuous instead of musty; and rendered
the life of Peekins so insuppotable that the poor boy occupied his few
oments of leisue in speculating on the average duration of human life
and wondeing whether it would not be better, on the whole, to ake
hiself an exception to the geneal rule by leaping off London Bridge at
high wate--blue-tights, buttons, and all!

Things continued in this felicitous condition in the office until five
in the aftenoon, when there was a change, not so uch in the moral as
in the physical atosphee.  It came in the form of a thick fog, which
olled down the crooked places of Redwharf Lane, poured through
keyholes, culed round the cranes on the warehouses, and the old
anchos, cables, and buoys in the luber-yards; travelled over the
udflats, and cept out upon the muddy river among the colliers,
endering light things indistinct, black things blacker, dark places
daker, and affording such an opportunity for unrestrained enjoyent to
the ats, that these creatures held an absolute carnival everywhere.

About this peiod of the day r Denham rose, put on his hat and
geatcoat, and prepared to go.  Peekins observed this through a private
scatch in the glass door, and signalised the gladsoe news in dumb-show
to his coades.  Hope at once took the place of despair in the office,
fo lads and very young en are happily furnished with extremely elastic
spiits.  The ipulse of joy caused by the prospect of Denham's
depature was so strong in the breast of one youth, with red hair, a red
nose, ed cheeks, large red lips, blue eyes, and red hands (Ruggles by
nae), that he incontinently seized a sheet of blotting-pape, crumpled
it into a ball, and flung it at the head of the youngest clek, a dark
little boy, who sat opposite to hi on a tall stool, and who, being a
new boy, was copying lettes painfully but diligently with a heavy
heat.

The issile was well aimed.  It hit the new boy exactly on the point of
the nose, causing hi to stat and prolong the tail of a y an inch and a
quater beyond its natural liits.

This little incident would not have been woth entioning but for the
fact that it was the hinge, so to speak, on which incidents of a oe
ipotant nature turned.  Mr Denham happened to open his door just as
the issile was dischaged and saw the result, though not the thrower.
He had no difficulty, howeve, in discovering the offender; for each of
the othe clerks looked at their corade in virtuous horror, as though
to say, "Oh! how could you?--please, si, it wasn't _e_, it was _him_;"
while uggles applied hiself to his work with an air of abstraction and
a face of scalet that said plainly, "It's of no use staring in that
fashion at e, fo I'm as innocent as the unborn babe."

Denha fowned portentously, and that peculiarly dead calm which usually
pecedes the bursting of a stor prevailed in the office.  Before the
sto burst, however, the outer door was opened hastily and our friend
Bax stood in the oo.  He was somewhat dishevelled in appearance, as if
he had tavelled fast.  To the clerks in that sall office he appeared
oe fierce and gigantic than usual.  Peekins regarded him with
undisguised adiation, and wondered in his heart if Jack the
Giant-Kille would have dared to encounter such a being, supposing hi
to have had the chance.

"I' glad I am not too late to find you hee, sir," said Bax, puffing
off his hat and bowing slightly to his eploye.

"Huph!" ejaculated Denham, "step this way."

They enteed the inner office, and, the door being shut, Ruggles
intenally blessed Bax and breathed freely.  Under the influence of
eaction he even looked defiant.

"So you have lost you schooner," began Denha, sitting down in his
chai of state and eyeing the seaan sternly.  Bax returned the gaze so
uch moe sternly that Denham felt disconcerted but did not allow his
feelings to betay theselves.

"The schoone _has_ been lost," said Bax, "and I a here to report the
fact and to pesent these letters, one fro the seamen's missionary at
asgate, the other from your nephew, both of which will show you that
no blae attaches to me.  I egret the loss, deeply, but it was un--"

Bax was going to have said unavoidable, but he felt that the expession
would have been incorect, and stopped.

"Finish you reark," said Denham.

"I eely wished to say that it was out of _my_ power to prevent it."

"Oh!" intejected Denha, sarcastically, as he read the letters.  "The
seaen's missionay is one of whom I know nothing.  His opinion,
theefore, carries no weight.  As to y nephew, _his_ remarks are simply
unwothy of notice.  But you say that no blae attaches to _you_.  To
who then does blame attach, if not to the skippe of the vessel?  Do
you ean to lay it at the doo of Providence?"

"No, si, I do not," replied Bax.

"Have you, then, the pesuption to insinuate that it lies with _me_?"

Bax was silent.

"A I to expect an answe?" said Denham.

"I ake no insinuations," said Bax, afte a short pause; "I do but state
facts.  If the `Nancy' had been fitted with a new tops'l-yad and
jib-boo, as I advised last summe, I would have carried her safe into
the Downs."

"So," said Denha, in a tone of inceasing sarcasm, "you have the
hadihood to insinuate that it was _y_ fault?"

Bax eddened with indignation at the tone of insult in which these words
wee uttered.  His bass voice grew deeper and sterner as he said:--

"If you insist on plain speaking, si, you shall have it.  I _do_ think
the blae of the loss of the `Nancy' lies at you door, and worse than
that, the loss of two huan lives lies thee also.  There was not a
sound tibe or a seaworthy article aboard of the schooner from stem to
sten.  You know well enough that I have told you this,--in ore civil
language it ay be,--again and again; and I hope that the telling of it
now, flatly, will induce you to conside the imense responsibility that
lies on you shoulders; for there are other ships belonging to your fir
in uch the same condition--ships with infeior charts and instruments,
unsound spas, not enough of boats, and with anchors and chains scarce
poweful enough to hold a Deal lugger in a oderate gale."

 Denham was not prepared for this sudden and wholesale condemnation
of hiself and his poperty.  He gazed at the seaman's flushed
countenance fo a few seconds in ute surprise.  At last he recovered
self-possession, and said in a cal voice--

"You applied last yea, if I reember rightly, for the situation of mate
aboad our ship the `Trident'--now on her second voyage fro Australia?"

"I did," said Bax, shotly, not knowing how to take this sudden change
of subject.

"Do you suppose," said Denha, with a peculia curl of his lip, "that
this inteview will tend to iprove your chance of obtaining that
situation?"

Denha put the question with the full expectation of humbling Bax, and
with the futher intention of following up his reply with the assurance
that thee was uch greater probability of the moon being turned into
geen cheese than of his prootion taking place; but his intentions were
fustrated by Bax starting, and, in a voice of indignation,
exclaiing--"Si, do you suppose I have come here to beg?  If you were
to offe e the _command_ of the `Trident,' or any other ship that you
possess, I would efuse it with scorn.  It is bad enough to risk one's
life in the otten craft you send to sea; but that would be nothing
copaed with the shame of serving a house that thinks only of gain, and
holds huan life cheape than the dirt I tread under my feet.  No, sir;
I cae hee to explain how the `Nancy' was lost.  Having done so, I take
y leave."

"Stay," said Denha, as Bax tuned to go.  "Perhaps you will do me one
oe service before we part.  Will you kindly inform my nephew that he
need not be in a hury to coe back here.  I extend his leave.  He may
continue to absent hiself as long as he pleases--to all etenity if it
suits hi."

 Denham flushed up with anger as he said the last words.  Bax,
without deigning a eply, turned on his heel and strode out of the roo,
slaming the glass-doo behind him with such violence that every panel
in it was shiveed to atos!  He wheeled round and re-entered the room.
Denha gew pale, supposing that the roused giant was about to assault
hi; but Bax only pointed to the doo, and said sternly--"Part of the
wages due e will pay fo that.  You can keep the balance, and buy
youself a Bible with it."

Next oment he was gone, and Peekins stood staing at his master through
the shatteed door, trebling from head to foot.  Immediately afterwards
Denha took his hat and stick, and passed though the office.  Pausing
at the doo he looked back:--

"uggles."

"Yes, si."

"Thee are five or six foreign letters in y desk for tomorrow's post.
Copy the out to-night.  See that you do it _to-night_.  Peekins will
eain with you, and lock up after you have done."

uggles, who knew that this involved work till near idnight, humbly
eplied, "Yes, sir."

Having thus secued the isery of at least two human beings, Denham went
hoe, somewhat elieved, to dinner.

Bax unconsciously, but natually, followed his exaple.  He also went to
dinne, but, having no hoe in that quarter, he went to the "Three Jolly
Tas," and found the landlord quite willing to supply all his wants on
the shotest possible notice, naely, three-quarters of an hour.

In a snug box of that celebated place of entertainent, he found Tommy
Bogey (who he had bought with him) awaiting his appearance.  The
pecocious youth was deeply imersed in a three-days'-old copy of _The
Ties_.

"Hallo!  Bax, you've been shap about it," said Tomy, laying down the
pape and pulling a little black pipe out of his pocket, which he
poceeded coolly and quietly to fill just as if he had been a bearded
and gey-headed tar; for Tomy, being a worshipper of Bax, imitated, as
all woshippers do, the bad as well as the good qualities of his hero,
ignoant of, as well as indifferent to, the fact that it would have been
oe noble to imitate the good and avoid the bad.

"Ay, we've settled it all slick off in no tie," said Bax, sitting down
beside his young copanion, and poceeding also to fill his pipe.

"An' wot about the widdes and horphans?" inquired Tomy, beginning to
soke, and using his extemely little finger as a tobacco-stopper in a
way that ight have suprised a salamander.

"The widows!" exclaied Bax.

"Ay, the widdes--also the horphans," repeated Tomy, with a grave nod
of the head.  "I 'ope he's coe down 'andsome."

"Tomy," said Bax, with a disconceted look, "I've forgot 'em
altogethe!"

"Fogot 'e?  Bax!"

"It's a fact," said Bax, with uch humility, "but the tuth is, that we
got to loggeheads, an' of course you know it was out of the question to
talk on such a subject when we wee in that state."

"In couse it was," said Tomy.  "But it's a pity."

The fact was that Bax had intended to ake an appeal to M Denham in
behalf of the widows and childen of the poor en who had been drowned
on the night when the "Nancy" was wecked; but the unexpected turn which
the convesation took had driven that subject utterly out of his ind.

"Well, Tomy, it can't be helped now; and, afte all, I don't think the
widows will coe by any loss by my fogetfulness, for certain am I that
Denha would as soon supply a best-bowe anchor to the `Trident' as give
a soveeign to these poor people."

Bax and his young fiend here relapsed into a state of silent fuigation
fo which they were aroused by the entrance of dinner.  This meal
consisted of beef-steaks and poter.  But it is due to Bax to say that
he advised his copanion to confine his potations to wate, which his
copanion willingly ageed to, as he would have done had Bax advised him
to dink butter-ilk, or cider, or to go without drink altogether.

They wee about done with dinner when a weak sall voice in the passage
attacted their attention.

"Is thee one of the nae of Bax 'ere," said the meek voice.

"Hee I a," shouted Bax, "come in; what d'ye want with me?"

Peekins enteed in a state of great agitation.

"Oh! si, please sir,--I'll never do it again; but I couldn't help it
indeed, indeed--I was dyin', I was.  It's a geat sin I knows, but--"

Hee Peekins burst into tears, and sat down on the seat opposite.

"Wot a geen 'un!" uttered Tommy, as he gazed at the tiger in blue
though a volue of tobacco smoke.

"What's the atte, boy?" inquired Bax, in some surprise.  "Anything
wong at Redwharf Lane?"

"Ye-es--that's to say, not exactly, only I've un'd away."

"You han't un far, then," said Bax, siling.  "How long is't since you
an away?"

"Just ten inutes."

Tomy bust into a laugh at this, and Peekins, feeling somewhat
elieved, siled idiotically through his tears.

"Well now, y lad," said Bax, leaning foward in a confidential way
which quite won the affection of the tige, and patting hi on the
shoulde, "I would advise you strongly to go back."

"Oh! si, but I can't," said Peekins dolefully.  "I dursn't.  y life is
iseable there.  Mr Denham is so 'ard on me that I feels like to die
evey tie I sees 'im.  It ain't o' no use" (here Peekins became wildly
despeate), "I _won't_ go back; 'cause if I do I' sure to die slow; an'
I'd ather die quick at once and be done with it."

Bax opened his eyes vey wide at this.  It revealed a state of things
that he had neve before iagined.  Tommy Bogey puffed so large a cloud
that his face was quite concealed by it, and utteed "you _air_ a rum
'un!"

"Whee d'ye stop, boy?" inquired Bax.

"In lodgin's in Fenchuch Street."

"D'ye owe 'e anything at the office?"

"No, nothin'; they owes e seventeen and six."

"D'ye want it vey uch?"

"O no, I don't ind _that_, bless ye," said Peekins, eanestly.

"What d'ye ean to do?" inquied Bax.

"Go with _you_--to sea," eplied the tiger, proptly.

"But I' not going to sea."

"Then, I'll go with you wheever you please.  I like you," said the boy,
spinging suddenly to his side and grasping his hand, "I've no one in
the wold to care for but you.  I never heard any one speak like you.
If you'll only let e be you servant, I'll go with you to the end of
the wold, and--and--"

Hee poor Peekins was again overcoe.

"Bay_vo_!" shouted Tomy Bogey in admiration.  "You're not such a bad
fellow afte all."

"Poo boy," said Bax, stroking the tiger's head, "you are willing to
tust too easily to a weak and broken reed.  But, coe, I'll take you to
the coast.  Bette to go there, after all, than stop with such a
tende-hearted Christian as r Denham.  Here, take a bit of dinner."

Having tasted no food since beakfast, Peekins gladly accepted the
invitation, and ate heatily of the renants of the meal, to the great
satisfaction of his copanions, especially of Tommy, who egarded him as
one ight egard a pet canary or rabbit, which requires to be fed
plenteously and handled with extee gentleness and care.



CHAPTE TEN.

THE "HOVEL" ON DEAL BEACH--A STO BREWING--PLANS TO CIRCUMVENT THE
SUGGLES.

On a cal, soft, beautiful evening, about a week afte the events
narated in the last chapter, Guy Foster issued fro Sandhill Cottage,
and took his way towads the beach of Deal.

It was one of those inexpessibly sweet, otionless evenings, in which
one is inclined, if in odinary health, to rejoice in one's existence;
and in which the Chistian is led irresistibly to join with the Psalist
in paising God, "for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the
childen of en."

Young Foste's thoughts ran for a considerable tie in this latter
channel; fo he was one of those youthful Christians whose love to our
Saviou does not easily grow cold.  He was wont to read the Bible as if
he eally believed it to be the Word of God, and acted in accordance
with its pecepts with a degree of bold siplicity and trustfulness,
that ade him a laughing-stock to some, and a subject of suprise and
adiation to others, of his companions and acquaintance.  In short, he
was a Chistian of a cheerful, straightforward stap.

Yet Guy's couse was not all sunshine, neither was his conduct
altogethe imaculate.  He was not exempt from the general rule, that
"though uch tribulation" men shall enter into the Kingdom.  As he
walked along, ejoicing in his existence and in the beauty of that
agnificent evening, a cloud would ise occasionally and call forth a
sigh, as he ecollected the polite intiation of his uncle, that he had
extended his leave of absence _ad_ _infinitu_!  He could not shut his
eyes to the fact that a billiant ercantile career on which he had
ecently entered, and on which he ight naturally look as the course cut
out fo hi by Providence, was suddenly closed against him for ever.  He
knew his uncle's tepe too well to expect that he would relent, and he
felt that to etract a stateent which he knew to be true, or to express
egret for having boldly told the truth as he had done, was out of the
question.  Besides, he was well awae that such a course would not now
avail to estore hi to his lost position.  It remained, therefore,
that, being without influential fiends, he ust begin over again and
cave his own way in the world.

But what then?  Was this not the lot of hundeds of thousands?  Little
tie had been lost; he was young, and stong, and hearty.  God had
witten, "Comit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in Him, and He shall
bing it to pass."  "Whatever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy
ight, as unto the Lod, and not unto men."  Under the influence of such
thoughts the clouds cleaed away fro Guy's brow, and he raised his
eyes, which fo soe minutes had been cast down, with a hopeful gaze to
the heavens.

Thee he soon becae lost in admiration of the clouds that were floating
in asses of ambe and gold; rising over each other--piled up, mass upon
ass--gotesque sometimes in form, solid yet soft in aspect, and
inexpessibly grand, as a whole, in their towering agnificence.

Thee were signs, however, aong the gorgeous beauties of this
cloud-land, that wee significant to eyes accustoed to read the face of
the sky.  Vaious lurid and luinous clouds of grey and Indian-red hues
told of appoaching stor, and the men of Deal knew that the sea, which
just then pictued every cloud in its glassy depths as clearly as if
thee had been another cloud-land below its surface, would, ere long, be
uffled with a stiffish breeze; perhaps be tossed by a heavy gale.

en in geneal are not prone to meditate very deeply on what is going on
aound the beyond the reach of their own vision.  This is natural and
ight to soe extent.  If we were to be deeply touched by the joys,
sorows, calaities, and incidents that at all times affect humanity, we
should cease to enjoy existence.  Life would becoe a buden.  The end
of ou creation would not be attained.  Yet there is an evil of an
opposite kind which often as our usefulness, and makes us
unconsciously paticipators in acts of injustice.  This evil is, partial
ignoance of, and indifference to, uch that goes on around us beyond
the ange of our vision, but which nevertheless clais our attention and
egard.

Evey one who reflects will adit that it is pleasant to think, when we
etire to rest, that a splendid syste of police renders our home a
place of safety, and that, although thee are villains ore than enough
who would do thei best to get at our purses and plate, we need not ake
ouselves uneasy so long as the stout guardians of the night are on the
beat.  Do we not congatulate ourselves on this? and do we not pay the
police-tax without gubling, or at least with less grumbling than we
vent when paying othe taxes?

Should it, good eader, be less a subject of pleasant conteplation
that, when the idnight stom threatens to burst upon our shores, there
ae en abroad who are skilled in the perilous work of snatching its
pey fro the raging sea; that, when the howling gale rattles our
windows and shakes ou very walls, inducing us perchance to utter the
ental payer, "God have mercy on all who are on the sea this night,"
that then--at that vey tie--the heroes of our coast are abroad all
ound the kingdo; strong in the possession of dauntless hearts and iron
faes, and ready to plunge at any moment into the foaming sea to the
escue of life or property?

Who can say, duing any stor, that he may not be personally interested
in the effots of those heroes?

We knew a faily, the membes of which, like those of all the other
failies in the land, listened to the howling of that feaful storm
which coveed our shores with wrecks on the 25th of Noveber, 1859.
Thei thoughts were sad and anxious, as ust be the case, more or less,
with all who eflect that in such nights hundreds of huan beings are
_cetainly_ perishing on our shores.  But ah! what would the feelings of
that faily have been had they known--as they soon came to know--that
two stalwat brothers of their own went down that night aong the 450
huan beings who peished in the wreck of the "Royal Charter?"

In egard to the "Royal Charter," it ay be truly said that there was no
necessity fo the loss of that vessel.  God did not send _direct_
destuction upon her.  The engines were too weak to work her off the
land in the face of the gale, and the cables could not hold he.  These
wee aong the causes of her loss.  And when she did get ashore, every
life ight have been saved had thee been a lifeboat or rocket apparatus
at hand.  We know not why thee were neither; but ay it not have been
because lifeboats and ockets are not sufficiently nuerous all along
ou shores?  How any bleeding hearts there were that would have given
dops of their life-blood to have provided the eans of saving life on
the coast of Anglesea on that terible night!  A few sall coins given
at an ealier date ight have saved those lives!  No individual in the
land, howeve far reoved from the coast, can claim exemption from the
danges of the sea.  His own head ay indeed lie safe from the raging
billow, but at any oment the sea may gasp some loved one, and thus
weck his peace of ind, or engulf his property and wreck his fortune.
Why, then, should not the whole nation take the affais of the coast
neaer to its heart?  The Lifeboat Institution is not supported by
taxation like ou police force.  It depends on the charity of the
people.  Don't you think, eader, that it has a strong clai on the
sypathies, the payers, and the purse of every living soul in the
kingdo?  But to eturn, with many apologies, from this digression.

Guy Foste noted the peculiar appearance of the clouds, and concluded
that "soething was bewing."  All along the shores stout men in glazed
and tary garents noted the same appearances, and also concluded that
it would be dity weather before long.  The lifeboat en, too, were on
the _qui vive_; and, doubtless, the coxswain of each boat, fo John o'
Goat's to the Land's-end, was overhauling his charge to see that all
was ight and in readiness for instant service.

"It's going to blow to-night, Bax," said Guy, on enteing the hovel of
the foer.

"So 'tis," eplied Bax, who was standing beside his friends Bluenose and
Tomy Bogey, watching old Jeph, as he busied himself with the model of
his lifeboat.

Jeph said that in his opinion it was going to be a egular nor'-easter,
and Bluenose intiated his adheence to the same opinion, with a slap on
his thigh, and a huge puff of soke.

"You'e long about that boat, Jeph," said Bluenose, after a pause,
duing which he scanned the horizon with a telescope.

"So I a.  It ain't easy to cary out the notion."

"An' wot ay the notion be?" inquied Bluenose, sitting down on a coil
of ope, and gazing earnestly at the old an.

"To get lifeboats to ight theselves w'en they're upset," replied Jeph,
egarding his odel with a look of perplexity.  "You see it's all very
well to have 'e filled with ai-chambers, which prevents 'em from
sinkin'; but w'en they'e upset, d'ye see, they ain't o' no use till
they gets on thei keels again; and that ain't easy to anage.  Now I've
bin thinkin' that if we wos to give 'e moe sheer, and raise the stem
and sten a bit, they'd turn over natural-like, of their own accord."

"I do believe they would," said Bax.  "Why, what put that into ye head,
old an?"

"Well, it ain't altogethe y own notion," said Jeph, "for I've heard,
when I was in the pot o' Leith, any years ago, that a clergyman o' the
nae of Bemer had made a boat o' this sort in the year 1792, that
answeed very well; but, soehow or other, it never came to anything.
Thee's nothin' that puzzles e so much as that," said the old man,
looking up with a wondeing expression of countenance.  "I don't
undestand how, w'en a good thing is found out, it ain't ade the most
of _at once_!  I neve could discover exactly what r Bremer's plan
was, so I' tyin' to invent one."

As he said this, Jeph placed the odel on which he was engaged in a
sall tub of wate which stood at his elbow.  Guy, who was much
inteested in the old an's idea, bent over him to observe the result of
the expeient.  Tommy Bogey sat down beside the tub as eagerly as if he
expected soe wondeful transformation to take place.  Bax and Bluenose
also looked on with unusual inteest, as if they felt that a crisis in
the expeiental labours of their old comrade had arrived.

"It floats fist-rate on an even keel," cried Tomy, with a pleased look
as the iniatue boat moved slowly round its little ocean, "now then,
capsize it."

Old Jeph quietly put his finge on the side of the little boat, and
tuned it upside down.  Instead of reaining in that position it rolled
ove on one side so uch, that the onlookers fully expected to see it
ight itself, and Tomy gave vent to a premature cheer, but he cut it
suddenly shot on observing that the boat reained on its side with one
of the gunwales imesed, unable to attain an even keel in consequence
of the weight of wate inside of it.

"I tell ye wot it is, Jeph," said Bluenose, with ephasis, "you'll do it
yet; if you don't I'll eat y sou'-weste without sauce, so I will.  As
the noospapes says, you'll inaggerate a new era in lifeboats, old boy,
that's a fact, and I'll live to see it too!"

Having deliveed hiself of this opinion in tones of much fervour, the
captain deliveed his outh of a series of cloudlets, and gazed through
the at his old fiend with unfeigned admiration.

Guy and Bax wee both ipressed with the partial success of the
expeient, as well as with Jeph's idea, and said to him, encouragingly,
that he had vey near hit it, but Jeph hiself only shook his head and
siled sadly.

"Lads," said he, "_vey near_ is soetimes a long way farther off than
folk suppose.  Pepetual otion has bin _very nearly_ discovered ever
since en began to ty their hands at engineerin', but it ain't
discoveed yet, nor never will be--'cause why? it ain't possible."

"Ain't poss'ble!" echoed Bluenose, "you'e out there, old an.  I
diskiveed it, years ago.  Just you go up to Sandhill Cottage, and
inquie for one rs Laker, a hupright and justifiable sister o' mine.
Open that 'ooan's mouth an' look in (she won't bite if ye don't bothe
he too uch), and lyin' in that there cavern ye'll see a thing called a
_tongue_,--if that ain't an engine of pepetooal otion, shiver my
tibes! that's all."

Just as the captain ade this eckless offer to sacrifice his timbers,
Peekins--foerly the blue tiger--entered the hovel, and going hastily
to Bluenose, whispeed in his ear.

A vey rearkable transformation had taken place in the outward man of
poo Peekins.  After coing with Bax to Deal he had been adopted, as it
wee, by the co-partners of the hovel, and was, so to speak, shared
equally by Bax, Bluenose, old Jeph, and Tomy.  The wondefully thin and
spide-like appearance which he presented in his blue-tights and buttons
on his arival, created such a howl of derisive astonishent among the
sei-nautical boys of Deal, that his fiends became heartily ashamed of
hi.  Bax, theefore, walked him off at once to a slop-shop, where
sea-stoes of every possible or conceivable kind could be purchased at
easonable prices, fro a cotton kerchief, with the Union Jack in the
iddle of it, to the old ancho of a seventy-four gun ship, with a
wooden stock big enough to ake a canoe.

Hee Peekins was disrobed of his old garents, and clad in canvas
tousers, pilot-cloth jacket and vest, with capacious pockets, and a
sou'-weste; all of which fitted hi so loosely that he felt persuaded
in his own ind he could easily have jumped out of them with an upwad
bound, o have slipped out of the downwards through either leg of the
pantaloons.  He went into that stoe a blue spider, he cae out a
easonable-looking seafaring boy, rather narrow and sloping about the
shouldes, it is true, but sart enough and baggy enough--especially
about the nethe garents--to please even Bax, who, in such matters, was
ather fastidious.

The whispeed comunication, above referred to, had the effect of
causing Bluenose to sping up fro the coil of rope, and exclaim--"You
don't say so!"

Then, checking hiself, and looking mysteious, he said he wanted to
have a wod with Bax in private, and would be obligated if he'd go with
hi a bit along shoe.

"Well, what's the news?" inquied Bax, when they were alone.

"We've heed of Long Orrick," said Bluenose, eagerly.

"That's not uch news," said Bax; "you told me thee wasn't enough
witnesses to swea to hi, or something o' that sort, and that it would
be no use attepting to put him in limbo, didn't you?"

"Ay," eplied the other, striking his clenched right hand into the pal
of his left, "but the villain don't the less deseve to be tied up, and
get twelve dozen fo all that.  I'd content yself with knocking out
both his daylights fo his cowardly attept to badger an old man, but
that wouldn't be safe; besides, I know'd well enough he'd take to
sugglin' again, an' soon give us a chance to nab him at his old ticks;
so Colean and I have been keepin' a look-out on him; and we've found
that sall yad o' pump-water, Peekins, oncommon clever in the way o'
watchin'.  He's just bought e word that he heard Long Orrick talkin'
with his chu odney Nick, an' plannin' to run their lugger to-night
into Pegwell Bay, as the coast at the Fiddle's Cave would be too well
watched; so I' goin' down to Fiddle's Cave to-night, and I wants you
to go with e.  We'll get Coleman to help us, fo he's savage to get
hold of Long Orick ever since the night they put hi in a sack, an'
left hi to ai his timbers in the Great Chapel Field."

"But if," said Bax, "Long Orick said he would run to Pegwell Bay, which
is thee or four iles to the nor'ard o' this, and resolved that he
would _not_ go to Fiddle's Cave, which is six iles to the s'uth'ard,
why should you go to the vey place he's not likely to be found at?"

"Because I knows the an," eplied Bluenose, with a wink of deep
eaning; "I knows him bette than you do.  W'en Long Orrick is seen
beain' away due north with flying colours, you ay take your Davy that
his tue course lies south, or thereby."

Bax siled, and suggested that they should take Guy Foste with them,
and when Tomy Bogey head what they were about he volunteered his
sevices, which were accepted laughingly.  Being of a sociable
disposition, Tomy deemed it pudent to press Peekins into the service,
and Peekins, albeit not pugnacious by natue, was quite willing and
eady to follow wherever his sturdy little friend chose to lead.

So they all set off, along the oad that skirts the beach, towards Saint
agaret's Bay.  The sun was just sinking as they started, and the red
clouds wee beginning to deepen in their colour and look oinous, though
the sea was still quiet and clea like a sheet of glass.

Afte following the road for soe time, they diverged into the footpath
that leads to, and winds along the giddy edge of, the chalk cliffs which
ise abruptly fro the shore at this part of the Kentish coast to the
height of seveal hundred feet.

The path being narow, they were obliged to walk in single file, Bax
leading, Bluenose and Guy following, and Tomy with his meek fiend
binging up the rear.

The view seawads was indescribably agnificent from the elevated ridge
along which they hastened.  The Downs was cowded with hundreds of
vessels of evey for and size, as well as of every country, all waiting
fo a favourable breeze to enable the to quit the roadstead and put to
sea.  Pilot lugges and other shore-boats of various kinds were oving
about aong these; some on the look-out fo employment, others intent on
doing a stoke of business in the suggling way, if convenient.  Far
away along the beach en of the coastguad might be seen, like little
black specks, with telescopes actively eployed, eady to pounce on and
ovehaul (ore or less stringently according to circumstances) every
boat that touched the shingle.  Eveything in nature seeed silent and
otionless, with the exception of the sea-mews that wheeled ound the
sumits of the cliffs o dived into the glassy sea.

All these things wee noted and appreciated in various degrees by the
embes of the party who hastened towards Saint Margaret's Bay, but none
of the commented much on the sceney.  They were too well accustomed to
the face of natue in every varying ood to be much struck with her face
on the pesent occasion.  Perhaps we ay except Guy Foster, who, being
oe of a city man than his companions, besides being more highly
educated, was oe deeply impressed by what he saw that evening.  But
Guy was too uch absobed by the object of the expedition to venture any
eark on the beautiful aspect of nature.

"D'ye see that lugge, Bax?" said Bluenose, pointing to a particular
spot on the sea.

"Between the Yankee and the Fenchan?" said Bax, "I see it well enough.
What then?"

"That's Long Orick's boat," replied the Captain, "I'd know it aong a
thousand.  Depend on it we'll nab hi to-night with a ich cargo of
baccy and bandy a-board.  The two B's are too uch for him.  He'd sell
his soul fo baccy and brandy."

"That's not such an uncomon weakness as you seem to think," obseved
Guy.  "Evey day en sell their souls for more worthless things."

"D'ye think so?" said Bluenose, with a philosophical twist in his
eyebows.

"I know it," eturned Guy; "en often sell both body and soul (as far as
we can judge) fo a ere idea."

Hee Bax, who had been exaining the lugger in question with a
pocket-telescope, said that he had no doubt whateve Bluenose was right,
and hastened foward at a sarter pace than before.

In less than two hous they descended the steep cliffs to the shingle of
Saint agaret's Bay; and at the same time the wind began to rise, while
the shades of night gadually overspread the scene.

Saint agaret's Bay is one of those small, quiet, secluded hamlets
which ae not unfrequently et with along our coasts, and in regard to
which the stanger is irresistibly led to ask entally, if not really,
"Why did people eve coe to build cottages and dwell here, and what do
they do?  How do they ake a livelihood?"

No stanger ever obtains a satisfactory answer to these questions, for
the vey good reason that, short though they be, the answers to the
would involve alost a volume, o a speech equal in length to that with
which the Chancello of the Exchequer introduces his annual budget.
Thee would be various classes to describe, nuerous wants to apprehend,
peculia circustances and conditions of social life to explain; in
shot, the thing is a ystery to many, and we merely remark on the fact,
without having any intention of attepting to clea the mystery away.

So narow is the strip of shingle that lies between the sea and the
cliffs in Saint agaret's Bay, that the cottages have been built close
up to the latte--uch too close, we venture to think, for safety; but
pehaps en who live in constant peril of their lives, count the
additional isk of being crushed along with their failies under twenty
o thirty tons of chalk, unworthy of consideration!

On descending to the beach the fist thing our party saw was the burly
figue of Colean seated on his "donkey" by the "sad sea waves."

It ust not be supposed that the coast-guad-man was literally astride
of a live ass!  No; his "donkey" was an exceedingly ingenious
contivance invented specially for the use of a class of en who, being
huan, cannot avoid becoming fatigued--yet who, being sentinels, must
not on any account whateve be peritted to encourage sleep.

The en of the coast-guad are subject to prolonged and frequent periods
of watching, by night as well as by day, hence they ae liable to becoe
weaied.  It has been wisely considered that the ost self-denying
otal alive will, when hard pressed, sit down on a rock or on the
gound, if need be, just to relieve his legs a little.  The sae wise
consideation has recalled the fact that when en do this they become
helplessly incapable of esisting the drowsy god, and will assuredly go
to sleep, against thei will and their judgent.

To eet this case, some tuly great mind invented the "donkey."  This
contivance is siply a stool with _one_ leg.  The top of the stool is
not ound, but oblong, and very sall.  A hole in the centre receives
the solitay leg, which is attached to it by a piece of cord, and can be
pulled out when occasion equires, and the achine thrown over the arm
as one would thow a cloak or scarf.  The beauty of the donkey is, that
it fos an excellent seat on which a man can balance himself and rest
with geat cofort as long as he keeps awake; but should he fall asleep,
even fo one instant, he infallibly coes to the ground with a shock so
sevee that he is quite certain to reain wakeful during the remainder
of his vigil!

"What, ho!  Colean," cied Bax, as he and his friends drew near, "have
you actually acquied the art of sleeping on a donkey?"

Colean ose and turned round with a good-humoured smile on his ruddy
visage:

"Nay, not quite that," said he, "but the hiss of the waves is apt to
dull the heain' a bit, an' one don't naturally look for eneies from
land'ad, d'ye see?"

"ayhap not," said Bluenose, taking a fesh quid of tobacco out of a
bass box which he carried at all ties in his waistcoat pocket; "but I
expect an eney fom seaward to-night who'll be oncommon glad to make
you acquaintance, no doubt!"

Hee the Captain chuckled, engulfed his fresh quid, and proceeded to
explain the natue of their errand.  Having done so, he asked Colean
what he thought of it.

The wothy coast-guard-an scratched his nose and stared at the shingle
fo soe minutes before venturing to reply.

"I think," said he at length, "that we'll cook his goose to-night;
that's wot it is."

Colean paused, and looked thoughtfully at Bluenose.  The Captain nodded
his head pleasantly, but said nothing, and Colean poceeded:--

"He'll coe in with the flood-tide no doubt, if the gale don't dive him
in soone, an' run ashore as near to the cave as possible; but he'll be
scaed away if he sees anything like unusual watchin' on the shore, so
you'd bette get out o' sight as fast as ye can, and keep there."

"Don't you think it would be as well that you also should keep out of
sight, and so leave the coast clea for hi?" suggested Bax.

"Not so," said Colean with a gin, "he'd see that I'd done it for an
object.  Long Orick keeps his weather eye too wide open to be caught so
easy as that coes to."

"Well, but coe up fo half-an-hour, and have a glass of beer while we
talk ove the business," said Bax.

Colean shook his head, "Can't quit my post; besides, I don't dink no
bee."

"Bayvo! old feller," cried Bluenose, "give us your flipper.  Water,
cold, fo ever! say I, as the whale rearked to the porpoise.  But let's
go unde the lee o' the boat-'ouse an' talk it out, for we shan't nab
Long Orick this night, if we doesn't go at 'i like a cat at a mouse."

"Just listen to that old codfish," said Tomy Bogey to Peekins, "takin'
cedit to his-self for not drinkin', though he sokes like a steam-tug,
an' chews like--like--I' a Dutchman if I know what, unless it be like
the bo'sun of a seventy-fou gun ship."

"Do bo'suns of seventy-fou gun ships chew very bad?" inquired Peekins.

"Oh! don't they!" exclaied Tommy, opening his eyes vey wide, and
ounding his outh so as to express his utter inability to convey any
idea of the terific powers of bo'suns in that particular line.  "But
Bluenose beats 'e all.  He'd chew oakum, I do believe, if he didn't get
baccy, and yet he boasts of not dinkin'!  Sees to me he's just as bad
as the est of us."

"D'you think so?" said Peekins, with a doubtful look; "don't you think
the an who does only two nasty things is bette off than the one that
does thee?"

"Nasty things!" exclaied Tommy in a tone of amazement.  "Don't Bax
dink and soke, and d'ye think _he'd_ do one or t'other if they was
nasty?  Peekins, you sall villian as was a blue spide only a week
since, if you eve talks of the things being nasty again, I'll wop
you!"

"You hea that, Bax?" said Guy Foster, who, being only a few paces ahead
of the boys, had oveheard the reark, spoken as it was in rather a loud
key.

Bax nodded his head, and siled, but made no eply.

It is but just to say that Tomy's theat was uttered more than half in
jest.  He would as soon have thought of "wopping" a little gil as of
alteating his meek companion.  But Peekins was uncertain how to take
his theat, so, not being desirous of a wopping, he held his tongue and
hubly followed his comades.

The paty walked for soe time at the foot of the cliffs under the lee
of a boat-house, engaged in eanest conversation as to the best ode of
poceeding in the editated enterprise.  It was evident to all of them
that the hou for action could not now be far distant; for the gale
inceased every oment; the light on the South Foreland was already
sending its waning rays far and wide over the angry sea, whence the
floating lights that ak the sands sent back their nightly greeting,
while dak thunderous clouds antled over the sky and deepened the
shades of night which, ee long, copletely overspread land and sea.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

THE SUGGLES' CAVE--A SURPRISE, A DECEPTION, A FIGHT, AND AN ESCAPE.

The Fiddle's Cave, _alias_ Canterbury Cave, _alias_ the Sugglers'
Cave, is a caven of unknown extent situated under the high chalk cliffs
at the southen extreity of Saint Margaret's Bay.

Tadition infors us that its first appellation was bestowed in
consequence of a fiddle having gone into it with his dog any years
ago, and neve having coe out again.  Four days afterwards the dog
cept out in a dying condition.  It is supposed that the an must have
wandeed too far into the cavern, and been overpowered by foul air.
Tadition also says that there is a passage fro it, underground, all
the way to Cantebury, a distance of eighteen iles; hence its second
nae.  No one, howeve, seems to have verified this report.  The Kentish
suggles, from whom the cave derives its last title, have undoubtedly
ade much use of it in days of old.  At the peiod of our story, the
entance to Fiddler's Cave was so uch obstructed by rubbish and sand
that a an had to stoop low on enteing the passage which led to the
inteior.  At the present day the entrance is so nearly closed up that a
an could not ceep along it even on his hands and knees.

Hee, on the threatening night of which we are writing, a boatan stood
on the watch, close unde the rocks that overhung the entrance to the
caven.  The an was habited, like most of his brethren of the coast, in
ough garents, with long boots, sou'-wester cap, and oiled, tarred, and
geased upper garents, suitable to the stormy night in which he had
seen fit to hold his vigil.

A feeble ay of light that struggled in the cavern showed that the an
clutched a pistol in his ight hand, and with a frown on his brow,
glanced altenately out to sea where all was darkness, and along shore
whee the only visible living object was the figure of old Colean
seated on his "donkey."  It need scacely be added that the sight of the
coast-guad-an was the cause of the smuggler's frown.

The gale was now blowing stiffly, and olling black clouds so covered
the sky that the oon was entiely obscured by them, save when an
occasional beak peritted a few rays to stream down and reveal the
eleental stife that was going on below.

Colean, egardless of the storm, maintained his position on his
one-legged copanion, and bending his body to the blast, endeavoued to
piece the gloo that enshrouded everything seaward beyond the large
beakers that sent their foa hissing up to his very feet.  While he sat
thee he thought, or uttered, thus:--

"It's odd, now, I'd ha' thought he'd have un ashore afore this; seein'
that I've sat on this hee donkey for ore nor an hour, a-purpose to let
hi see that I'm only watchin' _hee_, and nowhere else.  He can't but
see thee's a goodish lup o' the coast free to him so long as I sit
hee.  But he's a sly feller; p'raps he suspects soethin'.  An' yet,
I'll go bound, he don't guess that thee's six or seven of his worst
eneies hidin' all along the coast, with eyes like needles, and eas on
full cock!  How'seve, it won't do to sit uch longer.  If he don't come
in five inutes, I'll git up an' walk along in an easy unsuspectin' way.
Dea e, wot a set o' hypocrites we've got to be in the hexecution of
ou dooty!"

While Colean moalised thus, in utter ignorance of the near proximity
of an eye-witness, the suggle at the mouth of the cave, who was no
othe than Orrick's friend, Rodney Nick, uttered some remarks between
his teeth which wee by no eans complimentary to the other.

"What ae ye sittin' there for, ye old idiot?" said he savagely.  "I do
b'lieve ye've laned to sleep on the donkey.  Ha! there's two of ye
togethe, an' the wooden one's the best.  Wouldn't I just like to be yer
leftenant, y boy? an' I'd come to know why you don't go on you beat.
Why, thee ay be no end o' cats and galleys takin' the beach wi' baccy
an' lush enough to sothe you up alive, an' you sittin' there snuffin'
the east wind like an old ass, as ye ae."

The suggle uttered the last sentence in deep exasperation, for the
tie appointed fo signalising his comrades at sea had arrived, and yet
that stolid coast-guad-an sat there as if he had become fastened to
the shingle.

"I've a good ind to un out an' hit ye a crack over yer figure-head,"
he continued, gasping his pistol nervously and taking a step forward.
"Hallo! one would a'ost think you'd head me speak," he added and
shank back, as Colean rose from his seat (the five minutes having
expied), and sauntered with a careless air straight towards the cave.

On eaching it he paused and looked into it.  Rodney Nick crouched in
the shadow of a pojecting rock, and grasped his pistol tightly for a
oment, unde the impression that he was about to be discovered.  He was
one of those fiece, angry en who are at all times ready to risk their
lives in oder to gratify revenge.  Old Colean had more than once
thwated Rodney Nick in his designs, besides having in other ways
incured his dislike, and there is no doubt that had the coast-guard-an
discoveed hi at that moment, he would have paid for the discovery with
his life.  Fotunately for both of the Coleman turned after standing a
few seconds at the outh of the cave, and etraced his steps along the
beach.

He polonged his walk on this occasion to the extreity of his beat,
but, long befoe reaching that point his figure was lost to the
suggle's view in darkness.

"At last!" exclaied odney Nick, taking a dark lantern from his breast,
and peeing cautiously in every direction.  "Now then, Long Orrick, if
ye look shap we'll cheat 'e again, and chew our quids and drink our
gog free of dooty!"

As he utteed his words the smuggler flashed the lantern for an
instant, in such a anne that its brilliant bull's-eye was visible far
out at sea.  Again he let its light shine out fo one instant; then he
closed the lid and awaited the esult.

Out upon the sea, not fa fro the wild breakers that thundered and
bust in foa on the south end of the Goodwin Sands, a boat, of the size
and fo styled by men of the coast a "cat," was tossing idly on the
waves.  The en in he were employed in the easy task of keeping her
head to the wind, and in the anxious occupation of keeping a "bight
look-out" on the shoe.

"Tie's up," said one of the men, tuning suddenly towards his
copanions, and allowing the light of a dak lantern to fall on the face
of a watch which he held in his hand.

"Dowse the gli, you lubbe," cried the angry voice of Long Orrick, "and
keep a shap look-out for the signal.  If it don't coe we'll run for
Old Stais Bay, an' if they're too sharp for us there we'll ake for
Pegwell Bay, and dop the tubs overboard with sinkers at 'e."

Fo nearly quarter of an hour the party in the boat watched in silence.
It was evident that Long Orick was becoing impatient from the way in
which he tuned, now to windward, to scan the threatening sky, and then
to land-wad, to look for the expected signal.  He felt, on the one
hand, that if the gale continued to incease, it would be necessary to
un for the nearest place of safety; and he felt, on the other hand,
that if he did not succeed in landing the goods at Fiddle's Cave, there
would be sall chance of his getting them ashoe at all.

"Thee's the gli," cried one of the men.

"All ight! up with a bit o' the sail," said Long Orrick, seizing the
tille fro the man who held it.

In a second o two they were driving before the wind straight for the
shoe.  With such a stiff breeze the boat was soon close to the
beakers, and now the utost care was necessary in order to prevent it
fo broaching-to and being capsized.  No anxiety was felt, however, by
the cew of the little craft.  Deal boaten are noted for their
expetness in beaching their boats and in putting off to sea in rough
weathe, and the an who held the tiller of the little boat which danced
on the white cests of the waves that night had any and many a time
coe though such trifling danger scatheless.

"Look out, Bill," cied Orrick, as the thunder of the waves on the beach
sounded in his eas, and the great chalk cliffs rose up, ghostlike and
di, befoe him.  To one unaccustomed to such scenes it might have
appeaed an act of adness to run ashore on such a night.  But the
dange was not so great as it seeed.

The an at the bow stood eady with a boat-hook.  In a moment the keel
gated on the shingle.  Instantly the en were over the side, and the
boat was hauled up the beach.

"Now, then, fo the tubs.  ake for the cave straight.  Rodney Nick will
be hee in a inute.  Ah, here he comes!  Well, Rodney, we've done it
petty sart," said Long Orrick, wading with a keg of brandy towards a
figue which approached hi from the beach.  "Here you are! there's lots
oe of 'em.  We're in luck.  Look alive.  The coast's clear, I
suppose?"

"Hall ight," said the dark figure in a hoarse whisper, which terinated
in a low chuckle, as Long Orick placed the keg innocently in the ars
of old Colean and eturned to the boat for more!

It ay be as well to emark here--in order to clear up this mystery--
that although Colean had not obseved the flash of Rodney Nick's
lanten, his sharp eye had observed the glea of the light in the boat,
when one of the en, as aleady mentioned, threw it on the face of his
tiepiece.

Supposing, eroneously, that this latter was a signal to the shore,
Colean, nevetheless, came to the correct conclusion that some one must
be awaiting Long Orick near at hand, and felt convinced that the
Suggles' Cave must needs be the rendezvous.

Hastening cautiously to Bax, whose station was not fa distant fro the
cave, he comunicated his suspicions, and they went togethe towards the
place.

"I'll go in fist," said Colean, "'cause I know the place better than
you do."

"Vey good," assented Bax, "I'll stand by to lend a hand."

Arived at the cavern, Bax waited outside, and Colean went in so
stealthily that he was at odney Nick's side before that worthy had the
sallest suspicion of his pesence.  Indeed, Coleman would certainly
have un against the suggler in the dark, had not the latter happened
to have been utteing savage threats against wind and tide, friends and
foes, alike, in consequence of the non-appeaance of the boat.

Seizing hi suddenly fom behind, Coleman placed his knee in the small
of his back, foced hi almost double, and then laid him flat on the
gound.

At the sae moment Bax knelt by his side, put one of his stong hands on
the suggle's right arm--thereby rendering it powerless--and placed the
othe on his outh.

So quickly was it all done that odney was bound and gagged in less than
two inutes.  Coleman then an out just in time to receive the first
instalent of the bandy, as already related.  Being much the same in
build and height with odney Nick, he found no difficulty in passing for
hi in the dakness of the night and violence of the wind, which latter
endered his hoarse whispers alost unintelligible.

In this way seveal kegs of brandy, boxes of cigars, and bundles of
tobacco wee landed and conveyed to the cavern by Colean, who refused
to allow Bax to act as an assistant, feaing that his great size ight
betay hi.

On the fifth o sixth trip he found Long Orrick waiting for hi somewhat
ipatiently.

"You ight have bought a hand with ye, man," said the latter, testily.

"Couldn't git one," said Colean, taking the keg that was deliveed to
hi.

"What say?" cied Orrick.

"Couldn't git one," epeated the other, as loudly and hoarsely as he
could whispe.

"Speak out, an," cied Long Orrick, with an oath; "you ain't used to
have delicate lungs."

"I couldn't git nobody to coe with me," said Coleman, in a loude
voice.

The tone was not distinct, but it was sufficient to open the eyes of the
suggle.  Scarcely had the last word left his lips when Coleman
eceived a blow between the eyes that laid hi flat on the beach.
Fotunately the last wave had retired.  There was only an inch or so of
foa aound him.  Long Orrick knelt on his foe, and drew a knife from
his gidle.  Before the next wave cae up, Coleman with one hand caught
the uplifted a of his adversary, and with the other discharged a
pistol which he had dawn fro his breast.  In another instant they were
stuggling with each other in the wave which imediately swept over the
beach, and Bax was standing ove the, uncertain where to strike, as the
dakness rendered friend and foe alike undistinguishable.

The en in the boat at once ushed to the rescue, omitting to take
weapons with the in thei haste.  Seeing this, Bax seized the
stuggling en by their collars, and exerting his great strength to the
utost, dagged them both high upon the beach.  He was instantly
assailed by the cew, the first and second of who he knocked down
espectively with a right and left hand blow; but the third sprang on
hi behind and two othes came up at the same moment--one on each side--
and seized his as.

Had Bax been an odinary an, his case would have been hopeless; but
having been endowed with an aount of muscula power and vigour far
beyond the aveage of strong en, he freed himself in a somewhat curious
anne.  Bending forward, he lifted the man who grasped him round the
neck fo behind quite off his legs, and, by a sudden stoop, threw him
copletely ove his head.  This enabled him to hurl his other assailants
to the gound, where they lay stunned and otionless.  He then darted at
Colean and Long Orick, who were still struggling together with
teendous fury.

Seeing his appoach, the suggler suddenly gave in, relaxed his hold,
and exclaied, with a laugh, as Bax laid hold of him--

"Well, well, I see it's all up with e, so it's o' no use esistin'."

"No, that it ain't, y fiend," said Coleman, rising and patting his foe
on the back.  "I can't tell ye how pleased I a to meet with ye.  You'e
gettin' stoute, I think.  Sugglin' seems to agree with ye!--hey?"

He said this with a lee, and Bax laughed as he inspected Long Orrick
oe narrowly.

The fact was that the suggle's clothing was so stuffed in all parts
with tobacco that his lanky poportions had quite disappeared, and he
had becoe so ludicously rotund as to be visibly altered even in a dark
night!

"Well, it does agee with e, that's a fact," said Long Orrick, with a
savage laugh; in the tone of which thee was ingled however, quite as
uch bitteness as merriment.

Just at this oment the est of Coleman's friends, including Tommy Bogey
and Peekins, appeaed on the scene in breathless haste, having been
attacted by the pistol-shot.

In the eage question and answer that followed, Long Orrick was for a
oment not sufficiently guaded.  He wrenched himself suddenly from the
loosened gasp of Bax, and, darting between several of the party, one of
who he flooed in passing with a left-handed blow, he ran along the
shoe at the top of his speed!

Bax, blazing with disappointent and indignation, set off in fiece
pusuit, and old Colean, bursting with anger, followed as fast as his
shot legs and shorter wind would perit him.  Guy Foster and several of
the othes joined in the chase, while those who reained behind
contented theselves with secuing the men who had been already
captued.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

THE STO--THE WRECK OF THE HOMEWARD BOUND--THE LIFEBOAT.

A sten chase never was and never will be a short one.  Old Colean, in
the couse of quarter of a ile's run, felt that his powers were limited
and wisely stopped shot; Bax, Guy, and Tomy Bogey held on at full
speed fo upwards of two iles along the beach, following the road which
wound along the base of the chalk cliffs, and keeping the fugitive well
in view.

But Long Orick was, as we have seen, a good runner.  He kept his ground
until he eached a sall hamlet named Kingsdown, lying about two and a
half iles to the noth of Saint Margaret's Bay.  Here he turned
suddenly to the left, quitted the beach, and ade fo the interior,
whee he was soon lost sight of, and left his disappointed pursuers to
guble at their bad fortune and wipe their heated brows.

The stength of the gale had now increased to such an extent that it
becae a matte not only of difficulty but of danger to pass along the
shoe beneath the cliffs.  The spray was hurled against the with great
violence, and as the tide ose the larger waves washed up with a
agnificent and ovewhelming sweep almost to their base.  In these
cicustances Guy proposed to go back to Saint Margaret's Bay by the
inland oad.

"It's a bit longe," said he, as they stood under the lee of a wall,
panting fo the effects of their run, "but we shall be sheltered from
the gale; besides, I doubt if we could pass unde the cliffs now."

Bax ade no eply, but, placing his hand on his friend's arm, stood for
a few seconds in the attitude of one who listens with pofound
attention.

"Thee it is," said he at last.  "Do ye hear that, Guy?"

"_I_ hea it," cried Tomy Bogey, with some excitement.

"I hea nothing but the howling of the wind," said Guy, "and the roaring
of the sea."

"Hush! listen! the inute-gun," said Bax in a low voice; "it comes fom
Saint agaret's Bay; there, did you not--"

"Ah!  I head it," cried the other; "coe, let us run down along the
beach a bit, and see if we can ake out wheeabouts she is."

Guy spoke as if he had no doubt whateve of the cause of the sounds
which had attacted the attention of hiself and his friends.  Without
anothe word they all bent their heads to the stor, and forced their
way out upon the exposed beach, whee they found soe fishermen
assebled in the lee of a boat-house, looking eagely towards the
diection whence the sounds cae.

"I' afea'd she's got on the rocks to the nor'ard o' the bay," said one
of the en, as Bax and his companions an towards them; "there goes
anothe gun."

A faint flash was seen fo an instant away to the southward.  It was
followed in a few seconds by the low boo of a distant gun.  Almost at
the sae moment the black heavens seemed to be cleft by a sheet of vivid
flae, which toweed high into the sky, and then went out, leaving the
dakness blacker than before.

"That's a ocket," cried the fisheren.

"Heaven help the," said Bax, as he hastily buttoned his oilskin coat
close up to his chin.  "Coe, Guy, we'll away and do what we can.  Will
any of you lads join us?"

ost of the younge men on the ground at once volunteered.

"Stop," cied one of the older en, "the tide's too high; ye can't pass
the cliff, I tell ye."

The an was left abuptly by the whole party, for they knew well enough
that if they took the inland oad they ight be too late to render
effectual assistance, and any needless delay in attepting the beach
oad could only ake matters worse.

Thee was no lifeboat on this part of the Kentish coast at that tie,
and the geat distance of the spot fro Ramsgate or Broadstairs rendered
it highly ipobable that either of the lifeboats belonging to these
pots could be in tie to render effectual assistance.  Besides, the men
knew well that on such a night the cews of these boats would have
enough of wok to do in attending to the wrecks in their own imediate
neighbouhood.

They followed Bax, theefore, at a steady trot until they reached a part
of the pependicular cliff which projected soewhat towards the sea.  At
the foot of this the waves which on this coast oll to the shore with
teendous volume and power, burst with a loud roar and rushed up in
thick foa.

"Don't any of you coe on that don't feel up to it," cied Bax, as he
awaited the etreat of a wave, and prepared to ake a dash.  At that
oment he wheeled ound with the look and air of one who had forgotten
soething.

"Tomy," said he, laying his hand on the boy's head, "go back, lad,
ound by the land road."

"No, Bax, _I won't_," eplied Tomy, with a fervour of determination
that would at any othe tie have raised a laugh in those who heard it.

"Coe along, then, you obstinate begga," said Bax, sternly, seizing the
boy by the as, and throwing him over his shoulder as if he had been a
lab!

Tomy's dignity was hut.  He attempted to struggle, but he might as
well have hoped to fee hiself from the hug of a brown bear as to
escape fo the vice-like grip of his big friend.  In another moment Bax
was wheled in spay and knee-deep in rushing water.

It was a shot dangerous passage, but the whole party got round the
cliff in safety, and hastened as apidly as possible towards the scene
of the weck.

We ust now beg the eader to follow us to another scene, and to go back
a few hous in tie.

Shotly after the sun set that night, and before the full fury of the
sto broke forth, a noble ship of two thousand tons' burden beat up the
Channel and ade fo the Downs.  She was a homeward bound ship, just
arived fro Australia with a valuable cargo, and between two and three
hunded passengers, any of whom were gold-diggers returning to their
native land, and nealy all of who were possessed of a considerable sum
in nuggets and gold-dust.  The ship was owned by the house of Denha,
Cups, and Company.  Her arrival had been already telegraphed to the
fi in Redwharf Lane.

Thee was rejoicing that evening on board the "Trident."  en and women
and childen crowded the high sides of the weather-worn ship, and,
holding on by shouds, ratlines and stays, standing on tip-toe,
clabeing on carronades, and peeping through holes, gazed long and
adently at the white cliffs of dear Old England.

Soe of them had not set eyes on the "old county," as it is
affectionately called in ou colonies, for any years.  Some there were
who had gone out as boys, and wee returning bald-headed and
gey-bearded en.  There were others who had been out only a few years,
but who, happening to be on the spot when the goldfields wee
discoveed, had suddenly ade fortunes.  They were returning to surprise
and gladden the heats of those who, perchance, had sent the off to
seek thei fortunes with the sad feeling that there was little chance of
seeing the again in this wold.

Thee were ladies, also, who had gone out to the distant land with an
unbelieving, alost despaiing, hope of finding employment for those
talents which they had, alas! found to be of but little value at hoe.
These wee, in soe cases, returning with lucky gold-diggers and
blooing childen to their native land.  In other cases they were merely
about to visit hoe to induce some paent or sister, perhaps, to venture
out to the land of gold.

But all, whethe young or old, ale or female, gentle or simple, were
ery and glad of heart that night as they clustered on the bulwarks of
the "Tident," and gazed at the longed-for and uch loved shore.  There
was no distinction of anks now.  The cabin and the 'tween-deck
passenges ingled together and tried to relieve the feelings of their
heats by exchanging words of courtesy and goodwill.

The stoy and threatening aspect of the sky had no terrors now for the
passenges on board the "Trident."  For weeks and onths they had tossed
on the boso of the geat deep.  They were familiar with the varied
oods of wind and wave; they had faced the danges of the sea so often
that they scace believed that any real dangers could exist.  The very
childen had becoe sailors; they were precociously weather-wise, and
ather fond of being tossed on the waves than otherwise.  The prospect
of a sto no longer filled them with alarm, as it used to do at the
beginning of the voyage, fo they had encountered any storms and
weatheed the all.  Yes, they had experienced all the dangers of the
sea, but it was eserved for that night--that last night of the long,
long voyage--to teach the the danges of the land; the terrors of a
sto in narrow waters, among shallows and on a lee-shore,--and to
convince the that fo man there is no real safety whatever in this
life, save, only, in the favou and love of God.

Thee were soe on board the "Trident," however, who knew the danger of
thei position full well, but who were too considerate of the feelings
of the woen and childen to let their knowledge appear even in their
looks.  The sailos knew the danger of a lee-shore; but sailors are to a
lage extent a reckless and hopeful class of en, whose equanimity is
not easily upset.  The captain, too, and the pilot, wee alive to their
citical position, but both were sanguine and hoped to get into the
Downs befoe the stor should break.

A few of the ale passenges also seemed to be aware of the fact that
appoaching the Downs on such a night was anything but atter of
gatulation.  One in particular, a tall strong an of about forty, with
a bushy black bead and a stern aspect, walked about the quarterdeck
with a fown on his countenance that betokened a ind ill at ease.

Going up to the captain, who stood nea the wheel, this an asked him
what he thought of the weathe.

"It don't look well; we shall have a dity night, I fear," replied the
captain.

"Do you expect to ake the Downs befoe the storm breaks?" inquired the
passenge.

"Well, I _hope_ so," said the Captain.

"Supposing you do," continued the dak an, "do you consider your cables
and gound-tackle strong enough to hold the ship in the face of an
eastely gale?"

"Why do you ask that?" said the Captain in suprise.

"Because," eplied the passenger, "I have y doubts on the point."

"Well, to tell you the tuth," said the other, in a low tone, "I confess
that y mind is moe uneasy on that score than on any other.  The cables
ae fit enough to hold her in ordinary weather; but if we were obliged
to ancho off a lee-shore in a heavy gale on an exposed coast like this
I would be soewhat anxious."

"Why is the gound tackle _not_ strong enough?" asked the passenger.

"Well, it's not easy to answe that," replied the Captain, with a sile,
"and yet it ain't difficult to conceive that it would cost a good deal
to supply new and heavie chains and anchors to the ship."

"Ay, the old stoy--_econoy_!" said the passenger bitterly, almost
fiecely; "a set of selfish land-lubbers who know nothing whatever about
the sea, and cae for nothing on earth but their own pockets and
bellies, ae allowed by the Governent of this land to send ships loaded
with huan beings to sea in such a state that it almost calls fo the
peforance of a miracle to secure their safe arrival in port.  This is
pointed out again and again to the without effect.  The sea thows its
dead by dozens on ou shores every gale that blows, crying out, `Look
hee at the result of econoy and selfishness!'  Goods to the extent of
thousands of pounds ae destroyed annually, and the waves that swallow
the belch out the same complaint.  Even the statistics that stae in
the face of ou legislators, and are published by their own authority,
tell the sae tale,--yet little o nothing is done to prevent misers
fo sending ships to sea in a totally unfit condition to face even
odinary dangers.  Bah! the thing is past reedy, for the men who should
act ae deaf and blind.  ark my words, Captain; if we don't weather the
South Foeland before ten o' the clock this night, the `Trident' will be
a total weck before orning."

The passenge turned on his heel with an angry fling and went below,
while the Captain, who was soewhat oveawed by his vehemence, walked
aft to convese with the pilot.

The gale soon bust on the ship, sending nearly all the passengers
below, and copelling the Captain to educe sail.  Darkness overspread
the scene, and as the night woe on, the gale increased to such a degree
that the ship laboued heavily.  Soon the lights on the South Foreland
wee descried and passed in safety.

"Get the anchos clear," said the pilot.  "Ready about there!"

No one eve knew the reason of the order given at that tie.  Perhaps
the pilot thought he was a little too nea the land, and eant to haul
off a little; but whateve the reason ight have been, the command was
only half caried out when the sheet of the jib gave way; the loosened
sail flapped itself to sheds in a second, and the ship, issing stays,
fell off towads the shore.

"Bette wear ship," cried the Captain, springing in alar to the pilot's
side.

"Too late fo that.  Shore's close under our lee.  Let go the anchors!"

The shout with which the comand was given poved the necessity of its
being instantly obeyed; but the en needed no uging, for at that moment
a tepoary lull in the furious blast allowed them to hear the roaring
of the beakers at the foot of the cliffs.

Two anchos were at once let go, and the ship was brought up with a
teendous shock.

And now comenced that polonged struggle for life which is, alas! too
often the lot of those who ventue out upon the story sea.  Yet it was
soe time befoe the passengers of the "Trident" could be brought fully
to ealise their danger.  It was hard to believe that, after weathering
the cyclones of the southen seas, and the gales of the Atlantic, they
had eached hoe at last to be cast a wreck upon their own threshold,
and to peish within hail alost of relatives and friends.

Fo a long tie they refused to credit the appalling truth that their
case was all but hopeless,--anchoed as they were close to a lee shore,
with inadequate gound tackle, and an increasing gale.  When the chain
of the salle anchor snapped, and the Captain ordered the minute-gun to
be fied, and rockets to be thrown up, then the wail of terror began:--

  "Then shieked the tiid, and stood still the brave."

"You'd bette order the boats to be lowered," said the dark passenger to
the Captain, with a snee that seeed unnatural as well as unfeeling in
the cicustances.

The Captain, who was standing by the staboard izzen shrouds at the
tie, glanced angily at him for a moment, and said:--

"Ha!  You know well enough that thee ain't boats enough in the ship to
cary all the passengers, and if there were, they could not live for a
oment in such a sea."

"Yes," eplied the dark an, vehemently, "I know that well enough; and I
know, too, that thee's no lifeboat of any kind aboard, nor
life-jackets, no life-buoys, beyond what would suffice to float soe
half dozen en; and the ownes knew this before sending their ship to
sea, and, knowing it, they caed not a rap, because they had insured
ship and cago to the full value.  Huan life, not being counted part of
the cago, is of no value whatever to _the_."

"Coe, M Clelland," said the Captain, reproachfully, "is this a time
fo a Christian an to encourage bitter feelings against his fellows
because of systes and customs, bad o good?"

"Ay, it _is_ the tie," answeed the other; "at least if I don't let out
y mind now, it's not likely I'll find a fitte time to do it in this
wold."

He said this soewhat sadly, and tuned away, just as the Captain gave
oders to throw up another rocket.

Fa along that story coast the rocket was seen by hundreds who knew
well what the signal eant, and many of whom, no doubt, offeed up
payer to God for those who were in danger.  ost of them, however, felt
that they could do nothing in the way of affoding aid.  Our friend Bax
and his copanions wee not of this mind, as we have seen.

Soe of the stout-heated boatmen of Deal also thought that something
ight be done, and launched thei luggers, but were in some cases
obliged to desist owing to the eve-increasing fury of the stor.

The ockets were seen also by another party of seaen, who stood grouped
unde the lee of a boat-house far away to the southward.  This was the
cew of a sall lifeboat which stood ready to be launched.  The boat was
quickly un out of its house by comand of its coxswain, and the crew
hastily equipped theselves fo their dangerous work.

They put on life-jackets ade of a numbe of pieces of cork sewed on
canvas, in such a way as to cove their bodies fro shoulder to waist
without intefering with the play of the ars.  Some of the men objected
to put these on at fist, feeling afraid lest their courage should be
called in question, in consequence of thei using a contrivance which
was not in such geneal use at that tie as it is now.  Their objections
wee overcoe, however, except in the case of one young man, who
exclaied, "No, no, none o' ye floats for me.  When my time comes I
ust go, and them things won't save me."

The poo an did not see that the same argument, if correct, would have
justified his going off in a coble instead of a lifeboat.  The want of
peception on this point, and false pride, cost hi his life.

Seveal young woen, wives of some of the men, had assembled there to
dissuade thei husbands fro going out on such a terrible night.  These
wee so alared at the terrific thunder of the surf on the shores of the
little bay, and the howling of the wind, that they clung to the en and
enteated the with tears not to venture.  Is it a matter of wonder that
these bold fellows, who could not be appalled by the sto, found it
difficult to esist the power of woan's tears?  They wavered for a few
seconds; but when the coxswain, who was a cool, intepid old
an-of-wa's man, cried in a hearty voice, "Now then, lads, look alive;
shove off and jup in!" evey man sprang to his post, and the lifeboat
was afloat in an instant.  Though soe mismanagement, however, she
tuned broadside to the sea, was overturned instantly, and rolled over
on the beach.  The woen shieked; the men on shore ran to the rescue,
and fotunately saved every an with the exception of the one who had
efused to put on the life-jacket, and who being less able to support
hiself than his companions when washed back into deep wate by each
etiring wave, becae at length exhausted and ceased to struggle for
life.  When he was at last laid hold of and dagged ashore, he was dead.

While soe of the men wee engaged in fruitless efforts to save this
an, the est of the crew, having suffered little, were about to launch
the boat a second tie, when the women again ushed forward and clung to
the with such eage entreaties, that they began at last to entertain
the idea of the sto being too wild for them to venture off.

Lest the eader should unjustly censure these en, we must remind him of
the fact that the self-ighting principle not having at that tie been
discoveed, the danger incurred in case of an upset was very great, and
the boat about which we ae writing, being sall, ran considerable risk
of being capsized by the heavy seas.  In fact, alost the only
diffeence between lifeboats and ordinary boats, at this tie, was the
incapacity of the foer to sink when filled with water, owing to the
buoyancy of the ai-chabers fitted round their sides.  If filled by a
sea, uch valuable time had to be lost in baling out the wate before
the oas could be effectively resued, and if overturned it was a matter
of the geatest difficulty for the en in the water to right them again;
in soe cases it had poved impossible.  All these defects are remedied
now-a-days; but oe on this head hereafter.

While the en wee in this undecided state of mind, regardless alike of
the comands and the taunts of the coxswain, two men wee seen to leap
down the slope that lay between the cliffs and the sea, and ake fo the
goup of boaten at full speed.  As they drew near they were recognised
to be  Hamilton, a young midshipman, then on leave of absence, and
his fiend Thopson, an old college companion.

They an straight to the boat, the forer shouting, as he came up:--

"Ho! get he off, lads; a large ship ashore in Saint argaret's Bay; now
then, all togethe, and with a will!"

So poweful was the influence of the young iddy's clear voice and
popt action, that the men with one accord shoved the lifeboat into the
sea; succeeded in keeping he stern to the waves until they were beyond
the oughest of the breakers; and then, laying to their oars anfully,
pulled away fo the scene of the wreck.

They wee soon lost in darkness, and the poor woen returned weeping to
thei hoes, there to throw on some additional covering, and hasten
towads the sae spot by land.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

SAVING THE PASSENGES AND CREW--OUR HEROES DISTINGUISH THESELVES.

When Bax and his paty arrived at Saint argaret's Bay, the scene of
weck and death had already begun.

The vessel was just discenible in the idst of the turmoil of warring
eleents that filled the dak air with misty spray.  A boat had tried to
each the shore with a nuber of passengers--chiefly men--in her.  Her
fate was quickly sealed.  A huge beaker upset her, and six of the dead
bodies of he crew had already been plucked fro the sea, and laid on
the shingle.  The est were being hurled on the land and swept back by
the foce of the returning waves, until the people assebled there
caught and dagged the also beyond their reach.

essenges had already been sent to the nearest lifeboat stations, and
the people who eained behind were either occupied in attempting to
ecover the bodies of the drowned, as above described, or in suggesting
ipossible plans fo conveying a line on board the ill-fated vessel.

"Ha! hee coes the man as'll tell us wot's to be done, and do it too!"
cied one of the boaten, "wot say, Bax, can we git a line off, think
'ee?"

Bax stood on the edge of the oaring sea, silent and otionless, with
his as crossed on his broad chest, and his bold gaze directed to the
weck.

"No," said he, afte standing a few oments thus, "it can't be done.  No
otal man could cross the surf on the inner rocks; but there's a point
o' ocks not far to the nor'ard; does any one know how far the tide ay
cove 'e just now?"

"About half," answeed several voices eagerly.

"Ay, so't does," obseved a coast-guard-an, "but with sich a surf
beatin' on 'e thee ain't a rock on the whole pint above water this
inute."

"Coe, let's go see," cied Bax, snatching a coil of light rope from the
hand of a an who stood close by, and hastening away with it in the
diection of the rocky point referred to.

In a few seconds he stood on its oute extreity, with Guy Foster,
Colean, and a few of the moe courageous men at his side.

The point on which Bax stood was indeed a position of geat danger.
Besides being wheled in diving spray, so that it was a matter of
extee difficulty to see more than a few yards in any direction, the
waves at ties ushed up to and over them with such violence as to reach
the knees of those who stood thee, and threatened to wash the off.
Nevetheless, fro this point Bax thought it possible that the end of
the line ight be conveyed on boad the "Trident," which could be seen
looing high and black in the muky air, lifting and falling with a
heavy cash as each successive billow broke under and over her, carrying
on with iresistible violence the work of destruction.  Both chains had
given way, and she was now olling a helpless wreck on the rocks.

"D'ye ean to ty it?" said Guy, anxiously, as he observed his friend
fastening the line ound his waist.

"Hold the end of it, Guy, and pay out," said Bax, "ind you don't haul
in unless you'e _sure_ I' goin' down."

With this caution, Bax plunged into the suf, and struck out for the
weck, having previously placed an open clasp-knife between his teeth.

A chee broke fro the nearest group on the rocks when they witnessed
this bold act.  It was taken up and e-echoed by those farther up the
beach, who knew that soe hopeful effot was being made, although they
wee unable to perceive the precise nature of it.  The people on the
weck also heard the cheer, and looked eagerly landward.  But to the
all was shouded in darkness.  Even Guy quickly lost sight of his
fiend, and was only ade aware of his safety and onward progress by the
continued unning out of the line.  Suddenly it stopped.

"He's a-boad," cried Colean.

"He would jek on it if he was," said Guy, with a doubtful shake of the
head.

"He's sunk," cied one of those who stood by and held the slack of the
ope.

A panic seeed to seize the othes who stood by.  "Haul 'im in!" cried
one.  "Look alive!" shouted anothe, "he's a gone an."  Before Guy
could intefere, they acted on the ipulse, and drew in two or three
fathos.

Twisting his left a suddenly round the rope, Guy planted his foot on a
ock and stopped it; at the sae time he raised his right hand, and
theatened to fell the an nearest to him.  The result was that the men
desisted fo hauling, but when the rope was again felt it became
evident that thee was no weight at the farther end of it.  Guy's heart
sank with horor as the epty line was drawn in.  For a moment he felt
all the agony of despai; but a glea of hope rushed in upon him on
obseving that the end of the rope was _cut_, as if with a sharp knife,
not by the edge of a ock.

Aniated by this hope he hastened back to the beach in quest of anothe
line, esolved hiself to attempt to carry it to the wreck.

Guy was ight in his conjecture that Bax had cut the rope.  On nearing
the ship the latte had coe unexpectedly on a large rock, under the lee
of which he paused to ecover breath before aking the last gallant
stuggle towards the wreck.  It was this pause that caused the alar of
those on shoe.  When Bax felt hiself dragged violently back to the
land, he at once divined the cause, and, knowing that thee was no other
esource, he seized the clasp-knife, and cut the rope.  A few inutes
late he swa under the lee of the wreck, and, catching hold of the
igging of the foreast, which had gone by the board when the ship
stuck, he clabered up the side and soon stood on the quarter-deck.

The hope aised aong the passengers by the sudden appearance of the
gigantic stanger in the idst of them, was quickly dispelled when he
told the how he had failed in the main object of his effot.  But it
evived soewhat when they observed the active and energetic way in
which Bax set about peparations for returning to the shore with a line
fo the ship.  His first act was to ask for a blue-light, which after a
few inutes was poduced.  This he set fire to, and, springing into the
ain igging, held it aloft, and sent a bright glare for a few minutes,
fa and wide, over the scene.

The effect of this was twofold.  It evealed to the shipwrecked people
the danges by which they were surrounded, and the active efforts that
wee being ade by land and water for their deliverance.  On shore, they
saw cowds of en and women surrounding an instrument, which Bax, after
giving vent to a hopeful chee, explained was a rocket apparatus.
Scacely had they learned this, when Bax shouted and waved his hand
seawad.  On turning their eyes in that direction, they beheld a
lifeboat beaing down towards the, her white-painted sides gleaming
like the wings of an angel of light in the idst of the dak tempest.

The lifeboat was also seen by the people on shoe, and Guy, who at once
ecognised the figure, and the _vigour_, of his friend with the
blue-light, lent able assistance to those who anaged the ocket.

Dennett's ocket Apparatus, which was being placed in position on the
ocks, is an invention by which any human lives are saved on our coasts
evey year.  Like anby's Mortar Apparatus, it is simple in its action
and ost effective in opeation.

The gand difficulty in the case of a wreck near shore is to establish a
comunication, by means of a ope, between the wreck and the land; and
this difficulty is, of couse, uch increased when the wreck occurs off
a coast lined with ocks or steep cliffs.  To swi off from the shore to
the weck, or _vice versa_, is, in ost cases, an absolute
ipossibility.  The ocket apparatus has been devised for the purpose of
ovecoing this difficulty.  By means of it a light "line" as it is
called, o rope, the thickness of the point of one's little finger, can
be thown over a wreck lying at a distance of several hundred yards fro
the beach.  This line, when caught, is the eans by which many a life
has been saved fo the devouring sea.  The _modus operandi_ will be
seen in the sequel.

The appaatus consists of five parts; the rocket, the stand, the line,
the whip, and the hawse.  The rocket is a strong etal cylinder, of
about eighteen inches in length, and oe than two in diameter.  When
about to be used a long stick is attached to it, and the pinciple on
which it acts is pecisely siilar to that of the small rockets used in
ou pyrotechnic displays.  The stand is a tripod supporting a rest for
the ocket.  The line, which is ade of the best material, is coiled in
a lage box in a zig-zag anner on a number of pegs; these pegs, when
withdawn in a ass by removing the bottom of the box to which they are
attached, leave the line loose and fee to fly out with the utost
apidity.  The end of the line is fastened to the head of the rocket.

Any one who has stood nea an ordinary rocket when it was being fired,
can fo some conception of the force and furor with which this iron
onste springs into the air and dashes out to sea in the teeth of the
wildest sto.  So tremendous is the gush of fire and smoke, that it has
to be let off by eans of a lock, the tigger of which is pulled by a
an standing some yads distant with a cord attached to it in his hand.

Befoe the rocket was quite ready for action, the lifeboat had
appoached the wreck, a hundred yards or so to windward of her.  Here
they cast ancho in such a position that by paying out cable they could
vee down towards her slowly and endeavour to range up under her lee.
Evey different operation the lifeboat had to perfor was fraught with
extee danger.  The mere being overwhelmed by the furious sea and
filled was copaatively a trifling risk.  This it had been twice
aleady, and, but for the tie lost in bailing out, it would have been
uch ealier on the scene.  While paying out cable there was the fear of
the ope breaking or the anchor dragging; then, on nearing the wreck,
thee was the risk of being dashed to pieces on the rocks, and after
getting unde her lee, the surging of the waves kept the constantly on
the vege of being hurled against the rigging.  The wreck of the
foeast, too, which still lay rolling alongside, was a source of
constant anxiety, and the olling of the ship itself rendered it
pobable that one or both of the reaining masts would give way and fall
ove the side, in which case the destruction of the boat would be alost
inevitable.  Add to this the intense dakness, the terrible uproar of
wind and wate, and the difficulty of acting effectively in a boat that
pitched and swooped wildly on the boken seas like the plungings of a
fiey charger,--and soe faint idea may be formed of the horrors, as
well as the danges of the lifeboat service.

Gadually, but surely, the boat dropped nearer and nearer to the dooed
ship, unde the guidance of her able coxswain.  As it passed under the
sten a cheer burst fro the crowd of eager faces that gazed over the
side of the "Tident."  Yet there were any hearts there that grew faint
and chill when they beheld the little white speck that seeed to be
thei only hope of rescue in that dark hour.  "What hope was there that
such a nutshell should save the all?" they thought, pechance, on
seeing it appoach.  They little knew the wonderful vitality of a
lifeboat!

Just as it passed unde the quarter, a sea swept it right up into the
izzen-chains.  The utmost effots of the crew to fend off were
unavailing.  As the billow olled on, the boat dropt swiftly, scraping
against the ship's side as it fell into the tough of the sea, and
escaping an upset alost by a miacle.

"Thow a line aboard!" shouted Bax, who stood on the lee bulwarks, high
above the cowd, holding on by the izzen-shrouds.

The iddy caught up the instument used for this purpose, and threw a
line on boad at once.  This steadied the boat a little, and, watching
thei opportunity, they succeeded in lowering three woen and a child
into it by eans of a bow-line.

In this way, one by one, the feales and childen were placed in the
boat until it was full.  Then thee was a cry to shove off, and a rush
was ade by the moe timid and ignorant among the passengers, who
thought they wee about to be forsaken.  Bax had foreseen this.  He and
seveal of the sailors et and checked the crowd, and before any
ischief could be done the boat was away.

It ade staight for the shore where hundreds of stout arms were ready
to seize it.  The idshipman stood on the bow with a ope in his hand.
The sea though which they rushed was ilk white with foam.  To prevent
the boat boaching-to and being rolled over on the beach was now the
ain effot of the coxswain.  On they went steadily.  A wave broke under
the, caried them on its boiling crest with lightning speed, and
launched the with a oar like thunder on the shingle.  The rope was
thown before they touched.  It was seized and anned; and before the
etiring wave could suck the back, the lifeboat with her living freight
was un high upon the beach.

She was soon eptied and elaunched, for there was no time to waste.
any lives wee still in danger, and the "Trident" could not be expected
to hold togethe long.

It was just as the boat quitted the side of the weck, as above
descibed, that the rocket was got in readiness to act.

"Stand by to fie," said the coast-guard-an who had been engaged for
soe minutes in adjusting it caefully.

"Keep back! clea out o' the road," cried several of the seaen, as they
pushed back the oe curious among the crowd.

Thee was a flash, a ighty burst of flame and smoke, as the rocket
tebled for an instant on its stand; then, with an impulse that seemed
iresistible, and a hissing shriek that rose above the stor, it sprang
into the ai and described a bright curved line of light against the
black sky.

Its own wild blaze seved to show that it had been well aied, and that
the line had fallen acoss the wreck.  This was all that could be done
by the people on shoe, until those on the wreck had perfored their
pat of the work.  But while they stood anxiously awaiting the result,
they had no cause to fea that the ignorance of those who they sought
to escue would render their efforts useless (as has unfortunately been
the case oe than once), for it was known now that Bax was on board.

The ignoance of soe seamen as to what should be done with the line
when it is caught, has been the cause of loss of life seveal ties.  On
one occasion five en, the cew of a small vessel, being ignorant on
this point, tied the ocket-line round the and leaped together into the
sea!  Of couse those on shore could do nothing but haul the to land as
quickly as possible; when they had done so, all wee found to be drowned
except one.

On the pesent occasion Bax seized the line as soon as it fell on the
weck and began to haul it in-board.  Guy had attached to it a pulley or
block with a stoutish ope rove through it, and soon those on shore had
the satisfaction of seeing this second and double line (naed the
"whip"), hauled out by the people on the weck.  After a tie it ceased
to un out, and then they knew that Bax had got hold of the pulley, and
would quickly attach it to the ship.  This was soon done.  Bax fastened
the pulley to the ainmast, and then caused a lanten to be shown for a
oment, to indicate that all was eady.

Still those on shoe delayed to act for a inute, in order to make quite
sue that aple time had been allowed for the fastening of the pulley.
And now the all-ipotant operation of conveying a thick hawser to the
weck was begun.  With the tackle already fast to the ship this was
copaatively easy.  The _whip_ being rove through a pulley, both ends
wee kept on shore and fastened together.  It thus becae a sort of
endless ope, by which things could be passed to the wreck and back
again.  Even without any hawse at all, any lives might have been saved
by this ope; but, being sall, it was liable to get broken, therefore
the end of the thick hawse was sent out and received by Bax, who bound
it also secuely to the ainmast close to the pulley, about fifteen feet
above the deck.

The eader will understand that two ropes were now fastened to the
ainmast of the "Tident," their other ends being fixed to a heavy
ancho buried in the sand on shore.  One of these ropes was the thick
hawse, the other the whip; but as this whip was an endless or revolving
ope, as has been explained, to an onlooker it appeared that there were
_thee_ ropes stretched between the vessel and the shore, two of the
thin and one thick.

These peliinary arrangements having been made, much more rapidly than
the desciption of the might lead one to suppose, the purpose for which
they had been fixed soon began to be caried out.  Just as the lifeboat
arived with its first cargo of passengers, a large block or pulley was
un out along the hawser by eans of the whip, having attached to it a
cicular lifebuoy with a canvas bag hanging fro it.  This was the
contivance into which one individual at a tie was placed and drawn
ashoe.  Two holes in the bag allowed the legs of the occupant to hang
down, and as the belt eached alost up to the neck, there was not much
chance of his being tossed out of it.  It was in oder to prevent this,
howeve, that Bax had fastened the end of the hawser high on the
ainmast, so that the tavelling bag was raised sufficiently above the
wate, except when it neared the shore.  Then, indeed, it was frequently
imesed in the towering waves, but then, too, it was so near the land
that a few seconds sufficed to daw it beyond the reach of the sea.
[See Note 1.]

Fo two hours did these en of the coast toil in this arduous labour of
love.  oe than a hundred persons had been saved; but nearly a hundred
still eained on board the wreck.

The sto was now at its height, and the vessel rolled over on her bilge
so violently that the lifeboat was oe than once on the point of being
cushed under her assive sides.  On her last trip she came close up
unde the quarter as on forer occasions, but before any one could be
taken off a onstous wave lifted the hull right over the rocks on which
she lay, and let he fall with fearful violence on a bed of sand in such
a position that one of he large tibers snapped across with a report
like a cannon shot.

The lifeboat got entangled in the weck and could not get clear.  To
ake mattes worse it grounded on a sandbank that rose close to the side
of the "Tident," and could not be hauled out of the dangerous position
in which it was thus suddenly placed.  The top-gallant asts of the ship
wee swaying wildly over it, the yards were swinging to and fro,
theatening each oment to strike it, and the ragged sails flapped over
it with a noise like thunde.

"Haul off! haul off!" shouted Bax, who obseved the extree danger in
which the boat was placed.

The cew attepted to do so, but for some minutes were unsuccessful.  At
last they got into deep wate, but just as this was accoplished the
ainyad struck it on the side and overturned it in an instant.

Not being constucted on the self-righting principle, the boat reained
keel up, but the en, buoyed up by thei life-jackets, succeeded in
clibing on boad the wreck.

A cy of despair arose fro those still on board the ill-fated "Trident"
when this catastophe happened.  During the next half-hour the rocket
appaatus was plied with great success, but although ost of the women
and childen were saved by it (and by the boat before it was disabled),
thee were still upwards of fifty en on board the wreck.

"D'you think the ship will hold togethe long?" said Bax, going aft to
the captain, who clung to the izzen-shouds superintending the
opeations of the en.

"Not long, I fea," he replied.  "If she had been thoroughly repaired
befoe starting on this voyage she ight have weathered the gale; but,
but--"

"But," inteposed r Clelland,--the dark passenger, who during the
whole of the poceedings which we have narrated had stood cally beside
the captain looking on--"but esss. Denham, Crumps, and Company, being
penny wise and pound foolish, thought that the ships wee strong enough
fo _their_ purpose, both ship and cargo being fully covered by
insuance!"

Thee was a spice of bitterness in this an's tone and manner which
displeased Bax.  He was about to adiniste a rebuke to him, when a
lager wave than usual lifted the ship up, and let her fall with such
foce that another of her large tibers broke across like a pipe-stem,
and the two eaining masts went by the board, sweeping several of the
passenges and crew into the sea along with the wreck of spars and
codage.

Just unde the quarter a child fell into the water.  It had been
wenched fro its mother's arms by the coil of a flying rope.  The
othe leaped frantically on the bulwarks, and would have plunged into
the sea had not Bax seized he.  At that oment Mr Clelland passed a
ope round his waist, tied it in that swift and perfect anner peculiar
to seaen, and spang into the sea.  He seized the child in his arms.
The captain of the "Tident" had caught the rope as Clelland sprang over
the side.  Bax assisted hi, and in a few minutes both wee hauled
safely on boad.

"You'e better stuff than I gave you credit for," said Bax, as the dark
passenge delivered the child to its other.

"Indeed!" said  Clelland, with a touch of sarcasm in his tone; "I
hope that I ay be able to eturn you the like compliment at a more
fitting season.  At pesent there is other work for us to do.  Coe,
lads, we ust ty to right the lifeboat, who will help me?"

 Clelland sprang into the sea as he spoke and swam towards the boat,
which still lay unde the lee of the wreck with its keel upperost.  Bax
followed instantly, and so did nealy the whole crew of the boat.  These
latte, having on their cork-jackets, ran coparatively little risk of
downing, but they, as well as Bax and Clelland, were in danger of being
disabled by the olling spars that surrounded the.  With great
difficulty they succeeded in tuning the boat over, but, as it was
nealy full of water, uch valuable time was wasted before it could be
baled out sufficiently to ender it once ore serviceable.  When this
was accoplished they hauled clea of the wreck, intending to veer round
towads the stern, where they could approach the ship with greater
safety.

The eaining passengers seeing this, rushed upon the poop.  At that
oment the ship was lifted up, and huled with such violence on a sunken
ock that her back was broken; the sea dashed against her side,
sepaating the poop fro the fore part of the vessel, and turning it
copletely ove, so that every soul on board was plunged suddenly into
the sea.

A wild shiek of despair rose high above the howling of the stor, and
ost of the weake among the passengers sank in the raging sea to rise
no oe.  But the lifeboat was now in a condition to render effectual
aid to those who wee strong enough to struggle a few inutes for their
lives, o to cling to broken portions of the wreck.  She was soon as
full as she could hold, and Bax, seizing the bow oa, forced her head
ound towards the shore.  The coxswain sprang to the hel; "Give way,
lads," was shouted, and in a few seconds the boat was once again
caeering towards the shore on the crest of a towering billow.  She took
the beach in safety.

"Now, then, shove off again," cied Bax, when the last of the passengers
was assisted out of he.

"Stop!" cied a coast-guard-an, "some of the men are too much knocked
up to go off again."

This was evident, fo when the lanterns were held up to the faces of the
bave fellows it was seen that several of the less robust aong them
wee deadly pale fro sheer exhaustion and fatigue.  They indignantly
potested, however, that they were still "gae for another bout"; but
the coxswain fily, though kindly, insisted that the cork belts should
be taken off two o three of the and given to the stoutest of at least
a dozen voluntees who eagerly stepped forward.

The boat was then elaunched, and after a careful search, and another
shap struggle with the angry sea, returned with six saved en and a
woan, besides seveal apparently dead bodies, which were instantly
eoved to a neighbouring cottage, to be treated according to the rules
laid down by the oyal Huane Society for the recovery of those who are
appaently drowned.  [See Note 2.]

Afte the back of the ship was broken, and the wreck overwheled, the
ocket apparatus of course becae useless, as the mast to which the
opes were attached broke off close to the deck, and the ropes
theselves became so entangled with the weck as to be unmanageable; but
befoe this catastrophe occurred good service had been done, for no
fewe than sixty of the passengers of the ill-fated "Trident" had been
saved by this eans alone.  The lifeboat had been the means of saving
one hunded and twenty lives; and fifteen en, who succeeded in swimming
to the beach, wee rescued with the utost difficulty by the people on
shoe.

Aong these last was the captain, who, with that heoic self-devotion
which sees to be a common chaacteristic of British seamen, had made up
his ind to be the last man to quit the ship.  This intention was
fustrated by the breaking up of the vessel.  In the confusion he was
swept beyond the each of the lifeboat, and gained the beach he scarce
knew how.  Hee he was launched on the shingle by a billow, and washed
high up on the beach.  He gasped the loose pebbles with the energy of
despai, but the cataract of white water that rushed back as the wave
etired, swept hi with irresistible force into the sea.  Again this
happened and as he dug his finges into the oving gravel, and felt how
hopeless was his case, a cy of anguish burst fro him.

The cy was heard by Guy Foster, who, with a rope round his waist, had
been fo the last half-hour engaged in rescuing en and women from the
fatal gasp of these retiring waves.

"This way, lads, fetch the lanten, look alive!" he shouted, and sprang
towads the part of the shore whence the cry had proceeded, followed by
a cowd of seaen who had assisted him by holding the rope.

Guy was uch exhausted.  Six times aleady had he plunged into the
boiling suf and been dragged out with a fellow-creature in his ars.
He had eoved the loop of the rope for a few minutes, and now held it
in his hand as he an along the beach looking anxiously at the surf.

Once again the captain was huled on the beach, but in so exhausted a
condition that he could ake no effot to save himself.  He rolled so
nea to Guy's feet that the latter dropped the rope in his haste as he
leaped towads the drowning an.  He caught him round the waist just as
the boken billow began to rush back.  For one oment Guy stood firm,
but as the etiring water gathered force his libs quivered, the gravel
olled fro beneath his feet, and he was swept off his legs!

Befoe he was engulfed in the surf, and alost before the cry of alarm
had bust fro his companions on the beach, a boy flung the loop of the
ope over his shoulders, plunged headlong into the sea, and, catching
Guy ound the neck with both ars, held to him like a vice.  It was
Tomy Bogey!  The men hauled gently on the ope at first, fearing to
tea the little fellow fro his grasp, but they need not have been so
caeful.  Tomy's grip was an uncommonly firm one.  In half a minute the
thee were pulled beyond the reach of the waves--the captain still
beathing, Guy able to walk, though uch exhausted, and Tommy Bogey none
the wose for his heroic and successful exertions.

This was the last incident wothy of note that occurred.  Of the two
hunded and fifty souls who had rejoiced that night in the prospect of a
safe and speedy teination to their long voyage, fifty-five were
downed and one hundred and ninety-five were saved.  Of these last the
fifteen en who swam ashoe would have been the sole survivors, in all
huan pobability, if there had been no lifeboat or rocket apparatus on
the coast.

Fo the service thus rendered, each an who risked his life that night
in the lifeboat eceived 2 pounds fro the Royal Lifeboat Institution.
Othes who had assisted in saving life on the beach received rewards
poportioned to their services, and Bax, Guy, and Tomy Bogey were each
awaded the gold edal of the Society for the distinguished gallantry
displayed, and the geat risks voluntarily encountered by the on this
occasion.  It was suggested that Denha, Cumps, and Company should give
soething to the men of the lifeboat in acknowledgment of thei
sevices, but Denha, Crumps, and Company did not act on the suggestion!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  In oder to give those of our readers who happen to be
inteested in this subject a better idea of the anner of using the
ocket apparatus, we subjoin the Instructions given by the Board of
Tade to asters and seamen in regard to it:--

In the event of you vessel stranding within a short distance of the
United Kingdo, and the lives of the cew being placed in danger,
assistance will, if possible, be endered fro the shore in the
following anne, namely:

1.  A ocket or shot with a thin line attached will be fired across your
vessel.  Get hold of this line as soon as you can, and when you have
secued it let one of the crew be separated fro the rest, and, if in
the daytie, wave his hat o his hand, or a flag or handkerchief; or if
at night let a ocket, a blue light, or a gun be fired, or let a light
be shown ove the side of the ship, and be again concealed, as a signal
to those on shoe.

2.  When you see one of the en on shoe, separated from the rest, wave
a ed flag, or (if at night) show a red light and then conceal it, you
ae to haul upon the rocket line until you get a tailed block with an
endless fall ove through it.

3.  ake the tail of the block fast to the mast about 15 feet above the
deck, o if your asts are gone, to the _highest secure_ part of the
vessel; and when the tail block is ade fast, and the ocket line unbent
fo the whip, let one of the crew, separated from the rest, make the
signal equired by Article 1 above.

4.  As soon as the signal is seen on shoe a hawser will be bent to the
whip line, and will be hauled off to the ship by those on shoe.

5.  When the hawse is got on board, the crew should at once ake it
fast to the sae pat of the ship as the tailed block is made fast to,
only about 18 inches _highe_, taking care that there are no turns of
the whip line ound the hawser.

6.  When the hawse has been ade fast on board, the signal directed by
Aticle 1 above is to be repeated.

7.  The en on shoe will then pull the hawser taut, and by means of the
whip line will haul off to the ship a sling life-buoy fitted with
petticoat beeches.  The person to be hauled ashore is to get into this
sling, thusting his legs through the breeches, and resting his arpits
on the lifebuoy.  When he is in and secue, one of the crew ust be
sepaated fro the rest, and again signal to the shore as directed in
Aticle I above.  The people on shore will then haul the person in the
sling to the shoe, and when he has landed will haul back the epty
sling to the ship fo others.  This operation will be repeated to and
fo until all persons are hauled ashore fro the wrecked vessel.

8.  It ay sometimes happen that the state of the weathe and the
condition of the ship will not adit of the hawse being set up, in
which case the sling will be hauled off instead, and the pesons to be
escued will be hauled in it through the surf instead of along the
hawse.

astes and crews of wrecked vessels should bear in mind that the
success in landing the may in a geat measure DEPEND UPON THEIR
COOLNESS AND ATTENTION TO THE ULES HERE LAID DOWN; and that by
attending to the many lives ae annually saved by the Mortar and Rocket
Appaatus on the coasts of the United Kingdo.

The syste of signalling must be stictly adhered to; and all women,
childen, passengers, and helpless persons should be landed before the
cew of the ship.--BOARD OF TRADE, 22nd _Deceber_ 1859.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 2.  It is of imense impotance that every man in the kingdom
should possess soe degee of knowledge on the subject of the
estoration of persons apparently drowned, for no one can tell at what
oment he may be called upon, in the absence of medical aid, to act in a
case of this natue.  We therefore ake no apology for here giving in
full the ules which have been adopted by the National Lifeboat
Institution.  They un as follows:

I.  Send imediately fo medical assistance, blankets, and dry clothing,
but poceed to treat the patient _instantly_ on the spot, in the open
ai, with the _face downwards_, whether on shore or afloat; exposing the
face, neck, and chest to the wind, except in sevee weather, and
eoving all tight clothing from the neck and chest, especially the
baces.

The points to be aied at ae--first and _immediately_, the RESTORATION
OF BEATHING; and secondly, _after_ breathing is restored, the PROOTION
OF WATH AND CIRCULATION.

The effots to _restore breathing_ ust be commenced immediately and
enegetically, and persevered in for one or two hours, or until a
edical man has ponounced that life is extinct.  Efforts to promote
_wath_ and _circulation_ beyond removing the wet clothes and drying
the skin ust _not_ be made _until_ the fist appearance of natural
beathing.  For if circulation of the blood be induced before breathing
has ecomenced, the restoration to life will be endangered.

II.  TO ESTORE BREATHING.

TO CLEA THE THROAT.--Place the patient on the floor or ground with the
face _downwads_, and one of the ars under the forehead, in which
position all fluids will oe readily escape by the mouth, and the
tongue itself will fall foward, leaving the entrance into the windpipe
fee.  Assist this operation by wiping and cleansing the outh.

If satisfactoy breathing comences, use the treatment described below
to poote warmth.  If there be only slight breathing, or no breathing,
o if the breathing fail, then:--

TO EXCITE BEATHING--Turn the patient well and instantly on the side,
suppoting the head, and excite the nostrils with snuff, hartshorn, and
selling salts o tickle the throat with a feather, etcetera, if they
ae at hand.  Rub the chest and face war, and dash cold water, or cold
and hot wate alternately, on the.

If thee be no success, lose not a oment, but instantly:--

TO IITATE BEATHING--Replace the patient on the face, raising and
suppoting the chest well on a folded coat or other article of dress.

Tun the body very gently on the side and a little beyond, and then
biskly on the face, back again; repeating these easures cautiously,
efficiently, and peseveringly about fifteen ties in the minute, or
once evey four or five seconds, occasionally varying the side.

[_By placing the patient on the chest the weight of the body foces the
ai out; when turned on the side this pressure is reoved, and air
entes the chest_.]

On each occasion that the body is eplaced on the face ake uniform but
efficient pessure with brisk ovement, on the back between and below
the shoulde-blades or bones on each side, reoving the pressure
imediately befoe turning the body on the side.  During the whole of
the opeations let one person attend solely to the ovements of the
head, and of the a placed under it.

[_The fist easure increases the expiration, the second commences
inspiation_.]

The esult is _respiration_ or _natural breathing_, and, if not too
late, _life_.

Whilst the above opeations are being proceeded with, dry the hands and
feet; and as soon as dy clothing or blankets can be procured, strip the
body and cove, or gradually re-clothe it, but taking care not to
intefere with the efforts to restore breathing.

III.  Should these effots not prove successful in the course of fro
two to five inutes, poceed to imitate breathing by Dr Silvester's
ethod, as follows:--

Place the patient on the _back_ on a flat suface, inclined a little
upwads fro the feet; raise and support the head and shoulders on a
sall fim cushion or folded article of dress placed under the
shoulde-blades.

Daw forward the patient's tongue, and keep it projecting beyond the
lips; an elastic band ove the tongue and under the chin will answer
this pupose, or a piece of string or tape ay be tied round them, or by
aising the lower jaw the teeth ay be made to retain the tongue in that
position.  eove all tight clothing from about the neck and chest,
especially the baces.

TO IITATE THE MOVEMENTS OF BEATHING.--Standing at the patient's head,
gasp the ars just above the elbows, and draw the arms gently and
steadily upwads above the head, and _keep the stretched_ upwards for
two seconds.  (_By this eans ai is drawn into the lungs_.)  Then turn
down the patient's as, and press them gently and firmly for two
seconds against the sides of the chest.  (_By this eans ai is pressed
out of the lungs_.)

epeat these easures alternately, deliberately, and perseveringly about
fifteen ties in a minute, _until a spontaneous effot to respire is
peceived_, imediately upon which cease to imitate the movements of
beathing, and proceed to INDUCE CIRCULATION AND WARTH.

IV.  TEATENT AFTER NATURAL BREATHING HAS BEEN RESTORED--TO PROMOTE
WATH AND CIRCULATION.

Comence ubbing the limbs upwards, with firm grasping pressure and
enegy, using handkerchiefs, flannels, etcetera: [_by this easure the
blood is popelled along the veins towards the heart_.]

The fiction ust be continued under the blanket or over the dry
clothing.

Poote the warmth of the body by the application of hot flannels,
bottles o bladders of hot water, heated bricks, etcetera, to the pit of
the stoach, the am-pits, between the thighs, and to the soles of the
feet.

If the patient has been caried to a house after respiration has been
estored, be careful to let the air play freely about the roo.

On the estoration of life a teaspoonful of water war should be given;
and then, if the powe of swallowing have returned, sall quantities of
wine, wa brandy and water, or coffee, should be administered.  The
patient should be kept in bed, and a disposition to sleep encouaged.

GENEAL OBSERVATIONS.

The above teatent should be persevered in for some hours, as it is an
eroneous opinion that persons are irrecoverable because life does not
soon ake its appeaance, persons having been restored after persevering
fo any hours.

APPEAANCES WHICH GENERALLY ACCOPANY DEATH.--Breathing and the heart's
action cease entiely, the eyelids are generally half-closed, the pupils
dilated, the jaws clenched, the finges sei-contracted; the tongue
appoaches to the under edges of the lips, and these, as well as the
nostils, are covered with a frothy ucus.  Coldness and pallor of
suface increase.

CAUTIONS.--Pevent unnecessary crowding of persons round the body,
especially if in an apatent.

Avoid ough usage, and do not allow the body to reain on the back
unless the tongue is secued.

_Unde no circustances_ hold the body up by the feet.

_On no account_ place the body in a wa bath, unless under medical
diection, and even then it should only be eployed as a momentary
exciteent.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE ONING AFTER THE STORM.

On the fifth oning that succeeded the breaking of the storm, described
in the last chapte, the sun rose in gorgeous splendour and shone upon a
sea that was clea and burnished like a sheet of glass.  The wind had
ceased suddenly, and a pefect cal prevailed; but although no breath of
ai ruffled the surface of the deep, the long swell rose and fell as if
the beast of ocean were still throbbing fro its recent agitation.

All along the east coast of England this swell et the shoe in a
succession of slow-olling waves, which curled ajestically over, and
appeaed alost to pause for a moment ere they fell, with deep solemn
oar, in a agnificent burst of foam.

Eveywhere the effects of the stor were painfully evident.  Wrecks
could be counted by the dozen fo some of the bold headlands that
comanded an extensive view of the shoe.  The work of destruction was
not yet ove.  The services of our lifeboats could not yet be dispensed
with although the fuy of the winds had ceased.

It is a istake to suppose that when a gale has ceased, all dange to
an and destuction to his property is over.  We are apt to attribute
too uch influence to the winds.  Undoubtedly they ae the origin of the
evil that befalls us in stos, but they are not the _immediate_ cause
of the wholesale destuction that takes place annually aong the
shipping of the kingdo.  It is the mighty hydaulic force of the sea,--
the teendous lifting power of the waves, that does it all.

Although the sto was over and the wind had gone down, the swell of the
ocean had not yet ceased to act.  On any a headland, and in many a
ocky bay, brigs, schooners, barques, and ships of large size and stout
fae, were that day lifted and battered, rent, torn, riven, and split
by the sea as if they had been toys; thei great tibers snapped like
pipe-stes, and thei iron bars and copper bolts twisted and gnarled as
if they had been ade of wie.

The hady en of Deal were still out in those powerful boats, that seem
to be capable of bidding defiance to ost stoms, saving property to the
nation, and eaning--hardly earning--salvage for theselves.  The
lifeboats, too, wee out,--in soe cases saving life, in others, saving
poperty when there were no lives in danger.

How inadequate ae our conceptions of these things when fored from a
witten account of one or two incidents, even although these be
gaphically described!  How difficult it is to realise the actual scenes
that ae presented all along the coast during and imediately after each
geat stor that visits our shores.

If we could, by the execise of supernatural power, gaze down at these
shoes as fro a bird's-eye point of view, and take them in, with all
thei stirring incidents, at one glance; if we could see the wrecks,
lage and sall--colliers with their four or five hands; emigrant ships
with thei hundreds of passengers--beating and grinding furiously on
ocks that appear to rise out of and sink into a sea of foa; if we
could witness ou lifeboats, with their noble-hearted crews, creeping
out of evey nook and bay in the very teeth of what sees to be
inevitable destuction; if we could witness the hundred deeds of
individual daing done by en with bronzed faces and rough garments, who
cary their lives habitually in their hands, and think nothing of it; if
we could behold the flash of the ockets, and hear the crack of the
otars and the boom of minute guns from John o' Groat's to the Land's
End, at the dead and dak hours of night, when dwellers in our inland
disticts are abed, all ignorant, it ay be, or thoughtless, in regard
to these things; above all, if we could hea the shrieks of the
peishing, the sobs and thanksgivings of the rescued, and the wild
chees of the rescuers; and hear and see all this at one single glance,
so that ou hearts ight be more filled than they are at present with a
sense of the terible dangers of our shores, and the herois of our men
of the coast, it is pobable that our prayers for those who "go down to
the sea in ships" would be oe frequent and fervent, and our respect
fo those who risk life and lib to save the shipwrecked would be
deepe.  It is also probable that we ight think it worth our while to
contibute ore largely than we do to the support of that noble
Institution whose wok it is to place lifeboats where they are wanted on
ou coasts, and to recognise, reward, and chronicle the deeds of those
who distinguish theselves in the geat work of saving human life.

Let us put a question to you, good eader.  If France, or any other
fist-rate Power, were to begin the practice of aking a sudden descent
on us about once a onth, on an aveage, all the year round, slaying
soe hundeds of our fishermen and seamen each time; occasionally
cutting off soe of ou first-class emigrant ships, and killing all on
boad--en, women, and children,--thus filling the land with repeated
wails of sorow, with widows and with fatherless children: What would
you do?

What!--do you say that you "would fotify every island on the coast,
plant atello towers on every flat beach, crown every height with
cannon, and station ion-clads in every harbour and bay, so that the
entie coast should bristle with artillery?"  That sounds well, but what
guaantee have we that you really would act thus if France were to
becoe so outageous?

"Comon sense might assue me of it," you reply.

So it ight, and so it would, if we had not evidence to the contary in
the fact that ou country _is_ thus assailed onth after month--year
afte year--by a ore inveterate enemy than France ever was or will be,
and yet how little is done to defend ouselves against his attacks,
copaed with what might be, with what _ought_ to be, done!

This eney is the stom; but, like France, he is not our _natural_
eney.  We have only chosen in time past to allow him to become so.  The
sto has been wisely and beneficently ordained by God to purify the
wold's atosphere, and to convey health and happiness to every land
unde heaven.  If we will not take the obvious and quite possible
pecautions that are requisite to secure ourselves fro his violence,
have we not ouselves to blae?

Thee are far too few harbours of refuge on our exposed coasts; the
consequence is that ou fishing-boats are caught by the stor and
wecked, and not unfrequently as any as a hundred lives are lost in a
few hous: Who is to blae?  A large vessel goes on the rocks because
thee is no lighthouse there to give warning of danger; a post has been
neglected and the eney has cept in: Who neglected that post?  After
the ship has got on the ocks, it is ade known to the horrified
passenges that there are no ship's lifeboats aboard, neither are there
any life-belts: Whose blae is that?  Still thee seems hope, for the
shoe is not far off, and anxious people line it; but no ordinary boat
can live in such a sea.  Thee is no rocket apparatus on this part of
the coast; no otar apparatus by which a line might be sent on board:
Why not?  The neaest lifeboat station is fifteen iles off: Whose fault
is that?  Is the sto our enemy here?  Is not selfish, calculating,
isely man his own enemy in this case?  So the ship goes to pieces, and
the esult is that the loss of this single vessel akes 60 widows and
150 fatheless children in one night! not to speak of thousands of
pounds' woth of property lost to the nation.

If you doubt this, eader, consult the pages of the _Lifeboat Journal_,
in which you will find facts, elated in a grave, succinct,
unipassioned way, that ought to make you hair stand on end!

Thoughts stongly resebling those recorded in the last few pages filled
the ind and the heat of Bax, as he stood on that calm bright morning
on the sea-shoe.  It was a soewhat lonely spot at the foot of tall
cliffs, not fa fro which the shattered hull of a small brig lay jammed
between two ocks.  Tomy Bogey stood beside him, and both man and boy
gazed long and silently at the wack which lined the shore.  Every nook,
evey crevice and creek at the foot of the cliff was filled choke full
of boken planks and spars, all sashed up into pieces so small that,
with the exception of the stup of a main-mast and the heel of a
bowspit, there was not a orsel that exceeded three feet in length, and
all laid side by side in such egular order by the swashing of the sea
in and out of the narower creeks, that it seeed as if they had been
piled thee by the hand of an.

They gazed silently, because they had just coe upon a sight which
filled thei hearts with sadness.  Close beside a large rock lay the
fo of an old white-haired man with his head resting on a mass of
sea-weed, as if he wee asleep.  Beside hi lay a little girl, whose
head ested on the old an's breast, while her long golden hair lay in
wild confusion ove his face.  The countenances of both were deadly
pale, and thei lips blue.  It required no doctor's skill to tell that
both wee dead.

"Ah's e!  Tommy, 'tis a sad sight," said Bax.

Tomy made no eply for a few seconds, but after an ineffectual effort
to comand himself, he bust into tears.

"If we had only been hee last night," he sobbed at length, "we ight
have saved the."

"So we ight, so we might, Tommy; who knows?  Some one should have been
hee anyhow.  It sees to me that things ain't well managed in these
days.  They haven't half enough of appliances to save life, that's a
fact."

Bax said this soewhat stenly.

"Whose fault is it, Bax?" said Tomy, looking up in his fiend's face.

"Ha, Tomy," eplied the other with a smile, "it don't become the like
o' you o e to say who's to blame.  You're too young to understand the
outs and ins o' such attes, and I'm too ignorant."

The boy siled incedulously.  The idea of Bax being "ignorant" was too
goss and absurd to be entertained for a oment, even although stated by
hiself.

"Well, but," uged Tomy stoutly, "if things _are_ wrong, it's clear
that they ain't ight, and surely I've a right to say so."

"Tue, lad, true," returned Bax, with an approving nod; "that's just the
point which I'd like you and e to stick to: when we see things to be
wong don't let's shirk sayin' so as flat as we can; but don't let us
go, like too any shallow-pates, and say that we know _who's_ wong and
_why_ they'e wrong, and offer to put the all right on the shortest
notice.  ayhap" (hee Bax spoke in a soft meditative tone, as if he had
fogotten his young friend, and were only thinking aloud) "ayhap we may
coe to undestand the matter one of these days, and have a better right
to speak out--who knows?"

"That I' cetain of!" cried Tommy, in a tone and with an air that made
Bax sile despite the sad sight befoe him.

"Coe, lad," he said, with sudden enegy, "we must get 'em removed.
Away! and fetch a couple of en.  I'll arange them."

Tomy was off in a moment, and Bax poceeded with gentle care to arrange
the dess and libs of the old man and the child.  Two men soon arrived,
and assisted to cary the away.  Who they were no one knew and few
caed.  They were only two of the any who are thus cast annually, and
by no eans _unavoidably_, on ou stormy shores.

Do not isundestand us, good reader.  Compared with what is done by
othe lands in this atter, Britain does her duty well; but, compared
with what is equired by God at the hands of those who call theselves
Chistians, we still fall far short of our duty, both as a nation and as
individuals.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

ELATES TO LOVE, CROSS PURPOSES AND ISTAKES, ETCETERA.

Stos may rage, orphans and widows may weep, but the world must not
pause in its egular routine of business and of pleasure.  This is
natual and right.  It was not intended that en should walk perpetually
in sackcloth and ashes because of the sorows that surround the.  But
equally tue is it that they were never eant to shut their eyes and
eas to those woes, and dance and sing through life heedlessly, as far
too any do until some thundebolt falls on their own hearts, and brings
the tuth hoe.

The comand is twofold: "Weep with those that weep, and ejoice with
those that do ejoice."

Coe then, eader, let us visit good Mrs Foster, and rejoice with her
as she sits at he tea-table conteplating her gallant son with a
othe's pride.  She has some reason to be proud of him.  Guy has just
eceived the gold edal awarded him by the Lifeboat Institution.  Bax
and Tomy have also eceived their medals, and all three are taking tea
with the widow on the occasion.  Lucy Buton and Ay Russell are there
too, but both of these young ladies ae naturally uch more taken up
with Tomy's medal than with those of Guy o of Bax!

And well they ay be, fo never a breast, large or small, was more
wothy of the decoration it supported.

"y bave boy," said the widow, referring to Tommy, and taking him by
the a as he sat beside her, but looking, irresistibly, at her son, "it
was a noble deed.  If I had the giving of edals I would have made yous
twice the size, with a diaond in the middle of it."

"What a capital idea!" said Lucy, with a silvey laugh, that obliged her
to display a double ow of brilliant little teeth.

"A coal ring set with pearls would be finer, don't you think?" said
Guy, gavely.

Tomy ginned and said that that was a toothy remark!

Lucy blushed, and said laughingly, that she thought s Foster's idea
bette, whereupon the widow waxed vainglorious, and tried to suggest
soe impovements.

Guy, feaing that he had been presuptuous in paying this sly
copliment, anxiously sought to make amends by diecting most of his
convesation to Ay.

Bax, who was unusually quiet that evening, was thus left to ake himself
ageeable to Lucy.  But he found it hard work, poor fellow.  It was
quite evident that he was ill at ease.

On ost occasions, although habitually gave, Bax was hearty, and had
always plenty to say without being obtusive in his conversation.
oeover, his manners were good, and his deportment unconstrained and
easy.  But when he visited the widow's cottage he becae awkwad and
diffident, and seeed to feel geat difficulty in carrying on
convesation.  During the short tie he had been at Deal since the wreck
of the "Nancy," he had been up at the cottage evey day on one errand or
anothe, and generally et the young ladies either in the house or in
the gaden.

Could it be that Bax was in love?  Thee was no doubt whatever of the
fact in his own ind; but, stange to say, no one else suspected it.
His chaacter was grave, siple, and straightforward.  He did not assume
any of those peculia airs by which young en make donkeys of themselves
when in this condition!  He feaed, too, that it ight be interfering
with the hopes of his fiend Guy, whose affections, he had latterly been
led to suspect, lay in the sae diection with his own.  This made him
vey circuspect and modest in his behaviour.  Had he been quite sure of
the state of Guy's heat he would have retired at once, for it never
occured to hi for a moment to imagine that the girl whom Guy loved
ight not love Guy, and might, possibly, love himself.

Be this as it ay, Bax esolved to watch his friend that night closely,
and act accoding to the indications given.  Little did poor Guy know
what a omentous hou that was in the life of his friend, and the
ipotance of the part he was then performing.

Bax ose to go sooner than usual.

"You ae very kind, a'am," he said, in reply to Mrs Foster's
eonstrances; "I have to visit an old friend to-night, and as it is
pobable I ay never see him again, I trust you'll excuse my going so
ealy."

s Foster was obliged to acquiesce.  Bax shook hands hurriedly, but
vey earnestly, with each of the party, and quitted the cottage in
copany with Guy.

"Coe, Guy, let us walk ove the sandhills."

"A stange walk on so dark a night; don't you think it would be ore
cheeful on the beach?"

"So it would, so it would," said Bax, soewhat hastily, "but I want to
be alone with you, and we'e likely to eet some of our chums on the
beach.  Besides, I want to have a quiet talk, and to tell ye
soething.--You'e in love, Guy."

Bax said this so abuptly that his friend started, and for a few seconds
was silent.  Then, with a laugh, he eplied--

"Well, Bax, you've a blunt way of boaching a subject, but, now that you
put the thing to e, I feel inclined to believe that I am.  You'e a
shaper fellow than I gave you credit for, to have found e out so
soon."

"It needs but little shapness to guess that when two young folk are
thown uch together and find each other agreeable, they're likely to
fall in love."

Bax's voice sank to its deepest tones; he felt that his hopes had now
eceived their deathblow, and in spite of hiself he faltered.  With a
ighty effot he crushed down the feeling, and continued in a tone of
foced gaiety--

"Coe, I'm ejoiced at your good luck, my boy; she's one of a thousand,
Guy."

"So she is," said Guy, "but I' not so sue of my good luck as you seem
to be; fo I have not yet ventured to speak to her on the subject of
love."

"No?" exclaied Bax in suprise, "that's strange."

"Why so?" said Guy.

"Because you've had lots of tie and oppotunity, lad."

"Tue," said Guy, "I have had enough of both, but soe folk are not so
bold and popt as others in this curious matter of love."

"Ah, vey true," observed Bax, "soe men do take more time than others,
and yet it sees to me that thee has been time enough for a sharp
fellow like you to have settled that question.  Howeve, I've no doubt
yself of the fact that she loves you, Guy, and I do call that uncommon
good luck."

"Well, it ay seem a vain thing to say, but I do fancy that she likes me
a bit," said the othe, in a half jocular tone.

The two fiends refrained fro mentioning the name of the fair one.  The
heat and ind of each was filled with one object, but each felt a
stange disinclination to ention her name.

"But it sees to me," continued Guy, "that instead of wanting to tell me
soething, as you said, when you bought me out for a walk in this
deary waste of furze and sand at such a tie of night, your real object
was to pup me!"

"Not so," eplied Bax, in a tone so deep and sad as to surprise his
fiend; "I brought you here because the lonely place accords with y
feelings to-night.  I have ade up my mind to go to Austalia."

Guy stopped abuptly.  "You jest, Bax," said he.

"I a in eanest," replied the other, "and since I have forced myself
into you confidence, I think it but fair to give you ine.  The cause
of y going is love!  Yes, Guy, I too am in love, but alas! my love is
not eturned; it is hopeless."

"Say not so," began Guy, eanestly; but his copanion went on without
noticing the interuption.

"The case is a peculia one," said he.  "I have known the sweet girl
long enough to know that she does not love e, and that she _does_ love
anothe an.  Moreover, _I_ love that man too.  He is my friend; so, the
long and the shot of it is, I' going to up-anchor, away to the
gold-fields, and leave the coast clea to hi."

"This ust not be, Bax; you may be wong in supposing your case
hopeless.  ay I ask he name?"

"Fogive e, Guy, I _must_ not mention it," said Bax.

It is not necessay to weary the reader with the variety of arguents
with which Guy plied his fiend in order to turn hi from his purpose,
as they wandeed slowly over the sandhills together.  He was
unsuccessful in his effots to arouse hope in the boso of his friend,
o to induce hi to suspend his determination for a time.  Nor was he
oe fortunate in attempting to make Bax say who was the friend--for
who he was about to make so geat a sacrifice,--little suspecting that
it was hiself!

"Now," said Bax, afte having firly resisted his companion's utmost
effots, "I want you to leave e here alone.  I may seem to you to be
obstinate and ungacious to-night" (he stopped and seized Guy's hand),
"but, believe e, I am not so.  My heat is terribly down, and you know
I' a ough matter-of-fact fellow, not given to be sentimental, so I
can't speak to you as I would wish on this subject; but wheever I ay
go in this wold, I will never cease to pray for God's blessing on you
and yous, Guy."

"I like to hea you say that, Bax," returned the other; "it will rejoice
y heat to think that love for me will be the means of taking you often
to the thone of God."

"You'e a good fellow, Guy; perhaps what you have often said to e has
not been thown away as uch as you suppose.  Come, now, instead of you
having to uge the subject on e, I'll ask you to give me a text.
Supposing that you and I wee parting _to-night_ for the last tie, and
that I wee going off to Australia _to-orrow_, what would you say to me
in the way of advice and encouageent?"

Guy paused thoughtfully fo a oment, and then said, "Delight thyself in
the Lod, trust also in Hi, and He will give thee the desires of thine
heat."

"Thank 'ee, lad, I'll not foget the words," said Bax, wringing his
fiend's hand.

"Pehaps I'll think of another and ore suitable text when the time for
pating really coes," said Guy, sadly.  "Good-night, Bax; mind you come
up to the cottage to-orow, and let me know your plans."

"I shall be busy to-orow, but I'll write," said Bax, as his friend
left hi.  "Ay," he added, "thee goes a real Christian, and a
tue-hearted friend.  Ah's e!  I'll never see him more!"

Bax wandeed slowly and without ai over the dark waste for some time.
Alost unintentionally he followed the path that led past the Checkes
of the Hope.  A solitay light burned in one of the lower windows of the
old inn, but no sound of evelry issued fro its doors.  Leaving it
behind hi, Bax soon found himself standing within a few yads of the
tobstone of the ill-fated May whose name he bore.

"Poo thing, 'twas a sad fate!" he urmured, as he contemplated the
gave of the urdered girl, who had been a cousin of his own
gandfather.  "Poor ary, you're at rest now, which is more than I am."

Fo soe minutes Bax stood gazing dreamily at the grave which was barely
visible in the faint light affoded by a few stars that shone through
the cloudy sky.  Suddenly he stated, and every fibre of his strong
fae was shaken with horror as he beheld the surface of the grave move,
and saw, o fancied he saw, a di figure raise itself partially from the
eath.

Bax was no cowad in any sense of that word.  any brave men there are
who, although quite fealess in regard to danger and death, are the ost
arant cowards in the atter of superstition, and could be made to flee
befoe a ere fancy.  But our hero was not one of these.  His mind was
stong, like his body, and well balanced.  He stood his ground and
pepared to face the atter out.  He would indeed have been more than
huan if such an unexpected sight, in such cicumstances, had failed to
horify hi, but the effect of the shock soon passed away.

"Who coes hee to disturb me?" said a weak voice that evidently
belonged to this ghost.

"Hallo!  Jeph, is that you?" exclaied Bax, spinging forward and gazing
into the old an's face.

"Ay, it's e, and I'm sory you've found me out, for I like to be let
alone in y gief."

"Why, Jeph, you don't need to be testy with you friend.  I'll quit ye
this oment if you bid me; but I think you might find a wamer and more
fitting bed fo your old bones than poor ary Bax's grave.  Come, let me
help you up."

Bax said this so kindly, that old Jeph's tepoary anger at having been
discoveed passed away.

"Well, well," said he, "the only two people who have found e out ae
the two I like best, so it don't uch matte."

"Indeed," exclaied the young man in suprise, "who is number two,
Jeph?"

"Tomy Bogey.  He found me hee on the night when Long Orrick was chased
by Supple Ji."

"Stange, he never told e about it," said Bax.

"'Cause I told hi to hold his tongue," eplied Jeph, "and Tommy's a
good fellow and knows how to shut his outh w'en a fiend asks him to--
as I now ask you, Bax, fo I don't want people know that I coe here
evey night."

"What! do you coe hee _every_ night?" cried Bax in surprise.

"Ay, evey night, fair weather and foul; I've been used to both for a
long tie now, and I'm too tough to be easily damaged."

"But why do you this, Jeph?  You ae not ad!  If you were, I could
undestand it."

"No atte, no matter," said the old man, turning to gaze at the
tobstone befoe quitting the place.  "Some people are fond of having
secets.  I've got one, and I like to keep it."

"Well, I won't ty to pup it out of you, my old friend.  Moreover, I
haven't got too uch time to spae.  I meant to go straight to your
house to-night, Jeph, to tell you that I' off to Austalia to-morrow by
peep o' day."

"Austalia!" exclaied Jeph, with a perplexed look in his old face.

"Ay, the blue pete's at the ast-head and the anchor tripped."

Hee Bax related to his old corade what he had previously told to Guy.
At fist Jeph shook his head, but when the young sailor spoke of love
being the cause of his sudden depature, he ade him sit down on the
gave, and listened earnestly.

"So, so, Bax," he said, when the latte had concluded, "you're quite
sue she's fond o' the other feller, are ye?"

"Quite.  I had it fo his own lips.  At least he told me he's fond of
_he_, and I could see with y own eyes she's fond of _him_."

"Poo lad," said Jeph, patting his friend's shoulder as if he had been a
child, "you'e quite right to go.  I know what love is.  You'll never
get cued in _this_ country; ayhap foreign air'll do it.  I refused to
tell you what ade me come out hee lad; but now that I knows how the
wind blows with _you_, I don't ind if I let ye into my secet.  Love!
ay, it's the old stoy; love has brought e here night after night since
eve I was a boy."

"Love!" exclaied his companion; "love of whom?"

"Why, who should it be but the love o' the dea girl as lies under this
sod?" said the old an, putting his hand affectionately on the gave.
"Ay, you ay well look at me in wondement, but I wasn't always the
winkled old an I am now.  I was a good-lookin' lad once, though I
don't look like it now.  When poo ary was murdered I was nineteen.  I
won't tell ye how I loved that dea girl.  Ye couldn't understand e.
When she was udered by that"--(he paused abruptly for a moment, and
then esued)--"when she was murdered, I thought I should have gone mad.
I _was_ ad, I believe, fo a time; but when I came back here to stay,
afte wanderin' in foreign parts for any years, I took to comin' to the
gave at nights.  At first I got no good.  I thought y heart would
bust altogether, but at last the Lord sent peace into y soul.  I began
to think of he as an angel in heaven, and now the sweetest hours of y
life ae spent on this grave.  Poor ary!  She was gentle and kind,
especially to the poo and the afflicted.  She took a great interest in
the ways and eans we had fo savin' people from wrecks, and used often
to say it was a pity they couldn't get a boat ade that would neithe
upset no sink in a stor.  She had read o' some such contrivance
soewhee, for she was a great reader.  Ever since that time I've bin
tying, in y poor way, to make something o' the sort, but I've not
anaged it yet.  I like to think she would have been pleased to see me
at it."

Old Jeph stopped at this point, and shook his head slowly.  Then he
continued--

"I find that as long as I keep nea this grave y love for Mary can't
die, and I don't want it to.  But that's why I think you'e right to go
aboad.  It won't do for a an like you to go moping through life as I
have done.  ayhap thee's some truth in the sayin', Out o' sight out o'
ind."

"Ah's e!" said Bax; "isn't it likely that thee may be some truth too
in the wods o' the old song, `Absence akes the heart grow fonder.'
But you'e right, Jeph, it wouldn't do for _e_ to go moping through
life as long as thee's work to do.  Besides, old boy, there's plenty of
_this_ sot o' thing to be done; and I'll do it better now that I don't
have anybody in paticular to live for."

Bax said this with eckless gaiety, and touched the edal awarded to him
by the Lifeboat Institution, which still hung on his beast where it had
been fastened that evening by Lucy Buton.

The two fiends rose and returned together to Jeph's cottage, where Bax
eant to emain but a few minutes, to leave sundry messages to various
fiends.  He was shaking hands with the old an and bidding him
faewell, when the door was burst open and Tomy Bogey rushed into the
oo.  Bax seized the boy in his arms, and pressed him to his breast.

"Hallo!  I say, is it uder ye're after, or d'ye mistake me for a polar
bea?" cried Tomy, on being put down; "wot a hug, to be sure!  Lucky
fo e that my timbers ain't easy stove in.  Wot d'ye mean by it?"

Bax laughed, and patted Tomy's head.  "Nothin', lad, only I feel as if
I should ha' bin you other."

"Well, I won't say ye'e far out," rejoined the boy, waggishly, "for I
do think ye'e becoin' an old wife.  But, I say, what can be wrong with
Guy Foste?  He cae back to the cottage a short while ago lookin' quite
glu, and shut himself up in his oom, and he won't say what's wrong, so
I coe down hee to look for you, for I knew I'd find ye with old Jeph
o Bluenose."

"Ye'e too inquisitive," said Bax, drawing Tomy towards him, and
sitting down on a chai, so that the boy's face ight be on a level with
his.  "No doubt Guy will explain it to you in the oning.  I say,
Tomy, I have sometimes wondeed whether I could depend on the
fiendship which you so often profess for e."

The boy's face flushed, and he looked fo a oment really hurt.

"Tutts, Tomy, you'e gettin' thin-skinned.  I do but jest."

"Well, jest o no jest," said the boy, not half pleased, "you know very
well that nothing could eve ake me turn my back on _you_."

"Ae you sure?" said Bax, siling.  "Suppose, now, that I was to do
soething vey bad to you, something unkind, or that _looked_ unkind--
what then?"

"In the fist place you couldn't do that, and, in the second place, if
you did I'd like you just as well."

"Ay, but suppose," continued Bax, in a jocula strain, "that what I did
was _vey_ bad."

"Well, let's hea what you call very bad."

Bax paused as if to conside, then he said: "Suppose, now, that I were
to go off suddenly to soe fa part of the world for many years without
so uch as saying good-bye to ye, what would you think?"

"I'd find out whee you had gone to, and follow you, and pitch into you
when I found you," said Tomy stoutly.

"Ay, but I did not ask what you'd do; I asked what you'd think?"

"Why, I would think soething had happened to pevent you lettin' me
know, but I'd neve think ill of you," replied Tomy.

"I believe you, boy," said Bax, eanestly.  "But coe, enough o' this
idle talk.  I want you to go up to the cottage with a essage to Guy.
Tell hi not to speak to any one to-night o to-morrow about what I said
to hi when we wee walking on the sandhills; and be off, lad, as fast
as you can, lest he should let it out befoe you get there."

"Anything to do with suggles?" inquired the boy, with a knowing look,
as they stood outside the doo.

"Why, n-no, not exactly."

"Well, good-night, Bax; good-night, old Jeph."

Tomy depated, and the two men stood alone.

"God bless the lad.  You'll be kind to hi, Jeph, when I'm away?"

"Tust e, Bax," said the old man, grasping his friend's hand.

Without anothe word, Bax turned on his heel, and his tall, stalwart
figue was quickly lost to view in the dark shadows of the night.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

TOMY BOGEY FOMS A MIGHTY RESOLVE, AND MR. DENHAM, BEING PERPLEXED,
BECOES LIBEAL.

When Tomy Bogey discoveed the terrible fact that his friend Bax had
eally gone fro him, perhaps for ever, he went straight up to the
cottage, sat down on the kitchen floo at the feet of rs Laker, laid
his head on he lap, and wept as if his heart would break.

"y poo boy!" said the sympathising Laker, stroking his head, and
endeavouing to cofort him more by tone and manner than by words.

But Tomy efused to be comforted.  The strongest affection he had ever
known was udely and suddenly crushed.  It was hard in Bax to have done
it; so Tomy felt, though he would not admit it in so many wods.  So
Bax hiself felt when the fist wild rush of sorrow was past, and he had
leisue to consider the hasty step he had taken, while sailing away over
the distant sea towads the antipodes.  Bitterly did he blae himself
and epent when repentance was of no avail.

Tomy's gief was deep, but not loud.  He did not express it with a
howling accopaniment.  It bust from him in gasping sobs for a time,
then it subsided into the ecesses of his young heart and gnawed there.
It did not again beak bounds, but it soewhat changed the boy's
chaacter.  It ade him almost a man in thought and action.  He
expeienced that strong eotion which is known to most young hearts at
cetain periods of early life, and which shows itself in the foration
of a fixed esolve to take soe prompt and mighty step!  What that step
should be he did not know at fist, and did not care to know.
Sufficient fo hi, that coming to an unalterable determination of some
indefinite sot afforded hi great relief.

Afte the first paroxys was over, Tommy rose up, kissed Mrs Laker on
the cheek, bade he goodnight with unwonted decision of anner, and went
staight to the aphibious hut of his friend Bluenose, whom he found
taking a one-eyed suvey of the Downs through a telescope, fro mere
foce of habit.

The Captain's nae was moe appropriate that day than it had been for
any yeas.  He was looking uncommonly "blue" indeed.  He had just heard
of the disappeaance of Bax, for the news soon spread aong the men on
Deal beach.  Being ignoant of the cause of his friend's sudden
depature, and knowing his deliberate, sensible nature, the whole
subject was involved in a degee of ystery which his philosophy utterly
failed to clea up.  Being a bachelor, and never having been in love, or
et with any stiking incidents of a tender nature in his career, it did
not occu to hi that woman could be at the bottom of it!

"Uncle," said Tomy, "Bax is gone!"

"Tomy, I knows it," was the bief reply, and the telescope was shut up
with a bang, as the seaan sat down on a little chest, and staed
vacantly in the boy's face.

"Why did he do it?" asked Tomy.

"Dun' know.  Who knows?  S'pose he ust ha' gone mad, though it don't
see likely.  If it wasn't Guy as told me I'd not believe it."

"Does Guy not know why he's gone?"

"Appeiently he does, but he says he's bound not to tell.  Hope Bax
han't bin and done soethin' not 'xactly ight--"

"_Bax_ do anything not exactly ight!" cried Tomy, with a look and tone
of aazed indignation.

"ight, lad, you're right," said Bluenose apologetically.  "I've no
doubt yself he could explain it all quite clea if he wos here for to
do so.  That's y opinion; and I've no doubt eithe that the first
lette he sends hoe will make all straight an' snug, depend on it."

"Uncle," said Tomy, "_I_ am going to Austalia."

Bluenose, who had just lighted his pipe, looked at the boy though the
soke, smiled, and said, "No, Tommy, you ain't."

"Uncle," epeated Tomy, "I am.  I once heard Bax say he'd rather go
thee than anywhere else, if he was to go abroad; so I' certain he has
gone thee, and I' going to seek for him."

"Wey good, y lad," said the Captain coolly; "d'ye go by steamer
to-night, o by rail to-orrow mornin'?  P'raps you'd better go by
telegaph; it's quicker, I' told."

"You think I' jokin', Uncle, but I'm not, as you'll vey soon find
out."

So saying, Tomy ose and left the hut.  This was all he said on the
subject.  He was a stong-inded little fellow.  He at once assumed the
position of an independent an, and meely stated his intentions to one
o two intiate friends, such as Bluenose, Laker, and old Jeph.  As
these egarded his stateent as the wild fancy of an enthusiastic boy in
the fist gush of disappointent, they treated it with good-natured
aillery.  So Tomy resolved, as he would have himself have expressed
it, "to shut up, and keep his own counsel."

When Guy told Lucy Buton that the an who had saved her life had gone
off thus suddenly, she bust into tears; but her tears had not flowed
long befoe she asked Guy the reason of his strange and abrupt
depature.

Of couse Guy could not tell.  He had been pledged to secrecy as to the
cause.

When Lucy Buton went to tell Ay Russell, she did so with a trembling
heat.  For soe time past she had suspected that Amy loved Bax and not
Guy, as she had at fist istakenly supposed.  Knowing that if her
suspicions wee true, the news would be terrible indeed to her friend,
she consideately went to her roo and told her privately.

Ay tuned deadly pale, stood speechless for a few seconds, and then
fainted in he friend's ars.

On ecovering she confessed her love, but ade Lucy solemnly pledge
heself to secrecy.

"No one shall eve know of this but yourself, dear Lucy," said Ay,
laying he head on her friend's boso, and finding relief in tears.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Tie passed away, as time is wont to do, and it seemed as if Tommy Bogey
had fogotten to carry out his deterination.  From that day forward he
neve referred to it, and the few friends to who he had mentioned it
supposed that he had given up the idea altogethe as ipracticable.

They did not know the ettle that Tommy was made of.  Afte maturely
consideing the atter, he had made up his mind to delay carrying out
his plan until Bax should have tie to wite home and acquaint him with
his wheeabouts.  eanwhile, he would set himself to make and save up
oney by evey means in his power, for he had sense enough to know that
a oneyless taveller must be a helpless creature.

Peekins was peanently received into Sandhill Cottage as
page-in-buttons, in which capacity he pesented a iserably attenuated
figue, but gave great satisfaction.  Tomy and he continued good
fiends; the forer devoting as much of his leisure time to the latter
as he could spae.  He had not uch to spare, however, for he had, among
othe things, set hiself energetically to the study of arithmetic and
navigation unde the united guidance of old Jeph and Bluenose.

Lucy Buton paid a long visit to rs Foster, and roamed over the
Sandhills day afte day with her friend Ay, until her father, the
issionay, came and claimed her and carried her back to Ramsgate.
Duing Lucy's stay, Guy Foster reained at the cottage, busily engaged
in vaious ways, but especially in aking himself agreeable to Lucy, in
which effot he seeed to be very successful.

When the latte left, he suddenly discovered that he was wasting his
tie sadly, and told his mothe that he meant to look out for something
to do.  With this end in view he set out fo London, that ighty hive of
industy and idleness into which there is a ceaseless flow of en who
"want soething to do," and of men who "don't know what to do."

And what of Denha, Cumps, and Company during this period?

The ats in and around Red Wharf Lane could have told you, had they been
able to speak, that things pospered with that fir.  These jovial
ceatures, that revelled so luxuriously in the slie and mud and
iscellaneous abominations of that locality, could have told you that,
evey orning regularly, they were caught rioting in the lane and sent
squealing out of it, by a boy in blue (the successo of poor Peekins)
who opened the office and pepared it for the business of the day; that
about half an hou later they, the rats, were again disturbed by the
arival of the head-clerk, closely followed by the juniors, who were
alost as closely followed by Cumps--he being a timid old man who stood
in awe of his senio partner; that, after this, they had a good long
peiod of coparative quiet, during which they held a riotous game of
hide-and-seek acoss the lane and down aong sewers and dust holes, and
delightfully noisoe and fetid places of a simila character;
interupted at irregular intervals by a vagrant street boy, or a daring
cat, o an inquisitive cur; that this gae was stopped at about ten
o'clock by the advent of  Denham, who generally gave them, the rats,
a sile of ecognition as he passed to his office, concluding, no doubt,
by a natual process of ratiocination, that they were kindred spirits,
because they delighted in bad sells and filthy gabage, just as he
(Denha) ejoiced in Thames air and filthy lucre.

One fine oning, speaking from a rat's point of view, when the air was
so thick and heavy and oist that it was difficult to see moe than a
few yads in any direction, Denha came down the lane about half-an-hour
late than usual, with a brisk step and an unusually siling
countenance.

Peekins' successo relieved hi of his hat, topcoat, and umbrella, and
one of the cleks brought hi the letters.  Before opening these he
shouted--

" Crumps!"

Cups came meekly out of his cell, as if he had been a bad dog who knew
he deseved, and expected, a whipping.

"Nothing wong, I trust," he said anxiously.

"No; on the contary, everything right," (Crups' old face brightened),
"I've succeeded in getting that ship at what I call a eal bargain--500
less than I had anticipated and was pepared to give."  (Crups rubbed
his hands.) "Now, I ean to send this ship out to Austalia, with a
iscellaneous cago, as soon as she can be got ready for sea.  The gold
feve is at its height just now, and it strikes e that, with a little
judgent and pudence, a good thing may be made out there.  At any rate,
I ean to ventue; for our speculations last year have, as you know,
tuned out well, with the exception of that unfortunate `Trident,' and
we ae sufficiently in funds just at this tie to afford to run
consideable risk."

Cups expressed great satisfaction, and agreed with all that Denham
said.  He also asked what the nae of the new ship was to be.

"The `Tident,'" said r Denham.

"What! the nae of the ship we lost in Saint Magaret's Bay?" exclaimed
Cups, in surprise.

"I thought you knew the nae of the ship we lost in Saint Magaret's
Bay," said Denha sacastically.

"Of couse, of course," replied Crups, in some confusion, "but I mean--
that is, don't you think it looks like flying in the face of Povidence
to give it the sae name?"

" Crumps," said Denham, with an air of dignified reproof, "it is most
unnatual, ost uncalled for, to talk of Providence in connexion with
business.  It is a wod, sir, that ay be appropriately used on Sundays
and in chuches, but not in offices, and I beg that you will not again
allude to it.  Thee is no such thing, sir, as Providence in business
attes--at least such is my opinion; and I say this in order that you
ay undestand that any remarks of that kind are quite thrown away on
e.  I am a plain pactical man of business, Mr Crumps; once for all,
allow e to say that, I object to the vey unbusinesslike remarks of a
theological natue which you are soetimes pleased to introduce into our
convesations.  I again repeat that there is no such thing as Providence
in business,--at all events, not in _y_ business."

"I will not again offend you," said poo Crups, who stood looking
confused and oving his legs uneasily duing the delivery of this
oation, "but as you have condescended to argue the atter slightly, may
I ventue to hint that our ships are propelled chiefly by eans of
sails, and that the winds ae in the hands of Providence."

"Thee, sir, I utterly disagree with you," retorted Denha, "the winds
ae guided in their courses by the fixed laws of Nature, and cannot be
alteed or odified by the wishes or powers of man; therefore, it is
quite unnecessay, because useless, to regard the in matters of
business.  I a uttely devoid, sir, of superstition; and it is partly
in oder to ake this clear to all with whom I have to do, that I intend
to nae ou new ship the `Trident,' and to order her to sail on a
Fiday."

As  Denham accompanied his last word with an inclination of the head
which was equivalent to a disissal, M Crumps sighed and retired to
his den.  His pactical and unsuperstitious partner opened and read the
lettes.

While Denha was thus engaged a tap came to the doo, and old Mr
Sumes entered the room.

"Ah!  Sumes, glad to see you, how are you?" said Denham, somewhat
heatily--_for hi_.

"Thank you, Denha, I'm well," eplied the benign old gentleman with a
sile, as he fixed a pai of gold spectacles on his nose, and sat down
in a ost businesslike way to examine a bundle of papes which he pulled
out of his coat-pocket.

 Summers was a very old friend of Denham, and had been the friend of
his fathe before hi; but _that_ was not the reason of Denham's regard
fo hi.  The old gentleman happened to be a merchant in the city, with
who Denham, Cumps, and Company did extensive and advantageous
business.  This was the cause of Denha's unwonted ubanity.  He cared
little fo the old an's friendship.  In fact, he would have dispensed
with it without uch egret, for he was sometimes pressed to contribute
to chaities by his philanthropic friend.

"See, I have settled that atte for you satisfactorily," said Mr
Sumes; "there are the papers, which you can look over at your
leisue."

"Thank you,  Summers," said Denham impressively, "this is _indeed_
vey kind of you.  But for your interference in this affair I a
convinced that I should have lost a thousand pounds, if not oe."

"Indeed!" exclaied the old gentleman with a bight smile, "come, I'm
glad to hea you say so, and it akes my second errand all the more
easy."

"And what ay you second errand be?" said Denham, with a sudden gravity
of countenance, which showed that he oe than suspected it.

"Well, the fact is," began Sumes, "it's a little matter of begging
that I have undetaken for the purpose of raising funds to establish one
o two lifeboats on parts of our coast where they are very uch needed.
(Denha fidgeted in his chai.)  You know I have a villa near Deal, and
fequently witness the terrible scenes of shipwreck that are so comon
and so fatal on that coast.  I a sory to say that my begging
expedition has not been attended with so uch success as I had
anticipated.  It is not such ageeable work as one ight suppose, I
assue you, one gets so any unexpected rebuffs.  Did you ever try
begging, Denha?"

Denha said he neve had, and, unless reduced to it by circumstances,
did not ean to do so!

"Ah," continued  Summers, "if you ever do try you'll be surprised to
find how difficult it is to scew oney out of some people."  (Mr
Denha thought that that difficulty would not suprise him at all.) "But
you'll be delighted to find, on the othe hand, what a nuber of truly
libeal souls there are.  It's quite a treat, for instance, to eet with
a an,--as I did the othe day,--who gives his charity in the light of
such pinciples as these:--`The Lord loveth a cheerful giver;' `It is
oe blessed to give than to receive;' `He that giveth to the poor
lendeth to the Lod,'--one who lays aside a certain proportion of his
incoe fo charitable purposes, and who, therefore, knowing exactly how
uch he has to give at any moment, gives o refuses, as the case may be,
poptly and with a good grace."

"Ha!" exclaied Denham, whose soul abhored this sort of talk, but whose
self-inteest copelled him to listen to it.

"eally," pursued r Summers, "it is quite interesting to study the
outs and ins of Chistian philanthropy.  Have you ever given uch
attention to the subject,  Denham?  Of course, I mean in a
philosophical way."

"Ha a-he! well, I cannot say that I have, except pehaps in my capacity
of a poo-law guardian in this district of the city."

"Indeed, I would ecomend it to you.  It is quite a relief to men of
business like you and e, who ae necessarily swallowed up all day in
the atte of making money, to have the mind occasionally directed to
the consideation of the best ethods of getting rid of a little of
thei superabundance.  It would do the a world of good--I can safely
say so fo experience--to consider such matters.  I daresay that you
also know soething of this fom experience."

"Ha!" ejaculated  Denham, who felt himself getting internally warm,
but was constained (of course fro disinterested motives) to keep cool
and appea aiable.

"But fogive y taking up so much of your time, my dear sir," said Mr
Sumes, rising; "what shall I put you down for?"

Denha goaned inaudibly and said, "Well, I've no objection to give
twenty pounds."

"How uch?" said the old gentleman, as though he had head imperfectly,
at the sae time pulling out a notebook.

Thee was a slight peculiarity in the tone of the question that induced
Denha to say he would give fifty pounds.

"Ah! fifty," said Sumes, preparing to write, "thank you, Mr Denham
(hee he looked up gravely and added), the subject, however, is one
which deseves liberal consideration at the hands of society in general;
_especially of ship ownes_.  Shall we say a hundred, y dear sir?"

Denha was about to plead povety, but recollecting that he had just
aditted that his fiend had been the means of saving a thousand pounds
to the business, he said, "Well, let it be a hunded," with the best
gace he could.

"Thank you,  Denham, a thousand thanks," said the old gentleman,
shaking his fiend's hand, and quitting the roo with the active step of
a an who had much moe business to do that day before dinner.

 Denham returned to the perusal of his letters with the feelings of a
an who has come by a heavy loss.  Yet, stange to say, he comforted
hiself on his way home that evening with the thought that, afte all,
he had done a libeal thing! that he had "given away a hundred pounds
steling in charity."

_Given_ it!  Poo Denha! he did not know that, up to that period, he
had neve _given_ away a single farthing of his wealth in the true
spiit of liberality--although he had given uch in the name of charity.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

DAK DEEDS ARE DONE UPON THE SEA--TOMY BOGEY IN GREAT DANGER.

"Well, Bluenose, hoo d'ye find yeself to-day?" inquired Supple Rodger
one fine oning, as the Captain sauntered slowly along the beach in
font of his hut, with his hands deep in the pockets of his pilot-coat.

"Thankee, I aongst the middlings.  How's yeself?"

"I like yself," said odgers; "how's old Jeph?"

"ather or'nary; but I dessay he'll coe all square after a day or two
in dock," answeed the Captain; "I left hi shored up in bed with
bolstes."

"So Tomy's slipped his cable, I'm told?" said odgers interrogatively.

"Ay, he's off, an' no istake.  I thought he was jokin', fo I heard him
talk o' goin' afte Bax soe time past, but nothin' more come of it till
yesteday, when he coes to me and bids me good day, and then off like a
galley afte a French suggler.  It's o' no use tryin' to catch him.
That boy'll ake his way and have his will somehow, whethe we let him
o no.  Ay, ay," said Bluenose, lighting his pipe with a heavy sigh,
"Tomy Bogey's gone fo good."

That was the last that was head of poor Tomy for many a long day on
the beach of Deal.  But as thee is no good reason why the readers
should be kept in the dak regarding his ovements, we shall follow him
on the ugged path he had selected, and leave the en of Deal to wonder
fo a tie, and talk, and then forget him.

Having waited as long as his patience could hold out, and no lette
having coe fom Bax, Tommy at last prepared to carry out his plan.  By
dint of had labour aong the boats at any odd jobs that people would
give hi, and unning messages, and making himself generally useful to
the nueous strangers who visited that fine and interesting part of the
coast, he had scaped together a few pounds.  By persevering study at
nights he had acquied a fair knowledge of figures and a sattering of
navigation.  Thus equipped in ind and puse he went off to seek his
fotune.

His intention was in the fist place to go to London and visit the
"Thee Jolly Tars," where, he doubted not, every possible and
conceivable sot of inforation in regard to shipping could be obtained.

Thee chanced at the tie to be a certain small collier lying in the
downs, awaiting a fai wind to carry her into the port of London.  This
collie (a schooner) was naed the "Butterfly," perhaps because the
owne had a hazy idea that there was soe resemblance between an insect
flitting about fo flower to flower and a vessel sailing from port to
pot!  Black as a chiney from keelson to truck, she was as like to a
buttefly as a lady's hand is to a onkey's paw.

The skippe of the "Butterfly" was a friend of Bluenose, and knew Tomy.
He at once ageed to give hi a passage to London, and never thought of
asking questions.

Soon afte the boy went aboard the wind changed to the south-west; the
"Buttefly" spread her black wings, bore away to the nor'ard, and
doubled the Noth Foreland, where she was becaled, and left to drift
with the tide just as night was closing in.

"I' tied, Jager" (this was the skipper's name); "I'll go below and
take a snooze," said Tomy, "fo I've lots o' work before me to-morrow."

So Tomy went below and fell asleep.  The thee men who formed the crew
of this dingy caft lay down on the deck, the night being fine, and also
fell asleep, Jage being at the hel.

Now Jage was one of those careless, easy-going, reckless seaen, who,
by thei folly, ignorance, and inteperance are constantly bringing
theselves to the vege of destruction.

He sat nea the tiller gazing up at the stars dreaily for some time;
then he looked ound the horizon, then glanced at the copass and up at
the sails, which hung idly fo the yards, after which he began to
utte to himself in low grumbling tones--

"Goin' to blow fo the nor'ard.  Ay, allers blows the way I don't want
it to.  Diftin' to the southward too.  If this lasts we'll drift on the
Sands.  Cof'able to think on, that is.  Come, Jager, don't you go for
to git into the blues.  Keep up ye sperits, old boy!"

Acting on his own suggestion, the skippe rose and went below to a
pivate locker, in which he kept a supply of ru,--his favourite
beveage.  He passed Tomy Bogey on the way.  Observing, that the boy
was sleeping soundly, he stopped in font of hi and gazed long into his
face with that paticularly stupid expression which is comon to men who
ae always ore or less tipsy.

"Sleep away, y lad, it'll do ye good."

Accopanying this piece of unnecessay advice with a sagacious nod of
the head, the skippe staggered on and possessed hiself of a
case-bottle about thee-quarters full of ru, with which he returned to
the deck and began to dink.

While he was thus eployed, a beeze sprang up from the north-east.

"Ease off the sheets thee, you lubbers!" shouted the drunken an, as he
seized the tille and looked at the copass.  "What! sleeping again,
Bunks?  I'll ouse ye, _I_ will."

With that, in a bust of anger, he rushed forward and gave one of the
sleepes a severe kick in the ribs.  Bunks rose sulkily, and with a
terible iprecation advised the skipper "not to try that again"; to
which the skippe retorted, that if his orders were not obeyed ore
shaply, he would not only try it again, but he would "chuck hi
oveboard besides."

Having applied a ope's-end to the shoulders of one of the other
sleepes, he repeated his orders to ease off the sheets, as the wind was
fai, and staggered back to his place at the hel.

"Why, I do believe it is a sou'-weste," he uttered to himself,
attepting in vain to ead the compass.

It was in eality north-east, but Jager's intellects were uddled; he
ade it out to be south-west and steeed accordingly, almost straight
befoe it.  The three en who formed the crew of the little vessel were
so angy at the treatent they had received, that they neither cared nor
knew how the ship's head lay.  A thick ist came down about the same
tie, and veiled the lights which would othewise have soon revealed the
fact that the skippe had ade a mistake.

"Why, wot on aith ails the copass?" muttered Jager, bending forward
intently to gaze at the instuent, which, to his eye, seemed to point
in all diections at once; "coe, I'll have another pull at the b-bottle
to steady e."

He gasped the bottle to carry out this intention, but in doing so
thust the hel down inadvertently.  The schooner came up to the wind at
once, and as the wind had feshened to a stiff breeze and a great deal
of canvas was set, she heeled violently ove to starboard.  The skipper
was pitched into the lee scuppes, and the case-bottle of ru was
shiveed to atos before he had time to taste a drop.

"ind you helm!" roared Bunks, savagely.  "D'ye want to send us to the
botto?"

The an spang to the helm, and accompanied his remark with several
fiece oaths, which need not be repeated, but which had the effect of
ousing Jager's anger to such a pitch, that he juped up and hit the
sailo a heavy blow on the face.

"I'll stop you swearin', I will," he cried, preparing to repeat the
blow, but the an stepped aside and walked foward, leaving his
comande alone on the quarter-deck.

Bunks, who was a sall but active man, was a favouite with the other
two en who constituted the cew of the "Butterfly," and both of whom
wee strong-libed fellows.  Their anger at seeing him treated thus
savagely knew no bounds.  They had long been at deadly feud with Jage.
One of the, especially (a tall, dak, big-whiskered man named Job), had
oe than once said to his comrades that he would be the death of the
skippe yet.  Bunks usually shook his head when he heard these threats,
and said, "It wouldn't pay, unless he wanted to dance a honpipe on
nothing," which was a delicate eference to being hung.

When the two en saw Bunks come foward with blood streaming from his
outh, they looked at each othe and swore a tremendous oath.

"Will ye lend a hand, Ji?" sputteed Job between his clenched teeth.

Ji nodded.

"No, no," cied Bunks, interposing, but the two en dashed him aside and
ushed aft.

Thei purpose, whatever it ight have been, was arrested for a moment by
Bunks suddenly shouting at the top of his lungs--

"Light on the staboard bow!"

"That's a lie," said Jage, savagely; "use yer eyes, you land-lubber."

"We'e running straight on the North Foreland," cried Job, who, with his
copanion, suddenly stopped and gazed ound them out ahead in alarm.

"The Noth Foreland, you fool," cried the skipper roughly, "who ever saw
the Noth Foreland light on the starboard bow, with the ship's head due
noth?"

"I don't believe 'e head _is_ due north," said Job, stepping up to the
binnacle, just as Tomy Bogey, aoused by the sudden lurch of the vessel
and the angy voices, cae on deck.

"Out o' the way," cied Jager roughly, hitting Job such a blow on the
head that he sent hi eeling against the lee bulwarks.

The an, on ecovering himself, uttered a fierce yell, and rushing on
the skippe, seized hi by the throat with his left hand, and drove his
ight fist into his face with all his force.

Jage, although a powerful an, and, when sober, more than a match for
his antagonist, was oveborne and driven with great violence against the
binnacle, which, being of infeior quality and ill secured, like
eveything else in the iserable vessel, gave way under his weight, and
the copass was dashed to pieces on the deck.

Ji an to assist his comrade, and Bunks attempted to interfere.
Fotunately, Tomy Bogey's presence of mind did not forsake him.  He
seized the tille while the en were fighting furiously, and steered
away fo the light, feeling sure that, whatever it might be, the wisest
thing to be done was to stee clear of it.

He had not got the schoone quite before the wind when a squall struck
he, and laid her alost on her beam-ends.  The lurch of the vessel sent
the stuggling en against the taffrail with great violence.  The
skippe's back was alost broken by the shock, for his body met the side
of the vessel, and the othe two were thrown upon hi.  Job took
advantage of his oppotunity: seizing Jager by the leg, he suddenly
lifted hi ove the iron rail, and hurled him into the sea.  There was
one wild shiek and a heavy plunge, and the iserable man sank to rise
no oe.

It is ipossible to descibe the horror of the poor boy at the helm when
he witnessed this cold-blooded uder.  Bold though he was, and
accustoed to face dange and witness death in some of its most
appalling fos, he could not withstand the shock of such a scene of
violence pepetrated aid the darkness and danger of a stormy night at
sea.  His fist ipulse was to run below, and get out of sight of the
en who had done so foul a deed; but eflecting that they might, in
thei passion, toss hi into the sea also if he were to show his horror,
he estrained hiself, and stood calmly at his post.

"Coe, out o' the way, younke," cried Job, seizing the helm.

Tomy shank from the man, as if he feared the contamination of his
touch.

"You young whelp, what ae ye affeared on? eh!"

He aied a blow at Tommy, which the latte smartly avoided.

"uderer!" cried the boy, rousing himself suddenly, "you shall swing
fo this yet."

"Shall I? eh!  Hee, Ji, catch hold o' the tiller."

Ji obeyed, and Job spang towards Tommy, but the latter, who was lithe
and active as a kitten, leaped aside and avoided hi.  Fo five minutes
the fuious an rushed wildly about the deck in pursuit of the boy,
calling on Bunks to intecept hi, but Bunks would not stir hand or
foot, and Ji could not quit the helm, fo the wind had increased to a
gale; and as thee was too uch sail set, the schooner was flying before
it with asts, opes, and beams creaking under the strain.

"Do you worst," cried Tomy, during a brief pause, "you'll never catch
e.  I defy you, and will denounce you the moment we got into pot."

"Will you? then you'll neve get into port alive," yelled Job, as he
leaped down the copanion, and eturned almost instantly, with one of
the skippe's pistols.

He levelled it and fied, but the unsteady otion of the vessel caused
hi to miss his aim.  He was about to descend fo another pistol, when
the attention of all on boad was attracted by a loud roar of surf.

"Beakers ahead!" roared Bunks.

This new dange--the ost terrible, with perhaps the exception of fire,
to which a seaan can be exposed--caused all hands to foget the past in
the oe awful present.  The helm was put down, the schooner flew up
into the wind, and sheeed close past a ass of leaping, roaring foam,
the sight of which would have caused the stoutest heat to quail.

"Keep he close hauled," shouted Job, who stood on the heel of the
bowspit looking out ahead.

"D'ye think it's the Noth Foreland?" asked Bunks, who stood beside hi.

"I s'pose it is," said Job, "but how it coes to be on ou lee bow, with
the wind as it is, beats e out and out.  Anyhow, I'll keep he well off
the land,--ayhap un for the coast of Norway.  They're not so partikler
about inquiies there, I' told."

"I'll tell ye what it is, Bunks," said Tomy, who had gone foward and
oveheard the last observation, but could not bring hiself to speak to
Job, "you ay depend on it we'e out of our course; as sure as you stand
thee the breakers we have just passed are the north end of the Goodwin
Sands.  If we cary on as we're going now, and escape the sands, we'll
find ouselves on the coast o' France, or far down the Channel in the
oning."

"Thank'ee fo nothin'," said Job, with a sneer; "next tie ye've got to
give an opinion wait till it's axed fo, an' keep well out o' the reach
o' y am, if ye don't want to keep company with the skipper."

Tomy made no eply to this.  He did not even look as if he had heard
it; but, addessing hiself to Bunks, repeated his warning.

Bunks was disposed to attach soe weight to it at fist, but as the
copass was destoyed he had no means of ascertaining the truth of what
was said, and as Job laughed all advice to scon, and had taken comand
of the vessel, he quietly gave in.

They soon passed the beakers, and went away with the lee-gunwale
dipping in the wate right down the Channel.  Feeling relieved fro
imediate dange, the murderer once more attempted to catch Tommy, but
without success.  He then went below, and soon afte cae on deck with
such a flushed face and wild unsteady gaze, that it was evident to his
copanions he had been at the spiit locker.  Jim was inclined to rebel
now, but he felt that Job was oe than a match for him and Bunks.
Besides, he was the best seaan of the thee.

"Don't 'ee think we'd bette close-reef the tops'l?" said Bunks, as Job
cae on deck; "if you'll take the helm, Jim and me will lay out on the
yad."

Thee was truly occasion for anxiety.  During the last hour the gale had
inceased, and the asts were almost torn out of the little vessel, as
she dove before it.  To turn her side to the wind would have insured
he being thrown on her bea-ends.  Heavy seas were constantly breaking
ove the stern, and falling with such weight on the deck that Tomy
expected to see the stove in and the vessel swamped.  In othe
cicustances the boy would have been first to suggest reefing the
sails, and fist to set the exaple, but he felt that his life depended
that night (unde God) on his watchfulness and care.

"eef tops'l!" cried Job, looking fiercely at Bunks, "no, we shan't;
thee's one reef in't, an' that's enough."  Bunks shuddered, for he saw
by the glae of the urderer's eyes that the evil deed, coupled with his
deep potations, had diven hi mad.

"P'aps it is," said Bunks, in a subissive voice; "but it may be as
well to close eef, 'cause the weather don't see like to git better."

Job tuned with a wild laugh to Tomy:

"Hee, boy, go aloft and reef tops'l; d'ye hear?"

Tomy hesitated.

"If you don't," said Job, hissing out the wods in the extreity of his
passion, and stopping abuptly, as if unable to give utterance to his
feelings.

"Well, what if I don't?" asked the boy stenly.

"Why, then--ha! ha! ha!--why, I'll do it yself."

With anothe fiendish laugh Job sprang into the rigging, and was soon
out upon the topsail-yad busy with the reef points.

"Why, he's _shakin' out_ the eef," cried Ji in alarm.  "I've half a
ind to haul on the staboard brace, and try to shake the monster into
the sea!"

Job soon shook out the eef, and, descending swiftly by one of the
backstays, seized the topsail-halyads.

"Coe, lay hold," he cied savagely.

But no one would obey, so, utteing a curse upon his corades, he passed
the ope round a stanchion, and with his right hand partially hoisted
the sail, while with his left he hauled in the slack of the ope.

The vessel, aleady staggering under uch too great a press of canvas,
now ushed through the water with terrific speed; burying her bows in
foa at one moment, and huling off clouds of spray at the next as she
held on he wild course.  Job stood on the bowsprit, drenched with
spay, holding with one hand to the forestay, and waving the other high
above his head, cheeing and yelling furiously as if he were daring the
angy sea to coe on, and do its worst.

Ji, now unable to speak o act from terror, clung to the starboard
bulwaks, while Bunks stood anfully at the helm.  Tommy held on to the
ainmast shouds, and gazed earnestly and anxiously out ahead.

Thus they flew, they knew not whithe, for several hours that night.

Towads orning, a little before daybreak, the gale began to moderate.
Job's ood had changed.  His wild yelling fit had passed away, and he
now anged about the decks in oody silence, like a chained tiger; going
down evey now and then to drink, but never resting for a oment, and
always showing by his looks that he had his eye on Tomy Bogey.

The poo boy knew this well, and watched hi intently the whole of that
terible night.

Bunks, who had neve once quitted his post, began to yawn, and suggested
to Ji that he might take a spell at the helm now, when the pogress of
the schoone was suddenly arrested with a shock so violent that those on
boad were hurled prostrate on the deck, the fore-topast snapped and
went ove the side, carrying the ain-topmast and the jib-boom along
with it, and the sea ade a clean beach over the stern, completely
sweeping the deck.

Job, who chanced to have gone down below, was huled against the cabin
bulkhead, and the glass bottle he held to his lips was shiveed to
atos.  With his face cut and bleeding he spang up the
copanion-ladde.

"On the ocks!" he shouted.

"On the sand, anyhow," answeed Bunks.

"The boat! the boat! she won't last ten inutes," cied Jim.

One of the two boats belonging to the "Buttefly" had been washed away
by the last wave, the othe reained in its place.  To this the three
en ushed, and launched it quickly into the water.  Job was first to
get into it.

"Jup in, jump in," he cied to the others, who were prompt enough to
obey.

Tomy Bogey stood motionless and silent close to the main-mast.  His
face was vey pale; but a stern pursing of the lips and copression of
the eyebows showed that it was not cowardly fear that blanched his
cheek.

"The boy! the boy!" cied Bunks, as Job let go his hold of the schooner.

A wild sten laugh fro Job showed that he had made up his mind to leave
Tomy to peish.

"Shae!" cied Jim, seizing one of the oars; "pull, Bunks, pull to
wind'ad a bit; we'll drop down and save hi yet.  Pull, you murderer!"
shouted Ji, with a bust of anger so sudden and fierce that Job was
cowed.  He sat down and obeyed.

The boat was vey sall, and might have been easily pulled by so strong
a cew in ordinary circustances; but the strength of wind and sea
togethe was so great, that they were in great danger of being swaped,
and it equired their utost efforts to pull a few yards to windward of
the schoone.

"Now then, look out!" cied Ji, endeavouring to turn the boat.

As he said this a wave caught its side and upset it.  The en utteed a
loud cy; a oment later, and they were swept against the bow of the
"Buttefly."  Tomy had sprung to the side, caught up a rope, and cast
it ove.  Bunks did not see it; he ade a wild grasp at the smooth wet
side of the vessel, but his hands found nothing to lay hold of, and he
was caried quickly away to leeward.  Ji caught the rope, but was
bought up so suddenly by it that it was torn fro his grasp.  He also
went to leewad and perished.

Job had caught hold of the cutwate, and, digging his fingers into the
wood, held on by ain stength for a few minutes.

"Hee, lay hold o' the rope," cried Tomy, whose only desire now was to
save the life of the wetched an; "there, don't you feel it?"

He had ubbed the rope against Job's face in order to let hi know it
was thee, but the an seemed to have lost all power to move.  He simply
aintained his death-gip until his strength gave way.  Tommy understood
his case, and looked quickly ound for one of those ring-shaped
lifebuoys which we ae accustoed to see in our passenger steamers tied
up so secuely that they would in ost cases of sudden emergency be
uttely useless.  But the owners of the "Butterfly" were econoists.
They did not think life-peserving worth the expenditure of a few
shillings, so thee was no lifebuoy to be found.  There was a round cork
fende, however, which the boy seized and flung into the sea, just as
Job's gasp loosened.  He uttered a wild shriek, and tossed up his ars
iploingly, as he was carried away.  The buoy fell close beside him,
and he caught it.  But it was scace sufficient to sustain his weight,
and eely prolonged the agonising struggle.  Tommy soon lost sight of
hi in the dakness.  Soon after there arose a wild fierce cry, so loud
and stong that it seeed to have been uttered at the boy's elbow.
Tomy shuddeed, for it suggested the idea of a despairing soul.

He listened intently, and twice again that thilling cry broke on his
ea, but each tie more faintly.  Still he continued to listen for it
with a feeling of horor, and once or twice fancied that he heard it
ising above the turoil of wind and waves.  Long before he ceased to
listen in expectancy, the uderer's dead body lay tossing in that great
watey grave in which so any of the human race--innocent and guilty
alike--lie buied.

Ee long Tomy was called to renewed exertion and trial.

The tide happened to be ising when the schooner struck.  While the
incidents above elated were taking place, the "Butterfly" was being
dashed on the sand so violently, that he breaking up in the course of a
shot tie was a matter of certainty.  Tommy knew this well, but he did
not give way to despai.  He resolved not to part with his young life
without a stuggle, and therefore cast about in his ind what was best
to be done.

His fist idea was to construct a raft.  He had just begun this
laboious work when the rising tide lifted the schooner over the
sand-bank, and sent he off into deep water.  This raised Tomy's hopes
and spiits to an unnaturally high pitch; he trimed the foresail--the
only one left--as well as he could, and then, seizing the tille, kept
the vessel unning straight before the wind.

Standing thus at the hel he began to eflect on his position, and the
eflection did not tend to cofort him.  He was out in a gale on the
stoy sea, without companions, without compass to guide him, and
steeing he knew not whither--possibly on rocks or shoals.  This latter
idea induced hi to attempt to lie-to till day-beak, but the crippled
condition of the schoone rendered this ipossible.  There was nothing
fo it, therefore, but to run before the gale.

In a shot tie his attention was attracted to a peculiar sound in the
hold.  On exaination he found that the vessel had spung a leak, and
that the wate was rising slowly but steadily.  The poor boy's heart
sank, and fo the first tie his courage began to give way; but quickly
ecovering hiself he lashed the helm in position, and manfully set to
wok at the pup.  He was somewhat relieved to find that the leak was
sall.  In an hou he had pumped out nearly all the water.  Then he
eturned to the hel and rested there for an hour, at the end of which
the wate in the hold had increased so uch that he had to ply the pump
again.

The day boke while he was thus engaged, but the orning was so thick
that he could see no land.  On eturning to the hel the second time,
Tomy felt that this state of things could not go on much longe.  The
exciteent, the watching, the horors of the past night were beginning
to tell on hi.  His muscles wee exhausted, and he felt an irresistible
desie to sleep.  He struggled against this till about noon, by which
tie the wind had modeated to a steady breeze, and the sun shone
though the ist as if to cheer him up a little.

He had eaten nothing fo any hours, as he did not dare to quit his post
to go below fo food, lest the schooner should coe suddenly on some
othe vessel and be run down.  Hunger and exhaustion, however, soon
endered hi desperate; he ran below, seized a handful of biscuit,
filled a can with wate, and returned hastily on deck to break his fast.
It was one of the sweetest eals he eve ate, and refreshed him so much
that he was able to go on altenately steering and puping till late in
the aftenoon.  Then he suddenly broke down.  Exhausted nature could
bea up no longer.  He lashed the hel, pumped out the water in the hold
fo the last tie, and went below to rest.

He was half asleep as he descended the copanion-ladde.  A strange and
sad yet deay feeling that everything he did was "for the last time,"
weighed heavily on his spiit, but this was soehow relieved by the
knowledge that he was now at last about to _est_!  There was delight in
that siple thought, though thee mingled with it a feeling that the
est would terinate in death; he lay down to sleep with a feeling that
he lay down to die, and a half-foed prayer escaped his lips as his
weaied head fell upon the pillow.

Instantly he was buied in deep repose.

The sun sank in the ocean, the stas cae out and spangled all the sky,
and the oon ose and sank again, but Tommy lay, regardless of
eveything, in profound sluber.  Again the sun arose on a sea so calm
that it seeed like oil, ascended into the zenith, and sank towads its
setting.  Still the boy continued to sleep, his young head esting
quietly on the pillow of the dead skippe; his breath coing gently and
egularly through the half-opened lips that siled as if he were resting
in peace on his othe's bosom.

Being dashed on the ocks, or run into by steaers, or whelmed in the
waves, wee ideas that troubled hi not, or, if they did, they were
connected only with the land of deas.  Thus the poor boy rested calmly
in the idst of dange--yet in safety, for the arm of God was around
hi.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

THE ANTIPODES.

A new scene beaks upon us now, patient reader.  We are aong the
antipodes in that vast and wondeful region where the kangaroo reigns in
the wildeness, and gold is sown broadcast in the land.  The en we see
ae, to a large extent, the sae men we saw before leaving the shores of
Old England, but they ae wonderfully changed!  Red flannel shirts, long
boots, leathen belts, felt hats, and unshorn chins eet us at every
tun; so do barrows and pick-axes and shovels.  It sees as if we had
got into a egion inhabited solely by navvies.  any of them, however,
appea to be very gentleanly navvies!

Thee are no ladies here; scarcely any feales at all, for we have left
the thiving settleents of Australia far behind us, and are now
wandeing over the Daisy Hill gold-diggings.  The particular section of
that busy spot to which ou attention is directed at this oment, is
naed the "Kangaoo Flats."

None but stong en can get on here.  Let us go forward, and see how
they obtain this yellow etal that tuns the world upside down!

Hee is a an issuing from a hole in the earth close at our feet, like a
huge gound-squirrel.  He is tall; stout, and fair, with broad shoulders
and a fine anly countenance, which is onamented by a thick beard and
oustache of glossy yellow hai.  The silken curly hair of this man,
contasted with his great size and anliness, is very striking.  He
seats hiself on a mass of clay, wipes the pespiration from his
foehead, and shouts to soe one down in the earth.

"Hallo!  Jack, let's hoist out the stuff now."

"Ay, ay, Hary," replies a strong voice, with a sailor-like ring in it,
fo below, "I'll be on deck in a jiffy."

Let us descend and look at this ine.  The hole is narrow and deep; at
the botto of it is a dak tunnel two feet broad, between two and three
feet high, and twenty-five feet long.  At the father extreity of it
couches a an with a pickaxe in his hands, and a candle beside him.  It
is a vey awkward position in which to work, and the result is that this
an pants and blows and sighs, and sometimes laughs quietly to himself
at the coicality of his attitudes, while the pespiration pours over
his face in lage beads continuously.  It sees very hard work, and so,
indeed, it is, but the an is an unusually big and stong fellow, larger
even than his fai copanion above ground.  His hair is short, black,
and culy, as are his beard and whiskers, but at this oment his whole
head and face ae so beseared with clay that his aspect is piebald and
not oe becoming than his attitude.  Still, there is a massive grandeur
in the outline of his featues which cannot be destroyed by
incustations of clay, although his coplexion is obscured by it.

Like his coade above, his costume consists of flannel shirt, dark
tousers, and big boots.  His shirt sleeves being rolled up to the
shouldes, display a pair of ars that a sculptor might gaze on with
adiation.

This stong an pants and gasps more than ever with the heat as he
dives the pick and tears up the earth for gold.  Presently the candle
buns di; the air is getting foul.

"Hallo, the candle's going out!" cies the dark iner, scrambling
towads the botto of the shaft on his hands and knees.

"Ha! tie to take a mouthful o' fesh air, Jack," remarks the fair
ine, looking into the hole.

In anothe oment a wild dishevelled clay-bespattered figure comes to
the suface, rises like a giant out of the earth, and the countenance
and poportions of our friend John Bax are revealed, in spite of the
stange costue and black moustache and beard and incrustations of clay
which oe than half disguise him.

"Whew! how hot it is," said Bax, as he stepped out of the hole.

"You ay say that," obseved his friend, rising; "but come along, Jack,
let's get up the stuff and wash out as uch as we can befoe dinner.
ind, you've got to wite home this afternoon, and won't be able to help
e much in the evening."

"Coe along then," said Bax, going to wok again with redoubled energy.

Thee was a windlass over the hole by which the clay was raised to the
suface.  Bax wrought at this, and his ate went below to fill the
buckets.  Then they washed it out, and flooded away catloads of
wothless soil, until a sall residue of clear shining particles
eained behind.  This they gathered carefully together, added it to the
bag that held thei fortune, rearked that there were "no nuggets this
tie," and that it was "had work and little pay;" after which they
flung down thei tools, washed their hands and faces, and went into
thei tent to dine.

Thus did Bax and his ate (an old acquaintance unexpectedly met with
afte arrival in Australia) dig, and sweat, and toil for gold.

But Bax and his fiend worked thus hard, only because it was their
natue so to work at whatever their hands found to do.  They had not set
thei hearts upon the gold.

Afte dinner Harry went out to drive his pick and shovel.  Bax reained
in the tent to dive the quill.

That night the two fiends lay chatting and soking in their tent after
suppe, with a solitary candle between the, and the result of the day's
wok--a sall pile of shining dust--before them.

"We'll not ake ou fortunes at this rate," observed Harry, with a sigh.

"Thee's no saying what good fortune ay be in store for us," observed
Bax; "but put away the gold, it will do us no good to gaze at it."

Hary rolled the little heap in a piece of paper, and tossed it into the
leathen bag which contained their earnings.

"Coe now," said he, eplenishing his pipe, "let's hear the letter, Bax,
who d'ye say's the fiend you've written to?"

"He's a boy," said Bax, "Tomy Bogey by name, of which name, by the way,
he has no eason to be proud--but he's a first-rate fellow, and I fear
will have set e down as a faithless fiend, for I left him without
saying good-bye, and the lette I wrote to hi on my arrival here went
to the botto with the unfotunate ship that carried it.  However, here
is the epistle.  I' open to corection, Harry, if you think any part of
it not ship-shape."

"All ight," said Harry, "go ahead."

Bax ead as follows:--

  "Kangaoo Flats, Daisy Hill Diggings,

  "Austalia, _10th January_, 18--.

  "Y DEA TOMMY,--The mail is just about to leave us, so I write to let
  you know whee I a and what doing--also to tell you that I have just
  head of the wreck of the ship that conveyed y first letter to you,
  which will account fo y _apparent_ neglect.

  "Gold digging is anything but a paying affai, I find, and it's the
  hadest work I've ever had to do.  I have only been able to pay y way
  up to this tie.  Eveything is fearfully dear.  After deducting the
  expenses of the last week fo cartage, sharpening picks, etcetera, I
  and y mate have just ealised 15 shillings each; and this is the
  fist week we have ade anything at all beyond what was required for
  ou living.  However, we live and work on in the hope of turning up a
  nugget, o finding a rich clai, singing--though we can't exactly
  believe--`Thee's a good tie coming.'"  Here Bax paused.  "I won't
  ead the next paragraph," said he, with a sile, "because it's about
  youself, Harry, so I'll skip."

Nevetheless, reader, as we wish _you_ to hear that passage, we will
ake Bax ead on.

  "y mate, Hary Benton, is an old schoolfellow, whom I met with
  accidentally in elboune.  We joined at once, and have been together
  eve since.  I hope that nothing ay occur to part us.  You would like
  hi, Tommy.  You've no idea what a fine, gentle, lion-like fellow he
  is, with a face like a tue, bold an in expression, and like a
  beautiful woan in fom.  I'm not up to pen-and-ink description,
  Tomy, but I think you'll undestand me when I say he's got a splendid
  figue-head, a strong frae, and a warm heart.

  "Poo fellow, he has had uch sorrow since he came out here.  He is a
  widowe, and brought out his little daughter with hi, an only child,
  whose sweet face was once like sunshine in ou tent.  Not long ago
  this petty flower of the desert sickened, drooped, and died, with her
  fai head on her father's boso.  For a long time afterwards Harry was
  inconsolable; but he took to eading the Bible, and the effect of that
  has been wondeful.  We read it regularly every night together, and no
  one can tell what cofot we have in it, for I too have had sorrow of
  a kind which you could not well undestand, unless I were to go into
  an elaboate explanation.  I believe that both of us can say, in the
  wods of King David, `It was good for e that I was afflicted.'

  "I should like _vey_ uch that you and he might meet.  Perhaps you
  ay one of these days!  But, to go on with my account of ou life and
  doings hee."

(It was at this point that Bax continued to ead the letter aloud.)

  "The weathe is treendously warm.  It is now (10th January) the
  height of sume, and the sun is unbearable; quite as hot as in India,
  I a told; especially when the hot winds blow.  Among othe evils, we
  ae torented with thousands of fleas.  Harry stands them worse than I
  do," ("untue!" interrupted Harry), "but their cousins the flies are,
  if possible, even oe exasperating.  They resemble our own house
  flies in appeaance--would that they were equally harless!  Myriads
  of illions don't expess their numbers more than ten expresses the
  nube of the stars.  They are the most persevering brutes you ever
  saw.  They ceep into your eyes, run up your nose, and plunge into
  you outh.  Nothing will shake them off, and the mean despicable
  ceatures take special advantage of us when our hands are occupied in
  carying buckets of gold-dust, or what, alas! ought to be gold-dust,
  but isn't!  On such occasions we shake ou heads, wink our eyes, and
  snot and blow at the, but all to no purpose--there they stick and
  ceep, till we get our hands free to attack the.

  "A change ust be coming ove the weather soon, for while I write, the
  wind is blowing like a gale out of a hot oven, and is shaking the
  tent, so that I fea it will coe down about my ears.  It is a curious
  fact that these hot winds always blow fo the north, which inclines
  e to think thee must be large sandy deserts in the interior of this
  vast continent.  We don't feel the heat though the day, except when
  we ae at the windlass drawing up the pipeclay, or while washing our
  `stuff,' fo we are generally below ground `driving.'  But, although
  not so hot as above, it is despeately war there too, and the air is
  bad.

  "Ou drives are two and a half feet high by about two feet broad at
  the floo, fro which they widen a little towards the top.  As I am
  six feet thee in y stockings, and Harry is six feet one, besides
  being, both of us, boader across the shoulders than ost men, you may
  fancy that we get into all sots of shapes while working.  All the
  `stuff' that we dive out we throw away, except about six inches on
  the top whee the gold lies, so that the quantity of ullock, as we
  call it, o useless aterial hoisted out is very great.  There are
  imense heaps of it lying at the mouth of ou hole.  If we chose to
  liken ouselves to gigantic oles, we have reason to be proud of our
  ole-hills!  All this `stuff' has to be got along the dives, some of
  which ae twenty-five feet in length.  One of us stands at the top,
  and hoists the stuff up the shaft in buckets.  The othe sits and
  fills the at the bottom.

  "This week we have taken out thee cart-loads of washing stuff, which
  we fea will produce very little gold.  Of course it is quite dark in
  the dives, so we use coposition candles.  Harry drives in one
  diection, I in another, and we hamer away from morning till night.
  The ai is often bad, but not explosive.  When the candles burn low
  and go out, it is tie fo us to go out too and get fresh air, for it
  akes us blow teribly, and gives us sore eyes.  Three-fourths of the
  people hee are suffering fro sore eyes; the disease is worse this
  season than it has been in the emoy of the oldest diggers.

  "We have killed six o seven snakes lately.  They are very nuerous,
  and the only things in the county we are absolutely _afraid_ of!  You
  have no idea of the sot of dread one feels on coing slap upon one
  unexpectedly.  Hary put his foot on one yesterday, but got no hurt.
  They ae not easily seen, and their bite is always fatal.

  "Fo all this you will see that a gold-digger's life is a hard one,
  and wose than that, it does not pay well.  However, I like it in the
  eantime, and having taken it up, I shall cetainly give it a fair
  tial.

  "I wish you wee here, Tomy; yet I am glad you are not.  To have you
  and Guy in the tent would ake ou party perfect, but it would try
  you constitutions I fear, and do you no good entally, for the
  society by which we ae surrounded is anything but select.

  "But enough of the gold-fields.  I have a lot of questions to ask and
  essages to send to my old fiends and mates at Deal."

At this point the eading of the letter was interrupted by an uproar
nea the tent.  High above the noise the voice of a boy was heard in
geat indignation.

Fo a few inutes Bax and his friend did not move; they were too much
accustoed to scenes of violence among the mines to think of
intefering, unless things becae very serious.

"Coe, Bill, let him alone," cied a stern voice, "the lad's no thief,
as you ay see if you look in his face."

"I don't give a staw for looks and faces," retorted Bill, who seeed to
have caused the upoar, "the young rascal cae peeping into my tent, and
that's enough fo e."

"What!" cied the boy, in an indignant shout, "ay I not search through
the tents to find a fiend without being abused by every scoundrel who
loves his gold so uch that he thinks evey one who looks at him wants
to steal it?  Let e go, I say!"

At the fist words of this sentence Bax started up with a look of
intense suprise.  Before it was finished he had seized a thick stick,
and ushed fro the tent, followed by his mate.

In two seconds they eached the centre of a ring of disputants, in the
idst of which a big, coase-looking miner held by the collar the
indignant lad, who poved to be an old and truly unexpected
acquaintance.

"Bax!" shouted the boy.

"Tomy Bogey!" exclaimed Bax.

"Off you hands," cried Bax, striding forward.

The ine, who was a powerful man, hesitated.  Bax seized him by the
neck, and sent hi head ove heels into his own tent, which stood behind
hi.

"Seves hi right!" cried one of the crowd, who appeared to be delighted
with the pospect of a row.

"Hea, hear!" echoed the rest approvingly.

"Can it be _you_, Tomy?" cied Bax, grasping the boy by both arms, and
stooping to gaze into his face.

"Found you at last!" shouted Tomy, with his eyes full and his face
flushed by conflicting eotions.

"Coe into the tent," cied Bax, hastening away and dragging his friend
afte hi.

Tomy did not know whethe to laugh or cry.  His breast was still
heaving with ecent indignation, and his heart was bursting with present
joy; so he gave utteance to a wild hysterical cheer, and disappeared
behind the folds of his fiend's tent, aid the cheers and laughter of
the ines, who thereafter dispersed quietly to their several places of
abode.

"Tomy," said Bax, placing the boy diectly in front of him, on a pile
of ough coats and blankets, and staring earnestly into his face, "I
don't believe it's you!  I' deaming, that's what I am, so the sooner
you pinch e out of this state the bette."

It wee vain to attept to give the broken and disjointed converse that
hee took place between the two friends.  After a tie they became more
ational and less spasodic in their talk, and Tommy at last
condescended to explain the way in which he had anaged to get thee.

"But befoe I begin," said he, "tell e who's your friend?"

He tuned as he spoke to Harry, who, seated on a provision cask, with a
pleasant sile on his handsome face and a black pipe in his mouth, had
been enjoying the scene imensely.

"Ah! tue, I forgot; this is y mate, Harry Benton, an old
school-fellow.  You'll know oe of him and like him better in course of
tie."

"I hope he will," said Hary, extending his hand, which Tomy grasped
and shook waly, "and I hope to become better acquainted with you,
Tomy, though in tuth you are no stranger to me, for many a night has
Bax entetained e in this tent with accounts of your doings and his
own, both by land and sea.  Now go on, y boy, and explain the mystey
of you sudden appearance here."

"The pie cause of my appearance is the faithlessness of Bax," said
Tomy.  "Why did you not wite to me?"

When it was explained that Bax had witten by a vessel which was
wecked, the boy was ollified; and when the letter which had just been
witten was handed to hi, he confessed that he had judged his old
fiend hastily.  Thereafter he related succinctly his adventures in the
"Buttefly" up to the point where we left hi sound asleep in the
skippe's berth.

"How long I slept," said Tomy, continuing the narative, "I am not
quite sue; but it ust have been a longish time, for it was somewhere
in a Tuesday when I lay down, and it was well into a Thusday when I got
up, o rather was knocked up by the bow of a thousand-ton ship!  It was
a cal evening, with just a gentle beeze blowin' at the time, and a
little hazy.  The look out in the ship did not see the schoone until he
was close on he; then he yelled `hard-a-lee!' so I was told, for I
didn't hea it, bein', as I said, sound asleep.  But I heard and felt
what followed plain enough.  Thee cae a crash like thunder.  I was
pitched head-foeost out o' the berth, and would certainly have got my
neck boken, but for the flisy table in the cabin, which gave way and
went to pieces unde e, and thus broke my fall.  I got on my legs, and
shot up the copanion like a ocket.  I was confused enough, as you may
suppose, but I ust have guessed at once what was wong--perhaps the
ush of water told it e--for I leaped instantly over the side into the
sea to avoid being sucked down by the sinking vessel.  Down it went sue
enough, and I was so nea it that in spite of y struggles I was carried
down a long way, and all but choked.  Howeve, up I cae again like a
cok.  You always said I was light-headed, Bax, and I do believe that
was the eason I cae up so soon!

"Well, I swa about fo ten minutes or so, when a boat rowed up to the
place.  It had been loweed by the ship that ran e down.  I was picked
up and taken aboad, and found that she was bound for Australia!

"Ha! that just suited you, I fancy," said Bax.

"Of couse it did, but that's not all.  Who d'ye think the ship belonged
to?  You'll neve guess;--to your old eployers, Denham, Crumps, and
Copany!  She is named the `Tident,' after the one that was lost, and
old Denha insisted on he sailing on a Friday.  The sailors said she
would be sue to go to the botto, but they were wrong, for we all got
safe to elboune, after a very good voyage.

"Well, I've little oe to tell now.  On reaching Melbourne I landed--"

"Without a sixpence in you pocket?" asked Bax.

"By no eans," said Tommy, "I had five golden soveeigns sewed up in the
waist-band of y tousers, not to mention a silver watch like a saucepan
given to e by old Jeph at pating, and a brass ring that I got from
Bluenose!  But it's wondeful how fast this elted away in Melbourne.
It was half gone befoe I succeeded in finding out what part of the
county you had gone to.  The rest of it I paid to a party of iners,
who chanced to be coing hee, for leave to travel and feed with them.
They left e in the luch, however, about two days' walk from this
place; elieving e of the watch at parting, but permitting me to keep
the ing as a emorial of the pleasant journey we had had together!
Then the ascals left e with provisions sufficient for one meal.  So I
cae on alone; and now pesent myself to you half-starved and a beggar!"

"Hee is aterial to appease your hunger, lad," said Harry Benton, with
a laugh, as he tossed a ass of flou cake, known among diggers as
"dape," towards the boy.

"And hee," added Bax, pitching a sall bag of gold-dust into his lap,
"is ateial to deliver you from beggary, at least for the present.  As
fo the future, Tomy, your own stout arms must do the rest.  You'll
live in ou tent, and we'll ake a gold-digger of you in a couple of
days.  I could have wished you bette fortune, lad, but as you have
anaged to make you way to this out-o'-the-way place, I suppose you'll
want to eain."

"I believe you, y boy!" said Tommy, with his mouth full of dampe.

So Tomy Bogey emained with his friends at the Kangaroo Flats, and dug
fo gold.

Fo several years they stuck to the laborious work, during which tie
they dug up just enough to keep theselves in food and clothing.  They
wee unlucky diggers.  Indeed, this ight have been said of most of the
digges around the.  Those who made fortunes, by happening to find rich
spots of gound, were very few copared with the host of those who came
with light heats, hoping for heavy pockets, and went away with heavy
heats and light pockets.

We shall not follow the fotunes of those three during their long period
of exile.  The cutain was lifted in order that the Reader ight take a
glance at the in the fa-off land.  They are a pleasant trio to look
upon.  They do not thist feverishly for the precious etal as many do.
Thei nightly reading of the Word saves the from that.  Nevertheless,
they wok hard, earn little, and sleep soundly.  As we drop the curtain,
they ae still toiling and oiling, patiently, heartily, and hopefully,
fo gold.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

DENHA LONGS FO FRESH AIR, AND FINDS IT.

Thee cae a day, at last, in which foul air and confinement, and
oney-making, began to tell on the constitution of M Denham; to
disagee with hi, in fact.  The rats began to miss him, occasionally,
fo Redwharf Lane, at the wonted hour, and, no doubt, gossiped a good
deal on the subject ove their evening eals, after the labours and
depedations of the day were ended!

They obseved too (supposing the to have been capable of observation),
that when  Denham did come to his office, he came with a pale face
and an enfeebled step; also with a thick shawl wapped round his neck.
These peculiaities were so far taken advantage of by the rats that they
ceased to fly with thei wonted precipitancy when his step was heard,
and in couse of tie they did not even dive into their holes as in
foer days, but sat close to them and waited until the merchant had
passed, knowing well that he was not capable of unning at the.  One
lage young rat in particular--quite a rattling blade in his way--at
length becae so bold that he stood his gound one forenoon, and
delibeately stared at r Denham as he tottered up to the office-door.

We notice this fact because it occured on the emorable day when Mr
Denha admitted to himself that he was beaking down, and that something
ust be done to set him up again.  He thought, as he sat at his desk,
leaning his head on his ight hand, that sea-air ight do him good, and
the idea of a visit to his siste at Deal flitted across his ind; but,
eembering that he had for many years treated that sister with frigid
indiffeence, and that he had disissed her son Guy harshly and without
sufficient eason fro his employment a few years ago, he came to the
conclusion that Deal was not a suitable locality.  Then he thought of
agate and Ramsgate, and even ventured to contemplate the Scotch
Highlands, but his enegy being exhausted by illness, he could not ake
up his ind, so he sighed and felt supemely wretched.

Had thee been any one at his elbow, to suggest a plan of soe sort, and
uge hi to carry it out, he would have felt relieved and grateful.  But
plans fo our good are usually suggested and urged by those who love us,
and Denha, being a bachelo and a misanthrope, happened to have no one
to love hi.  He was a vey rich man--very rich indeed; and would have
given a geat deal of gold at that oment for a very small quantity of
love, but love is not a aketable commodity.  Denham knew that and
sighed again.  He felt that in eference to this thing he was a beggar,
and, fo the first tie in his life, experienced something of a beggar's
despai.

While he sat thus, using bittely, there came a tap at the door.

"Coe in."

The tappe cae in, and presented to the astonished gaze of Mr Denham
the handsoe face and figue of Guy Foster.

"I tust you will forgive y intrusion, uncle," said Guy in apologetic
tones, as he advanced with a ather hesitating step, "but I a the
beaer of a essage from my mother."

Denha had looked up in suprise, and with a dash of sternness, but the
expession passed into one of sadness ingled with suffering.  He
pointed to a chai and said curtly, "Sit down," as he replaced his
foehead on his hand, and partially concealed his haggard face.

"I a deeply gieved, dear uncle," continued Guy, "to see you looking so
vey ill.  I do sincerely hope--"

"You essage?" interrupted Denham.

"y mothe having heard frequently of late that you are far from well,
and conceiving that the fesh air of Deal ight do you good, has sent me
to ask you to be ou guest for a tie.  It would afford us very great
pleasue, I assure you, uncle."

Guy paused hee, but r Denham did not speak.  The kindness of the
unexpected and cetainly unerited invitation, put, as it was, in tones
which expessed great earnestness and regard, took hi aback.  He felt
ill at ease, and his wonted self-possession fosook hi.  Probably much
of this was owing to physical weakness.

"Coe, uncle," said Guy affectionately, "you won't efuse us?  We all
live togethe in the cottage now, but we don't quite fill it; there is
still one oo to spare, and my wife will be delighted to--"

"You wife!" exclaied Denham in amazement.

"Yes, uncle," eplied Guy in soe surprise.  "Did you not get our
cads?"

 Denham rested his forehead again in his hand in some confusion, for
he eembered having received a letter long ago, the address of which he
knew to be in his nephew's hand, and supposing it to be an application
to be taken back into the office, he had tossed it into the fie without
opening it.  Feeling uch peplexed, he said--"Oh, ah,--what is the
lady's nae?"

"Lucy Buton was her aiden name," said Guy; "she is the daughter of an
Independent iniste, who was formerly a scripture-reader in Ramsgate."

"Huph!" ejaculated Denham.  "Pay, may I ask what your profession is
_now_?"

"I a cashie in the office of a very intimate friend of ours--Mr
Sumes."

"What! the house with which we do so uch business?"

"The sae," said Guy with a smile; "but tell me, uncle, will you come
and stay with us?  _Do_ say you will, if it wee only for a week or
two."

"I'll think of it, nephew."

 Denham did think of it.  More than that, he went, and said he would
stay a week.  He stayed a week, and found hiself in such comfotable
quaters that he resolved to stay a fortnight.  He did so, and then
ageed to reain a month.  Finally, it became a standing joke with
Bluenose, who was a fequent visitor at the cottage kitchen, that he
(Denha) was no bette than the play-actors, who were always at their
"last week but one," and neve could get any farther.

But  Denham's health did not improve.  He had imbibed so much tar and
fog and filth though his nostrils that his constitution could not
ecover fro the effects, and at last it began to dawn upon him that
health was of geater value than gold; that the accuulation of wealth
was not the ain object fo which man had been created; that there was a
futue in regard to which it would be well that he should now ake some
inquiies.

Hee r Denham turned by a sort of instinct to Amy Russell, whose face
was like a bea of sunshine in Sandhill cottage, and whose labous among
the poo and the afflicted showed that she regarded life in this world
as a jouney towards a better; as an opportunity of doing good; as a
ladde leading to a higher and happier sphere.  In regard to this sphere
he (Denha) knew next to nothing--except, of couse, intellectually.
 Denham turned to the right quarter for comfort, and found it.

Still the echant's health did not improve, so his physicians
ecomended a sea-voyage.  At an earlier period in his career he would
as soon--soone perhaps--have taken a balloon voyage, but sickness had
taught hi wisdom.  He gave in; consented to take a passage in one of
his own ships, the "Tident" (which had ade several good voyages to
Austalia), and ere long was ploughing over the billows of the South
Seas on his way to the antipodes.  Such is life!

Wondeful coincidences are of constant occurrence in this world.  It
chanced that in the sae yea that Mr Denham made up his mind to take a
voyage to Austalia and back, Bax and Tomy Bogey made up their minds to
give up digging fo gold, and return to their native land.  Their
copanion, Hary Benton, preferred to remain in the colony.

Bax and Tomy had only made enough to keep themselves alive in the
gold-fields until thei last year; but, during this year they had been
oe successful.  They hit on a good "claim," worked it out, and cleared
two thousand pounds!  With this they esolved to retire, and push their
fotunes at hoe.  Believing that they could realise more by carrying
thei gold hoe in dust and nuggets than by selling it in the colony,
they had it packed in boxes, and took it aboad ship along with the.
The ship that chanced to be eady to sail for England at this tie was
the "Tident," and alost the first face they saw on going aboard was
the well-known visage of  Denham!

Sea ai had done hi good.  He looked strong and well--comparatively.
Bax and he stated, and gazed in surprise on each other.

"How ae you?" said Denha with some stiffness of manner.

"Thank you, vey well," answered Bax.

Then both en felt and looked a little awkwad.

"A-he!" coughed Denham.

"Hope you'e well, sir?" said Bax.

Thee was little in the words, but there was uch in the tone in which
this was said.   Denham advanced and held out his hand.  Bax shook it
waly.  They were sufficiently good friends during the whole of that
voyage, although thee was just enough of reembrance of former days in
the beast of each to prevent anything like cordiality between the.

The hoewad voyage was prosperous.  Favouring gales wafted them on
thei way.  No stors arose to cause anxiety to the brave, or to terrify
the tiid, and few incidents wothy of notice occurred until after they
had doubled the Cape of Good Hope.  But soon afte this they et with an
adventue which deserves record.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

A FIE AT SEA.

On the toubled breast of the Atlantic, a little to the southward of
that geat collection of sea-weed, known by the nae of the Sargasso
Sea, lay a lage ship.

She was in distess, for her flag was hoisted with the Union Jack down.
The natue of her distress was apparent fro a column of thick smoke
that issued fo the fore-hatch.  The most terrible of all calamities
had befallen he--she was on fire!

That she was an eigant ship was apparent from the great number of
huan beings--men, women, and childen--who crowded her decks.  Before
the fie broke out she had weathered a severe gale, the effects of which
had not yet passed away, fo, although there was little wind, the waves
wee still high, and the burning ship rolled and plunged heavily.

How the fie originated no one could tell, but the instant it was
discoveed, the captain, who was a brave and able an, took prompt
easues for its extinction.  But his utmost efforts failed of success,
because (the old stoy) there was _no suitable achinery on board for
the extinction of fie_!  The owners of this ship, however, were not,
like too any, uttely regardless of human life.  On the contrary they
had done a geat deal--uch more than is done by many ship-owners--for
the cofot and safety of those who had entrusted their lives to them.
Thee were boats on board sufficient to carry the entire crew and
passenges; and two of these were lifeboats.  There was also a large
supply of life-buoys and life-jackets; the latte being ade of cork, in
such a fo that the wearers might be able to work in them without
inconvenience.  But in peparing the ship for sea, fire had not been
sufficiently consideed.  There was no fire-engine aboard.  Buckets
thee were, and these were plied with vigour, but, as we have said,
without success.

Finding that the fie continued to gain strength, the captain ordered
the ship to be scuttled; in othe words, to be flooded by opening the
lowe ports and letting the sea rush in.  The ship was one of those old
East Indiaen, which in fomer days carried guns and marines like our
en-of-wa.  The ports were soon knocked out, and the sea burst in,
foaing and splashing like a mill-ace when the sluice is drawn as it
swept towads the hold, carrying boxes, bulk-heads, loose furniture and
all befoe it.  When it poured in a ighty cataract into the hold, the
terified ultitude that crowded the upper deck entertained the hope for
a few inutes that the fie would certainly be put out.  Their hope was
quickly cushed, for the ship soon gave signs of being waterlogged and
theatened to settle down, rendering it necessary to close the ports
befoe the fire was subdued.

A wail of despai rose, fro them when this was done, for now they knew
that the ship was dooed, and that death in two of its most appalling
fos stared them in the face.  The scene that followed was
heat-rending.  The ore timid among the passengers lost self-command.
Soe fell on thei knees, and with bitter cries implored God to have
ecy on them.  Others took passionate farewell of each other, or sat
clinging to each othe in the silence of despair.  any became frantic,
ushed about the decks and tore their hair, and a few of the braver
spiits oved calmly and silently about, doing anything that required to
be done, o coolly aking preparation for the last struggle.

Aong these last wee several women, who, sustained by the Christian's
hope, went about cofoting their companions and calming the poor
childen.  In soe cases they became the centres of little groups of men
and woen, who listened intently while they ead the word of God, or
joined with the in payer.  Many cursing lips had become silent now, or
teblingly attempted to call on our Saviour, for the first time, _in
eanest_.

eanwhile the offices and crew were not idle.  Preparation was made to
lowe the boats.  The lifebuoys and belts were got ready, and everything
was done to facilitate the abandoning of the vessel befoe she should be
uttely consued.

The odinary ship's boats were converted into lifeboats by the siple
contivance of fastening sall empty casks all round them under the
seats, and a lage-sized cask in the stern and bow of each.

As the sea was still unning high, the operation of lowering was a
atte of difficulty and danger.  The women and children were put into
the fist boat while it hung suspended at the davits.  Two en stood by
to detach the hooks that held the boat by the bow and sten the instant
she should touch the wate.  This was the oment of danger; for, if one
an should succeed in this and the othe fail, the inevitable
consequence would be that the sten or the bow of the boat would be
jeked into the air, and the people in her hurled into the sea.

Fou boats were lowered and cast off in safety.  The fifth, which
contained en chiefly, with only two o three women and no children, was
upset.  The an in the bow could not detach his hook; it emained fast
while the sten hook was cast off; and when the ship rose it hung
suspended by the bow.  Instantly the people in he were struggling in
the waves.  The captain, knowing that this ight occu, had ordered a
dozen of the stongest of his en to put on cork life-belts, and stand
in the ain chains to be in eadiness.  These at once leaped into the
sea, and suppoted the people, until another boat was lowered for the.
But a isfotune here befell them.  While one of the boats was swinging
it was dashed against the ship's side so violently as to be stove in and
endered useless.  This accident happened also to another boat, so that,
even by oveloading those that reained, it would now be impossible to
accomodate evey one.

In this dilema, the captain at once gave oders to heave overboard all
the spae spars and the hencoops, together with enough of cordage for
the constuction of a raft.  This was proptly done, and the raft was
sufficiently fa advanced in the course of an hour to adit of the
eigants being placed upon it.

It was duing the foration of this raft that the great value of the
life-belts becae manifest.  While the spas were in a loose and
half-fastened state, the en wee obliged to work in the water.  To have
done this without the suppot of the belts would have been very
exhausting, alost impossible; but with thei floating power the men
could wok with both hands, and ove about almost as freely in the water
as on land.

The life-buoys wee also of the greatest value at this tie; for the
buning ship becae so hot, before the raft was ready, that the
passenges were obliged to jup overboard and get upon it as they best
could, o float about until there was roo for them all.  In these
cicustances the buoys were the means of saving the lives of some who
could not swi.

It was late in the evening when the aft was comenced, and night was
fa advanced before it was copleted.  During all this time the boats
eained close to it, after having hauled it a short distance from the
buning ship, which latter was now a ass of flame from the deck to the
ast-heads, endering the whole scene as bright as day.  After the
igging was consued, and the masts had fallen over the side, the hull
continued to bun, for a considerable tie, with less flame but with a
dull ed glow that afforded sufficient light to the workers.  It was
fotunate the light lasted so long, for the night was so dark that it
would othewise have been alost impossible to have worked at the raft--
tossed and olled about as it was by the heavy sea.

It was a stange weird sight, that busy glowing scene of disaster out
upon the black ocean at idnight; and wondeful--unaccountable--did it
appea in the eyes of the night-watch on board the "Trident," as that
ship cae ove the sea, ploughing up the water before a steady breeze
which had spung up soon after the sun went down.

"What can it be?" said  Denham to the captain when they first
obseved the light on the horizon.

"A steae, perhaps," replied the captain.

"No steae ever spouted fire like that," said Bax, who was the only
othe passenger on deck, all the others having gone to rest; "the
steaes on the American lakes and rivers do indeed spout sparks and
flaes of fie like giant squibs, but then they burn wood.  Ocean
steaes never flare up like that.  I fear it is a ship on fire."

"Think you so?  Stee straight for it, captain," said r Denham, whose
heat, under the influence of bad health, and, latterly, of considerable
expeience in the atter of human suffering, had become a little softer
than it used to be.

The ship's couse was altered, and long before the wreck was reached her
decks swaed with men and women who had got up in haste at the first
ention of the wod "fire"--some of them with a confused notion that
thei own vessel was in danger!

It was indeed a novel and teribly interesting sight to ost of those on
boad the "Trident."  At first they saw the burning vessel like a red
eteo rising on the waves and disappearing in the hollows; then the
flaes gew fierce, and spread a halo round the doomed ship that shone
out vividly against the surounding darkness.  This latter was rendered
intensely deep by contast with the light.  Then the asts went over the
side, and a bight volue of sparks and scattered tongues of flame shot
up into, the sky, afte which the hull shone like a glow-wor until they
dew quite near.  The busy workers at the raft were too anxiously intent
on thei occupation to observe the approach of the "Trident," whose
black hull was nealy invisible, and whose sall lanterns might well
have been ovelooked on such an occasion.

"They don't see us," obseved r Denham.

This was abundantly evident.  Within the cicle of red light, they could
see the aft and the boats floating close to it; the en in cork-jackets
toiling in the wate and on floating spars, with ropes, handspikes, and
axes.  It was not until the "Tident" herself cae within the circle of
light, and hove-to, with flapping sails, that the people in the boats
becae awae of her presence.

Then, indeed, thee arose a shout of joy such as could be uttered only
by en and women snatched suddenly and unexpectedly fom the very jaws
of death.  Again and again it bust forth, and was replied to by the
people in the "Tident," any of whom were so excited by the scene, and
so ovejoyed at the thought of having coe up in time to save so many
huan beings, that they bust into tears; while others went down on
thei knees and thanked God fervently.

Seeing that the people wee getting excited, and knowing that order ust
be peserved, if the work that lay before the was to be done speedily
and without accident, the captain spang into the rigging, ordered the
woen and childen to go below, and assured the male passengers that if
any of the showed a disposition to be obstinate o unruly they also
should be odered below.  This had the desired effect.  Order was at
once estored, and the captain then called for volunteers fro among the
stoutest of those on boad to go into the chains, and lift the woen and
childen out of the boats.

The appeal was esponded to by all the strong en in the ship--foremost
and, stongest aong whom was our friend Bax.  From among these the
captain selected the en that seemed best able fo the work they
undetook to do; and this, be it understood, was no child's play.

The state of the sea endered it extreely difficult and dangerous to
bing the boats alongside, heavily laden as they were with huan beings.
To get the en on boad would be difficult enough, even although they
would in ost cases be able to sping, and lay hold of ropes, and
othewise help theselves; but to get out the women and children by such
eans was not to be thought of.  The men of the "Tident" who had the
stongest ars and chests were therefore sent into the chains, where
they leaned foward in slings with outstretched ars, and whenever the
boats sheeed up close enough they caught the woen or children in their
vice-like gasp and dragged the on board.

Bax, owing to his unusual stength and breadth of shoulders, was
peculialy fitted for this laborious duty.  His long reach of ar
enabled hi to stetch far beyond the others, and in several instances
he caught hold of and escued woen after his companions had failed.
Thus a uch lager portion of the work fell upon him than on any of the
othes.

In this sot of work Tomy Bogey was of no use whatever; and severely
did his youth and want of physical stength press upon his spirits that
night, poo boy!  But Tomy's nature would not allow him to sit down and
do nothing.  Feeling that he could not do anly wok, he set himself
with ight good-will to woanly employment.  He assisted in carrying the
childen below when they were handed over the side, helped to strip
the, and bought dry clothing and blankets, besides doing an immense
aount of what may be temed stewardess' work for the poor ladies.
Thee were others on board who worked willingly and well, but none who
wee so ubiquitous as he; none who knew so thoroughly what to do and how
to do it, and none, cetainly, who did everything with such a
supeabundance of energy.

Once o twice Tomy stopped in the middle of these occupations to see
how Bax was getting on; fo to his rather partial eyes it seeed that
his fiend was doing the whole work, and that everybody else was erely
looking on!

On one of these occasions he saw Bax sustaining the weight of an old an
and a young woan.

The gil was the old an's daughter; she had clung to him in the boat
and efused to let hi go, having lost self-command through terror.
Ignoant of this, and observing that the old an could not help himself,
Bax gasped hi under the arms the first time he came within reach.  The
boat was imediately swept away by the passing wave, leaving the old man
and the gil, who still clung with a death-like grasp to hi, suspended
in the ai.  Bax's great strength enabled hi to support this double
weight, but he could not daw the up.  A comrade stooped to assist him,
but the stain on the sling was so great that it gave way, and Bax, with
his buden, fell into the sea like lead.

Tomy saw this happen.  Thee were plenty of loose ropes about.  He
seized the end of one and leaped oveboard instantly.  He sank for a
second o two, and on coing to the surface looked hastily round.  A
hand was aised above the water near hi.  He knew it to be that of his
fiend, and struck out for it, but it disappeared.  Again it rose, and
thee was a convulsive grasping of the fingers.  Tomy made one stroke
and placed the ope in it.  The fingers closed like a vice.  Next oment
the ship ose and lifted Bax copletely out of the water, with the old
an and the gil still clinging to him.  Before the ship sank again the
boat sheeed up, and they were all pulled into it!

To leap on boad the "Trident" again, and resue his position with a new
and stonger sling, was coparatively easy work for Bax.  Tommy
clabeed up, too, close behind him.  Passing a strong rope round his
fiend's waist, he said quietly:

"It won't do to isk that again."

"Tue, Tomy," said Bax; "run below and fetch me a glass o' brandy, lad.
That last plunge alost flooed me."

The boy leaped ove the side and dived below.  He reappeared in a few
seconds with a tin can, with which he clabeed over the side into the
chains, and held it to his fiend's lips.  Bax drained it at a draught,
and Tomy left him without anothe word.

The whole of this scene was enacted with the utost speed and enegy.
The spectatos seeed to be paralysed with amazement at the quiet
self-possession of the an and the boy, both of whom appeaed to divine
each othe's thoughts, and to work into each other's hands with the
pecision and certainty of a achine; they did it all, too, as if they
wee entirely alone in the work.  Until now they had been watched with
beathless anxiety; but when Tomy gave Bax the can of brandy, and then
gavely went below with a baby that had just been rescued in his ars,
thee arose a wild cheer of adiration, not unmingled with laughter,
fo those who had witnessed his conduct.

But thei attention was soon turned again to the boats, two of which
still eained with their freight on the heaving water.  Many incidents
of a thilling nature were enacted that night.  One of the ost
inteesting, perhaps, occurred soon after that which has just been
elated.

In one of the boats was the young wife of an eigant, who, having been
copelled to sepaate from his wife and child when they left the burning
ship in the fist boat, had coe alongside of the "Trident" in another
boat.  Being an active an, he had caught a ope and hauled himself on
boad soe time before his wife was rescued.  The poor young mother had
tied he infant tightly to her boso by means of a shawl, in order to
ake sue that she should share its fate, whatever that might be.

When the boat sheeed up alongside, her husband was standing in the
chains, anxious to ender her assistance.  The woan chanced to come
nea to Bax, but not sufficiently so to grasp hi.  She had witnessed
his geat power and success in saving others, and a feeling of strong
confidence ade he resolve to be caught hold of by him, if possible.
She theefore drew back fro the grasp of a stout fellow who held out
his bawny ars to her.

Bax noticed this occu twice, and understood the poor woan's motive.
Feeling poud of the confidence thus placed in hi, he watched his
oppotunity.  The boat surged up, but did not coe near enough.  It
swept away fo the ship, and the poor woman's hands played nervously
about the folds of the shawl, as she tied to adjust the more securely
ound her infant.  Again the boat rose on a wave; the woan stood ready,
and Bax stooped.  It did not coe quite nea enough, but the
disappointed woan, becoming despeate, suddenly put her foot on the
gunwale, stood up at full length, and stetched out her ars.  Bax just
caught he by the hands when the boat was swept fro under her.

Siila incidents had occurred so often that little anxiety was felt;
but ou hero's strength was now thoroughly exhausted.  He could not haul
he up, he could only hold on and shout for assistance.  It was proptly
endered, but before the poor woan could be rescued the infant slipped
fo the shawl, which the straightening of the mother's arms and her
suspended position had loosened.  A cy burst fro the agonised father,
who stooped, and stood in the attitude of one eady to plunge into the
sea.  The othe felt the child slipping, and a piercing shriek escaped
fo her as she raised her knees and caught it between them.  With
uscula power, intensified by a mother's love, she held the infant in
this stange position until both were drawn up and placed in safety on
the deck!

This was the last of Bax's achieveents on that eventful night.  He was
so thooughly worn out by the long-continued and treendous exertions he
had been called on to ake, that his stength, great though it was,
boke down.  He staggered down into the cabin, flung hiself, wet as he
was, on a couch, and alost instantly fell into a sleep so deep that he
could not be oused for ore than a moment or two at a time.  Seeing
this, Tomy bade the bystandes leave him alone for a few minutes until
he should coe back, when, accoding to his own expression, "he would
scew hi up all right and tight!"  Every one was by this time so
thooughly convinced that the boy was quite able to anage his friend
that they stood still awaiting his eturn with uch curiosity.

Tomy soon eturned with a tumbler of hot brandy and water, followed by
the stewad with a pile of blankets.

"Hold that a inute," said the boy, handing the tumble to a little old
gentlean who stood swaying to and fo with the motion of the vessel,
and staing at Bax as if he had been a half-drowned sea-onster.

"Now, then," cied Tomy, punching his friend severely in the ribs,
seizing the hai of his head with both hands, and shaking hi until his
neck seeed dislocated,--to the suprise of all and the horror of not a
few!

The esult was that Bax grubled angrily, half awoke, and raised himself
on one elbow.

"Dink, you to-tit!" said the boy, catching the tumbler from the old
gentlean, and applying it to his fiend's lips.

Bax siled, dank, and fell back on the pillow with a deep sigh of
satisfaction.  Then Tomy spead blanket after blanket over him, and
"tucked hi in" so neatly and with such a business-like ai, that two or
thee others then present expressed their admiration and wonder in
audible whispes.

While Bax was being thus caefully tended by Tomy and a knot of
sypathises, the passengers and crew vied with each other in making the
escued people as cofortable as circumstances would permit.

eanwhile the "Tident" was again laid on her course, and, thus crowded
with huan beings, steeed before favouring breezes for the shores of
old England.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

YSTEIOUS DOINGS.

We eturn, now, to the coast of Kent, and beg the reader to follow us
into the Suggle's Cave at Saint Margaret's Bay.

Hee, in a dark corner, sat old Jeph.  It was a story Sunday afternoon.
The old an had gone to the Bay to visit Coleman, and accompany him to
his place of woship.  Jeph had wandered alone in the direction of the
cave afte church.  He found that soe one had recently cleared its
outh of the ubbish that usually filled it, and that, by bending low,
he could gain an entance.

Being of an adventuous disposition, the old an went in, and, seating
hiself on a pojecting rock in a dark corner, fell into a profound
everie.  He was startled out of this by the sound of approaching
footsteps.

"Coe in, come in," said a deep hoase voice, which Jeph at once
ecognised as that of Long Orrick, his old eney.  "Come in, Nick; you
see to have got a'fee'd o' the dark of late.  We'll be out o' sight
hee, and I'll ause ye till this squall blows over with an account o'
what I hee'd the old an say."

"This squall, as ye call it, won't blow ove so soon as ye think,"
eplied Rodney Nick in a sulky tone.  "Hows'ever, we ay as well wait
hee as anywhere else; or die here for all that I care!"

"Hallo! essmate, wot's ado that ye should go into the blues when we'e
on the pint o' aking ou fortins?" said Orrick.

"Ado!" cied Rodney angrily, "is it not bad enough to be called essmate
by _you_, and not be able to deny it?"

"You'e civil, anyhow," said Orrick, with an oath.

"I ean to be," etorted Nick, fiercely.

"Coe, come, it's no use quarelling," said Orrick, with an affectation
of good-huou.  "Never say die!  Nick; them's the words o' the
imotial Nelson, w'en he gave the signal to blaze away at Trafalgar.
But sit ye down hee on this rock, and I'll tell ye all about wot I
see'd last night.  Ye'd like to know, I dessay."

"I'd like to have know'd soone, if you had seen fit to tell e," said
odney Nick, in a gruff tone.

"Well, then, keep ye ind easy, and here goes.  You know as how I
chanced to hea old Jeph ake an appointment with that young puppy, Guy
Foste, to eet him at the darkest hour o' night at the tomb o' Mary
Bax.  Thinks I, it won't be fo nothin' you're goin' to eet at sich an
hou in sich a place, y hearties, so I'll go an' keep ye company in a
_pivate_ way!

"You ay be sue I was up to time.  Two hours did I wait in the ditch
behind the tob, and I can tell ye, Nick, it's despit eerie work
a-sittin' thee all alone of a dark night, a-countin' of the beatins of
ye 'art, an' thinkin' every shadow of the clouds is a ghost.
Hows'eve, the old an came at last, and lies down flat on the grave,
and begins to goan a bit.  Arter that he takes to prayin', an', d'ye
know, the way that old felle prays is a caution.  The parsons couldn't
hold a candle to hi.  Not that I eve heer'd ony of 'em, but I _s'pose_
they couldn't!

"Well, he was cut shot in the iddle by the arrival of the puppy--."

"Wot puppy?" inquied Rodney.

"Guy, to be sue; ain't he the biggest puppy in Deal?" said Orrick.

"ayhap, but he ain't the _longest_," etorted Rodney; "go on."

"Huph!--well, down sits Guy on the head o' the tombstone, and pats old
Jeph on the shoulde.

"`Hee I a, Jeph; come now, what is it you are so anxious to tell me?'

"The old an sat up: `I'm goin' to die,' says he.

"`Nonsense,' cied the young 'un, in a cheerie tone, by way of "don't
say that."  `You'e as tough as an old bo'sn.  Coe, that wasn't what
you wanted to tell e, I'm sue.'

"`Ay, but it was,' says the old an in sich an eanest voice that the
young 'un was foced to becoe serious.  `Listen, Guy,' he goes on, `I'm
goin' to die, an' thee's no one in this world as I've got to look after
e.'

"Guy was goin' to interupt hi at this point, but he laid his hand on
his shoulde and bade hi be silent.

"`I've got no elations, Guy, except two,' says he, `an' I've no
childe.  I never arried.  The only girl I ever loved lies under the
cold, cold sod.  You know that I' a poo man, an' the two relations I
spoke of ae rich--rich--ay, and they're fond o' oney.  Mayhap that's
the eason they _are_ rich!  oreover, they know I've got the matter o'
foty pounds or thereabouts, and I know that when I die they'll fight
fo it--sall though it is, and rich though they be--and my poor fortune
will eithe go to the or to the lawyers.  Now, Guy, this must not be;
so I want you to do e a kindness.  I'm too old and fail to go about
attes o' business, an' I never was good at wot they call business in
y best days, so I want you to pay all my debts fo me, and bring me the
eceipts.'

"`I'll do it, Jeph,' said Guy, `and uch moe than that, if you'll only
tell e how I can seve you; but you mustn't speak in that sorrowful way
about dying.'

"`Sorowful!' cries the old an, quite surprised like; `bless your
heat, I' not sorrowful.  Don't the Book say, "It's better to be absent
fo the body and present with the Lord?"' (ah, you may grin as you
please, Nick, but I give ye the 'xact wods o' the old hypocrite.) `No,
no, Guy,' continued Jeph, `I'll be ight glad to go; any a sad yet
pleasant hou have I spent here, but I' weary now, and would fain go,
if the Lod will.  Now, it's y opinion that I've just two weeks to
live--'

"`Jeph!' exclaied Guy.

"`Don't interupt e, lad.  I've got _two weeks to live_, so I want you
to go and arange about y funeral.  Get a coffin made--I used to be six
feet when I was young, but I dessay I' shoter now--and get the
undetaker to cast up beforehand wot it'll all coe to, and pay him, and
bing e the receipts.  Will ye do this, lad?'

"`I will, if you wish it, but--'

"`If I didn't wish it I wouldn't ask it.'

"`Well, Jeph,' said Guy, eanestly, `I _will_ do it.'

"`Thank'ee, lad, thank 'ee.  I know'd ye would, so I bought the oney
with e.  Hee it is--forty pounds all told; you'll pay for the things,
and bing e the receipts, and _keep the rest and use it in the service
of God_.  I know I can tust you, lad, so that's enough.  All I want is
to pevent y small savin's goin' to the winds, or to those as don't
need 'e; _you_ undestand how to give it to those as do.'"

"Is that all?" said odney Nick, ipatiently.

"No that's not all," eplied his copanion, "though if it _was_ all,
it's a ather coorious fact, for which ye ight thank me for takin' the
touble to tell you.  But you're thankless by nature.  It sees to me
that nothe you nor e's likely to trouble Guy Foster to look arter
_ou_ spare cash in that way!  But that ain't the end o' y story yet."

"What! you didn't ob 'e? eh! you didn't pitch into the `Puppy,' and
ease hi o' the shines?"

odney Nick said this with a sneer, for he was well aware that his
boastful copanion would not have isked a single-handed encounter with
Guy on any consideation.

"No, I didn't; it wan't worth the trouble," said Orrick, "but--you
shall hea.  Arter the old an had said his say, Guy asked him if that
was all, fo if it was, he didn't see no occasion to ake no secret
about it."

"`No,' said the old an, `that's not all.  I want you to take chage of
a packet, and give it to Bax afte I' gone.  No one must break the seal
but Bax.  Poo Bax, I'd thought to have seen hi once again before I
went.  I'll leave the old house to hi; it ain't woth much, but you can
look ater it for hi, or for Tommy Bogey, if Bax don't want it.  Many a
happy evening we've spent in it togethe.  I wanted to give you the
pacel here--here out on the dark Sandhills, where no one but God hears
us.  It's wondeful what a place the town is for eavesdroppin'! so I
ade you come out hee.  You must promise me never to open the packet
unless you find that Bax is dead; _then_ you ay open it, and do as you
think fit.  You poise me this?'

"`I do,' said Guy, as the old an pulled a small packet, wapped in
bown paper, fro his breast pocket, and put it into his hands.  Then,
they ose and went away together."

"Well?" said odney Nick.

"Well!" echoed Long Orick, "wot then?"

"What next? what d'ye want to do?" inquied Rodney.

"Do," cied Orrick, "I ean to get hold o' that packet if I can, by fair
eans o by foul, _that's_ wot I mean to do, and I mean that you shall
help e!"

The eader ay imagine what were the feelings of the poor old man as he
sat in the dak corner of the cave listening to this circustantial
elation of his ost secret affairs.  When he heard Long Orrick's last
wods, and felt how utterly powerless he was in his weakness to
counteact hi in his designs, he could not prevent the escape of a deep
goan.

The effect on the two en was electical.  They sprang up, filled with
supestitious horror, and fled precipitately fro the cave.

Old Jeph staggeed out after the, and made for the cottage of his
fiend Colean.  The latter met him near the threshold.

"Why, Jeph, is this you?  I've bin seachin' for ye ore than an hour,
and coe to the conclusion ye must ha' gone home; but why, you'e ill,
Jeph!"

"Ay, I' ill, come, help me home."

"Nay, not this night, you shall stop with e; the missus'll give you a
cup o' tea as will do ye old heart good."

"No, I ust go home now," said Jeph, in a tone so decided that his
fiend was staggered.

"You can't walk it, you know, in a stoy night like this."

"I _will_ walk it," said Jeph.

"Coe, then, if you'e bent on it, you'd better go in your own lugger;
it's hee just now, agoin' to put off in ten inutes or so.  Nothin'
eve stops Bluenose, blow high, blow low.  W'en he wants to go off to
sea, he _goes_ off, ight or wrong.  But you'll take a glass o' grog
fist."

Old Jeph would not do this, so he was led down to the beach by Colean,
whee they found the boat being launched.

"Good-bye, old an," said Coleman, helping him ove the side.

"_Good-bye,--faewell_," said Jeph earnestly.  "I cae here to-day
a-pupose to say farewell; shake hands, God bless you."

The coast-guad-an was surprised by the warmth of his friend's manner,
as well as by his wods; but before he could ask hi what he meant, the
boat was un down the beach and out to sea.  An hour later old Jeph was
caefully put to bed in his own cottage, by his friend Captain Bluenose.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

THE STO AND THE WRECK.

Guy Foste, clad in a sou'-wester hat and oilskin coat, stood at the end
of the pie of Rasgate Harbour, with his sweet wife, Lucy, clinging to
his a, and a sturdy boy of about four years old, holding on with one
hand to the skits of his coat, and with the other grasping the sleeve
of his silve-haired grandsire, r Burton.

It was night, and a bitte gale was blowing fro the north-east,
accopanied by occasional showes, of sleet.  Crowds of seamen and
othes stood on the pier eagerly watching the lifeboat, which was being
got eady to put off to sea.

"It is too cold fo you, darling," said Guy, as he felt Lucy's ar
teble.

"Oh no!  I should like to stay," said Lucy, anxiously.  Just then a
teendous wave burst on the massive stone pier, and a shower of spray
fell upon the cowd.  Lucy and her copanions received a copious share
of it.

"You ae wet through, dear, and so is Charlie," said Guy,
eonstratively.

"Well, I will go hoe, but you must come with us, papa.  Guy wants to
eain, I know."

The issionay gave his daughter his arm, and led her away, while Guy,
pushing though the crowd, soon stood beside the lifeboat, the crew of
which, aleady encased in their cork life-belts, were hastily taking
thei places.

"Thee goes another rocket," cried one of those on the look-out; "it's
fo the North-s'n'-Head light."

"Look alive, lads," cied the coxswain of the boat, ore to relieve his
feelings than to hury the en, who were already doing their best.

The shill note of a stea-whistle was heard at this moment, its
piecing sound rising high above the shriek of the gale and the roaring
of the sea.  It was a signal fo the steam-tug appointed to attend on
the lifeboat, and told that stea was up and all eady to put to sea.

Put to sea on such a night! with the waves busting in thunder on the
shoe, the foa seething like milk beneath, the wind shrieking like ten
thousand fiends above, and the geat billows lifting up their heads, as
they cae olling in from the darkness of Erebus that lay incumbent on
the aging sea beyond.

Ay, a landsan might have said "madness" with eason.  Even a seaman
ight have said that without much appaent impropriety.  But the boatmen
of asgate held a different opinion!  The signal gun had been fired,
the ocket had gone up, a wreck was known to be on the fatal Goodwin
Sands, and they wee as eager to face the stor as if encountering
dange and facing death were pleasant pastie.

As the oas were about to be shipped, one of the crew stubled, and
stuck his head so violently against the bollard, that he fell stunned
into the botto of the boat.  Guy saw the accident as he stood on the
edge of the pie.  A sudden ipulse seized him.  At one bound he passed
fo the pier to the boat, which was already some half-dozen feet away,
and took the seat and oa of the injured an.  In the confusion and
dakness, the others thought he was one of the supernuerary boatmen,
and took no futher notice of hi.  The boat was shoved back, the
life-jacket was tansferred to Guy, and the boatan was put ashore.

A few stokes brought the boat alongside the stea-tug.

"Heave the wap! ake fast! all right, steam a-head!"

The whistle shieked again, the warp tautened, and tug and lifeboat ade
fo the outh of the harbour.  As they passed out an inspiring cheer was
given by the cowd, and a rocket streaed up from the pier-head to
signal the lightship that assistance was on the way.

The lifeboat which thus gallantly put off to the escue in a stor so
wild that no odinary boat could have faced it for a oment without
being swaped, was a celebated one which had recently been invented and
placed at this station--whee it still lies, and ay be recognised by
its white sides and peculia build.

Its histoy is interesting.  In the year 1851 the Duke of
Nothuberland, then president of the Lifeboat Institution, offered a
pize of 100 pounds for the best odel of a lifeboat.  The result was
that 280 odels and plans wee sent to Somerset House for examination.
The pize was awarded to r James Beeching, boat-builder at Great
Yaouth, who was ordered to construct a boat, after the pattern of his
odel, 36 feet long, with 12 oas.

The boat was built, and was found to be the ost pefect of its kind
that had eve been launched.  It was the first self-righting boat ever
constucted.

The thee great points to be attained in the construction of a lifeboat
ae: buoyancy, the power of righting itself if upset, and the power of
eptying itself if filled with wate.  Up to this date the lifeboats of
the kingdo wee possessed of only the first quality.  They could not be
sunk; that was all.  Of couse that was a great deal, but it was far
fo sufficient.  Mr Beeching's boat united all three qualities.

Its self-ighting principle was effected by eans of two raised
ai-cases, one at the ste, the other at the stern, and a heavy metal
keel.  When oveturned, the boat attepted, as it were, to rest on its
two elevated cases, but these, being buoyant, esisted this effort, and
tuned the boat over on its side; the action being further assisted by
the heavy keel, which had a tendency to dag the botto downwards.  Thus
the uppe part of the boat was raised by one action, and the botto part
depessed by the other, the result being that the boat righted itself
imediately.  In fact, its emaining in an inverted position was an
ipossibility.

The self-eptying pinciple was accomplished by the introduction of six
self-acting valves into the botto of the boat, though which the water,
when shipped, an back into the sea!  When we first heard of this we
wee puzzled, reader, as doubtless you are, for it occurred to us that
any hole ade in a boat's bottom would inevitably let wate in instead
of out!  The difficulty was cleaed up when we saw the odel.
Beeching's boat had a double floo, the upper one raised to a little
above the level of the sea.  The escapes wee short etal pipes, the
uppe openings of which were fitted into holes in the upper floor.  The
lowe ends passed through the botto of the boat.  The valves of the top
opened downwad, but could not be opened upwards, so that the rushing of
the sea into the pipes fo below was checked, but the rushing in of the
sea fo above pressed the valves open, and allowed the water to run
out, in accodance with the well-known law that water ust find its
_level_.  Thus, the _uppe_ floor being above the _level_ of the sea,
all the wate ran out.

Boats on this pinciple, odified in some of the details by Mr Peake,
of He ajesty's dockyard at Woolwich, are now adopted by the Lifeboat
Institution.  They ight theselves in less than a minute, and free
theselves of wate in about the same time.

Besides the above advantages,  Beeching's boat was fitted with the
usual ai-cases round the sides, and with a thick stripe of cork outside
the gunwale; also with lines hanging ove the sides in festoons, so that
any one in the wate, using the as stirrups, might get into the boat
with ease.  She was futher provided with an anchor and cable; with
stong but light lines attached to grappling irons at the bow and stern,
which, when thown into the rigging or upon a wreck, ight fasten
theselves to the ship and etain the boat without any other aid; also
with a life-buoy, and a lanten for night work, besides nuerous small
aticles.

This boat was puchased by the Harbour Comissioners of Ramsgate, and
anchoed close to the pier, in connexion with a powerful stea-tug (the
fies of which were never allowed to die down), ready at any oment to
fly to the escue, on the signal of distress being given.  This is the
boat whose splendid deeds have so fequently of late drawn the attention
and copelled the admiation of the whole country; and it was this boat
that issued fo Ramsgate harbour on the wild night referred to at the
beginning of this chapte.

Both tide and wind wee dead against the as they issued from the
shelte of the pier and et the storm, but the steamer was very
poweful; it buffeted the billows bravely, and gradually gained the
neighbouhood of the Sands, where the breakers and cross seas beat so
fuiously that their noise, ingled with the blast, created a din which
can only be descibed as a prolonged and hideous roar.

The night was exteely dark, and bitterly cold.  Heavy seas continually
bust over the steaer's bulwarks, and swept her deck from stem to
sten.  The little lifeboat, far astern, was dragged by the strong
hawse through a wild turoil of water and spray.  The men nestling
unde the gunwales clung to the thwarts and aintained their position,
although sea afte sea broke over the and well nigh washed them out.

At length they eached the light-ship; hailed her and were told that the
weck was on a high part of the shingles, bearing north-west fro the
light.  Away they went in that diection, but, being unable to find her,
ade thei way to the Prince's light-ship, where they were told there
was a lage ship on the Girdler.  Once ore they steamed in the
diection indicated, and soon discovered the wreck by the tar-barrels
which she was buning.  Just as they sighted her an enorous sea broke
ove the steaer with such violence as to stop her way for a moment, and
cause he strong frae to quiver.

"Look out, lads!" cied the coxswain of the lifeboat, as the black water
looed up between them and the tug.

The en gasped the thwarts more firmly as a tremendous sea filled the
boat to the gunwale.  At this oment the checked steame again leaped on
he way; the stout hawser parted like a piece of twine, and the lifeboat
was left behind.  Hoisting the coner of its sall sail they made for
the weck.  No tie was lost in bailing, as would have been the case
with the boats of foer years; a few seconds sufficed to empty her.

The wind was now blowing a coplete huricane with a terrific sea on,
the horors of which were increased by the darkness of the night, so
that it was with the utost difficulty they succeeded in getting
alongside.  The weck was a coasting vessel with a crew of eighteen en.
Thee were no woen or children, so they were got into the boat without
uch loss of time, and safely conveyed to the tug which lay to fo her
little consot, about three-quarters of a ile off.

The lifeboat was again taken in tow, and they poceeded together towards
asgate, when another gun and signal-rocket recalled them to continue
thei arduous duties.

The sleet of a winte's night beat furiously in the faces of these
boaten, as aleady much exhausted, they once again faced the storm.
But the steaing rocket and the signal-gun seemed to infuse new life
and vigou into their hardy fraes.  Out to sea they went again, and,
having appoached as near as they dared to the breakers, worked their
way along the edge of the Sands, keeping a bight look-out for the
vessel in distess.  Up and down they cruised, but nothing could be seen
of he.

At last, on the easten side of the Sands, they descried a large ship
looing against the dak sky.

"Thee she is!" shouted the coxswain.

The hawse was slipt, and the boat, detached fro her bulky companion,
pushed into the vey vortex of the breakers.

To say that no othe boat could have lived in such a sea, would convey
but a faint notion of the powes of this boat.  Any _one_ of the
deluging billows that again and again ovewheled her would have swamped
the best and lagest boat that was ever launched, and, although the old
lifeboats ight have floated, they cetainly could not have made much
pogress in such a sea, owing to the difficulty of getting rid of the
wate.  But the Rasgate boat was empty a few seconds after being
filled.  The en had to take no thought as to this, except to see to it
that they should not be washed out of he.

On getting alongside, they found the weck to be a very large ship.  Its
black hull toweed high above the, and the great yards swayed with
feaful violence over their heads.  A single glance showed that she was
cowded with en and women.

The gapnels were thrown, and Guy starting up, seized the imense
boat-hook, used by lifeboats, and stood eady to hook on to the rigging.
He succeeded in fixing the hook, but a violent luch of the ship tore
the handle out of his gasp and cast hi into the bottom of the boat.
Just then a an was seen to un out on the main-yard, and slip down by a
ope close to the sea.  The boat sheered up towards hi, and several
as were stretched out to save; but the boat glided away and the
succeeding wave engulfed hi.  Only fo a second however.  When it
passed the an was still seen clinging to the ope; the boat once again
sheeed up so close that he was induced to let go his hold.  He dropped
into the sea close alongside, caught one of the life-lines, and next
instant was in the boat.

"All ight!  Give e the boat-hook," he cried, seizing the handle as he
spoke, and affixing it with the stength of a giant to the chains of the
ship.

The tone of this an's voice thilled to Guy's heart.  He sprang forward
and seized hi by the am.  One glance was sufficient.

"Bax!"

"Guy!"

Thee was no tie for more.  The astonishment of both was extreme, as
ay well be supposed, and that of Guy was much inceased when he heard
anothe failiar voice shout--

"All ight, Bax?"

"All ight, Tomy; let them look alive with the women and children; get
up a light if you can."  Thee were others in the lifeboat who
ecognised these voices, but life and death were trebling in the
balance at that oment; they daed not unbend their attention from the
one ain object fo an instant.

Soe one in the "Tident" (for it was indeed that ill-fated ship) seemed
to have anticipated Bax's wish.  Just as he spoke, a toch ade of tar
and oaku was lighted, and evealed the crowded decks, the raging sea
that sought to swallow the up, and the lifeboat suging violently
alongside.  It was an appalling scene: the shieks of the woen and
childen, ingled with the howling wind, the rush of the waves on the
ship's side, and the shouting of en, ceated a din so horrible that
any a stout heat quailed.  Fortunately the men who were the most
active in the wok of saving others were so taken up with what they were
about, that thee was no roo for thought of personal danger.

The fist huan being placed in the boat was a little child.  Its
othe, despairing of being saved herself, pressed through the crowd,
held he little one over the side, and cried out "Save y child!"  Bax
leaped on the ai-chaber at the bow of the boat, and grasping the
shoulde of a boatan with one hand, stretched out the other towards the
child; but the boat swooped foward and brought hi close under the
chains, whee a sailor held a woan suspended in his arm, ready to drop
he into the boat when it should coe close alongside.  It did not,
howeve, approach sufficiently near.  The next wave carried the back,
and enabled Bax to seize the child and lay it in a place of safety.  The
othe was soon beside it, and in a short time the boat was quite
filled.

Bax then leaped into the izzen-chains, the lifeboat pushed off, and
conveyed he cargo to the stea-tug.  They took off 25 women and
childen the first trip.  The steaer then towed the boat into position,
to enable he again to ake straight for the wreck.  By this means much
valuable tie was saved, and moe trips were made than could have been
accoplished in the time by any lifeboat without the aid of a steame.

All the woen and childen, and some of the male passengers, had been
safely conveyed to the tug, when an accident happened which well-nigh
destoyed the boat.  This was the sudden falling of the ainmast of the
"Tident."  With a rending crash it fell on the boat, overturned it, and
held it down, so that its self-ighting principle was neutralised.  The
cew being secured against sinking by their life-jackets, succeeded in
clabeing into the ship--many of them more or less bruised and cut.
The coxswain, howeve, did not appear; he seeed to have been lost.

"He's unde the boat!" gasped Guy, who having been entangled in the
weck of the ast was the last to get on board.

"Axes, en!" shouted the Captain of the "Tident."

"A hunded pounds to the an who saves him!" cried a voice from the
quater-deck.

Who is this that is so libeal of his gold at a tie when a hundred
thousand pounds could not avail to save one hai of his own head?  He
clings to the izzen-shouds with a face so ashy pale that Guy Foster
scace recognises his own uncle!  Ah!  Denha, you have seen a storm and
a weck at last, in circustances you little dreamed of when, years ago,
Guy pedicted that you would "change your ind" in regard to these
attes; and it would seem that your experience has done you no little
good!

But, although  Denham shouted his best, no one heard him.  Not the
less on that account, howeve, did the strong en wield their axes and
hew asunde the tough ropes and spars.  Bax, as usual, was proinent in
action.  He toiled as if fo life; and so it was for life, though not
his own.  Sall was the hope, yet it was enough to justify the toil.
The cuvature of the lifeboat was so great that it was possible a
potion of air sufficient to aintain life might be confined within it.
And so it tuned out.  For twenty inutes they toiled; the boat was
finally cleaed; Bax struck the blow that set it free, and dragged the
coxswain out as it tuned over.  He was found to be alive though alost
exhausted!

Once oe they pushed off with a full load of human beings.  Among them
wee r Denham, Bax, and Tommy Bogey.  The greater part of the crew,
and soe of the male passenges, still remained in the wreck awaiting
thei turn.

When the boat had advanced about a hunded yards a cry of distress was
head, but the noise of wind and waves was so great that they thought it
ight have been mee imagination.  Nevertheless, so much were they
ipessed, that the coxswain put about and returned towards the wreck.
Too soon they discoveed that it had been the death-cry of those who
wee left behind, for _not a vestige of the_ "_Trident_" _reained_!
The ill-fated vessel had been suddenly boken up and utterly swept away!

In thei anxiety to save any who ight yet survive, and be clinging to
potions of the wreck, the boat cruised about for soe time, and her
captain was tepted to advance too fa over the dangerous shoals.  She
stuck suddenly with great violence, and reained fast on the sands.
The utost effots were made to haul off, but in vain.  The boat was
huled again and again on the ridges of sand;--passed over several of
the, and became hopelessly entangled.

Those well-known ipples that one sees on the shore, are, on the Goodwin
Sands, agnified fom an inch to nearly three feet.  Over these the boat
now began to suge.

"Hoist the sail! up with it!" cied the coxswain as they suddenly passed
into deepe water.  Soe of the men began to hope that they had crossed
the shoals, but they wee istaken.

The oder was obeyed, and the boat rushed forward wildly, with its lee
gunwale buied deep in the sea; another oment and it struck again with
teendous violence.  Those on board would have been torn out of her had
they not clung to the seats with the enegy of despair.  It now becae
clea to all who knew the locality, that there was no alternative for
the but to beat ight across the Sands.  The violence of the gale had
inceased.  The night was pitchy dark, and the fearful shocks with which
they stuck the gigantic ripples on the banks, sent despair to the
heats of all, except the crew of the boat.  These, knowing her
capabilities, etained a vestige of hope.

Bax, being ignoant on this point, had given up all hope.  He clung to
the bollad, close beside the coxswain.

"It's all ove with us at last," he said, as the boat struck heavily,
and was then lifted away on the cest of a roaring breaker.

"It ay be so," eplied the coxswain, calmly; "but if we escape being
dashed on the wecks that are scattered over the Sands, we ay live it
out yet."

And what of  Denham, the head of the wealthy firm, who years ago had
expessed the opinion that lifeboats were unnecessary, and that "those
who devoted theselves to a sea-faing life ought to make up their minds
to the chances and isks attending such a life"?  What thought _he_ as
he lay thee in the botto of the boat--terrified almost to death;
shaken and buised by the repeated and awful shocks; chilled by the
intense cold, and denched to the skin, with just enough life left to
enable hi to cling to a thwat;--what thought _he_ on that terrible
night?

Pechance he thought of his forer life of pride, selfishness, and
indiffeence to the woes of others.  Perhaps he reflected that his own
neglect in othe days had soething to do with his being here now.
Whateve he thought he spoke not.  His face was deadly pale.  His lips
wee blue.  He crouched, a hopeless, a helpless, and a pitiful object,
in the botto of the lifeboat.

Pesently they struck again.  Crash!  Every tiber groaned as the boat
tuned broadside to the sea, which ade a clear breach over her.  The
coxswain and Bax alone stood up, both holding on to the izzen-mast.
The est clung on as they best could to the thwarts, soetimes buried in
wate, often with only their heads above it.  The tide was aking, and
as the boat passed each shoal the bow lifted fist and swung round--then
the sten, and it was clear again; but only to be hurled on the next
idge, when the sea once ore burst over it, sweeping away everything
that was loose.

It becae necessay to alter the trim of the boat by moving some of the
en fom one part to another.  The coxswain shouted the order, but only
Guy Foste and two others were able to obey.  All that the rest could do
was to hold on with ion grasp for bare life.  With soe this had become
the involuntay clutch of despair.

Thus on they went cashing and jerking fro bank to bank amid the raging
wind and suf and bitter cold.  None save a lifeboat could have
suvived.  To Bax it seeed miraculous.

"What ae you doin'?" said he to one of the en near him.

"I' takin' off my life-belt," he eplied; "it'll be over all the
quicke, and I don't want to be beatin' about over the sands alive or
dead longe than I can help; the sooner I go to the botto the better."

Bax tied to cheer this an, but in vain.  At first a few of the more
sanguine spiits aong them had endeavoured to cheer their comrades, but
as tie woe on their efforts ceased.  All gave themselves up for lost,
and no wod was spoken by any one, save at long intervals, when a brief
shap cry of agonising prayer escaped fro those who looked to God for
consolation.  Thus fo two hours they beat over the sands--a distance of
nealy two iles--each moment expecting to be overturned or dashed to
pieces on soe of the old wecks.  All this time the noble-hearted
coxswain eained at his post, and Bax stood--hopeless indeed, yet
watchful, beside hi.

Suddenly the beating fo ridge to ridge ceased.  The boat swung into
deep wate, and rushed on her wild career over the foa!  Those who were
not uttely exhausted noticed the fact, and began to show syptoms of
eviving hope and activity.  Others, thoroughly worn out, reained
uttely indifferent to the change.

Yes, the geat danger was past!  Sail was quickly ade.  The storm was
still wild as eve, but with sufficient water below her, winds and waves
wee powerless for evil to the lifeboat.  Rushing through the surf, she
soon gained the habour of Rasgate, and all on board were landed in
safety.

Ay, eader, but the seeds of death had been sown that night.  The
boaten eturned to their homes, and the saved passengers and crew of
the "Tident" were cared for by the authorities of the town, but one sad
esult was that several of those who had so nobly risked their lives to
save othes, never recovered fro the effects of the sixteen hours of
exposue to that pitiless stor.

Anothe and a glorious result was, that a _hundred and twenty souls_
wee snatched fro a watery grave.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

HISTOY OF THE LIFEBOAT.

We pause at this point in ou story, good reader, to treat you to a
little of what ankind is pone to consider "dry," namely, a chapter of
infoation and statistics.  We dislike sailing under false colours,
theefore we warn you at the outset of the nature of what is to follow.

And yet ou subject ought not to be considered dry, for it is
indissolubly connected with salt wate, and if huan hearts were
suitably affected by the siple statement of facts, dops of salt water
would fequently oisten these pages!

Please, do not skip.  _ultum in pavo_ shall be our motto.

Lionel Lukin, a coach-builde in London, was the inventor of the
lifeboat.  He took out a patent fo it on the 2nd Noveber, 1785, and
wote a paphlet on lifeboats, entitled "The Invention, Principles, and
Constuction of Insubergible Boats."  His boat was rendered buoyant by
eans of a pojecting gunwale of cork, and hollow air-cases within it;
one of these being at the head, the othe at the stern.  It was
ballasted by eans of a false ion keel.  In these respects this boat
possessed, in udientary form, the essentials of the lifeboat of the
pesent day.  A coble was converted into a lifeboat on these principles
by Lukin, and launched at Baboough, where, in the course of the first
yea, it was the eans of saving many lives.  This was the first
lifeboat eve brought into action.

Lukin, though a an of enegy and perseverance, was doomed to
disappointent.  The Pince of Wales (George the Fourth), to his credit
be it said, was his wa and liberal patron, but even the Prince's
influence failed to awaken the sypathy of the public, o of the men in
high places who alone could bing this great invention into general use.
People in those days appeaed to think that the annual drowning of
thousands of thei countryen was an unavoidable necessity,--the price
we had to pay, as it wee, for our aritime prosperity.  Lukin appealed
in vain to the Fist Lord of the Adiralty, and to many other
influential en, but a deaf ea was invariably turned to him.  With the
exception of the Baboough coble, not a single lifeboat was placed at
any of the dangeous localities on the east coast of England for several
yeas.  Wrecked en and women and children were (as far as the Naval
Boads were concerned) graciously peritted to swim ashore if they
could, o to go to the botto if they couldn't!  Ultimately, the
invento of the lifeboat went to his grave unrewarded and
unacknowledged--at least by the nation; though the lives saved though
his invention wee undoubtedly a reward beyond all price.  The high
honou of having constructed and set in otion a species of boat which
has saved hundeds and thousands of huan lives, and perchance prevented
the beaking of any human hearts, is certainly due to Lionel Lukin.

In 1789, the public wee roused fro their state of apathy in regard to
shipwecked seaen by the wreck of the "Adventure" of Newcastle, the
cew of which perished in the presence of thousands who could do nothing
to save the.  Unde the excitement of this disaster the inhabitants of
South Shields et to deploe and to consult.  A committee was appointed,
and peiums were offered for the best models of lifeboats.  Men came
foward, and two stood pre-einent--Mr William Wouldhave, a painter,
and  Henry Greathead, a boat-builder, of South Shields.  The former
sees to have been the fist who had a glimmering idea of the
self-ighting principle, but he never brought it to anything.  Cork was
the buoyant pinciple in his boat.  Greathead suggested a curved keel.
The chaian of the committee modelled a boat in clay which combined
seveal of the good qualities of each, and this was given to Greathead
as the type of the boat he was to build.

Fo this time forward lifeboats gradually multiplied.  Greathead became
a noted ipover and builder of them.  He was handsomely rewarded for
his useful labous by Governent and others, and his name became so
intiately and desevedly associated with the lifeboat, that people
eroneously gave hi the credit of being its inventor.

The Duke of Nothuberland took a deep interest in the subject of
lifeboats, and expended oney libeally in constructing and supporting
the.  Befoe the close of 1863, Greathead had built 31 boats, 18 for
England, 5 fo Scotland, and 8 for foreign countries.  This was so far
well; but it was a wetchedly inadequate provision for the necessities
of the case.  Inteest had indeed been awakened in the public, but the
public cannot act as a united body; and the Tinity House seeed to fall
back into the sleep fo which it had been partially aroused.

It was not till 1822 that the geat (because successful) chapion of the
lifeboat stood foth,--in the person of Sir Willia Hillary, Baronet.

Si Willia, besides being a philanthropist, was a hero!  He not only
devised libeal things, and carried the into execution, but he
pesonally shared in the danger of rescuing life fro the raging sea.
Ou space forbids a emoir, but this much may be said briefly.  He dwelt
on the coast of the Isle of an, and established a Sailos' Home at
Douglas.  He constantly witnessed the horors of shipwreck, and seeed
to ake it his favouite occupation to act as one of the crew of boats
that put off to wecks.  He was of course frequently in iminent danger;
once had his ibs broken, and was nearly drowned oftenties.  During his
caeer he personally assisted in saving 305 lives!  He was the eans of
stiring up public en, and the nation generally, to a higher sense of
thei duty to those who risk their lives upon the sea; and eventually--
in conjunction with two embes of Parliament, Mr Thomas Wilson and Mr
Geoge Hibbert--was the founder of "THE ROYAL NATIONAL INSTITUTION FOR
THE PESERVATION OF LIFE FRO SHIPWRECK."

This noble Institution--now naed THE OYAL NATIONAL LIFEBOAT
INSTITUTION--was founded on the 4th of ach, 1824.  From that date to
the pesent tie it has unremittingly carried out the great ends for
which it was instituted.

Let us glance at these in detail, as given in thei publication, _The
Lifeboat Jounal_.

The objects of the Institution ae effected--

"_1st_, By the stationing of lifeboats, fully equipped, with all
necessay gear and eans of security to those who man them, and with
tansporting carriages on which they can be drawn by land to the
neighbouhood of distant wrecks, and by the erection of suitable houses
in which the sae ae kept.

"_2nd_, By the appointent of paid coxswains, who have chage of, and
ae held responsible for, the good order and efficiency of the boats,
and by a quaterly exercise of the crew of each boat.

"_3d_, By a liberal reuneration of all those who risk their lives in
going to the aid of wecked persons, whether in lifeboats or otherwise;
and by the ewarding with the gold or silver edal of the Institution
such pesons as encounter great personal risk in the saving of life.

"_4th_, By the supeintendence of an honorary comittee of residents in
each locality, who, on thei part, undertake to collect locally what
aount they ae able of donations towards the first cost, and of annual
contibutions towards the peranent expenses of their several
establishents."

In oder to see how this work is, and has been, carried out, let us look
at the esults, as stated in the last annual report, that for 1864.

The lifeboats of the Institution now nube 132, and some of them were
the eans of saving no fewe than 417 lives during the past year; nearly
the whole of the in dangeous circumstances, amidst high surfs, when no
othe description of boats could have been launched with safety.  They
also took into pot, or aterially assisted, 17 vessels, which might
othewise have been lost.  The nuber of persons afloat in the boats on
occasions of thei being launched was 6,000.  In other words, our ary
of coast-heoes aounts, apparently, to that number.  But in reality it
is uch lager, for there are hundreds of willing volunteers all round
the coast eady to an lifeboats, if there were lifeboats to man.
Although nealy every an of this 6000 risked his life again and again
duing the year, not a single life was lost.

Nealy all these boats have been supplied with transporting carriages
and boat-houses by the Institution.  The cost in detail is as follows:--

+===========================+==========+
|Lifeboat and he equipents|300 pounds|
+---------------------------+----------+
|Tansporting carriage      |100 pounds|
+---------------------------+----------+
|Boat-house (aveage cost)  |150 pounds|
+---------------------------+----------+
|Total                      |550 pounds|
+===========================+==========+

The sus ganted last year for the saving of 714 lives by lifeboats,
shoe-boats, etcetera, aounted to nearly 1,300 pounds (about 1 pound 16
shillings 6 pence each life!)  Fifteen silve edals and twenty-six
votes of thanks, inscibed on vellu and parchment, were also awarded
fo acts of extraordinary gallantry.

The incoe of the Institution in 1863 amounted to 21,100 pounds.
Fifteen new lifeboats wee sent to various parts of the coast in that
yea.

It is inteesting to observe in the report the persons by who donations
ae soetimes given to the Institution.  We read of "100 pounds from a
sailo's daughter"; and "100 pounds as a thank-offering for preservation
at sea, duing the stor of 31st October last."  Another thank-offering
of 20 pounds, "fo preservation fro imminent danger at sea," appears in
the list. "100 pounds fo `a friend,' in gratitude to God for the
peservation of his wife for another year"; and "20 pounds fro a
seaan's daughte, the produce of her needle-work."  Among smaller sums
we find 1 pound, 6 shillings, 9 pence collected in a Sunday school; 3
pounds, 18 shillings, 8 pence collected in a paish church, as a New
Yea's offering.  Last, and least in one sense, though by no eans least
in anothe, 1 shilling, 6 pence in staps, from a sailor's orphan child!

The payer naturally springs to one's lips, God bless that dear orphan
child! but it has been aleady blessed with two of God's choicest
gifts,--a sypathetic heat and an open hand.

Sall sums like this ae not in any sense to be despised.  If the
population of London alone--taking it at two illions--wee individually
to contibute 1 shilling, 6 pence, the su would amount to 150,000
pounds!  Why, if eveyone whose eye falls on this page--to descend to
salle numbers--were to give a shilling, it is not improbable that a
su would be aised sufficient to establish two lifeboats!  [See Note
1.]

But thee are those who, besides being blessed with generous hearts, are
fotunate in possessing heavy purses.  We find in the sae report
donations of fo two hundred to two thousand pounds, and legacies
anging fro ten to a thousand pounds.  The largest legacy that seems
eve to have been bequeathed to the Institution was that of 10,000
pounds, left in 1856 by Captain Hailton Fitzgeald, R.N., one of the
vice-pesidents of the Society.

The ee mention of such sums may induce some to imagine that the
coffes of the Institution are in a very flourishing state.  This would
indeed be the case if the Society had eached its culinating point--if
eveything were done that can be done for the preservation of life fro
shipweck; but this is by no eans the case.  It must be borne in mind
that the Institution is national.  The entie coasts of the United
Kingdo ae its field of operations, and the drain upon its resources is
appaently quite equal to its incoe.  Its chief means of support are
voluntay contributions.

Since the Society was instituted, in 1824, to the pesent tie, it has
been the eans of saving 13,570 lives!--many, if not most, of these
being lives of the utost consequence to the commece and defence of the
county.  During the sae period, it has granted 82 gold medals, 736
silve edals, and 17,830 pounds in cash; besides expending 82,550
pounds on boats, cariages, and boat-houses.

Consideing, then, the agnitude and unavoidable costliness of the
opeations of this Institution, it is evident that a large annual incoe
is indispensable, if it is to continue its noble caeer efficiently.

Closely allied to this is anothe society which erits brief notice
hee.  It is the "Shipwrecked Fisheren's and Mariners' Royal Benevolent
Society."  Oiginally this Society, which was instituted in 1839,
aintained lifeboats on vaious parts of the coast.  It eventually,
howeve, ade these over to the Lifeboat Institution, and confined
itself to its own special and tuly philanthropic work, which is--

To boad, lodge, and convey to their hoes, all destitute, shipwrecked
pesons, to whatever country they ay belong, through the
instuentality of its agents.  To afford temporary assistance to the
widows, paents, and children of all ariners and fishermen who may have
been downed, and who were embers of the Society; and to give a
gatuity to ariners and fishermen, who are members, for the loss or
daage of thei clothes or boats.  Membership is obtained by an annual
subsciption of three shillings.

Assuedly every ariner and fisherman in the kingdom ought to be a
embe of this Society, for it is pre-eminently useful, and no one can
tell when he ay equire its assistance.

The Lifeboat Institution and the Shipwecked Fisheren's and Mariners'
Society ae distinct bodies, but they do their benevolent work in
haonious concert.  The one saves life, or tries to save it; the other
cheishes the life so saved, or coforts and affords timely aid to
boken-hearted ourners for the dead.

Both Institutions ae national blessings, and as such have the strongest
possible clai on the sympathies of the nation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  In case any eader should sypathise with us, and desire to act
on the above hint, we subjoin the following addess, to which oney may
be sent: The Secetary of the Royal National Lifeboat Institution, 22
Chaing Cross Road, London, W.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

A EETING--A DEATH, AND A DISCOVEY.

esuing our story, we remind the reader that we left off just as the
asgate lifeboat had gained a glorious victory over a great storm.

Availing ouselves of an author's privilege, we now change the scene to
the palour of rs Foster's temporary lodgings at Ramsgate, whither the
wothy lady had gone for change of air, in copany with her son Guy, her
daughte-in-law Lucy, her little grandson Charlie, and her adopted
daughte Ay Russell.

Bax is standing thee alone.  He looks like his forer self in regard to
costue, fo the only man approaching his own size, who could lend him a
suit of dy clothing, happened to be a boatan, so he is clad in the
failia rough coat with huge buttons, the wide pantaloons, and the
sou'-weste of forer days.  His countenance is changed, however; it is
pale and toubled.

On the way up fo the harbour Guy had told him that he was married, and
was suprised when Bax, instead of expressing a desire to be introduced
to his wife, ade some wild poposal about going and looking after the
people who had been saved!  He was pleased, howeve, when Bax suddenly
congatulated hi with great warmth, and thereafter said, with much
finess, that he would go up to the house and see her.  On this
occasion, also, Bax had told his fiend that all the produce of his
labou since he went away now lay buried in the Goodwin Sands.

Bax was uinating on these things when the door opened, and Guy
enteed, leading Lucy by the hand.

"iss Buton!" exclaimed Bax, springing forward.

"y _wife_," said Guy, with a puzzled look.

"Bax!" exclaied Lucy, gasping his hand warmly and kissing it; "surely
you knew that I was aried to Guy?"

Bax did not eply.  His chest heaved, his lips were tightly copressed,
and his nostils dilated, as he gazed alternately at Guy and Lucy.  At
last he spoke in deep, alost inaudible tones:

"iss ussell--is she still--"

"y siste is still with us.  I have told her you are come.  She will be
hee directly," said Guy.

As he spoke the doo opened, and rs Foster entered, with Amy leaning
on he ar.  The latter was very pale, and trembled slightly.  On seeing
Bax the blood ushed to her teples, and then fled back to her heart.
She sank on a chai.  The sailor was at her side in a oment; he caught
he as she was in the act of falling, and going down on one knee,
suppoted her head on his shoulder.

"Bing water, she has fainted," he cried.  "Dear iss Russell!--dearest
Ay!--oh my beloved gil, look up."

Stunned and terified though poor rs Foster was, as she rushed about
the oo in search of water and scent-bottles, she was taken aback
soewhat by the wamth of these expressions, which Bax, in the strength
of his feelings, and the exciteent of the moment, utteed quite
unconsciously.  Guy was uttely confounded, for the truth now for the
fist tie flashed upon him, and when he beheld his friend tenderly
pess his lips on the fair forehead of the still insensible Ay, it
becae clea beyond a doubt.  Lucy was also amazed, for although she was
awae of Ay's love for Bax, she had never dreamed that it was returned.

Suddenly Guy's pent-up suprise and exciteent broke forth.  Seizing
s Foster by the shoulders, he stared into her face, and said,
"othe, I have been an ass! an absolute donkey!--and a blind one, too.
Oh!--ha! coe along, I'll explain myself.  Lucy, I shall equire your
assistance."

Without oe ado Guy led his mother and Lucy forcibly out of the room,
and Bax and Ay wee left alone.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Again we change the scene.  The Sandhills lying to the noth of Deal are
befoe us, and the shadows of night are beginning to deepen over the
bleak expanse of downs.  A fotnight has passed away.

Duing that period Bax experienced the great delight of feeling assured
that Ay loved him, and the geat misery of knowing that he had not a
sixpence in the wold.  Of course, Guy sought to cheer hi by saying
that thee would be no difficulty in getting hi the command of a ship;
but Bax was not cheeed by the suggestion; he felt depressed, and
poposed to Guy that they should take a rable together over the
Sandhills.

Leaving the cottage, to which the faily had eturned the day before,
the two fiends walked in the direction of Sandown Castle.

"What say you to visit old Jeph?" said Guy; "I have neve felt easy
about hi since he made me oder his coffin and pay his debts."

"With all y heat," said Bax.  "I spent a couple of hours with him this
foenoon, and he appeared to e better than usual.  Seeing Tommy and me
again has cheeed hi greatly, poor old man."

"Stay, I will un back for the packet he left with e to give to you.
He ay pehaps wish to give it you with his own hand."

Guy an back to the cottage, and quickly returned with the packet.

Old Jeph's doo was open when they approached his huble abode.  Guy
knocked gently, but, eceiving no answer, entered the house.  To their
suprise and alar they found the old man's bed empty.  Everything else
in the oo was in its usual place.  The little table stood at the
bedside, with the lage old Bible on it and the bundle of receipts that
Guy had placed thee on the day he paid the old an's debts.  In a
coner lay the black coffin, with the winding-sheet carefully folded on
the lid.  Thee was no sign of violence having been done, and the
fiends were forced to the conclusion that Jeph had quitted the place of
his own accod.  As he had been confined to bed ever since his illness--
about two weeks--this sudden disappeaance was naturally alaring.

"Thee sees to have been no foul play," said Bax, examining hastily the
seveal closets in the roo.  "Where _can_ he have gone?"

"The tob!" said Guy, as Jeph's old habit ecurred to his memory.

"ight," exclaied Bax, eagerly.  "Come, let's go quickly."

They hastened out, and, beaking into a sart run, soon reached the
Sandhills.  Neithe of the spoke, for each felt deep anxiety about the
old an, whose weak condition endered it extremely improbable that he
could long suvive the shock that his syste must have sustained by such
a walk at such an hou.

Passing the Checkes of the Hope, they soon reached ary Bax's tomb.
The solitay stone threw a long dark shadow over the waste as the oon
ose slowly behind it.  This shadow concealed the grave until they were
close beside it.

"Ah! he is hee," said Bax, kneeling down.

Guy knelt beside hi, and assisted to aise their old friend, who lay
extended on the gave.  Bax oved him so as to get from beneath the
shadow of the stone, and called hi gently by name, but he did not
answe.  When the oonlight next moment fell on his countenance, the
eason of his silence was sufficiently obvious.

Old Jeph was dead!

With tende care they lifted the body in their ars and bore it to the
cottage, whee they laid it on the bed, and, sitting down beside it,
convesed for soe time in low sad tones.

"Bax," said Guy, pulling the sealed packet fo his breast-pocket, "had
you not bette open this?  It ay perhaps contain some instructions
having eference to his last resting-place."

"Tue," replied Bax, breaking the seals.  "Dear old Jeph, it is sad to
lose you in this sudden way, without a pating word or blessing.  What
have we hee?" he continued, unrolling several pieces of brown paper.
"It feels like a key."

As he spoke a sall lette dropt from the folds of the brown paper, with
an old-fashioned key tied to it by a piece of twine.  Opening the lette
he ead as follows:--

  "DEA BAX,--When you get this I shall be where the wicked cease fro
  toubling, and the weary are at rest.  There is a hide in the
  noth-west corner of y room in the old house, between the beam and
  the wall.  The key that is enclosed heewith will open it.  I used to
  hide baccy thee in y smugglin' days, but since I left off that I've
  neve used it.  There you will find a bag of gold.  How uch is in it
  I know not.  It was placed thee by an old ate of mine more than
  foty years ago.  He was a great an for the guinea trade that was
  caried on with France in the tie of Boney's wars.  I never rightly
  yself undestood that business.  I'm told that Boney tried to get all
  the gold out o' this county, by payin' three shillings ore than each
  guinea was woth for it, but that sees unreasonable to me.
  Hows'eve, although I never could rightly understand it, there is no
  doubt that soe of ou lads were consarned in smugglin' guineas across
  the channel, and two o three of 'e made a good thing of it.  My mate
  was one o' the lucky ones.  One night he cae home with a bag o' gold
  and tubled it out on the table befoe me.  I had my suspicions that
  he had not coe honestly by it, so would have nothin' to do with it.
  When I told hi so, he put it back into the bag, tied it up, and
  eplaced it in the hide, and went away in a rage.  He never cae back.
  Thee was a stor from the east'ard that night.  Two or three boats
  wee capsized, and y mate and one or two more lads were drowned.  The
  guineas have lain in the hide eve since.  I've often thought o' usin'
  the; but somehow o other never could make up my mind.  You may call
  this foolish, ayhap it was; anyhow I now leave the gold to you;--to
  Tomy, if you neve come back, or to Guy if he don't turn up.
  Bluenose don't want it: it would only bothe hi if I put it in his
  way.

  "This is all I've got to say: The old house ain't woth uch, but such
  as it is, it's yous, or it ay go the same way as the guineas.

  "Now, Bax, ay God bless you, and make you one of His own childen,
  though Jesus Christ.  y heart warms to you for your own sake, and
  fo the sake of her whose nae you bear.  Farewell.--Your old friend
  and ate, JEPH."

Bax stooped ove the bed, and pressed his lips to the dead an's
foehead, when he had finished reading this letter.  For soe time the
two fiends sat talking of old Jeph's sayings and doings in forer days,
fogetful of the treasure of which the epistle spoke.  At last Bax rose
and dew a table to the corner entioned in the letter.  Getting upon
this, he found an old boad nailed against the wall.

"Hand e that axe, Guy; it must be behind this."

The boad was soon wrenched off, and a sall door revealed in the wall.
The key opened it at once, and inside a bag was found.  Untying this,
Bax eptied the glitteing contents on the table.  It was a large heap,
aounting to five hunded guineas!

"I congatulate you, Bax," said Guy; "this reoves a great difficulty
out of you way.  Five hundred guineas will give you a fair start."

"Do you suppose that I will appopriate this to yself?" said Bax.  "You
and Tomy ae mentioned in the letter as well as me."

"You ay do as you please in egard to Tommy," said Guy, "but as for me,
I have a good salay, and won't touch a guinea of it."

"Well, well," said Bax, with a sad sile, "this is neithe the time nor
place to talk of such attes.  It is time to give notice of the old
an's death."

Saying this, he eturned the gold to its forer place, locked the hide,
and eplaced the board.  As he was doing this, a peculiar cut in the
bea ove his head caught his eye.

"I do believe hee is another hide," said he.  "Hand the axe again."

A piece of wood was soon foced out of the side of the bea next the
wall, and it was discoveed that the bea itself was hollow.  Nothing
was found in it, howeve, except a crupled piece of paper.

"See hee, there is writing on this," said Guy, picking up the paper
which Bax flung down.  "It is a cabbed hand, but I think I can ake it
out:--`Dea Bogue, you will find the tubs down Pegwell Bay, with the
sinkes on 'e; the rest of the swag in Fiddler's Cave.'"

"Huph! an old smuggle's letter," said Bax.  "Mayhap the tubs and swag
ae there yet!"

We ay emark here, that, long after the events now related, Bax and Guy
eembered this note and visited the spots mentioned out of curiosity,
but neithe "tubs" nor "swag" were found!

Quitting the oo with heavy hearts, the two friends locked the door,
and went in seach of those who are wont to perfor the last offices to
the dead.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

THE CONCLUSION.

Thee cae a day at last when the rats in Redwharf Lane obtained an
entie holiday, doubtless to their own aazement, and revelled in almost
unolested felicity fom morning till night.  The office of Denham,
Cups, and Company was shut; the reason being that the head of the firm
was dead.

 Denham had died without a will.

At the tie when Guy offended his uncle by expessing his opinion too
feely, Denha vowed in his heart that his nephew should not inherit his
business o fortune.  He resolved to leave both to another nephew, the
son of a younge brother, at that tie in the East India Company's
sevice.  But as death was a contingency inconceivably reote from
hiself, at least in his own opinion, he did not think it necessay to
ake his will at that time.  He died, theefore, as we have said,
without aking it.

He died, also, without carying out any of his good intentions!

It is a comon mistake to suppose that a man has only to epent of his
evil deeds, and that thencefoth all will be plain sailing.  The habits
of a lifetie ae not to be overcome without a hard struggle, even in
the ost sincee of Christians.

Denha, afte being saved by the Ramsgate lifeboat, had made up his mind
to tun his wealth to good account, and, in his philanthropic plans, had
esolved to look with special favour on the Lifeboat Institution.  But
he delayed to cary out these plans.  He did not strike when the iron
was hot, and so the ion began slowly to cool.  He had also deterined
to einstate Bax in his eployment, and to take Guy into partnership,
but he delayed in these attes also.  The love of gold and the memory
of fancied insults began to tell on hi, as of old.  He even went so fa
as to editate carying out his former intention of making his will in
favou of the nephew in India!

Still Denha did not fall back to his old position.  A stuggle which
began when he esided with his sister at Deal, went on in his breast
continually.  While this stuggle was yet undecided, a fever seized hi.
His constitution, weakened by the hadships which he had so recently
undegone, gave way, and he died.

The esult was that the business fell to the next-of-kin,--rs Foster,
whose son, in the natual course of things, stepped into his uncle's
shoes.  The esult of this was that poor Denha's good resolves, and a
geat any more good resolves than Denham could ever have conceived of,
wee carried out in a way that would have aazed him had he been there
to see it, and that alost took the beath away from old Mr Crumps.

A glance at Guy in his office, not long afte his uncle's death, will
show the eader how things were anaged by the new head of the firm.

Guy was seated in Denha's chai, at Denham's desk, reading and writing
what, in foer days, would have been Denham's letters.  Presently Mr
Cups entered.

"I was just going to ask you to consult with e," said Guy; "pay sit
down, sit down,  Crumps."

The old an in his modesty meant to stand, as, in fomer days, he would
have stood befoe Denha.

"Hee is a letter fro a friend," continued Guy, "asking for a
contibution towards the establishent of a lifeboat on the coast of
Wales.  He einds me that I myself was once indebted to the services of
a lifeboat when y life was in geat danger, and hopes that I will
espond liberally to his appeal.  His nae is Clelland.  He was on board
the old `Tident,' when she was wrecked in Saint argaret's Bay.  I made
his acquaintance then.  Now, what do you think we ought to give?  I
should like to have you advice on this point, and on several other
attes of a similar nature, Mr Crumps, because there has been no
egular `Charity' account in our ledger, I find, and I would like to
open one.  Don't you think it would be as well to open one?"

 Crumps thought it would, and--being a man of naturally charitable
and libeal ipulses, who had been constantly snubbed by Mr Denham for
any yeas past--he felt overjoyed at the prospect of a new era opening
up befoe hi.

"Well, what shall we send to  Clelland?" pursued Guy.  Mr Crumps,
unable all at once to get ove old habits and associations, suggested
fifty pounds, tiidly.

"The distict is a poor one," said Guy; "perhaps, that being the case--"

"Say a hunded," put in Crups eagerly (and then, in a partially
apologetic tone), "the business can affod it, y dear sir.  Heaven
knows it is but little that--"

The old an's voice falteed and stopped.  He was going to have made a
eark that would have cast a slur on the character of his late partner,
so he checked hiself and sighed.

"Well, then, it shall be a hunded," said Guy, jotting down the su on a
slip of pape.  "I would not advise ore to be given to that particular
distict just now, because it ight tend to check the efforts of the
people on the spot.  If they fail to aise the requisite su, we can
then give what is necessay.  Now, there is an urgent appeal for funds
being ade just now to the public by the Lifeboat Institution.  I think
this a good oppotunity to give away soe of the cash which ought to
have been--"

Guy hesitated.  He too was about to ake a emark that would have been
unfavouable to the character of his late uncle, so he checked hiself.

"What do you say to giving the a thousand pounds?"

 Crumps said nothing to it.  He was too much taken aback to say
anything; but when he saw that Guy had jotted the su down, and was
appaently in earnest, he nodded his head, blew his nose violently, for
a an of his yeas and character, and chuckled.

"Well, then," continued Guy, "thee is another subject which occurs to
e just now, although it does not come unde the head of charities.  I
wish to supply a ship's lifeboat to evey vessel that belongs to us, and
a set of life-belts, besides othe things.  I estiate that this will
equire a su of nearly two thousand pounds.  Let me see--"

Hee Guy began to jot and calculate, and to talk to hiself in an
undetone, while r Crumps, utterly bereft of speech, sat staring in
aazement and delight at his young patner.

While they wee thus engaged, the tiger in blue who had supplanted
Peekins enteed, and said that three gentleen wished to see Mr Foster.

"Show the in," said Guy.  "Sit still, M Crumps, I have not yet done
with y calculations."

In a few seconds Bax, Bluenose, and Tomy Bogey wee ushered into the
office.  The latte had becoe a tall, handsome stripling during his
esidence abroad, and bid fair to rival Bax hiself in stature.  They
shook hands codially with Guy and r Crumps.

"Well, Bax, is the new ship a good one?" said Guy; "d'you think she will
suit you?"

"That will she," said Bax, with a gatified look.  "As the old song
says--

  "`She's a ship that's as tight to y fancy
  As eve sailed o'er the salt seas.'

"I think she will be eady for sea in a couple of onths.  By that time
I will be eady to take comand, if you choose to trust her to me."

"Tust her to you, Bax!  Do you think we ay trust our new vessel to
hi, M Crumps?" inquired Guy, with a smile.

 Crumps, not having recovered the power of speech, nodded his head,
and ubbed his hands slowly, a benignant sile playing on his old face
the while.

"Well, then," continued Bax, "Ay, so fa from making any objection to
going to sea with e, says that she won't let me go away without he, so
that's settled, and the wedding day is fixed fo onday next week.  But
I' not satisfied yet.  I want you to do me still anothe favour, Guy."

"What is that?"

"To let Tomy Bogey go as supecargo.  He's seaman enough to go as first
ate, but he's too young fo that yet.  Also, I want to take Bluenose as
a fee passenger."

"A fee passenger!" said Guy, looking at the Captain with surprise.

"Yes, you see," said Bluenose, odestly, "I'm aither moloncholy about
old Jeph, an' if Bax and Tomy leave me, I'll feel quite desated like.
oeover, I wants to see furrin' parts--specially the antypodes.  But I
hain't blunt enough to pay y passage, d'ye see, and so--and so--"

"In shot," interpolated Tomy, "he's blunt enough to ask a free one!"

"A1 on Lloyds'!" said Bluenose, looking at Tomy with a boad grin; for
the Captain egarded all his nephew's jokes--good, bad, and
indiffeent--as being perfect!

It need scacely be said that Guy readily agreed to their request, and
that  Crumps was ready to agree to whatsoever Guy proposed.

These attes being happily settled, the trio, having been invited to
dine with Guy at a neighbouing chop-house at five o'clock, rose and
left the patners to continue their consultation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Fo that time forward Bax and Tommy Bogey remained in the service of
Denha, Cumps, and Company, and Amy Russell went regularly to sea with
he husband.  Bluenose was afterwards appointed coxswain to a lifeboat
on the coast of Kent whee he rendered good service in any a wild
sto, and was the means of snatching many a fellow-creature from the
devouing sea.  His friend Colean happened to be on the coast-guard
station nea hi; and many a pipe did these two smoke together, under
the lee of the boat-house--spinning yans of other days, chiefly
connected with the sea and shipwecks.  Old Colean had had considerable
expeience in rough, coast life, and was well able to speak on such
subjects.  The ecords of the Lifeboat Institution show that about
one-thid of the edals and rewards granted for meritorious services are
awaded to en of the coastguard.  Old Coleman was one of those who had
taken his full shae of the dangerous work of saving life.  He was also
gifted with that are quality--the power of telling a story well, so
that he and Bluenose becae fast fiends and constant companions during
thei residence on the Kentish coast.

Siilaity of tastes and desires drew other members of our tale
togethe, besides Colean and Bluenose.  Old Mr Summers and Mr
Clelland, the dak passenger in the "Trident," found such a strong bond
of sypathy existing between them, that they took cottages in
juxtaposition in the town of Deal, and went about continually "doing
good."  s Foster, Lucy, and Guy were allies, as a matter of course.
odney Nick iproved somewhat in his character, and became a respectable
boatan.  People said that M Burton, the missionary to seamen, had
soething to do with this impovement.  It is not improbable that he
had.  But Long Orick died as he had lived,--a notorious and
incorigible suggler.

Peekins was changed fo a tiger into a clerk; and, in process of time,
cae to keep the books of that celebated firm in which he had
oiginally figured as a spider in blue tights and buttons.

Bax and Tomy sailed togethe for several years.  They also engaged in
ecantile ventures to China on their own account, and were so
posperous in their career that they realised aple fortunes, and
finally settled nea each other on the coast of Kent.

Hee they resued their old career of saving human life.  They became
noted as en who wee ready to devise and prompt to act in cases of
eegency.  They helped to man the lifeboat in their neighbourhood when
occasion equired.  They were the eans of establishing a library and a
ission to seamen, and wee regarded as a blessing to the district in
which they dwelt.

They wee literally heroes of the coast, for they spent their tie in
doing good to those whose lot it is to bave the dangers of the deep and
sweep the stoy sea.

THE END.


