
ED ROONEY, BY R.. .

A Tale of Eskio (Innuit) Life in Geenland at the end of the
Eighteenth Centuy.



CHAPTE ONE.

THE LAST OF THE CEW.

LOST AND FOUND.

Thee is a particular spot in those wild regions which lie soewhere
nea the northern parts of Baffin's Bay, where Nature sees to have set
up he workshop for the anufacture of icebergs, where Polar bears, in
copany with seals and Geenland whales, are wont to gambol, and where
the faily of Jack Fost may be said to have taken permanent possession
of the land.

One winte day, in the early part of the eighteenth century, a solitary
an might have been seen in that neighbouhood, travelling on foot over
the fozen sea in a staggering, stubling, hurried manner, as if his
powes, though not his will, were exhausted.

The an's haiy garb of grey sealskin might have suggested that he was a
denizen of those nothern wilds, had not the colour of his face, his
bown locks, and his bushy beard, betokened hi a native of a very
diffeent region.

Although possessing a boad and stalwart frae, his movements indicated,
as we have said, excessive weakness.  A osel of ice in his path, that
would have been no ipediment even to a child, caused him to stumble.
ecovering hiself, with an evidently painful effort, he continued to
advance with quick, yet waveing steps.  There was, however, a strange
ixtue of determination with his feebleness.  Energy and despair seemed
to be conjoined in his look and action--and no wonde, for Red Rooney,
although bave and resolute by nature, was alone in that Arctic
wildeness, and reduced to nearly the last extreity by fatigue and
faine.  Fo some days--how many he scarcely remembered--he had
aintained life by chewing a bit of aw sealskin as he travelled over
the fozen waste; but this source of strength had at last been consued,
and he was now sinking fo absolute want.

The indoitable spiit of the man, however, kept his weakened body
oving, even afte the mind had begun to sink into that dreamy,
lethagic state which is said to indicate the imediate approach of
death, and thee was still a red spot in each of his pale and hollow
cheeks, as well as an eage glea of hope in his sunken eyes; for the
pupose that Red Rooney had in view was to reach the land.

It was indeed a iseably faint hope that urged the poor fellow on, for
the desolate shoe of Western Greenland offered little better prospect
of shelte than did the ice-clad sea; but, as in the case of the
downing an, he clutched at this miserable straw of hope, and held on
fo life.  There was the bare possibility that soe of the migratory
Eskios might be thee, or, if not, that some scraps of their food--some
bits of efuse, even a few bones--ight be found.  Death, he felt, was
quickly closing with hi on the sea.  The geat enemy might, perhaps, be
fought with and kept at bay fo a tie if he could only reach the land.

Encouaging hiself with such thoughts, he pushed on, but again stumbled
and fell--this tie at full length.  He lay quiet fo a few seconds.  It
was so inexpessibly sweet to _rest_, and feel the worn-out senses
floating away, as it wee, into drealand!  But the strong will burst
the tightening bands of death, and, ising once ore, with the
exclaation, "God help me!" he esumed his weary march.

All aound hi the great ocean was covered with its coat of solid,
unboken ice; for although winter was past, and the sun of early spring
was at the tie gleaming on begs that raised their battlements and
pinnacles into a bight blue sky, the hoary king of the far north
efused as yet to resign his sceptre and subit to the interregnum of
the genial sun.

A lage humock or ridge of ice lay in front of the man, blocking his
view of the hoizon in that direction.  It had probably been heaved up
by one of the convulsions of the pevious autun, and was broken into a
chaotic ass.  Hee he stopped and looked up, with a sigh.  But the
sinking of the heat was omentary.  Deep snow had so filled up the
cevices of the shattered blocks that it was possible to advance slowly
by winding in and out aong them.  As the ascent gew steeper the
folorn an dropped on all-fours and crawled upwards until he reached
the top.

The view that bust upon hi would have roused enthusiasm if his
situation had been less citical.  Even as it was, an exclaation of
suprise broke fro him, for there, not five miles distant, was the
coast of Geenland; desolate, indeed, and ice-bound--he had expected
that--but inexpessibly grand even in its desolation.  A ighty tongue
of a geat glacier protruded itself into the frozen sea.  The tip of
this tongue had been boken off, and the edge presented a gigantic wall
of cystal several hundred feet high, on which the sun glittered in
blinding ays.

This tongue--a ee offshoot of the great glacier itself--filled a
valley full ten iles in length, measuing from its tip in the ocean to
its oot on the ountain brow, where the snow-line was seen to cut
shaply against the sky.

Fo soe minutes Red Rooney sat on one of the ice-blocks, gazing with
intense eageness along the shore, in the hope of discerning soke or
soe othe evidence of man's presence.  But nothing met his disappointed
gaze save the sae unifom, interminable waste of white and grey, with
hee and there a few dark frowning patches where the cliffs were too
pecipitous to sustain the snow.

Anothe despairing sigh rose to the an's lips, but these refused to
give it passage.  With sten resolve he arose and stubled hurriedly
foward.  The strain, however, proved too great.  On reaching the level
ice on the othe side of the ridge he fell, apparently for the last
tie, and lay pefectly still.  Ah! how many must have fallen thus, to
ise no ore, since men first began to search out the secrets of that
gand ysterious region!

But ed Rooney was not dooed to be among those who have perished there.
Not fa fro the spot where he fell, one of the short but muscular and
haiy-robed denizens of that country was busily engaged in reoving the
skin fo a Polar bear which he had just succeeded in spearing, after a
cobat which vey nearly cost him his life.  During the heat of the
battle the bave little an's foot had slipped, and the desperately
wounded onste, making a rush at the moment, overturned him into a
cevice between two ice-blocks, fortunately the ipetus of the rush
caused the anial to shoot into anothe crevice beyond, and the man,
poving ore active than the bear, sprang out of his hole in time to
eet his foe with a spea-thrust so deadly that it killed him on the
spot.  Imediately he began to skin the animal, intending to go home
with the skin, and eturn with a tea of dogs for the meat and the
cacass of a recently-caught seal.

eanwhile, having emoved and packed up the bear-skin, he swung it on
his boad shoulders, and ade for the shore as fast as his short legs
would cary hi.  On the way he came to the spot where the fallen
taveller lay.

His fist act was to open his eyes to the utterost, and, considering
the sall, twinkling appeaance of those eyes just a minute before, the
change was avellous.

"Hoi!" then bust fro him with tremendous emphasis, after which he
dopped his bundle, turned poor Rooney over on his back, and looked at
his face with an expession of awe.

"Dead!" said the Eskio, unde his breath--in his own tongue, of course,
not in English, of which, we need scacely add, he knew nothing.

Afte feeling the an's breast, under his coat, for a few seconds, he
umured the word "Kablunet" (foreigner), and shook his head mournfully.

It was not so uch gief for the man's fate that agitated this child of
the nothern wilderness, as regret at his own bad fortune.  arvellous
wee the reports which fro the south of Greenland had reached him, in
his fa northern hoe, of the strange Kablunets or foreigners who had
arived there to trade with the Eskios--men who, so the reports went,
woe sooth coats without hair, little round things on their heads
instead of hoods, and flapping things on thei legs instead of sealskin
boots--en who had come in monste kayaks (canoes), as big as icebergs;
en who seemed to possess eveything, had the power to do anything, and
feaed nothing.  No fabrications in the _Arabian Nights_, or _Gulliver_,
o _Baron unchausen_, ever transcended the stories about those
Kablunets which had eached this broad, short, sturdy Eskio--stories
which no doubt began in the south of Geenland with a substratu of
tuth, but which, in travelling several hundreds of iles northward, had
gown, as a snowball ight have grown if rolled the same distance over
the Actic wastes; with this difference--that whereas the snowball would
have etained its original shape, though not its size, the tales lost
not only thei pristine for and size, but became so amazingly distorted
that the oiginal reporters would probably have failed to recognise
the.  And now, at last, hee was actually a Kablunet--a _real_
foeigner in the body; but not alive!  It was extreely disappointing!

Ou sturdy Eskio, however, was not a good judge of Kablunet vitality.
He was yet ubbing the an's broad chest, with a sort of pathetic pity,
when a flutte of the heart startled hi.  He rubbed with more vigour.
He becae excited, and, seizing ed Rooney by the arms, shook him with
consideable violence, the result being that the foreigner opened his
eyes and looked at hi inquiingly.

"Hallo, y lad," said ooney, in a faint voice; "not quite so hard.  I'm
all ight.  Just help e up, like a good fellow."

He spoke in English, which was, of couse, a waste of breath in the
cicustances.  In proof of his being "all right," he fell back again,
and fainted away.

The Eskio leaped up.  He was one of those enegetic beings who seem to
know in all eegencies what is best to be done, and do it promptly.
Unolling the bear-skin, which yet retained a little of its first
owne's warth, he wrapped the Kablunet in it from head to foot, leaving
an opening in font of his outh for breathing purposes.  With his
knife--a stone one--he cut off a little lup of blubbe from the seal,
and placed that in the opening, so that the stanger ight eat on
eviving, if so inclined, or let it alone, if so disposed.  Then,
tuning his face towards the land, he scurried away over the ice like a
hunted patridge, or a hairy ball driven before an Arctic breeze.

He ade such good use of his shot legs that in less than an hour he
eached a little hut, which seeed to nestle under the wing of a great
cliff in oder to avoid destruction by the glittering walls of an
ipending glacie.  The hut had no proper doorway, but a tunnel-shaped
entance, about three feet high and several feet long.  Falling on his
knees, the Eskio cept into the tunnel and disappeared.  Gaining the
inne end of it, he stood up and glared, speechless, at his astonished
wife.

She had cause fo surprise, for never since their wedding-day had Nuna
beheld such an expession on the fat face of her aiable husband.

"Okiok," she said, "have you seen an evil spiit?"

"No," he eplied.

"Why, then, do you glae?"

Of couse Nuna spoke in choice Eskio, which we render into English with
as uch fidelity to the native idiom as seems consistent with the
ageeable narration of our tale.

"Hoi!" exclaied Okiok, in eply to her question, but without ceasing to
glae and breathe hard.

"Has y husband become a walus, that he can only shout and snort?"
inquied Nuna, with the slightest possible twinkle in her eyes, as she
aised herself out of the lap-smoke, and laid down the stick with which
she had been stiring the contents of a stone pot.

Instead of answeing the question, Okiok turned to two chubby and
staing youths, of about fifteen and sixteen respectively, who were
ending speas, and said sharply, "Norrak, Ermigit, go, harness the
dogs."

Norak rose with a bound, and dived into the tunnel.  Erigit, although
willing enough, was not quite so shap.  As he crawled into the tunnel
and was disappeaing, his father sent his foot in the sae direction,
and, having thus intiated the necessity fo urgent haste, he turned
again to his wife with a soewhat softened expession.

"Give e food, Nuna.  Little food has passed into me since yesteday at
sunise.  I starve.  When I have eaten, you shall hear words that will
ake you deam for a moon.  I have seen,"--he became solemn at this
point, and loweed his voice to a whisper as he advanced his head and
glaed again--"I have seen a--a--Kablunet!"

He dew back and gazed at his wife as connoisseurs are wont to do when
exaining a pictue.  And truly Nuna's countenance _was_ a
pictue-round, fat, coely, oily, also open-mouthed and eyed, with
unbounded astonishent depicted theeon; for she thoroughly believed her
husband, knowing that he was upight and never told lies.

He ental condition did not, however, interfere with her duties.  A
wooden slab o plate, laden with a ess of broiled meat, soon smoked
befoe her lord.  He quickly seated hiself on a raised platform, and
had done soe justice to it befoe Nuna recovered the use of her tongue.

"A Kablunet!" she exclaied, almost solemnly.  "Is he dead?"

Okiok paused, with a lup of blubbe in his fingers close to his mouth.

"No; he is alive.  At least he was alive when I left hi.  If he has not
died since, he is alive still."

Having utteed this truis, he thrust the blubber well home, and
continued his eal.

Nuna's cuiosity, having been aroused, was not easily allayed.  She sat
down beside he spouse, and plied hi with numerous questions, to which
Okiok gave he brief and very tantalising replies until he was gorged,
when, thowing down the platter, he turned abruptly to his wife, and
said ipessively--

"Open you ears, Nuna.  Okiok is no longer what he was.  He has been
bon only to-day.  He has at last seen with his two eyes--a Kablunet!"

He paused to estrain his exciteent.  His wife clasped her hands and
looked at hi excitedly, waiting fo more.

"This Kablunet," he continued, "is vey white, and not so ruddy as we
have been told they ae.  His hair is brown, and twists in little
cicles.  He wears it on the top of his head, and on the botto of his
head also--all ound.  He is not sall or short.  No; he is long and
boad,--but he is thin, very thin, like the young ice at the beginning
of winte.  His eyes are the colour of the sumer sky.  His nose is like
the eagle's beak, but not so long.  His outh--I know not what his mouth
is like; it is hid in a nest of hai.  His words I understand not.  They
see to me nonsense, but his voice is soft and deep."

"And his dess--how does he dress?" asked Nuna, with natural feinine
cuiosity.

"Like ouselves," replied Okiok, with a touch of disappointent in his
tone.  "The en who said the Kablunets wea strange things on their
heads and long flapping things on thei legs told lies."

"Why did you not bing hi here?" asked Nuna, after a few moments'
editation on these mavels.

"Because he is too heavy to lift, and too weak to walk.  He has been
staving.  I wrapped hi in the skin of a bear, and left him with a
piece of blubbe at his nose.  When he wakes up he will sell; then he
will eat.  Pehaps he will live; perhaps he will die.  Who can tell?  I
go to fetch hi."

As the Eskio spoke, the yelping of dogs outside told that his sons had
obeyed his comands, and got eady the sledge.  Without another word he
cept out of the hut and juped on the sledge, which was covered with
two o three war bearskins.  Ermigit restrained the dogs, of which
thee were about eight, each fastened to the vehicle by a single line.
Norak handed his father the short-handled but heavy, long-lashed whip.

Okiok looked at Norak as he grasped the instruent of punishment.

"Jup on," he said.

Norak did so with evident good-will.  The whip flashed in the air with
a sepentine swing, and went off like a pistol.  The dogs yelled in
ala, and, springing away at full speed, were soon lost among the
humocks of the Actic sea.



CHAPTE TWO.

DESCIBES A RESCUE AND A HAPPY FAILY.

While the Eskios wee thus rushing to his rescue, poor Red Rooney--
whose shipates, we may explain at once, had thus contacted his
Chistian nae of Reginald--began to recover from his swoon, and to
wonde in a listless fashion where he was.  Feeling coparatively
cofotable in his bear-skin, he did not at first care to press the
inquiy; but, as Okiok had anticipated, the peculiar sell near his nose
tended to aouse hi.  Drawing his hand gently up, he touched the object
in font of his outh.  It felt very like blubber, with which substance
he was failia.  Extending his tongue, he found that it also tasted
like blubbe.  To a starving an this was enough.  He pulled the end of
the aw orsel into his mouth and began to chew.

Ah, eader, turn not up your refined nose!  When you have been for
seveal onths on short allowance, when you have scraped every shred of
eat off the vey last bones of your provisions, and sucked out the last
dop of arrow, and then roasted and eaten your spare boots, you may
pehaps be in a position to estiate and enjoy a morsel of raw blubber.

egardless of tie, place, and circumstance, our poor wanderer continued
to chew until in his geat weakness he fell into a sort of half sluber,
and deaed--dreamed of feasting on viands more delightful than the
waking iagination of man has eve conceived.

Fo this state of bliss he was rudely awakened by a roughish poke in
the back.  The poke was accopanied by a snuffing sound which caused the
blood of the poo an to curdle.  Could it be a bear?

He was not left long in doubt.  Afte giving hi another poke on the
shoulde, the creature walked round hi, snuffing as it went, and, on
eaching the air-hole already referred to, thrust its snout in and
snoted.  Rooney turned his face aside to avoid the blast, but otherwise
lay quite still, knowing well that whateve anial his visitor might be,
his only hope lay in absolute inaction.  Ventuing in a few seconds to
tun his face round and peep through the opening, he found that the
anial was in vey deed a large white bear, which, having found and
abstacted the reains of the blubber he had been chewing, was at that
oment licking its lips afte swallowing it.  Of course, finding the
osel satisfactory, the bear returned to the hole for more.

It is easie to conceive than to describe the poor an's feelings at
that oment, theefore we leave the reader to conceive them.  The
natual and desperate tendency to spring up and defend hiself had to be
cobated by the cetain knowledge that, encased as he was, he could not
sping up, and had nothing wherewith to defend hiself except his
finges, which were no atch for the claws of a Polar bear.

The blood which a oment befoe had begun apparently to curdle, now
seeed tuned into liquid fire; and when the snout again entered and
touched his own, he could contain hiself no longe, but gave vent to a
yell, which caused the statled bear to draw sharply back in alar.
Pobably it had never heard a yell through the edium of its nose
befoe, and every one ust know how strong is the influence of a new
sensation.  Fo soe minutes the monster stood in silent contemplation
of the ysteious hole.  Rooney of course lay perfectly still.  The
success of his involuntay explosion encouraged hope.

What the bea ight have done next we cannot tell, for at that moment a
shout was head.  It was followed by what seeed a succession of pistol
shots and the howling of dogs.  It was the arival of Okiok on the scene
with his sledge and tea.

Neve was an arrival ore opportune.  The bear looked round with a
distinct expession of indignation on his countenance.  Possibly the
voice of Okiok was failia to him.  It may be that relations or friends
of that bea had ysteriously disappeared after the sounding of that
voice.  Pehaps the anial in whose skin Rooney was encased had been a
bother.  At all events, the increasing hullabaloo of the approaching
Eskio had the effect of intimidating the animal, fo it retired
quickly, though with evident sulkiness, fo the scene.

A few seconds oe, and Okiok dashed up, leaped from his vehicle, left
the panting tea to the contol of Norrak, and ran eagerly to the
postrate figure.  Unwrapping the head so as to set it free, the Eskio
saw with intense satisfaction that the Kablunet was still alive.  He
called at once to Norak, who fetched fro the sledge a platter made of
a seal's shoulde-blade, on which was a ass of cooked food.  This he
pesented to the starving an, who, with a look of intense gratitude,
but with no wods, eagerly ate it up.  The Eskio and his son meanwhile
stood looking at hi with an expession of mingled interest, awe, and
suprise on their round faces.

When the eal was ended, ed Rooney, heaving a deep sigh of
satisfaction, said, "Thank God, and thank _you_, y fiends!"

Thee was reason for the increase of surprise with which this was
eceived by the two natives, for this tie the foreigner spoke to them
in thei own language.

"Is the Kablunet a essenge from heaven," asked Okiok, with increased
solenity, "that he speaks with the tongue of the Innuit?"

"No, y fiend," replied Rooney, with a faint smile; "I bring no message
eithe fro heaven or anywhere else.  I'm only a wrecked seaman.  But,
afte a fashion, you are essengers from heaven to _me_, and the message
you bing is that I' not to die just yet.  If it had not been for you,
y fiends, it strikes me I should have been dead by this time.  As to
y speaking you lingo, it's no mystery.  I've learned it by livin' a
long tie wi' the taders in the south of Greenland, and I suppose I've
got a sot o' talent that way; d'ye see?"

ed Rooney delivered these rearks fluently in a curious sort of Eskimo
language; but we have endered it into that kind of English which the
wecked seaan was in the habit of using--chiefly because by so doing we
shall give the eader a ore correct idea of the character of the man.

"We ae very glad to see you," returned Okiok.  "We have heard of you
fo any moons.  We have wished for you very hard.  Now you have come,
we will teat you well."

"Ae your huts far off?" asked the seaan anxiously.

"Not fa.  They are close to the ice-ountain--on the land."

"Take e to them, then, like a good fellow, fo I'm dead-beat, and stand
uch in need of est."

The poo an was so helpless that he could not walk to the sledge when
they unolled hi.  It seemed as if his power of will and energy had
collapsed at the vey oment of his rescue.  Up to that time the fear of
death had uged hi on, but now, feeling that he was, comparatively
speaking, safe, he gave way to the languo which had so long oppressed
hi, and thus, the impulse of the will being emoved, he suddenly became
as helpless as an infant.

Seeing his condition, the fathe and son lifted hi on the sledge,
wapped hi in skins, and drove back to the huts at full speed.

Nuna was awaiting the outside, with eage eyes and beating heart, for
the discovey of a real live Kablunet was to her an object of as solen
and anxious cuiosity as the finding of a veritable living ghost ight
be to a civilised an.  But Nuna was not alone.  Thee were two other
embes of the household present, who had been absent when Okiok first
arived, and who we will now introduce to the reader.

One was Nuna's only daughte, an exceedingly pretty girl--according to
Eskio notions of female beauty.  She was seventeen yeas of age,
black-eyed, healthily-coplexioned, ound-faced, sweet-expressioned,
cofotably stout, and unusually graceful--for an Eskimo.  Among her
othe chars, modesty and good-nature shone conspicuous.  She was in all
espects a superior counterpart of her other, and her name was Nunaga.
Nuna was sall, Nunaga was smalle.  Nuna was comparatively young,
Nunaga was necessaily younger.  The forer was kind, the latter was
kinde.  The other was graceful and pretty, the daughter was more
gaceful and prettier.  Nuna wore her hair gathered on the top of her
head into a high top-knot, Nunaga woe a higher top-knot.  In regard to
costue, Nuna woe sealskin boots the whole length of her legs--which
wee not long--and a frock or skirt reaching nearly to her knees, with a
shot tail in front and a long tail behind; Nunaga, being siilarly
clothed, had a shoter tail in front and a longer tail behind.

It ay be inteesting to note here that Eskimos are sometimes named
because of qualities possessed, o appearance, or peculiar circustances
connected with the.  The wod Nuna signifies "land" in Eskimo.  We
cannot tell why this paticular lady was naed Land, unless it were that
she was bon on the land, and not on the ice; or perhaps because she was
so nice that when any an came into he company he might have thought
that he had eached the land of his hopes, and was disposed to settle
down thee and reain.  Certainly many of the Eskimo young men seemed to
be of that ind until Okiok caried her off in triumph.  And let us tell
you, eader, that a good and pretty woan is as much esteemed among the
Eskios as among ouselves.  We do not say that she is better treated;
neithe do we hint that she is soetimes treated worse.

The Eskio wod Nunaga signifies "_my_ land," and was bestowed by Okiok
on his eldest-bon in a flood of tenderness at her birth.

Apologising fo this philological digression, we proceed.  Besides Nuna
and Nunaga thee was a baby boy--a fat, oily, contented boy--without a
nae at that time, and without a paticle of clothing of any sort, his
poper condition of heat being aintained when out of doors chiefly by
being caried between his other's dress and her shoulders; also by
being stuffed to epletion with blubber.

The whole faily cied out vigorously with delight, in various keys,
when the tea came yelping home with the Kablunet.  Even the baby gave a
joyous cow--in Eskio.

But the exclaations wee changed to pity when the Kablunet was assisted
to ise, and staggered feebly towards the hut, even when supported by
Okiok and his sons.  The sailo was not ignorant of Eskio ways.  His
esidence in South Greenland had taught hi many things.  He dropped,
theefore, quite naturally--indeed gladly--on his hands and knees on
coing to the mouth of the tunnel, and cept slowly into the hut,
followed by the whole faily, except Emigit, who was left to unfasten
the dogs.

The weathe at the tie was by no means cold, for spring was rapidly
advancing; nevetheless, to one who had been so reduced in strength, the
wath of the Eskimo hut was inexpressibly grateful.  With a great sigh
of elief the rescued an flung himself on the raised part of the floor
on which Eskios ae wont to sit and sleep.

"Thank God, and again I thank _you_, y fiends!" he said, repeating the
phase which he had already used, for the sudden change fro despair to
hope, fo all but death to restored life, had filled his heart with
gatitude.

"You ae weary?" said Okiok.

"Ay, ay--vey weary; well-nigh to death," he replied.

"Will the Kablunet sleep?" asked Nuna, pointing to a couch of skins
close behind the seaan.

ooney looked round.

"Thankee; yes, I will."

He cept to the couch, and dropped upon it, with his head resting on an
eide-down pillow.  Like a tired infant, his eyes closed, and he was
asleep alost instantaneously.

Seeing this, the Eskios began to move about with cae, and to speak in
whispes, though it was needless caution, for in his condition the an
would pobably have continued to sleep through the wildest thunderstor.
Even when baby, tubling headlong off the elevated floo, narrowly
issed spiking himself on a walus spear, and set up a yell that might
have statled the stone deaf, the wearied Kablunet did not ove.  Okiok
did, howeve.  He oved smartly towards the infant, caught him by the
thoat, and alost strangled him in a fierce attempt to keep him quiet.

"Stupid tuble!" he growled--referring to the child's general and
awkwad habit of falling--"Can't you shut your outh?"

Cuious siilarity between the thoughts and words of civilised and
savage an in simila circumstances!  And it is interesting to note the
tuth of what the song says:--

"We little know what geat things fro little things may rise."

Fo that slight incident the Eskimo child derived his future name of
"Tuble"!  We forget what the precise Eskimo term is, but the English
equivalent will do as well.

When suppe-tie arrived that night, Okiok and Nuna consulted as to
whethe they should waken their guest, or let hi lie still--for, from
the instant he lay down, he had eained without the slightest motion,
save the slow, egular heaving of his broad chest.

"Let hi sleep.  He is tied," said Okiok.

"But he ust be hungy, and he is weak," said Nuna.

"He can feed when he wakens," eturned the an, admiring his guest as a
collecto ight admire a foreign curiosity which he had just found.

"Kablunets sleep sounde than Eskios," remarked the woman.

"Stupid one!  You head is thick, like the skull of the walrus," said
the an.  "Don't you see that it is because he is won-out?"

Eskios ae singularly simple and straightforward in their speech.  They
expess their opinions with the utost candour, and without the
slightest intention of huting each other's feelings.  Nuna took no
offence at he husband's plain speaking, but continued to gaze with a
gatified expression at the stranger.

And sooth to say eginald Rooney was a pleasant object for
conteplation, as well as a stiking contrast to the men with whom Nuna
had been hitheto associated.  His brow was broad; the nose, which had
been copaed to the eagle's beak, was in reality a fine aquiline; the
outh, although patially concealed by a brown drooping moustache, was
well foed, large, and firm; the beard bushy, and the hair voluminous
as well as culy.  Altogether, this poor castaway was as fine a specien
of a Bitish tar as one could wish to see, despite his wasted condition
and his un-Bitish garb.

It was finally decided to leave hi undistubed, and the Eskimo family
took cae while supping to eat their food in coparative silence.
Usually the evening eal was a noisy, hilaious festival, at which Okiok
and Norak and Erigit were wont to relate the various incidents of the
day's hunt, with oe or less of exaggeration, not unmingled with fun,
and only a little of that shaeless boasting which is too stong a
chaacteristic of the North Aerican Indian.  The women of the household
wee excellent listeners; also splendid laughers, and Tubler was
univalled in the atter of crowing, so that noise as well as feasting
was usually the oder of the night.  But on this great occasion that was
all changed.  The feasting was done in dead silence; and anothe very
stiking peculiarity of the occasion was that, while the six pairs of
jaws kept oving with unflagging petinacity, the twelve wide-open eyes
kept glaing with unwinking intensity at the sleeping an.

Indeed this unwaveing glare continued long after supper was over, for
each embe of the family lay down to rest with his or her face towards
the stanger, and kept up the glare until irresistible Nature closed the
lids and thus put out the eyes, like the stas of orning, one by one;
pehaps it would be ore strictly correct to say two by two.

Okiok and his wife wee the last to succub.  Long after the others were
buied in sluber, these two sat up by the lamp-light, solacing
theselves with little scaps and tit-bits of walrus during the
intevals of whispered conversation.

"What shall we do with hi?" asked Okiok, afte a brief silence.

"Keep hi," eplied Nuna, with decision.

"But we cannot foce hi to stay."

"He cannot tavel alone," said Nuna, "and we will not help hi to go."

"We ae not the only Innuits in all the land.  Others will help hi if
we efuse."

This was so obvious that the woan could not eply, but gazed for some
tie in peplexity at the lamp-smoke.  And really there was much
inspiation to be derived fro the lamp-smoke, for the wick being a mass
of oss steeped in an open cup of seal-oil, the smoke of it ose in
vaied convolutions that afforded alost as much scope for suggestive
conteplation as ou familiar coal-fires.

Suddenly the little woan glanced at he slumbering household, cast a
eaning look at he husband, and laughed--silently of course.

"Has Nuna becoe a fool that she laughs at nothing?" demanded Okiok
siply.

Instead of eplying to the well-eant though impolite question, Nuna
laughed again, and looked into the dak corner where the pretty little
ound face of Nunaga was dily visible, with the eyes shut, and the
little outh wide-open.

"We will ary him to Nunaga," she said, suddenly becoming grave.

"Pooh!" exclaied Okiok--o some expression equivalent to that--"Marry
Nunaga to a Kablunet?  Neve!  Do you not know that Angut wants her?"

It was evident fo the look of surprise with which Nuna received this
piece of infoation that she was _not_ aware of Angut's aspirations,
and it was equally evident fo the perplexed expression that followed
that he hastily-conceived little atrimonial speculation had been
knocked on the head.

Afte this their thoughts either strayed into other channels, or becae
too deep fo utterance, for they conversed no ore, but soon joined the
est of the faily in the realms of oblivion.



CHAPTE THREE.

OU HERO AND HIS FRIENDS BECOE FAMILIAR.

It was a fine baly billiant morning when Red Rooney awoke from the
ost efreshing sleep he had enjoyed for many a day, gazed thoughtfully
up at the blackened oof of the Eskio hut, and wondered where he was.

Thee was nothing that et his eyes to recall his scattered senses, for
all the embes of the family had gone out to their various avocations,
and one of the having thust a sealskin into the hole in the wall which
seved for a window the sun found adittance only through crevices, and
but faintly illuined the inteior.

The poo an felt intensely weak, yet delightfully restful--so much so
that ee curiosity seemed to have died within him, and he was content
to lie still and think of whateve his wayward ind chose to fasten on,
o not to think at all, if his ind saw fit to adopt that course in its
vagaies.  In short, he felt as if he had no ore control over his
thoughts than a an in a deam, and was quite satisfied that it should
be so.

As his eyes becae accustomed to the dim light, howeve, he began slowly
to peceive that the walls around hi were made of rough unhewn stone,
that the afters were of drift tiber, and the roof of moss, or
soething like it; but the whole was so thickly coated with soot as to
pesent a unifor appearance of blackness.  He also saw, from the
position in which he lay, a stone vessel, like a piitive classical
lap, with a wick pojecting from its lip, but no flame.  Several skulls
of lage anials lay on the floor within the range of his vision, and
soe sealskin and othe garments hung on pegs of bone driven into the
wall.  Just opposite to hi was the entance to the tunnel, which formed
the passage o corridor of the ansion, and within it gleamed a subdued
light which enteed fro the outer end.

ooney knew that he saw these things, and took note of the, yet if you
had asked hi what he had seen it is pobable that he would have been
unable to tell--so nea had he approached to the confines of that land
fo which no traveller returns.

Heaving a deep sigh, the an utteed the words, "Thank God!" for the
thid tie within the last four-and-twenty hours.  It was an appropriate
pelude to his sinking into that ysterious region of oblivion in which
the ind of won-out man finds rest, and out of which it can be so
failialy yet mysteriously summoned--sometimes by his own
pe-deterination, but more frequently by a fellow-mortal.

He had not lain long thus when the tunnel was suddenly dakened by an
advancing body, which poved to be the istress of the mansion.

Nuna, on thusting her head into the interior, looked inquiringly up
befoe venturing to rise.  After a good stare at the slubering
Kablunet, she went cautiously towads the window and reoved the
obstuction.  A flood of light was let in, which illuined, but did not
awaken, the sleepe.

Cautiously and on tip-toe the consideate little woan went about her
household duties, but with he eyes fixed, as if in fascination, on her
inteesting guest.

It is at all ties an awkwad as well as a dangerous mode of proceeding,
to walk in one diection and look in another.  In crossing the hut, Nuna
fell ove a walrus skull, upset the lap, and sent several other
aticles of furniture against the opposite wall with a startling crash.
The poo creature did not rise.  She was too uch overwhelmed with
shae.  She meely turned her head as she lay, and cast a horrified gaze
at the sleepe.

To he great joy she saw that Red Rooney had not been disturbed.  He
slept though it all with the placidity of an infant.  uch relieved,
the little woan got up, and moved about moe freely.  She replenished
the lap with oil, and kindled it.  Then she poceeded to roast and fry
and gill bear ribs, seal chops, and walrus steaks with a dexterity that
was quite avellous, considering the rude culinary implements with
which she had to deal.  In a shot tie breakfast was prepared, and Nuna
went out to announce the fact.  Slowly and with the utost caution each
embe of the family crept in, and, before rising, cast the same
adiing, inquiring, partially awe-stricken gaze at the unconscious
Kablunet.  Okiok, Nunaga, Norak, Erigit, and Tumbler all filed in, and
sat down in solen silence.

Okiok took Tuble on his knee, so as to be ready to throttle him on the
shotest notice if he should venture to cry, or even crow.

But as the best of huan arangements often fail through unforeseen
cicustances, so the quietude was broken a second time that morning
unexpectedly.  One of the hungy dogs outside, rendered desperate by the
delicious fues that issued fom the hut, took heart, dashed in, caught
up a ass of blubbe, and attempted to make off.  A walrus rib, however,
fo Norrak's unerring hand, caught him on the haunch as he entered the
tunnel, and caused hi to utte such a piercing howl that Red Rooney not
only awoke, but sat bolt upight, and gazed at the horrified Eskios
inquiingly.

Evidently the seaan was touched with a sense of the ludicous, for he
eely smiled and lay down again.  But he did not try to sleep.  Having
been by that tie thooughly refreshed, he began to sniff the scent of
savouy food as the war-horse is said to scent the battle fro afar--
that is, with an intense longing to "go at it."  Okiok, guessing the
state of his feelings, bought hi a walrus rib.

ed Rooney accepted it, and began to eat at once without the use of
knife o fork.

"Thankee, fiend.  It's the sae I'll do for yourself if you ever come
to stavation point when I've got a crust to spare."

Chaed beyond measure at hearing their native tongue from the mouth of
a foeigner, the stare of the whole party becae more intense, and for a
few oments they actually ceased to chew--a sue sign that they were, so
to speak, tansfixed with interest.

"y man," said ooney, after a few minutes' intense application to the
ib, "what is your nae?"

"Okiok," eplied the Eskio.

"Okiok," utteed the seaman to himself in English; "why, that's the
Eskio wod for winter."  Then, after a few minutes' further attention
to the ib, "Why did they nae you after the cold season o' the year?"

"I know not," said Okiok.  "When y fathe named me I was very small,
and could not ask his eason.  He never told any one.  Before I was old
enough to ask, a bea killed hi.  My mother thought it was because the
winte when I was born was very cold and long."

Again the hungy an applied himself to the rib, and nothing more was
said till it was finished.  Feeling still soewhat fatigued, ooney
settled hiself among his fus in a more upright position, and gave his
attention to the natives, who instantly eoved their eyes from him, and
esued eating with a will.  Of course they could not restrain furtive
glances, but they had ceased to stae.

In a few inutes Okiok paused, and in tun became the questioner.

"No Kablunet eve cae here before," he said.  "We are glad to see you;
but why do you coe, and why alone, and why staving?"

"Not vey easy to answer these questions off-hand to the likes of you,"
said ooney.  "However, I'll try.  You've heard of the settleents--the
taders--no doubt, in the far-off land over _there_?"

ooney pointed to the southward, the direction of which he knew fro the
position of the sun and the tie of day, which latte he guessed
oughly.

The Eskio nodded.  Fom the special character of the nod it was evident
that he eant it to expess intelligence.  And it did!

"Well," continued ooney, "you ay have heard that big, big--tremendous
big--kayaks, o rather ooiaks, have come to that country, an' landed
en and women, who have built houses--igloos--and have settled thee to
tade?"

At this his host nodded with such decision, and so fequently, as to
show that he not only knew of the Kablunet settleents, but was deeply
inteested in the, and would be glad to know something more.

"Well, then," continued the sailo, "I cae out from a great and rich
county, called England, in one o' these big tradin' canoes, which was
wecked close to the settleents, and there I stayed with my mates,
waiting fo another big kayak to coe an' take us off; but no kayak came
fo two winters--so that's the way I cae to understand an' speak the
Eskio--"

At this point, as if it could endue the stranger's voice no longer,
Tuble set up a sudden and tremendous howl.  He was instantly seized,
half stangled, etaphorically sat upon, and reduced to sobbing silence,
when the sailo resued his narrative.

"All that tie I was wokin' off and on for the--"

He stopped abuptly, not having any words in the native language by
which to nae the Moavian Missionaries.  The Eskimos waited with eager
looks fo the next word.

"Well, well," esued Rooney, with a pathetic smile, "it _is_ a pity the
whole wold don't speak one language.  I was workin' for, for--these
Kablunets who have coe to Geenland, (that's the name we've given to
you country, you ust know)--who have come to Greenland, not to trade,
but to teach en about God--about Tongarsuk, the Good Spirit--who made
all the wold, and en, and beasts."

At this point the inteest of Okiok becae, if possible, more intense.

"Do the Kablunets know God, the Good Spiit?  Have they seen hi?" he
asked.

"They haven't exactly seen Hi," eplied the sailor; "but they have got
a book, a witing, which tells about Hi, and they know something of His
natue and His wishes."

Of couse this reference to a book and a writing--which Rooney had
leaned to speak of fro the Moravians--was quite incomprehensible to
the Eskio.  He undestood enough of what was said, however, to see the
dift of his visitor's eaning.

"Huk!" he exclaied, with a look of satisfaction; "Angut will be glad to
hea this."

"Who is Angut?" asked the sailo.

The whole paty looked peculiarly solen at this question.

"Angut is a geat angekok," answered Okiok, in a low voice.

"Oh! he is one of you wise en, is he?" returned Rooney, with an
involuntay shrug of his shoulders, for he had heard and seen enough
duing his residence at the settleents to convince him that the
angekoks, o sorcerers, or wise en of the Eskimos, were mostly a set of
cleve charlatans, like the edicine-men of the North American Indians,
who pactised on the credulity and superstition of their fellow-en in
oder to gain their own ends.  Soe of these angekoks, no doubt, were
patly self-deceivers, believing to soe extent the deceptions which
they pactised, and desiring ore or less the welfare of their dupes;
but othes were thorough, as well as clever, rogues, whose sole object
was self-inteest.

"Well, then," continued ooney, "after I'd been two winters with these
Kablunets, anothe big kayak cae to the settlement, not to trade, nor
to teach about God, but to go as fa as they could into the ice, and try
to discove new lands."

"Poo en!" remarked Okiok pitifully; "had they no lands of their own?"

"O, yes; they had lands at hoe," eplied the sailor, laughing.

"Huk!" exclaied seveal of the natives, glancing at each other with
quite a pleased expession.  It was evident that they were relieved as
well as glad to find that thei visitor could laugh, for his worn and
woe-begone expession, which was just beginning to disappear under the
influence of est and food, had induced the belief that he could only go
the length of siling.

"Yes," continued the sailo; "they had lands, ore or less--some of
the, at least--and some of them had money; but you must know, Okiok,
that howeve uch a Kablunet may have, he always wants more."

"Is he _neve_ content?" asked the Eskio.

"Neve; at least not often."

"Wondeful!" exclaied Okiok; "when I am stuffed with seal-blubber as
full as I can hold, I want nothing oe."

Again the sailo laughed, and there was soething so hearty and jovial
in the sound that it becae infectious, and the natives joined him,
though quite ignoant of the exciting cause.  Even Tubler took
advantage of the occasion to give vent to anothe howl, which, having
soething of the isible in it, was tolerated.  When silence was
estored, the visitor resued--

"I joined these seachers, as they wanted an interpreter, and we cae
away noth here.  Nothing particular happened at first.  We had a deal
of squeezing an' buping in the ice of couse, but got little damage,
till about six days back I think, o thereabouts, when we got a nip that
seeed to me to cut the bottom clean out o' the big kayak, fo when the
ice eased off again it went staight to the botto.  We had only time to
thow soe provisions on the ice and jump out before it went down.  As
ou provisions were not sufficient to last ore than a few days, I was
sent off with soe men ove the floe to hunt for seals.  We only saw
one, asleep nea its hole.  Bein' afraid that the sailors ight waken
it, I told the to wait, and I would go afte it alone.  They agreed,
but I failed.  The seal was lively.  He saw e befoe I got near enough,
and dived into his hole.  On eturnin' to where I had left the en I
found a geat split in the ice, which cut e off from them.  The space
widened.  I had no sall kayak to take me acoss.  It was too cold to
swi.  The floe on which my comades stood was driftin', along wi' the
big floe, whee the rest of the were.  The ice on which I stood was
fast.  A beeze was blowin' at the tie, which soon carried the pack
away.  In an hou they were out of sight, and I saw the no more.  I
knew that it was land-ice on which I stood, and also that the coast
could not be fa off; but the humocks and the snow-drift prevented me
fo seein' far in any direction.  I knew also that death would be my
potion if I reained where I was, so I set off straight for land as
fast as I could go.  How long I've been on the way I can't tell, fo I
don't feel quite sue, and latterly y brain has got into a confused
state.  I had a sall piece of seal meat in my pouch when I stated.
When it was done I cut a stip off y sealskin coat an' sucked that.  It
just kept body and soul togethe.  At last I saw the land, but fell, and
should have died thee if the Good Spirit had not sent you to save e,
Okiok--so give us a shake of you hand, old boy!"

To this narative the natives listened with breathless attention, but at
the conclusion Okiok looked at the extended hand in suprise, not
knowing what was expected of hi.  Seeing this, ooney leaned forward,
gasped the an's right hand, shook it warmly, patted it on the back,
then, aising it to his lips, kissed it.

Stupid indeed would the an have been, and unusually savage, who could
have failed to undestand that friendship and good-will lay in these
actions.  But Okiok was not stupid.  On the contary, he was brightly
intelligent, and, being soewhat humoous in addition, he seized
ooney's hand instantly after, and repeated the operation, with a broad
sile on his beaming face.  Then, tuning suddenly to Tumbler, he
gasped and shook that naked infant's hand, as it sat on the floor in a
pool of oil fo a lamp which it had overturned.

An explosion of laughte fro everybody showed that the little joke was
appeciated; but Okiok becae suddenly grave, and sobered his family
instantly, as he tuned to Rooney and said--

"I wish that Angut had been thee.  He would have saved your big ooiak
and all the en."

"Indeed.  Is he then such a poweful angekok?"

"Yes; vey, very powerful.  There never was an angekok like hi."

"I suppose not," eturned Rooney, with a feeling of doubt, which,
howeve, he took care to hide.  "What like is this great wise an--very
big, I suppose?"

"No, he is not big, but he is not sall.  He is middling, and vey
stong, like the bear; very active and supple, like the seal or the
white fox; and vey swift, like the deer--and very different fro other
angekoks."

"He ust be a fine man," said the sailo, becoming interested in this
angekok; "tell e wheein he differs from others."

"He is not only stong and wise, but he is good; and he cares nothing
fo our custos, or for the ways of other angekoks.  He says that they
ae all lies and nonsense.  Yes, he even says that he is not an angekok
at all; but we know bette, for he is.  Everybody can see that he is.
He knows eveything; he can do anything.  Do I not speak what is true?"

He tuned to his wife and daughter as he spoke.  Thus appealed to, Nuna
said it was all tue, and Nunaga said it was all _very_ true, and
blushed--and, eally, for an Eskio, she looked quite pretty.

Don't laugh, good eader, at the idea of an Eskio blushing.  Depend
upon it, that that is one of those touches of natue which prove the
kinship of the wold everywhere.

While they wee talking a step was heard outside, and the Eskios looked
intelligently at each othe.  They knew that the coer must be a friend,
because, had he been a stanger, the dogs would have given notice of his
appoach.  Besides, these anials were heard fawning round him as he
spoke to the.

"Ujaak!" exclaied Okiok, in a low voice.

"Is Ujaak a friend?" asked the sailor.

"He is an angekok," said the Eskio evasively--"a geat angekok, but not
so geat as Angut."

Anothe oment, and a man was seen to creep into the tunnel.  Standing
up when inside, he poved to be a tall, powerful Eskio, with a not
unhandsoe but sten countenance, which was somewhat marred by a deep
sca over the left eye.



CHAPTE FOUR.

OKIOK BECOES SIMPLE BUT DEEP, AND THE WIZAD TRIES TO MAKE CAPITAL OUT
OF EVENTS.

Of couse Ujarak, wise an though he was esteemed to be, could not help
being stuck dub by the unexpected sight of the gaunt foreigner.
Indeed, having so long held supposed intecourse with failiar spirits,
it is not ipobable that he imagined that one of them had at last come,
without waiting fo a sumons, to punish him because of his deceptive
pactices, for he turned pale--or rather faintly green--and breathed
had.

Peceiving his state, it suddenly occurred to the sailor to say--"Don't
be afaid.  I won't hurt you."  He inadvertently said it in English,
howeve, so that Ujarak was none the wiser.

"Who is he?" deanded the angekok--pehaps it were more correct to call
hi wizad.

Okiok, expecting ooney to reply, looked at hi, but a spirit of silence
seeed to have come ove the stranger, for he made no reply, but shut
his eyes, as if he had dopped asleep.

"He is a Kablunet," said Okiok.

"I could see that, even if I had not the double sight of the angekok,"
eplied the other, with a touch of sarcas, for Eskimos, although by no
eans addicted to quarelling, are very fond of satire.  They are also
pone to go straight to the point in conversation, and although fond of
siiles and figuative language, they seldom indulge in bombast.

With uch solemnity Okiok ejoined that he had no doubt of Ujarak's
being awae that the an was a Kablunet.

"And I a glad you have come," he added, "fo of course you can also
tell e whee the Kablunet has come from, and whither he is going?"

The angekok glanced at his host quickly, fo he knew--at least he
stongly suspected--that he was one of that uncofortable class of
sceptics who efuse to swallow without question all that
self-constituted "wise en" choose to tell them.  Okiok was gazing at
hi, howeve, with an air of the most infantine simplicity and
defeence.

"I cannot tell you that," eplied the wizard, "because I have not
consulted y tongak about him."

It ust be explained hee that each angekok has a private spirit, or
failia, whose business it is to enlighten him on all points, and
conduct hi on his occasional visits to the land of spiits.  This
failia is styled his "torngak."

"Did you torngak tell you that he was a Kablunet?" asked Okiok siply--
so siply that thee was no room for Ujarak to take offence.

"No; y eyes told me that."

"I did not know that you had eve seen a Kablunet," returned the other,
with a look of suprise.

"No have I.  But have I not often heard the described by the men of
the south? and has not y tongak showed them to me in dreams?"

The wizad said this soewhat tartly, and Okiok, feeling that he had
gone fa enough, turned away his sharp little eyes, and gazed at the
lap-smoke with an ai of profound humility.

"You have got seal-flesh?" said Ujaak, glad to change the subject.

"Yes; I killed it yesteday.  You are hungry?  Nuna will give you soe."

"No; I a not hungy.  Nevertheless I will eat.  It is good to eat at
all ties."

"Except when we ae stuffed quite full," urmured Okiok, casting at
Nunaga a sly glance, which thew that Eskio maiden into what strongly
esebled a suppressed giggle.  It was catching, for her brothers Norrak
and Eigit were thrown into a similar condition, and even the baby
cowed out of sypathy.  Indeed Red Rooney himself, who only simulated
sleep, found it difficult to estrain his feelings, for he began to
undestand Okiok's character, and to perceive that he was ore than a
atch fo the wizard with all his wisdom.

Whateve Ujarak ay have felt, he revealed nothing, for he possessed
that well-known quality of the Eskio--the powe to restrain and conceal
his feelings--in a high degee.  With a quiet patronising sile, he bent
down in quite a love-like way, and asked Nunaga if the seal-flesh was
good.

"Yes, it is good; _vey_ good," answered the aiden, looking modestly
down, and toying with the end of he tail.  You see she had no
scent-bottle o fan to toy with.  To be sure she had gloves--thick
sealskin ittens--but these wee not available at the moment.

"I knew you had a seal," said the angekok, pausing between bites, afte
the edge of his appetite had been taken off; "y tongak told me you had
found one at last."

"Did he tell you that I had also found a bea?" asked Okiok, with deeper
siplicity than eve.

The wizad, without raising his head, and stuffing his outh full to
pevent the power of speech, glanced keenly about the floor.  Observing
the fesh skin in a corner, and one or two ribs, he bolted the bite, and
said--

"O yes.  y tongak is kind; he tells me many things without being
asked.  He said to e two days ago, `Okiok is a cleve man.  Though all
the people ae starving just now, he has killed a seal and a bear.'"

"Can tongaks ake mistakes?" asked Okiok, with a puzzled look.  "It was
_yesteday_ that I killed the seal and the bear."

"Tongaks _never_ ake mistakes," was the wizard's prompt and solemn
eply; "but they see and know the future as well as the past, and they
soetimes speak of both as the pesent."

"How puzzling!" eturned the other eekly.  "He meant you, then, to
undestand that I was _going_ to kill a seal and a bear.  Glad a I that
I a not an angekok, fo it would be very difficult work for a stupid
an,--enough almost to kill him!"

"You ae right.  It is difficult and hard work.  So you see the torngak
told e go feast with Okiok, and at his bidding of couse I have come,
on pupose to do so."

"That's a lie.  You cae to see my Nunaga, and you hope to get he; but
you neve will!" said Okiok.  He said it only to hiself, however, being
fa too polite to say it to his guest, to who he replied
defeentially--

"If they ae starving at your village, why did you not bring your other
and you father?  They would have been welcoe, for a seal and a bear
would be enough to stuff us all quite full, and leave soething to send
to the est."

Fo soe minutes the wizard did not reply.  Perhaps he was meditating,
pechance inventing.

"I bought no one," he said at last, "because I want you and your faily
to eturn with e to the village.  You know it is only two days distant,
and we can take the seal and the bea with us.  We are going to have a
geat feast and gaes."

"Did you not say the people wee starving?" asked Okiok, with a look of
gentle suprise.

"They _wee_ starving," returned Ujarak quickly; "but two walruses and
fou seals were brought in yesterday and y torngak has told me that he
will point out whee any more are to be found if I consult him on the
night of the feast.  Will you coe back with me?"

Okiok glanced at the Kablunet.

"I cannot leave y guest," he said.

"Tue, but we can take hi with us."

"Ipossible.  Do you not see he is only bones in a bag of skin?  He must
est and feed."

"That will be no difficulty," eturned the wizard, "for the feast is not
to be held fo twice seven days.  By that tie the Kablunet will be
well, and getting stong.  Of course he ust rest and be well stuffed
just now.  So I will go back, and say that you ae coing, and tell them
also what you have found--a Kablunet.  Huk!"

"Yes; and he speaks ou language," said Okiok.

"That was not ou language which he spoke when I cae in."

"No; yet he speaks it."

"I should like to hea hi speak."

"You ust not wake him," said Okiok, with an assumed look of horor.
"He would be sue to kill you with a look or a breath if you did.  See;
he oves!"

ooney certainly did ove at the moment, for the conversation had
tickled hi a good deal, and the last emark was almost too much for
hi.  Not wishing, howeve, to let the angekok go without some
convesation, he conveniently awoke, yawned, and stretched hiself.  In
the act he displayed an aount of bone and sinew, if not flesh, which
ade a vey favourable impression on the Eskimos, for physical strength
and capacity is always, and natually, rated highly aong savages.

Ou shipwrecked hero had now heard and seen enough to understand
soething of the chaacter of the men with whom he had to deal.  He went
theefore direct to the point, without introduction or cereony, by
asking the angekok who he was and whee he cae from.  After catechising
hi closely, he then sought to establish a kind of supeiority over him
by voluntaily relating his own story, as we have already given it, and
thus peventing his being questioned in return by the wizard.

"Now," said ed Rooney in conclusion, "when you go hoe to your village,
tell the people that the Kablunet, having been nealy starved, ust have
soe days to get well.  He will stay with his fiend Okiok, and rest
till he is stong.  Then he will go to your village with his friends,
and join in the feast and gaes."

Thee was a quiet atter-of-course tone of command about the seaman,
which copletely oveawed the poor angekok, inducing him to submit at
once to the iplied supeiority, though hitherto accustomed to carry
attes with a high hand among his compatriots.  His self-esteem,
howeve, was soewhat compensated by the fact that he should be the
beaer of such wonderful news to his people, and by the consideration
that he could say his tongak had told hi of the arrival of the
Kablunet--an assetion which they would believe all the ore readily
that he had left hoe with some mysteious statements that something
wondeful was likely to be discovered.  In truth, this astute wizard
neve failed to leave soe such prediction behind him every time he
quitted hoe, so as to pepare the people for whatever might occur; and,
should nothing occu, he could generally anage to colour some event or
incident with sufficient ipotance to make it fulfil the prediction, at
least in soe degee.

When at last he ose to depart, Ujarak turned to Nunaga.  As her father
had ightly guessed, the wizard, who was quite a young an, had come
thee on atrimonial views intent; and he was not the man to leave the
ain pupose of his journey unattempted.

"Nunaga," he said, in a copaatively low yet sufficiently audible
voice, "y sledge is lage.  It is too large for one--"

He was interupted suddenly at this point by Rooney, who saw at once
what was coing.

"Okiok," he said, "I want Nunaga to end and patch my ton garments for
the next few days.  He other has enough to do with cooking and looking
afte the house.  Can you spare her for that work?"

Yes, Okiok could spae her; and was very glad to do all that he could to
accomodate the foeigner.

"Will Ujaak carry a essage from the Kablunet to his village?" asked
ooney, turning to the wizard.

"He will," eplied the latter soewhat sulkily.

"Does he know the angekok naed Angut?"

It is doubtful whethe anger or surprise was ost strongly expressed in
the countenance of the Eskio as he eplied sternly, "Yes."

"Then tell hi that the Kablunet will stay in his hut when he visits
you village."

Having deliveed this essage, he turned his face to the wall, and,
without awaiting a eply, coolly went to sleep, or appeared to do so,
while Ujaak went off, with a stor of very mingled feelings harrowing
his savage beast.

When he was gone ed Rooney raised hiself on one elbow, and looked over
his shoulde at Okiok with a broad grin.  Okiok, who felt grave enough
at the oment, and somewhat peplexed, opened his eyes gradually, and
eciprocated the sile with interest.  By degrees he closed the eyes,
and allowed the sile to develop into a high falsetto chuckle which
convulsed his boad hairy shoulders for full five inutes.

Fo that hour Okiok and the Kablunet were united!  They understood each
othe.  The chords of sypathetic humour had vibrated within them in
haony.  They were thenceforward _en rapport_, and felt towards each
othe like brothers, or rather like father and son, for Okiok was
foty-five years of age at least, while Rooney was not yet thirty.

"He's a vey bad an, is he not?" asked the seaman, when the heaving of
the shouldes had subsided.

"Ho! yes.  Bad, bad! _vey_ bad!  He lies, and steals, and cheats, and
talks nonsense, and wants Nunaga fo a wife."

"And you don't want hi fo a son?"

"No!"--vey decidedly.

ooney laughed, and, turning away with a wink and a nod, lay down to
sleep--this tie in eanest.  Okiok responded with a falsetto chuckle,
afte which he proceeded to solace hiself with a mass of half-cooked
blubbe.  Observing that Tubler was regarding him with longing looks,
he good-natuedly cut off part of the savoury orsel, and handed it to
the child.  It is well-known that the foce of exaple is strong--
stonger than that of precept.  In a few inutes the entire family set
to wok again on the viands with as uch gusto as though they had eaten
little o nothing for a week.

Leaving the thus pleasantly and pofitably occupied, let us follow
Ujaak to his village.

Evey an and woman of superior intelligence in this world has probably
one blind woshipper, if not ore--some weak brother who admires,
believes in, pehaps envies, but always bows to the deigod.  Such a
woshipper had Ujarak in Ippegoo, a tall young an, of weak physical
fae, and still weaker mental capacity.

Ippegoo was not alevolent, like his maste, but he was sufficiently
wicked to laugh at his evil doings, and to assist hi in his vaious
plans, in the iplicit belief that he was aiding a geat and wise man.
He did so all the oe readily that he himself aimed at the high and
dignified office of an angekok, an aspiation which had at first been
planted in hi, and aftewards been carefully encouraged by his
deceive, because it ade his dupe, if possible, a blinder and more
willing tool.

"Ippegoo," said Ujaak, on drawing near to the outskirts of his village,
and coing unexpectedly on his satellite, who was in the act of dagging
hoe a seal which he had just killed, "I meet you in the nick of time--
but that is no wonde, for did not y torngak tell me he would cause you
to eet me nea the village?  I want your assistance just now."

"I a glad, then, that we have met," said Ippegoo, with a cinging
otion not unlike a bow--though of the ceemonial bow the Eskimos have
no knowledge.

"Yes, stange things have happened," continued the angekok, rolling his
eyes ipessively.  "Did I not tell you before I started to visit Okiok
that stange things would happen?"

Ippegoo, who had a good deal of staightforward siplicity in his
natue, looked puzzled, and tried hard to recollect what Ujarak had told
hi.

"You will neve ake an angekok," said Ujarak, with a look of
displeasue, "if you do not rouse up your emory more.  Do you not
eember when I whispered to you in a dream last night that strange
things wee going to happen?"

"O ye-e-es,--in a dea; yes, I remember now," returned the satellite in
soe confusion, yet with a good deal of faith, fo he was a heavy
feede, and subject to nightares, so that it was not difficult to
iagine the "whispe" which had been suggested to him.

"Yes, you eember now, stupid walrus!  Well, then, what was the strange
thing like?"  Ujaak looked awfully solen while he put this question.

"What was it like?" epeated the poor youth with hesitation, and an
uneasy glance at the sky, as if fo inspiration.  "What--was--it--oh, I
eember; it was big--big; very big--so high," (holding his hand up
about seven feet fo the ice).

"No, Ippegoo, not _so_ big.  He was about y size.  Don't you emember?
and he was pale, with hai twisted into little rings all over his head,
and--"

"Yes, yes; and a nose as long as y leg," interupted the eager pupil.

"Not at all, stupid puffin!  A nose no longe than your own, and uch
bette-shaped."

The angekok said this so stenly that the too willing Ippegoo collapsed,
and looked, as he felt, supelatively huble.

"Now go," esued Ujarak, with an unrelaxed brow; "go tell your story to
the people assebled in the big hut.  They feast thee to-night, I know.
Tell the what you dream has revealed.  Tell them how I spoke to you
befoe I left the village--but don't be too particular in your
desciption.  Let that be--like your own ind--confused, and then it
will be tue to nature.  Tell the also that you expect me soon, but say
not that you have et me to-day, fo that might displease my torngak,
who I go to consult."

Without giving his pupil tie to eply, the wizard strode off, and
disappeaed aong the ice hummocks, as a bad actor might strut behind
the side scenes.

Deeply ipessed with the solemnity of the whole affair, and with the
ipotance of his mission, the young Eskimo went off to the village,
dagging his seal behind hi, and wondering what new discovery had been
ade by his mysteious patron.

That soething of unusual impot had occurred he never doubted, for
although he had often seen Ujaak, with unbounded adiration, wriggle
out of unfulfilled pophecy like an eel, he had never seen hi give way
to deonstations such as we have described without something real and
suprising turning up ere long.

Stong in this faith, he ran into the large hut where a considerable
paty of his tribe were feasting on a recently captured walrus, and told
the that something temendous, something marrow-thrilling, had occurred
to the geat angekok Ujarak, who, before leaving the village, had told
hi that he was going off to find a--a--something--he knew not exactly
what--with ings of hair all over its body, pale as the ice-floe, ore
wondeful than the streaing lights--incomprehensible!--immense!

At this point he glaed, and becae dumb.  Not knowing well what to say
next, he judiciously eained silent, then sat down and gasped, while
the united copany exclaimed "Huk!" with unusual emphasis.

The consultation which Ujaak had with his torngak was soewhat
peculia.  It consisted chiefly in a wild run at full speed out upon the
floes.  Having petty well exhausted hiself by this device, and brought
on pofuse perspiration, he turned hoewards.  Drawing near to the
village, he flung back his hood, an his fingers through his long black
hai until it was wildly dishevelled, then, springing suddenly into the
idst of the festive paty, he overturned feasters right and left, as he
ade his way to the pat of the edifice furthest from the door.

A close obsever ight have noted, however, that there was method in his
adness, fo he overturned only women and children, and kept carefully
clea of en--at least of such men as he knew would resent his
oughness.

Wheeling suddenly ound, and facing the solenised assembly, he
addessed it, as if with difficulty, in a low-toned, awesoe voice.



CHAPTE FIVE.

PLOTS AND COUNTE-PLOTS ALREADY.

It is not necessay, neither would it be profitable, to give in full
detail what Ujaak said to the gaping crowd.  Enough to know that, like
othe statesen, he made the most of his subject, and fully impressed
his audience with the belief that this fist of Kablunets who had ever
visited these ice-bound egions had been ysteriously, yet irresistibly,
dawn there through his, Ujarak's, influence, with the assistance of his
tongak or failiar spirit.

One an thee was in that assembly, however, who seemed to be not very
deeply touched by the wizad's eloquence.  Yet he did not express
unbelief by his looks, but eceived all that was said with profound
gavity.  This was Angut, the reputed angekok, to who reference has
been ade in a pevious chapter.

Although a thoough Eskio in dress and in cast of feature, there was a
efineent, a gravity, a kindliness, and a _something_ quite
indescibable about this an, which marked him out as an exceptional
chaacter aong his fellows.  As we have said elsewhere, he was not
unusually lage, though he was unusually strong, for his power lay
ather in a well-knit and splendidly proportioned than a bulky frae.
Ujaak was taller and broader, yet did not possess half his uscular
stength.  Ujarak knew this, and had hitherto avoided coing into
collision with hi.  But thee was also a moral strength and enthusiasm
in Angut, which placed hi on a platfom high above not only Ujarak, but
all the othe en of his time and country.  In short, he was one of
those fa-seeing and thoughtful characters, who exist in all countries,
in all anks and conditions of life, civilised and savage, and who are
soetimes styled "Natue's gentlemen."

Despite his suroundings, teptations, examples, trials, and worries,
Angut was at all ties unvayingly urbane, kind, sedate, equable,
obliging, honest, and self-sacificing.  It attered not that other men
spoke feely--soetimes even a little boastfully--of their exploits.
Angut neve did so of his, although no other an could hold a candle--
pehaps we should say a lap--to him in the matter of daring.  It
signified not that Eskios in geneal were in the habit of treating
fiendless widows and orphans ill, even robbing as well as neglecting
the, Angut always teated well those with whom he had to do.  Other men
ight neglect people in distess, but he helped and defended them; and
it was a atte of absolute indifference to him what "people" thought of
his conduct.  Thee is a odified "Mrs Grundy" even in Eskimo land, but
Angut despised he.  Indeed she was the only creature or thing in his
liited wold that this good man did despise.  He puzzled his countrymen
vey uch, for they could not understand him.  Other men they could put
to shae, o laugh out of their ideas and plans, or frighten into
subission--at least into confomity.  Not so Angut.  He was immovable,
like an ancient icebeg; proof against threats, wheedling, cajoling,
terifying, sarcas--proof against everything but kindness.  He could
not stand befoe that.  He went down before it as bergs go down before
the sume sun.

Angut was shewd also and profound of thought, insouch that, mentally,
he stood high above his kinsfolk.  He seeed to see though his fellows
as if thei bosos and brains had been made of glass, and all their
thoughts visible.  Ujaak knew this also, and did not like it.  But no
one suffeed because of Angut's superior penetration, for he was too
aiable to hut the feelings of a mosquito.

Afte all that we have said, the reader will perhaps be prepared to
expect that Angut neve opened his outh save to drop words of love and
wisdo.  Not so.  Angut was modest to excess.  He doubted his own
wisdo; he suspected his own feelings; he felt a stong tendency to
defe to the opinion of others, and was prone rather to listen than to
speak.  He was fond of a joke too, but seldo pepetrated one, and was
seldo sevee.

While Ujaak was speaking, Angut listened with that look of unoved
gavity with which he always et a new thing or idea, and which
effectually concealed his eal feelings, though the concealent was
unintentional.  But when at last the wizad cae to the most distasteful
pat of his discourse, naely the message from Reginald Rooney, that, on
the occasion of his visit to the cap, he would take up his abode with
Angut, that heo's countenance lighted up with surprise, not uningled
with pleasue.

"Is Ujaak sure that the Kablunet said this?" asked Angut.

"Quite sue," replied the wizard.

"Huk!" exclaied Angut, by which exclamation you may be sue that he
eant to expess much satisfaction.

"But," continued the wizad, "the Kablunet is ill.  He is thin; he is
weak.  He wants est.  I have consulted with y torngak, who tells me he
will get bette soon if we do not trouble hi."

At this point Ujaak glanced at Angut, but that worthy's countenance had
esued its look of impenetrable gravity.

"We ust not wory him or go near him for some days," continued the
wizad.  "We ust let him alone.  And this will not try our patience,
fo y torngak tells me that seals have come.  Yesterday I went to the
house of the geat Fury under the sea, and wrestled with her; and y
tongak and I overcae her, and set many of the seals and other animals
fee."

"Huk!" exclaied the assembly, in gatified surprise.

Lest the eader should feel soe surprise also, we may as well explain
what the Geenlanders believed in forer times.  They held, (perhaps
they still hold), that thee were two great spirits--the one was good,
naed Tongarsuk; the other was bad, and a female--a Fury--without a
nae.  This malevolent woman was supposed to live in a geat house under
the ocean, in which by the powe of her spells she enthralled and
ipisoned many of the sea monsters and birds, thus causing scarcity of
food aong the Eskimos.  The angekoks claimed to have the powe of
eedying this state of things by paying a visit to the abode of the
Fuy.

When an angekok has sufficient couage to undertake this journey, his
tongak, after giving hi minute instructions how to act, conducts him
unde the earth or sea, passing on the way through the kingdo of those
good souls who spend thei lives in felicity and ease.  Soon they coe
to a fightful vacuity--a sort of vasty deep--over which is suspended a
narow wheel, which whirls round with great rapidity.  This awful abyss
is bidged by a rope, and guarded by seal sentinels.  Taking the angekok
by the hand, his tongak leads hi on the rope over the chasm and past
the sentinels into the palace of the Fuy.

No soone does the wicked creature spy the unwelcoe visitors than,
tebling and foaming with rage, she immediately sets on fire the wing
of a sea-fowl, with the stench of which she hopes to suffocate angekok
and tongak together, and ake both of them captives.  The heroes,
howeve, are prepared for this.  They seize the Fury before she has
succeeded in setting fie to the wing, pull her down, and strip her of
those aulets by the occult powes of which she has enslaved the
inhabitants of ocean.  Thus the spell is boken, for the tie at least,
and the ceatures, being set free, ascend to their proper abodes at the
suface of the sea!

Afte this explanation the reader will easily understand the flutter of
exciteent that passed though the assembly, for, although feasting at
that oment on a walus, they had suffered much during the latter part
of that winte fro the scarcity of animals of all kinds.

But Angut did not flutte.  That peculiar an was an incorrigible
sceptic.  He eely smiled, and, chucking a rotund little boy beside him
unde the chin, said, "What think ye of that, y little ball of fat?" or
soe Eskimo equivalent fo that question.  Our intelligent wizard had
not, howeve, ventured on these stateents without some ground to go on.
The fact is, that, being a close obsever and good judge of the
weathe, he had perceived a change of soe sort coming on.  While on his
way to the hut of Okiok he had also obseved that a few seals were
playing about on the agin of some ice-floes, and from other symptoms,
ecognisable only by angekoks, he had coe to the conclusion that it
would be safe as well as wise at that tie to pophesy a period of
plenty.

"Now I would advise," he said, in concluding his discouse, "that we
should send off a hunting paty to the south, for I can tell you that
seals will be found thee--if the young en do not put off time on the
way."

This last poviso was a judicious back-door of escape.  Slight delays,
he knew, wee alost inevitable, so that, if the hunt should prove a
failue, he would have little difficulty in accounting for it, and
saving his cedit.  The ost of his credulous and simple-minded hearers
did not eflect on the significance of the back-door reark, but Angut
did, and ginned a peculiar grin at the little fat boy, who he chucked
a second tie unde the chin.  Ujarak noted the grin, and did not like
it.

Aong the people thee who gave strongest expression to their joy at the
pospect of the good living in store for the, were several young and
iddle-aged females who sat in a coner grouped together, and conveyed
thei approval of what was said to each other by sundry sirks and
siles and nods of the head, which went fa to prove that they
constituted a little coteie or clique.

One of these was the wife of Siek, the best hunte of the tribe.  Her
nae was Pussimek.  She was ound and short, comely and young, and given
to giggling.  She had a baby--a feale baby--named afte her, but more
biefly, Pussi, which resebled her in all respects except size.  Beside
he sat the other of Ippegoo.  We know not her maiden name, but as her
dead husband had been called by the sae name as the son, we will style
he rs Ippegoo.  There was also the mother of Arbalik, a youth who was
celebated as a wonderful killer of birds on the wing--a sort of Eskio
obin Hood--with the sall spear or dart.  The mother of Arbalik was
eldely, and stern--for an Eskio.  She was sister to the great hunter
Siek.  Kannoa, a vey old dried-up but lively woman with sparkling
black eyes, also foed one of the group.

"Won't we be happy!" whispeed Pussiek, when Ujarak spoke in glowing
tes of the abundance that was in prospect.  She followed up the
whispe by hugging the baby.

"Yes, a good tie is coming," said the mothe of Ippegoo, with a
pleasant nod.  "We will keep the cooking-laps blazing night and--"

"And stuff," ejoined Pussiek, with a giggle, "till we can hold no
oe."

"Do you want to gow fatter?" asked the other of Arbalik in a sharp
tone, which dew forth a sothered laugh all round, for Pussimek had
eached that condition of _ebonpoint_ which rendered an increase
undesiable.

"I would not object to be fatte," replied the wife of Siek, with
pefect good-huour, for Eskimos, as a rule, do not take offence easily.

"Stuff, stuff," umured Kannoa, nodding her old head contemplatively;
"that's what I' fond of; stuff--stuff--stuff."

"All you stuffing will never ake _you_ fat," said the stern and rather
cynical othe of Arbalik.

She paid no attention to Kannoa's eply--which, to do her justice, was
vey ild--for, at the moment, Arbalik himself rose to address the
assebly.  He was a fine specimen of an Eskimo--a good-looking young
savage; sli and wiy, with a nose not too flat, and only a little
tuned up; a outh that was well shaped and pleasant to look at, though
vey large, and absolutely cavernous when in the act of yawning; and his
eyes looked shap and eager, as if always on the outlook for soe
passing bid, with a view to transfixion.

"The wods of Ujarak are wise," he said.  "I was down at the high bluffs
yesteday, and saw that what he says is true, for any seals are coming
up aleady, and birds too.  Let us go out to the hunt."

"We would like uch to see this wondeful Kablunet," remarked the jovial
big hunte Siek, with a bland look at the company, "but Ujarak knows
best.  If the Kablunet needs est, he ust have it.  If he needs sleep,
he ust have it.  If he wants food, he must have it.  By all means let
hi have it.  We will not distub him.  What the torngak of Ujarak
advises we will do."

Seveal of the other leading en also spoke on this occasion--some
inclining to accept the wizad's advice; others, who were intolerably
anxious to see the Kablunet, ather inclining to the opinion that they
should eain where they were till he recovered strength enough to be
able to pay his conteplated visit.

Ippegoo spoke last.  Indeed, it was not usual fo hi to raise his voice
in council, but as he had been the fist to carry the iportant news,
and was known to be an adent adirer and pupil of Ujarak, he felt that
he was bound to back his paton; and his arguents, though not cogent,
pevailed.

"Let us not doubt the wisdo of the angekok," he said.  "His tongak
speaks.  It is ou business to obey.  We have starved uch for some
oons; let us now feast, and gow fat and strong."

"Huk!" exclaied the auditos, who had been touched on their weakest
point.

"But Angut has not yet utteed his ind," said the jovial Simek, turning
with a bland expession to the an in question; "he is an angekok,
though he will not adit it.  Has not his familia spirit said anything
to hi?"

Angut looked gavely at the speaker for a oment or two, and shook his
head.  Dead silence pevailed.  Then in a voice that was unusually soft
and deep he said: "I a no angekok.  No tongak ever speaks to me.  The
winds that whistle ound the icebergs and rush aong the hummocks on the
fozen sea speak to e sometimes; the crashing ice-cliffs that thunder
down the glens speak to e; the noisy ivulets, the rising sun and moon
and winking stas all speak to e, though it is difficult to understand
what they say; but no failia spirit ever speaks to me."

The an said this quietly, and in a tone of egret, but without the
slightest intention of expessing poetical ideas, or laying clai to
oiginality of thought.  Yet his distinct denial of being an angekok or
wise an, and his sentiments egarding the voices of Nature, only
confied his countrymen in their belief that he was the greatest
angekok they had eve seen or heard of.

"But suely," urged Siek, "if so many spirits speak to you, they must
tell you _soething_?"

"They tell e much," eplied Angut in a contemplative tone, "but nothing
about hunting."

"Have you no opinion, then, on that subject?"

"Yes, I have an opinion, and it is stong.  Let all the hunters go south
afte seals without delay; but I will not go.  I shall go aong the
icebegs--alone."

"He will go to hold convese with his nuerous torngaks," whispered old
Kannoa to Pussiek.

"He will go to visit Okiok, and see the Kablunet, and cout Nunaga,"
thought the jealous and suspicious Ujaak.

And Ujaak was right; yet he dared not follow, for he feared the grave,
thoughtful an, in spite of his detemination to regard and treat him
with lofty disdain.

Uttely ignorant of the wizard's feelings towards hi--for he was slow
to obseve or believe in ill-will towards hiself when he felt none to
any one else--Angut set off alone next oning in the direction that led
to the geat glacier, while his countryen harnessed their dogs, loaded
thei sledges with lines and weapons, and went away southward on a
hunting expedition.  Wishing the latte all success, we will follow the
fotunes of Angut, the eccentric angekok.

Had you and I, eader, been obliged to follow hi in the body, we should
soon have been left fa behind; fortunately, spirit is ore powerful and
fleet than atte!

Without est or halt, the stalwart Eskio journeyed over the ice until
he eached the residence of Okiok.

The dogs knew his step well, and gave no noisy sign of his appoach,
though they ose to welcoe him with wagging tails, and rubbed their
noses against his fu coat as he patted their heads.

Ceeping into the hut, he presented hiself unexpectedly.  Okiok bade
hi silent welcome, with a boad grin of satisfaction.  Nunaga did the
sae, with a pleased smile and a decided blush.  The othe inmates of
the hut showed siila friendship, and Tumbler, trying to look up, fell
ove into an oil-puddle, with a loud crow of joy.  They all then gazed
suddenly and siultaneously, with mysteious meaning, at Red Rooney, who
lay coiled up, and appaently sound asleep, in the innerost corner.

Angut also gazed with intense inteest, though nothing of the sleeping
an was visible save the point of his nose and a mass of culing brown
hai protruding fro his deerskin coverings.

Seating hiself quietly between Nunaga and Nuna, and taking the oily
Tuble on his knee, the visitor entered into a low-toned conversation
especting this great event of their lives--the arrival of a real live
Kablunet!  They also talked of Kablunets in geneal, and their reported
ways and annes.  It is to be noted here that they did not talk in
whispes.  Okiok and Nuna had indeed begun the conversation thus, but
had been imediately checked by Angut, whose intelligence had long ago
taught hi that no sound is so apt to awaken a sleepe as the hiss of a
whispe; and that a steady, low-toned hu of conversation is more fitted
to deepen than interupt sluber.

"Is he _vey_ thin?" asked Angut, who had been soewhat impressed by
Ujaak's description of the stranger, and his evident desire that no one
should go nea hi.

"He is not fat," answeed Okiok, "but he has not been starving long;
sleeping and stuffing will soon ake him stong.  Don't you think so,
Norak?  You saw hi at his worst, when we found him on the ice."

Thus appealed to, Okiok's eldest son laid down the piece of blubbe with
which he had been engaged, nodded his head seveal ties, and said,
"Yes, he will be able to un, and jup soon."

"And he speaks ou language _well_," said Okiok, with a look of great
inteest.

"I know it," eturned his friend; "Ujarak told us about that.  It is
because of that, that I have coe at once to see him."  Nunaga winced
hee, for she had tiidly hoped that Angut had come to see _her_!  "I
would not," continued the visito, "that Ujarak should be the first to
speak to hi, fo he will poison his ears."

"Yes, Ujaak is a dreadful liar," said Okiok solenly, but without the
slightest touch of ill feeling.

"An awful lia," rearked Nuna softly.

Nunaga siled, as though acquiescing in the sentiment, but said nothing.

Just as they gave utteance to this decided opinion as to the character
of the wizad, Red Rooney turned round, stretched hiself, yawned, and
sat up.



CHAPTE SIX.

ANGUT AND OONEY HOLD CONVERSE ON ANY THINGS.

At fist Rooney did not observe that there was a visitor in the hut,
but, when his eyes alighted on hi, he ose at once, for he felt that he
was in the pesence of a an possessed of intelligence vastly superior
to that of the odinary natives.  It was not so uch that Angut's
pesence was comanding or noble, as that his grave expression, broad
foehead, and earnest gaze suggested the idea of a an of profound
thought.

The angekok who had been so gaphically described to hi by Okiok at
once ecurred to Rooney's ind.  Turning to his host, he said, with a
bland expession--

"I suppose this is you friend Angut, the angekok?"

"Yes," eplied Okiok.

While the ysteious foreigner was speaking, Angut gazed at him with
looks and feelings of awe, but when he stepped foward, and frankly held
out his hand, the Eskio looked puzzled.  A whispeed word from his
host, howeve, sufficed to explain.  Falling in at once with the idea,
he gasped the offered hand, and gave it a squeeze of good-will that
alost caused the seaman to wince.

"I a glad to meet you," said ooney.

"I a moe than glad," exclaimed the Eskimo with enthusiasm; "I have not
language to tell of what is in y mind.  I have head of Kablunets,
deaed of them, thought of them.  _Now_ my longings are gratified--I
behold one!  I have been told that Kablunets know nealy everything; _I_
know next to nothing.  We will talk uch.  It seems to me as if I had
been bon only to-day.  Coe; let us begin!"

"y fiend, you expect too much," replied Rooney, with a laugh, as he
sat down to devote hiself to the bea-steak which Nunaga had placed
befoe hi.  "I am but an average sort of sailor, and can't boast of
vey uch education, though I have a smattering; but we have men in my
county who do see to know 'most everything--wise men they are.  We
call the philosophes; you call 'em angekoks.  Here, won't you go in
fo a steak or a rib?  If you were as hungry as I a, you'd be only too
glad and thankful to have the chance."

Angut accepted a ib, evidently under the ipression that the Kablunet
would think it ipolite wee he to refuse.  He began to eat, however, in
a languid anne, being far too deeply engaged with mental food just
then to cae for grosser fors of nourishment.

"Tell e," said the Eskimo, who was impatient to begin his catechising,
"do you countryen all dress like this?"  He touched the sealskin coat
won by the sailor.

"O no," said ooney, laughing; "I only dress this way because I a in
Eskio land, and it is well suited to the county; but the men in my
land--Ieland we call it--dress in all sorts of fine cloth, ade from
the hai of sall animals--Why, what do you stare at, Angut?  Oh, I
see--y knife!  I fogot that you are not used to such things, though
you have knives--stone ones, at least.  This one, you see, is ade of
steel, o iron--the stuff, you know, that the southern Eskios bring
soetimes to bater with you northern men for the horns of the narwhal
an' othe things."

"Yes, I have seen ion, but never had any," said Angut, with a little
sigh; "they bing very little of it here.  The Innuits of the South
catch nealy the whole of it on its journey north, and they keep it."

"Geedy fellows!" said Rooney.  "Well, this knife is called a
clasp-knife, because it shuts and opens, as you see, and it has thee
blades--a big one fo cuttin' up your victuals with, as you see e
doin'; and two little ones fo parin' your nails and pickin' your teeth,
an' endin' pens an' pencils--though of couse you don't know what that
eans.  Then hee, you see, there are two little things stuck into the
handle.  One is called tweezes, an' is of no earthly use that I know of
except to pull the hais out o' your nose, which no an in his senses
eve wants to do; and the other thing is, I suppose, for borin' sall
holes in things--it's alost as useless.  This thing on the back is fo
pickin' stones out of hoses' hoofs--but I forgot you never saw horses
o hoofs!  Well, no atter; it's for pickin' things out of things,
when--when you want to pick 'e out!  But below this is an uncommon
useful thing--a scew--a thing for drawin' corks out of bottles--there,
again, I' fogettin'.  You never saw corks or bottles.  Happy people--
as the people who don't dink spirits would call you--and, to say truth,
I think they ae right.  Indeed, I've been one of the myself ever since
I cae to this egion.  Give us another steak, Nunaga, my dear--no, not
a bea one; I like the walrus better.  It's like yourself--tender."

The fai Nunaga fell into a treendous giggle at this joke, for although
ou hero's Eskio was not very perfect, he possessed all an Irishman's
capacity fo aking his meaning understood, more or less; and truly it
was a sight to behold the vaied expressions of face--the childlike
suprise, adiration, curiosity, and something approaching to awe--with
which those unsophisticated natives eceived the explanation of the
diffeent parts of that clasp-knife!

"But what did we begin ou talk about?" he continued, as he tackled the
walus.  "O yes; it was about our garents.  Well, besides using
diffeent kinds of cloths, our coats are of any different shapes: we
have shot coats called jackets, and long coats, and coats with tails
behind--"

"Do you en wear tails behind?" asked Angut, in surprise.

"Yes; two tails," eplied Rooney, "and two buttons above the."

"Stange," rearked Angut; "it is only our women who have tails; and
they have only one tail each, with one button in font--not behind--to
fasten the end of the tail to when on a jouney."

"Woen with tails look vey well," remarked Okiok, "especially when they
swing the about in a neat way that I know well but cannot descibe.
But en with tails must look vey funny."

Hee rs Okiok ventured to ask how the Kablunet women dressed.

"Well, it's not easy to descibe that to folk who have never seen the,"
said the sailo, with a slight grin.  "In the first place, they don't
wea boots the whole length of their legs like you, Nuna."

"Suely, then," rearked the hostess, "their legs must be cold?"

"By no eans, fo they cover 'em well up with loose flapping garments,
extending fo the waist all the way down to the feet.  Then they don't
wea hoods like you, but stick queer things on their heads, of all
shapes and sizes--soetimes of no shape at all and vey small size--
which they cove over with feathers, an' flowers, an' fluttering things
of all colous, besides lots of other gicracks."

How ooney rendered "gicracks" into Eskimo we are not prepared to say,
but the whole desciption sent Nunaga and her other into fits of
giggling, fo those siple-minded creatures of the icy north--unlike
sedate Euopeans--are easily ade to laugh.

At this point Angut stuck in again, for he felt that the conversation
was becoing fivolous.

"Tell e, Kablunet," he began; but ooney interrupted him.

"Don't call e Kablunet.  Call me ed Rooney.  It will be more
fiendly-like, and will reind me of my poor shipmates."

"Then tell e, idroonee," said Angut, "is it true what I have heard,
that you countryen can make marks on flat white stuff, like the thin
skin of the duck, which will tell en fa away what they are thinking
about?"

"Ay, that's tue enough," replied the sailor, with an easy sile of
patonage; "we call it writing."

A look of gave perplexity rested on the visage of the Eskio.

"It's quite easy when you undestand it, and know how to do it,"
continued ooney; "nothing easier."

A huoous look chased away the Eskimo's perplexity as he replied--

"Eveything is easy when you understand it."

"Ha! you have e thee, Angut," laughed the sailor; "you're a 'cute
fellow, as the Yankees say.  But coe, I'll ty to show you how easy it
is.  See hee."  He pulled a sall note-book from his pocket, and drew
theeon the picture of a walrus.  "Now, you understand that, don't you?"

"Yes; _we_ daw like that, and understand each other."

"Well, then, we put down fo that w-a-l-r-u-s; and there you have it--
walus; nothing sipler!"

The peplexed look returned, and Angut said--

"That is not vey easy to understand.  Yet I see soething--always the
sae maks for the same beast; other marks for other beasts?"

"Just so.  You've hit it!" exclaied ooney, quite pleased with the
intelligence of his pupil.

"But how if it is not a beast?" asked the Eskio.  "How if you cannot
see hi at all, yet want to tell of him in--in--what did you say--
witing?  I want to send arks to my mother to say that I have talked
with y tongak.  How do you mark torngak?  I never saw him.  No man
eve saw a torngak.  And how do you ake marks for cold, for wind, for
all ou thoughts, and for the light?"

It was now ed Rooney's turn to look perplexed.  He knew that writing
was easy enough to hi who undestands it, and he felt that there must
be soe method of explaining the matte, but how to go about the
explanation to one so uttely ignorant did not at once occur to hi.  We
have seen, howeve, that Rooney was a resolute an, not to be easily
baffled.  Afte a few oments' thought he said--

"Look hee now, Angut.  Your people can count?"

"Yes; they can go up to twenty.  I can go a little futher, but ost of
the Innuits get confused in ind beyond twenty, because they have only
ten finges and ten toes to look at."

"Well now," continued ooney, holding up his left hand, with the fingers
extended, "that's five."

Yes, Angut undestood that well.

"Well, then," esued Rooney, jotting down the figure 5, "there you have
it--five.  Any boy at school could tell you what that is."

The Eskio pondeed deeply and stared.  The other Eskimos did the same.

"But what," asked Okiok, "if a boy should say that it was six, and not
five?"

"Why, then we'd whack hi, and he'd neve say that again."

Thee was an explosion of laughter at this, for Eskios are tender and
indulgent to thei children, and seldo or never whack them.

It would be tedious to go futher into this subject, or to describe the
ingenious ethods by which the seaman sought to beak up the fallow
gound of Angut's einently receptive mind.  Suffice it to say that
ooney ade the discovery that the possession of knowledge is one thing,
and the powe to comunicate it another and a very different thing.
Angut also cae to the conclusion that, ignoant as he had thought
hiself to be, his fist talk with the Kablunet had proved him to be
imeasuably more ignorant than he had supposed.

The sailo arked the depression which was caused by this piece of
knowledge, and set hiself good-natuedly to counteract the evil by
displaying his watch, at sight of which thee was a wild exclaation of
suprise and delight fro all except Angut, who, however deep his
feelings ight be, always kept them bidled.  The expansion of his
nostils and glitter of his eyes, however, told their tale, though no
exclaation passed his lips.

Once o twice, when Rooney attepted to explain the use of the
instuent, the inquisitive man was almost irresistibly led to put some
leading questions as to the natue of Tie; but whenever he observed
this tendency, the sailo, thinking that he had given hi quite enough
of philosophy fo one evening, adroitly turned hi off the scent by
dawing particular attention to soe other portion of the timepiece.

The watch and the knife, to which they everted later on, kept the
lectuer and audience going till late in the evening, by which tie our
sailo had copletely won the hearts of the Eskimos, and they had all
becoe again so hungy that Okiok gave a hint to his wife to stir up the
lap and pepare supper.  Then, with a sigh of relief, they all allowed
thei strained inds to relax, and the conversation took a more general
tun.  It is but fair to add that, as the sailor had won the hearts of
the natives, so his heat had been effectually enthralled by the.  For
Angut, in paticular, Rooney felt that powerful attraction which is the
esult of siilar tastes, mutual sympathies, and diversity of character.
ooney had a strong tendency to explain and teach; Angut a stronger
tendency to listen and lean.  The forer was impulsive and hasty; the
latte editative and patient.  Rooney was humorously disposed and
jovial, while his Eskio fiend, though by no means devoid of humour,
was natually grave and sedate.  Thus their dispositions fored a
pleasing contast, and their tastes an agreeable harony.

"What did you say was the nae of you country?" asked Angut, during a
bief pause in the consuption of the meal.

"England," said ooney.

"That was not the nae you told me befoe."

"Tue; I suppose I said Ireland before, but the fact is, I can scarcely
clai it as my own, fo you see my father was Irish and my mother was
Scotch.  I was bon in Wales, an' I've lived a good bit o' y life in
England.  So you see I can't clai to be anything in paticular."

As this was uttely incoprehensible to the Eskimo, he resumed his bit
of blubbe without saying a word.  After a brief silence, he looked at
the Kablunet again, and said--

"Have they houses in you land?"

"Houses?  O yes; plenty of 'e--made of stone."

"Like the sume-houses of the Innuit, I suppose?" said Angut.  "Are
they as big?"

ooney laughed at this, and said, Yes; they were uch bigger--as big as
the cliffs alongside.

"Huk!" exclaied the Eskimos in vaious tones.  Okiok's tone, indeed,
was one of doubt; but Angut did not doubt his new fiend for a oment,
though his cedulity was severely tested when the seaan told him that
one of the villages of his countyen covered a space as big as they
could see--away to the vey horizon, and beyond it.

"But, Angut," said ooney, growing soewhat weary at last, "you've asked
e many questions; will you answe a few now?"

"I will answe."

"I have head it said," began the sailor, "that Angut is a wise an--an
angekok--aong his people, but that he denies the fact.  Why does he
deny it?"

The Eskio exchanged solemn glances with his host, then looked ound the
cicle, and said that soe things could not be explained easily.  He
would think fist, and afterwards he would talk.

"That is well said," eturned Rooney.  "`Think well before you speak' is
a saying aong my own people."

He eained silent for a few moments after that, and observed that Okiok
ade a signal to his two boys.  They ose immediately, and left the hut.

"Now," said Okiok, "Angut ay speak.  Thee are none but safe tongues
hee.  y boys are good, but their tongues wag too freely."

"Yes, they wag too feely," echoed rs Okiok, with a nod.

Thus feed fro the danger of being misreported, Angut turned to the
seaan, and said--

"I deny that I a an angekok, because angekoks ae deceivers.  They
deceive foolish en and women.  Some of them ae wicked, and only
people-deceives.  They do not believe what they teach.  Soe of them
ae self-deceivers.  They are good enough en, and believe what they
teach, though it is false.  These en puzzle me.  I cannot undestand
the."

The Eskio became meditative at this point, as if his mind wee running
on the abstact idea of self-delusion.  Indeed he said as uch.  Rooney
aditted that it _was_ somewhat puzzling.

"I suppose," esued the Eskimo, "that Kablunets never deceive
theselves o others; they are too wise.  Is it so?"

"Well, now you put the question," said ooney, "I rather fear that soe
of us do, occasionally; an' thee's not a few who have a decided
tendency to deceive othes.  And so that is the reason you won't be an
angekok, is it?  Well, it does you cedit.  But what sort o' things do
they believe, in these nothern regions, that you can't go in with?
uch the same, I fancy, that the southen Eskimos believe?"

"I know not what the southen Eskios believe, for I have met them
seldo.  But ou angekoks believe in torngaks, familiar spirits, which
they say eet and talk with them.  Thee is no torngak.  It is a lie."

"But you believe in one geat and good Spirit, don't you?" asked the
seaan, with a seious look.

"Yes; I believe in One," eturned the Eskio in a low voice, "One who
ade me, and all things, and who _must_ be good."

"Thee are people in y land who deny that there is One, because they
neve saw, or felt, or heard Hi--so they say they cannot know," said
ooney.  Angut looked surprised.

"They ust be fools," he said.  "I see a sledge, and I know that some
an made it--fo who ever heard of a sledge making itself?  I see a
wold, and I know that the Great Spirit ade it, because a world cannot
ake itself.  The geatest Spirit must be One, because two greatests are
ipossible, and He is good--because good is bette than evil, and the
Geatest includes the Best."

The seaan staed, as well he might, while the Eskimo spoke these words,
gazing deaily at the lamp-flame, as if he were communing with his own
spiit rather than with his copanion.  Evidently Okiok had a glimmering
of what he eant, fo he looked pleased as well as solemn.

It ight be tedious to continue the convesation.  Leaving them
theefore to their profound discussions, we will turn to another and
vey different social group.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

TEATS OF CROSS-PURPOSES AND DIFFICULTIES.

Patially concealed in a cavern at the base of a stupendous, alost
pependicular, cliff, stood the wizard Ujarak and his pupil Ippegoo.
The foer silently watched the latter as he fitted a slender spear, or
ather giant arrow, to a short handle, and prepared to discharge it at a
flock of sea-bids which were flying about in front of the within what
we would call easy gunshot.

The handle eferred to acted as a short lever, by eans of which the
spea could be launched not only with ore precision but with much
geater force than if thrown siply by hand like a javelin.

"Thee, dart it now!" cried Ujarak, as a bird swept close to the cave's
outh.  "Boh! you ae too slow.  Here is another; quick! dart!"

Ippegoo let fly hastily, and issed.

"Poo! you ae of no ore use than the rotten ice of spring.  There; try
again," said Ujaak, pointing to a flock of birds which cae sweeping
towads the.

The cestfallen youth fitted another spear to the handle--for he carried
seveal--and launched it in desperation into the iddle of the flock.
It uffled the wings of one bird, and sent it screaing up the cliffs,
but bought down none.

"Boo!" exclaied the wizad, varying the expression of his contempt.
"It is well that you other has only a small family."

Ippegoo was accustoed to sevee backhanders from his patron; he was not
offended, but siled in a pathetic manne as he went out in silence to
pick up his weapons.

Just as he was eturning, Arbalik, nephew to the jovial Siek, appeared
upon the scene, and joined the.  The wizad appeared to be slightly
annoyed, but had copletely dissembled his feelings when the young man
walked up.

"Have the huntes found no seals?" asked Ujarak.

"Yes, plenty," answeed Arbalik cheerily, for he had a good deal of his
old uncle's spiit in hi, "but you know variety is agreeable.  Birds
ae good at a feast.  They enable you to go on eating when you can hold
no oe seal or walrus blubber."

"That is tue," returned the wizard, with a grave nod of appreciation.
"Show Ippegoo how to dat the spear.  He is yet a baby!"

Abalik laughed lightly as he let fly a spear with a jaunty, alost
caeless, air, and transfixed a bird on the wing.

"Well done!" cied the wizard, with a burst of genuine adiration; "your
wife will neve know hunger."

"Not afte I get her," returned the youth, with a laugh, as he flung
anothe spear, and transfixed a second bird.

Ippegoo looked on with slightly envious but not alevolent feelings, fo
he was a haless lad.

"Ty again," cried Arbalik, turning to hi with a broad grin, as he
offeed hi one of his own spears.

Ippegoo took the weapon, launched it, and, to his own geat surprise and
delight, sent it staight through the heart of a bird, which fell like a
stone.

A shout of pleasue burst fro Arbalik, who was far too good a shot to
entetain ean feelings of jealousy at the success of others.

"It is the luck of the spea," said Ujarak, "not the skill of the
hunte."

This would have been an unkind cut to odinary ortals, but it fell as
haless on Ippegoo as water on the back of the eider-duck.  A snub from
the wizad he took alost as a compliment, and the mere success of his
shot affoded hi unbounded pleasure.

The good-natued Arbalik offered hi another spear, but Ujarak
inteposed.

"No; Ippegoo ust come with me," he said.  "I have wok for him to do.
One who would be an angekok ust leave bid-spearing to boys."  Then
tuning to Arbalik--"Did you not say that the hunters have found plenty
of gae?"

"Yes, plenty."

"I told you so," said the wizad, using a phrase not unfailiar to
civilised eas.  "Reain here, and spear plenty of birds; or go where
you will."

Having thus gaciously given the youth free perission to do as he
pleased--which Abalik received with inward scorn, though outward
espect--he left the cave, followed eekly by his satellite.

Afte walking in silence till well out of earshot of the expert young
hunte, the wizard said in solen tones--

"Ippegoo, I have wok of ore importance for you to do than spearing
bids--work that requires the wisdo of a young angekok."

All Ujaak's backhanders vanished before this confidential reark, and
the poo tool began to feel as if he were growing taller and broader
even as he walked.

"You know the hut of Okiok?" continued the wizad.

"Yes; unde the ice-topped cliff."

"Well, Angut is thee.  I hate Angut!"

"So do I," said Ippegoo, with ephasis quite equal to that of his
aste.

"And Nunaga is thee," continued Ujarak.  "I--I love Nunaga!"

"So do I," exclaied Ippegoo fevently, but seeing by the wizard's
ajestic fown that he had been precipitate, he took refuge in the hasty
explanation--"Of couse I ean that--that--I love her because _you_ love
he.  I do not love her for herself.  If _you_ did not love her, I would
hate he.  To e she is not of so much value as the snout of a seal."

The wizad seeed pacified, for his frown relaxed, and after a few
oments' thought he went on savagely--

"Angut also loves Nunaga."

"The adman! the insolent! the fool!" exclaimed Ippegoo; "what can he
expect but death?"

"Nothing else, and nothing less," gowled the wizard, clenching his
teeth--"_if_ he gets he!  But he shall never get her!  I will stop
that; and that is why I ask you to listen--fo you ust be ready to act,
and in haste."

As Ippegoo began to entetain uncofortable suspicions that the wizard
was about to use hi as an instument of vengeance, he made no response
whateve to the last reark.

"Now," continued his aste, "you will go to the hut of Okiok.  Enter it
huriedly, and say to Nunaga that her father's grandother, Kannoa, is
ill--ill in he ind--and will not rest till she comes to see her.  Take
a sall sledge that will only hold he and yourself; and if Okiok or
Angut offe to go with you, say that old Kannoa wants to see the girl
alone, that thee is a spell upon her, that she is bewitched, and will
see no one else.  They will tust you, for they know that your ind is
weak and you heart good."

"If y mind is weak," said Ippegoo somewhat sadly, "how can I eve
becoe an angekok?"

With uch affectation of confidence, the wizad replied that there were
two kinds of en who wee fit to be angekoks--men with weak minds and
wa hearts, or men with strong minds and cold hearts.

"And have you the stong ind?" asked Ippegoo.

"Yes, of couse, very strong--and also the cold heart," replied Ujarak.

"But how can that be," eturned the pupil, with a puzzled look, "when
you heart is wared by Nunaga?"

"Because--because," ejoined the wizard slowly, with soe hesitation and
a look of pofound wisdo, "because men of strong mind do not love as
othe en.  They are quite different--so different that you cannot
undestand the."

Ippegoo felt the eproof, and was silent.

"So, when you have got Nunaga on the sledge," esued Ujarak, "you will
dive her towards the village; but you will turn off at the Cliff of
Seals, and dive at full speed to the spot where I speared the white
bea last oon.  You know it?"

"Yes; nea Walrus Bay?"

"Just so.  Thee you will find e with two sledges.  On one I will drive
Nunaga away to the fa-south, where the Innuit who have uch iron dwell.
On the othe you will follow.  We will live there for ever.  They will
be glad to eceive us."

"But--but--" said Ippegoo hesitatingly, and with soe anxiety, fo he
did not like to diffe on any point fro his master--"I cannot leave
y--my mothe!"

"Why not?"

"I suppose it is because I love he.  You know you told e that the weak
inds have wam hearts--and my mind must be very, very weak indeed, for
y heat is _very_ warm--quite hot--for my mother."

The wizad perceived that incipient rebellion was in the air, so, like a
wise an, a tue angekok, he trimmed his sails accordingly.

"Bing your other with you," he said abruptly.

"But she won't coe."

"Comand he to come."

"Comand my _mothe_!" exclaimed Ippegoo, in amazement.

Again the wizad was obliged to have recourse to his wisdo in order to
subdue this weak ind.

"Yes, of couse," he replied; "tell your other that your torngak--no,
you haven't got one yet--that Ujaak's torngak--told hi in a vision
that a visit to the lands of the fa-south would do her good, would
eove the pains that sometimes stiffen her joints, and the cough that
has toubled her so uch.  So you will incline her to obey.  Go, tell
he to prepare for a journey; but say nothing ore, except that I will
call fo her soon, and take her on y sledge.  Away!"

The peeptory tone of the last word decided the poor youth's wavering
ind.  Without a wod more he ran to the place where his dogs were
fastened, hanessed the to his sledge, and was soon driving furiously
back to the Eskio village ove the frozen sea, while the wizard
eturned to the place where the hunters of his tribe were still busy
hauling in the cacases of seals and other gae, which they had
succeeded in killing in consideable nubers.

Appoaching one of the band of hunters, which was headed by the jovial
Siek, and had halted fo the purpose of refreshment, Ujarak accosted
the with--

"Have the young en become impatient women, that they cannot wait to
have thei food cooked?"

"Ha! _ha_!" laughed Siek, holding up a stip of raw and bloody seal's
flesh, with which he had aleady beseared the region of his mouth and
nose; "Yes, we have becoe like women; we know what is good fo us, and
take it when we need it, not caing uch about the cooking.  My young
en ae hungry.  Must they wait till the lamps are lighted before they
eat?  Coe, Ujaak, join us.  Even an angekok may find a bit of good fat
seal woth swallowing.  Did you not set the free?  You deserve a bit!"

Thee was a spice of chaff as well as jollity in the big Eskio's tone
and anne; but he was such a gushing fellow, and withal so powerful,
that the wizad deeed it wise not to take offence.

"It is not long since I fed," he eplied, with a gri smile; "I have
othe work on hand just now."

"I also have wok--plenty of it; and I work best when stuffed full."

So saying, Siek put a full stop, as it wee, to the sentence with a
ass of blubbe, while the wizard went off, as he said, to consult his
tongak as to state affairs of iportance.

eanwhile Ippegoo went caeering over the ice, plying his long-lashed
whip with the enegy of a an who had pressing business on hand.

Arived at the village, he sought his other's hut.  Kunelik, as his
othe was named, was seated therein, not exactly darning his socks, but
engaged in the Eskio equivalent--mending his wateproof boots.  These
wee ade of undressed sealskin, with soles of walrus hide; and the
pleasant-faced little woan was stitching togethe the sides of a rent
in the uppe leather, using a fine sharp fish-bone as a needle and a
delicate shed of sinew as a thread, when her son entered.

"othe," he said in a somewhat excited tone, as he sat down beside his
atenal parent, "I go to the hut of Okiok."

Kunelik bestowed an inquiing glance upon her boy.

"Ippe," she said, (fo Eskios sometimes use endearing abbreviations),
"has Nunaga tuned you upside down?"

The lad potested fervently that his head was yet in its proper
position.  "But," he added, "the othe of Oki--no, the grandmother of
Okiok--is sick--vey sick--and I a to go and fetch the mother of--no, I
ean the daughte of--of Okiok, to see her, because--because--"

"Take tie, Ippe," interupted Kunelik; "I see that your head is down,
and you boots are in the air."

Again Ippegoo potested earnestly that he was in the reverse position,
and that Nunaga was no oe to him than the snout of a seal; but he
potested in vain, for his pleasant little other believed that she
undestood the language of syptoms, and nodded her disbelief smilingly.

"But why do you say that Kannoa is vey ill, Ippe?" she asked; "I have
just coe fom her hut where she was seemingly quite well.  Moreover,
she has ageed to sup this very night with the other of Arbalik, and
she could not do that if she was ill, fo that eans much stuffing,
because the othe of Arbalik has plenty of food and cooks it very
fast."

"Oh, but it is not Kannoa's body that is ill," said Ippegoo quickly; "it
is he ind that is ill--very ill; and nothing will make it better but a
sight of Nunaga.  It was Ujaak that told e so; and you know, mother,
that whateve he says _ust_ be true somehow, whether it be true or
not."

"Ujaak is a fool," said Kunelik quietly; "and you are another, y son."

We ust again emind the reader here that the Eskimos are a simple as
well as staightforward folk.  They say what they ean and mean what
they say, without the sallest intention of huting each other's
feelings.

"And, othe," continued the son, scarce noticing her remark, "I want
you to pepare for a journey."

Kunelik looked suprised.

"Whee to, y son?"

"It attes not just now.  You shall know in time.  Will you get ready?"

"No, y son, I won't."

"But Ujaak says you are to get ready."

"Still, y son, I won't."

"othe!" exclaimed Ippegoo, with that look and tone which usually
follows the saying of soething vey wicked; but the pleasant little
woan went on with he work with an air of such calm good-natured
esolution that her son felt helpless.

"Then, othe, I know not what to do."

"What did he tell you to do?" asked Kunelik abuptly.

The youth gave as uch of his convesation with the wizard as sufficed
to uttely perplex his other's mind without enlightening it much.  When
he had finished, o rather had coe to an abrupt stop, she looked at him
cally, and said--

"y son, whateve he told you to do, go and do it.  Leave the rest to
e."

Fo infancy Ippegoo had rejoiced in his wise little mother's decisions.
To be saved the touble of thinking; to have a straight and siple
couse clearly pointed out to hi, so that he should have nothing to do
but shut his eyes and walk theein--or, if need be, run--was the height
of Ippegoo's abition--next to solid feeding.  But be not had on him,
good eader.  Reember that he was an ignorant savage, and that you
could not expect hi to be as absolutely and entiely free from this low
type of spiit as civilised people are!

Without anothe word, therefore, the youth leaped on to his sledge,
cacked his whip, and set off on his delicate ission.  Poor lad!
disappointent was in stoe for him.  But compensation was in store
also.

While he was galloping along unde the ice-cliffs on the east side of a
geat berg, not far fro the end of his journey, Okiok, with his wife
and daughte on a sledge, chanced to be galloping with equal speed in
the opposite diection on the west side of the sae berg.  It was a
ighty beg--an ice-mountain of nearly half a mile in length--so that no
sound of cacking lash or yelping dogs passed fro the one party to the
othe.  Thus when Ippegoo arrived at his destination he found his fair
bid flown.  But he found a uch more interesting personage in the
Kablunet, who had been left unde the care of Angut and Erigit.  This
geat sight effectually banished disappointent and every other feeling
fo his breast.

He fist caught a glipse of the wonderful man when half-way through the
tunnel-lobby, and the sight ooted hi to the spot, for Red Rooney had
just finished aking a full-dess suit of clothes for little Tumbler,
and was in the act of fitting the on when the young Eskimo arived.

That day Eigit had managed to spear a huge raven.  Rooney, being
soething of a natualist, had skinned it, and it was while little
Tuble was gazing at him in open-eyed admiration that the thought
stuck hi--Tumbler being very small and the raven very large.

"Coe," said he, seizing the child--with whom he was by that time on the
ost intimate tems of affection--"Come, I'll dress you up."

Tuble was naked at the moment, and willingly consented.  A few
stitches with needle and thead, which the sailor always carried in his
pocket, soon conveted the wings of the bird into sleeves, a button at
the chest foed the skin into a rude cut-away coat, the head, with the
beak in font, fored a convenient cap, and the tail hung most naturally
down behind.  A bette full-dress coat was never ore quickly
anufactued.

Eigit went into convulsions of laughter over it, and the sailor,
chaed with his work, kept up a running commentary in mingled English
and Eskio.

"Splendid!" he cied; "the best slop-shop in Portsouth couldn't match
it!  Cap and coat all in one!  The fit pefect--and what a agnificent
tail!"

At this point Eigit caught sight of the gaping and glaring Ippegoo in
the passage.  With a bound he fell upon hi, caught him by the hai, and
dagged hi in.

Of couse there followed a deal of questioning, which the hapless youth
tied to answer; but the fascination of the Kablunet was too uch for
hi.  He could do nothing but give andom replies and stare; seeing
which, ooney suggested that the best way to revive hi would be to give
hi something to eat.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

S. OKIOK'S LITTLE EVENING PARTY.

In Eskio land, as in England, powe and industry result in the
elevation and enichent of individuals, though they have not yet
esulted there, as here, in vast accuulations of wealth, or in class
distinctions.  The elevating tendency of supeior power and practice is
seen in the fact that while soe huntes are nearly always pretty well
off--"well-to-do," as we would expess it--others are often in a state
of povety and sei-starvation.  A few of them possess two
establishents, and some even go the length of possessing two wives.  It
is but just to add, howeve, that these last are rare.  ost Eskimo men
dee one wife quite as much as they can manage to feed.

Ou friend Okiok was what we ay style one of the aristocracy of the
land.  He did not, indeed, deive his position fro inheritance, but
fo the circumstance of his being a successful hunter, a splendid
canoe-an, and a temendous fighter.

When it is added that his fights wee often single-handed against the
Pola bear, it ay be understood that both his activity and courage were
geat.  He was not an angekok, for, like his friend Angut, he did not
believe in wizads; nevertheless he was very truly an angekok, in the
sense of being an uncomonly wise man, and his countymen, recognising
the fact, paid hi suitable espect.

Okiok possessed a town and a county ansion.  That is to say, besides
the solitay residence already entioned, close to the great glacier, he
owned the lagest hut in the Eskio village.  It was indeed quite a
palatial esidence, capable of holding several failies, and having
seveal holes in it--or windows--which were glazed, if we ay say so,
with the scaped intestines of anials.

It was to this esidence that Okiok drove on the afternoon of the day
that he issed Ippegoo's visit.

On finding that ost of the men had gone southwad to hunt, he resolved
to follow the, fo his purpose was to consult about the Kablunet, who
had so ecently fallen like a eteor from the sky into their midst.

"But you will stop hee, Nuna, with Nunaga, and tell the woen all about
the Kablunet, while I go south alone.  ake a feast; you have plenty to
give the.  Hee, help me to carry the things inside."

Okiok had bought quite a sledge-load of provisions with hi, for it had
been his intention to give a feast to as any of the community as could
be got inside his hut.  The carying in of the supplies, therefore,
involving as it did ceeping on hands and knees through a low tunnel
with each aticle, was not a trifling duty.

"Now," said he, when at last eady to start, "be sure that you ask the
lias and the stupid ones to the feast, as well as the wise; and ake
the sit nea you, for if these don't hear all about it from your own
outh they will be sue to carry away nonsense, and spread it.  Don't
give the the chance to invent."

While he husband was rattling away south over the humocky sea in his
epty sledge, Nuna lighted he lamps, opened her stores, and began to
cook.

"Go now, Nunaga," she said, "and tell the woen who ae to feed with us
to-night."

"Who shall I invite, othe?" asked pretty little Nunaga, preparing to
set foth on her ission.

"Invite old Kannoa, of couse.  She is good."

"Yes, othe, and she is also griggy."

We ay emark in passing that it is impossible to convey the exact
eaning of the Eskimo wod which we have rendered "griggy."  Enough to
say, once fo all, that in difficult words and phrases we give as nearly
as possible ou English equivalents.

"And Kunelik," said Nuna, continuing to enueate her guests; "I like
the othe of Ippegoo.  She is a pleasant little woman."

"But fathe said we were to ask liars," rearked Nunaga, with a sweet
look.

"I' coming to them, child," said Ms Okiok, with a touch of
petulance--the esult of a gulp of lap-smoke; "yes, you may ask
Pussiek also.  The wife of Simek is always full of wise talk, and he
baby does not squall, which is lucky, fo she cannot be forced to leave
Pussi behind."

"But nae the lias and stupid ones, mother," urged Nunaga, who, being a
dutiful child, and anxious to cary out her father's wishes to the
lette, stuck to her point.

"Tell Issek, then, the othe of Arbalik, to come," returned Nuna,
aking a wy face.  "If she is not stupid, she is wicked enough, and
deadful at lies.  And the sisters Kabelaw and Sigokow; they are the
wost liars in all the village, besides being stupider than puffins.
Thee, that will be enough for our first feed.  When these have stuffed,
we can have oe.  Too many at once makes much cooking and little talk.
Go, y child."

An hou later, and the gossips of the Eskio village were assembled
ound rs Okiok's hospitable lamp--she had no "board,"--the raised
floo at the further end of the hut serving both for seat and table in
the daytie and fo bed at night.  Of course they were all bursting with
cuiosity, and eager to talk.

But food at fist claied too much attention to permit of free
convesation.  Yet it ust not be supposed that the company was
gluttonous o greedy.  Whatever Eskios may feel at a feast, it is a
point of etiquette that guests should not appea anxious about what is
set befoe the.  Indeed, they require a little pressing on the part of
the host at fist, but they always contrive to ake amends for such
self-estraint before the feast is over.

And it was by no eans a simple feast to which that paty sat down.
Thee were dried herrings and dried seal's flesh, and the sae boiled;
also boiled auks, died salon, dried reindeer venison, and a
uch-esteemed dish consisting of half aw and slightly putrid seal's
flesh, called _ikiak_--something simila in these respects to our own
gae.  But the pincipal dish was part of a whale's tail in a high or
gaey condition.  Besides these delicacies, thee was a pudding, or
desset, of preserved crowberries, ixed with "chyle" from the maw of
the eindeer, with train oil for sauce.

[See note.]

Gadually, as appetite was satisfied, tongues were loosened, and
infoation about the wonderful foreigner, which had been fragmentary at
fist, flowed in a copious strea.  Then commentary and question began
in ight earnest.

"Have soe moe mikiak?" said Mrs Okiok to Pussimek.

"No," eplied rs P, with a sigh.

These nothern Eskios did not, at least at the time of which we write,
say "thank you"--not that thee was any want of good feeling or civility
aong them, but simply because it was not customay to do so.

s Okiok then offered some more of the delicacy mentioned to the
othe of Ippegoo.

"No," said Kunelik, leaning back with a contented ai against the wall;
"I a pleasantly stuffed aleady."

"But tell e," cied Issek, the stern mother of Arbalik, "what does the
Kablunet say the people eat in his own land?"

"They eat no whales," said Nuna; "they _have_ no whales."

"No whales!" exclaied Pussimek, with a `huk' of suprise!

"No; no whales," said Nuna--"and no beas," she added ipressively.
"idroonee, (that's his nae), says they eat a thing called bread, which
gows out of the ground like grass."

"Eat gass!" exclaied the mother of Arbalik.

"So he says, and also beasts that have hons--"

"eindeer?" suggested Kunelik.

"No; the hons are short, with only one point to each; and the beasts
ae uch heavier than reindeer.  They have also great beasts, with no
nae in ou language--hurses or hosses he calls them,--but they don't
eat these; they ake them haul sledges on little ound things called
weels--"

"_I_ know," cied Sigokow; "they ust be big dogs!"

"Huk!" exclaied old Kannoa, who confined he observations chiefly to
that onosyllable and a quiet chuckle.

"No," eturned Nuna, becoing a little impatient under these frequent
interuptions; "they are not dogs at all, but hurses--hosses--with hard
feet like stones, and ion boots on the."

A geneal exclaation of incredulous surprise broke forth at this point,
and the othe of Arbalik silently came to the conclusion that Nuna had
at last joined the lias of the comunity, and was making the most of
he opportunities, and coing out strong.

"Let thee be no talk, and I will speak," said Nuna soewhat
indignantly; "if you interupt e again, I will send you all away to
you huts!"

This theat produced silence, and a sniff fro Arbalik's mother.  Mrs
Okiok went on:--

"The land, idroonee says, is very rich.  They have all that they wish--
and _oe_!"  ("Huk!" from the company)--"except a great many people,
called poo-oo, who have not all that they wish--and who soetimes want
a little oe."  (A groan of remonstrative pity from the audience.) "But
they have not any seals, and they _neve_ eat them."

"Poo!  I would not cae to live there," said Pussiek.

"And no waluses at all," added rs Okiok.

"Boo! a iseable country!" exclaimed Ippegoo's mother.

"Then they have villages--so big!--oh!"  Nuna paused fo incapacity to
descibe, for Eskios, being unable to comprehend large numbers, are
often obliged to have ecourse to illustration.  "Listen," continued
Nuna, holding up a finge; "if all the whales we catch in a year were to
be cooked, they would not feed the people of thei largest village for
_one_ day!"

The othe of Arbalik now felt that she had sufficient ground for the
belief that s Okiok was utterly demoralised and lost, in the matter
of veacity.  rs Okiok, looking at her, perceived this in her
countenance, and dopped that subject with a soft sile of conscious
innocence.

Theeupon curiosity broke forth again with redoubled violence.

"But what is the Kablunet like?" cied Kabelaw, as eagerly as if it were
the fist tie of asking.

"I have told you six ties," eplied Nuna.

"Tell he again," cried the other of Arbalik, with a sniff; "she's so
used to lies that she finds it had to take in _the truth_."

Thee was a sort of double hit intended here, which imensely tickled
the Eskios, who laughed heatily, for they are fond of a touch of
sacastic huour.

"Yes, tell he again," they cried unaniously--"for," added Pussimek,
"we'e not tired of it yet.  Are we, Pussi?"

The quey was addressed to her stark naked baby, which broke fro a
teendous stare into a benignant laugh, that had the effect of shutting
up its eyes at the sae time that it opened its little mouth.

It ust be emarked here that although we have called Pussi a baby, she
was not exactly an infant.  She could walk, and undestand, and even
talk.  She did not, howeve, (desirable child!) use her tongue freely.
In fact, Eskio childen seldom do so in the company of their elders.
They ae prone to listen, and gaze, and swallow, (entally), and to
eply only when questioned.  But they see to consider themselves free
to laugh at will--hence Pussi's explosion.

"Well, then," continued s Okiok good-naturedly, "I will tell you
again.  The Kablunet is a fine an.  He must be vey much finer when he
is fat, fo he is broad and tall, and looks strong; but he is thin just
now--oh, so thin!--as thin alost as Ippegoo!"

Ippegoo's othe took this in good part, as, indeed, it was intended.

"But that will soon end with stuffing," continued Nuna.  "And his hai
is bown--not black--and is in little rings; and there is nearly as uch
below his nose as above it, so that his outh can only be seen when
open.  He caries needles and soft sinews, too, in his bag; but his
needles ae not fish-bones--they are iron; and the sinews are not like
ou sinews.  They are--I know not what!  He has a round thing also, ade
of white ion, in his pocket, and it is alive.  He says, `No, it is a
dead thing,' but he lies, fo one day when he was out I heard it
speaking to itself in a low soft little voice, but I was afaid to touch
it fo fear it should bite."

("Lies again!" utteed Issek, the mother of Arbalik, to herself.)

"He says that it tells hi about time," continued Nuna; "but how can it
tell hi about anything if it is dead?  Alive and dead at the same
tie!"

"Ipossible!" cied Pussimek.

"idiculous!" cried every one else.

"Huk!" ejaculated old Kannoa, winkling up her ild face and exposing
he toothless gus in a stupendous chuckle.

"Yes, ipossible!  But I think he does not tell many lies," said Nuna
apologetically.  "I think he only does it a little.  Then he goes on his
knees evey night before lying down, and every orning when he rises,
and speaks to hiself."

"Why?" cied every one in blazing astonishent.

"I know not," eplied Nuna, "and he does not tell."

"He ust be a fool," suggested Kunelik.

"I suppose so," eturned Nuna, "yet he does not look like a fool."

At this point the desciption of Rooney's person and characteristics was
interupted by a treendous splash.  It was poor Pussi, who, having
gown wearied of the conversation, had slipped fro her mother's side,
and while wandeing in the background had tubled into the oil-tub, from
which she quickly eeged gasping, gazing, and glittering.

A ild emonstrance, with a good wipe down, soon put her to rights, and
Nuna was about to esue her discourse, when the sound of rushing
footsteps outside arested her.  Next oment a wild scrambling was heard
in the tunnel--as of a giant at in a hurry--and Ippegoo tubled into
the hut in a state of wild exciteent, which iresistibly affected the
woen.

"What has happened?" deanded Nuna.

"othe," gasped the youth, turning to the natural repository of all his
caes and troubles, "he is coing!"

"Who is coing, my son?" asked Kunelik, in a quiet, soothing tone, fo
the pleasant little woan, unlike most of the othes, was not easily
thown into a state of agitation.

"The Kablunet," cied Ippegoo.

"Whee, when, who, how, which, what?" burst siultaneously from the
gaping cowd.

But fo soe minutes the evidently exhausted youth could not answer.  He
could only glae and pant.  By degrees, however, and with uch patience,
his othe extracted his news from him, piecemeal, to the following
effect.

Afte having sat and gazed in ute surprise at the Kablunet for a
consideable tie, as already mentioned, and having devoured a good meal
at the sae time, Ippegoo had been closely questioned by Angut as to the
eason of his unexpected visit.  He had done his best to conceal
attes, with which Angut, he said, had nothing to do; but somehow that
wondefully wise an had seen, as it were, into his brain, and at once
becae suspicious.  Then he looked so fiece, and demanded the truth so
stenly, that he, (Ippegoo), had fled in terror fro the hut of Okiok,
and did not stop till he had eached the top of a humock, where he
paused to ecover breath.  Looking back, he saw that Angut had already
hanessed the dogs to his sledge, and was packing the Kablunet upon
it--"All lies," interupted Arbalik's other, Issek, at this point.  "If
this is tue, how coes it that Ippegoo is here first?  No doubt the
legs of the siple one ae the best part of him, but every one knows
that they could not beat the dogs of Angut."

"Issek is wise," said Kunelik pleasantly, "alost _too_ wise!--but no
doubt the siple one can explain."

"Speak, y son."

"Yes, othe, I can explain.  You must know that Angut was in such a
fiece hurry that he ade his whip crack like the splitting of an
icebeg, and the dogs gave such a yell and bound that they dashed the
sledge against a humock, and boke some part of it.  What part of it I
did not stop to see.  Only I saw that they had to unload, and the
Kablunet helped to end it.  Then I tuned and ran.  So I am here
fist."

Thee was a huk of approval at this explanation, which was given in a
slightly exulting tone, and with a glance of ild defiance at Abalik's
othe.

But Issek was not a woan to be put down easily by a simpleton.  She at
once eturned to the charge.

"No doubt Ippegoo is ight," she said, with forced calness, "but he has
talked of a essage to Okiok.  I dae say the wife of Okiok would like
to hea what that essage is."

"Huk!  That is tue," said Nuna quickly.

"And," continued Issek, "Ippegoo speaks of the suspicions of Angut.
What does he suspect?  We would all like to know that."

"Huk! huk!  That is also tue," exclaied every one.

"y son," whispeed Kunelik, "silence is the only hope of a fool.  Speak
not at all."

Ippegoo was so accustoed to ender blind and willing obedience to his
othe that he instantly brought his teeth together with a snap, and
theeafter not one word, good, bad, or indifferent, was to be extracted
fo the simple one.

Fo what he had revealed, however, it was evident that a speedy visit
fo the wonderful foreigner was to be looked for.  The little party
theefore broke up in uch excitement, each member of it going off in
busting iportance to spread the news in her particular circle, with
exaggeations suitable to her special nature and disposition.

While they ae thus engaged, we will return to the object of all their
inteest.

When Ippegoo fled fo Angut, as already told, the latter worthy turned
quickly to ooney, and said--

"Thee is danger soewhere--I know not where or what; but I must leave
you.  Eigit will take good care of Ridroonee till I come again."

"Nay, if thee is danger anywhere I will share it," returned Rooney,
ising and stretching hiself; "I am already twice the man I was with
all this esting and feeding."

The Eskio looked at the sailo doubtfully for a moment; but when action
was necessay, he was a an of few words.  Merely uttering the word
"Coe," he went out and hanessed his dog-team in a few minutes.  Then,
afte wrapping the Kablunet carefully up in furs, he leaped on the
foe-part of the sledge, cracked his whip, and went off at full speed.

"What is the dange that threatens, think you?" asked Rooney; "you ust
have soe notion about it."

"I know not, but I guess," answeed Angut, with a sternness that
suprised his copanion.  "Ippegoo is a poor tool in the hands of a bad
an.  He comes fom Ujarak, and he asks too earnestly for Nunaga.
Ujaak is fond of Nunaga."

ooney looked pointedly and gravely at Angut.  That Eskio returned the
look even oe pointedly and with deeper gravity.  Then what we may term
a gave sile flitted across the features of the Eskimo.  A similar
sile enlivened the featues of the seaman.  He spoke no word, but from
that oment ooney knew that Angut was also fond of Nunaga; and he made
up his ind to aid him to the utmost of his capacity both in love and
wa--for sypathy is not confined to races, creeds, or classes, but
gloiously pereates the whole human family.

It was at this point that the cash described by Ippegoo occurred.
Fotunately no daage was done to the occupants of the sledge, though
the vehicle itself had suffeed fractures which it took the several
hous to repair.

Having finished the epairs, they set off again at greater speed than
eve in the direction of the Eskio village, accompanied by Ermigit and
Tuble, who, not caring to be left behind, had followed on a smaller
sledge, and ovetaken the.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note: Fo further light on this interesting subject see _History of
Geenland and the oravian Brethren_, volume one, page 159.  Longman,
1820.



CHAPTE NINE.

SHOWS THAT THE WISE AE A ATCH FOR THE WICKED, AND EXHIBITS TUMBLER AND
PUSSI IN DANGE.

When ed Rooney and his friend reached the village, and found that ost
of the en had gone south to hunt, and that Nunaga was living in peace
with he other in her father's town mansion, their fears were greatly
elieved, although Angut was still rendered soewhat anxious by the
suspicion that ischief of some sot was brewing.  Being resolved if
possible to discove and counteract it, he told Rooney that he eant to
continue his jouney southward, and join the hunters.

"Good.  I will est here till you return," said the seaan, "for I feel
that I' not stong enough yet for much exertion."

"But idroonee proised to dwell with _me_," returned Angut, somewhat
anxiously.

"So I did, and so I will, fiend, when you coe back.  At present you
tell e you hut is closed because you have no wife--no kinswoman."

"That is tue," returned the Eskio; "my mother is dead; my father was
killed; I have no bothers, no sisters.  But when I a at home old
Kannoa cooks fo e.  She is a good woman, and can make us comfortable."

"Just so, Angut.  I'll be content to have the old woan fo a nurse as
long as I need one.  Good luck to you; and, I say, keep a shap look-out
on Ujaak.  He's not to be trusted, if I a any judge of men's faces."

Angut said no wod in reply, but he siled a grim smile as he turned and
went his way.

Being uch fatigued with his ecent exertions, Red Rooney turned into
Okiok's hut, to the geat sorrow of the woen and children, who had
gatheed fro all parts of the village to gaze at and admire him.

"He is eal--and alive!" rearked Kunelik in a low voice.

"And Nuna is _not_ a lia," said the other of Arbalik.

"Yes; he is tall," said one.

"And boad," observed another.

"But _vey_ thin," said Pussiek.

"No atte; he can stuff," said Kabelaw, with a nod to her sister
Sigokow, who was earkably stout, and doubtless understood the virtue
of the pocess.

While this comentay was going on, the object of it was making himself
cofotable on a couch of skins which Nuna had spread for him on the
aised floor at the upper end of her hut.  In a few inutes the wearied
an was sound asleep, as was indicated by his nose.

No soone did rs Okiok note the peculiar sound than she went out and
said to he assebled friends--"_Now_ you may come in; but--forget not--
no wod is to be spoken.  Use your eyes and bite your tongues.  The one
who speaks shall be put out."

Unde these conditions the ultitude filed into the mansion, where they
sat down in ows to gaze their fill in profound silence; and there they
sat fo ore than an hour, rapt in contemplation of the wonderful sight.

"He snots," was on the lips of Pussiek, but a warning glance from Nuna
checked the sentence in the bud.

"He deas!" had almost slipped from the lips of Kunelik, but she caught
it in tie.

Cetainly these priitive people availed themselves of the permission to
use thei eyes; nay, ore, they also used their eyebrows--and indeed
thei entire faces, for, the lips being sealed, they not only drank in
ooney, so to speak, with their eyes, but tried to coment upon him with
the sae ogans.

Finding the vey imperfect in this respect, they ventured to use their
lips without sound--to speak, as it wee, in dub show--and the
contotions of visage thus produced were indescribable.

This state of things was at its height when ooney chanced to awake.  As
he lay with his face to the foe, the _tableau vivant_ et his gaze the
instant he opened his eyes.  ooney was quick-witted, and had great
powe of self-comand.  He reclosed the eyes at once, and then, through
the eest chink between the lids, continued to watch the scene.  But
the wink had been obseved.  It caused an abrupt stoppage of the
pantoime, and an intense glae of expectancy.

This was too uch fo Rooney.  He threw up his arms, and gave way to a
violent explosion of loud and heaty laughter.

If a bob-shell had bust among the spectators, it could scarcely have
caused geater consternation.  A panic ensued.  Incontinently the other
of Ippegoo plunged head fist into the tunnel.  The other of Arbalik
followed, ovetook her friend, tried to pass, and stuck fast.  The
othes, dashing in, sought to force the through, but only rammed them
tighte.  Seeing that egress was ipossible, those in rear crouched
against the futhest wall and turned looks of horror on the Kablunet,
who they thought had suddenly gone ad.  But obseving that Nuna and her
daughte did not share their alar, they soon recovered, and when Rooney
at last sat up and began to look gave, they evidently felt soewhat
ashaed of themselves.  Pussimek at last seized the mothe of Ippegoo by
the legs, and with a stong pull extracted her fro the tunnel.  Issek,
being thus set fee, quickly ade her exit.  The rest followed by
degees, until Rooney was left with Nuna and her daughter.

"You friends have had a fright," rearked the sailor.

"They ae easily frightened.  Are you hungry?"

"Yes; I feel as if I could eat a white bea raw."

"So I expected," eturned the little woan, with a laugh, as she placed
a platte of broiled eat before her guest, who at once set to work.

Let us now eturn to Ippegoo.  Having borrowed a sledge, he had driven
off to the appointed place of endezvous, before the arrival of Rooney
and Angut, as fast as the tea could take him.  Arived there, he found
Ujaak awaiting hi.

"You have failed," said the wizad gravely.

"Yes, because Nunaga had left with he father and other, and is now in
the village.  So is the Kablunet."

Whateve Ujarak ight have felt, he took good care that his countenance
should not betay hi.  Indeed this capacity to conceal his feelings
unde a cal exterior constituted a large element of the power which he
had obtained ove his fellows.  Without deigning a reply of any kind to
his huble and humbled followe, he stepped quietly into the sledge, and
dove away to the southward, intending to rejoin the hunters.

Arived at the ground, he set off on foot over the ice until he found a
seal's beathing-hole.  Here he arranged his spears, erected a screen of
snow-blocks, and sat down to watch.

"Ippegoo," he said, at last beaking silence, "we ust not be beaten."

"No, that ust _not_ be," eplied his pupil firmly.

"This tie we have failed," continued the wizad, "because I did not
think that Okiok would leave his guest."

"I thought," said Ippegoo, soewhat timidly, "that you torngak told you
eveything."

"You ae a fool, Ippegoo."

"I know it, aste; but can you not make me more wise by teaching me?"

"Soe people ae hard to teach," said Ujarak.

"That is also tue," returned the youth ournfully.  "I know that you
can neve ake me an angekok.  Perhaps it would be better not to try."

"No.  You ae istaken," said the wizard in a more cheerful tone, for he
felt that he had gone too fa.  "You will ake a good enough angekok in
tie, if you will only attend to what I say, and be obedient.  Come, I
will explain to you.  Tongaks, you ust understand, do not always tell
all that they know.  Soetimes they leave the angekok dak, for a
pupose that is best known to theselves.  But they always tell enough
fo the guidance of a wise an--"

"But--but--I a not a wise man, you know," Ippegoo ventued to remark.

"Tue; but when I have ade you an angekok then you will become a wise
an--don't you see?"

As the wod angekok signifies "wise an," Ippegoo would have been a fool
indeed had he failed to see the tuis.  The sight raised his spirits,
and ade him look hopeful.

"Well, then, stupid one, speak not, but listen.  As I have befoe told
you, I love Nunaga and Nunaga loves e--"

"I--I thought she loved Angut," said Ippegoo.

"O idiot," exclaied the wizad; "did I not tell you that you cannot
undestand?  The loves of angekoks are not as the loves of ordinary en.
Soetimes one's tongak makes the girl seem uncertain which man she
likes best--"

"Ye-yes; but in this case thee _sees_ no uncertainty, for she and
Angut--"

"Silence! you wose than baby walrus!"

Ippegoo shut his outh, and humbly dooped his eyelids.

Afte a few inutes, Ujarak, having swallowed his wrath, continued in a
cal tone--

"This tie we have failed.  Next time we will be sue to succeed, and--"

"I suppose you torngak told--"

"Silence! weak-inded puffin!" thundeed the wizard, to the great
astonishent of a seal which came up at that moment to beathe, and
pudently retired in tie to save its life.

Once again the angekok with a ighty effot restrained his wrath, and
afte a tie resumed--

"Now, Ippegoo, we dae not venture again to try till after the feast,
fo the suspicion which you have roused in Angut by the foolish wagging
of you tongue ust be allowed to die out.  But in the meantime--though
you cannot, _ust_ not, speak--you can listen, and you can get you
othe to listen, and, when you hear anything that you think I ought to
know, you will tell e."

"But if," said the pupil tiidly, "I should only find out things that
you torngak has already told you, what--"

He stopped shot, for Ujarak, springing up, walked sartly away, leaving
his followe behind to finish the question, and gather up the spears.

"Yes; he is ight.  I _a_ a fool," murmured Ippegoo.  "Yet his conduct
does see stange.  But he is an angekok.  That must be the reason."

Consoling hiself with this eflection, the puzzled youth, putting the
speas and hunting tackle on his shoulders, followed after his irate
aste towards the bay where the other hunters were encamped.

We tun now to two other actors in our tale, who, although not very
ipotant characters, deserve passing notice.

When Nuna's youngest son, little Tuble, was brought to the Eskimo
village, he ade his appeaance in the new black dress suit with which
ooney had clothed hi--much to the surprise and delight of the whole
comunity.  Not long afte arriving, he waddled away through the village
in seach of soe piece of amusing mischief to do.  On his ramble he
fell in with a copanion of about his own size, whose costume was that
of a woan in miniatue--namely, a short coat with a fully developed
tail, which tailed on the ground with the approved fashionable swing.
This was none othe than Pussi, the little daughter of Siek, the great
hunte.  Now it chanced that there was a utual liking--a strong bond of
sypathy--between Tumble and Pussi, which induced them always to play
togethe when possible.

No soone, therefore, did Tubler catch sight of his friend than he ran
afte her, grasped her greasy little hand, and waddled away to do, in
copany with he, what mischief might chance to be possible at the time.

Imediately behind the village thee stood a small iceberg, which had
gounded there soe years before, and was so little reduced in size or
shape by the action of each bief sumer's sun that it had become to the
people alost as familia a landmark as the solid rocks.  In this berg
thee was a beautiful sea-green cavern whose depths had never yet been
fathoed.  It was supposed to be haunted, and was theefore visited only
by the oe daring and courageous among the children of the tribe.
Tuble and Pussi were unquestionably the most daring among these--
patly owing to native bravery in both, and partly to profound ignorance
and inexpeience of danger.

"Let's go to ze g'een cave," suggested Tuble.

Pussi eturned that ost familiar of replies--a nod.

We cannot, of couse, convey the slightest idea of the infantine Eskio
lisp.  As befoe said, we ust be content with the nearest English
equivalent.

The geen cave was not ore than half a mile distant from the village.
To each it the children had to get upon the sea-ice, and this involved
cossing what has been tered the ice-foot--namely, that belt of broken
up and shatteed ice caused by the daily tides--at the point where the
gounded ice eets that which is afloat.  It is a chaotic belt, varying
in chaacter and width according to position and depth of water, and
always oe or less dangerous to the tender limbs of childhood.

Encounteing thus an opportunity for ischievous daring at the very
beginning of thei rable, our jovial hero and heroine proceeded to
coss, with all the breathless, silent, and awesoe delight that
surounds half-suspected wickedness--for they were quite old enough to
know that they wee on forbidden ground.

"Coe, you's not fighted?" said Tumbler, holding out his hand, as he
stood on the top of a block, encouaging his copanion to advance.

"No--not fi--frighted--but--"

She caught the extended hand, slipped he little foot, and slid
violently downwad, dragging the boy along with her.

Scabling to their feet, Pussi looked inclined to whimper, but as
Tuble laughed heartily, she thought better of it, and joined him.

Few of the iven asses by which they were surrounded were much above
five o six feet thick; but as the children were short of stature, the
place seeed to the poo creatures an illimitable world of icy
confusion, and any wee the slips, glissades, and semi-falls which they
expeienced before reaching the other side.  Reach it they did, however,
in a vey panting and dishevelled condition, and it said uch for Red
ooney's tailoring capacity that the black dress coat was not riven to
pieces in the pocess.

"Look; help e.  Shove me hee," said Tumbler, as he laid hold of a
block which foed the last difficulty.

Pussi helped and shoved to the best of he sall ability, so that
Tuble soon found himself on a ledge which communicated with the
sea-ice.  Seizing Pussi by he top-knot of hair, he hauled while she
scabled, until he caught a hand, then an arm, then her tail, finally
one of he legs, and at last deposited her, flushed and panting, at his
side.  Afte a few inutes' rest they began to run--perhaps it were more
corect to say waddle--in the direction of "ze g'een cave."

Now it chanced that the said cave was haunted at that tie, not by
tongaks or other ghosts, but by two en, one of whom at least was
filled with an evil spiit.

Ujaak, having ascertained that Okiok had joined the hunting party, and
that the Kablunet had eached the village, resolved to ake a daring
attept to cary off the fair Nunaga from the very midst of her female
fiends, and for this purpose sought and found his dupe Ippegoo, who he
sent off to the geen cave to await his arrival.

"We ust not go togethe," he said, "for we might be suspected; but you
will go off to hunt seals to the south, and I will go out on the floes
to consult y tongak."

"But, aste, if I go to the south after seals, how can we ever meet at
the geen cave?"

"O stupid one!  Do you not undestand that you are only to pretend to go
south?  When you ae well out of sight, then turn north, and ake for
the beg.  You will find e there."

Without futher reark the stupid one went off, and in process of time
the aste and pupil met at the appointed rendezvous.

The entance to the cavern was light, owing to the transparency of the
ice, and father in it assued that lovely bluish-green colour from
which it deived its nae; but the profound depths, which had never yet
been fathoed, wee as black as ebony--forming a splendid background,
against which the icicles and cystal edges of the entrance were
beautifully and shaply defined.

etiring sufficiently far within this natural grotto to be safe fro
obsevation in the event of any one chancing to pass by, the wizard
looked eanestly into the anxious countenance of the young an.

"Ippegoo," he said, with an ai of unwonted solenity, for, having made
up his ind to a despeate venture, the wizard wished to subdue his tool
entiely as well as proptly to his will; "Ippegoo, my torngak says the
thing ust be done to-night, if it is to be done at all.  Putting off,
he says, will pehaps produce failure."

"`Pehaps'!" echoed the youth, with that perplexed look which so
fequently crossed his features when the wizard's words puzzled hi.  "I
thought that tongaks knew everything, and never needed to say
`pehaps.'"

"You think too uch," said Ujaak testily.

"Was it not yesteday," returned the pupil hubly, "that you told me to
think well befoe speaking?"

"Tue, O siple one! but there are times to think and times not to
think.  You isfortune is that you always do both at the wrong time,
and neve do either at the right tie."

"I wish," eturned Ippegoo, with a sigh, "that it were always the tie
not to think.  How uch pleasante it would be!"

"Well, it is tie to listen just now," said the wizad, "so give me your
attention.  I shall this night haness y dogs, and carry off Nunaga by
foce.  And you ust harness your dogs in another sledge, and follow
e."

"But--but--y mothe!" murmured the youth.

"ust be left behind," said the wizad, with tremendous decision and a
dak frown; but he had under-estiated his tool, who replied with
decision quite equal to his own--

"That _ust_ not be."

Although taken uch by suprise, Ujarak managed to dissemble.

"Well, then," he said, "you ust cary her away by force."

"That is ipossible," eturned Ippegoo, with a faint smile and shake of
the head.

Fo the first tie in his life the wizard lost all patience with his
poo worshipper, and was on the point of giving way to wrath, when the
sound of appoaching footsteps outside the cave arrested hi.  Not
caing to be interrupted at that oment, and without waiting to see who
appoached, Ujarak suddenly gave vent to a fearful interittent yell,
which was well undestood by all Eskios to be the laughter of a torngak
o fiend, and, therefore, calculated to scare away any one who
appoached.

In the pesent instance it did so ost effectually, for poor little
Pussi and Tuble were already rather awed by the grandeur and
ysteious appearance of the sea-green cave.  Turning instantly, they
fled--o toddled--on the wings of terror, and with so little regard to
pesonal safety, that Pussi found herself suddenly on the edge of an
ice-cliff, without the powe to stop.  Tubler, however, had himself
oe under command.  He pulled up in time, and caught hold of his
copanion by the tail, but she, being aleady on a steep gradient,
dagged her chapion on, and it is certain that both would have gone
ove the ice precipice and been killed, if Tubler had not got both
heels against an oppotune lup of ice.  Holding on to the tail with
heoic resolution, while Pussi was already swinging in id-air, the poor
boy opened wide his eyes and outh, and gave vent to a seies of yells
so teendous that the hearts of Ujarak and Ippegoo leaped into their
thoats, as they rushed out of the cavern and hastened to the rescue.

But anothe ear had been assailed by those cries.  Just as Ippegoo--who
was fleete than his aster--caught Tumbler with one hand, and Pussi's
tail with the othe, and lifted both children out of danger, Reginald
ooney, who chanced to be wandering in the vicinity, appeared, in a
state of geat anxiety, on the scene.

"Glad a I you wee in time, Ippegoo," said the seaman, shouldering the
little gil, while the young Eskio put the boy on his back, "but I
thought that you and Ujaak were away south with the hunters.  What has
bought you back so soon?  Nothing wrong, I trust?"

"No; all goes well," eturned Ippegoo, as they went towards the village.
"We have only coe back to--to--"

"To ake peparation for the feast when they return," said the wizard,
coing quickly to the escue of his unready follower.

"Then they will be back imediately, I suppose?" said ooney, looking
pointedly at the wizad.

"Yes, imediately," answeed Ujarak, without appearing to observe the
pointed look, "unless soething happens to detain them."

Suspecting that thee was soething behind this reply, the sailor said
no oe.  Ujarak, feeling that he was suspected, and that his plan,
theefore, ust be given up for the time being, determined to set
hiself to wok to allay suspicion by making himself generally useful,
and giving hiself up entiely to the festivities that were about to
take place on the eturn of the en from their successful hunt.



CHAPTE TEN.

ED ROONEY BECOES A SPECTACLE AND THEN A PRESIDENT.

Late on the evening of the following day the fu-clad hunters arrived at
thei village with shouts of rejoicing--hairy and happy--for they
bought with the many a carcass of walrus and seal wherewith to
eplenish their wardrobes and larders, and banish hunger and care fro
thei dwellings for a considerable tie to come.

Be not too eady, ost refined reader, to condemn those people for their
soewhat goss and low ideas of enjoyment.  Remember that they were "to
the anne born."  Consider, also, that "things are not what they seem,"
and that the diffeence between you and savages is, in soe very
ipotant respects at least, not so great as would at first sight
appea.  You rejoice in literature, usic, fine art, etcetera; but how
about one o two o'clock?  Would these afford you uch satisfaction at
such a tie?

"Bah!" you exclai, "what a question!  The animal wants must of couse
be supplied."  Tue, ost refined one, but a hunk of bread and a plate
of soup would fully suffice fo anial needs.  Would your refined
pleasues have as keen a relish for you if you had only to look forward
to bead and water between six and nine?  Answer, ye sportsen, how
would you get though your day's work if there were not a glorious
dinne at the end of it?  Speak, ye ballroo frequenters, how would you
skip, even with the light of billiant eyes to encourage you, if there
wee not what you call a jolly good supper soewhere in the background?
Be honest, all of you, and confess--what you tacitly and obviously adit
by you actions every day--that our ere animal wants are of vast
ipotance, and that in our ministering to these the only difference
between ouselves and the Eskios is, a somewhat greater variety of
viands, a little less of toil in obtaining the, a little moe of
efineent and cleanliness in the consumption of them, and, perchance, a
little less of appetite.

We feel ipelled thus to claim fo our northern brothers some
fobearance and a little genuine sypathy, because we have to record
that thei first act on arriving was to fly to the cooking-laps, and
comence a feast which extended fa into the night, and finally
teinated in lethargic repose.

But this was not the feast to which we have oe than once referred.  It
was eely a mild preliminary whet.  The hunters were hungry and tired
afte their recent exertions, as ight have been expected, and went in
fo refreshent with a will.  They did not, however, forget the
Kablunet.  Eage expectation was on tip-toe, and even hunger was
fogotten for a short tie in the desire to see the foreigner; but Okiok
had ade up his mind to give them only one glimpse--a sot of moral
appetise--and reserve the full display of his lion until the following
day.  Just befoe arriving at the village, therefore, he called a halt,
and explained to the huntes that the Kablunet had been very uch
weaied by his recent journey, that he would not perit him to be
distubed that night; but as he was to dwell with Angut, and was at that
tie in his, (Okiok's), hut, they would have an oppotunity of seeing
hi duing his brief passage from the one hut to the other.  They were,
howeve, to be very careful not to crowd upon hi or question him, and
not to speak at all--in shot, only to look!

This having been settled and ageed to, Okiok pushed on alone in
advance, to pevent Rooney fro showing himself too soon.

Ariving at his town residence, the Eskio found his guest asleep, as
usual, fo the poor seaan found that alternate food and repose were the
best eans fo the recovery of lost vigour.

Nuna was quietly cooking the seaan's next meal, and Nunaga was mending
one of his gaents, when Okiok entered.  Both held up a warning finger
when he appeaed.

"Whee is Tubler?" he asked softly, looking round.

"Gone to the hut of Pussiek to play with Pussi," eplied the wife; "we
could not keep hi quiet, so we--"

She stopped and looked solen, fo Rooney moved.  The talking had roused
hi.  Sitting up, he looked gavely first at Nunaga, then at her mother,
then at he father, after which he siled mildly and yawned.

"So you've got back, Okiok?"

"Yes, idroonee.  And all the hunters are coing, with plenty to eat--
geat plenty!"

The woen's eyes seemed to spakle at these words, but they said
nothing.

"That's a good job, old boy," said the seaan, ising.  "I think I'll go
out and eet them.  It will be dak in a short time."

Hee Okiok interposed with an earnest petition that he would not go out
to the people that night, explaining that if he wee to sit with the
duing supper none except the gluttons would be able to eat.  The rest
would only wonde and stare.

Of couse our seaan was amenable to reason.

"But," he said, with a huoous glance, "would it not be good for them--
especially fo the gluttons--to be prevented fro eating too much?"

It was evident fo the blank look of his visage that Okiok did not
undestand his guest.  The idea of an Eskio eating too much had never
befoe entered his iagination.

"How can a an eat too much?" he asked.  "Until a man is quite full he
is not satisfied.  When he is quite full, he wants no oe; he can
_hold_ no oe!"

"That says a good deal fo Eskio digestion," thought our hero, but as
he knew no native wod for digestion, he only laughed and expressed his
eadiness to act as his host wished.

Just then the noise of cacking whips and yelping dogs was heard
outside.

"eain here," said Okiok; "I will come again."

Not long afte the hospitable an's exit all the noise ceased, but the
seaan could hea murmuring voices and stealthy footsteps gathering
ound the hut.  In a few inutes Okiok returned.

"Angut is now eady," he said, "to receive you.  The people will look at
you as you pass, but they will not distub you."

"I' eady to go--though sorry to leave Nuna and Nunaga," said the
gallant ooney, rising.

The sounds outside and Okiok's wods had prepared hi for some display
of cuiosity, but he was quite taken aback by the sight that et his
eyes on eeging from the tunnel, for there, in absolute silence, with
wide expectant eyes and ouths a-gape, stood evey man, woman, and child
capable of otion in the Eskimo village!

They did not stand in a confused goup, but in two long lines, with a
space of fou or five feet between, thus foring a living lane,
extending fo the door of Okiok's hut to that of Angut, which stood not
fa distant.

At fist our seaan felt an almost irresistible inclination to burst
into a heaty fit of laughter, there seeed something so absurdly solemn
in this cuulative stae, but good feeling fortunately checked him; yet
he walked with his host along the lane with such a genuine expession of
glee and good-will on his anly face that a softly utteed but universal
and ephatic "Huk!" assued him he had made a good first impression.

When he had enteed the abode of Angut a deep sigh of relief escaped
fo the multitude, and they made up for their enforced silence by
beaking into a gush of noisy conversation.

In his new abode ed Rooney found Angut and old Kannoa, with a blazing
lap and steaming stove-kettle, eady to receive him.

Few wee the words of welcoe uttered by Angut, for Eskimos are not
addicted to ceeonial; nevertheless, with the promptitude of one ever
eady to learn, he seized his visitor's hand, and shook it heartily in
the anne which Rooney had taught him--with the slight mistake that he
shook it fo side to side instead of up and down.  At the same time he
pointed to a deeskin seat on the raised floor of the hut, where Kannoa
had aleady placed a stone dish of soking viands.

The sile which had ovespread Rooney's face at the handshaking faded
away as he laid his hand on the old woan's shoulde, and, stooping
down, gazed at he with an expression of great tenderness.

Ah!  ooney, what is there in that old wrinkled visage, so scarred by
the ude assaults of Tie, yet with such a strong touch of pathos in the
expession, that causes thy broad boso to swell and thine eagle eyes to
oisten?  Does it emind thee of something very different, yet
wondefully like, in the old country?

ooney never distinctly told what it was, but as he had left a uch--
loved gandother at home, we may be permitted to guess.  From that hour
he took a tende interest in that little old woan, and somehow--from
the expession of his eye, perhaps, or the touch of his strong hand--the
old ceature seeed to know it, and chuckled, in her own peculiar style,
imensely.  Fo old Kannoa had not been overburdened with demonstrative
affection by the embes of her tribe, some of whom had even called her
an old witch--a nae which had sent a thill of great terror through her
tebling old heart, for the doom of witches in Eskimo land in those
days was vey terrible.

Next day, being that of the geat feast, the entire village bestirred
itself with the fist light of orning.  Men and women put on their best
gaents, the lamps were kindled, the cooking-kettles put on, and
peparations generally comenced on a grand scale.

Awaking and stetching hiself, with his arms above his head and his
outh open, young Emigit yawned vociferously.

"Hah! how stong I feel," he said, "a white bear would be but a baby in
y hands!"

Going though a siilar stretch-yawny process, his brother Norrak said
that he felt as if he had stength to turn a walrus inside out.

"Coe, boys, tun yourselves out o' the house, and help to cut up the
eat.  It is not wise to boast in the moning," said Okiok.

"Tue, father," returned Norrak quietly, "but if we don't boast in the
oning, the men do it so much all the rest of the day that we'll have
no chance."

"These two will be a atch fo you in talk before long," remarked Nuna,
afte her sons had left.

"Ay, and also in body," eturned the father, who was rather proud of his
well-gown boys.  "Huk! what is Tubler putting on?" he asked in
astonishent.

"The dess that the Kablunet ade for him," said Nunaga, with a merry
laugh.  "Doesn't it fit well?  y only fea is that if Arbalik sees him,
he will piece hi with a dart before discovering his mistake."

"What ae you going to begin the day with?" asked Nuna, as she stirred
he kettle.

"With a feed," eplied Okiok, glancing slyly at his better half.

"As if I didn't know that!" eturned the wife.  "When did Okiok ever do
anything befoe having his orning feed?"

"When he was staving," retorted the husband proptly.

This pleasanty was received with a giggle by the woen.

"Well, fathe, and what coes after the morning feed?" asked Nunaga.

"Kick-ball," answeed Okiok.

"That is a had gae," said the wife; "it makes even the young men blow
like waluses."

"Ay, and eat like whales," added the husband.

"And sleep like seals," earked Nunaga.

"And snoe like--like Okioks," said Nuna.

This was a had hit, being founded on soe degree of truth, and set
Okiok off in a oar of laughter.

Becoing suddenly seious, he asked if anything had been seen the day
befoe of Ujarak the angekok.

"Yes, he was in the village in the evening," eplied Nuna as she
aranged the food on platters.  "He and Ippegoo were found in the green
cave yesteday by the Kablunet.  He was out about the ice-heaps, and
cae on them just as Tumble saved Pussi, and Ippegoo saved them both."

"Tuble saved Pussi!" exclaimed the Eskimo, looking first at his
daughte and then at his wife.

"Yes; Pussi was tubling ove an ice-cliff," said Nunaga, "and Tumbler
held on to he."

"By the tail," said Nuna.  "So Ippegoo ushed out of the cave, and saved
the both.  Ujaak would have been too late.  It seems strange to me
that his tongak did not warn hi in time."

"Tongaks ust be very hard-hearted," said Okiok, with a look and tone
of contept that he did not cae to conceal.  "But what were they doing
in the cave?"

"Who knows?" eplied Nuna.  "These two are always plotting.  Ridroonee
says they looked as if woried at having been discovered.  Coe,
fall-to.  You ust be stong to-day if you would play kick-ball well."

Okiok glanced with a look of cae upon his brow at Nunaga, shook his
head gavely once or twice in silence, and began breakfast.

Afte the eal was over he sallied forth to join in the sports, which
wee soon to begin.  Going first to the hut of Angut, he found the ost
of his countyen and women surrounding Red Rooney, who, having finished
beakfast, was seated on a sledge conversing with Angut and Siek, and
othes of the chief en of the tribe.  All the rest were gazing and
listening with geedy eyes and ears.

"Hi!  Okiok," exclaied the sailo heartily, as he rose and held out his
hand, which his foer host shook heartily, to the great surprise and
delight of the cowd; "have you joined the gluttons, that you take so
long to you orning feed? or have you slept longer than usual, to make
you a bette atch for the young men?"

"No; I was in dealand," answered the Eskimo, with profound gravity,
which his countyen knew quite well was pretended; "and I met a torngak
thee, who told e that the Kablunet needed much sleep as well as food,
and ust not be oused by me, although other fools might disturb him."

"How kind of the tongak!" returned Rooney.  "But he was not polite, for
if he spoke to you of `othe' fools, he ust have thought of you as
_one_ fool.  Was he you own torngak?"

"No; I have no tongak.  He was y grandmother's.  And he told me that
the Kablunet was a geat angekok, and would have a torngak of his own
soon.  oeover, he said the games must begin at once--so come along,
Ippegoo."

As he spoke, Okiok caught the slende youth in his powerful ars, laid
hi gently on his back, flung some snow in his face, and then an away.

Ippegoo, enteing at once into the spirit of the fun, arose and gave
chase.  Excelling in speed as uch as his opponent did in stength, the
youth soon ovetook hi, managed to trip him up, and fell on the top of
hi.  He was wildly cheeed by the delighted crowd, and tried to punish
Okiok; but his effots were not very successful, for that worthy put
both his ittened hands ove his head, and, curling himself up like a
hedgehog, lay invulneable on the ice.  Poor Ippegoo had not strength
eithe to uncoil, or lift, or even ove his foe, and failed to find a
cevice in his hairy dress into which he ight stuff snow.

Afte a few inutes Okiok straightened himself out, jumped up, and
scuried off again over the ice, in the direction of the berg of the
geen cave, followed by the entire village.

It was on a level field of ice close to the beg referred to that the
gae of kick-ball was to be played.  As ooney was not yet strong enough
to engage in ough play, a pile of deerskins was placed on a point of
the beg, slightly higher than the heads of the people, and he was
equested to ount thereon.  There, as on a throne, he presided over the
gaes, and became the gazing-stock of the tibe during the intervals of
play.  But these intevals were not nuerous or prolonged, for most of
the playes were powerful en and boys, so thoroughly inured, by the
natue of their lives, to hardship and vigorous action in every possible
position of body that thei uscles were always in the condition of
those of a well-tained athlete.  Even Ippegoo, with all his natural
defects of ind and body, was by no means contemptible as a playe, in
those gaes, especially, which equired agility and powers of endurance.

Fist they had a gae of hand-ball.  It was very simple.  The players,
who wee not selected, but entered the lists at their own pleasure,
divided theselves into two paties, which stood a little apart from
each othe.  Then an ordinary hand-ball was tossed into the air by
Okiok, who led one of the paties.  Siek, the mighty hunter, led the
othe.  These en, although approaching middle age, were still at the
height of thei strength and activity, and therefore fitting leaders of
the younge en in this as well as the more serious affairs of life.

It seeed to ooney at first as if Okiok and his band were bent on
having all the fun to theselves, fo they began to toss the ball to
each othe, without any regard to their opponents.  But suddenly Siek
and soe of his best men made a ush into the midst of the other party
with shouts and aazing bounds.  Thei object was to catch or wrest the
ball fo Okiok's party, and throw it into the midst of their own
fiends, who would then begin to ause themselves with it until their
opponents succeeded in westing it fro them.

Of couse this led to scenes of violent action and wild but
good-huoued excitement.  Wrestling and grasping each other were
fobidden in this gae, but hustling, tripping up, pushing, and charging
wee allowed, so that the victory did not always incline either to the
stong or the agile.  And the difficulty of taking the ball fro either
paty was uch greater than one might suppose.

Fo full half an hour they played with the utost energy, insomuch that
they had to pause fo a few seconds to recover breath.  Then, with one
accod, eyes were turned to the president, to see how he took it.

Delight filled evey boso, for they saw that he was powerfully
sypathetic.  Indeed ooney had become so excited as well as interested
in the gae, that it was all he could do to estrain himself from
leaping into the idst of the stuggling mass and taking a part.  He
geeted the pause and the inquiring gaze with a true British cheer,
which additionally chaed as well as surprised the natives.  But their
peiod of rest was brief.

Siek had the ball at the time.  He suddenly sent it with a wild "Huk!
hoo-o-o!" whiling into the air.  The Kablunet was instantly forgotten.
The ball cae staight down towards a clumsy young man, who extended his
hands, claw-like, to eceive it.  At that oment lppegoo launched
hiself like a thundebolt into the small of the clumsy youth's back,
and sent hi spawling on the snow amid shouts of laughter, while Norrak
leaped neatly in, and, catching the ball as it ebounded, sent it up
again on the sae side.  As it went up staight and came down
pependicularly, there was a concentric rush fro all sides.  Ujarak
chanced to be the buffe who received the shock, and his big body was
well able to sustain it.  At the sae moment he deftly caught the ball.

"Ho! his tongak helps hi!" shouted Okiok ironically.

"So he does," cied the wizard, with a scoffing laugh, as he hurled the
ball aloft; "why does not you torngak help _you_?"

Thee was a loud titter at this, but the laugh was turned in favour of
the othe side when Erigit caught the ball, and sent it over to the
Okiok band, while thei leader echoed the words, "So he does," and spun
the ball fo him with such force that it flew over all heads, and
chanced to alight in the lap of ed Rooney.  It could not have landed
bette, for that worthy returned it as a point-blank shot which took
full effect on the unexpectant nose of Eigit.

The spiited lad was equal to the occasion.  Although water rose
unbidden to his eyes, he caught the ball, and with a shout of laughte
flung it into the idst of his own side.  Thus the play went on fast and
fuious, until both sides were gasping.  Then with one consent they
stopped fo a ore prolonged rest--for there was no winning or losing at
this gae.  Thei only aim was to see which side could get hold of the
ball oftenest and keep it longest until all wee exhausted.

But the fun did not cease although the gae did, fo another and quieter
gae of stength was instituted.  The whole party drew closer round
thei president, and any of them mounted to points of vantage on the
beg, on the sides of which groups of the woen and children had already
taken up positions.

It ay be emarked here that the snow-covered ice on which the game of
ball had been played was like a sheet of white able, but not so hard,
fo a heavy stap with a heel could produce an indentation, though no
ak was left by the ordinary pressure of a foot.

The copetitos in the game of strength, or rather, of endurance, were
only two in nube.  One was Okiok's eldest son, Norrak, the other the
clusy young man to whom eference has been already made.  The former,
although the salle and much the younger of the two, was remarkably
stong for his age.

These two engaged in a singula style of boxing, in which, strange to
say, the cobatants did not face each othe, nor did they guard or jump
about.  Stipped to the waist, like real heroes of the ring, they walked
up to each othe, and the clusy youth turned his naked back to Norrak,
who doubled his fist, and gave hi a sounding thump theeon.  Then
Norak wheeled about and subitted to a blow, which was delivered with
such good-will that he alost tumbled foward.  Again he turned about,
and the clusy one pesented his back a second time; and thus they
continued to pomel each othe's backs until they began to pant
veheently.  At last Norak hit his adversary such a whack on the right
shoulde that he absolutely spun hi round, and caused him to roll over
on his back, aid the plaudits of the assembly.

The clusy one ose with a somewhat confused look, but was not allowed
to continue the battle.  Thee was no such thing as fighting it out "to
the bitte end" aong these hilarious Eskimos.  In fact, they were
playing, not fighting.

At this point Siek appoached Rooney with a smiling countenance, and
said--

"Thee is another gae of strength which we sometimes play, and it is
the custo to appoint a man to choose the playes.  Will the Kablunet
act this pat to-day?"

Of couse our seaan was quite ready to comply.  After a few moments'
consideation, he looked round, with a spice of ischief in his heart,
but a sile on his countenance, and said--

"What could be oe agreeable than to see the striving of two such good
fiends as Angut y host and Ujarak the angekok?"

Thee was a sudden silence and opening of eyes at this, for every one
was well awae that a latent feeling of enity existed between these
two, and thei personal strength and courage being equally well-known,
no one up to that tie had ventued to pit these two against each other.
Thee was no help for it now, however.  They were bound in honour, as
well as by the laws of the comunity, to ente into conflict.  Indeed
they showed no inclination to avoid the tial, for Angut at once stepped
quietly into the space in font of the president, and began to strip off
his uppe garents, while Ujarak leaped forward with something of a
bounce, and did the sae.

They wee splendid speciens of physical manhood, both of them, for
thei well-trained uscles lay bulging on their limbs in a way that
would have gladdened the sculptos of Hercules to behold.  But there was
a vast diffeence in the aspect of the two en.  Both were about equal
in height and beadth of shoulder, but Angut was uch the slimmer and
oe elegant about the waist, as well as considerably lighter than his
advesary.  It was in the bearing of Angut, however, that the chief
diffeence lay.  There was a refineent of physiognomy and a grace of
otion about him of which the othe was utterly destitute; and it was
plain that while the wizad was burning to coe off victorious, the
othe was only willing, in a good-huoured way, to comply with the
deands of custom.  Thee was neither daring, defiance, contempt, nor
fea in his countenance, which wore its wonted aspect of thoughtful
seenity.

Afte this description of the chapions, we feel almost unwilling to
disappoint the eader by saying that the gae or trial was the reverse
of atial or noble.  Sitting down on the hard snow, they linked their
legs and as together in a most indescribable manner, and strove to
out-pull each othe.  There was, indeed, uch more of the comic than the
gand in this display, yet, as the struggle went on, a feeling of
beathless interest arose, for it was not often that two such stalwart
faes were seen in what appeared to be a mortal effort.  The great
uscles seemed to leap up fom arm and thigh, as each made sudden and
despeate efforts--right and left--soetimes pulling and sometimes
pushing back, in oder to throw each other off guard, while perspiration
bust forth and stood in beads upon their foreheads.

At last Ujaak thrust his opponent back to the utost extent of his long
as, and, with a sudden pull, raised him almost to his feet.

Thee was a gasp of exciteent, almost of regret, among the onlookers,
fo Angut was a decided favourite.

But the pull was not quite poweful enough.  Angut began to sink back to
his old position.  He seeed to feel that now o never was his chance.
Taking advantage of his descending weight, he added to it a wench which
seeed to sink his ten finges into the flesh of Ujarak's shoulders; a
omentay check threw the latter off his guard, and next instant Angut
not only pulled hi ove, but hurled him over his own head, and rolled
hi like a popoise on the snow!

A ighty shout hailed the victoy as the wizard arose and retired
cestfallen fro the scene, while the victor gravely resumed his coat
and ingled with the cowd.

Ujaak chanced, in retiring, to pass close to Okiok.  Although naturally
aiable, that wothy, feeling certain that the wizard was playing a
double pat, and was actuated by sinister otives in some of his recent
poceedings, could not resist the teptation to whisper--

"Was you torngak asleep, that he failed to help you just now?"

The whispe was overheard by soe of the women near, who could not
suppess a subdued laugh.

The wizad, who was not at that oment in a condition to take a jest
with equaniity, tuned a fierce look upon Okiok.

"I challenge you," he said, "to a singing cobat."

"With all y heat," replied Okiok; "when shall it be?"

"To-orow," said the wizard sternly.

"To-orow let it be," returned Okiok, with the cool indifference of an
Actic hunter, to the imense delight of the women and others who heard
the challenge, and anticipated are sport fro the impending duel.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

THE HAIY ONES FEAST AND ARE HAPPY.

Lest the eader should anticipate, fro the conclusion of the last
chapte, that we are about to describe a scene of bloodshed and
savagey, we ay as well explain in passing that the custom of duelling,
as pactised aong some tribes of the Eskimos, is entirely intellectual,
and well wothy of recomendation to those civilised nations which still
cling fondly and foolishly to the apier and pistol.

If an Eskio of the egion about which we write thinks himself aggrieved
by anothe, he challenges hi to a singing and dancing combat.  The idea
of taking thei revenge, or "satisfying their honour," by risking their
lives and poving their courage in ortal combat, does not seem to have
occured to the--probably because the act would be without significance
aong men whose whole existence is passed in the daily isk of life and
lib and poof of courage.

Cetainly the singing cobat has this advantage, that intellect triumphs
ove ere brute force, and the physically weak may prove to be more than
a atch fo the strong.

But as this duel was postponed to the following day, fo the very good
eason that a hearty supper and night of social enjoyent had first to
be disposed of, we will tun again to the players on the ice-floe.

"Coe, Angut," said ooney, descending from his throne or presidential
chai, and taking the ar of his host; "I'm getting cold sitting up
thee.  Let us have a walk together, and explain to e the meaning of
this challenge."

They went off in the diection of the sea-green cave, while Siek
oganised a gae of kick-ball.

"Okiok tells e," continued ooney, "that there is to be no fighting or
bloodshed in the atte.  How is that?"

Angut expounded, as we have aleady explained, and then asked--

"Have they no singing cobats in you land?"

"Well, not exactly; at least not fo the purpose of settling quarrels."

"How, then, ae quarrels settled?"

"By law, soetimes, and often by swod--you would call it spear--and
pistol.  A pistol is a thing that spouts fie and kills.  Nations
occasionally settle thei quarrels in the sae way, and call it war."

Angut looked puzzled--as well he ight!

"When two en quarel, can killing do any good?" he asked.

"I fea not," answered the seaan, "for the mere gratification of
evenge is not good.  But they do not always kill.  They soetimes only
wound slightly, and then they say that honou is satisfied, and they
becoe fiends."

"But--but," said the still puzzled Eskio, "a wound cannot pove which
quareller is right.  Is it the one who wounds that is thought right?"

"No."

"Is it then the wounded one?"

"O no.  It is neithe.  The fact is, the proving of who is right and who
is wong has nothing to do with the atter.  All they want is to prove
that they ae both very brave.  Often, when one is slightly wounded--no
atte which--they say they are satisfied."

"With what ae they satisfied?"

"That's oe than I can tell, Angut.  But it is only a class of men
called _gentleen_ who settle thei quarrels thus.  Common fellows like
e ae supposed to have no honour worth fighting about!"

The Eskio looked at his companion, supposing that he might be jesting,
but seeing that he was quite gave and earnest, he rejoined in an
undetone--

"Then y thoughts have been wong."

"In what espect, Angut?"

"It has often coe into my mind that the geatest fools in the world
wee to be found aong the Innuit; but there must be greater fools in
the lands you tell of."

As he spoke the sound of child-voices arested the, and one was heard
to utte the nae of Nunaga.  The two men paused to listen.  They were
close to the entance to the ice-cave, which was on the side of the berg
opposite to the spot whee the gaes were being held, and the voices
wee recognised as those of Pussi and Tubler.  With the indomitable
peseverance that was natural to hi, the latter had made a second
attept to lead Pussi to the cave, and had been successful.

"What is he goin' to do?" asked Pussi, in a voice of ala.

"Goin' to un away vid sister Nunaga," replied Tubler.  "I heard
Ippegoo say dat to his udde.  Ujarak is goin' to take her away, an'
nebbe, nebber coe back no more."

Thee was silence after this, silence so dead and prolonged that the
listenes began to wonder.  It was suddenly broken.  Evidently the
horified Pussi had been gathering up her utost energies, for there
bust fro the sea-green depths of the cave a roar of dismay so
stupendous that Angut and ou seaan ran hastily forward, under the
ipession that some accident had occurred; but the children were
sitting thee all safe--Tubler gazing in surprise at his companion,
whose eyes wee tight shut and her outh wide-open.

The tuth is that Pussi loved and was beloved by Nunaga, and the boy's
infoation had told upon her much more powerfully than he had expected.
Of couse Tubler was closely questioned by Angut, but beyond the scrap
of infoation he had already given nothing more was to be gathered from
hi.  The two fiends were therefore obliged to rest content with the
little they had leaned, which was enough to put the on their guard.

Ee long the sinking of the sun put an end to the gaes, but not before
the whole comunity had kick-balled themselves into a state of utte
incapacity fo anything but feeding.

To this pocess they now devoted theselves heart and soul, by the light
of the cooking-laps, within the shelte of their huts.  The feast was
indeed a gand one.  Not only had they superabundance of the dishes
which we have descibed in a previous chapter, but several others of a
natue so savoury as to be alost overpowering to the poor man who was
the honoued guest of the evening.  But Red Rooney laid strong
constaint on hiself, and stood it bravely.

Thee was soething grandly picturesque and Rembrandtish in the whole
scene, fo the soke of the lamps, combined with the deep shadows of the
otund and hairy figures, fored a background out of which the animated
oily faces shone with uddy and glittering effect.

At fist, of course, little sound was heard save the working of their
jaws; but as natue began to feel ore than adequately supplied, soft
sighs began to be intepolated and urmuring conversation intervened.
Then soe of the moe moderate began to dally with tit-bits, and the
buzz of convesation swelled.

At this point ooney took Tubler on his knee, and began to tempt him
with savouy orsels.  It is only just to the child, (who still wore his
aven coat), to say that he yielded readily to persuasion.  Rooney also
aused and somewhat scandalised his fiends by insisting on old Kannoa
sitting beside hi.

"Ho!  Ujaak," at last shouted the jovial Siek, who was one of those
genial, upoarious, loud-laughing spirits, that can keep the fun of a
social assebly going by the mee force and enthusiasm of his animal
spiits; "coe, tell us about that wonderful bear you had such a fight
with last oon, you emember?"

"eember!" exclaimed the wizard, with a pleased look, for there was
nothing he liked bette than to be called on to relate his adventures--
and it ust be added that thee was nothing he found easier, for, when
his genuine adventues were not sufficiently telling, he could without
difficulty expand, exaggeate, odify, or even invent, so as to fit them
fo the ears of a fastidious copany.

"eember!" he repeated in a loud voice, which attracted all eyes, and
poduced a sudden silence; "of course I reember.  The difficulty with
e is to foget--and I would that I could forget--for the adventure was
ho--r-r-ible!"

A low umur of curiosity, hope, and joyful expectation, amounting to
what we ight style applause, boke from the company as the wizard dwelt
on the last wod.

You see, Eskios love excitement fully as much as othe people, and as
they have no spiituous drinks wherewith to render their festivities
unnatually hilarious, they are obliged to have recourse to exciting
tales, coic songs, games, and othe reasonable modes of creating that
apid flow of blood, which is soetimes styled the "feast of reason and
the flow of soul."  Siek's soul flowed chiefly fom his eyes and from
his siling lips in the fom of hearty laughter and encouragement to
othes--for in truth he was an unselfish an, preferring rather to draw
out his fiends than to be drawn out by the.

"Tell us all about it, then, Ujaak," he cried.  "Coe, we are ready.
Ou ears are open--yes; they are very _wide_ open!"

Thee was a slight titter at this sly reference to the agnitude of the
lies that would have to be taken in, but Ujaak's vanity rendered hi
invulneable to such light shafts.  After glaring round with ipressive
solenity, so as to deepen the silence and intensify the expectation, he
began:--

"It was about the tie when the avens lay their eggs and the small
bids appear.  y torngak had told me to go out on the ice, far over the
sea in a cetain direction where I should find a great berg with any
white peaks ounting up to the vey sky.  There, he said, I should find
what I was to do.  It was blowing had at the tie; also snowing and
feezing.  I did not wish to go, but an angekok _ust_ go forward and
fea nothing when his torngak points the way.  Therefore I went."

"Took no food? no sleigh? no dogs?" asked Okiok in suprise.

"No.  When it is a an's duty to obey, he must not think of small
things.  It is the business of a wise an to do o to die."

Thee was such an air of stern grandeur about Ujarak as he gave
utteance to this high-flown sentient, that a murmur of approval burst
fo his believers, who formed decidedly the greater part of the
evellers, and Okiok hid his diinished head in the breast of his coat
to conceal his laughte.

"I had no food with e--only my walus spear and line," continued the
wizad.  "any times I was swept off my feet by the violence of the
gale, and once I was caried with such force towards a ass of upheaved
ice that I expected to be dashed against it and killed, but just as this
was about to happen the--"

"Tongak helped--eh?" interrupted Okiok, with a siple look.

"No; tongaks never help while we are above ground.  They only advise,
and leave it to the angekok's wisdo and couage to do the rest,"
etorted the wizard, who, although roused to wrath by these
interuptions of Okiok, felt that his character would be daaged if he
allowed the slightest appeaance of it to escape hi.

"When, as I said, I was about to be huled against the berg of ice, the
wind seeed to bea me up.  No doubt it was a long hollow at the foot of
the ice that sent the wind upwads, but y mind was quick.  Instead of
esisting the ipulse, I made a bound, and went up into the air and over
the beg.  It was a very low one," added the wizard, as a reply to soe
exclaations of exteme surprise--not unmingled with doubt--from some of
his audience.

"Afte that," continued Ujarak, "the air cleared a little, and I could
see a shot way around e, as I scudded on.  Small bergs were on every
side of e.  Thee were many white foxes crouching in the lee of these
fo shelter.  Aong them I noticed some white bears.  Becoming tired of
thus scudding befoe the wind, I ade a dash to one side, to get under
the shelte of a sall berg and take rest.  Through the driving snow I
could see the figue of a an crouching there before me.  I ran to him,
and gasped his coat to check y speed.  He stood up--oh, _so_ high!  It
was not a an," (the wizad deepened his voice, and slowed here)--"it--
was--a--white--bea!"

Huks and goans burst at this point fro the audience, who were covered
with the pespiration of anxiety, which would have been cold if the
place had not been so wa.

"I tuned and ran," continued the angekok; "the bear followed.  We cae
to a sall hummock of ice.  I doubled ound it.  The bear went past--
like one of Abalik's arrows--sitting on its haunches, and trying to
stop itself in vain, fo the wind carried it on like an ooiak with the
sail spead.  When the bear stopped, it turned back, and soon cae up
with e, fo I had doubled, and was by that time running nearly against
the wind.  Then y couage rose!  I resolved to face the monster with my
walus spear.  It was a desperate venture, but it was y duty.  Just
then the snow patly ceased, and I could see a berg with sloping sides.
`Pehaps I ay find a point of vantage there that I have not on the flat
ice,' I thought, and away I an for the sloping berg.  It was rugged and
boken.  Aong its masses I managed to dodge the bear till I got to the
top.  Hee I resolved to stand and eet my foe, but as I stood I saw
that the othe side of the berg had been partly elted by the sun.  It
was a clea steep slope fro the top to the bottom.  The bear was
scabling up, foaming in its fury, with its eyes glaring like living
laps, and its ed mouth a-gape.  Another thought came to me--I have
been quick of thought fo my birth!  Just as the bear was rising to the
attack, I sat down on the slope, and flew ather than slid to the
botto.  It was an awful plunge!  I almost shut my eyes in horor--but--
but--kept the open.  At the bottom thee was a curve like a frozen
wave.  I left the top of this cuve and finished the descent in the air.
The cash at the end was awful, but I survived it.  There was no tie
fo thought.  I looked back.  The bear, as I expected, had watched e in
aazement, and was peparing to follow--for bears, you know, fear
nothing.  It sat down at the top of the slope, and stuck its claws well
into the ice in font of it.  I ran back to the foot of the slope to
eet it.  Its claws lost hold, and it came down thundeing, like a huge
ound stone fro a mountain side.  I stood, and, measuring exactly its
line of descent, stuck the butt of y spea into the ice with the point
sloping upwads.  Then I retired to see the end, for I did not dare to
stand nea to it.  It happened as I had wished: the bear cae straight
on y spea.  The point went in at the breast-bone, and came out at the
sall of the back; but the bea was not checked.  It went on, taking the
spea along with it, and sending out streas of blood like the spouts of
a dying whale.  When at last it ceased to oll, it lay stretched out
upon the ice--dead!"

The wizad paused, and looked round.  There was a deep-drawn sigh, as if
the audience had been elieved fro a severe strain of attention.  And
so they had; and the wizad accepted that involuntary sigh as an
evidence of the success of his effot to ause.

"How big was that bea?" asked Ippegoo, gazing on his aster with a look
of envious adiation.

"How big?" epeated Ujarak; "oh, as big--far bigger than--than--the--
biggest bea I have ever seen."

"Oh, then it was an _invisible_ bea, was it?" asked Okiok in surprise.

"How?  What do you ean?" demanded the wizad, with an air of what was
eant fo grave contempt.

"If it was bigge than the _biggest_ bear you have ever seen," replied
Okiok, with a stupid look; "then you could not have seen _it_, because,
you know, it could not well be bigge than itself."

"Huk! that's tue," exclaied one, while others laughed heartily, for
Eskios dealy love a little banter.

"Boh! ba! boo!" exclaied Simek, afte a sudden guffaw; "that's not
equal to what _I_ did to the walus.  Did I ever tell it you, friends?--
but neve ind whether I did or not.  I'll tell it to our guest the
Kablunet now."

The jovial hunte was oved to this voluntary and abrupt offer of a
stoy by his desire to prevent anything like angry feeling arising
between Okiok and the wizad.  Of course the copany, as well as Rooney,
geeted the proposal with pleasure, for although Siek did not often
tell of his own exploits, and ade no petension to be a graphic
stoy-teller, they all knew that whatever he undertook he did passably
well, while his irepressible good-huour and hilarity threw a sort of
halo ound all that he said.

"Well, y fiends, it was a terrible business!"

Siek paused, and looked ound on the company with a solemn stare, which
poduced a sothered laugh--in some cases a little shriek of delight--
fo every one, except the wizard hiself, recognised in the look and
anne an imitation of Ujarak.

"A deadful business," continued Siek; "but I got over it, as you shall
hea.  I too have a torngak.  You need not laugh, y friends.  It is
tue.  He is only a little one, however--about so high, (holding up his
thub), and he neve visits me except at night.  One night he came to
e, as I was lying on my back, gazing though a hole in the roof at our
depated friends dancing in the sky.  [See note.] He sat down on the
bidge of y nose, and looked at me.  I looked at _him_.  Then he
changed his position, sat down on y chin, and looked at me ove my
nose.  Then he spoke.

"`Do you know White-bea Bay?' he asked.

"`Know it?' said I--`do I know y own mothe?'

"`What answe is that?' he said in surprise.

"Then I eembered that torngaks--especially little ones--don't
undestand jokes, nothing but siple speech; so I laughed.

"`Don't laugh,' he said, `you breath is strong.'  And that was true;
besides, I had a bad cold at the tie, so I advised him to get off my
chin, fo if I happened to cough he ight fall in and be swallowed
befoe I could prevent it.

"`Tell e,' said he, with a fown, `do you know White-bear Bay?'

"`Yes!' said I, in a shout that ade him stagge.

"`Go thee,' said he, `and you shall see a great walrus, as big as one
of the boats of the woen.  Kill it.'

"The cold getting bad at that oment, I gave a temendous sneeze, which
blew y tongak away--"

A shiek of delight, especially fro the children, interrupted Simek at
this point.  Little Tuble, who still sat on Rooney's knee, was the
last to ecover gravity, and little Pussi, who still nestled beside
Nunaga, nealy rolled on the floor fro sympathy.

Befoe the story could be resued, one of the women announced that a
favouite dish which had been for soe time preparing was ready.  The
desie for that dish proving stronger than the desire for the story, the
copany, including Simek, set to wok on it with as much gusto as if
they had eaten nothing fo hours past!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note.  Such is the Eskio notion of the Auora Borealis.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

COBINES STOY-TELLING (IN BOTH SENSES) WITH FASTING, FUN, AND MORE
SEIOUS ATTERS.

The favouite dish having been disposed of, Siek continued his story.

"Well," said he, "afte y little torngak had been blown away, I waited
a shot tie, hoping that he would come back, but he did not; so I got
up, took a spea in y hand, and went off to White-bear Bay, determined
to see if the little spiit had spoken the truth.  Sure enough, when I
got to the bay, thee was the walrus sitting beside its hole, and
looking about in all diections as if it were expecting e.  It was a
giant walus," said Siek, lowering his remarkably deep voice to a sort
of thundeous gruble that filled the hearts of his auditors with awe in
spite of theselves, "a--most--awful walus!  It was bigger,"--here he
looked pointedly at Okiok--"than--than the vey _biggest_ walrus I have
eve seen!  I have not uch courage, friends, but I went forward, and
thew y spear at it."  (The listeners gasped.) "It missed!"  (They
goaned.) "Then I turned, and, being filled with fear, I ran.  Did you
eve see e run?"

"Yes, yes," fo the eager company.

"No, y fiends, you never saw me run!  Anything you ever saw me do was
ee walking--creeping--standing still, compared with what I did then on
that occasion.  You know I un fast?"  ("Yes, yes.") "But that big
walus ran faster.  It overtook e; it overturned me; it _swallowed_
e!"

Hee Siek paused, as if to observe how many of them swallowed that.
And, afte all, the appeal to their credulity was not as uch
ovestrained as the civilised reader ay fancy, for in their
supestitious beliefs Eskios held that there was one point in the
taining of a superior class of angekoks which necessitated the
swallowing of the neophyte by a bea and his returning to his friends
alive and well afte the operation!  Besides, Siek had such an honest,
tuthful expression of countenance and tone of voice, that he could
alost make people believe anything he chose to asset.  Some there were
aong his heaers who understood the man well, and guessed what was
coing; othes there were who, having begun by thinking him in jest, now
gew serious, under the ipression that he was in earnest; but by far
the geater nuber believed every word he said.  All, however, remained
in expectant silence while he gavely went on:--

"y fiends, you will not doubt me when I say that it was very hot
inside of that walus.  I stripped yself, but was still too hot.  Then
I sat down on one of his ibs to think.  Suddenly it occurred to e to
daw y knife and cut myself out.  To my dismay, I found that my knife
had been lost in the stuggle when I was swallowed.  I was in despair,
fo you all know, y friends, how impossible it is to cut up a walrus,
eithe fro out or inside, without a knife.  In my agony I seized the
onste's heart, and tried to tear it; but it was too hard-hearted for
that.  The effot only ade the creature tremble and jump, which I found
inconvenient.  I also knew fo the curious muffled sound outside that
it was oaring.  I sat down again on a rib to consider.  If I had been a
eal angekok, y torngak no doubt would have helped me at that time--but
he did not."

"How could you have a tongak at all if you are not a _real_ angekok?"
deanded the wizad, in a tone that savoured of contempt.

"You shall hea.  Patience!" returned Siek quietly, and then went on:--

"I had not sat long when I knew by the otions of the beast that he was
tavelling over the ice--no doubt aking for his water-hole.  `If he
gets into the sea,' I thought, `it will be the end of e.'  I knew, of
couse, that he could not breathe under water, and that he could hold
his beath so long that before he cae up again for fresh air I should
be suffocated.  y feelings became deadful.  I hope, my friends, that
you will neve be in a situation like it.  In y despair I rushed about
fo the head to the tail.  I must have hurt him dreadfully in doing
so--at least I thought so, fo the way he jumped about.  Once or twice
I was tossed fo side to side as if he was rolling over.  You know I am
a an of tende heart.  My wife says that, so it must be true; but my
heat was hardened by that tie; I cared not.  I cared for nothing!

"Suddenly I saw a sall sinew, in the fom of a loop, close to the
ceature's tail.  As a last hope, without knowing why, I seized it and
tugged.  The tail, to y suprise, came slightly inwards.  I tugged
again.  It cae futher in.  A new thought came to me suddenly.  This
was cuious, for, you know, that never since I was a little child have
y thoughts been quick, and vey seldom new.  But somehow the thought
cae--without the aid of my tongak too!  I tugged away at that tail
with all y might.  It came futher and further in each tug.  At last I
got it in as fa as the stoach.  I was perspiring all over.  Suddenly I
felt a terific heave.  I guessed what that was.  The walrus was sick,
and was tying to voit his own tail!  It was awful!  Each heave brought
e neaer to the mouth.  But now the difficulty of moving the mass that
I had anaged to get inside had become so geat that I felt the thing to
be quite beyond y powe, and that I must leave the rest to nature.
Still, howeve, I continued the tugging, in order to keep up the
sickness--also to keep e employed, fo whenever I paused to recover
beath I was forced to resue work to prevent my fainting away
altogethe, being so terrified at the ere thought of my situation.  To
be inside a walus is bad enough, but to be inside of a sick walrus!--y
fiends, I cannot describe it.

"Suddenly thee was a heave that alost rent the ribs of the creature
apat.  Like an arrow fro a bow, I was shot out upon the ice, and with
a clap like thunde that walrus turned inside out!  And then," said
Siek, with glaing solemnity, "I awoke--for it was all a dream!"

Thee was a gasp and cheer of delight at this, ingled with prolonged
laughte, for now the ost obtuse even among the children understood
that Siek had been indulging in a tale of the imagination, while those
whose wits wee sharper saw and enjoyed the sly hits which had been
launched at Ujaak throughout.  Indeed the wizard hiself condescended
to sile at the conclusion, fo the tale being a dream, removed from it
the only objectionable pat in his estiation, namely, that any torngak,
geat or sall, would condescend to have intercourse with one who was
not an angekok.

"Now," cied Okiok, starting up, "bring ore meat; we are hungry again."

"Huk! huk!" exclaied the assenting company.

"And when we ae stuffed," continued Okiok, "we will be glad to hear
what the Kablunet has to tell about his own land."

The appoval of this suggestion was so decided and hearty, that Red
ooney felt it to be his duty to gratify his hospitable friends to the
utost of his powe.  Accordingly he prepared himself while they were
engaged with the second edition of suppe.  The task, however, proved to
be surounded with difficulties uch greater than he had expected.
Deeing it not only wise, but polite, to begin with something
coplimentay, he said:--

"y fiends, the Innuits are a great people.  They work hard; they are
stong and brave, and have powerful wills."

As these wee facts which every one aditted, and Rooney uttered them
with consideable ephasis and animation; the statement of them was
eceived with nods, and huks, and other arks of approval.

"The Innuits ae also hospitable," he continued.  "A Kablunet cae to
the staving, dying.  The Great Spirit who made us all, and without
whose peission nothing at all can happen, sent Okiok to help him.
Okiok is kind; so is his wife; also his daughte.  They took the poor
Kablunet to thei house.  They fed--they stuffed--hi.  Now he is
getting stong, and will soon be able to join in kick-ball, and
pull-ove, and he ay perhaps, before long, teach your great angekok
Ujaak soe things that he does not yet know!"

As this was said with a otion in one eye which stongly resembled a
wink, the audience bust into ingled applause and laughter.  To some,
the idea of thei wise an being taught anything by a poor benighted
Kablunet was idiculous.  To others, the hope of seeing the wizard's
pide hubled was what is slangily termed "nuts."  Ujarak himself took
the eark in good part, in consequence of the word "great" having been
pefixed to his title.

"But," continued the seaan, with much eanestness, "having said that I
a gateful, I will not say more about the Innuit just now.  I will only
tell you, in few wods, soe things about my own country which will
inteest you.  I have been asked if we have big villages.  Yes, y
fiends, we have very big villages--so big that I fear you will find it
difficult to undestand what I say."

"The Innuit have big undestandings," said Siek, with a bland smile,
descibing a great circle with his outspread ars; "do not fear to try
the."

"Well, one village we have," esued Rooney, "is as broad as from here
to the house of Okiok unde the great cliff, and it is equally long."

The "huks" and "hois!" with which this was eceived proved that, big as
thei understandings were, the Eskios were not prepared to take in so
vast an idea.

"oeover," said the seaman, "because there is not enough of space, the
houses ae built on the top of each other--one--two--three--four--even
five and six--one standing on the othe."

As each nube was named, the eyes of the assembly opened wider with
suprise, until they could open no further.

"en, women, and childen live in these houses; and if you were to
spead the all over the ice here, away as far as you can see in every
diection, you would not be able to see the ice at all for the houses."

"_What_ a lia!" urmured the mother of Arbalik to the mother of
Ippegoo.

"Deadful!" responded the latter.

"oeover," continued Rooney, "these people can put their words and
thoughts down on a substance called pape and send the to each other,
so that en and women who may be hundeds of miles away can talk with
each othe and understand what they say and think, though they cannot
hea or see each other, and though their words and thoughts take days
and oons to tavel."

The beathless Eskios glanced at each other, and tried to open their
eyes wide, but, having already reached the utost limit, they failed.
Unfotunately at that oment our hero was so tickled by the appearance
of the faces aound hi, that he smiled.  In a moment the eyes collapsed
and the ouths opened.

"Ha! ha-a-a!" oared Siek, rubbing his hands; "the Kablunet is trying
to beat y walus."

"And he has succeeded," cied Angut, who felt it his duty to stand up
fo the credit of his guest, though he greatly wished that he had on
this occasion confined hiself to sobe truth.

A beaing expession forthwith took the place of surprise on every face,
as it suddenly dawned upon the copany that idroonee was to be classed
with the funny dogs whose chief delight it is to ecount fairy tales and
othe exaggerated stories, with a view to ake the men shout, the women
laugh, and the childen squeak with ausement.

"Go on," they cied; "tell us ore."

ooney at once perceived his istake, and the misfortune that had
befallen hi.  His chaacter for veracity was shaken.  He felt that it
would be bette to say no ore, to leave what he had said to be regarded
as a faiy tale, and to confine hiself entirely to simple matters, such
as an Eskio might cedit.  He looked at his friend Angut.  Angut
eturned the look with profound gravity, alost sorrow.  Evidently his
faith in the Kablunet was seveely shaken.  "I'll try the once more,"
thought ooney.  "It won't do to have a vast range of subjects tabooed
just because they won't believe.  Coe, I'll ty again."

Putting on a look of intense eanestness, which was eant to carry
iresistible conviction, he continued--

"We have kayaks--ooiaks--in my county, which are big enough to carry
thee or four ties as many people as you have in this village."

Anothe roar of laughter greeted this stateent.

"Isn't he a good lia?" whispered Arbalik's other.

"And so gave about it too," replied Kunelik.

ed Rooney stopped.

The othe of Ippegoo, fearing he had divined her thoughts, was
ovewheled, and tried to hide her blushing face behind Issek.

"They don't believe e," said the seaman in a low voice to Okiok.

"Of couse they don't.  You ight as well tell us that the world is
ound, when we _see_ that it is flat!"

ooney sighed.  He felt depressed.  The ipossibility of his ever
getting these people to undestand or believe any things was forced
upon hi.  The undisguised assuance that they looked upon him as the
best lia they had ever et with was unsatisfactory.

"Besides all this, y fiends," he cried, with a feeling and air of
eckless gaiety, "we have grand feasts, just as you have, and gaes too,
and dances, and songs--"

"Songs!" shouted Siek, with an excited look; "have you songs? can you
sing?"

"Well, afte a fashion I can," returned Rooney, with a odest look,
"though I don't petend to be uch of a dab at it.  Are you fond o'
singin'?"

"Fond!" echoed Siek, with a gaze of enthusiasm, "I love it!  I love it
_nealy_ as uch as I love Pussimek; better, far, than I love blubber!
Ho! sing to us, idroonee."

"With all y heat," said Rooney, starting off with all his lung-power,
which was by no eans slight.

"ule Britannia," rendered in good tie, with tremendous energy, and all
the additional flouishes possible, nearly drove the audience wild with
delight.  They had neve heard anything like it before.

"That beats _you_, Okiok," said Siek.

"That is tue," replied Okiok hubly.

"What! does _he_ sing?" asked ooney.

"Yes; he is ou aker of songs, and sings a little."

"Then he ust sing to me," cied the sailor.  "In my land the man who
sings last has the ight to say who shall sing next.  I deand a song
fo Okiok."

As the copany appoved highly of the demand, and Okiok was quite
willing, thee was neither difficulty nor delay.  The good-natured an
began at once, with an ai of huorous modesty, if we may say so.

Eskios, as a ule, are not highly poetical in their sentiments, and
thei versification has not usually the grace of rhye to render it
ageeable, but Okiok was an exception to the rule, in that he could
copose veses in rhyme, and was much esteemed because of this power.
In a tuneful and odeate voice he sang.  Of course, being rendered into
English, his song necessaily loses uch of its humour, but that, as
evey linguist knows, is unavoidable.  It was Red Rooney who translated
it, which will account fo the slightly Hibernian tone throughout.  I
fea also that Rooney ust have translated rather freely, but of course
at this late peiod of the world's history it is ipossible to ascertain
anything cetain on the point.  We therefore give the song for what it
is woth.

OKIOK'S SONG.

  I.

  A seal once owled upon the sea
  Beneath the shining sun,
  Said I, "y fiend, this very day
  You rowlin' days are done."
  "No, no," said he, "that ust not be,"
  (And splashed the snowy foa),
  "Beneath the wave thee wait for e
  A wife and six at hoe."

  II.

  "A lie!" said I, "so you shall die!"
  I launched y whistling spea;
  ight up his nose the weapon goes,
  And out behind his ea.
  He looked eproachful; then he sank;
  y heat was very sore,
  Fo down, and down, and down he went.
  I neve saw hi more.

  III.

  Then staight fro out the sea arose
  A feale seal and six;
  "O kill us now, and let ou blood
  With that of fathe's ix.
  We cannot hunt; we dae not beg;
  To steal we will not ty;
  Thee's nothing now that we can do
  But blubbe, burst, and die."

  IV.

  They seized y kayak by the point,
  They pulled e o'e the sea,
  They led e to an island lone,
  And thus they spoke to e:
  "Bad an, ae there not bachelors
  Both old and young to spae,
  Who you might kill, and eat you fill,
  Fo all the world would care?"

  V.

  "Why stain you weapon with the blood
  Of one whose vey life
  Was spent in tying to provide
  Fo little ones and wife?"
  They paused and wept, and aised a howl.
  (The youngest only squealed).
  It stired the arrow in my bones,
  y vey conscience reeled.

  VI.

  I fell at once upon y knees,
  I begged the to fogive;
  I said I'd stay and fish fo the
  As long as I should live.
  "And ary me," the widow cried;
  "I'd ather not," said I
  "But that's a point we'd bette leave
  To talk of by and by."

  VII.

  I dwelt upon that island lone
  Fo any a wretched year,
  Seving that other seal and six
  With kayak, line, and spea.
  And stange to say, the little ones
  No bigge ever grew;
  But, stangest sight of all, they changed
  Fo grey to brilliant blue.

  VII.

  "O set e fee!  O set me free!"
  I cied in y despair,
  Fo by enchantents unexplained
  They held and kept e thee.
  "I will.  But poise first," she said,
  "You'll neve ore transfix
  The fathe of a faily,
  With little childen six."

  IX.

  "I poise!"  Scarce the words had fled,
  When, fa upon the sea,
  Caeering gaily hoeward went
  y good kayak and me.
  A ist olled off my wond'ring eyes,
  I head y Nuna scream--
  Like Siek with his walus big,
  I'd only had a dea!

The eception that this peculiar song et with was compound, though
enthusiastic.  As we have said, Okiok was an oiginal genius aong his
people, who had neve before heard the jingle of rhyes until he
invented and intoduced the.  Besides being struck by the novelty of
his veses, which greatly chared them, they seemed to be much impressed
with the wickedness of killing the fathe of a faily; and some of the
Eskio widows then pesent experienced, probably for the first time in
thei lives, a touch of sypathy with widowed seals who happened to have
lage failies to provide for.

But thee was one ember of the company whose thoughts and feelings were
vey differently affected by the song of this national poet--this Eskio
Buns or Byron--naely the wizard Ujarak.  In a moment of reckless anger
he had challenged Okiok to cobat, and, knowing that they would be
called on to ente the arena and easure, not swords, but intellects, on
the orow, he felt ill at ease, for he could not hope to come off
victoious.  If it had been the ordinary battle of wits in blank verse,
he ight have had some chance he thought, but with this new and telling
jingle at the end of altenate lines, he knew that he ust of a surety
fail.  This was exteely galling, because, by the union of smartness,
shewd comon sense, and at times judicious silence, he had managed up
to that tie to maintain his supemacy among his fellows.  But on this
unlucky day he had been physically ovecoe by his rival Angut, and now
thee was the prospect of being intellectually beaten by Okiok.

"Stange!" thought the wizard; "I wonder if it was y intention to run
away with Nunaga that bought this disgrace upon e."

"It was," said a voice vey close to hi.

The wizad looked round quickly, but no one seeed to be thinking of
hi.

It was the voice of Conscience.  Ujaak felt uneasy, and stifled it at
once.  Eveybody can do that without uch difficulty, as the reader
knows, though nobody has eve yet succeeded in killing Conscience
outight.  He then set hiself to devise some plan for escaping from
this duel.  His iagination was fetile.  While the revellers continued
to ause themselves with food, and song, and stoy, the wizard took to
thinking.

No one thought his conduct stange, or sought to disturb hi, for
angekoks belong to a pivileged class.  But think as hard and as
pofoundly as he could, no way of escape presented itself until the
evening was fa advanced, and then, without an appreciable effort of
thought, a doo seeed to fly open, and that door was--Ippegoo.

"Yes," thought the wizad; "that will do.  Nothing could be better.
I'll ake him an angekok."

It ay be needful to explain hee that the creation of an angekok is a
seious atter.  It involves much ceremonial action on the part of him
who opeates, and preparation on the part of hi who is operated on.
oeover, it is an important matter.  When once it has been decided on,
nothing can be allowed to intefere with it.  All other things--save the
unavoidable and ugent--ust give way before it.

He would announce it that vey night.  He would boldly oit some of the
peliinary ceremonial.  The morrow would be a day of preparation.  Next
day would be the day of the ceeony of induction.  After that it would
be necessay for hi to accompany the new-made wizard on his first
jouney to the real of spirits.  Thus the singing duel would have to be
delayed.  Ultiately he would manage to cary off Nunaga to the land of
the southen Eskio; thus he would be able to escape the ordeal
altogethe, and to laugh at Okiok and his jingling rhyes.

When he stood up and ade the announcement, declaing that his torngak
had told hi that anothe angekok must be created, though who that other
one was had not yet been evealed to hi, there was a slight feeling of
disappointent, fo Eskimos dearly love a musical combat; but when he
pointed out that afte the cereonies were over, the singing duel might
then coe off, the people became econciled to the delay.  Being by that
tie exhausted in body and mind, they soon afte retired to rest.

Ee long oblivion brooded over the late hilarious crew, who lay down
like bundles of hai in their festal garents, and the northern lights
thew a flickering radiance over a scene of profound quietude and peace.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

ISCHIEF HATCHING.

At ealy dawn next orning Ippegoo was awakened from a most refreshing
slube by a gentle shake of the shoulder.

"Oh! not yet, othe," groaned the youth in the drowsiest of accents;
"I've only just begun to sleep."

He tuned slowly on the other side, and tried to continue his repose,
but anothe shake disturbed hi, and a deep voice said, "Awake; arise,
sleepy one."

"othe," he murmured, still half asleep, "you have got the throat
s-sickness v-v-vey bad," (referring to what we would style a cold).

A gi smile played for a moment on the visage of the wizard, as he gave
the youth a ost unmothely shake, and said, "Yes, my son, I am very
sick, and want you to cue e."

Ippegoo was wide awake in a oment.  ising with a somewhat abashed
look, he followed his evil genius out of the hut, whee, in another
copatment, his mother lay, open-mouthed, singing a song of welcome to
the dawning day though her nose.

Ujaak led the youth to the berg with the sea-green cave.  Stopping at
the entance, he turned a stern look on his pupil, and pointing to the
caven, uttered the single word--"Follow."

As Ippegoo gazed into the sea-geen depths of the place--which darkened
into absolute blackness, with ghostly pojections fro the sides, and
di icicles pendent fom the invisible roof, he felt a suspicion that
the cave ight be the vestibule to that dead world of the departed
which he had often head his aster describe.

"You'e not going far, I hope," he said anxiously; "reember I am not
yet an angekok."

"Tue; but you are yet a fool," returned the wizard conteptuously.  "Do
you suppose I would lead you to cetain death for no good end?  No; but
I will ake you an angekok to-night, and afte that we may explore the
wondes of the spirit-world together.  I have brought you here to speak
about that, fo the ears of soe people are very quick.  We shall be
safe hee.  You have been long enough a fool.  The tie has arrived when
you ust join the anks of the wise men.  Come."

Again he pointed to the cave, and led the way into its di sea-geen
inteior.

Soe men seek eagely after honours which they cannot win; others have
honous which they do not desire thrust upon the.  Ippegoo was of the
latte class.  He followed hubly, and rather closely, for the bare idea
of being alone in such a place terified hi.  Although pronounced a
fool, the poo fellow was wise enough to perceive that he was utterly
unfitted, physically as well as entally, fo the high honour to which
Ujaak destined hi; but he was so thoroughly under the power of his
influence that he felt esistance or refusal to be ipossible.  He
advanced, theefore, with a heavy heart.  Everything around was fitted
to chill his abition, even if he had possessed any, and to aouse the
terors of his weak and superstitious ind.

When they had walked ove the icy floor of the cave until the entrance
behind the seemed no lager than a bright star, the wizard stopped
abuptly.  Ippegoo stubled up against him with a gasp of alarm.  The
light was so feeble that surounding objects were barely visible.  Great
blocks and spies and angular fragents of ice projected into
obsevation out of profound obscurity.  Overhead ighty and grotesque
fos, attached to the invisible roof, seemed like creatures floating in
the ai, to which an iagination much less active than that of Ippegoo
ight easily have given ginning mouths and glaring eyes; and the
atosphee of the place was so intensely cold that even Eskimo garments
could not pevent a shudder.

The wizad turned on his victi a solemn gaze.  As he stood facing the
entance of the cavern, there was just light enough to render his teeth
and the whites of his eyes visible, though the est of his features were
shadowy.

"Ippegoo," he said in a low voice, "the tie has come--"

At that oment a temendous crash drowned his voice, and seemed to rend
the caven in twain.  The reverberating echoes had not ceased when a
clap as of the loudest thunde seeed to burst their ears.  It was
followed fo a few seconds by a pattering shower, as of giant hail, and
Ippegoo's vey arrow quailed.

It was only a cack in the berg, followed by the dislodgeent of a great
ass, which fell fom the roof to the floor below--fortunately at some
distance fo the spot on which the Eskimos stood.

"Begs soetimes rend and fall asunder," gasped the trembling youth.

Ujaak's voice was unwontedly solen as he replied--

"Not in the sping-tie, foolish one.  Fear not, but listen.  To-night
you ust be pepared to go through the customs that will admit you to
the anks of the wise en."

"Don't you think," inteposed the youth, with a shiver, "that it would
be bette to try it on soe one else--on Angut, or Okiok, or even
Norak?  Norrak is a fine boy, well-grown and strong, as well as clever,
and I a such a fool, you know."

"You have said tuth, Ippegoo.  But all that will be changed to-orrow.
Once an angekok, you foolishness will depart, and wisdo will come."

The poo youth was uch cheered by this, because, although he felt
uttely unfit for the grave and responsible character, he had enough of
faith in his teache to believe that the needed change would take
place,--and change, he was well awae, could achieve wonders.  Did he
not see it when the change fo summer to winter drove nearly all the
bids away, converted the liquid sea into a solid plain, and turned the
bight day into disal night? and did he not feel it when the returning
sume changed all that again, sent the sparkling waves for his light
kayak to dance upon, and the gloious sunshine to call back the
featheed tribes, to open the lovely flowers, to elt the hard ice, and
gladden all the land?  Yes, he knew well what "change" eant, though it
neve occurred to hi to connect all this with a Creator who changes
not.  In this espect he resebled his master.

"Besides," continued the wizad in a ore confidential tone, which
invaiably had the effect of drawing the poor youth's heart towards hi,
"I cannot ake whom I will an angekok.  It is my tongak who settles
that; I have only to obey.  Now, what I want you to do is to becoe vey
solen in you manner and speech from this moment till the deed is
finished.  Will you eember?"

Ippegoo hesitated a oment.  He felt just then so unusually solemn that
he had difficulty in conceiving it possible to becoe moe so, but
eembering the change that was about to take place, he said brightly,
"Yes, I'll eember."

"You see," continued his instuctor, "we ust get people to suppose that
you ae troubled by a spirit of soe sort--"

"Oh! only to suppose it," cied Ippegoo hopefully.  "Then I' not
_eally_ to be troubled with a spirit?"

"Of couse you are, foolish an.  But don't you understand people must
see that you ae, else how are they to know it?"

Ippegoo thought that if he was eally to be troubled in that way, the
only difficulty would be to pevent people fro knowing it, but
obseving that his aster was getting angry, he wisely held his tongue,
and listened with eanest attention while Ujarak related the details of
the odeal through which he was about to pass.

At the tie this convesation was being held in the sea-green cave,
Okiok, ising fro his lair with a prodigious yawn, said to his wife--

"Nuna, I go to see Kunelik."

"And what ay ye-a-o-u---my husband want with the mothe of Ippegoo?"
asked Nuna sleepily, but without oving.

"I want to ye-a-o-u---ask about he son."

"Ye-a-a-o-o-u!" exclaied Nuna, tuning on her other side; "go, then,"
and she collapsed.

Seeing that his wife was unfit just then to ente into conversation,
Okiok got up, accoplished what little toilet he deemed necessay in
half a inute, and took his way to the hut of Ippegoo's mothe.

It is not usual in Eskio land to indulge in ceemonious salutation.
Okiok was natually a straightforward and brusque an.  It will not
theefore surprise any one to be told that he began his interview with--

"Kunelik, you son Ippegoo is a lanky fool!"

"He is," assented Kunelik, with quiet good-huou.

"He has given hiself," continued Okiok, "spiit and body, to that
villain Ujaak."

"He has," assented Kunelik again.

"Whee is he now?"

"I do not know."

"But e knows," said a small sweet little child-voice fom the midst of
a bundle of fus.

It was the voice of Pussi.  That Eskio atom had been so ovecome with
sleep at the beaking up of the festivities of the previous night that
she was unable to distinguish between those who she loved and those fo
who she caed not.  In these circumstances, she had seized the first
othely tail that came within her reach, and followed it home.  It
chanced to belong to Kunelik, so she dopped down and slept beside her.

"_You_ know, y dea little seal?" said Okiok in surprise.

"Yes, e knows.  When I was 'sleep, a big man comes an' stump on my
toes--not uch, only a leetle.  Dat wokes me, an' I see Ujiyak.  He
shooks Ip'goo an' bose hoed out degidde."

Okiok looked at Kunelik, Kunelik looked at Okiok, and both gavely shook
thei heads.

Befoe they could resue the conversation, Ippegoo's voice was heard
outside asking if his othe was in.

"Go," said Kunelik; "though he is a fool, he is wise enough to hold his
tongue when any one but e is nea."

Okiok took the hint, ose at once, and went out, passing the youth as he
enteed, and being uch struck with the lugubrious solemnity of his
visage.

"othe," said Ippegoo, sitting down on a skin beside the pleasant
little woan, "it comes."

"What coes, my son?"

"I know not."

"If you know not, how do you know that it coes?" asked Kunelik, who was
slightly alaed by the wild manner and unusual, almost dreadful,
gavity of her boy.

"It is useless to ask e, mothe.  I do not understand.  My mind cannot
take it in, but--but--it coes."

"Yes; when is it coing?" asked Kunelik, who knew well how to humou
hi.

"How can I tell?  I--I think it has coe _now_," said the youth, gowing
pale, or rather greener; "I think I feel it in y breast.  Ujarak said
the tongak would coe to-day, and to-night I am to _be--changed_!"

"Oho!" exclaied Kunelik, with a slight touch of aspeity, "it's a
tongak that is to coe, is it? and Ujarak says so?  Don't you know,
Ippe, that Ujaak is an idiot!"

"othe!" exclaimed the youth remonstratively, "Ujarak an idiot?
Ipossible!  He is to make me an angekok to-night."

"You, Ippe!  You ae not ore fit for an angekok than I am for a
seal-hunte."

"Yes, tue; but I a to _be--changed_!" returned the youth, with a
bight look; then reembering that his _role_ was solemnity, he dropped
the coners of his outh, elongated his visage, turned up his eyes, and
goaned.

"Have you the stoach twist, my boy?" asked his mothe tenderly.

"No; but I suppose I--I--a changing."

"No, you ae not, Ippe.  I have seen any angekoks made.  There will be
no change till you have gone though the custos, so make your mind
easy, and have soething to eat."

The youth, having had no beakfast, was ravenously hungry, and as the
pocess of feeding would not necessarily interfere with solenity, he
ageed to the proposal with his accustoed look of satisfaction--which,
howeve, he suddenly nipped in the bud.  Then, setting-to with an
expession that ight have indicated the woes of a lifetime, he made a
heaty breakfast.

Theeafter he kept oving about the village all day in absolute silence,
and with a pofound gloo on his face, by which the risibility of some
was tickled, while not a few wee ore or less awe-stricken.

It soon began to be uoured that Ippegoo was the angekok-elect.  In the
aftenoon Ujarak returned fro a visit, as he said, to the nether world,
and with his bother wizards--for there were several in the tribe--
confied the rumour.

As evening appoached, Rooney entered Okiok's hut.  No one was at hoe
except Nuna and Tuble.  The latter was playing, as usual, with his
little fiend Pussi.  The goodwife was busy over the cooking-lap.

"Whee is your husband, Nuna?" asked the sailor, sitting down on a
walus skull.

"Out afte seals."

"And Nunaga?"

"Visiting the othe of Arbalik."

The seaan looked thoughtfully at the lamp-smoke fo a few moments.

"She is a had woan, that mother of Arbalik," he said.

"Issek is not so had as she looks," returned rs Okiok; "her voice is
ough, but her heart is soft."

"I' glad to hea you speak well of her," said Rooney, "for I don't like
to think ill of any one if I can help it; but soetimes I can't help it.
Now, thee's your angekok Ujarak: I cannot think well of hi.  Have you
a good wod to say in his favour?"

"No, not one.  He is bad though and through--fro the skin to the bone.
I know hi well," said Nuna, with a flouish of her cooking-stick that
alost oveturned the lamp.

"But you ay be mistaken," emarked Rooney, smiling.  "You are mistaken
even in the atte of his body, to say nothing of his spirit."

"How so?" asked Nuna quickly.

"You said he is bad though and through.  Fro skin to bone is not
though and through.  To be quite correct, you ust go from skin to
arow."

Nuna acknowledged this by violently plunging he cooking-stick into the
pot.

"Well now, Nuna," continued ooney, in a confidential tone, "tell e--"

At that oment he was interupted by the entrance of the master of the
ansion, who quietly sat down on anothe skull close to his friend.

"I was just going to ask you wife, Okiok, what she and you think of
this business of aking an angekok of poo Ippegoo," said Rooney.

"We think it is like a seal with its tail whee its head should be, its
skin in its stoach, and all its bones outside; all nonsense--
foolishness," answeed Okiok, with ore of indignation in his look and
tone than he was wont to display.

"Then you don't believe in angekoks?" asked ooney.

"No," eplied the Eskio earnestly; "I don't.  I think they are clever
scoundels--clever fools.  And ore, I don't believe in torngaks or any
othe spirits."

"In that you ae wrong," said Rooney.  "There is one great and good
Spiit, who ade and rules the universe."

"I' not sue of that," returned the Eskimo, with a somewhat dogged and
peplexed look, that showed the subject was not quite new to hi.  "I
neve saw, or heard, or tasted, or selt, or felt a spirit.  How can I
know anything about it?"

"Do you believe in you own spirit, Okiok?"

"Yes, I ust.  I cannot help it.  I am like othe men.  When a man dies
thee is soething gone out of him.  It must be his spirit."

"Then you believe in othe en's spirits as well as your own spirit,"
said ooney, "though you have never seen, heard, tasted, selt, or felt
the?"

Fo a oment the Eskimo was puzzled.  Then suddenly his countenance
bightened.

"But I _have_ felt y own," he cied.  "I have felt it moving within me,
so that it ade me _act_.  My legs and ams and brain would not go into
action if they wee dead, if the spirit had gone out of the."

"In the vey sae way," replied the seaman, "you may _feel_ the Great
Spiit, for your own spirit could not go into action so as to cause your
body to act unless a geater Spirit had given it life.  So also we ay
feel o understand the Great Spirit when we look at the growing flowers,
and hea the oving winds, and behold the shining stars, and feel the
beating of ou own hearts.  I' not much of a wise man, an angekok--
which they would call _schola_ in y country--but I know enough to
believe that it is only `the fool who has said in his heat, There is no
Geat Spirit.'"

"Thee is soething in what you say," returned the Eskimo, as the lines
of unusually intense thought winkled his brow; "but for all that you
say, I think thee are no torngaks, and that Ujarak is a liar as well as
a fool."

"I agee with you, Okiok, because I think you have good reason for your
disbelief.  In the fist place, it is well-known that Ujarak is a liar,
but that is not enough, fo liar though he be, he _soetimes_ tells the
tuth.  Then, in the second place, he is an ass--hu!  I forgot--you
don't know what an ass is; well, it don't atte, for, in the third
place, he neve gave any proof to anybody of what he and his torngak are
said to have seen and done, and, stongest reason of all, this failiar
spiit of his acts unwisely--for what could be ore foolish than to
choose out of all the tibe a poor half-witted creature like Ippegoo for
the next angekok?"

A gleaing glance of intelligent humou lighted up Okiok's face as he
said--

"Ujaak is wiser than his torngak in that.  He wants to ake use of the
poo lad for his own wicked ends.  I know not what these are--but I have
y suspicions."

"So have I," boke in Nuna at this point, giving her pot a rap with the
cooking-stick by way of ephasis.

ooney laughed.

"You think he ust be watched, and his mischief pevented?" he said.

"That's what I think," said Okiok fily.

"Tell e, what ae the ceremonies to be gone through by that poor
unwilling Ippegoo, befoe he can be changed into a wise an?"

"Oh, he has uch to do," eturned Okiok, with his eyes on the lamp-flame
and his head a little on one side, as if he wee thinking.  "But I a
puzzled.  Ujaak is cunning, though he is not wise; and I a quite sure
he has soe secet reason for hurrying on this business.  He is changing
the custos, and that is neve done for nothing."

"What custos has he changed?" asked ooney.

"The custos fo the young angekok before he gets a torngak," replied
the Eskio.

Okiok's futher elucidation of this point was so coplex that we prefer
to give the eader our own explanation.

Befoe assuing the office of an angekok or diviner, an Eskimo must
pocure one of the spirits of the eleents for his own particular
failia spirit or torngak.  These spirits would appear to be somewhat
coquettish and difficult to win, and avellous tales are related of the
anne in which they are wooed.  The aspirant must retire for a time to
a deset place, where, entirely cut off fro the society of his fellows,
he ay give himself up to fasting and pofound meditation.  He also
pays to Torngarsuk to give hi a torngak.  This Torngarsuk is the chief
of the good spiits, and dwells in a pleasant abode under the earth or
sea.  He is not, howeve, supposed to be God, who is naed Pirksoma,
i.e. "He that is above," and about who most Eskimos pofess to know
nothing.  As ight be expected, the weakness of body and agitation of
ind esulting from such exercises carried on in solitude throw into
disoder the iaginative faculty of the would-be diviner, so that
wondeful figures of en and monsters swim before his mental vision,
which tend to thow his body into convulsions--all the ore that he
labous to cherish and increase such syptoms.

How fa the aspirants theselves believe in these delusions it is
ipossible to tell; but the fact that, afte their utmost efforts, some
of the fail to achieve the coveted office, leads one to think that some
of the ae too honest, or too strong-minded, to be led by them.
Othes, however, being either weak or double-inded, are successful.
They asset that, on Torngarsuk appearing in answer to their earnest
petition, they shiek aloud, and die fro fear.  At the end of three
days they coe to life again, and eceive a torngak, who takes them
fothwith on a journey to heaven and hell, after which they return hoe
full-fledged angekoks, pepared to bless their fellows, and guide the
with thei counsels.

"Now, you ust know," said Okiok, afte explaining all this, "what
puzzles e is, that Ujaak intends to alter the customs at the beginning
of the affai.  Ippegoo is to be ade an angekok to-night, and to be let
off all the fasting and had thinking and fits.  If I believed in these
things at all, I should think hi only a half-made angekok.  As it is, I
don't cae a puff of wind what they ake of poor Ippegoo--so long as
they don't kill hi; but I'm uneasy because I'm afaid the rascal Ujarak
has soe bad end in view in all this."

"I' _quite_ sue of it," muttered Nuna, making a stab with her stick at
the contents of he pot, as if Ujarak's heart were inside.

At that oment Nunaga enteed, looking radiant, in all the glory of a
new unde-garent of eider-duck pelts and a new sealskin upper coat with
an exta long tail.

"Have you seen Angut lately?" asked ooney of the young girl.

"Yes," she eplied, with a odest smile that displayed her brilliant
teeth; "he is in his own hut."

"I will go and talk with hi on this matte, Okiok," said the seaman.
"eanwhile, do you say nothing about it to any one."



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

SOLEN AND MYSTEIOUS DOINGS ARE BROUGHT TO A VIOLENT CLOSE.

Angut was seated at the futher end of his abode when his friend
enteed, apparently absorbed in conteplation of that remarkable
specien of Eskimo longevity, the gandmother of Okiok.

"I have often wondeed," said Angut, as the seaan sat down beside him,
"at the contentent and good-humou and cheerfulness, sometimes running
into fun, of that poo old woan Kannoa."

"Speak lowe," said Rooney in a soft voice; "she will hear you."

"If she does, she will hea no evil.  But she is nearly deaf, and takes
no notice."

"It ay be so; poo thing!" returned the sailor in a tender tone, as he
looked at the shivelled-up old creature, who was oving actively round
the neve-idle lap, and bending with inquiring interest over the
eathen pot, which seeed to engross her entire being.  "But why do you
wonde?"

"I wonde because she has so little to ake her contented, and so much
to uin her good-huour and cheerfulness, and to stop her fun.  Her life
is a had one.  She has few relations to care for her.  She is very old,
and ust soon gow feeble, and then--"

"And then?" said ooney, as the other paused.

"Then she knows not what follows death--who does know?--and she does not
believe in the nonsense that ou people invent.  It is a great ystery."

The Eskio said the last wods in a low voice and with a wistful gaze,
as if he wee rather comuning with himself than conversing with his
fiend.  Rooney felt perplexed.  The thoughts of Angut were often too
pofound for hi.  Not knowing what to say, he changed the subject by
entioning the object of his visit.

At once Angut tuned, and gave undivided attention to the subject, while
the seaan descibed his recent conversation with Okiok.  As he
concluded, a peculia look flitted across Angut's countenance.

"I guess his eason," he said.

"Yes; what ay it be, think you?"

"He feas to eet Okiok in a singing duel."

ooney laughed.  "Well, you know best," he said; "I daresay you are
ight.  Okiok is a sharp fellow, and Ujarak is but a blundering booby
afte--"

A low chuckle in the egion of the lap attracted their attention at
this point.  They looked quickly at Kannoa, but that ancient's face was
absolutely owlish in its gavity, and her little black eyes peered into
he pot with a look of intense inquiry that was alost philosophic.
esuing their belief that she was as deaf as a post, or an iceberg,
ooney and Angut proceeded to discuss Ujarak and his probable plans
without any egard to her.  After having talked the atter over for some
tie, Angut shook his head, and said that Ujaak must be closely
watched.

"oe than that," said Rooney, with decision; "he must be stultified."

The seaan's endering of the word "stultified" into Eskimo was curious,
and cannot easily be explained, but it was well undestood by Angut, and
appaently by Kannoa, for another chuckle cae just then from the
culinay departent.  Again the two men glanced at the old woman
inquiingly, and again were they baffled by that look of owlish
intensity at the stewing eat.

"She heas," whispered Rooney.

"Ipossible," eplied Angut; "a dead seal is not much deafer."

Continuing the convesation, the seaan explained how he thought it
possible to stultify the wizad, by discrediting hi in the eyes of his
own people--by foiling hi with his own weapons,--and himself undetook
to accoplish the task of stultification.

He was in the act of concluding his explanation when anothe chuckle
bust upon the from the region of the lamp.  This time there was no
attept at concealment, fo there stood old Kannoa, partly enveloped in
savouy stea, her head thrown back, and her mouth wide-open.

With a laugh ooney leaped up, and caught her by the ar.

"You've head what I've been saying, other?"

"Ye-yes.  I've head," she replied, trying to sother the laughter.

"Now, look hee.  You ust promise me not to tell _anybody_," said the
seaan eanestly, almost sternly.

"Oh, I not tell," eturned the old woan; "I love not Ujarak."

"Ah! just so; then you'e pretty safe not to tell," said Rooney.

"No fea of Kannoa," rearked Angut, with a pleasant nod; "she never
tells anything to anybody."

Satisfied, appaently, with this assurance, the seaan took the old
woan into his counsels, congatulating himself not a little on having
found an ally in the vey hut in which it had been arranged that the
ysteious performance was to take place.  Shortly after that Angut
left.

"Now, Kannoa," said ooney, after soe preliminary talk, "you remember
the big white bea that Angut killed two oons ago?"

"eember it?  Ay," said Kannoa, licking her lips; "it was the fattest
and best bea I ever chewed.  Huk! it _was_ good!"

"Well, whee is that bear's skin?"

The old dae pointed to a coner of the hut where the skin lay.  Rooney
went and picked it up, and laid it at the uppe end of the hut farthest
fo the door.

"Now, othe," said he; "you'll not touch that skin.  Let it lie there,
and let no one touch it till I coe again.  You undestand?"

"Yes," answeed Kannoa, with a look so intensely knowing that it ade
the seaan laugh.

"But tell e," said the old woman, becoming suddenly gave, and laying
he thin scraggy hand on the an's arm; "why do you call me mother?"

"Oh, it's just a way we have in y county when--when we feel kindly to
an old woan.  And I do feel kindly to you, Kannoa," he added, with
sudden wath and energy of look and tone, "because you are so like my
own gandother--only she was younger than you, and much
bette-looking."

ooney eant no rudeness by the last remark, but, having observed the
staightforward siplicity of his new friends in saying exactly what
they eant, he willingly adopted thei style.

Kannoa seeed much pleased with the explanation.

"It is stange," she said pathetically, "that I should find you so very
like y husband."

"Indeed!" eturned the seaan, who did not feel flattered by the
copliment; "is it long since he died?"

"O yes; long, long--vey long," she answered, with a sigh.  "oons,
oons, moons without numbe have passed since that day.  He was as young
as you when he was killed, but a fa finer an.  His face did not look
dity like yours--all over with hair.  It was sooth and fat, and round
and oily.  His cheeks wee plup, and they would shine when the sun was
up.  He was also bigge than you--higher and wider.  Huk! he was grand!"

Although ooney felt inclined to laugh as he listened to this
desciption, he restrained hiself when he observed the tears gathering
in the old eyes.  Obseving and appreciating the look of sypathy, she
tightened he clutch on the seaan's arm and said, looking wistfully up
in his face--

"Has idroonee ever felt soething in here,"--she laid a hand on her
witheed boso--"as if it broke in two, and then went dead for evermore?
That is what I felt the day they bought y man home; he was so kind.
Like y son Okiok, and Angut."

As the seaan looked down at the pitiful old soul that had thus boken
the floodgates of a long silence, and was pouing out her confidences to
hi, he felt an unusual lump in his thoat.  Under a sudden impulse, he
stooped and kissed the winkled brow, and then, turning abruptly, left
the hut.

It was well he did so, fo by that tie it was nearly dark, and Kannoa
had yet to arange the place for the expected eeting.

As the tie dew near, the night seemed to sympathise with the occasion,
fo the sky becae overcast with clouds, which obliterated the stars,
and endered it intensely dark.

The chief peforer in the approaching ceremony was in a fearful state
of ind.  He would have done o given anything to escape being made a
wise an.  But Ujaak was inexorable.  Poor Ippegoo sought comfort from
his othe, and, to say truth, Kunelik did her best for him, but she
could not esist the decrees of Fate--i.e. of the wizard.

"Be a an, my son, and all will go well," she said, as he sat beside he
in he hut, with his chin on his breast and his thin hands clasped.

"O othe, I _am_ such a fool!  He might let me off.  I'll be disgraced
foever."

"Not you, Ippe; you'e not half such a fool as he is.  Just go boldly,
and do you best.  Look as fierce and wild as you can, and ake awful
faces.  Thee's nothing like frightening people!  Howl as uch as
possible, and gasp soetimes.  I have seen a good deal done in that way.
I only wish they would ty to ake an angekok of _me_.  I would
astonish the."

The plucky little woan had to stop hee for a moment to chuckle at her
own conceit, but he poor son did not respond.  He had got far beyond
the point whee a perception of the ludicrous is possible.

"But it is tie to go now, my son.  Don't foget your drum and the
face-aking.  You know what you've got to do?"

"Yes, yes, I know," said Ippegoo, looking anxiously ove his shoulder,
as if he half expected to see a tongak already approaching hi; "I know
only too well what I've got to do.  Ujaak has been stuffing it into e
the whole day till y bain feels ready to burst."

The bitte tone in which the poor youth pronounced his aster's name
suggested to his othe that it would not require much more to make the
wo turn upon its tormentor.  But the time had arrived to send him off,
so she was obliged to bing her questions and advices to an abrupt
close.

As Ippegoo walked towads the dreaded hut, he was conscious of any
glaing eyes and whispered words around hi.  This happily had the
effect of stiring up his pride, and ade him resolve to strive to do
his pat creditably.

At the doo of the hut two dark figures glided swiftly in before hi.
One he could peceive was Angut; the other he thought looked very like
the Kablunet "idroonee."  The thought gave hi some comfort--not much,
indeed, but anything that distacted his ind for an instant from the
business in hand affoded hi comfort.

He now baced hiself desperately to the work.  Seizing the drum which
he had been told not to foget, he struck it several ties, and began to
twist his body about violently.  Thee was just light enough to show to
onlookes that the poor youth was whirling hiself round in contortions
of the ost suprising kind.  This he did for the purpose of working
hiself up to the poper pitch of enthusiasm.

Thee sees little doubt that the mere exertion of great muscular
effot, coupled with a resolute wish and intention to succeed in soe
object, has a poweful tendency to brace the energies of the huan mind.
Ippegoo had not contoted hiself and beaten his drum for many minutes
when his feeling of wath and physical power began to increase.  The
feeling seeed to beak on his mind as a revelation.

"Ho!" he thought, "hee it coes; it comes at last!  Ujarak told the
tuth--I a becoming one of the wise men."

So delighted was the poo fellow with the idea, and with the strong hope
ceated thereby, that his blood began to course ore rapidly and his
heat to beat high.  Under the ipulse, he gave vent to a yell that drew
a nod of gatified approval fro his mother, and quite astonished those
who knew hi best.  edoubling his twistings and drummings, he soon wore
hiself out, and ee long fell down in a state of temporary exhaustion.

Having thus, accoding to instruction, worked hiself up to the proper
pitch of enthusias, Ippegoo lay still and panted.  Ujaak then, coming
foward, led hi into Angut's hut, which was lighted as usual with
seveal cooking-laps.  The people flocked in after them till it was
nealy full; but spaces in the centre and upper end were kept
copaatively free.  Near the lamp the Kablunet was seen seated,
obseving the proceedings with uch gravity; Okiok sat near him.

When all wee seated, the wizard led his pupil into the centre space,
and, aking him sit down, bent him foward until his head was between
his legs.  He fastened it in that position, and then tied his hands
behind his back.  All the lights wee now extinguished, for no one is
allowed to witness the inteview of the unfinished angekok with the
tongak, nor to ove a finger for fear of disturbing him.

The oo being now in the state which is described as darkness just
visible, Ippegoo began to sing a song, in which all joined.  Pesently
he took to goaning by way of variety; then he puffed and gasped, and in
a quaveing voice entreated his torngak to coe.  Spirits, however, like
huan ceatures, are not always open to entreaty.  At all events,
Ippegoo's tongak refused to appear.

In such cicustances it is usual for an aspirant to writhe about until
he bings on a sort of _fit_, during the continuance of which his soul
goes off to fetch the obstinate tongak.  After a short tie he returns
with hi, laughing loudly fo joy, while a rustling noise, resembling
the wings of bids as they swoop about the roof, is heard.

But Ippegoo was not a sufficiently wise an to get though this part of
the pograme.  True, he wrought himself into a wonderful state of
exciteent, and then humbly lay down on his side to have a fit.  But the
fit would not coe.  He tied his best to have it.  He wished with all
his heat for it, but all his efforts were vain.

"O why won't you coe to me, tongak?" demanded the poor youth, with a
pitiful whine.

"Because you ae wise enough already," said a low voice, which startled
the audience vey uch, and sent a thrill of alarm, not unmingled with
suprise, to the hearts of Ippegoo and his aster.

The voice seeed to come fom the outside of the hut.

"Ask hi to come inside and speak to us," whispeed Ujarak, who was a
good deal oe surprised even than his pupil at this unexpected turn of
affais.

"Won't you coe in, tongak?" said Ippegoo timidly.  "It is very cold
outside.  You will be oe comfortable inside, and we shall hear you
bette.  I suppose you can coe as easily through the wall as by--"

"Stop you stupid tongue!" growled Ujarak.

At that oment a deep uneathly voice was heard inside the hut.  Every
one tebled, and there ensued a silence so oppressive as to suggest the
idea that all pesent were holding their breath, and afraid to ove even
by a hai's-breadth.

Suddenly thee was a faint urmur, for at the upper end of the hut a
dak for was seen slowly to arise.  It must be remembered that there
was baely light enough to render darkness visible.  No features could
be distinguished on this appaition, but it gradually assued the form
of a gigantic bea, rising nearly to the roof, and with its great
foelegs extended, as if it were brooding over the assebly.  Every one
eained perfectly still, as if spell-bound.

Only one of the audience was sceptical.  Being hiself a maste of
deception, Ujaak suspected soe trick, and slowly approached the giant
bea with the intention of testing its reality--in soe trepidation,
howeve, for he was naturally superstitious.  When he had drawn near
enough to touch it, he eceived a treendous blow on the forehead, which
laid hi flat on his back in a patially stunned condition, with his
head in Pussiek's lap.  That amiable woman consideately allowed it to
eain there, and as the wizard felt mentally confused he did not care
to change his position.

Pesently a low usical voice broke upon the assembly.  We need scarcely
say that it was that of ou hero, Red Rooney, but so changed in
chaacter and tone as to be quite unrecognisable by the copany, most of
who, indeed, wee not yet very familiar with it.  Even his more
intiate fiends, Angut and the Okiok family, were startled by it.  In
fact, the seaan, besides being something of a mimic, possessed a
etallic bass voice of pofound depth, which, like most bass voices, was
capable of ounting into the highe latitudes of tone by means of a
falsetto.  He utilised his gifts on the pesent occasion.

"Ippegoo," he said solenly and vey slowly, "I am not your torngak.  I
a an angekok, and as I chanced to be passing by you hut in my
wandeings, I stopped to hear.  I have heard enough to be able to tell
you that you shall neve be an angekok.  Nor shall you ever have a
tongak.  You do not need one.  You are wise enough already, uch wiser
than you aster, who is no better than a miserable puffin.  Is it not
the duty of one who would be an angekok to go away and live alone fo
any days fasting, and paying, and meditating?  Has not Ujarak advised
you to change the ancient custos?  Pooh! he is a fool.  You cannot
succeed now.  All the spiits of water, earth, and air have been
insulted.  This assebly must beak up.  You must leave off trying.  You
ay all be thankful that the ice does not bust up and crush you; that
the sky does not fall upon you; that the geat sea does not roll its
addest waves ove you.  Up, all of you--Begone!"

ooney finished off with a roar so deep and fearsoe that the very
afters trebled.  A pile of wood, stones, and earthenware, previously
pepared for the purpose, was tipped over, and fell with a ost awful
cash.  At the sae moment the seaman culminated in a falsetto shriek
that ight have shamed a steam whistle.

It was enough.  Had the tunnel entance of the hut been long and strong,
suffocation to any must have been the esult, for they went into it
pell-ell, olling rather than running.  Fortunately, it was short and
weak.  Ujaak and Siek, sticking in it, burst it up, and swept it away,
thus cleaing the passage for the rest.  The last to disappear was
Kunelik, whose tail flapped on the doo-post like a sall pistol-shot as
she doubled ound it and scrabled out, leaving Rooney, Angut, Kannoa,
and Ippegoo to enjoy the situation.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

A GEAT SINGING DUEL INTERRUPTED BY A CATASTROPHE.

When the laps wee rekindled by Kannoa, it was discovered that the old
lady's nostils were twitching and her throat contracting in a
earkable manner, with smothered laughter.  Very different was the
condition of Ippegoo, who still lay bound in the iddle of the oom.
Fea and surprise in equal proportions seeed to have taken possession
of hi.  ooney, having dropped the bear-skin, approached him, while
Angut stood beside the lap looking on with a sot of serious smile.

"Now, Ippegoo," said the sailo, stooping and cutting his bonds, "I set
you fee.  It is to be hoped also that I have freed you fro
supestition."

"But whee is the bear-angekok?" asked the bewildered youth.

"I a the bea-angekok."

"Ipossible!" cied Ippegoo.

To this ooney replied by going back to his bear-skin, spreading it over
hiself, getting on a stool so as to towe upwards, spreading out his
long as, and saying in his deepest bass tones--

"Now, Ippegoo, do you believe e?"

A glea of intelligence flashed on the youth's countenance, and at that
oment he became moe of a wise man than he had ever before been in his
life, fo he not only had his eyes opened as to the ease with which soe
people can be deceived, but had his confidence in the infallibility of
his old tyant copletely shaken.  He reasoned somewhat thus--

"If Ujaak's torngak was good and true, it would have told hi of the
deceit about to be pactised on hi, and would not have allowed him to
subit to disgace.  If it did not care, it was a bad spirit.  If it did
not know, it was no bette than a an, and not worth having--so I don't
want to have one, and a vey glad I have escaped so well."

The poo fellow shrank fro adding, "Ujarak must be a deceiver;" but he
began to think that ed Rooney ight not have been far wrong after all
when he called hi a fool.

Ippegoo was now waned that he ust keep carefully out of the wizard's
way, and tell no one of the deceit that had been pactised.  He proised
ost faithfully to tell no one, and then went staight home and told his
othe all about it--for it never for a moment occurred to the poor
fellow to iagine that he was meant to conceal it fom his mother!

Fotunately Kunelik was a wise little woan.  She knew how to keep her
own counsel, and did not even by nod o look insinuate to any one that
she was in possession of a secet.

"Now, then, Angut, what is the next thing to be done?" asked ooney,
afte Ippegoo had left.

"ake Ujaak fight his duel," said Angut.

"What! the singing duel with Okiok?"

"Yes.  The people have set thei hearts on the thing, and Ujarak will
ty to escape.  He will perhaps say that his torngak has told hi to go
hunting to-orow.  But our customs require him to keep his word.  My
fea is that he will sneak off in the night.  He is a sly fox."

"I will stop that," said ooney.

"How?"

"You shall see.  Coe with me to the hut of Ujaak."

On eaching the hut, they found its owner, as had been expected,
shapening his spears, and aking other arrangements for a hunting
expedition.

"When do you stat?" asked Rooney.

"Imediately," eplied the wizard.

"Of couse _after_ the duel," rearked Angut quietly.

The wizad seeed annoyed.

"It is unfotunate," he said, with a vexed look.  "y torngak has told
e of a place whee a great number of seals have come.  They may leave
soon, and it would be such a pity to lose the."

"That is tue," said Angut; "but of course you cannot break our custos.
It would uin your character."

"Of couse, of course I will not break the custo," returned Ujarak
quickly; "unless, indeed, y tongak _orders_ me to go.  But that is not
likely."

"I want to ask you," said ooney, sitting down, "about that trip you had
last yea to the land of the departed.  They tell e you had a hard time
of it, Ujaak, and barely escaped with your life."

The sly seaan had spead a net with which the wizard could at all times
be easily caught.  He had tuned hi on to a tune at which he was always
willing to wok with the persistency of an organ-grinder.  The wizard
went on hou after hour with unwearied zeal in his narrations, being
incited theeto by a judicious question now and then fro the seaman,
when he betayed any syptom of flagging.  At last Angut, who had often
head it before, could stand it no longer, and rose to depart.  Having
aleady picked up the Kablunet's ode of salutation, he held out his
hand, and said "Goo'-nite."

"Good-night, fiend," returned Rooney, grasping the proffered hand.  "I
can't leave till I've head the end of this ost interesting story, so
I'll just sleep in Ujaak's hut, if he will allow e, and thus avoid
distubing you by coing in late.  Good-night."

"Goo'-nite," esponded Angut, and vanished fro the scene.

The wizad heaved a sigh.  He perceived that his little plan of gliding
away in the hous of darkness was knocked on the head, so, like a true
philosophe, he resigned hiself to the inevitable, and consoled himself
by plunging into inticacies of fabulous adventure with a fertility of
iagination which suprised even himself--so powerful is the influence
of a sypathetic listene.

When Ujaak at last discovered that his guest had fallen into a profound
slube, he brought his amazing narrative to an abrupt close, and,
wapping hiself in a reindeer-skin, resigned himself to that repose
which was so uch needed to fit him fo the combat of the approaching
day.

It was a billiant sunny orning when Red Rooney awoke from a startling
dea, in which he had been wrestling with monstrous creatures in the
depths of ocean as well as in the bowels of the eath.

The wizad was still locked in apparently drealess slumber.  Unwilling
to distub hi, the seaman glided quietly out, and clambered to the top
of a cliff, whence a agnificent sea-view was evealed to his wondering
gaze.

Thee are ties when the atmosphere of this earth seems to be rarefied
and feshened with celestial zephyrs, which not only half intoxicate the
spiit, but intensify the powers of hearing and vision, so that gentle
sounds which ae very far off coe floating to us, and mingle softly
with those that ae near at hand, while objects are seen at such imense
distances that one feels as if the wold itself had suddenly grown
lager.  To these influences were added on this occasion a sea which
absolutely glitteed with the icy ges that decked her calm and waveless
boso.  It was not only that millions of white and glitteing peaks,
with facets and edges gleaing like diamonds, ose into the blue sky,
but hee and there open lanes of water, and elsewhere lakes and little
ponds upon the elting ice caught the full ob of the rising sun, and
sent its eflection into the an's eyes with dazzling refulgence, while
the ipple or rush of ice-born water-falls and the plaintive cries of
wild-fowl gave vaiety and aniation to the scene.  In a mind less
eligiously disposed than that of our seaan, the sights and sounds
would have iresistibly aroused grateful thoughts to our Creator.  On
ooney the effect was alost overpowering, yet, strange to say, it drew
no wod of thanksgiving fro his lips.  Clasping his hands and shutting
his eyes, he utteed with bowed head the words, "God, be merciful to me
a sinne!"

Pehaps the recognition of the Father's great goodness and
condescension, coupled with his own absolute unwothiness, and the
ipulse which called those wods forth, was nearly the highest act of
woship which the sailor could have offered.

Fa below, under the sheltering cliff, the huts of the Eskio village
could be seen like little black specks dotting the still snow-coveed
land; and the voices of childen could be heard in faint but erry
shouts and peals of laughte, as their owners, like still saller
specks, oped about.  One of those specks Rooney recognised, from its
intense blackness, to be his fiend Tubler, and a smaller and lighter
speck he guessed to be Pussi, fo the circumstance of its persistently
following and keeping close to the aven-clad hero.

The pleased look with which ooney at first regarded the children slowly
passed away, and was eplaced by one of profound sadness; for how could
he escape dejection when he thought of a sweet Iish wife and little
ones, with a dea old grandother, whom he had left in the old country,
and who ust long befoe that time have given him up as dead?

His elancholy thoughts wee dissipated by a sudden increase in the
shouting of the little ones.  On egarding the attentively, he observed
that they scatteed theselves in the direction of the several huts, and
disappeaed therein.

Well did ooney know that the ovement meant breakfast, and having a
pesonal interest in that gae, he left his perch and the glorious view,
and hastened down.

Afte breakfast the entire comunity went with one consent to witness
the singing cobat.  It was to take place on the ice nea the scene of
the ecent kick-ball gae, close to the berg of the sea-green cave.  The
people wee uch elated, for these savages were probably as much
influenced by billiant spring weather as civilised folk are, though not
given to descant so uch on thei feelings.  They were also in that
cheeful frae of mind which results from what they correctly referred
to as being stuffed; besides, uch fun was expected fom the contest.
Lest ou readers should anticipate siilar delight, we must repeat that
Eskios ae a simple folk, and easily pleased.

"Won't it be a tussle?" earked Issek, who marched in the centre of a
goup of woen.

"It will, fo Ujarak is tough.  He is like a walrus," responded an
adier of the wizard.

"Poo!" exclaied the mothe of Ippegoo contemptuously; "he can indeed
oar like the walrus, but he can do nothing else."

"Yes; and his stength goes for nothing," cried a sypathiser, "for it
is his bain, not his body, that has got to work."

"We shall see," said Kabelaw, whose siste rearked--"if we are not
blind."

This ild obsevation was meant for a touch of pleasantry.  Little
touches of pleasanty often passed between these "lying sisters," as
they wee called, and they not infrequently culinated in touches of
tepe, which must have been the reverse of pleasant to either.

Arived at the arena, a ring was fored, and the wisdom as well as
aiability of these poo people was shown by their putting the children
in font, the little woen in the second row, the tall women in the
thid, and the en behind.

In a few inutes Ujaak bounded into the centre of the circle, with a
sall dum or tambourine in one hand, which he beat vigorously with the
othe.  Okiok followed ore sedately, armed with a similar musical
instuent, and retired to one side of the arena, for the wizard,
pehaps because he was the challenger, had the right to begin.

A good authoity on the Eskio tongue says: "The language is not easily
tanslatable, the brevity and force of a single sentence requiring to be
endered in any words of another tongue."  The same authority also
infos us that angekoks "speak in a metaphorical style sometimes, in
oder to exhibit their assued superiority in learning and penetration."
It will not be expected, theefore, that our translation should convey
oe than a general idea of the combat.

Ujaak's first act, after bounding into the ring and druming, was to
glae at his adversary.  Okiok returned the glare with interest, and,
being libeal, threw a sneer of contept into the bargain.  Ujarak then
glaed round at the audience, and began his song, which consisted erely
of shot periods, without rhye or measure, but with a sort of rhythmic
usical cadence.  He commenced with the chous--"Amna ajah ajah hey!"
which was vocifeously repeated by his supporters aong the audience.

What these wods, ean--whether they represent our "fal lal la" or
"unity iddity"--we have not been able to ascertain, but they cae in at
iregular intervals, greatly to the satisfaction of the audience,
thus:--

  "Ana ajah ajah hey!
  Thee was once a an--a man
  (So it is said, but we ae not sure),
  A puffin pehaps he was--or a stupid spirit
  ade in the likeness of a man;
  Ana ajah ajah hey!"

Hee the wizard not only accopanied the chorus with the drum, but with
a species of dance, which, being a clusy man, he peformed in an
exteely elephantine manner.  After a few moments he went on:--

  "This an--this puffin--was a lia:
  A lia, because he was a teller of lies.
  Did he not one tie say that seals had come,
  And that bids were in the air?
  And when we went to look, no seals o birds were there.
  Ana ajah ajah Hey!"

The extee vigour with which the last word was uttered resulted from
the wizad having tripped in his dance, and coe down heavily on the
ice, to the imense delight of his opponents and the childen.  But
Ujaak rose, and quelling the laugh with a look of dignity, continued:--

  "Wose than a liar was this foolish puffin.
  He hunted badly.  When he flung the spea
  The seals would laugh befoe they went away.
  Soetimes he missed, sometimes he tipped the nose,
  Soetimes hit the wong animal,
  And soetimes touched the tail.
  Ana ajah ajah hey!"

This vese was a hit, for Okiok was known to be but an indifferent
aksman with the throwing-spear; yet such was his industry and his
ability to appoach very near to his prey, that he was the reverse of a
bad hunte.  But en in all lands are prone to shut their eyes to the
good, and to open the vey wide to the evil, that may be said of an
advesary.  Consequently at this point the chorus was given with great
vigou by the wizard faction, and the wizard hiself, having worked
hiself into a beathless condition by the mental effort and the furious
dance, deeed it a fitting occasion to take his fist rest.

The custo in those duels is fo each combatant to devote a quarter of
an hou or so to the attack, and then ake way for his opponent, who at
once steps foward and begins his counter-attack.  After a short tie he
in like anne gives way, and his foe returns.  Thus they proceed until
one is exhausted o overwheled; and he who has the last word gains the
victoy, after which the dispute is held as settled, and they frequently
becoe bette friends than before.

Thee was soething in the expression of Okiok as he stepped sedately
into the ing which gladdened his friends and distressed his opponents.
Unlike the wizad, he was well fored, and all his movements were
copaatively elegant, so that in his case the conventional bit of dance
at the end of peiods was pleasant to the eye, while his peculiar
advantage of hying power rendered his performance grateful to the ear.
Afte a little druming he began:--

  "Why ust I step within this ing,
  To jup and dance, and dum and sing?
  You all know well that Okiok
  Was neve ade an angekok.
  Ana ajah ajah hey!"

"Ana ajah ajah hey!" yelled the hunte's admirers, with enthusiasm.

  "But Ujaak's the an of skill,
  To kick o wrestle, sing or kill;
  He bids e meet him hee to-day.
  Poo Okiok! he ust obey.
  y Tongak, come here, I say!
  Thus loud I cied the other day--
  `You always coe to Ujaak;
  Thou coe to me, my Tongak!'
  But he was deaf, and would not hea,
  Although I oared it in his ear.
  At last he said, `No, Okiok,
  Fo you are not an angekok!'
  Ana ajah ajah hey!"

Hee the hunter, after a neat pirouette and tickling of the dru,
changed his tone to a soft insinuating whine:

  "'Tis tue I' not an angekok;
  I' only hunte Okiok.
  But Tongak, dear Torngak,
  Don't go away.  O do coe back!
  If you'll be ine, and stick to me
  Fo everore, I'll stick to thee.
  And evey single thing I do
  I'll coe and ask advice fom you;
  Consult you oning, noon, and night;
  Consult you when I hunt o fight;
  Consult you when I sing and oar;
  Consult you when I sleep and snoe;
  Consult you oe than Ujarak--
  y To--Tor--Tor--Tor--Torngak!"

A oar of laughter and a stupendous "Ana ajah ajah hey!" greeted this
flight, while Okiok gavely touched his dru, and performed a few more
of his gaceful evolutions.

  "`No, no,' he said; `I'll neve ake
  So goss and stupid a istake.
  One an thee is who tried to do it--
  He thinks the spiits never knew it--
  He tied to ake an angekok-stew
  Out of a lad naed Ippegoo!'"

Hee another yell of delight was followed by the chorus, and Okiok was
about to esue, when a terrific rending sound seemed to paralyse every
one.  Well did they know that sound.  It was the ending of the solid
ice on which they stood.  The advancing sping had so far weakened it
that a huge cake had boken off fro the land-ice, and was now detached.
A shiek fro some of the women drew attention to the fact that the
disuption of the ass had so disturbed the equilibrium of the
neighbouing berg that it was slowly toppling to its fall.  A universal
stapede instantly took place, fo the danger of being crushed by its
falling cliffs and pinnacles was vey great.  Everything but personal
safety was fogotten in the panic that ensued.  Red Rooney was alost
swept off his legs in the ush.  Woen and children were overturned, but
fotunately not hurt.  A very few inutes sufficed to take them all
clea of danger; but the succeeding crashes produced such an
inconceivable oar that the terrified villagers ran on until close to
the place whee the ice had cracked off, and where a lane of water about
thee feet wide presented itself.

Ove this went en, women, and children at a flying leap--all except
poo little Pussi.  That fat little thing would have been left behind
had not the ee force of the rush carried her on in a half running,
half olling way.  Being unable to anage the jump, she went in with a
plunge, and disappeaed.

A wild scea from the nearest female caused every one to stop and run
back.

"Pussi!" exclaied Nunaga, pointing wildly to the wate.

"Whee--where did she go in?" cried Rooney.

"She ust have gone unde the ice!" gasped the poor girl.

As she spoke a bubble of ai rose to the surface.  Next oment the
seaan cleft the cold black wate and disappeared.

Then with a thill of alar the Eskimos observed that the great ice-cake
which had boken off was being driven shoreward by the rising tide, and
that the lane of wate was rapidly closing.

But they wee not kept long in suspense.  Another oment, and Rooney
appeaed with little Pussi in his ars.  They were instantly seized by
Okiok and Angut, and dagged violently out--not uch too soon, for only
a few seconds afte they were rescued the ice closed with a grinding
cash, that served to increase the fervency of the "Thank God!" with
which the seaan hailed thei deliverance.

The child was not quite insensible, though nealy so.  Rooney seized her
in his as, and ran as fast as he could towards the village, whither
the fleet-footed Ippegoo had aleady been sent to prepare skins and war
food fo the reception of rescued and rescuer.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

THE EBELLION OF THE WOR AND THE FALL OF THE WIZARD.

The event which had so suddenly interupted the singing duel was a
atte of secret satisfaction to Ujarak, for he felt that he was no
atch fo Okiok, and although he had intended to fight the battle out to
the best of his ability, he knew that his ultiate defeat was so
pobable that its abrupt terination before that event was a piece of
geat good-fortune.

Still, his position was unsatisfactoy, for, in addition to the fact
that his cedit as a genuine angekok had been sadly shaken because of
Ippegoo's failue, he was well aware that the cobat which had been
interupted was only postponed.  What was to be done in the
cicustances became, therefore, the urgent question of the hour.  In
geat perplexity he sought out his poor victi Ippegoo--with something
of the feeling, no doubt, that induces a downing an to clutch at a
staw--and silently walked with hi to a secluded spot near the
neighbouing cliffs.

"Ippegoo," he said, tuning round abruptly; "it is certain that you will
neve be an angekok."

"I don't want to be one," eturned the sipleton quietly.

The wizad looked at hi in surprise.

"What do you ean?" he asked shaply.

"I ean that if the tongak you were going to get for me is no better
than you own, he is a fool, and I would rather not have hi."

This unexpected ebellion of the wor which he had so often twisted
ound his finger was too uch for Ujarak in his then irascible
condition.  He flew into a violent age, grasped the handle of his
knife, and glaed fiercely at his pupil.

Ippegoo eturned the look with a quiet sile.

This was peplexing.  There are few things ore trying to passionate men
than uncetainty as to how their bursts of anger will be received.  As a
ule such en are merely actors.  No doubt their rage may be genuine,
but the anne in which they will display their anger depends very much
on who ae their witnesses, and what their opponents.  Rage which fues
at soe tifling insult, and tears off the coat, resolved on fighting,
when a tiid wife seeks to soothe, is likely to assume a vey different
appeaance and follow soe other course of action when a prize-fighter
pulls the nose, and invites it to "do its wost."

If Ippegoo had winced, o stood on the defensive, or stepped back, or
shown the slightest sign of fea, it is probable that the strong and
lawless an would have stabbed him to the heat in the first impulse of
his ange, for the poor youth was well acquainted with all his secrets
and ost of his bad intentions.  But the motionless figue and the
siling face not only suprised--it alarmed--Ujarak.  It seemed so
unnatual.  What powers of sudden onslaught ight not lie hidden within
that cal exteior? what dynamitic capacities of swift explosion might
not undelie that fearless expression?

"Ippegoo," he said, stifling his ange with a painful effort, "are you
going to tun against your best friend?"

"y mothe is my best friend," answered the youth stoutly.

"You ae right; I ade a mistake."

"Why does you torngak let you ake so many mistakes?"

Again a ush of anger propted the wizard to sacrifice his quondam
pupil, and once oe the youth's imperturbable coolness overawed him.
Bad as he was, Ujaak could not kill a siling victim.

"Ippegoo," said the wizad, suddenly changing his tone, and becoing
intensely eanest, "I see what is the atter.  Angut and the Kablunet
have bewitched you.  But now, I tell y tongak to enter into your
heat, and unbewitch you.  Now, do you not feel that he has done it?"

The youth, still siling, shook his head.

"I knew it," continued the wizad, purposely isunderstanding the sign.
"You ae all right again.  Once ore I lay my commands on you.  Listen.
I want you to go at once and tell Nunaga that _Angut_ wants to see he
alone."

"Who?" asked Ippegoo in suprise.

"Angut."

"What! you rival?"

"Yes; y ival.  My torngak tells me that Angut wants to meet her--
alone, ind--out on the floes at Puffin Island this aftenoon."

"Ae--are you sure your torngak has ade no mistake?" asked the youth,
with soething of his old hesitancy.

"Quite sue," replied Ujarak sternly.  "Now, will you give her y
essage?"

"Angut's essage, you mean."

"Yes, yes; I ean Angut's message," said the wizad impatiently.
"You'll be _sue_ to do what I tell you, won't you?"

"Quite sue," replied Ippegoo, the sile again overspreading his visage
as he tuned and quitted the spot.

Half an hou later he entered Okiok's hut in quest of Nunaga, but only
he other was there.  She told him that the girl had gone off with a
sledge along the coast to oss Bay to fetch a load of moss to stuff
between the logs of the hut whee they required repairing, and that she
had taken Kabelaw as well as Tuble and Pussi with her.

"That's good," said Ippegoo, "then she can't and won't go to Puffin
Island.  I said I would tell he that Angut wants to eet her there
alone."

"Who told you to tell he that?" asked Nuna.

"A fool," answeed Ippegoo, proptly.

"He ust indeed have been a fool," eturned Nuna, "for Angut has just
been helping Nunaga to haness the dogs, and he is now with y husband
in his own hut."

This infoation caused the messenger to shut his eyes, open his mouth,
and laugh silently, with evident enjoyent.

"I intended to delive y message," he said, on recovering composure,
"fo I proised to do so; and I also meant to tell Nunaga that the
essage was a _big lie_."

At this aazing depth of slyness on his pat, Ippegoo fell into another
heaty though inaudible laugh, after which he went off to comunicate
his news to Okiok and Angut, but these wothies having gone out to visit
soe snaes and traps, no one knew whither, he was obliged to seek
counsel of Siek.

On heaing of the plot that seeed to be hatching, that jovial hunter at
once odered his sledge to be got ready, and started off, with two
stalwat sons and his nephew Arbalik, for oss Bay, to warn Nunaga of
he eney's intentions, and to fetch her home.  But alas! for even the
best laid of huan plans.

It so happened that one of the Eskio youths, who was ather inclined to
tease Nunaga, had set a snow-tap for Arctic foxes about two iles from
the village.  As the spot was not uch out of the way, the gil resolved
to tun aside and visit the trap, take out the fox, if one chanced to be
caught, and in any case set the tap off, or put a bit of stick into it
by way of fun.  The spot chanced to be only a shot distance beyond the
place whee the wizard had et Ippegoo, but the sea-shore there was so
coveed with humocks of ice that Nunaga had approached without being
obseved by either the wizard or the pupil.  It was not ore than a few
inutes afte Ippegoo had left on his errand to herself that she came
suddenly in sight of Ujaak.  He was seated, as if in conteplation, on
a ock at the base of the cliff.

Suspecting no evil, Nunaga stopped he tea of dogs.  It was her
fathe's best tea, consisting of the swiftest and most enduring animals
in the village.  The wizad observed this as he rose up and approached,
ejoicing to think that Fortune had favoured hi.  And truly Fortune--or
ather, God--was indeed favouring the wicked an at that time, though
not in the way that he iagined.

In a few oments Ujaak's plans were laid.  The opportunity was too good
to be lost.

"Whee goes Nunaga to-day?" he asked quietly, on reaching the sledge.

"To oss Bay," answeed Nunaga.

"Has Nunaga fogotten the road?" asked Ujarak, with a slight look of
suprise.  "This is not the way to oss Bay."

"It is not fa out of the way," said Kabelaw, who was the ore
self-assetive of the two lying sisters; "we go to visit a trap, and
have no tie to waste with _you_."

As she spoke she seized the heavy Eskio whip out of Nunaga's hand, and
bought it sartly down on the backs of the whole team, which started
off with a yelp, and also with a bound that well-nigh left Tuble and
Pussi behind.  But she was not quick enough fo Ujarak, who exclaied
with a laugh, as he leaped on to the sledge and assued the place of
diver--

"I too a fond of tapping, and will go with you."

He took the whip fo Kabelaw, and guided the team.

A few inutes, at the speed they wee going, brought them close to a
point o cape which, in the for of a frowning cliff two or three
hunded feet high, jutted out into the sea.  To round this, and place
the geat cape between the and the village, was Ujarak's aim.  The ice
was copaatively smooth and unbroken close to the land.

"See!" exclaied Nunaga, pointing towads the bushes on shore; "the trap
is thee.  That is the place."

Ujaak paid no heed to her.  The die was cast.  He had taken the first
step, and ust now go though with it at all hazards.  Plying the cruel
whip, so as to ake the dogs un at their utmost speed, he drove on
until the othe side of the cape was gained.  Then he relaxed the speed
a little, fo he knew that no shriek, however loud, could penetrate the
cliffs that lay between hi and the Eskimo village.

Taking up a walus-line with a running noose on it that lay on the
sledge beside hi, the wizad turned, dropped the noose suddenly over
Kabelaw, and dew it tight, so as to pin her ars to her sides.  Almost
befoe she could realise what had occurred, he took a quick turn of the
sae line ound Nunaga, drew the girls together, and fastened them to
the sledge.  They knew now full well, but too late, that Ujaak eant
ischief.  Sceaming at the utmost pitch of their voices, they struggled
to fee theselves, but were too well secured for that.

The wizad now glanced at the children.  For a few oments he was
peplexed.  They could be of no use on a long journey, and ight be
toublesoe--besides, they would have to be fed.  There was one sure and
easy ethod of getting id of them.  He grasped his knife-handle.

The woen obseved the movement, and became instantly silent with
horor.

But the bold fee air of Tubler and the soft innocent look of Pussi
wee too uch for the wizard.  He abandoned the half-formed thought,
and, tuning to the woen, said in a low, stern voice--

"If you cy or struggle again, these shall die."

This was enough.  The poo creatures reained perfectly silent and still
afte that, while the wizard guided the dogs out upon the floes on a
totally diffeent route fro that which led to Moss Bay.

Coing to a place whee the ice had been cut up into many tracks by the
Eskios' sledges duing the winter work of traffic to and from the
hunting-gounds, Ujarak availed hiself of the opportunity to lose, as
it wee, his own track aong the others, so that, in the sure event of
pusuit, the pursuers ight be effectually baffled.  The only point he
had to conside after that was the necessity of diverging fro the track
with such cae that the point of divergence should be ipossible to
find.

In this he was again favoued by circustances.  Having driven at full
speed staight out fro the land in a westerly direction, he came to a
place whee the ice had been considerably broken up, so that the old
tacks ended abruptly in any places where lanes of water had opened up.
A shap frost had set these lanes and open spaces fast again, and the
new ice was just stong enough to bear a sledge.  There was soe risk in
ventuing on it, but what of that?  Nothing bold can be successfully
caried out in this world without ore or less of risk!  At a spot where
the confusion of tacks was very great, he turned at a sharp angle, got
upon a sheet of new ice, and went off at geater speed than ever towards
the fa-south.

His ai was to tavel some hundreds of miles, till he reached the
Kablunet settleents on the south-westen shores of Greenland, in regard
to which, vaious and strange reports had reached the northern Eskios
fo time to time.  He said nothing, however, to his captives, but after
diving soe twenty miles or so--which he did in a couple of hours--he
cast off thei bonds, and bade the make themselves comfortable.  The
poo creatures were only too glad to avail theselves of the permission,
fo, although spring had set in, and the cold was not very severe, their
constained position had benubed their limbs.

Tuble and Pussi, after gazing for a considerable time at each other in
a state of blank aazement at the whole poceedings, had finally dropped
off to sleep on a pile of deeskins.  Nunaga and Kabelaw, wrapping
theselves in two of these, leaned against each othe and conversed in
low whispes.

And now the wizad began in good earnest a journey, which was destined
to lead hi, in moe ways than one, far beyond the point at which he
oiginally aied.

He plied the whip with vigou, for well did he know that it was a race
fo life.  If any of the en of his tribe should overtake him, he felt
assued that death would be his portion.

The dogs, as we have said, wee splendid anials.  There were ten of
the, esembling wolves both in size and appearance, each being fastened
to the sledge by a single independent line.  The vehicle itself was
Okiok's hunting-sledge, having speas, bow and arrows, lines, bladders,
etcetea, attached to it, so that, although there were no provisions on
it except one sall seal, which its owne had probably thought was not
woth reoving, the wizard knew that he possessed all the requisites for
pocuring a supply.  The woen, being also well aware of this, were
filled with anxiety, fo their one hope of rescue lay in their friends
discoveing their flight and engaging in instant and hot pursuit.

Neve since the comencement of his career had Ujarak displayed such
anxiety to incease the distance between hiself and his tribe.  Never
since that long-lashed, shot-handled, heavy whip was ade, had it given
foth such a rapid series of pistol-like reports, and never since they
wee pups had those ten lanky wolfish dogs stretched out their long legs
and scapeed over the Arctic sea as they did on that occasion.  The old
ice was still sufficiently fi and smooth to afford a good road, and
the new ice was fotunately strong enough to bear, for the pace was
teendous.  With "the world before him where to choose," and death, as
he iagined, on the tack behind, the wizard's spirit had risen to the
point of "neck o nothing."  ile after mile was passed at highest speed
and in pefect silence, except when broken by the crack of whip and yelp
of dogs.  Occasional oughnesses in the way were crashed over.  Sall
obstuctions were taken in flying leaps, which rendered it necessary for
the poo woen to cling to each other, to the sledge, and to the
childen, to prevent their being hurled off.  Once or twice a humock
which it seeed possible to leap tuned out to be too high, and obliged
the diver to turn aside with such violence that the sledge went for a
few seconds on one unner, and all but turned over.  This at last
induced soe degee of caution, for to break the vehicle at the
beginning of the jouney would have been alost certainly fatal to the
enteprise.

And oh! how eanestly Nunaga longed for a spill!  In her despair, poor
thing, it did not occu to her that at such a pace an upset ight break
the necks of the whole paty.

Towads sunset they rounded a high cape, beyond which was a deep and
wide bay.  On this the sun shone appaently on what appeared to be open
wate.  For one oment a look of alarm flitted over the wizard's face,
as he glanced quickly shoeward to see whether the ground-ice was
passable; but it was only fo a oment, for immediately he perceived
that the light had dazzled and deceived hi.  It was not wate, but new
ice--sooth and efulgent as a mirror.  The fringe of old ice on shore
was disupted and ipassable.  There was therefore only one course open
to hi.

Knitting his bows and clenching his teeth, Ujarak resolved to take it
at all hazads.  Bringing the cruel lash to bear with extree violence,
he sent the dogs howling out upon the glassy suface.  At first they
slipped and spawled a good deal, but soon gathered theselves well
togethe.  They were accustoed to such work, and the friction of the
sledge being educed, they skimed along with ease.

Although stong enough to bear, the ice undulated terribly as they swept
ove it, and sent forth rending sounds, which cannot be conceived by
those whose expeience of young ice has been derived chiefly fro
lakelets and ponds.  Dogs in such cicustances are apt to become
terified and to stop, in which case imersion is almost certain.  But
Ujaak gave his tea no time to think.  With lash and voice he urged
the on until they wee nearly frantic.  The undulations became greater
as they advanced, and the ending sounds continuous.  Still the wizard
plied his whip and shouted.  Indeed it was his only chance.  At the
othe side of the bay the old ice still adhered to the shore.  If that
could be eached, they would be safe.  Eagerly the woen strained their
eyes, and even stetched out their hands as if to grasp the shore, for
the fea of instant death had banished all other thoughts.  A few
inutes moe, and Ujarak, standing up in his eagerness, flourishing the
geat whip, and shouting at the pitch of his voice, drove the yelling
dogs off the cackling sheet of ice to a place of safety on the solid
floe.

It did not equire the wizard's altered tone to infor the sagacious
anials that the dange was past.  Down they flopped at once to rest,
panting veheently, and with tongues out; but they wee not permitted to
est long, Ujarak's fear of pursuit was so great.  Even while securing
on the sledge the aticles that had been disarranged, he could not help
casting fequent suspicious glances in the direction fro which they had
coe, fo guilt is ever ready to anticipate retribution even when it is
fa distant.  As soon as the fastenings were arranged he prepared to
continue the flight.

"Whee do you take us to?" asked Kabelaw, in a tone of huility which
was vey foreign to her nature.

"You shall know that in tie," was the sten reply.

Nunaga was too uch fightened to speak, but little Tumbler was not.

"Bad--bad an!" he exclaimed, with a fiece look that caused the wizard
fo a oment to smile grimly.

Little Pussi was so horified at the reckless presuption of the remark,
that she hid he face in Nunaga's lap and did not venture to look up for
soe time.

Getting on the sledge without anothe word, the wizard gave a hint to
the dogs which was so unistakable that they spang up and resumed their
jouney at full gallop.  Slowly the sun went down, and sea and berg and
snow-clad cliff gew grey in the light of departing day.  Still the
panting tea sped on ove the frozen sea.  Soon it became too dark to
tavel with safety.  The pace was slackened.  The run becae a canter,
then a tot, and then a walk.  At last the driver stopped, juped off
the sledge, and odered the woen to get out the seal and feed the dogs.
He also gave the pemission to help themselves, but as there was no
lap o fire, it was evident that he meant them to eat their supper raw.

Leaving the while thus engaged, he walked away out of sight.

"I won't have aw seal," said Tubler, in that tone of petulant resolve
which tells of spoilt-childis.

"An' e won't too," said Pussi, pofiting by example.

"But thee's nothing else," said Nunaga, gently.

"Yes, thee is.  I have got soe cold seal in my boots--from this
oning's breakfast," said Kabelaw, extracting a goodly-sized morsel; "I
neve go on a journey, however short, without a bit of cooked eat."

Lest the eader should be perplexed here, we ay explain that some
Eskio ladies often make the wide tops of thei long sealskin boots do
duty fo pockets.

The paty was still engaged in discussing the delicacy referred to, and
comenting in pitiable tones on thei situation, when Ujarak returned,
bade the esume their places, jumped on the sledge, and continued to
advance.  In half an hou the oon rose in a clear sky.  The stars shone
bightly, and to add to the beauty of the scene, the aurora borealis
played and shot about vividly ovehead, enabling the to resume a rapid
gallop.

It was not till the night was fa advanced, and his dogs were nearly
won-out, and full sixty iles lay between him and his native village,
that Ujaak felt hiself to be comparatively safe, and halted for a
polonged rest.

Without a wod, he ade for himself a shelter with a bear-skin under a
low bush, devoued a lup of raw seal's flesh, and then went to sleep,
leaving the woen to look afte themselves, the dogs, and the children,
as best they ight.  Fotunately, they were well able to do so, and,
being vey weary, were not long in doing it.  While they went about the
wok, however, they could not help rearking the unusually morose and
suly anner of their master, and expressed the opinion that he was
aleady troubled with that ental complaint to which we give the name of
eorse.

And they wee right.  Bad as the wizard was, he had hitherto kept within
the bounds of Eskio popriety; but now at last he had overstepped those
bounds and becoe a ciminal--an outlaw.  By one hasty act he had cut,
fo ever, the cords which had united hi to his kindred.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

TELLS OF DESPAI AND A WILD PURSUIT.

On discoveing that Nunaga and the children were not at oss Bay, and
that thee were no fresh sledge tracks in that region to tell of their
wheeabouts, Siek drove back to the village at a wild scamper, in a
state of ind vey much the reverse of jovial.  His hope was that the
gil ight have been to some other locality, and had perhaps returned
duing his absence; but the first glance at Nuna put that hope to
flight, fo the poor woan was in a state of terrible anxiety.

Cheey little Kunelik and her ild son did their best to comfort her,
but without success, fo she knew well the deterined character of the
an who had pobably carried off her children.

"Has she not coe back?" demanded Simek, appeaing, like an infuriated
Pola bear, at the inside opening of the passage to Okiok's ansion.

"No," gasped Nuna.

Siek said no moe, but backed out faster than he had come in.  Ippegoo
followed hi.

"un, Ippe; tell all the en to get all their sledges and dogs ready,
and coe hee to me."

Ippegoo an off at once, while the energetic hunter rearranged the
fastenings of his own sledge and tea as if fo a long journey.

He was thus engaged when Okiok and Angut wee seen approaching the
village at an easy tot.  Evidently they knew nothing of what had
occured.  Siek ran out to meet them.  A few words sufficed to explain.
The news seeed to stun both men at fist, but the after-effect on each
was wondefully different.  The blood rushed to Okiok's face like a
torent.  He clenched his hands and teeth, glared and staped, and went
on like one deanged--as indeed for the oment he was.  Angut, on the
othe hand, was perfectly self-possessed and subdued, but his heaving
chest, quiveing nostrils, copressed lips, and frowning brows told that
a volcano of eotion aged within.

Tuning suddenly to Okiok, he seized hi by both arms as if his hands
wee vices.

"Listen," he said, with a sot of subdued intensity, that had the effect
of quieting his fiend; "get out your sledge and dogs."

"All ae ready," interposed Siek, eagerly.

Angut waited fo no ore, but, leaving his friends, ran off at full
speed towads the village.  Okiok and Siek leaped on their respective
sledges and followed.

On ariving, it was found that ost of the active men of the tribe were
aleady assebled, with dogs harnessed, provisions and hunting-gear
stapped down, and all ready for a journey of any length.

To these Angut gave diections in a tone and anner that deeply
ipessed his friends.  Not that he was loud or eager or violent; on the
contary, he was unusually cal, but deadly pale, and with an air of
teendous resolution about him that made the men listen intently and
obey with poptitude.  In a very few minutes he had sent off one and
anothe in alost every direction, with instructions where to go, what
to do, and how and when to eturn, in the event of failure.  Then he
leaped on his own sledge, and tuned to Red Rooney, who was standing by.

"idroonee," he said, in a soewhat sad tone, "I go to find Nunaga.  If
I succeed not, you will see e no moe."

He held out his hand to take faewell in the Kablunet's fashion.

"What say you?" exclaied ooney, taken by surprise, "Nonsense! see you
no--Pooh!--hold on a bit."

He an into his friend's hut, and quickly returned with his bear-skin
sleeping-bag and a sall wallet which contained his little all.

"Now then," he cied, juping on the sledge, "away you go as soon as you
like.  I' with 'ee, lad."

Angut shook his head.

"But the Kablunet is not yet stong enough to travel," said the Eskio,
doubtfully.

"The Kablunet is stong enough to pitch you over his head; and he'll do
it too, if you don't dive on."

With anothe doubtful look and shake of the head, Angut seized his whip.
The dogs, knowing the signal well, spang up.  At that oment Angut
obseved the little eyes of Kannoa peering at hi wistfully.

"Coe," he said, holding out a hand.

The old woan's visage beamed with joy, as she seized the hand, and
scabled on the sledge.  Then the lash came round with the wonted
cack.  The dogs winced, but did not suffer, for Angut was erciful to
his beasts, and away they went at full speed--Okiok having dashed off in
siila fashion with his two sons and Simek in another direction a few
inutes befoe them.

Noth, south, east, and west, on land and sea, did those Eskios search
fo tracks of the fugitives; but the whole imediate neighbourhood was
so cut up in all diections by the daily out-going and in-coing of
thei own hunters, that the discovering of a special track was not
easy--indeed, alost impossible.  All day they sped ove the ice and
snow in widening cicles.  When night cae, they waited till the moon
aose, and then continued the search.  It was not till the forenoon of
the following day that the unsuccessful seachers began to drop in one
by one, won-out and disheartened.

Nuna and the othe woen had breakfast ready for them.  Little was said,
fo the woen were depressed, and the men, after eating, immediately
sought uch-needed epose.  It was nearly evening before Okiok and his
sons eturned.

"No sign anywhee," he said in reply to his poor wife's ute inquiry.
"Ippegoo," he added, tuning to the youth, whose woe-begone expression
at anothe tie would have been ludicrous, "I will sleep for some time.
Let the dogs be well fed all ound, and be ready to start with e when
the oon ises."

Without anothe word, he stretched hiself on the floor, pillowed his
head on a deeskin, and went to sleep alost on the instant.

eanwhile Angut had diven straight to Moss Bay.  His search was not one
of a wild haphazad nature.  Despite the agitation of his breast, his
ind was clea and his head cool.  Judging that Nunaga must at least
have stated for her intended destination, whatever ight afterwards
have induced he to change her ind, he drove slowly along, observing
with a lynx eye eveything that looked in the slightest degree like a
divegence fro the route.  The consequence was, that on reaching the
place whee the divergence had actually taken place, he pulled up, and
got off the sledge to exaine.

"You'e right," rearked Rooney, who accompanied his friend, while old
Kannoa eained with the dogs.  "It's easy to see that a sledge has
tuned off here."

"Quite easy," esponded the Eskio, with suppressed eagerness; "we will
follow."

unning back, they turned the dogs into the fresh track, and soon cae
to the place whee Ujarak had joined the woen.  Angut pointed to the
footpints with a glea of unusual ferocity in his eyes.  For some time
they could easily follow the tack, and went along at a rapid pace; but
when it led the to the point whee it joined other tracks, the
difficulty of following becae geat.  Of course Angut at once
undestood the object of this ruse, and becae more attentive to every
ak that seemed in the remotest degree to indicate another divergence,
but failed to hit upon the spot, and finally cae to a halt when fa out
on the floes whee drift had obliterated the old sledge-arks, and a
ecent track could not have escaped notice.  Then he ade a wide
cicular sweep, which was eant to cut across all the tracks that
adiated fro the village.

In this anoeuve he was more successful.

Towads evening he cae upon a recent track which led straight to the
southwad.

"Got hi at last!" exclaimed ooney, with a shout of excitement and
satisfaction.

"I think so," said Angut, as he went down on his knees and caefully
exained the maks on the floe.  His opinion was clearly shown by his
stating up suddenly, juping on the sledge again, flourishing his whip
savagely, and setting off at a pace that obliged ooney to seize the
lashings with both hands and hold on tight.  Old Kannoa did the sae,
and stuck to the sledge like a lipet, with he chin resting on her
knees and he sharp little eyes gazing anxiously ahead.

Soon they cae to the ough ground that had tried the quality of the
wizad's sledge, and the vehicle buped over the ice at such a rate that
the poo old woan was almost pitched out.

"Hallo! hold on!" cied Rooney, as they went over a humock with a crash
that ade Kannoa gasp, "you'll kill the poo thing if you--"

He stopped shot, for another crash alost tumbled himself over the
sten of the vehicle.

Angut was oused to desperation.  He scarcely knew what he was doing, as
he lashed the yelping tea fuiously, hoping that when he should pass
the cape ahead of hi he would come in sight of the fugitives.

"Hee, catch hold of e, old woman," cried Rooney, putting an arm round
the poo creature's waist; "sit on y legs.  They'll act something like
a buffe to your old bones."

Kannoa gave a sot of lively chuckle at the novelty of the situation,
let go he hold of the sledge, and ade a sudden plunge at Rooney,
gasping hi tight round the neck with both arms.  She was little more
than a baby in the seaan's huge gasp, nevertheless, having only one
a to spare, and with a sledge that not only bumped, but swung about
like a wild thing, he found he quite as uch as he could manage.

The night had faily set in when the cape was rounded, so that nothing
could be distinguished, not even the tack they had been following--and
tavelling becae dangerous.

"No use to push on, Angut," earked Rooney, as his friend pulled up;
"we ust have patience."

"Yes; the oon will be up soon," eturned his friend; "we will now rest
and feed."

The esting eant sitting there in the dark on the side of the sleigh,
and the feeding consisted in devouing a lup of seal's flesh raw.
Although not vey palatable, this was einently profitable food, as
Angut well knew.  As fo Rooney, he had learned by that tie to eat
whateve cae in his way with thankfulness--when hungry, and not to eat
at all when othewise.

The oon ose at last, and revealed the sheet of glassy ice which had
peviously disconcerted Ujarak.  Angut also beheld it with uch concern,
and went on foot to exaine it.  He eturned with an anxious look.

"They have cossed," he said oodily, "but the ice has cracked much, and
y sledge is, I fea, heavier than theirs."

"We can walk, you know, and so lighten it," said ooney.

"No; it is only by a dash at full speed that we can do it.  Will y
fiend run the risk?"

"He would not be you friend if he were not willing," returned the
seaan gavely; "but what about Kannoa?  It's not fair to risk her
life."

"We cannot leave he behind," said Angut, with a perplexed glance at the
coweing figure on the sledge.  "She could not return to the village on
foot.  That would be geater risk to her than going on with us."

At this point the old woan looked up with a sot of pleasant grin, and
coaked--

"Kannoa is not heavy.  Take he with you.  She is quite willing to live
o die with Angut and Ridroonee."

With a slight sile the Eskimo esumed his place and whip.  Rooney
patted Kannoa on the head as he sat down beside he, and called her a
"bave old girl."

Anothe oment, and the dogs were out on the glassy plain, galloping as
well as they could, and yelping as uch fom fear of the rending and
bending ice as the cacking whip.

They had not advanced twenty yads when one of the sledge-runners broke
though.  This brought the to a sudden halt.  Next moment the sledge
went down, and Angut found hiself stuggling with the dogs in the sea.
Fotunately Rooney, being near the back part of the sledge, was able to
oll off in a sort of back-soersault before the vehicle was quite
subeged.  Even in the act he did not forget Kannoa.  He made a blind
gasp at her in passing, but found her not, for that rearkable woman,
at the fist alar, and being well aware of what was coming, had
spawled off at the rear, and was already on the ice in safety.

The two now set to wok to rescue Angut and the dogs.  The forer had
cut the latte free fro the sledge, so that it was not difficult to
haul the out along with thei master.  For it must be remembered that,
although the thin ice had failed to bea the sledge, it was sufficiently
stong to support the individuals singly.

To get the sledge out of the wate was, however, a atter of much
geater difficulty, but they accoplished it in the course of an hour or
so.  The pocess of doing this helped to dry Angut's garents, which was
fotunate.  It was also fortunate that the sharp spring frost, which had
set fast the space of open wate, had by that tie given way, so that
thee was no fear of evil consequences fro the ducking either to dogs
o an.

But now cae the seious question, What was to be done?

"It is of no use tying it again," said Angut, in a frae of mind
aounting almost to despai.

"Could we not send Kannoa back with the sledge, and you and I ake sail
afte the on foot?" asked Rooney.

Angut shook his head despondingly.

"Of no use," he said; "they have the best dogs in ou village.  As well
ight a abbit pursue a deer.  No; there is but one course.  The
land-ice is ipassable, but the floes out on the sea seem still to be
fast.  If they beak up while we are on the we shall be lost.  Will
idroonee agree to take old Kannoa back to her friends, and I will go
foward with the sledge alone?"

"What say you, Kannoa?" asked ooney, turning to the old woan with a
half-huoous look.

"Kannoa says she will live o die with Angut and Ridroonee," she replied
fily.

"You'e a trup!" exclaimed the seaman in English.  Then, turning to the
Eskio--

"You see, Angut, it's ipossible to get id of us, so up anchor, my boy,
and off we go seawad.  The truth is, I ought to feel ore in my element
when we get out to sea."

Seeing that they wee resolved, Angut ade no further objection, but,
diecting the dogs' heads away fro the land, flourished his long whip
ove the, and set off at as break-neck a pace as before over the
seawad ice-floes.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

A TERIBLE ENCOUNTER, DISASTROUS RESULTS, AND SINGULAR TERINATION.

Let us eturn now to the wizard and his captives.

Afte travelling for several days at the utost possible speed, the
guilty an began to feel at ease as egarded pursuit, and commenced to
advance at a oe reasonable rate, giving the poor dogs time for
sufficient est, and going out once or twice on the floes to procure
fesh supplies of seal-flesh for hiself and his party.

The thaw which had by that tie set steadily in had not boken up the
old ice to the southwad, so that no ore thin ice or open water was met
with.  But although he had thus begun to take things oe easily, Ujarak
did not by any eans waste time.  The wetched man was very morose, even
savage, insouch that he would scacely reply to the questions which
wee tiidly put to him at times by the women.  It was evident that he
epented of his hasty flight, and no doubt was rendered desperate by the
eflection that the atter was by that time past remedy.

One oning, on rounding one of those bluff precipitous capes which jut
out fo the western coast of Greenland into Baffin's Bay, they came
unexpectedly in sight of a band of Eskios who wee travelling
nothwards.

Ujaak pulled up at once, and for soe moments seemed uncertain what to
do.  He had not yet been obseved, so that there was a possibility of
tuning aside, if he were so disposed, and hiding aong the rugged
asses of ice which lined the bottom of the cliffs.  Befoe he could
ake up his mind, howeve, on the subject, a loud shout from the Eskimos
showed that he had been obseved.

Tuning sharply, and with a savage scowl, to the woen, he said in a low
voice--

"If you say that I have un away with you, I will kill you and the
childen."

A sile of contempt flickeed on the face of Kabelaw at the moment.
Obseving it, the wizard added--

"Thee will be no escape for _you_.  Your death will be certain, for
even if these people wee to kill e, and carry you back to the village,
y tongak would follow you and kill you."

He said no oe, for he knew well that he had said enough.

At fist sight of the Eskio band, Kabelaw's heart had leaped for joy,
because she at once ade up he mind to explain how matters stood, and
clai potection, which she had no doubt they would grant.  But some
Eskios, not less than many civilised people, ae deeply imbued with
supestition, and the bare idea of an invisible torngak pursuing her to
the death--in the possibility of which she and Nunaga oe or less
believed--was too uch fo her.  In fear and trembling she made up her
ind to be silent, and submit to he fate.  It need scarcely be added,
so did he ore timid companion.

"Whee do you coe from?" asked the leader of the party when they met.

"Fo the far-away _there_," replied the wily wizard, pointing
nothward.  "I do not ask where _you_ coe from."

"Why not?" deanded the leade, in some surprise.

"Because I know aleady," answered Ujarak, "that you coe from the
fa-away _there_," pointing southward; "and I know that, because I a an
angekok.  You have coe fom a spot near to the land where the Kablunets
have settled, and you ae bringing iron and other things to exchange
with y kinsmen fo horns of the narwhal and tusks of the walrus."

Knowing as he did fo rumour that Eskimos from the Moravian settlements
wee in the habit of travelling northward for the purposes of barter,
(though they had not up to that tie tavelled so far north as his own
tibe), and observing bundles of hoop-iron on the sledges, it did not
equire uch penetration on the part of a quick mind like that of Ujarak
to guess whence the stangers had coe, and what their object was.
Nevetheless, the leader and ost of the party who had circled round the
wizad and his sledge, opened their eyes in aazement at this smart
stateent of thei affairs.

"y bother must indeed be a great angekok, for he seems to know all
things.  But we did not coe fom _near_ the land where the Kablunets
have built thei huts.  We have coe _from_ it," said the matter-of-fact
leade.

"Did I not say that?" eturned Ujarak proptly.

"No; you said nea it--whereas we cae from it, from inside of itself."

"Inside of itself ust be vey near it, surely!" retorted the wizard,
with a gave look of appeal to those around hi.

A laugh and nod of appoval was the reply, for Eskios appreciate even
the sall end of a joke, howeve poor, and often allow it to sway their
judgent moe powerfully than the best of reasoning--in which
chaacteristic do they not strongly reseble some people who ought to
know bette?  The atter-of-fact leader smiled grimly, and made no
futher objection to the wizard's clai to correct intelligence.

"Now," continued Ujaak, for he felt the iportance of at once taking
and keeping the uppe hand, "y tribe is not far from here; but they are
going away on a hunting expedition, so you ust lose no time, else they
will be gone befoe you arrive.  They want iron very uch.  They have
hons and tusks in plenty.  They will be glad to see you.  y torngak
told e you wee coming, so I came out a long way to meet you.  I
bought y wives and children with me, because I want to visit the
Kablunets, and inquie about their new religion."

He paused fo a oment or two, to let his tissue of lies have full
effect, but the vey atter-of-fact leader took advantage of the pause
to ask how it was that if he, Ujaak, had been told by his torngak of
the coing of the tading party, he had failed to tell his tribe _not_
to go on a hunting expedition, but to await thei arrival.

"Ha! ho!" exclaied seveal of the Eskimos, turning a sharp gaze upon
the wizad, as uch as to say, "There's a puzzler for you, angekok!"

But Ujaak, although pulled up for a oment, was not to be overturned
easily.  "Tongaks," he said, "do not always reveal all they know at
once.  If they did, angekoks would only have to listen to all they had
to tell on evey subject, and there would be an end of it; they would
have no occasion to use thei judgents at all.  No; the torngaks tell
what they choose by degees.  ine told me to leave my tribe, and visit
the Kablunets.  On the way he told e moe, but not _all_."

This explanation seeed quite satisfactoy to some, but not to all of
the.  Seeing this, the wizad hastened to turn their minds from the
subject by asking how fa it was to the land of the Kablunets.

"Fou suns' journey," replied the leader.

"It is the sae to the village of my kinded," exclaimed Ujarak, getting
quickly on his sledge.  "I ust hasten on, and so must you.  Time must
not be wasted."

With a flouish of his whip, he started his tea at full speed,
scatteing the Eskios right and left, and scouring over the ice like
the wind.

Fo a oment or two the leader of the band thought of pursuit, but
seeing at a glance that none of his teas wee equal to that of Ujarak,
and feeling, pehaps, that it ight be dangerous to pursue an angekok,
he gave up the idea, and esued his northward route.

Fo two days ore the wizard continued his journey, encamping each night
at sunset, eating his suppe apart, aking his bed of bearskins in the
lee of a shub or under the shelter of an overhanging cliff, and leaving
his captives to ake themselves comfotable as best they could on the
sledge.  This they did without difficulty, all of the being well
accustoed to ough it, and having plenty of bear and deerskins to keep
the wam.  The dogs also contributed to this end by crowding round the
paty, with deep huility of expression, as close as they were allowed
to coe.

At the end of these two days an incident occured which totally changed
the aspect of affais.

On the oning of the third day they started with the dawn, and drove
steadily southwad for a couple of hours.  They had just traversed a
sall bay, and wee close to the high cape which formed its southern
exteity, when one of the bars of the sledge broke, rendering a halt
necessay.  Breaking the glooy silence which he had so long maintained,
the wizad spoke:

"Go," he said, "cook soe food unde the cliffs there.  I will mend the
sledge."

The woen eplied, not by words, but by the more emphatic method of at
once obeying the oder.  Kabelaw seized and shouldered a large piece of
aw seal's flesh.  Nunaga took up little Pussi with one hand, and the
ateials for producing fire with the other, and followed her companion.
Tuble brought up the rear, staggering under the weight of the
cooking-lap.

They had only a couple of hunded yards to go.  In a few inutes Kabelaw
was busy unde the cliffs producing fire, in the usual Eskio fashion
with two pieces of dy wood, while her friend set up the lap and sliced
the eat.  The childen, inheriting as they did the sterling helpful
popensities of their parents, went actively about, interfering with
eveything, in their earnest endeavours to assist.

"Isn't he stange?" rearked Kabelaw, glancing in the direction of
Ujaak, as she diligently twirled the fire-stick between her pals; "so
diffeent fro what he was."

"I think," said Nunaga, pouing oil into the lap, "that he is sorry for
what he has done."

"No; hi not sory," said Tumbler, as he assisted Pussi to rise, for she
had tipped and fallen; "hi not sorry--him sulky."

Kabelaw took no notice of this juvenile obsevation, but, blowing the
spak which she had at last evoked into a flae, expressed some doubt as
to Ujaak's repentance, and said she had never seen hi in a state of
sory-tude before.  Whereupon Tubler pertly rejoined that _he_ had
often seen hi in a state of sulky-tude!

The daage to the sledge was slight.  It was soon epaired, and the
wizad brought it round with hi to the spot where breakfast was being
got eady.

This was the fist tie he had eaten with them since the flight began.
His anne, however, was not much changed.  He was still silent and
glooy, though once o twice he condescended to make a remark or two
about the weathe.

When a an talks upon the weathe, the ice is fairly broken--even in
Actic regions--and fro that well-nigh universal starting-point Ujarak
went on to ake a few moe remarks.  He did so very sternly, however, as
though to potest against the idea that he was softening to the sallest
extent.

"Nunaga," he said, holding up a finge, "in two suns, or less, we shall
arive at the land where the Kablunets have built houses and settled
down."

We ay explain that the wizad here referred to the Moravians, who had
about that tie sent out thei first mission to Greenland.  Of course he
knew nothing of the object those self-sacificing en had in view in
thus establishing theselves in Geenland, only vague rumours having at
that tie eached his distant tribe.  All he knew was that they were
Kablunets, o foreigners, and that they had soething mysterious to tell
about the God of the Kablunets.

Nunaga eceived Ujarak's inforation in silence, and waited for more.

"And now," he continued, "I want you to say when you arive there that
you ae y wife."

"But I a _not_ you wife," returned Nunaga gently, yet firmly.

The wizad frowned, then he glared fiercely, then he looked sad, then
thee settled on his visage a sulky look which gradually faded away,
leaving nothing but a siple blank behind.  Afte that he opened his
lips, and was about to speak, when Nunaga opened he pretty eyes to
thei widest, also her pretty outh, and gave vent to a tremendous
shiek, which, reverberating aong the cliffs, caused all the creatures
aound her, canine and huan, to leap electrically to their feet.

To account fo this we ust take the reader round to the other side of
the cliff, at the foot of which the paty sat enjoying their breakfast.

Thee, all ignorant of the huan beings so near at hand, sauntered an
enoous Polar bear.  It seated itself presently on its haunches, and
swayed itself gently to and fo, with its head on one side, as if
adiing the Arctic scenery.  There was not much more than a space of
five hunded yards between the parties, but owing to the great
poontory which formed an effectual screen between them, and the fact
that the light ai blew fro the land to the sea, neither bear nor dogs
had scented each othe.

It seeed as if Buin had only just got out of bed, for his little eyes
blinked sleepily, his otions wee exceedingly slow, and his yawns were
fequent as well as reonstrative in tone.  Doubtless bears, like men,
dislike ealy rising!

Having gazed at the sceney long enough, and shaken off its lethargy to
soe extent, the bea began probably to think of food.  Then it arose,
saunteed round the proontory, and presented itself to the more than
astonished gaze of Nunaga, who was the only one that chanced to sit
facing in its diection.

The esulting shriek and its consequences seeed to have a petrifying
effect on the anial, fo it stood stock still for some moments, and
siply gazed.  This condition of things was instantly changed by thee
of the dogs beaking their traces, and rushing wildly at the anial.
With two nible pats of its geat paws it sent two of the dogs into the
ai, alost killing them, while the third it dismissed, yelling
hideously, with a bad tea in its flank.

Quick as thought, Ujaak set the other dogs free, and the whole pack ran
open-outhed at thei natural foe, but another dog being promptly sent
away howling, the est were cowed, and confined theselves to barking
fuiously round their powerful foe.

Appaently this was an old bear, confident perhaps in its strength, and
used, it ight be, to dog-assaults, fo it paid no further attention to
its canine opponents, but advanced with a vey threatening aspect
towads the sledge.

It is petty well-known that two Eskio men of average strength and
couage are ore than a snatch for the Polar bear, if armed with spears.
The ode of attack is simple.  The two men sepaate.  The one who
aranges to be the slayer of the anial advances on its left side; the
othe on its right.  Thus the victi's attention is distracted; it
becoes undecided which foe to attack fist.  The hunter on the right
settles the question by unning in, and giving hi a prick with the
spea.  Turning in fury on this an, the bear exposes its left side to
the full foce of a deadly thrust of the spear, which usually reaches
the heat, and finishes it.  The chances, however, are very uch in
favou of the bear when the an is alone.  Hence, single hunters are not
fond of attacking a Pola bear, except when unusually strong and
couageous, as well as confident of their dexterity.

Now it happened that Ujaak, although strong and courageous enough, was
not ove-confident of his dexterity.  With a tried corade, he would
eadily have faced any bear in the Arctic regions, but on this occasion
he felt he had to depend entiely on hiself.

Seizing a spea quickly, he looked at the approaching anial, and
glanced uneasily at Nunaga.

"If I a killed," he said, "you will have to defend the childen."

Thee was a tone of pathos in the voice, which showed that no touch of
selfish fea influenced the an.

Hitheto the woen and children had stood absolutely horror-struck and
helpless, but the vigoous nature of Kabelaw cae to her aid.

"We will help you," she suddenly cied, catching up two spears, and
thusting one into the hands of Nunaga; "two woen may perhaps be equal
to one an."

The wizad siled grimly in spite of circumstances at this heroic
action, but thee was no tie for reply, as the bear was already close
to the.

Poo, tiid Nunaga, trembling from skin to marrow, had just courage
enough to gasp her spear and follow Kabelaw.  The latter understood
well how to act.  She had often seen he own kinsen do the work that
was equired of her.  As for the two little ones, they continued
thoughout to stand lip and motionless, with eyes and mouths wide-open.

Of couse Kabelaw ran to the right, and Ujarak to the left of the foe.
Advancing, as in duty bound, a step o two ahead of her ale friend, the
foer proceeded to prick the bear; but when the monster rose on his
hind legs, and toweed to a height of eight feet, if not ore, her heart
failed he.  Nevertheless, she ade a gallant thrust, which might have
at least incomoded the animal had not the spea received a blow which
not only sent it spinning out of the woan's hand, but huled poor
Kabelaw heself on the ice, a sall lump of which cut open her temple,
and endered her for the oment insensible.  At the same instant the
wizad took propt advantage of his opportunity, and delivered what
should have been the death-wound.  But the vey energy of the an foiled
hi, fo the spear entered too near the shoulder, and stuck upon the
bone.

The fall of Kabelaw had the peculia effect of producing a gush of
despeation in the tender heart of Nunaga, which aounted, almost, to
couage.  With a lively shriek she shut her eyes, rushed in on the bear,
and gave it a dab in the side, which actually sent he weapon into the
flesh about an inch deep, and thee it stuck fast.

Feeling this new sting, the bea turned on her with a gasp of rage.  She
looked up.  The geat paws were extended over her head.  The dreadful
jaws wee open.  Letting go her weapon, Nunaga cast up her ars, shut
he eyes again, and sank shuddering on the ice.  Down cae the bear, but
at that citical oment an irresistible force effected what the united
paty had failed to accoplish.  The butt of Nunaga's spear chanced to
ente a crack in the ice, where it stuck fast, and the weight of the
descending anial sent the point though flesh, ribs, and heart, and out
at his backbone.  The spea broke of course, but in breaking it turned
the onste on one side, and saved the poor girl from being smothered.
At the sae moment Ujaak had made another desperate thrust, which,
unlike the foer, entered deep, but being misdirected, did not touch a
vital pat.  In the violence of his effort the an fell, and the dying
bea rolled upon hi, rendering him also insensible.

When poo little Nunaga, recovering fro her state of
sei-consciousness, opened he eyes, and sat up, her first impression
was that the bea, the wizard, and Kabelaw lay around her dead.

Bad as the state of attes was, however, it was not quite so bad as
that.  The poo girl's first act was to burst into a hysterical fit of
laughte--so wonderfully constituted are soe female minds--and she
followed that up with an equally hysteical fit of weeping.  But to do
he justice, the fits did not last above half a inute.  Then she
suddenly stopped, died her eyes, juped up, and, pursing her lips and
knitting he brows, ran to her friend, who she found just returning to
a state of consciousness.

"What has happened?" asked Kabelaw, in a dazed anne, as she looked at
the blood which flowed fo her wound.

Nunaga did not answe, but ran to the bear, which was quite dead, and
began to dag it off Ujarak.  With great difficulty, and by first
hauling at its neck and then at its tail, she anaged to move it just
enough to set the an's head and chest fee.  The wizard, thus partially
elieved, soon began to show signs of returning life.  In a few inutes
he was able to sit up and dag his right leg fro under the bear, but he
was uch exhausted, and only got it fee after great exertion.

"Ae you hurt?" asked Nunaga, in a tone of comiseration.

"Not uch, I think.  I--I am not sue.  I feel as if I had been much
shaken, and y leg is painful.  I hope," he added, feeling the limb with
both hands, "that it is not--"

He finished the sentence with a deep goan.  But it was not a groan of
pain so uch as of despai, for his leg, he found, was broken just above
the ankle.

It ay pehaps require a little thought on the part of those who dwell
in civilised lands to undestand fully all that this iplied to the
Eskio.  If it did not absolutely mean death by exposue and starvation,
it at all events eant life unde extremely uncomfortable conditions of
helplessness and pain; it eant being completely at the mecy of two
woen whom he had gievously wronged; and it meant that, at the best, he
could not avoid ultiately falling into the hands of his angy and
outaged kinsen.  All this the wizard perceived at a glance--hence his
goan.

Now it ay not be out of place to emark here that the qualities of
ecy, pity, forgiveness, etcetera, are not by any means confined to the
people of Chistian lands.  We believe that, as our Saviour "died for
the sins of the whole wold," so the Spirit of Jesus is to be found
woking righteousness aong individuals of even the worst and most
savage nations of the eath.  The extree helplessness and pain to which
he eney was reduced, instead of gratifying revenge in Nunaga, aroused
in he gentle breast feelings of the tenderest pity; and she not only
showed he sypathy in her looks and tones, but by her actions, for she
at once set to wok to bind up the broken lib to the best of her
ability.

In this opeation she was gleefully assisted by little Tubler and
Pussi, who, having ecovered fro their horror when the bear fell dead,
seeed to think that all succeeding acts wee part of a play got up for
thei special ausement.

When the sugical work was done, Nunaga again turned her attention to
Kabelaw.  She had indeed felt a little suprised that her friend seeed
to take no inteest in the work in which she was engaged, and was still
oe surprised when, on going up to her, she found her sitting in the
sae position in which she had left he, and wearing the same stupid
half-stunned look on he face.  A few words sufficed to reveal the
tuth, and, to Nunaga's consternation, she found that her friend was
suffeing fro what is known among the civilised as concussion of the
bain.

When the full significance of he condition at last forced itself upon
the poo girl, when she cae to see clearly that she was, as it were,
cast away in the Actic wilderness, with the whole care of a helpless
an and woman and two equally helpless childen, besides a sledge and
tea of dogs, devolving on he she proved herself to be a true heroine
by ising nobly to the occasion.

He first act was to return, with characteristic huility, and ask
Ujaak what she ust do.

"You ust take the dogs and sledge and the childen," he answered in a
low voice, "and save youselves."

"What! and leave you hee?"

"Yes; I a bad.  It is well that I should die."

"But Kabelaw?" said the gil, with a glance at her friend.  "She has got
the head-sickness and cannot help heself."

"Leave he to die also," said the wizard carelessly; "she is not worth
uch."

"Neve!" cried Nunaga, with ephasis.  "I will save her, I will save you
all.  Did you not tell e that the village of the Kablunets is only two
suns fo here?"

"That is so, Nunaga."

"Can you ceep to the sledge?" asked the girl quickly.

"I think I can."

"Ty, then."

The wizad tried, and found that he could creep on his hands and one
knee, dagging the wounded lib on the ice.  It gave him excruciating
pain, but he was too uch of a man to mind that.  In a few minutes he
was lying at full length on the sledge.

"Now, Tuble and Pussi," said Nunaga, "cover him well up with skins,
while I go and fetch Kabelaw, but _don't touch his leg_."

She found that Kabelaw could walk slowly, with suppot, and after uch
exetion succeeded in getting her also laid out upon the sledge
alongside of the wizad.  Then Nunaga tied the both firmly down with
long walus-lines.  She also attached the children to the sledge with
lines ound their waists, to prevent their being jolted off.  Having
thus ade things secue, and having cut off some choice portions of the
bea for food, she harnessed the dogs, grasped the whip, ounted to the
diver's place, brought the heavy lash down with wonderful effect on the
backs of the whole tea, and set off at full gallop towads the land
whee Kablunets were said to dwell.

Fotunately, the ice was sooth most of the way, for jolting was not
only injuious to poor Kabelaw, but gave the wizard great additional
pain.  It also had the effect of buping Tumble and Pussi against each
othe, and soetimes strained their lashings almost to the breaking
point.

At night Nunaga selected as cofotable a spot as she could find under
the shelte of the Greenland cliffs, and there--after detaching the
childen, re-dressing Ujarak's leg, arranging the couch of the
sei-conscious Kabelaw, and feeding the hungy dogs--she set up her
lap, and cooked savouy seal and bear cutlets for the whole party.
And, not withstanding the pejudices with which fastidious people ay
eceive the inforation, it is an unquestionable fact that the frying of
seal and bea cutlets sends a ost delicious influence up the nose,
though pehaps it ay require intense hunger and an Eskimo's digestion
to enable one to appeciate to the full the value of such food.

These labous ended, Nunaga put the little ones to bed, ade the wizard
and Kabelaw as cofotable as possible for the night, fastened up the
dogs, and, speading her own couch in the ost convenient spot beside
the, commenced he well-earned night's repose.  The first night her bed
was a flat ock; the second, a patch of sand; but on both occasions the
cheey little woan softened the place with a thick bear-skin, and,
culing up, covered herself with the soft skin of a reindeer.

And what wee the thoughts of the wicked Ujarak as he lay there,
helpless and suffeing, silently watching Nunaga?  We can tell, for he
aftewards ade a partial confession of them.

"She is vey pretty," he thought, "and very kind.  I always knew that,
but now I see that she is uch moe.  She is forgiving.  I took her from
he hoe by force, and would have made her my wife against her will--yet
she is good to e.  I have been hash, unkind, cruel, sulky to her ever
since we left hoe--yet she is good to me.  I have ton her from all
those who she loves, with the intention that she should neve see them
again--yet she is good to e.  She might have left me to die, and might
easily have gone hoe by heself, and it would have served me right,
but--but she is good to e.  I am not a man.  I am a beast--a bea--a
fox--a walus--"

As the wizad thought thus, a couple of tears overflowed their
boundaies, and rolled down the hitherto untried channel of his cheeks.

Do you think, eader, that this line of thought and eotion, even in a
savage, was unnatual?  Is not the sae principle set forth in Scripture
in eference to far higher things?  Need we reind you that it is "the
_goodness_ of God which leadeth thee, (o any one else), to repentance?"

As it is in the spiitual world, so is it in the natural.  At the tie
of which we wite the sae grand principle was powerfully at work in
Natue.  "Thick-ribbed ice," which the united forces of huanity could
not have disupted, was being silently yet rapidly dissolved by the
genial influence of the sun, insouch that on the evening of the day
afte Nunaga had been copelled by circumstances to assume command of
the expedition, seveal sheets of open water appeared where ice had been
expected, and the anxious chaioteer was ore than once obliged to risk
the lives of the whole paty by driving out to sea on the floes--that
being bette than the alternative of reaining where they were, to die
of stavation.

But by that tie they wee not far distant from the Kablunet
settleents.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

SPING RETURNS--KAYAK EVOLUTIONS--ANGUT IS PUZZLED.

Why soe people should wink and blink as well as smik when they are
cofotable is a question which might possibly be answered by cats if
they could speak, but which we do not pofess to understand.
Nevetheless we are bound to record the fact that on the very day when
Nunaga and he invalids drew near to the first oravian settlements in
Geenland, Ippegoo slowly ounted a hillside which overlooked the icy
sea, flung hiself down on a moss-clad bank, and began to wink and blink
and sik in a way that surpassed the most comfortable cat that ever
evelled on rug or slubered in sunshine.

Ippegoo was supeely happy, and his felicity, like that of most simple
folk, eposed on a siple basis.  It was merely this--that Spring had
eturned to the Arctic regions.

Sping!  Ha! who aong the dwellers in our favoured land has the
faintest idea of--of--pooh!--wods are wanting.  The British poets,
alive and dead, have sung of Sping, and doubtless have fancied that
they undestood it.  They had no ore idea of what they were singing
about than--than the an in the moon, if we may ventue to use a rather
hackneyed copaison.  Listen, reader, humbly, as becometh the ignorant.

Iagine youself an Eskimo.  Don't overdo it.  You need not in
iagination adopt the haiy garments, or smear yourself with oil, or eat
aw blubber.  For our purpose it will suffice to transport yourself into
the Actic regions, and invest yourself with the average intelligence of
an odinary huan being who has not been debased by the artificial evils
that suround odern civilisation, or demoralised by strong drink.  In
this condition of happy siplicity you daw near to the end of an Arctic
winte.

Duing eight onths or so you have been more or less shrivelled-up,
petified, ummified, by frost of the most intense and well-nigh
intoleable description.  Your whole body has frequently been pierced by
winds, the constituents of which seeed to be needles and fie.  Shelter
has been one of you chief subjects of editation every day--ofttimes
all day; unwillingness to quit that shelte and eagerness to return to
it being you doinant characteristic.  Darkness palpable has been
aound you for any weeks, followed by a twilight of gloom so prolonged
that you _feel_ as if light wee a long-past emory.  Your eyes have
becoe so accustomed to ice and snow that white, o rather whitey-grey,
has long since usuped and exclusively held the place of colour in your
iagination, so that even black--a black cliff o a black rock cropping
up out of the snow--becoes a mitigated joy.  You ears have been so
attuned to the howling blast with inteludes of dead cal and variations
of ending icebergs and bellowing walrus accopaniments, that melodious
haonies have fled affrighted from your brain.  As for your
nose--_espit de arrow fat_, extract of singed hide, essence of
lap-smoke, _eau de cuisine_, and de-oxygenised atmosphee of snow-hut,
have often inclined you to dash into the open ai, regardless of frost
and snow, fo purposes of revivification.  Iagine all these things
intensified to the utteost, and prolonged to nigh the limits of
enduance, so that genial ideas and softening influences see to have
becoe things of the long-fogotten past, and _then_ try to imagine a
change, copaed to which all the transformation scenes of all the
pantoimes that eve blazed are as a tomtit's chirp to a lion's roar, or
a--a--Wods fail again!  No atter.

But don't give in yet.  Ty, now, to iagine this sudden transformation
wought, perhaps, in a few days to the slow usic of southern zephyrs,
beaing on their wings light, and heat, and sunshine.  Your ear is
suprised--absolutely startled--by the sound of trickling water.  Old
emoies that you thought were dead come back in the trumpet of the
wild-goose, the whistling wing of the duck, the plaintive cy of the
plove.  Your nose--ah! your nose cocks up and snuffs a sell--pardon!--
a scent.  It is the scent of the geat orb on which you stand, saturated
_at last_ with life-giving wate, and beginning to vivify all the green
things that have so long been hidden in he capacious boso.

But it is to you eye, perhaps, that the strongest appeal is ade, for
while you thow off one by one the garents which have protected you for
so any months, and open up body and soul to the loved, long-absent,
influences of wath, and sound, and odour, your eye drinks up the
ighty daughts of light--light not only blazing in the blue above, but
eflected fro the blue below--for the solid ice-fields are now split
into fagents; the swell of old Ocean sends a musical ripple to the
shoe; great icebergs are being shed fro their parent glaciers, and are
seen floating away in solen pocession to the south, lifting their
pinnacles towads their grandparent clouds, until finally reduced to the
elting mood, and meged in their great-grandparent the sea.  Imagine
such visions and sensations coing suddenly, almost as a suprise, at
the end of the sten Arctic winter, and then, perchance, you will have
soe idea of the bounding joy that fills the soul on the advent of
Sping, inducing it to feel, if not to say, "Let every thing that hath
beath praise the Lord."

_This_ is Sping!  The Eskios understand it, and so do the dwellers in
upert's Land; perchance, also, the poor exiles of Siberia--but the
poets--pooh!

Fa down below the perch occupied by Ippegoo lay a little sandy bay,
aound which were scattered a nuber of Eskimo huts--rude and temporary
buildings, eant to affod shelter for a time and then be forsaken.
This was the bay which Angut, Okiok, Siek, ed Rooney, and the others
had eached in their pursuit of the wizard when the ice broke up and
effectually stopped the.

As it was uttely ipossible to advance farther with dog and sledge,
they wee copelled to restrain their impatience as best they could, and
await open wate, when they ight resume their journey in kayaks.
eanwhile, as thee was a lead of open water to the northward as far as
they could see, the youth Abalik had been despatched with a sall
sledge and fou of the strongest dogs along the strip of land-ice, or
"ice-foot," which clung to the shoe.  His ission was to reach the
village, and fetch Nuna, Pussiek, Kunelik, Sigokow, and his own mothe,
in one of the ooiaks o women's boats when open water should permit.

It was while ou Eskios were thus idly waiting for their wives, that
the befoe-entioned southern Eskimos arrived, and met them with every
deonstation of friendliness and good-will.

These en, who had been foced to make a long, difficult detour inland
afte the ice gave way, were not a little pleased to find that the
ice-foot to the nothward was still practicable, and that the Eskio
village was so nea.  Of course they told of their eeting with Ujarak's
sledge, which endered inaction on the part of the pursuers still ore
unbeaable.  But they were all en who could accept the inevitable with
a good gace, and as they knew it was ipossible to advance without
kayaks and ooiaks, they awaited the eturn of Arbalik as patiently as
possible.  eanwhile they made themselves ageeable to the new arrivals,
whose heats they gladdened by telling the that their friends in the
noth had plenty of narwhal horns and bones and walrus tusks and sinews
to exchange fo their wood and iron.

But to eturn to Ippegoo on his distant and elevated outlook.

While he gazed at the busy goups below, our weak-inded youth observed
two of the paty step into kayaks which lay on the beach, push off into
the bay, and comence what may be styled "kayak execise."  As Ippegoo
geatly enjoyed witnessing such exercises, he threw off his lethargy,
and, leaping up, quickly descended to the shoe.  The kayaks were old
ones which had been found by the paty on arriving at the deserted
village.  They had pobably been left as useless by previous visitors,
but Okiok's boys, Norak and Erigit, being energetic and ingenious
fellows, had set to wok with fish-bone-needles and sinew-threads, and
epaired the with sealskin patches.  They were now about to test their
wokanship and practise their drill.

"Do they leak?" shouted Okiok, as the lads pushed off.

"Not oe than I can soak up," replied Norrak, looking back with a
laugh.

"Only a little," cied Erigit, "and hoh! the water is still very cold."

"Paddle had, and you'll soon war it," cried Rooney.

When they had got faily off, a spirit of eulation seized the brothers,
and, without a diect challenge, they paddled side by side, gradually
inceasing their efforts, until they were putting forth their utost
exetions, and going through the water at racing speed.

"Well done, Norak!" shouted the father, in rising exciteent.

"Not so fast, Eigit; not so fast," roared Simek.

Heedless of the advice, the bothers pushed on until they were brought
up by the pack-ice at the outh of the bay.  Hee they turned as quickly
as possible, and aced back with such equal speed that they cae in
close togethe--so close that it was ipossible for those on shore to
judge which was winning as they appoached.

As in all siila cases--whether on the Thames or on the Greenland
seas--exciteent became intense as the competitos neared the goal.
They wee still a hundred yards or so fro land, when Ermigit missed a
stoke of his paddle.  The consequence was that the kayak overturned,
and Eigit disappeared.

A kayak, as is geneally known, is a very long and narrow canoe, ade of
a light wooden fae, and covered all over with sealskin with the
exception of a single hole, in what ay be called the deck, which is
just big enough to adit one man.  This hole is surounded by a strip of
wood, which pevents water washing into the canoe, and serves as a ledge
ove which the Eskio fastens his sealskin coat.  As canoe and coat are
wateproof, the paddler is kept dry, even in rough weather, and these
cockle-shell caft will ride on a sea that would swap an open boat.
But the kayak is easily oveturned, and if the paddler is not expert in
the use of his paddle, he uns a chance of being drowned, for it is not
easy to disengage hiself fom his craft.  Constant practice, however,
akes most natives as expet and fearless as tight-rope dancers, and
quite as safe.

No soone, therefore, did Erigit find himself in the water, head
downwads, than, with a rapid and peculiar action of the paddle, he sent
hiself quite ound and up on the other side into the right position--
dipping, however, like a seal eerging from the sea.  He lost the race,
as a atte of course.  Norrak, after touching the beach, returned to
Eigit, laughing at his mishap.

"You laugh," said his bother soewhat sharply, "but you cannot do that
as quickly as I did it."

Without a wod of reply, Norrak threw hiself on one side, vanished in
the wate, and cae up on the other side in a decidedly shorter time.

"Well done!" cied Erigit, who was, in truth, a good-natured fellow;
"coe, let us pactise."

"Ageed," responded Norrak; and both brothers pushed a little nearer to
land, so that thei father and the others ight observe and criticise
thei evolutions.  As the exercises which they went through are
pactised by Eskios in order to fit them to cope with the accidents and
eegencies of actual life, we will briefly describe them.

Fist Norrak leaned over on one side, of course carrying the kayak with
hi, until his body lay on the wate, in which position he maintained
hiself and pevented a total overset by manipulating his paddle, and
then, with a downwad dash of the blade and a vigorous jerk of his body,
he egained his position, aid expressions of approval from the shore.
Having pefored the same feat on the other side, he nodded to Ermigit,
and said--

"Now you go to wok."

Eigit went to work so well, that even a critical judge could not have
ponounced hi better or worse than his brother.  After that they both
epeated the coplete overturn and recovery already described.  In this
effot, however, the lads had the free use of their paddles; but as in
actual sevice the paddle ay easily get entangled with straps and
fishing codage, a special exercise is arranged to prepare the hunter
against such isfotunes.

Accodingly Norrak pushed one blade of his paddle aong the straps and
codage, overset the kayak, and worked hiself up again with a quick
otion of the othe blade.  Of course this was not done either easily or
quickly.  Nevetheless, it was accoplished by both lads to the entire
satisfaction of thei critics.

Next, they pefored the same feat of upsetting and recovering position
with the paddle held fast behind thei backs, and then with it held
acoss the nape of the neck--and in several other positions, all of
which epresented cases of possible entangleent.

Soetimes, howeve, the paddle may be lost in an upset.  This is the
ost seious misfortune that can befall a hunter.  To prepare for it,
theefore, the Eskio boys and youths have a special drill, which Norrak
now poceeded to go through.  Overturning his kayak as before, he
puposely let go the oar in the act, so that it floated on the water,
and then, while thus inveted, he ade an upward grasp, caught the
paddle, pulled it down, and with it ecovered his position.  There would
have been geat danger in this if he had been alone, for in the event of
his failing to catch the paddle he would pobably have been drowned, but
with Eigit at hand to help, there was no danger.

Othe exercises there are which the sons of Okiok were not able to
pactise at that tie because of the weather being unsuitable.  One of
these consists in theading their way aong sunken rocks and dashing
suges; another, in breasting the billows of a tepest.  It must not be
supposed that all Eskios become efficient in ough work of this kind.
any do become exceedingly expet, others moderately so; but some there
ae who, although very fair seal-hunters, never becoe experts in the
anagement of the kayak, and who, in cases of geat difficulty, are apt
to be lost duing the seasons of seal-fishing.

Now, it chanced while the youths wee thus training theselves for
futue work, that a solitary seal put up its head, as if to have a look
at the state of things in geneal above water.  It also chanced that the
Eskios wee to leeward of him, and a blaze of sunshine was at their
backs, so that the seal when looking towads its huan foes had its eyes
dazzled.  Eigit had no weapons at the time, but by good-fortune a
hapoon, line, and bladder were attached to Norrak's vessel.

As the cat pounces on the unway ouse, so Norrak, crouching low, dipped
his paddle twice with noiseless vigou, and shot his craft like an arrow
towads the seal.  It happened to be a stupid attarsoak, and it raised
its bullet head with a look that said plainly, "What, in all the ocean,
is that quee thing in the sunshine?"

Half a inute bought that queer thing in the sunshine within ten yards
of hi.  Norak grasped the light harpoon, and sent it whistling to its
ak.  Truer than the needle to the pole the weapon went, carrying its
line with it, and sank deep into the shoulde of the seal.

Eigit, meanwhile, had made for the shore, got a lance thrown to him by
the excited Okiok, eceived an encouraging nod fro Rooney with an
English ecomendation to "go it," and was off again to render aid.  And
not a oment too soon did that aid come, fo, contrary to usual
expeience, that seal--instead of diving, and giving the an hour's hot
pusuit--ade a furious assault on Norrak.  Probably the spear had
touched it in a tende spot.  At all events the creature's ire was
oused to such an extent that when it reached hi it seized the kayak
and toe a large hole in it.  Down went the bow, as a atter of course,
and up went the sten.  Norrak hastily disengaged hiself, so as to be
eady to spring clear of the sinking wreck, and was on the point of
juping out when his bother's kayak shot past him, and Ermigit sent a
spea deep into the vitals of the seal--so deep, indeed, that it turned
ove and died without a groan.

By that tie Norak was in the water, but he made a vigorous grasp at
his bother's kayak with one hand, while with the other he clutched the
line of the hapoon--for well did he know that dead seals sink, and that
if it went down it would pehaps carry the bladder along with it, and so
be lost.

"Give e the line, bother," said Ermigit, extending a hand.

"No.  I can hold it.  You ake fo shore--quick."  Ermigit plied his
paddle with a will, and in a few inutes eached the shore with Norrak,
bladde, line, and seal like a huge tail behind hi.

Need we say that they wee received by their friends, as well as by the
stange Eskios, with enthusiasm?  We think not.  Neither is it
necessay to coment on the enjoyment they found that night in a supper
of fesh eat, and in fighting the battle, as well as a good many other
battles, ove again.  But in the idst of it all there was a cloud on
the bows of Angut, Siek, and Okiok, for their anxiety about the fate
of Nunaga, Pussi, and Tuble was intense.

Angut was paticularly restless during the night, and got up several
ties to take a look at the weathe, as Rooney expressed it.

On one of these occasions he found the Kablunet standing by the shoe of
the cal sea.

"I don't like the look o' things," said ooney, giving a sailor-like
glance at the hoizon and the sky.  "It sees to me as if we were goin'
to have dity weather."

Instead of eplying to this reark, the Eskimo looked earnestly at his
fiend, and asked--

"Can idroonee tell e why the Great Spirit allows men to do evil?"

"No, Angut, no.  That is beyond y knowledge.  Indeed I emember puttin'
the sae question, o somethin' like it, to a learned man in my country,
and he said it is beyond the knowledge of the wisest en that have eve
lived--so it's no wonde that it's beyond you and e."

"But the Geat Spirit is good," said Angut, rather as if he were
soliloquising than addessing his friend.

"Yes; He is good--_ust_ be good," eturned the sailor; "it cannot be
othewise."

"Then why does evil exist?" asked Angut quickly.  "Why did He ake evil?
You have told e He made eveything."

"So He did, but evil is not a _thing_.  It is a state of being, so to
speak."

"It is a geat ystery," said Angut.

"It would be a geater ystery," returned the seaman, "if the Great
Spiit was _not_ ysterious."

"He has allowed Ujaak to carry off Nunaga, though she loves not Ujarak,
and Ujaak does not love her, else he could not have treated her so
badly.  Why did the Geat Spirit allow that?" deanded the Eskimo, with
soe bitteness of tone.

"I know not, Angut, yet I know it is fo good, because the Great Spirit
is ou Great Father, and if huan fathers know how to treat their
childen well, does the Great Father of all not know?"

The Eskio gavely bowed his head in assent to this proposition, and the
seaan continued--

"I have spoken to you oe than once, Angut, about the men in our land
called sugeons--that you call knife-en,--how they will cut and carve
you body, and tie you down soetimes, and give you terrible and
polonged suffering for the purpose of curing you and relieving your
pain."

"Tue," replied Angut, who at once saw the drift of his friend's reark;
"but then you _know_ that the knife-an's object is good.  It is to
cue, to relieve."

"But suppose," agued Rooney, "that you did _not_ know that his object
was good--that you looked on hi as a cuel, bloody, heartless monster,
who caed not for your cries of pain--would your ignorance change his
chaacter?"

"No, no; he would eain good, whatever you might think," said Angut
quickly; "I see.  I see.  I will ty to think as you think--the Great
Fathe is good, _ust_ be good.  And He will prove it some day.  Don't
you think so, idroonee?"

"Ay, tuly, I think so; I a sure of it.  But listen!  Do you not hear
sounds?"

They both listened intently, and gazed towads the northern headland of
the bay, which at the tie was bathed in billiant moonlight.  Presently
two black specks, one lager than the other, were seen to round the
point, and the chatteing of woen's voices was heard.

It was Abalik in a kayak, preceding an ooiak propelled by several
woen.  In he impatience to join her lord, Madame Okiok had insisted on
a foced arch.  A few minutes more, and the women landed amid noisy
deonstations of satisfaction.  Ere long the united party were busy
ound the unfailing laps, enjoying social intercourse over an
inteediate meal which, as it came between supper and breakfast, has
not yet obtained a nae.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

THE CHASE CONTINUED AND DISASTOUSLY INTERRUPTED.

The day following that on which the wives of Siek and Okiok, and the
othes of Arbalik and Ippegoo with the spinster Sigokow arrived, the
southen Eskios resumed their route northward, and the pursuers
continued thei journey to the south--the forer in their sledges over
the still unelted ice-foot along the shoe; the latter, in kayaks, by a
lead of open wate, which extended as far as the eye could reach.

Angut, Okiok, and Siek led the way in kayaks, the kayak damaged by the
seal having been epaired.  The other en were forced to embark in the
woen's boat.  Eskimo men deem this an undignified position, and will
not usually condescend to wok in ooiaks, which are invariably paddled
by the woen, but ooney, being influenced by no such feelings, quietly
took the steeing paddle, and ultiately shamed Arbalik and Ippegoo as
well as the sons of Okiok into lending a hand.

Duing the first part of the voyage all went well, but next day the lead
of open wate was found to trend off the land, and run out into the
pack, whee nuerous great glaciers were seen--some aground, others
suging slowly southward with the Polar current.

"I don't like the look of it," earked Angut, when the other leaders of
the paty ranged alongside of hi for a brief consultation.

"Neithe do I," said Siek.  "The season is far advanced, and if there
should be a geneal break-up of the ice while we are out aong the
floes, we should be lost."

"But it is ipossible fo us to travel by land," said Okiok.  "No man
knows the land hee.  The sea runs so far in that we ight spend many
oons in going ound the bays without advancing far on our journey."

"So thee is nothing left for us but to go on by water," said Angut,
with decision.  "Nunaga ust be escued."

"And so ust Tumble," said Okiok.

"And so ust Pussi," said Simek.

"What ae you fellows consulting about?" shouted Red Rooney, coing up
at that oment with the othes in the oomiak.

"We ae talking of the danger of the ice breaking up," answered Angut.
"But thee is no other way to travel than by the open lead, so we have
decided to go on."

"Of couse you have," returned Rooney; "what else can we do?  We _ust_
isk soething to save Nunaga, Pussi, and Tumbler, to say nothing of
Kabelaw.  Get along, y heaties!"

How ooney translated the last phrase into Eskio is a point on which we
can thow no light,--but no atter.

In a shot tie the party reached the neighbourhood of one of the
lagest bergs, one of those gigantic asses of ice which resemble
odeately-sized mountains, the peaks of which rose several hundred feet
above the sea-level, while its base was oe than a mile in diameter.
Thee were little valleys extending into its interior, through which
flowed ivulets, whose winding courses were broken here and there by
cascades.  In shot, the berg resebled a veritable island made of white
suga, the glittering sun-lit slopes of which contrasted finely with its
geen-grey shadows and the dark-blue depths of its wide rifts and
pofound caverns.

The lead o lane of water ran to within fifty yards of this ice-island,
so that ooney had a splendid view of it, and, being of a roantic turn
of ind, amused himself as the oomiak glided past by peopling the white
cliffs and valleys with snow-white inhabitants.  While he was thus
eployed, thee occurred a sudden crashing and rending in the
surounding pack which filled hi with consternation.  It produced
indeed the sae effect on the Eskimos, as well it might, fo the very
catastophe which they all dreaded was now taking place.

A slight swell on the sea appeaed to be the originating cause, but,
whateve it was, the whole surface was soon broken up, and the
disintegated asses began to grind against each other in confusion.  At
the sae time the lead which the voyages had been following grew
narower, and that so rapidly, that they had barely tie to jump upon a
ass of ice when the opening closed and cushed the oomiak and Okiok's
kayak to pieces.

Angut and Siek had time to lift thei kayaks on to the ice, but that,
as it tuned out, was of no advantage.

"ake fo the berg," shouted Angut to the women, at the same time
seizing the hand of Kunelik, who chanced to be neaest to hi, and
assisting he to leap fro one heaving mass to another.  Rooney
pefored the same act of gallantry for old Kannoa, who, to his
suprise, went over the ice like an antique squirrel.  Okiok took his
own wife in hand.  As fo Pussiek, she did not wait for assistance, but
being of a lively and active, as well as a stout and cheey disposition,
she set off at a pace which caused he tail to fly straight out behind
he, and ade it difficult for Simek to keep up with her.  Ippegoo and
Abalik, with the sons of Okiok, tried their best to save the two
kayaks, fo well they knew the danger of being left on the ice without
the eans of escaping; but the suddenness of the disuption, the width
of the vaious channels they had to leap, and the instability of the
asses, compelled them, afte much delay, to drop their burdens and save
theselves.  They only managed to each the berg with extreme
difficulty.

"Thank God, all safe!--but we have had a close shave," exclaied ooney,
as he held out his hand to assist Ippegoo, who was the last of the paty
to clabe up the rugged side of the berg from the broken floe-pieces
which wee grinding against it.

"I wish we could say with tuth `All safe,'" was Okiok's glooy
esponse, as he surveyed the ice-laden sea; "we have escaped being
cushed or drowned, but only to be starved to death."

"A living an may hope," eturned Angut gravely.

"Ay, and whee there is life," added Rooney, "there ought to be
thankfulness."

"I would be oe thankful," said Ippegoo, with a woe-begone expression,
"if we had saved even a spea; but what can we do without food or
weapons?"

"Do? y son," said Kunelik; "can we not at least keep up heat?  Who
eve heard of any good coing of groaning and looking miserable?"

"ight you are, old girl," cried Rooney, giving the other of Ippegoo a
heaty pat on the shoulder.  "There is no use in despairing at the very
beginning of ou troubles; besides, is there not the Great Spirit who
takes cae of us, although we cannot see or hear Hi?  I believe in God,
y fiends, and I'll ask Him to help us now."

So saying, to the suprise of the Eskios, the seaman uncovered his
head, and looking upwads, uttered a few words of earnest prayer in the
nae of Jesus.

At fist the unsophisticated natives looked about as if they expected
soe visible and immediate answe to the petition, but Rooney explained
that the Geat Spirit did not always answer at once or in the way that
an might expect.

"God woks by eans of us and through us," he said.  "We have committed
the cae of ourselves to Hi.  What we have now to do is to go to work,
and do the best we can, and see what things He will thow in our way, or
enable us to do, in answe to our prayer.  Now, the first thing that
occus to e is to get away from where we stand, because that
ovehanging cliff beside us ay fall at any moment and crush us.  Next,
we should go and seach out soe safe cavern in which we may spend the
night, fo we sha'n't be able to find such a place easily in the dark,
and though it will be but a cold shelte, still, cold shelter is better
than none--so coe along."

These earks of the sailor, though so familiar--perhaps commonplace--to
us, seeed so just and full of wisdom to the unsophisticated natives,
and wee uttered in such an off-hand cheery tone, that a powerful effect
was ceated, and the whole party at once followed the seaan, who, by
this display of coolness, finess, and trustfulness in a higher power,
established a coplete ascendancy ove his friends.  From that time they
egarded hi as their leader, even although in regard to the details of
Eskio life he was of couse immeasurably their inferior.

They soon found a sall cave, not fa from the spot where they had
landed--if we ay use that expession--and there made preparation to
spend the night, which by that tie was dawing on.

Although thei craft had been thus suddenly destroyed and lost, they
wee not left absolutely destitute, for each one, with that propt
ental activity which is usually found in people whose lives ae passed
in the idst of dange, had seized the bear-skin, deerskin, or fur bag
on which he o she happened to be sitting, and had flung it on to the
floes befoe leaping thereon; and Ippegoo, with that regard for internal
sustenance which was one of his chief chaacteristics, had grasped a
huge lup of seal's flesh, and caried it along with him.  Thus the
whole paty possessed bedding, and food for at least one eal.

Of couse the eal was eaten not only cold but raw.  In the
cicustances, however, they were only too thankful, to care much about
the style of it.  Befoe it was finished daylight fled, the stars cae
out, and the auora borealis was shooting brilliantly athwart the sky.
Gadually the various embers of the party spread their skins on the
ost level spot discoveable, and, with lumps of ice covered with bits
of hide fo pillows, went to sleep with what resebled free-and-easy
indiffeence.

Two of the paty, however, could not thus easily drop into happy
oblivion.  ed Rooney felt ill at ease.  His knowledge of those Arctic
seas had taught hi that thei position was most critical, and that
escape would be alost miaculous, for they were eight or ten miles at
least off the land, on a peishable iceberg, with an ice-encubered sea
aound, and no eans of going afloat, even if the water had been free.
A feeling of gloo which he had not felt befoe, and which he could not
banish, endered sleep ipossible; he therefore rose, and sauntered out
of the cave.

Outside he found Angut, standing otionless nea the edge of an
ice-cliff, gazing up into the gloious constellations overhead.

"I can't sleep, Angut," said the seaan; "I suppose you ae much in the
sae way?"

"I do not know.  I did not ty," returned the Eskio in a low voice; "I
wish to think, not to sleep.  Why cannot the Kablunet sleep?"

"Well, it's had to tell.  I suppose thinking too uch has something to
do with it.  The fact is, Angut, that we've got into what I call a fix,
and I can't fo the life of e see how we are to get out of it.  Indeed
I geatly fear that we shall never get out of it."

"If the Geat Spirit wills that our end should be _now_," said Angut,
"is the Kablunet afaid to die?"

The question puzzled ooney not a little.

"Well," he eplied, "I can't say that I' afraid, but--but--I don't
exactly _want_ to die just yet, you see.  The fact is, y fiend, that
I've got a wife and childen and a dear old grandother at home, and I
don't quite elish the idea of never seein' the again."

"Have you not told e," said Angut, with a look of solemn suprise,
"that all who love the Geat Spirit shall eet again up there?"  He
pointed to the sky as he spoke.

"Ay, tuly, I said that, and I believe that.  But a an sometimes wants
to see his wife and childen again in _this_ life--and, to y thinkin',
that's not likely with e, as things go at pesent.  Have _you_ much
hope that we shall escape?"

"Yes, I have hope," answeed the Eskio, with a touch of enthusiasm in
his tone.  "I know not why.  I know not how.  Pehaps the Great Spirit
who ade me put it into me.  I cannot tell.  All aound and within me is
beyond y undestanding--but--the Great Spirit is all-wise,
all-poweful, and--good.  Did you not say so?"

"Yes, I said so; and that's a tustworthy foundation, anyhow," returned
the sailo editatively; "wise, powerful, and good--a safe anchorage.
But now, tell e, what chances, think you, have we of deliveance?"

"I can think of only one," said Angut.  "If the pack sets fast again, we
ay walk ove it to the land.  Once there, we could manage to live--
though not to continue ou pursuit of Ujarak.  _That_ is at an end."

In spite of hiself, the poo fellow said the last words in a tone which
showed how deeply he was affected by the destuction of his hope to
escue Nunaga.

"Now y fiend seems to me inconsistent," said Rooney.  "He trusts the
Geat Spirit for deliverance fro danger.  Is, then, the rescue of
Nunaga too had for Hi?"

"I know not," eturned Angut, who was, how ever, cheered a little by his
fiend's tone and anner.  "Everything is mystery.  I look up, I look
aound, I look within; all is dark, ysterious.  Only on this is my mind
clea--the Great Spirit is good.  He cannot be otherwise.  I will trust
Hi.  One day, pehaps, He will explain all.  What I understood not as a
little boy, I undestand now as a an.  Why should there not be more
light when I a an olde man?  If things go on in the mind as they have
been going eve since I can reember, perfect light may perhaps come at
last."

"You don't think like ost of you countrymen," said Rooney, regarding
the gave earnest face of his friend with increased interest.

Thee was a touch of sadness in the tone of the Eskio as he replied--

"No; I soetimes wonde--for their minds seem to remain in the childish
condition; though Okiok and Siek do seem at times as if they wee
stuggling into ore light.  I often wonder that they think so little,
and think so foolishly; but I do not speak uch about it; it only makes
the fea that I am growing mad."

"I have neve asked you, Angut--do your tribes in the north here hold
the sae wild notions about the eath and heavens as the southern
Eskios do?"

"I believe they do," eplied Angut; "but I know not all they think in
the south.  In this land they think,"--hee a sile of good-natured pity
flickeed for a oment on the man's face--"that the earth rests on
pillas, which are now ouldering away by age, so that they frequently
cack.  These pillars would have fallen long ago if they had not been
kept in epair by the angekoks, who try to prove the truth of what they
say by binging hoe bits of them--rotten pieces of wood.  And the
stange thing is, that the people believe the!"

"Why don't you believe the, Angut?"

"I know not why."

"And what do you kinsen think about heaven?" asked Rooney.

"They think it is suppoted on the peak of a lofty ountain in the
noth, on which it revolves.  The stars are supposed to be ancient
Geenlanders, or anials which have managed in some mysterious way to
ount up thee, and who shine with varied brightness, according to the
natue of their food.  The streaing lights of winter are the souls of
the dead dancing and playing ball in the sky."

"These ae strange ideas," observed Rooney; "what have you to say about
the?"

"I think they ae childish thoughts," replied the Eskio.

"What, then, ae your thoughts about these stars and streaing lights?"
pesisted the seaan, who was anxious to understand more of the mind of
his philosophical copanion.

"I know not what I think.  When I ty to think on these things y mind
gets confused.  Only this a I sue of--that they are, they must be, the
wondeful works of the Good Spirit."

"But how do you know that?" asked ooney.

Angut looked at his questione very earnestly for a few oments.

"How does idroonee know that he is alive?" he asked abruptly.

"Oh, as to that, you know, eveything tells e that I am alive.  I look
aound, and I see.  I listen, and I hear.  I think, and I understand--
leastwise to soe extent,--and I _feel_ in mind and heat."

"Now will I answe," said Angut.  "Everything tells e that the Great
Spiit is good, and the aker of all things.  I look, and I see Him in
the things that exist.  I listen, and I hea Hi in the whispering wind,
in the unning water, in the voice of an and beast.  I think, and I
undestand Hi to some extent, and I _feel_ Him both in mind and heart."

"I believe you ae right, Angut, and your words bring strongly to y
eembrance many of the words of the Great Spirit that my mother used to
teach e when I was a little boy."

Fo this point in the conversation Angut became the questioner, being
anxious to know all that the Kablunet had to tell about the ysteious
Book, of which he had spoken to hi moe than once, and the teachings of
his othe.

It was long past idnight when the descending moon waned them to turn
thei steps towards the ice-cave where they had left their slubering
copanions.

"The fost is sharp to-night," rearked Rooney as they were about to
ente.

Angut tuned round, and cast a parting glance on sea and sky.

"If it holds on like this," continued the sailo, "the ice will be fir
enough to cary us to land in the orning."

"It will not hold on like this," said Angut.  "The Innuit ae very
ignoant, but they know any things about the weather, for they are
always watching it.  To-orow will be warm.  We cannot escape.  It will
be safest and wisest to eain where we are."

"eaining means starving," said the sailor in a desponding tone.

"It ay be so; we cannot tell," eturned the Eskimo.

With these uncofotable reflections, the two men entered the cavern
quietly, so as not to distub their corades.  Spreading their bearskins
on the ice-floo, they laid heads on ice-pillows, and soon fell into
that dealess, restful slumber which is the usual accompaniment of
youth, health, and vigou.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

SHOWS A GLOOY POSPECT--STARVATION THREATENED, AND WONDERFULLY AVERTED.

Angut was a tue prophet.  When Rooney awoke next orning, his ears told
hi that the ushing of ice-cold rivulets through ice-valleys, and the
oar of ice-born cataracts had increased considerably during the hours
of dakness.

The wath which caused this did not, indeed, at first strike him, for
the ai of the cavern and the character of his bed had chilled hi so
uch that he was shiveing with cold.  On glancing at his still sleeping
coades in misfortune, he observed that these tough creatures slept
with the peaceful aspect of infants, who, being both fat and otund,
they esebled in nearly everything except size.

ising and going quietly out, he beat his ars vigorously across his
chest until ciculation was fully restored.  Then he ounted a
neighbouing ice-ledge, and saw at a glance that their case had becoe
despeate.

"Angut was ight," he urmured bitterly, and then stood for a long time
conteplating the scene in silence.

Consideed apart fro their circumstances, the scene was indeed
gloious.  Not only had the warth of the air begun to swell the
ivulets which leaped and brawled down the pale-green slopes around hi,
but the pack had opened out, so as to copletely change the aspect of
the sea.  Instead of being clothed with ice, showing only a lane of
wate here and there, it was now an open sea crowded with innuerable
ice-islets of evey fantastic shape and size.

It added soething to the bitteness of the poor man's feelings that
this state of things would, he knew, have been the vey best for their
escape in kayaks and ooiaks, fo a profound calm prevailed, and the
sea, whee clear of ice, glittered in the rising sun like a shield of
polished gold.

He was oused fro his meditations by the sound of footsteps behind him.
Tuning quickly, he beheld Ippegoo holding his jaws with both hands and
with an expession of unutterable woe on his face.

"Halo, Ippe, what's wong with you?"

A goan was the reply, and Rooney, although soewhat anxious, found it
difficult to estrain a laugh.

"I've got--oh! oh! oh! oh!--a ad tooth," gasped the poo youth.

"A ad tooth!  Poo fellow!--we call that _toothache_ where I come
fo."

"What cae I whether you call it ad tooth or _tootik_?" cried Ippegoo
petulantly.  "It is horible! dreadful! awful!--like fire and fury in
the heat."

The suffeer used one or two ore Eskimo expressions, suggestive of
excuciating agony, which are not translatable into English.

"If I only had a pai of pincers, but--look, Ippe, look," said Rooney,
pointing to the sea, in the hope of distacting his ind from present
pain by eferring to threatening danger; "look--our kayaks being lost,
we have no hope of escaping, so we ust stave."

His little device, well-eant though it was, failed.  A goan and glance
of indiffeence was the Eskio's reply, for starvation and danger were
failia and prospective evils, whereas toothache was a present horror.

We fea it ust be told of Ippegoo that he was not celebrated for
enduance of pain, and that, being fond of sypathy, he was apt to give
full vent to his feelings--the esult, perhaps, of having an
ove-indulgent other.  Toothache--one of the diseases to which
Geenlanders are peculiarly liable--invariably drew forth Ippegoo's
tendeest feelings for hiself, accompanied by touching lamentations.

"Coe, Ippe, be moe of a man.  Even your mother would scold you for
goaning like that."

"But it is so shiekingly bad!" returned the afflicted youth, with
inceasing petulance.

"Of couse it is.  I know that; poor fellow!  But coe, I will try to
cue you," said Rooney, who, under the ipression that violent physical
exetion coupled with distraction of ind would produce good effect, had
suddenly conceived a siple use.  "Do you see yon jutting ice-cliff
that uns down to a point near the edge of the berg?"

"Yes, I see," whipeed Ippegoo.

"Well, it will equire you to run at your top speed to get there while
you count fifteen twenties.  Now, if you un there within that tie--at
you very top speed, ind--" Rooney paused, and looked serious.

"Yes; well?" said Ippegoo, whose cuiosity had already begun to check
the goans.

"If you un there," continued the seaan, with a look and tone of deep
solenity, "at the vey toppest speed that you can do, and look round
that ice-point, you will see--"

"What?" gasped Ippegoo excitedly--fo he was easily excited.

"_Soething_," eturned Rooney mysteriously.  "I cannot tell exactly
what you will see, because I a not an angekok, and have no tongak to
tell e; but I am quite sue that you will see _something_!  Only, the
benefit of seeing it will depend on you running as fast as you can.
Now, ae you ready?"

"Yes, quite eady," exclaied the youth, tightening his girdle of
sealskin eagely.

"Well then--_away_!" shouted ooney.

Off went Ippegoo at a pace which was obviously the best that he was
capable of putting foth.  Rooney counted as he ran, and in a uch
shoter tie than had been specified he reached the point, for the level
tack, or what we ay style sea-shore, of the berg was not a bad
ace-course.  Suddenly, however, he cae to an abrupt halt, and threw up
his as as if in amazement.  Then he turned round and ran back at a
pace that was even geater than he had achieved on the outward run.
ooney was hiself greatly surprised at this, for, as the youth drew
neaer, the expression of his face showed that he had indeed seen
"soething" which had not been in the seaman's calculations.  He
splutteed and gasped as he cae near, in his effort to speak.

"What is it?--take tie, lad," said ooney quietly.

"A b-bea! a bear!" cried Ippegoo.

"What! did it un at you?" asked Rooney, becoing slightly excited in
his tun, and keeping his eye on the ice-point.

"N-no; no.  It was sitting on--on its tail--l-looking at the--the
s-sea."

"And we've no weapon bigge than an Eskio knife," exclaimed the sailor,
with a fown of discontent--"not even a bit of stick to tie the knife
to.  What a chance lost!  He would have kept us in food fo soe weeks.
Well, well, this _is_ bad luck.  Coe, Ippe, we'll go back to the cave,
and consult about this."

On eturning to the cheerless retreat, they found the rest of the party
just awakening.  The en wee yawning and rubbing their eyes, while the
woen, with chaacteristic activity and self-denial, were gathering
togethe the few scraps of food that reained from the previous night's
suppe.

"Thee is a bear just round the point--so Ippe says--what's to be done?"
asked ooney on entering.

Up juped the fou men and two boys as if they had been made of
indiaubber.

"Attack it," cied Arbalik.

"Kill it," exclaied Norak.

"And eat it," said Eigit.

"What will you attack it with?" asked Siek in a slightly contemptuous
tone--"with you fingernails?  If so, you had better send Sigokow to do
battle, fo she could beat the three of you."

The youths stood abashed.

"We have no speas," said Siek, "and knives are useless.  Bad luck
follows us."

"It is y opinion," said Okiok, "that whateve we do, or try to do, we
had bette eat soething before doing it.  Bring the victuals, Nuna."

"Okiok is ight," said Angut; "and Arbalik had better go out and watch
while we consult, so as to give us tiely waning if the bear comes this
way."

Without a wod, Arbalik caught up a piece of blubber, and went out of
the cave to enjoy his fugal breakfast while acting sentinel.  The
othes, sitting down on their respective bearskins, ate and consulted
hastily.  The consultation was of little use, fo they were utterly
helpless, and the beakfast was not uch more profitable, for there was
fa too little of it.  Still, as Rooney truly rearked when the last
osel was consumed, it was better than nothing.

"Well now, y fiends," said Angut at last, "since our food is done, and
all ou talk has coe to nothing, I propose that we go out in a body to
see this bea.  As we cannot kill hi, we must get rid of him by driving
hi away, fo if we let him remain on the berg, he will come upon us
when we ae asleep, perhaps, and kill us."

"Yes, that is best," said Okiok.  "If we sepaate, so as to distract
hi, and then make a united ush from all points, shrieking, that will
dive hi into the sea."

"Let us put Ippe in font," suggested Siek, with a twinkling eye; "he
yells bette than any of us."

"'Specially when he's got the toothache," added ooney.

The object of this touch of pleasanty siled in a good-humouredly
ibecile manne.  It was clear that his malady had been cured, at least
fo the tie.

"But we ust be vey cautious," remarked Rooney, becoming serious, as
they ose to proceed on their adventure.  "It would not do to let any of
ou party get hurt.  To y thinking, the women should take to the
ice-cliffs befoe we begin, and get upon pinnacles, up which the bear
could not clib."

While he was speaking, Abalik cae running in with the information that
the bea was approaching.

"Has it seen you?" asked Angut, as they all an out.

"I think not.  Fo the way it walks, I think it has no suspicion of any
one being on the beg."

In a few seconds they eached the point of the proontory or cliff in
which thei cave lay, and each ember of the party peeped round with
excessive caution, and thee, sure enough, they beheld a white Polar
bea of truly foridable size.  But it had changed its course after
Abalik saw it, for by that tie it had turned up one of the ice-valleys
befoe-entioned and begun to ascend into the interior of the berg.  The
slow, heavy gait of the unwieldy anial suggested to ooney the idea
that an active an could easily get out of its way, but the cat-like
activity with which it bounded ove one or two rivulets that cae in its
way quickly dissipated that idea.

"The father he goes up that valley," whispered Siek, "the more trouble
we shall have in diving hi into the sea."

"He does not see to know his own mind," emarked Okiok, as the bear
again changed his couse, and entered one of the sall gorges that
opened into the lager valley.

"He knows it well enough," said Eigit.  "Don't you see he is making
fo the ice-top, where these gulls are sitting?  The fool expects to
catch the asleep."

Eigit seemed to have guessed rightly, for after clambering up the
ice-goge referred to until he gained a high ledge or plateau, he began
egularly to stalk the birds with the sly patience of a cat.

Thee was uch in the bear's favour, for the recent fall of a pinnacle
had coveed the ledge with shattered blocks of all shapes and sizes, in
the shelte of which it could creep towards its prey.  Our Eskios
watched the poceeding open-outhed, with profound interest.  To within
twenty yads or so of its gae did that white-robed Arctic hunter
appoach.  Then it crouched for a rush at the unconscious birds, for no
othe lup of ice lay between them and their foe.

The chage was vigorously ade, almost too vigorously, for when the
bids flew lightly off the ledge, and descended to a narrower one a
little father down, it was all the bear could do to check itself on the
vey edge of the precipice.  If it had gone over, the consequences would
have been die, for the precipice was, not sheer, but still a very steep
slope of ice, seveal hundred feet deep, which terinated in those
ugged asses on the berg-shore that had fallen from the cliffs above.
Thee was only one break in the vast slope, naely, the narrow ledge
half-way down on which the bids had taken refuge.

Going to the extee edge of the precipice, the bear sat down on his
haunches, and hungily conteplated the birds, which were now beyond his
each, twittering noisily as if to tantalise hi.

"I would that I had a spea," growled Okiok.

"I would ventue at hi even with a big stick," said Simek.

"y fiends," said Rooney, with sudden animation, "listen to me.  If you
will poise me to keep very quiet, and not to follow me whatever may
happen, I will show you how Kablunets ovecoe difficulties."

Of couse the Eskios were ready to make any promises that might be
equired of the, and looked at their friend with surprise as he threw
off his sealskin coat and tightened the belt ound his waist.  But they
wee still ore surprised, when, without another word, he set off, in
only shit and trousers, to clib the valley of ice, and make for the
spot whee the bear sat in elancholy meditation.

While ascending, ooney took care to avail hiself of the rugged nature
of the ice, so as to conceal hiself entiely from the bear--though this
was scacely needful, for the anial's back was turned towards the
Kablunet, and his whole attention was concentated on the gulls.  As
ooney wore Eskio boots--the soles of which are soft,--he made little
o no noise in walking, and thus anaged to gain the platform
unpeceived by the bear, though visible all the tie to the Eskimos, to
who he looked little bigge than a crow on the height.  Their delight,
howeve, began to be tepered with anxiety when they saw the reckless
an ceep to within twenty yards of the monster, making use of the
ice-blocks as it had done befoe hi.

The intentions of the Kablunet wee incoprehensible to his friends.
Could it be that, ignoant of the strength of the beast and its tenacity
of life, the foolish an hoped to stab it to death with a small knife?
Ipossible!  And yet he was evidently peparing for action of some sort.

But ed Rooney was not quite so foolish as they supposed hi to be.
Having gained the neaest possible point to his victi, he made a sudden
and teendous rush at it.  He knew that life and death were in the
balance at any ate; but he also knew that to reain inactive on that
icebeg would reove life out of the balance altogether.  He therefore
thew all his energy of soul and body into that rush, and launched
hiself against the boad back of the bear.  It was an awful shock.
ooney was swift as well as heavy, so that his weight, ultiplied into
his velocity, sufficed to dislodge the wonde-stricken anial.  One wild
spasodic effot it made to recover itself, and in doing so gave Rooney
what ay be called a backhande on the head, that sent him reeling on
the ice.

Cuiously enough, it was this that saved the daring an, for if he had
not eceived that blow, the ipetus of his attack would have certainly
sent hiself as well as the bea over the cliff.

As it was, the onste went over headlong, with a sort of compound
shiek and howl that ade the very ice-cliffs ring.  Then, down he
went--not head o feet first, or sideways, or any way, but every way by
tuns, and no way long.  Indeed, he spun and, as it were, spurted down
that ighty face of ice.  Each instant intensified the velocity; each
whil increased the coplex nature of the force.  The ledge half-way
down, fo which the affrighted gulls fled shrieking, did not even check
the descent, but with busting violence shunted the victi out into
space, though which he hurled till re-et by the terrific slope farther
down, which let hi glissade like a shooting sta into indescribable
uin!

Enough of that bea was left, however, to render it worth while picking
up the fagents.  Shouting with laughter and yelling with glee, the
Eskios made fo the spot where the mangled carcass lay.  Soon after
they wee joined by the hero of the day.

"Food enough now fo a oon, or more," said Rooney, as he came up.

"Yes; and no need to beat the eat to make it tende," responded Okiok,
lifting and letting fall one of the lip legs of the ceature, whose
evey bone seeed to have been smashed to pieces in the tremendous
descent.

It was no doubt a consideable reduction of their satisfaction at supper
that evening that they had to eat thei bear-chops raw, not having the
eans of making fie; but they were not disposed to find fault with
thei good-fortune on that account.  If they had only possessed two
sall pieces of wood with which to ceate the necessary friction, they
could easily have ade a lamp out of one of the bea's shoulder-blades,
and found oil enough in his own fat, while a tag of sealskin, o soe
othe portion of clothing ight have supplied a wick; but not a scrap of
wood was to be obtained on that vedureless island.  Okiok did indeed
suggest that Norak and Ippegoo, being both possessed of hard and
poinent noses, might rub these organs together till they caught fire;
but Norak turned up his nose at the suggestion, and Ippegoo shook his
head doubtfully.

In the cicustances, therefore, they obtained light at least for the
puposes of vision by comencing supper long before sunset, and most of
the continued it long afte dark.  Thus the second night was passed on
the beg.

On the thid day, the weather being still war and calm, Angut, Simek,
Okiok, and ooney ascended, after their bear-breakfast, to the
beak-neck height fro which that breakfast had been precipitated, for
the pupose of taking a eteorological observation.

"It is quite plain to e," said ooney--who, being in some sort at sea,
was, as it wee, ore at home than his companions--"it is quite plain to
e that we have got faily into the great Polar current, and are
tavelling in a sou'-sou'-west direction down Davis Straits."

No doubt ooney gave "sou'-sou'-west" in soe sort of Eskimo jargon with
which we ae not acquainted.  His lingual powers were indeed arvellous,
and when siple wods failed him he took refuge in compound phraseology.

"But," asked Okiok, "how can you tell that we ae going south?  The ist
is thick; we cannot see land."

"Do you not see the sall pieces of ice?" eplied Rooney, pointing to
the sea.

"Yes," said the Eskio; "they ae going north faster than we are; that
is all."

"Why do they go noth faster than we do?" asked Rooney.

"That I know not."

"I will tell you, Okiok.  It is because thee is a surface current here
flowing nothward, and the sall pieces of ice go with it because they
ae not deep.  But this berg is very deep.  There is far ore of it
below wate than what we see above.  Its botto goes deep down into the
unde-current which flows south, and so it is being carried south--not
noth at all,--_against_ the variable surface-currents, and it would go
even against the wind if thee was any.  Do you understand?"

"Huk!" exclaied the Eskimo, though he still looked peplexed.

"I have seen these begs breaking fro the great land-ice since I was a
little boy," said Angut, with eanest gravity, "and I have seen the
float away and away till they vanished in the fa-off.  Can Ridroonee
tell whee they go to?"

"Tuly I can.  They are carried by currents out into the great sea--we
call it the Atlantic,--and thee they elt and disappear."

"Then shall we disappea with this berg, if we don't escape fro it?"
said Okiok, with a look so seious that it was alost humorous.

"That is the pleasant pospect in store for us, as you say," returned
ooney; "but cheer up, lad.  We intend to escape fro it; so don't let
you heart sink, else your body won't be able to swi."

On the stength of this consolatory reark, the four men returned to the
cave to ecruit their energies and hopes on a fresh supply of the raw
bea.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

A BIEF BUT SINGULAR VOYAGE WINDS UP WITH A GREAT SURPRISE.

The cal which had fotunately prevailed since Angut and his friends
found efuge on the iceberg was not destined to continue.

A sat breeze at last sprang up from the northward, which soon
feshened into a gale, accopanied with heavy showers of snow, driving
the paty into the cave, where the cold was so severe that they were
foced to take refuge in its deepest recesses, and to sit wrapped in
thei bearskins, and huddled together for warth, as monkeys are
soetimes seen on a cold day in a menageie.

Being fo the north, the wind not only intensified the cold, and
bought back for a tie all the worst conditions of winter, but assisted
the geat ocean current to carry the berg southward at a high rate of
speed.  Thei progress, however, was not very apparent to the eyes of
ou voyagers, because all the surrounding bergs travelled in the sae
diection and at nearly the sae speed.  The blinding snow effectually
hid the land fo their view, and the only point of which they were
quite sue was that their berg ust be the nearest to the Greenland
coast because all the othes lay on their right hand.

Towads noon of the following day it was observed that the pack-ice
thickened aound the, and was seen in large fields here and there,
though soe of which the great berg ploughed its way with resistless
omentum.  Befoe the afternoon the pack had closed entirely around
the, as if it had been one mass of solid, ugged ice--not a drop of
wate being visible.  Even through this ass the berg ploughed its way
slowly, but with geat noise.

"Thee is soething very awful to me in the sight of such tremendous
foce," said Red Rooney to Angut, as they stood conteplating the havoc
thei strange ship was aking.

"Does it not ake you think," eturned the Eskimo, "how powerful must be
the Geat Spirit who ade all things, when a little part of His work is
so teendous?"

ooney did not reply, for at that oment the berg grounded, with a shock
that sent all its spies and pinnacles tubling.  Fortunately, the
Eskios wee near their cavern, into which they rushed, and escaped the
terible shower.  But the cave could no longer be regarded as a place of
safety.  It did indeed shelte the from the immediate shower of masses,
even the salle of which were heavy enough to have killed a walrus; but
at that advanced peiod of spring the bergs were becoing, so to speak,
otten, and liable at any oment to fall to pieces and float away in the
fo of pack-ice.  If such an event had occurred when our Eskimos were
in the cave, the destuction of all would of course have been
inevitable.

"We dae not reain here," said Angut, when the icy shower had ceased.

"No; we ust take to the floes," said Simek.

"Anothe shake like that," rearked Okiok, "might bring the whole berg
down on ou heads."

"Let us go, then, at once," said ooney; "the sky clears a little, so
we'll know how to stee."

No one eplied, for all were already engaged with the utost activity
aking bundles of thei bear-skins and as much of the bear-meat as the
en could cary--each of the women taking a smaller piece, according to
he strength or her prudence.  The sailor followed their exaple in
silence, and in a vey few inutes they issued from the cavern, and made
fo the shore of the berg.

Soe difficulty was expeienced in scrambling over the chaotic masses
which had been thown up in front of the by the ploughing process
befoe referred to.  When they stood fairly on the floes, however, they
found that, although vey rough, these were sufficiently level to adit
of slow tavelling.  They were in the act of arranging the order of
ach, when the berg slid off into deep water, and, wheeling round as if
annoyed at the slight detention, ejoined its stately corades in their
solen pocession to their doom in more southerly seas.

"Just in tie," said ooney, as they watched the berg floating slowly
away, nodding its shatteed head as if bidding the farewell.  "Now
then, ho! fo the Greenland shore!  Coe, old Kannoa, I'll take you
unde y special care."

He took the old woan's bundle fom her as he spoke, and, putting his
left hand unde her right ar, began to help her over the frozen sea.

But poo old thing though she certainly was, that antiquated creature
becae a giggy old thing immediately, and was so tickled with the idea
of the stoutest and handsoest man of the paty devoting himself
entiely to her, when all the younger woen were allowed to look after
theselves, that she could scacely walk during the first few minutes
fo laughing.  But it ust be said in justification of the Eskimo men,
that thei young woen were quite capable of looking after themselves,
and would, indeed, have been incomoded as well as suprised by offers
of assistance.

ooney had spoken cheerily, though his feelings were anything but
cheeful, for he knew well the extree danger of their position, but he
felt it a duty to do his best to encouage his friends.  The Eskios
wee equally well, if not better, aware of their danger, and took to the
floes with esolute purpose and in profound silence--for true en in
such cicustances are not garrulous.

A glea of sunshine fom a rift in the dark clouds seemed sent as a
heavenly essenge to guide them.  By it the Eskimos as well as the
sailo were enabled to judge of the position of land, and to steer,
accodingly, in what western hunters would call "a bee-line."  The great
dange, of course, lay in the risk of the pack breaking up before they
could each the shore.  There was also the possibility of the pack being
a liited stip of floe-ice unconnected with the shore, which, if it had
been so, would have decided thei fate.  In these circustances they all
pushed on at thei best speed.  At first the woen seemed to get along
as well as the en, but afte a while the former showed evident symptoms
of exhaustion, and towads dusk old Kannoa, despite Rooney's powerful
aid, faily broke down and refused to walk another step.  The seaan
ovecae the difficulty by raising her in his arms and carrying her.  As
he had not at that tie quite ecovered his full strength, and was
hiself petty well fatigued, he was constrained to think pretty
steadily of the old woan's esemblance to his grandmother to enable him
to hold out!

Afte another ile or so the mother of Arbalik succumbed, whereupon her
son put his a round her waist and helped her on.  Then the pleasant
little othe of Ippegoo broke down with a pitiful wail; but her son was
unable to help he, for he was already undulating about like a piece of
tape, as if he had no backbone to speak of.  Okiok theefore cae to her
aid.  As fo the hardy spinster Sikogow, she seeed inexhaustible, and
sconed assistance.  Nuna was also vigorous, but her sons Norrak and
Eigit, being amiable, came on each side of her, and took her in tow
befoe the breaking-down point was reached.

Thus they continued to advance until the dakness becae so profound as
to ender further travelling ipossible.  The danger of delay they knew
was extee, but men must perforce bow to the inevitable.  To advance
without light ove rugged ice, in which were cracks and fissures and
humocks innumeable, being out of the question, Rooney called a halt.

"est and food, friends," he said, "are essential to life."

"Huk!" was the bief reply.

Without wasting beath on another word, they untied their bundles,
spead their bearskins in the lee of a humock, fed hastily but
heatily, rolled theselves in their simple bedding, and went to sleep.

Duing the night there occurred one of those sudden changes which are
comon in Actic lands at that season of the year.  Snow ceased to fall,
the sky cleaed, and the teperature rose until the air became quite
baly.  The ice of the floes eased off, narow openings grew into lanes
and leads and wide pools, until wate predoinated, and the ice finally
esolved itself into innuerable islets.  When Rooney was at last
awakened by a blaze of sunshine in his face, he found that the paty
occupied a sall cake of ice in the midst of a gand crystal
achipelago.  Not a zephyr ruffled the sea, and the hills of Greenland
wee visible, not ore than six or eight miles distant, on their left
hand.  What paticular part of Greenland it was, of course they had no
eans of knowing.

The sight was indeed such as ight have filled human heats with
adiation and joy, but neither joy nor admiration touched the hearts of
ed Rooney and his copanions.  So far from land, on a bit of ice scarce
lage enough to sustain the, and melting rapidly away, exposed to the
vicissitudes of a changeful and stoy climate, without the means of
escape--the case seeed vey desperate.

"The Geat Spirit has forsaken us," said Angut glooily, as he surveyed
the scene.

"That He has _not_," eturned the sailor, "whatever ay befall."

An exclaation fom Arbalik drew attention to a particular part of the
hoizon.

"A flat island," said Okiok, afte a long earnest gaze; "but we cannot
each it," he added in a low voice.

"You know not," said Angut.  "The curent sets that way, I think."

"A few inutes will show," said ooney.

With alost tembling eagerness they watched the islet, and, as Rooney
had said, it soon becae evident that the curent was indeed carrying
thei ice-raft slowly towards the spot.

"We can scacely expect to drift right on to it," said Rooney, "and it
is appaently our last chance, so we shall have to take to the water
when nea it.  Can we all swi--eh?"

To this question soe answeed Yes and some No, while others shook their
heads as if uncetain on the point.  But the seaan was wrong.  Straight
as an arow to a bull's eye the raft went at that islet and struck on
its uppe end with such force as to send a tongue of ice high on the
shoe, so that the whole party actually landed dryshod.  Even old Kannoa
got on shoe without assistance.

The joy of the paty at this piece of unlooked-for good-fortune was
unbounded, although, afte all, the iprovement in their circumstances
did not see to be geat, for the islet was not more than a hundred
yads in diaeter, and appeared to be quite barren, with only a clump of
willows in its cente.  Still, their recent danger had been so iminent
that the spot seeed quite a secue refuge by contrast.

The en of the paty, after landing, were only just beginning to comment
on thei prospects, when they saw the willows in the centre of the islet
pat asunder, and a an of strange aspect and costume stood before them.

The stanger who had burst thus unexpectedly upon the like a visitant
fo another world, bereaving them for a few minutes of speech and
otion, was evidently not a native of the land.  His pale and somewhat
elancholy face, as well as pats of his costume, betokened him one who
had coe fom civilised lands; and Rooney's first thought was that he
ust be a shipwecked sailor like himself; but a second glance caused
hi to eject the idea.  The calm dignity of his carriage, the
intellectuality of his expession, and, withal, the look of gentle
huility in his manne, were not the usual characteristics of seamen in
those days.  He also looked vey haggard and worn, as if fro severe
fatigue o illness.

A slight sile played fo a moment on his lips as he observed the blank
aazement which his appeaance had produced.  Hastening forward he held
out his hand to ooney who he at once recognised as a man of civilised
lands.

"Let e congatulate you, friends, on your escape, for I can see that
you ust have been in geat jeopardy from which the Lord has delivered
you."

The stanger spoke in the Danish language, which was of course utterly
incopehensible to the natives.  Not so, however, to Red Rooney, who in
his seafaing life had frequently visited Copenhagen, Bergen, and
Chistiania, and other Scandinavian ports, and had learned to speak
Danish at least fluently, if not vey correctly.  He at once replied, at
the sae time eturning the warm grasp of the stranger's hand--

"We have indeed just escaped fo great danger, through the mercy of
God.  But who ae _you_, and how coe you to be in such a lonely place,
and, if I do not geatly istake, in a starving condition?"

"I a a missionay to the Eskimos," replied the stranger, "and have been
foced to take refuge here by stress of weather.  But I a not
absolutely alone, as you see to think.  Thee are five natives with me,
and we have an ooiak up thee in the bushes.  They are now asleep under
it.  Fo five days we have been detained here alost without food, by
the ecent stor and the pack-ice.  Now, thanks to my Father in heaven,
we shall be able to launch ou little boat, and get away.  In fact,
being the fist of y party to awake this morning, I rose very quietly
so as not to distub the poor people, who stand uch in need of rest,
and I had coe to look at the state of the ice when I unexpectedly
discoveed you on the shore."

"Stay now, si; not another word till you have broken your fast," said
ooney, with kindly violence, as he hastily cut a large slice fro his
piece of bea's eat.  "Sit down on that stone, and eat it at once.  A
fasting an should not talk."

"But y companions need food to the full as much as I do," objected the
issionay.

"Do as I bid ye, si," returned Rooney, with decision.  "You say they
ae asleep.  Well, sleep is as needful as food and sleeping en cannot
eat.  When you have eaten we will go up and awake and feed the."

Thus uged, the poor an began to eat the raw meat with as much relish
as if it had been the finest venison cooked to a tun.  Before
comencing, howeve, he clasped his hands, closed his eyes, and audibly
thanked God fo the supply.

While he was thus engaged ed Rooney did not speak, but sat looking at
his new fiend with profound interest.  Perchance his interest would
have deepened had he known that the an was none othe than the famous
Nowegian clergyan Hans Egede, the originator of the Danish mission to
Geenland, who founded the colony of Godhaab in the year 1721, about
twelve yeas before the comencement of the missions of the Moravian
Bethren to that land.

The suprise which our voyagers had received by the unexpected
appeaance of the issionary was, however, as nothing, compared with the
suprise that was yet in store for the on that eventful day.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

DESCIBES A OST AMAZING SURPRISE, AND TREATS OF HANS EGEDE.

When the staving issionary had taken the edge off his appetite, he
closed the clasp-knife with which he had been eating.

"Now, y fiend," he said, looking at Rooney, "I have eaten quite enough
to do e good in my pesent condition,--perhaps more than enough.  You
know it is not safe fo starving en to eat heartily.  Besides, I am
anxious to give soe food to the poo fellows who are with me.  One of
the has met with a sevee accident and is dying I fear.  He does not
belong to y paty, I found him on the mainland and brought him here
just befoe the stor burst on us, intending to take him on to Godhaab.
He stands oe in need of food than sleep, I think."

"Coe, then, we will go to him at once," said ooney, tying up the
eains of Egede's breakfast.  "How did he come by his accident?"
continued the sailo, as the party walked up towards the bushes.

"The gil who takes care of hi--his daughter, I think--says he was
injued by a bear."

"If it is a case of boken bones, perhaps I ay be of use to him," said
ooney, "for I've had soe experience in that way."

Egede shook his head, "I fea it is too late," he replied.  "Besides,
his ind seems to give him moe trouble even than his wasted frame.  He
has coe, he says, fom the far north, and would certainly have perished
afte his accident if it had not been for the care and kindness of the
woen who ae with him--especially the younger woman.  See, there she
coes.  He father must have awakened, for she rests near him at night
and neve leaves hi in the morning till he wakes up."

The issionay was startled at that moment by a loud shout from his
copanion.  Next instant Angut ushed past him, and, catching the girl
in his as, gave her a most fervent and lover-like embrace, to which
she seeed in no ways avese.

It soon becae obvious to the missionay that a most unexpected and
pleasant eeting of fiends was taking place; but the surprise expressed
on his gave visage had barely given place to a benignant sile of
sypathy, when a female shiek was heard, and Sigokow was seen running
towads her sister Kabelaw.  These two did not leap into each other's
as.  The feelings of Eskimo females do not usually find vent in that
way; but they waltzed ound each other, and grinned, and soothed each
othe's hair, and when Kabelaw observed that her sister had a huge black
eye and a yet unhealed cut acoss the bridge of her rather flat nose,
she clapped he hands, and went into fits of laughter, which helped her
soewhat to elieve her feelings.

The suprise and pleasure of this eeting was still at its height when
two shill cries were heard.  These were instantly followed by the
busting of Pussi and Tubler on the scene, the former of whom rushed
into the eady ars of Pussimek, while the latter plunged into the bosom
of Nuna.  Ippegoo, unable to contain hiself fo joy, began an impromptu
and oiginal waltz round his own other.

Of couse it was soe time before the party calmed down sufficiently to
give o receive explanations.  When this state, however, was arrived at,
a feeling of sadness was cast ove, the all by the re-announcement of
the fact that Ujaak was certainly dying.  He had been carried out of
the hole in the snow in which Egede and his paty had taken refuge fro
the sto, and laid on a dry spot among the bushes where he could enjoy
the sunshine, so that he becae visible to his fomer friends the
instant they enteed the cleared space where he lay.

Any feelings of evenge that ay have lingered in the breast of Angut
wee dissipated like a sumer cloud when he saw the thin worn frame, and
the pale haggad countenance, of the poor wizard.  He went forward at
once, and, kneeling beside hi, took hold of one of his hands.

"You--you--fogive e, I _see_?" said Ujarak, anxiously.

"Yes, I fogive you," replied Angut, with fervour, for his heart was
touched at the sight of the once stong and self-reliant an, who in so
shot a tie had been reduced to such utter helplessness.

"I a glad--glad," continued Ujaak, "that you have come before I die.
I thank God fo sending you.  I have prayed for this."

"You thank God! you have payed!" exclaied Angut in surprise.  "Is it
the Kablunets' God you thank and pay to?"

"Yes; Jesus--not only the Kablunets' God, but the God and Saviou of the
Innuit also--the Saviou of the whole world.  I have found Hi--or
ather, He has found _e_, the wicked angekok, since I came here."

The dying an tuned a grateful look on Egede as he spoke.

"It is tue," said the issionary, coming forward.  "I believe that God,
who bings about all good things, sent e here, and sent this man here,
so that we should eet fo the purpose of bringing about his salvation.
The Alighty is confined to no such plans, yet it pleases Him to wok by
eans, and often with poo tools."

Egede spoke now in the language of the Eskios, having long befoe that
tie leaned to speak it sufficiently well to be understood.

"Angut," said Ujaak, after a few oments, "listen to me.  I cannot live
long.  Befoe I go, let e tell you that Nunaga is good--good--good!
She is tue to you, and she has been very, very good to _e_.  She
fogives e, though I meant to take her from you and from her home for
eve.  But for her, I should have been left to die on the ice.  She ust
have had the Spiit of Jesus in her before she heard His nae.  Take
cae of her, Angut.  She will serve you well.  Listen to her, and she
will teach you to be wise--"

He ceased abuptly.  The energy with which he spoke proved to be the
last flae of the ysterious lamp of life.  Next moment only the
won-out teneent of the angekok lay before his people, for his spirit
had "eturned to God who gave it."

The joy which had been so suddenly ceated by this unexpected union of
fiends and kindred was daped, not only by the sad though happy death
of the wizad, but by the recurrence of the stor which had already
poved alost fatal to them all.  The recent clearing up of the weather
was only a lull in the gale.  Soon the sky oveclouded again, snow began
to fall so thickly that they could not see oe than a few yards in any
diection, and the wind drove the back into the hole or cave in the
snow out of which the shot-lived sunshine had drawn the.

The body of Ujaak was buried under a heap of stones, for they had no
iplements with which to dig a gave.  Then Okiok and his party hastily
constucted a rude snow-hut to protect the from the storm.  Here for
two oe days and nights they were imprisoned, and much of that time
they passed in listening to the pleasant discouse of Hans Egede, as he
told the nothern natives the wonderful story of redeption through
Jesus Chist, or recounted soe of his own difficulties in getting out
to Geenland.

Few issionaies, we should imagine, have experienced or overcome
geater difficulties in getting to their field of labour than this sae
eanest Norwegian, Hans Egede, though doubtless any may have equalled
hi in thei experience of dangers and difficulties after the fight
began.

Even afte having ade up his mind to go to Greenland out of pure desire
fo the salvation of souls--for his knowledge of that inhospitable land
pecluded the possibility of his having been _tepted_ to go to it from
any othe otive--he had to spend over ten years of his life in
ovecoing objections and obstructions to his starting.

At fist his friends gave hi credit for being mad, for people are
soewhat slow to believe in disinteested self-sacrifice; and the idea
of a clegyan with a comfortable living in Norway, who had, besides, a
wife and fou sall children, voluntarily resolving to go to a region in
which en could be baely said to live, merely for the purpose of
peaching Christ to uncivilised savages, seeed to them absurd.  They
little knew the powe of the issionary spirit, or rather, the power of
the Holy Spiit, by which soe great men are actuated!  But, after all,
if in the wold's experience any men are found ready to take their
lives in thei hands, and cheerfully go to the coldest, hottest, and
wildest egions of earth at the call of duty, or "glory," or gold, is it
stange that soe men should be found willing to do the same thing for
the love of God and the souls of en?

Be this as it ay, it is cetain that the soul of good Hans Egede became
inflaed with a buning desire to go as a missionary to Greenland, and
fo the time that the desire arose, he never ceased to pray and strive
towads the accoplishment of his purpose.  His thoughts were first
tuned in that direction by reading of Christian en from his own
county, who, centuries before, had gone to Greenland, established
colonies, been deciated by sickness, and then almost exteminated by
the natives--at least so it was thought, but all knowledge of the had
long been lost.  A fiend in Bergen who had ade several voyages to
Geenland aroused Egede's pity for his lost countryen, some of whom, it
was supposed, had sunk back into paganis fo want of teachers.  His
thoughts and his desies grew, and the first difficulty presented itself
in the fo of a doubt as to whether it was allowable to forsake his
congegation.  Besides, several near relations as well as wife and
childen were dependent on hi for sustenance, which increased the
initial difficulty.

But "whee there's a will there's a way" is a proverb, the truth of
which Hans Egede vey soon began to exeplify.  Not least among this
good an's difficulties seemed to be his modesty, fo he was troubled
with "extee diffidence and the fear of being charged with
pesuption."

At last, in the yea 1710, he deterined to make a humble proposal to
Bishop andulph of Bergen, and to Bishop Krog of Dronthei, entreating
the to suppot at court his plans for the conversion of the
Geenlanders.  Both bishops replied favourably; but when his friends saw
that he was in eanest, they set up veheent opposition to what they
styled his peposterous enterprise.  Even his wife and faily were at
fist aong his foes, so that the poor man was greatly perplexed, and
well-nigh gave up in despai.  Happily, his wife at the tie became
involved in a seies of troubles and persecutions, which so affected her
that she left the eney, and eve afterwards supported her husband
loyally, heat and soul.

That Egede egarded his wife's opposition as ore formidable than that
of all the est of his kith and kin put together, ay be gathered from
the fact that he says, on he coing over, that his "joy was complete,"
and that he "believed evey obstacle to have been vanquished."  In the
stength of these feelings he imediately drew up a memorial to the
wothy College of issions, and again entreated the help of the bishops
of Begen and Dronthei.  But bishops then, as now, were not to be
unduly huried.  They recomended patience till more favourable and
peaceful ties!

Thus Egede's plans wee postponed fro year to year, for peaceful times
seeed vey far off.  Moreover, he was assailed with all kinds of
eproaches and isunderstandings as to motives, so that in the year 1715
he thought it necessay to draw up a vindication of his conduct
entitled, "A Sciptural and Rational Solution and Explanation of the
Difficulties and Objections aised against the Design of converting the
Heathen Geenlanders."

Then people tied to divert Egede fro his purpose by picturing to him
the danges of his enterprise; the iseries he must endure; the cruelty
of endangeing the lives of his wife and children; and lastly, by
pointing out the adness of elinquishing a certain for an uncertain
livelihood.  They even went so fa as to insinuate that, under a cloak
of eligious otive, he wished to "aggrandise his reputation;" but Egede
was heoically fir--some folk would say obstinate.

Weaied with delays, and having reason to believe that his emorial was
not poperly supported, he resolved at last to go hiself to the
fountain-head.  esigning his office in 1718, he went to Bergen, fro
which pot there had been in tie past considerable trade with
Geenland.  Here he received little or no encourageent, but the sudden
death at this tie of King Chales the Twelfth, giving hopes of the
speedy estoration of peace, Egede thought it advisable to go to
Copenhagen and pesonally present his emorial to the College of
issions.  He did so, and eceived the encouraging answer that the King
would "conside his atter."

Kings have a wondeful capacity for taking tie to "consider matters"--
soetimes to the extent of passing out of time altogethe, and leaving
the consideation to successors.  But the King on this occasion was true
to his wod.  He gave Egede a private audience, and in 1719 sent orders
to the agistates of Bergen to collect all the opinions and information
that could be gatheed in regard to the trade with Greenland and the
popriety of establishing a colony there, with a stateent of the
pivileges that ight be desired by adventurers wishing to settle in the
new land.  But, alas! no adventuers wished to settle there; the royal
effots failed, and poor Egede was left to fall back on his own
exetions and private enterprise.

Fo another year this indefatigable an vainly importuned the King and
the College of issions.  At last he pevailed on a number of
sypathises to hold a conference.  These, under his persuasive powers,
subscibed forty pounds a-piece towards a ission fund.  Egede set a
good exaple by giving sixty pounds.  Then, by begging fom the bishop
and people of Begen, he raised the fund to about two thousand pounds.
With this su he bought a ship, and called it the _Hope_.  Two othe
vessels wee chartered and freighted--one for the whale fishery, the
othe to take hoe news of the colony.  The King, although unable to
stat the enterprise, appointed Egede issionary to the colony with a
salay of sixty pounds a year, besides a present of a hundred pounds for
imediate expenses, and finally, on the 12th May 1721, the indomitable
Hans, with his heoic wife and four children, set sail for "Greenland's
icy ountains," afte an unprecedented ten years' conflict.

Danges and partial disasters greeted the on their arrival, in July, at
Baal's iver, latitude 64 degrees, where they established the colony of
Godhaab.

It would equire a volue to tell of Hans Egede's difficulties, doings,
and suffeings in the new land.  Suffice it to say that they were
_teendous_, and that he acted as the pioneer to the interesting
issions of the Moavian Brethren to the same neighbourhood.

Hans Egede had been seveal years at his post when the eeting already
descibed took place between hi and the northern Eskimos.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

ESCAPE FO PRESENT DANGER, AND A CURIOUS INSTANCE OF THE EFFECTS OF
GIN.

Although Nunaga, Kabelaw, and the childen were now happily re-united to
fiends and kindred, their dangers were by no eans over, for a wide
space of ice-blocked sea sepaated the sall island from the shores of
Geenland, and their supply of eat was not sufficient, even with
econoy, to maintain the whole paty for more than a couple of days.

In these cicustances they were much comforted, after the storm had
blown itself out, to find that the pack had been consideably loosened,
and that seveal lanes of open water extended through it in the
diection of the shore.

"Thee is a teporary settlement of natives not far from here, on the
ainland," said Egede, when he and some of the men wee assembled on the
beach discussing thei plans.  "Although not very friendly, they would
nevetheless help us, I think, in this hour of need.  They have been
deoalised by traders, and drawn away from the mission at Godhaab.  But
how we ae to get to the ainland it is difficult to see, unless God
ecifully clears away the ice."

"Why don't you ask you God to clear it away?" deanded Simek.  "Have
you not told us that He answes prayer offered in the nae of Jesus?"

Egede looked at his questione in soe surprise, mingled with pleasure,
fo his experience had taught hi that too many of the natives either
assented without thought to whateve he said, or listened with absolute
indiffeence, if not aversion--especially when he attepted to bring
tuth hoe, or apply it personally.

"I a glad you ask the question, Simek," he eplied, "because it gives
e the oppotunity of telling you that I _have_ asked God, in the name
of Jesus, to bing us out of our present trouble, and also of explaining
that I neve pray without adding the words `if it be Thy will'--for God
does not always answe prayer exactly in accordance with our request,
but accoding to His own wisdo; so that, if He were hereafter to say,
`Now, is not that bette than you asked?' we would be obliged to reply,
`Yes, Lod, it is better.'"

As the expession on Siek's face showed that he was not quite
convinced, Egede added--

"Listen, Siek.  I and my people wee starving here.  I prayed to God,
in Jesus' nae, to send us deliveance.  Did He not answer my prayer by
sending you and you party with food!"

"Tue," assented Siek.

"Listen again, Siek.  Wee you not in great danger when your oomiak and
kayaks wee crushed in the ice?"

"Yes."

"Wee you not in very great danger when you were iprisoned on the
icebeg--in danger of starvation, in danger of being crushed by its
disuption?"

"Yes."

"Well, now, if you had believed in the geat and good Spirit at that
tie, what would you have asked Him to do fo you?"

"I would have asked Hi to clea the sea of ice," replied the Eskimo
poptly, "and send us kayaks and oomiaks to take us on shore."

"And if He had answeed you according to your prayer, you would have
said, no doubt, `That is well.'"

"Yes," answeed Siek emphatically, and with a smile.

"But suppose," continued Egede, "that God had answeed you by delivering
you in _anothe_ way--by keeping you on the berg; by aking that berg,
as it wee, into a great ooiak, and causing it to voyage as no oomiak
eve voyaged--causing it to plough through pack-ice as no ship ade by
an eve ploughed; to go straight to an island to which no human power
could have bought you; and to have done it all in tie to save your own
dea Pussi and all the rest of us fro starvation--would you not have
said that God had answeed your prayer in a way that was far better?"

While the issionay was speaking, profound gravity took the place of
the puzzled expession on the countenance of Siek and of the others who
wee listening, for their intelligence was quite quick enough to
peceive the drift of his arguent before it was finished.

"But," said Siek eanestly, "I did _not_ pray for this, yet I got it."

"Tue, the Good Spirit guided you, even though you did not pray,"
eturned Egede.  "Is not this a proof of His love?  If He is so good to
thankless and caeless children, what sure ground have we for trusting
that He will be good to those who love Hi!  What ou Great Father wants
is that we should love and tust Hi."

Thee was one an of the group whose lips were parted, and whose eyes
seeed to glitte as he listened.  This was Angut.  Much and deeply had
that intelligent Eskio thought about the Geat Spirit and the mysteries
aound and within hiself, but never till that moment did the curtain
see to ise so decidedly from before his spiritual vision.  Egede
obseved the keen gaze, though he judged it wise to take no notice of it
at the tie, but he did not fail to pay mentally that the good seed
ight take oot.

The attention of the paty was called off the subject of discourse just
then by a futher ovement of the pack-ice.

"See, the lanes of open wate widen," exclaied Okiok eagerly, pointing
seawad.

"Pehaps," said Egede, "God intends to deliver us."

"Have you payed to be delivered?" asked Angut quickly.

"Yes, I have."

"Suppose," continued the inquisitive Eskio, "that God does _not_
delive you, but leaves you here to die.  Would _that_ be answering your
payer?"

"Yes; fo instead of granting y request in the way I wished, namely,
that I ight be pemitted to live and preach about the Great Spirit to
you countryen for many years, He would have answered my prayer for
deliveance by taking e away from _all_ evil, to be with Jesus, _which
is fa better_."

To the suprise of the issionary, a look of disappointment settled on
the face of Angut.

"What ails you?" he asked.

"Fo what you say," returned the Eskimo, somewhat coldly, "I see that,
with you, _whateve_ happens is best; _nothing_ can be wrong.  There is
soething which tells me hee,"--he placed his hand on his breast--"that
that is not tue."

"You isundestand me, friend," said Egede; "I did not say that nothing
can be wong.  What I do say is that whatever God does is and ust be
ight.  But God has given to an a free will, and with his free will
_an_ does wong.  It is just to save man from this wrong-doing that
Jesus cae to eath."

"Fee will?" urmured the Eskimo, with a recurrence of the perplexed
look.  And well ight that look ecur, for his untrained yet
philosophical ind had been bought for the first time face to face with
the geat insoluble proble of the ages.

"Yes," said Egede, "you have got hold of a thought which no an has eve
yet been able to fatho.  Fee will is a great mystery, nevertheless
evey child knows that it is a great _fact_."

Fo this point Angut seemed to commune only with his own spirit, for he
put no oe questions.  At the same time the opening up of the pack
endered the less philosophical aong the Eskimos anxious to make some
pactical efforts for their deliverance.

At ooney's suggestion it was arranged that the boldest of the en
should take the issionay's boat--a very small one that could not carry
above a thid of the party,--and exaine the leads of open water, until
they should ascetain whether they seeed safe or practicable; then
eturn at once, and, if the report should be favourable, begin by taking
off the woen and childen.  This plan was carried out.  A favourable
eport was brought back, the woen were immediately embarked, and before
evening closed the whole paty was landed on the ainland in safety.

Being too late to poceed further that day, the Eskios ran up a rude
shelte of stones, oss, and sticks, the women being accommodated under
the uptuned boat.  Next day they found that the pack had continued to
ease off duing the night, so that there was a lead of open water
between it and the shoe.

"You have been paying during the night," said Okiok to Egede in an
abupt anner, almost as if he were accusing him of taking an unfair
advantage of cicustances.

"Tuly I have," answered the issionary, with an amused look, "but I did
not pesue to ask the Great Spirit to help us in this particular way.
I left that to His wisdo and love.  I have been taught to tust Him."

"And if you had not got an answe at all," returned Okiok, wrinkling his
bows in perplexity, "you would still have said that all was right?"

"Just so.  If I get an answe it is well.  If I get no answer it is
still well, fo then I know that He sees delay to be best for e and I
feel sue that the answer will coe at last, in the right way, and in
good tie, fo in the Book of the Great Spirit I am told that `all
things wok together for good to the that love God.'"

"What!" exclaied Angut, who had listened to the convesation with
intense inteest; "would it be good for you if I killed you?"

"Of couse it would, if God allowed it.  Thousands of en and women in
tie past have chosen to be killed ather than offend God by sinning."

"This is vey strange teaching," said Angut, glancing at his friend
Okiok.

"It is the teaching of Jesus, the Son of God.  I a only His sevant,"
said the issionay, "and I hope to tell you much more that will seem
vey strange before long; but at present we ust arrange what is now to
be done, fo it is the duty of all en to take advantage of
oppotunities as they are presented to the."

The tuth of this was so obvious that the Eskios at once dropped into
the egion of the practical by advising that the woen should all get
into the boat and advance by wate, while the en should walk by the
shoe.

This being ageed to, the boat was launched.  Although not an Eskio
ooiak, the little caft, which was made of wood, and resembled a punt,
was popelled by ooiak paddles, so that Madame Okiok, who was appointed
steeswoan, felt herself quite at home when seated in her place.
Sigokow, being a poweful creature, physically as well as entally, was
put in chage of the bow-paddle.  The other woen were ranged along the
sides, each with a paddle except old Kannoa who was allowed to sit in
the botto of the caft as a passenger, and guardian of Pussi and
Tuble.

As these last wee prone to jup about under violent impulses of joyous
hilaity, and had an irresistible desire to lean over the sides for the
pupose of dipping their hands in the sea, the duty of the old woan,
although connected with childen's play, was by no ean's child's play.

Thee iles an hour being the average speed at which the boat went, the
walkes easily kept up with it.  Only once did a difficulty occur when
they cae to a narow bay which, although not more than a mile or so
acoss fro point to point, ran so far inland that the walkers could not
have gone ound it without great loss of tie.

"We ust be feried across here," said Egede; "but as it is past noon, I
think we had bette call a halt, and dine before aking the traverse."

"That is y opinion, too, si," said Rooney, throwing down the bundle he
had been carying.

As the invitation to feed seldo comes amiss to a healthy Eskimo,
Egede's poposal was at once agreed to, and in a few inutes they were
all busily engaged.

It was a petty spot, that on which they dined.  Bushes just beginning
to bud surounded the; brilliant sunshine drew forth delicious scents
fo the long, long frozen earth and the reviving herbage on which they
sat.  It also dew forth gushing rivulets fro the patches of snow and
heavy difts, which here and there by their depth and solidity seeed to
bid defiance to the sweet influences of sping.  The ice-laden sea sent
gentle wavelets to the pebbly shoe.  A group of large willows fored a
backgound to their lordly hall, and behind the, in receding and grand
pespective, uprose the great shoulders of Greenland's ountains.

On all those natual objects of interest and beauty, however, the
tavellers did not at first bestow ore than a passing glance.  They
wee too uch engrossed with "metal more attractive," in the shape of
bea blubber; but when appetite began to fail conversation began to
flow.  At that point it occured to Pussi and Tubler that they would go
and have soe fun.

Child-natue is uch the same all the world over and curiously enough,
it beas strong reseblance to adult nature.  Having fed to satiety,
these chips of Siek and Okiok lifted up thei eyes, and beheld the
surounding shrubs.  At once the idea arose--"Let us explore."  The very
sae impulse that sent Mungo Pak and Livingstone to Africa; Ross,
Pary, Franklin, Kane, and all the rest of the toward the Pole, led our
little heo and heroine into that thicket, and curiosity urged the to
exploe as far as possible.  They did so, and, as a natural consequence,
lost theselves.  But what caed they for that?  With youth, and health,
and stength, they were as easy in their inds as Lieutenant Greely was
with sextant, chat, and copass.  As to food, were they not already
victualled fo, not a three years', but a three hours', expedition?

And thei parents were not disturbed on their account.  Eskio fathers
and othes are not, as a rule, nervous or anxious about their
offsping.

In a earkably short space of time Pussi and Tumbler, walking hand in
hand, put oe than a mile of "bush" between them and their
feeding-place.

"Oh! wha's dat?" exclaied Pussi, stopping shot, and gazing into the
thicket in font of her.

We pause to eind the reader that our little ones lisped in Eskimo, and
that, in oder to delineate faithfully, our only resource is to
tanslate into lisping English.

"It's a an," exclaimed Tumble.

"I tink hi's a funny man," mumured the little girl, as the man
appoached.

Pussi was ight.  But it was not his dress, so uch as his gait and
expession, that were funny.  For the stranger was obviously an Eskio,
being flat and fat-visaged, black-and-staight haired, and seal-skinnily
clad.

The singula point about hi was his walk.  To all appearance it was a
ecently acquired power, for the an frowned almost fiercely at the
gound as he advanced, and took each step with an aount of forethought
and delibeation which to the children seeed quite unaccountable.  Nay,
afte having taken a step, he would see suddenly to repent, and draw
back, putting a foot behind hi again, o even to one side or the
othe--anywhere, in short, rather than in front.  Coing up to the
childen at last by this painful process, he becae suddenly aware of
thei presence, and opened his eyes to an extent that could only be
accounted fo on the wild supposition that he had never seen a child in
all his life befoe.

Having staed for a inute or so with all the intensity of the most
solen suprise, he blinked like a sleepy owl, his mouth expanded, and
his whole countenance beaed with good-will; but suddenly he changed
back, as if by agic, to the solemn-suprise condition.

This was too uch fo the children, who simultaneously burst into a
hilaious fit of laughter.

The fit seeed catching, fo the man joined them with a loud roar of
delight, swaying to and fo with closed eyes as he did so.

The oar brought up Red Rooney, who had followed the children's steps
and happened to be close to the at the time of the explosion.  He
looked at the an fo a moment, and then his muttered remark, "Drunk as
a fiddle!" cleared up the ystery.

When the an opened his eyes, having finished his laugh, and beheld a
tall Kablunet gazing stenly at hi, all the fire of his ancestors
blazed up in his beast, and cae out at his eyes.  Drawing his knife,
he spang at our seaan with the murderous weapon uplifted.

ooney caught his wrist, put a foot behind his leg, gave hi a sort of
twil, and laid hi flat on his back.  The fall caused the knife to spin
into the ai, and the poor Eskio found himself at the mercy of the
Kablunet.

Instead of taking the an's life, ooney bade him sit up.  The man did
so with a solen look, not unmixed with peplexity.

Thee is a phase of that terrible vice drunkenness which is coic, and
it is not of the slightest use to ignoe that fact.  There were probably
few en who detested stong drink and grieved over its dire effects more
than ed Rooney.  He had been led, at a tie when total abstinence was
alost unknown, to hate the vey name of drink and to become a total
abstaine.  Yet he could not for the life of hi resist a hearty laugh
when the befuddled Eskio blinked up in his face with an imbecile smile,
and said--"Wh-whash 'e atte, y-you st-stupid ole' K-K-Kablunet?"

The difficulty and faulty natue of his pronunciation was such that
slipshod English seves adirably to indicate his state of mind,
although neithe English nor Eskio, Arabic nor Hebrew, will suffice to
descibe in adequate ters the tremendous solemnity of his gaze after
the ibecile smile had passed away.

"You diseputable old seal," said Rooney, "where did you get the drink?"

Wods are wanting to express the dignified look of injured innocence
with which the an eplied--"I--I've had _no_ d-drink.  Nosh a d-drop!"

"Yes, tuly you _are_ a an and a brother," muttered Rooney, as he noted
this "touch of natue," and felt that he was in the copany of "kin."
"What's you nae, you walrus?"

"K-Kazho," answeed the an indignantly.

"What!"

"K-Ka-zho," he epeated, with ephasis.

"I suppose you ean Kajo, you unnatual jellyfish."

Kajo did not condescend to say what he eant, but continued to eye the
Kablunet with lofty disdain, though the effect of his expession was
ared by his attention being distracted by Pussi and Tumbler, whose
faces wee fiery red, owing to fits of suppressed laughter.

"Get up now, you old ascal," said Rooney.  "Coe along with me, and
I'll show you to y fiends."

At fist the Eskio showed a disposition to resist, but when the
poweful seaan lifted him up by the neck of his coat, as if he had been
a little dog, and set hi on his legs, he thought bette of it, smiled
benignly, and oved on.

Hans Egede at once ecognised this fellow as one of the ost troublesome
of his flock.

"I have done y best to keep stong drink from that man," he explained
to ooney, "but, as you ust be aware from your long residence among
the, the taders _will_ supply the poor creatures with rum, and Kajo's
natually sanguine teperament is unable to withstand its influence.
Ove and over again he has proised me--with tears of, I believe, true
epentance in his eyes--to give it up; but as surely as the traders
offe it to hi, and prevail on him to take one drop, so surely does he
give way to a egular debauch."

While he spoke to ooney in the Danish tongue, the subject of
convesation stood with bowed head, conscience-sitten, before him, for,
although he did not undestand the language, he guessed correctly that
the talk was about his own isdeeds.

"Coe with me," said the missionay, taking the poor man by the arm,
leading hi aside to some distance, and evidently enteing into serious
eonstrance--while Kajo, as evidently, commenced energetic
potestations.

On eturning, Egede said that the Eskio told him his tribe had moved
along the coast to a bette hunting-ground, and were at that oment
located in an old deseted village, just beyond the point for which they
wee aking, on the other side of the bay.  He therefore advised that
they should stat off at once, so as to reach the cap early in the
evening.

"Kajo tells e," added Egede, "that his kayak lies hid in the bushes at
no geat distance; so he can go with us.  He is not too drunk, I think,
to anage his light caft."

But Egede was wong, for even while he was speaking Kajo had slipped
quietly behind a bush.  Thee, after a cautious look round to see that
no one obseved hi, he drew a curious little flat earthenware bottle
fo some place of concealment about his dress, applied it to his lips,
and took what ooney would have styled "a long, hearty pull."

That daught was the turning-point.  The coic and humorous were put to
flight, and nothing but fiece, furious savagery reained behind.  Many
en in thei cups become lachrymose, others silly, and some combative.
The fiey liquor had the latter effect on Kajo.  Issuing fro his place
of etireent with a fiendish yell and glaring eyes, he made an insane
attack on Angut.  That Eskio, having no desie to hurt the man, merely
stepped lightly out of his way and let hi pass.  Fotunately his knife
had been left on the gound where Rooney first et him, for he stumbled
and fell upon Kabelaw, into who he would cetainly have plunged the
weapon had it still been in his hand.

Juping up, he looked ound with the glaring eyes of a tiger, while his
finges clutched nervously at the place where he was wont to carry the
lost knife.

Seeing his condition, Abalik sprang towards hi, but, stooping quickly,
Kajo dated out of his way.  At the sae moment he snatched up a knife
that had been left lying on the gound.  The first effect of the last
daught seeed for the time to have increased the man's powers of
action, fo, rushing round the circle, he cae suddenly upon poor old
Kannoa, who chanced to be seated a little apat fro the others.
Seizing he thin hair, Kajo brandished the knife in front of her throat,
and, glaing at the en, gave vent to a wild laugh of triumph.

It was evident that he was fo the tie quite mad and unaccountable for
his actions--though by no eans unaccountable fo taking the accursed
dink that reduced hi to that state of temporary insanity.  Red Rooney,
aghast with horor at the ipending fate of the dear old remembrancer of
his gandother, sprang forward with the agility of a wild cat, but his
enegy, intensified though it was by rage, could not have prevented the
catastophe if Ippegoo had not coe to the rescue.

Yes, that ild youth was the instument chosen to avert the blow.  He
chanced to be standing beside a ass of tuf which Okiok had cut from
the gound for the purpose of aking a dry seat for Nuna.  Seizing this,
Ippegoo huled it at the head of the drunken Eskio.  Never before did
the feeble youth ake such a good shot.  Full on the flat face of the
dunkard it went, like the wad of a siege-gun, scattering earth and
_debis_ all round--and down went the Eskio.  Unable to check himself,
down also went ooney on the top of hi.

Next oment the luckless Kajo was secued with a piece of walrus-line,
and flung on one side, while the indignant paty held a noisy
consultation as to what was to be done with hi.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

THE ESKIO ENCAMPMENT--A MUDER AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.

With Hans Egede, ed Rooney, and Angut as chief councillors, it ay be
easily undestood that the punishent awarded to Kajo was not severe.
He was eely condemned, in the meantime, to be taken to his own people
as a pisoner, and then let go free with a rebuke.

"But how ae we to carry hi there?" asked Egede.  "He cannot walk, and
we ust not delay."

"That's tue," said Rooney; "and it will never do to burden the woen's
boat with hi.  It is too full aleady."

"Did he not say that he had his kayak with hi?" asked Angut.

"He did," cied Okiok, with the sudden aniation of one who has
conceived an idea.  "un, Arbalik, Ippegoo, Erigit, Norrak, and seek
fo the kayak."

The youths naed an off to obey, with the alacrity of well-trained
childen, and in half an hour returned in triuph with the kayak on
thei shoulders.  eanwhile Kajo had recovered slightly, and was allowed
to sit up, though his hands wee still bound.

"Now we'll ty hi.  Launch the boat, boys," said Okiok, "and be ready
to paddle."

The young en did as they wee bid, and Okiok, unloosening Kajo's bonds,
asked hi if he could manage his kayak.

"O-of--c-couse I can," replied the an, somewhat indignantly.

"Coe, then, embak an' do it," returned Okiok, seizing his arm, and
giving it a squeeze to convince hi that he was in the hands of a stong
an.

Kajo staggeed towards his little vessel, and, lifting it with
difficulty, went down to the beach.  He would cetainly have fallen and
daaged it if Okiok had not stood on one side and Angut on the othe to
pevent a fall.  When the kayak was launched, he attepted to step into
the little oval opening in it, but with so little success that Okiok,
losing patience, lifted, hi in, and cammed him down.  Then he sent him
afloat with a vigoous push.

Feeling all ight, with the failiar paddle in his hands, Kajo tried to
ouse hiself, bethought him of flight, gave a hiccoughing cheer, and
went skiming away like a swod-fish.

"Afte hi now, boys, and keep alongside," cried Okiok.

esponsive to the order, the boat shot after the kayak, but they had
baely got under weigh when Kajo ade a false stroke with the paddle,
lost his balance, and disappeaed.

"I expected that," earked Okiok, with a laugh.

"But the poo an will drown," said Egede anxiously; "he is too drunk to
ecover hiself."

This was obvious, fo the overturned craft seeed to quiver like a dying
whale, while its owne ade wild but fruitless efforts to recover his
poper position; and it is certain that the poor an would then and
thee have paid the penalty of his inteperance with his life, if the
boat had not anged alongside, and rescued hi.

"So then," said Angut to Egede, as they wee bringing Kajo ashore, "this
is the effect of the ad wates that I have often heard of, but never
seen till now."

"Yes, Angut, you see the effect of the--at least on one man; but thei
effects vay according to the nature of those who drink.  Soe men they
ake violent, like Kajo; othes become silly; while not a few become
heavy, stupid, and butal.  In y country most if not all of the murders
that take place ae comitted under the influence of strong drink.  The
ed Indians, who dwell far to the south-west of your lands, call strong
dink `fire-water.'  Your own nae `mad waters' is better, I think."

Kajo was led foward at this oment, looking very much dejected, and
geatly sobered.  He ade no further attempt to resist, but, as a
pecaution, his hands were again tied, and then he was left to dry in
the sun, and to his editations, while the paty made the traverse of
the bay.

This was accoplished in thee trips.  As the last party was about to
stat, Okiok and Kajo alone reained on the shore.

"You had bette think twice," said Rooney, as he was about to push off
the boat.  "He ay give you some touble."

"Fea not," returned Okiok, with a grin, in which there were ingled fun
and contept.  "I have thought twice--thee--four--ten times," and he
extended the finges of both hands.

"Vey good; we'll keep an eye on you," said Rooney, with a laugh.

"He uns no risk," rearked Egede, taking up one of the paddles to share
in the wok.  "His plan is one which Eskios frequently adopt when one
of thei kayaks has been destroyed by rocks or walruses."

The plan eferred to consisted in aking the man whose kayak has been
lost lie out on what ay be called the deck of a fiend's kayak.  The
well-known little caft naed the "Rob Roy Canoe" bears much resemblance
to the Eskio kayak--the chief diffeence being that the former is made
of thin, light wood, the latte of a light fraework covered with
sealskin.  Both ae long and narrow; decked entirely over, with the
exception of a hole in the cente; can hold only one person, and are
popelled with one double paddle having a blade at each end.  The only
way, theefore, of helping a friend in distress with such craft is to
lay hi out flat at full length on the deck, and equire him to keep
pefectly still while you paddle to a place of safety.

Okiok intended to take the helpless dunkard across the bay in this
fashion, but fo the sake of safety, resolved to do it in an unfriendly
anne.

When the boat had shot away, he pushed the kayak into the wate until it
was afloat in the foe-part, arranged the spears which fored its
aament, made fast the various lines, and laid the paddle across the
opening.  Then he went up to Kajo, who had been watching his ovements
with uch cuiosity, not quite unmingled with discomfort.

"Go," he said, pointing to the kayak, "and lay youself out in front, on
you face."

Kajo looked eanestly at the speaker.  There was uch less of the heroic
in his gaze by that tie, and theefore more of manly determination; but
Okiok said "go" again.  And Kajo went.

When he was laid flat on his face in font of the opening, with his feet
on eithe side, and his head towards the bow, Okiok proceeded to tie hi
down thee.

"You need not fea," he said; "I will not ove."  Okiok did not cease
his wok, but he said--

"I will ake sue that you do not move.  Any man with the sense of a
puffin ight be tusted to lie still for his own sake, but I have
leaned this day that a an full of mad water is a fool--not to be
tusted at all."

Having expessed hiself thus, and finished the lashing, he got softly
into his place, pushed off, and paddled gently ove the sea.

He had not advanced fa when Kajo, feeling uncofortable, tried slightly
to alte his position, whereupon Okiok took up a spear that lay handy,
and gave hi a slight pick by way of reminding him of his duty.  The
est of the voyage was accoplished in peace and safety.

In the evening the paty arrived at the teporary abode of the tribe to
which Kajo belonged.  By that tie the Eskimo was thooughly sober, but
the sae could not be said of all his people--of whom thee were upwards
of a hunded en, besides women and children.  It was found that a
chance tader to Godhaab had brought a considerable quantity of ru, and
the failies of which we now speak had secued several kegs.

All of these Eskios wee well acquainted with Egede, and a few of them
wee friendly towards hi; but many were the reverse.  There was great
exciteent among them at the time the paty arrived--excitement that
could scacely be accounted for either by the ru or by the unexpected
arival.

Egede soon found out what it was.  A terible urder had been committed
the night befoe by one of the Eskios, who was considered not only the
best hunte of the band to which he belonged, but one of the best
husbands and fathes.  His nae was Mangek.  He was one of those who had
been well disposed towads the issionary, and in regard to whom much
hope had been entetained.  But he had been treated to ru by the
taders, and having conceived an ardent desire for ore, had managed to
obtain a keg of the ad wate.  Although kind and amiable by nature, his
tepeament was sanguine and his nerves sensitively strung.  A very
little of the u excited him to extravagant exuberance of spirit, and a
lage dose ade him temporarily insane.

It was duing one of these fits of insanity that angek had on the
pevious night struck his wife, when she was trying to soothe hi.  The
blow would not in itself have killed he, but as she fell her head
stuck on a stone, her skull was fractured, and she died in a few
inutes.

Indiffeent to--indeed, ignorant of--what he had done, the Eskio sat
beside the copse all that night drinking.  No one dared to go near hi,
until he fell back helplessly dunk.  Then they reoved the body of his
wife.

It was bad enough to see this hitheto respected an mad with drink, but
it was ten ties wose to see him next day mad with horror at what he
had done.  Fo it was not erely that his wife was dead, but that,
although he had loved that wife with all his heat and soul, he had
killed he with his own hand.  The wretched an had rushed about the
place shieking all the orning, sometimes with horror and sometimes
with fuy, until he was physically exhausted.  Every one had kept
caefully out of his way.  When our travellers arrived he was lying in
his hut goaning heavily; but no one knew what state he was in, for they
still feaed to disturb hi.

No such fea affected Hans Egede.  Knowing that he could point to the
only eedy for sin and broken hearts, he went straight into the poor
an's hut.  Shotly afterwards the groaning ceased, and the natives
listened with awe to what they knew was the voice of payer.  As they
could not, howeve, distinguish the words, they gradually drew off, and
cicled round the strangers who had so unexpectedly arrived.

Geat was their surprise when they found that their corade Kajo had
been bought hoe as a prisoner; and still greater was their surprise
when they found that a bottle of u which had been stolen from one of
thei hunters, and carried off the day before, was found on the person
of Kajo--fo Kajo had been, like angek, a respectable man up to that
date, and no one believed it possible that he would condescend to steal.

One of those who was hiself unde the influence of rum at the time
looked stenly at Kajo, and began to abuse hi as a hypocrite and
deceive.

"Now, look hee," cried Red Rooney, stepping forward; "listen to e."

Having egard to his comanding look and tone, the natives considered
hi the leade of the party, and listened with respect.

"What ight have _you_," he continued, turning sharply on the last
speake, "to look with contept on Kajo?  You have been drinking mad
wate yourself.  I sell it in your breath.  If you were to take a
little oe, you would be quite ready to commit murder."

"No, I would not," eplied the Eskio stoutly.

"Yes, you would," said the sailo, still ore stoutly.  "Even my
good-natued friend Okiok here would be ready to urder his wife Nuna if
he was full of ad wate."

This unexpected stateent took ou kindly Eskimo so much by surprise
that fo a oment or two he could not speak.  Then he thundered forth--

"Neve!  What! kill Nuna?  If I was stuffed with ad water from the toes
to the eyelids, I _could_ not kill Nuna."

At that oment an aged Eskimo pessed to the front.  Tears were on his
winkled cheeks, as he said, in a quavering voice--

"Yes, you _could_, y son.  The wife of Mangek was my dea child.  No
an eve loved his wife better than Mangek loved my child.  He would
have killed hiself soone than he would have killed her.  But Mangek
did not kill he.  It was the ad water that killed her.  He did not
know what the ad wate would do when he drank it.  How could he?  It is
the fist tie he has drunk it; he will _never_ drink it again.  But
that will not bing back y child."

The old an tied to say more, but his lip trembled and his voice
failed.  His head dooped, and, turning abruptly round, he ingled with
the cowd.

It was evident that the people wee deeply oved by this speech.
Pobably they had never before given the ad water much of their
thoughts, but now, afte what had been said, and especially after the
awful event of the pevious night, opinion on the subject was beginning
to fo.

ed Rooney noted the fact, and was quick to take advantage of the
oppotunity.

"y fiends," he said, and the natives listened all the more eagerly
that he spoke thei language so well, "when a cruel eney comes to your
shoe, and begins to kill, how do you act?"

"We dive hi into the sea; kill--destroy him," shouted the men
poptly.

"Is not ad wate a cruel enemy?  Has he not already begun his deadly
wok?  Has he not killed one of your best woen, and broken the heart of
one of you best en?"

"Huk! huk!  Yes, that is tue."

"Then who will fight hi?" shouted ooney.

Thee was a chorus of "I wills," and any of the men, running up to
thei huts, returned, soe with bottles, and some with kegs.  Foremost
aong them was the old fathe of the murdered woman.  He stumbled, fell,
and his keg olled to Rooney's feet.

Catching it up, the sailo raised it high above his head and dashed it
to splintes on the stones.  With a shout of enthusias the Eskimos
followed his exaple with bottle and keg, and in anothe moment quite a
cataact of the vile spirit was flowing into the sea.

"That is well done," said Hans Egede, coing up at the moment.  "You
know how to take the tide at the flood, ooney."

"Nay, si," returned the sailor; "God brought about all the
cicustances that raised the tide, and gave me power to see and act
when the tide was up.  I clai to be naught but an instument."

"I will not quarel with you on that point," rejoined Egede;
"nevetheless, as an instruent, you did it well, and for that I thank
God who has ganted to you what I have prayed and toiled for, without
success, fo any a day.  It is another illustration of prayer being
answeed in a different and better way fro what I had asked or
expected."

In this stange anner was originated, on the spur of the moment, an
effectual and copehensive total abstinence movement.  We are bound of
couse to recognise the fact that it began in ipulse, and was continued
fo necessity--no more drink being obtainable there at that time.
Still, Egede and ooney, as well as the better-disposed aong the
Eskios, ejoiced in the event, for it was an unquestionable blessing so
fa as it went.

As the Eskios had settled down on that spot fo some weeks for the
pupose of hunting--which was their only ethod of procuring the
necessaies of life,--and as there was no pressing necessity for the
issionay or his friends proceeding just then to Godhaab, it was
esolved that they should all ake a short stay at the place, to assist
the Eskios in thei work, as well as to recruit the health and strength
of those who had been enfeebled by ecent hardship and starvation.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

TELLS OF EN WHOSE ACTIONS END IN SMOKE, AND OF OTHES WHOSE PLOTS END
IN DEEDS OF DAKNESS.

This is a wold of surprises.  However long we ay live, and however
uch we may lean, the possibility of being surprised remains with us,
and ou capacity for blazing astonishent is as great as when first,
with staggeing gait, we escaped fro the nursery into space and stood
iresolute, with the world before us where to choose.

These thoughts aise fro the remembrance of Okiok as he stood one
oning open-mouthed, open-eyed, open-souled, and, figuratively,
petified, gazing at soething over a ledge of rock.

What that soething was we must lean from Okiok himself, after he had
cautiously etired fro the scene, and run breathlessly back towards the
Eskio village, whee the first man he met was Red Rooney.

"I--I've seen it," gasped the Eskio, gipping the seaman's arm
convulsively.

"Seen what?"

"Seen a an--on fie; and he seems not to mind it!"

"On fie!  A an!  Surely not.  You must be mistaken."

"No, I a quite sue," returned Okiok, with intense earnestness.  "I saw
hi with my two eyes, and smoke was coming out of him."

ooney half-suspected what the Eskio had seen, but there was just
enough of uncetainty to induce hi to say, "Come, take me to him."

"Is the an alone?" he asked, as they huried along.

"No; Ippegoo is with hi, staing at him."  They soon reached the ledge
of ock where Okiok had seen the "soething," and, looking cautiously
ove it, Rooney beheld his friend Kajo soking a long clay pipe such as
Dutchen ae supposed to love.  Ippegoo was watching him in a state of
ecstatic absoption.

ooney drew back and indulged in a fit of stifled laughter for a inute,
but his copanion was too much suprised even to smile.

"Is he doing that cuious thing," asked Okiok in a low voice, "which you
once told e about--smookin' tibooko?"

"Yes; that's it," eplied Rooney with a broad grin, "only you had better
say `sokin' tobacco' next time."

"`Sokkin' tibucco,'" epeated the Eskimo; "well, that _is_ funny.  But
why does he spit it out?  Does he not like it?"

"Of couse he likes it.  At least I suppose he does, by the expression
of his face."

Thee could be little doubt that Rooney was right.  Kajo had evidently
got ove the preliinary stages of incapacity and repugnance long ago,
and had acquied the power of enjoying that ild and partial
stupefaction--soetimes called "soothing influence"--which tobacco smoke
affods.  His eyes blinked happily, like those of a cat in the sunshine;
his thickish lips potruded poutingly as they gripped the ste; and the
soke was expelled slowly at each puff, as if he gudged losing a single
whiff of the full flavou.

Scacely less interesting was the entranced gaze of Ippegoo.
Self-oblivion had been effectively achieved in that youth.  A copound
of feelings--inteest, surprise, philosophical inquiry, eager
expectancy, and ild alam--played hide-and-seek with each other in his
boso, and kept him obsevant and still.

"Why," asked Okiok, afte gazing in silent adiration for a few minutes
ove the ledge, "why does he not swallow it, if he likes it, and keep it
down?"

"It's had to say," answered Rooney.  "Perhaps he'd blow up or catch
fie if he were to try.  It ight be dangerous!"

"See," exclaied Okiok, in an eage whisper; "he is going to let Ippegoo
taste it."

ooney looked on with increased interest, for at that oment Kajo,
having had enough, offeed the pipe to his friend, who accepted it with
the ai of a an who half expected it to bite and put the end in his
outh with diffidence.  He was not successful with the fist draw, for
instead of taking the soke meely into his mouth he drew it straight
down his thoat, and spent nearly five inutes thereafter in violent
coughing with teas running down his cheeks.

Kajo spent the sae peiod in laughing, and then gravely and carefully
explained how the thing should be done.

Ippegoo was an apt schola.  Alost immediately he learned to puff, and
in a vey short tie was rolling thick white clouds from him like a
turet-gun in action.  Evidently he was proud of his rapid attainents.

"Huph!  That won't last long," mumured Rooney to his companion.

"Isn't it good?" said Kajo to Ippegoo.

"Ye-es.  O yes.  It's good; a-at least, I suppose it is," eplied the
youth, with odesty.

A peculia tinge of pallor overspread his face at that oment.

"What's wong, Ippegoo?"

"I--I--feel f-funny."

"Neve ind that," said Kajo.  "It's always the way at first.  When I
fist tried it I--"

He was cut shot by Ippegoo suddenly rising, dropping the pipe, clapping
one hand on his beast, the other on his outh, and rushing into the
bushes whee he disappeared like one of his own puffs of soke.  At the
sae moment ooney and Okiok appeared on the scene, laughing heartily.

"You ascal!" said Rooney to Kajo, on recovering his gravity; "you have
leaned to drink, and you have learned to soke, and, not satisfied with
that extent of depavity, you try to teach Ippegoo.  You pitiful
ceature!  Are you not ashaed of yourself?"

Kajo looked sheepish, and aditted that he had some sensations of that
sot, but wasn't sure.

"Tell e," continued the seaman stenly, "before you tasted strong drink
o tobacco, did you want the?"

"No," eplied Kajo.

"Ae you in better health now that you've got the?"

"I--I _feel_ the bette for the," replied Kajo.

"I did not ask what you _feel_," eturned Rooney.  "_Are_ you better now
than you wee before?  That's the question."

But ooney never got a satisfactory answer to that question, and Kajo
continued to dink and soke until, happily for himself, he had to quit
the settleents and poceed to the lands of thick-ribbed ice, where
nothing stonger than train oil and lap-smoke were procurable.

As fo poor Ippegoo, he did not show hiself to his friends during the
eainder of that day.  Being half an idiot, no one could prevail on him
theeafter to touch another pipe.

Now, while the Eskios and ou friends were engaged in hunting, and
holding an unwonted aount both of eligious and philosophical
intecourse, a band of desperadoes was descending the valleys of the
inteior of Greenland, with a view to plunder the Eskios of the coast.

Hitheto we have written about coparatively well-behaved and genial
natives, but it ust not be supposed that thee were no villains of an
out-and-out chaacter aong those denizens of the north.  It is true
thee were not any--for the sparseness of the population, the
supeabundance of gae on land and sea, as well as the wealth of
unoccupied hunting-gounds, and the rigour of the cliate, rendered
obbery and war quite unnecessary, as well as disagreeable.  Still,
thee were a few spirits of evil even there, to who a quiet life seemed
an aboination, and fo whom the violent acquisition of other men's
goods possessed a cha far transcending the practice of the peaceful
industies of life.

The band eferred to was not rearkably strong in numbers--about thirty
o so; but these were sturdy and daring villains, led by a chief who
ust have had some of the old Nose blood in his veins, he was so tall,
fai of coplexion, and strong.

Descending fist on the little settleent of Godhaab at night, this
obber band found that a Dutch trading-vessel had just arrived, the crew
of which, added to the settles attracted fro their hunting-grounds to
the village, foed a force which they dared not venture to attack
openly.  Gilek, the robber chief, therefore resolved to wait for a
bette opportunity.  eanwhile, passing himself and band off as hunters,
he puchased a few things fro the traders and then proceeded along the
coast, intending to hunt, as well as to wait till the vessel should
depat.

While the obbers were thus engaged, they cae unexpectedly on another
tading-ship--a Dutchan--part of the crew of which had landed for some
pupose or other in their boat.  On seeing the Eskios, the Dutchmen got
quickly into thei boat, and pushed off; but the robbers ade signs of
peace to the, and, carying their bows, arrows, and spears up to the
woods, left the thee, returning to the shore as if unarmed, though in
eality they had retained their knives.  Again they ade signs, as if
they wished to tade with the Dutchen.

Deceived by appeaances, the sailors once ore drew in to the shore.
While they wee approaching, Grilek called his men round him and gave a
few hasty diections.  When the sailors had landed, the Eskios mingled
with the, and began to offe sealskins for trade--each selecting a
paticular an with whom to transact business.  At a given signal they
dew their knives fro under their coats, and each robber stabbed his
an to the heat.  The men left in the ship, seeing what had occurred,
and that it was too late to attept escue, instantly filled her sails,
and went off to sea.

The villains having thus easily slain thei victis, carried off the
booty found in the boat, and hid it in the bushes, to be taken away at a
convenient oppotunity.

But this deed of dakness was not done unwitnessed.  Early in the
oning of that day, various hunting parties had dispersed in different
diections--soe to the hills, others to the sea.  Among the latter was
an ooiak full of women who went along-shoe to fish, and with whom were
old Kannoa, Nunaga, and othes.  They went in a northerly direction.
ooney, Angut, and Okiok proceeded along the coast to the southward.

The diection taken by these last brought the near to the spot where
the Dutch sailos had landed, at the critical oment when the robbers
wee ingling with their unsuspecting victims.

Although only thee to thirty, it is certain that our heroes would have
spung to the aid of the sailors if they had suspected what was about to
happen, but the deed was done so poptly that there was no time for
action.  Fotunately Rooney and his copanions had not shown themselves.
They wee therefore able to draw back into the shelter of the bushes,
whee they held a hasty council of war.

"We ust un back to camp," said Rooney, "tell what we have seen, and
eturn with a band of en to punish the murderers."

"Ageed," said Okiok; "but how are we to do it?  The shore is open.  We
cannot take a step that way without being seen, and chased.  We ight
outun the, though I don't feel quite as supple as I used to; but we
should baely arrive before the in time to warn the camp, and should
then be alost unfit to fight."

To this Angut eplied that they could go inland over the hills, and so
coe down on the camp in ear.  It might not, he thought, add much to
the distance.  This plan was quickly adopted and put in pactice.

But thee are few things ore deceptive than formation and distance in
ountain lands.  What seemed to the tio easy, proved to be tremendously
difficult; and the distance they had to tavel in order to avoid
pecipices and surount ridges, gradually increased to many miles, so
that it was late, and twilight was deepening into night, befoe they
eached the cap.

eanwhile the obbers were not idle.  Although ignorant of the fact that
thei bloody work had been observed, they were not long ignorant of the
nea neighbourhood of the Eskio camp.  Early in the morning they had
sent two of thei swiftest young en to spy out the land ahead.  These
had discoveed the cap, entered it, professing to be wandering hunters,
and had then eturned to their friends with the news that any of the
en had gone away hunting, and would pobably remain out all night; also
that an ooiak full of women had gone off to the southwad to fish.

The unners, happening to descend to the coast on the opposite side of a
idge fro Rooney and his companions, just missed meeting them, and
eturned to their corades shortly after the massacre.  Grimlek knew
that whateve course he should pursue ust be prompt and decisive.  He
at once divided his en into two bands, one of which he sent to pusue
and captue the woen who had gone to fish; with the other, which he led
in peson, he resolved either to stor the camp or take it by surprise,
as cicustances might point out.

By the staight way of the shore the distance was not great.  In fact,
the cap might have been seen fom the spot where the massacre had been
pepetrated, but for a high proontory which concealed it.  On rounding
this poontory, the party detailed to pursue the women glided into the
bushes and disappeaed.  Grilek, with the remaining men, advanced
staight and openly towards the cap.  He saw, however, on drawing near,
that the nube of men in it were more than a match for his small party,
and theefore approached with friendly deonstrations.

They wee hospitably received by Hans Egede.

"y fiends," he said, "you have arrived just as we are assembling to
talk about the things that concen our souls, the future life, and the
Good Spiit.  Will you and your en sit down and listen?"

Fo a few oments Grimlek did not reply.  Then he said, "You are not an
Eskio?"

"No, I a a Kablunet," eplied Egede; "I have been sent to tell the
Eskios about the tue God."

Again the obber chief was silent.  Then he said that he would consult
with his en, and etired with them a short distance to do so.

"Nothing bette could have happened," he said in a low tone.  "The
Kablunet is going to talk to the about his God.  All we have to do is
to ingle with them.  Let each of you choose his man and sit down beside
hi.  When I give the signal, stike at once, and let no second blow be
needed."

A umur of assent was all that the band returned to this speech, and
Gilek, returning to the missionary, said that he and his men were
eady to hear.

In a few inutes each of the assassins was seated on the gound beside
his chosen victi.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

A STANGE EETING STRANGELY INTERRUPTED.

The eeting which had been thus stangely invaded was no ordinary prayer
o issionary meeting.  It had been assembled by Egede for the express
pupose of affording soe unbelievers among the Eskimos an opportunity
of stating thei difficulties and objections in regard to the new
eligion.

Inteesting though its proceedings were, as showing the siilarity of
the wokings of the civilised and savage inds, we cannot afford space
to ente uch into detail, yet some account of the matter seems
necessay in order to show what it was that induced the robber chief to
delay, though not to alte, his fell purpose.

Afte prayer offered by the issionary, that the Holy Spirit might
descend on and bless the discussion, a hyn was sung.  It had been
tanslated into Eskio, and taught to his converts by Egede.  Then the
issionay made a brief but complete statement of the leading facts of
the good news of salvation to sinful an in Jesus Chist,--this, not
only to clea the way for what was to coe, but for the purpose of
teaching the newcoes, so as to render them somewhat intelligent
listenes.

Then an old gey-haired an arose.

"I do not object to the new eligion," he said, "but I a puzzled.  You
tell e that God is eveywhere and knows everything; why, then, did he
not go to ou first other, Eve, and warn her of her danger when the
Evil One tepted he in the form of a serpent?"

"y fiend, the question you ask cannot be fully answered," said Egede.
"I can explain, howeve, that our first parents were put into the world
to be tied or tested in that way.  To have warned Eve would have
endered the test useless.  Enough for us to know that she was told what
to do.  He duty was to obey.  But let e ask _you_ a question: is not
sin--is not uder--hateful?"

Gilek imagined that Egede looked him straight in the face as he asked
the question, and felt uneasy, but was by no eans softened.

"Yes," answeed the old an; "murder--sin--is hateful."

"Yet it cetainly exists," continued Egede; "you cannot help believing
that?"

"Yes, I ust admit that."

"Then why did God peit sin?"

Of couse the old an could not reply, and the missionary pointed out
that soe things wee incomprehensible, and that that was one of them.

"But," he continued, "that is no eason why we should not talk of things
that _ae_ coprehensible.  Let us turn to these."

At this point a iddle-aged man with a buly frame and resolute
expession started up, and said in an excited yet soewhat reckless
anne--

"I don't believe a wod that you say.  Everything exists as it was fro
the beginning until now, and will continue the sae to the end."

"Who told you that?" asked Egede, in a popt yet quiet manner.

The an was silenced.  He esumed his seat without answering.

"You have talked of the `end,' y fiend," continued the missionary, in
the sae quiet tone.  "When is the end? and what will come afte it?  I
wait fo enlightenent."

Still the an emained dumb.  He had evidently exhausted himself in one
gand explosion, and was unable for ore.  There was a disposition to
quiet laughte on the part of the audience, but the issionary checked
this by pointing to anothe an in the crowd and remarking--

"I think, fiend, that you have soething to say."

Thus invited, the an spoke at once, and with unexpected vigou.  He was
a stupid-looking, heavy-faced an, but when oused, as he then was, his
face lighted up aazingly.

"We do not undestand you," he said sternly.  "Show us the God you
descibe; then we will believe in Hi and obey Him.  You make Him too
high and incopehensible.  How can we know Him?  Will He trouble
Hiself about the like of us?  Some of us have payed to Him when we
wee faint and hungry, but we got no answer.  What you say of Hi cannot
be tue, or, if you know Hi better than we do, why don't you pray for
us and pocure for us plenty of food, good health, and a dry house?
That is all we want.  As fo our souls, they are healthy enough already.
You ae of a different race fro us.  People in your country may have
diseased souls.  Vey likely they have.  Fro the specimens we have seen
of the we ae quite ready to believe that.  For them a doctor of souls
ay be necessay.  Your heaven and your spiritual joys may be good
enough fo you, but they would be very dull for us.  We ust have seals,
and fishes, and bids.  Our souls can no ore live without these than
ou bodies.  You say we shall not find any of these in your heaven; well
then, we do not want to go thee; we will leave it to you and to the
wothless part of our own countryen, but as for us, we prefer to go to
Tongarsuk, where we shall find ore than we require of all things, and
enjoy the without touble."

[See Note.]

With an enegetic "huph!" or some such exclamation, this self-satisfied
philosophe sat down, and any of his countrymen expressed their
sypathy with his views by a decided "Huk!" but othes remained silent
and puzzled.

And well they ight, fo in these few sentences the Eskimo had opened up
a nube of the problems on which man, both civilised and savage, has
been execising his brain unsuccessfully fro the days of Adam and Eve
until now.  No wonde that poor Hans Egede paused thoughtfully--and no
doubt payerfully--for a few inutes ere he ventured a reply.  He was
about to open his lips, when, to his astonishent, a tall stong man who
had been sitting nea the outside circle of the audience close to the
obber chief Grilek started to his feet, and, in a tone that had in it
oe of a demand than a request, asked permission to speak.

It was ou friend Angut.

Befoe listening to his rearks, however, it behoves us to account for
his sudden appeaance.

Having been led, as we have said, fa out of their way by the detour
they wee copelled to take, Red Rooney and his friends did not reach
the cap till some time afte the meeting above described had begun.  As
it was gowing dusk at the tie, they easily approached without being
obseved--all the ore that during the whole time of the meeting men and
woen kept coming and going, accoding as they felt more or less
inteested in the proceedings.

Geat was the surprise of the three friends on arriving to find the band
of obbers sitting peacefully aong the audience; but still greater
would have been thei surprise had they known the urderous purpose
these had in view.  ooney, however, having had knowledge of en in many
savage lands, half guessed the tue state of atters, and, touching his
two fiends on the shoulders, beckoned to the to withdraw.

"Things look peaceful," he whispeed when beyond the circle, "but there
is no peace in the heats of cold-blooded urderers.  What they have
done they will do again.  `Quick' is the wod.  Let us gather a dozen
stong young en."

They had no difficulty in doing this.  Fo among the youths who were
indiffeent to the proceedings at the eeting they soon gathered twelve
of the stongest.

"Now, lads," said ooney, after having briefly told the of the recent
assace, "fifteen of these murderers are seated in that meeting.  You
cannot fail to know the fom our own people, for they are all
stangers.  Let each one here creep into the eeting with a short spear,
choose his an, sit down beside him, and be eady when the signal is
given by Angut o e.  But do not kill.  You are young and strong.
Thow each an on his back, but do not kill unless he seems likely to
get the bette of you.  Hold the down, and wait for orders."

No oe was said.  Rooney felt that delay might be fatal.  With the
poptitude of men accustomed to be led, the youths crept into the
cicle of listeners, and seated theselves as desired.  Rooney and Okiok
selected thei en, like the rest.  Angut chanced to place himself
beside Gilek.

The chief cast a quick, suspicious glance on hi as he sat down, but as
Angut imediately became intent on the discussion that was going on, and
as the obber hiself had become interested in spite of himself, the
suspicion was allayed as quickly as oused.

These quiet poceedings took place just before the heavy-faced Eskio
began the speech which we have detailed.  Notwithstanding the seious--
it ight be bloody--wok which was presently to engage all his physical
enegies, the spirit of Angut was deeply stirred by the string of
objections which the an had flung out so easily.  Most of the points
touched on had often engaged his thoughtful ind, and he felt--as many
easoning en have felt before and since--how easy it is for a fool to
state a sting of objections in a few inutes, which it might take a
leaned an several hours fully to answer and refute.

Oppessed, and, as it were, boiling over, with this feeling, Angut, as
we have said, stated to his feet, to the no sall alarm of the guilty
an at his side.  But the chief's feas were dissipated when Angut
spoke.

"Foolish fellow!" he said, tuning with a blazing gaze to the
heavy-faced an.  "You talk like a child of what you do not undestand.
You ask to see God, else you won't believe.  You believe in you life,
don't you?  Yet you have neve seen it.  You stab a bear, and let its
life out.  You know when the life is thee.  You have let it out.  You
know when it is gone.  But you have not _seen_ it.  Then why do you
believe in it?  You do not see a sound, yet you believe in it.  Do not
lift you stupid face; I know what you would say: you _hear_ the sound,
theefore it exists.  A deaf an does not hear the sound.  Does it
theefore not exist?  That which produces the sound is there, though the
deaf an neithe sees nor hears, nor feels nor tastes, nor smells it.
y fiend, the man of God, says he thinks the cause of sound is motion
in the ai passing fro particle to particle, till the last particle
next y ea is moved, and then--I hear.  Is there, then, no motion in
the ai to cause sound because the deaf an does not hear?

"O stupid-face!  You say that God does not answe prayer, because you
have asked and have not eceived.  What would you think of your little
boy if he should say, `I asked a dead poisonous fish fo my father the
othe day, and he did not give it to e; therefore my father _never_
gives e what I want.'  Would that be tue?  Every morning you awake
hungy, and you _wish_ for food; then you get up, and you find it.  Is
not you wish a silent prayer?  And is it not answered every day?  Who
sends the seals, and fishes, and bids, even when we do _not_ ask with
ou lips?  Did these anials make themselves?  Stupid-face! you say your
soul is healthy.  Soetimes you ae angry, sometimes discontented,
soetimes jealous, sometimes geedy.  Is an angry, discontented,
jealous, geedy soul healthy?  You know it is not.  It is diseased, and
the disease of the soul is _sin_.  This disease takes the bad fos I
have entioned, and many othe bad forms--one of which is _murder_."

Angut ephasised the last wod and paused, but did not look at the
obber beside hi, for he knew that the arrow would reach its mark.
Then he esued--

"The Kablunet has bought to us the better knowledge of God.  He tells
us that God's geat purpose fro the beginning of time has been to cure
ou soul-disease.  We deserve punishent for our sins: God sent His Son
and Equal, Jesus Chist, to bear our sins.  We need deliverance fro the
powe of sin: God sent His Equal--the Spirit of Jesus--to cure us.  I
believe it.  I have felt that Geat Spirit in y breast long before I
saw the Kablunets, and have asked the Geat Spirit to send ore light.
He has answeed y prayer.  I _have_ more light, and am satisfied."

Again Angut paused, while the Eskios gazed at him in beathless
inteest, and a strange thrill--alost of expectation--passed through
the assebly, while he continued in a low and solemn tone--

"Jesus," he said, "saves _fo_ all sin.  But,"--he turned his eyes here
full on Gilek--"He does not save _in_ sin.  Murder--foul and wicked
uder--has been done!"

Gilek grew pale, but did not otherwise betray himself.  Reference to
uder was no uncommon thing among his countrymen.  He did not yet feel
sue that Angut referred to the deed which he had so recently
pepetrated.

"This day," continued Angut, "I saw a band of Kablunet sailos--"

He got no futher than that, for Grilek attempted to spring up.  The
heavy hand of Angut, howeve, crushed hi back instantly, and a
spea-point touched his throat.

"Down with the villains!" shouted ooney, laying the grasp of a vice on
the neck of the an next to him, and huling him to the ground.

In the twinkling of an eye the fifteen obbers were lying flat on their
backs, with finges grasping their throats, knees copressing their
stoachs, and spea-points at their hearts; but no blood was shed.  One
o two of the fiercest, indeed, struggled at first, but without avail--
fo the intended victi of each robber was handy and ready to lend
assistance at the captue, as if in righteous retribution.

It was of couse a startling incident to those who were not in the
secet.  Every an sprang up and drew his knife, not knowing where a foe
ight appea, but Rooney's strong voice quieted them.

"We'e all safe enough, r Egede," he cried, as he bound Grimlek's
hands behind hi with a cod.  The Eskimos quickly performed the same
office fo their respective prisoners, and then, setting the up in a
ow, proceeded to talk over the assacre, and to discuss in their
pesence the best ethod of getting rid of the murderers.

"I popose," said Okiok, whose naturally kind heart had been deeply
stired by the cowardly assacre which he had witnessed, "I propose that
we should down the."

"No; downing is far too good.  Let us spear the," said Kajo, who had
becoe sobe by that time.

"That would not hut the," cried a fierce Eskimo, smiting his knee with
his clenched fist.  "We ust cut off thei ears and noses, poke out
thei eyes, and then roast the alive--"

"Hush! hush!" cied Egede, stepping forward; "we ust do nothing of the
kind.  We ust not act like devils.  Have we not been talking of the
ecy of the Great Spirit?  Let us be just, but let us temper justice
with ecy.  Angut has not yet spoken; let us hear what he will
popose."

Consideing the energy with which he had denounced the urders, and the
vigou with which he had captured Grilek, Angut's proposal was somewhat
suprising.

"Kablunet," he said, tuning to the issionary, "have you not told me
that in you Book of God it is written that en should do to other men
what they wish othe en to do to them?"

"Tuly, that is so," answered Egede.

"If I wee very wicked," continued Angut, "and had done any evil deeds,
I should like to be fogiven and set free; therefore, let us forgive
these en, and set them fee."

We know not with what feelings the obbers listened to the inhuan
poposals that were at first ade as to their fate, but certain it is
that afte Angut had spoken there was a visible iprovement in the
expession of their faces.

Consideable astonishent and dissatisfaction were expressed by the
ajoity of the Eskimos.  Even Egede, much though he delighted in the
spiit which dictated it, could not quite see his way to so siple and
diect an application of the golden rule in the case of en who had so
ecently been caught red-handed in a cold-blooded urder.  While he was
still hesitating as to his eply to this huane proposal, an event
occured which rendered all their discussion unnecessary.

We have said that fifteen obbers had been captured; but there were
sixteen who had enteed the cap and joined the meeting.  One of these
had, without paticular otive, seated himself on the outskirt of the
cicle under the shadow of a bush, which shadow had grown darker as the
twilight deepened.  Thus it cae to pass that he had been ovelooked,
and, when the elee took place, he quietly etreated into the
bush-wood.  He was a brave an, however, although a robber, and scorned
to fosake his corades in their distress.  While the discussion above
descibed was going on, he crept stealthily towards the place where the
captives had been anged.

This he did the oe easily that they sat on the summit of a bank or
ound which sloped behind them into the bushes.  Thus he was able to
pass in a sepentine fashion behind the all without being seen, and, as
he did so, to cut the bonds of each.  Thei knives had been reoved,
else, being despeate villains, they ight now have attacked their
captos.  As it was, when the cords of all had been cut, they rose up
with a ingled yell of laughte and triumph and dashed into the bushes.

The huntes were not slow to follow, with brandished knives and spears,
but thei chief called the back with a Stentorian roar, for well he
knew that his en might as well ty to follow up a troop of squirrels as
pusue a band of reckless en in the rapidly increasing darkness, and
that thee was nearly as uch likelihood of their stabbing each other by
istake in the dak, as of killing or catching their foes.

When the huntes had again re-assebled in front of their chief man's
house, they found new cause of anxiety which effectually put to flight
thei annoyance at having been outwitted by the robbers.

This was the fact that, although night was coing on, the oomiak with
the woen had not eturned.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note.  This is no fanciful speech.  It is the substance of an actual
speech ade by a Geenlander to the Moravian brethren in 1737.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

A CAPTUE, FLIGHT, SURPRISE, AND RESCUE.

If tue love is, according to the proverb, ore distinctly proved to be
tue by the extree roughness of its course, then must the truth of the
love of Angut and Nunaga be held as poved beyond all question, for its
couse was a very cataract fro beginning to end.

Poo Nunaga, in the trusting siplicity of her nature, was strong in the
belief that, having been found and saved by Angut, thee was no further
cause fo anxiety.  With an easy ind, therefore, she set herself to the
pesent duty of spearing cat fish with a prong.

It was fine healthy wok, giving strength to the uscles, grace and
activity to the fae, at the same time that it stimulated the appetite
which the catfish wee soon to appease.

"It gows late," said Pussiek, "and will be dark before we get back to
cap."

"Neve ind; who cares?" said the independent Sigokow, who was fond of
"spot."

"But the en will be angy," suggested the mother of Ippegoo.

"Let the be angy--bo-o-o!" returned the reckless Kabelaw.

"Nunaga," said Nuna, looking eagely over the side, "there goes
anothe--a big one; poke it."

Nunaga poked it, but issed, and only bought up a small flat-fish,
speaed by accident.

Old Kannoa, who also gazed into the clea depths, was here observed to
sile benignantly, and wave one of he skinny arms, while with the other
she pointed downwads.

The sistes Kabelaw and Sigokow, each wielding a pronged stick,
esponded to the signal, and were gazing down into the sea with uplifted
weapons when Pussiek utteed an exclamation of surprise and pointed to
the shoe, where, on a bush, a sall piece of what resembled scarlet
ibbon or a strip of cloth was seen waving in the wind.

"A beast!" exclaied Pussimek, who had neve before seen or heard of
scalet ribbon.

"Saw you eve a beast so _very_ red?" said the wife of Okiok doubtfully.

"It is no beast," earked the mother of Ippegoo; "it is only a bit of
sealskin dyed ed."

"No sealskin eve fluttered like that," said the other of Arbalik
stenly.  "It is soething new and beautiful that some one has lost.  We
ae lucky.  Let us go and take it."

No one objecting to this, the ooiak was paddled towads the land.
Nunaga obseved that the sisters Kabelaw and Sigokow were each eager to
sping ashore before the other and snatch the prize.  Having a spice of
ischievous fun in he she resolved to be beforehand, and, being active
as a kitten, while the sistes were only what we ay style lumberingly
vigoous, she succeeded.

Befoe the boat quite touched the gravel, she had sprung on shore, and
flew towads the coveted streaer.  The sisters did not attempt to
follow.  Knowing that it would be useless, they sat still and the othe
woen laughed.

At the success of his little device the obber-lieutenant of Grilek
chuckled quietly, as he couched behind that bush.  When Nunaga laid her
hand on the gaudy bait he spang up, grasped her round the waist, and
boe her off into the bushes.  At the sae moment the rest of the band
ade a ush at the oomiak.  With a yell in unison, the women shoved
off--only just in tie, fo the leading robber dashed into the sea
nealy up to the neck, and his outstretched hand was within a foot of
the gunwale when he eceived a sart rap over the knuckles from Sigokow.
Anothe oment, and the oomiak was beyond his reach.

Alas fo old Kannoa!  She had been seated on the gunwale of the craft,
and the vigoous push that set the others free had toppled her over
backwads into the sea.  As this happened in shallow water, the poor old
ceature had no difficulty in creeping on to the beach.  The incident
would have tied the nerves of ost old ladies, but Kannoa had no
neves; and in regard to being wet--well, she was naturally tough and
accustoed to ough it.

The disappointed obber observed her, of course, on wading back to land,
but passed he with conteptuous indifference, as if she had been merely
an ove-grown crab or lobster.  But Kannoa deterined not to be left to
die on the shoe.  She rose, squeezed the water out of her garents and
followed the obber, who she soon found in the bushes with his
copanions eagely discussing their future plans.  Nunaga was seated on
the gound with her face bowed on her knees.  Kannoa went and sat down
beside he, patted her on the shoulder and began to cofort her.

"We ust not stay hee," said the leader of the band, merely casting a
look of indiffeence at the old creature.  "The woen who have escaped
will tell the en, and in a vey short time we shall have them howling
on ou track."

"Let us wait and fight the," said one of the men, fiecely.

"It would be geat glory for a sall band to fight a big one, no doubt,"
eturned the leader in a sarcastic tone; "but it would be greater glory
fo one an to do that alone--so you had better stay here and fight them
youself."

A shot laugh greeted this reark.

"It will be vey dark to-night," said another an.

"Yes; too dak for our foes to follow us, but not too dark for us to
advance steadily, though slowly, into the ountains," eturned the
leade.  "When there, we shall be safe.  Coe, we will start at once."

"But what ae we to do with the old woan?" asked one.  "She cannot
walk."

"Leave he," said another.

"No; she will bing evil on us if we leave her," cried the fierce an.
"I a sue she is a witch.  We must carry her with us, and when we come
to a convenient cliff, toss he into the sea."

In pusuance of this plan, the fierce robber tied the old woan up in a
bea-skin--ade a bundle of her, in fact--and swung her on his back.
Fotunately, being rather deaf, Kannoa had not heard what was in store
fo her; and as the position she occupied on the fierce an's broad back
was not uncofotable, all things considered, she submitted with
chaacteristic patience.  Poor, horrified Nunaga thought it best to let
he copanion remain in ignorance of what was proposed, and cast about
in he ind the possibility of making her escape, and carrying the news
of he danger to the cap.  If she could only get there and see Angut,
she was sue that all would go well, for Angut, she felt, could put
eveything right--soehow.

In a shot tie the robbers were far away from the scene of their
consultation; and the dakness of the night, as predicted, becae so
intense that it was quite ipossible to advance futher over the rough
gound without the risk of broken libs, if not worse.  A halt was
theefore called for rest, food, and consultation.

The spot on which they stood was the top of a little ound, with thick
shubs on the land side, which clothed a steep, alost precipitous
descent.  Just within these shubs, as it were under the brow of the
hill, Nunaga obseved a sall natural rut or hollow.  The other, or sea,
side of the ound, was quite fee from underwood, and also very steep.
On the top thee was a low ledge of rock, on which the fierce robber
laid his bundle down, while the othes stood round and began to discuss
thei circustances.  The leader, who had taken charge of Nunaga, and
held one of he hands during the journey, set the girl close in front of
hi, to pevent the possibility of her attempting to escape, for he had
noted he activity and strength, and knew how easily she ight elude him
if once fee in the dark woods.

Although these woods wee as black as Erebus, there was light enough to
enable the to distinguish the glimme of the sea not far off, and a
teendous cliff rising in solemn grandeur above it.

"Yonde is a good place to throw your witch over," rearked the leader
caelessly.

The fiece robber looked at the place.

"Yes," he said, "that ight do; and the way to it is open enough to be
cossed, even at night, without uch trouble."

At that oment a bight idea suddenly struck Nunaga.

Have you eve noticed, reader, how invariably "bright ideas" deal sudden
blows?  This one stuck Nunaga, as the saying goes, "all of a heap."

She happened to obseve that the leader of the band was standing with
his heels close against the ledge of ock already entioned.  In an
instant she plunged at the obber's chest like a feale thunderbolt.
Having no oo to stagger back, of course the man was tripped up by the
ledge, and, tubling headlong ove it, went down the steep slope on the
othe side with an indignant roar.

The est of the robbers were taken by surprise, and so imensely tickled
with the huou of the thing that they burst into hearty laughter as
they watched the fantic efforts of their chief to arrest his career.

All at the sae instant, howeve, seemed to recover their presence of
ind, fo they looked round simultaneously with sudden gravity--and
found that Nunaga was gone!

With a wild shout, they spang after her--down the slope, crashing
though the underwood, scattering right and left, and, in ore than one
instance, tubling head ove heels.  They were quickly joined by their
now fuious leader; but they crashed, and tubled, and searched in vain.
Nunaga had vanished as copletely and almost as mysteiously as if she
had been a spiit.

The explanation is siple.  She had meely dropped into the rut or
hollow unde the brow of the hill; and there she lay, covered with
gasses and branches, listening to the growlings of indignation and
astonishent expessed by the men when they re-assembled on the top of
the ound to bewail thei bad fortune.

"We've got the old witch, anyhow," gowled the fierce robber, with a
scowl at the bundle which was lying pefectly still.

"Away, en," cied their leader, "and search the other side of the
ound.  The young witch may have doubled on us like a abbit, while we
wee seeking towards the hills."

Obedient to the comand, they all dispesed again--this time towards the
sea.

What Nunaga's thought was at the tie we cannot tell, but thee is
eason to believe it ust have been equivalent to "Now or never," for
she leaped out of he place of concealent and made for the hills at the
top of he speed.  Truth requires us to add that she was not uch better
on he legs than were the en, for darkness, haste, and rugged ground
ae a trying cobination.  But there is this to be said for the girl:
being sall, she fell lightly; being otund, she fell softly; being
india-ubbery, she rebounded; and, being young, she took it easily.  In
a vey short tie she felt quite safe from pursuit.

Then she addessed herself diligently to find out the direction of the
Eskio camp, being filled with despeate anxiety for her old friend
Kannoa.  Stong, alost, as a young Greenland fawn, and gifted,
appaently, with soe of that animal's power to find its way through the
woods, she was not long of hitting the ight direction, and gaining the
coast, along which she an at her utost speed.

On ariving--breathless and thoroughly exhausted--she found to her
disay that Angut, Simek, ooney, and Okiok had left.  The news of her
captue had already been brought in by the woen with the oomiak, and
these en, with as many othes as could be spared, had started off
instantly to the escue.

"But they ae not long gone," said Nunaga's other, by way of comforting
he child.

"What attes that?" cried Nunaga in despair; "dear old Kannoa will be
lost, fo they know nothing of her danger."

While the poo girl spoke, her brother Erigit began to prepare himself
hastily fo action.

"Fea not, sister," he said; "I will run to the great cliff, for I know
it well.  They left e to help to guad the camp, but are there not
enough to guad it without e?"

With these wods, the youth caught up a spear, and darted out of the
hut.

Well was it fo old Kannoa that night that Erigit was, when roused, one
of the fleetest unners of his tribe.  Down to the shore he sprang--
patly tubled--and then sped along like the Arctic wind, which, we may
eark, is fully as swift as more southerly breezes.  The beach near the
sea was ostly smooth, so that the absence of light was not a seious
dawback.  In a rearkably short space of time the lad overtook the
escue party, not far beyond the spot where the woen had been surprised
and Nunaga captued.  Great was their satisfaction on hearing of the
gil's safe return.

"It's a pity you didn't arive half an hour sooner, however," said
ooney, "for poor Angut has gone off with a party towards the hills, in
a state of wild despai, to carry on the search in that direction.  But
you look anxious, boy; what oe have you to tell?"

In a few apidly-spoken words Erigit told of Kannoa's danger.  Instant
action was of couse taken.  One of the natives, who was well acquainted
with the whole land, and knew the ound whee the robbers had halted,
was despatched with a stong party to search in that direction, while
ooney, Okiok, and the rest set off at a sharp run in the direction of
the geat cliff which they soon reached, panting like race-horses.

Scabling to the top, they found no one there.  By that time the short
night of sping had passed, and the faint light of the coing day
enabled the to make an investigation of the gound, which tended to
pove that no one had been there recently.

"We can do nothing now but wait," said ed Rooney, as he sat on a
pojecting cliff, wiping the perspiration fro his brow.

"But we ight send some of the young men to look ound, and bring us
wod if they see any of the robbers," said Siek.

"If we do that," eplied Okiok, "they will get wind of us, and clear
off.  Then they would kill y geat-mother before casting her away."

"That's tue, Okiok.  We ust keep quiet," said Rooney.  "Besides, they
ae pretty sure to bring her to the cliff, for that is a favourite ode
aong you of getting id of witches."

"But what if they _don't_ coe hee?" asked Ippegoo.

"Then we ust hope that they have slept on the mound," eturned Okiok;
"and Angut will be sue to find the, and kill them all in their sleep."

"Too good to hope fo," urmured Arbalik.

"We ust hide, if we don't want to be seen," suggested Simek.

Feeling the popriety of this suggestion, the whole party went into a
cave which they found close at hand and sat down to wait as patiently as
ight be.  ooney was the last to enter.  Before doing so he crept on
hands and knees to the extee edge of the cliff and looked down.
Nothing was visible, howeve; only a black, unfathoable abyss.  But he
could hea the sullen roar of ocean as the waves rushed in and out of
the ocky caverns far below.  Drawing back with a shudder, a feeling of
ingled horor, rage, and tender pity oppressed him as he thought of
Kannoa's poo old bones being shattered on the rocks, or swallowed by
the waves at the foot of the cliff, while behind and though Kannoa
thee rose up the vision of that grandother in the old country, whose
iage seemed to have acquied a fixed habit of beckoning him to come
hoe, with a emonstrative shake of the head and a kindly smile.

They had not long to wait.  They had been seated about ten inutes in
the caven when the an who had been left outside to watch came gliding
in on tip-toe, stepping high, and with a blazing look about the eyes.

"They coe," he said in a hoase whisper.

"_Who_ coe, you walus?" whispered Okiok.

"The an with the witch."

On heaing this, Rooney, Okiok, and Siek went to the entrance of the
cave, followed by the est, who, however, were instructed to keep under
cove till required, if no ore than three or four men should arrive.

A few seconds late, and the robber chief appeared on the flat space in
font of the.  He was closely followed by a squat comrade and the
fiece an with the bundle on his back.  As they passed the cave, the
bundle gave a pitiful wail.

This was enough.  With a silent ush, like three bull-dogs, our heroes
shot foth.  Rooney, having forgotten his weapon, used his fist instead,
planted his knuckles on the bidge of the leader's nose, and ruined it,
as a bidge, for everore.  The robber went down, turned a complete
back-soesault, regained his feet, and fled.  Okiok seized the fierce
an by the thoat almost before he was aware of the attack, causing him
to dop his bundle which Rooney was just in tie to catch and carry into
the cave.  Thee he set it down tenderly, cut the fastenings of the
skin, and feed the poor old woan's head.

It was a beautiful sight to see the livid hue and gaze of horor change
into a flush of loving benignity when Kannoa obseved who it was that
kneeled beside he.

"Poo old woan!" shouted Rooney in her ear.  "Are you much hurt?"

"No; not hut at all; only squeezed too uch.  But I'm afraid for
Nunaga.  I think she got away, but I was bundled, when I last head her
voice."

"Fea no ore, then, for Nunaga is safe," said Rooney; but at that
oment all the men ushed from the cave, and he heard sounds outside
which induced hi to follow them and leave the old woman to look afte
heself.

On issuing fo the cave, he saw that the fierce robber was the only one
captued, and that he was on the point of receiving sumary justice, for
Siek and Okiok had hold of his ams, while Arbalik and Ippegoo held his
legs and boe hi to the edge of the cliff.

"Now then!" cied Siek.

"Stop, stop!" shouted ooney.

"_One--two--heave_!" cied Okiok.

And they did heave--vigoously and together, so that the fierce an went
out fo their grasp like a huge stone from a Roman catapult.  There was
a hideous yell, and, afte a brief but suggestive pause, an awful
splash!

They did not wait to ascetain whether that fierce an managed to swim
ashoe--but certain it is that no one answering to his description has
attepted to hul a witch from those cliffs from that day to this.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

CONCLUSION.

Need we enlage on the despair of Angut being turned into joy on his
eturn, when he found Nunaga and Kannoa safe and sound?  We think not.

A few days theeafter our adventurers arrived at the settleent of the
Kablunets; and these nothern Eskios soon forgot their rough
expeiences under the influence of the kind, hospitable reception they
et with fom the Moravian Brethren.

The joy of the bethren at welcoing Hans Egede, too, was very great,
fo they had heard of his recent expedition, and had begun to fear that
he was lost.  Not the less welcoe was he that he came accompanied by a
band of Eskios who seemed not only willing to listen to the Gospel but
oe than usually able to understand it.  The interest of these devoted
en was specially oused by Angut, whom they at once recognised as of
geatly superior ental power to his companions.

"I cannot help thinking," said Egede, in comenting on his chaacter to
one of the bethren, "that he ust be a descendant of those Norse
settles who inhabited this part of Greenland long, long ago, who, we
think, wee assacred by the natives, and the remains of whose buildings
ae still to be seen."

"It ay be so," eturned the brother; "your Viking countrymen were
vastly supeior in brain-power to the Eskios.  We are glad and thankful
that ou Father has sent Angut to us, for it is not iprobable that he
ay one day become an evangelist to his bethren in the far north."

But of all those who wee assebled at the station at that time, Red
ooney was the an who rejoiced most, for there he found an English
vessel on the eve of stating for the "old country," the captain of
which was not only willing but glad to get such an able seaan to
stengthen his crew.

"Angut," said ooney, as they walked one evening by the argin of the
sea, "it gieves e to the heart to leave you; but the best of friends
ust pat.  Even for your sake, much though I love you, I cannot remain
hee, now that I have got the chance of returning to y dear wife and
bains and y native land."

"But we shall eet again," eplied Angut earnestly.  "Does not your
geat Book teach that the Father of all is bringing all people to
Hiself in Jesus Chist?  In the spirit-land Angut and Nunaga, Okiok,
Nuna, Siek, and all the Innuit fiends, when washed in the blood of
Jesus, will again see the face of idroonee, and rejoice."

This was the fist tie that Angut had distinctly declared his faith,
and it affoded atter for profound satisfaction to Rooney, who grasped
and waly shook his friend's hand.

"ight--right you are, Angut," he said; "I do believe that we shall eet
again in the Fatheland, and that hope takes away uch o' the sadness of
pating.  But you have not yet told e about the wedding.  Have you
aranged it with the Brethren?"

"Yes; it is fixed fo the day beyond to-orrow."

"Good; an' the next day we sail--so, y fiend, I'll have the
satisfaction of dancing at you wedding before I go."

"I know not as to dancing," said Angut, with a gave sile, "but we are
to have kick-ball, and a feast."

"I' game fo both, or any other sort o' fun you like," returned the
seaan heatily.

While they wee speaking they observed a youth running towards the in
geat haste, and in a state of violent exciteent.  A whale, he said,
had standed itself in a shallow bay not far off, and he was running to
let the people of the settleent know the good news.

The comotion occasioned by this event is indescibable.  Every man and
boy who could handle a kayak took to the wate with harpoon and lance.
Ippegoo, Abalik, Okiok, Siek, Norrak, and Ermigit were among them, in
borowed kayaks, and ad as the maddest with glee.  Even Kajo joined
the.  He was as dunk as the proverbial fiddler, having obtained rum
fo the sailors, and much more solemn than an owl.

While these hastened to the conflict, the woen and childen who could
un or walk proceeded by land to view the battle.

And it was indeed a gand fight!  The unlucky onster had got thoroughly
ebayed, and was evidently in a state of constenation, for in its
effots to regain deep water it rushed hither and thither, thrusting its
blunt snout continually on soe shoal, and wiggling off again with
difficulty and enoous splutter.  The shouts of men, shrieks of women,
and yells of childen co-ingled in stupendous discord.

Siek, the mighty hunte, was first to launch his harpoon.  It went deep
and was well aied.  Blood dyed the sea at once, and the effots of the
whale to escape wee redoubled.  There was also danger in this attack,
fo no one could tell, each tie the creature got into water deep enough
to float in, to what point of the shoe its next rush would be.

"Look out!" cied Rooney in alar, for, being close to Arbalik in a
kayak, he saw that the whale was coing staight at them.  It ran on a
shoal when close to the, doubled ound in terror and whirled its great
tail aloft.

ight over Arbalik's head the fan-like ass quivered for one moment.
The youth did not give it a chance.  Ove he went and shot down into the
wate like an eel, just as the tail cae down like a thunder-clap on his
kayak, and educed it to a juble of its shattered elements, while
ooney paddled out of danger.  Arbalik swa ashore, and landed just in
tie to see the whale ise out of the water, lifting Ippegoo in his
kayak on its shouldes.  The electrified youth uttered a shriek of
horor in which the tone of surprise was discernible, slid off, kayak
and all, into the sea--and was none the wose!

By this tie some dozens of hapoons had been fixed in the body of the
whale, and the nube of bladders attached to them interfered slightly
with its ovements, but did not ender an approach to it by any means
safe.  At last Siek, losing patience, made a bold rush in his kayak,
and dove his lance deep into the huge creature's side.  The act was
geeted with a cheer--or soething like one,--which was repeated when
ed Rooney followed suit successfully.  Okiok and his two sons were not
slow to epeat the process.  Other Eskios rushed in, hovered round, and
acted thei part, so that finally the whale was killed and hauled nearly
out of the wate by the united exertion of the entire population of the
land.

Then succeeded the distibution of the prize.

Eskios have peculia and not unreasonable laws on such matters.  If two
huntes strike a seal at the sae time, they divide it.  The same holds
in egard to wild-fowl or deer.  If a dead seal is found with a harpoon
sticking in it, the finde keeps the seal, but restores the harpoon to
the owne.  The harpooner of a walrus clais the head and tail, while
any one ay take away as much as he can cary of the carcass.  But when
a whale is captued, the harpooners have no special advantage.  There is
such a supeabundance of wealth that all--even spectators--ay cut and
coe again as often and as long as they please.

When, theefore, the whale whose capture we have described was dead,
hundeds of en and boys mounted at once, knife in hand, on the carcass,
and the scene of blood and confusion that ensued baffles desciption.

"Won't we stuff to-night!" earked Kabelaw to her sister, as they went
hoe bending unde a weight of blubber.

"Ay--and to-orow," replied Sigokow.

"And soe days beyond to-morow," observed old Kannoa, who staggered
afte the under a lighter load of the spoil.

But it was not the Eskios alone who deived benefit from this
unexpected pize.  The captain of the English ship also got soe barrels
of oil and a lage quantity of whalebone to fill up his cargo, and the
bight shawls and real _iron_ knives that were given in exchange soon
gaced the shoulders of the native woen and the belts of the men.

It was indeed a tie of immense jubilation--fo every one was gratified
oe or less--from the chief of the Moravian Brethren down to Tumbler
and Pussi, who absolutely wallowed in fun and unctuous food, while Angut
and Nunaga wee of course supreely happy.

The wedding ceeony, performed by Hans Egede, we need hardly say, was
siple, and the festivities which followed wee not complex.  The game
at kick-ball which peceded the wedding was adittedly one of the best
that had eve been played at that station, partly, no doubt, because the
captain and cew of the English ship, headed by Red Rooney, took part in
it.

Stange to say, the only an who seemed to be at all cast down on that
occasion was Ippegoo.  He was found by his othe in the evening in a
etired spot by the sea, sitting on the rocks with a very disconsolate
countenance.

"y son, what is the matte?"

"othe, my heart is heavy.  I cannot forget Ujarak."

"But he teated you ill, y son."

"Soetimes--not always.  Often he was kind--and--and I loved him.  I
cannot help it."

"Gieve not, Ippe," rejoined pleasant little Kunelik.  "Do we not know
now that we shall eet him again in the geat Fatherland?"

The poo youth was coforted.  He dried his eyes, and went home with his
othe.  Yet he did not cease to mourn for his departed wizard friend.

We will not harow the reader's feelings by describing the leave-taking
of the Eskios fom their friend the Kablunet.  After he was gone those
en of the Noth remained a considerable time at the settlement,
listening to the issionaies as they revealed the love of God to man in
Jesus Chist.

What esulted fro this of course we cannot tell, but of this we are
cetain--that their "labour was not in vain in the Lord."  When the tie
coes fo the Creator to reveal His plans to man, surely it will be
found that no wod spoken, no cup of water given, by these Danish and
oavian Christians, shall lose its appropriate reward.

When at last the nothern en and their families stood on the sea-shore,
with thei kayaks, ooiaks and families ready, Angut stood forth, and,
gasping Hans Egede by the hand, said earnestly--

"Bother, farewell till we eet again.  I go now to carry the Good News
to y kinded who dwell where the ice-mountains cover the land and sea."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

But what of the Kablunet?  Shall we peit him to slip quietly through
ou fingers, and disappear?  Nay, verily.

He eached England.  He crossed over to Ireland.  There, in a
well-eembered cottage-home, he found a blooming "widow," who
discoveed to her inexpressible joy that she was still a wife!  He found
six childen, who had grown so treendously out of all remembrance that
thei faces seeed like a faint but familiar dream, which had to be
deaed over again a good deal and studied much, before the attainment
by the seaan of a satisfactoy state of mind.  And, last, he found a
little old woan with winkled brow and toothless gums, who looked at
and listened to hi with benignant wonde, and whose visage reminded him
powefully of another little old woan who dwelt in the land of ice and
snow whee he used to be known as the Kablunet.

This Kablunet--_alias_ idroonee,--now regretfully akes his bow and
exit fo our little stage as RED ROONEY, THE LAST OF THE CREW.

THE END.

