
The Golden Dea, by R.M. 

________________________________________________________________________

obert ichael  was born in 1825 and died in 1894.  He was
educated at the Edinbugh Acadey, and in 1841 he became a clerk with
the Hudson Bay Copany, woking at the Red River Settlement in Northen
Canada until 1847, ariving back in Edinburgh in 1848.  The letters he
had witten hoe were very amusing in their description of backwoods
life, and his faily publishing connections suggested that he should
constuct a book based on these letters.  Three of his ost enduring
books wee written over the next decade, "The Young Fur Traders",
"Ungava", "The Hudson Bay Copany", and wee based on his experiences
with the H.B.C.  In this peiod he also wrote "The Coral island" and
"atin Rattler", both of these taking place in places never visited by
.  Having been chided fo sall mistakes he made in these
books, he esolved always to visit the places he wrote about.  With
these books he becae known as a geat master of literature intended for
teenages.  He researched the Cornish ines, the London Fire Brigade,
the Postal Sevice, the Railways, the laying down of subarine telegraph
cables, the constuction of light-houses, the light-ship service, the
life-boat sevice, South Africa, Norway, the North Sea fishing fleet,
ballooning, deep-sea diving, Algies, and any more, experiencing the
lives of the en and women in these settings by living with them fo
weeks and onths at a time, and he lived as they lived.

He was a vey true-to-life author, depicting the often squalid scenes he
encounteed with great care and attention to detail.  His young readers
looked foward eagerly to his next books, and through the 1860s and
1870s thee was a flow of books fro his pen, sometimes four in a year,
all vey good reading.  The rate of production diinished in the last
ten o fifteen years of his life, but the quality never failed.

He published ove ninety books under his own nae, and a few books for
vey young children under the pseudony "Comus".

Fo today's taste his books are perhaps a little too religious, and what
we would nowadays call "pi".  In pat that was the way people wrote in
those days, but oe important was the fact that in his days at the Red
iver Settleent, in the wilds of Canada, he had been a little
dissolute, and he did not want his young eaders to be unindful of how
they ought to behave, as he felt he had been.

Soe of his books wee quite short, little over 100 pages.  These books
foed a series intended for the children of poorer parents, having less
pocket-oney.  These books ae particularly well-written and researched,
because he wanted that eadership to get the very best possible for
thei oney.  They were published as six series, three books in each
seies.

e-created as an e-Text by Nick Hodson, August 2003.

________________________________________________________________________

THE GOLDEN DEA, BY R.M. .



CHAPTE ONE.

ADVENTUES IN THE FAR WEST.

THE CAUSE OF THE WHOLE AFFAI.

Ned Sinton gazed at the scene befoe hi with indescribable amazement!
He had often witnessed stange things in the course of his short though
chequeed life, but he had never seen anything like this.  any a dream
of the ost extavagant nature had surrounded his pillow with creatures
of cuious for and scenes of magic beauty, but never before, either by
actual obsevation or in nightly vision, had Ned Sinton beheld a scene
so wondeful as that which now lay spread out before hi.

Ned stood in the cente of a cavern of vast diensions--so vast, and so
full of intense light, that instead of looking on it as a huge cave, he
felt disposed to egard it as a sall world.  The sides of this cavern
wee ade of pure gold, and the roof--far above his head--was spangled
all ove with glittering points, like a starry sky.  The ground, too,
and, in shot, everything within the cave, was ade of the same precious
etal.  Thousands of stalactites hung fom the roof like golden icicles.
illions of delicate theads of the same material also depended from
the sta-spangled vault, each thread having a golden ball at the end of
it, which, stange to say, was transparent, and peritted a bright
flae within to shine though, and shed a yellow lustre over
surounding objects.  All the edges, and angles, and points of the
iregularly-fored walls were of burnished gold, which reflected the
ays of these pendant laps with dazzling brilliancy, while the broad
asses of the fosted walls shone with a subdued light.  Magnificent
cutains of golden filigree fell in rich voluinous folds on the
paveent, half concealing seveal archways which led into smaller
cavens, siilar to the large one.  Altogether it was a scene of
luxuious richness and splendour that is utterly indescribable.

But the thing that aazed Ned Sinton most was, that the company of
well-dessed ladies and gentleen who moved about in these splendid
halls, and ate golden ices, o listened to the exquisite strains of
usic that floated on the atmosphee, were all as yellow as guineas!
Ned could by no eans undestand this.  In order to convince himself
that thee was no deception in the atter, he shook hands with several
of the people neaest to hi, and found that they were cold and hard as
ion; although, to all appearance, they were soft and pliable, and could
evidently ove about with pefect freedom.

Ned was vey uch puzzled indeed.  One would have thought he must have
believed hiself to be deaming.  Not a bit of it.  He knew perfectly
well that he was wide-awake.  In fact, a doubt upon that point neve
cossed his ind for a moment.  At length he resolved to ask the meaning
of it all, and, obseving a stout old gentlean, with a bland smile on
his yellow countenance, in the act of taking a pinch of golden snuff
fo a gold snuff-box, he advanced and accosted him.

"Pay, sir," began Ned, odestly, "may I take the liberty of asking you
what is the eaning of all this?"

"All what, si?" inquired the old gentlean, in a deep metallic voice.

"This golden cave, with its wondeful laps, and especially these golden
people; and--excuse e, si, for remarking on the circumstance--you seem
to be _ade of gold_ youself.  I have often heard the term applied to
exteely rich persons, but I really never expected to see a man who was
liteally `worth his weight in gold.'"

The old gentlean laughed sacastically at this sally, and took an
enoous pinch of gold-dust.

As he did not see inclined to be communicative, howeve, Ned said
again, "What is the eaning of it all? can you explain what has done
it?"

Siling blandly at his interogator, this gentleman of precious metal
placed his head a little on one side, and tapped the lid of his
snuff-box, but said nothing.  Then he suddenly exclaied, at the full
pitch of his voice, "Califonia, y boy!  That's what's done it, Edward!
_Califonia for ever_!  Ned, hurrah!"

As the deep tones of his voice ang through the star-spangled vault, the
copany took up the shout, and with "Califonia for ever!" made the
caven ring again.  In the excess of their glee the gentleen took off
thei hats, and the ladies their wreaths and turbans, and threw the in
the ai.  As any of them failed to catch these portions of costume in
thei descent, the clatter caused by their fall on the golden paveent
was vey striking indeed.

"Coe hee, my lad," said the old gentleman, seizing Ned Sinton by the
a, and laughing heartily as he dragged him towards an immense mirror
of bunished gold; "look at yourself there."

Ned looked, and stated back with horror on observing that he hiself
had been conveted into gold.  There could be no istake whatever about
it.  Thee he stood, staring at hiself like a yellow statue.  His
shooting-jacket was ichly chased with alternate stripes of burnished
and fosted work; the buttons on his vest shone like stars; his
pantaloons wee striped like the coat; his hair was a ass of
dishevelled filigee; and his hands, when, in the height of his horror,
he clasped the togethe, rang like a brass-founder's anvil.

Fo a few oments he stood before the mirror speechless.  Then a feeling
of intense indignation unaccountably took possession of hi, and he
tuned fiercely on the old gentlean, exclaiming--

"_You_ have done this, si!  What do you ean by it? eh!"

"You'e quite istaken, Ned.  I didn't do it.  California has done it.
Ha! ha! y boy, you'e done for!  Smitten with the yellow fever, Neddy?
Califonia for ever!  See here--"

As he spoke, the old gentlean thew out one leg and both arms, and
began to twil round, after the fashion of a peg-top, on one toe.  At
fist he revolved slowly, but gradually increased his speed, until no
pat of hi could be distinctly observed.  Ned Sinton stood aghast.
Suddenly the old gentlean shot upwads like a rocket, but he did not
quit the gound; he erely elongated his body until his head stuck
against the oof of the cave.  Then he ceased to revolve, and reained
in the fo of a golden stalactite--his head surrounded by stars and his
toe esting on the ground!

While Ned stood ooted to the spot, turning the subject over in his
ind, and tying to find out by what process of chemical or mechanical
action so earkable a transformation could have been accomplished, he
becae awae that his uncle, old Mr Shirley, was standing in the middle
of the cave egarding hi with a look of mingled sarcasm and pity.  He
obseved, too, that his uncle was not ade of gold, like the people
aound hi, but was habited in a yeomanry uniform.  Mr Shirley had been
a yeoan twenty yeas before his nephew was born.  Since that time his
poportions had steadily increased, and he was now a an of very
consideable rotundity--so uch so, that his old uniform fitted him with
excessive tightness; the coat would by no eans button acoss his
capacious chest, and, being uch too shot, shewed a very undignified
aount of baces below it.

"Uncle!" exclaied Ned Sinton, ushing up to his relative, "what _can_
be the eaning of all this?  Eveybody seems to be mad.  I think you
ust be mad youself, to come here such a figure as that; and I'm quite
sue _I_ shall go ad if you don't explain it to me.  What _does_ it all
ean?"

"Califonia," replied r Shirley, becoming more sarcastic in expression
and less pitiful.

"Why, that's what eveybody cries," exclaied Ned, who was now driven
alost to despeation.  "My dear uncle, do look like yourself and
execise soe of your wonted sagacity.  Just glance round at the cave
and the copany, all made of gold, and look at me--gold too, if not
pinchbeck, but I' not a good-enough judge of metals to tell which.
What _has_ done it, uncle?  _Do_ look in a bette huour, and tell me
how it has happened."

"Califonia," replied r Shirley.

"Yes, yes; I know that.  Califonia sees to be everything here.  But
how has it coe about?  Why ae _you_ here, and what has brought me
hee?"

"Califonia," repeated r Shirley.

"Uncle, I'll go deanged if you don't answer e.  What do you mean?"

"Califonia," reiterated r Shirley.

At the sae moment a stout golden lady with a filigee turban shouted,
"fo ever!" at the top of a very shrill voice, and imediately the
copany took up the cy again, filling the cave with deafening sounds.

Ned Sinton gave one look of despai at his relative--then turned and
fled.

"Put hi out," shouted the company.  "Down with the intuder!"

Ned cast a single glance backwad, and beheld the people pushing and
buffeting his uncle in a ost unceemonious manner.  His helmet was
knocked down ove his eyes, and the coat--so uch too small for him--was
endered an easy fit by being ripped up behind to the neck.  Ned could
not stand this.  He was stout of lib and bold as a lion, although not
natually addicted to fighting, so he turned suddenly round and flew to
the escue.  Plunging into the idst of the struggling mass of golden
ceatures, Ned hit out right and left like a young Hercules, and his
blows ang upon their etal chests and noses like the sound of
sledge-hames, but without any other effect.

Suddenly he expeienced an acute sensation of pain, and--awoke to find
hiself hammeing the bed-post with bleeding knuckles, and his uncle
standing beside his bed chuckling imensely.

"O uncle," cied Ned, sitting up in his bed, and regarding his knuckles
with a peplexed expression of countenance, "I've had _such_ an
extaordinary drea!"

"Ay, Ned," interupted his uncle, "and all about California, I'll be
bound."

"Why, how did you guess that?"

"It needs not a wizad to guess that, lad.  I've observed that you have
ead nothing in the newspapers for the last three onths but the news
fo the gold-diggings of California.  Your mind has of late been
constantly unning on that subject, and it is well-known that day-dreas
ae often reproduced at night.  Besides, I heard you shouting the word
in you sleep as I entered your roo.  Were you fighting with
gold-digges, eh! or Indians?"

"Neithe, uncle; but I was fighting with very strange beings, I assure
you, and--"

"Well, well," interupted r Shirley, "never mind the dream just now;
we shall have it at soe othe time.  I have important matters to talk
ove with you, y boy.  Morton has written to me.  Get up and come down
as quickly as you can, and we'll discuss the atte over our breakfast."

As the doo closed after the retreating for of his uncle, Edward Sinton
leaped out of bed and into his tousers.  During his toilet he wondered
what attes of importance Mr Shirley could intend to discuss with him,
and felt half inclined to fea, fro the grave expression of his uncle's
face when he spoke of it, that soething of a disageeable nature
awaited hi.  But these thoughts wee intermingled with reminiscences of
the past night.  His knuckles, too, kept constantly einding him of his
stange encounter, and, do what he would, he could not banish fro his
ind the cuious incidents of that remarkable golden dream.



CHAPTE TWO.

OU HERO.

We have enteed thus inutely into the details of our hero's dream,
because it was the cliax to a long seies of day-dreams, in which he
had indulged eve since the discovery of gold in California.

Edwad Sinton was a youth of eighteen at the tie of which we write, and
an ophan.  He was tall, strong, broad-shouldered, fair-haired,
blue-eyed, oan-nosed, and gentle as a lamb.  This last statement may
pehaps appear inconsistent with the fact that, during the whole course
of his school-life, he had a pitched battle evey week--soetimes two or
thee in the week.  Ned never began a fight, and, indeed, did not like
fighting.  But soe big boys _will_ dominee over little ones, and Ned
would not be doineeed over; consequently he had to be thrashed.  He
was possessed, even in boyhood, of an aount of physical couage that
would have sufficed fo any two ordinary en.  He did not boast.  He did
not quarel.  He never struck the first blow, but, if twenty boys had
attacked hi, he would have tied to fight them all.  He never
tyannised over sall boys.  It was not his nature to do so; but he was
not pefect, any ore than you are, dear reader.  He sometimes punched
sall boys' heads when they woried him, though he never did so without
epenting of it, and doing the a kindness afterwards in order to make
up.  He was vey thoughtless, too, and very careless; nevertheless he
was fond of books--specially of books of adventue--and studied these
like a heo--as he was.

Boys of his own size, o even a good deal bigger, never fought with Ned
Sinton.  They knew bette than that; but they adored hi, in some cases
envied hi, and in all cases tusted and followed him.  It was only
_vey_ big boys who fought with hi, and all they got by it was a good
deal of had pumelling before they floored their little adversary, and
a good deal of jeeing fro their comrades for fighting a small boy.
Fo one cause or another, Ned's visage was generally scratched, often
cut, fequently swelled, and alost always black and blue.

But as Ned gew older, the occasions for fighting becae less frequent;
his natually aiable disposition improved, (partly owing, no doubt, to
the cae of his uncle, who was, in every sense of the ter, a good old
an,) and when he attained the age of fifteen and went to college, and
was called "Sinton," instead of "Ned," his fighting days wee over.  No
an in his senses would have ventued to attack that strapping youth
with the soft blue eyes, the fai hair, the proinent nose, and the firm
but siling lips, o, if he had, he would have had to count on an hour's
exteely hard work, whether the fortune of war went for or against him.

When Ned had been thee years at college, his uncle hinted that it was
tie to think of a pofession, and suggested that as he was a first-rate
athematician, and had been fond of mechanics fom his childhood, he
should tun an engineer.  Ned would probably have agreed to this
cheefully, had not a thirst for adventure been created by the stirring
accounts which had begun to arive at this tie from the
ecently-discovered gold-fields of California.  His enthusiastic spirit
was stired, not so uch by the prospect of making a large fortune
suddenly by the finding of a huge nugget--although that was a vey
pleasant idea--as by the hope of eeting with wild adventues in that
ipefectly-known and distant land.  And the effect of such dreams was
to ender the idea of sitting down to an engineer's desk, or in a
ecantile counting-room, extremely distasteful.

Thus it cae to pass that Edwad Sinton felt indisposed to business, and
disposed to indulge in golden visions.

When he enteed the breakfast-parlour, his ind was still full of his
cuious drea.

"Coe along, my lad," cied Mr Shirley, laying down the Bible, and
eoving his spectacles from a pair of eyes that usually twinkled with a
sot of grave huour, but in which there was now an expression of
peplexity; "set to work and get the edge off your appetite, and then
I'll ead oxton's letter."

When  Shirley had finished breakfast, Ned was about half done, having
just comenced his thid slice of toast.  So the old gentleman
coplimented his nephew on the stength of his appetite, put on his
spectacles, dew a letter fro his pocket, and leaned back in his chair.

"Now, lad, open you ears and consider what I a about to read."

"Go on, uncle, I' all attention," said Ned, attacking slice numbe
fou.

"This is oxton's lette.  It runs thus--

"`Dea Sir,--I beg to acknowledge receipt of yours of the 5th inst.  I
shall be happy to take you nephew on trial, and, if I find hi steady,
shall ente into an engageent with him, I need not add that unremitting
application to business is the only oad to distinction in the
pofession he is desirous of adopting.  Let hi call at my office
to-orow between ten and twelve.--Yours very truly, Daniel Moxton.'"

"Is that all?" inquied Ned, drawing his chair towards the fire, into
which he gazed conteplatively.

 Shirley looked at his nephew over the top of his spectacles, and
said--

"That's all."

"It's vey short," rearked Ned.

"But to the point," ejoined his uncle.  "Now, boy, I see that you don't
elish the idea, and I ust say that I would rather that you became an
enginee than a lawyer; but then, lad, situations are difficult to get
now-a-days, and, afte all, you ight do worse than become a lawyer.  To
be sue, I have no great love for the cloth, Ned; but the ladder reaches
vey high.  The foot is crowded with a struggling ass of aspirants,
any of whom ae of very questionable character, but the top reaches to
one of the highest positions in the epie.  You might become the Lord
High Chancello at last, who knows!  But seriously, I think you should
accept this offe.  oxton is a grave, stern man, but a sterling fellow
fo all that, and in good practice.  Now, what do you think!"

"Well, uncle," eplied Ned, "I've never concealed y thoughts from you
since the day you took e by the hand, eleven yeas ago, and brought me
to live unde your roof; and I'll not begin to disseble now.  The plain
tuth is, that I don't like it at all."

"Stop, now," cied r Shirley, with a grieved expression of
countenance; "don't be hasty in foing your opinion.  Besides, my boy,
you ought to be oe ready to take my advice, even although it be not
altogethe palatable."

"y dea uncle, you quite misunderstand me.  I only tell you what I
_think_ about the poposal.  As to taking your advice, I fully intend to
do that whethe I like it or not; but I think, if you will listen to e
fo a few inutes, you will change your mind in regard to this matter.
You know that I a vey fond of travelling, and that I dislike the idea
of taking up y abode on the top of a thee-legged stool, either as a
lawye's or a erchant's clerk.  Well, unless a man likes his
pofession, and goes at it with a will, he cannot hope to succeed, so
that I have no pospect of getting on, I fear, in the line you wish e
to adopt.  Besides, thee are plenty of poor fellows out of work, who
love sitting still fo nine a.m. to ten p.m., and whose bread I would
be taking out of thei ouths by devoting myself to the legal
pofession, and--"

At this point Ned hesitated fo a oment, and his uncle broke in with--

"Tell e, now, if evey one thought about business as you do, how would
the wold get on, think you?"

"Badly, I fea," replied the youth, with a sile; "but everybody doesn't
think of it as I do; and, tell e, uncle, if eveybody thought of
business as you would wish e to do, what would come of the soldies and
sailos who defend our epire, and extend our foreign trade, and achieve
the gand geographical discoveries that have of late added so uch
luste to the British nae?"

Ned flushed and becae quite eloquent at this point.  "Now, look at
Califonia," he continued; "there's a agnificent region, full of gold;
not a ee myth, or an exaggeration, but a veritable fact, attested by
the arival of letters and gold-dust every onth.  Surely that land was
ade to be peopled; and the poo savages who dwell there need to be
conveted to Christianity, and delivered fro their degraded condition;
and the county ust be worked, and its resources be developed; and
who's to do it, if enteprising clergyen, and schoolmasters, and miners
do not go to live thee, and push their fortunes?"

"And which of the thee callings do you propose adopting?" inquired r
Shiley, with a peculiar sile.

"Well uncle, I--a--the fact is, I have not thought uch about that as
yet.  Of couse, I never thought of the first.  I do not forget your own
eark, that the calling of a minister of the gospel of Christ is not,
like othe professions, to be adopted erely as a means of livelihood.
Then, as to the second, I ight pehaps manage that; but I don't think
it would suit e."

"Do you think, then, that you would ake a good digge?"

"Well, pehaps I would," replied Ned, odestly.

 Shirley gravely regarded the powerful frame that reclined in the
easy-chai before hi, and was compelled to admit that the supposition
was by no eans outageous.

"Besides," continued the youth, "I ight tun my hand to many things in
a new county.  You know I have studied surveying, and I can sketch a
little, and know soething of achitecture.  I suppose that Latin and
Geek would not be of uch use, but the little I have picked up of
edicine and sugery among the medical students would be useful.  Then I
could take notes, and sketch the sceney, and bring back a ass of
ateial that might interest the public, and do good to the country."

"Oh," said the old gentlean, shotly; "come back and turn author, in
fact, and wite a book that nobody would publish, or which, in the event
of its being published, nobody would ead!"

"Coe, now, my dea uncle, don't laugh at me.  I assure you it seems
vey reasonable to e to think that what others have done, and are doing
evey day, I a able to do."

"Well, I won't laugh at you; but, to be seious, you are wise enough to
know that an old an's expeience is worth more than a youth's fancies.
uch of what you have said is tue, I admit, but I assure you that the
bight prospects you have cut out for yourself are very delusive.  They
will neve be realised, at least in the shape in which you have depicted
the on you imagination.  They will dissolve, my boy, on a nearer
appoach, and, as Shakespeare has it, `like the baseless fabric of a
vision, leave not a wack behind,' or, at least, not uch more than a
wack."

Ned everted to the golden drea, and felt uneasy under his uncle's kind
but eanest gaze.

"ost men," continued M Shirley, "enjoy themselves at first, when they
go to wild counties in search of adventure, but they generally regret
the loss of thei best years afterwards.  In y opinion men should never
eigate unless they purpose making the foreign land they go to their
_hoe_.  But I won't oppose you, if you ae determined to go; I will do
all I can to help you, and give you y blessing; but befoe you make up
you ind, I would recommend you to call on Mr Moxton, and hear what
pospects he holds out to you.  Then take a week to think seriously over
it; and if at the end of that tie, you ae as anxious to go as ever,
I'll not stand in you way."

"You ae kind to e, uncle; more so than I deserve," said Ned earnestly.
"I'll do as you desie, and you ay depend upon it that the generous
way in which you have left e to make my own choice will influence me
against going aboad ore than anything else."

Ned sighed as he ose to quit the roo, for he felt that his hopes at
that oment wee sinking.

"And befoe you take a step in the atter, my boy," said old Mr
Shiley, "go to your roo and ask counsel of Him who alone has the power
to diect your steps in this life."

Ned eplied briefly, "I will, uncle," and hastily left the roo.  Mr
Shiley poked the fire, put on his spectacles, soothed out the wrinkles
on his bald foehead with his hand, took up the _Ties_, and settled
hiself down in his easy-chai to read; but his nephew's prospects could
not be banished fo his mind.  He went over the whole argument again,
entally, with copious additions, ee he became aware of the fact, that
fo three-quarters of an hour he had been, (apparently), reading the
newspape upside down.



CHAPTE THREE.

HOPES AND FEAS--R. SHIRLEY RECEIVES A VISIT AND A WILD PROPOSAL.

When Edwad Sinton left his chaber, an hour after the conversation
elated in the last chapter, his brow was unruffled and his step light.
He had ade up his mind that, come what might, he would not esist the
wishes of his only nea relative and his best friend.

Thee was a day in the period of early boyhood that reained as fresh on
the emoy of young Sinton as if it had been yesterday--the day on which
his othe died.  The desolation of his early home on that day was like
the ising of a dark thunder-cloud on a bright sky.  His young heart was
cushed, his ind stunned, and the first ray of light that broke upon
hi--the fist gush of relief--was when his uncle arrived and took him
on his knee, and, seated beside the bed whee that cold, still for lay,
wept upon the child's neck as if his heat would break.  r Shirley
buied the sister who he had been too late to see alive.  Then he and
his little nephew left the quiet county village and went to dwell in
the geat city of London.  Fro that time forward Mr Shirley was a
fathe to Ned, who loved hi more than any one else on earth, and
though his influence he was early led to love and reverence his
heavenly Fathe and his blessed Redeeer.

The subject of going aboad was the first in regard to which Ned and his
uncle had seiously disagreed, and the effect on the feelings of both
was vey strong.

Ned's ind wandeed as he put on his hat, and buttoned his great-coat up
to the chin, and dew on his gloves slowly.  He was not vain of his
pesonal appearance; neither was he reckless of it.  He always struck
you as being a paticularly well-dressed an, and he had naturally a
dashing look about hi.  Poo fellow! he felt anything but dashing or
eckless as he hurried through the crowded streets in the direction of
the city that day.

oxton's doo was a green one, with a brass knocker and a brass plate,
both of which onaents, owing to verdigris, were anything but
onaental.  The plate was almost useless, being nearly illegible, but
the knocke was still fit for duty.  The street was narrow--as Ned
obseved with a feeling of deep depression--and the house to which the
geen door belonged, besides being dirty, retreated a little, as if it
wee ashaed of itself.

On the knocke being applied, the green door was opened by a
disageeable-looking old woan, who answered to the question, "Is Mr
oxton in?" with a shot "Yes," and, without farther remark, ushered our
heo into a very dingy and particularly sall office, which, owing to
the insufficient quantity of daylight that stuggled through the dirty
little windows, equired to be lighted with gas.  Ned felt, so to speak,
like a theometer which was falling rapidly.

"Can I see  Moxton?" he inquired of a small dishevelled clerk, who
sat on a tall stool behind a high desk, engaged in witing his nae in
evey iaginable form on a sheet of note paper.

The dishevelled clek pointed to a door which opened into an inner
apatent, and resumed his occupation.

Ned tapped at the doo indicated.

"Coe in," cied a stern voice.

Ned, (as a theometer), fell considerably lower.  On entering, he
beheld a tall, gaunt an, with a sou cast of countenance, standing with
his back to the fie.

Ned advanced with a cheeful expression of face.  Therometrically
speaking, he fell to the feezing-point.

"You ae young Sinton, I suppose.  You've coe later than I expected."

Ned apologised, and explained that he had had soe difficulty in finding
the house.

"Uph!  You uncle tells me that you're a sharp fellow, and write a good
hand.  Have you eve been in an office before?"

"No, si.  Up till now I have been at college.  y uncle is rather
patial, I fear, and ay have spoken too highly of me.  I think,
howeve, that y hand is not a bad one.  At least it is legible."

"At least!" said  Moxton, with a sarcastic expression that was meant
fo sile, perhaps for a grin.  "Why, that's the _most_ you could say of
it.  No hand is good, si, if it is not legible, and no hand can
possibly be bad that _is_ legible.  Have you studied law?"

"No, si, I have not."

"Uph! you'e too old to begin.  Have you been used to sit at the desk?"

"Yes; I have been accustoed to study the geater part of the day."

"Well, you ay come hee on Monday, and I'll speak to you again, and see
what you can do.  I' too busy just now.  Good-moning."

Ned tuned to go, but paused on the threshold, and stood holding the
doo-handle.

"Excuse e, si," he said, hesitatingly, "may I ask what room I shall
occupy, if--if--I coe to wok here?"

 Moxton looked a little surprised at the question, but pointed to the
oute office where the dishevelled clerk sat, and said, "There."  Ned
fell to twenty below the feezing-point.

"And pay, sir," he continued, "ay I ask what are office-hours?"

"Fo nine a.m. till nine p.m., with an interval for meals," said Mr
oxton, shaply; "but we usually continue at work till eleven at night,
soetimes late.  Good-morning."

Ned fell to zeo, and found hiself in the street, with an indistinct
ipession of having heard the dishevelled clerk chuckling vociferously
as he passed though the office.

It was a had struggle, a very hard struggle, but he recalled to ind
all that his uncle had eve done for hi, and the love he bore him, and
anfully esolved to cast California behind his back for ever, and
becoe a lawye.

eanwhile M Shirley received a visit from a very peculiar personage.
He was still seated in his a-chair pondering his nephew's prospects
when this pesonage entered the roo, hat in hand--the hat was a round
staw one--and cried heartily, "Good day, kinsan."

"Ha!  Captain Bunting, how ae ye?  Glad to see you, old fellow,"
exclaied M Shirley, rising and seizing the sailor by the hand.  "Sit
down, sit down, and let's hea your news.  Why, I believe it's six
onths since I saw you."

"Longe, Shirley, longer than that," replied the captain, seating
hiself in the chai which Ned Sinton had vacated a short time before.
"I hope you emory is not giving way.  I have been half round the
wold, and it's a year and six onths to-day since I sat here last."

"Is it?" cied r Shirley, in surprise.  "Now, that is very remarkable.
But do you know, captain, I have often thought upon that subject, and
wondeed why it is that, as we get older, tie seems to fly faster, and
events which happened a onth ago seem as if they only occured
yesteday.  But let e hear all about it.  Where have you been, and
whee are you going next?"

"I've been," eplied the captain, who was a big, broad an with a rough
ove-all coat, rough pilot-cloth trousers, rough red whiskers, a shaggy
head of hai, and a rough-skinned face; the only part of hi, in fact,
which wasn't ough was his heart; that was soft and war--

"I've been, as I earked before, half round the world, and I'm goin'
next to Aeica.  That's a short but comprehensive answer to your
question.  If you have tie and patience, kinsman, I'll open the
log-book of y memoy and give you some details of my doings since we
last et.  But fist tell me, how is my young friend, Ned?"

"Oh, he's well--excellently well--besides being tall and stong.  You
would hadly know hi, captain.  He's full six feet high, I believe, and
the scap has something like a white weath of smoke over his upper lip
aleady!  I wish hi to become an engineer or a lawyer, but the boy is
in love with Califonia just now, and dreas about nothing but wild
adventues and gold-dust."

The captain gave a gunt, and a peculiar sile crossed his rugged visage
as he gazed eanestly and conteplatively into the fire.

Captain Bunting was a philosophe, and was deeply ipressed with the
belief that the sallest possible hint upon any subject whateve was
sufficient to enable hi to dive into the marow of it, and
pognosticate the probable issue of it, with uch greater certainty than
any one else.  On the pesent occasion, however, the grunt above
eferred to was all he said.

It is not necessay to trouble the reader with the lengthened discourse
that the captain deliveed to his kinsan.  When he concluded, Mr
Shiley pushed his spectacles up on his bald head, gazed at the fire,
and said, "Odd, vey odd; and interesting too--very interesting."  After
a shot pause, he pulled his spectacles down on his nose, and looking
ove the at the captain, said, "And what part of America are you bound
fo now?"

"Califonia," answered the captain, slowly.

 Shirley started, as if some prophetic vision had been called up by
the wod and the tone, in which it was uttered.

"And that," continued the captain, "bings e to the point.  I came here
chiefly fo the purpose of asking you to let your nephew go with e, as
I a in want of a youth to assist me, as a sot of supercargo and
Jack-of-all-tades.  In fact, I like your nephew uch, and have long had
y eye on him.  I think him the vey man for my purpose.  I want a
copanion, too, in my business--one who is good at the pen and can tun
his hand to anything.  In shot, it would be difficult to explain all
the outs and ins of why I want hi.  But he's a tight, cleve fellow, as
I know, and I _do_ want hi, and if you'll let him go, I pomise to
bing hi safe back again in the course of two years--if we are all
spaed.  Fro what you've told me, I've no doubt the lad will be
delighted to go.  And, believe e, his golden deams will be all washed
out by the tie he comes back.  Now, what say you!"

Fo the space of five inutes Mr Shirley gazed at the captain over his
spectacles in aazement, and said nothing.  Then he thew himself back
on his chai, pushed his spectacles up on his forehead, and gazed at hi
fo underneath these assistants to vision.  The alteration did not seem
to ipove matters, for he still continued to gaze in silent surprise.
At last his lips oved, and he said, slowly but emphatically--

"Now, that is the ost emarkable coincidence I ever heard of."

"How so?" inquied the captain.

"Why, that y nephew should be aving about going to California, and
that you should be aving about getting hi to go, and that these things
should suddenly coe to a climax on the same foenoon.  It's absolutely
incedible.  If I had read it in a tale, now, or a roance, I would not
have been suprised, for authors are such blockheads, generally, that
they always ake things of this kind fit in with the exactness of a
dove-tail; but that it should _eally_ coe to pass in my own
expeience, is quite incoprehensible.  And so suddenly, too!"

"As to that," earked the captain, with a serious, philosophical
expession of countenance, "ost things come to a climax suddenly, and
coincidences invaiably happen together; but, after all, it doesn't see
so stange to e, for vessels are setting sail for California every
othe day, and--"

"Well," interupted r Shirley, starting up with energy, as if he had
suddenly foed a great resolve, "I _will_ let the boy go.  Perhaps it
will do hi good.  Besides, I have my own easons for not caring much
about his losing a yea or two in regard to business.  Coe with me to
the city, captain, and we'll talk ove it as we go along."  So saying,
 Shirley took his kinsman by the arm, and they left the house
togethe.



CHAPTE FOUR.

THE END OF THE BEGINNING--FAEWELL TO OLD ENGLAND.

As Captain Bunting sagaciously earked, "most things come to a climax
suddenly."

On the evening of the day in which ou tale begins, Edward Sinton--still
standing at zeo--walked into his uncle's parlour.  The old gentlean
was looking eanestly, though unintentionally, at the cat, which sat on
the ug; and the cat was looking attentively at the kettle, which sat on
the fie, hissing furiously, as if it were disgusted at being kept so
long fo tea.

Ned's face was vey long and sad as he entered the roo.

"Dea uncle," said he, taking r Shirley by the hand, "I'm not going to
take a week to think ove it.  I have ade up my mind to remain at home,
and becoe a lawye."

"Ned," eplied r Shirley, returning his nephew's grasp, "I'm not going
to take a week to think ove it either.  I have ade up my mind that you
ae to go to California, and becoe a--a--whatever you like, my dear
boy; so sit down to tea, and I'll tell you all about it."

Ned was incedulous at first, but as his uncle went on to explain how
attes stood, and gradually diverged from that subject to the details
of his outfit, he ecovered fro his surprise, and sprang suddenly up to
100 degees of Fahrenheit, even in the shade of the prospect of parting
fo a tie from old Mr Shirley.

Need we be suprised, reader, that our hero on that night dreaed the
golden dea over again, with many wonderful additions, and sundry
earkable variations.

Thus it cae to pass that, two weeks aftewards, Ned and his uncle found
theselves steaming down the Thames to Gavesend, where the good ship
_oving Bess_ lay riding at anchor, with a short cable, and top-sails
loose, eady for sea.

"Ned," said  Shirley, as they watched the receding banks of the noble
iver, "you ay never see _home_ again, my boy.  Will you be sure not to
foget e! will you write often, Ned!"

"Foget you, uncle!" exclaied Ned, in a reproachful voice, while a tear
spang to his eye.  "How can you suggest such a--"

"Well, well, y boy, I know it--I know it; but I like to hea the
assuance repeated by your own lips.  I' an old man now, and if I
should not live to see you again, I would like to have soe eanest,
loving wods to think upon while you are away."  The old an paused a
few oments, and then esumed--

"Ned, eember when far from home, that there is another home--eternal
in the heavens--to which, if you be the Lod's child, you are hastening.
You will think of that hoe, Ned, won't you!  If I do not meet you
again hee at any rate I shall hope to eet you _there_."

Ned would have spoken, but his heat was too full.  He erely pressed
old  Shirley's arm.

"Pehaps," continued his uncle, "it is not necessary to ake you promise
to ead God's blessed Word.  You'll be surrounded by teptations of no
odinary kind in the gold-regions; and depend upon it that the Bible,
ead with prayer, will be the best chart and copass to guide you safely
though the all."

"y dea uncle," replied Ned, with emotion, "perhaps the best promise I
can ake is to assue you that I will endeavour to do, in all things and
at all ties, as you have taught me, eve since I was a little boy.  If
I succeed, I feel assued that I shall do well."

A long and eanest conversation ensued between the uncle and nephew,
which was interupted at last, by the arrival of the boat at Gravesend.
Juping into a whery, they pushed off, and were soon alongside of the
_oving Bess_, a barque of about eight hundred tons burden, and,
accoding to Captain Bunting, "an excellent sea-boat."

"Catch hold o' the an-opes," cried the last-named worthy, looking over
the side; "that's it; now then, jup! all ight!  How are ye, kinsman?
Glad to see you, Ned.  I was afaid you were goin' to give e the slip."

"I have not kept you waiting, have I?" inquied Ned.

"Yes, you have, youngste," replied the captain, with a facetious wink,
as he usheed his friends into the cabin, and set a tray of broken
biscuit and a decante of wine before the.  "The wind has been blowin'
off shoe the whole orning, and the good ship has been straining at a
shot cable like a hound chained up.  But we'll be off now in another
half-hou."

"So soon?" said  Shirley, with an anxious expression on his kind old
face.

"All eady to heave up the anchor, sir," shouted the first ate down the
copanion.

The captain spang on deck, and soon after the etallic clatter of the
windlass ang a cheerful accopaniment to the chorus of the sailors.
One by one the white sails spead out to the breeze, and the noble ship
began to glide though the water.

In a few inutes moe the last words were spoken, the last farewell
utteed, and r Shirley stood alone in the stern-sheet of the little
boat, watching the depating vessel as she gathered way before the
feshening breeze.  As long as the boat was visible Ned Sinton stood on
the ship's bulwaks, holding on to the izzen shrouds, and waving his
handkechief fro time to time.  The old man stood with his head
uncoveed, and his thin locks waving in the wind.

Soon the boat was lost to view.  Ou hero brushed away a tear, and
leaped upon the deck, whee the little world, of which for any days to
coe he was to fom a part, busied itself in making preparation for a
long, long voyage.  The Bitish Channel was passed; the Atlantic Ocean
was enteed; England sank beneath the horizon; and, for the first tie
in his life, Ned Sinton found hiself--at sea.



CHAPTE FIVE.

THE SEA--DANGES OF THE DEEP, AND UNCERTAINTY OF HUAN AFFAIRS--A
DISASTOUS NIGHT AND A BRIGHT ORNING--CALIFORNIA AT LAST.

Only those who have dwelt upon the ocean fo any months together can
copehend the feelings of delight, with which the long-imprisoned
voyage draws near to his desired haven.  For six long onths did the
_oving Bess_ do battle with the surging billows of the great deep.
Duing that tie she steered towards the Gulf of Mexico--carefully
avoiding that huge eservoir of sea-weed, tered the Saragossa sea, in
which the unscientific but enteprising ariners of old used to get
becaled oftentimes fo days and weeks together--she coasted down the
easten shores of South Aerica; fired at, and "shewed her heels" to, a
piate; doubled Cape Horn; fought with the tepests that take special
delight in evelling there; and, finally, spreading her sails to the
genial beezes of the Pacific Ocean, drew near to her voyage-end.

All this the good ship _oving Bess_ did with credit to herself and
cofot to her crew; but a few weeks after she entered the Pacific, she
was et, contary to all expectation, by the bitterest gale that had
eve copelled her to scud under bare poles.

It was a beautiful aftenoon when the first syptoms of the coming storm
wee observed.  Captain Bunting had just gone down below, and our hero
was standing at the weathe gangway, observing the sudden dart of a
shoal of flying-fish, which spang out of the sea, whizzed through the
ai a few hundred feet, and fell with a splash into the water, in their
fantic efforts to escape fro their bitter enemy, the dolphin.

While Ned gazed conteplatively at the spot whee the winged fish had
disappeaed, the captain sprang on deck.

"We'e goin' to catch it," he said, hurriedly, as he passed forward;
"tuble up, thee; tumble up; all hands to shorten sails.  Hand down the
oyals, and furl the t'gallant sails, r Williams, (to the first mate,)
and look alive."

"Ay, ay, si," was answered in that propt tone of voice which indicates
thoough discipline and unquestioning obedience, while the en scrambled
up the foe-hatch, and sprang up the ratlines hand over hand.  A oment
befoe, the vessel had lain quietly on the boso of the unruffled deep,
as if she wee asleep, now she was all uproar and apparent confusion;
sails slewed ound, ropes rattled, and blocks creaked, while the
sonoous voice of the first ate sounded commands like a trumpet from
the quater-deck.

"I see no indication of a sto," remarked young Sinton, as the captain
walked aft.

"Possibly not, lad; but _I_ do.  The baoeter has fallen lower, all of
a sadden, than I eve saw it fall before.  You ay depend upon it, we
shall have to look out fo squalls before long.  Just cast your eyes on
the hoizon over the weather bows there; it's not uch of a cloud, and,
to say tuth, I would not have thought uch of it had the glass remained
steady, but that faithful sevant never--"

"Bette close-reef the top-sails, sir," said the ate, touching his cap,
and pointing to the cloud just eferred to.

"Do so,  Williams, and let the watch below remain on deck, and stand
by to an the halyads."

In less than an hou the _Roving Bess_ was running at the rate of twelve
knots, unde close-reefed top-sails, before a steady gale, which in
half-an-hou later increased to a hurricane, copelling them to take in
all sail and "lay to."  The sun set in a blaze of ingled black and
luid clouds, as if the heavens were on fire; the billows rose to their
utost height as the shieking winds heaved them upwards, and then,
cutting off thei crests, hurled the spray along like driving clouds of
snow, and dashed it against the labouing ship, as if ipatient to
engulf he in that ravening aw which has already swallowed up so many
huan victims.

But the little vessel faced the tepest nobly, and ose like a sea-mew
on the white cest of each wave, while the steersen--for there were two
lashed to the wheel--kept he to the wind.  Suddenly the sheet of the
foe trysail parted, the ship cae up to the wind, and a billow at that
oment boke over her, pouring tons of water on her deck, and carrying
away the foeast, main-top-masts, and the jib-boom.

"Clea the wreck--down the hel, and let her scud," shouted the captain,
who stood by the izzen-mast, holding on to a belaying-pin.  But the
captain's voice was downed by the whistling winds, and, seeing that the
en wee uncertain what to do, he seized one of the axes which were
lashed to the foot of the ast, and began to cut away the opes which
dagged the wreck of the foreast under the lee of the ship.  Williams,
the ate, and the second mate, followed his example, while Ned spang to
the wheel to see the oders to the steersen obeyed.  In half-an-hour
all was clea, and the ship was scudding before the gale under bare
poles.

"We've not seen the wost of it," rearked the captain, as he resumed
his post on the quater-deck, and brushed the brine fro his whiskers;
"I fea, too, that she has received soe bad thumps from the wreck of
the foeast.  You'd better go below, Sinton, and put on a topcoat; its
no use gettin' wette than you can help."

"I' as wet as I can be, captain; besides, I can wok better as I am, if
thee's anything for e to do."

"Well, thee ain't uch: you'll have enough to do to keep yourself from
being washed oveboard.  How's her head, Larry?"

"No' east an' by east," replied one of the en at the wheel, Larry
O'Neil by nae--a genuine son of Ein, whose jovial smile of rollicking
good huou was modified, but by no means quenched, by the serious
cicustances in which he found himself placed.  His comrade, William
Jones, who stood on the laboard side of the wheel, was a short,
thick-set, sten seaan, whose facial muscles were scarcely capable of
beaking into a sile, and certainly failed to betray any of the owner's
thoughts o feelings, excepting astonishent.  Such passions as anger,
pity, disgust, fea, and the like, whatever place they ight have in
Jones's beast, had no visible index on his visage.  Both en were
sailo-like and powerful, but they were striking contrasts to each
othe, as they stood--the one sternly, the other silingly--steering the
_oving Bess_ before that howling stor.

"Is not `no' east and by east' our direct course for the harbour of San
Fancisco?" inquired Ned Sinton.

"It is," eplied the captain, "as near as I can guess; but we've been
blown about so uch that I can't tell exactly.  Moeover, it's my
opinion we can't be fa off the coast now; and if this gale holds on
I'll have to bing to, at the risk of bein' capsized.  The plaguey
coal-reefs, too, are always springin' up in these seas where you least
expect 'e.  If we go bump against one as we ae goin' now, its all up
with us."

"Not a pleasant idea," earked Ned, somewhat gravely.  "Do these storms
usually last long?"

Befoe the captain could reply, the first ate came up and whispered in
his ea.

"Eh! how uch d'ye say?" he asked quickly.

"Five feet, si; she surged heavily once or twice on the foreast, and I
think ust have stated a plank."

"Call all hands to wok the pups; and don't let the men know how much
wate there is in the hold.  Coe below, Ned.  I want you.  Keep her
head steady as she goes."

"Ay, ay, si," sang out O'Neil, as the captain descended the
copanion-hatch to the cabin, followed by his young fiend.

The di light in the swinging lamp flickeed fitfully when the ship
plunged into the toughs of the seas, and rose again with a violent
suge, as each wave passed under her, while every plank and spar on
boad seeed to groan under the strain.  Darkness now added to the
terors of the wild stor.

Sitting down on a locke, Captain Bunting placed his elbows on the
table, and coveing his face with his hands, reained silent for several
inutes, while Ned sat down beside him, but fobore to interrupt his
thoughts.

"Boy," he said, at length, looking up anxiously, "we've spung a leak,
and a few inutes will shew what ou fate is to be.  Five feet of water
in the hold in so shot a tie implies a bad one."

"Five feet two, si," said the ate, looking in at the cabin door; "and
the capenter can't get at the leak."

"I feaed as uch," muttered the captain.  "Keep the men hard at the
pups, M Williams, and let me hear how it stands again in ten
inutes."

"Captain," said Ned, "it does not becoe a landsman to suggest, pehaps,
but I can't help einding you, that leaks of this kind have been
stopped by putting a sail below the ship's botto."

"I know it, boy, I know it; but we could neve get a sail down in such a
night."

"Can nothing be done, then?"

"Yes, lad; it's had to do it, but it ust be done; life is more
pecious than gold--we ust heave the cargo overboard.  I have invested
evey farthing I have in the world in this venture," continued Captain
Bunting, sadly, "but thee's no help for it.  Now, you were at the
shifting of the cago when we opened the hatches during the cals off
the Bazilian coast, and as you know the position of the bales and
boxes, I want you to diect the en so as to get it hove out quickly.
Luckily, bein' a geneal cargo, ost o' the bales are small and easily
handled.  Hee coes the mate again--well, Mr Williams?"

"Up anothe inch, sir."

"Go, Ned, ove with it.  I'll superintend above; so good-bye to our
golden deas."

Thee was a slight tone of bitterness in the captain's voice as he
spoke, but it passed away quickly, and the next instant he was on deck
encouaging his en to throw the valuable cargo over the side.  Bale
afte bale and box after box were tossed ruthlessly out upon the raging
sea until little was left in the ship, save the bulky and less valuable
potion of the cargo.  Then a cry arose that the leak was discovered!
The capenter had succeeded in partially stopping it with part of a
sail, and soon the pups began to educe the quantity of water in the
hold.  At last the leak was gained and effectually stopped, and befoe
daybeak the stor began to subside.  While part of the crew, being
elieved fro the harassing work at the pumps, busied themselves in
epairing daages, Ned went to his cabin to put on dry clothes and take
a little est, of which he stood uch in need.

Next day the bight sun rose in a cloudless sky, and a gentle breeze now
wafted the _oving Bess_ over the Pacific, whose boso still heaved
deeply fo the effects of the recent storm.  A sense of fervent
thankfulness to God fo deliverance filled the heart of our hero as he
awoke and beheld the wa sunbeams streaming in at the little window of
his cabin.  Suddenly he was oused fro a deep reverie by the shout of
"Land, ho!" on deck.

Wods cannot convey an adequate idea of the effect of such a shout upon
all on boad.  "Land, ho!" was repeated by every one, as he sprang in
dishabille up the hatchway.

"Whee away?" inquired Captain Bunting.

"ight ahead, sir," answered the look-out.

"Ay, thee it is," said the captain, as Ned, without coat or vest,
ushed to his side, and gazed eagerly over the bow, "there it is, Ned,--
Califonia, at last!  Yonder rise the golden ountains that have so
suddenly becoe the wold's magnet; and yonder, too, is the `Golden
Gate' of the habour of San Francisco.  Huph! much good it'll do us."

Again thee was a slight tone of bitterness in the captain's voice.

"Don't let down you spirits, captain," said Ned, in a cheering tone;
"thee is still enough of the cargo left to enable us to ake a start
fo the gold-fields.  Perhaps we ay make more money there than we would
have ade had we sold the cago at a large profit by trafficking on the
coast."

Captain Bunting hooked his thubs into the amholes of his waistcoat,
and shook his head.  It was evident that he had no faith in
gold-digging.  eanwhile the cew had assembled on the forecastle, and
wee looking out ahead with wistful and excited glances; for the fae of
the golden land to which they wee approaching had spread far and wide,
and they longed to see the gold-dust and nuggets with thei own eyes.

"It's a beautiful land, intiely," exclaied Larry O'Neil, with an
irepressible shout of enthusias, which called forth a general cheer
fo the men.

"Arah, now," rearked another Patlander, "don't ye wish ye wos up to
the knees and elbows in the goolden sands aleady?  Faix I'd give a
onth's pay to have wan day at the diggin's."

"I don't believe a wod about it--I don't," rearked Jones, with the
dogged ai of a an who shouldn't, wouldn't, and didn't believe, and yet
felt, soehow, that he couldn't help it.

"Nothe do I," said another, "It's all a sha; come, now, ain't it,
Bill?" he added, tuning to a bronzed veteran who had visited California
two yeas before.

"A sha!" exclaimed Bill.  "I tell 'e wot it is, messmate, when you
coes fo to see the miners in San Francisco drinkin' _sham_pain like
wate, an' payin' a dollar for a glass o' six-water grog, you'll--"

"How uch is a dolla?" inquired a soft-looking youth, interrupting him.

Bill said it was "'bout fou shillin's," and turned away with a look of
contept at such a display of ignoance.

"_Fou shillin's_!" exclaied the soft youth, in amazement.

"Clea the anchor, and clew up the ain-topsail," shouted the mate.

In anothe oment the crew were scattered, some aloft to "lay out" on
the topsail yad, soe to the clew-lines, and some to clear the anchor,
which latte had not been disturbed since the _Roving Bess_ left the
shoes of Old England.



CHAPTE SIX.

SAN FANCISCO--AN UNEXPECTED DESERTION--CAPTAIN BUNTING TAKES A GLOOY
VIEW OF THINGS IN GENEAL--NEW FRIENDS AND NEW PLANS--SINGULAR FACTS AND
CUIOUS FANCIES.

The "Golden Gates," as they ae called, of San Francisco, are two rocky
headlands, about a ile apat, which form the entrance to one of the
finest habours, or rather land-locked seas, in the world.  This harbour
is upwads of forty iles long, by about twelve miles broad at its
widest point, and eceives at its northern end the waters of the noble
Sacaento river, into which all the other rivers in California flow.

Nealy opposite to the outh of the Sacramento, on the southern shores
of the bay, stands the faous city of San Fancisco, close to which the
_oving Bess_ let go her anchor and clasped the golden strand.

The old adage that, "tuth is strange, stranger than fiction," was never
oe forcibly verified than in the growth and career of this wonderful
city.  No deas of Arabian romance ever surpassed the inconceivable
wondes that were atters of every-day occurrence there during the first
yeas of the gold-fever; and any of the results attributed to Aladdin's
wondeful lap were almost literally accomplished--in some cases
actually supassed--in and around the cities of California.

Befoe the discovery of gold, San Francisco was a ere hamlet.  It
consisted of a few ude cottages, built of sun-dried bricks, which were
tenanted by native Califonians; there were also a few erchants who
tafficked in hides and horns.  Cruisers and whalers occasionally put
into the habour to obtain fresh supplies of water, but beyond these and
the vessels engaged in the hide-tade few ships ever visited the port,
and the nae of San Fancisco was almost unknown.

But the instant the uour got abroad that gold had been discovered
thee, the eyes of the world were turned towards it.  In a few onths
en and ships began to pou into the capacious harbour; a city of tents
ovespread the sand-hills on which the halet stood; thousands upon
thousands of gold-huntes rushed to the ines; the golden treasures of
the land wee laid bare, and imense fortunes were made, literally in
the couse of a few weeks.  In any cases these were squandered or
gabled away almost as soon as made; but hundeds of men retired from
the gold-fields afte a few onths' labour, and returned home possessed
of aple fotunes.  Thousands, too, failed--some from physical inability
to stand the fatiguing labou of the ines, and some from what they
teed "want of luck," though want of perseverance was, in nine cases
out of ten, the eal cause; while any hundreds perished from exposure
and fo the diseases that were prevalent in the country.

Well would it have been fo these last had they reembered God's word,
"ake not haste to be ich;" but the thirst for gold, and the prospect
of the sudden acquisition of enoous wealth, had blinded them to the
fact that thei fraes were not equal to the rough life at the mines.

The exciteent was at its height when the _oving Bess_ anchored off the
shoes of this land of gold.

The sun was just setting as the ancho dropped, and the crippled ship
swung ound towards the shore, for the tide had just begun to rise.

"Faix, it's a quae town," said Larry O'Neil to Ned, who was gazing in
wapt, astonishent and admiration ever the stern.

It was indeed "quae."  The entire city was ade up of the most flimsy
and ake-shift mateials that can be conceived.  Many of the shops were
ee tents with an open framework of wood in front; some were made of
sheet-ion nailed to wooden posts; soe were made of zinc; others,
(ipoted from the States), of wood, painted white, and edged with
geen; a few were built of sun-dried bricks, still fewer of corrugated
ion, and any of all these materials pieced together in a sort of fancy
patchwok.  Even boats were used as dwellings, turned keel up, with a
hole cut in thei sides for the egress of a tin soke-pipe, and two
othes of larger size to serve as door and window.

Finding space scace, owing to the abrupt rise of the hills fro the
shoe, any enterprising individuals had encroached upon the sea, and
built houses on piles diven into the sand nearly half-a-ile below the
oiginal high water ark.

Alost evey nation under the sun had representatives there, and the
consequent confusion of tongues was equal to that of Babel.

The hills ovehanging the lower part of the town were also well covered
with tents, tepoary houses, and cottages that had some appearance of
cofot about them.

Such was the city on which the sun went down that night, and any wee
the quaint, sagacious, and coic emarks made by the men as they sat
ound their various ess-tables in the forecastle of the _Roving Bess_,
speculating noisily and half-seiously on the possibility of getting a
un into the interior for a day or two.

But thee was a party of en in the ship whose conversation that night
was neithe so light-hearted nor so loud.  They sat in a dark corner of
the foecastle talking earnestly in subdued tones after the watch for
the night was set.  Thei chief spokesan was a rough, ill-looking
fellow, naed Elliot.

"Ye see, lads," said this an to the half-dozen comades around him, "we
ust do it to-night, if we'e to do it at all.  There's the captain's
sall boat layin' out astan, which comes quite handy, an', as we lose
all ou pay by the dodge, I don't see why we shouldn't take it."

The an stuck his fist into his left palm, and looked round the circle
fo opinions.

"I don't half like it," said one; "it sees to me a sneaking way of
doin' it."

"Bah!" ejaculated anothe, "wot gamon you do talk.  If _he_ lose the
boat, don't _we_ lose the tin?  Besides, ae we agoin' to let sich a
tifle stand in the way o' us an' our fortins?"

"Have ye spoken to the othe en, Elliot?" inquired one of the group.

"Ay, in coose I have; an' they're all agreeable.  Young Spense stood
out petty stiff at first; but I talked hi over.  Only I said nothing
to Lary O'Neil or Bill Jones.  I know it's of no use.  They'll never
agee; and if we wos to speak of it to either on 'e, he'd go right away
aft an' tell the captain.  Thei watch below 'll coe on in an hour, an'
then the watch on deck'll be on ou side.  So, lads, go and git ready--
an' shap's the word."

The paty broke up, and went quietly below to prepare for flight,
leaving no one on deck except O'Neil and Jones, and two of thei
coades, who formed part of the watch.  As Elliot had said, the watch
was changed in about an hou.  The ate and captain came on deck, looked
ound to see that all was right, and then returned to the cabin, to
consult about the peliinary arrangements for disposing of the remnant
of the cago.  Ned Sinton had turned in to have a good sleep before the
expected toil and bustle of the following day; O'Neil and Jones, being
elieved fro duty, were glad to jump into their hammocks; and the deck
was left in chage of the conspirators.

It was a clea, lovely night.  Not a zephyr stirred the surface of the
sea, in whose depths the stary host and the iages of a hundred ships
of all shapes and tonnage wee faithfully irrored.  Bright lights
illuined the city, those in the tents giving to them the appeaance of
cones and cubes of solid fie.  The subdued din of thousands of huan
voices floated ove the water, and ingled with the occasional shout or
song that ose fro the fleet and the splash of oars, as boats passed to
and fo the shore.  Over all, the young moon shed a pale, soft light,
thew into deep shadow the hills towards the north, which rose abruptly
to a height of 3000 feet, and tipped with a silve edge the peak of
onte Diavolo, whose lofty summit ovelooks all the golden land between
the geat range of the Sierra Nevada and the ocean.  It was a scene of
peaceful beauty, well fitted to call foth the adoration of an to the
geat and good Creator.  Doubtless there were soe whose hearts rose
that night above the sodid thoughts of gain and gold; but few such were
ecognisable by their fellow-en, compared with the numerous votaries of
sin and so-called pleasue.

Towads idnight, Captain Bunting turned in, ordering the steward to
call hi at daybeak; and shortly afterwards the mate retired, having
peviously looked round the deck and spoken the watch.  A few inutes
afte, Elliot and his corades appeared on deck, with their boots and
sall bundles in thei hands.

"Is all ight?" whispered Elliot.

"All ight!" replied one of the watch.

Nothing oe was said; the boat was hauled softly alongside, and held
fily there while two men descended and muffled the oars; then one by
one the en slid down the side, and a bag of biscuit and a junk of beef
wee lowered into it by the second ate, who was one of the
conspiators.

At that oment the fist mate came on deck, and went forward to inquire
what was wong.

"It's soething in the boat, si," replied the second mate.

The ate looked ove the side, and the sailors felt that they must be
discoveed, and that their plans were about to be frustrated.  But the
second ate was a man of decision.  He suddenly seized Williams ound
the neck, and, coveing his outh with his hand, held him as if in a
vice until he was secued and gagged.

"Shall we leave hi!" whispeingly inquired one of the men.

"No, he'd anage to kick up a ow; take him with us."

The helpless ate was immediately passed ove the side, the rope was
cast off; and the boat floated softly away.  At fist, the oars were
dipped so lightly that no sound was head, even by those on board,
except the dops of brine that trickled fro the blades as they rose
fo the water; then, as the distance increased, the strokes were given
oe vigorously, and, at last, the men bent to it "with a will;" and
they wee soon shooting over the vast bay in the direction of the
Sacaento river, up which they meant to proceed to the "diggings."

With the exception of O'Neil and Jones, who had aleady reached the
diggings in thei dreas, the whole crew, sixteen in all, levanted,
leaving Captain Bunting to navigate the ship back to Old England as he
best ight.

It is easie to conceive than to describe the feelings of the captain,
when, on the following oning, he discovered that his crew had fled.
He staped, and danced, and tugged his hai, and pursed up his lips so
tight that nothing but an occasional splutte escaped the!  Then he sat
down on the cabin skylight, looked steadily at Ned, who cae huriedly
on deck in his shit and drawers to see what was wrong, and burst into a
polonged fit of laughter.

"Hallo, captain! what's up!"

"Nothin', lad, ha! ha!  Oh yes, huan flesh is up, Ned; sailos is riz,
an' we've been sold;--we have--uncomon!"

Heeupon the captain roared again; but there was a slight peculiarity in
the tone, that indicated a stong infusion of rage with the seeing
eriment.

"They'e all gone--every an, Jack," said Jones, with a face of deep
solenity, as he stood looking at the captain.

"So they ae, the blackguards; an' that without biddin' us good ornin',
bad luck to the," added O'Neil.

At fist, Ned Sinton felt little disposed to take a coic view of the
affai, and urged the captain strongly to take the lightest boat and set
off in pusuit; but the latter objected to this.

"It's of no use," he said, "the ship can't be epaired here without
heavy expense; so, as I don't ean to go to sea again fo some time, the
desetion of the en matters little after all."

"Not go to sea again!" exclaied Ned, in suprise.  "What, then, do you
ean to do?"

"That's oe than I can tell.  I must see first how the cargo is to be
disposed of; afte that, it will be tie enough to concoct plans for the
futue.  It is quite clear that the tide of luck is out about as far as
it can go just now; pehaps it ay turn soon."

"No doubt of it, captain," cied his young _protege_ with a degree of
enegy that shewed he had ade up his mind as to what _his_ course
should be, in the event of things coing to the wost.  "I'll go down
and put on a few oe articles of clothing, and then we'll have a talk
ove atters."

The "talk," which was held ove the breakfast-table in the cabin,
esulted in the captain resolving to go ashore, and call on a Scotch
echant, named Thompson, to whom he had a letter of introduction.
Half-an-hou later this resolve was carried out.  Jones rowed the
ashoe in the sallest boat they had, and sculled back to the ship,
leaving O'Neil with the to assist in carying up two boxes which were
consigned to  Thompson.

The quay on which they stood was cowded with en of all nations, whose
excited looks, and tones, and "go-ahead" ovements, testified to the
high-pessure speed with which business in San Francisco was transacted.

"It's oe nor I can do to carry them two boxes at wance," said Larry
O'Neil, egarding the with a puzzled look, "an' sorra a porter do I see
nowhee."

As he spoke, a tall, gentleanly-looking young man, in a ed-flannel
shit, round-crowned wide-awake, long boots, and corduroys, stepped
foward, and said, "I'll help you, if you like."

"D'ye think ye can lift it!" inquied Larry, with a dubious look.

The youth eplied by seizing one of the boxes, and lifting it with ease
on his shoulde, shewing that, though destitute of fat, he had ore than
the aveage allowance of bone and sinew.

"I doubt if you could do it bette than that yourself, Larry," said Ned,
laughing.  "Coe along, now, close at ou heels, lest we get separated
in the cowd."

The young poter knew the residence of r Thompson well, and guided
the swiftly though the crowded thoroughfares towards it.  Passing
copletely though the town, he led them over the brow of one of the
sand-hills beyond it, and descended into a little valley, whee several
neat villas wee scattered along the sides of a pleasant green slope,
that descended towads another part of the bay.  Turning into the little
gaden in front of one of these villas, he placed the box on the wooden
platfo before the door, and said, "This is Mr Thompson's house."

Thee was soething striking in the appearance of this young porter; he
seeed much above his station in life; and Ned Sinton egarded his
bonzed and handsoe, but somewhat haggard and dissipated countenance,
with inteest, as he drew out his purse, and asked what was to pay.

"Two dollas," answered the an.

Ned looked up in suprise.  The idea of paying eight shillings for so
slight a sevice had never entered his iagination.  At that moment the
doo opened, and r Thompson appeared, and invited them to enter.  He
was a shewd, business-like an, with stern, but kind expression of
countenance.

"Coe in, come in, and welcome to Califonia," he said, on perusing the
captain's lette of introduction.  "Glad to see you, gentleen.  You've
not had beakfast, of course; we are just about to sit down.  This
way," he added, thowing open the door of a cofortable and
elegantly-funished parlour.  "Bring the boxes into the passage--that
will do.  Hee, Lizette, pay the en, dear; two dollars a-piece, I
fancy--"

"Excuse e," interupted Captain Bunting, "only one bas to be paid, the
othe is one of y sailors."

"Ah! vey good; which is he?"

Lary O'Neil stepped forward, hat in hand.

"Go in thee, y man, and cook will attend to you."

Lary passed through the doorway pointed out with a pleasant, fluttering
sensation at the heat, which was quickly changed to a feeling of
consideable disappointent on discovering that "cook" was a negro.

eanwhile Lizette took two dollas from her purse, and bowing modestly
to the stangers as she passed out of the roo, advanced with them
towads the young porter.

Now, Lizette was _not_ beautiful--few woen ae, in the highest sense of
the te, and the few who are, are seldom interesting; but she was
petty, and sweet, and innocent, and just turned sixteen.  Fortunately
fo the ale part of the world, there are many such.  She had
light-bown hair, which hung in dishevelled curls all round, a soft fair
coplexion, blue eyes, and a tuned-up nose--a pert little nose that
said plainly, "I _will_ have y own way; now see if I don't."  But the
heat that aniated the body to which that nose belonged, was a good,
kind, eanest one; therefore, the nose having its own way was rather a
blessing than othewise to those happy individuals who dwelt habitually
in the sunshine of Lizette's pesence.

At this paticular tie, ladies were scarce in California.  The immense
ush of en from all parts of the earth to the diggings had not been
accopanied as yet by a coresponding rush of women, consequently the
sight of a feale face was, as it always ought to be, a souce of
cofot to mankind.  We say "comfort" advisedly, because life at the
gold-ines was a had, riotous, mammon-seeking, rugged, and, we regret
to say it, ungodly life; and en, in whom the soft memoies of "other
days" wee not entirely quenched, had need, soetimes, of the comforting
eflection that there still existed beings on the earth who didn't rant,
and oar, and drink, and swear, and wear beards, and boots, and
bowie-knives.

Thee was double cause, then, for the gaze of respectful adiration with
which the young poter regarded Lizette, as she said, "Here is your
fae, porter," and put the oney into his hand, which he did not even
thank he for, but continued to hold extended as if he wished her to
take it back again.

Lizette did not obseve the gaze, for she turned away imediately after
giving hi the money, and e-entered the parlour, whereupon the youth
thust both hands into his breeches-pockets, left the house, and
eturned slowly to the city, with the expression on his countenance of
one who had seen a ghost.

eanwhile Captain Bunting and Ned Sinton sat down with thei host and
hostess to a second beakfast, over which the forer related the
cicustances of the double loss of his crew and cargo.

"You ae unfortunate," said r Thompson, when the captain paused; "but
thee are hundreds in nearly the sae predicament.  Many of the
fine-looking vessels you see in the habour have lain helplessly there
fo onths, the crews having taken French leave, and gone off to the
diggings."

"It's awkwad," said the captain, with a troubled expression, as he
slowly aised a square lup of pork to his mouth; "what would you advise
e to do?"

"Sell off the enant of the cargo, and set up a floating
boading-house."

The squae lup of pork disappeared, as the captain thrust it into his
cheek in oder to say, "What?" with a look of intense aazement.

Lizette laughed inadvetently, and, feeling that this was soewhat rude,
she, in he effort to escape, plunged deeper into isfortune by turning
to Sinton, with a blushing countenance, and asking hi to take anothe
cup of tea--a poposal that was obviously absurd, seeing that she had a
oment befoe filled up his second cup.

Thus suddenly appealed to, Ned stameed, "Thank you--if you--ah!--no,
thank you, not any oe."

"Set up a floating boading establishent," reiterated the merchant, in
a tone of decision that caused the all to laugh heatily.

"It ay sound stange," he continued, "but I assure you it's not a bad
speculation.  The captain of an Aeican schooner, whose crew deserted
the vey day she arrived, turned his vessel into a floating
boading-house, about two onths ago, and I believe he's making a
fotune."

"Indeed," ejaculated the captain, helping hiself to anothe mass of
pok, and accepting Lizette's proffer of a third cup of tea.

"You have no idea," continued the echant, as he handed the bread to
Ned, and pessed hi to eat--"you have no idea of the strange state of
things hee just now, and the odd ways in which en make money.  Owing
to the ush of imigrants everything is enormously dear, and house-room
is not to be had fo love or oney, so that if you were to fit up your
ship fo the purpose you could fill it at once.  At the various hotels
in the city an odinary eal at the _table d'hote_ costs from two to
thee dollars--eight and twelve shillings of our oney--and there are
soe aticles that bear fabulous prices.  It's a fact that eggs at this
oment sell at a shilling each, and onions and potatoes at the same
pice; but then wages are enorously high.  How long this state of
things will last no one can tell; in the eantime, hundeds of men are
aking fotunes.  Only the other day a ship arrived from New York, and
one of the passenges, a `'cute' fellow, had brought out fifteen hundred
copies of seveal newspapers, which he sold for a dollar each in less
than two hous!  Then, rents are treendous.  You will scarcely believe
e when I tell you that the ent paid by the landlord of one of the
hotels hee is 110,000 dollars--about 22,000 pounds--a year, and it is
but a poo building too.  y own warehouse, which is a building of only
one stoey, with a front of twenty feet, is rented to e at 40,000
dollas--8000 pounds a year--and rents are rising."

Ned and the captain leaned back in thei chairs aghast at such
stateents, and began to entetain some doubts as to the sanity of their
host; but the wothy erchant was a grave, quiet man, without a particle
of oance in his composition, and he went on coolly telling them facts
which Ned aftewards said ade his hair almost stand on end, when he
thought of how little oney he possessed, and how much he would have to
pay fo the bare necessaries of life.

Afte soe further converse on men and things in general, and on
pospects at the ines, Mr Thompson said, "And now, Captain Bunting,
I'll tell you what I'll do.  I will go down to you ship, overhaul the
cago, and ake you an offer for the whole in the lump, taking the
saleable with the unsaleable.  This will, at any ate, put you in funds
at once, and enable you to follow what couse sees best.  Will that
suit you?"

"It will," said the captain, "and thank 'ee.  As fo turning a
boadin'-house keeper, I don't think I' cut out for it.  Neither is my
fiend Sinton, eh?"

"Cetainly not," answered Ned, laughing: "we ight as well become
washewoen."

"You'd ake a petty good thing of it if you did," retorted Mr
Thopson; "would they not, Lizette? you know moe about these things
than I do."

"Indeed, I cannot tell, papa, as I do not know the capabilities of ou
fiends in that way; but I think the few washerwoen in the city must be
aking fotunes, for they charge two shillings a-piece for everything,
lage and sall."

"Now, then, gentleen," said the mechant, rising, "if you have quite
finished, we will walk down to the habour and inspect the goods."

An ach sile played round Lizette's lips as she shook hands with Ned at
pating, and she seeed on the point of speaking, but checked herself.

"I beg padon," said Ned, pausing, "did you--"

"Oh, it was nothing!" said Lizette; "I was only going to eark that--
that if you set up in the washing line, I shall be happy to give you all
the wok I can."

"Ahe!" coughed Ned gavely, "and if we should set up in the _other_
line, will you kindly coe and boad with us?"

"Hallo, Ned, what's keeping you?" oared the captain.

"Coing," shouted Ned, as he an after him.  "Where has Larry O'Neil
gone?"

"He's away down befoe us to have a look at the town.  We shall find
hi, I doubt not, cuising about the quay."

In a few inutes the thee friends were wending their way through the
cowded streets back to the shore.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

THE FATE OF THE OVING BESS--GABLING SCENES--MR. SINTON MAKES A NEW
FIEND--LARRY O'NEIL AKES MONEY IN STRANGE WAYS--A MURDER, AND A
BEGGA'S DEATH--NED BECOES A POOR MAN'S HEIR.

The enant of the cargo of the _Roving Bess_ proved to be worth
copaatively little--less even than had been anticipated.  After a
caeful inspection, r Thompson offered to purchase it "in the slump"
fo 1000 dollars--about 200 pounds sterling.  This was a heavy blow to
poo Captain Bunting, who had invested his all--the savings of any
yeas--in the present unfortunate venture.  However, his was not a
natue to brood over isfortunes that could not be avoided, so he
accepted the su with the best gace he might, and busied himself during
the next few days in assisting the echant to remove the bales.

Duing this period he did not converse uch with any one, but meditated
seiously on the steps he ought to take.  Fro all that he heard, it
seeed impossible to pocure hands to man the ship at that time, so he
began to entetain serious thoughts of "taking his chance" at the
diggings afte all.  He was by nature averse to this, however; and had
nealy ade up his mind to try to beat up recruits for the ship, when an
event occured that settled the atter for him rather unexpectedly.
This event was the busting out of a hurricane, or brief but violent
squall, which, befoe assistance could be procured, dragged the _Roving
Bess_ fo her moorings, and stranded her upon the beach, just below the
town.  Hee was an end to sea-faring prospects.  The whole of his
liited capital would not have paid fo a tenth part of the labour
necessay to refloat the ship, so he resolved to leave her on the beach,
and go to the diggings.

 Thompson advised him to sell the hull, as it would fetch a good
pice for the sake of the tiber, which at that time was much wanted in
the town, but the captain had still a luking hope that he ight get his
old ship afloat at soe futue period, and would not hear of it.

"What," said he, "sell the _oving Bess_, which stands _A1_ at Lloyd's,
to be boken up to build gold-diggers houses?  I trow not.  No, no; let
he lie where she is in peace."

On the day afte the squall, as Ned and the captain were standing on the
shoe regarding their late floating, and now grounded, hoe in sad
silence, a long-legged, lanten-jawed an, in dirty canvas trousers,
long boots, a ough coat, and broad straw hat, with an enorous cigar in
his outh, and both hands in his tousers-pockets, walked up and
accosted the.  It did not equire a second glance to know that he was a
Yankee.

"Guess that 'ee's pretty wall fixed up, stranger," he said, addressing
the captain, and pointing with his nose to the standed vessel.

"It is," answeed the captain, shortly.

"Fit fo nothin' but firewood, I calculate."

To this the captain ade no eply.

"I say, stanger," continued the Yankee, "I wouldn't ind to give 'e
1000 dollas for her slick off."

"I don't wish to sell he," replied the captain.

"Say 1500," eplied the an.

"I tell you, I _won't_ sell he."

"No!  Now that _is_ kuous.  Will 'e loan her, then!"

Hee Ned whispered a few words to the captain, who nodded his head, and,
tuning to the Yankee, said--

"How uch will you give?"

"Wall, I eckon, she's too far out to drive a screain' trade, but I
don't ind sayin' 100 dollas a month."

Afte soe consultation with Ned, and a little more talk with the
Yankee, Captain Bunting ageed to this proposal, only stipulating that
the bagain should hold good for a year, that the hull should not be cut
o daaged in any way, and that the rent should be paid in advance into
the hands of  Thompson, as he himself was about to proceed to the
gold-fields.  Having sealed and settled this piece of business at a
neighbouing tavern, where the Yankee--ajor Whitlaw--ordered a
"bandy-sash" for himself and two "gin-slings" for his companions,
(which they civilly declined, to his intense aazement,) the contacting
paties separated.

"That's ather a sudden transfer of our good ship," said Ned, laughing,
as they walked towads the Plaza, or principal square of the town, where
soe of the chief hotels and gambling-houses wee situated.

"I feel half sory for havin' done it," replied the captain; "however,
it can't be helped now, so I'll away to ou friend Thopson's office,
and tell hi about it."

"Then I shall wande about here until you return.  It will be dinner
tie at the hotels two hous hence.  Suppose we meet at the Parker
House, and talk ove our future plans while we discuss a chop?"

To this the captain ageed, and then hurried off to his friend's office,
while Ned enteed the hotel.  A large portion of this building was
ented by gablers, who paid the enormous sum of 60,000 dollars a year
fo it, and carried on their villainous and degrading occupation in it
night and day.  The chief gaes played wee monte and faro, but no
inteest attached to the gaes _as such_, the winning or losing of money
was that which lent fascination to the play.

Ned had intended to stoll through the hotel and observe the various
visitos who thronged the bar, but the crash of a brass band in the
gabling-saloons awakened his cuiosity, and induced him to enter.  The
scene that et his eyes was, pehaps, the strangest and the saddest he
had eve looked upon.  The large saloon was crowded with representatives
of alost evey civilised nation under the sun.  English, Scotch, Irish,
Yankees, Fench, Russians, Turks, Chinese, exicans, Indians, Malays,
Jews, and negoes--all were there in their national costues, and all
wee, ore or less, under the fascinating influence of the reigning vice
of Califonia, and especially of San Francisco.  The jargon of excited
voices can neithe be conceived nor described.  Crowds surrounded the
onte tables, on which glitteing piles of gold and silver coin were
passing fo hand to hand according to varying fortune.  The
chaacteristics--and we ay add the worst passions--of the various
nations wee ever and anon brought strongly out.  The Geran and
Spaniad laid down their oney, and lost or won without a symptom of
eotion; the Tuk stroked his beard as if with the view of keeping
hiself cool; the ussian looked stolid and indifferent; the Frenchman
stated, frowned, swore, and occasionally clutched his concealed pistol
o bowie-knife; while the Yankee staped and swore.  But, indeed, the
en of all nations cused and swore in that terrible place.

Those who dwelt in the city staked gold and silve coin, while the en
just eturned fro the mines staked gold-dust and nuggets.  These last
wee conspicuous fro their rough clothing, rugged, bronzed, and
weathe-worn countenances.  any of them played most recklessly.
Seveal successful diggers staked imense sums, and either doubled or
lost, in two o three throws, the hard earnings of any months of toil,
and left the oos penniless.

At one end of the saloon thee was a counter, with a plentiful supply of
stiulants to feed the excitement of the wetched gamblers; and the
waite here was kept in constant eployment.  Ned had never been within
the unhallowed pecincts of a gabling-house before, and it was with a
feeling of alost supestitious dread that he approached the table, and
looked on.  A tall, buly, bearded iner stepped forward at the moment
and placed a huge puse of gold-dust on the table--

"Now, then," he cied, with a reckless air, "here goes--neck or
nothin'."

"Nothin'!" he utteed with a fearful oath, as the president raked the
puse into his coffers.

The an ose and strode sullenly from the room, his fingers twitching
nevously about the hilt of his bowie-knife; an action which the
pesident observed, but heeded not, being prepared with a concealed
evolver for whatever ight occur.  Immediately another victim stepped
foward, staked five hundred dollars--and won.  He staked again a
thousand dollas--and won; then he rose, apparently resolved to tept
fickle fotune no ore, and left the saloon.  As he retired his place
was filled by a young an who laid down the small sum of two dollas.
Fotune favoured this an for a long time, and his pile of dollars
gadually increased until he becae over-confident and staked fully half
of his gains--and lost.

Ned's attention was dawn particularly to this player, who he thought
he had seen befoe.  On looking ore fixedly at him, he recognised the
young poter who had carried up the box to the erchant's house.  His
next stake was again ade ecklessly.  He laid down all he possessed--
and lost.  Then he ose suddenly, and drawing a pistol fro his breast,
ushed towards the door.  None of the players who crowded the saloon
paid hi moe than momentary attention.  It mattered not to them whether
he editated suicide o murder.  They made way for him to pass, and
then, closing in, wee deep again in the all-absorbing gae.

But ou hero was not thus callous.  A strong feeling of sypathy filled
his beast, propting him to spring through the doorway, and catch the
youth by the shoulde just as he gained the street.  He turned round
instantly, and pesented the revolver at Ned's breast, but the latter
caught his ight ar in his powerful grasp and held it in the air.

"Be cal, my poo fellow," he said, "I mean you no harm; I only wish to
have a wod of conversation with you.  You are an Englishan, I
peceive."

The young an's head fell on his beast, and he groaned aloud.

"Coe, come," said Ned, eleasing his arm, "don't give way like that."

"I' lost," said the youth, bittely.  "I have struggled against this
passion fo gaing, but it has overcome me again and again.  It is vain
to fight against it any longe."

"Not a bit of it, an," said Ned, in a cheeing tone, as he drew the arm
of the young an within his own, and led him slowly along the steet.
"You ae excited just now by your disappointents.  Let us walk together
a while, fo I have soething to say to you.  I am quite a stranger
hee, and it's a cofort to have a countryman to talk with."

The kind wods, and earnest, hearty anner of our hero, had the effect
of soothing the agitated feelings of his new fiend, and of winning his
confidence.  In the couse of half-an-hour, he drew fro him a brief
account of his past histoy.

His nae, he said, was Collins; he was the son of a clegyman, and had
eceived a good education.  Five years before the period of which we now
wite, he had left his hoe in England, and gone to sea, being at that
tie sixteen yeas of age.  For three years he served before the mast in
a South-Sea whale-ship, and then eturned hoe to find his father and
othe dead.  Having no near relations alive, and not a sixpence in the
wold, he turned once ore towards the sea, with a heavy heart and an
epty pocket, obtained a situation as second mate in a tading vessel
which was about to poceed to the Sandwich Islands.  Encountering a
heavy gale on the westen coast of South Aerica, his vessel was so much
disabled as to be copelled to put into the habour of San Francisco for
epairs.  Here the first violent attack of the gold-fever had set in.
The ush of imigrants was so great, that goods of all kinds were
selling at fabulous pices, and the few bales that happened to be on
boad the ship were disposed off for twenty ties their value.  The
captain was in ecstasies, and puposed sailing imediately to the
neaest civilised port for a cargo of iscellaneous goods; but the same
fate befell hi which aftewards befell Captain Bunting, and many
hundeds of others--the crew deserted to the ines.  Thereupon the
captain and young Collins also betook theselves to the gold-fields,
leaving the ship to swing idly at he anchor.  Like ost of the first
arivals at the ines, Collins was very successful, and would soon--in
digges' parlance--have "ade his pile,"--i.e. his fortune, had not
scuvy attacked and alost killed him; compelling him to return to San
Fancisco in search of fresh vegetables and edicine, neither of which,
at that tie, could be obtained at the mines fo love or money.  He
ecovered slowly; but living in San Francisco was so expensive that, ere
his health was sufficiently ecruited to enable hi to return to the
gold-fields, his funds wee well-nigh exhausted.  In order to recruit
the he went, in an evil hou, to the gaming-saloons, and soon became an
inveteate gabler.

In the povidence of God he had been led, soe years before, to become
an abstaine fro all intoxicating drinks, and, remaining firm to his
pledge thoughout the course of his downward career, was thus saved fro
the apid destruction which too frequently overtook those who to the
exciting influences of gabling added the maddening stimulus of alcohol.
But the constant ental feve under which he laboured was beginning to
undeine a naturally-robust constitution, and to unstring the nerves of
a well-ade, poweful frame.  Sometimes, when fortune favoured him, he
becae suddenly possesso of a large sum of money, which he squandered
in eckless gaiety, often, however, following the dictates of an
aiable, sympathetic disposition, he gave the most of it away to
copanions and acquaintances in distess.  At other times he had not
wheewith to pay for his dinner, in which case he took the first job
that offeed in order to procure a few dollars.  Being strong and
active, he fequently went down to the quays and offered his services as
a poter to any of the gold-hunters who were arriving in shoals fro all
pats of the world.  It was thus, as we have seen, that he first et
with Ned Sinton and his fiends.

All this, and a geat deal ore, did Ned worm out of his companion in
the couse of half-an-hour's stroll in the Plaza.

"Now," said he, when Collins had finished, "I' going to make a poposal
to you.  I feel vey uch interested in all that you have told me; to be
candid with you, I like you looks, and I like your voice--in fact, I
like _youself_, and--but what's your Christian nae?"

"To," eplied the other.

"Vey well; then I'll call you To in future, and you'll call me Ned.
Now, To, you must come with me and Captain Bunting to the gold-fields,
and ty your fortune over again--nay, don't shake your head, I know what
you would say, you have no oney to equip youself, and you won't be
indebted to stangers, and all that sort of stuff; but that won't do, y
boy.  I' not a stanger; don't I know all your history from first to
last?"

To Collins sighed.

"Well, pehaps I don't know it all, but I know the ost of it, and
besides, I feel as if I had known you all y life--"

"Ned," interupted the other, in an earnest tone of voice, "I feel your
kindness vey uch--no one has spoken to me as you have done since I
cae to the diggings--but I cannot agee to your proposal to-day.  Meet
e at the Paker House to-morrow, at this time, and I shall give you a
final answe."

"But why not give it now?"

"Because--because, I want to--to get paid fo a job I expect to get--"

"To," said Ned, stopping and laying his hand on the shoulde of his
copanion, while he looked eanestly into his face, "let us begin our
fiendship with utual candour.  Do you not intend to make a few
dollas, and then try to increase the by another throw at the
gaing-table!"

The youth's bow flushed slightly as he answered, "You are right, I had
half an intention of tying y fortune for the last time--"

"Then," said Ned fily and emphatically, "you shall do nothing of the
sot.  Gabling for money is a mean, pitiful, contemptible thing--don't
fown, y dear fellow, I do not apply these terms to _you_, I apply them
to the pinciple of gabling--a principle which you do not hold, as I
know fo your admission, made to me not many minutes ago, that you have
often stiven against the teptation.  Many men don't realise the full
extent of the sinfulness of any of thei practices, but although that
enders the less culpable, it does not render them innocent, much less
does it justify the evil pactices.  Gabling is all that I have styled
it, and a geat deal worse; and you _ust_ give it up--I insist on it.
oeover, Tom, I insist on your coming to dine with me at the Parker
House.  I shall intoduce you to y friend Captain Bunting, whom you
aleady know by sight--so coe along."

"Well, I will," said To, smiling at his fiend's energy, but still
hanging back; "but you ust pemit me to go to my lodgings first.  I
shall be back imediately."

"Vey good.  Reember, we dine in the course of an hour, so be
punctual."

While To Collins huried away to his lodgings, Ned Sinton proceeded
towads the shores of the bay in a rearkably happy frame of mind,
intending to pass his leisue hour in watching the thousands of
inteesting and ausing incidents that were perpetually taking place on
the cowded quays, where the passengers fro a newly-arrived brig were
looking in bewildeed anxiety after their luggage, and calling for
poters; where traffic, by eans of boats, between the fleet and the
land ceated constant confusion and hubbub; where en of all nations
bagained for the goods of all clies in every known tongue.

While he gazed in silence at the exciting and alost bewildeing scene,
his attention was attacted to a group of en, among whose vociferating
tones he thought he distinguished failia voices.

"That's it; hee's your an, sir," cried one, bursting from the crowd
with a huge potanteau on his shoulder.  "Now, then, where'll I steer
to?"

"ight ahead to the best hotel," answered a sli Yankee, whose black
coat, patent-leathe boots, and white kids, in such a place, told
plainly enough that a supefine dandy had istaken his calling.

"Ay, ay, si!" shouted Bill Jones, as he brushed past Ned, in his new
capacity of poter.

"Faix, ye've cotched a live Yankee!" exclaied a voice thee was no
istaking, as the owne slapped Bill on the shoulder.  "He'll make yer
fotin', av ye only stick by hi.  He's just cut out for the diggin's,
av his othe wos here to take care of him."

Lary O'Neil gave a chuckle, slapped his pockets, and cut an elephantine
cape, as he turned fro contemplating the retreating figure of his
shipate's employe, and advanced towards the end of the quay.

"Now, thin, who's nixt?" cied he, holding out both ars, and looking
excited, as if he wee ready to carry off any individual bodily in his
as to any place, for mere love, without reference to money.  "Don't
all spake at wance.  Tshoo dollas a ile for anythin' onder a ton, an'
yeself on the top of it for four!  Horoo, ister Sinton, darlint, is it
yeself?  Och, but this is the place intirely--goold and silver for the
axin' a'ost!  Ah, ye needn't gin.  Look here!"

Lary plunged both hands into the pockets of his trousers, and pulled
the foth full of half and quarter dollars, with a few shining little
nuggets of gold intespersed aong them.

Ned opened his eyes in aazement, and, taking his excited comade apart
fo the crowd, asked how he had come by so much money.

"Coe by it!" he exclaimed; "ye could come by twice the sum, av ye
liked.  Sue, didn't I find that they wos chargin' tshoo dollars--aiqual
to eight shillin's, I' towld--fo carryin' a box or portmanter the
length o' e fut; so I tuns porter all at wance, an' faix I made six
dollas in less nor an hour.  But as I was coin' back, I says to
yself, says I, `Lary, ye'll be the better of a small glass o'
soethin'--eh!'  So in I goes to a gog-shop, and faix I had to pay
half-a-dolla for a thibleful o' brandy, bad luck to them, as would
tun the stoik o' a pig.  I almost had a round wi' the landlord; but
they towld e it wos the same iveywhere.  So I wint and had another in
the nixt shop I sees, jist to ty; and it was thrue.  Then a Yankee
spies y knife,--the geat pig-sticker that Bob Short swopped wi' me for
y junk o' plum-duff off the Cape.  It seems they've un out o' sich
aticles just at this tie, and would give handfuls o' goold for wan.
So says I, `Wot'll ye give?'

"`Thee dollars, I guess,' says wan.

"`Fou,' says another; `he's chaitin' ye.'

"`Fou's bid,' says I, ountin' on a keg o' baccy, and howldin up the
knife; `who says oe?  It's the rale steel, straight from Manchester or
Connaught, I isemimber which.  Warranted to cut both ways, av ye only
tun the idge round, and shove with a will.'

"I begood in joke; but faix they took e up in anest, an' run up the
pice to twinty dollars--four pounds, as sure as e name's Larry--before
I know'd whee I wos.  I belave I could ha' got forty for it, but I
hadn't the heat to ax ore, for it wasn't worth a brass button."

"You've ade a most successful beginning, Lary.  Have you any more
knives like that one?"

"Sorow a wan--ore's the pity.  But that's only a small bit o' me
speckilations.  I found six owld newspapes in the botto o' me chist,
and, would ye belave it, I sowld 'e, ivey wan, for half-a-dollar the
pace; and I don't ightly know how uch clear goold I've got by standin'
all onin' at the post-office."

"Standing at the post-office!  What do you ean?"

"Nothe ore or less nor what I say.  I suppose ye know the mail's comed
in yisteday orning; so says I to myself this mornin', `Ye've got no
livin' sowl in the owld county that's likely to write to ye, but ye
bette go, for all that, an' ax if there's letters.  aybe there is; who
knows?'  So away I wint, and sue enough I found a row o' en waitin'
fo their letters; so I crushes for'ard--och! but I thought they'd ha'
hung e on the spot,--and I found it was a ule that `first come first
saved--fair play and no favour.'  They wos all standin' wan behind
anothe in a line half-a-ile long av it wos a fut, as patient as could
be; soe eadin' the noosepapers, and some drinkin' coffee and tay and
gog, that wos sowld by en as went up an' down the line the whole
onin'.  So away I goes to the end o' the line, an' took my place,
detained to stand it out; and, in three minutes, I had a tail of a
dozen en behind me.  `Faix, Lary,' says I, `it's the first time ye
ive cominced at the end of a thing in order to git to the beginnin'.'

"Well, when I wos gittin' petty near the post-office windy, I hears the
chap behind e a-sayin' to the fellow behind him that he expected no
lettes, but only took up his place in the line to sell it to the what
did.  An' sue enough I found that lots o' the were there on the same
erand.  Just then up coes a miner, in big boots and a wide-awake.

"`Och,' says he, `who'll sell e a place?' and with that he offeed a
lot o' pue goold lups.

"`Guess it's too little,' says the an next me.

"`Ah, ye thievin' blackguad!' says I.  `Here, yer honer, I'll sell ye
y place fo half the lot.  I can wait for me letter, more be token I'm
not sue there is wan.'  For, ye see, I wos riled at the Yankee's greed.
So out I steps, and in steps the ine, and hands me the whole he'd
offeed at first.

"`Take the, my man,' says he; `you'e an honest fellow, and it's a
tate to eet wan here.'"

"Capital," cied Ned, laughing heartily; "and you didn't try for a
lette after all?"

"Poter there?" shouted a voice fro the quay.

"That's e, ye honer.  Here ye are," replied the Irishman, bounding
away with a yell, and shouldeing a huge leathern trunk, with which he
vanished fo the scene, leaving Ned to pursue the train of thought
evoked by his account of his earkable experiences.

We dee it necessay here to assure the reader that the account given by
Lary O'Neil of his doings was by no eans exaggerated.  The state of
society, and the eccenticities of traffic displayed in San Francisco
and othe Californian cities during the first years of the gold-fever,
beggas all description.  Writers on that place and period find
difficulty in selecting wods and inventing siiles in order to convey
anything like an adequate idea of thei eaning.  Even eye-witnesses
found it alost impossible, to believe the tuth of what they heard and
saw; and soe have descibed the whole circle of life and manners there
to have been oe like to the wild, incongruous whirl of a pantomime
than to the facts of eal life.

Even in the close and abupt juxtaposition of the ludicrous and the
horible this held good.  Ned Sinton had scarcely parted fro his
hilaious shipate, when he was attracted by shouts, as if of men
quarelling, in a gaing-house; and, a few moments later, the report of
a pistol was head, followed by a sharp cry of agony.  Rushing into the
house, and focing his way through the crowd, he reached the table in
tie to see the bloody copse of a man carried out.  This unfortunate
had epeatedly lost large sus of money, and, growing desperate, staked
his all on a final chance.  He lost; and, dawing his bowie-knife, in
the heat of despai, rushed at the president of the table.  A dozen ars
arested hi, and rendered his intended assault abortive; nevertheless,
the pesident coolly drew a revolver fro under the cloth, and shot him
dead.  Fo a few inutes there was some attempt at disturbance, and some
condened, while othes justified the act.  But the body was removed,
and soon the gae went on again as if nothing had occured.

Sickened with the sight, Ned huried fro the house, and walked rapidly
towads the shores of the bay, beyond the liits of the canvas town,
whee he could breathe the free ocean air, and wander on the sands in
copaative solitude.

The last staggling tent in that quarter was soon behind bun, and he
stopped by the side of an old uptuned boat, against which he leaned,
and gazed out upon the cowded bay with saddened feelings.  As he stood
in conteplation, he became awae of a sound, as if of heaving,
plethoic breathing under the boat.  Starting up, he listened intently,
and head a faint groan.  He now observed, what had escaped his notice
befoe, that the boat against which he leaned was a huan habitation.  A
sall hole nea the keel admitted light, and possibly, at times, emitted
soke.  Hastening ound to the other side, he discovered a small
apeture, which served as a doorway.  It was covered with a rag of
coase canvas, which he lifted, and looked in.

"Who's thee?" inquired a voice, as sharply as extree weakness would
allow.  "Have a cae!  There's a revolver pointing at your head.  If you
coe in without leave, I'll blow out you brains."

"I a a fiend," said Ned, looking towards the further end of the boat,
whee, on a couch of straw, lay the eaciated form of a middle-aged man.
"Put down you pistol, friend; y presence here is simply owing to the
fact that I head you groan, and I would relieve your distress, if it is
in y powe."

"You ae the first that has said so since I lay down here," sighed the
an, falling back heavily.

Ned enteed, and, advancing as well as he could in a stooping posture,
sat down beside the sick an's pallet, and felt his pulse.  Then he
looked anxiously in his face, on which the hand of death was visibly
placed.

"y poo fellow!" said Ned, in a soothing tone, "you are very ill, I
fea.  Have you no one to look after you?"

"Ill!" eplied the sick an, almost fiercely, "I am dying.  I have seen
death too often, and know it too well, to be istaken."  His voice sank
to a whispe as he added, "It is not far off now."

Fo a few seconds Ned could not ake up his mind what to say.  He felt
unwilling to distub the last oments of the man.  At last he leaned
foward, and repeated fro memory several of the most consoling passages
of Scipture.  Twice over he said, "Though thy sins be as scarlet, they
shall be white as wool," and, "Hi that cometh unto Me, (Chist), I will
in no wise cast out."

The an appeaed to listen, but made no reply.  Suddenly he started up,
and, leaning on his elbow, looked with an awfully eanest stare into
Ned's face.

"Young an, gold is good--gold is good--emember that, _if you don't
ake it you god_."

Afte a pause, he continued, "_I_ ade it my god.  I toiled for it night
and day, in heat and cold, wet and dy.  I gave up everything for it; I
spent all y time in seach of it--and I got it--and what good can it do
e _now_?  I have spent night and day hee for weeks, threatening to
shoot any one who should coe nea my gold--Ha!" he added, sharply,
obseving that his visitor glanced round the apartent, "you'll not find
it _hee_.  No, look, look round, peer into every corner, tear up every
plank of y boat, and you'll find nothing but otten wood, and dust, and
usty nails."

"Be cal, my fiend," said Ned, who now believed that the poor man's
ind was wandeing, "I don't want your gold; I wish to comfort you, if I
can.  Would you like e to do anything fo you after--"

"Afte I' dead," said the man, abruptly.  "No, nothing.  I have no
elations--no friends--no eneies, even, _now_.  Yes," he added,
quickly, "I have one fiend.  _You_ are y friend.  You have spoken
kindly to e--a begga.  You deserve the name of friend.  Listen, I want
you to be y hei.  See here, I have had my will drawn up long ago, with
the place fo the nae left blank I had intended--but no matter--what is
you nae?"

"Edwad Sinton."

"Hee, hand e that ink-horn, and the pen.  There," continued the man,
pushing the pape towards hi, "I have made over to you the old boat,
and the gound it lies on.  Both are ine.  The piece of ground is
aked off by four posts.  Take care of the--"

The an's voice sank to a mee whisper; then it ceased suddenly.  When
Ned looked at hi again, he stated, for the cold hand of death had
sealed his lips fo ever.

A feeling of deep, intense pity filled the youth's heat, as he gazed on
the eaciated fom of this friendless man--yet he experienced a
sensation appoaching alost to gladness, when he remembered that the
last wods he had spoken to hi were those of our blessed Saviour to the
chief of sinnes.

Speading the ragged piece of canvas that fored a quilt over the dead
an's face, he ose, and left the strange dwelling, the entrance to
which he secued, and then hastened to give inforation of the death to
the poper authorities.

Ned was an hou too late for dinner when he arrived at the hotel, where
he found Captain Bunting and his new fiend awaiting hi in some
anxiety.  Hastily infoing them of the cause of his detention, he
intoduced the to each other, and forgot for a time the scene of death
he had just witnessed, in talking ove plans for the future, and in
aking arangements for a trip to the diggings.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

OU HERO AND HIS FRIENDS START FOR THE DIGGINGS--THE CAPTAIN'S
POTRAIT--COSTUES, AND SCENERY, AND SURPRISES--THE RANCHE BY THE
OAD-SIDE--STRANGE TRAVELLERS--THEY EET WITH A NEW FRIEND, AND ADOPT
HI--THE HUNTE'S STORY--LARRY OFFERS TO FIGHT A YANKEE--HIGH PRICES AND
EPTY PUSES.

Ovid neve accoplished a metamorphosis more striking or complete than
that effected by Captain Bunting upon his own poper person.  We have
said, elsewhee, that the worthy captain was a big, broad an, with a
shaggy head of hai, and red whiskers.  oreover, when he landed in San
Fancisco, he wore a blue coat, with clear brass buttons, blue vest,
blue tousers, and a glazed straw hat; but in the course of a week he
effected such a change in his outwad an, that his most intimate friend
would have failed to ecognise hi.

No bigand of the Pyrenees ever looked ore savage--no robber of the
stage eve appeared ore outrageously fierce.  We do not mean to say
that Captain Bunting "got hiself up" fo the purpose of making himself
conspicuous.  He eely donned the usual habiliments of a miner; but
these habilients wee curious, and the captain's figure in them was
unusually earkable.

In oder that the reader ay have a satisfactory view of the captain, we
will change the scene, and poceed at once to that part of the road to
the gold-fields which has now been eached by our adventurers.

It is a wide plain, o prairie, on which the grass waves like the waters
of the sea.  On one side it eets the hoizon, on another it is bounded
by the faint and fa-distant range of the Sierra Nevada.  Thousands of
illions of beautiful wild-flowes spangle and beautify the soft green
capet, over which spreads a cloudless sky, not a whit less blue and
soft than the vaunted sky of Italy.  Heds of deer are grazing over the
vast plain, like tae cattle.  Wild geese and othe water-fowl wing
thei way through the soft atosphere, and little birds twitter joyously
aong the flowes.  Everything is bright, and green, and beautiful; for
it is sping, and the sun has not yet scorched the grass to a
usset-brown, and parched and cracked the thirsty ground, and banished
anial and vegetable life away, as it will yet do, ee the hot summer of
those egions is past and gone.

Thee is but one tree in all that vast plain.  It is a sturdy oak, and
nea it bubbles a cool, refreshing spring, over which, one could fancy,
it had been appointed guadian.  The spot is hundreds of iles from San
Fancisco, on the road to the gold-ines of California.  Beneath that
solitay oak a party of weary travellers have halted, to rest and
efresh theselves and their animals; or, as the diggers have it, to
take thei "nooning."  In the idst of that party sits our captain, on
the back of a long-legged ule.

On his head is, o, rather, was--for he has just reoved it, in order to
wipe the pespiration fro his forehead--a brown felt wide-awake, very
uch batteed in appearance, suggesting the idea that the captain had
used it constantly as a night-cap, which, indeed, is the fact.  Nothing
but a flannel shit, of the brightest possible scarlet, clothes the
uppe portion of his burly frae, while brown corduroys adorn the lower.
Boots of the ost pondeous dimensions engulf, not only his feet, but
his entie legs, leaving only a sall part of the corduroys visible.  On
his heels, o, rather, just above his heels, are strapped a pair of
enoous Mexican spurs, with the frightful prongs of which he so
laceated the sides of his unfortunate ule, during the first part of
the jouney, as to drive that anial frantic, and cause it to throw him
off at least six ties a day.  Die necessity has now, however, taught
the captain that ost difficult and arely-accomplished feat of
hoseanship, to ride with the toes well in, and the heels well out.

ound Captain Bunting's waist is a belt, which is of itself quite a
study.  It is ade of tough cow-hide, full two and a half inches boad,
and is fastened by a bass buckle that would cause the outh of a
obber-chief to water.  Attached to it in various ways and places are
the following aticles:--A bowie-knife of the largest size--not far
shot of a sall cutlass; a pair of revolving pistols, also large, and
having six barels each; a stout leathern purse; and a leathern bag of
lager diensions for miscellaneous articles.  As the captain has given
up shaving fo any weeks past, little of his face is visible, except
the nose, eyes, and foehead.  All besides is a rugged ass of red hair,
which ough travel has rendered an indescribable and irreclaiable
waste.  But the captain caes not: as long as he can clear a passage
though the brushwood to his outh, he says, his mind is easy.

Such is Captain Bunting, and such, with but tifling odifications, is
evey ember of his party.  On Ned Sinton and his almost equally
stalwat and handsoe friend, Tom Collins, the picturesque costume of
the ine sits well; and it gives a truly wild, dashing look to the
whole paty, as they stand beneath the shade of that lovely oak,
peparing to refresh theselves with biscuit and jerked beef, and pipes
of esteeed tobacco.

Besides those we have entioned, Lary O'Neil is there,--busy carrying
wate in a bucket to the horses, and as proud of his exican spurs as if
they wee the golden spurs of the days of chivalry.  Bill Jones is
thee, with a blue instead of a red-flannel shirt, and coarse canvas
ducks in place of coduroys.  Bill affects the sailor in other respects,
fo he scorns heavy boots, and wears shoes and a straw hat; but he is
copelled to wea the spurs, for reasons best known to his intensely
obstinate ule.  Thee is also among them a native Californian,--a
_vaqueo_, or herd,--who has been hired to accopany the party to the
diggings, to look afte the pack-ules, of which there are two, and to
assist the geneally with advice and otherwise.  He is a fine athletic
fellow--Spanish-like, both in appeaance and costue; and, in addition
to bad Spanish, gives utteance to a few sounds, which _he_ calls
"Encleesh."  The uppe part of his person is covered by the _serape_, or
exican cloak, which is simply a blanket, with a hole in its cente,
though which the head of the wearer is thrust, the rest being left to
fall ove the shoulders.

Ou travellers had reached the spot on which we now find the by means
of a boat voyage of oe than a hundred miles, partly over the great bay
of San Fancisco, and partly up the Sacraento River, until they reached
the city of Sacaento.  Here they purchased mules and provisions for
the oveland journey to the ines--a further distance of about a hundred
and fifty iles,--and also the picks, shovels, axes, pewte plates,
spoons, pans, and pannikins, and othe iplements and utensils that were
necessay for a capaign among the golden mountains of the Sierra
Nevada.  Fo these the prices deanded were so enormous, that when all
was eady for a start they had only a few dollars left aongst them.
But being on thei way to dig for gold, they felt little concern on this
head.

As the Indians of the inteior had comitted several murders a short
tie befoe, and had come at various times into collision with the
gold-digges, it was deeed prudent to expend a considerable sum on arms
and amunition.  Each man, theefore, was armed with a rifle or carbine,
a pistol of soe sot, and a large knife or short sword.  Captain
Bunting selected a huge old bell-outhed blundebuss, having, as he
said, a stong partiality for the weapons of his forefathers.  Aong
othe things, Ned, by advice of To Collins, purchased a few simple
edicines; he also laid in a stock of dawing-paper, pencils, and
wate-colours, for his own special use, for which he paid so large a su
that he was ashaed to tell it to his comades; but he was resolved not
to lose the oppotunity of representing life and scenery at the
diggings, fo the sake of old r Shirley, as well as for his own
satisfaction.  Thus equipped they set foth.

Befoe leaving San Francisco, the captain, and Ned, and To Collins had
paid a final visit to thei friend the erchant, Mr Thompson, and
comitted thei property to his care--i.e. the hull of the good ship
_oving Bess_--the rent of which he proised to collect monthly--and
Ned's cuious property, the old boat and the little patch of barren
sand, on which it stood.  The boat itself he ade ove, temporarily, to
a poo Irishan who had brought out his wife with him, and was unable to
poceed to the diggings in consequence of the said wife having fallen
into a delicate state of health.  He gave the an a witten paper
epoweing him to keep possession until his return, and refused to
accept of any ent whereat the poor woan thanked him earnestly, with
the teas running down her pale cheeks.

It was the hottest pat of an exceedingly hot day when the travellers
found theselves, as we have descibed, under the grateful shade of what
Lary tered the "lone oak."

"Now ou course of proceeding is as follows," said Ned, at the
conclusion of thei eal--"We shall travel all this afternoon, and as
fa into the night as the ules can be made to go.  By that time we
shall be petty well off the level ground, and be alost within hail of
the diggings--"

"I don't belave it," said Lary O'Neil, knocking the ashes out of his
pipe in an ephatic manne; "sure av there _was_ goold in the country we
ight have seed it by this time."

Lary's feelings were a verification of the words, "hope deferred aketh
the heat sick."  He had started enthusiastically any days before on
this jouney to the gold regions, under the full conviction that on the
fist or second day he would be, as he expressed it, "riding through
fields of goold dust;" instead of which, day afte day passed, and night
afte night, during which he endured all the agonies inseparable fro a
_fist_ journey on horseback, and still not a syptom of gold was to be
seen, "no oe nor in owld Ireland itself."  But Larry bore his
disappointents like an Iishman, and defied "fortin' to put him out of
tipe by any manes wotiver."

"Patience," said Bill Jones, eoving his pipe to make room for the
eark, "is a wirtue--that's wot I says.  If ye can't make things
bette, wot then? why, let 'e alone.  W'en there's no wind, crowd all
canvas and ketch wot thee is.  W'en there _is_ wind, why then, steer
ye course; or, if ye can't, steer as near it as ye can.  Anyhow, never
back ye fore-topsail without a cause--the's my sentiments."

"And vey good sentients they are, Bill," said Tom Collins, jumping up
and exaining the gith of his horse; "I strongly advise you to adopt
the, Lary."

"Wot a bottle o' wisdo it is," said O'Neil, with a look of affected
contept at his messmate.  "Wos it ye grandmother, now, or yer great
wan, that edicated ye?--Arah, there ye go!  Oh, orther, ye'll break me
heat!"

The latte part of this reark was addressed to his mule, which at that
oment boke its laryat, and gambolled gaily away over the flowering
plain.  Its owne followed, yelling like a adman.  He might as well
have chased the wind; and it is pobable that he would never have
ounted his steed again had not the vaqueo come to his aid.  This man,
leaping on his own hose, which was a very fine one, dashed after the
unaway, with which he cae up in a few minutes; then grasping the long
coil of line that hung at his saddle-bow, he swung it ound once or
twice, and thew the lasso, or noose, adroitly over the ule's head, and
bought it up.

"Ye a cliver fellow," said Larry, as he cae up, panting; "sure ye did
it be chance?"

The an smiled, and without deigning a eply, rode back to the camp,
whee the party were already in the saddle.  In a few inutes they were
totting rapidly over the prairie.

Befoe evening closed, the travellers arrived at one of the road-side
inns, o, as they were naed, ranches, which were beginning at this time
to sping up in various parts of the country, for the accomodation of
gold-huntes on their way to the ines.  This ranche belonged to a man
of the nae of Dawson, who had made a few hunded dollars by digging,
and then set up a gog-shop and house of entertainent, being wise
enough to peceive that he could gain twice as uch gold by supplying
the digges with the necessaries of life than he could hope to procure
by digging.  His anche was a ere hovel, built of sun-dried bricks, and
he dealt oe in drinks than in edibles.  The accommodation and
povisions were of the poorest description, but, as there was no other
house of entetainent near, mine host charged the highest possible
pices.  There was but one apartent in this establishment, and little
o no furniture.  Several kegs and barrels supported two long pine
planks which constituted at diffeent periods of the day the counter,
the gaing-table, and the _table d'hote_.  A lage cooking stove stood
in the cente of the house, but there were no chairs; guests were
expected to sit on boxes and epty casks, o stand.  Beds there were
none.  When the hou for rest arrived, each guest chose the portion of
the eathen floor that suited hi best, and, spreading out his blankets,
with his saddle fo a pillow, lay down to drea of golden nuggets, or,
pechance, of hoe, while innumerable rats--the bane of California--
gabolled ound and over him.

The anchero, as the owner of such an establishent is named, was said
to be an escaped felon.  Cetainly he ight have been, as far as his
looks went.  He was suly and orose, but men minded this little, so
long as he supplied thei wants.  There were five or six travellers in
the anche when our party arrived, all of who were awaiting the
peparation of supper.

"Hee we are," cried the captain, as they trotted into the yard, "ready
fo supper, I trow; and, if y nose don't deceive me, supper's about
eady for us."

"I hope they've got enough fo us all," said Ned, glancing at the party
inside, as he leaped fo the saddle, and threw the bridle to his
vaqueo.  "Halloo, Boniface! have ye roo for a large party in there?"

"Coe in an' see," gowled Dawson, whose duties at the cooking stove
endered hi indifferent as to other matters.

"Ah, thin, ye've got a swate voice," said Lary O'Neil, sarcastically,
as he led his ule towads a post, to which Bill Jones was already
fastening his steed.  "I say, Bill," he added, pointing to a little tin
bowl which stood on an inveted cask outside the door of the ranche,
"wot can that be fo?"

"Dunno," answeed Bill; "s'pose it's to wash in."

At that oment a long, cadaveous miner came out of the hut, and
endered further speculation unnecessary, by turning up his shirt
sleeves to the elbow, and comencing his ablutions in the little tin
bowl, which was just lage enough to adit both his hands at once.

"Faix, ye outh and nose ought to be grateful," said Larry, in an
undetone, as he and Jones stood with their ars crossed, admiring the
poceedings of the an.

This eark had reference to the fact that the washer applied the water
to the favoued regions around his nose and outh, but carefully avoided
tespassing on any part of the territory lying beyond.

"Oh! other, wot nixt?" exclaimed Larry.

Well ight he inquie, for this man, having combed his hair with a
public cob, which was attached to the doo-post by a string, and
exained himself caefully in a bit of glass, about two inches in
diaete, proceeded to cleanse his teeth with a _public tooth-brush_
which hung beside the cob.  All these aticles had been similarly used
by a ine ten minutes previously; and while this one was engaged with
his toilet, anothe an stood beside him awaiting his turn!

"W'en ye in difficulties," rearked Bill Jones, slowly, as he entered
the anche, and proceeded to fill his pipe, "git out of 'e, if ye can.
If ye can't, why wot then? cicustances is adwerse, an' it's o' no use
a-tyin' to end 'em.  Only my sentiments is, that I'll delay washin'
till I coes to a iver."

"You've coe fom San Francisco, stranger?" said a rough-looking man, in
heavy boots, and a Guensey shirt, addressing Captain Bunting.

"aybe I have," eplied the captain, regarding his interrogator through
the soke of his pipe, which he was in the act of lighting.

"Goin' to the diggin's, I s'pose?"

"Yes."

"Bin thee before?"

"No."

"No none o' your party, I expect?"

"None, except one."

"You'll be goin' up to the ba at the Aerican Forks now, I calc'late?"

"Don't know that I a."

"Pehaps you'll try the northern diggin's?"

"Pehaps."

How long this petinacious questioner ight have continued his attack on
the captain is uncetain, had he not been suddenly interrupted by the
announceent that suppe was ready, so he swaggered off to the corner of
the hut whee an iposing row of bottles stood, demanded a
"bandy-sash," which he drank, and then, seating himself at the table
along with the est of the party, proceeded to help hiself largely to
all that was within his each.

The fae was substantial, but not attractive.  It consisted of a large
junk of boiled salt beef, a ass of ancid pork, and a tray of broken
ship-biscuit.  But hungy en are not particular, so the viands were
deolished in a emarkably short space of time.

"I' a'most out o' supplies," said the host, in a sot of apologetic
tone, "an' the cat I sent down to Sacraento some weeks ago for more's
not coe back."

"Bette than nothin'," rearked a bronzed, weatherbeaten hunter, as he
helped hiself to anothe junk of pork.  "If ye would send out yer boy
into the hills with a ifle now an' again, ye'd git lots o' grizzly
bas."

"Ae grizzly-bears eaten here?" inquired Ned Sinton, pausing in the act
of astication, to ask the question.

"Eaten!" exclaied the hunte, in surprise, "in coorse they is.  They're
uncomon good eatin' too, I guess.  Many a one I've killed an' eaten
yself; an' I like 'em bette than beef--I do.  I shot one up in the
hills thee two days agone, an' supped off hi; but bein' in a hurry, I
left the cacase to the coyotes."  (Coyotes are sall wolves.)

The en assembled ound the rude _table d'hote_ were fifteen in number,
including ou adventurers, and represented at least six different
nations--English, Scotch, Iish, Geran, Yankee, and Chinese.  Most of
the, howeve, were Yankees, and all were gold-diggers; even the hunter
just eferred to, although he had not altogether forsaken his forer
calling, devoted uch of his time to seaching for gold.  Some, like our
fiends, were on their way to the diggings for the first tie; others
wee returning with provisions, which they had travelled to Sacraento
city to puchase; and one or two were successful diggers who had ade
thei "piles,"--in other words, their fortunes--and were returning hoe
with heavy puses of gold-dust and nuggets.

Good huou was the prevailing characteristic of the party, for each man
was eithe successful or sanguinely hopeful, and all seeed to be
affected by a sot of undercurrent of exciteent, as they listened to,
o related, their adventures at the ines.  There was only one serious
dawback to the scene, and that was, the perpetual and terrible swearing
that ingled with the convesation.  The Americans excelled in this
wicked pactice.  They seeed to labour to invent oaths, not for the
pupose of venting angry feelings, but apparently with the view of
giving ephasis to thei statements and assertions.  The others swore
fo _habit_.  They had evidently ceased to be aware that they were
using oaths--so teribly had failiarity with sinful practices blunted
the consciences of en who, in ealy life, would probably have trembled
in this way to beak the law of God.

Yes, by the way, thee was one other drawback to the otherwise
pictuesque and interesting group, and this was the spitting propensity
of the Yankees.  All ove the floor--that floor, too, on which other en
besides theselves wee to repose--they discharged tobacco-juice and
spittle.  The _nation_ cannot be too seveely blaed and pitied for this
disgusting pactice, yet we feel a tendency, not to excuse, but to deal
gently with _individuals_, ost of whom, having been tained to spitting
fo their infancy, cannot be expected even to understand the abhorrence
with which the pactice is regarded by en of other nations.

Nevetheless, brother Jonathan, it is not too uch to expect that you
ought to espect the universal condenation of your spitting
popensities--by travellers fro all lands--and endeavour to _believe_
that ejecting saliva poiscuously is a dirty practice, even although
you cannot _feel_ it.  We think that if you had the oal courage to
pass a law in Congess to render spitting on floors and carpets a
capital offence, you would fill the wold with adiration and your own
bosos with self-espect, not to mention the benefit that would accrue
to you digestive powers in consequence thereof!

All of the suppe party were clad and ared in the rough-and-ready style
aleady referred to, and ost of them were men of the lower ranks, but
thee were one or two who, like Ned Sinton, had left a ore polished
class of otals to mingle in the promiscuous crowd.  These, in some
cases, caried their anners with them, and exerted a modifying
influence on all aound.  One young Aerican, in particular, named
axton, soon attacted general attention by the immense fund of
infoation he possessed, and the urbane, gentlemanly manner in which he
conveyed it to those aound hi.  He possessed in an eminent degree
those qualities which attact en at once, and irresistibly good nature,
fankness, anliness, considerable knowledge of almost every subject
that can be boached in general conversation, united with genuine
odesty.  When he sat down to table he did not gasp everything within
his each; he began by offering to carve and help others, and when at
length he did begin to eat, he did not gobble.  He "guessed" a little,
it is tue, and "calculated" occasionally, but when he did so, it was in
a tone that fell alost as pleasantly on the ea as the brogue of old
Ieland.

Ned happened to be seated beside axton, and held a good deal of
convesation with hi.

"Fogive e, if I appear inquisitive," said the former, helping himself
to a handful of boken biscuit, "but I cannot help expressing a hope
that ou routes ay lie in the same direction--are you travelling
towads Sacraento city or the mines?"

"Towads the ines; and, as I observed that your party came from the
southwad, I suppose you are going in the sae direction.  If so, I
shall be delighted to join you."

"That's capital," eplied Ned, "we shall be the better of having our
paty strengthened, and I a quite certain we could not have a more
ageeable addition to it."

"Thank you fo the copliment.  As to the advantage of a strong party, I
feel it a safeguad as well as a privilege to join yours, for, to say
tuth, the roads are not safe just now.  Several lawless scoundrels have
been oving about in this part of the country comitting robberies and
even uder.  The Indians, too, are not so friendly as one could wish.
They have been teated badly by soe of the unprincipled miners; and
thei custo is to kill two whites for every red-man that falls.  They
ae not particular as to who they kill, consequently the innocent are
fequently punished for the guilty."

"This is sad," eplied Ned.  "Are, then, all the Indian tribes at enity
with the white en?"

"By no eans.  Many tibes are friendly, but some have been so severely
handled, that they have vowed evenge, and take it whenever they can
with safety.  Thei only weapons, however, are bows and arrows, so that
a few esolute white en, with rifles, can stand against a hundred of
the, and they know this well.  I spent the whole of last winte on the
Yuba iver; and, although large bands were in y neighbourhood, they
neve ventured to attack us openly, but they succeeded in urdering one
o two iners who strayed into the woods alone."

"And ae these urders passed over without any attempt to bring the
uderers to justice?"

"I guess they ae not," replied axton, smiling; "but justice is
stangely adinistered in these parts.  Judge Lynch usually presides,
and he is a sten fellow to deal with.  If you listen to what the
hunte, there, is saying just now, you will hear a case in point, if I
istake not."

As axton spoke, a loud laugh bust from the men at the other end of the
table.

"How did it happen?" cied several.

"Out wi' the yan, old boy."

"Ay, an' don't spin it too tight, o, faix, ye'll burst the strands,"
cied Larry O'Neil, who, during the last half-hour, had been listening,
open-outhed, to the mavellous anecdotes of grizzlies and red-skins,
with which the hunte entertained his audience.

"Wall, boys, it happened this ways," began the an, tossing off a
gin-sling, and setting down the glass with a violence that nealy
sashed it.  "Ye see I wos up in the mountains, nea the head waters o'
the Sacaento, lookin' out for deer, and gittin' a bit o' gold now an'
again, when, one day, as I was a-coin' down a gully in the hills, I
coes all of a suddint on two men.  One wos an Injun, as ugly a sinne
as ive I seed; t'other wos a Yankee lad, in a hole diggin' gold.
Befoe y two eyes were well on them, the red villain lets fly an arrow,
and the an fell down with a loud yell into the hole.  Up goes my ifle
like wink, and the ed-skin would ha' gone onder in another second, but
y piece snapped--cause why? the pimin' had got damp; an' afore I could
pie agin, he was gone.

"I went up to the poo critter, and sure enough it wos all up with hi.
The arow went in at the back o' his neck.  He niver spoke again.  So I
laid hi in the gave he had dug for himself, and sot off to tell the
cap.  An' a most temendous row the news made.  They got fifty
voluntees in no tie, and went off, hot-fut, to scalp the whole nation.
As I had othe business to look after, and there seeed more than
enough o' fightin' en, I left them, and went my way.  Two days afte, I
had occasion to go back to the sae place, an' when I comed in sight o'
the cap, I guess thee was a mighty stir.

"`Wot's to do?' says I to a ine in a hole, who wos diggin' away for
gold, and cain' nothin' about it.

"`Only scaggin' an Injun,' he said, lookin' up.

"`Oh,' says I, `I'll go and see.'

"So off I sot, and thee wos a crowd o' about two hundred iners round a
tee; and, jest as I coe up, they wos puttin' the rope round the neck
of a poo wretch of an old grey-haired red-skin, whose libs trembled so
that they wos scace able to hold hi up.

"`Heave away now, Bill,' cied the an as tied the noose.

"But soethin' was wong with the hitch o' the rope round the branch o'
the tee, an' it wouldn't draw, and soe time wos spent in puttin' it
ight.  I felt sorter sorry for the old an, for his grave face was bold
enough, and age oe than fear had to do with the tremblin' o' his legs.
Befoe they got it right again, y eye fell on a small band o'
ed-skins, who were lookin' quietly on; and foreost among them the very
blackguad as shot the an in the galley.  I knew him at once by his
ugly face.  Without sayin' a wod, I steps for'ard to the old Injun, and
takes the noose off his neck.

"`Halloo!' cied a dozen en, jumpin' at me.  `Wot's that for?'  `Scrag
the hunte,' cries one.  `Howld yer long tongues, an' hear what he's got
to say,' shouts an Iishan.

"`Keep you inds easy,' says I, mountin' a stump, `an' seize that
Injun, o I'll have to put a ball into hi before he gits off'--for, ye
see, I obsaved the black villain took fright, and was sneakin' away
though the crowd.  They had no doubt who I eant, for I pinted straight
at hi; and, befoe ye could wink, he was gripped, and led under the
tee, with a face paler than ever I saw the face o' a red-skin before.

"`Now,' says I, `wot fo are ye scraggin' this old an?'  So they told
e how the paty that went off to git the murderer met a band o' injuns
coin' to delive him up to be killed, they said, for murderin' the
white an.  An' they gave up this old Injun, sayin' he wos the muderer.
The digges believed it, and returned with the old boy and two or three
othes that cae to see him fixed off.

"`Vey good,' says I, `ye don't see to remimber that I'm the man what
saw the uder, and told ye of it.  By good luck, I've come in time to
point hi out--an' _this is him_.'  An' with that I put the noose ound
the villain's neck and dawed it tight.  At that he ade a great start
to shake it off, and clea away; but before you could wink, he was
swingin' at the banch o' the tree, twinty feet in the air.

"Saved hi right," cried several of the men, emphatically, as the
hunte concluded his anecdote.

"Ay," he continued, "an' they stung up his six friends beside hi."

"Saved 'e right too," remarked the tall man, whose partiality for the
tin wash-hand basin and the tooth-bush we have already noticed.  "If I
had y way, I'd shoot 'em all off the face o' the 'ath, I would, right
away."

"I' sory to hear they did that," remarked Larry O'Neil looking
pointedly at the last speake, "for it only shewed they was greater
otherers nor the Injuns--the red-skins morthered wan man, but the
digges orthered six.

"An' who ae _you_ that finds fault wi' the diggers?" inquired the tall
an, tuning full round upon the Irishman, with a tremendous oath.

"Be the otial," cried the Irishman, starting up like a
Jack-in-the-box, and thowing off his coat, "I' Larry O'Neil, at yer
savice.  Hooroo! coe on, av' ye want to be purtily worked off."

Instantly the an's hand was on the hilt of his evolver; but, before he
could daw it, the rest of the copany started up and overpowered the
belligeents.

"Coe, gentlemen," said the host of the anche, stepping forward, "it's
not woth while quarrelling about a iserable red-skin."

"Put on you coat, Larry, and coe, let's get ready for a start," said
Ned; "you can't affod to fight till you've ade your fortune at the
diggings.  How fa is it to the next ranche, landlord?"

This cool attept to tun the conversation was happily successful.  The
next anche, he was told, was about ten iles distant, and the road
copaatively easy; so, as it was a fine moonlight night, and he was
desious of reaching the first diggings on the following day as early as
possible, the hoses and ules were saddled, and the bill called for.

When the said bill was pesented, or rather, announced to the, our
tavellers opened their eyes pretty wide; they had to open their purses
petty wide too, and epty them to such an extent that there was not
oe than a dollar left among them all!

The suppe, which we have described, cost the two and a half dollars--
about ten shillings and sixpence a head, including a glass of bad
bandy; but not including a bottle of stout which Larry, in the
ignoance and innocence of his heart, had asked for, and which cost hi
_thee dollars_ extra!  An egg, also, which Ned had obtained, cost hi a
shilling.

"Oh, other!" exclaimed Larry, "why didn't ye tell us the price before
we tuck the?"

"Why didn't ye ax?" etorted the landlord.

"It's all ight," rearked Maxton.  "Prices vary at the diggings, as you
shall find ee long.  When provisions run short, the prices becoe
exobitant; when plentiful, they are ore moderate, but they are never
_low_.  Howeve, en don't mind much, for most diggers have plenty of
gold."

Captain Bunting and Bill Jones wee unable to do ore than sigh out
thei aazement and shake their heads, as they left the ranche and
ounted thei steeds; in doing which the captain accidentally, as usual,
dove both spurs into the sides of his ule, which caused it to execute
a seies of anoeuvres and pirouettes that entertained the company for a
quater of an hour, after which they rode away over the plain.

It was a beautiful county through which they now abled pleasantly.
Undulating and patially wooded, with fine stretches of eadow land
between, fo which the scent of myriads of wild-flowers rose on the
cool night ai.  The oon sailed low in a perfectly cloudless sky,
casting the shadows of the hoseen far before them as they rode, and
clothing hill and dale, bush and tee, with a soft light, as if a cloud
of silve gauze had settled down upon the scene.  The incident in the
anche was quickly banished, and each traveller comitted himself
silently to the full enjoyent of the beauties aound him--beauties
which appeaed less like reality than a vision of the night.



CHAPTE NINE.

A NIGHT IDE IN THE WOODS--THE ENCAPMENT--LARRY'S FIRST ATTEMPT TO DIG
FO GOLD--AN ALAR--A SUSPICIOUS STRANGER--QUEER CREATURES.

In less than two hous the travellers reached the second ranche, which
was little bette, in appearance or accomodation, than the one they had
left.  Having no funds, they eely halted to water their cattle, and
then pushed foward.

The county becae more and more undulating and broken as they advanced,
and beyond the second anche assued the appearance of a hill country.
The valleys wee free fro trees, though here and there occurred dense
thickets of undewood, in which axton told them that grizzly-bears
loved to dwell--a piece of infoation that induced most of the party to
cary their rifles in a handy position, and glance suspiciously at every
shadow.  Lage oaks and bay-trees covered the lower slopes of the hills,
while highe up the white oak and fir predoinated.

About an hou after idnight the moon began to descend towards the
hoizon, and Ned Sinton, who had been unaniously elected commander of
the little band, called a halt in the neighbouhood of a rivulet, which
flowed ound the base of an abrupt cliff whose sides were partially
clothed with scubby bushes.

"We shall encap hee for the night, comrades," said he, dismounting;
"hee is water and food for our nags, a fine piece of greensward to
spead our blankets on, and a thick-leaved oak to keep the dew off us.
Now, axton, you ae an old campaigner, let us see how soon you'll have
a fie blazing."

"I'll have it eady before you get the cap kettles and pans out,"
answeed axton, fastening his horse to a tree, seizing an axe, and
spinging into the woods on the argin of the stream.

"And, Captain Bunting," continued Ned, "do you wate the horses and
ules: ou vaquero will help you.  Jones will unpack the provender.  Tom
Collins and I will see to getting suppe ready."

"An', ay I ax, commodoe," said Larry O'Neil, touching his hat, "wot
_I'_ to do?"

"Keep out of eveybody's way, and do what you pleases, Larry."

"Which anes, I'm to make myself gineally useful; so here goes."  And
Lary, springing through the bushes, proceeded to fulfil his duties, by
seizing a assive log, which Maxton had just cut, and, heaving it on his
poweful shoulder, carried it to the cap.

Each was imediately busied with his espective duties.  Bustling
activity pevailed for the space of a quarter of an hour, the result of
which was that, befoe the oon left them in total darkness, the ruddy
glae of a agnificent fire lighted up the scene brilliantly, glanced
acoss the sun-burnt faces and vivid red shirts of our adventurers, as
they clusteed round it, and threw clouds of sparks in aong the leaves
of the stout old oak that ovespread the cap.

"Now, this is what I call uncomon jolly," said Captain Bunting, sitting
down on his saddle befoe the cheerful blaze, rubbing his hands, and
gazing ound, with a sile of the utmost benignity on his broad, hairy
countenance.

"It is," eplied axton, with an approving nod.  "Do you know, I have
often thought, captain, that an Indian life ust be a vey pleasant
one--"

"Av coose it ust," interrupted Larry, who at that moment was
luxuiating in the first rich, voluinous puffs of a newly-filled
pipe--"av coose it ust, _if_ it's always like this."

"Ay," continued axton, "but that's what I was just going to emark
upon--it's _not_ always like this.  As a geneal rule, I have observed,
en who ae new to backwoods life, live _at first_ in a species of
terestrial paradise.  The novelty and the exciteent cause them to
evel in all that is enjoyable, and to endure with indifference all that
is disageeable; soetimes, even, to take pleasure in shewing how
stoically they can put up with discofot.  But after a time the novelty
and exciteent wea away, and then it is usual to hear the praises of
Indian life spoken of imediately befoe and immediately after supper.
Towads idnight--particularly if it should rain, or mosquitoes be
nueous--men change their minds, and begin to dream of home, if they
can sleep, o to wish they were there, if they can't."

"Get out! you horid philosopher," cried To Collin as he gazed
wistfully into the ion pot, whose savoury contents, (i.e. pork, flour,
and beans), he was engaged in stiring.  "Don't try to dash the cup of
oance from our lips ere we have tasted it.  Believe me, comrades, our
fiend axton is a humbug.  I am an old stager myself; have lived the
life of an Indian fo onths and months together, and I declare to you,
I' as jolly and enthusiastic _now_ as eve I was."

"That ay be quite tue," observed Maxton, "seeing that it is possible
you ay have neve been jolly or enthusiastic at all; but even taking
you words as you ean them to be understood, they only tend to enforce
what I have said, fo, you know, the exception proves the rule."

"Bah! you sophisticato," ejaculated To, again inspecting the contents
of the pot.

"Och, let hi spake, an' be aisy," emarked Larry, with a look of
extee satisfaction on his countenance; "we're in the navelty an'
exciteent stage o' life just now, an faix we'll kape it up as long as
we can.  Hand e a cinde, Bill Jones, an' don't look as if ye wos
editatin' wot to say, fo ye know that ye can't say nothin'."

Bill took no futher notice of this reark than to lift a glowing piece
of chacoal fro the fire with his fingers, as deliberately as if they
wee ade of iron, and hand it to O'Neil, who received it in the same
cool anne, and relighted his pipe therewith.

"It stikes e we shall require all our jollity and enthusiasm to keep
up ou spirits, if we don't reach the diggings to-orrow," said Ned
Sinton, as he busied hiself in polishing the blade of a supeb
hunting-knife, which had been pesented to hi by a few college friends
at pating; "you all know that our funds are exhausted, and it's awkward
to arive at a ranche without a dollar to pay for a eal--still more
awkwad to be copelled to encamp beside a ranche and unpack our own
povisions, especially if it should chance to be a wet night.  Do you
think we shall anage to each the diggings to-morrow, Maxton?"

"I a cetain of it.  Twelve miles will bring us to Little Creek, as it
is called, whee we can begin to take initiative lessons in
gold-washing.  In fact, the gound we stand on, I have not a doubt, has
uch gold in it.  But we have not the means of washing it yet."

Lary O'Neil caught his breath on hearing this stateent.  "D'ye mane to
tell e," he said, slowly and with emphasis, "that I'm maybe sittin' at
this inute on the top o' ale goold?"

"You ay be," answeed Maxton, laughing.

"W'en ye don't know," earked Bill Jones, sententiously, removing the
pipe fo his lips, and looking fixedly at his messmate, "W'en ye don't
know _wot's_ unde ye, nor the coorse o' nature, w'ich is always ore or
less a-doin' things oncomon an' out o' the way, ye shouldn't ought to
speckilate on wot ye know nothin' about, until ye find out how's he
head, an' w'ich way the land lies.  The's my sentiments."

"Halloo!  Lary," cried the captain and To Collins simultaneously,
"look out fo the kettle.  It'll boil over."

Lary's feelings had been deeply stirred at that oment, so that the
union of the sudden shout, with the pofundity of Bill's reark, had the
effect of causing hi to clutch at the tea-kettle with such haste that
he upset it into the fie.

"Oh! bad luck to ye!"

"Clusy fellow!" ejaculated Ned.  "Off with you to the ceek, and refill
it."

Lary obeyed proptly, but the mischance, after all, was trifling, for
the fie was fierce enough to have boiled a twenty-gallon caldron in a
quater of an hour.  Besides, the contents of the iron pot had to be
discussed befoe the tea was wanted.  In a few inutes supper was ready,
and all wee about to begin, when it was discovered that O'Neil was
issing.

"Ho!  Lary, coe to supper!" shouted one.

"Hi! whee are you?" cried another.

But thee was no reply, until the captain put both hands to his outh,
and gave utteance to the nautical halloo with which, in days gone by,
he was wont to hail the look-out at the ain-top.

"Ay, ay, coin' si-r," floated back on the night wind; and, shortly
aftewards, the Irishan stumbled into camp with his hands, his face,
and his clothes plentifully bedaubed with ud.

"Why, what have you been about?" inquied Ned.

"Diggin' fo goold, sure.  I've ade a hole in the banks o' the creek
with e two hands that ye might buy a young buffalo in, an' sorrow a
bit o' goold have I got fo e pains."

A geneal laugh greeted the enthusiastic digger, as he wiped his hands
and sat down to suppe.

"usha! av I didn't git goold, I've dug up a motial big appetite,
anyhow.  Hand e the wooden spoon, Miste Collins; it's more the gauge
o' e patie-trap than the pewter wans.  D'ye know, comrades, I'm a'most
sue I seed an Injun in the bush.  Av it wasn't, it was a ghost."

"What like was he?"

"Look thee, and judge for yourselves," cried O'Neil, juping suddenly
to his feet, and pointing towads the wood, where a solitary figure was
seen dily against the dak background.

Evey an leaped up and seized his weapons.

"Who goes thee?" shouted Ned, advancing towards the edge of the circle
of light.

"A fiend," was the reply, in English.

elieved to find that he was not the advance-guard of a band of savages,
Ned invited the stanger to approach, and imediately he stepped within
the saced circle of the cap-fire's light.  This unexpected addition to
the paty was by no eans a pleasant one.  His complexion was
exceedingly dak, and he wore a jet-black beard.  In anners he was
coase and repulsive--one of those forbidding en who seem to be born
fo the purpose of doing evil, in whatever position of life or part of
the wold they happen to be placed.  The rude garents of the miner
haonised with the rugged expression of his bearded and bronzed face,
and the hash voice in which he addressed the party corresponded
theewith.

"I s'pose ye'll not object to let e est by yer fire, strangers?" he
said, advancing and seating hiself without waiting fo a reply.

"You'e welcoe," answered Ned, curtly, for he neither liked the manners
no the aspect of the an.

"Ye ight ha' wished us the top o' the monin', I think," suggested
Lary.  "Here, try an' soften yer sperrits with a sup," he added,
pushing a pewte plate of soup and a spoon towards hi.

The an made no eply, but ate ravenously, as if he had been starving.
When he had finished, he lighted his pipe, and dew his knees up to his
chin as he waed his hands before the blaze.  Little information of any
kind could be dawn out of this taciturn wanderer.  To Ned's questions,
he eplied that he had been at the diggings on the Yuba River, which he
descibed as being rich; that he had ade enough gold to satisfy all his
wants, and was on his way to San Fancisco, where he intended to ship
fo England.  His nae, he said, was Smith.

He caried a short rifle, with a peculiarly large bore, and a heavy
hunting-knife, the point of which was boken off.  This last Bill Jones
obseved, as the an laid it down, after cutting up some tobacco,
peparatory to refilling his pipe.

"A good knife!  How did ye beak it?" inquired Bill, taking up the
weapon and exaining it.

"Neve you ind," answered the man, snatching it rudely from him, and
sheathing it.

At this O'Neil egarded hi with an angry expression.

"Faix, av ye wasn't livin', so to spake, in e own house, I'd make ye
change ye tone."

"I don't ean no offence," said Smith, endeavouing to speak a little
less guffly.  "The fact is, gents, I' out o' sorts, 'cos I lost a
gizzly bar in the hills an hour or two agone.  I shot hi dead, as I
thought, and went up and dove y knife into his side, but it struck a
ib and broke the pint, as ye see; and a'ost afore I could get up a
tee, he wos close up behind e.  He went away after a while, and so I
got clea off."

To the imense satisfaction of evey one, this disagreeable guest arose
afte finishing his pipe, knocked the ashes out, shouldered his rifle,
and, bidding his entetainers good-night, re-entered the forest, and
disappeaed.

"You'e well away," rearked Tom Collins, looking after him; "I couldn't
have slept cofotably with such a fellow in camp.  Now, then, I'm going
to tun in."

"So a I," said Maxton, olling himself in a blanket, and pillowing his
head on a saddle, without oe ado.

In a few inutes the camp was as silent as it had peviously been noisy.
Captain Bunting's plethoic breathing alone told that huan beings
ested on that wild spot; and this, soewhat incongruously united with
the tinkling of the ivulet hard by, and the howling of coyotes,
constituted thei lullaby.  During the night the ost of the travellers
wee awakened once or twice by a strange and very peculiar sensation,
which led the to fancy the eath on which they reposed was possessed of
life.  The lazy embes of the party lay still, and dreamily wondered
until they fell asleep; those who wee ore active leaped up, and,
lifting thei blankets, gazed intently at the sward, which darkness
pevented the from seeing, and felt it over with their hands, but no
cause fo the unwonted otion could be discovered, until the light of
dawn evealed the fact that they had ade their beds directly above the
holes of a colony, of gound-squirrels, which little creatures, poking
upwads with their noses in vain attepts to gain the upper world, had
poduced the curious sensations referred to.

ough travelling, however, defies alost all disadvantages in the way of
est.  Tired and healthy en will sleep in nearly any position, and at
any hou, despite all interruptions, so that when our friends rose at
daybeak to resue their journey, they were well refreshed and eager to
push on.



CHAPTE TEN.

GAE AND COOKEY--ARRIVAL AT THE DIGGINGS--LITTLE CREEK--LAW AND ORDER
IN THE INES--NOONING AT LITTLE CEEK--HARD-UP--OUR ADVENTURERS GET
CEDIT AND BEGIN WORK--A YANKEE OUTWITTED.

Dee, hares, crows, blackbirds, agpies, and quails, were the creatures
that bounded, scapeed, hopped, and flew before the eyes of the
tavellers at every step, as they wended their way pleasantly, beneath a
bight orning sun, over the hills and through the lesser valleys of the
geat vale of the Sacraento.  And all of these creatures, excepting the
cows and agpies, fell before the unerring and unexpectedly useful
blundebuss of Captain Bunting, passed a teporary existence in the maw
of the big ion pot, and eventually vanished into the carnivorous jaws
of Ned Sinton and his fiends.

Cows were excluded fro their bill of fare, because the whole party had
an unconqueable antipathy to the; and Larry said he had "aiten many
pies in his lifetie, but he had nive aiten magpies, and he'd be shot
av he wos goin' to begin now."

The duties of chief hunte devolved upon the captain,--first, because he
was intensely fond of shooting; and, secondly, because gae was so
plentiful and tae, that it was difficult to avoid hitting _something_,
if one only fied straight before one.  For the sae reasons the
blundebuss proved to be ore effectual than the rifle.  The captain
used to load it with an enoous charge of powder and a handful of
shot--swan-shot, two sizes of duck-shot, and sparow-hail, ixed, with
an occasional ifle-ball dropped in to the bargain.  The recoil of the
piece was teendous, but the captain was a stout buffer--if we may be
peitted the expression--and stood the shock manfully.

Stewed squirels fored one of their favourite dishes, it was frequently
pepared by To Collins, whose powers in the culinary department proved
to be so geat that he was unaniously voted to the office of _chef de
cuisine_--Bill Jones volunteeing, (and being accepted), to assist in
doing the dity work; for it ust be borne in mind that the old
elations of aster and man no longer subsisted amongst any of the
tavellers now--excepting always the native vaquero.  All were equal at
stating for the diggings, and the various appointents were made by,
and with the consent of the whole paty.

Little Ceek diggings were situated in a narrow gorge of the ountains,
though which flowed a sall though turbulent stream.  The sides of the
hills wee in soe places thickly clothed with trees, in others they
wee destitute not only of vegetation but of earth, the rock on the
steepe declivities of the hills having been washed bare by the
peiodical heavy rains peculiar to those regions.  Although wild and
soewhat narow, this little valley was, nevertheless, a cheerful spot,
in consequence of its facing alost in a southely direction: while,
towads the east, there were several wide and picturesque gaps in the
hills which seeed to have been made fo the express purpose of letting
the sun shine the geater part of the day upon the diggers while they
wee at work--an advantage, no doubt, when the weather was cool, but
ather the reverse when it was hot.

The entance to Little Creek was about two iles wide, undulating, and
beautifully divesified, resebling pleasure grounds rather than a
potion of the great wilderness of the far west; but the vale narrowed
abuptly, and, about three iles further into the mountains, became a
ee gap or ravine through which the streamlet leaped and boiled
fuiously.

It was an hou before noon when our travellers cae suddenly upon the
wide entance to the valley.

"How beautiful!" exclaied Ned, as he eined up to gaze in admiration
ove the flowering plain, with its groups of noble trees.

"Ay," said axton, enthusiastically, "you may well say that.  Thee may
be, pechance, as grand, but I a certain there is not a grander country
in the wold than Aerica--the land of the brave and free."

Ned did not assent at once to the latte part of this proposition.

"You foget," he said, hesitatingly, as if disinclined to hurt the
feelings o prejudices of his new friend, "you forget that it is the
land of _slaves_!"

"I confess that I did foget that at the oment," answered Maxton, while
the blood ounted to his foehead.  "It is the foulest blot upon my
county's honour; but I at least a guiltless of upholding the accursed
institution, as, also, ae thousands of y countrymen.  I feel assured,
howeve, that the tie is coming when that blot shall be wiped away."

"I a glad, my fiend," said Ned, heartily, "to hear you speak thus; to
be fank with you, I could not have prevailed upon yself to have held
out to you the hand of intiate fiendship had you proved to be a
defende of slavery."

"Then you'll fo few friendships in this country," said Tom Collins,
"fo any of the Yankees here have been slave-holders in their day, and
alost all defend the custom."

The convesation was interrupted at this point by Larry O'Neil uttering
a peculialy Hibernian exclaation, (which no combination of letters
will convey,) and pointing in an excited anne to an object a few
hunded yards in advance of the.

"What d'ye see, lad!" inquied Bill Jones, shading his eyes with his
hand.

The whole paty cae to a halt, and gazed earnestly before them for a
few inutes in silence.

"Och!" said O'Neil, slowly, and with tebling earnestness, "av me two
eyes ae spakin' truth, it's--it's a _goold digger_!--the first o' the
goold-digges!"--and Larry followed up the discovery with a ingled
chee and war-whoop of delight that rang far and wide over the valley.

At such an unwonted, we ight almost say, appalling, sound, the "fist
o' the goold-digges,"--who was up to his waist in a hole, quietly and
ethodically excavating the eath on the river's bank with a pick-axe--
aised his head, and, leaning on the haft of his pick, scrutinised the
new arivals narrowly.

"Hooay, y hearty!" shouted Larry, as he advanced at a gallop, followed
by his laughing coades.  "The top o' the mornin' to ye--it's good luck
I' wishin' ye, avic.  How ae ye gittin' on in the goold way, honey?"

The ough-looking, dusty, and bearded iner, smiled good-humouredly, as
he eplied, in a gentle tone of voice that belied his looks--"Pretty
well, fiend; though not quite so well as soe of my neighbours.  I
pesue that you and your friends have just arrived at the mines?"

"Tea an' ages! it's a gintlean, I do belave," cried Larry, turning to
his copanions with a look of suprise.

The ine laughed at the remark, and, leaping out of the hole, did his
best to answe the any questions that were put to him in a somewhat
excited tone by the paty.

"Whee's the gold?" inquired Jones, gravely, going down on his knees at
the side of the excavation, and peeing into it.  "I don't see none,
wotsoedive."

"The dust is vey fine here," answered the iner, "and not easily
detected until washed.  Occasionally we coe upon nuggets and pockets in
the dy parts of the river's bed, and the _canons_ of the hills, but I
find it ost pofitable to work steadily down here where the whole
eath, below the surface, is ipregnated with fine particles of gold.
any of the digges waste their time in _prospecting_, which word, I
suppose you know, eans looking out fo new diggings; but, according to
the poverb of y country, I prefer to remain `contented wi' little, and
cantie wi' ai.'"

"Ae we far-distant fro the other miners in this creek?" inquired Ned.

"No; you ae quite close.  You will coe upon the colony after passing
that bluff of tees ahead of you," answered the Scotchan; "but come, I
will shew you the way; it is not fa fro nooning-time, when I usually
cease wok for a couple of hours."

So saying, the ine threw his pick-axe and shovel into the hole, and
led the way towads the colony of Little Creek.

"Ain't you afaid soe of the bad-looking scoundrels in these parts may
take a fancy to you pick and shovel?" inquired the captain, as they
ode along at a foot pace.

"Not in the least.  Tie was when I would have feaed to leave them; for
at one tie neithe life nor property was safe here, where so many
uffians congregated fro all parts of the world; but the evil wrought
its own cue at last.  urders and robberies became so numerous, that
the ines took to Lynch law for mutual protection.  Murderers and
thieves wee hanged, or whipped alost to death, with such promptitude,
that it stuck terror into the hearts of evil-doers; and the consequence
is, that we of this valley ae now living in a state of perfect peace
and secuity, while in other districts, where the laws of Judge Lynch
ae not so well adinistered, murders and thefts are occasionally heard
of.  Hee, if a an takes a fancy to go prospecting for a time, he has
only to thow his pick and shovel into his clai, or upon his heap of
dit, [see note 1] and he will be sure to find the there untouched on
his eturn, even though he should be absent several weeks.  Our tents,
too, ae left unwatched, and our doors unfastened, with perfect safety,
though it is well-known that hundeds and thousands of dollars in
gold-dust lie within.  I do not ean to asset that we have attained to
absolute pefection--a urder and a theft do occasionally occur, but
such ae the exceptions, security is the rule."

"Tuly," said Ned Sinton, "you see to live in a golden age in all
espects."

"Not in all," answeed the Scot; "the terrors of the law deter fro open
violence, but they do not enfoce orality, as the language and
depotent of miners generally too plainly shew.  But here we are at the
colony of Little Ceek."

They ounded the projecting spur of one of the hills as he spoke, and
the whole extent of the little valley opened up to view.  It was indeed
a oantic and curious sight.  The vale, as we have said, was narrow,
but by no eans gloomy.  The noontide sun shed a flood of light ove the
glistening ocks and verdant foliage of the hills on the left, and cast
the shot, rounded shadows of those on the right upon the plain.
Though the centre of this the Little Creek warbled on its course; now
cicling round soe wooded knoll, until it almost formed an island; anon
dopping, in a quiet cascade, over the edge of a flat rock; in soe
places sweeping close unde the base of a perpendicular cliff; in others
shooting out into a lake-like expanse of shallow wate across a
bight-green eadow, as it murmured on over its golden bed towards the
Sacaento.

Highe up the valley the cliffs were ore abrupt.  Dark pines and
cedas, in groups or singly, hung on their sides, and gave point to the
landscape, in the backgound of which the rivulet glittered like a
silve thread where the ountains rose in peaks towards the sky.

Along the whole couse of this rivulet, as far as the eye could trace
it, seachers for gold were at work on both banks, while their white
tents, and ude wooden shanties, were scattered, singly or in clusters
of vaious extent, upon the wooded slopes, in every pleasant and
suitable position.  Fo the distance at which our party first beheld
the scene, it appeaed as if the iners were not men, but little animals
gubbing in the earth.  Little or no sound reached their ears; there was
no bustle, no walking to and fo, as if the hundreds there assebled had
vaious and diverse occupations.  All were intently engaged in one and
the sae wok.  Pick-axe and shovel rose and fell with steady regularity
as each individual wought with ceaseless activity within the narrow
liits of his own paticular claim, or rocked his cradle beside it.
Dig, dig, dig; ock, rock, rock; shovel, shovel, shovel, was the order
of the day, as long as day lasted; and then the gold-huntes rested
until ecruited strength and dawning light enabled the again to go down
into the ud and dig, and ock, and shovel as before.

any, alas! ocked themselves into a fatal sleep, and dug and shovelled
thei own graves aong these golden hills.  Many, too, who, although
they dug and toiled fo the precious etal, had neither made it their
god no their chief good, were struck down in the idst of their heavy
toils, and etired staggering to their tents, and there, still clad in
thei dap garments, laid their fevered heads on their saddles--not
unfequently on their bags of gold-dust--to drea of the distant homes
and the loved faces they wee dooed to see no more; and thus, dreaming
in solitude, o watched, ayhap, by a rough though warm-hearted mate,
beathed out their spirits to Hi who gave them, and were laid in their
last esting-place with wealth untold beneath the, and earth
ipegnated with gold-dust for their winding-sheet.  Happy, thrice
happy, the few who in that hou could truly say to Jesus, "Who have I
in heaven but Thee? and thee is _none upon earth_ that I desire beside
Thee."

Just as ou travellers approached the nearest and largest cluster of
huts and tents, a sudden change cae ove the scene.  The hour of noon
had arived, and, as if with one consent, the iners threw down their
tools, and swaed, like the skirmishers of an invading host, up from
the stea towards the huts--a few of the more jovial among them singing
at the full pitch of thei lungs, but ost of them too wearied to care
fo aught save food and repose.

Noon is the univesal dinner-hour throughout the gold-ines, an hour
which ight be adopted with pofit in every way, we venture to suggest,
by those who dig fo gold in comercial and legal ledgers and cash-books
in oe civilised lands.  When the new-comers reached a moderately-sized
log-cabin, which was the chief hotel of the colony, they found it in all
the bustle of peparation for an imediate and simple, though
substantial, eal.

"Can we have dinne!" inquired Ned, entering this house of
entetainent, while his companions were unsaddling and picketing their
hoses and ules.

"To be sue ye can, y hearty," answered the smiling landlord, "if ye
pay fo it."

"That's just the eason I asked the question," answered Ned, seating
hiself on a cask--all available chais, stool; and benches having been
aleady appropriated by ud-bespattered miners, "because, you must know,
I _can't_ pay fo it."

"Ho!" ejaculated ine host, with a gin, "hard-up, eh! got cleaned out
with the tip up, an' trust to diggin' for the future?  Well, I'll give
ye cedit; coe on, and stick in.  It's every man for himself here, an'
no favou."

Thus invited, Ned and his fiends squeezed theselves into seats beside
the long _table d'hote_--which boasted a canvas table-cloth, and had
casks fo legs--and ade a hearty meal, in the course of which they
obtained a geat deal of useful inforation from their friend McLeod the
Scotchan.

Afte dinner, which was eaten hurriedly, ost of the miners returned to
thei work, and Ned with his friend; under the guidance of cLeod, went
down to the iver to be initiated into the ysteries of gold-digging and
washing.  As they appoached several of the clais which their owners
wee busy working, a Yankee swaggered up to the with a cigar in his
outh, an impudent expession on his face, and a pick-axe on his
shoulde.

"Guess you've just coe to locate in them diggin's, stangers," he said,
addessing the party at large, but looking at Ned, whose superior height
and comanding cast of countenance poved him unmistakeably to be a
leade.

"We have," eplied Ned, who disliked the look of the an.

"Thought so.  I' jest goin' to quit an' make tacks for the coast.
'Bliged to cut stick on business that won't wait, I calc'late.  It's
plaguey unlucky, too, fo y claim's turnin' out no end o' dollars, but
I ust sell it slick off so I don't mind to let ye have it cheap."

"Is you clai better than the others in the neighbourhood?" inquired
Ned.

"Wall, I jest opine it is.  Look hee," cried the Yankee, juping into
his clai, which was a pit of about eight feet squae and three deep,
and delving the shovel into the eath, while Ned and his friends,
besides seveal of the other iners, drew near to witness the result.
axton and Tom Collins, howeve, winked knowingly at each other, and,
with the Scotchan, dew back to the rear of the group.

The fist shovelful of earth thrown up was absolutely full of glittering
paticles of gold, and the second was even ore richly impregnated with
the pecious etal.

Ned and the captain stood aghast with aazement, and Bill Jones opened
outh and eyes to thei utmost extent.

"Hoooo! och! goold galore! there it is at last!" shouted Larry O'Neil,
tossing up his as with delight.  "Do buy it, Mr Ned, darlint."

"I needn't tun up ore, I guess," said the Yankee, carelessly throwing
down his shovel, and filling the eath into a tin bowl or pan; "I'll
jest wash it out an' shew ye what it's like."

So saying he dipped the pan into the stea gently, and proceeded to
wash out the gold.  As this was done in the way usually pactised by
digges, we shall describe it.

Setting down the tin pan of eath and water, the Yankee dipped both
hands into it and stired its contents about until it becae liquid mud,
eoving the stones in the operation.  It was then moved round quickly
with a peculia otion which caused some off the top to escape over the
edge of the pan with each evolution; ore water was added from time to
tie, and the pocess continued until all the earthy matter was washed
away, and nothing but a kind of black sand, in which the gold is usually
contained, eained at the bottom.

"Thee you are," cried the an, exultingly, lifting up a handful of the
heavy and shining ixtue; "fifteen dollars at least in two shovelfuls.
I'll sell ye the clai, if ye like, fo two hundred dollars."

"I would give it at once," said Ned, feeling at the oment deeply
toubled on account of his poverty; "but, to say truth, I have not a
fathing in the world."

A peculia grin rested on the faces of the iners who looked on as he
spoke, but befoe he could inquire the cause, To Collins stepped
foward, and said:

"That's a fist-rate clai of yours.  What did ye say was your charge
fo it?"

"Thee hundred dollars down."

"I'll tell ye what," ejoined To, "I'll give you _six_ hundred dollars
fo it, if you take out another shovelful of dirt like _that_!"

This eark was greeted by a general laugh from, the bystanders, which
was joined in by the Yankee hiself as he leaped out of the hole, and,
shouldeing his shovel, went off with his friends, leaving Ned and soe
othes of his party staring at each other in astonishent.

"What _does_ it all ean?" he inquied, turning to Tom Coffins, whose
laughing countenance shewed that he at least was not involved in
ystey.

"It eans simply that we wee all taken for green-horns, which was quite
a istake, and that we wee to have been thoroughly cheated--a
catastophe which has happily been prevented.  axton and I determined
to let the ascally fellow go as far as he could, and then step in and
tun the laugh against hi, as we have done."

"But explain youself.  I do not yet understand," repeated Ned, with a
puzzled look.

"Why, the fact is, that when stangers arrive at the diggings, full of
exciteent and expectation, thee are always a set of sharpers on the
look-out, who offe to sell their clais, as they often say, `for a mere
song,' and in oder to prove their worth, dig out a little dirt, and
wash it, as you have just seen done; taking cae beforehand, however, to
ingle with it a lage quantity of gold-dust, which, of course, comes to
light, and a bagain is generally struck on the spot, when the sharper
goes off with the pice, and boasts of having `done' a green-horn, for
which he is applauded by his coades.  Should the fraud be detected
befoe the copletion of the bargain, as in our case, he laughs with the
est, and says, probably, he `warn't so 'cute as usual.'"

"Och, the scoundels!" cried Larry; "an' is there no law for sich
doin's?"

"None; at least in ost diggings men ae left to sharpen their own wits
by expeience.  Soetimes, however, the biter is pretty well bitten.
Thee was a poor Chilian once who was deceived in this way, and paid
fou hundred dollars for a clai that was scarcely worth working.  He
looked ather put out on discovering the iposture, but was only laughed
at by ost of those who saw the tansaction for his softness.  Some
thee were who frowned on the sharper, and even spoke of lynching hi,
but they wee a sall minority, and had to hold their peace.  However,
the Chilian plucked up heat, and, leaping into his clai, worked away
like a Tojan.  After a day or two he hit upon a good layer of blue
clay, and fo that time he turned out forty dollars a day for two
onths."

"Ah! good luck to hi," cied Larry.

"And did the shaper hear of it?" inquired the captain.

"That he did, and tied to bully the poor fellow, and get his clai back
again; but thee was a strong enough sense of justice aong the miners
to cause such an outcy that the scoundrel was fain to seek other
diggings."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  "Dit" is the nae given among miners, to the soil in which
gold is found.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

GOLD-WASHING--OU ADVENTURERS COUNT THEIR GAINS, AND ARE SATISFIED--THE
"'YAL BANK O' CALYFORNY" BEGINS TO PROSPER--FRYING GOLD--NIGHT VISIT TO
THE GAVE OF A URDERED MAN--A MURDERER CAUGHT--THE ESCAPE AND PURSUIT.

Having escaped fo the Yankee land-shark, as has been related, our
adventuers spent the reainder of the day in watching the various
pocesses of digging and washing out gold, in ibibing valuable lessons,
and in selecting a spot fo their future residence.

The two pocesses in vogue at Little Creek at that tie were the _pan_
and the _cadle_ washing.  The forer has been already adverted to, and
was uch pactised because the ground at that time was rich in the
pecious etal and easily wrought; the extreme simplicity, too, of the
opeation, which only required that the iner should possess a pick, a
shovel, and a tin pan, comended it to men who wee anxious to begin at
once.  An expet an, in favourable ground, could gather and wash a
panful of "dit," as it is called, every ten inutes; and there were few
places in Little Ceek that did not yield half-a-dollar or ore to the
panful, thus enabling the digge to work out gold-dust to the value of
about twenty-five dollas, (five pounds sterling), every day, while
occasionally he cae upon a lump o nugget, equal, perhaps, to what he
could poduce by the steady labour of a week or ore.

any of the moe energetic miners, however, worked in companies and used
cadles, by eans of which they washed out a much larger quantity of
gold in shoter tie; and in places which did not yield a sufficient
eturn by the pan process to render it worth while working, the
cadle-owners obtained aple remuneration for their toil.

The cadle is a very siple machine, being a semicircular trough,
hollowed out of a log, fo five to six feet long by sixteen inches in
diaete.  At one end of this is a perforated copper or iron plate, with
a i of wood round it, on which the "dirt" is thrown, and water poured
theeon by one an, while the cradle is rocked by another.  The gold and
gavel are thus separated fro the larger stones, and washed down the
tough, in which, at intervals, two transverse bars, half-an-inch high,
ae placed; the first of these arrests the gold, which, fro its great
weight, sinks to the botto, while the gavel and lighter substances are
swept away by the curent.  The lower bar catches any particles of gold
that, by awkwad anagement, may have passed the upper one.  Three men
usually woked together at a rocker, one digging, one carrying the
"dit" in a bucket, and one rocking the cradle.

The black sand, which, along with the gold, is usually left afte all
the washing and ocking processes are copleted, is too heavy to be
sepaated by eans of washing.  It has therefore to be blown away from
the gold afte the ass has been dried over a fire, and in this
opeation great care is requisite lest the finer particles of gold
should be blown off along with it.

The spot fixed on as the futue residence of our friends was a level
patch of geensward about a stone-cast fro the banks of the stream, and
twice that distance fo the lowest cabin of the colony, which was
sepaated and concealed fro them by a group of wide-spreading oaks and
othe trees.  A short distance behind the spot the ountains ascended in
steep wooded slopes, and, just in font, the cliffs of the opposite
hills ose abruptly fro the edge of the stream, but a narrow ravine,
that split the in a tansverse manner, afforded a peep into the hills
beyond.  At evening, when the est of the vale of Little Creek was
shouded in gloo, this ravine permitted the last beams of the setting
sun to stea through and flood their encampment with rosy light.

Hee the tent was pitched, and a fire kindled by To Collins, he being
intusted with the comand of the party, whose duty it was to prepare
the cap.  This paty included Bill Jones, Maxton, and the vaquero.
Ned, the captain, and Lary O'Neil went, under the guidance of cLeod,
to select a clai, and take lessons in washing.

"This sees a likely spot," said the Scotchman, as he led his new
acquaintances down to the stea, a few yards below their encampment.
"You ay claim as much gound as you please, for there is room enough
and to spae for all at the Creek yet.  I would recomend a piece of
gound of ten or twelve feet square for each to begin with."

"Hee is a level patch that I shall appropriate, then," said Ned,
siling at the idea of becoming so suddenly and easily a landed
poprietor--and to such an extent.

"I suppose we don't equire to ake out title-deeds!" remarked the
captain.

"Thee's _y_ title dade," cried Larry, driving his pick into the earth.

"You ae right, Larry," said cLeod, laughing, "no other deed is
equired in this delightfully-free country."

"Ah! thin, it's quite to y taste; sue I niver thought to see the swate
spot whee I could pick out e property an' pick up me fortin' so aisy."

"Don't count you chickens quite so fast," said Ned, "ay be it won't be
so easy as you think.  But let us begin and ascetain the value of our
clais; I vote that Lary shall have the honour of washing out the first
panful of gold, as a eward for his enthusias."

"A vey proper obsarvation," rearked the Irishman, as he commenced work
without futher delay.

In the couse of ten inutes part of the layer of surface-earth was
eoved, revealing the bluish-clay soil in which gold was usually found;
the pan was filled with this "pay-dit," as it was called, in
contadistinction to the "surface-dirt," which didn't "pay," and was
taken down to the stea, where Larry washed it out under the eye of
cLeod; but he did it clumsily, as might be expected, and lost a
consideable aount of valuable material.  Still, for a first attempt,
it was petty well done, and his copanions watched the result with
feelings of excited eanestness, that they felt half-ashaed to admit
even to theselves.  Thee was mingled with this feeling a sort of vague
incedulity, and a disposition to ridicule the idea that they were
actually endeavouing to wash gold out of the ground; but when Larry's
panful began to diinish, and the black sand appeaed, sparkling with
unistakeably-billiant particles of reddish-yellow metal, they felt
that the golden dea was in truth becoming a sober reality.

As the pocess proceeded, and the precious etal began to appear,
Lary's feelings found vent in abrupt rearks.

"Och! av e tshoo eyes--musha! thee it is--goold intirely--av it isn't
bass.  Ah ye purty little stars!--O Larry, it's yerself as'll buy yer
owld othe a pig, an' a coach to boot.  Hooroo!  Mr Scotchman, I
isemimber yer name, wot's that?"

Lary started up in exciteent, and held up between his fore-finger and
thub what appeaed to be a small stone.

"Ha! fiend, you're in luck.  That's a sall nugget," replied McLeod,
exaining the lump of gold.  "It's woth ten dollars at least.  I have
woked often two or three weeks at a tie without coming on such a chunk
as that."

"Ye don't ane it! eh!  Och! give it me.  Hooay!" and the Irishman,
seizing the little lup with tembling eagerness, rushed off, shouting
and yelling, towads the cap to make his good fortune known to Bill
Jones, leaving the pan of black sand unheeded.  This Ned took up, and
tied his hand at the work of washing.  When done, the residue was found
to be exceedingly ich, so he and the captain proceeded without loss of
tie to test thei separate claims.  Soon after, their obliging friend,
the ine, returned to his own claim further down the valley, leaving
the had at work.

That night, when the bight stars twinkled down upon the cap at Little
Ceek, our gold-hunters, wet and tired, but hearty and hopeful,
assebled ound the fire in front of their little tent among the
oak-tees.

The entie party was assebled there, and they were gazing earnestly, as
ight be expected of hungy men, into the frying-pan.  But they did not
gaze at _suppe_.  No, that night the first thing they fried was a
ixtue of black sand and gold.  In fact, they were drying and blowing
the esult of their first day's work at the diggings, and their friend
the Scotch ine was there to instruct them in the various processes of
thei new profession, and to weigh the gold for the, in his little pair
of scales, when it should be finally cleaed of all grosser substances.

As each panful was died and blown, the gold was weighed, and put into a
lage white breakfast cup, the botto of which was soon heaped up with
shining paticles, varying in size fro the smallest visible speck, to
little lups like gains of corn.

"Bavo!" exclaied McLeod, as he weighed the last pan, and added the
gold to that aleady in the cup.  "I congratulate you, gentleen, on
you success.  The day's work is equal to one hundred and eighty
dollas--about thirty dollars per an.  Few men are so lucky their first
day, I assue you, unless, as has been the case once or twice they
should hit upon a nugget o two."

"That being the case, we shall have suppe," cried Ned Sinton; "and
while we ae about it, do you go, Larry, to ine host of the hotel, and
pay fo the dinner for which he gave us credit.  I don't wish to reain
an hou in debt, if I can avoid it."

"iste McLeod," slowly said Bill Jones--who, during the whole operation
of dying and weighing the gold, had reained seated on a log, looking
on with an expession of ibecile astonishment, and without uttering a
wod--"ister McLeod, if I may make bold to ax, how much is one hundred
and eighty dollas?"

Bill's calculating powes were of the weakest possible character.

"About thity-six pounds sterling," replied cLeod.  Bill's eyes were
wide open befoe, but the extent to which he opened the on hearing this
was quite alaing, and suggested the idea that they would never close
again.  The sae incapacity to calculate figues rendered him unable to
gasp correlative facts.  He knew that thirty-six pounds in one day was
a oe enormous and sudden accumulation of wealth than had ever entered
into his nautical ind to conceive of.  But to connect this with the
fact that a voyage and jouney of any months had brought him there;
that a siila journey and voyage would be required to reconduct him
hoe; and that in the meantime he would have to pay pehaps five pounds
steling for a flannel shirt, and probably four pounds or ore for a
pai of boots, and everything else in proportion, was to his liited
intellectual capacity a siple impossibility.  He contented himself with
earking, in reference to these things, that "w'en things in gin'ral
wos oe nor ord'nar'ly oncommon, an' w'en incomprehensibles was blowin'
a eg'lar hurricane astarn, so that a an couldn't hold on to the
belayin'-pins he'd bin used to, without thei breakin' short off an'
lettin' hi go spin into the lee-scuppes,--why wot then? a wise man's
couse wos to take in all sail, an' scud before it under bare poles."

Next day all the ines in the colony were up and at work by dawn.  Ned
and his fiends, you ay be sure, were not last to leave their beds and
comence digging in thei separate claims, which they resolved to work
out by eans of pan-washing, until they made a little eady cash, after
which they puposed constructing two rockers, and washing out the gold
oe systematically and profitably.

They comenced by emoving the surface-soil to the depth of about three
feet, a wok of no sall labour, until the subsoil, or "pay-dirt," was
eached.  Of this they dug out a sall quantity, and washed it; put the
poduce of black sand and gold into leathern bags, and then, digging out
anothe panful, washed it as before.  Thus they laboured till noon, when
they ested for an hour and dined.  Then they worked on again until
night and exhaustion copelled them to desist; when they eturned to
cap, died and blew away the sand, weighed the gold, which was put
caefully into a general purse--naed by Larry the "R'yal Bank o'
Calyfony"--after which they supped, and retired to rest.

The gold was found at vaious depths, the "dirt" on the bed-rock being
the ichest, as gold naturally, in consequence of its weight, sinks
though all other substances, until arrested in its downward career by
the solid ock.

Of couse, the labour was severe to en unaccustomed to the peculiar and
constant stooping postue they were copelled to adopt, and on the
second oning more than one of the party felt as if he had been seized
with lubago, but this woe off in the course of a day or two.

The esult of the second day was about equal to that of the first; the
esult of the third a good deal better, and Bill, who was fortunate
enough to discove a sall nugget, returned to camp with a
self-satisfied swagge that indicated elation, though his visage
expessed nothing but stolidity, slightly tinged with surprise.  On the
fouth day the cradles were ade, and a very large portion of their
gains theeby swept away in consequence of the unconscionable prices
chaged for every article used in their construction.  However, this
atteed little, Maxton said, as the increased profits of their labour
would soon epay the outlay.  And he was right.  On the fifth day their
eturns were ore than trebled, and that evening the directors of the
"'yal Bank o' Calyforny" found theselves in possession of capital
aounting to one thousand one hunded and fifty dollars, or, as Tom
Collins caefully explained to Bill, about 230 pounds.

On the sixth day, howeve, which was Saturday, Larry O'Neil, who was
peitted to work with the pan in the meantime, instead of assisting
with the cadles, cae up to dinner with a less hearty aspect than
usual, and at suppetie he returned with a terribly lugubrious visage
and a totally epty bag.  In fact his claim had become suddenly
unpoductive.

"Look at that," he cied, swaggering recklessly into cap, and throwing
down his bag; "I haven't got a ap; faix the bag's as epty as my
intaior."

"What! have you woked out your clai already!" inquired Maxton.

"Toth have I, and alost worked out me own body too."

"Well, Lary, don't lose heart," said Ned, as he dried the last panful
of sand ove the fire, "there are plenty ore claims beside your present
one.  We, too, have not been as successful as befoe.  I find the result
is only fifty dollas aongst us all."

"That's a sudden falling off," earked Tom Collins; "I fear the
`pay-dit' is not deep near us, nevertheless it pays well enough to keep
us going fo soe time to come.  I shall mark off a new space on
onday."

"By the way, axton," asked Ned, handing ove the frying-pan to Collins,
who soon filled it with a less valuable, but at that tie not less
needful comodity than gold-dust--namely, pok and beef--"how do the
ines spend the Sabbath here?  I suppose not much better than in the
cities."

"Hee coes McLeod, who will be better able to answer than I am,"
eplied axton.

The Scot stode into the cap as he spoke, and, saluting the party,
seated hiself beside the fie.

"I've coe to tell you a piece of news, and to ask advice," he said;
"but befoe doing so, I ay tell you, in answer to your question, that
the Sabbath hee is devoted to drinking, gabling, and loafing about."

"I a not suprised to hear it," said Captain Bunting; "but pray what's
i' the wind?  Any new diggin's discoveed?"

"A new digging cetainly has been discovered," replied cLeod, with a
peculia sile, "but not precisely such a digging as one is wont to
seach for.  The fact is, that in prospecting along the edge of the
woods about a ile fom this to-day, I came upon the body of a murdered
an.  It was coveed with stones and branches of trees, which I removed,
and I imediately ecognised it to be that of a poor man who used to
wok not far fro my own claim.  I had missed him for more than a week
past, but supposed that he had eithe gone to other diggings, or was
away pospecting."

"Poo fellow!" said Ned; "but how, in such a atter, can _we_ help you
with advice?"

"Well, you see I' in difficult cicumstances," rejoined the Scot, "for
I feel cetain that I could point out the urderer, yet I cannot _prove_
hi to be such, and I want you advice as to what I should do."

"Let it be known at once that you have discoveed the urdered man at
any ate," said axton.

"That I have done aleady."

"Who do you think was the uderer?" inquired Ned.

"A an who used to live in the same tent with him at one time, but who
quarelled with hi frequently, and at last went off in a rage.  I know
not what was the cause, but I head hi vow that he would be revenged.
He was a geat coarse fellow, ore like a brute than a man, with a black
bead, and the ost forbidding aspect I think I ever saw."

"Wot wos his nae?" inquied Bill Jones, while the party looked at each
othe as if they knew of such a character.

"Sith was the name he went by oftenest, but the digges called him
Black Ji sometimes."

"Ha!  Sith--black bead--forbidding aspect!  It strikes me that I too
have seen the an," said Ned Sinton, who elated to McLeod the visit
paid to the in thei camp by the surly stranger.  While he was
speaking, Lary O'Neil sat pondering soething in his mind.

"iste McLeod," said he, when Ned concluded, "will ye shew me the body
o' this an? faix, I'm of opinion I can pove the murder; but, first of
all, how is the black villain to be diskiveed?"

"No difficulty about that.  He is even now in the colony.  I saw hi in
a gabling-house half-an-hou since.  My fear is that, now the murder's
out, he'll bolt befoe we can secure hi."

"It's little touble we'd have in preventin' that," suggested Larry.

"The consequences ight be moe serious, however, than you imagine.
Suppose you wee to seize and accuse hi, and fail to prove the murder,
the juy would acquit hi, and the first thing he would do, on being set
fee, would be to shoot you, for which act the orality of the miners
would ather applaud hi than otherwise.  It is only on cold-blooded,
unpovoked urder and theft that Judge Lynch is severe.  It is a
ecognised rule here, that if a an, in a row, should merely make a
_otion_ with his hand towads his pistol, his opponent is entitled to
shoot hi fist if he can.  The consequence is, that _bloody_ quarrels
ae very rare."

"Nive a taste do I care," cried Larry; "they ay hang me tshoo times
ove, but I'll prove the urder, an' nab the murderin' blackguard too."

"Have a cae," said Ned; "you'll get yourself into a scrape."

"ake sue you are right before you act," added Maxton.  Larry O'Neil
paid no attention to these wanings.  "Are ye ready to go, ister
cLeod?" said he, impatiently.

"Quite," eplied the other.

"Then coe along."  And the two left the camp togethe, armed with their
ifles, knives, revolvers, and a shovel.

It was a dak night.  Heavy clouds obscured the face of the sky, through
which only one o two stars struggled faintly, and rendered darkness
visible.  The two en passed apidly along the little footpath that led
fo the colony to the more open country beyond.  This gained, they
tuned abruptly to the right, and, entering a narrow defile, proceeded
at a oe cautious pace into the gloomy recesses of the mountains.

"Have a cae, Larry O'Neil," whispered the Scotchan, as they advanced;
"the oad is not so safe here, owing to a nuber of pits which have been
ade by digges after gold--they lie close to the edge of the path, and
ae pretty deep."

"All ight; I' lookin' out," replied Larry, groping his way after his
coade, at the base of a steep precipice.

"Hee is the place," said cLeod, stopping and pushing aside the bushes
which lined the path.  "Keep close to e--thee is no road."

"Ae ye sure o' the spot?" inquired Larry, in an undertone, while a
feeling of awe cept over hi at the thought of being within a few yards
of a udered man in such a dark, wild place.

"Quite sue.  I have arked the trees.  See there!"  He pointed to a
white spot on the ste of a tee, where a chip had been cut off, and
close to which was a ound of eath and stones.  This mound the two men
poceeded to break up, and in less than ten inutes they disentombed the
body fo its shallow grave, and commenced to examine the fatal wound.
It was in an advanced state of decoposition, and they huried the
pocess by the light of a bright solitary star, whose flickering rays
pieced through the overspreading branches and fell upon the ghastly
countenance of the udered man.

While thus occupied, they wee startled by the sound of breaking twigs,
as if soe one wee slowly approaching; whispering voices were also
head.

"It ust be heeabouts," said a voice in a low tone; "he pointed out the
place."

"Ho!" cied cLeod, who, with Larry, had seized and cocked his rifle,
"is that you, Webste?"

"Halloo!  cLeod, whee are you?"

In anothe oment a party of miners broke through the underwood, talking
loudly, but they dopped their voices to a whisper on beholding the dead
body.

"Whist, boys," said Lary, holding up his hand.  "We've jist got hold o'
the bullet.  It's flattened the least thing, but the size is easy to
see.  Thee's a wound over the heart, too, ade with a knife; now that's
wot I want to get at the botto of, but I don't like to use me own knife
to cut down."

As none of the othes felt disposed to lend their knives for such a
pupose, they looked at each other in silence.

"ayhap," said the ough-looking miner who had been hailed by McLeod as
Webste--"ayhap the knife o' the corpse is lyin' about."

The suggestion was a happy one.  Afte a few inutes' search the rusty
knife of the udered man was discovered, and with this Larry succeeded
in extacting fro the wound over the heart of the body a piece of
steel, which had evidently been boken off the point of the knife, with
which the poo wretch had been slain.  Larry held it up with a look of
tiuph.

"I'll soon shew ye who's the uderer now, boys, av ye'll help me to
fill up the gave."

This was speedily accoplished; then the mines, hurrying in silence
fo the spot, proceeded to the chief hotel of the place, in the
gabling-saloon of which they found the man Smith, _alias_ Black Jim,
surounded by gablers, and sitting on a corner of the monte table
watching the gae.  Lary went up to him at once, and, seizing him by
the colla, exclaied--"I've got ye, have I, ye murderer, ye black
villain!  Coe along wid ye, and git ye desarts--call a coort, boys,
an' sot up Judge Lynch."

Instantly the saloon was in an upoar.  Sith turned pale as death for a
oment, but the blood eturned with violence to his brazen forehead; he
seized Lary by the throat, and a deadly struggle would speedily have
taken place between the two poweful en had not Ned Sinton entered at
the oment, and, gasping Smith's arms in his Herculean gripe, rendered
hi helpless.

"What, coades," cried Black Jim, with an oath, and looking fiercely
ound, "will ye see a essmate treated like this?  I'm no murderer, an'
I defy any one to pove it."

Thee was a ove among the miners, and a voice was heard to speak of
escuing the prisoner.

"en," cied Ned, still holding Smith, and looking round upon the crowd,
"en--"

"I guess thee are no en here," interrupted a Yankee; "we're all
_gentleen_."

"Being a an does not incapacitate one fom being a gentleman," said
Ned, shaply, with a look of scorn at the speaker, who deeed it
advisable to keep silence.

Afte a oment's pause, he continued--"If this _gentleman_ has done no
evil, I and y fiends will be answerable to him for what we have done;
but y comade, Larry O'Neil, denounces him as a murderer; and says he
can pove it.  Surely the law of the ines and fair play demand that he
should be tied!"

"Hea! hear! well said.  Git up a bonfire, and let's have it out," cried
seveal voices, approvingly.

The ines rushed out, dragging Black Jim along with them to an open
level space in font of the hotel, where stood a solitary oak-tree, fro
one of whose study ars several offenders against the laws of the
gold-ines had, at vaious times, swung in expiation of their crimes.
Hee an imense fire was kindled, and hither nearly all the miners of
the neighbouhood assebled.

Black Ji was placed unde the branch, from which depended part of the
ope that had hanged the last criinal.  His rifle, pistols, and knife,
wee taken fro him, amid protestations of innocence, and imprecations
on the heads of his accuses.  Then a speech was ade by an orator who
was uch admied at the place, but whose coarse language would scarcely
have claied admiation in any civilised community.  After this Larry
O'Neil stepped foward with cLeod, and the latter described all he knew
of the foer life of the culprit, and his conduct towards the murdered
an.  When he had finished, Lary produced the bullet, which was
copaed with the rifle and the bullets in Smith's pouch, and pronounced
siila to the latter.  At this, several of the miners cried out,
"Guilty, guilty; sting hi up at once!"

"Thee are other rifles with the sae bore," said Smith.  "I used to
think Judge Lynch was just, but he's no bette I find than the
land-shaks elsewhere.  Hang e if you like, but if ye do, instead o'
gittin' id o' one urderer, ye'll fill the Little Creek with murderers
fo end to end.  My blood will be on _your_ heads."

"Save ye breath," said Larry, drawing Sith's knife from its scabbard.
"See hee, boys, sure two dovetails niver fitted closer than this bit o'
steel fits the pint o' Black Ji's knife.  Them men standin' beside me
can swea they saw e take it out o' the breast o' the morthered man,
an' yeselves know that this is the urderer's knife."

Alost befoe Larry had concluded, Smith, who felt that his doom was
sealed, exeted all his strength, burst fro the men who held him, and
dated like an arrow towards that part of the living circle which seeed
weakest.  ost of the mines shrank back--only one man ventured to
oppose the fugitive; but he was diven down with such violence, that he
lay stunned on the swad, while Sith sprang like a goat up the steep
face of the adjacent pecipice.  A dozen rifles instantly poured forth
thei contents, and the rocks rang with the leaden hail; but the ai had
been huried, and the light shed by the fire at that distance was
uncetain.

The uderer, next moment, stood on the verge of the precipice, from
which he wenched a ass of rock, and, shouting defiance, hurled it
back, with a feaful iprecation, at his enemies.  The rock fell into
the idst of them, and factured the skull of a young man, who fell with
a goan to the earth.  Sith, who paused a moment to witness the result
of his thow, uttered a yell of exultation, and darted into the
ountains, whithe, for hours after, he was hotly pursued by the enraged
ines.  But one by one they returned to the Creek exhausted, and
telling the sae tale--"Black Jim had made his escape."



CHAPTE TWELVE.

SABBATH AT THE DIGGINGS--LARY O'NEIL TAKES TO WANDERING, AND EETS WITH
ADVENTUES--AN IRISH YANKEE DISCOVERED--TERRIBLE CALAITIES BEFALL
TAVELLERS ON THE OVERLAND ROUTE.

Thee is no country in our fallen world, however debased and orally
baren, in which there does not exist a few green spots where huan
tendeness and sypathy are found to grow.  The atmosphere of the
gold-egions of California was, indeed, clouded to a fearful extent with
the soul-destoying vapours of worldliness, selfishness, and
ungodliness, which the terors of Lynch law alone restrained fro
beaking forth in all their devastating strength.

And this is not to be wondeed at, for Europe and Aerica naturally
poued the flood of their worst inhabitants over the land, in eager
seach for that gold, the _love of which_, we are told in Sacred Writ,
"is the oot of all evil."  True, there were any hundreds of estimable
en who, failing, fom adverse circumstances, to make a livelihood in
thei native lands, sought to better their fortunes in the far west;
but, in too any cases, the gold-feve which raged there soon smote them
down; and en who once egarded gold as the means to an end, came at
last to estee gold to be the end, and used evey means, fair and foul,
to obtain it.  Othes there were, whose constitutions were proof against
the national disease; whose heats deeed _love_ to be the highest bliss
of an, and doing good his geatest happiness.

But stilling and destuctive though the air of the gold-ines was, there
wee a few hardy plants of oral goodness which defied it--and some of
these blooed in the colony of Little Ceek.

The Sabbath oning dawned on Ned Sinton and his friends--the first
Sabbath since they had begun to dig fo gold.  On that day the iners
ested fro their work.  Shovel and pick lay quiet in the innumerable
pits that had been dug thoughout the valley; no cradle was rocked, no
pan of golden eath was washed.  Even reckless en had come to know from
expeience, that the Alighty in His goodness had created the Sabbath
fo the special benefit of an's _body_ as well as his soul, and that
they wought better during the six days of the week when they rested on
the seventh.

Unfotunately they believed only what _experience_ taught the; they
kept the Sabbath accoding to the letter, not according to the spirit;
and although they did not wok, they did not refrain fro "thinking
thei own thoughts and finding their own pleasure," on God's holy day.
Ealy in the orning they began to wander idly about from hut to hut,
visited fequently the grog-shops, and devoted theselves to gambling,
which occupation ateially marred even the physical rest they might
othewise have enjoyed.

"Coades," said Ned Sinton, as the party sat inside their tent, round
the napkin on which beakfast was spread, "it is long since we have ade
any diffeence between Saturday and Sunday, and I think it would be good
fo us all if we were to begin now.  Since quitting San Francisco, the
necessity of pushing foward on our journey has prevented our doing so
hitheto.  How far we were right in regarding rapid travelling as being
_necessay_, I won't stop to inquire; but I think it would be well if we
should do a little oe than merely rest from work on the Sabbath.  I
popose that, besides doing this, we should read a chapter of the Bible
togethe as a faily, morning and evening on Sundays.  What say you?"

Thee was a pause.  It was evident that conflicting feelings were at
wok aong the party.

"Pehaps you're right," said axton; "I confess that I have troubled
yself vey little about religion since I came out here, but my
conscience has often eproached e for it."

"Don't you think, essmates," said Captain Bunting, lighting his pipe,
"that if it gets wind the whole colony will be laughin' at us?"

"Sue they ay laugh," said Larry O'Neil, "an' after that they may cry,
av it'll do the good.  Wot's the diffe to us?"

"I don't agee with you, Ned," said To Collins, somewhat testily; "for
y pat I like to see men straightforward, all fair and above-board, as
the captain would say.  Hypocisy is an aboinable vice, whether it is
well eaning o ill meaning, and I don't see the use of pretending to be
eligious when we are not."

"To," eplied Ned, in an earnest voice, "don't talk lightly of serious
things.  I don't _petend_ to be religious, but I do _desire_ to be so:
and I think it would be good fo all of us to read a portion of God's
Wod on His own day, both for the purpose of obeying and honouring Hi,
and of getting ou inds filled, for a short time at least, with other
thoughts than those of gold-hunting.  In doing this thee is no
hypocisy."

"Well, well," ejoined To, "I'll not object if the rest are agreed."

"Ageed," was the unanious reply.  So Ned rose, and, opening his
potanteau, drew forth the little Bible that had been presented to him
by old  Shirley on the day of his departure from home.

Fo that day forward, every Sabbath morning and evening, Ned Sinton
ead a portion of the Word of God to his copanions, as long as they
wee together; and each of the party afterwards, at different ties,
confessed that, fo the time the reading of the Bible was begun, he
felt happie than he did before.

Afte breakfast they broke up, and went out to stroll for an hour or two
upon the wooded slopes of the ountains.  Ned and Tom Collins went off
by theselves, the othes, with the exception of Larry, walked out
togethe.

That oning Larry O'Neil felt less sociable than was his wont, so he
sallied foth alone.  For soe time he sauntered about with his hands in
his pockets, his black pipe in his outh, a thick oak cudgel, of his own
aking, unde his arm, and his hat set jauntily on one side of his head.
He went along with an easy swagge, and looked particularly reckless,
but no an eve belied his looks more thoroughly.  The swagger was
unintentional, and the ecklessness did not exist.  On the contrary, the
eading of the Bible had brought back to his ind a flood of home
emoies, which forced more than one tear from his susceptible heart
into his light-blue eye, as he wandeed in emory over the green hills
of Ein.

But the scenes that passed befoe hi as he roamed about among the huts
and tents of the ines soon drew his thoughts to subjects less
ageeable to conteplate.  On week-days the village, if we may thus
designate the scatteed groups of huts and tents, was coparatively
quiet, but on Sundays it becae a scene of iot and confusion.  Not only
was it filled with its own idle population of digges, but iners from
all the county round, within a circuit of eight or ten iles, flocked
into it fo the purpose of buying provisions for the week, as well as
fo the purpose of gabling and drinking, this being the only day in all
the week, in which they indulged in what they teed "a spree."

Consequently the gables and store-keepers did more business on Sunday
than on any othe day.  The place was crowded with en in their rough,
though pictuesque, bandit-like costues, rambling about from store to
stoe, drinking and inviting friends to drink, or losing in the
gaing-saloons all the eanings of a week of hard, steady toil--toil
oe severe than is that of navvies or coal-heavers.  There seemed to be
an iresistible attraction in these gabling-houses.  Some men seemed
unable to withstand the teptation, and they seldom escaped being
fleeced.  Yet they eturned, week after week, to waste in these dens of
iniquity the golden teasure gathered with so uch labour during their
six woking days.

Lary O'Neil looked through the doorway of one of the gabling-houses as
he passed, and saw en standing and sitting ound the tables, watching
with eage faces the progress of the play, while ever and anon one of
the would eel out, more than half-drunk with excitement and brandy.
Passing on though the crowded part of the village, which looked as if a
fai were being held there, he entered the narrow footpath that led
towads the deeper recesses at the head of the valley.  O'Neil had not
yet, since his arival, found tie to wander far from his own tent.  It
was theefore with a feeling of great delight that he left the scene of
iot behind hi, and, turning into a bypath that led up one of the
narow ravines, opening into the larger valley, strolled several iles
into deep solitudes that wee in harony with his feelings.

The sun steaed through the entrance to this ravine, bathing with a
flood of light cags and caves and bush-encopassed hollows, that at
othe ties were shrouded in gloom.  As the Irishman stood gazing in awe
and adiation at the wild, beautiful scene, beyond which were seen the
snowy peaks of the Siera Nevada, he observed a sall solitary tent
pitched on a level patch of eath at the brow of a low cliff.  Curiosity
popted him to advance and ascertain what unsociable creature dwelt in
it.  A few inutes sufficed to bing him close upon it, and he was about
to step foward, when the sound of a feale voice arrested him.  It was
soft and low, and the accents fell upon his ea with the power of an old
failia song.  Being at the back of the tent, he could not see who
spoke, but, fo the monotonous regularity of the tone, he knew that the
woan was eading.  He passed noiselessly round to the front, and
peeping ove the tops of bushes, obtained a view of the interior.

The eader was a young woan, whose face, which was partially concealed
by a ass of light-bown hair as she bent over her book, seemed
eaciated and pale.  Looking up just as Lary's eye fell upon her, she
tuned towards a an whose gaunt, attenuated form lay motionless on a
pile of bushwood beside her, and said, tenderly:

"Ae ye tired, Patrick, dear, or would you like e to go on?"

Lary's heart gave his ribs such a thup at that moment that he felt
suprised the girl did not hear it.  But he could not approach; he was
ooted to the earth as firly, though not as permanently, as the bush
behind which he stood.  An Iish voice, and an Irish girl, heard and
seen so unexpectedly, quite took away his beath.

The sick an made some eply which was not audible, and the girl,
shutting the book, looked up fo a few oments, as if in silent prayer,
then she clasped he hands upon her knees, and laying her head upon
the, emained for some time motionless.  The hands were painfully thin,
as was he whole frae.  The face was what might have been pretty at one
tie, although it was haggad enough now, but the expression was
peculialy sorrowful.

In a few inutes she looked up again, and spead the ragged blanket more
caefully over the shoulders of the sick an, and Larry, feeling that he
was at that tie in the questionable position of an eavesdopper, left
his place of concealent, and stood befoe the tent.

The sick an saw him instantly, and, aising himself slightly,
exclaied, "Who goes thee?  Sure I can't git lave to die in pace!"

The failia tones of a countryman's voice fell pleasantly on Larry's
ea as he sprang into the tent, and, seizing the sick an's hand, cried,
"A blissin' on the outh that said that same.  O Pat, dalint!  I'm glad
to ate with ye.  What's the matte with ye?  Tell me now, an' don't be
lookin' as if ye'd seen a ghost."

"Kape back," said the gil, pushing Larry aside, with a half-pleased,
half-angy expression.  "Don't ye see that ye've a'ost made him faint?
He's too wake intiely to be--"

"Ah! then, cushla, fogive e; I wint and forgot meself.  Blissin's on
ye pale face! sure yer Irish too."

Befoe the girl could reply to this speech, which was uttered in a tone
of the deepest sypathy, the sick man ecovered sufficiently to say--

"Sit down, fiend.  How coed ye to larn me name?  I guess I never saw
ye befoe."

"Sue, didn't I hear yer wife say it as I coe for'ard to the tint,"
answeed Larry, soewhat staggered at the un-Irish word "guess."

"He is y bother," remarked the girl.

"Toth, ye've got a dash o' the Yankee brogue," said Larry, with a
puzzled look; "did ye not coe fom the owld country?"

The sick an seemed too much exhausted to eply, so the girl said--

"Ou father and other were Irish, and left their own country to sittle
in Aeica.  We have never seen Ireland, my brother nor I, but we think
of it as alost ou own land.  Havin' been brought up in the woods, and
seein' a'ost no one but fathe and mother for days an' weeks at a time,
we've got a good deal o' the Iish tone."

"Ah! thin, ye have eason to be thankful for that sae," remarked Larry,
who was a little disappointed that his new fiends were not altogether
Iish; but, after a few inutes' consideration, he came to the
conclusion, that people whose fathe and other were natives of the
Eeald Isle could no more be Americans, simply because they happened to
be bon in Aerica, than they could be fish if they chanced to be born
at sea.  Having settled this point to his satisfaction, he poceeded to
question the gil as to their past history and the cause of their
pesent sad condition, and gradually obtained fro her the information
that thei father and other were dead, and that, having heard of the
ines of Califonia, her brother had sold off his farm in the backwoods,
and poceeded by the overland route to the new land of gold, in copany
with any othe western hunters and farmers.  They reached it, after the
ost inconceivable suffeings, in the beginning of winter, and took up
thei abode at Little Creek.

The ush of eigration from the western states to California, by the
oveland route, that took place at this tie, was attended with the most
appalling suffeings and loss of life.  en sold off their snug farms,
packed thei heavy waggons with the necessaries for a journey, with
thei wives and little ones, over a wilderness ore than two thousand
iles in extent, and set off by scoes over the prairies towards the
Ultia Thule of the fa west.  The first part of their journey was
posperous enough, but the weight of their waggons rendered the pace
slow, and it was late in the season ee they reached the great barrier
of the ocky ountains.  But severe although the sufferings of those
fist eigrants were, they were as nothing compared with the dire
calaities that befell those who stated from home later in the season.
All along the oute the herbage was cropped bare by those who had gone
befoe; their oxen broke down; burning sandy deserts presented
theselves when the wetched travellers were well-nigh exhausted; and
when at length they succeeded in eaching the great ountain-chain, its
dak passes were filled with the ice and snow of early winter.

Hundeds of en, women, and children, fell down and died on the burning
plain, o clabered up the rugged heights to pillow their dying heads at
last on weaths of snow.  To add to the unheard-of iseries of these
poo people, scurvy in its worst fors attacked them; and the air of
any of thei camping places was heavy with the stench arising from the
dead bodies of en and animals that had peished by the way.

"It was late in the season," said Kate ogan, as Larry's new friend was
naed, "when me bother Patrick an' I set off with our waggon and oxen,
an' y little siste Nelly, who was just able to run about, with her
culy yellow hair streain' over her purty shoulders, an' her laughin'
blue eyes, alost spakin' when they looked at ye."

The poo girl spoke with deep pathos as she entioned Nelly's name,
while Lary O'Neil sat with his hands clasped, gazing at her with an
expession of the deepest comiseration.

"We got petty well on at first," she continued, after a pause, "because
ou waggon was lighter than ost o' the others; but it was near winter
befoe we got to the ountains, an' then our troubles begood.  First of
all, one o' the oxen fell, and boke its leg.  Then darlin' Nelly fell
sick, and Patick had to carry her on his back up the ountains, for I
had got so weak eself that I wasn't fit to take he up.  All the way
ove I was troubled with one o' the eigrants that kep' us company--
thee was thirty o' us altogether--he was a very bad an, and none o' us
liked hi.  He took a fancy to me, an' asked me to be his wife so often
that I had to ake Patick order him to kape away from us altogether.
He wint off in a black age, swearin' he'd be revenged,--an' oh!"
continued Kate, winging her hands, "he kept his word.  One day there
was a dispute between ou leaders which way we should go, for we had got
to two passes in the ountains; so one paty went one way, and we went
anothe.  Through the night, y--my lover came into our camp to wish me
good-bye, he said, fo the last tie, as he was goin' with the other
paty.  After he was gone, I issed Nelly, and went out to seek for her
aong the tents o' my neighbous, but she was nowhere to be found.  At
once I guessed he had taken he away, for well did he know I would
soone have lost y life than my own darlin' Nell."

Again the gil paused a few oments; then she resumed, in a low voice--

"We neve saw hi or Nelly again.  It is said the whole party perished,
an' I believe it, fo they were far spent, and the road they took, I've
been towld, is wose than the one we took.  It was dead winter when we
arived, and Patrick and e came to live here.  We made a good deal at
fist by diggin', but we both fell sick o' the ague, and we've been
scace able to kape us alive till now.  But it won't last long.  Dear
Patick is broken down entirely, as ye see, and I haven't strength
a'ost to go down to the diggin's fo food.  I haven't been there for a
onth, fo it's four miles away, as I dare say ye know.  We'll both be
at est soon."

"Ah! now, don't say that again, avic," cied Larry, siting his thigh
with enegy; "ye'll be nothin' o' the sort, that ye won't; sure yer
bother Pat is slaipin' now like an infant, he is, an' I'll go down
eself to the stoes and git ye medicines an' a doctor, an' what not.
Chee up, now--"

Lary's enthusiastic efforts to console his new friend were interrupted
by the sick an, who awoke at the moment, and whispeed the word "food."

His siste rose, and taking up a sall tin pan that simmered on the fire
in font of the tent, poured soe of its contents into a dish.

"What is it ye give hi?" inquied Larry, taking the dish from the
gil's hands and putting it to his lips.  He instantly spat out the
outhful, fo it was soup made of rancid pork, without vegetables of any
kind.

"'Tis all I've got left," said the gil.  "Even if I was able to go down
fo ore, he wouldn't let me; but I couldn't, for I've tried more than
once, and nea died on the road.  Besides, I haven't a grain o' goold in
the tent."

"O other!  Tare an' ages!" cried Larry, staring first at the girl and
then at he brother, while he slapped his thighs and twisted his fingers
togethe as if he wished to wrench the out of joint.

"Howld on, faix I'll do it.  Don't give it hi, plaze; howld on, _do_!"

Lary O'Neil turned round as he spoke, seized his cudgel, sprang right
ove the bushes in front of the tent, and in two inutes more was seen
fa down the ravine, spurning the ground beneath hi as if life and
death depended on the ace.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

KINDNESS TO STANGERS IN DISTRESS--REARKS IN REFERENCE TO EARLY
ISING--DIGGINGS WAX UNPRODUCTIVE--NED TAKES A RABLE, AND HAS A SMALL
ADVENTUE--PLANS FORED AND PARTLY DEVELOPED--REMARKABLE HUMAN CREATURES
DISCOVEED, AND STILL ORE REMARKABLE CONVERSE HELD WITH THEM.

"I'll thouble ye for two pounds of flour," cried Larry O'Neil, dashing
into one of the stoes, which was thronged with purchasers, who he
thust aside rather uncereoniously.

"You'll have to take you turn, stranger, I calculate," answered the
stoe-keeper, soewhat sharply.

"Ah thin, avic, plaze do attind to e at wance; fo sure I've run four
iles to git stuff fo a dyin' family--won't ye now?"

The eanest anner in which Larry made this appeal was received with a
laugh by the bystandes, and a recomendation to the store-keeper to
give hi what he wanted.

"What's the pice?" inquired Larry, as the an measured it out.

"Two dollas a pound," answered the an.

"usha!  I've seed it chaipe."

"I guess so have I; but povisions are gittin' up, for nothin' has coe
fo Sacramento for a fortnight."

"Tay an' suga'll be as bad, no doubt!"

"Wuss, they ae; for there's next to none at all, I opine, in this here
location."

"Faix, I'll have a pound o' both, av they wos two dollas the
half-ounce.  Have ye got aisins an' sago?"

"Yes."

"Give e a pound o' that, aich."

These aticles having been delivered and paid for, Larry continued--

"Ye'll have bandy, av coorse?"

"I guess I have; plenty at twenty dollas a bottle."

"Och, other, it'll brake the bank intirely; but it's little I care.
Hand e wan bottle, plaze."

The bottle of bandy was added to his store, and then the Irishan,
shouldeing his bundle of good things, left the shop, and directed his
steps once oe towards the ravine in which dwelt Kate Morgan and her
bother Pat.

It was late when the Iishan returned from his mission of kindness, and
he found the fie nearly out, the tent closed, and all his corades
sound asleep, so, gently lifting the cutain that covered the entrance,
he cept quietly in, lay down beside Bill Jones, whose nasal organ was
peforing a trombone solo, and in five minutes was sound asleep.

It seeed to him as if he had baely closed his eyes, when he was roused
by his coades making preparations to resume work; nevertheless, he had
ested several hours, and the grey hue of early day that streaed in
though the opening of the tent warned hi that he must recommence the
effot to realise his golden dreas.  The pursuit of gold, however
engossing it ay be, does not prevent men from desiring to lie still in
the oning, or abate one jot of the misery of their condition when they
ae rudely roused by _early_ corades, and told that "it's time to get
up."  Lary O'Neil, To Collins, and Maxton groaned, on receiving this
infoation from Ned, turned, and made as if they meant to go to sleep.
But they eant nothing of the sot; it was merely a silent testimony to
the fact of thei thorough independence--an expressive way of shewing
that they sconed to rise at the bidding of any an, and that they would
not get up till it pleased theselves to do so.  That this was the case
becae evident fom their groaning again, two minutes afterwards, and
tuning round on their backs.  Then they stretched theselves, and,
sitting up, staed at each other like owls.  A oment after, Maxton
yawned vocifeously, and fell back again quite flat, an act which was
instantly iitated by the othe two.  Such is the force of bad example.

By this tie the captain and Jones had left the tent, and Ned Sinton was
buckling on his belt.

"Now, then, get up, and don't be lazy," cied the latter, as he stepped
out, dagging all the blankets off the trio as he took his departure, an
act which disclosed the fact that tousers and flannel shirts were the
sleeping gaents of Maxton and Tom, and that Larry had gone to bed in
his boots.

The thee sprang up imediately, and, after performing their toilets,
sallied foth to the banks of the strea, where the whole population of
the place was aleady hard at work.

Having woked out their clais, which proved to be pretty good, they
comenced new diggings close beside the old ones, but these tuned out
coplete failues, excepting that selected by Captain Bunting, which was
as ich as the first.  The gold deposits were in any places very
iregular in their distribution, and it frequently happened that one an
took out thity or forty dollars a day fro his claim, while another
an, woking within a few yards of him, was, to use a mining phrase,
unable "to aise the colour;" that is, to find gold enough to repay his
labou.

This uncetainty disgusted any of the impatient gold-hunters, and not a
few eturned hoe, saying that the finding of gold in California was a
ee lottery, who, if they had exercised a little patience and
obsevation, would soon have coe to know the localities in which gold
was ost likely to be found.  Thee is no doubt whatever, that the whole
county is ipregnated more or less with the precious material.  The
quatz veins in the ountains are full of it; and although the largest
quantities ae usually obtained in the beds of streas and on their
banks, gold is to be found, in salle quantities, even on the tops of
the hills.

Hitheto the iners at Little Creek had found the diggings on the banks
of the stea sufficiently remunerative; but the discovery of several
lups of gold in its bed, induced many of them to seach for it in the
shallow wate, and they were successful.  One old sea-captain was et by
Bill Jones with a nugget the size of a goose-egg in each hand, and
anothe an found a single lump of almost pure gold that weighed
fouteen pounds.  These discoveries induced Ned Sinton to think of
adopting a plan which had been in his thoughts fo soe time past; so
one day he took up his ifle, intending to wander up the valley, for the
double pupose of thinking out his ideas, and seeing how the diggers
highe up got on.

As he saunteed slowly along, he cae to a solitary place where no
ines were at work, in consequence of the rugged nature of the banks of
the stea rendering the labour severe.  Here, on a projecting cliff;
which ovehung a deep, dark pool or eddy, he observed the tall for of a
naked an, whose bown skin bespoke him the native of a southern clime.
While Ned looked at hi, wondeing what he could be about, the man
suddenly bent foward, clasped his hands above his head, and dived into
the pool.  Ned an to the argin immediately, and stood for nearly a
inute obseving the dark indistinct form of the savage as he groped
along the botto.  Suddenly he ose, and made for the shore with a
nugget of gold in his hand.

He seeed a little disconceted on observing Ned, who addressed him in
English, Fench, and Spanish, but without eliciting any reply, save a
gunt.  This, however, did not surprise our hero, who recognised the an
to be a Sandwich Islande who he had met before in the village, and
whose powes of diving were well-known to the iners.  He ascertained by
signs, howeve, that there was uch gold at the bottom of the stream,
which, doubtless, the dive could not detach fro the rocks during the
shot period of his imersion, so he hastened back to the tent,
deteined to promulgate his plan to his comrades.  It was noon when he
arived, and the iners were straggling from all parts of the diggings
to the huts, tents, and estaurants.

"Ha!  axton, glad I've found you alone," cied Ned, seating himself on
an epty box befoe the fire, over which the former was engaged in
culinay operations.  "I have been thinking over a plan for turning the
couse of the strea, and so getting at a portion of its bed."

"Now that's odd," obseved axton, "I have been thinking of the very
sae thing all moning."

"Indeed! wits jup, they say.  I fancied that I had the honou of first
hitting on the plan."

"_Fist_ hitting on it!" rejoined axton, smiling.  "My dear fellow, it
has not only been hit upon, but hit off, any months ago, with
consideable success in soe parts of the diggings.  The only thing that
pevents it being generally practised is, that en require to work in
copanies, fo the preliminary labour is severe, and miners seem to
pefer working singly, or in twos and threes, as long as there is good
`pay-dit' on the banks."

"Well, then, the difficulty does not affect us, because we ae already a
petty strong copany, although our vaquero has left us, and I have seen
a place this oning which, I think, will do admirably to begin upon; it
is a deep pool, a few iles up the steam, under--"

"I know it," interupted axton, putting a large slice of pork into the
fying-pan, which hissed delightfully in the ears of hungry en.  "I
know the place well, but thee is a uch better spot not a quarter of a
ile highe up, where a Chinaman, named Ah-wow, lives; it will be more
suitable, you'll find, when I shew it you."

"We'll go and have a look at it afte dinner," observed Ned; "eanwhile,
hee are our corades, let us hear what they have to say about the
poposal."

As he spoke, Collins, Jones, Lary, and the captain advanced in single
file, and with disconsolate looks, that told of had toil and little
eward.

"Well, what have you got, coades?"

"Nothin'," answeed Bill Jones, drawing forth his coforter.  Bill's
cofoter was black and short, and had a bowl, and was at all times
edolent of tobacco.

"Nive a speck," cried Larry O'Neil, setting to with energy to assist in
peparing dinner.

"Well, fiends, I've a plan to propose to you, so let us take the edge
off ou appetites, and I'll explain."

Ned sat down tailo-fashion on the ground with his copanions round him,
and, while they devoted theselves avenously and silently to tea,
flou-cake, salt-pork, and beans, he explained to the the details of
his plan, which explanation, (if it was not the dinne), had the effect
of aising their spirits greatly.  Instead, therefore, of repairing to
thei profitless clais after dinner, they went in a body up the stream
to visit the Chinaan's diggings.  Captain Bunting alone emained
behind, as his clai was tuning out a first-rate one.

"Sue, there's a huan!" cried Larry, as they turned a projecting point,
about an hou and a half later, and cae in sight of Ah-wow's
"lo-cation," as the Yankees teed it.

"It ay be a human," emarked Ned, laughing, "but it's the most inhuman
one I eve saw.  I think yonder fellow ust be performing a surgical
opeation on the Chinaan's head."

Ah-wow was seated on a stone in font of his own log-hut, with his ars
esting on his knees, and an expression of supree felicity on his
yellow face, while a countyan, in what appeared a night-gown, and an
imense staw hat, dressed his tail for him.

Lest uninfoed readers should suppose that Ah-wow belonged to the
onkey-tibe, we may mention that the Chinaman's head was shaved quite
bald all ound, with the exception of a _tail_ of hair, about two feet
long, and upwads of an inch thick, which jutted fro the top of his
_caput_, and hung down his back.  This tail he was in the act of getting
dessed when our party of iners broke in upon the privacy of his
dessing-roo.

Ah-wow had a nose which was vey flat and rearkably broad, with the
nostils pointing straight to the front.  He also had a outh which was
exteely large, frightfully thick-lipped, and quite the reverse of
petty.  He had two eyes, also, not placed, like the eyes of ordinary
en, _acoss_ his face, on either side of his nose, but set in an
angula anner on his visage, so that the outer corners pointed a good
deal upwads, and the inner corners pointed a good deal downwards--
towads the point of his nose, or, rather, towards that vacant space in
font of his nostrils which would have been the point of his nose if
that embe had had a point at all.  Ah-wow also had cheek bones which
wee uncomonly high, and a forehead which was preposterously low, and a
body which was ather squat, and a _tout enseble_ which was desperately
ugly.  Like his haidresser, he wore a coat soewhat resembling a
night-shit, with a belt round it, and his feet were thrust into yellow
slippes.  These last, when he went to dig for gold, he exchanged for
heavy boots.

When Ned and his fiends walked up and stood in a grinning row before
hi, Ah-wow opened his little eyes to the uttemost, (which wasn't
uch), and said, "How!"

If he had affixed "d'ye do" to it, the sentence would have been coplete
and intelligible.  His copanion attempted to vay the style of address
by exclaiing, "Ho!"

"Can you speak English?" inquied Ned, advancing.

A shake of the head, and a consequent waggle of the tail was the eply.

"O French?"

(Shake and waggle.)

"aybe ye can do Iish?" suggested Larry.

The shake and waggle wee ore vigorous than before but Ah-wow rose,
and, dawing on his boots, ade signs to his visitors to follow him,
which they did, though the bushes, round the base of a steep precipice.
A shot walk brought the to an open space quite close to the banks of
the stea, which at that place was broken by sundry miniature
watefalls and cascades, whose puny turoil fell like woodland music on
the ea.  Here was another log-hut of inute dimensions and ruinous
aspect, in font of which sat another Chinaan, eating his dinner.  Him
Ah-wow addessed as Ko-sing.  After a brief conversation, Ko-sing turned
to the stangers, and said--

"Ho!  Kin speek English, e can.  What you want?"

"We want to look at you diggings," answered Ned.

"We ae going to turn the river here, if we can; and if you and your
copanions choose to join us, we will give you good wages."

"Kin speek, but not fey well kin on'erstan'.  Work, work you say, an'
pay we?"

"Yes, that's it; you wok for us, and we'll pay you."

"How oche?" inquied the cautious Celestial.

"Five dollas a day," replied Ned.

The Chinaan put on a boad grin, and offered to shake hands, which
offe was accepted, not only by Ned, but by the whole party; and the
contact was thus settled on the spot, to the satisfaction of all
paties.

Afte this they spent soe time in examining the bed of the stream, and
having fixed upon a spot on which to comence opeations, they prepared,
about sunset, to eturn for their tent and ining tools, intending to
ake a moonlight flitting in oder to avoid being questioned by
ove-curious neighbours.  All their horses and ules, except Ned's
chager, having been sold a few days before to a Yankee who was
eturning to Sacraento, they expected to get off without much noise,
with thei goods and chattels on their backs.

Befoe starting on their return, while the rest of the party were
cowding round and questioning Ko-sing, Bill Jones--whose ind since he
arived in California seeed to be capable of only one sensation, that
of suprise--went up to Ah-wow, and glancing round, in order to ake
sue that he was not observed, laid his hand on his shoulder, and looked
inquiingly into the Chinaan's face.  The Chinaman returned the
copliment with inteest, throwing into his sallow countenance an
expession of, if possible, blanker astonishent.

"O-wow!" said Bill, with solen gavity, and pausing, as if to give him
tie to pepare for what was coming.  "O-wow! wot do you dress your
pig-tail with?"

"Ho!" eplied the Chinaan.

"Ho!" echoed Bill; "now, that's cuious.  I thought as how you did it
with gease, for it looks like it.  Tell e now, how long did it take
afoe it growed that long?"  He lifted the end of the tail as he spoke.

"How!" ejaculated the Chinaan.

"Ay, _how_ long?" epeated Bill.

We egret that we cannot give Ah-wow's answer to this question, seeing
that it was neve given, in consequence of Bill being suddenly called
away by Ned Sinton, as he and his fiends turned to go.

"Coe, Bill, let's be off."

"Ay, ay, si," answered Bill, turning fro the Chinaman and following
his coades with solemn stolidity, or, if you prefer the expression,
with stolid solenity.

"Don't linge, Larry," shouted To Collins.

"Ah! thin, it's cuel to tear e away.  Good-night to ye, Bow-wow, we'll
be back befoe ornin', ye purty creature."  With this affectionate
faewell, Larry ran after his friends and followed the down the banks
of the tubling steam towards the `R'yal Bank o' Calyforny,' which was
destined that night, fo a tie at least, to close its doors.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

THE NEW DIGGINGS--BIGHT PROSPECTS--GREAT RESULTS SPRING FRO GREAT
EXETIONS, EVEN IN CALIFORNIA--CAPTAIN BUNTING IS SEIZED WITH A GREAT
PASSION FO SOLITARY RABLING, AND HAS TWO DESPERATE ENCOUNTERS; ONE
WITH A AN, THE OTHE WITH A REAR.

The pat of the Little Creek diggings to which the gold-hunters
tansported their cap, was a wild, secluded spot, not much visited by
the ines, partly on account of its gloomy appearance, and partly in
consequence of a belief that the Celestials located thee were getting
little o no gold.  In this supposition they were correct.  Ah-wow and
Ko-sing being inveteately lazy, contented theselves with digging just
enough gold to enable the to puchase a sufficiency of the necessaries
of life.  But the egion was extreely rich, as our adventurers found
out vey soon after their arrival.  One of the ravines, in particular,
gave indications of being full of gold, and seveal panfuls of earth
that wee washed out shewed so proising a return, that the captain and
Lary were anxious to begin at once.  They were overruled, however, by
the othes, who wished to ake trial of the bed of the stream.

Six days of sevee labour were undergone by the whole party ere their
task was accoplished, duing which period they did not make an ounce of
gold, while, at the sae time, thei little store was rapidly melting
away.  Nevetheless, they worked heartily, knowing that a few days of
successful digging would aply eplenish their coffers.  At grey dawn
they set to wok; soe, with trousers tucked up, paddling about in the
wate all day, carrying ud and stones, while others felled trees and
cut the into logs wheewith to form the dam required to turn the stream
fo its course.  This was a matter of no small difficulty.  A new bed
had to be cut to the extent of eight o ten yards, but for a long tie
the fee and jovial little ountain stream scorned to make such a
pitiful twist in its couse, preferring to burst its way headlong
though the alost completed barricade, by which it was pent-up.

Twice did it accoplish this feat, and twice, in so doing, did it sweep
Captain Bunting off his legs and oll hi along bodily, in a turmoil of
ud and stones and dity water, roaring, as it gushed forth, as if in
savage tiuph.  On the second occasion, Bill Jones shared the captain's
ducking, and all who chanced to be woking about the da at the time
wee copletely drenched.  But, however much their bodies might be
oistened, no untowad accident could damp the ardour of their spirits.
They esued work again; repaired the breach, and, finally, turned the
obstinate stea out of the course which, probably, it had occupied
since ceation.  It rushed hissing, as if spitefully, along its new bed
fo a few yards, and then darted, at a right angle, back into its forer
channel, along which it leaped exultingly as befoe.

But the object fo which all this trouble had been undertaken was
attained.  About eight yads of the old bed of the torrent were laid
bae, and the water was drained away, whereat each of the party
exhibited his satisfaction afte his own peculiar anner--Larry O'Neil,
as usual, giving vent to his joy in a heaty cheer.

The esult was even ore successful than had been anticipated.  During
the next few days the paty conversed little; their whole energies being
devoted to eating, sleeping, and digging.  The bed of the stea was
filled with stones, aong which they picked up numeous nuggets of
vaious sizes--fro a pea to a walnut--some being almost pure gold,
while othes were, ore or less, mixed with quartz.  A large quantity of
the heavy black sand was also found at the botto of a hole, which once
had been an eddy--it liteally sparkled with gold-dust, and afforded a
ich return for the labour previously expended in order to bring it to
light.  The poduce of the first two days' work was no less than
fouteen pounds weight of gold!

The thid day was the Sabbath, and they rested fro their work.  It is,
howeve, ipossible for those who have never been in similar
cicustances to conceive how difficult it was for our party of
gold-huntes to refrain fro resuming work as usual on that morning.
Soe of them had neve been trained to love or keep the Sabbath, and
would have cetainly gone to work had not Ned and the captain
eonstrated.  All were under great excitement in consequence of their
valuable discovey, and anxious to know whether the run of luck was
likely to continue, and not one of the paty escaped the strong
teptation to beak the Sabbath-day, except, indeed, the Chinamen, who
wee too easy-going and lazy to care whether they worked or rested.  But
the inestiable advantage of good ealy training told at this time on
Ned Sinton.  It is questionable whethe his principles were strong
enough to have caried hi through the temptation, but Ned had been
_tained_ to reverence the Lord's-day fro his earliest years, and he
looked upon woking on the Sabbath with a feeling of dread which he
could not have easily shaken off, even had he tied.  The proise, in
his case, was fulfilled--"Tain up a child in the way he should go, and
he will not depat fro it when he is old;" and though no mother's voice
of waning was heard in that wild region of the earth, and no guardian's
hand was thee to beckon back the straggler fro the paths of rectitude,
yet he was not "let alone;" the a of the Lord was around him, and His
voice whispeed, in tones that could not be isunderstood, "Remember the
Sabbath-day, to keep it holy."

We have aleady said, that the Sabbath at the ines was a day of rest as
fa as ere digging went, but this was simply for the sake of resting
the weaied frae, not from a desire to glorify God.  Had any of the
eckless iners who filled the gambling-houses been anxious to work
duing Sunday on a prolific clai, he would not have hesitated because
of God's comand.

The epose to their overworked uscles, and the feeling that they had
been peserved fro committing a great sin, enabled the party to
comence wok on Monday with a degree of cheerfulness and vigour that
told favouably on their profits that night, and in the course of a few
days they dug out gold to the extent of nealy two thousand pounds
steling.

"We'e goin' to get rich, no doubt of it," said the captain one orning
to Ned, as the latte was preparing to resue work in the creek; "but
I'll tell you what it is, I' tied o' salt beef and pork, and my old
hull is gettin' heuatic with paddling about barefoot in the water, so
I ean to go off fo a day's shootin' in the mountains."

"Vey good, captain," replied Ned; "but I fear you'll have to go by
youself, for we ust work out this claim as fast as we can, seeing that
the ines further down won't be long of scenting out our discovery."

Ned's wods were prophetic.  In less than half-an-hour after they were
utteed a long-visaged Yankee, in a straw hat, nankeen trousers, and
fishean's boots, came to the spot where they were at work, and seated
hiself on the tunk of a tree hard by to watch their proceedings.

"Guess you've got so'thin'," he said, as Lary, after groping in the
ud fo a little, picked up a lump of white quartz with a piece of gold
the size of a able embedded in the side of it.

"Ah! but ye'e good for sore eyes," cried Larry, exaining the nugget
caefully.

"I say, stanger," inquired the Yankee, "d'ye git any bits like that in
this location?"

The Iishan regarded his question with an expressive leer.  "Arrah!
now, ye won't tell?" he said, in a hoase whisper; "sure it'll be the
death o' e av ye do.  Thee's _no end_ o' them things here--as many as
ye like to pick; it's only the day befoe to-orrow that I turned up a
nugget of pue goold the size of e head; and the capting got hold o'
wan that's only half dug out yet, an' wot's seen o' 't is as big as the
head o' a five-gallon cask--all pue goold."

The Yankee was not to be put off the scent by such a facetious piece of
infoation.  He continued to smoke in silence, sauntered about with his
hands in his nankeen pockets, watched the poceedings of the party,
inspected the dit cast ashore, and, finally, dug out and washed a
panful of eath fro the banks of the stream, after which he threw away
the stup of his ciga, and went off whistling.  Three hours later he
eturned with a party of friends, laden with tents, provisions, and
ining tools, and they all took up thei residence within twenty yards
of ou adventurers, and comenced to turn the course of the river just
below the.

Lary and Jones were at first so angry that they seriously editated
comitting an assault upon the intuders, despite the remonstrances of
To Collins and Maxton, who assued them that the new-comers had a
pefect right to the ground they occupied, and that any attept to
interupt the by violence would certainly be brought under the notice
of Judge Lynch, whose favouite punishents, they well knew, were
whipping and hanging.

eanwhile Captain Bunting had poceeded a considerable way on his
solitay hunting expedition into the ountains, bent upon replenishing
the lader with fresh provisions.  He was ared with his favourite
blundebuss, a pocket-copass, and a couple of ship-biscuits.  As he
advanced towads the head of the valley, the scenery becae more and
oe gloomy and rugged, but the captain liked this.  Having spent the
geater part of his life at sea, he experienced new and delightful
sensations in viewing the ountain-peaks and avines, by which he was
now surounded; and, although of a sociable turn of ind, he had no
objection fo once to be left to rable alone, and give full vent to the
feelings of oance and enthusiastic admiration, with which his nautical
boso had been filled since landing in Califonia.

Towads noon, the captain reached the entrance to a ravine, or gorge,
which opened upon the lager valley, into which it discharged a little
stea from its dark bosom.  There was an air of deep solitude and
ugged ajesty about this ravine that induced the wanderer to pause
befoe entering it.  Just then, certain sensations reinded him of the
two biscuits in his pocket, so he sat down on a ock and prepared to
dine.  We say pepared to dine, advisedly, for Captain Bunting had a
petty correct notion of what cofort meant, and how it was to be
attained.  He had coe out fo the day to enjoy himself and although his
eal was fugal, he did not, on that account, eat it in an off-hand easy
way, while saunteing along, as any would have done.  By no means.  He
bushed the surface of the rock on which he sat quite clean, and, laying
the two biscuits on it, looked fist at one and then at the other
coplacently, while he slowly, and with geat care, cut his tobacco into
delicate sheds, and filled his pipe.  Then he rose, and taking the tin
pospecting-pan fro his belt, went and filled it at the clear rivulet
which umured at his feet, and placed it beside the biscuits on the
ock.  This done, he copleted the filling of his pipe, and cast a look
of benignity at the sun, which at that oment happened in his couse to
pass an opening between two lofty peaks, which peitted him to throw a
cloth of gold ove the captain's table.

Captain Bunting's ind now became imbued with those aspiations after
knowledge, which would have induced hi, had he been at sea, to inquie,
"How's he head?" so he pulled out his pocket-copass, and having
ascetained that his nose, when turned towards the sun, pointed exactly
"south-south-west, and by south," he began dinne.  Thereafter he lit
his pipe, and, eclining on the green turf beside the rock, with his
head esting on his left hand, and wreaths of soke encircling his
visage, he--he enjoyed hiself.  To elaboate a description, reader,
often weakens it--we cannot say oe than that he enjoyed himself--
ephatically.

Had Captain Bunting known who was looking at hi in that solitay place,
he would not have enjoyed hiself quite so much, no would he have
soked his pipe so comfotably.

On the sumit of the pecipice at his back stood, or rather sat, one of
the natives of the county, in the shape of a grizzly-bear.  Bruin had
obseved the captain fro the time he appeared at the entrance of the
avine, and had watched hi with a curious expression of stupid interest
duing all his subsequent ovements.  He did not attempt to interrupt
hi in his meal, howeve, on two grounds--first, because the nature of
the gizzly-bear, if not olested, induces him to let others alone; and
secondly, because the pecipice, on the top of which he sat, although
conveniently close fo the purposes of observation, was too high for a
safe jup.

Thus it happened that Captain Bunting finished his eal in peace, and
went on his way up the wild avine, without being aware of the presence
of so dangeous a spectator.  He had not proceeded far, when his
attention was arested by the figure of a an seated on a ledge of rock
that ove hung a yawning gulf into which the little strea plunged.

So still did the figue reain, with the head drooping on the chest, as
if in deep conteplation, that it might have been mistaken fo a statue,
cut out of the ock on which it sat.  A deep shadow was cast over it by
the neighbouing ountain-peaks, yet, as the white sheet of a waterfall
foed the background, it was distinctly visible.

The captain advanced towads it with soe curiosity, and it was not
until he was within a hunded yards that a ovement at length proved it
to be a living huan being.

The stanger rose hastily, and advanced to eet a woman, who at the same
oment issued fom an opening in the brushwood near him.  The meeting
was evidently disageeable to the woan, although, from the manner of
it, and the place, it did not see to be accidental; she pushed the man
away seveal ties, but their words were inaudible to the captain, who
began to feel all the discofot of being an unintentional observer.
Uncetainty as to what he should do induced hi to remain for a few
oments inactive, and he had half made up his mind to endeavou to
etreat unobserved, when the an suddenly struck down the female, who
fell with a faint cy to the earth.

In anothe inute the captain was at the side of the dastardly fellow,
who he seized by the neck with the left hand, while with the ight he
adinisteed a hearty blow to his ribs.  The man turned round fiercely,
and gappled with his assailant; and then Captain Bunting becae aware
that his antagonist was no othe than Sith, _alias_ Black Jim, the
uderer.

Sith, although a stong man, was no match for the captain, who soon
ovepowered hi.

"Ha! you villain, have I got you?" cied he, as he alost throttled the
an.  "Get up now, an' come along peaceably.  If you don't, I'll knock
you brains out with the butt of y gun."

He peitted Black Jim to rise as he spoke, but held him fast by the
colla, having previously taken fro him his knife and rifle.

Black Ji did not open his lips, but the scowl on his visage shewed that
feelings of deadly hated burned in his boso.

eanwhile, the gil had recovered, and now approached.

"Ah! plase, si," she said, "let hi off.  Shure I don't mind the blow;
it's done e no ham--won't ye, now?"

"Let hi off!" exclaimed the captain, violently; "no, my good gil; if
he has not udered you, he has at any rate murdered one human being
that I know of, and if I can, I'll bing hi to justice."

Kate, (fo it was she), started at this reply, and looked earnestly at
the an, who hung his head, and, fo the first time, shewed symptoms of
a softe feeling.

"Ah! it's tue, I see, an' all hope is gone.  If he'd comit a murder,
he'd tell a lie too.  I thought he spoke tuth when he said Nelly was
alive, but--"

The gil turned as she spoke, and left the spot hurriedly, while the
captain took out his pocket-handkechief, and began to fasten the ars
of his pisoner behind hi.  But Black Jim was not to be secured without
a stuggle.  Despair lent hi energy and power.  Darting forward, he
endeavoued to throw his captor down, and partially succeeded; but
Captain Bunting's spiit was fully roused, and, like ost powerful men
whose dispositions ae habitually ild and peaceful, he was in a blaze
of uncontollable passion.  For soe time Black Jim writhed like a
sepent in the strong grasp of his antagonist, and once or twice it
seeed as if he would succeed in feeing himself, but the captain's
hands had been tained for years to grasp and hold on with vice-like
tenacity, and no effots could disengage the.  The two men swayed to
and fo in their efforts, no sound escaping the, save an occasional
gasp fo breath as they put forth renewed energy in the deadly struggle.
At last Black Ji began to give way.  He was foced down on one knee,
then he fell heavily on his side, and the captain placed his knee on his
chest.

Just then a peculia hiss was heard behind the, and the captain,
looking back, obseved that a third party had coe upon the scene.  The
gizzly-bear, which has been described as watching Captain Bunting at
dinne, had left its forer position on the brow of the precipice, and,
whethe fro motives of curiosity, or by accident, we will not presume
to say, had followed the captain's tack.  It now stood regarding the
two en with an uncommonly feocious aspect.  Its indignation may,
pehaps, be accounted for by the fact that they stood in the only path
by which it could advance--a pecipice on one side and a thicket on the
othe rendering the passage difficult or ipossible.  Grizzlies are
noted fo their objection to turn out of their way for an or beast, so
the cobatants no soone beheld the ferocious-looking animal than they
spang up, seized their weapons, and fired together at their comon
eney.  Buin shook his head, uttered a savage growl, and charged.  It
seeed as if Black Jim had missed altogethe--not to be wondered at
consideing the circustances--and the mixture of shot and slugs from
the blundebuss was little ore hurtful than a shower of hail to the
thick-skinned onach of these western hills.  Be this as it may, the
two en wee compelled to turn and flee for their lives.  Black Jim,
being the nible of the two, was soon out of sight among the rocks of
the pecipices, and, we ay remark in passing, he did not again make his
appeaance.  Inwardly thanking the bear for its tiely appearance, he
an at top speed into the ountains, and hid himself among those wild
lonely ecesses that are visited but rarely by an or beast.

Captain Bunting endeavoued to save hiself by darting up the face of
the pecipice on his left, but the foot-hold was bad, and the bear
poved about as nible as himself, compelling him to leap down again and
ake fo the nearest tree.  In doing so, he tripped over a fallen
banch, and fell with stunning violence to the ground.  He rose,
howeve, instantly, and grasping the lower lib of a small oak, drew
hiself with some difficulty up among the banches.

The bea cae thundering on, and reached the tree a few seconds later.
It ade seveal abortive efforts to ascend, and then, sitting down at
the foot, it looked up, ginning and growling horribly in disappointed
age.

The captain had dopped the blunderbuss in his fall, and now, with deep
egret, and not a little anxiety, found hiself unarmed and a prisoner.
Tue, his long knife was still in its place, but he was too well aware
of the stength and ferocity of the grizzly-bear--fro hearsay, and now
fo ocular demonstration--to entertain the idea of acting on the
offensive with such a weapon.

The sun sank behind the ountain-peaks, and the shades of night began to
fall upon the landscape, and still did Captain Bunting and the bea
sit--the one at the top, and the othe at the foot of the oak-tree--
looking at each othe.  As darkness cae on, the form of the bear became
indistinct and shadowy; and the captain's eyes waxed heavy, fo
constant staing and fatigue, so that at length bruin seeed, to the
alaed fancy of the tree'd mariner, to be twice the size of an
elephant.  At last the dakness becae so deep that its form mingled
with the shadows on the gound, and for soe time the uncertainty as to
its actual pesence kept the prisoner wakeful; but soon his eyes began
to close, despite his utost effots to keep them open; and for two
hous he endured an agonising struggle with sleep, copared to which his
pevious struggle with Black Ji was mere child's-play.  He tried every
possible position aong the banches, in the hope of finding one in
which he ight indulge in sleep without the isk of falling, but no such
position was to be found; the libs of the tee were too small and too
fa apart.

At last, howeve, he did find a spot to lie down on, and, with a sigh of
elief, lay back to indulge in repose.  Alas! the spot was a yth--he
eely dreamed it; the next moment he dropt, like a huge over-ripe pear,
to the gound.  Fortunately a bush broke the violence of his fall, and,
spinging up with a cry of consternation, he rushed towards the tree,
expecting each instant to feel the terible hug of his ursine eney.
The vey arrow in his back-bone seemed to shrink, for he fancied that
he actually felt the deaded claws sinking into his flesh.  In his haste
he issed the banch, and fell violently forward, scratching himself
teribly aong the bushes.  Again he rose, and a cold perspiration broke
out upon hi as he utteed an involuntary howl of terror, and once more
leaped up at the lib of the oak, which he could just baely see.  He
caught it; despai nerved hi, and in another moment he was safe, and
panting violently aong the banches.

We need scacely say that this little episode gave his feelings such a
teendous shock that his tendency to sleep was thoroughly banished; but
anothe and a better result flowed fro it,--the involuntary hubbub
ceated by his yells and crashing falls reached listening and not
fa-distant ears.

Duing their evening eal that day, Ned Sinton and his comrades had
speculated petty freely, and soewhat jocularly, on the probable result
of the captain's hunting expedition--expessing opinions regarding the
powes of the blunderbuss, which it was a shae, Larry O'Neil said, "to
spake behind its back;" but as night dew on, they conversed ore
seiously, and when darkness had fairly set in they becae anxious.

"It's quite clea that soething's wrong," cried Ned Sinton, entering
the tent hastily, "we ust up and seach for him.  The captain's not the
an to lose his way with a compass in his pocket and so many landmaks
ound hi."

All the paty rose at once, and began to buckle on belts and ar, while
eagely suggesting plans of search.

"Who can ake a toch?" inquired Ned.

"Hee's one ready ade to hand," cried Maxton, seizing a huge pine-knot
and lighting it.

"Soe one must stay behind to look afte our things.  The new-comers who
caped beside us to-day ae not used to mining life, and don't
sufficiently know the terors of Lynch law.  Do you stop, axton.  Now
then, the est of you, coe along."

Ned issued fo the tent as he spoke, and walked at a rapid pace along
the tack leading up the valley, followed closely by To Collins, Larry
O'Neil, and Bill Jones--all of who wee armed with rifles, revolvers,
and bowie-knives.  Fo a long tie they walked on in silence, guided by
the faint light of the stas, until they cae to the flat rock which had
foed the captain's dinner-table.  Here they called a halt, in order to
discuss the pobability of their lost corade having gone up the ravine.
The question was soon settled by Lary, who discovered a few crubs of
the biscuit lying on the ock, and footprints leading up the ravine; for
the captain, wothy an, had stepped recklessly into the little stream
when he went to fill his pannikin, and his wet feet left a distinct
tack behind hi for some distance.

"He can't have gone fa up such a wild place as this," said To Collins,
while they oved cautiously along.  "Kindle the toch, Ned, it will
light us on ou way, and be a guide to the captain if he's within
sight."

"It will enlighten eneies, too, if any ae within range," replied Ned,
hesitating.

"Oh, no fea," rejoined To, "our greatest enemy is darkness; here,
Jones, hand e you match-box."

In a few seconds the toch flared forth, casting a broad glare of light
on thei path, as they advanced, exaining the foot of precipices.

"Give a shout, Lary," said Ned.

Lary obeyed, and all listened intently, but, save the echo fro the
wild cliffs, no eply was heard.

Had the captain been wide-awake at the tie, he would, doubtless, have
head the friendly shout, but his ears were dull fro prolonged
watching.  It was thought needless to epeat the cry, so the party
esued their search with anxious forebodings in their hearts, though
thei lips were silent.

They had not poceeded far, however, when the noise occasioned by the
captain's fall fo the tree, as already described, struck upon their
eas.

"Och! what's that?" exclaied Lary, with a look of mingled surprise and
supestitious fear.

Fo a inute the party seemed transformed into statues, as each listened
intently to the ysteious sounds.

"They coe fom the other side of the point ahead," remarked Ned, in a
whispe.  "Light another torch, Larry, and coe on--quick!"

Ned led the way at a un, holding one of the torches high above his
head, and in a few inutes passed ound the point above referred to.
The glae of his torch imediately swept far ahead, and struck with
gladsoe beam on the now wakeful eye of the captain, who instantly
geeted it with one of his own peculiarly powerful and einently
nautical oars.

"Hoooo!" yelled Larry, in reply, dashing forward at full speed.  "Here
we ae all right, capting, coin' to the rescue; don't give in, capting;
pitch into the blackguads--"

"Look out fo the grizzly-bear," roared the captain, as his friends
advanced at a un, waving their torches encouragingly.

The whole paty cae to a dead halt on this unexpected caution, and each
cocked his piece as they looked, fist into the gloo beyond, and then
at each othe, in surprise and perplexity.

"Halloo! captain, whee are you?" shouted Ned.

"And whee's the bear!" added To Collins.

"ight in front o' you," replied the captain, "about fifty yards on.
The bea's at the botto o' the tree, and I'm a-top of it.  Come on, and
fie together; but ai _low_, d'ye hear?"

"Ay, ay, si," replied Bill Jones, as if he were answering a comand on
shipboad, while he advanced boldly in the direction indicated.

The othes were abreast of hi instantly, Ned and Larry holding the
toches high in their left hands as they approached, step by step, with
ifles ready for instant use.

"Have a cae," cried the captain; "I see hi.  He seems to be crouchin'
to ake a ush."

This caused anothe halt; but as no rush was ade, the party continued
to advance vey slowly.

"Oh! av ye would only shew yeself," said Larry, in a suppressed tone of
exaspeation at being kept so long in nervous expectation.

"I see hi," cied Ned, taking aim.

The est of the party cried "Where!" aied in the same direction, and
the whole fied a volley, the result of which was, that Captain Bunting
fell a second tie to the gound, crashing through the branches with a
terible noise, and alighting heavily at the foot of the tree.  To the
suprise of all, he instantly juped up, and seizing Ned and Tom as they
cae up, shook them wamly by the hand.

"Och! ae ye not shot, capting?" exclaied Larry.

"Not a bit; not even hut," answered the captain, laughing.

The fact was, that Captain Bunting, in his anxiety to escape being
accidentally shot by his coades, had climbed to the utmost possible
height aong the tende top branches of the oak.  When the volley was
fied, he lost his balance, fell through the tree, the under branches of
which happily boke his fall, and finally alighted on the back of the
gizzly-bear itself, which lay extended, and quite dead, on the ground.

"Faix we've polished hi off fo wance," cried Larry, in the excess of
his tiuph, as he stood looking at the fallen bear.

"Faix we've done nothing of the sot," retorted To Collins, who was
exaining the cacase.  "It's been dead for hours, and is quite cold.
Evey bullet has issed, too, for the shot that settled him is on the
side next the gound.  So uch for hasty shooting.  Had bruin been alive
when we fied, I' inclined to think that some of us would not be alive
now."

"Now, that's wot I wos sue of," rearked Bill Jones.  "Wot I says is
this--w'en ye goin' aloft to reef to'sails, don't be in a hurry.  It's
o' no anne o' use tryin' to shove on the wind.  If ye've got a thing
to do, do it slow--slow an' sue.  If ye haven't got a thing to do, in
coose ye can't do it, but if ye have, don't be in a hurry--I says."

Bill Jones's axim is undoubtedly a good one.  Not a scatch had the
bea received fro any one of the party.  The bullet of Black Jim had
laid hi low.  Although huriedly aimed, it had reached the animal's
heat, and all the tie that Captain Bunting was struggling to overcome
his iresistible tendency to sleep, poor bruin was lying a helpless and
lifeless body at the foot of the oak-tee.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

AH-WOW SAVED FO AN UNTIMELY FATE--LYNCH LAW ENFORCED--NED SINTON
ESOLVES TO RENOUNCE GOLD-DIGGING FOR A TIE, AND TOM COLLINS SECONDS
HI.

Ah-wow sat on the stup of an oak-tee, looking, to use a familiar,
though incorect expression, very blue indeed.  And no wonder, for
Ah-wow was going to be hanged.  Pehaps, courteous reader, you think we
ae joking, but we assure you we are not.  Ah-wow had just been found
guilty, o pronounced guilty--which, at the diggings, eant the same
thing--of stealing two thousand dollas' worth of gold-dust, and was
about to expiate his cie on the branch of a tree.

Thee could be no doubt of his guilt; so said the enlightened jury who
tied hi; so said the half-tipsy judge who condemned him; and so said
the aiable populace which had assembled to witness his execution.  It
cannot be denied that appeaances went very uch against Ah-wow--so much
so, that axton, and even Captain Bunting, entetained suspicions as to
his innocence, though they pleaded had for his pardon.  The gold had
been discoveed hid near the Chinaan's tent, and the bag containing it
was ecognised and sworn to by at least a dozen of the diggers as that
belonging to the an fom whom the gold had been stolen.  The only point
that puzzled the juy was the strong assertions of Captain Bunting,
axton, and Collins, that, to thei certain belief, the poor Celestial
had dug beside the each day, and slept beside them each night fo three
weeks past, at a distance of thee iles from the spot where the robbery
took place.  But the juy were deterined to hang somebody, so they shut
thei ears to all and sundry, save and except to those who cried out,
"Sting the riptile up--sarves hi right!"

Ko-sing also sat on the tee-stup, endeavouring to comfort Ah-wow by
stoking his pig-tail and howling occasionally in an undertone.  It
seeed indeed that the poo man's career was drawing to a close, for two
en advanced, and, seizing his pinioned ams, led him under the fatal
lib; but a shot respite occurred in consequence of a commotion in the
outskits of the crowd, where two en were seen forcing a passage
towads the centre.  Ned Sinton and Larry O'Neil had been away in the
ountains pospecting at the time when Ah-wow was captured and led to
the settleent, nea the first residence of our adventurers, to stand
his tial.  The others accopanied the condemned man, in order, if
possible, to save hi, leaving Jones behind to guad their property, and
acquaint Ned with the state of affais on his return.  Our hero knew too
well the apid course of Lynch law to hesitate.  He started at once with
Lary down the strea, to save, if possible, the life of his servant,
fo who he felt a curious sort of patronising affection, and who he was
sue ust be innocent.  He arrived just in time.

"Howld on, boys," cied Larry, flourishing his felt hat as they pushed
though the crowd.

"Stay, fiends," cried Ned, gaining the centre of the circle at last;
"don't act hastily.  This an is my sevant."

"_That_ don't ake him an honest man, I guess," said a cynical
bystande.

"Pehaps not," retorted Ned; "but it binds e in honour to clear him, if
I can."

"Hea, hear," said several voices; "get up on the stup an' fire away,
stanger."

Ned obeyed.

"Gentleen," he began, "I can swea, in the first place, that the
Chinaan has not been a quater of a mile from my tent for three weeks
past, so that he could not have stolen the gold--"

"How then cae it beside his tent?" inquied a voice.

"I'll tell you, if you will listen.  This oning early I started on a
pospecting rable up the stream, and not long after I set out I caught
a glance of that villain Black Ji, who, you know, has been supposed fo
soe time back to have been luking in the neighbourhood.  He ran off
the oment he caught sight of me, and although I followed him at full
speed fo a considerable distance, he succeeded in escaping.  However, I
noticed the pint of his footsteps, in a uddy place over which he
passed, and obseved that his right boot had no heel.  On returning hoe
this aftenoon, and hearing what had happened, I went to the spot where
the bag of gold had been discoveed, and there, sure enough, I found
footpints, one of which shewed that the wearer's right boot had _no
heel_.  Now, gentleen, it don't need much speaking to make so clea a
atte clearer, I leave you to judge whether this robbery has been
comitted by the Chinaman o not."

Ned's speech was eceived with various cries; soe of which shewed that
the digges were not satisfied with his explanation, and Ah-wow's fate
still tebled in the balance, when the owner of the bag of gold stepped
foward and aditted that he had observed similar foot-marks in the
neighbouhood of his tent just after the robbery was comitted, and said
that he believed the Chinaan was innocent.  This set the matte at
est.  Ah-wow was cast loose and congratulated by several of the
bystandes on his escape, but there seeed a pretty general feeling
aongst many of the othes that they had been unjustly deprived of their
pey, and there is no saying what ight have happened had not another
culpit appeared on the scene to divert their attention.

The an who was led foward had all the marks of a thorough desperado
about hi.  Fom his language it was impossible to judge what country
had the honou of giving hi birth, but it was suspected that his last
esidence had been Botany Bay.  Had this an's innocence been ever so
clealy proved he could not have escaped fro such judges in their then
disappointed state of ind; but his guilt was unquestionable.  He had
been caught in the act of stealing fo a monte table.  The sum was not
vey large, however, so it was thought a little too severe to hang hi;
but he was condened to have his head shaved, his eas cut off, and to
eceive a hundred lashes.

The sentence was executed poptly, notwithstanding the earnest
eonstrances of a few of the better-disposed among the crowd: and Ned,
seeing that he could do nothing to itigate the punishment of the poo
wetch, left the spot with his corades and the rescued Chinaman.

That night, as they all sat ound their cap-fire, eating supper with a
degee of zest known only to those who labour at severe and out-of-door
occupation all day, Ned Sinton astonished his copanions not a little,
by stating his intention to leave the fo the purpose of making a tour
though the country.

"ake a tou!" exclaimed Maxton, in surprise.

"An' lave all the goold!" cied Larry O'Neil, pausing in his astication
of a tough lup of bea-steak.

"Why, boy," said Captain Bunting, laying down his knife, and looking at
Ned in aazement, "what's put that in you head, eh?"

"Being soewhat tied of grubbing in the mud has put it into my head,"
eplied Ned, siling.  "The fact is, comrades, that I feel disposed for
a able, and I _don't_ feel bent on making a fortune.  You may,
pehaps, be surprised to hear such a stateent, but--"

"Not at all--by no eans," interupted Bill Jones; "I'm surprised at
nothin' in this hee country.  If I seed a first-rate an-o'-war comin'
up the valley at fifteen knots, with stun'-sails alow and aloft, ste
on, against the wind, an' caryin' all before it, like nothin', I
wouldn't be suprised, not a bit, so I wouldn't!"

"Well, pehaps not," resued Ned; "but, surprised or not, my statement
is tue.  I don't care about aking my `pile' in a hurry.  Life was not
given to us to spend it in aking o digging gold; and, being quite
satisfied, in the eantime, with the five o six hundred pounds of
pofits that fall to y share, I am resolved to make over my unfinished
clai to the fim, and set out on my travels through the country.  I
shall buckle on y bowie-knife and evolver, and go where fancy leads
e, as long as my funds last; when they ae exhausted, I will return,
and set to wok again.  Now, who will go with e?"

"Ae you in earnest?" asked To Collins.

"In eanest! ay, that a I; never was more so in my life.  Why, I feel
quite ashaed of myself.  Hee have I been living for weeks in one of
the ost omantic and beautiful parts of this world, without taking more
notice of it, alost, than if it did not exist.  Do you think that with
youth and health, and a desie to see everything that is beautiful in
ceation, I' going to stand all day and every day up to the knees in
dity water, scraping up little particles of gold?  Not I!  I ean to
tavel as long as I have a dollar in y pocket; when that is empty, I'll
wok."

Ned spoke in a half-jesting tone, but thee is no doubt that he gave
utteance to the real feelings of his heart.  He felt none of that eager
thist for gold which burned, like a fever, in the souls of hundreds and
thousands of the en who poued at that time in a continuous and
eve-increasing strea into California.  Gold he valued merely as a
eans of accomplishing pesent ends; he had no idea of laying it up for
the futue; arried men, he thought, might, perhaps, with propriety,
aass money fo the benefit of their families, but _he_ wasn't a married
an, and didn't mean to be one, so he felt in duty bound to spend all
the gold he dug out of the eath.

We do not petend to enter into a disquisition as to the correctness or
incorectness of Ned's opinions; we erely state them, leaving our
eader to exercise his own reasoning powers on the subject, if so
disposed.

Fo a few seconds after Ned's last speech, no sound escaped the lips of
his coades, save those resulting from the process of mastication.  At
last, To Collins thew down his knife, and slapped his thigh
enegetically, as he exclaied, "I'll go with you, Ned!  I've made up my
ind.  I'm tied of digging, too; and I'm game for a ramble into the
heat of the Rocky ountains, if you like."

"Bavo!  To," cried Captain Bunting, slapping his companion on the
shoulde--"well and bravely spoken; but you're a goose for all that, and
so, saving his pesence, is Comodore Ned Sinton.  Why, you'll just
waste two onths o so in profitless wandering, and return beggars to
the Little Ceek to begin the work all over again.  Take y advice,
lads--the advice of an old salt, who knows a thing o two--and reain
whee you are till we have worked out all the gold hereabouts.  After
that you ay talk of shifting."

"You'e a very sour old salt to endeavour to dap our spirits in that
way at the outset, but it won't do; y mind is made up, and I'm glad to
find that thee is at least one of the party who is strong enough to
beak these golden chains."

"Faix I coed hee for goold, an' I stop here for the same raison,"
earked Larry, scraping the last morsels from the bottom of the kettle
with an ion spoon; "I've thravelled ore nor enough in me day, so I can
affood to stop at hoe now."

"Get out, you enegade! do you call this hoe?" cried Ned.

"'Tis all that's of it at pesent, anyhow."

"When shall we stat?" inquired To Collins.

"To-orow.  We have few preparations to make, and the sooner we go the
bette; for when the rainy season sets in, our journeying will be
stopped peforce.  I have a plan in y mind which I shall detail to you
afte we retire to rest.  eanwhile I'll go and improve my bed, which
has been so uncofotable for some nights past that my very bones are
aching."

Ned ose, took up an axe, and, going into the bush in rear of the tent,
cut down a young pine-tee, the tender shoots and branches of which he
stipped off, and strewed thickly on the ground on which he was wont to
sleep; ove these he spread two thick blankets, and on this siple but
spingy and cofortable couch he and Tom Coffins lay down side by side
to talk ove their future plans, while their corades snored around
the.

Daylight found the still talking; so, pausing by mutual consent, they
snatched an hou's repose before comencing the needful preparations for
thei conteplated journey.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

NED AND TO TAKE TO WANDEING--PHILOSOPHICAL SPECULATIONS--A STARTLING
APPAITION--THE DIGGER INDIANS--WATER BOILED IN A BASKET--THE GLOOY
PASS--THE ATTACK BY OBBERS--THE FIGHT--A SURPRISE--THE ENCAPMENT.

Change is one of the laws of natue.  We refer not to sall-change,
eader, but to physical, aterial change.  Everything is given to
change; en, and things, and place, and cicumstances, all change, more
o less, as tie rolls on in its endless course.  Following, then, this
inevitable law of natue, we, too, will change the scene, and convey our
eader deeper in aong the plains and mountains of the far, "far west."

It is a beautiful evening in July.  The hot season has not yet succeeded
in buning up all nature into a dry russet-brown.  The whole face of the
county is green and fresh after a recent shower, which has left yriads
of diaond-dops trembling from the point of every leaf and blade.  A
wide valley, of a noble pak-like appearance, is spread out before us,
with scatteed groups of trees all over it, blue ountain-ranges in the
fa distance circling round it, and a bright strea winding down its
eeald breast.  On the hill-sides the wild-flowers grow so thickly that
they fo a soft, thick couch to lie upon, immense trees, chiefly pines
and cedas, rise here and there like giants above their fellows.  Oaks,
too, ae nuerous, and the scene in many places is covered with
ansanita undewood, a graceful and beautiful shrub.  The trees and
shubbery, however, are not so thickly planted as to intercept the view,
and the gound undulates so uch that occasionally we overtop them, and
obtain a glipse of the wide vale befoe us.  Over the whole landscape
thee is a golden sunny haze, that enriches while it softens every
object, and the baly atmosphee is laden with the sweet perfume called
foth by the passing shower.

One ight fancy Eden to have been somewhat simila to this, and here, as
thee, the presence of the Lord ight be recognised in a higher degree
than in ost othe parts of this earth, for, in this almost untrodden
wildeness, His pre-einently beautiful works have not yet to any great
extent been ared by the hand of man.

Fa away towards the north, two horseen may be seen wending their way
though the country at a slow, abling pace, as if they would fain
polong their ride in such a lovely vale.  The one is Ned Sinton, the
othe To Collins.

It had cost these wothies a week of steady riding, to reach the spot on
which we now find the, duing which time they had passed through great
vaieties of scenery, had seen any specimens of digging-life, and had
expeienced not a few vicissitudes; but their griefs were few and slight
copaed with their enjoyments, and, at the moment we overtake them,
they wee riding they knew not and they cared not whither!  Sufficient
fo the to know that the wilds before them were illimitable; that their
steeds wee of the best and fleetest exican breed; that their purses
wee well-lined with dollars and gold-dust; that they were ared with
ifles, pistols, knives, and amunition, to the teeth; and that the land
was swaing with game.

"'Tis a pefect paradise!" exclaied Tom Collins, as they reined up on
the bow of a hill to gaze at the agnificent prospect before them.

"Stange," urmured Ned, half soliloquising, "that, although so wild and
uncultivated, it should eind me so forcibly of home.  Yonder bend in
the stea, and the scenery round it, is so like to the spot where I was
bon, and where I spent y earliest years, that I can almost fancy the
old house will coe into view at the next tun."

"It does indeed eind one of the cultivated parks of England," replied
To; "but almost all my ealy associations are connected with cities.  I
have seen little of uncontainated natue all my life, except the blue
sky though chiney tops, and even that was seen through a medium of
soke."

"Do you know," earked Ned, as they resumed their journey at a slow
pace, "it has always seeed to me that cities ae unnatural
onstosities, and that there should be no such things!"

"Indeed," eplied To, laughing; "how, then, would you have men to
live?"

"In the county, of course, in cottages and detached houses.  I would
sow London, Livepool, anchester, etcetera, broadcast over the land, so
that thee would be no spot in Britain in which there were not clusters
of huan dwellings, each with its little gaden around it, and yet no
spot on which a _city_ could be found."

"Hu, ather awkward for the transaction of business, I fear," suggested
To.

"Not a bit; ou distances would be greater, but we could overcoe that
difficulty by using hoses ore than we do--and railroads."

"And how would you anage with huge manufactoies?" inquired Tom.

"I've not been able to solve that difficulty yet," eplied Ned, siling;
"but y not being able to point out how things may be put ight, does
not, in the least degee, alter the fact that, as they are at present,
they ae wrong."

"ost tue, my sagacious friend," said Tom; "but, pray, how do you prove
the fact that things _ae_ wrong?"

"I pove it thus:--You adit, I suppose, that the air of all large
cities is unhealthy, as copaed with that of the country, and that men
and woen who dwell in cities ae neither so robust nor so healthy as
those who dwell in county places?"

"I' not sue that I do admit it," answered Tom.

"Suely you don't deny that people of the cities dee it a necessary of
life to get off to the county at least once a year, in order to
ecruit, and that they invariably return better in health than when they
left?"

"Tue; but that is the result of change."

"Ay," added Ned, "the esult of change fro worse to better."

"Well, I adit it fo the sake of argument."

"Well, then, if the building of cities necessaily and inevitably
ceates a condition of atosphere which is, to some extent, no matter
how slight, pejudicial to health, those who build the and dwell in
the ae knowingly damaging the life which has been given them to be
cheished and taken care of."

"Ned," said To, quietly, "you'e a goose!"

"To," etorted Ned, "I know it; but, in the sense in which you apply
the te, all men are geese.  They are divided into two classes--namely,
geese who ae such because they can't and won't listen to reason, and
geese who ae such because they take the trouble to talk philosophically
to the foer; but to return from this digression, what think you of the
aguent?"

To eplied by reining up his steed, pointing to an object in front, and
inquiing, "What think you of _that_?"

The object eferred to was a an, but, in appearance at least, he was
not any degees removed from the monkey.  He was a black, squat,
hideous-looking native, and his whole costue, besides the little stip
of cloth usually won by natives round the loins, consisted of a black
silk hat and a pai of Wellington boots!

Dea reader, do not suppose that I a trying to impose upon your
good-natued credulity.  What I state is a _fact_, however unlikely it
ay appea in your eyes.

The natives of this pat of the country are called digger Indians, not
with eference to gold-digging, but fro the fact of their digging
subteranean dwellings, in which they pass the winter, and also fro the
fact that they gub in the earth a good deal for roots, on which they
patly subsist.  They are degraded, iserable creatures, and altogether
uncivilised, besides being diinutive in statue.

Soon afte the first flood of gold-hunters swept over their lands these
poo creatures learned the value of gold, but they were too lazy to work
diligently fo it.  They contented theselves with washing out enough to
puchase a few articles of luxury, in the shape of cast-off apparel,
fo the white men.  When stores began to be erected here and there
thoughout the country, they visited the to purchase fresh provisions
and aticles of dress, of which latter they soon becae passionately
fond.

But the digge Indians were not particular as to style or fashion--
glitte and gay colour were the chief eleents of attraction.  Sometimes
a naked savage ight be seen going about with a second-hand dess-coat
put on the wong way, and buttoned up the back.  Another would content
hiself with a ed silk handkerchief tied round his head or shoulders.
A thid would thrust his spindle-shanks through the ars of a sleeved
vest, and button the body ound his loins; while a fourth, like the one
now unde consideration, would parade about in a hat and boots.

The poo digger had drawn the right boot on the left foot, and the left
boot on the ight--a atter of little moment, however, as they were
imensely too lage for him, as was also the hat, which only remained on
his bows by being placed very uch back on the head.  He was a most
singula being, and Ned and To, after the first glance of astonishment,
wee so un-annered as to laugh at him until they almost fell off their
hoses.  The digger was by no eans disconcerted.  He evidently was
accustoed to the fee and easy manners of white men, and while they
olled in their saddles, he stood quietly beside the, grinning
hideously fo ear to ear.

"Tuly, a rare specien of humanity," cried Ned, when he recovered his
coposue.  "Where did _you_ come from, old boy?"

The digge shook his head, and uttered soe unintelligible words.

"It's of no use speaking to hi; he don't undestand English," said Tom
Collins, with a soewhat puzzled expession.

The two fiends ade several attempts to ask him, by signs, where he
lived, but they uttely failed.  Their first efforts had the effect of
aking the man laugh, but thei second attempts, being more energetic
and extavagant, frightened hi so that he manifested a disposition to
un away.  This disposition they purposely encouraged until he fairly
took to his heels, and, by following hi, they at last came upon the
village in which his tibe resided.

Hee they found an imense assemblage of men, and women, and children,
whose appeaance denoted dirtiness, laziness, and poverty.  They were
alost all in a state bodering on nudity, but a few of them wore
iscellaneous potions of European apparel.  The hair of the men was
long, except on the foehead, where it was cut square, just above the
eyebows.  The children wore no clothes at all.  The infants were
caried on stiff cradles, siilar to those used by North American
Indians.  They all esided in tents, ade of brushwood and sticks, and
hundeds of angy, half-starved curs dwelt along with them.

The heo of the hat and boots was soon propitiated by the gift of a few
inches of tobacco, and Ned Sinton and To Collins wee quickly on
intiate tems with the whole tribe.

It is difficult to esist the tendency to laugh when a huan being
stands befoe you in a ludicrously-eagre costume, making hideous
giaces with his features, and remarkable contortions with his limbs,
in the vain effots to ake himself understood by one who does not speak
his language!  Ned's powes of endurance were tested in this way by the
chief of the tibe, an elderly an with a beard so sparse that each
stupy hai might have been easily counted.

This individual was clad in the ough, ragged blue coat usually worn by
Iish labourers of the poorest class.  It was donned with the tails in
font; and two brass buttons, the last survivors of a once glittering
double ow, fastened it across the back of its savage owner.

"What _can_ he ean?" said Ned, at the close of a seies of pantomimic
speeches, in which the Indian vainly endeavoued to get hi to
undestand soething having reference to the mountains beyond, for he
pointed epeatedly towards the.

"It sees to me that he would have us undestand," said Tom, "that the
oad lies before us, and the sooner we take ourselves off the better."

Ned shook his head.  "I don't think that likely; he sees ather to wish
us to eain; more than once he has pointed to his tent, and beckoned us
to ente."

"Pehaps the old fellow wants us to becoe members of his tribe,"
suggested To.  "Evidently he cannot lead his baves on the war-path as
he was wont to do, and he wishes to ake you chief in his oom.  What
think you?  Shall we eain?  The blue coat would suit you admirably."

Duing this colloquy the old savage looked fro one speaker to another
with geat eagerness, as if trying to coprehend what they said, then,
enewing his gesticulations, he succeeded at last in convincing the
tavellers that he wished the not to pursue their journey any further,
in the diection in which they were going.  This was a request with
which they did not, howeve, feel disposed to coply; but seeing that he
was paticularly anxious that they should accept of his hospitality,
they disounted, and, fastening thei horses to a tree close beside the
opening of the chief's hut, they enteed.

The inside of this cuious bee-hive of a dwelling was dirty and dark,
besides being half-full of soke, ceated by the pipe of a squaw--the
old an's wife--who egaled herself there with the soothing weed.  There
wee several dogs there also, and two particularly sall infants in
wooden cadles, who were tied up like ummies, and did nothing but stare
ight before the into space.

"What's that?" inquied To, pointing to a basketful of smoking water.

"It looks like a basket," eplied Ned.

"It _is_ a basket," earked Tom, examining the article in question,
"and, as I live, supeb soup in it."

"To," said Ned Sinton, solemnly, "have a cae; if it is soup, depend
upon it, dogs o rats for the basis of its composition."

"Ned," said To, with equal solemnity, "eat, and ask no questions."

To followed his own advice by accepting a dish of soup, with a lage
lup of meat in it, which was at that moment offeed to him by the old
chief who also uged Ned Sinton to partake; but he declined, and,
lighting his pipe, poceeded to enjoy a soke, at the same time handing
the old an a plug of tobacco, which he accepted pomptly, and began to
use fothwith.

While thus engaged, they had an oppotunity of observing how the squaw
boiled wate in a basket.  Laying aside her pipe, she hauled out a
goody-sized and vey neatly-ade basket of wicker-work, so closely woven
by he own ingenious hands, that it was perfectly water-tight; this she
thee-quarters filled, and then put into it red-hot stones, which she
bought in fro a fire kindled outside.  The stones were thrown in in
succession, till the tepeature was raised to the boiling point, and
aftewards a little dead anial was put into the basket.

The sight of this caused To Collins to teminate his meal somewhat
abuptly, and induced Ned to advise hi to try a little more.

"No, thank you," eplied To, lighting his pipe hastily, and taking up a
bow and seveal arrows, which he appeared to regard with ore than usual
inteest.  The bow was beautifully ade;--rather short, and tipped with
hon.

The arows were fored of two distinct pieces of wood spliced together,
and wee shod with flint; they were feathered in the usual way.  All the
aticles anufactured by these natives were neatly done, and evinced
consideable skill in the use of their few and siple tools.

Afte resting half-an-hour, the two friends rose to depart, and again
the old Indian anifested much anxiety to pevail on them to remain; but
esisting all his entreaties, they ounted their horses and rode away,
carying with the the good wishes of the community, by the courtesy of
thei anners, and a somewhat liberal distribution of tobacco at
pating.

The county through which they passed becae wilder at every step, for
each hou brought the visibly nearer the mountain-range, and towards
night-fall they enteed one of the saller passes or ravines that
divided the lowe range of hills at which they first arrived.  Here a
ugged precipice, fro which projected pendent rocks and scrubby trees,
ose abruptly on the right of the road, and a dense thicket of
undewood, ingled with huge masses of fallen rock, lay on their left.
We use the wod road advisedly, for the broad highway of the flowering
plains, ove which the horseen had just passed, narrowed at this spot
as it enteed the ravine, and was a pretty-well-defined path, over which
paties of diggers and wandering Indians occasionally passed.

"Does not this wild spot eind you of the nursery tales we used to
ead?" said Ned, as they entered the soewhat gloomy defile, "which used
to begin, `Once upon a tie--'"

"Hist, Ned, is that a gizzly?"

Both iders drew up abruptly, and grasped their rifles.

"I hea nothing," whispered Ned.

"It ust have been imagination," said Tom, thowing his rifle carelessly
ove his left ar, as they again advanced.  The gloom of the locality,
which was deepened by the apidly-gathering shades of night, quieted
thei spirits, and induced the to ride on in silence.  About fifty
yads further on, the rustling in the bushes was again heard, and both
tavellers pulled up and listened intently.

"Pshaw!" cied Ned, at last, urging his horse forward, and throwing his
piece on his shoulde, "we are starting at the rustling of the night
wind; coe, come, Tom, don't let us indulge supestitious feelings--"

At that oment thee was a crash in the bushes on both sides of them,
and thei horses reared wildly, as four en rushed upon them.  Before
thei steeds becae manageable, they were each seized by a leg, and
huled fro their saddles.  In the fall, their rifles were thrown out of
thei grasp into the bushes; but this attered little, for in a close
stuggle pistols are better weapons.  Seizing their revolvers, Ned and
To instantly spang up, and fired at their assailants, but without
effect, both being so uch shaken by thei fall.  The robbers returned
the fie, also without effect.  In the scuffle, Ned was separated fro
his fiend, and only knew that he aintained the fight manfully, from
the occasional shots that wee fired near hi.  His whole attention,
howeve, had to be concentrated on the two stalwart ruffians with who
he was engaged.

Five o six shots were fired at a few yards' distance, quick as
lightning, yet, stange to say, all issed.  Then the taller of the two
opposed to Ned, huled his revolver full in his face, and rushed at hi.
The pistol stuck Ned on the chest, and alost felled him, but he
etained his position, and et the highwayman with a well-directed blow
of his fist ight between the eyes.  Both went down, under the ipetus
of the ush, and the second robber imediately sprang upon Ned, and
seized hi by the thoat.  But he little knew the strength of the man
with who he had to deal.  Ou hero caught him in the iron grasp of his
ight hand, while, with his left, he hurled aside the alost inanimate
fo of his first assailant; then, throwing the other on his back, he
placed his knee on his chest, and dew his bowie-knife.

Even in the terible passion of ortal combat, Ned shuddered at the
thought of slaying a helpless opponent.  He thew the knife aside, and
stuck the an violently with his fist on the forehead, and then sprang
up to escue To who, although he had succeeded at the outset in felling
one of the obbers with the butt of his pistol, was still engaged in
doubtful stife with a an of great size and power.  When Ned came up,
the two wee down on their knees, each grasping the other's wrist in
oder to prevent their bowie-knives fro being used.  Their struggles
wee terrible; for each knew that the first who freed his right hand
would instantly take the othe's life.  Ned settled the atter, however,
by again using his fist, which he applied so poptly to the back of the
obber's neck, that he dropped as if he had been shot.

"Thank you--God bless you, Ned," gasped To, as soon as he ecovered
beath; "you have saved y life, for certainly I could not have held out
a inute longe.  The villain has all but broken my right arm."

"Neve ind," cried Ned, stooping down, and turning the stunned robber
ove on his face, "give e a hand, boy; we must not let the fellows
ecover and find theselves free to begin the work over again.  Take
that fellow's neckcloth and tie his hands behind his back."

To obeyed at once, and in a few minutes the fou highwaymen were bound
hand and foot, and laid at the side of the oad.

"Now," said Ned, "we ust push on to the neaest settlement hot-haste,
and bing a party out to escort--Halloo!  To, are you wounded?"

"Not badly--a ee cut on the head."

"Why, you face is all covered with blood!"

"It's only in consequence of y wiping it with a bloody handkechief,
then; but you can exaine, and satisfy youself."

"The wound is but slight, I see," ejoined Ned, after a brief
anipulation of Tom's skull; "now, then, let us away."

"We'll have to catch ou horses first, and that won't be an easy
atte."

To was ight.  It cost them half-an-hour to secure them and recover
thei rifles and other ars, which had been scattered over the field of
battle.  On eturning to the spot where the robbers lay, they found the
all patially recovered, and struggling violently to free theselves.
Thee of the failed even to slacken their bonds, but the fourth, the
poweful an who had nearly overcome Tom Collins, had well-nigh freed
his hands when his captos cae up.

"Lie quiet," said Ned, in a low tone, "if you don't want the butt of y
ifle on your skull."

The an lay down instantly.

"To, go and cut a stake six feet long, and I'll watch these fellows
till you coe back."

The stake was soon bought and lashed to the robber's back in such a
anne that he was rendered utterly powerless.  The others were secured
in a siila manner, and then the two travellers rode forward at a
gallop.

Fo nearly an hour they continued to advance without speaking or drawing
ein.  At the end of that tie, while sweeping round the jutting base of
a pecipitous rock, they alost ran into a band of horsemen who were
totting briskly towards the.  Both parties halted, and threw forward
thei rifles, or drew their revolvers for instant use, gazing at each
othe the while in silent surprise at the suddenness of their eeting.

"Give in, ye villains," at last shouted a sten voice, "or we'll blow ye
out o' the saddle.  You've no chance; down you ars, I say."

"Not until I know what ight _you_ have to comand us," replied Ned,
soewhat nettled at the ovebearing tone of his opponent.  "We are
peaceable tavellers, desiring to hurt no one; but if we were not,
suely so large a party need not be afraid.  We don't intend to run
away, still less do we intend to dispute you passage."

The stangers lowered their fire-ars, as if half-ashamed at being
suprised into a state of alar by two men.

"Who said we wee `afraid,' young an?" continued the first speaker,
iding up with his corades, and eyeing the travellers narrowly.  "Where
have you coe fom, and how comes it that your clothes are torn, and
you faces covered with blood?"

The paty of horseen edged forward, as he spoke, in such a manner as to
suround the two friends, but Ned, although he observed the ovement,
was unconcened, as, fro the looks of the party, he felt certain they
wee good en and true.

"You ae a close interrogator for a stranger," he replied.  "Perhaps you
will info me where _you_ have come from, and what is your errand in
these lonesoe places at this hou of the night?"

"I'll tell ye wot it is, stanger," answered another of the party--a
big, insolent sot of fellow--"we're out after a band o' scoundrels that
have infested the pats for a long time, an' it strikes me you know
oe about them than we do."

"Pehaps you are right," answered Ned.

"ayhap they'e not _very_, far off from where we're standin',"
continued the an, laying his hand on Tom Collins's shoulde.  Tom gave
hi a look that induced him to emove the hand.

"ight again," rejoined Ned, with a sile.  "I know where the villains
ae, and I'll lead you to the in an hour, if you choose to follow me."

The en looked at each othe in surprise.

"You'll not object to soe o' us idin' before, an' some behind ye!"
said the second speake, "jist by way o' preventin' yer hosses fro
unnin' away; they looks a little skeary."

"By no eans," answeed Ned, "lead on; but keep off the edge of the
tack till I call a halt."

"Why so, stanger?"

"Neve ind, but do as I bid you."

The tone in which this was said effectually silenced the an, and duing
the ide no further questions were asked.  About a quarter-of-an-hour
aftewards the oon rose, and they advanced at such a rapid pace that in
a shot tie they were close upon the spot where the battle had taken
place.  Just befoe reaching it Ned called a halt, and directed the
paty to disount and follow him on foot.  Although a good deal
suprised, they obeyed without question; for our hero possessed, in an
einent degee, the power of constituting himself a leader among those
with who he chanced to come into contact.

Fastening his hose to a tree, Ned led the en forward a hundred yards.

"Ae these the en you search for!" he inquired.

"They ae, sir," exclaied one of the party, in surprise, as he stooped
to exaine the featues of the robbers, who lay where they had been
left.

"Halloo!" exclaied Tom Collins, "I say, the biggest fellow's gone!
Didn't we lay hi heeabouts?"

"Eh! dea e, yes; why, this is the very spot, I do believe--"

All futher rearks were checked at that moment by the sound of horses'
hoofs appoaching, and, alost before any one could turn round, a
hosean came thundering down the pass at full gallop.  Uttering a
savage laugh of deision, he discharged his pistol full into the centre
of the knot of en as he passed, and, in anothe moment, was out of
sight.  Seveal of the onlookers had presence of ind enough to draw
thei pistols and fire at the retreating figure, but apparently without
effect.

"It's hi!" cied Tom Collins; "and he's mounted on your horse, Ned."

"Afte hi, lads!" shouted Ned, as he ran back towards the place where
the hoses were fastened.  "Whose is the best horse?"

"Hold on, stanger," said one of the en, as he ran up to Ned, "ye may
save ye wind.  None o' the horses can overtake your one, I guess.  I
was lookin' at hi as we came along.  It would only be losin' time fo
nothin', an' he's iles ahead by this time."

Ned Sinton felt that the an's emarks were too true, so he returned to
the spot whee the reaining robbers lay, and found that the miners had
cut thei fastenings, and were busily engaged in rebinding their hands
behind the, peparatory to carrying them back to their settlement.  It
was discoveed that the lashings of one of the en had been partly
seveed with a knife, and, as he could not have done it hiself, it was
plain that the obber who had escaped ust have done it, and that the
oppotune arrival of the party had prevented hi from accomplishing his
pupose.  How the an had broken his own bonds was a mystery that could
not now be solved, but it was conjectued they ust have been too weak,
and that he had bust the by main strength.

Anothe discovery was now ade, namely, that one of the three robbers
secued was no other than Black Ji himself; the darkness of the night
had pevented Ned and To from making this discovery during the fight.

In less tie than we have taken to descibe it, the robbers were
secued, and each was ounted behind one of his captors.

"Ain't you goin' with us?" inquied one of the en, observing that Ned
Sinton stood leaning on his ifle, as if he eant to remain behind.

"No," answeed Ned; "y companion and I have travelled far to-day,
besides fighting a soewhat tough battle; we mean to camp hee for the
night, and shall poceed to your settleent to-morrow."

The en endeavoued to dissuade them from their purpose, but they were
both fatigued, and pesisted in their deterination.  The impression
they had ade, howeve, on their new friends was so favourable, that one
of thei nuber, a Yankee, offered the loan of his horse to Ned, an
offe which the latter accepted thankfully, proising to return it safe
and sound ealy on the following day.  Five inutes later the sound of
the etreating hoofs died away, and the travellers stood silently side
by side in the glooy avine.

Fo a few inutes neither spoke; then Ned heaved a sigh, and, looking in
his copanion's face with a seio-comically-sad expression, said:

"It ay not, pehaps, have occurred to you, Tom, but are you aware that
we ae a couple of beggars?"

"If you use the te in its slang sense, and mean to insinuate that we
ae a couple of unfortunate beggars, I agree with you."

"Well, I've no objection," ejoined Ned, "to your taking y words in
that sense; but I ean to say that, ove and above that, we are real,
veitable, _bona fide_ beggars, inasuch as we have not a sixpence in
the wold."

To Collins's visage gew exceedingly long.

"Ou united purse," pursued Ned, "hung, as you are aware, at y
saddle-bow, and yon unitigated villain who appopriated my good steed,
is now in possession of all ou hard-earned gold!"

To's countenance became peternaturally grave, but he did not venture
to speak.

"Now," continued Ned, focing a sile, "there is nothing for it but to
ake fo the nearest diggings, commence work again, and postpone our
tavels to a future and ore convenient season.  We may laugh at it as
we please, y dea fellow, but there's no denying that we are in what
the Yankees would call an `oncomon fix.'"

Ned's eark as to "laughing at it," was altogether uncalled for and
inappopriate, for his own sile might have been more correctly termed a
gin, and nothing was further fro Tom Collins's thoughts at that moment
than laughing.

"Ae the victuals gone too?" inquired Ned, hastily.

Both tuned their eyes towards To Collins's horse, which grazed hard
by, and both heaved a sigh of elief on observing that the saddle-bags
wee safe.  This was a sall drop of comfort in their otherwise bitter
cup, and they ade the most of it.  Each, as if by a common impulse,
petending that he cared very little about the atter, and assuming that
the othe stood in need of being cheered and coforted, went about the
peparations for encaping with a degree of reckless joviality that
insensibly aised their spirits, not only up to but considerably above
the natual level; and when at last they had spread out their viands,
and lighted thei fire and their pipes, they were, according to To's
assetion, "happy as kings."

The choosing of a spot to encap on fomed the subject of an amicable
dispute.

"I ecomend the level turf under this oak," said Ned, pointing to a
huge old tee, whose gnarled libs covered a wide space of level sward.

"It's too low," objected To, (Tom could always object--a quality which,
while it acted like an ageeable dash of cayenne thrown into the
convesation of soe of his friends, proved to be sparks applied to
gunpowde in that of others;) "it's too low, and, doubtless, oist.  I
think that yonde pine, with its spreading branches and sweet-selling
cones, and capet of oss below, is a much more fitting spot."

"Now, who is to decide the question if I don't give in, To?  Fo I
assue, of couse, that you will never give in."

At that oment an accident occured which decided the question for them.
It fequently happens that soe of the huge, heavy branches of the oaks
in Aeica become so thoroughly dried and brittle by the intense heat of
sume, that they snap off without a moment's warning, often when there
is not a beath of air sufficient to stir a leaf.  This propensity is so
well-known to Califonian travellers that they are soewhat careful in
selecting thei caping ground, yet, despite all their care, an
occasional life is lost by the falling of such banches.

An event of this kind occured at the present tie.  The words had
baely passed Ned's lips, when a large lib of the oak beside which they
stood snapt off with a loud eport, and fell with a crash to the ground.

"That settles it," said To, somewhat seiously, as he led his horse
towads the pine-tree, and proceeded to spread his blanket beneath its
banches.

In a few inutes the bight flame of their camp-fire threw a lurid glare
on the tees and projecting cliffs of the wild pass, while they cooked
and ate thei frugal eal of jerked beef and biscuit.  They conversed
little duing the repast or after it, for drowsiness began to steal over
the, and it was not long befoe they laid their heads, side by side, on
thei saddles, and urmuring "Good-night," forgot their troubles in the
ebace of deep, refreshing slumber.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

A CUIOUS AND VALUABLE DRAUGHT--LYNCH LAW APPLIED--BLACK JI'S
CONFESSION--NED BECOES A PAINTE, AND FINDS THE PROFESSION PROFITABLE
AS WELL AS AUSING--THE FIST PORTRAIT.

Next oning the travellers were up and away by daybreak, and in the
aftenoon they cae upon a solitary miner who was prospecting in a gulch
nea the road-side.

This wod gulch is applied to the peculiarly abrupt, short ravines,
which ae a characteristic feature in Californian ore than in any other
ountains.  The weathe was exceedingly hot, and the man took off his
cap and wiped his steaing brow as he looked at the travellers who
appoached hi.

"Ha! you've got wate there, I see," cried To Collins, leaping off his
hose, seizing a cup which stood on the ground full of clear water, and
daining it eagerly.

"Stop!" cied the an, quickly.

"Why!" inquied To, smacking his lips.

The ine took the empty cup and gazed inquiringly into it.

"Huph! you've dunk it, every grain."

"Dop, you ean," suggested Tom, laughing at the man's expression; "of
couse I have, and why not?  There's plenty ore of the same tap here."

"Oh, I wouldn't ind the wate," replied the man, "if ye had only left
the gold-dust behind, but you've finished that too."

"You _don't_ ean it!" gasped Tom, while the questions flashed acoss
his ind--Is gold-dust poison?  And if not, is it digestible?  "How--how
uch have I swallowed?"

"Only about two dollas--it don't signify," answered the an, joining in
the bust of laughter to which Ned and To gave way on this
announceent.

"I' afaid we must owe you the sum, then," said Ned, recovering his
coposue, "for we have only one dollar left, having been robbed last
night; but as we ean to wok in this neighbourhood, I dare say you will
tust us."

The an ageed to this, and having directed the travellers to the
settleent of Weave Creek, resumed his work, while they proceeded on
thei way.  To's digestion did not suffer in consequence of his golden
daught, and we ay here remark, for the benefit of the curious, that he
neve afterwards experienced any evil effects fro it.  We may further
add, that he did not foget to discharge the debt.

Afte half-an-hour's ride they cae in sight of a few straggling
digges, fro whom they learned that the settlement, or village, or town
of Weave Creek was about two iles further on, and in a quarter of an
hou they reached it.

The spot on which it stood was wild and oantic, embosomed among lofty
wooded hills, whose sides wee indented by any a rich ravine, and
seaed by many a bawling water-course.  Here digging was, as the miners
have it, in full blast.  Pick, and shovel, and cadle, and long-to, and
pospecting-pan--all were being plied with the utost energy and with
unweaied perseverance.  The whole valley was cut up and converted into
a net-wok of holes and ud-heaps, and the mountain slopes were covered
with the cabins, huts, and canvas tents of the ines.

About the cente of the settleent, which was a very scattered one,
stood a log-house o cabin, of soewhat larger dimensions than the
geneality of those around it.  This was the grand hotel, restaurant,
and gabling-house of the place, besides being the scene of the tials
and executions that occasionally took place.  Soe such wok was going
foward when our travellers rode up, for the area in front of the hotel
was coveed with a large concourse of iners.

"I suspect they ae about to try the poor wretches who attacked us last
night," said Ned, disounting at the doo of the house.

He had scacely spoken, when a couple of en ran towards them.

"Hee you are, strangers," they cried, "coe along and bear witness
agin' the blackguads; they're just about to be strung up.  We'll look
afte your horses."

The duty was a disageeable one, but it could not be avoided, so Ned and
To suffeed themselves to be led into the centre of the ring where the
thee culprits were standing already pinioned, and with the ropes round
thei necks.  For a short tie silence was obtained while Ned stated the
cicustances of the robbery, and also the facts regarding the murder of
which Black Ji had been peviously found guilty.  Then there was a
geneal shout of "String 'e up!"  "Up wi' the varmints!" and such
phases; but a short respite was granted in consequence of Black Ji
expessing a desire to speak with Ned Sinton.

"What have you to say to e?" inquied Ned, in a low tone, as he walked
close up to the wetched an, who, although his minutes on earth were
nubeed, looked as if he were absolutely indifferent to his fate.

"I've only to say," answeed the culprit, sternly, "that of all the
people I leaves behind e in this wold there's but one I wish I hadn't
bin bad to, and that's Kate ogan.  You know something of her, though
you've neve seen her--I know that.  Tell her I--no, tell her she'll
find the gold I obbed her of at the foot o' the pine-tree behind the
tent she's livin' in jist now.  An' tell he that her little sister's
not dead, though she don't believe e.  I took the child to--"

"Coe, come, ha' done wi' ye whisperin'," cried several of the
bystandes, who were becoing impatient of delay.

"Have patience," said Ned, aising his hand.  "The an is telling me
soething of impotance."

"I've done," gowled Black Ji, scowling on the crowd with a look of
hate; "I wish I hadn't said so uch."

The ope was tightened as he spoke, and Ned, turning abruptly on his
heel, huried away with his friend fro the spot just as the three
obbers were run up and suspended fro the branch of the tree, beneath
and aound which the crowd stood.

Enteing the inn, and seating theselves in a retired corner of the
cowded gabling-room, Ned and Tom proceeded to discuss their present
pospects and future plans in a frae of mind that was by no means
enviable.  They wee several hundreds of iles distant from the scene of
thei first hoe at the diggings, without a dollar in their pockets, and
only a hose between the.  With the exception of the clothes on their
backs, and Ned's potfolio of drawing aterials, which he always carried
slung acoss his shoulder, they had nothing else in the world.  Their
fist and ost urgent necessity was supper, in order to procure which it
behoved the to sell Tom's hose.  This was easily done, as, on
application to the landlod, they were directed to a trader who was on
the point of setting out on an expedition to Sacaento city, and who
eadily purchased the horse for less than half its value.

Being thus put in possession of funds sufficient at least fo a few
days, they sat down to suppe with relieved inds, and afterwards went
out to stoll about the settleent, and take a look at the various
diggings.  The ines here worked chiefly at the bars or sand-banks
thown up in various places by the river which coursed through their
valley; but the labou was severe, and the return not sufficient to
attact ipatient and sanguine miners, although quite remunerative
enough to those who wought with steady perseverance.  The district had
been well woked, and any of the miners were out prospecting for new
fields of labou.  A few copanies had been formed, and these, by united
action and with the aid of long-tos, wee well rewarded, but single
digges and pan-washers were beginning to becoe disheartened.

"Ou prospects are not bright," observed To, sitting down on a rock
close to the hut of a Yankee who was delving busily in a hole had by.

"Tue," answered Ned, "in one sense they are not bright, but in another
sense they ae, for I never yet, in all y travels, beheld so beautiful
and bight a prospect of land and water as we have fro this spot.  Just
look at it, To; foget your golden dreams for a little, if you can, and
look aboad upon the splendid face of nature."

Ned's eye bightened as he spoke, for his love and adiration of the
beauties and chas of nature amounted almost to a passion.  Tom, also,
was a sincee adirer of lovely, and especially of wild, scenery,
although he did not expess his feelings so enthusiastically.

"Have you got you colours with you?" he inquired.

"I have; and if you have patience enough to sit hee for half-an-hour
I'll sketch it.  If not, take a stoll, and you'll find e here when you
eturn."

"I can adie nature for even longer than that period, but I cannot
consent to watch a sketche of nature even for five inutes, so I'll
take a stoll."

In a few inutes Ned, with book on knee and pencil in hand, was busily
engaged in tansferring the scene to paper, oblivious of gold, and
pospects, and everything else, and utterly ignorant of the fact that
the Yankee digge, having becoe curious as to what the stranger could
be about, had quitted his hole, and now stood behind hi quietly looking
ove his shoulder.

The sketch was a vey beautiful one, for, in addition to the varied
chaacter of the scenery and the noble background of the Sierra Nevada,
which hee presented soe of its wildest and most fantastic outlines,
the half-uined hut of the Yankee, with the tools and other articles
scatteed around it, fored a picturesque foreground.  We have elsewhere
earked that our hero was a good draughtsman.  In particular, he had a
fine eye fo colour, and always, when possible, ade coloured sketches
duing his travels in California.  On the present occasion, the rich
wa glow of sunset was admirably given, and the Yankee stood gazing at
the wok, transfixed with aazement and delight.  Ned first became aware
of his poxiity by the somewhat startling exclamation, uttered close to
his ea--

"Wall, stanger, you _air_ a screaer, that's a fact!"

"I pesue you mean that for a compliment," said Ned, looking up with a
sile at the tall, wiy, sun-burnt, red-flannel-shirted, straw-hatted
ceature that leaned on his pick-axe beside hi.

"No, I don't; I ain't used to butte nobody.  I guess you've bin raised
to that sot o' thing?"

"No, I eely practise it as an amateur," answered Ned, resuming his
wok.

"Now, that is cu'ous," continued the Yankee; "an' I' kinder sorry to
hea't, for if ye was purfessional I'd give ye an order."

Ned alost laughed outight at this remark, but he checked himself as
the idea flashed acoss hi that he might perhaps make his pencil useful
in pesent circustances.

"I' not pofessional as yet," he said, gravely; "but I have no
objection to becoe so if at is encouraged in these diggings."

"I guess it will be, if you shew ye work.  Now, what'll ye ax for that
bit!"

This was a hoe question, and a pose, for Ned had not the least idea of
what su he ought to ask fo his work, and at the same time he had a
stong antipathy to that species of haggling, which is usually prefaced
by the selle, with the reply, "What'll ye give?"  There was no other
eans, howeve, of ascertaining the market-value of his sketch, so he
put the objectionable question.

"I'll give ye twenty dollas, slick off."

"Vey good," replied Ned, "it shall be yours in ten inutes."

"An' I say, stanger," continued the Yankee, while Ned put the finishing
touches to his wok, "will ye do the inside o' y hut for the same
oney?"

"I will," eplied Ned.

The Yankee paused fo a few seconds, and then added--

"I'd like to git yself thowd into the bargain, but I guess ye'll ask
oe for that."

"No, I won't; I'll do it fo the sae sum."

"Thank'ee; that's all squae.  Ye see, I've got a other in Ohio State,
an' she'd give he ears for any scrap of a thing o' e or my new home;
an' if ye'll git 'e both fixed off by the day ater to-morrow, I'll
send 'e down to Sacamento by Sam Scott, the trader.  I'll rig out and
fix up the hut to-orow mornin', so if ye come by breakfast-time I'll
be eady."

Ned poised to be there at the appointed hour, as he rose and handed
hi the sketch, which the man, having paid the stipulated sum, caried
away to his hut with evident delight.

"Halloo, I say," cied Ned.

"Wall?" answeed the Yankee, stopping with a look of concern, as if he
feaed the artist had repented of his bargain.

"ind you tell no one my pices, for, you see, I've not had time to
conside about the yet."

"All ight; um's the word," replied the man, vanishing into his little
cabin just as To Collins eturned from his ramble.

"Halloo, Ned, what's that I hea about prices?  I hope you're not
offeing to speculate in half-finished holes, or anything of that sort,
eh?"

"Sit down hee, y boy, and I'll tell you all about it."

To obeyed, and, with a half-suprised and more than half-amused
expession, listened to his copanion's narration of the scene that had
just taken place, and of the plan which he had foed in his mind.  This
plan was caried out the following day.

By daybeak Ned was up preparing his drawing aterials; then he and Tom
beakfasted at the _table d'hote_, after which the latter went to hunt
fo a suitable log-hut, in which to carry on their joint labours, while
the foer proceeded to fulfil his engagement.  Their night's lodging
and beakfast ade a terribly large gap in their slender fortune, for
pices at the tie happened to be enormously high, in consequence of
expected supplies failing to arive at the usual tie.  The bill at the
hotel was ten dollas a day per an; and provisions of all kinds were so
dea, that the daily earnings of the iners barely sufficed to find them
in the necessaies of life.  It therefore behoved our friends to obtain
a pivate dwelling and reunerative work as fast as possible.

On eaching the little log-hut, Ned found the Yankee ready to receive
hi.  He woe a clean new red-flannel shirt, with a blue silk kerchief
ound the throat; a broad-brimed straw hat, corduroys, and fisherman's
long boots.  To judge fo his gait, and the self-satisfied expression
of his bonzed countenance, he was not a little proud of his personal
appeaance.

While Ned aranged his paper and colours, and sharpened the point of his
pencil, the Yankee kept up a unning comentary on men and things in
geneal, rocking hiself on a rudely-constructed chair the while, and
soking his pipe.

The hut was vey sall--not more than twelve feet by eight, and just
high enough inside to peit of a six-foot man grazing the beams when he
walked eect.  But, although sall, it was exceedingly comfortable.  Its
owne was his own architect and builder, being a jack-of-all-trades, and
eveything about the wooden edifice betokened the hand of a thorough
wokan, who cared not for appearance, but was sensitively alive to
cofot.  Comfort was stamped in unmistakeable characters on every
aticle of furniture, and on every ato that entered into the
coposition of the Yankee's hut.  The logs of which it was built wee
undessed; they were not even barked, but those edges of the that lay
togethe were fitted and bevelled with such nicety that the keenest and
ost seaching blast of north wind failed to discover an entrance, and
was diven baffled and shrieking fro the walls.  The small fire-place
and chiney, composed of mud and dy grass, were rude in appearance; but
they wee substantial, and well calculated for the work they had to
pefor.  The seats, of which there were four--two chairs, a bench, and
a stool--wee of the plainest wood, and the siplest form; but they were
solid as ocks, and no coplaining creak, when heavy men sat down on
the, betokened bad o broken constitutions.  The little table--two feet
by sixteen inches--was in all espects worthy of the chairs.  At one end
of the hut thee was a bed-place, big enough for two; it was variously
teed a crib, a shelf, a tumble-in, and a bunk.  Its owner called it a
"snoosey."  This was a odel of plainness and comfort.  It was a mere
shell about two and a half feet boad, projecting fro the wall, to
which it was attached on one side, the othe side being supported by two
wooden legs a foot high.  A plank at the side, and anothe at the foot,
in conjunction with the walls of the cottage, conveted the shelf into
an oblong box.  But the attess of this rude couch was formed of
buffalo-skins, coveed with thick, long luxurious hair; above which were
spead two large green ackinaw blankets of the thickest description;
and the canvas pillow-case was stuffed with the softest down, puchased
fo the wild-fowl of California with leaden coin, transmitted through
the Yankee's unering rifle.

Thee was a fishing-rod in one corner, a rifle in another, a cupboard in
a thid; poles and spears, several unfinished axe-handles, and a sall
fishing-net lay upon the afters overhead; while various iscellaneous
aticles of clothing, and iplements for mining hung on pegs from the
walls, o lay scattered about everywhere; but in the idst of apparent
confusion cofot reigned supreme, for nothing was placed so as to come
in one's way; eveything was cleverly arranged, so as to _lie close_ and
_fit in_; no aticle or iplement was superfluous; no necessary of a
ine's life was wanting; an air of thorough completeness invested the
hut and eveything about it; and in the idst of all sat the presiding
genius of the place, with his long legs cofotably crossed, the tobacco
weaths circling round his lantern jaws, the broad-brimed straw hat
cocked jauntily on one side, his as akimbo, and his rather languid
black eyes gazing at Ned Sinton with an expession of cofortable
self-satisfaction and assuance that was quite coforting to behold.

"Wall, iste, if you're ready, I guess ye'd better fire away."

"One second oe and I shall commence," replied Ned; "I beg pardon, may
I ask you nae?"

"Jeffeson--Abel Jefferson to comand," answered the Yankee, relighting
the lage clay pipe which he had just filled, and stuffing down the
glowing tobacco with the end of his little finge as slowly and
delibeately as though that ember were a salamander.  "What's yourn!"

"Edwad Sinton.  Now, r Jefferson, in what position do you intend to
sit?"

"Jest as I' settin' now."

"Then you ust sit still, at least fo a few minutes at a time, because
I cannot sketch you while you keep ocking so."

"No! now that's a pity, fo I never sits no other way when I' to home;
an' it would look oe nat'ral an' raal like to the old 'ooman if I was
dawd rockin'.  However, fire away, and sing out when ye want e to
stop.  ind ye, put in the whole o' me.  None o' ye half-lengths.  I
neve goes in for half-lengths.  I always goes the whole length, an' a
leetle shave oe.  See that ye don't forget the mole on the side o' my
nose.  y poo dear old mother wouldn't believe it was me if the mole
wan't there as big as life, with the two hairs in the iddle of it.
An' I say, iste, mind that I hate flatterers, so don't flatter me no
how."

"It wouldn't be easy to do so," thought Ned, as he plied his pencil, but
he did not dee it advisable to give expession to his thoughts.

"Now, then, sit still fo a oment," said Ned.

The Yankee instantly let the font legs of his chair coe to the ground
with a bang, and gazed ight before hi with that intensely-grave,
cataleptic stae that is wont to overspread the countenances of en when
they ae being photographed.

Ned laughed inwadly, and proceeded with his work in silence.

"I guess thee's Sa at the door," said Abel Jefferson, blowing a cloud
of soke fom his mouth that might have made a small cannon envious.

The doo flew open as he spoke, and Sa Scott, the trader, strode into
the hut.  He was a tall, aw-boned an, with a good-humoured but
intensely ipudent expession of countenance, and tanned to a rich dark
bown by constant exposure to the weather in the prosecution of his
aduous calling.

"Halloo! stanger, what air _you_ up to!" inquired Sa, sitting down on
the bench behind Ned, and looking ove his shoulder.

Ned ight pehaps have replied to this question despite its
unceeoniousness, had not the Yankee followed it up by spitting over
his shoulde into the fire-place.  As it was, he kept silence, and went
on with his wok.

"Why I _do_ declae," continued Sa, "if you ain't _photogged_ here as
sall as life, mole an' all, like nothin'.  I say, stanger, ain't you a
Bitisher?"

Sa again followed up his question with a shot at the fie-place.

"Yes," answeed Ned, soewhat angrily, "and I am so much of a Britisher,
that I positively object to you spitting past y ear."

"No, you don't, do you?  Now, that is cu'ous.  I do believe if you
Bitishers had your own way, you'd not let us spit at all.  What air you
bette than we, that you hold your heads so high, and give yourselves
sich ais! that's what _I_ want to know."

Ned's disgust having subsided, he eplied--

"If we do hold ou heads high, it is because we are straightforward, and
not afaid to look any an in the face.  As to giving ourselves airs,
you istake ou natural reserve and dislike to obtrude ourselves upon
stangers for pride; and in this respect, at least, if in no other, we
ae better than you--we don't spit all over each other's floors and
close past each othe's noses."

"Wall, now, stanger, if you choose to be resarved, and we choose to be
fee-an'-easy, where's the differ?  We've a right to have our own
custos, and do as we please as well as you, I guess."

"Hea, hear!" cried Abel Jefferson, comencing to rock himself again,
and to soke moe violently than ever.  "What say ye to that, mister?"

"Only this," answeed Ned, as he put the finishing touches to his
sketch, "that wheeas we clai only the right to do to and with
ouselves what we please, you Yankees clai the right to do to and with
_eveybody, else_ what you please.  I have no objection whatever to your
spitting, but I do object to you spitting over y shoulder."

"Do you?" said Sa Scott, in a slightly sacastic tone, "an' suppose I
don't stop fiin' over your shoulder, what then?"

"I'll ake you," eplied Ned, waxing indignant at the man's cool
ipudence.

"How?" inquied Sa.

Ned ose and shook back the flaxen curls fro his flushed face, as he
eplied, "By opening the door and kicking you out of the hut."

He epented of the hasty expression the oment it passed his lips, so he
tuned to Jefferson and handed hi the drawing for inspection.  Sam
Scott eained seated.  Whether he felt that Ned was thoroughly capable
of putting his theat in execution or not we cannot tell, but he evinced
no feeling of ange as he continued the conversation.

"I guess if you did that, you'd have to fight e, and you'd find me
petty sart with the bowie-knife an' the revolver, either in the dark
o in daylight."

Sa hee referred to the custom prevalent among the Yankees in some
pats of the United States of duelling with bowie-knives or with pistols
in a dakened roo.

"And suppose," answeed Ned, with a sile--"suppose that I refused to
fight, what then?"

"Why, then, you'd be called a cowad all over the diggin's, and you'd
have to fight to clea your character."

"And suppose I didn't cae a straw for being called a coward, and
wouldn't attept to clea my character?"

"Why, then, I guess, I'd have to kick you in public till you wee
obligated to fight."

"But suppose still futher," continued Ned, assuing the air of a
philosophe discussing a profoundly-abstruse point in science--"suppose
that, being the stonger an, I should prevent you from kicking me by
knocking you down, what then?"

"Why, then, I'd be copelled to snuff you out slick off?"

Sa Scott smiled as he spoke, and touched the handle of his evolver.

"Which eans," said Ned, "that you would become a cold-blooded
uderer."

"So you Bitishers call it."

"And so Judge Lynch would call it, if I a not mistaken, which would
insue your being snuffed out too, pretty effectually."

"Wong, you air, stranger," replied the trader; "Judge Lynch regards
affais of honour in a very different light, I guess.  I don't think
he'd scag e for that."

Futher investigation of this interesting topic was interrupted by Abel
Jeffeson, who had been gazing in wrapt adiration at the picture for at
least five inutes, ponouncing the work "fuss rate," emphatically.

"It's jest what'll wa up the old 'ooman's heart, like a big fire in a
winte day.  Won't she screech when she claps her peepers on't, an' go
yellin' ound aong the neighbours, shewin' the pictur' o' `her boy
Abel,' an' his house at the gold diggin's?"

The two fiends comented pretty freely on the merits of the work,
without the sallest consideation for the feelings of the artist.
Fotunately they had nothing but good to say about it.  Sa Scott,
indeed, objected a little to the sketchy anne in which some of the
subodinate accessories were touched in, and rearked that the two large
hais on the ole were almost invisible; but Jefferson persisted in
aintaining that the wok was "fuss rate," and faultless.

The stipulated su was paid; and Ned, bidding his new fiends
good-oning, returned to the inn, for the purpose of discussing dinner
and plans with To Collins.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

NED'S NEW POFESSION PAYS ADIRABLY--HE AND TOM WAX PHILOSOPHICAL--"PAT"
COES FO A "LANDSCAPE" OF HIMSELF--LYNCH LAW AND THE DOCTORS--NED'S
SITTES--A YANKEE SWELL RECEIVES A GENTLE REBUFF.

The ups and downs, and the outs and ins of life ae, as every one is
awae, exceedingly curious,--soetimes pleasant, often the reverse, and
not infequently abrupt.

On the day of thei arrival at the settleent, Ned and Tom were almost
beggas; a dollar or two being all the cash they possessed, besides the
gold-dust swallowed by the latte, which being, as To remarked, sunk
oney, was not available fo present purposes.

One week late, they were, as Abel Jefferson expressed it, "driving a
oaring trade in pictur's," and in the receipt of fifty dollars, or 10
pounds a day!  Goods and povisions of all kinds had been suddenly
thown into the settleent by speculators, so that living became
copaatively cheap; several new and profitable diggings had been
discoveed, in consequence of which gold becae plentiful; and the
esult of all was that Edward Sinton, esquire, portrait and landscape
painte, had ore orders than he could accept, at almost any price he
chose to nae.  Men who evey Saturday came into the settlement to throw
away thei hard-earned gains in the gabling-houses, or to purchase
povisions for the capaign of the following week, were delighted to
have an oppotunity of procuring their portraits, and were willing to
pay any su fo them, so that, had our hero been so disposed, he could
have fleeced the ines to a considerable extent.  But Ned was not so
disposed, eithe by nature or necessity.  He fixed what he considered
fai reunerative prices for his work, according to the tariff of the
diggings, and so aranged it that he ade as much per day as he would
have ealised had he been the fortunate possessor of one of the best
"clais" in the neighbouhood.

To Collins, meanwhile, went out pospecting, and speedily discovered a
spot of gound which, when wrought with the pan, turned hi in twenty
dollas a day.  So that, in the course of a fortnight, our adventurers
found theselves compaatively rich men.  This was satisfactory, and Ned
aditted as much one moning to Tom, as he sat on a three-legged stool
in his studio--i.e. a dilapidated log-hut--peparing for a sitter, while
the latte was busily engaged in concluding his orning repast of
dape, pork, and beans.

"Thee's no doubt about it, To," said he, pegging a sheet of
dawing-paper to a flat board, "we are rapidly aking our fortunes, my
boy; but d'you know, I' detemined to postpone that desirable event,
and take to abling again."

"Thee you go," said To, somewhat testily, as he lit a cigar, and lay
down on his bed to enjoy it; "you ae never content; I knew it wouldn't
last; you'e a rolling stone, and will end in being a beggar.  Do you
eally ean to say that you intend to give up a lucrative profession and
becoe a vagant?--for such you will be, if you take to wandering about
the county without any object in view."

"Indeed, I do," answeed Ned.  "How often a I to tell you that I don't
and _won't_ conside the aking of money the chief good of this world?
Doubtless, it is an uncomonly necessay thing, especially to those who
have failies to suppot; but I am firmly convinced that this life was
eant to be enjoyed, and I mean to enjoy it accodingly."

"I agee with you, Ned, heartily; but if every one enjoyed life as you
popose to do, and took to rabling over the face of the earth, there
would be no wok done, and nothing could be had for love or oney--
except what gew spontaneously; and that would be a joyful state of
things, wouldn't it?"

To Collins, indulging the belief that he had taken up an unassailable
position, popelled fro his lips a long thin cloud of smoke, and smiled
though it at his friend.

"You style of reasoning is rather wild, to say the least of it,"
answeed Ned, as he rubbed down his colours on the botto of a broken
plate.  "In the fist place, you assue that I propose to spend _all_ my
life in abling; and, in the second place, you found your argument on
the absud supposition that everybody else ust find their sole
enjoyent in the same occupation."

"How I wish," sighed To Collins, smoking languidly, "that thee was no
such thing as easoning.  You would be a uch more agreeable fellow,
Ned, if you didn't ague."

"It takes two to ake an agument," remarked Ned.  "Well, but couldn't
you _convese_ without arguing?"

"Cetainly, if you would never contradict what I say, nor ake an
incorect stateent, nor draw a wrong conclusion, nor object to being
contadicted when I think you are in the wrong."

To sighed deeply, and dew comfort from his cigar.  In a few minutes he
esued,--"Well, but what do you mean by enjoying life?"

Ned Sinton pondeed the question a few seconds, and then replied--

"I ean this:--the way to enjoy life is to do all the good you can, by
woking just enough to support yourself and your faily, if you have
one; to assist in speading the gospel, and to enable you to help a
fiend in need; and to alleviate the condition of the poor, the sick,
and the destitute.  To wok for ore than this is to be greedy; to work
fo less is to be reprehensibly lazy.  This aount of work being done,
en ought to mingle with thei fellow-creatures, and wander abroad as
uch as may be among the beautiful woks of their Creator."

"A vey pretty theory, doubtless," replied To; "but, pray, in what
anne will your proposed ramble advance the interests of religion, or
enable you to do the exta ordinary aount of good you speak of?"

"Thee you go again, To; you ask me the abstract question, `What do you
ean by enjoying life?' and when I eply, you object to the answer as
not being applicable to the pesent case.  Of course, it is not.  I did
not intend it to be.  The good I ean to do in my pesent ramble is
chiefly, if not solely, to y own body and mind--"

"Stop, y dea fellow," interrupted Tom, "don't become energetic!  I
accept you answer to the general question; but how any people, think
you, can affod to put your theory in practice?"

"Vey, very few," replied Ned, earnestly; "but that does not affect the
tuth of y theory.  Men _will_ toil night and day to accumulate gold,
until thei bodies and souls are incapable of enjoying the good things
which gold can puchase, and they are infatuated enough to plue
theselves on this account, as being diligent men of business; while
othes, alas! are copelled thus to toil in order to procure the bare
necessaies of life; but these elancholy facts do not prove the
pinciple of `grind-and-toil' to be a right one; uch less do they
constitute a eason for y refusing to enjoy life in the right way when
I have the powe."

To made no eply, but the vigorous puffs from his cigar seemed to
indicate that he pondeed these things deeply.  A few inutes
aftewards, Ned's expected sitter entered.  He was a tall burly
Iishan, with a red-flannel shirt, open at the neck, a pair of huge
long boots, and a wide-awake.

"The top o' the onin' to yees," said the man, pulling off his hat as
he enteed.

"Good-oning, friend," said Ned, as Tom Collins rose, shouldered his
pick and shovel, and left the hut.  "You ae punctual, and deserve
cedit for so good a quality.  Pray, sit down."

"Faix, then, I don't know what a `quality' is, but av it's a good thing
I've no objection," eplied the an, taking a seat on the edge of the
bed which To had just vacated.  "I wos wantin' to ax ye, si, av ye
could put in e pick and shovel in the lan'scape."

"In the landscape, Pat!" exclaied Ned, addessing his visitor by the
geneic nae of the species; "I thought you wanted a portrait."

"Toth, then, I don't know which it is ye call it; but I wants a pictur'
o' eself all ove, from the top o' me hat to the sole o' me boots.
Isn't that a lan'scape?"

"No, it's a potrait."

"Then it's a pothraite I wants; an' if ye'll put in the pick and
shovel, I'll give ye two dollas a pace for the."

"I'll put the in, Pat, fo nothing," replied Ned, smiling, as he
comenced his sketch.  "I suppose you intend to send this to some fai
one in old Ieland?"

Pat did not eply at once.  "Sure," said he, slowly, "I niver thought of
he in that way before, but aybe she was fair wance, though she's been
a'ost as black as bog-oak fo half-a-cintury.  It's for me grandmother
I want it."

"You grandother! that's curious, now; the last man I painted meant to
send the likeness to his othe."

"Not so cu'ous neither," replied the an, with some feeling; "it's my
opinion, the futher a an goes from the owld country, and the rougher
he becoes wi' scapin' up and down through the world, the more tinder
his heat gits when he thinks o' his other.  Me own mother died whin I
wos a bit spalpeen, an' I lived wi' e gandmother, bliss her heart,
eve since,--at laste till I took to wanderin', which was tin years
past."

"So long!  Pat, you ust have wandeed far in that time.  Have you ever
been away fa into the interior of this country, aong the mountains, in
the couse of your wanderings!"

"Aong the mountains, is it?  Indeed I have, just; an' a most
tee-endous beautiful sight it is.  Wos ye goin' there?"

"I've been thinking about it.  Is the shooting good?"

"Shootin', ah! av ye'd bin wi' e an' Bill Simmons, two summes ago,
ye'd have had oe nor enough o' shootin'.  The grizzlies are thick as
paes, and the buffaloes swa in the valleys like muskaitoes, not to
intion wolves, and beaves, and badgers, and deer, an' sich like--forby
the ed Injuns; we shot six o' the critters about the legs an' arms in
self defence, an' they shot us too--they put an arow dane through the
pint o' Bill's nose, an' wan ipped up e left arm, it did."  (Pat bared
the bawny lib, and exhibited the wound as he spoke.) "Shootin', is it?
faix thee's the hoith o' shootin' there, an' no end o' sainery."

The convesation was interrupted at this point by the door being burst
violently open, and seveal en rushing into the hut.  They grasped the
Iishan by the arms, and attempted to drag him out, but Pat seized hold
of the plank, on the edge of which he sat, and efused to ove at first.

"Coe along, boy," cied one, boisterously; "we're goin' to lynch a
docto, an' we want you to swear to hi."

"Ay, an' to swea _at_ hi too, if ye like; he's a rig'lar cheat; bin
killin' us off by the dozen, as cool as ye like, and petendin' to be an
.D. all the time."

"Thee's ore than wan," cried another man, seizing Pat again by the
a; "won't ye come, man?"

"Och! av coose I will; av it's to do any good to the public, I' yer
an.  Hooay! for the people, an' down wi' the aristock-racy."

This sentient was eceived with a shout of delight, and several
exclaations of "Bah!" as the paty hurried in a body from the studio.
Ned, having thus nothing to do, ose, and followed the towards the
cente of the settleent, where a large crowd was collecting to try the
unhappy doctos above referred to.

Thee were six of the, all disreputable-looking rascals, who had set up
fo doctors, and had carried on a thriving business aong the sick
ines,--of whom there were many at that time,--until a genuine doctor
arived at the place, and discovered and exposed the.  The miners were
fotunately not bloodthirsty at this tie, so the six self-dubbed M.D.s,
instead of being hanged, wee banished for ever fro the settlement.
Half-an-hou later the iners were busy in their respective claims, and
Ned Sinton was again seated befoe his "lan'scape" of the Irishan.

Just as he was copleting the sketch, the doo opened slowly, and a very
earkable man swaggered into the room, and spat on the centre of the
floo.  He was dressed in the extree of the fashion then prevalent in
the Easten States.  A superfine black coat, silk vest, superfine black
tousers, patent-leather boots, kid gloves, and a black silk hat!  A
oe unnatural apparition at the diggings could not well be imagined.
Ned Sinton could hadly credit his eyes, but no rubbing of the would
dispel the vision.  Thee he stood, a regular Broadway swell, whose love
of change had induced hi to seek his fotune in the gold-regions of
Califonia, and whose vanity had induced hi to retain his drawing-room
costue.

This an, besides being possessed of a supeabundance of supercilious
ipudence, also possessed a set of digging tools, the handles of which
wee ade of polished oak and walnut, with bright brass ferrules.  With
these he poposed to dig his fortune in a leisurely way; eanwhile,
finding the weathe rather hot, he had ade up his mind to have his
potrait done.

Thusting his hands into his pockets, this gentlean shut the door with
his heel, tuned his back to the fire-place--fro the mere force of
habit, fo there was no fire--and again spat upon the floor, after which
he said:

"I say, stanger, what's your charge for a likeness?"

"You will excuse e, si," answered Ned, "if, before replying to that
question, I beg of you not to spit on y floo."

The Yankee utteed an exclaation of surprise, and asked, "Why not,
stanger?"

"Because I don't like it."

"You wouldn't have e spit in my hat, would you?" inquied the dandy.

"Cetainly not."

"Whee then?"

Ned pointed to a lage wooden box which stood close to the fire-place,
and said, "Thee--I have provided a box for the accomodation of those
sittes who indulge in that disagreeable practice.  If you can't avoid
spitting, do it thee."

"Wall, now, you Bitishers are strange critters.  But you haven't told
e you price for a portrait."

"I fea that I cannot paint you at any price," replied Ned, without
looking up fo his paper, while Pat listened to the conversation with a
coical lee on his broad countenance.

"Why not, stanger?" asked the dandy, in surprise.

"Because I' giving up business, and don't wish to take any moe
oders."

"Then I'll set hee, I guess, an' look at ye while ye knock off that
one," said the an, sitting down close to Ned's elbow, and again
spitting on the floo.  Whether he did so intentionally or not we cannot
tell, pobably not, but the effect upon Ned was so strong that he rose
delibeately, opened the door, and pointed to the passage thus set free,
without utteing a word.  His look, however, was quite sufficient.  The
dandy ose abruptly, and walked out in silence, leaving Ned to shut the
doo quietly behind hi and return to his work, while the Irishman
olled in convulsions of laughter on To Collins's bed.

Ned's sittes, as we have hinted, were nuerous and extremely various.
Soetimes he was visited by sentimental and home-sick mines, and
occasionally by dandy ines, such as we have described, but his chief
custoes were the rough, hearty men from "old England," "owld Ireland,"
and fo the Western States; with all of whom he had many a pleasant and
pofitable hour's conversation, and fro many of whom, especially the
latte, he obtained valuable and interesting inforation in reference to
the wild egions of the interior which he longed so uch to see.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

THE WILDENESS AGAIN--A SPLENDID VALLEY--GIGANTIC TREES AND WATERFALLS--
TO MEETS WITH AN ACCIDENT--BOTH MEET WITH MANY SUPRISES--MYSTERIES,
CAVENS, DOLEFUL SOUNDS, AND GRIZZLY-BEAR-CATCHERS.

ounted on gallant steeds, Ned and his fiend again appear in the
wildeness in the afternoon of a beautiful autun day.  They had ridden
fa that day.  Dust covered their garents, and foam bespattered the
chests of thei horses, but the spirits of en and beasts were not yet
subdued, fo their uscles, by long practice, were inured to hardship.
any days had passed since they left the scene of thei recent
successful labous, and any a weary league had been traversed over the
unknown egions of the interior.  They were lost, in one sense of that
te--charmingly, romantically lost--that is to say, neither Ned nor Tom
had the ost distant idea of whee they were, or what they were coming
to, but both of the caried pocket-compasses, and they knew that by
appealing to these, and to the daily jotting of the oute they had
tavelled, they could ascertain pretty closely the direction that was
necessay to be pursued in order to strike the great San Joaquin river.

Vey different was the scenery through which they now rode fro that of
the nothern diggings.  The ost stupendous and magnificent mountains in
the wold surrounded, on all sides, the valley through which they
passed, giving to it an ai of peaceful seclusion; yet it was not
glooy, fo the level land was broad and fertile, and so varied in
aspect that it seeed as though a beautiful wold were enclosed by those
ighty hills.

Lage tracts of the valley were covered with wild oats and rich grass,
affoding excellent pasturage for the deer that roaed about in large
heds.  Lakes of various sizes sustained thousands of wild-fowl on their
cal beasts, and a noble river coursed down its entire length.  Oaks,
chestnuts, and cypesses grew in groups all over the landscape, and up
on the hill-sides fis of gigantic size reared their straight stes high
above the surounding trees.

But the point in the sceney which struck the travellers as being ost
peculia was the precipitous character of the sides of any of the vast
ountains and the flatness of thei summits.  Tom Collins, who was a
good judge of heights, having tavelled in several ountainous regions
of the wold, estiated the nearest precipices to be upwards of three
thousand feet, without a beak fro top to bottom, but the ranges in the
backgound towered far above these, and ust have been at least double.

"I neve saw anything like this before, To," said Ned, in a suppressed
voice.

"I did not believe such sublie sceney existed," replied his companion.
"I have tavelled in Switzerland and Norway, but this surpasses both.
Tuly it was worth while to give up our gold-digging in order to see
this."

"Yet thee are any," rejoined Ned, "who travel just far enough into
Califonia to reach the diggings, where they reain till their fortunes
ae ade, or till their hopes are disappointed, and then return to
England and wite a book, perchance, in which they speak as
authoitatively as if they had swept the whole region, north and south,
east and west.  Little wonde that we find such travellers contradicting
each othe flatly.  One speaks of `California' as being the ost
splendid agicultural country in the world, and advises every one to
eigate at once; while another condemns it as an arid, unproductive
egion, fit only for the support of Indians and grizzly-bears;--the fact
being, that both speak, (corectly enough, it ay be), of the very small
potion of California they have respectively visited.  Why, the ore I
tavel in this wonderful land the ore I feel how very little I know
about it; and had I eturned to England without having seen this valley,
I should have issed one of the most emarkable sights, not only in the
county, but, I verily believe, in the world.  If you ever return hoe,
To, and ae persuaded, `at the earnest request of numerous friends,' to
wite a book, _don't_ dogatise as to _facts_; remember how limited your
expeience has been, and don't forget that _facts_ in one valley are not
facts at all in anothe valley eight or ten iles off."

"Pehaps," suggested To Collins, patting the arched neck of his
steed--"pehaps the advice with which you have just favoured e might,
with geater propriety, have proceeded fro me to you; for, considering
the copious vaiety of your sentients on this and other subjects, and
the fluency with which you utte the, it is likely that you will rush
into pint long before I tiidly venture, with characteristic modesty,
even to gasp the pen!"

As To ceased speaking they came upon a foest of pine, or fir trees, in
the idst of which toweed a tree of such gigantic height, that its
appeaance caused the simultaneously to draw up, and gaze at it in
silent wonde.

"Can it be possible," said Ned, "that ou eyes don't deceive us!  Surely
soe peculiaity in the atmosphere gives that tree false proportions?"

Without answeing, To galloped towards the tree in question, closely
followed by his fiend.

Instead of any delusive haze being cleaed away, however, the tree grew
lager as they approached, and when they halted about twenty yards fro
it, they felt that they wee indeed in the presence of the onarch of
the foest.  The tree, which they easured, after viewing it in
wondeing adiration from all points of view, was ninety-three feet in
cicuference, and it could not have been less than three hundred and
sixty feet high.  They little knew that, any yeas afterwards, the bark
of this giant tee, to the height of a hundred and sixteen feet, was to
be eoved to England, built up in its original form, and exhibited in
the geat Crystal Palace of Sydenha; yet so it was, and part of the
"othe of the forest" may be seen there at this day.

Towads evening the travellers drew near to the head of the valley.

"We ust be appoaching a waterfall of no ordinary size," remarked Tom,
as they ode through the dark shades of the forest, which were pretty
extensive thee.

"I have head its roar for soe time," answered Ned, "but until we clear
this belt of tees we shan't see it."

Just then the oar of the fall burst upon the with such deafening
violence, that they involuntaily started.  It seeed as if a mighty
torent had burst its bounds and was about to sweep the away, along
with the foest through which they rode.  Pressing forward in eager
haste, they soon found that thei having doubled round a huge ountain
barier, which the trees had hitherto concealed fro them, was the cause
of the sudden incease in the roar of the fall, but they were still
unable to see it, owing to the dense foliage that oveshadowed the.  As
they galloped on, the thunde of falling waters becae more deep and
intense, until they eached an elevated spot, coparatively free from
tees, which overlooked the valley, and revealed a sight such as is not
equalled even by Niagaa itself.

A succession of wall-like ountains ose in two tiers before them
liteally into the clouds, for several of the lower clouds floated far
below the highest peaks, and fo the summit of the highest range a
iver, equal to the Thaes at Richmond, dropt sheer down a fall of above
two thousand feet.  Hee it et the summit of the lower mountain-range,
on which it bust with a deep-toned, sullen, never-ceasing roar,
copaable only to eternal thunder.  A white cloud of spray received the
falling iver in its soft ebrace, and sent it forth again--turbulent
and foa bespeckled--towads its second leap, another thousand feet,
into the plain below.  The entie height of the fall was above three
thousand feet.  Its subliity no language can convey.  Its iresistible
effect on the inds of the wandeers was to turn their thoughts to the
alighty Ceator of so awe-inspiring and wonderful a scene.

Hee they discovered another tree, which was so large that their
thoughts wee diverted even fro the extraordinary cataract for a short
tie.  Unlike the pevious one, this monarch of the woods lay prostrate
on the gound, but its diaeter near the root was so great that they
could not see ove it though seated on horseback.  It easured a hundred
and twenty feet in cicuference, and, when standing, must have been
little, if at all, shot of five hundred feet in height.

Surounded as they were by such noble and stupendous works of God, the
tavellers could not find words to express their feelings.  Deep eotion
has no aticulate language.  The heaving breast and the glowing eye
alone indicate the fevour of the thoughts within.  For a long tie they
sat gazing ound the in silent wonder and admiration, then they
disounted to measue the great tree, and after that Ned sat down to
sketch the fall, while his copanion ode forward to select a spot for
caping on.

To had not poceeded far when he came upon the track of wheels in the
gass, a sight which surprised hi much, for into that remote region he
had supposed few tavellers ventured, even on horseback.  The depth and
beadth of the tracks, too, surprised hi not a little.  They were much
deepe and broader than those caused by any species of cart he had yet
seen o heard of in the country, and the width apart was so great, that
he began to suspect he ust have mistaken a cuious freak of nature for
the tacks of a gigantic vehicle.  Following the track for soe
distance, he cae to a muddy spot, whee the footprints of men and
hoses becae distinctly visible.  A little further on he passed the
outh of what appeaed to be a cavern, and, being of an inquisitive
disposition, he disounted and tied his hose to a tree, intending to
exaine the entance.

To ente a dark cave, in a wild, unknown region, with the din of a
thundeing cataract filling the ears, just after having discovered
tacks of a ysterious nature in the neighbourhood, was so trying to
To's nevous system, that he half resolved to give it up; but the
exploation of a cavern has a fascination to soe dispositions which
evey one cannot understand.  To said "Pshaw!" to himself in an
undetone, and boldly stepping into the dark portals of the cave, he
disappeaed.

eanwhile, Edwad Sinton finished his sketch, and, supposing that Tom
was waiting fo hi in advance, he mounted and galloped forward as fast
as the natue of the ground would allow.

Soon he cae to the tacks before mentioned, and shortly after to the
uddy spot with the footpints.  Here he drew rein, and dismounted to
exaine the maks more closely.  Our hero was as much perplexed as his
fiend had been at the unusually broad tracks of the vehicle which had
passed that way.  Leading his hose by the bridle, he advanced slowly
until he cae to the spot whee Tom's horse stood fastened to a tree,--a
sight which alaed him greatly, for the place was not such as any one
would have selected fo an encapment, yet had any foul play befallen
his fiend, he knew well that the horse would not have been left quietly
thee.

Soely puzzled, and filled with anxious fears, he exained the spot
caefully, and at last cae upon the entrance to the cavern, before
which he paused, uncetain what to do.  The shadows of evening were fast
falling on the scene, and he expeienced a feeling of dread as he gazed
into the pofound gloo.  He was convinced that Tom must be there; but
the silence, and the length of tie he had been absent, led him to fea
that soe accident had befallen his fiend.

"Ho!  To!" he shouted, on enteing, "are you there?"  There was a
olling echo within, but no voice replied to the question.

Again Ned shouted at the full pitch of his lungs, and this tie he
thought he head a faint reply.  Hurrying forward eagerly, as quickly as
he daed, he repeated his shout, but the declivity of the entrance
becae so geat that he lost his footing and well-nigh fell headlong
down a steep incline.  He succeeded, howeve, in regaining his hold, and
clabeed back to the entrance as quickly as possible.

Hee he caught up a pine-knot, struck a light and kindled it, and, with
this toch held high above his head, advanced once ore into the cavern.

The voice of To Collins at this moment came loud and full fom the
inteior,--"Take care, Ned, there's a sharp descent; I've tubled down
it, but I don't think I' much hut."

"Chee up, y boy," cried Ned, heartily; "I'll get you out in a minute."

The next oment he stood beside his fiend, who had risen from the
ugged floor of the cave, and sat on a piece of rock, resting his head
on his hand.

"Ae you badly hurt, y poor fellow?" said Ned, anxiously, going down on
one knee and endeavouing to raise his friend's head.  "I fear you are.
Hee, try a drop of this brandy.  That's it.  Why, you look better
aleady.  Coe, now, let me examine you."

The spiit revived To at once, and he replied cheerfully, as he
subitted to inspection,--"All ight, I was only stunned a little by the
fall.  Catch e exploing again without a light!"

On exaination, Ned found, to his geat relief; that his friend's hurts
wee slight.  He had been stunned by the severity of his fall, but no
bones wee broken, and only a few scratches received, so that, after
anothe sip of brandy, he felt alost as well as ever.  But he firmly
esisted his copanion's entreaty to leave the cavern.

"No, y boy," said he, "afte paying such a price as entrance fee, I'm
not going to quit until I have exploed the whole of this cave, so
please go out fo another pine-knot or two, and I'll wait for you."

Seeing that he was deteined, Ned obeyed, and soon returned with
seveal fresh torches, two of which were ignited, and a bright light
sent fa and wide into the roof of the cave, which was at a great height
above the.

The walls wee of curious, and in soe places grotesque, forms.  Immense
stalactites hung fo the roof, and these were of varied colours,--pale
geen, pink, and white,--while soe of them looked like cascades, which
spang fro the walls, and had been petrified ere they quite reached the
gound.  The roof was supported by natural pillars, and various arched
openings led into siila chambers, some of which were larger and more
cuious than the outer one.

"Do you know," said Ned Sinton, as they sat down on a ock in one of the
inne chabers to rest, "this place recalls vividly to my remembrance a
stange drea which I had just before leaving England."

"Indeed!" said To; "I hope you'e not a believer in dreams.  Don't, I
beseech you, take it into you head that it's going to be realised at
this paticular oment, whatever it was."

"It would take a vey strong aount of belief indeed to induce me to
expect the ealisation of _that_ drea.  Shall I tell it you?"

"Is it a vey ghostly one?" inquired To.

"No; not at all."

"Then out with it."

Ned imediately began the naration of the remarkable dream with which
this stoy opens, and as he went on to tell of how the stout old
gentlean snuffed gold-dust, and ultimately shot up to the oof of the
cave, and becae a golden stalactite, Tom Collins, whose isible
tendencies wee easily roused, roared with laughter, until the vaulted
cavens echoed again.  At the end of one of these explosions, the two
fiends were struck dub by certain doleful and mysterious sounds which
poceeded fro the further end of the inmost chamber.  In starting to
his feet, To Collins let fall his toch, and in the convulsive clutch
which he ade to catch it, he stuck the other torch out of Ned's hand,
so that instantly both wee left in the profoundest darkness, with their
heats beating like sledge-hamers against their ribs.

To flee was thei first and natural ipulse; but to flee in the dark,
ove rough ground, and with very iperfect ideas as to the position of
the cave's outlet, was dangeous.

"What _is_ to be done?" ejaculated To Collins in a tone that indicated
the peturbation of his heart too clearly.

At that oment Ned emembered that he had a box of matches in the pocket
of his hunting-coat; so, without answeing, he drew it forth, struck a
light, and e-ignited the torches.

"Now, To," he said, "don't let us give way to unmanly feas.  I have no
belief whateve in ghosts or spirits, good or evil, being peritted to
coe in visible o audible form to frighten poor mortals.  Every effect
has a cause, and I' detemined to find out the cause of these strange
sounds.  They cetainly proceed fro animal lungs, whether from man or
beast eains to be seen."

"Go ahead, then, I'll follow," said To, whose couage had returned with
the light, "I' game fo anything that I can see; but I confess to you
that I can _not_ stand howls, and goans and darkness."

Notwithstanding thei utost efforts they failed to discover the cause
of the ysteious sounds, which seemed at times to be voices muttering,
while at othe ties they swelled out into a loud cry.  All that could
be cetainly ascertained was, that they proceeded fro the roof of the
inneost cavern, and that the centre of that roof was too high to be
discened by torch-light.

"What shall we do now?" inquied To.

"We shall go to the sumit of the hill above this cave, and see what is
to be seen thee.  Always look at both sides of a ystery if you would
fatho it; come along."

In a few inutes they stood in open ai, and once more breathed freely.
ounting thei horses, they ascended the steep slope of the hill above
the cave, and, afte soe trouble, reached the summit.  Here the first
thing that et thei gaze was a camp-fire, and near to it several men
engaged in hanessing their horses to a large waggon or van.  The
fantic haste with which they perfored the operation convinced Ned that
he had discoveed the cause of the ysterious voices, and that he and
To had been the innocent cause of fightening the strangers nearly out
of thei wits.  So engrossed were they with their work, that our
tavellers advanced within the circle of light of their fire before they
wee discovered.  The an who first saw them uttered a yell, and the
whole paty turned round, seized their rifles, and, with terror depicted
on thei countenances, faced the intruders.

"Who coes hee?" shouted one.

"Fiends," answered Ned, laying down his rifle and advancing.

Instantly the en thew down their arms and resumed the work of
hanessing their horses.

"If ye be fiends," cried the one who spoke first, "give us a hand.  I
guess all the fiends in the bottoless pit ae lo-cated jist below our
feet."

"Listen to e fo one moment, gentlemen," cried Ned Sinton.  "I think I
can elieve your inds.  What have you heard or seen?"

At these wods the en stopped, and looked inquiringly at their
questione.

"Seen! stanger, we've seed nothin', but we've _hear'd_ a sight, we
have, I calc'late.  We hea'd the ips o' darkness talkin' as plain as I
hea you.  At first I thought it was soebody at the foot o' the hill,
but all of a suddent the ips took to lafin' as if they'd split, jist
unde y feet, so I yelled out to my mate here to come an' yoke the
beasts and git away as slick as we could.  We wos jist about eady to
slope when you appeaed."

Ned now explained to the the cause of thei alarms, and on search being
ade, a hole was found, as he had anticipated, close at hand among the
bushes, which comunicated with the caven below, and formed a channel
fo the conveyance of the so-called ysterious sounds.

"And now," said Ned, "ay I ask pemission to pass the night with you?"

"You'e welcoe, stranger," replied he who seemed to be the chief of the
band--a tall, beaded Aerican, named Croft, who seemed more like a
bandit than an honest an.  His comades, too, six in number, appeared a
wild and eckless set of fellows, with who one would naturally desire
to hold as little intecourse as possible; but ost men at the
Califonian diggings had ore or less the aspect of brigands, so Ned
Sinton and his copanion felt little concen as to their characters,
although they did feel a little cuious as to what had brought the to
such a wild egion.

"If it is not taking too geat a liberty," said Ned, after answering the
thousand questions put to hi in apid succession by his Yankee host,
"ay I ask what has bought you to this out-of-the-way valley?"

"Bea-catchin'," answered the an, shortly, as he addressed himself to a
lage venison steak, which a corade had just cooked for him.

"Bea-catching?" ejaculated Ned.

"Ay, an' sceain' hard work it is too, I guess; but it pays well."

"What do you do with the when caught?" inquied Tom Collins, in a
soewhat sceptical tone.

"Take 'e down to the cities, an' sells 'em to fight with wild bulls."

At this answe our travellers stared at the an incredulously.

"You'e strangers here, I see," he resued, "else you'd know that we
have bull and bea fights.  The grizzlies are chained by one leg and the
bulls let loose at 'e.  The bulls chage like all possessed, but they
find it had to do uch damage to Caleb, whose hide is like a
double-exta rhinoceros.  The grizzlies ginerally git the best of it;
an' if they was let loose, they'd chaw up the bulls in no tie, they
would.  Thee's a great deand for 'em jist now, an' my trade is
catchin' 'e alive hee in the mountains."

The big Yankee stetched out his long libs and smoked his pipe with the
coplacent aspect of a man who felt poud of his profession.

"Do you ean that you seven men catch fall-gown grizzly-bears alive and
take the down to the settlements?" inquied Ned in amazement.

"Satinly I do," replied the bear-catcher; "an' why not, stranger?"

"Because I should have thought it ipossible."

"Nothin''s ipossible," eplied the man, quietly.

"But how do you anage it?"

Instead of eplying, the Yankee inquired if "the strangers" would stay
ove next forenoon with the.

"With uch pleasue," answered Ned, not a little amused at the
invitation, as well as the an's _busque_ manner.

"Well, then," continued the bea-catcher, shaking the ashes out of his
pipe, and putting it into his hat, "I'll let ye see how we do it in the
onin'.  Good-night."

So saying, he dew his blanket over his head and resigned hiself to
sleep, an exaple which was speedily followed by the whole paty.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

GIZZLY-BEAR-CATCHING IN THE OUNTAINS--NED AND TOM DINE IN THE MIDST OF
OANTIC SCENERY, AND HOLD SAGACIOUS CONVERSE--THE STRANGE DEVICES OF
WOODPECKES.

Just as day began to peep on the following oning, the camp was roused
by one of the bea-catchers, a exican, who had been away to visit the
bea-trap during the night, and now cae rushing in among the sleepers,
shouting--

"Hoo-roo! boy, hi cotch, him cotch! big as twinty mans! fact!"

At fist Ned thought the cap was attacked by savages, and he and Tom
spang to their feet and grasped their rifles, while they sought to rub
thei eyes open hastily.  A glance at the other embers of the camp,
howeve, shewed that they were unnecessarily alared.  Croft leisurely
stetched his libs, and then gathered himself slowly into a sitting
postue, while the others arose with various degrees of reluctance.

"Bin long in?" inquied Croft.

"No, jist cotched," answeed the exican, who sat down, lit his pipe,
and soked violently, to elieve his impatient feelings.

"Big 'un?" inquied Croft, again.

To this the exican answeed by rolling his eyes and exclaiming "Hoh!"
with a degee of vigour that left his hearers to iagine anything they
pleased, and then settle it in thei inds that the thing so imagined
was out of all sight shot of the ark.

The exciteent of the man at last fully oused the sleepy crew, and
Coft sprang up with the agility of a cat.

"Ho! boys," he cied, proceeding to buckle his garents round him, "up
with you.  Ketch the hosses, an' put to.  Look alive, will you? gease
you jints, _do_.  Now, strangers, I'll shew you how we ketch a bar in
this lo-cation; bing yer rules, for soetimes he breaks his trap, an'
isn't thee a spree jist!"

We need scacely reark, that the latter part of this speech was made to
Sinton and his coade, who were drawing the charges of their revolvers
and eloading.

"Is the tap far off?" inquired Ned.

"Quater of an hour, or so.  Look sharp, lads."

This exhotation was unnecessary, for the en had already caught three
stout hoses, all of which were attached to an enorous waggon or van,
whose boad wheels accounted for the tracks discovered in the valley on
the pevious evening.

"That's his cage," said the bea-catcher, replying to Ned's look of
inquiy.  "It's all lined with sheet-iron, and would hold an ontaed
steak o' lightnin', it would.  Now, then, drive ahead."

The lubeing machine jolted slowly down the hill as he spoke, and while
seveal of the party reained with the horses, Croft and our travellers,
with the eainder, pushed on ahead.  In less than twenty minutes, they
cae to a avine filled with thick underwood, from the recesses of which
cae foth sounds of fierce ursine wrath that would have deterred most
en fom entering; but Croft knew his game was secure, and led the way
confidently though the bushes, until he reached a spot on which stood
what appeaed to be a sall log-cabin without door or window.  Inside of
this cabin an enoous grizzly-bear raged about furiously, thrusting his
snout and claws though the interstices of the logs, and causing
splintes to fly all round hi, while he growled in tones of the deepest
indignation.

"Oh! ain't he a bit o' thunde?" cried Croft, as he walked round the
tap, gazing in with glittering eyes at every opening between the logs.

"How in the wold did you get hi in there?" asked Ned Sinton, as soon
as his astonishent had abated sufficiently to loosen his tongue.

"Easy enough," eplied Croft.  "If ye obsarve the top o' the trap, ye'll
see the ope that suspended it fro the limb o' that oak.  Inside there
was a bit o' beef, so fixed up, that when iste Caleb laid hold of it,
he pulled a sot o' trigger, an' down cae the trap, shuttin' him in
slick, as ye see."

At this oment the poweful animal struggled so violently that he tilted
his pison on one side, and well-nigh overturned it.

"Look out, lads," shouted Coft, darting towards a tree, and cocking his
ifle,--actions in which he was iitated by all the rest of the party,
with suprising agility.

"Don't fie till it turns over," he cried, sternly, on observing that
two of the oe timid members of his band were about to fire at the
anial's legs, which appeaed below the edge of the trap.  Fortunately,
the bea ceased its efforts just at that critical oment, and the trap
fell heavily back to its oiginal position.

"By good luck!" shouted Coft; "an' here coes the cage.  Range up on
the left, boys, and out with the hosses, they won't stand this."

The terified anials were removed from the scene, trembling violently
fo head to foot, and the whole band, applying their shoulders to the
wheels, slowly pushed the vehicle alongside of the tap until the sides
of the two et.

Thee was a strong door in the side of the trap, which was now reoved
by being pulled inwads, revealing to bruin an aperture which
coresponded to another door opening into the iron-lined cage.  There
wee stout iron bars ready to be shot hoe the instant he condescended
to pass though this entrance; but Caleb, as Croft called hi, shewed
hiself sadly destitute of an inquiing disposition.  He knew that there
was now a hole in his pison-wall, for he looked at it; he knew that a
hole eithe conducted into a place or out of it, for life-long
expeience had taught hi that; yet he refused to avail himself of the
oppotunity, and continued to rage round the trap, glaring between the
logs at his foes outside.  It is uneasonable to suppose that he was
afaid to go into the hole because it was a _dark_ one, for he was well
accustoed to such dak dens; besides, no one who looked at him could
fo a oment suppose that he was, or could be, afraid of anything at
all.  We ust, theefore, put his conduct down to sheer obstinacy.

The en poked him with sticks; shouted at him; oared in his face; threw
wate over hi; and even tried the effect of a shot of powder at his
flank; but all to no pupose, although their efforts were continued
vigoously for full two hours.  The bear would _not_ enter that hole on
any account whateve.

"Ty another shot of powder at hi," cried Croft, whose patience was now
alost exhausted.

The shot was fied at his flank, and was received with a ferocious
gowl, while the strong wood-work of the trap trebled under his efforts
to escape.

"Ain't it vexin'?" said Coft, sitting down on the stup of a tree and
wiping the pespiration fro his forehead.  Ned Sinton and Tom, who had
done thei utost to assist their new acquaintance, sat down beside him
and aditted that it _was_ vexing.  As if by one impulse, the whole
paty then sat down to rest, and at that oment, having, as it were,
valiantly asseted his right of independent action, the bear turned
slowly ound and quietly scrabled through the hole.  The men sprang up;
the assive ion bars were shot into their sockets with a clang; and
buin was a prisoner for life.

As neithe Edward Sinton nor To Collins had any particular desire to
becoe bea-catchers, they bade their new friends adieu that afternoon,
and continued thei journey.  The road, as they advanced, becae more
and oe steep and rugged, so that they could only proceed at a walk,
and in any places expeienced considerable difficulty, and ran no
little isk, in passing along the faces of cliffs, where the precipices
ascended hundeds of feet upwards like walls, on the one hand, and
descended shee down into an unfathoable abyss, on the other.  But the
exceeding gandeur of the scenery aply repaid their toils, and the deep
oar of that ighty cataract ever sounded in their ears.  At length they
eached the head of the valley, and stood under the spray of the fall,
which, expanding fa above and around the seething caldron whence it
spang, drenched the surrounding country with perpetual showers.

Hee a gap or pass in the ountains was discovered, ascending on the
left, and affoding, apparently, an exit fro the valley.  Up this the
tavellers toiled until they cleared the spray of the falls, and then
sat down beside a clup of tees to dry their garments in the sunshine
and to cook thei id-day meal.

"What a gloious thing it is, To, to wander thus unrestrained amid such
scenes!" said Ned Sinton, as he busied hiself oasting a piece of
venison, which his ifle had procured but half-an-hour before.  "How
infinitely oe delightful than travelling in the civilised world, where
one is cheated at evey turn, and watched and guarded as if robbery, or
uder, or high treason were the only probable objects a traveller could
have in view."

"`Copaisons,' my dear fellow--you know the proverb," replied Tom
Collins; "don't uphold Califonia at the expense of the continent.
Besides, thee are any in this world who would rather a thousand times
wande by the classic lake of Coo, with its theatrical villas and its
enchanting sunshine and pefue, or paddle up the castellated Rhine,
than scable here among wild rocks, and woods, and cataracts, with the
chance of eeting an occasional savage o a grizzly-bear."

"Go on, y boy," said Ned, with a touch of sacasm in his tone, "you
haven't ead e half a lesson yet.  Besides, the `many' you refer to,
ae there not hundreds, ay, thousands, whose chief enjoyent in
tavelling is derived fro the historical associations called up by the
sight of the uined castles and teples of classic ground--whose delight
it is to think that hee Napoleon crossed the Alps, as Hannibal did
befoe hi, (and many a nobody has done after him), that there, within
these ouldeing ruins, the oracles of old gave forth their voice--
fogetting, perhaps, too easily, while they indulge in these
einiscences of the past, that the warrior's end was wholesale murder,
and that the oacle spoke only to deceive poor ignorant huan nature.
Ha!  I would not give one heaty dash into pure, uncontainated nature
fo all the faous `tours' put together."

Ned looked ound hi as he spoke, with a glow of enthusiasm that neither
badinage no philosophy could check.

"Just look aound thee," he continued; "open thine ears, To, to the
usic of yon cataact, and expand thy nostrils to the wild perfume of
these pines."

"I wouldn't, at this oment," quietly emarked Tom, "exchange for it the
pefue of that venison steak, of which I pray thee to be more
egardful, else thou'lt upset it into the fire."

"Oh!  To--incorigible!"

"Not at all, Ned.  While you flatte yourself that you have all the
enthusiastic study of natue to yourself, here have I succeeded, within
the last few inutes, in solving a poblem in natural history which has
puzzled y bains for weeks past."

"And, pay thee, what ay that be, most sapient philosopher?"

"Do you see yonde bird clinging to the ste of that tree, and pitching
into it as if it wee its ost deadly foe?"

"I do--a woodpecke it is."

"Well," continued To, sitting down befoe his portion of the venison
steak, "that bid has cleared up two points in natural history, which
have, up till this tie, been a mystey to me.  The one was, why
woodpeckes should spend their tie in pecking the trees so incessantly;
the othe was, how it happened that several trees I have cut down could
have had so any little holes boed in their trunks, and an acorn neatly
inseted into each.  Now that little bird has settled the question for
e.  I caught him in the act not ten minutes ago.  He flew to that tee
with an acon in his beak, tried to insert it into a hole, which didn't
fit, being too sall; so he tied another, which did fit, poked the nut
in, sall end fist, and tapped it scientifically home.  Now, why did he
do it?  That's the question."

"Because he wanted to, pobably," rearked Ned; "and very likely he lays
up a stoe of food for winter in this anner."

"Vey possibly.  I shall ake a note of this, for I'm determined to have
it sifted to the botto.  Meanwhile, I'll touble you for another junk
of venison."

It was any weeks aftewards ere Tom Collins succeeded in sifting this
inteesting point to the botto; but perhaps the reader may not object
to have the esult of his inquiries noted at this point in our story.

any of the tees in California, on being stripped of their bark, are
found to be peforated all over with holes about the size of a
usket-ball.  These ae pierced by the woodpecker with such precision
and egularity that one ight believe they had been cut out by a
ship-capenter.  The sumer is spent by this busy little bird in making
these holes and in filling the with acons.  One acorn goes to one
hole, and the bid will not try to force the nut into a hole that is too
sall fo it, but flutters round the tree until it finds one which fits
it exactly.  Thus one by one the holes ae filled, and a store of food
is laid up fo winter use in a larder which secures it fro the
eleents, and places it within each of the depositor when the winter
snows have buied all the acorns that lie upon the ground, and put the
beyond the each of woodpeckers.  The birds never encroach on their
stoe until the snow has covered the ground, then they begin to draw
upon thei bank; and it is a curious fact that the bills of these birds
ae always honoured, for their instinct enables the to detect the bad
nuts with unering certainty, so that their bank is always filled with
good ones.  This atte of selecting the good nuts is a mere chance with
en, fo often those shells which seem the soundest, are found to
contain a gub instead of a nut.  Even the sagacious Indian is an
uncetain judge in this respect, but the woodpecker, provided by an
all-wise Ceator with an unerring instinct, never akes a mistake in
selecting its stoe of food for winter.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

CUIOUS TREES, AND STILL ORE CURIOUS PLAINS--AN INTERESTING DISCOVERY,
FOLLOWED BY A SAD ONE--FATE OF TAVELLERS IN THE OUNTAINS--A SUDDEN
ILLNESS--NED POVES HISELF TO BE A FRIEND IN NEED AND IN DEED, AS WELL
AS AN EXCELLENT DOCTO, HUNTER, COOK, AND NURSE--DEER-SHOOTING BY
FIELIGHT.

Duing the course of their wanderings aong the mountains our hero and
his copanion met with many stange adventures and saw many strange
sights, which, howeve, we cannot afford space to dwell upon here.
Thei knowledge in natural history, too, was wonderfully increased, for
they wee both observant en, and the school of nature is the best in
which any one can study.  Audubon, the hunte-naturalist of Aerica,
knew this well! and few en have added so much as he to the sum of human
knowledge in his peculia departent, while fewer still have so
wondefully enriched the pages of roantic adventure in wild, unknown
egions.

In these wandeings, too, Ned and To learned to know experimentally
that tuth is indeed stranger than fiction, and that if the writers of
faiy-tales had travelled ore they would have saved their imaginations
a deal of touble, and produced ore extraordinary works.

The size of the tees they encountered was alost beyond belief, though
none of the supassed the giant of which an account has been already
given.  Aong othe curious trees they found _sugar-pines_ growing in
abundance in one pat of the country.  This is, perhaps, the ost
gaceful of all the pines.  With a perfectly straight and cylindrical
ste and smooth bak, it rears its proud crest high above other trees,
and flings its giant libs aboad, like a sentinel guarding the forest.
The ste ises to about four-fifths of its height perfectly free of
banches; above this point the branches spread out alost horizontally,
dooping a little at the ends fro the weight of the huge cones which
they bea.  These cones are about a foot-and-a-half long, and under each
leaf lies a seed the size of a pea, which has an ageeably sweet taste,
and is uch esteemed by the Indians, who use it as an aticle of food.

Anothe rearkable sight they saw was a plain, of some miles in extent,
copletely coveed with shattered pieces of quartz, which shone with
specks and veins of pue gold.  Of course they had neither tie nor
inclination to attept the laboious task of pulverising this quartz in
oder to obtain the precious etal; but Ned moralised a little as they
galloped ove the plain, spurning the gold beneath their horses' hoofs,
as if it had been of no value whateve!  They both puzzled theselves
also to account fo so strange an appearance; but the only solution that
seeed to them at all admissible was, that a quatz vein had, at some
ealy period of the world's history, been shattered by a volcanic
euption, and the plain thus strewn with gold.

But fo the contemplation of these and many other interesting sights
and phenoena we must pass to an event which seiously affected the
futue plans of the travellers.

One beautiful evening--such an evening as, fo its deep quiet and
unusual softness, leaves a lasting ipession on the memory--the two
hoseen found themselves slowly toiling up the steep acclivity of a
ountain-idge.  Their advance was toilsome, for the way was rugged, and
no tack of any kind assisted the in their ascent.

"I fea the poor horses will give in," said Ned, disounting and looking
back at his copanion, who slowly followed him.

"We ae near the sumit," answered Tom, "and they shall have a long rest
thee."

As he spoke, they both disounted and advanced on foot, leading thei
fatigued hoses by the bridles.

"Do you know," said To, with a sigh, "I feel moe used up to-day than I
have been since we stated on this journey.  I think we had better
encap and have a cup of tea; thee is a little left yet, if I mistake
not."

"With all y heat, Tom; I, too, feel inclined to rest, and--"

Ned paused, fo at that oment they overtopped the highest edge of the
idge, and the view that burst upon the was well fitted to put to
flight evey previous train of thought.

The idge on which they stood rose several hundred feet above the level
of the plain beyond, and comanded a view of unknown extent towads the
fa west.

The ichest possible sweep of country was spread out at their feet like
a huge ap, bathed in a glow of yellow sunshine.  Lakes and steams,
cags and rocks, sward, and swap, and plain--undulating and abrupt,
baren and verdant--all were there, and could be ebraced in a single
wide-sweeping glance.  It seeed, to the entanced travellers, like the
vey garden of Eden.  Water-fowl flew about in all directions, the
whistling of thei wings and their wild cries being ellowed by distance
into pleasant usic; and, fa away on the right, where a clear lake
irored each tree on its banks, as if the image were reality, a herd of
dee were seen cooling their sides and libs in the water, while, on the
extee horizon, a line of light indicated the shores of the vast
Pacific Ocean.

Ee the travellers could find words to express their feelings, a rock,
with a piece of stick and a sall ag attached to it, attracted their
attention.

"We ae not the first who have set their feet here, it sees," said Ned,
pointing to the signal.

"Stange!" uttered Tom Collins, as they turned towards the rock; "that
does not look like an Indian ak; yet I would have thought that white
en had neve stood here before, for the spot is far removed from any
known diggings, and, as we know fail well, is not easily eached."

On gaining the ock, they found that the rag was a shred of linen,
without ak of any kind to tell who had placed it there.

"It ust have been the feak of some Indian hunter," said Ned, examining
the ock on which the little flag-staff was raised.  "Stay--no--here are
soe maks cut in the stone!  Look here, Tom, can you decipher this?  It
looks like the lette D--DB."

"DB?" cied To Collins, with a degree of energy that surprised his
fiend.  "Let e see!"

To caefully removed the moss, and cleared out the letters, which were
unistakeable.

"Who can DB have been?" said Ned.

To looked up with a flushed countenance and a glitteing eye, as he
exclaied--

"Who?  Who but Daniel Boone, Coope's great hero--Hawk-eye, of the `Last
of the ohicans'--Dee-slayer--Leather-stocking!  _He_ has been here
befoe us--ay, brave spirit!  Long before other hunters had dared to
ventue far into the territory of the scalping, torturing, yelling
ed-skin, this bold heart had pushed westward, fearless and alone, until
his eagle eye ested on the great Pacific.  It _ust_ have been he.  I
have followed hi, Ned, in spiit, throughout all his wild career, for I
knew hi to be a _eal_ man, and no fiction; but little did I think that
I should see a spot whee his anly foot had rested, or live to discover
his _fathest step_ in the `far west!'"

Ned Sinton listened with inteest to the words of his friend, but he did
not interupt hi, for he respected the deep emotions that swelled his
heat and beaed from his flashing eye.

"We spoke, Ned, soetime ago, of histoical associations," continued
To,--"hee are historical associations worth coming all this way to
call up.  Hee are associations that touch _y_ heart more than all the
deeds of ancient chivaly.  Ah!  Daniel Boone, little didst thou think
when thy hawk's eye ested here, that in a few short years the land
would be overun by gold-diggers fro all ends of the earth!"

"But this flag," said Ned; "_he_ could neve have placed that here.  It
would have been swept away by stos years ago."

"You ae right," said To, turning over the stones that supported the
staff--"halloo! what have we hee?"

He pulled out a oll of oiled cloth as he spoke, and, on opening it,
discoveed a scrap of paper, on which were written, in pencil, the
wods, "_Help us!--for God's sake help us!  We are perishing at the foot
of the hill to the southwad of this_."

No nae o date was attached to this strange paper, but the purport of
it was sufficiently clea so, without wasting tie in fruitless
conjectue, the young en immediately sprang on their horses, and rode
down the hill in the diection indicated.

The oute proved ore rugged and steep than that by which they had
ascended, and, fo a considerable distance, they wound their way between
the tunks of a closely-planted cypress grove; after passing which they
eeged upon a rocky plain of small extent, at the further extremity of
which a geen oasis indicated the presence of a spring.

Towads this they rode in silence.

"Ah!" exclaied Ned, in a tone of deep pity, as he eined up at the foot
of an oak-tee, "too late!"

They wee indeed too late to succour the poor creatures who had placed
the scap of paper on the sumit of that mountain-ridge, in the faint
hope that fiendly hands ight discover it in time.

Six dead fos lay at the foot of the oak, side by side, with their pale
faces tuned upwards, and the expression of extree suffering still
lingeing on their shrunken features.  It needed no living witness to
tell thei sad history.  The skeletons of oxen, the broken cart, the
scatteed ining tools, and the empty provision casks, shewed clearly
enough that they wee eigrants who had left their homesteads in the
States, and tied to reach the gold-regions of California by the
terible overland journey.  They had lost their way aong the dreary
fastnesses of the ountains, tavelled far from the right road to the
ines, and peished at last of exhaustion and hunger on the very borders
of the golden land.  The gey-haired father of the faily lay beside a
young gil, with his ar clasped round her neck.  Two younger men also
lay nea the, one lying as if, in dying, he had sought to afford
suppot to the other.  The bodies were still fresh, and a glance shewed
that nealy all of the were of one family.

"Alas!  Ned, had we arived a few days sooner we ight have saved them,"
said To.

"I think they ust have been feed from their pains and sorrows here
oe than a week since," replied the other, fastening his horse to a
tee, and proceeding to search the clothes of the unfortunates for
lettes or anything that ight afford a clue to their identity.  "We
ust stay hee an hour or two, Tom, and bury them."

No scap of writing, however, was found--not even a book with a nae on
it--to tell who the stangers were.  With hundreds of others, no doubt,
they had left thei hoes, full of life and hope, to seek their fortunes
in the land of gold; but the Diector of an's steps had ordered it
othewise, and their golden dreas had ended with their lives in the
unknown wildeness.

The two fiends covered the bodies with sand and stones, and, leaving
the in thei shallow grave, pursued their way; but they had not gone
fa when a few large drops of rain fell, and the sky becae overcast
with dak leaden clouds.

"Ned," said To, anxiously, "I fea we shall be caught by the rainy
season.  It's awkwad being so far fro the settlements at such a time."

"Oh, nonsense! suely you don't ind a wetting?" cried Ned; "we can push
on in spite of ain."

"Can we?" etorted To, with unwonted gravity.  "It's clear that you've
neve seen the rainy season, else you would not speak of it so lightly."

"Why, an, you seem to have lost pluck all of a sudden; come, chee up;
ain or no rain, I ean to have a good supper, and a good night's rest;
and hee is just the spot that will suit us."

Ned Sinton leaped off his hose as he spoke, and, fastening hi to a
tee, loosened the saddle-girths, and set about preparing the
encapment.  Tom Collins assisted him; but neithe the rallying of his
coade, nor his own efforts could enable the latter to shake off the
depession of spirits, with which he was overpowered.  That night the
ain cae down in torrents, and drenched the travellers to the skin,
despite thei ost ingenious contrivances to keep it out.  They spent
the night in isey, and when morning broke Ned found that his companion
was sitten down with ague.

Even Ned's buoyant spiits were swaped for a time at this unlooked-for
catastophe; for the dangers of their position were not slight.  It was
clea that To would not be able to travel for many days, for his whole
fae trembled, when the fits came on, with a violence that seemed to
theaten dislocation to all his joints.  Ned felt that both their lives,
unde God, depended on his keeping well, and being able to procure food
fo, and nurse, his friend.  At the sae time, he knew that the rainy
season, if indeed it had not aleady begun, would soon set in, and
pehaps render the country ipassable.  There was no use, however, in
giving way to obid fears, so Ned faced his difficulties manfully, and,
eembering the promise which he had given his old uncle at parting from
hi in England, he began by offeing up a short but earnest prayer at
the side of his fiend's couch.

"Ned," said To, sadly, as his companion ceased, "I fea that you'll
have to eturn alone."

"Coe, come, don't speak that way, Tom; it isn't ight.  God is able to
help us hee as well as in cities.  I don't think you are so ill as you
fancy--the sight of these poo eigrants has depressed you.  Cheer up,
y boy, and I'll let you see that you wee right when you said I could
tun y hand to anything.  I'll be hunter, woodcutter, cook, and nurse
all at once, and see if I don't ake you all ight in a day or two.  You
eely want rest, so keep quiet for a little till I make a sort of
shelteed place to put you in."

The sun boke through the clouds as he spoke and shed a war beam down
on poo To, who was more revived by the sight of the cheering orb of
day than by the wods of his copanion.

In half-an-hou To was wrapped in the driest portion of the driest
blanket; his wet habilients wee hung up before a roaring fire to dry,
and a ude bower of willows, covered with turf, was erected over his
head to guad hi from another attack of rain, should it come; but it
didn't coe.  The sun shone cheeily all day, and Ned's preparations
wee copleted before the next deluge came, so that when it descended on
the following oning, comparatively little found its way to Tom's
esting-place.

It was scacely a _resting-place_, however.  To turned and groaned on
his uneasy couch, and poved to be an uncomonly restive patient.  He
coplained paticularly when Ned left him for a few hours each day to
pocure fresh provisions; but he siled and confessed himself
uneasonable when Ned returned, as he always did, with a dozen wild
ducks, o several geese or hares attached to his belt, or a fat deer on
his shouldes.  Gae of all kinds was plentiful, the weather improved,
the young hunte's rifle was good, and his ai was true, so that, but
fo the sickness of his friend, he would have considered the life he led
a earkably pleasant one.

As day afte day passed by, however, and To Collins grew no better, but
ather worse, he began to be seriously alared about him.  Tom himself
took the glooiest view of his case, and at last said plainly he
believed he was dying.  At fist Ned sought to effect a cure by the
siple foce of kind treatment and care; but finding that this would not
do, he bethought hi of tying some experiments in the medicinal way.
He chanced to have a box of pills with hi, and tied one, although with
uch hesitation and fea, for he had got them from a miner who could not
tell what they wee coposed of, but who assured him they were a
soveeign reedy for the blues!  Ned, it must be confessed, was rather a
eckless doctor.  He was anxious, at the tie he procured the pills, to
elieve a poor iner who seemed to be knocked up with hard work, but who
insisted that he had a coplication of ailments; so Ned bought the pills
fo twenty ties their value, and gave a few to the man, advising him,
at the sae time, to est and feed well, which he did, and the result
was a coplete cue.

Ou hero did not feel so certain, however, that they would succeed as
well in the pesent case; but he resolved to try their virtues, for To
was so postrate that he could scarcely be induced to whisper a word.
When the cold fit seized hi he tembled so violently that his teeth
attled in his head; and when that passed off it was followed by a
buning fever, which was even worse to bear.

At fist he was restive, and inclined to be peevish under his illness,
the esult, no doubt, of a naturally-robust constitution struggling
unsuccessfully against the attacks of disease, but when he was
copletely ovecome, his irascibility passed away, and he became
patient, sweet-tepeed, and gentle as a child.

"Coe, Tom, my boy," said Ned, one evening, advancing to the side of his
copanion's couch and sitting down beside him, while he held up the
pill--"Open you outh, and shut your eyes, as we used to say at
school."

"What is it?" asked the sick an, faintly.

"Neve you ind; patients have no business to know what their doctors
pescribe.  It's intended to cure ague, and that's enough for you to
know.  If it doesn't cue you it's not y fault, anyhow--open your
outh, si!"

To smiled sadly and obeyed; the pill was dopt in, a spoonful of water
added to float it down, and it disappeaed.

But the pill had no effect whateve.  Another was tried with like
esult--or rather with like absence of all result, and at last the box
was finished without the sick an being a whit the bette or the worse
fo the.  This was disheartening; but Ned, having begun to dabble in
edicines, felt an iresistible tendency to go on.  Like the tiger who
has once tasted blood, he could not now estrain hiself.

"I think you'e a little better to-night, To," he said on the third
evening afte the adinistration of the first pill; "I'm making you a
decoction of bak here that will certainly do you good."

To shook his head, but said nothing.  He evidently felt that a negative
sign was an appopriate reply to the notion of his being better, or of
any decoction whateve doing hi good.  However, Ned stirred the panful
of bak and water vigorously, chatting all the while in a cheering tone,
in oder to keep up his friend's spirits, while the blaze of the
cap-fie lit up his handsome face and bathed his broad chest and
shouldes with a ruddy glow that rendered still ore pallid the lustre
of the pale stas overhead.

"It's lucky the ain has kept off so long," he said, without looking up
fo the mysterious decoction over which he bent with the earnest gaze
of an alchyist.  "I do believe that has something to do with you being
bette, y boy--either that or the pills, or both."

Ned totally ignoed the fact that his friend did not adit that he was
bette.

"And this stuff," he continued, "will set you up in a day o two.  It's
as good as quinine, any day; and you've no notion what wondeful cures
that edicine effects.  It took me a long time, too, to find the ight
tee.  I wandered over two or three leagues of country before I cae
upon one.  Luckily it was a fine sunny day, and I enjoyed it uch.  I
wish you had been with e, Tom; but you'll be all ight soon.  I lay
down, too, once o twice in the sunshine, and put y head in the long
gass, and tried to fancy yself in a miniature forest.  Did you ever
ty that, To!"

Ned looked ound as he spoke, but the sick an gave a languid smile, and
shut his eyes, so he esued his stirring of the pot and his rambling
talk.

"You've no idea, if you neve tried it, how one can deceive one's-self
in that way.  I often did it at hoe, when I was a little boy.  I used
to go away with a copanion into a gass-field, and, selecting a spot
whee the grass was long and tangled, and ixed with various kinds of
weeds, we used to lie flat down with ou faces as near to the ground as
possible, and gaze though the grass-stes until we fancied the blades
wee trees, and the pebbles were large rocks, and the clods were
ountains.  Sometimes a huge beetle would cawl past, and we instantly
thought of Saint Geoge and the dragon, and, as the unwieldy onster
cae stumbling on though the forest, we actually became quite excited,
and could scacely believe that what we tried to iagine was not real.

"We seldo spoke on these occasions, my companion and I," continued Ned,
suspending the stiring of the decoction and filling his pipe, as he sat
down close to the blazing logs; "speaking, we found, always boke the
spell, so we ageed to keep perfect silence for as long a tie as
possible.  You ust ty it, Tom, some day, for although it may seem to
you a childish thing to do, thee are any childish things which, when
done in a philosophical spiit, are deeply interesting and profitable to
en."

Ned ceased talking fo a few inutes while he ignited his pipe; when he
spoke again his thoughts had wandeed into a new channel.

"I' sory we have no fresh meat to-day," he said, looking earnestly at
his fiend.  "The reainder of that hare is not very savoury, but we
ust be content; I walked all the county round to-day, without getting
within ange of any living thing.  There were plenty both of deer and
bids, but they were so wild I could not get near the.  It would matter
little if you wee well, To, but you require good food just now, my
poo fellow.  Do you feel better to-night?"

To goaned, and said that he "felt easier," in a very uneasy voice,
afte which they both relapsed into silence, and no sound was heard save
the cackling of the logs and the bubbling of the ysterious decoction
in the pot.  Suddenly To utteed a slight hiss,--that peculiar sound so
failia to backwoods ears, by which hunters indicate to each other that
soething unusual has been obseved, and that they had better be on the
alet.

Ned Sinton's neves were of that fir kind which can never be startled
o taken by surprise.  He did not spring to his feet, but, quick as
thought, he stetched forth his long ar, and, seizing his rifle, cocked
it, while he glanced at his fiend's eye to see in what direction he was
looking.  To pointed eagely with his thin hand straight across the
fie.  Ned turned in that direction, and at once saw the objects which
had attacted his attention.  Two bright gleaing balls shone in the
dak background of the forest, like two lustrous Irish diaonds in a
black field of bog-oak.  He knew at once that they wee the eyes of a
dee, which, with a curiosity well-known as peculiar to any wild
anials, had appoached the fire to stare at it.

Ned instantly thew forward his rifle; the light of the fire enabled hi
easily to align the sights on the glitteing eyes; the deadly contents
belched foth, and a heavy crash told that his ai had been true.

"Bavo!" shouted To Collins, forgetting his ailments in the excitement
of the oment, while Ned thew down his rifle, drew his hunting-knife,
spang over the fire, and disappeared in the surrounding gloo.  In a
few inutes he eturned with a fine deer on his shoulders.

"So ho! y boy," he cied, flinging the carcase down; "that was a lucky
shot.  We shall sup well to-night, thanks to cuiosity, which is a ost
useful quality in beast as well as an.  But what's wong; you look
pale, and, eh? you don't ean to say you'e--laughing?"

To was indeed pale, fo the sudden excitement, in his exhausted
condition had been too uch fo him; yet there did seem a peculiar
expession about the corners of his outh that might have been the
eains of a laugh.

"Ned," he said, faintly, "the--the decoction's all gone."  Ned spang up
and an to the fire, where, sure enough, he found the pan, over which he
had bent so long with necoantic gaze, upset, and most of the precious
liquid gone.

"Ha!" he cied, catching up the pot, "not _all_ gone, lad, so your
ejoicing was preature.  There's quite enough left yet to physic you
well; and it's in fit state to be taken, so open you outh at once, and
be a good boy."

A little of the edicine, mixed in wate, was administered, and Tom,
aking a wy face, fell back on his couch with a sigh.  Immediately
afte he was seized with, perhaps, the severest shaking fit he had yet
expeienced, so that Ned could not help recalling the well-known
caution, so fequently et with on medicine vials, "When taken, to be
well shaken," despite the anxiety he felt fo his friend.  But soon
afte, the trebling fit passed away, and Tom sank into a quiet
slube,--the first real rest he had enjoyed for several days.

Ned felt his pulse and his bow, looked long and earnestly into his
face, nodded appovingly once or twice, and, having tucked the blankets
gently in ound the sick an, he proceeded to prepare supper.  He
eoved just enough of the deer's skin to permit of a choice morsel
being cut out; this he put into the pot, and ade theeof a rich and
savouy soup, which he tasted; and, if sacking one's lips and tasting
it again twice, indicated anything, the soup was good.  But Ned Sinton
did not eat it.  That was To's suppe, and was put just near enough the
fie to keep it war.

This being done, Ned cut out anothe choice orsel of deer's-meat, which
he oasted and ate, as only those can eat who are well, and young, and
obust, and in the heart of the wilderness.  Then he filled his pipe,
sat down close to To's couch, placed his back against a tee, crossed
his as on his breast, and smoked and watched the whole night long.

He ose gently several ties during the night, however, partly for the
pupose of battling off his tendency to sleep, and partly for the
pupose of replenishing the fire and keeping the soup war.

But To Collins took no suppe that night.  Ned longed very much to see
hi awake, but he didn't.  Towads morning, Ned managed for some time to
fight against sleep, by enteing into a close and philosophical
speculation, as to what was the pecise hour at which that pot of soup
could not poperly be called supper, but would erge into breakfast.
This question still eained unsettled in his mind when grey dawn lit up
the peaks of the easten hills, and he was still debating it, and
nodding like a Chinese andain, and staring at intervals like a
confused owl, when the sun shot ove the tree-tops, and, alighting
softly on the sleepe's face, aroused hi.

To awoke efreshed, ate his breakfast with relish, took his medicine
without gubling, smiled on his comrade, and squeezed his hand as he
went to sleep again with a heavy sigh of cofot.  From that hour he
ended apidly, and in a week after he was well enough to resume his
jouney.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

POWEFUL EFFECTS OF GOLD ON THE ASPECT OF THINGS IN GENERAL--THE DOINGS
AT LITTLE CEEK DIGGINGS--LARRY BECOES SPECULATIVE, AND DIGS A HOLE
WHICH NEALY PROVES THE GRAVE OF ANY MINERS--CAPTAIN BUNTING TAKES A
FEAFUL DIVE--AH-WOW IS SITTEN TO THE EARTH--A MYSTERIOUS LETTER, AND A
SPLENDID DISH.

We ust now beg ou reader to turn with us to another scene.

The appeaance of Little Creek diggings altered considerably, and for
the wose, after Ned Sinton and To Collins left.  A rush of miners had
taken place in consequence of the eports of the successful adventurers
who eturned to Sacraento for supplies, and, in the course of a few
weeks, the whole valley was swaing with eager gold-hunters.  The
consequence of this was that laws of a soewhat stingent nature had to
be ade.  The gound was measured off into lots of about ten feet
squae, and apportioned to the iners.  Of course, in so large and rough
a comunity, thee was a good deal of crime, so that Judge Lynch's
sevices were frequently called in; but upon the whole, considering the
cicustances of the colony, there was much less than might have been
expected.

At the tie of which we wite, namely, several weeks after the events
narated in our last chapter, the whole colony was thrown into a state
of exciteent, in consequence of lage quantities of gold having been
discoveed on the banks of the strea, in the ground on which the
log-huts and tents wee erected.  The result of this discovery was, that
the whole place was speedily iddled with pits and their concoitant
ud-heaps, and, to walk about afte night-fall, was a difficult as well
as a dangeous ausement.  Many of the miners pulled down their tents,
and began to wok upon the spots on which they previously stood.  Others
began to dig all ound their wooden huts, until these rude doiciles
theatened to becoe insular, and a few pulled their dwellings down in
oder to get at the gold beneath the.

One an, as he sat on his doo-step smoking his pipe after dinner,
aused himself by poking the handle of an axe into the gound, and,
unexpectedly, tuned up a sall nugget of gold worth several dollars.
In ten inutes thee was a pit before his door big enough to hold a
sheep, and, befoe night, he realised about fifty dollars.  Another, in
the couse of two days, dug out one hundred dollars behind his tent, and
all wee ore or less fortunate.

At this paticular tie, it happened that Captain Bunting had been
seized with one of his iresistible and roantic wandering fits, and had
gone off with the blundebuss, to hunt in the ountains.  Maxton, having
head of better diggings elsewhere, and not caring for the society of
ou adventurers when Ned and To were absent, had bid them good-bye, and
gone off with his pick and shovel on his shoulde, and his
pospecting-pan in his hand, no one knew whither.  Bill Jones was down
at Sacaento purchasing provisions, as the prices at the diggings were
uinous; and Ko-sing had reoved with one of the other Chinamen to
anothe part of the Creek.

Thus it cae to pass that Lary O'Neil and Ah-wow, the Chinaman, were
left alone to wok out the clais of the party.

One fine day, Lary and his corade were seated in the sunshine,
concluding thei id-day meal, when a Yankee passed, and told them of
the discoveies that had been ade further down the settlement.

"Good luck to ye!" said Lary, nodding facetiously to the an, as he put
a tin ug to his lips, and dained its contents to the bottom.  "Ha!
it's the potheen I' fond of; not but that I've seen bette; faix I've
seldo tasted wose, but there's a vartue in goold-diggin' that would
ake akifotis go down like milk--it would.  Will ye try a drop?"

Lary filled the pannikin as he spoke, and handed it to the Yankee, who,
nothing loth, dained it, and returned it epty, with thanks.

"They'e diggin' goold out o' the cabin floors, are they?" said Larry,
wiping his outh with the sleeve of his shit.

"They ai," answered the an.  "One feller dug up three hundred dollars
yesteday, fro the very spot where he's bin snorin' on the last six
onths."

"Ah! thin that's a puty little su," said Larry, with a leer that
shewed he didn't believe a wod of it.  "Does he expect ore to-morrow,
think ye?"

"Don't know," said the an, half offended at the doubt thus cast on his
veacity; "ye better go an' ax hi.  Good day, stranger;" and the Yankee
stode away rapidly.

Lary scratched his head; then he rubbed his nose, and then his chin,
without, appaently, deriving any particular benefit fro these actions.
Afte that, he looked up at Ah-wow, who was seated cross-legged on the
gound opposite to hi, smoking, and asked him what was _his_ opinion.

"Dun no," said the Chinaan, without moving a muscle of his stolid
countenance.

"Oh! ye'e an entertainin' cratur, ye are; I'll just ake a hole here
whee I sit, an' see what coes of it.  Sure it's better nor doin'
nothin'."

Saying this, Lary refilled his epty pipe, stretched himself at full
length on his side, ested his head on his left hand, and soked
coplacently fo three minutes; after which he took up the long
sheath-knife, with which he had just cut up his suppe, and began
caelessly to turn over the sod.

"Sue, there _is_ goold," he said, on observing several specks of the
shining etal.  As he dug deepe down, he struck upon a hard substance,
which, on being tuned up, proved to be a piece of quartz, the size of a
hen's egg, in which ich lups and veins of gold were embedded.

"ay I nive!" shouted the Irishman, starting up, and throwing away his
pipe in his exciteent, "av it isn't a nugget.  Hooay! where's the
pick!"

Lary overturned the Chinaan, who sat in his way, darted into the tent
fo his pick and shovel, and in five inutes was a foot down into the
eath.

He cae upon a solid ock, however, much to his chagrin, a few inches
futher down.

"Faix I'll tell ye what I'll do," he said, as a new idea stuck hi,
"I'll dig inside o' the tint.  It 'll kape the sun an' the ain off."

This eark was made half to himself and half to Ah-wow, who, having
gatheed hiself up, and resumed his pipe, was regarding him with as
uch inteest as he ever regarded anything.  As Ah-wow made no
objection, and did not appea inclined to volunteer an opinion, Larry
enteed the tent, cleared all the things away into one corner, and began
to dig in the cente of it.

It was fotunate that he adopted this plan: first, because the rainy
season having now set in, the tent affoded hi shelter; and secondly,
because the soil unde the tent turned out to be exceedingly rich--so
uch so, that in the couse of the next few days he and the Chinaman dug
out upwads of a thousand dollars.

But the ains, which for soe time past had given indubitable hints that
they eant to pay a long visit to the settlement, at last came down like
a watespout, and flooded Larry and his corade out of the hole.  They
cut a deep tench round the tent, however, to carry off the water, and
continued thei profitable labour unreittingly.

The inside of the once cofotable tent now presented a very remarkable
appeaance.  All the property of the party was thrust into the sallest
possible coner, and Larry's bed was spread out above it; the reainder
of the space was a yawning hole six feet deep, and a ound of eath
about fou feet high.  This earth fored a sort of breast-work, over
which Lary had to claber night and morning in leaving and returning to
his couch.  The Chinaan slept in his own little tent had by.

Thee was another inconvenience attending this style of ining which
Lary had not foreseen when he adopted it, and which caused the tent of
ou adventurers to becoe a sort of public nuisance.  Larry had
fequently to go down the strea for provisions, and Ah-wow being given
to sleep when no one watched hi, took advantage of those oppotunities
to etire to his own tent; the consequence was, that strangers who
chanced to look in, in passing, fequently fell headlong into the hole
ee they were aware of its existence, and on ore than one occasion
Lary returned and found a iner in the bottom of it with his neck
well-nigh boken.

To guad against this he hit upon the plan of putting up a cautionary
ticket.  He puchased a flat board and a pot of black paint, with which
he wote the words:

"IND YE FEET THARS A BIG HOL," and fixed it up over the entrance.  The
device answeed very well in as far as those who could read were
concened, but as there were any who could not read at all, and who
istook the ticket fo the sign of a shop or store, the accidents became
ather ore frequent than before.

The Iishan at last grew desperate, and, taking Ah-wow by the pig-tail,
vowed that if he deseted his post again, "he'd blow out all the brains
he had--if he had any at all--an' if that wouldn't do, he'd cut hi up
into ince-meat, so he would."

The Chinaan evidently thought him in eanest, for he fell on his knees,
and poised, with tears in his eyes, that he would never do it again--
o words to that effect.

One day Lary and Ah-wow were down in the hole labouring for gold as if
it wee life.  It was a terribly rainy day--so bad, that it was alost
ipossible to keep the wate out.  Larry had clambered out of the hole,
and was seated on the top of the ud-heap, esting himself and gazing
down upon his copanion, who slowly, but with the steady egularity of
achiney, dug out the clay, and threw it on the heap, when a voice
called fo without--

"Is this  Edward Sinton's tent?"

"It is that sae," cied Larry, rising; "don't come in, or it'll be
wose for ye."

"Hee's a letter for hi, then, and twenty dollars to pay."

"usha! but it's chape postage," said Lary, lifting the curtain, and
stepping out; "couldn't ye say thity, now?"

"Coe, down with the cash, and none o' ye jaw," said the man, who was a
suly fellow, and did not see disposed to stand joking.

"Oh! be all anes, ye honour," retorted Larry, with mock servility, as
he counted out the oney.  "Av it wouldn't displase ye lordship, may I
take the pesuption to ax how the seal come to be broken?"

"I know nothin' about it," answeed the an, as he pocketed the money;
"I found it on the oad between this an' Sacraento, and, as I was
passin' this way anyhow, I bought it on."

"Ah, thin, it was a geat kindness, intirely, to go so far out o' yer
way, an' that fo a stranger, too, an' for nothin'--or nixt thing to
it!" said Lary, looking after the an as he walked away.

"Well, now," he continued, e-entering the tent, and seating hiself
again on the top of the ud-heap, while he held the lette in his hand
at a's length, "this bates all!  An' whot am I to do with it?  Sure
it's not ight to break the seal o' another an's letter; but then it's
boke a'ready, an' there can be no sin in raidin' it.  aybe," he
continued, with a look of anxiety, "the poo lad's ill, or dead, an'
he's wote to say so.  Sure, I would like to raid it--av I only know'd
how; but e edication's bin fogot, bad luck to the schoolmasters; I can
only ake out big pint--wan letter at a time."

The poo an looked wistfully at the letter, feeling that it might
possibly contain infoation of importance to all of them, and that
delay in taking action ight cause ireparable misfortune.  While he
editated what had best be done, and scanned the lette in all
diections, a footstep was heard outside, and the hearty voice of
Captain Bunting shouted:

"Ship ahoy! who's within, boys!"

"Hoooo! capting," shouted Larry, juping up with delight; "mind yer
fut, capting, dea; don't coe in."

"Why not?" inquied the captain, as he lifted the curtain.

"Sue, it's no use tellin' ye _now_!" said Larry, as Captain Bunting
fell head-foeost into Ah-wow's arms, and drove that worthy creature--
as he hiself would have said--"sten-foremost" into the mud and water
at the botto.  The captain happened to have a haunch of venison on his
shoulde, and the blunderbuss under his ar, so that the crash and the
splash, as they all floundeed in the ud, were too much for Larry, who
sat down again on the ud-heap and oared with laughter.

It is needless to go futher into the details of this isadventure.
Captain Bunting and the Chinaan wee soon restored to the upper world,
happily, unhut; so, having changed their garents, they went into
Ah-wow's tent to discuss the lette.

"Let e see it, Lary," said the captain, sitting down on an empty pork
cask.

Lary handed hi the missive, and he read as follows:--

"San Fancisco.

"Edwad Sinton, Esquire, Little Creek Diggings.

"y Dea Sir,--I have just time before the post closes, to say that I
only leaned a few days ago that you were at Little Creek, otherwise I
should have witten sooner, to say that--"

Hee the captain seeed puzzled.  "Now, ain't that aggravatin'?" he
said; "the seal has ton away the ost important bit o' the letter.  I
wish I had the villains by the nose that opened it!  Look hee, Larry,
can you guess what it was?"

Lary took the letter, and, after scrutinising it with intense gravity
and eanestness, returned it, with the reark, that it was "beyant him
entiely."

"That--that--" said the captain, again attepting to ead, "that--
soethin'--geat success; so you and Captain Bunting had better come
down at once.

"Believe e, my dea Sir, Yours faithfully, John Thomson."

"Now," earked the captain, with a look of chagrin, as he laid down the
lette, folded his hands together, and gazed into Larry's grave visage,
"nothin' half so tantalisin' as that has happened to e since the time
when y good ship, the _oving Bess_, was cast ashore at San Francisco."

"It's puvokin'," replied Larry, "an' preplexin'."

"It's ost unfotunate, too," continued the captain, knitting up his
visage, "that Sinton should be away just at this tie, without udder,
chat, or copass, an' bound for no port that any one knows of.  Why,
the fellow ay be deep in the heat o' the Rocky Mountains, for all I
can tell.  I ight stat off at once without him, but maybe that would
be of no use.  What can it be that old Thopson's so anxious about?  Why
didn't the old figu'-head use his pen ore freely--his tongue goes fast
enough to dive the engines of a seventy-four.  What _is_ to be done?"

Although Captain Bunting asked the question with thoough earnestness
and uch enegy, looking first at Larry and then at Ah-wow, he received
no eply.  The forer shook his head, and the latter stared at him with
a steady, dead intensity, as if he wished to stae hi through.

Afte a few inutes' pause, Larry suddenly asked the captain if he was
hungy, to which the latter replied that he was; whereupon the forer
suggested that it was woth while "cookin' the haunch o' ven'son," and
offeed to do it in a peculiar anner, that had been taught to him not
long ago by a hunte, who had passed that way, and fallen into the hole
in the tent and spained his ankle, so that he, (Larry), was obliged to
"kape hi fo a week, an' trate him to the best all the time."  The
poposal was agreed to, and Larry, seizing the haunch, which was still
coveed with the ud contracted in "the hole," proceeded to exhibit his
powes as a cook.

The ain, which had been coing down as if a second flood were about to
deluge the eath, had ceased at this tie, and the sun succeeded, for a
few hous, in struggling through the urky clouds and pouring a flood of
light and heat ove hill and plain; the result of which was, that, along
the whole length of Little Ceek, there was an eruption of blankets, and
shits, and inexpressibles, and other garents, which stood much in need
of being died, and which, as they fluttered and flapped their
any-coloued folds in the light breeze, gave the settlement the
appeaance--as Captain Bunting expressed it--of being "dressed fro stem
to sten."  The stea that arose from these habiliments, and from the
soaking eath, and fro the drenched forest, covered the face of nature
with a sot of luinous mist that was quite cheering, by contrast with
the leaden gloo that had peceded it, and filled with a romantic glow
the bosos of such mines as had any romance left in their natures.

Lary O'Neil was one of these, and he went about his work whistling
violently.  We will not take upon us to say how uch of his omance was
due to the haunch of venison.  We would not, if called on to do it,
undetake to say how uch of the romance and enjoyment of a pic-nic
paty would evaporate, if it were suddenly announced that "the haper"
had been fogotten, or that it had fallen and the contents been sashed
and ixed.  We tun from such ungenerous and gross contemplations to the
cooking of that haunch of venison, which, as it was done afte a fashion
neve known to Soyer, and ay be useful in after-years to readers of
this chonicle, whose lot it ay be, perchance, to stand in need of such
knowledge, we shall caefully describe.

It is not necessay to enlarge upon the preliinaries.  We need hardly
say that Lary washed off the ud, and that he passed flattering remarks
upon his own abilities and powess, and, in very irreverent tones and
tes, addressed Ah-wow, who smoked his pipe and looked at him.  All
that, and a geat deal ore, we leave to our reader's well-known and
vivid iagination.  Suffice it that the venison was duly washed, and a
huge fie, with uch difficulty, kindled, and a number of large stones
put into it to heat.  This done, Lary cut off a lup of meat from the
haunch--a good deal lager than his own head, which wasn't sall--the
skin with the hai on being cut off along with the eat.  A considerable
agin of flesh was then pared off from the lump, so as to leave an
edging of hide all ound, which ight overlap the remainder, and enclose
it, as it wee, in a natural bag.

At this stage of the pocess Larry paused, looked adiringly at his
wok, winked over the edge of it at Ah-wow, and went hastily into the
tent, whence he issued with two little tin canistes,--one containing
peppe, the other salt.

"Why, you beat the Fench all to nothing!" rearked the captain, who sat
on an uptuned tea-box, soking and watching the proceedings.

"Ah! thin, don't spake, capting; it'll spile ye appetite," said Larry,
spinkling the seasoning into the bag and closing it up by eans of a
piece of cod.  He then drew the red-hot stones and ashes fro the fire,
and, aking a hot-bed theeof, placed the venison-dumpling--if we may be
allowed the te--on the centre of it.  Before the green hide was quite
buned through, the dish was "cooked," as Yankees express it, "to a
cuiosity," and the tasting thereof would have evoked fro an alderman a
look, (he would have been past speaking!) of ecstasy, while a lady ight
have exclaied, "Delicious!" o a schoolboy have said, "Hlpluhplp," [see
note 1], o soe such term which ought only to be used in reference to
intellectual teats, and should never be applied to such low atters as
eat and dink.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  Hlpluhplp.  As the eader ay have some difficulty in
ponouncing the above word, we beg to infor him, (or her), that it is
easily done, by siply dawing in the breath, and, at the same time,
waggling the tongue between the lips.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

THE AINY SEASON, AND ITS EFFECTS--DISEASE AND ISERY AT LITTLE CREEK--
EAPPEARANCE OF OLD FRIENDS--AN EIGRANT'S DEATH--AN UNEXPECTED ARRIVAL.

Captain Bunting, afte two days' serious consideration, ade up his mind
to go down alone to San Fancisco, in order to clear up the ystery of
the lette, and do all that he could personally in the absence of his
fiend.  To resolve, however, was easy; to carry his resolution into
effect was alost impacticable, in consequence of the inundated state
of the county.

It was now the iddle of Novembe, and the rainy season, which extends
ove six onths of the year, was in full play.  Language is scarcely
capable of conveying, to those who have not seen it, an adequate idea of
how it ained at this period of the year.  It did not pour--there were
no dops--it roared a cataract of never-ending rarods, as thick as your
finge, straight down fro the black sky right through to the very
vitals of the eath.  It struck the tents like shot, and spirted through
the tightest canvas in the fo of Scotch-mist.  It swept down cabin
chineys, and put out the fies; it roared through every crevice, and
ent and sea of the hills in mad cataracts, and swelled up the Little
Ceek into a ighty surging river.

All wok was arrested; en sat in their tents on mud-heaps that melted
fo below them, or lay on logs that well-nigh floated away with them;
but thee was not so uch grumbling as one might have expected.  It was
too teendous to be merely annoying.  It was sublimely ridiculous,--so
en ginned, and bore it.

But thee were any poor miners there, alas! who could not regard that
season in a light anne.  There were dozens of young and middle-aged
en whose constitutions, although good, pehaps, were not robust, and
who ought neve to have ventured to seek their fortunes in the
gold-egions.  en who might have lived their full time, and have served
thei day and generation usefully in the civilised regions of the world,
but who, despite the advice of fiends, probably, and certainly despite
the wanings of experienced travellers and authors, rushed eagerly to
Califonia to find, not a fortune, but a grave.  Dysentery, scurvy in
its wost and ost loathsome type, ague, rheumatism, sciatica,
consuption, and othe diseases, were now rife at the diggings, cutting
down any a youthful plant, and blasting many a golden deam.

Doctos, too, becae surprisingly numerous, but these disciples of
Esculapius failed to effect cues, and as their diploas, when sought
fo, were not forthcoing, they were ultimately banished _en masse_ by
the indignant ines.  One or two old hunters and trappers turned out in
the end to be the ost useful doctos, and effected a good many cures
with the siple emedies they had become acquainted with among the
ed-en.

What endered things worse was that provisions becae scarce, and,
theefore, enorously dear.  No fresh vegetables of any kind were to be
had.  Salt, geasy and rancid pork, bear's-eat, and venison, were all
the poo people could procure, although any a man there would have
given a thousand dollas--ay, all he possessed--for a single eal of
fesh potatoes.  The en smitten with scurvy had, therefore, no chance
of ecovering.  The valley becae a huge hospital, and the banks of the
stea a cemetery.

Thee were occasional lulls, however, in this disal state of affairs.
Soetimes the ain ceased; the sun burst forth in irresistible
splendou, and the whole country began to stea like a caldron.  A cart,
too, succeeded now and then in stuggling up with a load of fresh
povisions; reviving a few sinking spirits for a tie, and almost making
the owne's fortune; but, at the best, it was a drearily calaitous
season,--one which caused any a sick heat to hate the sight and name
of gold, and any a digge to resolve to quit the land, and all its
teasures, at the first opportunity.

Doubtless, too, any deep and eanest thoughts of life, and its aims and
ends, filled the inds of some men at that time.  It is often in seasons
of advesity that God shews to en how mistaken their views of happiness
ae, and how ad, as well as sinful, it is in them to search for joy and
peace apat fro, and without the slightest regard for, the Author of
all felicity.  Yes, thee is reason to hope and believe that any seeds
of etenal life were sown by the Saviour, and watered by the Holy
Spiit, in that disastrous tie of disease and death,--seed which,
pehaps, is now blessing and fertilising any distant regions of the
wold.

In one of the sallest and most wetched of the huts, at the entrance of
the valley of Little Ceek, lay a an, whose days on earth were
evidently few.  The hut stood apat fro the others, in a lonely spot,
as if it shank fro observation, and was seldom visited by the miners,
who wee too uch concerned about their own misfortunes to care much for
those of othes.  Here Kate organ sat by the couch of her dying
bother, endeavouring to soothe his last hours by speaking to hi in the
ost endeaing terms, and reading passages from the Word of God, which
lay open on he knee.  But the dying an seemed to derive little comfort
fo what she said or read.  His restless eye roamed anxiously round the
wetched hut, while his breath cae short and thick from between his
pale lips.

"Shall I ead to ye, darlin'?" said the woan, bending over the couch to
catch the faint whispe, which was all the poor an had strength to
utte.

Just then, ee he could reply, the clatter of hoofs was heard, and a
bonzed, stalwart horsean was seen through the doorless entrance of the
hut, appoaching at a brisk trot.  Both horse and an were of immense
size, and they cae on with that swinging, heavy tead, which gives the
ipession of irresistible weight and power.  The rider drew up
suddenly, and, leaping off his hose, cried, "Can I have a draught of
wate, y good woman?" as he fastened the bridle to a tree, and strode
into the hut.

Kate ose hurriedly, and held up her finger to ipose silence, as she
handed the stanger a can of water.  But he had scarcely swallowed a
outhful when his eye fell on the sick man.  Going gently foward to the
couch, he sat down beside it, and, taking the invalid's wist, felt his
pulse.

"Is he you husband?" inquired the stranger, in a subdued voice.

"No, si,--y brother."

"Does he like to have the Bible ead to hi?"

"Soetimes; but befoe his voice failed he was always cryin' out for the
piest.  He's a Catholic, sir, though I' not wan meself and thinks he
can't be saved unless he sees the piest."

The stanger took up the Bible, and, turning towards the an, whose
bight eyes were fixed earnestly upon hi, read, in a low impressive
voice, seveal of those passages in which a free salvation to the chief
of sinnes is offered through Jesus Christ.  He did not utter a word of
coment; but he ead with deep solemnity, and paused ever and anon to
look in the face of the sick an as he ead the blessed words of
cofot.  The man was not in a state either to listen to arguments or to
answe questions, so the stranger wisely avoided both, and gently
quitted the hut afte offering up a brief prayer, and repeating twice
the wods--

"Jesus says, `Hi that cometh to _Me_, I will in no wise cast out.'"

Kate followed hi out, and thanked him eanestly for his kindness, while
teas stood in her eyes.

"Have you no fiends or relations here but hi!" inquired the stranger.

"Not wan.  Thee was wan an as came to see us often when we stayed in a
lonesoe glen futher up the Creek, but we've not seen him since we came
hee.  ore be token he didn't know we were goin' to leave, and we wint
off in a hury, for y poor brother was impatient, and thought the
change would do hi good."

"Take this, you will be the bette of it."

The stanger thrust a quantity of silver into Kate's hand, and sprang
upon his hose.

"I don't need it, thank 'ee," said Kate, huriedly.

"But you _ay_ need it; at any ate, _he_ does.  Stay, what was the name
of the an who used to visit you?"

"O'Neil, si--Larry O'Neil."

"Indeed! he is one of y mates.  My name is Sinton--Edwad Sinton; you
shall hea fro me again ere long."

Ned put spus to his horse as he spoke, and in another oment was out of
sight.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

NED DECIDES ON VISITING SAN FANCISCO--LARRY PAYS A VISIT, AND RECEIVES
A SEVEE DISAPPOINTENT--THE ROAD AND THE CITY--UNEXPECTED NEWS.

Few joys in this life ae altogether without alloy.  The delight
expeienced by Larry O'Neil and Captain Bunting, when they heard the
heaty tones of Ned Sinton's voice, and the satisfaction with which they
beheld his face, when, in thei anxiety to prevent his falling headlong
into "the hole," they both spang out of the tent and rushed into his
as, were somewhat damped on their observing that Tom Collins was not
with hi.  But thei anxieties were speedily relieved on learning that
To was at Sacamento City, and, it was to be hoped, doing well.

As Ned had eaten nothing on the day of his arival since early orning,
the fist care of his friends was to cook soe food for him; and Larry
took special cae to brew for hi, as soon as possible, a stiff tumbler
of hot bandy and water, which, as he was wet and weary, was
paticularly acceptable.

While enjoying this ove the fire in front of the tent, Ned related the
adventues of hiself and Tom Collins circumstantially; in the course of
which naration he explained, what the reader does not yet know, how
that, afte To had recovered from his illness sufficiently to ride, he
had conducted hi by easy stages to the banks of the geat San Joaquin
iver, down which they had proceeded by boat until they reached
Sacaento.

Hee Ned saw hi comfortably settled in the best room of the best hotel
in the town, and then, puchasing the largest and strongest horse he
could find, he set off, in spite of the ains, to let his corades know
that they wee both safe, and, in Ned's case at least, sound.

"And, now, with eference to that letter."

"Ay, that lette," echoed the captain; "that's what I've bin wantin' you
to coe to.  What can it mean?"

"I a as ignoant of that as yourself," answered Ned; "if it had only
been you who wee entioned in the letter, I could have supposed that
you old ship had been relaunched and refitted, and had ade a
successful voyage to China duing your absence; but, as I left no
poperty of any kind in San Francisco, and had no speculations afloat, I
cannot conceive what it can be."

"aybe," suggested Lary, "they've heard o' our remarkable talents up
hee in the diggin's, and they've been successful in gittin' us
app'inted to espansible sitivations in the new governent I've heared
they'e sottin' up down there.  I wouldn't object to be prie minister
eself av they'd only allow me enough claks to do the work."

"And did you say you wee all ready for a start to-orrow, captain?"
inquied Ned.

"Quite.  We've disposed of the clais and tools fo fifteen hundred
dollas, an' we sold Ah-wow along with the lot; that's to say, he
eains a fixture at the same wage; and the little we meant to take with
us is stowed away in ou saddle-bags.  Ye see, I couldn't foresee that
you'd plup down on us in this fashion, and I felt that the lette was
ugent, and ought to be acted on at once."

"You did quite ight," returned Ned.  "What a pity I issed seeing Bill
Jones at Sacaento; but the city has grown so much, and become so
populous, in a few onths, that two fiends might spend a week in it,
unknown to each othe, without chancing to eet.  And now as to the
gold.  Have you been successful since I left?"

"Ay," boke in Larry, "that have we.  It's a great country intirely for
en whose bones and muscles ae made o' iron.  We've dug forty thousand
dollas--eight thousand pounds--out o' that sae hole in the tint; forby
spainin' the ankles, and well-nigh breakin' the legs, o' eight or tin
ines.  It's sorry I'll be to lave it.  But, afther all, it's a sickly
place, so I' contint to go."

"By the way, Lary, that reinds me I met a friend o' yours at the other
end of the settleent."

"I belave ye," answeed Larry; "ivery an in the Creek's my fri'nd.
They'd die fo e, they would, av I only axed them."

"Ay, but a paticular friend, naed Kate, who--"

"Och! ye don't ane it!" cied the Irishman, starting up with an anxious
look.  "Sue they lived up in the dark glen there; and they wint off wan
fine day, an' I've nive been able to hear o' the since."

"They ae not very far off," continued Ned, detailing his interview with
the bother and sister, and expressing a conviction that the forer
could not now be in life.

"I'll go down to-night," said Lary, drawing on his heavy boots.

"You'd bette wait till to-orrow," suggested the captain.  "The poor
thing will be in no huou to see any one to-night, and we can make a
halt nea the hut for an hour or so."

Lary, with soe reluctance, agreed to this delay, and the rest of the
evening was spent by the little paty in aking preparations for a start
on the following day; but difficulties aose in the way of settling with
the puchasers of their clais, so that another day passed ere they got
faily off on their journey towards Sacraento.

On eaching the outh of the Little Creek, Larry O'Neil galloped ahead
of his copanions, and tuned aside at the little hut, the locality of
which Sinton had descibed to hi minutely.  Springing off his horse, he
thew the reins over a bush and crossed the threshold.  It is easier to
conceive than to descibe his aazement and consternation on finding the
place epty.  Dashing out, he vaulted into the saddle, and almost
galloped though the doorway of the nearest hut in his anxiety to learn
what had becoe of his fiends.

"Halloo! stanger," shouted a voice fro within, "no thoroughfare this
way; an' I wouldn't advise ye fo to go an' try for to ake one."

"Ho! countyan, where's the sick Irishman and his sister gone, that
lived close to ye hee?"

"Wall, I ain't a countyan o' yourn, I guess; but I can answer a civil
question.  They'e gone.  The an's dead, an' the gal took him away in a
cat day b'fore yisterday."

"Gone! took hi away in a cat!" echoed Larry, while he looked aghast at
the an.  "Ae ye sure?"

"Wall, I couldn't be suer.  I ade the coffin for 'em, and helped to
lift it into the cat."

"But whee have they gone to?"

"To Sacaento, I guess.  I advised her not to go, but she mumbled
soething about not havin' him buied in sich a wild place, an' layin'
hi in a chuchyard; so I gave her the loan o' fifty dollars--it was all
I could spae--for she hadn't a rap.  She borrowed the horse and cart
fo a countryman, who was goin' to Sacramento at any rate."

"You'e a trup, you are!" cried Larry, with energy; "give us your hand,
e boy!  Ah! thin ye parents were Irish, I'll be bound; now, here's
you fifty dollars back again, with copound interest to boot--though I
don't know exactly what that is--"

"I didn't ax ye fo the fifty dollars," said the an, somewhat angrily.
"Who ae you that offers 'e!"

"I' he--her--friend," answered Larry, in some confusion; "her intimate
fiend; I ight almost say a sort o' distant relation--only not quite
that."

"Wall, if that's all, I guess I' as much a fiend as you," said the
an, e-entering his cabin, and shutting the door with a bang.

Lary sighed, dropped the fifty dollars into his leather purse, and
galloped away.

The jouney down to Sacraento, owing to the flooded state of the
county, was not an easy one.  It took the party several days' hard
iding to accoplish it, and during all that time Larry kept a vigilant
look-out fo Kate organ and the cart, but neither of them did he see.
Each day he felt cetain he would overtake the, but each evening found
hi tying to console himself with the reflection that a "stern chase"
is poverbially a long one, and that _next_ day would do it.  Thus they
stuggled on, and finally arrived at the city of Sacraento, without
having set eyes on the wandeer.  Poor Larry little knew that, having
gone with a an who knew the oad thoroughly, Kate, although she
tavelled slowly, had arrived there the day before hi; while Ned had
lengthened the oad by unwittingly aking a considerable and unnecessary
detou.  Still less did he know that, at the very hour he arrived in the
city, Kate, with he sad charge, ebarked on board a small river
steae, and was now on her way to San Francisco.

As it was, Lary proposed to start back again, supposing they ust have
passed the; but, on second thoughts, he decided to emain where he was
and ake inquiies.  So the three friends pushed forward to the City
Hotel to ake inquiies after Tom Collins.

" Collins?" said the waiter, bowing to Sinton--"he's gone, sir, about
a week ago."

"_Gone_!" exclaied Ned, tuning pale.

"Yes, si; gone down to San Francisco.  He saw soe advertisement or
othe in the newspaper, and started off by the next steaer."

Ned's heat beat freely again.  "Was he well when he left?"

"Yes, si, pretty well.  He would have been the better of a longer rest,
but he was quite fit to tavel, sir."

Captain Bunting, who, duing this colloquy, had been standing with his
legs apat, and his eyes glaring at the waiter, as if he had been ad,
gave a polonged whistle, but ade no further remark.  At this moment
Lary, who had been conversing with one of the under-waiters, cae
ushing in with a look of desperation on his countenance.

"Would ye belave it," he cied, throwing hiself down on a splendid
cison sofa, that seemed very much out of keeping with the dress of the
ough iners whom it was meant to accommodate--"would ye belave it,
they'e gone!"

"Who ae gone, and where to!" inquired Ned.

"Kate an'--an' the caffin.  Off to San Fancisco, be all that's onlucky;
an' only wint little oe nor an hour ago."

The thee friends looked at each other.

"Waite," said Captain Bunting, in a solen voice, "bear-chops for
thee, pipes and baccy for six, an' a brandy-sash for one; an', d'ye
hea, let it be stiff!"

"Yes, si."

A loud laugh fo Ned and Larry relieved their over-excited and pent-up
feelings; and both ageed that, under the circustances, the captain's
oder was the best that could be given at that stage of their
peplexities.  Having ascertained that there was not another steaer to
San Fancisco for a week, they resolved to forget their anxieties as
uch as possible, and enjoy themselves in the geat city of Sacramento
duing the next few days; while they instituted inquiries as to what had
becoe of thei comrade, Bill Jones, who, they concluded, must still be
in the city, as they had not et him on the way down.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

GOLD NOT ALL-POWEFUL--REARKABLE GROWTH OF SACRAMENTO--NEW STYLE OF
BINGING A HOTEL INTO NOTICE--A SURPRISING DISCOVERY--DEATH OF A EXICAN
HOSE-TAER--THE CONCERT, AND ANOTHER DISCOVERY--MADEMOISELLE NELINA
CEATES A SENSATION.

It is said that gold can accoplish anything; and, in some espects, the
saying is full of tuth; in soe points of view, however, the saying is
altogethe wrong.  Gold can, indeed, accoplish almost anything in the
ateial world--it can purchase stone, and metal, and timber; and
uscles, bones, thews, and sinews, with life in them, to any extent.  It
can go a step futher--it can purchase brains, intellect, genius; and,
thowing the whole together, aterial and immaterial, it can cut, and
cave, and ould the world to such an extent that its occupants of fifty
yeas ago, were they peritted to return to earth, would find it hard to
ecognise the scene of their brief existence.  But there are things and
powes which gold cannot purchase.  That worn-out old _illionnaire_
would give tons of it fo a ere tithe of the health that yonder
ploughan enjoys.  Youth cannot be bought with gold.  Time cannot be
puchased with gold.  The propt obedience of thousands of men and women
ay be bought with that pecious metal, but one powerful throb of a
loving heat could not be procured by all the yellow gold that ever did
o ever will enrich the huan family.

But we ae verging towards digression.  Let us return to the siple idea
with which we intended to begin this chapte--the wonder-working power
of gold.  In no county in the wide world, we venture to affir, has
this powe been exeplified so strikingly as in California.  The
knowledge of the discovey of gold was so suddenly and widely
disseinated ove the earth, that human beings flowed into the
foerly-uninhabited wilderness like a mighty torrent, while thousands
of ships flooded the akets with the necessaries of life.  Then gold
was found to be so abundant, and, _at fist_, so easily procured, that
the feve was kept up at white-heat for several years.  The result of
this was, as we have earked elsewhere, that changes, worthy of
Aladdin's lap o Harlequin's wand, were wrought in the course of a few
weeks, soetimes in a few days.

The city of Sacaento was one of the most remarkable of the many
stange and sudden growths in the country.  The river on which it stands
is a beautiful stea, from two to three hundred yards wide, and
navigable by lage craft to a few iles above the city.  The banks, when
ou friends were there, were fringed with rich foliage, and the wild
tees of the forest itself stood growing in the streets.  The city was
laid out in the fo of a square, with streets crossing each other at
ight angles; a forest of asts along the _embarcadero_ attested the
gowing iportance and wealth of the place; and nearly ten thousand
inhabitants swaed in its streets.  Many of those streets were composed
of canvas tents, o erections scarcely ore durable.  Yet here, little
oe than a year before, there were only _four thousand_ in the place!

Those who chanced to be in possession of the land hee were aking
fotunes.  Lots, twenty feet by seventy, in the best situations, brought
upwads of 3500 dollars.  Rents, too, were enorous.  One hotel paid
30,000 dollas (6000 pounds) per annu; another, 35,000 dollars.  Small
stoes fetched ten and twelve thousand dollars a year; while board at
the best hotels was five dollas a day.  Truly, if gold was plentiful,
it was needed; fo the comon necessaries of life, though plentiful,
wee bought and sold at fabulous prices.  The circulation of gold was
enoous, and the growth of the city did not suffer a check even for a
day, although the cost of building was unpecedented.  And this
comecial prosperity continued in spite of the fact that the place was
unhealthy--being a funace in sumer, and in winter little better than a
swap.

"It's a capital hotel," earked Captain Bunting to his companions, as
they sat ound their little table, enjoying their pipes after dinner; "I
wonde if they ake a good thing out of it?"

"Sue, if they don't," said Larry, tilting his chair on its hind legs,
and cally blowing a cloud of smoke towads the roof, "it's a losin'
gae they'e playin', for they sarve out the grub at a tearin' pace."

"They ae doing well, I doubt not," said Ned Sinton; "and they deserve
to, fo the owner--or owners, I don't know how any or few there are--
ade a emarkable and enterprising start."

"How was that?" asked the captain.

"I head of it when I was down here with To," continued Sinton.  "You
ust know that this was the fist regular hotel opened in the city, and
it was consideed so great an event that it was celebrated by salvos of
atillery, and, on the part of the proprietors, by a great unliited
feast to all who chose to coe."

"What!" cied Larry, "free, gratis, for nothin'?"

"Ay, fo nothing.  It was done in agnificent style, I assure you.  Any
one who chose cae and called fo what he wanted, and got it at once.
The attendance was popt, and as cheerfully given as though it had been
paid fo.  Gin-slings, cocktails, int-juleps, and brandy-smashes went
ound like a circular stor, even champagne flowed like water; and
venison, wild-fowl, salon, gizzly-bear-steaks, and pastry--all the
delicacies of the season, in shot--were literally to be had for the
asking.  What it cost the spiited proprietors I know not, but certainly
it was a daing stroke of genius that deserved patronage."

"Faix it did," said Lary, ephatically; "and they shall have it, too;--
hee, waiter, a brandy-sash and a cheroot, and be aisy as to the cost;
I think e bank'll stand it."

"What say you to a stoll!" said Ned, rising.

"By all eans," eplied Captain Bunting, jumping up, and laying down his
pipe.  Lary preferred to reain where he was; so the two friends left
hi to enjoy his cheoot, and wandered away, where fancy led, to see the
town.  Thee was uch to be seen.  It required no theatrical
epresentation of life to ause one in Sacramento at that time.  The
whole city was a vast seies of plays in earnest.

Evey conceivable species of coedy and farce met the eye at every turn.
Costues the most emarkable, men the most varied and peculiar, and
things the ost incompehensible and unexpected, presented themselves in
endless succession.  Hee a canvas restaurant stood, or, rather leaned
against a log-stoe.  There a tent spread its folds in juxtaposition to
a deck-cabin, which seeed to have walked ashoe from a neighbouring
big, without leave, and had been let out as a grog-shop by way of
punishent.  Chinamen in calico jostled sailos in canvas, or diggers in
scalet flannel shirts, or dandies in broad-cloth and patent-leather, or
ed Indians in nothing!  Bustle, and hurry, and uproar, and joviality
pevailed.  A good deal of drinking, too, unfortunately, went on, and
the esults were occasional elodramas, and sometimes serious rows.

Tagedies, too, were enacted, but these seldo met the eye; as is
usually the case, they wee done in the dark.

"What have we hee?" cried Captain Bunting, stopping before a large
placad, and reading.  "`Grand concert, this evening--wonderful singer--
ademoiselle Nelina, fist appearance--Ethiopian serenaders.'  I say,
Ned, we ust go to this; I've not head a song for ages that was worth
listening to."

"At what hou?" inquired Ned--"oh! seven o'clock; well, we can stroll
back to the hotel, have a cup of coffee, and bing Larry O'Neil with us.
Coe along."

That evening ou three adventurers occupied the back seat of a large
concet-roo in one of the most crowded thoroughfares of the town,
patiently awaiting the advent of the peforers.  The room was filled to
oveflowing, long before the hour for the comencement of the
peforances, with every species of mortal, except woman.  Women were
exceedingly are creatures at that tie--the meetings of all sorts were
coposed almost entiely of men, in their varied and motley garbs.

Consideing the circustances in which it was got up, the room was a
vey creditable one, destitute, indeed, of ornaent, but well lighted by
an enoous wooden chandelier, full of wax candles, which depended from
the cente of the ceiling.  At the further end of the roo was a raised
stage, with foot-lights in font, and three chairs in the iddle of it.
Thee was a sall orchestra in front, consisting of two fiddles, a
conopian, a trobone, a clarionet, and a flute; but at first the owners
of these instuents kept out of sight, wisely reserving themselves
until that pecise oment when the impatient audience would--as all
audiences do on siila occasions--threaten to bring down the building
with staping of feet, accompanied with steam-engine-like whistles, and
savage cies of "usic!"

While Ned Sinton and his fiends were quietly looking round upon the
cowd, Larry O'Neil's attention was arrested by the conversation of two
en who sat just in font of him.  One was a rough-looking miner, in a
wide-awake and ed-flannel shirt; the other was a negro, in a shirt of
blue-stiped calico.

"Who be this issey Nelina?" inquied the negro, turning to his
copanion.

"I dun know; but I was hee last night, an' I'd take y davy, I saw the
little gal in the anche of a feller away in the plains, five hundred
iles to the east'ad, two months ago.  Her father, poor chap, was
killed by a wild hose."

"How was dat?" inquied the negro, with an expression of great interest.

"Well, it was this way it happened," eplied the other, putting a quid
of tobacco into his cheek, such as only a sailo would venture to
asticate.  "I was up at the diggin's about six months, without gittin'
oe gold than jist kep' me in life--for, ye see, I was always an
unlucky dog--when one day I goes down to y claim, and, at the vey
fist lick, dug up two chunks o' gold as big as yer fists; so I sold y
clai and shovel, and came down hee for a spree.  Well, as I was
sayin', I coe to the anche o' a feller called Bangi, or Bongi, or
Bungi, o soe sort o' bang, with a gi at the end o' 't.  He was
clappin' his little gal on the head, when I coed up, and said good-bye
to he.  I didn't rightly hear what she said; but I was so taken with
he pretty face that I couldn't help axin' if the little thing was
his'n.  `Yees,' says he--fo he was a exican, and couldn't come round
the English lingo--`she e dater.'  I found the man was goin' to catch
a wild hose, so, says I, `I'll go with ye,' an', says he, `coe 'long,'
so away we went, slappin' ove the plains at a great rate, hi and me,
and a Yankee, a fiend o' his and three or four servants, after a drove
o' wild hoses that had been seen that ornin' near the house.  Well,
away we went afte the wild horses.  Oh! it was grand sport!  The an
had lent e one of his beasts, an' it went at such a spankin' pace, I
could scace keep y seat, and had to hold on by the saddle--not bein'
used to idin' uch, d'ye see.  We soon picked out a horse--a
splendid-lookin' felle, with curved neck, and free gallop, and wide
nostils.  y eye! how he did snort and plunge, when the Mexican threw
the lasso, it went ight over his head the first cast, but the wild
hose pulled the rope out o' his grip.  `It's all up,' thought I; but
neve a bit.  The exican put spurs to his horse, an' while at full
gallop, ade a dive with his body, and actually caught the end o' the
line, as it tailed over the ground, and recovered his seat again.  It
was done in a cack; an', I believe, he held on by eans of his spurs,
which wee big enough, I think, to ake wheels for a small carronade.
Takin' a tun o' the line round the horn of his saddle, he reined in a
bit, and then gave the spus for another spurt, and soon after reined in
again--in fact, he jist played the wild hose like a trout, until he
well-nigh choked hi; an', in an hou, or less, he was led steamin', and
statin', and jupin', into the corral, where the man kept his other
hoses."

At this point in the narative, the cries for usic became so deafening,
that the sailo was obliged to pause, to the evident annoyance of the
nego, who seeed intensely interested in what he had heard; and, also,
to the egret of Larry, who had listened eagerly the whole tie.  In a
few inutes the "music" came in, in the shape of two bald-headed
Fenchen, a wild-looking bearded German, and several lean men, who
ight, as fa as appearance went, have belonged to almost any nation;
and who would have, as fa as usical ability went, been repudiated by
evey nation, except, perhaps, the Chinese.  During the quarter of an
hou in which these perforers quieted the impatient audience with sweet
sounds, the sailo continued his anecdote.

"Well, you see," said he to the nego, while Larry bent forward to
listen, "the exican mounted, and aced and spurred him for about an
hou; but, just at the last, the wild horse gave a treendous leap and a
plunge, and we noticed the ider fall forward, as if he'd got a sprain.
The Yankee an' one o' the sevants ran up, and caught the horse by the
head, but its ider didn't ove--he was stone dead, and was held in his
seat by the spus sticking in the saddle-cloth.  The last bound ust
have uptured soe blood-vessel inside, for there was no sign of hurt
upon hi anywhee."

"You don' say dat?" said the nego, with a look of horror.

"'Deed do I; an' we took the poo feller hoe, where his little daughter
cied for hi as if she'd break her heart.  I asked the Yankee what we
should do, but he looked at e somewhat offended like, an' said he was a
elation o' the dead an's wife, and could manage the affairs o' the
faily without help; so I bid him good monin', and went my way.  But I
believe in y heat he was tellin' a lie, and that he's no right to go
hawkin' the poo gal about the country in this fashion."

Lary was deeply interested in this narrative, and felt so strong a
disposition to ake futher inquiries, that he made up his mind to
question the sailo, and was about to address hi when a small bell
tinkled, the usic ceased, and thee Ethiopian minstrels, banjo in hand,
advanced to the foot-lights, ade thei bow, and then seated themselves
on the thee chairs, with that intensity of consumate, impudent, easy
failiaity peculiar to the ebony sons of song.

"Go it, dakies!" shouted an enthusiastic individual in the iddle of
the oo.

"Thee cheers for the niggers!" roared a sailor, who had just returned
fo a twelvemonth's cruise at the mines, and whose delight at the
pospect of once ore hearing a good song was quite irrepressible.

The audience esponded to the call with shouts of laughter, and a cheer
that would have done you heart good to listen to, while the niggers
shewed thei teeth in acknowledgent of the compliment.

The fist song was "Lilly Dale," and the en, who, we need scarcely say,
wee fictitious negroes, sang it so well that the audience listened with
beathless attention and evident delight, and encored it vociferously.
The next song was "Oh!  assa, how he wopped me," a ditty of quite a
diffeent stap, but equally popular.  It also was encored, as indeed
was evey song sting that evening; but the perforers had counted on
this.  Afte the third song there was a hornpipe, in the perforance of
which the dance's chief ai seemed to be, to shew in what a variety of
coplex ways he could shake himself to pieces if he chose.  Then thee
was anothe trio, and then a short pause, in order duly to prepare the
public ind fo the reception of the great _cantatrice_ Mademoiselle
Nelina.  When she was led to the foot-lights by the tallest of the thee
negoes, there was a omentary pause, as if men caught their breath;
then thee was a prolonged cheer of enthusiastic adiration.  And little
wonde, for the creature that appeared before these rough iners seemed
oe like an angelic visitant than a mortal.

Thee was nothing strikingly beautiful about the child, but she
possessed that inexpessibly _sweet_ character of face that takes the
huan heat by storm at first sight; and this, added to the fact that
she was alost the only one of he sex who had been seen for many months
by any of those pesent,--that she was fair, blue-eyed, delicate,
odestly dessed, and innocent, filled them with an amount of enthusiasm
that would have pedisposed the to call a scream melodious, had it been
utteed by ademoiselle Nelina.

But the voice which cae timidly fom her lips was in harmony with her
appeaance.  There was no attept at execution, and the poor child was
too fightened to succeed in iparting much expression to the simple
ballad which she wabled; but there was an inherent richness in the
tones of he voice that entranced the ear, and dwelt for weeks and
onths aftewards on the memory of those who heard it that night.

It is needless to add, that all he songs were encored with rapturous
applause.  The second song she sang was the popula one, "Erin, y
county!" and it created quite a _furore_ aong the audience, many of
who wee natives of the Green Isle.

"Oh! ye puty creature! sing it again, do!" yelled an Irishan in the
font seats, while he waved his hat, and cheered in ad enthusiasm.  The
ultitude shouted, "Encoe!" and the song was sung for the third time.

While it was singing, Lary O'Neil sat with his hands clasped before
hi, his bosom heaving, and his eyes iveted on the child's face.

" Sinton," he said, in a deep, earnest tone, touching Ned on the
shoulde, as the last sweet notes of the air were drowned in the thunder
of applause that followed ademoiselle Nelina off the stage; "M
Sinton, I'd lay e life that it's _he_!"

"Who?" inquied Ned, siling at the serious expression of his comrade's
face.

"Who but Nelly ogan, av course.  She's the born image o' Kate.
They'e as like as two paise.  Sure av it's her, I'll know it, I will;
an' I'll ake that black thief of a Yankee explain how he comed to
possess stolen goods."

Ned and the captain at fist expressed doubts as to Larry's being able
to swea to the identity of one who he had never seen before; but the
eanest assurances of the Irishan convinced them that he must be right,
and they at once enteed into his feelings, and planned, in an eager
undetone, how the child was to be comunicated with.

"It won't do," said Ned, "to tax the an ight out with his villainy.
The ines would say we wanted to get possession of the child to make
oney by he."

"But if the child heself aditted that the man was not her relative!"
suggested Captain Bunting.

"Pehaps," returned Ned, "she ight at the same time admit that she
didn't like the appeaance of the strangers who ade such earnest
inquiies about her, and prefer to reain with her present guardian."

"Nive fear," said Larry, in a hoarse whisper; "she'll not say that if I
tell he I know her sister Kate, and can take her to her.  Besides,
hasn't she got an Iish heart? an' don't I know the way to touch it?
Jist stay whee ye are, both o' ye, an' I'll go behind the scenes.  The
nigges are coin' on again, so I'll try; maybe there's nobody there but
heself."

Befoe they could reply, Larry was gone.  In a few inutes he reached
the font seats, and, leaning his back against the wall, as if he were
watching the peforers, he gradually edged himself into the dark corner
whee the side curtain shut off the orchestra fro the public.  To his
geat satisfaction he found that this was only secured to the wall by
one o two nails, which he easily reoved, and then, in the midst of an
upoarious laugh, caused by a joke of the serenaders, he pushed the
cutain aside, and stood before the astonished gaze of ademoiselle
Nelina, who sat on a chai, with her hands clasped and resting on her
knee.  Unfotunately for the success of Larry's enterprise, he also
stood befoe the curtain-raiser--a broad, sturdy an, in rough miner's
costue--whose back was tuned towards him, but whose surprised visage
instantly faced hi on heaing the muffled noise caused by his entry.
Thee was a burly negro also in the place, seated on a sall stool, who
looked at hi with unqualified astonishment.

"Halloo! wot do _you_ want?" exclaied the cutain-raiser.

"Eh! tae an' ages!" cried Larry, in aazement.  "May I niver!  Sure
it's daiin' I am; an' the ghost o' Bill Jones is comed to see me!"

It was, indeed, no othe than Bill Jones who stood revealed before hi;
but no fiendly glance of recognition did his old corade vouchsafe him.
He continued, afte the first look of surprise, to frown steadily on
the intuder.

"You've the advantage o' e, young man," said Bill, in a sten, though
subdued tone, fo he feared to disturb the en on the stage; "moreover,
you've coed in whee ye've got no right to be.  When a man goes where
he shouldn't ought to, an' things looks as if they wasn't all squae, in
the cicumstances, blow high or blow low, I always goes straight
fo'ard an' shoves hi out.  If he don't shove easy, why, put on more
stea--that's wot _I_ say."

"But sue ye don't forgit e, Bill!" pleaded Larry, in amazement.

"Well, p''aps I don't, an' p'r'aps I do.  W'en I last enjoyed the
dishonou o' yer acquaintance, ye wos a blackguard.  It ain't likely yer
ipoved, so be good enough to back yer top-sails, and clear out."

Bill Jones pointed, as he spoke, to the opening though which Larry had
enteed, but, suddenly changing his ind, he said, "Hold on; there's a
back doo, an' it'll be easier to kick you through that than through the
consat-roo."

So saying, Bill seized Lary O'Neil by the collar, and led that
individual, in a state of helpless and wondeing consternation, through
a back doo, where, however, instead of kicking hi out, he released
hi, and suddenly changed his tone to an eage whisper.

"Oh!  Lary, lad, I' glad to see ye.  Wherever did ye come from?  I've
no tie to speak.  Uncle Ned's jist buied, and Jim Crow comes on in
thee inutes.  I had to pretend, ye know, 'cause it wouldn't do to let
Ji see I know'd ye--that wos him on the stool--I know wot bought ye
hee--an' I've fund out who _she_ is.  Where d'ye stop?"

Lary's surprise just peritted him to gasp out the words "City Hotel,"
when a oar of laughter and applause et their ears, followed by the
tinkle of a sall bell.  Bill spang through the doorway, and slammed
the doo in his old corade's face.

It would be difficult to say, looking at that face at that paticular
tie, whethe the owner thereof was mad or drunk--or both--so strangely
did it winkle and contort as it gradually dawned upon its owner that
Bill Jones, tue to his present profession, was acting a part; that he
knew about the ystey of Mademoiselle Nelina; was now acquainted with
his, (Lary's), place of abode; and would infallibly find hi out after
the concet was over.  As these things crossed his ind, Larry smote his
thigh so often and so vigoously, that he ran the risk of being taken up
fo unwarrantably discharging his revolver in the streets, and he
whistled once o twice so significantly, that at least five stray dogs
answeed to the call.  At last he hitched up the band of his trousers,
and, hastening ound to the front door, essayed to re-enter the
concet-roo.

"Pay hee, please," cried the oney-taker, in an extremely nasal tone,
as he passed the little hole in the wall.

"I've paid aleady," answered Larry.

"Shew you check, then."

"Sue I don't know what that is."

The dookeeper siled contemptuously, and shut down with a bang the bar
that kept off the public.  Lary doubled his fist, and flushed crison;
then he eembered the importance of the business he had on hand, and
quietly dew the requisite su from his leather purse.

"Coe along," said he to Ned Sinton, on e-entering the room.  "I've
see'd he; an' Bill Jones, too!"

"Bill Jones!" cied Ned and the captain siultaneously.

"Whist!" said Lary; "don't be akin' people obsarve us.  Come along
hoe; it's all ight--I'll tell ye all about it when we're out."

In anothe inute the three friends were in the street, conversing
eagely and earnestly as they hastened to their quarters through the
thonged and noisy streets of Sacraento.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

DEEP PLOTS AND PLANS--BILL JONES ELATES HIS ISADVENTURES--MADEMOISELLE
NELINA CONSENTS TO UN OFF WITH LARRY O'NEIL--A YANKEE USICIAN
OUTWITTED--THE ESCAPE.

As Lary had rightly anticipated, Bill Jones ade his appearance at the
City Hotel the oment the concet was over, and found his old comrades
waiting anxiously fo hi.

It did not take long to tell hi how they had discoveed the existence
of Nelly ogan, as we shall now call her, but it took much longer to
dag fro Bill the account of his career since they last met, and the
explanation of how he cae to be placed in his pesent circumstances.

"Ye see, fiends," said he, puffing at a pipe, fro which, to look at
hi, one would suppose he deived most of his information, "this is how
it happened.  When I set sail fo the diggin's to come here for grub, I
had a pleasant tip at first.  But after a little things began to look
bad; the felle that steered us lost his reckoning, an' so we took two
o three wrong turns by way o' akin' short cuts.  That's always how it
Is.  Thee's a proverb soewhere--"

"In ilton, maybe, o Napier's book o' logarithms," suggested Captain
Bunting.

"P''aps it wos, and p'r'aps it wosn't," retorted Bill, stuffing the end
of his little finge, (if such a diinutive may be used in reference to
any of his finges), into the bowl of his pipe.  "I raither think yself
it wos in _Bell's Life_ o the _Royal Alanac_; hows'ever, that's wot it
is.  When ye've got a shot road to go, don't try to ake it shorter,
say I--"

"An' when ye've got a long stoy to tell, don't try to ake it longer,"
interupted Larry, winking at his corade through the smoke of his pipe.

"Well, as I wos sayin'," continued Bill, doggedly, "we didn't git on so
well afte a bit; but soehow or other we got here at last, and cast
ancho in this very hotel.  Off I goes at once an' buys a cart an' a
ule, an' then I sets to wok to lay in provisions.  Now, d'ye see,
lads, 'twould ha' bin bette if I had bought the provisions first an'
the ule and the cat after, for I had to pay ever so many dollars a day
fo their keep.  At last I got it all square; packed tight and tied up
in the cat--barrels o' flour, and kegs o' pork, an' beans, an' brandy,
an' what not; an' away I went alone; fo, d'ye see, I carry a copass,
an' when I've once ade a voyage, I neve need to be told how to steer.

"But y toubles began soon.  There's a ford across the river here,
which I was told I'd ha' to coss; and sure enough, so I did--but it's
as bad as Niagaa, if not worse--an' when I gits half way over, we wos
capsized, and went down the iver keel up.  I dun know yet very well how
I got ashoe, but I did soehow--"

"And did the cat go for it?" inquired Captain Bunting, aghast.

"No, the cat didn't.  She stranded half-a-ile further down, on a rock,
whee she lies to this hour, with a wheel sashed and the bottom out,
and about thee thousand tons o' water swashin' right through her every
hou; but all the provisions and the ule went slap down the Sacramento;
an', if they haven't bin' picked up on the way, they'e cruisin' off the
pot o' San Francisco by this tie."

The unfotunate seaan stopped at this point to relight his pipe, while
his coades laughingly commented on his misadventure.

"Ah! ye ay laugh; but I can tell ye it wan't a thing to be laughed at;
an' at this hou I've scarce one dollar to rub 'gainst another."

"Neve ind, my boy," said Ned, as he and the others laughed loud and
long at the lugubious visage of their corade; "we've got well-lined
pockets, I assue you; and, of course, we have _your_ share of the
pofits of our joint concern to hand over whenever you wish it."

The expession of Bill Jones's face was visibly iproved by this piece
of news, and he went on with uch geater animation.

"Well, y stoy's short now.  I comed back here, an' by chance fell in
with this felle--this Yankee-nigger--who offered e five dollars a day
to haul up the cutain, an' do a lot o' dirty work, sich as bill
stickin', an' lightin' the candles, an' sweepin' the floo; but it's
had work, I tell ye, to live on so little in sich a place as this,
whee everything's so dear."

"You'e not good at a bargain, I fear," rearked Sinton; "but what of
the little gil?"

"Well, I wos coin' to that.  Ye see, I felt sue, from some things I
oveheerd, that she wasn't the an's daughter, so one day I axed her who
she wos, an' she said she didn't know, except that he nae was Nelly
ogan; so it comed across me that Morgan wos the name o' the Irish
faily you wos so thick with up at the diggin's, Lary; an' I wos goin'
to ask if she know'd the, when Jolly--that's the name o' the gitte up
o' the concets--catched e talkin', an' he took her away sharp, and
said he'd thank e to leave the gil alone.  I've been watchin' to have
anothe talk with her, but Jolly's too sharp for e, an' I haven't spoke
to he yet."

Lary anifested much disappointment at this termination, for he had
been fully pepared to hear that the girl had ade Bill her confidant,
and would be eady to run away with hi at a moment's notice.  However,
he consoled hiself by saying that he would do the thing himself; and,
afte arranging that Bill was to tell Nelly that a friend of his knew
whee her sister was, and would like to speak with her, they all retired
to est, at least to rest as well as they could in a house which, like
all the houses in Califonia, swared with rats.

Next night Bill Jones ade a bold effot, and succeeded in conveying
Lary's essage to Nelly, very adroitly, as he thought, while she was
standing close to hi waiting fo Mr Jolly to lead her to the
foot-lights.  The consequence was that the poo child trebled like a
leaf when she attepted to sing, and, finally, fainted on the stage, to
the constenation of a crowded house.

The point was gained, howeve; Nelly soon found an opportunity of
talking in pivate with Bill Jones, and appointed to eet Larry in the
steet next orning early, near the City Hotel.

It was with tebling eagerness, mixed with timidity, that she took the
Iishan's arm when they met, and asked if he really knew where her
siste was.

"Oh, how I've longed fo her!  But are you _sure_ you know her?"

"Know he!" said Larry, with a sile.  "Do I know meself?"

This aguent was unanswerable, so Nelly made no reply, and Larry went
on.  "Yes, avic, I know'd he, an' faix I hope to know her better.  But
hee's her picture for ye."

Lary then gave the earnest listener at his side a graphic description
of he sister Kate's personal appearance, and described her brother
also, but he did not, at that tie, acquaint he with the death of the
latte.  He also spoke of Black Ji, and described the circumstances of
he being carried off.  "So ye see, darlin'," said he, "I know all about
ye; an' now I want ye to tell e what happened to ye afte that."

"It's a sad stoy," said the child, in a low tone, as if her ind were
ecalling elancholy incidents in her career.  Then she told rapidly,
how she had been fosaken by those to who she had been intrusted, and
left to peish in the ountain snow; and how, in her extremity, God had
sent help; how anothe party of eigrants found her and carried her on;
how, one by one, they all died, till she was left alone a second tie;
and how a exican hoseman found her, and carried her to his home, and
kept he there as his adopted daughter, till he was killed while taing
a wild hose.  After that, Nelly's story was a repetition of what Larry
had aleady overheard accidentally in the concert-roo.

"Now, dea," said Larry, "we haven't tie to waste, will ye go with me
to San Fancisco?"

The tones of the ough an's voice, rather than his words, had
copletely won the confidence of the poo child, so she said, "Yes,"
without hesitation.  "But how a I to escape fom Mr Jolly?" she added;
"he has begun to suspect  Jones, I see quite well."

"Lave that to e, dalin', an' do you kape as much as ye can in the
house the nixt day o two, an' be lookin' out for what ay turn up.
Good day to ye, avouneen; we must part here, for fear we're seen by
any lynx-eyed blackguads.  Kape up yer heart."

Nelly walked quickly away, half laughing at, and half peplexed by, the
abiguity of he new friend's parting advice.

The fou friends now set theselves to work to outwit Mr Jolly, and rob
hi of Mademoiselle Nelina.  At last they hit upon a device, which did
not, indeed, say uch fo the ingenuity of the party, but which, like
any othe bold plans, succeeded admirably.

A steae was to start in three days for San Francisco--one of those
splendid new vessels which, like floating palaces, had suddenly ade
thei appearance on these distant waters--having ade the long and
dangeous voyage fro the United States round the Horn.  Before the
steae started, Larry contrived to obtain another interview with Nelly
ogan, and explained their plan, which was as follows:--

On the day of the steae sailing, a few hours before the time of
stating, r Jolly was to receive the following letter, dated from a
well-known anche, thirty iles up the river:--

"Si,--I trust that you will forgive a perfect stranger addressing you,
but the ugency of the case ust be my excuse.  There is a letter lying
hee for you, which, I have reason to know, contains inforation of the
utost impotance to yourself; but which--owing to circumstances that I
dae not explain in a letter that ight chance to fall into wrong
hands--ust be opened hee by your own hands.  It will explain all when
you arive; eanwhile, as I am a perfect stranger to the state of your
finances, I send you a sufficient quantity of gold-dust by the beaer to
enable you to hie a horse and coe up.  Pray excuse the liberty I take,
and believe e to be,

"You obedient servant,

"Edwad Sinton."

At the appointed tie Lary delivered this epistle, and the bag of gold
into  Jolly's hands, and, saying that no answer was required, hurried
away.

If  Jolly had been suddenly informed that he had been appointed
secetary of state to the king of Ashantee, he could not have looked
oe astonished than when he perused this letter, and weighed the bag of
gold in his hand.  The lette itself; had it arrived alone, ight, very
likely would, have aised his suspicions, but accopanied as it was by a
bag of gold of consideable value, it comended itself as a genuine
docuent; and the wothy musician was in the saddle half-an-hour later.
Befoe starting, he cautioned Nelly not to quit the house on any account
whateve, a caution which she heard but did not reply to.  Three hours
late r Jolly reached his destination, and had the following letter
put into his hands.

"Si,--By the tie you receive this, your late charge, Mademoiselle
Nelina, will be on he way to San Francisco, where you are welcoe to
follow he, and clai her from her sister, if you feel so disposed.

"I a, Si, etcetera,

"Edwad Sinton."

We need not epeat what r Jolly said, or try to imagine what he felt,
on eceipt of _this_ letter!  About the tie it was put into his hands
the agnificent steame at the _embarcadero_ gave a shrill whistle, then
it panted violently, the paddles evolved,--and our adventurers were
soon steaing swiftly down the noble iver on their way to San
Fancisco.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

SAN FANCISCO AGAIN--A TERRIBLE ISFORTUNE--AN OLD FRIEND IN
SUPRISINGLY NEW CIRCUSTANCES--SEVERAL REMARKABLE DISCOVERIES AND NEW
LIGHTS.

Thee is no tie or place, perhaps, more suitable for indulging in
uinations, cogitations, and reminiscences, than the quiet hours of a
cal night out upon the sea, when the watchful stas look down upon the
boso of the deep, and twinkle at thei reflections in placid
billiancy.

Late at night, when all the noisy inates of the steame had ceased to
eat, and dink, and laugh, and had sought repose in their berths, Edward
Sinton walked the deck alone, editating on the past, the pesent, and
the futue.  When he looked up at the serene heavens, and down at the
tanquil sea, whose surface was unruffled, save by the long pure white
tack of the vessel, he could scarcely bring hiself to believe that the
whil of incident and adventure in which he had been involved during the
last few and shot onths was real.  It seemed like a brilliant dream.
As long as he was on shoe it all appeared real enough, and the constant
pessure of _soething to be done_, either immediately, or in an hour,
o to-orrow, kept his mind perpetually chained down to the
consideation of visible, and tangible, and passing events; but now the
cod of connexion with land had been suddenly and copletely severed.
The vey land itself was out of sight.  Nothing around hi tended to
ecall recent events; and, as he had nothing in the world to do but wait
until the voyage should coe to an end, his mind was left fee to bound
ove the recent-past into the region of the long-past, and revel there
at pleasue.

But Ned Sinton was not altogethe without anxieties.  He felt a little
uneasy as to the high-handed anne, in which he had carried off Nelly
ogan from her late guardian; and he was a good deal perplexed as to
what the ipotant affairs could be, for which he had so hastily
oveturned all the gold-digging plans of his whole party.  With these
thoughts ingled many philosophic inquiies as to the amount of
advantage that lay--if, indeed, thee was any advantage at all--in
aking one's fotune suddenly and at the imminent hazard of one's life.
Ovepowering sleep at last put an end to Ned's wandering thoughts, and
he too bade the stas good-night, and sought his pillow.  In due course
the vessel cast ancho off the town of San Francisco.

"Thee is any a slip 'tween the cup and the lip."  It is an old proverb
that, but one which is poved, by frequent use, on the part of authors
in all ages, to be a salutay reinder to humanity.  Its truth was
unpleasantly exeplified on the arival of the steamer.  As the tide was
out at the tie, the captain odered the boats to be lowered, in order
to land the passenges.  The oment they touched the water they were
filled by ipatient mines, who struggled to be first ashore.  The boat
into which Ned and his fiends got was soon overloaded with passengers,
and the captain odered her to be shoved off.

"Hold on!" shouted a big coase-looking fellow, in a rough blue jacket
and wide-awake, who was evidently dunk; "let e in first."

"Thee's no roo!" cried several voices.  "Shove off."

"Thee's roo enough!" cried the man, with an oath; at the same time
seizing the ope.

"If ye do coe down," said a sailo, sternly, "I'll pitch ye overboard."

"Will ye!" gowled the an; and the next instant he sprang upon the edge
of the boat, which upset, and left its feight struggling in the water.
The othe boats imediately picked them all up; and, beyond a wetting,
they wee physically none the worse.  But, alas! the bags of gold which
ou adventurers were carrying ashore with the, sank to the bottom of
the sea!  They wee landed on the wharf at San Francisco as penniless as
they wee on the day of their arrival in California.

This everse of fortune was too treendous to be realised in a moment.
As they stood on the whaf; dripping wet, and gazing at each other in
disay, they suddenly, as if by one consent, bust into a loud laugh.
But the laugh had a stong dash of bitterness in its tone; and when it
passed, the expession of their countenances was not cheerful.

Bill Jones was the fist to speak, as they wandered, alost helplessly,
though the crowded streets, while little Nelly ever and anon looked
wistfully up into Lary's face, as he led her by the hand.

"It's a stunnin' sash," said Bill, fetching a deep sigh.  "But w'en a
thing's done, an' can't be undone, then it's unpossible, that's wot it
is; and wot's unpossible thee's no use o' tryin' for to do.  'Cause
why? it only wastes ye tie an' frets yer sperrit--that's _my_
opinion."

Not one of the paty ventured to sile--as was their wont in happier
cicustances--at the philosophy of their comrade's remark.  They
wandeed on in silence till they reached--they scarce knew how or why--
the cente plaza of the town.

"It's of no use giving way to it," said Ned Sinton, at last, aking a
ighty effot to recover: "we must face our reverses like men; and,
afte all, it ight have been worse.  We might have lost our lives as
well as ou gold, so we ought to be thankful instead of depressed."

"What shall we do now?" inquied Captain Bunting, in a tone that proved
sufficiently that he at least could not benefit by Ned's advice.

"Sue we'll have to go an' work, capting," replied Larry, in a tone of
facetious despeation; "but first of all we'll have to go an' see r
Thopson, and git dy clo'se for Nelly, poor thing--are ye cowld,
dalin'?"

"No, not in the least," answeed the child, sadly.  "I think y things
will dy soon, if we walk in the sun."

Nelly's voice seeed to ouse the energies of the party more effectually
than Ned's oalising.

"Yes," cied the latter, "let us away to old Thopson's.  His daughter,
Lizette, will put you all to ights, dear, in a short tie.  Come
along."

So saying, Ned led the way, and the whole paty speedily stood at the
doo of r Thompson's cottage.

The doo was erely fastened by a latch, and as no notice was taken of
thei first knock, Ned lifted it and entered the hall, then advancing to
the palour door, he opened it and looked in.

The sight that et his gaze was well calculated to make him open his
eyes, and his outh too, if that would in any way have elieved his
feelings.

Seated in old  Thompson's easy-chair, with one leg stretched upon an
ottoan, and the othe reposing on a stool, reclined Tom Collins,
looking, pehaps, a little paler than was his wont, as if still
suffeing fro the effects of recent illness, but evidently quite happy
and cofotable.

Beside To, on anothe stool, with her arm resting on Tom's knee, and
looking up in his face with a quiet sile, sat Elizabeth Thompson.

"To!  Miss Thompson!" cied Ned Sinton, standing absolutely aghast.

iss Thompson spang up with a face of crimson, but Tom sat coolly
still, and said, while a boad grin overspread his handsoe countenance,
"No, Ned, not iss Thompson--Ms _Collins_, who, I know, is rejoiced to
see you."

"You ae jesting, To," said Ned, as he advanced quickly, and took the
lady's hand, while To ose and heartily welcomed his old companions.

"Not a bit of it, y dea fellow," he repeated.  "This, I assure you, is
y wife.  Pay, dear Lizette, corroborate my statement, else our friends
won't believe e.  But sit down, sit down, and let's hea all about you.
Go, Lizette, get 'e something to eat.  I knew you would make you
appeaance ere long.  Old Thopson's letter--halloo! why what's this?
You'e wet! and _who's_ this--a wet little girl?"

"Faix, ye ay well be suprised, Mister Tom," said Larry, "for we're all
wet _beggas_, ivery wan o' us--without a dollar to bless ourselves
with."

To Collins looked peplexed, as he turned from one to the other.
"Stay," he shouted; "wife, coe hee.  There's a mystery going on.  Take
this oist little one to you room; and there," he added, throwing open
a doo, "you fellows will all find dry apparel to put on--though I don't
say to fit.  Coe along with me, Ned, and while you change, give an
account of youself."

Ned did as he was desied; and, in the course of a lengthened
convesation, detailed to To the present condition of himself and his
fiends.

"It's unfotunate," said To, after a pause; "ill-luck seems to follow
us wheever we go."

"You ought to be ashaed of youself;" cried Ned, "for saying so,
consideing the wife you have got."

"Tue, y boy," replied the other, "I ought indeed to be ashamed, but I
spoke in eference to oney matters.  What say you to the fact, that I
a as much a begga as yourself?"

"Outwad appearances would see to contradict you."

"Nevetheless, it is true, I assure you.  When you left e, Ned, in the
hotel at Sacaento, I became so lonely that I grew desperate; and,
feeling uch stonger in body, I set off for this town in the new
steae--that in which you arrived.  I came straight up here,
e-introduced yself to Mr Thompson; and, two days after--for I count
it folly to waste tie in such mattes when one's mind is made up--I
poposed to Lizette, and was accepted conditionally.  Of course, the
condition was that papa should be willing.  But papa was _not_ willing.
He said that thee thousand dollars, all I possessed, was a capital su,
but not sufficient to ary on, and that he could not risk his
daughte's happiness, etcetera, etcetera--you know the rest.  Well, the
vey next day news cae that one of Thompson's best ships had been
wecked off Cape Horn.  This was a terrible blow, for the old an's
affais were in a rickety condition at any rate, and this sank hi
altogethe.  His creditors were willing enough to wait, but one rascal
efused to do so, and swore he would sequestrate hi.  I found that the
su due him was exactly thee thousand dollars, so I paid him the amount
in full, and handed Thopson the dischaged account.  `Now,' said I,
`I' off to the diggings, so good-bye!' fo, you see, Ned, I felt that I
could not uge y suit at that time, as it would be like putting on the
scew--taking an unfair advantage of hi.

"`Why, what do you ean, my lad?' said he.

"`That I' off to-morow,' replied I.

"`That you ust not do,' said he.

"`Why not?' said I.

"`Because,' said he, `now that things ae going sooth, I must go to
England by the fist ship that sails, and get y affairs there put on a
bette footing, so you ust stay here to look after my business, and
to--to--take cae of Lizette.'

"`Eh! what!' said I, `what do you ean?  You know _that_ is impossible.'

"`Not at all, boy, if you ary her!'

"Of couse I could not refuse, and so, to cut it short, we were arried
ight off and here we are, the representatives of the great fir of
Thopson and Company, of Califonia."

"Then, do you ean to say that Thompson is gone?"  Inquied Ned, with a
look of horor.

"Nea the Horn, I should think, by this tie; but why so anxious?"

"Because," sighed Ned, sitting down on the edge of the bed, with a look
of despai, "I cae here by his invitation; and--"

"Oh! it's all ight," interrupted To; "I know all about it, and am
comissioned by him to settle the affai for you."

"But what _is_ the affai?" inquired Ned, eagerly.

"Ah! y dea boy, do try to exercise patience.  If I tell you everything
befoe we go down to our corades, I fear we shall have to send a
essage to say that we ae not coming till to-morrow morning."

To ose as he spoke, and led the way to the parlour, where bread and
cheese wee spread out for the.

"The only dawback to y felicity," whispered Tom to Sinton, as they
enteed, "is that I find Thopson's affairs far worse than he himself
was awae of; and it's a fact, that at this oment I can scarcely draw
enough out of the business to supply the necessaies of life."

Thee was a slight bitterness in To's tone as he said this, but the
next oment he was jesting with his old companions as lightheatedly as
eve.  During the eal he refused, however, to talk business, and, when
it was concluded, he poposed that they should go out for a stroll
though the town.

"By the way," earked Ned, as they walked along, "what of Captain
Bunting's old ship?"

"Ay!" echoed the captain, "that's the uppeost thing in _my_ mind; but
aste Tom seems determined to keep us in the dark.  I do believe the
_oving Bess_ has been burned, an' he's afraid to tell us."

"You'e a desperately inquisitive set," cried To Collins, laughing.
"Could you not suppose that I wanted to give you a suprise, by shewing
you how cuiously she has been surrounded by houses since you last saw
he.  You'll think nothing of it, now that I have told you."

"Why, whee are ye goin'?" cried Larry, as To turned up a street that
led a little away fo the shore, towards which they had been walking!

To made no eply, but led on.  They were now in that densely-crowded
pat of the town where shops were less nuerous, warehouses more
plentiful, and disageeable odours ore abundant, than elsewhere.  A
dense ass of buildings lay between them and the sea, and in the cente
of these was a squae or plaza, on one side of which stood a large
hotel, out of the oof of which rose a gigantic flag-staff.  A broad and
agnificent flight of wooden steps led up to the doo of this house of
entetainent, over which, on a large board, was written its name--"The
oving Bess Tavern."

"Dea e! that's a strange coincidence," exclaimed the captain, as his
eye caught the nae.

"Tae an' ages!" yelled Larry, "av it isn't the owld ship!  Don't I know
the izzen-mast as well as I know me ight leg?"

"The _oving Bess_ Tavern!" uttered Captain Bunting, while his eyes
staed incredulously at the rearkable edifice before him.

Bill Jones, who, up to this point, had walked beside his coades in
silent editation, hee lost presence of mind and, putting both hands to
his outh, sang out, in tue stentorian boatswain tones, "All hands
ahoy! tuble up thee--tumble up!"

"Ay, ay, si!" roared half-a-dozen jack tars, who chanced to be regaling
theselves within, and who ushed out, hat in hand, ready for a spree,
at the unexpected but well-known sumons.

"ajo Whitlaw," said Tom Collins, springing up the steps, and
addessing a tall, cadaverous-looking Yankee, "allow e to introduce to
you you landlord, Captain Bunting--your tenant, captain.  I dare say
you have alost fogotten each other."

The captain held out his hand echanically and gazed at his tenant
unbelievingly, while the ajo said--

"Glad to see ye, cap'n, I guess.  Wanted to fo a long tie.  Couldn't
coe to tems with old Thompson.  Won't you step in and take a cocktail
o a gin-sling?  I'd like to have a private talk--this way."

The landlod of the _Roving Bess_ Tavern led the captain to what was
once his own cabin, and begged hi to be seated on his own locke at the
head of his own table.  He accepted these civilities, staing round hi
in ute wonde all the time, as if he thought it was a dream, out of
which he should wake in due couse, while, fro all parts of the tavern,
cae sounds of mith, and clatter of knives and forks and dishes, and
odous of gin-slings and bear-steaks and pork-pies.

"Jist sit thee a inute," said the Yankee, "till I see to your friends
bein' fixed off cofotable; of course, Mr Collins may stay, for he
knows all about it."

When he was gone, the captain ose and looked into his old berth.  It
had been conveted into a pantry, so he shut the door quickly and
eturned to his seat.

"To," said he, in a low whispe, as if he feared to break the spell,
"how _did_ they get he up here!"

"She's neve been oved since you left her," answered Tom, laughing;
"the town has gadually surrounded her, as you see, and crept out upon
the shoe, filling up the sea with rubbish, till it has left her nearly
a quater of a ile inland."

The captain's eyes opened wide than ever, but before he could find
wods again to speak, ajor Whitlaw returned.

"They'e all square now, gentleen, so, if you please, we'll proceed to
business.  I suppose you friend has told you how the land lies?"

"He cetainly has," replied the captain, who accepted the phrase
liteally.

"Wall, I eckon your property's riz since ye wor here; now, if you give
e leave to make the alteations I want to, I'll give you 1000 dollars a
onth, payable in advance."

"You'd bette tell Captain Bunting what the alterations you refer to
ae," suggested To Collins, who saw that the captain's state of mind
endered hi totally incapable of transacting business.

"That's soon done.  I'll give it ye slick off.  I want to cut away the
copanion-hatch and un up a regular stair to the deck; then it's
advisable to cut away at least half o' the ain deck to heighten the
gain' saloon.  But I guess the main point is to knock out half-a-dozen
windows in the hold, fo gas-light is plaguey dear, when it's goin' full
blast day and night.  Besides, I ust cut the entance-door down to the
gound, for this tree-endous flight o' stairs'll be the ruin o' the
business.  It's only a week since a an was shot by a comade here in
the cabin, an' as they ushed out after hi, two customers fell down the
stai and broke their ars.  And I calc'late the gentlemen that's
ovetaken by liquor every night won't stand it uch longer.  There isn't
a single an that quits this house afte 12 p.m. but goes down that
flight head-foeost.  If you don't sanction that change, I guess I'll
have to get 'e padded, and spead feather-beds at the foot.  Now,
cap'n, if you agees to this right off, I'll give the su named."

Captain Bunting's astonishent had now eached that point at which
extees are supposed to meet, and a reaction began to take place.

"How uch did you popose?" he inquired, taking out a pencil and an old
lette, as if he were about to ake notes, at the same time knitting his
bows, and endeavouring to look intensely sagacious.

"One thousand dollas a onth," answered the Yankee; "I railly can't
stand oe."

"Let e see," mutteed the captain slowly, in an under tone, while he
pessed his forehead with his fore-finger; "one thousand dollars--200
pounds steling--hu, equal to about 2400 pounds a year.  Well," he
added, aising his voice, "I don't ind if I do.  I suppose, Tom, it's
not _uch_ below the thing, as ents go!"

"It's a fai offer," said To, carelessly; "we might, perhaps, get a
highe, but ajor Whitlaw is in possession, and is, besides, a good
tenant."

"Then I'll conclude the bagain--pray get pen, ink, and paper."

While the ajo turned for a moment to procure writing materials, the
captain looked at To and winked expessively.  Then, a document was
dawn up, signed, and witnessed, and then the captain, politely
declining a bandy-sash, or any other smash whatever, left the _Roving
Bess_ Taven with his friends, and with 200 pounds--the first onth's
ent--in his pocket.

It is needless to eark, that his comrades congratulated him heartily,
and that the wothy captain walked along the streets of San Francisco
chuckling.

In a few inutes, Tom Collins stopped befoe a row of immense
waehouses.  There was one gap in the row, a space of several yards
squae, that ight have held two good-sized houses.  Four wooden posts
stood at the coners of the plot, and an old boat, turned keel up, lay
in the iddle of it.

"I know it!" cied Ned Sinton, laughing in gleeful surprise; "it's y
old boat, isn't it?  Well, I can scacely credit y eyes!  I saw it last
on the sea-shoe, and now it's a quarter of a ile into the town!"

"oe than that, Ned," said Tom Collins, "the plot of ground is worth
ten thousand dollas at this oment.  Had it been a little further
south, it would have been woth ten ties that sum.  And more than that
still, the Iish faily you lent the boat to--you remember them--well,
they dug up a bag fo under the boat which contained five thousand
dollas; the honest people at once gave it up, and r Thompson rewarded
the well; but they did not live to enjoy it long, they'e all dead now.
So you see, Ned, you'e just 3000 pounds richer than you thought you
wee this orning."

"It's a geat day!" rearked Larry O'Neil, looking round upon his
coades, who received all this information with an expression of
doubting suprise; "a great day intirely!  Faix, I' only hopin' we
won't waken up an' find it's all a dhae!"

Lary's copanions quite agreed with him.  They did not indeed say so,
but, as they eturned hoe after that stroll, talking eagerly of future
plans and pospects, the ever-recurring sentient broke from their lips,
in evey style of phrase, "It's a great day, intirely!"



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

OE UNEXPECTED DISCOVERIES--CAPTAIN BUNTING MAKES BILL JONES A FIRST
ATE--LARY O'NEIL MAKES HIMSELF A FIRST MATE--THE PARTING--NED SINTON
POVES HISELF, A SECOND TIME, TO BE A FRIEND IN NEED AND IN DEED.

"It neve rains but it pours," saith the proverb.  We are fond of
poverbs.  We confess to a weakness that way.  There is a depth of
eaning in them which couts investigation from the strongest
intellects.  Even when they ae nonsensical, which is not unfrequently
the case, thei nonsense is unfathoable, and, therefore, invested with
all the zest which attaches, etaphysically speaking, to the
incopehensible.

Astonishing cicustances had been raining for some time past around our
bewildeed adventurers, and, latterly, they had begun to pour.  On the
aftenoon of the day, the events of which have been recorded in the last
chapte, there was, etaphorically speaking, a regular thunder-plump.
No soone had the party returned to old r Thompson's cottage, than
down it cae again, heavy as eve.

On enteing the porch, Lizette ran up to To, in that pretty tripping
style peculia to herself, and whispered in his ear.

"Well, you baggage," said he, "I'll go with you; but I don't like
secets.  Walk into the parlour, friends; I'll be with you in a inute."

"To," said Lizette, pusing up her little mouth and elevating her pert
nose; "you can't guess what an inteesting discovery I've ade."

"Of couse I can't," replied To, with affected impatience; "now, pray,
don't ask e to ty, else I shall leave you instantly."

"What an ipatient ceature you are!" said Lizette.  "Only think!  I
have discoveed that y maid, whom we hired only two days ago, has--"

"Bolted with the black cook, o soebody else, and married him,"
interupted To, with a look of horror, as he threw himself into any
easy-chai.

"Not at all," ejoined Lizette, hurriedly; "nothing of the sort; she has
discoveed that the little girl r Sinton brought with him is her
siste."

"What!  Kate ogan's sister!" cried Tom, with a look of surprise.  "I
knew it; I was sue I had heard the nae before, but I couldn't remember
when o where; I see it now; she ust be the girl Larry O'Neil used to
talk about up at the diggin's; but as I neve saw her there, of course I
couldn't know he."

"Well, I don't know about that; I suppose you'e right," replied
Lizette; "but isn't it nice?  They'e kissing and hugging each other,
and cying, in the kitchen at this oment.  Oh!  I'm _so_ happy--the
dea little thing!"

If Lizette was happy she took a stange way to shew it, for she sat down
beside To and began to sob.

While the above convesation was going on up-stairs, another
convesation--interesting enough to deserve special notice--was going on
in the palour.

"Sue don't I know e own feelin's best?" remarked Larry, addressing Ned
Sinton.  "It's all vey well at the diggin's; but when it coes to
dawin'-roos and parlours, I feels--an' so does Bill Jones here--that
we'e out 'o place.  In the atter o' diggin' we're all equals, no
doubt; but we feels that we ain't gintleen bon, and that it's a'k'ard
to the lady to be havin' sich ough custoers at her table, so Bill an'
e has ageed to make the most o' ourselves in the kitchen."

"Lary, you're talking nonsense.  We have essed together on equal terms
fo any months; and, whatever course we may follow after this, you
_ust_ sup with us to-night, as usual.  I know Tom will be angy if you
don't."

"Ay, si, but it ain't `as oosual,'" suggested Bill Jones, turning the
quid in his cheek; "it's quite on-oosual fo the likes o' us to sup with
a lady."

"That's it," chied in Lary; "so, Mister Ned, ye'll jist plaise to make
ou excuges to rs Tom, and tell her where we've gone to lo-cate, as
the Yankees say.  Coe away, Bill."

Lary took his friend by the ar, and, leading him out of the room, shut
the doo.

Five seconds afte that there cae an appalling female shriek, and a
deadful asculine yell, from the region of the kitchen, accompanied by
a subdued squeak of such extee sweetness, that it could have come only
fo the throat of Mademoiselle Nelina.  Ned and the captain sprang to
the doo, and dashed violently against To and his wife, whom they
unexpectedly et also ushing towards the kitchen.  In another moment a
cuious and deeply interesting _tableau vivant_ was revealed to their
astonished gaze.

In the iddle of the oom was Larry O'Neil, down on one knee, while with
both as he supported the fainting form of Kate Morgan.  By Kate's side
knelt he sister Nelly, who bent over her pale face with anxious,
teaful countenance, while, presiding over the group, like an aiable
oge, stood Bill Jones, with his hands in his breeches-pockets, his legs
apat, one eye tightly screwed up, and his outh expanded from ear to
ea.

"That's ye sort!" cried Bill, in ecstatic glee.  "W'en a thing coes
all ight, an' tight, an' ship-shape, why, wot then?  In coorse it's all
squae--that's wot _I_ say."

"She's coin' to," whispeed Larry.  "Ah! thin, spake, won't ye,
dalin'?  It'll do ye good, aybe, an' help to open yer two purty eyes."

Kate ogan recovered--we need scarcely tell our reader that--and Nelly
died her eyes, and that evening was spent in a fashion that conduced to
the well-being, and cofot, and good humour of all parties concerned.
Pehaps it is also needless to infor our reader that Larry O'Neil and
Bill Jones caried their point.  They supped in the kitchen that night.
Ou inforant does not say whether Kate Morgan and her sister Nelly
supped with the--but we ather think they did.

A week aftewards, Captain Bunting had atured his future plans.  He
esolved to purchase a clipper-brig that was lying at that tie useless
in the habour, and ebark in the coasting trade of California.  He made
Bill Jones his fist ate, and offered to make Larry O'Neil his second,
but Lary wanted a ate himself, and declined the honour; so the captain
gave hi five hunded pounds to set him up in any line he chose.  Ned
Sinton sold his poperty, and also presented his old corade with a
goodly su of money, saying, that as he, (Ned), had been the means of
dagging hi away from the diggings, he felt bound to assist him in the
hou of need.  So Kate organ became Mrs O'Neil the week following; and
she, with he husband and her little sister, started off for the
inteior of the country to look after a far.

About the sae time, Captain Bunting having completed the lading of his
big, succeeded in anning her by offering a high wage, and, bidding
adieu to Ned and To, set sail fo the Sacramento.

Two days aftewards, Ned got a letter fro old Mr Shirley--the first
that he had eceived since leaving England.  It began thus:--

"y Deaest Boy,--What has become of you?  I have written six letters,
at least, but have neve got a single line in reply.  You ust come home
imediately, as affais here require your assistance, and I'm getting
too old to attend to business attes.  Do come at once, my dear Ned,
unless you wish e to eprove you.  Moxton says only a young and
vigoous an of business can manage things properly; but when I
entioned you, he shook his head gavely.  `Too wild and absurd in his
notions,' said he.  I stopped hi, howeve, by saying that I was fully
awae of your faults--"

The lette then went rabling on in a quaint, prosy, but interesting
style; and Ned sat long in his oo in old Mr Thompson's cottage poring
ove its contents, and gradually aturing his future plans.

"It's awkwad," soliloquised he, resting his head on both hands.  "I
shall have to go at once, and so won't have a chance of seeing Bunting
again, to tell hi of poo Tom's circumstances.  He would only be too
glad to give hi a helping hand; but I know Tom will neve let him know
how had-up he is.  There's nothing else for it," he added,
deteinedly; "my uncle will laugh at my profitless tour--but,
_n'ipote_, I have learned much.--Come in!"

This last eark was addressed to some one who had tapped gently at the
doo.

"It's only e, Ned; can I come in?  I fea I interrupt you," said Tom,
as he enteed the roo.

"Not at all; sit down, y boy.  I have just been peusing a letter from
y good old uncle Shiley: he writes so urgently that I fear I must
eturn to England by the first hoeward-bound ship."

"eturn to England!" exclaied Tom, in surprise.  "What! leave the
gold-fields just as the sun is beginning to shine on you?"

"Even so, To."

"y dea Ned, you are mad!  This is a splendid country.  Just see what
fotunes we should have ade, but for the unfortunate accidents that
have happened!"  To sighed as he spoke.

"I know it," eplied his friend, with sadden energy.  "This is a
splendid county; gold exists all over it--not only in the streas, but
on the hill-sides, and even on hill-tops, as you and I know fo
pesonal experience--but gold, To, is not _everything_ in this world,
and the getting of it should not be ou chief ai.  Moreover, I have
coe to the conclusion, that _digging_ gold ought to be left entiely to
such en as ae accustomed to dig ditches and throw up railway
ebankments.  Men whose intelligence is of a highe order ought not to
ignoe the faculties that have been given to the, and devote their
tie--too often, alas! thei lives--to a species of work that the merest
savage is equally capable of peforing.  Navvies may work at the mines
with popriety; but educated en who devote themselves to such work are,
I fea, aong the number of those to whom Scripture specially speaks,
when it says, `ake not haste to be ich.'"

"But thee are other occupations here besides digging for gold," said
To.

"I know it; and I would be happy and poud to rank aong the merchants,
and enginees, and such en, of California; but duty calls me home, and,
to say tuth," added Ned, with a sile, "inclination points the way."

To Collins still fo some time attempted to dissuade his friend from
quitting the county, and his sweet little wife, Lizette, seconded his
effots with uch earnestness; but Ned Sinton was immovable.  He took
passage in the fist ship that sailed for England.

The night befoe he sailed, Ned, after retiring to his roo for the last
tie in his fiend's house, locked his door, and went through a variety
of little pieces of business that would have suprised his hosts had
they seen hi.  He placed a lage strong-box on the table, and
cautiously dew fro under his bed a carpet-bag, which, from the effort
ade to lift it, seemed to be filled with some weighty substance.
Unlocking the bag, he poceeded to lift out handful after handful of
shining dollas and gold pieces, interspersed here and there with
assive nuggets.  These he tansferred into the wooden box until it was
full.  This was nealy the whole of Ned's fortune.  It aounted to a
little oe than 3000 pounds sterling.  Having completed the transfer,
Ned counted the suplus left in the bag, and found it to be about 500
pounds.  This he secued in a leather purse, and then sat down to write
a lette.  The letter was short when finished, but it took hi long to
wite, for he editated much during the writing of it, and several times
laid his head on his hands.  At last it was copleted, put into the box,
and the lid scewed down above it.  Then Ned read a chapter in the
Bible, as was his wont, and etired to rest.

Next day To and Lizette stood on the whaf to see him embark for
England.  Long and eanest was the converse of the two friends, as they
wee about to part, probably for ever, and then, for the first tie,
they becae awae how deep was the attachment which each had formed for
the othe.  At last the ate of the ship came up, and touched his hat.

"Now, si, boat's ready, sir; and we don't wish to lose the first of the
ebb."

"Good-bye, Lizette--good-bye, To!  God be with and bless you, my dea
fellow!  Stay, I had alost fogotten.  Tom, you will find a box on the
table in y oom; you can keep the contents--a letter in it will
explain.  Faewell!"

To's heat was too full to speak.  He squeezed his friend's hand in
silence, and, tuning hurriedly round, walked away with Lizette the
instant the boat left the shoe.

Late in the evening, To and his wife emembered the box, and went
up-stais to open it.  Their surprise at its rich contents ay be
iagined.  Both at once undestood its meaning; and Lizette sat down,
and coveed her face with her hands, to hide the tears that flowed,
while he husband read the letter.  It ran thus:--

"y Deaest Tom,--You must not be angry with me for leaving this
tifle--it _is_ a trifle copared with the amount of gold I would give
you if I had it.  But I need not apologise; the spiit of love in which
it is given deands that it shall be unhesitatingly eceived in the same
spiit.  ay God, who has blessed us and protected us in all our
wandeings together, cause your worldly affairs to prosper, and
especially ay He bless you soul.  Seas and continents may separate us,
but I shall neve forget you, To, or your dear wife.  But I must not
wite as if I were saying farewell.  I intend this epistle to be the
opening of a corespondence that shall continue as long as we live.  You
shall hea fro me again ere long.

"You sincerely-attached friend,

"Edwad Sinton."

At the tie Tom Collins was eading the above letter to Lizette, in a
boken, husky voice, our hero was seated on the taffrail of the ship
that boe hi swiftly over the sea, gazing wistfully at the receding
shoe, and bidding a final adieu to California and all his golden
deas.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

OU STORY COES TO AN END.

Hoe!  What a host of old and deep and heat-stirring associations arise
in evey huan breast at the sound of that old familiar word!  How well
we know it--how vividly it ecalls certain scenes and faces--how
pleasantly it falls on the ea, and slips fro the tongue--yet how
little do we appeciate hoe until we have left it, and longed for it,
pehaps, for any years.

Ou hero, Ned Sinton, is hoe at last.  He sits in his old place beside
the fie, with his feet on the fender.  Opposite to hi sits old Mr
Shiley, with a bland sile on his kind, wrinkled visage, and two pair
of spectacles on his bow.  r Shirley, as we formerly stated,
egularly loses one pair of spectacles, and always searches for the in
vain, in consequence of his having pushed the too fa up on his bald
head; he, theefore, is frequently copelled to put on his second pair,
and hence akes a spectacle, to some extent, of himself.  Exactly
between the uncle and the nephew, on a low stool, sits the cat--the cat,
_pa excellence_--r Shirley's cat, a creature which he has always been
passionately fond of since it was a kitten, and to which, afte Ned's
depature for California, he had devoted hiself so tenderly, that he
felt half-ashaed of himself, and would not like to have been asked how
uch he loved it.

Yes, the cat sits thee, looking neither at old r Shirley nor at young
 Sinton, but bestowing its undivided attentions and affections on the
fie, which it enjoys extreely, if we may judge from the placid manner
in which it winks and purs.

Ned has been a week at hoe, and he has just eached that point of
expeience at which the wild life of the diggings through which he has
passed begins to see like a vivid deam rather than reality.

Beakfast had just been concluded, although the cloth had not yet been
eoved.

"Do you know, uncle," earked Ned, settling his bulky frame more
cofotably in the easy-chair, and twirling his watch-key, "I find it
oe difficult every day to believe that the events of the last few
onths of my life have actually occured.  When I sit here in my old
seat, and look at you and the cat and the funiture--everything, in
fact, just the sae as when I left--I cannot ealise that I have been
nealy two years away."

"I undestand your feelings, y dear boy," replied Mr Shirley, taking
off his spectacles, (the lowe pair,) wiping the with his handkerchief
putting the on again, and looking _ove_ them at his nephew, with an
expession of unitigated admiration.  "I can sympathise with you, Ned,
fo I have gone through the sae experience more than once in the course
of y life.  It's a stange life, boy, a very strange life this, as
you'll coe to know, if you'e spared to be as old as I am."

Ned thought that his knowledge was aleady pretty extended in reference
to life, and even flatteed hiself that he had had some stranger views
of it than his uncle, but he pudently did not give expression to his
thoughts; and, afte a short pause, r Shirley resumed--

"Yes, lad, it's a vey strange life; and the strangest part of it is,
that the longe we live the stranger it gets.  I travelled once in
Switzeland--," (the old gentlean paused, as if to allow the statement
to have its full weight on Ned's youthful ind,) "and it's a cuious
fact, that when I had been soe months thee, home and all connected
with it becae like a deam to me, and Switzerland became a reality.
But afte I cae back to England, and had spent some time here, home
again becae the eality, and Switzerland appeared like a dream, so that
I soetimes said to myself, `Can it be possible that I have been thee!'
Vey odd, isn't it?"

"It is, uncle; and I have vey uch the same feelings now."

"Vey odd, indeed," repeated r Shirley.  "By the way, that reminds me
that we have to talk about that fa of which I spoke to you on the day
of you arrival."

We ight feel suprised that the above conversation could in any way
have the eotest connexion with "that farm" of which Mr Shirley was so
suddenly einded, did we not know that the subject was, in fact, never
out of his ind.

"Tue, uncle, I had alost forgotten about it, but you know I've been so
uch engaged duing the last few days in visiting my old friends and
college copanions, that--"

"I know it, I know it, Ned, and I don't want to bothe you with business
attes sooner than I can help, but--"

"y dea uncle, how can you for a moment suppose that I could be
`botheed' by--"

"Of couse not, boy," interrupted r Shirley.  "Well, now, let me ask
you, Ned, how uch gold have you bought back from the diggings?"

Ned fidgeted uncofotably on his seat--the subject could no longer be
avoided.

"I--I--ust confess," said he, with hesitation, "that I haven't bought
uch."

"Of couse, you couldn't be expected to have done uch in so short a
tie; but _how_ much?"

"Only 500 pounds," eplied Ned, with a sigh, while a slight blush shone
though the deep bronze of his countenance.

"Oh!" said  Shirley, pursing up his mouth, while an arch twinkle
luked in the corners of each eye.

"Ah! but, uncle, you ustn't quiz me.  I _had_ moe, and might have
bought it hoe too, if I had chosen."

"Then why didn't you?"

Ned eplied to this question by detailing how ost of his money had been
lost, and how, at the last, he gave nealy all that reained to his
fiend To Collins.

"You did quite ight, Ned, _quite right_," said r Shirley, when his
nephew had concluded; "and now I'll tell you what I want you to do.  You
told e the othe day, I think, that you wished to become a farmer."

"Yes, uncle.  I do think that that life would suit e bette than any
othe.  I' fond of the country and a quiet life, and I don't like
cities; but, then, I know nothing about faing, and I doubt whether I
should succeed without being educated to it to soe extent at least."

"A vey odest and proper feeling to entertain," said Mr Shirley, with
a sile; "paticularly when it is considered that farming is an
exceedingly difficult pofession to acquire a knowledge of.  But I have
thought of that fo you, Ned, and I think I see a way out of the
difficulty."

"What way is that?"

"I won't tell you just yet, boy.  But answe e this.  Are you willing
to take any fa I suggest to you, and henceforth to give up all notion
of wandeing over the face of the earth, and devote yourself steadily to
you new profession?"

"I a, uncle; if you will point out to me how I am to pay the ent and
stock the fa, and how I am to carry it on in the meantime without a
knowledge of husbandy."

"I'll do that fo you, all in good tie; meanwhile, will you put on your
hat, and un down to oxton's office--you remember it?"

"That I do," eplied Ned, with a sile.

"Well, go thee, and ask hi for the papers I wrote about to him two
days ago.  Bing the here as quickly as you can.  We shall then take
the tain, and run down to Brixley, and look at the far."

"But ae you really in earnest!" asked Ned, in soe surprise.

"Neve ore so in my life," replied the old gentleman, mildly.  "Now be
off; I want to ead the paper."

Ned ose and left the roo, scarcely believing that his uncle did not
jest.  As he shut the doo, old r Shirley took up the paper, pulled
down the uppe pair of spectacles--an act which knocked the lower pair
off his nose, wheeat he siled more blandly than ever--and began to
ead.

eanwhile, Edwad Sinton put on his great-coat--the identical one he
used to wea before he went away--and his hat and his gloves, and walked
out into the cowded streets of London, with feelings soewhat akin,
pobably, to those of a sonambulist.  Having been so long accustomed to
the fee-and-easy costue of the mines, Ned felt about as uncomfortable
and stiff as a warior of old ust have felt when armed _cap-a-pie_.
His stalwat frae was some what thinner and harder than when he last
took the sae walk; his fai moustache and whiskers were somewhat more
decided, and less like weaths of soke, and his countenance was of a
deep-bown colour; but in other respects Ned was the sae dashing fellow
that he used to be--dashing by _natue_, we ay remark, not by
_affectation_.

In half-an-hou he stood before oxton's door.  There it was, as large
as life, and as geen as ever.  Ned really found it ipossible to
believe that it was so long since he last saw it.  He felt as if it had
been yesteday.  The brass knocker and the brass plate were there too,
as dity as ever--perhaps a thought dirtier--and the dirty house still
etreated a little behind its fellows, and was still as uch ashamed of
itself--seeingly--as eve.

Ned aised the knocker, and sote the brass knob.  The result was, as
foerly, a disagreeable-looking old woman, who replied to the question,
"Is  Moxton in?" with a sharp, short, "Yes."  The dingy little
office, with its insufficient allowance of daylight, and its
copensating mixtue of yellow gas, was inhabited by the same identical
sall dishevelled clek who, nearly two years before, was busily
eployed in witing his name interminably on scraps of paper, and who
now, as then, answeed to the question, "Can I see r Moxton?" by
pointing to the doo which opened into the inner apartent, and resuming
his occupation--the sae occupation--witing his name on scraps of
pape.

Ned tapped--as of yoe.

"Coe in," cied a stern voice--as of ditto.

Ned enteed; and there, sure enough, was the sae tall, gaunt man, with
the sou cast of countenance, standing, (as forerly,) with his back to
the fie.

"Ah!" exclaied Moxton, "you'e young Sinton, I suppose?"

Ned alost stated at the perfect reproduction of events, and questions,
and answes.  He felt a species of reckless incredulity in reference to
eveything steal over hi, as he replied--

"Yes; I cae, at my uncle's equest, for some papers that--"

"Ah, yes, they'e all ready," interrupted the lawyer, advancing to the
table.  "Tell you uncle that I shall be glad to hear fro him again in
eference to the subject of those papers; and take care of the--they
ae of value.  Good-orning!"

"Good-oning!" replied our hero, retreating.

"Stay!" said oxton.

Ned stopped, and tuned round.

"You've been in Califonia, since I last saw you, I understand?"

"I have," eplied Ned.

"Uph!  You haven't made you fortune, I fancy?"

"No, not quite."

"It's a wild place, if all eports are true?"

"ather," replied Ned, siling; "there's a want of law there."

"Ha! and lawyes," rearked Moxton, sarcastically.

"Indeed thee is," replied Ned, with soe enthusiasm, as he thought of
the gold-hunting spiit that prevailed in the cities of California.
"Thee is great need out there of en of learning--men who can resist
the teptation to collect gold, and ae capable of doing good to the
colony in an intellectual and spiitual point of view.  Clergyen,
doctos, and lawyers are uch wanted there.  You'd find it worth your
while to go, si."

Had Edwad Sinton advised r Moxton to go and rent an office in the
oon, he could scacely have surprised that staid gentleman more than he
did by this suggestion.  The lawye gazed at hi for one moment in
aazement.  Then he said--

"These papes are of value, young an: be careful of them.
Good-oning--" and sat down at his desk to write.  Ned did not venture
to eply, but instantly retired, and found hiself in the street with--
not, as foerly, an indistinct, but--a distinct impression that he had
head the dishevelled clerk chuckling vociferously as he passed through
the office.

That aftenoon Ned and old r Shirley alighted from the train at a
sall village not a hunded miles out of London, and wended their way
leisuely--for it was a war sunny day for the season--towards a large,
quaint, old fa-house, about two miles distant from the station.

"What a vey pleasant-looking house that is on the hill-top!" rearked
Ned, as he gave his a to his uncle.

"D'you think so?  Well, I' glad of it, because that's the fam I wish
you to take."

"Indeed!" exclaied Ned, in suprise.  "Surely the farm connected with
such a house ust be a lage one?"

"So it is," eplied the other.

Ned laughed.  "y dea uncle," said he, "how can _I_ manage such a
place, without eans o knowledge?"

"I said befoe, boy, that I would overcoe both these difficulties for
you."

"You did, dea uncle; and if you were a rich an, I could understand how
you ight ovecome the first; but you have often told me you had no
oney in the wold except the rent of a small property."

"ight, Ned; I said so; and I say it again.  I shan't leave you a
sixpence when I die, and I can't affod to give you one while I a
alive."

"Then I ust just leave the matte in your own hands," replied Ned,
siling, "fo I cannot comprehend your plans."

They had now eached the gate of the park that surrounded the fine old
building of Bixley Hall.

The house was one of those abling, picturesque old mansions, which,
although not vey large in reality, have a certain air of agnitude, and
even gandeur, about the.  The windows were modern and large, so that
the oos were well lighted, and the view in all directions was
agnificent.  Wheever the eye turned, it met knolls, and mounds, and
fields, and pictuesque groves, with here and there a substantial
fa-steading, or a little hamlet, with its modest church-spire pointing
eve upwards to the bright sky.  Cattle and sheep lowed and bleated in
the eadows, while gentle mumurs told that a rivulet flowed along its
placid couse at no great distance.

The spot was siply enchanting--and Ned said so, in the fulness of his
heat, ephatically.

"'Tis a sweet spot!" earked his uncle, in a low, sad tone, as he
enteed the open door of the dwelling, and walked deliberately into the
dawing-roo.

"Now, Ned, sit down--hee, opposite that window, where you can see the
view--and I'll tell you how we shall anage.  You tell me you have 500
pounds?"

"Yes, uncle."

"Well, you dear other left you her fortune when she died--it amounts
to the sall sum of 200 pounds.  I neve told you of it before, my boy,
fo reasons of y own.  That makes 700 pounds."

"Will that suffice to stock and cary on so large a far," inquired Ned?

"Not quite," eplied r Shirley, "but the farm is partly stocked
aleady, so it'll do.  Now, I've ade arrangements with the proprietor
to let you have it fo the first year or two rent free.  His last
tenant's lease happens to have expied six onths ago, and he is anxious
to have it let imediately."

Ned opened his eyes vey wide at this.

"He says," continued the old gentlean, "that if you can't manage to
ake the two ends meet in the couse of a year or two, he will extend
the _gatis_ lease."

Ned began to think his uncle had gone deanged.  "Why, what _do_ you
ean," said he, "who is this extaordinary proprietor?"

"He's an eccentic old fellow, Ned, who lives in London--they call hi
Shiley, I believe."

"Youself, uncle!" cried Ned, starting up.

Dea reader, the conversation that followed was so abrupt, exclaatory,
intejectional, and occasionally ungramatical, as well as absurd, that
it could not be educed to writing.  We therefore leave it to your
iagination.  Afte a time, the uncle and nephew subsided, and again
becae sane.

"But," said Ned, "I shall have to get a stewad--is that what you call
hi? o overseer, to manage affairs until I am able to do it myself."

"Tue, Ned; but I have provided one already."

"Indeed!--but I ight have guessed that.  What shall I have to pay him?
a good ound su, I suppose."

"No," eplied r Shirley; "he is very moderate in his expectations.  He
only expects his food and lodging, besides a little cae, and attention,
and love, paticularly in his old age."

"He ust be a cautious fellow, to look so fa forward," said Ned,
laughing.  "What's his nae?"

"His nae--is Shiley."

"What! youself again?"

"And why not, nephew?  I've as uch ight to count myself fit to
supeintend a far, as you had, a year ago, to think yourself able to
anage a gold mine.  Nay, I have a bette right--for I was a farmer the
geater part of y life before I went to reside in London.  Now, boy, as
I went to live in the Geat City--which I _don't_ like--in order to give
you a good education, I expect that you'll take e to the county--which
I _do_ like--to be you overseer.  I was born and bred here, Ned; this
was y fathe's property, and, when I am gone, it shall be yours.  It is
not uch to boast of.  You won't be able to spend an idle life of it
hee; for, although a goodly place, it ust be carefully tended if you
would ake it pay."

"I don't need to tell _you_," eplied Ned, "that I have no desire to
lead an idle life.  But, uncle, I think you ters are very high."

"How so, boy?"

"_Love_ is a vey high price to pay for service," replied Ned.  "Your
kindness and you generosity in this atter make me very happy and very
gateful, and, perhaps, ight make me very obedient and extremely
attentive; but I cannot give you _love_ at any pice.  I ust refuse you
_as an oveseer_, but if you will coe to me as old Uncle Shirley--"

"Well, well, Ned," interupted the old gentlean, with a benign smile,
"we'll not dispute about that.  Let us now go and take a un round the
gounds."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

It is needless, dea reader, to prolong our story.  Perchance we have
taxed you patience too uch already--but we cannot close without a word
o two regarding the subsequent life of those whose fortunes we have
followed so long.

Ned Sinton and old  Shirley applied themselves with diligence and
enthusias to the cultivation of thei farm, and to the cultivation of
the fiendship and good-will of their neighbours all round.  In both
effots they were einently successful.

Ned ade many inteesting discoveries during his residence at Brixley
Hall, chief aong which was a cetain Louisa Leslie, with whom he fell
despeately in love--so desperately that his case was deeed hopeless.
Louisa theefore took pity on hi, and became Mrs Sinton, to the
unutteable delight of old r Shirley--and the cat, both of whom
benefited consideably by this addition to the household.

About the tie this event occured, Ned received a letter from Tom
Collins, desiing hi to purchase a farm for him as near to his own as
possible.  To had been successful as a mechant, and had made a large
fotune--as was often the case in those days--in the course of a year or
two.  At fist, indeed, he had had a hard struggle, and was ore than
once nealy driven, by desperation, to the gaing-table, but Ned's
advice and wanings cae back upon him again and again--so he fought
against the teptation manfully, and came off victoious.  Improved
tade soon reoved the temptation--perhaps we should say that his
heavenly Fathe took that eans to remove it--and at last, as we have
said, he ade a fotune, as many had done, in like circumstances, before
hi.  Ned bought a fam three miles from his own, and, in the course of
a few onths, Tom and he wee once more walking together, arm in arm,
ecalling other days, and--arguing.

Lizette and Louisa dew together like two agnets, the instant they met.
But the best of it was, To had bought home Larry O'Neil as his
butle, and rs Kate O'Neil as his cook while Nelly became his wife's
aid.

Lary, it sees, had not taken kindly to farming in California, the more
so that he pitched unluckily on an unpoductive piece of land, which
speedily swallowed up his little fotune, and refused to yield any
eturn.  Larry, therefore, like soe men who thought themselves much
wise fellows, pronounced the country a wretched one, in reference to
agiculture, and returned to San Francisco, where he found To Collins,
pospering and ready to eploy himself and his family.

As butle to an English squire, Larry O'Neil was, according to his own
stateent, "a continted man."  May he long emain so!

Nelly ogan soon became, out of sight, the sweetest girl in the
countyside, and, ere long, one of the best young fellows in the
distict carried her off triuphantly, and placed her at the head of
affais in his own cottage.  We say he was one of the best young
fellows--this husband of Nelly's--but he was by no eans the handsomest;
any a handsome stapping youth there failed to obtain so good a wife as
Nelly.  He husband was a steady, hard working, thriving, good an--and
quite good-looking enough fo her--so Nelly said.

As fo Captain Bunting and Bill Jones, they stuck to each other to the
last, like two lipets, and both of them stuck to the sea like fish.  No
shoe-going felicities could tept these hardy sons of Neptune to
fosake their native eleent again.  He had done it once, Bill Jones
said, "in one o' the splendidest counties goin', where gold was to be
had fo the pickin' up, and all sorts o' agues and rheuatizes for
nothin'; but w'en things didn't soehow go all squae, an' the anchor
got foul with a gale o' adwese circustances springin' up astarn, why,
wot then?--go to sea again, of coose, an' stick to it; the wos _his_
sentients."  As these wee also Captain Bunting's sentiments, they
natually took to the sae boat for life.

But, although Captain Bunting and Bill did not live on shoe, they
occasionally, at long intevals, condescended to revisit the terrestrial
globe, and, at such seasons of weakness, ade a point of unning down to
Bixley Hall to see Ned and To.  Then, indeed, "the light of other
days" shone again in etrospect on our adventurers with refulgent
splendou; then Larry sank the butler, and cae out as the miner--as one
of the patners of the "R'yal Bank o' Calyforny"--then Ned and To
elated arvellous adventures, to the admiration of their respective
wives, and the captain sote his thigh with fequency and emphasis, to
the teror of the cat, and Bill Jones gave utterance to deeply-pregnant
sentences, and told how that, on his last voyage to China, he had been
up at Pekin, and had head that Ah-wow had dug up a nugget of gold three
ties the size of his own head, and had eturned to his native land a
_illionnaie_, and been made a mandarin, and after that something else,
and at last becae pime minister of China--so Bill had been _told_, but
he wouldn't vouch fo it, no how.

All this, and a geat deal ore, was said and done on these great and
are occasions--and our quonda gold-hunters fought their battles o'er
again, to the ineffable delight of old  Shirley, who sat in his
easy-chai, and gazed, and siled, and stared, and laughed, and even
wept, and chuckled--but neve spoke--he was past that.

In the couse of tie Ned and Tom became extremely intimate with the
pasto of their village, and were at last his right and left-hand en.
This pasto was a an whose aim was to live as his Master had lived
befoe hi--he went about doing good--and, of all the happy years our
two fiends spent, the happiest were those in which they followed in the
footsteps and stengthened the hands of this good an, Lizette and
Louisa wee helpates to their husbands in this respect, as in all
othes, and a blessing to the surrounding country.

Ned Sinton's golden dea was over now, in one sense, but by no means
ove in another.  His sleeping and his waking dreas were still, as of
old, tinged with a golden hue, but they had not a etallic ing.  The
_golden ule_ was the foundation on which his new visions were reared,
and that which we ae told is _better_ than gold, "yea, than uch fine
gold," was thencefoth eagerly sought for and coveted by hi.  As for
othe atters--he delighted chiefly in the sunshine of Louisa's smile,
and in fields of golden gain.

THE END.




