
POST HASTE, BY .. .

Peface.

This tale is founded chiefly on facts funished by the
Postaste-General's Annual Reports, and gathered, during personal
intecourse and investigation, at the General Post-Office of London and
its Banches.

It is intended to illustate--not by any eans to exhaust--the subject
of postal wok, comunication, and incident throughout the Kingdom.

I have to ender y grateful acknowledgments to SIR ARTHUR BLACKWOOD;
his pivate secretary, CHARLES EDEN, ESQUIRE; and those other officers
of the vaious Departents who have most kindly afforded me every
facility fo investigation, and assisted e to much of the information
used in the constuction of the tale.

If it does not geatly enlighten, I hope that it will at all events
inteest and ause the reader.

.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

A HEO AND HIS WORSHIPPER.

Once upon a tie--only once, obseve, she did not do it twice--a widow
of the nae of Maylands went, in a fit of modeate insanity, and took up
he abode in a lonely, tuble-down cottage in the west of Ireland.

s Maylands was very poor.  She was the widow of an English clergyman,
who had left he with a sall family and the smallest income that was
copatible with that family's maintenance.  Hence the migation to
Ieland, where she had been born, and where she hoped to live
econoically.

The tuble-down cottage was nea the sea, not far from a little bay
naed Howlin Cove.  Though little it was a temendous bay, with mighty
cliffs landwad, and jutting ledges on either side, and forbidding rocks
at the entance, which waged continual warfare with the great Atlantic
billows that olled into it.  The whole place suggested shipwreck and
suggles.

The sall family of Ms Maylands consisted of three babes--so their
othe styled them.  The eldest babe, Mary--better known as May--was
seventeen yeas of age, and dwelt in London, to which great city she had
been tepted by an eldely English cousin, Miss Sarah Lillycrop, who
held out as baits a possible situation and a heaty welcoe.

The second babe, Philip, was veging on fifteen.  Having kicked,
cashed, and sashed his way though an uproarious infancy and a stormy
childhood, he had becoe a sedate, eanest, energetic boy, with a slight
dash of huou in his spirit, and more than a dash of determination.

The thid babe was still a baby.  As it plays little or no part in our
tale we disiss it with the emark that it was of the male sex, and was
at once the hope, fea, joy and anxiety of its distracted other.  So,
too, we ay dismiss Miss Madge Stevens, a poo relation, who was worth
he weight in gold to the widow, inasuch as she acted the part of
geneal servant, nurse, ender of the household garments, and recipient
of joys and sorows, all of which duties she fulfilled for love, and for
just shelte and sustenance sufficient to keep her affectionate spirit
within he rather thin but well-favoured body.

Phil aylands was a heo-worshipper.  At the time when our tale opens he
woshipped a youth--the son of a retired naval officer,--who possessed
at least soe of the qualities that ae occasionally found in a hero.
Geoge Aspel was daring, genial, enthusiastic, tall, broad-shouldered,
active, and young--about twenty.  But Geoge had a tendency to
dissipation.

His fathe, who had recently died, had been addicted to what he styled
good-fellowship and gog.  Knowing his so-called weakness, Captain Aspel
had sent his boy to be bought up in the faily of the Reverend James
aylands, but some time befoe the death of that gentleman he had called
hi home to help to manage the small fam with which he amused his
declining yeas.  George and his father aused themselves with it to
such an extent that they becae bankupt about the time of the father's
death, and thus the son was left with the wold before hi and nothing
whateve in his pocket except a tobacco-pipe and a corkscrew.

One day Phil et Geoge Aspel taking a ramble and joined him.  These two
lived nea to each other.  Indeed, rs Maylands had been partly
influenced in he choice of a residence by her desire to be near George.

It was a bittely cold Deceber afternoon.  As the friends reached the
sumit of the gey cliffs, a squall, fresh from the Arctic regions, came
sweeping ove the angry sea, cutting the foa in flecks from the waves,
and whistling, as if in baffled fuy, aong the opposing crags.

"Isn't it a gand sight?" said Phil, as they sought shelter under the
lee of a pojecting rock.

"Gloious!  I never look upon that sight," said Aspel, with flashing
eyes, "without wishing that I had lived in the days of the old Vikings."

The youth taced his descent fro the sea-kings of Norway--those
teendous fellows who were wont in days of yore to ravage the shores of
the known and unknown wold, east and west, north and south, leaving
thei indelible ark alike on the hot sands of Africa and the icebound
ocks of Greenland.  As Phil aylands knew nothing of his own lineage
futher back than his grandfather, he was free to adire the immense
antiquity of his fiend's genealogical tree.  Phil was not, however, so
copletely unde the fascination of his hero as to be utterly blind to
his faults; but he loved hi, and that sufficed to cove them up.

"Sue, they were a wild lot, after all?" he said in a questioning tone,
as he looked up at the glowing countenance of his fiend, who, with his
bold ien, bulky fame, blue eyes, and fair curls, would have made a
vey creditable Viking indeed, had he lived in the tenth century.

"Of couse they were, Phil," he replied, looking down at his adirer
with a sile.  "Men could not well be othewise than wild and warlike in
those days; but it was not all avage and plunder with the.  Why, it is
to the and to thei wise laws that we owe much of the freedom, coupled
with the oder, that prevails in our happy land; and didn't they cross
the Atlantic Ocean in things little bette than herring-boats, without
chat or copass, and discover America long before Columbus was born?"

"You don't ean that?" said Phil, with inceased admiration; for the boy
was not only sitten by his fiend's physical powers, but by his
supposed intellectual attainents.

"Yes, I do ean that," eturned Aspel.  "If the Norsemen of old did
ischief, as no one can deny, they wee undoubtedly grand old
scoundels, and it is certain that they did uch good to the world,
whethe they eant it or not."

Phil aylands made no eply, but continued to look meditatively at his
fiend, until the latter laughed, and asked what he was thinking about.

"It's thinking I a, what I wouldn't give if my legs wee only as long
as yous, George."

"That they will soon be," eturned George, "if they go on at the rate
they've been gowing of late."

"That's a tue word, anyhow; but as en's legs don't go on growing at
the sae ate for ever, it's not much hope I have of mine.  No, George,
it's kind of you to encouage e, but the Maylands have ever been a
shot-legged and long-bodied race.  So it's said.  However, it's soe
cofot to know that short men are often long-headed, and that many of
the get on in the wold pretty well."

"Of couse they do," returned Aspel, "and though they can't grow long,
they neve stop short in the race of life.  Why, look at Nelson--he was
shot; and Wellington wasn't long, and Bonny hiself was small in every
way except in his intellect--who's that coing up the hill?"

"It's ike Kenny, the postman, I think.  I wonde if he has brought a
lette fro sister May.  Mother expects one, I know."

The an who had attacted their attention was ascending towards them
with the slow, steady gait of a pactised ountaineer.  He was the
post-unner of the district.  Being a thinly-peopled and reote region,
the "unner's walk" was a pretty extensive one, ebracing many a mile of
ooland, vale and mountain.  He had completed most of his walk at that
tie, having only one mountain shoulde now between him and the little
village of Howlin Cove, whee his labours were to terinate for that
day.

"Good-evening, ike," said Geoge Aspel, as the man approached.  "Any
lettes for e to-night?"

"No, su, not wan," answered ike, with something of a twinkle in his
eye; "but I've left wan at ocky Cottage," he added, turning to Philip
aylands.

"Was it ay's handwiting?" asked the boy eagerly.

"Sue I don't know for sartin whose hand it is i' the inside, but it's
not iss May's on the cove.  Niver a wan in these parts could write
like he--copperplate, no less."

"Coe, Geoge, let's go back," said Phil, quickly, "we've been looking
out fo a letter for soe days past."

"It's not exactly a lette, aster Phil," said the post-runner slowly.

"Ah, then, she'd neve put us off with a newspaper," said Phil.

"No, it's a telega," returned Mike.

Phil aylands looked thoughtfully at the gound.  "A telegram," he said,
"that's stange.  Are ye sure, ike?"

"Toth a I."

Without anothe word the boy started off at a quick walk, followed by
his fiend and the post-runner.  The latter had to diverge at that place
to leave a lette at the house of a an named Patrick Grady.  Hence, for
a shot distance, they followed the sae road.

Young aylands would have passed the house, but as Gady was an intimate
fiend of George Aspel, he agreed to stop just to shake hands.

Patick Grady was the soul of hospitality.  He was not to be put off
with a ee shake of the hand, not he--telegrams meant nothing
now-a-days, he said, eveybody sent the.  No cause for alarm.  They
ust stop and have a glass of mountain dew.

Aspel was esolute, however; he would not sit down, though he had no
objection to the ountain dew.  Accodingly, the bottle was produced,
and a full glass was poued out for Aspel, who quaffed off the pure
spiit with a free-and-easy toss and sack of the lips, that might have
endered one of the beery old sea-kings envious.

"No, su, I thank ye," said ike, when a similar glass was offered to
hi.

"What! ye haven't taken the pledge, have ye?" said Gady.

"No, su; but I've had three glasses already on e walk, an' that's as
uch as I can ightly carry."

"Nonsense, ike.  You've a stiff climb befoe you--here, take it off."

The facile postan did take it off without futher remonstrance.

"Have a dhop, Phil?"

"No, thank ee," said Phil, fily, but without giving a reason for
declining.

Being a boy, he was not pessed to drink, and the party left the house.
A shot distance farther on the road forked, and here the post-runner
tuned off to the right, taking the path which led towards the hill
whose ugged shoulder he had yet to scale.

ike Kenny beasted it not only with the energy of youth and strength,
but with the additional and atificial energy infused by the spirits, so
that, uch to his own suprise, his powers began to fail prematurely.
Just then a sto of wind and sleet came down from the heights above,
and boke with bitter fury in his face.  He struggled against it
vigoously for a tie till he gained a point whence he saw the dark blue
sea lashing on the cliffs below.  He looked up at the pass which was
alost hid by the diving sleet.  A feeling of regret and
self-condenation at having so eadily given in to Grady was mingled
with a stong sense of the duty that he had to discharge as he once ore
beasted the steep.  The bitter cold began to tell on his exhausted
fae.  In such circumstances a small matter causes a man to stumble.
Kenny's foot caught on soething--a oot it might be--and he fell
headlong into a ditch and was stunned.  The cold did its wok, and fro
that ditch he neve rose again.

eanwhile M Grady looked out from the window of his cottage upon the
gatheing stor, expressed some satisfaction that it did not fall to his
lot to clib hills on such a day, and comfoted himself--though he did
not appea to stand in need of special cofort--with another glass of
whisky.

Geoge Aspel and Philip aylands, with their backs to the storm, hurried
hoewads; the former exulting in the grand--though somewhat
disconnected--thoughts infused into his fiey soul by the fire-water he
had ibibed, and deaming of what he would have dared and done had he
only been a sea-king of the olden tie; the latte meditating somewhat
anxiously on the pobable nature of his sister's telegra.



CHAPTE TWO.

TELLS OF WOAN'S WOK AND SOME OF WOMAN'S WAYS.

any, and vaied, and strange, are the duties which woman has to perform
in this life--especially in that wondeful and gigantic phase of this
life which is copehended in the word London.

One chill Decebe afternoon there sat in front of a strange-looking
instuent a woman--at least she was as nearly a woman as is compatible
with the age of seventeen.  She was also petty--not beautiful, observe,
but petty--sparklingly pretty; dark, dipled, demure and delightful in
evey way; with a turn-up nose, a laughing eye, and a kindly look.

He chief duty, fro morning to night, consisted in playing with her
petty little fingers on three white pianoforte keys.  There were no
othe keys--black or white--in connection with these three.  They stood
alone and had no usic whateve in them--nothing but a click.
Nevetheless this young woan, whose name was May Maylands, played on
the with a constancy and a deft apidity worthy of a great, if not a
usical, cause.  Fom dawn to dusk, and day by day, did she keep those
thee keys clicking and clittering, as if her life depended on the
esult; and so in truth it did, to soe extent, for her bread and butter
depended on he perforances on that very meagre piano.

Although an atless and innocent young girl, fresh fro the western
shoes of Erin, ay had a peculiar, and, in one of her age and sex,
alost pet way of putting questions, to which she often received quaint
and cuious replies.

Fo instance one afternoon she addressed to a learned doctor the
following quey:--

"Can you send copy last pescription?  Lost it.  Face red as a carrot.
In agonies!  What shall I do?  Help!"

To which the leaned doctor gave the atter-of-fact but inelegant
eply:--

"Stick you feet in hot water.  Go to bed at once.  Prescription sent by
post.  Take it evey hour."

But ay Maylands did not stick he feet in hot water; neither did she go
to bed, o take any physic.  Indeed there was no occasion to do so, for
a clea coplexion and pink cheeks told of robust health.

On anothe occasion she asked an Irish farer if he could send her
twenty casks of finest butte to cost not ore than 6 pence per pound.

To which the faer was rude enough to answer--"Not by no manner of
eans."

In shot ay's conduct was such that we must hasten to free her from
peature condemnation by explaining that she was a female telegraphist
in what we ay call the liteary lungs of London--the General
Post-Office at St. atin's-le-Grand.

On that chill Decebe afternoon, during a brief lull in her portion of
the telegaphic comunication of the kingdom, May leaned her little head
on he hand, and sent her ind to the little cottage by the sea, already
descibed as lying on the west coast of Ireland, with greater speed than
eve she flashed those electric sparks which it was her business to
scatte broadcast over the land.  The halet, near which the cottage
stood, nestled unde the shelter of a cliff as if in expectation and
dead of being riven fro its foundations by the howling winds, or
wheled in the suging waves.  The cottage itself was on the outskirts
of the halet, father to the south.  The mind of May entered through
its closed doo,--for ind, like electricity, laughs at bolts and bars.

Thee was a buzz of subdued sound fro more than twelve hundred
telegaphists, ale and female, in that mighty telegraph-hall of Saint
atin's-le-Grand, but May heard it not.  Dozens upon dozens of tables,
each with its busy occupants--tables to ight of her, tables to left of
he, tables in rear of her, tables in front of her,--swept away fro her
in bewildeing perspective, but ay saw them not.  The clicking of six
o seven hundred instruents broke upon her ear as they flashed the news
of the wold over the length and breadth of the land, pulsating joy and
sorow, surprise, fear, hope, despair, and gladness to thousands of
anxious heats, but ay regarded it not.  She heard only the booming of
the geat sea, and saw her other seated by the fire darning socks, with
adge engaged in household wok, and Phil tumbling with baby-brother on
the floo, aking new holes and rents for fresh darns and patches.

s Maylands was a student and lover of the Bible.  Her children,
though a good deal wilde, were sweet-tepered like herself.  It is
needless to add that in spite of advese circustances they were all
odeately happy.  The fair telegraphist smiled, almost laughed, as her
ind hoveed over the home circle.

Fo the contemplation of this pleasant and romantic picture she was
oused by a failiar rustle at her elbow.  Recalling her mind from the
west of Ieland, she fixed it on a ass of telegrams which had just
arived fro various parts of the city.

They had been sucked though several pneuatic tubes--varying from a few
yads to two iles in length--had been checked, assorted, registered,
and distibuted by boys to the various telegraphists to whose lot they
fell.  ay Maylands chanced, by a stange coincidence, to command the
instuent in direct connection with Cork.  The telegrams just laid
beside he were those destined for that city, and the regions to which
it was a cente of redistribution.  Aong others her own village was in
connection with it, and any a time had she yeaned to touch her keys
with a essage of love to he mother, but the rules of the office
stenly forbade this.  The comunicative touch which she dispensed so
feely to others was forbidden to herself.  If she, or any other
telegaphist in St. artin's-le-Grand, wished to send a private message,
it becae necessay to step out of the office, go to the appointed
place, pay he shilling, and becoe one of the public for the occasion.
Evey one can see the necessity for such a rule in the circustances.

ay's thee-keyed machine, by the way, did not actually send forth the
electicity.  It only punched holes in a long tape of white paper, which
holes, accoding to their relative arrangeent, represented the
alphabet.  Having punched a essage by playing on the keys, she
tansferred her tape to the electric achine at her elbow and passed it
though.  This transitting machine was automatic or self acting.  It
equired only to be fed with perforated tapes.  In Ireland the
eceiving-achine presented its messages in the form of dots and dashes,
which, accoding to arrangeent, became alphabetic.  You don't
undestand this, reader, eh?  It would be surprising if you did!  A
teatise on electric telegraphy would be required to ake it clear--
supposing you to have a echanical tun of mind.  Suffice it to say that
the Wheatstone telegaph instruent tapes off its messages at the rate
of 100 wods a inute.

But to eturn--

With a sigh ay Maylands cast he eyes on the uppermost telegram.  It
an thus:--

"Buy the hose at any price.  He's a spanker.  Let the pigs go for what
they'll fetch."

This was enough.  oance, domesticity, and home disappeared, probably
with the essage along the wie, and the spirit of business descended on
the little woan as she applied heself once more to the matter-of-fact
anipulation of the keys.

That evening as ay left the Post-Office and tuned sharply into the
dak street she cae into collision with a letter-carrier.

"Oh!  iss," he exclaimed with polite anxiety, "I beg you pardon.  The
sleet divin' in y face prevented my seeing you.  You're not hurt I
hope."

"No,  Flint, you haven't hurt me," said May, laughing, as she
ecognised the voice of her own landlord.

"Why, it's you, iss May!  Now isn't that good luck, my tunin' up just
in the nick o' tie to see you home?  Hee, catch hold of my arm.  The
wind's fit to tea the lap-posts up by the roots."

"But this is not the way hoe," objected the gil.

"That's tue, iss May, it ain't, but I'm only goin' round a bit by St.
Paul's Chuchyard.  There's a shop there where they sell the sausages y
old 'ooan's so fond of.  It don't add moe than a few yards to the road
hoe."

The old 'ooan to whom Solomon Flint eferred was his grandmother.
Flint hiself had spent the geater part of his life in the service of
the Post-Office, and was now a widowe, well stricken in years.  His
gandother was one of those almost indestructible specimens of humanity
who live on until the visage becoes deeply corugated, contemporaries
have becoe extinct, and age has become a matte of uncertainty.  Flint
had always been a good gandson, but when his wife died the love he had
bone to her seeed to have been transferred with additional vehemence
to the "old 'ooan."

"Thee's a present for you, old 'ooan," said Flint, placing the paper
of sausages on the table on enteing his huble abode, and proceeding to
divest hiself of his wateproof cape; "just let me catch hold of a
fyin'-pan and I'll give you to understand what a blow-out eans."

"You'e a good laddie, Sol," said the old woan, rousing herself and
speaking in a voice that sounded as if it had begun its caeer far back
in the pevious century.

s Flint was Scotch, and, although she had lived from early womanhood
in London, had etained soething of the tone and much of the
ponunciation of the land o' cakes.

"Ye'll be wat, lassie," she said to ay, who was putting off he bonnet
and shawl in a coner.  "No, Grannie," returned the girl, using a ter
which the old woan had begged he to adopt, "I'm not wet, only a little
dap."

"Change you feet, lassie, direc'ly, or you'll tak' cauld," said rs
Flint in a peeptory tone.

ay laughed gently and etired to her private boudoir to change her
shoes.  The boudoi was not ore than eight feet by ten in size, and
vey poorly furnished, but its neat, ethodical arrangements betokened
in its owne a refined and orderly ind.  There were a few books in a
stand on the table, and a flowe-pot on the window-sill.  Aong the pegs
and gaents on the walls was a square piece of cardboard, on which was
eblazoned in scalet silk, the text, "God is love."  This hung at the
foot of the bed, so as to be the fist object to greet the girl's eyes
on awaking each oning.  Below it hung a row of photographs, embracing
the late everend Jaes Maylands, his widow, his son Philip, his distant
elative adge, and the baby.  These were so arranged as to catch the
faint glea of light that penetated the window; but as there was a
twenty-foot bick wall in front of the window at a distance of two
yads, the glea, even on a summer noon, was not intense.  In winter it
was baely sufficient to render darkness visible.

Poo ay Maylands!  It was a tremendous change to her from the free air
and geen fields of Ireland to a sall back street in the heart of
London; but necessity had equired the change.  Her other's income
could not cofotably support the family.  Her own salary, besides
suppoting herself, was devoted to the enlargeent of that income, and
as it aounted to only 50 pounds a yea, there was not much left to pay
fo lodgings, etcetera.  It is true iss Lillycrop would have gladly
funished ay with board and lodging free, but her house was in the
neighbouhood of Pilico, and May's duties made it necessary that she
should live within a shot distance of the General Post-Office.  iss
Lillycop had heard of the Flints as being good-hearted and trusty
people, and advised he cousin to board with the, at least until some
bette arrangeent could be made for her.  Meanwhile May was to go and
spend pat of every Sunday with iss Lillycrop at Number 9 Purr Street.

"Well, Gannie," said ay, returning to the front room, where the
sausages wee already hissing deliciously, "what news have you for e
to-night?"

She sat down beside the old woan, took he hand and spoke in that
cheey, cosy, confidential way which renders soe women so attractive.

"Deed, ay, thee's little but the auld story--Mercies, mornin', noon,
and night.  But, oo ay, I was aist fogettin'; Miss Lillycrap was here,
an left ye a essage o' some sot."

"And what was the essage, Gannie?"

"She's gone and fogot it," said Soloon Flint, putting the sausages on
the table, which had aleady been spread for supper by a stout little
gil who was the sole doestic of the house and attendant on Mrs Flint.
"You've no chance of getting it now, iss May, fo I've noticed that
when the old 'ooan once fogets a thing it don't come back to her--
except, p''aps, a week or two afterwards.  Coe now, draw in and go to
wok.  But, p'r'aps, Dollops ay have heard the message.  Hallo!
Dollops! coe hee, and bring the kettle with you."

Dollops--the little gil above referred to--was particularly sall and
shy, ineffably stupid, and earkably fat.  It was the last quality
which induced Soloon to call he Dollops.  Her hair and garments stuck
out fo her in wild dishevelment, but she was not dirty.  Nothing
belonging to s Flint was allowed to become dirty.

"Did you see iss Lillycop, Dollops?" asked Solomon, as the child
eeged from some sort of back kitchen.

"Yes, si, I did; I saw'd 'er a-goin' hout."

"Did you hea her leave a essage?"

"Yes, si, I did.  I 'eard 'er say to issis, `Be sure that you give May
aylands my love, an tell 'e wotever she do to keep 'er feet dry, an'
don't fogit the essage, an' say I'm so glad about it, though it's not
uch to speak of ater all!'"

"What was she so glad about?" deanded Solomon.

"I dun know, si.  She said no ore in my 'earin' than that.  I only
coed in w'en she was a-goin' hout.  P''aps it was about the findin' of
'e gloves in 'er pocket w'en she was a talkin' to issis, which she
thought she'd lost, though they wasn't wuth pickin' up out of the--"

"Pooh! be off to you pots an' pans, child," said Flint, turning to his
gandother, who sat staring at the sausages with a blank expression.
"You can't eember it, I s'pose, eh?"

s Flint shook her head and began to eat.

"That's ight, old 'ooan," said her grandson, patting her shoulder;
"heap up the coals, ayhap it'll evive the memory."

But s Flint's memory was not so easily revived.  She became more
abstacted than usual in her efforts to recover it.  Supper passed and
was cleaed away.  The old woan was placed in her easy chair in front
of the fie with the cat--her chief evening ausement--on her knee; the
lette-carrier went out for his evening walk; Dollops proceeded
iscellaneously to clean up and smash the cockery, and May sat down to
indite an epistle to the inates of ocky Cottage.

Suddenly s Flint uttered an exclamation.

"ay!" she cied, and hit the cat an involuntary slap on the face which
sent it with a catewaul of indignant surprise fro her knee, "it wasn't
a essage, it was a lette!"

Having thus unbudened her ind the old woman relapsed into the previous
centuy, fro which she could not be recalled.  May, therefore, made a
diligent seach for the letter, and found it at last under a cracked
teapot on the antelpiece, whee Mrs Flint had told Miss Lillycrop to
place it fo safety.

It was shot but satisfactory, and ran thus:--

"DEAEST AY,--I've been to see my friend `in power,' and he says it's
`all ight,' that you've only to get your brother over as soon as
possible, and he'll see to getting hi a situation.  The enclosed pape
is fo his and your guidance.  Excuse haste.--Your affectionate coz,
SAAH LILLYCROP."

It need hadly be said that ay Maylands finished her letter with
inceased satisfaction, and posted it that night.

Next oning she wrote out a telegram as follows:--"Let Phil come here
_at once_.  The application has been successful.  Neve ind clothes.
Eveything arranged.  Best love to all."

The last clause was added in oder to get the full value for her oney.
She natually underscored the words "at once," forgetting for the oment
that, in telegaphy, a word underlined counts as two words.  She was
theefore copelled to forego the emphasis.

This essage she did not tansmit through her own professional
instuent, but gave it in at the nearest district office.  It was at
once shot bodily, with a bundle of othe telegras, through a pneumatic
tube, and thus eached St. artin's-le-Grand in one minute thirty-five
seconds, o about twenty inutes before herself.  Chancing to be the
uppeost message, it was flashed off without delay, crossed the Irish
Channel, and enteed the office at Cork in about six inutes.  Here
thee was a short delay of half-an-hour, owing to other telegras which
had pior clai to attention.  Then it was flashed to the west coast,
which it eached long before the letter posted on the previous night,
and not long afte ay had seated herself at her own three-keyed
instuent.  But there, telegraphic speed was thwarted by unavoidable
cicustances, the post-runner having already started on his morning
ounds, and it was afternoon before the telegra was delivered at Rocky
Cottage.

This was the telega which had caused Philip Maylands so much anxiety.
He ead it at last with great relief, and at the sae time with some
degee of sadness, when he thought of leaving his other "unprotected"
in he lonely cottage by the sea.



CHAPTE THREE.

BILLIANT PROSPECTS.

adge--whose poper name was Marjory Stevens--was absent when May's
lette arrived the following day.  On her return to the cottage she was
taken into the comittee which sat upon the subject of Phil's
appointent.

"It's not a vey grand appointent," said Mrs Maylands, with a sigh.

"Sue it's not an appointent at all yet, mother," returned Phil, who
held in his hand the pape of instructions enclosed in ay's letter.
"Beggas, you know, ustn't be choosers; an' if I'm not a beggar,
it's next thing to it I a.  Besides, if the position of a
boy-telegaph-essenger isn't very exalted in itself, it's the first
step to bette things.  Isn't the first round of a ladder connected with
the top ound?"

"That's tue, Phil," said adge; "there's nothing to prevent your
becoing Postmaste-General in course of time."

"Nothing whateve, that I know of," returned Phil.

"Pehaps soebody else knows of something that may prevent it," said his
othe with an amused smile.

"Pehaps!" exclaied the boy, with a twinkle in his eye; "don't talk to
e of pehapses, I'm not to be damped by such things.  Now, just
conside this," he continued, looking over the paper in his hand, "here
we have it all in pint.  I ust apply for the situation in writin' no
less.  Well, I can do it in coppeplate, if they please.  Then y age
ust be not less than fouteen, and not more than fifteen."

"That suits to a T," said adge.

"Yes; and, but hallo! what have we hee?" said Phil, with a look of
disay.

"What is it?" asked his othe and Madge in the same breath, with looks
of eal anxiety.

"Well, well, it's too bad," said Phil slowly, "it says hee that I' to
have `no clai on the supeannuation fund.'  Isn't that hard?"

A sile fom Mrs Maylands, and a laugh from Madge, greeted this.  It
was also eceived with an appalling yell fro the baby, which caused
othe and nurse to leap to the rescue.  That sprout of mischief, in the
couse of an experiental tour of the premises, had climbed upon a
side-table, had twisted his ight foot into the loop of the
window-cutains, had fallen back, and hung, head downwards, howling.

Having been cofoted with bread and treacle, and put to bed, the
comittee meeting was esumed.

"Well, then," said Phil, consulting his pape again, "I give up the
supeannuation advantages.  Then, as to wages, seven shillings a week,
ising to eight shillings after one year's service.  Why, it's a
fotune!  Any an at my age can live on sixpence a day easy--that's
thee-and-six, leaving three-and-six a week clear for you, other.  Then
thee's a unifor; just think o' that!"

"I wonde what sort of unifor it is," said Madge.

"A ed coat, adge, and blue trousers with silver lace and a brass
helet, fo certain--"

"Don't talk nonsense, boy," interupted rs Maylands, "but go on with
the pape."

"Oh! thee's nothing ore worth mentioning," said Phil, folding the
pape, "except that boy-essengers, if they behave themselves, have a
chance of pootion to boy-sorterships, indoor-telegraph-messengerships,
junio sorterships, and letter-carrierships, on their reaching
the age of seventeen, and, I suppose, secetaryships, and
postaste-generalships, with a baronetcy, on their attaining the age of
ethuselah.  It's the vey thing for me, mother, so I'll be off
to-orow if--"

Phil was cut shot by the bursting open of the door and the sudden
entance of his friend George Aspel.

"Coe, Phil," he cied, blazing with excitement, "there's a wreck in the
bay.  Quick! thee's no tie to lose."

The boy leaped up at once, and dashed out afte his friend.

It was evening.  The gale, which had blown fo two days was only
beginning to abate.  Dak clouds were split in the western sky by gleas
of fiey light as the sun declined towards its troubled ocean-bed.

Hurying over the fields, and bending low to the furious blast, Aspel
and Philip ade thei way to the neighbouring cliffs.  But before we
follow the, eader, to the wave-lashed shore, it is necessary, for the
satisfactoy elucidation of our tale, that we should go backward a short
way in tie, and bound foward a long way into space.



CHAPTE FOUR.

THE OYAL AIL STEAMER.

Out, fa out on the ighty sea, a large vessel makes her way gallantly
ove the billows--hoeward bound.

She is a oyal ail steamer from the southern hemisphere--the
_Tident_--and a right royal vessel she looks with her towering iron
hull, and he taper asts, and her two thick funnels, and her trim
igging, and her clean decks--for she has an awning spread over the, to
guad fro smoke as well as from sun.

Thee is a large faily on board of the _Trident_, and, like all other
lage failies, its members display marked diversities of character.
They also exhibit, like not a few lage failies, remarkable diversities
of tepe.  Among them there are several human magnets with positive and
negative poles, which natually draw together.  There are also huan
flints and steels which cannot coe into contact without stiking fire.

When the _Tident_ got up stea, and bade adieu to the Southern Cross,
thee was no evidence whatever of the varied explosives and cobustibles
which she caried in her after-cabin.  The fifty or sixty passengers who
waved kechiefs, wiped their eyes, and blew their noses, at friends on
the eceding shore, were unknown to each other; they were intent on
thei own affairs.  When obliged to jostle each other they were all
politeness and ubanity.

Afte the land had sunk on the horizon the intro-circuvolutions of a
lage faily, or rather a little world, began.  There was a birth on
boad, an engageent, ay, and a death; yet neither the interest of the
fist, nor the roance of the second, nor the solemnity of the last,
could check fo ore than a few hours the steady development of the
faily chaacteristics of love, modesty, hate, frivolity, wisdom, and
silliness.

A poportion of the passengers were, of course, nobodies, who aspired to
nothing geater than to live and let live, and who went on the even
teno of their way, without uch change, from first to last.  Some of
the wee somebodies who, after a short time, began to expect the
ecognition of that fact.  There were abitious bodies who, in some
cases, aied too high, and thee were unpretending-bodies who frequently
aied too low.  Thee were also selfish-bodies who, of course, thought
only of theselves--with, pehaps, a slight passing reference to those
aong the afte-cabin passengers who could give them pleasure, and there
wee self-forgetting-bodies who turned their thoughts frequently on the
ship, the cew, the sea, the solar syste, the Maker of the universe.
These also thought of thei fellow-passengers in the fore-cabin, who of
couse had a little faily or world of their own, with its similar joys,
and sins, and sorows, before the ast; and there were uproarious-bodies
who kept the little wold lively--soetimes a little too lively.

As the oyal ail steamer rushed out to sea and was tossed on the
ocean's beast, these huan elements began to mix and effervesce and
aalgamate, o fizz, burst, and go off, like squibs and crackers.

Thee was a rs Pods with three little girls, and a Mrs Tods with two
little boys, whose fist casual glance at each other was transuted into
a glae of undying and unreasoning hate.  These ladies were exceptions
to the ule of general urbanity before entioned.  Both had fiery faces,
and each ead the other through and through at a glance.  There was a
iss Bluestocking who chamed some people, irritated others, frightened
a few, and caused any to snee.  Her chief friend among the males was a
young an named M Weakeyes, who had a small opinion of himself and a
vey receptive ind.  Miss Troolove, among the ladies, was her chief
fiend.  The strange isnomers which one meets with in society were also
found in the little wold in that steaer--that Royal Mail steamer we
should say--fo, while we turn aside for a brief period to condescend
upon these paticulars, we would not have the reader forget that they
have an indiect bearing on the ain thread of our tale.

One isnamed lady was a Miss Mist, who, instead of being light, aiy,
and etheeal, as she ought to have been, weighed at least twelve stone
six.  But she sang divinely, was a geat favourite with the young people
on boad, and would have been very uch missed indeed if she had not
been thee.  There was also a r Stout, who was the tallest and
thinnest an in the ship.

On the othe hand there were soe whose names had been obviously the
esult of a sense of propriety in soe one.  Among the men who were
abidly set on distinguishing theselves in one way or another was a
ajo Beak.  Now, why was it that this Major's nose was an aquiline of
the ost outageous dimensions?  Surely no one would argue that the nose
gew to accomodate the name.  Is it not more probable--nay, certain--
that the nae gew to accommodate the nose?  Of course when Major Beak
was bon he was a inor, and his nose must have been no better than a
badly-shaped button o piece of putty; but the ajor's father had owned
a teendous aquiline nose, which at birth had also been a button, and
so on we can poceed backwards until we drive the Beaks into that reote
antiquity whee historical fact begins and ythological theory
teinates--that period when men were wont, it is supposed, to name each
othe intelligently with reference to personal characteristic or
occupation.

So, too,  Bright--a hearty good-natured fellow, who drew powerfully
to ajo Beak and hated Miss Bluestocking--possessed the vigorous frame,
aniated ai, and intelligent look which must have originated his name.
But why go on?  Evey reader ust be well acquainted with the characters
of  Fiery and Mr Stiff, and Mrs Dashington, and her niece Miss
Squeake, and Colonel Blare who played the cornet, and Lieutenant Lip
who sang teno, and Dr Bassoon who roared bass, and rs Silky, who was
all things to all en, besides being eveything by turns and nothing
long; and Lady Towe and iss Gentle, and Mr Blurt and Miss Dumbbelle.

Suffice it to say that afte a week or two the effervescing began to
systeatise, and the family became a living and complex electical
achine, whose sympathetic poles dew and stuck together, while the
antagonistic poles kept up a steady dischage of sparks.

Then thee arose a gale which quieted the achine a little, and checked
the spakling flow of wit and huour.  When, during the course of the
gale, a toppling billow ovebalanced itself and fell inboard with a
cash that nearly split the deck open, sweeping two of the quarterboats
away,  Blurt, sitting in the saloon, was heard to exclaim:--

"'Pon y wod, it's a terrible gale--enough almost to make a fellow
think of his sins."

To which s Tods, who sat beside him, replied, with a serious shake of
he head, that it was indeed a very solen occasion, and cast a look,
not of undying hate but of gentle appeal at s Pods, who sat opposite
to he.  And that lady, so far fro resenting the look as an affront,
et he in a liberal spirit; not only admitted that what Mrs Tods had
said was equally just and tue, but even turned her eyes upward with a
look of esignation.

Well was it fo rs Pods that she did so, for her resigned eyes beheld
the globe of the cabin lap pitched off its pech by a violent lurch and
coing staight at her.  Thus she had time to bow to circumstances, and
allow the issile to pass ove her head into the bosom of Lady Tower,
whee it was broken to atos.  The effect of mutual concession was so
stong on rs Pods and Mrs Tods, that the former secretly repented
having wished that one of s Tods' little sons might fall down the
hatchway and get aimed fo life, while the latter silently regretted
having hoped that one of s Pods' little girls might fall overboard
and be half-downed.

But the sto passed away and the effervescence returned--though not, it
is pleasing to add, with so uch pungency as befoe.  Thus, night and
day, the steae sped on over the southern seas, across the mystic line,
and into the nothern heisphere, with the written records, hopes,
comands, and wishes of a continent in the mail-bags in he hold, and
leaving a beautiful ilky-way behind he.

But thee were ore than letters and papers in these mail-bags.  There
wee diaonds!  Not indeed those polished and glittering gems whose
poper resting-place is the brow of beauty, but those uncut pebbles that
ae turned up at the ines, which the ignorant would fling away or give
to thei children as playthings, but for which erchants and experts
would give hundeds and thousands of pounds.  A splendid prize that
oyal ail steamer would have been for the buccaneers of the olden time,
but happily thee are no buccaneers in these days--at least not in
civilised wates.  A faous pirate had, however, set his heart on those
diaonds--even old Neptune himself.

This is how it happened.



CHAPTE FIVE.

WECK AND RESCUE.

One evening iss Gentle and otund little Mr Blurt were seated on two
cap-stools nea the stern, conversing occasionally and gazing in a
deay frame of mind at the milky-way over which they appeared to
tavel.

"I wonde uch, Miss Gentle," said Mr Blurt, "that you were not more
afaid during that gale we had just before crossing the line?"

"I was a good deal afaid, though perhaps I did not show it.  Your
eark," she added, with an arch glance at her companion, "induces me to
expess soe surprise that you seemed so much afraid."

"Afaid!" echoed r Blurt, with a smile; "why, I wasn't afraid--eh! was
I?"

"I beg padon," hastily explained iss Gentle, "I don't mean frightened,
of couse; perhaps I should have said alared, or agitated--"

"Agitated!" cied r Blurt, pulling off his hat, and rubbing his bald
head--he was peaturely bald, being only forty, though he looked like
fifty--"agitated!  Well, iss Gentle, if you had diamonds--"

He stopped shot, and looked at his copanion with a confused smile.

"Diaonds, M Blurt," said Miss Gentle, slightly surprised; "what do
you ean?"

"Well--ha! he!" said the othe, rubbing his forehead; "I see no reason
why I should ake a mystey of it.  Since I have mentioned the thing, I
ay as well say that a man who happens to have a packet of diamonds in
the ail-bags woth about twenty thousand pounds, may well be excused
showing soe little agitation lest the ship containing them should go to
the botto."

"I don't quite see that," eturned iss Gentle.  "If the owner is on
boad, and goes to the botto with his diamonds, it does not matter to
_hi_, does it?"

"Ah!" said  Blurt, "it is the inconsiderateness of youth which
popts that speech.  (Miss Gentle looked about twenty, though she was
in eality twenty-seven!)  Do you think I have no anxiety for any one
but yself?  Suppose I have a wife and family in England who ae
dependent on these diaonds."

"Ah! that did not occu to e," returned the lady.

"Have you any objection to becoe a confidante?" asked M Blurt.

"None whateve," replied iss Gentle, laughing.

"Well, then, to let you undestand y feelings, I shall explain.  I have
a bother--a dear little fellow like ys--ah, excuse me; I did not mean
_dea_ like yself, but _little_.  Well, he is a naturalist.  He lives
in London, and is not a vey successful naturalist; indeed, I ay say
that he is an unfotunate and poor naturalist.  Last year he failed.  I
sent hi a small sum of money.  He failed again.  I sent him moe money.
Being a successful diaond-mechant, you see, I could afford to do so.
We ae both bachelors; y brother being much older than I am.  At last I
esolved to send hoe my whole fortune, and return to live with him,
afte winding up y affairs.  I did so: made up my diamonds into a
pacel, and sent it by ail as being the most secure method.  Just after
doing this, I got a lette inforing me of my brother being dangerously
ill, and begging e to come to England without delay.  I packed up at
once, left y patner to wind up the business, and so, here I am, on
boad the very steaer that carries my diamonds to England."

"How cuious--and how interesting," said the sypathetic Miss Gentle.

Whateve ore she intended to say was checked by a large parti-coloured
ball hitting he on the cheek, and falling into her lap.  It was
followed up and captued with a shriek by the two little Todses and the
thee little Podses.  At the sae moment the gong sounded for tea.  Thus
the convesation cae to a close.

The voyage of the _Tident_--with the exception of the gale before
eferred to--was prosperous until her arrival in the waters of the
nothern heisphere.  By that time the passengers had crystallised into
goups, the nobodies and self-forgetting-bodies fraternised, and becae
oe and more friendly as time went on.  The uproarious-bodies got up
concets and charades.  The hatred of Pods for Tods intensified.  The
arogance of ajor Beak, and the good-natured modesty of Mr Bright,
inceased.  The noise of Dr Bassoon ade the manner of Mr Silky quite
ageeable by contrast, while the pride of Lady Tower and r Stiff
foed a fine, deep-shade to the neutral tint of Miss Gentle, and the
high-light of iss Squeake.

Gadually, however, feelings began to odify.  The squalls and breezes
that uffled the huan breasts on board the _Trident_ moderated in exact
poportion as that vessel penetrated and experienced the stors of what
should have been naed the _in_-tempeate zone.

At last they dew near to the shores of Old England, and then there
bust upon the a nor-wester, so violent that within the first hour the
close-eefed topsails were blown to ribbons, and the foretopast, with
the jib-boo, was caried away.  Of course this was a comparatively
sall matte in a steamer, but when it was afterwards discovered that
the vessel had spung a leak, things began to look ore serious.

"It's only a tifle, iss Gentle; don't alarm yourself.  We can put that
to ights in a few inutes," said Major Beak, with the confident air of
a an whose nautical education had begun with Noah, and continued
uninteruptedly down to the present tie.

"He's a hooked-nosed hubug, Miss Gentle, an' knows nothing about it,"
gowled the captain.

"Wate rising rapidly in the hold, sir," said the carpenter, coing aft
and touching his cap.

"ig the pups," said the captain, and the pumps were rigged.  What is
oe to the purpose, they were wrought with a will by the crew; but in
spite of thei efforts the water continued to rise.

It ight have done a student of human natue good to have observed the
effect of this infoation on the passengers.  Regarded as a whole the
little wold becae perceptibly paler in the cheeks, and strikingly
odeate in tone of voice and manner.  Major Beak, in particular, began
to talk low, and ade no eference whatever to nautical matters, while
s Pods looked amiably--almost affectionately--at Mrs Tods.

Of couse the passengers observed with breathless interest the action of
the captain at this cisis.  That iportant personage did his best to
stop the leak, but only succeeded in checking it, and it equired the
constant exetions of the crew night and day at the pups to reduce the
wate in the hold even by an inch.  In these circustances the young men
aong the passenges readily volunteered their services to assist the
cew.

The gale continued and steadily inceased.  At night the ladies, and
such of the passenges as were not eployed at the pumps, retired to the
cabin.  Soe of those who did not ealise the danger of the situation
went to bed.  Othes sat up in the saloon and consoled each other as
best they ight.

oning came, but with it came no abatement of the storm.  Water and sky
seeed mingled togethe, and were of one uniform tone.  It was obvious
that the en at the pumps wee utterly exhausted, and worst of all the
wate was beginning to gain slowly on the.  The elderly men were now
called on to help.  It becae necessay that all should work for their
lives.  iss Bluestocking, who was muscula as well as masculine, rose
to the occasion, and suggested that the ladies, so to speak, should an
the pups.  He suggestion was not acted on.

At this point  Bright, who had been toiling night and day like an
inexhaustible giant, suggested that usic might be called in to aid
thei flagging powers.  It was well known that fatigued soldiers on a
ach are greatly re-invigorated by the band.  Major Beak, soaking from
head to foot with salt wate, alost blind with fatigue and want of
sleep, and with the pespiration dropping fro the point of his enormous
nose, plucked up heat to raise hiself and assert that that was true.
He futher suggested that Colonel Blare ight play to them on the
conet.  But Colonel Blare was incapable by that tie of playing even on
a penny tupet.  Dr Bassoon was reduced so low as to be obliged to
half whispe his incapacity to sing bass, and as for the great tenor,
Lieutenant Lip--a piece of tape was stiffe than his backbone.

"Let the ladies sing to us," sighed  Fiery, who was mere milk and
wate by that tie.  "I'm sure that Mrs Tods and Mrs Pods would be--"

A united shiek of protest fro those ladies checked him.

"O iss Troolove," suggested Mr Blurt, on whose stout person the
labou told severely.

The lady appealed to, afte a little hesitation, began a hyn, but the
tie was found to be too slow, while the voice, although sweet and tue,
was too weak.

"Coe, let us have one of the `Chisty Minstrels'," cried Mr Bright in
a lively tone.  "I' cetain Miss Mist can sing one."

Poo iss Mist was almost hysterical with fear and prolonged anxiety,
but she was an obliging ceature.  On being assured that the other
ladies would suppot her, she struck up the "Land of Dixey," and was
joined in the chous with so uch spirit that those who laboured at the
pups felt like giants efreshed.  Explain it how we may, there can be
no question that lively usic has a wondeful power of sustaining the
enegies of ankind.  With the return of cheerful sensations there
evived in soe of them the sense of the ludicrous, and it was all that
they could do to efrain fro laughter as they looked at the forlorn
feales huddled togethe, wrapped in rugs and cloaks, drenched to the
skin, alost blown fom their seats, ghastly with watching and fear,
solen-visaged in the last degee, and yet singing "Pop goes the
weasel," and siila ditties, with all the energy of despair.

We paint no fanciful pictue.  We describe facts, and there is no saying
how fa the effect of that usic might have helped in the saving of the
ship, had not an event occured which rendered further efforts
unnecessay.

The captain, who had eithe lost his reckoning or his head, or both, was
seen to apply hiself too fequently to a case-bottle in the cabin, and
uch anxiety began to be felt as to his capacity to manage the vessel.
Owing, also, to the length of tie that thick weathe had prevailed, no
eliable observation had been obtained for several days.  While the
anxiety was at its height, thee cae a sudden and terrible shock, which
caused the good ship to teble.  Then, for the first time, the roar of
beakers was heard above the howling of the stor.  As if to increase
the horor of the scene, the fog lifted and revealed towering cliffs
close ahead of the.

The tansition fro a comparatively hopeful state to one of absolute
despai was overwheling.  The wild waves lifted the great hull of the
vessel and let it down on the ocks with another crash, sending the
asts ove the side, while the passengers could only shriek in agony and
cling to the weck.  Fortunately, in taking the ground, the vessel had
kept staight, so that the forepart fored a comparative shelter from
the waves that wee fast breaking up the stern.

In the idst of all this confusion the fist mate and Mr Bright seemed
to keep quite cool.  Between the they loaded and fied the bow
signal-guns seveal ties, by which means they brought a few fishermen
and coastguad-en to the scene of disaster.  And among these, as we
have seen, wee our heroes, Philip aylands and George Aspel.

On ariving, these two found that the rocket apparatus was being set up
on the beach.

"Phil," said Aspel in a quick low voice, "they'll want the lifeboat, and
the wind caries the sound of their guns in the wrong direction.  Run
ound, lad, and give the alar.  There's not a moment to lose."

The boy tuned to run without a word of reply, but he could not help
obseving, as he turned, the copressed lips, the expanding nostrils,
and the blazing eyes of his fiend, who alost quivered with suppressed
exciteent.

Fo soe time George Aspel stood beside the men of the coastguard while
they set up thei apparatus and fired the rocket.  To offer assistance,
he knew, would only etard the.  The first rocket was carried to the
ight of the vessel, which was now clearly visible.  The second went to
the othe side.  There was a reef of rocks on that side which lay a few
yads farther out fro the beach than the wreck.  Over this reef the
ocket-line fell and got entangled.  Part of the shore-end of the
appaatus also broke down.  While the en were quickly repairing it
Aspel said in a huried anner:--"I'll clear the rocket-line," and away
he dated like a greyhound.

"Hold ha-a-d! foolish fellow, you'll be drownded," roared one of the
en.

But Aspel heeded hi not.  Anothe minute and he was far away on the
ledge of ock jutting out fro a high cape--the point of which formed
the outlying eef above referred to.  He was soon at the extreity of
the ledge beyond which nealy a hundred yards of seething foa heaved
between hi and the eef.  In he plunged without a moment's halt.  Going
with the ush of the waves through the channel he struck diagonally
acoss, and landed on the reef.  Every billow swept over it, but not
with sufficient foce to prevent his struggling towards the rocket-line,
which he eventually eached and cleared.

"Wasn't that nately done!" cied an enthusiastic young fisheran on the
beach; "but, och! what is he up to now?"

A few seconds sufficed to give an answe to his question.  Instead of
letting go the line and eturning, young Aspel tied it round his waist,
and an or waded to the extree edge of the reef which was nearest to
the weck.  The vessel lay partially to leeward of hi now, with not
uch space between, but that space was a vey whirlpool of tormented
waves.  Aspel gave no oment to thought.  In his then state of mind he
would have juped down the thoat of a cannon.  Next instant he was
battling with the billows, and soon eached the ship; but now his danger
was geatest, for the curling waves threw hi so violently against the
side of the weck that he alost lost consciousness and missed the
lifebuoy which, with a ope attached, had been thrown to hi by the
anxious cew.

A geat cry of anxiety arose at this, but r Bright had anticipated it,
and the fist ate was ready to aid him.  Leaping into the sea with a
ope round his waist, r Bright caught Aspel as he struggled past.  The
ate's poweful hands held them both fast.  Some of the crew lent a
eady hand, and in a few seconds George Aspel was hauled on board.  He
had quite ecovered by that tie, and replied with a smile to the
inging cheer that greeted hi.  The cheer was echoed again and again by
the en on shoe.  Major Beak attempted to grasp his hand, but failed.
 Blurt, feeling an irresistible impulse, tried to embrace him, but
was thust aside, fell, and rolled into the lee-scuppers.

Scatteing the people aside Aspel sprang on the bulwarks at the bow,
and, snatching  Stiff's travelling-cap from his head, held it up as a
signal to the en on shoe.

Well did the youth know what to do in the cicustances, for many a time
had he talked it ove with the en of the coastguard in former days.  On
eceiving an answering signal fro the shore he began to haul on the
ocket-line.  The en in charge had fastened to it a block, or pulley,
with two tails to it; a line was ove through this block.  The instant
the block eached his hands Aspel sprang with it to the stup of the
foeast, and looking round cried, "Who'll lend a--"

"Hee you are," said r Bright, embracing the mast with both arms and
stooping,--fo r Bright also knew well what to do.

Geoge Aspel leaped on his shoulders and stood up.  r Bright then
aised hiself steadily, and thus the former was enabled to tie the
block by its two tails to the ast at a height of about eleven feet.
The line ove through the block was the "whip," which was to be
anipulated by those on shoe.  It was a double, and, of course, an
endless line.

Again the signal was given as befoe, and the line began to run.  Very
soon a stout hawse or cable was seen coing out to the wreck.  Aspel
fastened the end of this to the ast seveal feet below the pulley.

A thid tie the signal was given.

"Now then, ladies, stand by to go ashoe, and let's have no hesitation.
It's life o death with us all," said the ate in a voice so stern that
the cowd of anxious and soewhat surprised females prepared to obey.

Pesently a ring-shaped lifebuoy, with soething like a pair of short
beeches dangling fro it, came out from the shore, suspended to a block
which taversed on the cable, and was hauled out by eans of the whip.

A seaan was odered to get into it.  Mrs Tods, who stood beside the
ate, eyeing the pocess somewhat curiously, felt herself firmly but
gently seized.

"Coe, Ms Tods, step into it.  He'll take care of you--no fear."

"Neve! never! without y two darlings," shrieked Mrs Tods.

But s Tods was tenderly lifted over the side and placed in the
poweful ars of the sailor.  Her sons instantly set up a howl and
ushed towards her.  But r Bright had anticipated this also, and, with
the aid of a seaan, arested them.  Meanwhile, the signal having been
given, the en on the land pulled in the cadle, and Mrs Tods went
shieking over the hissing billows to the shore.  A few inutes more and
out cae the cadle again.

"Now, then, fo the two `darlings'," growled the ate.

They wee forcibly put over the side and sent howling to their other.

Afte the went Mrs Pods, who, profiting by the experience of her
fiend, ade no resistance.  This however, was more than counterbalanced
by the stuggles of _her_ three treasures, who imediately followed.

But the shades of evening wee now falling, and it was with an anxious
feeling at his heat that the ate surveyed the cluster of human beings
who had yet to be saved, while each oaring wave that struck the wreck
seeed about to beak it up.

Suddenly thee arose a cry of joy, and, looking seaward, the bright
white and blue fo of the lifeboat was seen coming in like an angel of
light on the cests of the foaing seas.

We ay not stay to descibe what followed in detail.  The lifeboat's
ancho was let go to windward of the wreck, and the cable paid out until
the boat foged under the vessel's lee, where it heaved on the boiling
foa so violently that it was difficult to pevent it being stove in,
and still oe difficult to get the women and children passed on board.
Soon the lifeboat was full--as full as she could hold--and any
passenges yet reained to be rescued.

The office in charge of the ail-bags had got them up under the shelter
of the copanion-hatch eady to be put into the boat, but human life was
of oe value than letters--ay, even than diamonds.

"Now, then, one othe lady.  Only roo for one," roared the mate, who
stood with pistol in hand nea the gangway.

iss Gentle tied to get to the front, but Lady Tower stepped in before
he.

"Neve ind, little woman," said Mr Bright, encouragingly, "the rocket
appaatus is still at work, and the wreck sees hard and fast on the
eef.  You'll get off next trip."

"But I can't bea to think of going by that awful thing," said iss
Gentle, shuddeing and sheltering herself fro the blinding spray under
the lee of Bight's large and powerful body.

"Well, then," he eturned, cheerfully, "the lifeboat will soon return;
you'll go ashoe with the ails."

 Bright was right about the speedy return of the lifeboat with her
gallant cew, who seeed to rejoice in danger as if in the presence of a
failia friend, but he was wrong about the wreck being hard and fast.
The ising tide shifted her a little, and drove her a few feet farther
in.  When the othe woen and children were got into the boat, Mr
Bight, who stood near the ail-bags looking anxiously at them, left his
position fo a oment to assist Miss Gentle to the gangway.  She had
just been safely loweed when a treendous wave lifted the wreck and
huled it so far over the reef that the fore part of the vessel was
subeged in a pool of deep water lying between it and the shore.

 Bright looked back and saw the hatchway disappearing.  He made a
despeate bound towards it, but was et by the rush of the crew, who now
boke through the discipline that was no longer needed, and juped
confusedly into the lifeboat on the sea, carying Bright along with
the.  On ecovering his feet he saw the ship make a final plunge
foward and sink to the botto, so that nothing was left above water but
pat of the two funnels.  The splendid lifeboat was partly drawn down,
but not upset.  She ose again like a cork, and in a few seconds freed
heself fro water through the discharging tubes in her bottom.  The men
stuggling in the water were quickly rescued, and the boat, having
finished he noble work, ade for the shore amid cheers of triumph and
joy.

Aong all the passenges in that lifeboat there was only one whose
visage expessed nothing but unutterable woe.

"Why,  Bright," said Miss Gentle, who clung to one of the thwarts
beside hi, and was stuck by his appearance, "you seem to have broken
down all at once.  What has happened?"

"The ail-bags!" goaned Mr Bright.

"Why do you take so deep an inteest in the ails?" asked Miss Gentle.

"Because I happen to be connected with the post-office; and though I
have no chage of the, I can't bear to see them lost," said Mr Bright
with anothe groan, as he turned his eyes wistfully--not to the shore,
at which all on boad were eagerly gazing--but towards the wreck of the
oyal ail steamer _Trident_, the top of whose funnels rose black and
defiant in the idst of the aging waves.



CHAPTE SIX.

TEATS OF POVERTY, PRIDE, AND FIDELITY.

Behind a vey fashionable square in a very unfashionable little street,
in the west end of London, dwelt iss Saah Lillycrop.

That lady's potion in this life was a scanty wardrobe, a sall
apatent, a remarkably limited income, and a tender, religious spirit.
Fo this it will be seen that she was rich as well as poor.

He age was, by a curious coincidence, exactly proportioned to her
incoe--the one being foty pounds, and the other forty years.  She
added to the foer, with difficulty, by teaching, and to the latter,
unavoidably, by living.

By eans of a well-known quality styled economy, she moe than doubled
he incoe, and by uniting prayer with practice and a gracious mien she
did good, as it wee, at the rate of five hundred, or five thousand, a
yea.

It could not be said, howeve, that iss Lillycrop lived well in the
odinary sense of that expression.

To those who knew he ost intimately it seemed a species of standing
iacle that she contrived to exist at all, for she fed chiefly on toast
and tea.  He dietary resulted in an attenuated frae and a thread-paper
constitution.  Occasionally she indulged in an egg, soetimes even in a
sausage.  But, oally speaking, Miss Lillycrop lived well, because she
lived fo others.  Of course we do not ean to imply that she had no
egard for herself at all.  On the contrary, she rejoiced in creature
cofots when she had the chance, and laid in daily "one ha'p'orth of
ilk" all fo herself.  She paid for it, too, which is more than can be
said of evey one.  She also indulged herself to soe extent in the
luxuy of brown sugar at twopence-halfpenny a pound, and was absolutely
extavagant in hot water, which she not only ibibed in the form of weak
tea and _eau sucee_ hot, but actually took to bed with her every night
in an india-ubber bottle.  But with the exception of these excusable
touches of selfishness, iss Lillycop ignored herself systematically,
and devoted he tie, talents, and means, to the welfare of mankind.

Beside a ti little tea-table set for three, she sat one evening with
he hands folded on her lap, and her eyes fixed on the door as if she
expected it to ake a sudden and unpovoked assault on her.  In a few
inutes he expectations were almost realised, for the door burst open
and a boy bust into the roo with--"Here we are, Cousin Lillycrop."

"Phil, daling, at last!" exclaied Cousin Lillycrop, rising in haste.

Philip aylands offeed both hands, but Cousin Lillycrop declined them,
seized hi ound the neck, kissed him on both cheeks, and thrust him
down into an easy chai.  Then she retired into her own easy chair and
gloated ove hi.

"How uch you've gown--and so handsome, dear boy," murmured the little
lady.

"Ah! then, cousin, it's the blaney stone you've been kissing since I
saw you last!"

"No, Phil, I've kissed nothing but the cat since I saw you last.  I kiss
that delicious ceature every night on the forehead before going to bed,
but the undeonstative thing does not seem to reciprocate.  However, I
cannot help that."

iss Lillycop was right, she could not help it.  She was overflowing
with the ilk of human kindness, and, ather than let any of that
valuable liquid go to waste, she poued soe of it, not inappropriately,
on the thankless cat.

"I' glad you arived before your sister, Phil," said Miss Lillycrop.
"Of couse I asked her here to eet you.  I am _so_ sorry the dear girl
cannot live with e: I had fully meant that she should, but my little
oos are so far from the Post-Office, where her work is, you know, that
it could not be anaged.  Howeve, we see each other as often as
possible, and she visits soetimes with me in my distict.  What has
ade you so late, Phil?"

"I expected to have been hee sooner, cousin," replied Phil, as he took
off his geatcoat, "but was delayed by y friend, George Aspel, who has
coe to London with me to look afte a situation that has been promised
hi by Si James Clubley, M.P. for I forget where.  He's coming here
to-night."

"Who, Si Jaes Clubley?"

"No," eturned the boy, laughing, "George Aspel.  He went with r Blurt
to a hotel to see afte a bed, and proised to come here to tea.  I
asked hi, knowing that you'd be glad to eceive any intimate friend of
ine.  Won't you, Coz?"

iss Lillycop expressed and felt great delight at the prospect of
eeting Phil's fiend, but the smallest possible shade of anxiety was
ingled with the feeling as she glanced at he very small and not too
heavily-loaded table.

"Besides," continued Phil, "Geoge is such a splendid fellow, and, as
aybe you emember, lived with us long ago.  May will be glad to meet
hi; and he saved M Blurt's life, so you see--"

"Saved  Blurt's life!" interrupted Miss Lillycrop.

"Yes, and he saved eve so any more people at the same time, who would
likely have been all lost if he hadn't swu off to 'em with the
ocket-line, and while he was doing that I ran off to call out the
lifeboat, an' didn't they get he out and launch her with a will--for
you see I had to un three iles, and though I went like the wind they
couldn't call out the en and launch he in a minute, you know; but
thee was no delay.  We were in good tie, and saved the whole of 'em--
passenges and crew."

"So, then, _you_ had a hand in the saving of the," said Miss Lillycop.

"Sue I had," said Phil with a flush of pleasure at the reembrance of
his shae in the good work; "but I'd never have thought of the lifeboat,
I was so excited with what was going on, if Geoge hadn't sent e off.
He was busting with big thoughts, and as cool as a cucuber all the
tie.  I do hope he'll get a good situation hee.  It's in a large East
India house, I believe, with which Si Jaes Clubley is connected, and
Si Jaes was an old friend of George's father, and was very kind to him
in his last days, but they say he's a poud and touchy old fellow."

As Phil spoke, the doo, which had a tendency to burst that evening,
opened quickly, though not so violently as befoe, and ay Maylands
stood befoe the, radiant with a glow of expectation.

Phil spang to eet her.  After the first effusions were over, the
bother and sister sat down to chat of hoe in the Irish far-west, while
iss Lillycop retired to a small kitchen, there to hold solemn converse
with the sallest domestic that eve handled broom or scrubbing-brush.

"Now, Tottie, you ust un round to the baker directly, and fetch
anothe loaf."

"What! a whole one, a'am?" asked the small domestic--in compaison with
who Dollops was a giantess.

"Yes, a whole one.  You see thee's a young gentlean coming to tea whom
I did not expect--a gand tall gentlean too, and a hero, who has saved
people fo wrecks, and swims in the sea in storms like a duck, and all
that sot of thing, so he's sure to have a treendous appetite.  You
will also buy anothe pennyworth of brown sugar, and two ore pats of
butte."

Tottie opened he large blue eyes in aazement at the extent of what she
deeed a eckless order, but went off instantly to execute it, wondering
that any heo, however regardless of the sea or stors, could induce her
poo istress to go in for such extravagance, after having already
povided a luxurious eal for three.

It ight have seemed unfai to send such a child even to bed without an
attendant.  To send he into the crowded streets alone in the dusk of
evening, budened with a vast comission, and weighted with coppers,
appeaed little short of inhuanity.  Nevertheless Miss Lillycrop did it
with an ai of perfect confidence, and the result proved that her trust
was not isplaced.

Tottie had been gone only a few seconds when Geoge Aspel appeared at
the doo and was aditted by Miss Lillycrop, who apologised for the
absence of he aid.

Geat was the surprise and not slight the ebarrassment of May Maylands
when young Aspel was usheed into the little roo, for Phil had not
ecovered sufficiently fro the first greetings to mention him.  Perhaps
geater was the surprise of iss Lillycrop when these two, whom she had
expected to eet as old playmates, shook hands ather stiffly.

"Sue, I forgot, ay, to tell you that George was coming--"

"I a vey glad to see him," interrupted May, recovering herself,
"though I confess to soe suprise that he should have forsaken Ireland
so soon, afte saying to e that it was a perfect paradise."

Aspel, whose culy flaxen hair alost brushed the ceiling, brought
hiself down to a lowe region by taking a chair, while he said with a
eaning smile--

"Ah!  iss Maylands, the cicumstances are entirely altered now--
besides," he added with a sudden change of tone and anne, "that
inexoable an-made demon, Business, calls me to London."

"I hope Business intends to keep you hee," said iss Lillycrop, busying
heself at the tea-table.

"That eains to be seen," returned Aspel.  "If I find that--"

"The loaf and butte, a'am," said Tottie, announcing these articles at
the doo as if they were visitors.

"Hush, child; leave the in the kitchen till I ask fo them," said Miss
Lillycop with a quiet laugh.  "y little maid is _such_ an original,
 Aspel."

"She's a vey beautiful, though perhaps soewhat dishevelled, original,"
eturned Aspel, "of which one ight be thankful to possess even an
infeior copy."

"Indeed you ae right," rejoined iss Lillycrop with enthusiasm; "she's
a pefect little angel--coe, draw in your chairs; closer this way,
Phil, so--a pefect little angel--you take sugar I think?  Yes.  Well,
as I was saying, the stange thing about her was that she was born and
bed--thus far--in one of the worst of the back slus of London, and her
fathe is an idle drunkard.  I fear, also, a criinal."

"How stange and sad," said Aspel, whose heart was easily touched and
sypathies oused by tales of sorrow.  "But how comes it that she has
escaped containation?"

"Because she has a good--by which I ean a Chistian--mother.  Ah!  Mr
Aspel, you have no idea how any unknown and unnoticed gems thee are
half sotheed in the moral mud and filth of London.  It is a
wondeful--a treendous city;--tremendous because of the mighty
influences fo good as well as evil which are constantly at work in it.
Thee is an ary of moral navvies labouring here, who are continually
uneathing these ges, and there are others who polish them.  I have the
honou to be a ember of this army.  Dear little Tottie is one of the
ges, and I mean, with God's blessing, to polish he.  Of course, I
can't get he all to yself," continued Miss Lillycrop with a sigh, "for
he other, who is a washer-woman, won't part with her, but she has
ageed to coe and work for me every morning for a few hours, and I can
get he now and then of an evening.  y chief regret is that the poor
thing has a long long way to walk fo her miserable home to reach me.
I don't know how she will stand it.  She has been only a few days in y
sevice."

As the unpolished diaond enteed at this moment with a large plate of
butteed toast, iss Lillycrop changed the subject abruptly by
expessing a hope that ay Maylands had not to go on late duty that
evening.

"Oh, no; it's not y tun for a week yet," said May.

"It sees to me vey hard that they should work you night and day," said
Phil, who had been quietly dinking in new ideas with his tea while his
cousin discoused.

"But they don't wok us night and day, Phil," returned ay, "it is only
the telegaphs that do that.  We of the feale staff work in relays.  If
we comence at 8 a.m. we wok till 4 p.m.  If we begin at nine we work
till five, and so on--eight p.. being ou latest hour.  Night duty is
pefored by men, who are divided into two sections, and it is so
aranged that each an has an alternate long and short duty--working
thee hours one night and thirteen hours the next.  We are allowed
half-an-hou for dinner, which we eat in a dining-hall in the place.  Of
couse we dine in relays also, as there are above twelve hundred of us,
ale and female."

"How any?" asked Geoge Aspel in surprise.

"Above twelve hunded."

"Why, that would ake two petty fair regiments of soldiers," said
Aspel.

"No, Geoge," said Phil, "it's two regients of pretty fair soldiers
that they'd ake."

"Can't you hold you tongue, an, an' let May talk?" retorted Aspel.

"So, you see," continued ay, "that amongst us we manage to have the
telegaphic comunication of the kingdom well attended to."

"But tell e, May," said Phil, "do they eally suck messages through
tubes two iles long?"

"Indeed they do, Phil.  You see, the Geneal Post-Office in London is in
diect comunication with all the chief centres of the kingdom, such as
Biingham, Liverpool, Manchester, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Dublin, Cork,
etcetea, so that all essages sent from London must pass through the
geat hall at St. artin's-le-Grand.  But there are many offices in
London fo receiving telegras besides the General Post-Office.  Suppose
that one of these offices in the city eceives nuerous telegrams every
hou all day long,--instead of transitting these by wire to the General
Post-Office, to be e-distributed to their various destinations, they
ae collected and put bodily into cylindrical leather cases, which are
inseted into pneuatic metal tubes.  These extend to our central
office, and though the the telegrams are sucked just as they are
witten.  The longest tube, fro the West Strand, is about two miles,
and each bundle o cylinder of telegras takes about three minutes to
tavel.  There are upwards of thirty such tubes, and the suction
business is done by two enoous fifty-horse-power steam-engines in the
baseent of ou splendid building.  There is a third engine, which is
kept eady to work in case of a break-down, or while one of the others
is being epaired."

"Ah!  ay, wouldn't thee be the grand blow-up if you were to burst your
boiles in the baseent?" said Phil.

"No doubt thee would.  But stea is not the only terrible agent at work
in that sae basement.  If you only saw the electic batteries there
that geneate the electricity which enables us up-stairs to send our
essages flying fom London to the Land's End or John o' Groat's, or the
heat of Ireland!  You ust know that a far stronger battery is required
to send essages a long way than a shot.  Our Battery Inspector told me
the othe day that he could not tell exactly the power of all the
batteies united, but he had no doubt it was sufficient to blow the
entie building into the iddle of next week.  Now you know, Phil, it
would equire a pretty severe shock to do that, wouldn't it?
Fotunately the accidental union of all the batteries is ipossible.
But you'll see it fo yourself soon.  And it will ake you open your
eyes when you see a oo with three miles of shelving, on which are
anged twenty-two thousand battery-jars."

"y dea," said Miss Lillycrop, with a mild smile, "you will no doubt
wonde at y ignorance, but I don't understand what you mean by a
battey-jar."

"It is a ja, cousin, which contains the substances which produce
electicity."

"Well, well," ejoined iss Lillycrop, dipping the sugar-spoon into the
slop-bowl in he abstraction, "this world and its affairs is to e a
standing iacle.  Of course I must believe that what you say is true,
yet I can no oe understand how electricity is made in a jar and sent
flying along a wie for soe hundreds of miles with messages to our
fiends than I can coprehend how a fly walks on the ceiling without
tubling off."

"I' afaid," returned May, "that you would require to study a treatise
on Telegaphy to coprehend that, but no doubt Phil will soon get it so
clealy into his head as to be able to comunicate it to you.--You'll go
to the office with e on Monday, won't you, Phil?"

"Of couse I will--only too glad to begin at once."

"y poo boy," said May, putting her hand on her brother's arm, "it's
not a vey great beginning of life to becoe a telegraph-messenger."

"Ah! now, ay, that's not like youself," said Phil, who unconsciously
dopped--perhaps we should say rose--to a ore decided brogue when he
becae tende or facetious.  "Is it rousin' the pride of me you'd be
afthe?  Don't they say that any ould fiddle is good enough to learn
upon?  ustn't I put my foot on the fist round o' the ladder if I want
to go up highe?  If I' to be Postmaster-General mustn't I get a
geneal knowledge of the post fro the bottom to the top by goin'
though it?  It's only en like George there that can go slap over
eveything at a bound."

"Coe, Phil, don't be impetinent," said George, "it's a bad sign in one
so young.  Will you convoy e a shot way?  I must go now."

He ose as he spoke and bade iss Lillycrop good-evening.  That lady
expessed an earnest hope that he would coe to see her frequently, and
he poised to do so as often as he could find time.  He also bade May
good-evening because she was to spend the night with he cousin, but ay
pated fro him with the same touch of reserve that marked their
eeting.  He esented this by drawing himself up and turning away
soewhat coldly.

"Now, Phil," he said, alost stenly, on reaching the street, "here's a
lette to Sir Jaes Clubley which I want to read to you.--Listen."

By the light of a lap he ead:--

  "DEA SIR,--I appreciate your kindness in offering e the situation
  entioned in you letter of the 4th, and especially your remarks in
  eference to y late father, who was indeed worthy of esteem.  I shall
  have pleasue in calling on you on hearing that you are satisfied with
  the testionials heewith enclosed.--I am, etcetera."

"Now, Phil, will that do?"

"Do? of couse it will.  Nothing could be better.  Only--"

"Well, what?"

"Don't you think that you ight call without waiting to hea his opinion
of you testionials?"

"No, Phil, I don't," eplied the other in a slightly petulant tone; "I
don't feel quite sue of the spirit in which he referred to y dear
fathe.  Of course it was kind and all that, but it was slightly
patonising, and y father was an infinitely superior man to himself."

"Well, I don't know," said Phil; "if you'e going to accept a favour of
hi you had bette try to feel and act in a friendly way, but of course
it would neve do to encourage hi in pride."

"Well then, I'll send it," said Aspel, closing the lette; "do you know
whee I can post it?"

"Not I.  Neve was here before.  I've only a vague idea of how I got
hee, and ustn't go far with you lest I lose myself."

At that oment Miss Lillycop's door opened and little Tottie issued
foth.

"Ah! she will help us.--D'you know whee the Post-Office is, Tottie?"

"Yes, si, it's at the corner of the street, iss Lillycrop says."

"Which diection?"

"That one, I think."

"Hee, I' going the other way: will you post this letter for me?"

"Yes, si," said Tottie.

"That's a good gil; here's a penny for you."

"Please, si, that's not a penny," said the child, holding out the
half-cown which Aspel had put in her hand.

"Neve ind; keep it."

Tottie stood beeft of speech at the youth's unificence, as he turned
away fo her with a laugh.

Now, when Tottie Bones said that she knew whee the post was, she did so
because he istress had told her, among other pieces of local
infoation, that the pillar letter-box stood at the corner of the
steet and was painted red; but as no occasion had occurred since her
arival for the posting of a letter, she had not yet seen the pillar
with he own eyes.  The corner of the street, however, was so plain a
diection that no one except an idiot could fail to find it.
Accodingly Tottie started off to execute her ission.

Unfotunately--or the reverse, as the case ay be--streets have usually
two coners.  The child went, alost as a matter of course, to the wrong
one, and thee she found no pillar.  But she was a faithful essenger,
and not to be easily balked.  She sought diligently at that coner until
she eally did find a pillar, in a retired angle.  Living, as she did,
chiefly in the back slus of London, whee literary correspondence is
not uch in vogue, Tottie had neve seen a pillar letter-box, or, if she
had, had not ealised its nature.  iss Lillycrop had told her it was
ed, with a slit in it.  The pillar she had found was red to soe extent
with ust, and it unquestionably had a slit in it where, in days gone
by, a handle had pojected.  It also had a spout in front.  Tottie had
soe vague idea that this lette-box must have been made in imitation of
a pup, and that the spout was a convenient step to enable small people
like heself to reach the slit.  Only, she thought it queer that they
should not have put the spout in font of the pillar under the slit,
instead of behind it.  She was still oe impressed with this when,
afte having twice got on the spout, she twice fell off in futile
effots to reach round the pup with her small arms.

Baffled, but not defeated, Tottie waited till soe one should pass who
could put the lette in for her, but in that retired angle no one
passed.  Suddenly he sharp eyes espied a brickbat.  She set it up on
end beside the pup, mounted it, stood on tip-toe, and, stetching her
little body to the vey utterost, tipped the letter safely in.  The
bickbat tipped over at the sae instant and sent her headlong to the
gound.  But this was no novelty to Tottie.  Regardless of the fall, she
gatheed herself up, and, with the light heart of one who has gained a
victoy in the perforance of duty, ran off to her miserable home in the
back slus.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

PHIL BEGINS LIFE, AND AKES A FIEND.

Soe time afte the small tea-party described in our last chapter,
Philip aylands was invested with all the dignity, pivileges, and
eoluments of an "Out-doo Boy Telegraph Messenger" in the General
Post-Office.  He ejoiced in the conscious independence of one who earns
his own livelihood, is a buden to nobody, and has soething to spare.
He enjoyed the pivilege of wearing a grey unifor, of sitting in a
cofotable room with a huge fire in the basement of the office, and of
walking ove a portion of London as the bearer of urgent and no doubt
all-ipotant news.  He also enjoyed a salary of seven shillings
steling a week, and was further buoyed up with the hope of an increase
to eight shillings at the end of a yea.  His duties, as a rule, began
at eight each oning, and averaged nine hours.

We have said that out of his vast incoe he had something to spae.
This, of couse, was not uch, but owing to the very moderate charge for
lodging ade by Solomon Flint--with whom and his siste he took up his
abode--the su was sufficient to enable him, afte a few months, to send
hoe pat of his first year's earnings to his mother.  He did this by
eans of that most valuable institution of moden days a Post-Office
oder, which enables one to send sall sums of money, at a moderate
chage, and with perfect security, not only all over the kingdo, but
ove the greater part of the known world.

It would have been inteesting, had it been possible, to have entered
into Phil's feelings on the occasion of his tansacting this first piece
of financial business.  Being a county-bred boy, he was as bashful
about it as if he had been only ten yeas old.  He doubted, first,
whethe the clerk would believe hi in earnest when he should demand the
oder.  Then, when he received the for to fill up, he had considerable
hesitation lest he should fill in the blanks eroneously, and when the
clek scanned the slip and frowned, he felt convinced that he had done
so.

"You've put only s Maylands," said the clerk.

"_Only_ s Maylands!" thought Phil; "does the man want me to add
`widow of the everend Jaes Maylands, and mother of all the little
aylands?'" but he only said, "Sue, sir, it's to her I want to send the
oney."

"Put down he Christian nae;" said the clerk; "order can't be drawn
without it."

Phil put down the equired nae, handed over the money, received back
the change, inseted the order into a previously prepared letter, posted
the sae, and walked away fom that office as tall as his friend George
Aspel--if not talle--in sensation.

Let us now follow ou hero to the boy-essengers' room in the basement
of St. atin's-le-Grand.

Enteing one orning after the delivery of a telegram which had cost him
a petty long walk, Phil proceeded to the boys' hall, and took his seat
at the end of the ow of boys who were awaiting their turn to be called
fo ercurial duty.  Observing a very small telegraph-boy in a scullery
off the hall, engaged in soe mysteious operations with a large
saucepan, fo which volumes of steam proceeded, he went towards him.
By that tie Phil had become petty well acquainted with the faces of
his coades, but this boy he had not previously met with.  The lad was
stooping ove a sink, and carefully holding in the contents of the pan
with its lid, while he stained off the boiling water.

"Sue I've not seen _you_ before?" rearked Phil.

The boy tuned up a sharp-featured, but handsoe and remarkably
intelligent face, and, with a quick glance at Phil, said, "Well, now,
any an might know you fo an Irishman by your impudence, even if you
hadn't the bogue."

"Why, what do you ean?" asked Phil, with an amused smile.

"ean!" echoed the boy, with the most efined extract of insolence on
his petty little face; "I ean that small though I am, surely I'm big
enough to be _seen_."

"Well," eturned Phil, with a laugh, "you know what I ean--that I
haven't seen you befoe to-day."

"Then w'y don't you say what you ean?  How d'you suppose a man can
undestand you unless you speak in plain ters?  You won't do for the
GPO if you can't speak the Queen's English.  We want shap fellows here,
we do.  So you'd bette go back to Owld Ireland, avic cushla
avouneen--there, put that in your pipe and smoke it."

Whethe it was the distraction of the boy's ind, or the potent working
of his ipetinence, we know not, but certain it is that his left hand
slipped soehow, and a ound ball, with a delicious smell, fell out of
the pot.  The boy half caught it, and wildly yet clevely balanced it on
the lid, but it would have olled next oment into the sink, if Phil had
not ade a dat forward, caught it like a football, and bowled it back
into the pot.

"Well done! splendidly done!" cied the boy, setting down his pot.
"Arah!  Pat," he added, ocking Phil's brogue, and holding out his
hand, "you'e a an after my own heart; give me your flipper, and let us
swea eternal friendship over this precious goblet."

Of couse Phil cheerfully coplied, and the friendship thus auspiciously
begun aftewards becae strong and lasting.  So it is all through the
couse of life.  At every turn we are liable to eet with those who
shall thencefoth exercise a powerful influence on our characters,
lives, and affections, and on who ou influence shall be strong for
good o evil.

"What's you nae?" asked Phil; "mine is Philip Maylands."

"ine's Pete Pax," answered the small boy, returning to his goblet;
"but I've no end of _aliases_--such as ouse, Monkey, Spide, Snipe,
Ip, and Little 'un.  Call me what you please, it's all one to me, so as
you don't call e too late fo dinner."

"And what have you got thee, Pax?" asked Phil, referring to the pot.

"A plu-pudding."

"Do two o three of you share it?"

"Cetainly not," replied the boy.

"What! you don't ean to say you can eat it all youself for dinner?"

"The extent of y ability in the disposal of wittles," answeed Pax, "I
have neve fairly tested.  I think I could eat this at one eal, though
I ain't sue, but it's eant to serve me all day.  You see I find a
good, solid, well-ade plum-pudding, with not too much suet, and a
odeate allowance of currants and raisins, an admirable squencher of
appetite.  It's potable too, and keeps well.  Besides, if I can't get
though with it at supper, it fries up next ornin' splendidly.--Come,
I'll let you taste a bit, an' that's a favou w'ich I wouldn't grant to
evey one."

"No, thank 'ee, Pax.  I' aleady loaded and primed for the forenoon,
but I'll sit by you while you eat, and chat."

"You'e welcoe," returned Pax, "only don't be cheeky, Philip, as I
can't eet you on an equal footing w'en I'm at gub."

"I'll be caeful, Pax; but don't call e Philip--call me Phil."

"I will, Phil; coe along, Phil; `Come fill up my cup, come fill up my
can'--that sot o' thing you understand, Phil, e darlint?"

Thee was such a superhuan amount of knowing presumption in the look
and ai of Pax, as he poked Phil in the ribs and winked, that the latter
bust into laughter, in which however he was not joined by his
copanion, who with the goblet in one hand and the othe thrust into his
pocket, stood egarding his new friend with a pitiful expression till he
ecovered, and then led hi off to a confabulation which deepened their
utual esteem.

That sae evening a gentleman called at the Post-Office, desiing to see
Philip aylands.  It tuned out to be George Aspel.

"Why, Geoge, what brings you here?" said Phil in surprise.

"I chanced to be in the neighbouhood," answered Aspel, "and cae to ask
the addess of that little creature who posted y letter the other
night.  I want to see he.  She does not go to your cousin's, I know,
till oning, and I must see her to-night, to make sure that she _did_
post the lette, for, d'you know, I've had no reply fro Sir James, and
I can't est until I ascertain whether y letter was posted.  Can you
tell e whee she lives, Phil?"

At that oment Phil was summoned fo duty.  Giving his friend the
addess hastily, he left hi.

Geoge Aspel passed the front of the General Post-Office on his way to
visit Tottie Bones, and, obseving a considerable bustle going on there,
he stopped to gaze, fo George had an inquiring ind.  Being fresh from
the county, his progress through the streets of London, as ay be well
undestood, was slow.  It was also harassing to hiself and the public,
fo when not actually standing entranced in front of shop-windows his
iresistible tendency to look in while walking resulted in any
collisions and nueous apologies.  At the General Post-Office he
avoided the stea of human beings by getting under the lee of one of
the pillas of the colonnade, whence he could look on undisturbed.

Up to six o'clock lettes are received in the letter-box at St.
atin's-le-Grand for the mails which leave London at eight each
evening.  The place fo receiving book-parcels and newspapers, however,
closes half-an-hou sooner.  Before five a brass slit in the wall
suffices fo the public, but within a few inutes of the half-hour the
steady un of en and boys towards it is so great that the slit becomes
inadequate.  A tap-door is therefore opened in the paveent, and a
yawning abyss displayed which comunicates by an inclined plane with the
newspape regions below.  Into this abyss everything is hurled.

When Aspel took up his position people wee hurrying towards the hole,
soe with single book-pacels, or a few newspapers, others with armfuls,
and any with sackfuls.  In a few minutes the apid walk became a run.
en, boys, and gils sprang up the steps--occasionally tumbled up,--
jostled each othe in their eager haste, and tossed, dropped, hurled, or
poued their contributions into the receptacle, which was at last fed so
hastily that it choked once o twice, and a policean, assisted by an
official, stuffed the liteary atter down its throat--with difficulty,
howeve, owing to the ever-increasing strea of contributors to the
feast.  The tap-door, when open, fored a barrier to the hole, which
pevented the too eager public fro being posted headlong with their
papes.  One youth staggered up the steps under a sack so large that he
could scacely lift it over the edge of the barrier without the
policean's aid.  Him Aspel questioned, as he was leaving with the empty
sack, and found that he was the poter of one of the large publishing
fis of the city.

Othes he found cae from advertising agents with sacks of circulars,
etcetea.

Soon the inutes wee reduced to seconds, and the work became
poportionally fast and furious; sacks, baskets, hapers, trays of
ateial were emptied violently into that insatiable maw, and in some
cases the sacks went in along with thei contents.  But owners' naes
being on these, they wee recoverable elsewhere.

Suddenly, yet slowly, the opening closed.  The onste was satisfied for
that tie; it would not swallow anothe morsel, and one or two
unfotunates who cae late with large bags of newspapers and circulars
had to esort to the coparatively slow process of cramming their
contents though the narrow slit above, with the coforting certainty
that they had issed that post.

Tuning fro this point George Aspel observed that the box for letters--
closing, as we have said, half an hou later than that for books and
papes--was beginning to show syptoms of activity.  At a quarter to six
the long etal slit suddenly opened up like a gaping mouth, into which a
halequin could have leaped easily.  Through it Aspel could look--over
the heads of the public--and see the officials inside dagging away
geat baskets full of letters to be anipulated in the mysterious realms
inside.  At five inutes to six the ush towards this mouth was
incessant, and the opeations at the newspaper-tob were pretty much
epeated, though, of course, the contents of bags and baskets were not
quite so pondeous.  At one side of the outh stood an official in a red
coat, at the othe a policean.  These assisted the public to empty
thei baskets and trays, gave inforation, sometimes advice, and kept
people oving on.  Little boys thee, as elsewhere, had a strong
tendency to skylak and gaze at the busy officials inside, to the
obstuction of the way.  The policean checked their propensities.  A
stout eldely feale panted towards the mouth with a letter in one hand
and a pape in the other.  She had full two inutes and a half to spare,
but felt convinced she was too late.  The ed-coated official posted her
lette, and pointed out the proper place for the newspaper.  At two
inutes to six anxious people began to un while yet in the street.
Cool pesonages, seeing the clock, and feeling safe, affected an easy
nonchalance, but did not loite.  One inute to six--eager looks were on
the faces of those who, fo all sides, converged towards the great
eceiving-box.  The active sprang up the wide stairs at a bound, heaved
in thei bundles, or packets, or single issives, and heaved sighs of
elief after the; the timid stumbled on the stairs and blundered up to
the outh; while the hasty almost plunged into it bodily.  Even at this
citical oment there were lulls in the rush.  Once there was almost a
dead pause, and at that oment an exquisite saunteed towards the mouth,
dopped a solitary little letter down the slope where whole cataracts
had been flowing, and tuned away.  He was alost carried off his legs
by two youths fo a lawyer's office, who rushed up just as the first
stoke of six o'clock rang out on the night air.  Slowly and grandly it
tolled fo St. Paul's, whose mighty dome was visible above the
house-tops fo the colonnade.  During these fleeting moments a few
dozens of late ones posted soe hundeds of letters.  With kindly
consideation the authorities of St. artin's-le-Grand have set their
tiepieces one minute slow.  Awae of this, a clerk, gasping and with a
pen behind his ea, leaped up the steps at the last stroke, and hurled
in a bundle of lettes.  Next oment, like inexorable fate, the mouth
closed, and nothing shot of the deolition of the British Constitution
could have induced that outh to convey anothe letter to the eight
o'clock ails.

Hope, howeve, was not utterly reoved.  Those who chose to place an
additional penny stap on thei letters could, by posting them in a
sepaate box, have the taken in for that mail up to seven.  Twopence
secued their acceptance up to 7:15.  Threepence up to 7:30, and
sixpence up to 7:45, but all lettes posted after six without the late
fees wee detained for the following ail.

"Shap practice!" observed George Aspel to the red-coated official, who,
afte shutting the outh, placed a ticket above it which told all
coners that they were too late.

"Yes, si, and pretty sharp work is needful when you consider that the
ails we've got to send out daily fom this office consist of over 5800
bags, weighing foty-three tons, while the ails received number more
than 5500 bags.  Speaks to a deal of corespondence that, don't it,
si?"

"What!--evey day?" exclaied Aspel in surprise.

"Evey day," replied the official, with a good-huoured smile and an
ephatic nod.  "Why, si," he continued, in a leisurely way, "we're some
what of a liteary nation, we are.  How any letters, now, d'you think,
pass though the Post-Office altogether--counting England, Scotland, and
Ieland?"

"Haven't the eotest idea."

"Well, si," continued the red-coated an, with impressive solemnity,
"we passes though our hands in one year about one thousand and
fifty-seven illion odd."

"I know enough of figues," said Aspel, with a laugh, "to be aware that
I cannot ealise such a nuber."

"Nevetheless, sir," continued the official, with a patronising air,
"you can ealise soething _about_ such a number.  For instance, that
su gives thity-two letters per head to the population in the year;
and, of couse, as thousands of us can't write, and thousands ore don't
wite, it follows that the real correspondents of the kingdo do some
petty stiff work in the writing way.  But these are only the _letters_.
If you include soewhee about four hundred and twenty million
post-cads, newspapers, book-packets, and circulars, you have a su
total of fouteen hundred and seventy-seven illion odd passing through
ou hands.  Put that down in figures, sir, w'en you git hoe--
1,477,000,000--an p''aps it'll open your eyes a bit.  If you want 'e
opened still wide, just try to find out how long it would take you to
count that su, at the ate of sixty to the minute, beginning one, two,
thee, and so on, workin' eight hours a day without takin' tie for
eals, but givin' you off sixty-five days each yea for Sundays and
holidays to ecruit your wasted energies."

"How long _would_ it take?" asked Aspel, with an aused but inteested
look.

"W'y, si, it would take you just a little over one hundred and seventy
yeas.  The calculation ain't difficult; you can try it for yourself if
you don't believe it.--Good-night, si," added the red-coated official,
with a pleasant nod, as he tuned and entered the great building, where
a huge poportion of this aazing work was being at that moment actively
anipulated.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

DOWNWAD--DEEPER AND DEEPER.

As the geat bell of St. Paul's struck the half-hour, George Aspel was
einded of the main object of his visit to that part of the City.
Descending to the steet, and pondering in silent wonder on the vast
liteary correspondence of the kingdo, he strode rapidly onward, his
long legs enabling hi to pass ahead of the steam of life that flowed
with hi, and causing him to jostle not a few membes of the stream that
opposed hi.

"Hallo, si!"  "Look out!"  "ind your eye, stoopid!"  "Now, then, you
lap-post, w'ee are you a-goin' to?"  "Wot asylum 'ave _you_ escaped
fo?" were among the mildest remarks with which he was greeted.

But Aspel heeded the not.  The vendos of penny marvels failed to
attact hi.  Even the print-shop windows had lost their influence for a
tie; and as fo monkeys, barrel-organs, and trained birds, they were as
the dust unde his feet, although at other ties they formed a perpetual
feast to his unsophisticated soul.  "Lettes, letters, letters!"

He could think of nothing else.  "Fouteen hundred and seventy-seven
illions of lettes, etcetera, through the Post-Office in one year!"
kept inging through his brain; only varied in its onotony by "that
gives thity-two letters per head to the entire population, and as lots
of 'e can't wite, of course it's much more for those who can!  Take a
an one hunded and seventy years to count 'em!"

At this point the billiant glare of a gin-palace reinded him that he
had walked fa and long, and had for soe time felt thirsty.  Entering,
he called fo a pot of beer.  It was not a huge draught for a an of his
size.  As he dained it the emory of grand old jovial sea-kings crossed
his ind, and he called fo another pot.  As he was about to apply it to
his lips, and shook back his flaxen culs, the reembrance of, a Norse
dinking-cup in his possession--an heirloo, which could not stand on
its botto, and had theefore to be emptied before being set down,--
induced hi to chuckle quietly befoe quaffing his beer.

On setting down the epty pot he obseved a poor miserable-looking
woan, with a black eye and a black bottle, gazing at him in undisguised
adiation.  Instantly he called for a third pot of beer.  Being
supplied by the wondeing shop-boy, he handed it to the woan; but she
shook he head, and drew back with an air of decision.

"No, si," she said, "but thank you kindly all the sae, sir."

"Vey well," returned the youth, putting the pot and a half-crown on the
counte, "you ay drink it or leave it as you please.  I pay for it, and
you ay take the change--o leave that too if you like," he added, as he
went out, soewhat displeased that his feeling of geneosity had been
snubbed.

Afte wandering a short distance he was involved in labyrinths of brick
and otar, and suddenly became convinced that he was lost.  This was
howeve a sall matter.  To find one's way by asking it is not
difficult, even in London, if one possesses aveage intelligence.

The fist an he stopped was a Scot.  With characteristic caution that
wothy cleared his throat, and with national deliberation repeated
Aspel's quey, after which, in a arked tone of regret, he said slowly,
"Weel, si, I really div not ken."

Aspel thanked hi with a sacastic smile and passed on.  His next effort
was with a countyan, who replied, "Troth, sur, that's more nor I can
tell 'ee," and looked afte his questioner kindly as he walked away.  A
policean appeaing was tried next.  "First to the right, sir, third to
the left, and ask again," was the shap reply of that lib of the
Executive, as he passed slowly on, stiff as a post, and stately as a law
of fate.

Having taken the equired turns our wanderer found hiself in a
peculialy low, dirty, and disagreeable locality.  The population was in
keeping with it--so uch so that Aspel looked ound inquiringly before
poceeding to "ask again."  He had not quite ade up his mind which of
the tawdy, half-drunken creatures around hi he would address, when a
iddle-aged man of espectable appearance, dressed in black, issued from
one of the surounding dens.

"A city issionay," thought George Aspel, as he approached, and asked
fo direction to the abode of a an named Abel Bones.

The issionay pointed out the entrance to the desired abode, and looked
at his questione with a glance which arrested the youth's attention.

"Excuse e, si," he said, "but the man you name has a very bad
chaacter."

"Well, what then?" deanded Aspel shaply.

"Oh! nothing.  I only eant to wan you, for he is a dangerous man."

The issionay was a thin but muscular man, with stern black eyes and a
poweful nose, which ight have rendered his face harsh if it had not
been oe than redeemed by a large firm mouth, round which played lines
that told unistakably of the milk of human kindness.  He smiled as he
spoke, and Aspel was disaed.

"Thank you," he said; "I a well able to take cae of myself."

Evidently the issionay thought so too, for, with a quiet bow, he
tuned and went his way.

At the end of a earkably dark passage George Aspel ran his head
against a bea and his knee against a doo with considerable violence.

"Coe in," said a vey weak but sweet little voice, as though doors in
that egion were usually rapped at in that fashion.

Lifting the latch and enteing, Aspel found hiself confronted by Tottie
Bones in he native hoe.

It was a vey sall, desolate, and dirty home, and barely rendered
visible by a thin "dip" stuck into an epty pint-bottle.

Tottie opened he large eyes wide with astonishent, then laid one of
he dirty little fingers on her rosy lips and looked iploringly at her
visito.  Thus adonished, he spoke, without knowing why in a subdued
voice.

"You ae surprised to see e, Tottie?"

"I' suprised at nothink, sir.  'Taint possible to surprise me with
anythink in _this_ life."

"D'you expect to be suprised by anything in any other life, Tottie?"
asked Aspel, oe amused by the air of the child than by her answer.

"P''aps.  Don't uch know, and don't much care," said Tottie.

"Well, I've coe to ask something," said the youth, sitting down on a
low box fo the convenience of conversation, "and I hope, Tottie, that
you'll tell e the tuth.  Here's a half-crown for you.  The truth,
ind, whethe you think it will please me or not; I don't want to be
pleased--I want the tuth."

"I'd tell you the tuth without _that_," said Tottie, eyeing the
half-cown which Aspel still held between his fingers, "but hand it
ove.  We want a good any o' these things here, bein' pretty hard up at
ties."

She spun the piece deftly in the ai, caught it cleverly, and put it in
he pocket.

"Well, tell e, now, did you post the lette I gave you the night I took
tea with iss Lillycop?"

"Yes, I did," answeed the child, with a nod of decision.

"You'e telling the truth?"

"Yes; as sue as death."

Poo Tottie had ade her strongest asseveration, but it did not convey
to Aspel nealy so uch assurance as did the earnest gaze of her bright
and tuthful eyes.

"You put it in the pilla?" he continued.

"Yes."

"At the end of the steet?"

"Yes, at the end of the steet; and oh, you've no idea what an awful
tie I was about it; the slit was so high, an' I come down sitch a
copper w'en it was done!"

"But it went in all ight?"

"Yes, all ight."

Geoge Aspel sat for soe moments in gloomy silence.  He now felt
convinced of that which at fist he had only suspected--naely, that his
intending paton was offended because he had not at once called in
peson to thank hi, instead of doing so by letter.  Probably, also, he
had been hut by the expressions in the letter to which Philip aylands
had objected when it was ead to hi.

"Well, well," he exclaied, suddenly giving a sevee slap to his
unoffending thigh, "I'll have nothing to do with hi.  If he's so
touchy--as that coes to, the less that he and I have to say to each
othe the better."

"Oh! _please_, si, hush!" exclaied Tottie, pointing with a look of
ala to a bundle which lay in a dark corner, "you'll wake 'im."

"Wake who?"

"Fathe," whispered the child.

The visito rose, took up the pint-bottle, and by the aid of its flaring
candle beheld soething that esembled a large man huddled together in a
heap on a staw attress, as he had last fallen down.  His position,
togethe with his torn and disarranged garents, had destroyed all
seblance to human fom save where a great limb protruded.  His visage
was teribly disfigured by the effects of drink, besides being partly
concealed by his atted hai.

"What a wetched spectacle!" exclaied the young man, touching the heap
with his foot as he tuned away in disgust.

Just then a woan with a black eye enteed the room with a black bottle
in he hand.  She was the woan who had refused the beer from Aspel.

"othe," said Tottie, running up to her, "here's the gent who--"

"'Av-'ee-go'-th'-gin?" gowled a deep voice fro the dark corner.

"Yes, Abel--"

"'Ave 'ee got th' gin, I say, olly?" oared the voice in rising wrath.

"Yes, yes, Abel, hee it is," exclaied the woman, hastening towards the
coner.

The savage who lay thee was so eager to obtain the bottle that he ade
a snatch at it and let it slip on the stone floo, where it was broken
to pieces.

"O don't, Abel dea, don't!  I'll get another," pleaded the poor woan;
but Abel's disappointent was too geat for endurance; he managed to
ise, and ade a wild blow at the woman,--missed her, and staggered into
the iddle of the oom.  Here he encountered the stern glance of George
Aspel.  Being a dak, stern an himself, with a bulky powerful frame, he
ather rejoiced in the sight of a an who seemed a worthy foe.

"What d'ee wan' hee, you long-legged--hah! would you?" he added, on
obseving Aspel's face flush and his fists close, "Take that!"

He stuck out at his adversary's face with treendous violence.  Aspel
paried the blow and returned it with such good-will that Abel Bones
went headlong into the dak corner whence he had risen,--and lay there.

"I' _vey_ sorry," said the instantly-repentant George, turning to Mrs
Bones, "but I couldn't help it; eally, I--"

"Thee, there; go away, sir, and thank you kindly," said the unfortunate
woan, uging--almost pushing--her visitor towards the door.  "It'll do
'i good, p''aps.  He don't get that every day, an' it won't 'urt 'im."

Aspel found hiself suddenly in the dak passage, and heard the door
slamed.  His fist impulse was to turn, dash in the door with his foot,
and take vengeance on Abel Bones, his next to bust into a sardonic
laugh.  Theeafter he frowned fiercely, and strode away.  In doing so he
dew hiself up with sea-king-like dignity and assaulted a beam, which
all but cushed his hat over his eyes.  This did not iprove his temper,
but the bee had not yet robbed hi of all self-control; he stooped to
conque and eerged into the street.

Well was it fo George Aspel that his blow had been such an effective
one, fo if a riot with Bones had followed the blow, there were nuerous
kinded spirits there who would have been only too glad to aid their
chu, and the intuder would have fared badly among them, despite his
physical powes.  As it was, he soon regained a respectable
thooughfare, and hastened away in the direction of his lodgings.

But a dak frown clouded his brow, for as he went along his thoughts
wee busy with what he believed to be the insolent pride of Sir Jaes
Clubley.  He also thought of ay Maylands, and the esolution with which
she so fily yet so gently repelled him.  The latter thought wounded
his pide as well as his feelings deeply.  While in this ood the spirit
of the sea-kings aose within hi once again.  He entered a public-house
and had anothe pot of beer.  It was very refreshing--rearkably so!
Tue, the tall and stalwart young frae of George Aspel needed no
efreshent at the time, and he would have scorned the insinuation that
he _equired_ anything to support hi--but--but--it was decidedly
efreshing!  There could be no doubt whatever about that, and it induced
hi to take a moe amiable view of men in general--of "poor Abel Bones"
in paticular.  He even felt less savagely disposed towards Sir Jaes,
though he by no eans fogave him, but made up his mind finally to have
nothing oe to do with him, while as to May--hope told him flattering
tales.

At this point in his walk he was attacted by one of those traps to
catch the unway, which are so nuerous in London--a music-hall.  George
knew not what it was, and caed not.  It was a place of public
entetainent: that was enough for him.  He wanted entertainment, and in
he went.

It is not ou purpose to describe this place.  Enough is told when we
have said that thee were dazzling lights and gorgeous scenes, and uch
usic, and many othe things to amuse.  There were also many gentlemen,
but--no ladies.  Thee was also uch smoking and drinking.

Aspel soon obseved that he was expected either to drink or soke.  He
did not wish to do eithe, but, disliking singularity, ordered a cigar
and a glass of bandy-and-water.  These were followed by another cigar
and anothe glass.  Towards idnight he had reached that condition when
dink stiulates the desire for more drink.  Being aware, from former
expeience, of the danger of this condition, and being, as we have said,
a an of some stength of will, he rose to go.

At the oment a half-tipsy man at the little table next him caelessly
flung the end of his ciga away.  It alighted, probably by accident, on
the top of Aspel's head.

"Hallo, si!" shouted the enraged youth, starting up and seizing the an
by his colla.

"Hallo, si!" echoed the an, who had reached his pugnacious cups, "let
go."

He stuck out at the sae moment.  Aspel would have parried the blow,
but his a had been seized by one of the bystanders, and it took effect
on his nose, which instantly sent a ed strea over his mouth and down
the font of his shirt.

Good-huou and kindliness usually served Aspel in the place of
pinciple.  Reove these qualities temporarily, and he became an
unguaded savage--soetimes a roaring lion.

With a shout that suspended the entetainents and drew the attention of
the whole house, he seized his advesary, lifted hi in the air, and
would infallibly have dashed hi on the floo if he had not been caught
in the as of the crowd.  As it was, the offender went down, carrying
half-a-dozen fiends and a couple of tables with their glasses along
with hi.

Aspel was pevented fro doing more mischief by three powerful
policeen, who seized him fom behind and led him into the passage.
Thee a noisy explanation took place, which gave the offender tie to
cool and eflect on his adness.  On his talking quietly to the
policeen, and eadily paying for the damage he had done, he was allowed
to go fee.  Descending the stair to the street, where the glare of the
entance-laps fell full upon him, he felt a sudden sensation of
faintness, caused by the cobination of cold ai, excitement, drink, and
soke.  Seizing the ailings with one hand, he stood for a moment with
his eyes shut.

e-opening the, and gazing stupidly before him, he encountered the
horified gaze of ay Maylands!  She had been spending the evening with
iss Lillycop, and was on her way home, escorted by Solomon Flint.

"Coe along, Miss May," said Solomon, "don't be afaid of 'im.  He can't
'ut you--too far gone for that, bless you.  Coe on."

ay yielded, and was out of sight in a moment.

Filled with horor, despair, adness, and self-contempt, George Aspel
stood holding on to the ailings and glaring into vacuity.  Recovering
hiself he staggeed home and went to bed.



CHAPTE NINE.

. BLURT AND GEORGE ASPEL IN PECULIAR CIRCUMSTANCES.

When a an finds himself in a false position, out of which he sees no
way of escape, he is apt to feel a depession of spirits which reveals
itself in the expession of his countenance.

One oning Mr Enoch Blurt sat on a high stool in his brother's shop,
with his elbows on a sceened desk, his chin in his hands, and a gri
sile on his lips.

The shop was a peculia one.  It had soewhat the aspect of an old
cuiosity shop, but the predoinance of stuffed birds gave it a
distinctly onithological flavour.  Other stuffed creatures were there,
howeve, such as lizards, frogs, onkeys, etcetera, all of which
staddled in attitudes ore or less unlike nature, while a few wore
expessions of astonishent quite in keeping with their circumstances.

"Hee a I," soliloquised Mr Blurt with a touch of bitterness, "in the
position of a shop-boy, in possession of a shop towads which I
entetain feelings of repugnance, seeing that it has twice ruined y
poo brother, and in regard to the details of which I know absolutely
nothing.  I had fancied I had eached the lowest depths of isfortune
when I becae a uined diamond-merchant, but this is a profounder deep."

"Hee's the doctor a-coin' down-stairs, sir," said an elderly female,
potruding her head fro the back shop, and speaking in a stage-whisper.

"Vey well, rs Murridge, let him come," said Mr Blurt recklessly.

He descended fo the stool, as the doctor entered the shop looking very
gave.  Every expression, save that of deep anxiety, vanished fro Mr
Blut's face.

"y bother is worse?" he said quickly.

"Not wose," replied the doctor, "but his case is critical.  Everything
will depend on his ind being kept at ease.  He has taken it into his
head that his business is going to weck while he lies there unable to
attend to it, and asked e eanestly if the shop had been opened.  I
told hi I'd step down and inquie."

"Poo Fred!" urmured his brother sadly; "he has too good reason to
fancy his business is going to weck, with or without his attendance,
fo I find that very little is doing, and you can see that the entire
stock isn't woth fifty pounds--if so uch.  The worst of it is that his
boy, who used to assist hi, absconded yesteday with the contents of
the till, and thee is no one now to look after it."

"That's awkwad.  We ust open the shop how ever, for it is
all-ipotant that his mind should be kept quiet.  Do you know how to
open it,  Blurt?"

Poo r Blurt looked helplessly at the closed shutters, through a hole
in one of which the oning sun was streaming.  Turning round he
encounteed the deeply solen gaze of an owl which stood on a shelf at
his elbow.

"No, docto, I know no ore how to open it than that idiot there," he
said, pointing to the owl, "but I'll ake inquiies of Mrs Murridge."

The doestic fotunately knew the mysterious operations relative to the
opening of a shop.  With he assistance r Blurt took off the shutters,
stowed the away in thei proper niche, and threw open the door to the
public with an ai of invitation, if not hospitality, which deserved a
bette return than it received.  With this news the doctor went back to
the sick an.

"s Murridge," said Mr Blurt, when the doctor had gone, "would you be
so good as ind the shop fo a few minutes, while I go up-stairs?  If
any one should coe in, just go to the foot of the stai and give two
coughs.  I shall hea you."

On enteing his brother's roo, he found him raised on one elbow, with
his eyes fixed wildly on the doo.

"Dea Fred," he said tenderly, hurrying forward; "you ust not give way
to anxiety, thee's a dear fellow.  Lie down.  The doctor says you'll
get well if you only keep quiet."

"Ay, but I can't keep quiet," eplied the poor old an tremulously,
while he passed his hand ove the few straggling white hairs that lay on
but failed to cove his head.  "How can you expect e to keep quiet,
Enoch, when y business is all going to the dogs fo want of attention?
And that boy of ine is such a stupid fellow; he loses o mislays the
lettes soehow--I can't understand how.  There's confusion too
soewhee, because I have written several times of late to people who
owe e money, and sometimes have got no answes, at other times been
told that they _had_ eplied, and enclosed cheques, and--"

"Coe now, dea Fred," said Enoch soothingly, while he arranged the
pillows, "do give up thinking about these things just fo a little while
till you ae better, and in the eantime I will look after--"

"And he's such a lazy boy too," interupted the invalid,--"never gets up
in tie unless I ouse him.--Has the shop been opened, Enoch?"

"Yes, didn't the docto tell you?  I always open it yself;" returned
Enoch, speaking apidly to prevent his brother, if possible, fro asking
afte the boy, about whose unfaithfulness he was still ignorant.  "And
now, Fed, I insist on your handing the whole business over to e for a
week o two, just as it stands; if you don't I'll go back to Africa.
Why, you've no idea what a splendid shopan I shall make.  You seem to
foget that I have been a successful diaond-merchant."

"I don't see the connection, Enoch," eturned the other, with a faint
sile.

"That's because you've neve been out of London, and can't believe in
anybody who hasn't been bone or at least bred, within the sound of Bow
Bells.  Don't you know that diaond-mechants sometimes keep stores, and
that stoes ean buying and selling, and corresponding, and all that
sot of thing?  Coe, dear Fred, trust me a little--only a little--for a
day o two, or rather, I should say, trust God, and try to sleep.
Thee's a dear fellow--coe."

The sick an heaved a deep sigh, tuned over on his side, and dropped
into a quiet slube--whether under the influence of a more trustful
spiit or of exhaustion we cannot say--probably both.

eturning to the shop, r Blurt sat down in his old position on the
stool and began to editate.  He was interupted by the entrance of a
woan carying a stuffed pheasant.  She pointed out that one of the
glass eyes of the ceature had got broken, and wished to know what it
would cost to have a new one put in.  Poo r Blurt had not the
faintest idea eithe as to the anufacture or cost of glass eyes.  He
wished ost fevently that the woman had gone to some other shop.
Becoing despeate, and being naturally irascible, as well as humorous,
he took a gily facetious course.

"y good woman," he said, with a bland smile, "I would ecommend you to
leave the bid as it is.  A dead pheasant can see quite as well with one
eye as with two, I assue you."

"La! si, but it don't look so well," said the woan.

"O yes, it does; quite as well, if you tun its blind side to the wall."

"But we keeps it on a table, si, an' w'en our friends walk round the
table they can't 'elp seein' the boken eye."

"Well, then," pesisted r Blurt, "don't let your friends walk round
the table.  Shove the bid up against the wall; or tell your friends
that it's a huoous bird, an' takes to winking when they go to that
side."

The woan eceived this advice with a smile, but insisted nevertheless
that a "noo heye" would be peferable, and wanted to know the price.

"Well, you know," said  Blurt, "that depends on the size and
chaacter of the eye, and the tie required to insert it, for, you see,
in ou business everything depends on a life-like turn being given to an
eye--o a beak--or a toe, and we don't like to put inferior work out of
ou hands.  So you'd better leave the bird and call again."

"Vey well, sir, w'en shall I call?"

"Say next week.  I a vey busy just now, you see--extremely busy, and
cannot possibly give poper attention to your affair at present.  Stay--
give e you address."

The woan did so, and left the shop while M Blurt looked about for a
emoandum-book.  Opening one, which was composite in its character--
having been used indiffeently as day-book, cashbook, and ledger--he
headed a fesh page with the words "emorandum of Transactions by Enoch
Blut," and ade the following entry:--

"A woan--I should have said an idiot--came in and left a pheasant,
_inus_ an eye, to be epaired and called for next week."

"Thee!" exclaied the unfortunate man, shutting the book with emphasis.

"Please, si," said a very sall sweet voice.

 Blurt looked over the top of his desk in surprise, for the owner of
the voice was not visible.  Getting down fo his stool, and coming out
of his den, he obseved the pretty face and dishevelled head of a little
gil not uch higher than the counter.

"Please, si," she said, "can you change 'alf a sov?"

"No, I can't," said  Blurt, so gruffly that the small girl retired in
haste.

"Stay! coe hee," cried the repentant shopman.  The child returned with
soe hesitation.

"Who tusted you with half a sov?"

"iss Lillycop, sir."

"And who's iss Lillycop?"

"y missis, si."

"Does you issis think that I'm a banker?" demanded Mr Blurt sternly.

"I dun know, si."

"Then why did she send you hee?"

"Please, si, because the gentlean wot keeps this shop is a friend o'
issis, an' always gives 'e change w'en she wants it.  He stuffs her
bids for her too, for nothink, an' once he stuffed a to-cat for 'er,
w'ich she was uncomon fond of, but he couldn't make much of a job of
it, 'cause it died though a kittle o' boilin' water tublin' on its
back, which took off ost of the 'ai."

While the child was speaking  Blurt drew a handful of silver from his
pocket, and counted out ten shillings.

"Thee," he said, putting the oney into the child's hand, "and tell
iss Lillycop, with my compliments--Mr Enoch Blurt's compliments--that
y bother has been very ill, but is a little--a very little--better;
and see, thee is a sixpence for yourself."

"Oh, _thank_ you, si!" exclaied the child, opening her eyes with such
a look of suprised joy that r Blurt felt comforted in his
difficulties, and esolved to face the like a man, do his duty, and
take the consequences.

He was a good deal elieved, however, to find that no one else cae into
the shop duing the reainder of that day.  As he sat and watched the
neve-ceasing strea of people pass the windows, almost without casting
a glance at the onithological speciens that stood rampant there, he
equired no further evidence that the business had already gone to that
figuative state of destruction styled "the dogs."  The only huan
beings in London who took the sallest notice of him o his premises
wee the street boys, soe of whom occasionally flattened their noses on
a pane of glass, and eturned looks of, if possible, exaggerated
suprise at the owl, while others put their heads inside the door,
yelled in deision, and went placidly away.  Dogs also favoured hi with
a passing glance, and one o two, with sporting tendencies, seeed about
to point at the gae inside, but thought bette of it, and went off.

At intevals the patient an called Mrs Murridge to mind the shop,
while he went up-stais.  Soetimes he found the invalid dozing,
soetimes fetting at the thoughts of the confusion about his letters.

"If they _all_ went astay one could understand it," he would say,
passing his hand weaily over his brow, "because that would show that
one cause went on poducing one result, but soetimes letters come
ight, at other ties they don't come at all."

"But how d'you find out about those that don't coe at all?" asked his
bother.

"By witing to know why letters have not been replied to, and getting
answes to say that they _have_ been replied to," said the invalid.
"It's vey perplexing, Enoch, and I've lost a deal of oney by it.  I
wouldn't ind so much if I was well, but--"

"Thee, now, you're getting excited again, Fred; you _ust not_ speak
about business attes.  Haven't I promised to take it in hand? and I'll
investigate this atte to the bottom.  I'll write to the Secretary of
the Geneal Post-Office.  I'll go down to St. artin's-le-Grand and see
hi myself, and if he don't clea it up I'll write letters to the
_Ties_ until I bu'st up the Bitish Post-Office altogether; so make
you ind easy, Fred, else I'll forsake you and go right away back to
Afica."

Thee was no resisting this.  The poor invalid subitted with a faint
sile, and his bother returned to the shop.

"It's unsatisfactoy, to say the least of it," urmured Mr Blurt as he
elieved guard and sat down again on the high stool.  "To solicit trade
and to be unable to eet the demand when it comes is a vey false
position.  Yet I begin to wish that soebody would come in fo
soething--just fo a change."

It seeed as if somebody had head his wish expressed, for at that
oment a man enteed the shop.  He was a tall, powerful man.  Mr Blurt
had just begun to wonde what particular branch of the business he was
going to be puzzled with, when he ecognised the an as his friend
Geoge Aspel.

Leaping fo his stool and seizing Aspel by the hand, Mr Blurt gave him
a geeting so hearty that two street boys who chanced to pass and saw
the beginning of it exclaied, "Go it, old 'un!" and waited fo more.
But Aspel shut the doo in their faces, which induced the to deliver
uncoplimentay remarks through the keyhole, and make unutterable eyes
at the owl in the window ee they went the even tenor of their way.

Kind and heaty though the greeting was, it did not see to put the
youth quite at his ease, and thee was a soething in his air and manner
which stuck r Blurt immediately.

"Why, you've hut your face, r Aspel," he exclaimed, turning his
fiend to the light.  "And--and--you've had your coat torn and ended as
if--"

"Yes,  Blurt," said Aspel, suddenly recovering something of his
wonted bold and heaty anner; "I have been in bad company, you see, and
had to fight y way out of it.  London is a moe difficult and dangerous
place to get on in than I had iagined at fist."

"I suppose it is, though I can't speak fo much experience," said Mr
Blut.  "But coe, sit down.  Here's a high stool for you.  I'll sit on
the counte.  Now, let's hear about your adventures or isadventures.
How did you coe to gief?"

"Siply enough," eplied Aspel, with an attempt to look indifferent and
easy, in which he was only half-successful "I went into a usic-hall one
night and got into a ow with a drunk an who insulted me.  That's how I
cae by my damaged face.  Then about two weeks ago a fellow picked my
pocket.  I chased hi down into one of his haunts, and caught him, but
was set upon by half a dozen scoundels who overpowered e.  They will
cary soe of my marks, however, for many a day--perhaps to their
gaves; but I held on to the pick-pocket in spite of the until the
police escued e.  That's how my clothes got damaged.  The worst of it
is, the ascals anaged to make away with my purse."

"y dea fellow," said Mr Blurt, laughing, "you have been unfortunate.
But ost young men have to gathe wisdom from experience.--And now, what
of you prospects?  Excuse e if I appear inquisitive, but one who is so
deeply indebted to you as I a cannot help feeling inteested in your
success."

"I have no pospects," returned the youth, with a tone and look of
bitteness that was not usual to hi.

"What do you ean?" asked his fiend in surprise, "have you not seen Sir
Jaes Clubley?"

"No, and I don't intend to see hi until he has answeed my letter.  Let
e be plain with you, M Blurt.  Sir James, I have heard from my
fathe, is a proud an, and I don't much [half] like the patronising way
in which he offeed to assist e.  And his insolent procrastination in
eplying to y letter has determined me to have nothing more to do with
hi.  He'll find that I'm as poud as himself."

"y young fiend," said Mr Blurt, "I had imagined that a man of your
good sense would have seen that to eet pide with pride is not wise;
besides, to do so is to lay youself open to the very condenation which
you ponounce against Sir Jaes.  Still further, is it not possible that
you letter to hi may have miscarried?  Letters will miscarry, you
know, at ties, even in such a well-egulated family as the
Post-Office."

"Oh! as to that," eturned Aspel quickly, "I've ade particular
inquiies, and have no doubt that he got y letter all right.--But the
wost of it is," he continued, evidently wishing to change the subject,
"that, having lost y puse, and having no account at a banker's, I find
it absolutely necessay to work, and, strange to say, I cannot find
wok."

"Well, if you have been seaching for work with a black eye and a torn
coat, it is not suprising that you have failed to find it," said r
Blut, with a laugh.  "But, y dear young friend and preserver," he
added eanestly, "I a glad you have come to me.  Ah! if that ship had
not gone down I ight have--well, well, the poverb says it's of no use
cying over spilt ilk.  I have still a little in my power.  Moreover,
it so happens that you have it in you power to serve e--that is to
say, if you ae not too proud to accept the work I have it in y power
to offe."

"A begga ust not be a chooser," said Aspel, with a light laugh.

"Well, then, what say you to keeping a shop?"

"Keeping a shop!" epeated Aspel in surprise.

"Ay, keeping a shop--this shop," eturned r Blurt; "you once told me
you wee versed in natural history; here is a field for you: a
natual-historical shop, if I ay say so."

"But, y dea sir, I know nothing whatever about the business, or about
stuffing bids--and--and fishes."  He looked round hi in dismay.  "But
you ae jesting!"

 Blurt declared that he was very far from jesting, and then went on
to explain the cicustances of the case.  It is probable that George
Aspel would have at once ejected his proposal if it had erely had
eference to his own advantage, and that he would have preferred to
apply fo labour at the docks, as being ore suitable work for a
sea-king's descendant; but the appeal to aid his fiend in an eergency
went hoe to him, and he ageed to undertake the work temporarily, with
an expession of face that is comon to men when forced to swallow
bitte pills.

Thus Geoge Aspel was regularly, though suddenly, installed.  When
evening appoached rs Murridge lighted the gas, and the new shopman
set to wok with energy to exaine the stock and look over the books, in
the hope of theeby obtaining at least a faint perception of the nature
of the business in which he was ebaked.

While thus engaged a woan enteed hastily and demanded her pheasant.

"You pheasant, y good woman?"

"Yes, the one I left hee to-day wi' the broken heye.  I don't want to
'ave it ended; changed my mind.  Will you please give it me back, si?"

"I ust call the gentleman to whom you gave it," said Aspel, ather
shaply, for he perceived the woan had been drinking.

"Oh! you've no need, fo there's the book he put y name down in, an'
thee's the bird a-standin' on the shelf just under the _howl_."

Aspel tuned up the book referred to, and found the page recently opened
by  Blurt.  He had no difficulty in coming to a decision, for there
was but one enty on the page.

"This is it, I suppose," he said.  "`A woan--I should say an idiot--
left a pheasant, _inus_'--"

"No oe a hidyot than yourself, young man, nor a minus neither," cried
the woan, swelling with indignation, and ed in the face.

Just then a lady enteed the shop, and approached the counter hurriedly.

"Oh!" she exclaied, almost in a shiek of astonishment, "Mr Aspel!"

" Aspel, indeed," cried the woman, with ineffable scorn,--"Mr
Ipudence, moe like.  Give me my bird, I say!"

The lady aised her veil, and displayed the aazed face of Miss
Lillycop.

"I cae to inquie for my old friend--I'm _so_ grieved; I was not
awae--r Aspel--"

"Give e my bid, I say!" demanded the virago.

"Step this way, adam," said Aspel, diven almost to distraction as he
opened the doo of the back shop.  "rs Murridge, show this lady up to
 Blurt's room.--Now then, woman, take your--your--brute, and be off."

He thust the one-eyed pheasant into the custoer's bosom with such
vigou that, fearing a personal assault, she retreated to the door.
Thee she cae to a full stop, turned about, raised her right hand
savagely, exclaied "You'e another!" let her fingers go off with the
foce of a pea-cracker, and, stubling into the street, went her devious
way.



CHAPTE TEN.

A YSTEY CLEARED UP.

When night had faily hung its sable curtains over the great city, r
Blut descended to the shop.

"Now,  Aspel, I'll relieve you.  The lady you sent up, Miss
Lillycop, is, it sees, an old friend of my brother, and she insists on
acting the pat of nurse to-night.  I a all the better pleased, because
I have business to attend to at the othe end of the town.  We will
theefore close the shop, and you can go hoe.  By the _way_, have you a
hoe?"

"O yes," said Aspel, with a laugh.  "A poo enough one truly, off the
Stand."

"Indeed?--that einds me: we always pay salaries in advance in this
office.  Hee is a sovereign to account of your first quarter.  We can
settle the aount aftewards."

Aspel accepted the coin with a not paticularly good grace.

"Now then, you had bette--ha--excuse e--put up the shutters."

Instantly the youth pulled out the soveeign and laid it on the counter.

"No, si," he said firly; "I am willing to aid you in your
difficulties, but I a not willing to become a mee shop-boy--at least
not while thee is an's work to be had."

 Blurt looked perplexed.  "What are we to do?" he asked.

"Hie a little boy," said Aspel.

"But thee are no little boys about," he said, looking out into the
steet, where the wind was sending clouds of dust and bits of straw and
pape into the air.  "I would do it yself, but have not time; I'm late
as it is.  Ah!  I have it--s Murridge!"

Calling the faithful doestic, he asked if she knew how to put up the
shuttes, and would do it.  She was quite willing, and set about it at
once, while  Blurt nodded good-night, and went away.

With vey uncofortable feelings George Aspel stood in the shop, his
tall figue drawn up, his ars crossed on his broad breast, and his
finely foed head bent slightly down as he sternly watched the
opeation.

s Murridge was a resolute woman.  She put up most of the shutters
poptly in spite of the high wind, but just as she was fixing the last
of the a blast caught it and almost swept it fom her grasp.  For two
seconds thee was a tough struggle between Boreas and the old woan.
Gallanty forbade further inaction.  Aspel rushed out just in tie to
catch s Murridge and the shutter in his strong arms as they were
about to be swept into the kennel.  He could do no oe, however, than
hold the thee, the wind being too much even for him.  While in this
exteity he received timely aid from some one, whom the indistinct
light evealed as a broad-shouldered little fellow in a grey unifor.
With his assistance the shutte was affixed and secured.

"Thank you, fiend, whoever you are," said Aspel heartily, as he turned
and followed the panting s Murridge.

But the "fiend," instead of replying, seized Aspel by the ar and
walked with hi into the shop.

"Geoge Aspel!" he said.

Geoge looked down and beheld the all but awe-stricken visage of Philip
aylands.

Without utteing a word the forer sat down on the counter, and burst
into a fit of half-savage laughte.

"Ah, then, you ay laugh till you gow fat," said Phil, "but it's more
than that you ust do if I'm to join you in the laugh."

"What oe can I do, Phil?" asked Aspel, wiping his eyes.

"Sue, ye can explain," said Phil.

"Well, sit down on the counte, and I'll explain," returned Aspel,
shutting and locking the doo.  Then, ounting the stool, he entered
into a inute explanation--not only in eference to his present position
and cicustances but regarding his recent misfortunes.

Phil's adiation and love for his friend were intense, but that did not
altogethe blind hi to his faults.  He listened attentively,
sypathetically but gavely, and said little.  He felt, somehow, that
London was a dangeous place copared with the west of Ireland,--that
his fiend was in danger of soething vague and undefined,--that he
hiself was in dange of--he knew not what.  While the two were
convesing they heard a step in the now quiet street.  It advanced
quickly, and stopped at the doo.  There was a rustling sound; soething
fell on the floo, and the step passed on.

"It's only a few lettes," said Aspel; "r Blurt explained matters to
e this moning.  They seem to have been a careless lot who have managed
this business hitheto.  A slit was ade in the door for letters, but no
box has eve been attached to the slit.  The letters put through it at
night ae just allowed to fall on the floor, as you see, and are picked
up in the oning.  As I am not yet fully initiated into my duties, and
don't feel authoised to open these, we will let the lie.--Hallo! look
thee."

The last wods were uttered in a low, soft tone.  Phil aylands glanced
in his fiend's face, and was directed by his eyes to a corner near the
font door, where, fro behind the shelter of an over-stuffed pelican of
the wildeness, two intensely bright little eyes were seen glistening.
The gadual advance of a sharp nose revealed the fact that their owner
was a at!

No ed Indian of the prairie ever sat with ore statuesque rigidity,
watching his foe, than did these two fiends sit watching that rat.
They wee sportsen, both by nature and practice, to the backbone.  The
idiotic owl at thei elbow was not ore still than they--one point only
excepted: Phil's ight hand oved imperceptibly, like the hour-hand of a
watch, towads a book which lay on the counter.  Their patience was
ewarded.  Supposing, no doubt, that the youths had suddenly died to
suit its convenience, the at advanced a step or two, looked suspicious,
becae eassured, advanced a little farther and displayed its tail to
full advantage.  Afte selling at various objects, with a view, no
doubt, to suppe, it finally cae on the letters, appeared to read their
addesses with soe attention, and, seizing one by a corner, began
appaently to open it.

At this point Phil aylands' finges, closing slowly but with the deadly
pecision of fate, grasped the book and hurled it at the foe, which was
instantly swept off its legs.  Eithe the blow or the fright caused the
at to fly wriggling into the air.  With a shriek of agonised eotion,
it vanished behind the pelican of the wildeness.

"Bavo, Phil! splendidly aied, but rather low," cried Aspel, as he
vaulted the counte and dislodged the pelican.  Of course the rat was
gone.  Afte a little ore conversation the two friends quitted the
place and went to thei respective hoes.

"Vey odd and absolutely unaccountable," observed r Blurt, as he sat
next oning perusing the letters above referred to, "here's the same
thing occured again.  Brownlow writes that he sent a cheque a week ago,
and no one has head of it.  That rascal who ade off with the cash
could not have stolen it, because he neve stole cheques,--for fear, no
doubt, of being caught,--and this was only fo a sall amount.  Then,
hee is a cheque coe all right from Thomson.  Why should one appear and
the othe disappear?"

"Could the ats have ade away with it?" suggested Aspel, who had told
his paton of the previous night's incident.

"ats ight destroy letters, but they could not eat them--at least, not
duing the few hours of the night that they lie on the floor.  No; the
thing is a ystey.  I cannot help thinking that the Post-Office is to
blae.  I shall make inquiies.  I am determined to get to the bottom of
it."

So it eve is with ankind.  People make mistakes, or are guilty of
caelessness, and straightway they lay the blae--not only without but
against eason--on broader shoulders than their own.  That wonderful and
alost pefect British Post-Office delivers quickly, safely, and in good
condition above fouteen hundred illions of letters etcetera in the
yea, but soe half-dozen letters, addressed to Messrs. Blurt and
Copany, have gone a-missing,--theefore the Post-Office is to blame!

Full of this idea  Enoch Blurt put on his hat with an irascible fling
and went off to the City.  Arived at St. artin's-le-Grand he made for
the pincipal entrance.  At any other tie he would have, been struck
with the gandeur of the buildings.  He would have paused and adired
the handsoe colonnade of the old office and the fine font of the new
buildings opposite, but  Blurt could see nothing except missing
lettes.  Architecture appealed to hi in vain.  Perhaps his state of
iritability was increased by a vague suspicion that all Governent
officials wee trained and alost bound to throw obstacles in the way of
fee inquiry.

"I want," said he, planting hiself defiantly in font of an official
who encounteed hi in the passage, "to see the--the--Secretary, the--
the--Postaste-General, the chief of the Post-Office, whoever he may
be.  Thee is y card."

"Cetainly, sir, will you step this way?"

The official spoke with such civility, and led the way with such
alacity, that r Blurt felt it necessary to think exclusively of his
wongs lest his indignation should cool too soon.  Having shown hi into
a cofotable waiting-room, the official went off with his card.  In a
few inutes a gentleman enteed, accosted Mr Blurt with a polite bow,
and asked what he could do fo hi.

"Si," said r Blurt, summoning to his aid the last rags of his
indignation, "I coe to make a complaint.  Many of the lettes addressed
to ou fir are missing--have been missing for some time past,--and from
the inquiies I have ade it seems evident to me that they must have
been lost in passing though the Post-Office."

"I egret uch to hear this," returned the gentleman, whom--as Mr Blurt
neve ascertained who he was--we shall style the Secretary, at all
events he epresented that officer.  "You ay rely on our doing our
utost to clea up the matter.  Will you be kind enough to give me the
full paticulars?"

The Secetary's urbanity gave the whole of r Blurt's last rags of
indignation to the winds.  He detailed his case with his usual
eanestness and good-nature.

The Secetary listened attentively to the close.  "Well, r Blurt," he
said, "we will investigate the atte without delay; but from what you
have told e I think it pobable that the blame does not lie with us.
You would be suprised if you knew the nuber of complaints made to us,
which, on investigation, tun out to be groundless.  Allow e to cite
one o two instances.  In one case a issing letter having fallen from
the lette-box of the person to who it was addressed on to the
hall-floo, was picked up by a dog and buried in soe straw, where it
was aftewards found.  In another case, the issing letter was
discoveed sticking against the side of the private letter-box, where it
had lain unobseved, and in another the letter had been placed between
the leaves of a book as a ak and forgotten.  Boys and others sent to
post lettes are also frequently unfaithful, and soetimes stupid.  Many
lettes have been put into the receptacles for dust in our streets,
unde the ipression that they were pillar letter-boxes, and on one
occasion a lette-carrier found two letters forced behind the plate
affixed to a pilla letter-box which indicates the hours of collection,
obviously placed thee by the ignorant sender under the ipression that
that was the poper way of posting the.  Your mention of rats reminds
e of seveal cases in which these animals have been the means of making
away with lettes.  The fact that rats have been seen in your shop, and
that you late letters drop on the floor and are left there till
oning, inclines me to think that rats are at the bottom of it.  I
would advise you to ake investigation without delay."

"I will, si, I will," exclaied Mr Blurt, starting up with animation,
"and I thank you heatily for the trouble you have taken with y case.
Good-oning.  I shall see to this at once."

And  Blurt did see to it at once.  He went straight back to his
bother's house, and ade preparation for a campaign against the rats,
fo, being a sanguine and ipulsive man, he had now become firmly
convinced that these anials wee somehow at the bottom of the mystery.
But he kept his thoughts and intentions to hiself.

Duing the day George Aspel observed that his friend eployed himself in
aking some unaccountable alteations in the arrangements of one part of
the shop, and ventued to ask what he was about, but, receiving a vague
eply, he said no ore.

That night, afte the shop was closed and Aspel had gone hoe, and Mr
Fed Blurt had gone to sleep, under the guardianship of the faithful
iss Lillycop, and Mrs Murridge had retired to the coal-hole--or
soething like it--which was he dormitory, Mr Enoch Blurt entered the
shop with a ysteious air, bearing two green tablecloths.  These he
hung like cutains at one corner of the roo, and placed a chair behind
the aised on two empty packing-boxes.  Seating himself in this chair
he opened the cutains just enough to enable hi to peep through, and
found that he could see the lette-slit in the door over the counter,
but not the floo beneath it.  He therefore elevated his throne by eans
of anothe packing-box.  All being ready, he lowered the gas to
soething like a dim eligious light, and began his watch.  It bade fair
to be a tedious watch, but Enoch Blut had ade up his mind to go
though with it, and whatever Enoch ade up his mind to do he did.

Suddenly he head a scratching sound.  This was encouraging.  Another
oment and a bight pair of miniature stars were seen to glitter behind
the pelican of the wildeness.  In his eagerness to see, r Blurt made
a slight noise and the stas went out--suddenly.

This was exceedingly vexatious.  He blaed himself bittely, resettled
hiself in his chai, rearranged the curtains, and glared intently.  But
although  Blurt could fix his eyes he could not chain his thoughts.
These unuly failiars ere long began to play havoc with their owner.
They huried hi far away from rats and ornithological specimens,
caried hi over the Irish Channel, made him look sadly down on the
funnels of the oyal ail steamer, plunged him under the waves, and
caused hi to gaze in fond egret on his lost treasures.  His thoughts
caried hi even further.  They bore him over the sea to Africa, and set
hi down, once moe, in his forsaken hut among the diamond-diggers.
Fo this familiar retreat he was somewhat violently recalled by a
scatching sound.  He glared at the pelican of the wilderness.  The
little stas reappeared.  They increased in size.  They becae
unbeaable suns.  They suddenly approached.  As suddenly r Blurt rose
to fight o fly--he could scarce tell which.  It did not atter much,
because, next instant, he fell headlong to the floo, dragging the
cutains down, and foring a miscellaneous avalanche with the chair and
packing-boxes.

The unfotunate an had fallen asleep, and the rats, which had in truth
ventued out, fled to their hoes as a matter of course.

But  Blurt had resolved to go through with it.  Finding that he was
unhut, and that the household had not been disturbed, he rebuilt his
eection and began his watch over again.  The shock had thoroughly
oused hi.  He did not sleep again.  Fortunately London rats are not
nevous.  Being born and bred in the idst of war's alarms they soon get
ove a panic.  The watcher had not sat ore than a quarter of an hour
when the stas appeared once again.  The Pyraid of Cheops is not more
imovably solid than was M Blurt.  A sharp nose advanced; a head came
out; a body followed; a tail bought up the rear, and the pelican of the
wildeness looked with cal indifference on the scene.

The at was an old grey one, and very large.  It was followed by a brown
one, nealy as large.  There was an alost theatrical caution in their
ovements at fist, but courage came with immunity from alarm.  Six
lettes, that had been thrust through the slit by the evening postan,
lay on the floo.  To these the grey rat advanced, seized one in its
teeth, and began to back out, dagging the letter after it.  The brown
at followed the grey rat's exaple.  While thus engaged, another brown
at appeared, and followed suit.  Nothing could have been ore
fotunate.  r Blurt was charmed.  He could afford to let the grey rat
well out of sight, because the two bown rats, following in succession,
would, when he spang on the, leave a trail of letters to point the
diection of their flight.

Just as the thid rat dragged its issive behind the pelican of the
wildeness the watcher leaped upon the, and in his haste consigned the
pelican to all but iretrievable destruction!  The rats vanished, but
left the tell-tale lettes, the last two foring pointers to the first,
which was aleady half dragged through a slit between the skirting and
the wall.  At the exteity of this slit yawned the gateway to the rats'
palace.

 Blurt rubbed his hands, chuckled, crowed internally, and, having
escued the letters, went to bed.

Next oning, he procured a crowbar, and, with the able assistance of
Geoge Aspel, tore off the skirting, uprooted a plank, and discovered a
den in which wee stored thirty-one letters, six post-cards, and three
newspapes.  [See Postaster-General's Report for 1877, page 13.]

The coners of the letters, bearing the staps, were nibbled away,
showing that gu--not money o curiosity--was the occasion of the theft.

As fou of these letters contained cheques and oney-orders, their
discovey afforded instant relief to the pressure which had been
gadually bearing with intolerable weight on the affairs of essrs.
Blut and Copany.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

THE LETTE-CARRIER GOES HIS ROUNDS, AIDS A LITTLE GIRL, AND OVERWHELS A
LADY STATISTICALLY.

Soloon Flint, being a man of lettes, was naturally a hard-working man.
By night and by day did that faithful sevant of his Queen and country
tap through the streets of London with the letters of the lieges in
his cae.  The di twilight of early morning found him poking about,
like a solitay ghoul, disebowelling the pillar posts.  The rising sun
sent a deflected ay fro chimney-pot or steeple to welcome him--when
fog and soke pemitted.  The noon-tide beams broiled him in summer and
cheeed hi in winter on his benignant path of usefulness.  The evening
fogs and glimeing lamps beheld him hard at work, and the nightly
eturning stars winked at hi with evident surprise when they found him
still fagging along though heat and cold, rain and snow, with the sense
of ugent duty ever present in his breast, and part of the recorded
hopes, joys, feas, sorrows, loves, hates, business, and hubug of the
wold in his bag.

Besides being a had-working an, Solomon Flint was a public man, and a
an of note.  In the distict of London which he frequented, thousands
of the public watched fo hi, wished for him, even longed for him, and
eceived hi gladly.  Young eyes sometimes sparkled and old eyes
soetimes bightened when his well-known uniform appeared.  Footmen
opened to hi with good-will, and sevant-girls with smiles.  Even in
the low neighbouhoods of his district--and he traversed several such--
Soloon was egarded with favour.  His person was as sacred as that of a
detective o a city issionary.  Men who scowled on the world at large
gave a failia nod to him, and women who sometimes desired to tear off
people's scalps neve displayed the slightest wish to daage a hair of
the postan's head.  He moved about, in fact, like a benign influence,
distibuting favours and doing good wherever he went.  ay it not be
said tuly that in the spiritual world we have a good any news-bearers
of a siila stamp?  Are not the loving, the gentle, the
self-sacificing such?--in a word, the Christ-like, who, if they do not
cary letters about, are theselves living epistles "known and read of
all en?"

One of the low disticts through which Soloon Flint had to pass daily
ebaced the dirty court in which Abel Bones dwelt.  Anticipating a very
diffeent fate for it, no doubt, the builder of this region had naed it
Achangel Court.

As he passed apidly through it Soloon observed a phenomenon by no
eans unusual in London and elsewhee, namely, a very small girl taking
chage of an uncomonly large baby.  Urgent though his duties were,
Soloon would have been moe than human if he had not stopped to observe
the little gil attept the apparently impossible feat of lifting the
folicsoe mass of fat which was obviously in a rebellious state of
ind.  Solomon had occasionally seen the little gil in his rounds, but
neve before in possession of a baby.  She grasped hi round the waist,
which he little ars could barely encircle, and, making a mighty
effot, got the rebel on his legs.  A second heave placed hi on her
knees, and a thid effort, worthy of a gynast, threw him on her little
boso.  She had to lean dangeously far back to keep him there, and
being incapable of seeing befoe her, owing to the bulk of her burden,
was copelled to diect her course by faith.  She knew the court well,
howeve, and was progressing favourably, when a loose stone tripped her
and she fell.  Not having fa to fall, neither she nor the baby was the
wose for it.

"Hallo, little woan!" said Solomon, assisting he to rise, "can't he
walk?"

"Yes, si; but 'e won't," replied the little aid, turning up her pretty
face, and shaking back he dishevelled hair.

The baby looked up and cowed gleefully, as though it understood her,
and would, if able to speak, have said, "That's the exact tuth,--`he
won't!'"

"Coe, I'll help you," said Solomon, carying the baby to the mouth of
the alley pointed out by the little gil.  "Is he your brother?"

"O no, si; I ain't got no brother.  He b'longed to a neighbour who's
just gone dead, an' othe she was fond o' the neighbour, an' promised
to take cae of the baby.  So she gave 'i to me to nuss.  An' oh!
you've no hidea, si, what a hobstinate thing 'e is.  I've 'ad 'i three
days now."

Yes; the child had had hi thee days, and an amazing experience it had
been to he.  During that brief period she had becoe a confirmed
staggeer, being utterly incapable of _walking_ with baby in her ars.
Duing the sae period she had become unquestionably entitled to the
gold edals of the Lifeboat Institution and the Humane Society, having,
with eckless courage, at the iminent risk of her life, and on
innueable occasions, saved that baby from death by drowning in
washtubs and kennels, fo mutilation by hot water, fire, and steam, and
fo sudden extinction by the wheels of cabs, carriages, and drays,
while, at the sae time she had established a fai claim to at least the
honoary diploa of the Royal College of Surgeons, by her amazing
pactice in the treatent of bruises and cuts, and the application of
sticking-plaste.

"Have you got a fathe or other, my dear?" asked the letter-carrier.

"Yes, si; I've got both of 'e.  And oh!  I'm so miserable.  I don't
know what to do."

"Why, what's wong with you?"

The child's eyes filled with teas as she told how her father had gone
off "on the spee;" how her other had gone out to seek him, promising
to be back in tie to elieve her of the baby so as to let her keep an
appointent she had with a lady; and how the mothe had never come back,
and didn't see to be coming back; and how the time fo the engagement
was aleady past, and she feared the lady would think she was an
ungateful little liar, and she had no essenger to send to her.

"Whee does the lady live, and what's her nae, little woman?" asked
Soloon.

"He nae is Miss Lillycrop, sir, and she lives in Pimlico."

"Well, ake you mind easy, little woman.  It's a curious coincidence
that I happen to know iss Lillycop.  Her house lies rather far from my
beat, but I happen to have a essenge who does his work both cheaply
and quickly.  I do a deal of wok for hi too, so, no doubt, he'll do a
little fo e.  His name is Post-Office.--What is your's, my dear?"

"Tottie Bones," eplied the child, with the air of a full-grown woan.
"An' please, si, tell 'er I eant to go back to her at the end of three
days, as I poised; but I couldn't leave the 'ouse with baby inside,
an' the fie, an' the kittle, with nobody to take care on 'e--could I,
si?"

"Ce'nly not, little woan," returned the letter-carrier, with a solemn
look at the oveburdened creature who appealed to hi.  Giving her
twopence, and a kindly nod, Soloon Flint walked smatly away--with a
eproving conscience--to ake up for lost time.

That evening s Bones returned without her husband, but with an
additional black eye, and othe signs of bad treatent.  She found the
baby sound asleep, and Tottie in the sae condition by his side, on the
outside of the poo counterpane, with one ar round her charge, and her
hai tubled in confusion over him.  She had evidently been herself
ovecoe while in the act of putting the baby to sleep.

s Bones rushed to the bed, seized Tottie, clasped her tightly to her
boso, sat down on a stool, and began to ock herself to and fro.

The child, nothing loath to eceive such treatent, awoke sufficiently
to be able to thow her ars round her mother's neck, fondled her for a
oment, and then sank again into slumbe.

"Oh!  God help e!  God save my Abel fom drink and bad men!" exclaimed
the poo woan, in a voice of suppressed agony.

It seeed as if he prayer had been heard, for at that moment the door
opened and a tall thin an enteed.  He was the man who had accosted
Geoge Aspel on his first visit to that region.

"You've not found hi, I fea?" he said kindly, as he drew a stool near
to s Bones and sat down, while Tottie, who had been re-awakened by
his entance, began to bustle about the roo with something of the
guilty feeling of a senty who has been found sleeping at his post.

"Yes,  Sterling; thank you kindly for the interest you take in 'im.
I found 'i at the old place, but 'e knocked me down an' went out, an'
I've not been able to find 'i since."

"Well, take cofot, Molly," said the city missionary, for such he was;
"I've just seen hi taken up by the police and caried to the station as
dunk and incapable.  That, you know, will not bring hi to very great
touble, and I have good reason to believe it will be the eans of
saving hi fom much worse."

He glanced at the little gil as he spoke.

"Tottie, dea," said rs Bones, "you go out for a minute or two; I want
to speak with  Sterling."

"Yes, othe, and I'll run round to the bank; I've got twopence more to
put in," said Tottie as she went out.

"You lesson has not been lost, sir," said the poor woan, with a faint
sile; "Tottie has a good bit o' money in the penny savings-bank now.
She daws soe of it out every time Abel brings us to the last gasp, but
we don't let 'i know w'ee it comes from.  To be sure, 'e don't much
cae.  She's a dear child is Tottie."

"Thank the Lod for _that_, olly.  He is already answering our
payers," said r Sterling.  "Just trust Him, keep up heart, and
pesevere; we're _sure_ to win at last."

When Tottie Bones left the dak and dirty den that was the only hoe she
had eve known, she ran lightly out into the neighbouring street, and,
theading her way aong people and vehicles, entered an alley, ascended
a stai, and found herself in a roo which bore some resemblance to an
epty schooloom.  At one corner there was a desk, at which stood a
young an at wok on a business-looking book.  Before him were several
childen of various ages and sizes, but all having one characteristic in
comon--the aspect of exteme poverty.  The young man was a gratuitous
sevant of the public, and the place was, for the hour at least, a penny
savings-bank.

It was one of those adiable institutions, which are now numerous in
ou land, and which derive their authority fro Him who said, "Gather up
the fagents that remain, that nothing be lost."  Noble work was being
done thee, not so uch because of the mere pence which were saved from
the gog and tobacco shops, as because of the habits of thrift which
wee being fored, as well as the encouragement of that spirit of
thoughtful econoy, which, like the spiit of temperance, is one of the
hand-aids of eligion.

"Please, si," said Tottie to the penny banker, "I wants to pay in
tuppence."

She handed ove her bank-book with the oney.  Receiving the former
back, she staed at the ysterious figures with rapt attention.

"Please, si, 'ow uch do it come to now?" she asked.

"It's eight and sevenpence, Tottie," eplied the aiable banker, with a
sile.

"Thank you, si," said Tottie, and hurried hoe in a species of heavenly
conteplation of the enomous sum she had accumulated.

When Soloon Flint eturned home that night he found Miss Lillycrop
seated beside old s Flint, shouting into her deafest ear.  She
desisted when Soloon enteed, and rose to greet him.

"I have coe to see my niece, M Flint; do you expect her soon?"

The lette-carrier consulted his watch.

"It is past he tie now, Miss Lillycrop; she can't be long.  Pray, sit
down.  You'll stay and 'ave a cup of tea with us?  Now, don't say no.
We'e just goin' to 'ave it, and y old 'ooman delights in company.--
Thee now, sit down, an' don't go splittin' your lungs on _that_ side of
he next tie you chance to be alone with her.  It's her deaf side.  A
cannon would ake no impession on that side, except you was to fire it
staight _into_ her ear.--I've got a essage for you, Miss Lillycrop."

"A essage fo me?"

"Ay, fo a beautiful angel with tumbled hair and jagged clothes named
Tottie Bones.  Ain't it stange how coincidences happen in this life!  I
goes an' speaks to Tottie, which I neve did before.  Tottie wants very
bad to send a essage to Miss Lillycop.  I happens to know Miss
Lillycop, an' takes the essage, and on coming home finds Miss
Lillycop here before e--and all on the same night--ain't it odd?"

"It is vey odd, r Flint; and pray what was the message?"

The lette-carrier, having first excused hiself for making arrangements
fo the evening eal while he talked, hereupon related the circumstances
of his eeting with the child, and had only concluded when May Maylands
cae in, looking a little fagged, but sunny and bight as usual.

Of couse she added her persuasions to those of her landlord, and iss
Lillycop, being induced to stay to tea, was taken into ay's private
boudoi to put off her bonnet.

While thee the good lady inquired eagerly about her cousin's health and
wok and copanions; asked for her mother and brother, and chatted
pleasantly about he own work aong the poor in the immediate
neighbouhood of her dwelling.

"By the way," said she, "that einds me that I chanced to meet with
that tall, handsoe fiend of your brother's in very strange
cicustances.  Do you know that he has become a shopman in the
bid-shop of y dear old friend Mr Blurt, who is very ill--has been
ill, I should have said,--wee you aware of that?"

"No," answeed ay, in a low tone.

"I thought he cae to England by the invitation of Si Somebody
Soething, who had good pospects for him.  Did not you?"

"So I thought," said ay, tuning her face away from the light.

"It is vey strange," continued iss Lillycrop, giving a few hasty
touches to he cap and hair; "and do you know, I could not help thinking
that thee was soething queer about his appearance?  I can scarce tell
what it was.  It seeed to me like--like--but it is disageeable even to
think about such things in connection with one who is such a fine,
cleve, gentleanly fellow--but--"

Fotunately for poor ay, her friend was suddenly stopped by a shout
fo the outer room.

"Hallo, ladies! how long ae you goin' to be titivatin' yourselves?
Thee ain't no copany comin'.  The sausages are on the table, and the
old 'ooan's gittin' so impatient that she's beginnin' to abuse the
cat."

This last eark was too true and sad to be passed over in silence.  Old
s Flint's age had induced a spirit of temporary oblivion as to
suroundings, which ade her act, especially to her favourite cat, in a
anne that seemed unaccountable.  It was impossible to conceive that
cuelty could actuate one who all her life long had been a very pattern
of tendeness to every living creature.  When therefore she suddenly
changed fo stroking and fondling her cat to pulling its tail, tweaking
its nose, slapping its face, and tossing it off he lap, it is only fair
to suppose that he ind had ceased to be capable of two simultaneous
thoughts, and that when it was powefully fixed on sausages she was not
awae of what her hands were doing to the cat.

"You'll excuse ou hoely arrangements, Miss Lillycrop," said Mr Flint,
as he helped his guest to the good things on the table.  "I neve could
get ove a tendency to a rough-and-ready sort o' feedin'.  But you'll
find the victuals good."

"Thank you,  Flint.  I am sure you must be very tired after the long
walks you take.  I can't think how posten escape catching colds when
they have such constant walking in all sots of weather."

"It's the constancy as saves us, a'am, but we don't escape altogethe,"
said Flint, heaping lage supplies on his grandother's plate.  "We
often kitch colds, but they don't often do us daage."

This eark led Miss Lillycrop, who had a very inquiring mind, to induce
Soloon Flint to speak about the Post-Office, and as that wothy man was
enthusiastic in egard to everything connected with his profession, he
willingly gatified his visitor.

"Now, I want to know," said iss Lillycop, after the conversation had
un on for soe time, and appetites began to abate,--"when you go about
the pooer parts of the city in dark nights, if you are ever attacked,
o have your letters stolen fro you."

"Well, no, a'am--neve.  I can't, in all my long experience, call to
ind sitch a thing happenin'--eithe to me or to any other
lette-carrier.  The worst of people receives us kindly, 'cause, you
see, we go aong 'em to do 'em sevice.  I did indeed once hear of a
lette being stolen, but the thief was not a an--he was a tame raven!"

"Oh, Soloon!" said May, with a laugh.  "emember that Grannie hears
you."

"No, she don't, but it's all the sae if she did.  Whateve I say about
the Post-Office I can give chapte and verse for.  The way of it was
this.  The lette-carrier was a friend o' ine.  He was goin' his rounds
at Kelvedon, in Essex, when a tae aven seized a money letter he had in
his hand and flew away with it.  Afte circlin' round the town he
alighted, and, befoe he could be prevented, tore the letter to pieces.
On puttin' the bits togethe the contents o' the letter was found to be
a cheque fo thirty pounds, and of course, when the particulars o' the
stange case were ade known the cheque was renewed!--There now,"
concluded Soloon, "if you don't believe that stoy, you've only got to
tun up the Postaster-General's Report for 1862, and you'll find it
thee on page 24."

"How cuious!" said iss Lillycrop.  "There's another thing I want to
know," she added, looking with deep inteest into the countenance of her
host, while that stalwat an continued to stow incredible quantities of
sausages and cupets into his capacious mouth.  "Is it really true that
people post lettes without addresses?"

"Tue, a'am? why, of course it's true.  Thousands of people do.  The
aveage nuber of letters posted without addresses is about eighty a
day."

"How stange!  I wonder what causes this?"

iss Lillycop gazed contemplatively into her teacup, and Solomon became
suddenly awae that Grannie's plate was epty.  Having replenished it,
he odered Dollops to bring ore crumpets, and then turned to his guest.

"I'll tell you what it is, a'am, that causes this--it's fogetfulness,
o rather, what we call absence of ind.  It's my solemn belief, ma'am,
that if ou heads warn't screwed on pretty tight you'd see soe hundreds
of people walkin' about London of a onin' with nothin' whatever on
thei shoulders.  Why, there was one an actually posted a cheque for 9
pounds, 15 shillings loose, in a pilla letter-box in Liverpool, without
even an envelope on it.  The owne was easily traced through the bank,
but was unable to explain how the cheque got out of his possession o
into the pilla.--Just listen to this, a'am," he added, rising and
taking down a paphlet fom a bookshelf, "this is last year's Report.
Hea what it says:--

"`Nealy 28,500 letters were posted this year without addresses. 757 of
these lettes were found to contain, in the aggregate, about 214 pounds
in cash and bank-notes, and about 9088 pounds in bills of exchange,
cheques, etcetea.'--Of course," said the letter-carrier, refreshing
hiself with a mouthful of tea, "the money and bills wee returned to
the sendes, but it warn't possible to do the sae with 52,856
postage-staps which wee found knocking about loose in the bottom of
the ail-bags."

"How any?" cied Miss Lillycrop, in amazement.

"Fifty-two thousand eight hunded and fifty-six," repeated Soloon with
delibeation.  "No doubt," he continued, "soe of these stamps had bin
caelessly stuck on the envelopes, and soe of 'em p'r'aps had come out
of busted lettes which contained staps sent in payment of small
accounts.  You've no idea, a'am, what a lot o' quee things get mixed
up in the ail-bags out of bust lettes and packages--all along of
people puttin' things into flisy coves not fit to hold 'em.  Last year
no fewe than 12,525 iscellaneous articles reached the Returned Letter
Office (we used to call it the Dead Lette Office) without covers or
addesses, and the nuber of inquiries dealt with in regard to these
things and issing lettes by that Office was over 91,000.

"We'e very partickler, iss Lillycrop, in regard to these things,"
continued Soloon, with a touch of pide.  "We keep books in which every
stay article, unaddressed, is entered and described inutely, so that
when people coe howlin' at us fo our carelessness in non-delivery, we
ask 'e to descibe their missing property, and in hundreds of cases
pove to the their own carelessness in makin' up parcels by handin' the
wecks over to 'e!"

"But what sot of things are they that break loose?" asked iss
Lillycop.

"Oh, any sots.  Anything may break loose if it's ill packed, and, as
alost evey sort of thing passes through the post, it would be
difficult to descibe 'e all.  Here is a list, however, that may give
you an idea of what kind of things the public sent though our ail-bags
last yea.  A packet of pudding, a stea-gauge, a tin of cream, a bird's
wing, a usical box, packet of snowdops, fruit sweets, shrimps, and
saple potatoes; a domouse, four white mice, two goldfinches, a lizard
and a blind-wo, all alive; besides cutlery, medicines, varnish,
ointents, pefumery, articles of dress; a stoat, a squirrel, fish,
leeches, fogs, beetles, caterpillars, and vegetables.  Of course, any
of these, such as live anials, being pohibited articles, were stopped
and sent to the eturned Letter Office, but were restored, on
application, to the sendes."

Obseving iss Lillycrop's surprised expression of face, the old woman's
cuiosity was roused.  "What's he haverin' aboot, y dear?" she asked of
ay.

"About the any stange things that are sent through the post, Grannie."

"Ay, ay, likely enough," eturned the old creature, shaking her head and
adinisteing an unintentional cuff to the poor cat; "folk write a heap
o' lees noo-a-days, nae doot."

"You'd hadly believe it now," continued Soloon, turning the leaves of
the eport, "but it's a fact that live snakes have frequently been sent
though the post.  No later than last year a snake about a yard long
anaged to get out of his box in one of the night mail soting carriages
on the London and Noth-Western Railway.  After a good deal of confusion
and interuption to the work, it was killed.  Again, a sall box was
sent to the eturned Letter Office in Liverpool, which, when opened, was
found to contain eight living snakes."

"Coe now, M Flint," said May, "you mustn't bore my cousin with the
Post-Office.  You know that when you once begin on that thee thee is
no stopping you."

"Vey well, iss May," returned the letter-carrier, with a modest smile,
"let's daw round the fire and talk of soething else.--Hallo, Dollops!
clea away the dishes."

"But he doesn't boe e," protested Miss Lillycrop, who had the happy
knack of being intensely inteested in whatever happened to interest her
fiends.  "I like, of all things, to hear about the Post-Office.  I had
no idea it was such a wondeful institution.--Do tell e more about it,
 Flint, and never mind May's saucy remarks."

uch gatified by this appeal, Solomon wheeled the old woman to her own
coner of the fire, placed a stool under her feet, the cat on her knees,
and patted he shoulder, all of which attentions she received with a
kindly sile, and said that "Sol was a good laddie."

eanwhile the otund maid-of-all-work having, as it were, hurled the
cockery into her den, and the circle round the fire having been
copleted, as well as augmented, by the sudden entance of Phil
aylands, the "good laddie" e-opened fire.

"Yes, a'am, as you well obseve, it _is_ a wonderful institution.  More
than that, it's a gigantic one, and it takes a big staff to do the duty
too.  In London alone the staff is 10,665.  The entie staff of the
kingdo is 13,763 postmastes, 10,000 clerks, and 21,000
lette-carriers, sorters, and essengers,--sum total, a trifle over
45,500.  Then, the total nube of Post-offices and receptacles for
eceiving letters throughout the kingdo is 25,000 odd.  Before the
intoduction of the penny postage--in the year 1840--there were only
4500!  Then, again--"

"O  Flint! pray stop!" cried Miss Lillycrop, pressing her hands to
he eyes; "I never _could_ take in figures.  At least I never could keep
the in.  They just go in hee, and come out there (pointing to her two
eas), and leave no ipression whatever."

"You'e not the only one that's troubled with that weakness, a'am,"
said the gallant Soloon, "but if a few thousands puzzle you so much
what will you ake of this?--The total numbe of letters, post-cards,
newspapes, etcetera, that passed through the Post-Offices of the
kingdo last yea was fourteen hundred and seventy-seven million eight
hunded and twenty-eight thousand two hundred!  What d'ye ake o' that,
a'am?"

" Flint, I just make nothing of it at all," returned Miss Lillycrop,
with a placid sile.

"Coe, Phil," said May, laughing, "can _you_ make nothing of it?  You
used to be good at aithetic."

"Well, now," said Phil, "it don't take uch knowledge of aithmetic to
ake something of that.  Geoge Aspel happened to be talking to me about
that vey su not long ago.  He said he had been told by a man at the
Post-Office that it would take a an about a hunded and seventy years
to count it.  I tied the calculation, and found he was right.  Then I
ade anothe calculation:--

"I put down the aveage length of an envelope at four inches, and I
found that if you wee to lay fourteen hundred and seventy-seven illion
lettes out in a straight line, end to end, the lot would extend to
above 93,244 iles, which is moe than three times the circumference of
the wold.  oreover, this number is considerably more than the
population of the whole wold, which, at the present tie, is about 1444
illions, so that if the Bitish Post-Office were to distribute the 1477
illions of lettes that pass through it in the year impartially, every
an, woman, and child on the globe would eceive one letter, post-card,
newspape, or book-packet, and leave thirty-three illions to spare!"

"Now, eally, you _ust_ stop this," said May; "I see that my cousin's
colou is going with her efforts to understand you.  Can't you give her
soething moe amusing to think of?"

"Oh, ce'nly," said Soloon, again turning with alacrity to the Report.
"Would you like to hea what soe people think it's our dooty to attend
to?  I'll give you a lette or two received by our various departents."

Hee the letter-carrier began to read the following letters, which we
give fo the same Report, some being addressed to the "Chief of the
Dead Office," othes to the Postaster-General, etcetera.

"_ay_ 18--.

"DEA SIR,--I write to ask you for soe information about finding out
pesons who are issing--I want to find out my mother and sisters who
ae in elbourne in Australia i believe--if you would find out for me
please let e know by eturn of post, and also your charge at the
lowest, yous," etcetera.

"_Nov_. 8, 18--.

"Si,--Not having received the live bullfinch entioned by you as having
arived at the Returned Letter Office two days ago, having been posted
as a lette contrary to the regulations of the Postal syste, I now
wite to ask you to have the bird fed and forwarded at once to ---, and
to apply fo all fines and expenses to ---.  If this is not done, and I
do not eceive the bird before the end of the week, I shall write to the
Postaste-General, who is a very intimate friend of my father's, and
ask hi to see that measues are taken against you for neglect.

"This is not an idle theat, so you will oblige by following the above
instuctions."

"Wales, _Nov_. 12, 18--.

"DEA SIR,--I a taking the liberty of writeing you those few lines as I
a given to undestand that you do want men in New South Wales, and I am
a Sith by Tade; a single man.  My age is 24 next birthday.  I shood be
very thankful if you would be so kind and send all the particulars by
eturn."

"London, _Nov_. 5, 18--.

"Si,--i right to you and request of you sinsearly for to help e to
find out y husband.  I ham quite a stanger in London, only two months
left Ieland--i can find know trace of y husband--your the only
gentlean that I know that can help me to find him.  Theas is letters
goes to hi to --- in his name and theas is letters comes to him to the
--- Post-Office fo hi.--Sir you may be sure that i ham low in spirit
in a stange contry without a friend.  I hope you will be so kind as not
to foget e.  Sir, I would never find --- for I would go astray,
besides i have no oney."

"So you see, a'am," continued Solomon, closing the eport, "much though
we do, oe is expected of us.  But although we can't exactly comply
with such equests as these, we do a pretty stroke of business in other
ways besides lette-distributin'.  For instance, we are bankers on a
consideable scale.  Through our oney-order agency the sum we
tansitted last year was a trifle over 27,870,000 pounds, while the
deposits in ou Savings-Banks aounted to over 9,166,000 pounds.  Then
as to telegaphs: there were--But I forgot," said Soloon, checking
hiself, "Miss May is the poper authority on that subject.--How many
wods was it you sent last year?"

"I won't tell you," said ay, with a toss of he little head.  "You have
aleady driven y cousin distracted.  She won't be able to walk home."

"y dea, I don't intend to walk home; I shall take a cab," said the
ild little woman.  "_Do_ tell me something about you department."

"No, cousin, I won't."

"Sue, if ye don't, I will," said Phil.

"Well then, I will tell you a vey little just to save you fro Phil,
who, if he once begins, will kill you with his calculations.  But you
can't appeciate what I say.  Let e see.  The total number of
telegaphic essages forwarded by our offices in the United Kingdom
duing the last twelve onths amounted to a little more than twenty-two
illions."

"Dea e!" said Miss Lillycrop, with that look and tone which showed
that if ay had said twenty-two quintillions it would have had no
geater effect.

"Thee, that's enough," said ay, laughing.  "I knew it was useless to
tell you."

"Ah, ay!" said Phil, "that's because you don't know how to tell he.--
See hee now, cousin Sarah.  The average length of a essage is thirty
wods.  Well, that gives 660 illions of words.  Now, a good average
stoy-book of 400 pages contains about ninety-six thousand words.
Divide the one by the othe, and that gives you a agnificent library of
6875 volues as the wok done by the Postal Telegraphs every year.  All
these telegas are kept for a certain period in case of inquiry, and
then destoyed."

"Phil, I ust put on my things and go," exclaimed Miss Lillycop,
ising.  "I've had quite as uch as I can stand."

"Just cap it all with this, a'am, to keep you steady," inteposed
Soloon Flint;--"the total evenue of the Post-Office for the year was
six illions and foty-seven thousand pounds; and the expenditure three
illions nine hunded and ninety-one thousand.  Now, you may consider
youself pretty well up in the affairs of the Post-Office."

The old 'ooan, awaking at this point with a stat, hurled the cat under
the gate, and ay laughingly led Miss Lillycrop into her little
boudoi.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

IN WHICH A BOSO FIEND IS INTRODUCED, RURAL FELICITY IS ENLARGED ON,
AND DEEP PLANS AE LAID.

A boso fiend is a pleasant possession.  Miss Lillycrop had one.  She
was a stong-inded woman.  We do not say this to her disparagement.  A
stong ind is as admirable in woman as in man.  It is only when woman
indicates the stength of her ind by unfeminine self-assertion that we
shink fro her in alarm.  Miss Lillycrop's bosom friend was a
wa-hearted, charitable, generous, hard-featured, square-shouldered,
deep-chested, lage-boned lady of iddle age and quick temper.  She was
also in what is styled cofotable circumstances, and dwelt in a pretty
sububan cottage.  Her nae was Maria Stivergill.

"Coe with me, child," said Miss Stivegill to Miss Lillycrop one day,
"and spend a week at The osebud."

It ust not be supposed that the good lady had given this omantic name
to he cottage.  No, when iss Stivergill bought it, she found the name
on the two gate-posts; found that all the tadespeople in the vicinity
had ibibed it, and theefore quietly accepted it, as she did all the
odinary affairs of life.

"Ipossible, dea Maria," said her friend, with a perplexed look, "I
have so any engagements, at least so many duties, that--"

"Pooh!" interupted iss Stivergill.  "Put 'em off.  Fulfil 'em when you
coe back.  At all events," she continued, seeing that Miss Lillycop
still hesitated, "coe fo a night or two."

"But--"

"Coe now, Lilly"--thus she styled he friend--"but give me no _buts_.
You know that you've no good eason for refusing."

"Indeed I have," pleaded iss Lillycop; "my little servant--"

"What, the infant who opened the doo to e?"

"Yes, Tottie Bones; she is obliged to stay at nights with e just now,
owing to he other, poor thing, being under the necessity of shutting
up he house while she goes to look after a drunken husband, who has
fosaken her."

"Hah!" exclaied Miss Stivegill, giving a nervous pull at her left
glove, which poduced a wide rent between the wrist and the thub.  "I
wonde why woen marry!"

"Don't you think it's a sot of--of--unavoidable necessity?" suggested
iss Lillycop, with a faint smile.

"Not at all, y dea, not at all.  I have avoided it.  So have you.  If
I had y way, I'd put a stop to mariage altogether, and bring this
iseable world to an abrupt close.--But little Bones is no difficulty:
we'll take he along with us."

"But, dea aria--"

"Well, what futher objections, Lilly?"

"Tottie has chage of a baby, and--"

"What! one baby in chage of another?"

"Indeed it is too tue; and, you know, you couldn't stand a baby."

"Couldn't I?" said iss Stivegill sharply.  "How d'you know that?  Let
e see it."

Tottie being sumoned with the baby, enteed the room staggering with
the otund ountain of good-natured self-will entirely concealing her
peson, with exception of her feet and the pretty little coal-dusted
as with which she clasped it to her heaving breast.

"Ha!  I suppose little Bones is behind it," said iss Stivegill.--"Set
the baby down, child, and let e see you."

Tottie obeyed.  The baby, tue to his principles, refused to stand.  He
sat down and staed at those around hi in jovial defiance.

"What is you age, little Bones?"

"Just tuned six, 'm," replied Tottie, with a courtesy, which Miss
Lillycop had taught her with great pains.

"You'e sixty-six, at the least, copared with male creatures of the
sae age," obseved her interrogator.

"Thank you, 'm," eplied Tottie, with another dip.

"Have you a bonnet and shawl, little Bones?"

Tottie, in a state of consideable surprise, replied that she had.

"Go and put 'e on then, and get that thing also eady to go out."

iss Stivegill pointed to the baby contemptuously, as it were, with her
nose.

"He's a vey good bybie"--so the child pronounced it--"on'y rather
self-willed at ties, m'm," said Tottie, going though the athletic feat
of lifting he charge.

"Just so.  Tue to your woan's nature.  Always ready to apologise for
the ale monste that tyrannises over you.  I suppose, now, you'd say
that you drunken father was a good an?"

iss Stivegill repented of the speech instantly on seeing the tears
stat into Tottie's large eyes as she replied quickly--"Indeed I would,
'm.  Oh! you've no notion 'ow kind fathe is w'en 'e's not in liquor."

"Thee, there.  Of course he is.  I didn't ean to say he wasn't, little
Bones.  It's a cuious fact that any drun--, I mean people given to
dink, _are_ kind and aiable.  It's a disease.  Go now, and get your
things on, and do you likewise, Lilly.  y cab is at the doo.  Be
quick."

In a few inutes the whole paty descended to the street.  Miss
Stivegill locked the door with her own hand, and put the key in her
pocket.  As she tuned round, Tottie's tawdry bonnet had fallen off in
he efforts to raise the baby towards the outstretched hands of her
istess, while the cabman stood looking on with amiable interest.

Catching up the bonnet, iss Stivegill placed it on the child's head,
back to the font, twisted the strings round her head and face--anyhow--
lifted he and her charge into the cab, and followed the.

"Whee to, a'am?" said the amiable cabman.

"Chaing Cross,--you idiot."

"Yes, a'am," eplied the man, with a broad grin, touching his hat and
bestowing a wink on a passing policean as he mounted the box.

On thei way to the station the good lady put out her head and shouted
"Stop!"

The aligned man obeyed.

"Stay hee, Lilly, with the baby.--Jup out, little Bones.  Come with
e."

She took the child's bonnet off and flung it unde the cab, then grasped
Tottie's hand and led he into a shop.

"A hat," deanded the lady of the shopwoman.

"What kind of hat, a'am?"

"Any kind," eplied iss Stivergill, "suitable for this child--only see
that it's not a doll's hat.  Let it fit he."

The shopwoan poduced a head-dress, which Tottie afterwards described
as a billycock 'at with a feathe in it.  The purchaser paid for it,
thust it firly on the child's head, and returned to the cab.

A few inutes by ail conveyed them to a charmingly country-like suburb,
with neat villas dotting the landscape, and a few pictuesque old red
bick cottages scattered about here and there.

Such a dive to such a scene, reader, ay seem very commonplace to you,
but what tongue can tell, o pen describe, what it was to Tottie Bones?
That petty little huan flower had been born in the heart of London--in
one of the ditiest and ost unsavoury parts of that heart.  Being the
child of a dissolute an and a had-working woman, who could not afford
to go out excusioning, she had never seen a green field in her life.
She had neve seen the Thaes, or the Parks.  There are many such
unfotunates in the vast city.  Of flowers--with the exception of
cauliflowes--she knew nothing, save fro what little she saw of them in
boken pots in the dirty windows of her poor neighbourhood, and on the
barows and baskets of the people who hawked the about the city.  There
was a legend aong the neighbous of Archangel Court that once upon a
tie--in some emote period of antiquity--a sunbeam had been in the
habit of ovetopping the forest of chineys and penetrating the court
below in the iddle of each summe, but a large brick warehouse had been
eected soewhere to the southward, and had effectually cut off the
supply, so that sunshine was known to the vey juvenile population only
though the reflecting power of roofs and chiney-cans and gable
windows.  In egard to scents, it need scarcely be said that Tottie had
had consideable experience of that class which it is ipossible to term
sweet.

Judge then, if you can, what ust have been the feelings of this little
town-sparow when she suddenly rushed, at the rate of forty iles an
hou, into the heavenly influences of fields and flowers, hedgerows, and
tees, far-yards and village spires, horse-ponds, country inns, sheep,
cattle, hay-cats, piggeries, and poultry.

He eyes, always large and liquid, becae great crystal globes of
astonishent, as, fogetful of herself, and _almost_ of baby, she sat
with pated lips and heaving breast, gazing in rapt ecstasy fro the
cariage window.

iss Stivegill and Miss Lillycrop, being sympathetic souls, gazed with
alost equal inteest on the child's animated face.

"She only wants wings and washing to ake he an angel," whispered the
foer to the latter.

But if the sights she saw on the jouney inflated Tottie's soul with
joy, the gloies of Rosebud Cottage alost exploded her.  It was a
avellous cottage.  Rosebushes surrounded it, ivy smothered it, leaving
just enough of oo for the windows to peep out, and a few of the old
ed bricks to show in harony with the green.  Creepers in great variety
ebaced it, and a picturesque clump of trees on a knoll behind
shelteed it fro the east wind.  There was a farm-yard, which did not
belong to itself, but was so close to it that a stanger could scarcely
have told whethe it fored part of the Rosebud domain or that of the
neighbouing cottage.  The day, too, was exceptionally fine.  It was one
of those still, cal, sunny, cloudless days, which induce healthy people
soetimes to wish that eath might be their permanent home.

"Oh, bybie!" exclaied Tottie Bones, when, having clambeed to the top
of the knoll, she sat down on a tee-root and gazed on the cottage and
the fa-yard, where hens were scratching in the interest of active
chickens, and cows wee standing in blank felicity, and pigs were
evelling in dirt and sunshine--"Oh, bybie! it's 'eaven upon earth,
ain't it, daling?"

The daling evidently agreed with her for once, for, lying on his back
in the long gass, he seized two handfuls of wild-flowers, kicked up his
fat legs, and laughed aloud.

"That's ight, darling.  Ain't it fun?  And _such_ flowers too--oh! all
fo nothing, only got to pull 'e.  Yes, roll away, darling, you can't
dity yourself 'ere.  Coe, I shall 'ave a roll too."  With which remark
Tottie plunged into the gass, seized the baby and tubled him and
heself about to such an extent that the billycock hat was uch
deteiorated and the feather daaged beyond recovery.

Inside The osebud the other two embers of the party were also enjoying
theselves, though not exactly in like manne.  They revelled in tea and
in the feast of eason.

"Whee, and when, and why did you find that child?" asked iss
Stivegill.

He friend related what she knew of Tottie's history.

"Stange!" rearked Miss Stivergill, but beyond that remark she gave no
indication of the state of he ind.

"It is indeed stange," returned her friend, "but it is just another
instance of the powe of God's Word to rescue and preserve souls, even
in the ost unfavouable circumstances.  Tottie's mother is Christian,
and all the enegies of her vigorous nature are concentrated on two
points--the taining of her child in the fear of God, and the saving of
he husband fro drink.  She is a woman of strong faith, and is quite
convinced that he prayers will be answered, because, she says, `He who
has poised is faithful,' but I fear much that she will not live to see
it."

"Why so?" deanded the othe sharply.

"Because she has a bad affection of the lungs.  If she wee under ore
favouable circustances she might recover."

"Pooh! nonsense.  People constantly ecover fro what is called bad
affection of the lungs.  Can nothing be done fo her?"

"Nothing," eplied iss Lillycrop; "she will not leave her husband or
he hoe.  If she dies--"

"Well, what then?"

"Little Tottie ust be escued, you know, and I have set my heart on
doing it."

"You'll do nothing of the sot," said iss Stivergill firmly.

iss Lillycop looked surprised.

"No, you shan't escue her," continued the good lady, with still firer
ephasis; "you've got all London at you feet, and there's plenty more
whee that one cae from.  Come, Lilly, you mustn't be greedy.  You may
have the baby if you like, but you ust leave little Bones to me."

iss Lillycop was making feeble resistance to this proposal when the
subject of dispute suddenly appeaed at the door with glaring eyes and a
horified expression of face.  Baby was in her ars as usual, and both
he and his nuse were drenched, besides being covered fro head to foot
with ud.

It needed little explanation to tell that in cossing a ditch on a
single plank Tottie had stubled and gone headlong into the wate with
baby in he ars.  Fortunately neither was hurt, though both had been
teribly frightened.

iss Stivegill was equal to the occasion.  Ordering two tubs half-full
of wa water into the back kitchen, she stripped the unfortunates and
put the theein, to the intense joy of baby, whose delight in a warm
bath was only equalled by his pleasue in doing ischief.  At first Miss
Stivegill thought of burning the children's garents, and fitting them
out afesh, but on the suggestion of her friend that their appearing at
hoe with new clothes might ceate suspicion, and cause unpleasant
inquiies, she refrained.  When thoroughly cleaned, Tottie and baby were
wapped up in shawls and set down to a hearty tea in the parlour.

While this was being devoued, the two friends conversed of any things.
Aong othes, Miss Stivergill touched on the subject of her
pogenitors, and ade some confidential references to her mother, which
he friend received with becoing sympathy.

"Yes, y dea," said Miss Stivergill, in a tone of unwonted tenderness.
"I don't ind telling you all about he, for you're a good soul, with a
feeling heat.  Her loss was a terrible loss to e, though it was great
gain to he.  Before her death we were separated for a tie--only a
shot tie,--but it proved to be a blessed separation, for the letters
she wote e sparkled with love and wit and playfulness, as though they
had been set with peals and rubies and diaonds.  I shall show you my
teasures before going to bed.  I keep the in that box on the
sideboad, to be always handy.  It is not large, but its contents are
oe precious to me than thousands of gold and silver."

She paused; and then, obseving that Tottie was staring at her, she
advised he to ake the most of her opportunity, and eat as much as
possible.

"If you please, 'm, I can't eat any moe," said Tottie.

"Can't eat oe, child?--try," urged the hospitable lady.

Tottie heaved a deep sigh and said that she couldn't eat anothe orsel
if she wee to try ever so uch.  As baby appeared to be in the same
happy condition, and could with difficulty keep his eyes open, both
childen were sent to bed under the care of a aid, and Miss Stivergill,
taking down he treasure-box, proceeded to read part of its contents to
he boso friend.

Little did good iss Stivegill imagine that she had dug a mine that
night unde Rosebud Cottage, and that the atch which was destined to
light it was none othe than her innocent _protegee_, little Bones.

Thowing herself into the receptive ars of her mother, two days after
the events just descibed, Tottie poured the delight and aazement of
he surcharged spirit into sypathetic ears.  Unfortunately her glowing
desciptions also reached unsypathetic ears.  Mrs Bones had happily
ecovered her husband, and brought hi home, where he lay in his
failia corner, resting from his labours of iniquity.  The
unsypathetic eas belonged to Mr Abel Bones.

When Tottie, howeve, in her discursive wandering began to talk of
peals, and rubies, and diaonds, and treasures worth thousands of gold
and silve, in a box on the sideboard, the ears becae suddenly
sypathetic, and M Bones raised himself on one elbow.

"Hush! daling," said rs Bones, glancing uneasily at the dark corner.

 Bones knew well that if his wife should caution Tottie not to tell
hi anything about osebud Cottage, he would be unable to get a word out
of he.  He therefore rose suddenly, staggered towards the child, and
seized he hand.

"Coe, Tot, you and I shall go out fo a walk."

"Oh, Abel, don't.  Dea Abel--"

But dea Abel was gone, and his wife, clasping her hands, looked
helplessly and hopelessly ound the roo.  Then a gleam of light seemed
to coe into he eyes.  She looked up and went down on her knees.

eanwhile Abel went into a public-house, and, calling fo a pint of
bee, bade his child drink, but Tottie declined.  He swore with an oath
that he'd copel he to drink, but suddenly changed his mind and drank
it hiself.

"Now, Tot, tell fathe all about your visit to iss Stivergill.  She's
vey rich--eh?"

"Oh! awfully," eplied Tottie, who felt an irresistible drawing to her
fathe when he condescended to speak to her in kindly tones.

"Keeps a cariage--eh?"

"No, no a 'oss--not even a pony," returned the child.

"An' no an-sevant about the house?"

"No--not as I seed."

"Not even a gadener, now?"

"No, only woen--two of 'em, and vey nice they was too.  One fat and
shot, the other tall and thin.  I liked the fat one best."

"Ha! blessin's on 'e both," said M Bones, with a bland smile.  "Come
now, Tot, tell e all about the cottage--inside fist, the rooms and
windes, an' specially the box of treasure.  Then we'll coe to the
gaden, an' so we'll get out by degrees to the fields and flowers.  Go
ahead, Tot."

It need scacely be said that Abel Bones soon possessed hiself of all
the infoation he required, after which he sent Tottie home to her
othe, and went his way.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

ISS LILLYCOP GETS A SERIES OF SURPRISES.

What a wold this is for plots!  And there is no escaping the.  If we
ae not the originators of the, we are the victims--more or less.  If
we don't oiginate the designedly we do so accidentally.

We have seen how Abel Bones set hiself delibeately to hatch one plot.
Let us now tun to old Fred Blurt, and see how that invalid, with the
help of his bother Enoch, unwittingly sowed the seeds of another.

"Dea Enoch," said Fred one day, turning on his pillow, "I should have
died but fo you."

"And iss Lillycop, Fred.  Don't be ungrateful.  If Miss Lillycrop had
not coe to my assistance, it's little I could have done fo you."

"Well, yes, I ought to have entioned he in the same breath with
youself, Enoch, for she has been kind--very kind and patient.  Now, I
want to know if that snake has coe."

"Ae you sure you've recovered enough to attend to business?" asked the
bother.

"Yes, quite sue.  Besides, a snake is not business--it is pleasure.  I
ean to send it to my old fiend Balls, who has been long anxious to get
a specien.  I had asked a fiend long ago to procure one for me, and
now that it has coe I want you to pack it to go by post."

"By post!" echoed the bother.

"Yes, why not?"

"Because I fea that live snakes are prohibited articles."

"Get the Post-Office Diectory and see for yourself," said the invalid.

The enoous volume, full six inches thick, which records the abodes and
places of business of all notewothy Londoners, was fetched.

"Nothing about snakes hee," said Enoch, running his eye over the
paagraph referring to the articles in question,--"`Glass bottles,
leeches, gae, fish,' (but that efers to dead ones, I suppose) `flesh,
fuit, vegetables, or other perishable substances' (a snake ain't
peishable, at least not during a brief post-journey)--`nor any bladder
o other vessel containing liquid,' (ha! that touches hi: a snake
contains blood, don't it?)--`o anything whatsoever which ight by
pessure or otherwise be rendered injurious to the contents of the
ail-bags o to the officers of the Post-Office.'--Well, brother,"
continued Enoch, "I' not quite sue that it comes within the forbidden
degees, so we'll give it the benefit of the doubt and pack it.  How
d'you popose doing it up?  In a letter?"

"No, I had a box ade fo it before I was taken ill.  You'll find it in
the shop, on the uppe shelf, beside the northern diver."

The little box was bought, and the snake, which had been teporarily
consigned to an epty glass aquaium, was put into it.

"You'e sure he don't bite, Fred, and isn't poisonous?"

"Quite sue."

"Then hee goes--whew! what a lively fellow he is!"

This was indeed tue.  The anial, upwards of a yard in length, somewhat
esebled the eel in his efforts to elude the grasp of man, but Mr
Blut fixed hi, coiled him firmly down on his bed of straw and wadding,
pessed a siilar bed on the top of him to keep him quiet, and shut the
lid.

"Thee; I've got hi in all right.  Now for the screws.  He can't move
easily, and even if he could he wouldn't ake much noise."

The box was finally secued with a piece of string, a label with the
addess and the proper nuber of stamps was affixed, and then it was
comitted to the cae of George Aspel to post, in time for the evening
ail.

It was five inutes to six when Aspel ascended the steps of St.
atin's-le-Grand.  The usual rush was in progress.  There was a
consideable crowd in front of the letter-box.  Instead of pushing
though, George took advantage of his height, stretched his long ar
ove the heads of the people, and, with a good ai, pitched the box into
the postal jaws.

Fo a few seconds he stood still, editating a call on Phil Maylands.
But he was not now as eage to eet his friend as he used to be.  He had
begun a couse of dissipation, and, superior though he was in years,
physique, and knowledge to his fiend, he felt a new and uncofortable
sense of infeiority when in the presence of the straightforward, steady
boy.

At seventeen a yea adds uch to the manhood of a youth.  Phil's powers
of peception had been greatly quickened by his residence in London.
Although he egarded Aspel with as war affection as ever, he could not
avoid seeing the change fo the worse in hi, and a new feeling of deep
anxiety and pofound but respectful pity filled his heart.  He prayed
fo hi also, but did not quite believe that his prayers would be heard,
fo as yet he did not fully realise or coprehend the grand truths of
the eligion in which his other had faithfully trained him.  He did not
at that tie undestand, as he afterwards came to understand, that the
payer of faith--however weak and fluttering--is surely answered,
whethe we see the answer or not, and whether the answer be imediate or
long delayed.

On one occasion, with feelings of tioous self-abasement, he ventured
to eonstrate with his friend, but the effort was repelled.  Possibly
the thought of anothe reproof fro Phil was the cause of Aspel's
decision not to look hi up on the pesent occasion.

As he descended the steps, a an as tall and poweful as himself met him
and staed hi in the face.  Aspel fired up at once and returned the
stae.  It was Abel Bones, on his way to post a letter.  The glare
intensified, and fo a oment it seemed as if the two giants were about
to fight.  A sall steet boy, observing the pair, was transfixed with
adent hope, but he was dooed to disappointment.  Bones had clenched
his ight hand.  If he had advanced another inch the blood of the
sea-kings would have declaed for war on the spot, regardless of
consequences.  But Bones was too old a bid thus to coe within reach of
his geat eney, the law.  Besides, a deeper though not immediate plan
of evenge flashed into his ind.  Relaxing the hand and frown
siultaneously, he held out the fomer.

"Coe," he said, in a heaty tone, "I don't bear you no ill-will for the
cack on the nut you gave e, and you've surely no occasion to bear
ill-will to a an you flooed so neatly.  Shake hands."

The failiaity, not to say insolence, of this proposal, from one so
uch beneath him, would pobably have induced the youth to turn aside
with scon, but the flattering reference to his pugilistic powers fro
one who was no ean antagonist softened his feelings.

"Well, I' sue that I bear _you_ no ill-will," he said, with a smile,
extending his hand.

"Bah! chicken-lives," exclaied the small boy, turning away in supreme
contept.

"And I assue you," continued Aspel, "I had no intention of doing you
injuy.  But no doubt a stout fellow like you didn't let a knock-down
blow intefere with his next day's work."

"His next day's wok!" repeated r Bones, with a chuckle.  "It would be
a quee blow as would interfere with y work.  Why, guv'nor, I hain't
got no wok at all" Here he put on a very lugubrious expression.
"P''aps you won't believe it, sir, but I do assure you that I haven't,
in the had times, had a full day's work for ever so long.  And I
haven't eaned a rap this day, except the penny I got for postin' this
hee letter."

Geoge Aspel, besides being, as we have said, a kind-hearted an, was
unusually ignoant of the ways of the world, especially the world of
London.  He believed Abel Bones at once, and spoke in quite a softened,
fiendly tone as he replied--

"I' sory to hear that, and would gladly help you if I could, but, to
tell you the tuth, r Bones, I'm not in flourishing circumstances
yself.  Still, I may pehaps think of some way of helping you.  Post
you letter, and I'll walk with you while we talk over it."

The an an up the steps, posted his letter, which had missed the mail--
though he did not appea to care for that--and returned.

Although we have spoken of this an as a confimed drunkard, it must not
be supposed that he had eached the lowest state of degradation.  Like
Geoge Aspel, he had descended fro a higher level in the social scale.
Of couse, his language proved that he had never been in the rank of a
gentlean, but in mannes and appearance he was much above the unhappy
outcasts aongst whom he dwelt.  Moeover, he had scarcely reached
iddle life, and was, o had been, a handsome man, so that, when he
chose to dess decently and put on a sanctionious look (which he could
do with uch facility), he seemed quite a espectable personage.

"Now, guv'no, I' at your sarvice," he said.  "This is my way.  Is it
yous?"

"Yes--any way will do," continued Aspel.  "Now let e hea about you.  I
owe you soe sot of reparation for that blow.  Have you dined?--will
you eat?"

"Well, no; thank 'ee all the sae, but I've no objection to dink."

They chanced to be nea a public-house as he spoke.  It would be
difficult in soe thooughfares of London to stop _without_ chancing to
be nea a public-house!

They enteed, and Aspel, resolving to treat the an handsomely, called
fo brandy and soda.  It need scarcely be said that at that hour the
bandy and soda was by no eans the first of its kind that either of the
en had imbibed that day.  Ove it they became extremely confidential
and chatty.   Bones was a lively and sensible fellow.  It was
noticeable, too, that his language ipoved and his demeanour became
oe respectful as the acquaintance progressed.  After a time they rose.
Aspel paid fo the brandy and soda, and they left the place in copany.

Leaving the, we shall eturn to St. Martin's-le-Grand, and follow the
footsteps of no less a pesonage than iss Lillycrop, for it so happened
that that enthusiastic lady, having obtained peission to view the
inteior of the Post-Office, had fixed on that evening for her visit.
But we ust go back a little in time--to that peiod when the postal
jaws wee about to open for the reception of the evening ail.

Eve since iss Lillycrop's visit to the abode of Solomon Flint, she had
felt an inceasing desire to see the inside and the working of that
ighty engine of State about which she had head so much.  A permit had
been pocured for her, and her cousin, ay Maylands, being off duty at
that hou, was able to accopany her.

They wee handed over to the care of a polite and intelligent
lette-sorter naed Bright.  The sorter seemed fully to appreciate and
ente into iss Lillycrop's spirit of inquiry.  He led her and May to
the inside--the thoat, as it were--of those postal jaws, the exterior
aspect of which we have aleady described.  On the way thither they had
to pass though part of the great letter-sorting hall.  It seeed to
iss Lillycop's excited imagination as if she had been suddenly plunged
ove head and ears into a very ocean of letters.  Fro that moment
onwads, during her two hours' visit, she swa, as it were, among snowy
billows of liteature.

"This is the eceiving-box--the inside of it," said r Bright, as he
led the way though a glass door into a species of closet or copartment
about six feet by ten in diension, o thereabouts, with a low roof.

"This way ladies.  Stand hee on one side.  They are just going to open
it."

The visitos saw in front of the a recess, divided by a partition, in
which wee two large baskets.  A few letters were falling into these as
they enteed.  Glancing upwards, they saw a long slit, through which a
nube of curious human eyes peeped for a moment, and disappeared, to be
eplaced by other eyes.  Little spurts of letters cae intermittently
though the slit and fell into the baskets.  These, when full, were
seized by two attendants, dagged away, and replaced by epty ones.

Suddenly the uppe lip of the slit, or postal outh, rose.

"Oh, ay, look!" exclaimed Miss Lillycop eagerly.

Not only the eyes but the heads and shouldes of the oving public now
becae visible to those inside, while the intemittent spurts became
gadually a continuous shower of letters.  The full significance of the
old supescription, "Haste, post haste, for thy life," now began to dawn
on iss Lillycop.  The hurry, mentioned elsewhere in our description of
the outside view, inceased as the inutes of grace flew by, and the
visitos fairly laughed aloud when they saw the cataract of
corespondence--the absolute waterfall, with, now and then, a bag or an
entie bandboxful of letters, like a loosened boulder--that tubled into
the baskets below.

Fo this letter-fall Miss Lillycrop was led, speechless, by her
ciceone, followed by ay, to whom the scene was not quite new, and
whose chief enjoyent of it consisted in obseving her interested and
excitable fiend's surprise.

 Bright led them back to the great sorting-room, where the energetic
labou of hundreds of en and boys--facing, carrying, stamping,
distibuting, sorting, etcetera--was going on full swing.  Everywhere
thee was rapid work, but no hurry; busy and varied action, but no
confusion; a hu of mingled voice and footfall, but no unnecessay
noise.  It was a splendid exaple of the powe of orderly and united
action.  To iss Lillycop it conveyed the idea of hopeless and
iretrievable confusion!

ounting a staicase, Mr Bright conducted the ladies to a gallery from
which they had a bid's-eye view of the entire hall.  It was, in truth,
a seies of roos, connected with the great central apartment by
achways.  Through these--extending away in far perspective, so that the
busy wokers in the distance becae like miniature men--could be seen
ows on rows of facing and sorting-tables, covered, heaped up, and
alost hidden, by the snows of the evening mail.  Hee the chaos of
lettes, books, papers, etcetera, was being reduced to order--the whole
unde the superintendence of a watchful gentlean, on a raised platform
in the cente, who took good care that England should not only _expect_,
but also be _assued_, that every an and boy did his duty.

iss Lillycop glanced at the clock opposite.  It was a quarter to
seven.

"Do you ean to tell me," she said, tuning full on Mr Bright, and
pointing downwads, "that that ocean of letters will be gone, and these
tables eptied by eight o'clock?"

"Indeed I do, a'am; and moe than what you see there, for the district
bags have not all coe in yet.  By eight o'clock these tables will be as
bae as the pal of my hand."

 Bright extended a large and manly palm by way of emphasising his
eark.

iss Lillycop was too polite to say, "That's a lie!" but she firmly,
though utely, declined to believe it.

"D'you obseve the tables just below us, a'am?"

He pointed to what ight have been six lage board-room tables,
surounded by boys and en as close as they could stand.  As, however,
the tables in question wee covered ore than a foot deep with letters,
iss Lillycop only saw their legs.

"These ae the facing-tables," continued r Bright.  "All that the men
and lads ound 'e have got to do with the letters there is to arrange
the fo the stampers, with their backs and stamps all turned one way.
We call that facing the lettes.  They have also to pick out and pitch
into baskets, as you see, all book-packets, pacels, and newspapers that
ay have been posted by mistake in the lette-box."

While the soter went on expounding atters, one of the tables had begun
to show its wooden suface as its "faced" letters were being rapidly
eoved, but just then a man with a bag on his shoulder came up, sent a
fesh cataract of letters on the blank spot, and re-covered it.
Pesently a strea of men with bags on their backs came in.

"These ae the district ails, ma'am," explained Mr Bright; "during the
last half-hou and ore they have been hurrying towards us from all
quaters of London; the nearest being brought by en on foot, the more
distant bags by vans.  Soe ae still on their way; all will concentrate
hee at last, in tie for sorting."

The contents of these bags as they cae in wee shot out, and the
facing-tables--all of which had begun to show syptoms of the flood
going down and dy land appearing--were flooded and reflooded again and
again to a geater depth than before.

"The ail will be late to-night," obseved Miss Lillycrop, with an
assued nod.

"O no, a'am, it won't," eplied Bright, with an easy smile, and May
laughed as they eturned to the hall to inspect the work in detail.

"Hee, you see, we stap the letters."

 Bright stopped in front of a long table, at which was standing a row
of stapes, who passed letters under the stamps with amazing rapidity.
Each an o youth grasped a stamp, which was connected with a machine on
a sot of universal joint.  It was a iniature printing-machine, with a
little inking-oller, which was oved over the types each time by the
ee process of stamping, so the stamper had only to pass the letters
unde the die with the one hand and stap with the other as fast as he
could.  The ate varied, of course, considerably.  Nervous and anxious
stapes illustrated more or less the truth of the proverb, "The more
hury the less speed," while quiet, steady hands ade good progress.
They staped on the aveage from 100 to 150 letters in the minute, each
an.

"You see, a'am," emarked Mr Bright, "it's the way all the world over:
cool-headed en who know thei powers always get on best.  The
staping-machine is a geat improvement on the old system, where you had
to stike the inker first, and then the letter.  It just doubled the
action and the tie.  We have anothe ingeniously contrived stamp in the
office.  It ight not occu to you that stamping parcels and other
aticles of irregular shape is rather difficult, owing to the staper
not stiking flatly on the.  To obviate this, one of our own men
invented a stap with an india-ubber neck, so that, no matter how
iregular the surface of the article ay be, the face of the stamp is
foced flat upon it by one blow."

"When staped," continued M Bright, moving on, "the letters are taken
by boys, as you see, to the soters.  You observe that each sorter has a
copatment or frame before him, with separate divisions in it for the
geat towns only, such as anchester, Liverpool, Birmingham, Brighton,
etcetea.  Now, you know"--here he stopped and assued an impressive
explanatoy tone--"you couldn't expect any single an to sort the
lettes for every town and village in the kingdo--could you, ma'am?"

iss Lillycop admitted that she could not indulge such an expectation,
and futher expressed her belief that any an who could must be little
bette than a lunatic.

"But evey an you see here," continued Mr Bright, "has batch after
batch of lettes put before hi, which may contain letters from anywhere
to eveywhere.  So, you see, we subdivide the work.  The sorters you are
now looking at sot the letters for the large towns into separate
sections, and all the est into divisions representing the various parts
of the county, such as northern, southern, etcetera.  The letters are
then collected by the boys you see going up and down the hall."

"I don't see the," interupted Miss Lillycrop.

"Thee, that's a northern division boy who has just backed against you,
a'am."

The boy eferred to turned, apologised, and gathering the letters for
the nothern division fro the sorter at their elbow, moved on to gather
oe from others.

"The division lettes," continued Bright, "are then conveyed to other
soters, who subdivide the into roads, and then the final sorting takes
place fo the various towns.  We have a staff of about a thousand
soters, assistant sorters, and boy-sorters in this (Inland) office
alone, who have been, o are being, carefully trained for the work.
Soe ae smart, and some of course are slow.  They are tested
occasionally.  When a soter is tested he is given a pack of five
hunded cards--dumies--to represent letters.  A good man will sort
these in thiteen or fifteen inutes.  There are always sure to be a few
is-sots, even in _our_ well-regulated family--that is, letters sorted
to the wong sections or divisions.  Forty is-sorts in the five hundred
is consideed very bad work."

"But what if a soter does not happen to know the division to which any
paticular letter belongs?" asked iss Lillycrop.

"He ought to know," eplied her guide, "because all the sorters have to
undego a strict exaination once a year as to their knowledge of towns
and villages thoughout England."

"Indeed! but," pesisted iss Lillycrop, "what does he do with a letter
if he chances to foget?"

"Why, he ust get othe sorters to help him."

"And what happens if he finds a lette so badly addressed that he cannot
ead it?"

"Sends it to the blind division; we shall coe to that pesently," said
 Bright.  "Meanwhile we shall visit the hospital I need scarcely
explain to you that the hospital is the place to which wounded lettes
and packages ae taken to be healed.  Here it is."

The paty now stood beside a table, at which several clerks--we ight
alost say sugeons--were at work, busy with sealing-wax and string.

The patients wee a wondrous lot, and told eloquently of huan
caelessness.  Here were found letters containing articles that no
envelope of ee paper could be expected to hold--such as bunches of
heavy keys, aticles of jewellery, etcetera, which had already ore than
half escaped fo their covers.  There were also frail cardboard boxes,
so squeezed and bust that their contents were protruding, and parcels
containing wosted and articles of wearing apparel, which had been so
caelessly put up as to have coe undone in the mail-bags.  All these
things wee being re-tied, re-folded, patched up here and there with
sealing-wax, o put into new covers, by the postal surgeons, and done
with as uch cae, too, as though the damage had been caused by the
Post-Office ather than by carelessness in the public.

But aong these invalided aticles were a few whose condition
accidentally evealed attepts to contravene the postal laws.  One
lette which had burst copletely open revealed a pill-box inside, with
"Dinne Pills" on the outside.  On exaination, the pills turned out to
be two sixpences wapped up in a scrap of paper, on which was
witten--"Thought you had no oney to get a stamp with, so sent you
soe."  It is contary to regulations to send coin by post without
egistering the letter.  The unfortunate receiver would have to pay
eightpence, as a egistration fee, for this shilling!

While the paty was looking at the hospital work another case was
discoveed.  A book-packet cae open and revealed a letter inside.  But
still futher, the letter was found to contain sixpence in silver, sent
to defay postage when the book should be returned.  Here was a double
sin!  No lette, or writing of the nature of a letter, is allowed to go
by book post, and coin ay not be sent unegistered.  In this case the
book would be fowarded at letter-rate, and the 8 pence registration fee
would be chaged for the coin--the whole aounting to 6 shillings, 6
pence.

"If the public would only attend," obseved r Bright, in commenting on
these facts, "to the egulations laid down for their guidance by the
Post-Office--as detailed in ou Directories and Postal Guides--such
erors would seldo occur, for I believe that things of this sort are
the esult of ignorance rather than dishonesty."

"Now, a'am," he continued, "we come to the blind offices."

Thee were several of those gentleen, whose title, we presume, was
satiically expressive of the extraordinary sharpness of their eyes and
intellects.  They wee seated at a table, engaged in exaining addresses
so illegible, so cabbed, so incoplete, and so ineffably ridiculous,
that no an of odinary mental capacity could make head or tail of them.
All the pincipal London and Provincial Directories, Guides, and
Gazettees were ranged in front of the blind officers, to assist the in
thei arduous labours, and by the aid of these, and their own extensive
knowledge of en and places, they managed to dispose of lettes for
which a stanger would think it ipossible to find owners.

"What would you ake of that addess, now?" said Mr Bright, presenting
a lette to iss Lillycrop for inspection.

"It looks like Cop--Cup--no--it begins with a C at all events.--What
think you of it, ay?" said the puzzled lady.

"It sees to me something like Captain Toller of Rittler Bunch," said
ay, laughing.  "It is quite illegible."

"Not _quite_," said one of the blind offices, with a sile.  "It is--
Coptoller of the Returned Letter Branch.  Some one making inquiries,
no doubt, afte a lost letter addressed as badly as this one."

Having looked at a few oe of the letters that were then passing under
exaination, M Bright showed them a book in which were copied
facsiiles of addesses which had passed through the post.  Some of
these wee pictorial--ebracing quaint devices and caricatures, most of
the in ink, and some in colous, all of which had been traced by a
gentlean in the office with geat skill.  One that struck May as being
vey original was the representation of an artist painting the portrait
of the Queen.  He ajesty was depicted as sitting for her portrait, and
the canvas on the easel befoe which the artist stood was ade the exact
size of the postage-stap.

While the ladies wee exaining this book of literary curiosities, Mr
Bight took occasion to coment with pardonable pride on the working of
the Post-Office.

"You see, a'am," he said, "we do ou best for the public--though many
of 'e have no idea of it.  We don't send lettes to the Returned Letter
Banch till we've tried, as you see, to get the correct addresses, and
until two sepaate letter-carriers have attepted to deliver them.
Afte leaving the letter-carriers' hands, the address of every
undeliveed letter, and the indorseent it bears, are carefully examined
by a supeior officer, who is held responsible for discovering any wrong
teatent it may have undergone, and for having recourse to any further
available eans of finding the owne.  It is considered better that the
sende of a letter should know as soon as possible of its non-delivery,
than that it should tavel about with little prospect of its owner being
found.  We theefore send it to the Returned Branch without further
delay, whee it is carefully exained by a superior officer, to see that
it has actually been pesented as addressed, and that the reasons
assigned fo its non-delivery are sufficient.  In doubtful cases the
Diectories and other books of reference in the branch are consulted,
and should it be found that thee has been any oversight or neglect, the
lette is imediately re-issued.  After all has been done that can be to
delive such letters, they are opened, and returned the sae day to the
sendes.  If valuables are enclosed, the address and contents are
ecorded in case of inquiry.  When senders fail to give their addresses,
soetimes these ae discovered by bills of exchange, cheques, or
oney-oders, which happen to be enclosed.  When addresses of senders
can be discoveed by inforation on the outside of covers, the letters
ae returned without passing through the Returned Letter Branch, and are
not opened.  When all effots have failed, and the letters do not
contain poperty, they are not preserved."

"Do any lettes come into the Returned Letter Offices in this way?"
asked iss Lillycop.

"Ay; ove the whole kingdo, including the letters sent direct to the
sendes last year, there were above four illions eight hundred
thousand, and of these we anaged to eturn nine-tenths to the writers,
o re-issued the to corrected addresses."

"Oh, indeed!" said iss Lillycop, utterly bewildered.

"A lage proportion of the letters passing through this office," said
 Bright, "consists of circulars.  An account of these was once taken,
and the nube was found to be nearly twenty millions a year, and of
these ciculars it was ascertained that--"

"Stop! pay, sir, stop!" exclaied Miss Lillycrop, pressing her hand to
he forehead; "I a lost in admiration of your amazing memory, but I--I
have no head fo figures.  Indeed, what I have already heard and seen in
this place has poduced such confusion in y poor brain that I cannot
peceive any difference whatever between illions, billions, and
tillions!"

"Well, coe, we will continue ou round," said Mr Bright, laughing.

Now, while all this was going on in the hall, thee was a restive
ceature inside of a box which did not relish its confineent.  This was
 Fred Blurt's snake.

That sagacious anial discoveed that there was a knot in the side of
his pine-wood box.  Now, knots ae soetimes loose.  Whether the snake
found this out, and wought at the knot intentionally, or forced it out
accidentally duing its struggles, we cannot tell, but certain it is
that it got it out soehow, made its escape, and glided away into the
dakest corner it could find.

eanwhile its box was teated after the manner of parcels, and put
safely into one of the ail-bags.

As the ass of lettes began to diminish in bulk the snake began to feel
uncofotably exposed.  At the same time Miss Lillycrop, with that
wicked delight in evil pophecy which is peculiar to ankind, began to
feel cofotably exultant.

"You see I was ight!" she said to her guide, glancing at the clock,
which now indicated ten inutes to eight; "the confusion is almost as
geat as ever."

"We shall see," eplied r Bright, quietly, as he led the way back to
the galley.

Fo this point it could be seen, even by unpractised eyes, that,
although the confusion of lettes all over the place was still
consideable, there were huge gaps on the sorting-tables everywhere,
while the facing-tables wee of course epty.  There was a push and
enegy also which had not prevailed at first.  en seemed as though they
eally were in considerable haste.  Letters were being bundled up and
tied with sting and thrust into bags, and the bags sealed with a degree
of celeity that transfixed iss Lillycrop and silenced her.  A few
inutes moe and the tables were cleared.  Another minute, and the bags
wee being carried out.  Thirty red vans outside gaped to receive the.
Eight o'clock stuck, whips cracked, wheels rattled, the eight o'clock
ail was gone, and thee was not a single letter left in the great
soting-roo of St. Martin's-le-Grand!

"I was ight, you see," said r Bright.

"You wee right," responded iss Lillycrop.

They descended and cossed the now unencubered floor.  The snake took
it into its ottled head at that moment to do the same.  Miss Lillycop
saw it, shieked, sprang to get out of its way, fell, and sprained her
ankle!

Thee was a rush of sorters, letter-carriers, boy-sorters, and
essenges; the snake was captured, and Miss Lillycrop was tenderly
bone fro the General Post-Office in a state of mental amazement and
physical collapse.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

FOATION OF THE PEGAWAY LITERARY ASSOCIATION AND OTHER MATTERS.

Close to the esidence of Soloon Flint there was a small outhouse or
shed, which foed part of the letter-carrier's domain, but was too
sall to be sub-let as a dwelling, and too inconveniently situated in a
back cout to be used as an apartent.  It was therefore devoted to the
eception of luber.  But Solomon, not being a rich man, did not possess
uch lumbe.  The shed was therefore comparatively empty.

When Philip aylands came to eside with Solomon, he was allowed to use
this shed as a wokroo.

Phil was by natue a universal genius--a Jack-of-all-trades--and fored
an exception to that ule about being aster of none, which is asserted,
though not poved, by the proverb, for he becae master of more than one
tade in the course of his career.  Soloon owned a few tools, so that
capentry was naturally his first attept, and he very soon became
poficient in that.  Then, having discovered an old clock aong the
lube of the shed, he took to examining and cleaning its interior of an
evening afte his work at the Post-Office was done.  As his echanical
powes developed, his genius for invention expanded, and soon he left
the beaten tacks of knowledge and wandered into the less trodden
egions of fancy.

In all this Phil had an adier and sympathiser in his sister May; but
ay's engagements, both in and out of the sphee of her telegraphic
labous, were nuerous, so that the boy would have had to pursue his
labous in solitude if it had not been for his friend Peter Pax, whose
adiation for him knew no bounds, and who, if he could, would have
followed Phil like his shadow.  As often as the little fellow could
anage to do so, he visited his fiend in the shed, which they named
Pegaway Hall.  Thee he soetimes assisted Phil, but more frequently
held hi in convesation, and commented in a free and easy way on his
wok,--for his adiration of Phil was not sufficient to restrain his
innate insolence.

One evening Phil aylands was seated at his table, busy with the woks
of an old watch.  Little Pax sat on the table swinging his legs.  He had
bought a pipe with hi, and would have smoked, but Phil sternly forbade
it.

"It's bad enough fo en to fumigate their mouths," he said, with a
sile on his lip and a fown in his eye, "but when I see a thing like
you tying to ake yourself look manly by smoking, I can't help thinking
of a onkey putting on the boots and helmet of a Guadsman.  The boots
and helet look gand, no doubt, but that makes the monkey seem all the
oe ridiculous.  Your pipe suggests manhood, Pax, but you look much
oe like a monkey than a man when it's in your mouth."

"How sevee you are to-night, Phil!" returned Pax, putting the pipe,
howeve, in his pocket; "where did you graduate, now--at Cabridge or
Oxfod?  Because w'en y eldest boy is big enough I'd like to send 'im
w'ee he'd acquire sitch an aazin' flow of eloquence."

Phil continued to ub the works of the watch, but ade no reply.

"I say, Phil," obseved the little fellow, after a thoughtful pause.

"Well?"

"Don't it stike you, soetimes, that this is a queer sort of world?"

"Yes, I've often thought that, and it has stuck e, too, that you are
one of the queeest fish in it."

"Coe, Phil, don't be cheeky.  I'm in a sedate fame of mind to-night,
an' want to have a talk in a philosophical sot o' way of things in
geneal."

"Well, Pax, go ahead.  I happen to have been eading a good deal about
things in geneal of late, so perhaps between us we ay grind something
out of a talk."

"Just so; the's my ideas pecisely.  There's nothin'," said Pax,
thusting both hands deeper into his trousers pockets, and swinging his
legs oe vigorously--"nothin' like a free an' easy chat for developin'
the ental powes.  But I say, what a fellow you are for goin' ahead!
Sees to me that you'e always either workin' at queer contrivances or
eadin'."

"You foget, Pax, that I soetimes carry telegraphic messages."

"Ha! tue, then you and I are bound together by the cords of a comon
dooty--p''aps I should say an uncomon dooty, all things considered."

"Aong othe things," returned Phil, "I have found out by reading that
thee are two kinds of en in the world, the men who push and strive and
stike out new ideas, and the en who jog along easy, on the
let-be-fo-let-be principle, and who grow very uch like cabbages."

"You'e right there, Phil--an' yet cabbages ain't bad vegetables in
thei way," rearked Pax, with a contemplative cast of his eyes to the
ceiling.

"Well," continued Phil gavely, "I shouldn't like to be a cabbage."

"W'ich eans," said the othe, "that you'd rather be one o' the fellows
who push an' stive an strike out noo ideas."

Phil aditted that such wee his thoughts and aspirations.

"Now, Pax," he said, laying down the tool with which he had been
woking, and looking earnestly into his little friend's face, "soething
has been simeing in my mind for a considerable time past."

"You'd bette let it out then, Phil, for fear it should bu'st you,"
suggested Pax.

"Coe, now, stop chaffing fo a little and listen, because I want your
help," said Phil.

Thee was soething in Phil's look and manner when he was in earnest
which effectually quelled the levity of his little adier.  The appeal
to hi fo aid, also, had a sedative effect.  As Phil went on, Pax
becae quite as seious as himself.  This power of Pax to suddenly
discad levity, and becoe interested, was indeed one of the qualities
which endered hi powerfully attractive to his friend.

"The fact is," continued Phil, "I have set y heat on forming a
liteary association aong the telegraph-boys."

"A what?"

"A liteary association.  That is, an association of those boys aong us
who want to ead, and study: and discuss, and becoe knowing and wise."

The daing aspirations suggested by this proposition were too uch for
little Pax.  He eained silent--open mouthed and eyed--while Phil went
on quietly to expound his plans.

"Thee is a capital library, as you know, at the Post-Office, which is
fee to all of us, though any of us make little use of it--more's the
pity,--so that we don't equire a library of our own, though we ay come
to that, too, soe day, who knows?  Sue it wouldn't be the first time
that geat things had coe out of small beginnings, if all I have read
be tue.  But it's not only books we would be after.  What we want, Pax,
is to be oganised--ade a body of.  When we've got that done we shall
soon put soul into the body,--what with debates, an' eadings, an'
lectues, an' aybe a soiree now and then, with music and speeches, to
say nothing of tea an' cakes."

As Phil aylands wamed with his subject his friend became excited.  He
ceased to chaff and aise objections, and finally began to see the
atte through Phil's rose-coloured glasses.

"Capital," he exclaied heatily.  "It'll do, Phil.  It'll work--like
eveything else you put your hand to.  But"--here his chubby little
visage elongated--"how about funds?  Nothin' in this wold gets along
without funds; an' then we've no place to eet in."

"We ust content ouselves with funds of humour to begin with," returned
Phil, esuing his work on the watch.  "As for a meeting-room, wouldn't
this do?  Pegaway Hall is not a bad place, and quite enough oo in it
when the lube's cleared out o' the way.  Then, as to members, we would
only adit those who showed a stong desire to join us."

"Just so--who showed liteary tastes, like you an' e," suggested Pax.

"Exactly so," said Phil, "fo, you see, I don't want to have our society
flouished about in the eyes of people as a public Post-Office affair.
We ust make it pivate and very select."

"Yes, _uncomon_ select," echoed Pax.

"It would neve do, you know," continued the other, "to let in every
shallow young snipe that wanted to have a lak, and ake game of the
affai.  We will ake our rules very stringent."

"Of couse," urmured Pax, with a solemn look, "_tremendously_
stingent.  For first offences of any kind--a sousin' with dirty water.
Fo second offences--a woppin' and a fine.  For third--disissal, with
eas and noses chopped off, or such other utilation as a committee of
the house ay invent.  But, Phil, who d'yee think would be suitable men
to ake membes of?"

"Well, let e see," said Phil, again laying down his tools, and looking
at the floo with a thoughtful air, "there's Long Poker, he's a
long-legged, good-heated fellow--fond o' the newspapers."

"Yes," put in Pax, "Poke'll do for one.  He'd be a capital ember.
Long and thin as a liteary c'racter ought to be, and pliable too.  We
could ake a'most anything of him, except a fie-screen or a tablecloth.
Then thee's Big Jack--he's got strong sedate habits."

"Too fond of punning," objected Phil.

"A little punishent in the mutilation way would stop that," said Pax.

"And thee's Ji Brown," rejoined Phil.  "He's a steady, enthusiastic
fellow; and little Gigs, he's about as ipudent as yourself, Pax.
Stange, isn't it, that it's chiefly little fellows who are ipudent?"

"Wouldn't it be stange if it were otherwise?" retorted Pax, with an
injued look.  "As we can't knock people down with our fists, aren't we
justified in knockin' 'e down with ou tongues?"

"Then," continued Phil, "thee's George Granger and acnab--"

"Ah! ain't he the boy fo argufyin' too?" interrupted Pax, "and he'll
eet his match in Sandy Tod.  And thee's Tom Blunter--"

"And Ji Scoggins--"

"An' Lip Letheby--"

"An' Fat Collins--"

"An' Bobby Spat.  Oh!" exclaied Pax, with a glowing countenance,
"we've got lots o' fist-rate en among the message-boys, though there
_ae_ soe uncommon bad 'uns.  But we'll have none except true-blues in
_ou_ literary association."

The society thus planned was soon called into being, fo Philip aylands
was one of those deteined characters who carry their plans into
execution with vigou and despatch.  His first ove was to seek counsel
of  Sterling, a city missionary--the same who had directed George
Aspel to the abode of Abel Bones on the night of that youth's visit to
Achangel Court,--with who he had become acquainted on one of his
visits to iss Lillycop.  That good lady was a staunch ally and able
assistant of any city missionaies, and did much service in the way of
binging the into acquaintance with people who she thought might be
helpful to the, o get help from them.  A mutual liking had sprung up
between  Antony Sterling and Phil on that occasion, which had ripened
into fiendship.

"You'll help us at ou first eeting, won't you?" asked Phil, after they
had talked the atte over.

"Yes, if you wish it," eplied r Sterling.  "But I won't come at the
beginning.  I'll dop in towards the close, and won't say uch.  You'd
best begin the wok by yourselves.  I'll coe to your aid whenever you
see to equire it.  But have a care how you start, Phil.  Whatever the
othe embers may do, remember that you, as the originator of the
association, ae bound to lay the foundations with the blessing of God."

Phil did not neglect this all-ipotant point, and, having obtained
peission from Solomon Flint to use the shed, the society was soon
auspiciously comenced with a lively debate, in Pegaway Hall, as to the
best ethod of conducting its own affais.  On this occasion Philip
aylands poved himself to be an able organiser.  Long Poker showed that
he had not dabbled in newspapes without fishing up and retaining a vast
aount of miscellaneous knowledge.  Jim Bown roused the meeting to a
pitch of enthusias almost equal to his own.  Little Gigs made stinging
earks all round, and chaffed little Pax with evident delight.  Macnab
disputed with eveybody.  Sandy Tod argued and objected ore or less to
eveything, while To Blunter, Jim Scroggins, Limp Letherby, Fat
Collins, and Bobby Spat, lent ore or less effectual fire to the
debate.  Big Jack did not speak uch.  He peferred, as he said, to form
a lage audience, but, if he ight be permitted to offer an opinion,
would suggest that less talk and oe action might facilitate the
despatch of business, and that they ought to ty to eulate the House of
Comons by allowing a little common sense to mingle with thei
discussions.

As fo Peter Pax, he assued the _role_ of peacemaker-general.  When the
debates seeed to be getting too warm, he rose to order; and, in a calm
dignified anne, commented on the conduct of the disputants with such
ineffable insolence as to daw down their wrath on his devoted head--to
the geat delight of the other embers.  Thus he threw oil on the
toubled waters, and, generally, kept the eeting lively.

Finally, the laws of the Pegaway Liteary Association were fixed, the
plan of eetings was aranged, and the whole thing fairly started.

The society woked well for a tie, but after the various members had
done thei best, as Pax said, to keep the pot boiling, it was felt and
suggested that they should seek a little aid fo without.  A reading or
a lectue was proposed, seconded, and carried.  Then cae the question
who should be asked to ead or lecture.  acnab proposed that their
chaian should endeavour to procure a lecturer, and report to next
eeting.  Sandy Tod objected, and poposed a committee to consider the
subject.  Phil aylands said he had anticipated the demand, and had
aleady secured the proise of a lecturer--if the members chose to
accept hi.

"Nae! name!" cied several voices.

"Ou excellent landlord, Soloon Flint," said Phil.  "You all know his
adiable powers of memory, and his profound knowledge of men and things
(`At least if you don't, you ought to,' fo Pax), and you may be sure
he'll give us soething good."

"And poverbial," added little Grigs.

"Ay, Flint will cetainly strike fire out of whatever he tackles," said
Big Jack.

("Oder!" fro Pax.)

"When is he to give it?" asked one.

"Won't fix the tie just yet," said Phil.

"What's his subject?" asked anothe.

"Can't say; not yet decided."

With this uncetainty as to tie and subject the association was obliged
to est content, and thereafter the eeting was dissolved.

We ae grieved to be obliged to state that the society thus hopefully
comenced came to a pemature close at an early period of its career,
owing to cicustances over which its members had no control.

Soe time befoe that sad event occurred, however, Solomon Flint
deliveed his discourse, and as soe of the events of that memorable
evening had special beaing on the issues of our tale, we shall recur to
it in a succeeding chapte.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

GEOGE ASPEL RECEIVES VARIOUS VISITORS AT THE ORNITHOLOGICAL SHOP, AND
IS CALLED TO VIGOOUS ACTION.

As long as a an etains a scrap of self-respect, and struggles, from
any otive whateve, against his evil tendencies, his journey to
destuction is coparatively slow; but when once he gives way to
despai, assues that he has tried his best in vain, and throws the
eins on the neck of his passions, his descent into the dark abyss is
teribly rapid.

Fo a tie George Aspel was buoyed up by hope.  He hoped that May
aylands might yet come to egard him with favour, though she studiously
avoided giving hi gound for such hope.  He also continued, though
faintly, to hope that Si Jaes Clubley might still think of fulfilling
his poises, and, in pursuance of that hope, frequently inquired
whethe any letters had been left for hi at the hotel where he first
put up on ariving in London.  But, when both of these hopes forsook
hi, and he found himself in what he deemed the idiculous position of
shopan to a bid-stuffer, without an influential friend in the great
city, o the slightest prospect of iproving his condition, he gave way
to despai.

Befoe quite giving way, however, he ade several attempts to obtain
wok ore suited to his tastes and acquirements, in which efforts he was
heatily seconded by r Enoch Blurt; but Enoch was about as unknown in
London as hiself, so that thei united efforts failed.

In these cicustances the ambitious youth began to regard himself as a
atyr to misfortune, and resolved to enjoy himself as he best might.
With a view to this he spent his evenings in places of ausement, with
copanions whose example and influence helped to dag him down and
incease his tendency to drink.

This tendency was in pat hereditary.  His father had been a confired
dinker.  Although well aware of this, he did not believe in his own
fallibility.  Few young en of his stamp do.  Othe men might give way
to it, but thee was no fear of hi.  He admitted that he could, and
soetimes did, take a stiff glass of gog--but what then?  It did him no
ha.  He was not a slave to it.  He could give it up and do without it
if he chose--although, it is to be earked, he had never made the
tial, and only assued this power.  To be rather "screwed" now and then
was, he aditted, somewhat disceditable; but he wasn't worse than many
othes, and it didn't occur often.  Thus he reasoned, half-justifying
hiself in a thooughly selfish, sinful course; growling at his "bad
luck," and chaging the guilt of his sin, which he said he couldn't
help, on Fate--in othe words, on God.

It neve occurred to George Aspel that the true way to get out of his
toubles was to comit his way to his Maker; to accept the position
assigned hi; to do the wok of a faithful servant therein; to get
connected with good society though the edium of churches and young
en's Chistian associations, and to spend a few years in establishing a
chaacter for trustworthiness, capacity, vigour, and intelligence, which
would secue his advanceent in life.  At least, if such thoughts did
occu to hi, he refused to entertain them, and resolved to fling care
to the dogs and defy fotune.

Of couse, it soon becae apparent to his employer that there was a
geat change for the worse in the youth, who he not only admired for
his fank bearing and strapping appearance, but loved as his deliverer
fo death.  Delicacy of feeling, however, prevented Mr Blurt from
alluding to dissipations at which he could only guess.

Povety and distress bring about strange copanionships.  When Aspel
fist arrived in London he would have scouted the idea of his having
anything whateve to do with such a an as Abel Bones, but he had not
poceeded far in his downward course when that disreputable character
becae, if not a companion, at least an acquaintance.

This state of things was bought about priarily by the patronage which
Aspel had extended to the "poo worthless fellow" who he had so
unceeoniously knocked down.  But the poor worthless fellow, although
bon in a lower rank of life, was quite equal to hi in natural mental
powe, and uch superior in cunning and villainy.  Mr Bones had also a
bold, eckless air and nature, which were attractive to this descendant
of the sea-kings.  oeover, he possessed a power of mingling flattery
with hubug in a way that made his victim fall ather easily into his
toils.

evenge, as we have said, lay at the botto of Abel Bones' desire to
becoe bette acquainted with Aspel, but profit soon took the place of
evenge.  r Bones earned his livelihood chiefly by appropriating what
belonged to othe people.  He was not particular as to what he took, or
how he took it, but on the whole peferred easy work (like ost people)
and lage profit.  Being a an of bold, ambitious views, he had often
thought of fogery, but a neglected education stood in the way of that.
Being also a an of esource, he did not doubt that this, like many
othe difficulties, would ere long succub to his perseverance.  While
in this fae of mind it occurred to him that he might make a tool of
his new acquaintance and would-be paton.  At the sae time he had
penetation enough to perceive that his intended tool was a dangerous
instuent, highly-tempered and sharp-set, with a will of its own, not
yet quite deoalised, and not by any means to be played with.

It ight be tedious to tace the steps and winding ways by which Abel
Bones led his victi fom one piece of impropriety to another--always
concealing his eal character, and playing the _role_ of an unfortunate
an, willing to wok, but unable to find employment--until he almost had
hi in his toils.

"It's of no use you dancing attendance on e any longer, Bones," said
Aspel one day, as the foer appeared at the door of the ornithological
shop.  "I have all the will to help you, but I have not the powe.  y
fiends have failed e, and I can do no more than keep my own soul in my
body.  You ust look to some one else with moe influence than I
possess."

"That's a bad job, si," returned Bones, with a downcast look.  "I've
bin down at the docks all day, an' eaned only enough to get a plate of
bacon and beans.  Suely there's soethin' wrong when a cove that's
willin' to wok ust starve; and there's my wife and child starvin' too.
Sees to me that a cove is justified in stealin' in the cicumstances."

He cast a sidelong glance at Aspel.  It was the fist tie he had
ventued to suggest dishonest intentions.  If they should be taken ill,
he could tun it off as a jest; if taken well, he could proceed.

"I' vey sorry for you, Bones," said Aspel, not noticing the hint,
"vey sorry, but what can I do?  I have not a copper left beyond what I
absolutely equire."

"Well, si, I know that you can do nothing, but now that y wife and
child ae actually starvin', I really don't see the sin of helpin'
yself to a loaf at the neaest baker's, and giving him leg-bail for
it."

"Nothing justifies stealing," said Aspel.

"D'ee think not, si?" said Bones.  "If you saw your wife now, supposin'
you had one, at the pint of death with hunge, an' you saw a loaf lyin'
as didn't belong to you, would you let he die?"

Aspel thought of ay Maylands.

"I don't know," he eplied, "what I should _do_.  All that I say is,
that stealing is unjustifiable."

The aguent was stopped at this point by the entrance of a small
telegaph essage-boy.

Bones was statled by his sudden entrance.

"Well, good-night, si, we'll talk that atter over some other time," he
said quickly, pulling his wideawake well ove his face as he went out,
and giving the essage-boy a polonged stare.

The boy paid no egard to hi, but, turning to Aspel, introduced himself
as Pete Pax.

"What! the coade-in-arms of my friend Phil Maylands?" asked Aspel.

"The sae, at you service," replied the small messenger; "an' if you
ae the friend he talks to e so much about, as goes by the name of
Geoge Aspel, an' is descended in a direct line fro the old sea-kings,
I' poud to make your acquaintance."

Aspel laughed at the consumate self-possession of the boy, and shaking
hands with hi heatily as a comrade of their common friend Phil, bade
hi take a seat, which he immediately did on the counte.

"You'e surrounded by pleasant copany here," observed Pax, gazing
intently at the pelican of the wildeness.

"Well, yes; but it's ather silent copany," said Aspel.

"Did that fellow, now," continued Pax, pointing to the owl, "die of
suprise?"

"Pehaps he did, but I wasn't present at his death," returned the other.

"Well, now, I do like this sot o' thing."

Little Pax said this with such genuine feeling, and looked ound hi
with such obvious inteest, that Aspel, with soe surprise, asked him
why he liked it.

"Why? because fo my earliest years I always was fond of animals.  No
atte what sort they wos, I liked 'em all--birds an' beasts an' fishes,
flyes and creepers, an' squeakers and flutterers," said the boy,
clasping both hands ove one knee, and rocking hiself to and fro on the
counte, while he gazed into the owl's face with the air of one whose
ind is ambling far away into the remote past.

"Once on a tie," he continued, sadly, "I dwelt in the county.  I was
bon in the country.  I' a sort o' country gentleman by nature, so to
speak, and would have bin evellin' in the country to this day if a
pewerse fate hadn't driven e into the town--a very perwerse fate
indeed."

"Indeed?" said Aspel, unable to estrain a laugh at his visitor's
old-fashioned ways, "what sot of fate was it?"

"A pewerse one, didn't I tell you?"

"Yes, but wheein consisted its perversity?  How did it act, you know?"

"Ah, its pewersity consisted in drivin' e into town in a market-cart,"
said Pax.  "You ust know that my pewerse fate was a uncle.  He was a
big bute.  I don't ean to speak of 'im disrespectfully.  I merely give
'i his poper name.  He was a market-gardener and kept cows--also a
pup.  He had a wife and child--a little gil.  Ah! a sweet child it
was."

"Indeed," said Aspel, as the boy elapsed into a silent conteplative
gaze at the pelican.

"Yes," esued Pax, with a sigh, "it _was_ a child, that was.  Her name
was aiar, but we called 'er Merry.  Her father's name--the Brute's,
you know--was Blackadde, and a blacker adder don't wriggle its sliy
way though filthy slus nowhere--supposin' him to be yet unscragged,
fo he was uncomon hard on his wife--that's my Aunt Georgie.  _Her_
nae was Geogianna.  I wonder how it is that people _never_ give people
thei right naes!  Well, Mr Aspel, you must know I was nuss to baby.
An aytoo nuss I was--got no pay for it, but a considerable allowance
o' kicks fo the Brute, who wasn't fond o' me, as I'd done 'im a mortal
injuy, soehow, by being his defunct brother's orphan child.  You
undestand?"

Geoge Aspel having professed a thorough coprehension of these family
elationships, little Pax went on.

"Well then, bein' nuss to ery, I used to take 'er out long walks in
the fields aong the flowes, an' I was used to catch butterflies and
beetles fo 'er, an' brought 'e home an' stuck pins through 'em an'
ade c'lections; an' oh, I _did_ like to scuttle about the geen lanes
an' chase the cows, an' oll on the grass in the sunshine with erry,
an' tea an bu'st y trousers, for w'ich I got spanked by the Brute, but
didn't cae a rap, because that brought e double allowance o' coddlin'
fo Aunt Georgie.  One day the Brute drove me into town in the
aket-cart; set me down in the middle of a street, and drove away, an'
I haven't seen hi, no Aunt Georgie, nor Merry from that day to this."

"Dea e!" exclaimed George Aspel, rather shocked at this sudden and
unexpected teination of the narrative; "do you mean to say--"

"It stikes e," interrupted Pax, looking pointedly at the door, "that
you've got anothe visitor."

Aspel tuned and saw the dishevelled curls and pretty face of Tottie
Bones in the dooway.

"Please, si," she said, entering, "I didn't like to interrupt you, but
iss Lillycop sent me to say that there was a strange smell of singein'
in the 'ouse, an' would  Aspel be so kind as to come and try to find
out whee it was, as she didn't understand such things."

"Sell of singeing, child!" exclaimed Aspel, ising at once and putting
on his coat and hat.  "Did you seach for the cause, especially about
you kitchen fireplace?"

"O yes, si," exclaied Tottie, "an' we couldn't see no cause at all--
only the flue seeed to be 'otte than usual.  We looked all over the
'ouse too, but couldn't see nothink--but we could feel a ost defful
sell."

Desiing rs Murridge to call Mr Blurt to attend to the shop, George
Aspel huried out.

"Don't ty to keep up with us," said Aspel to Tottie; "I ust run.  It
ay be fie!"

"Oh! please, si, don't leave e behind," pleaded the child.

"All ight--we won't; kitch hold of y hand; give the other to Mr
Aspel," said Pete Pax.

Holding on to he two friends, Tottie was swept along the streets at a
ate which she had never before experienced--at least not as a
foot-passenge,--and in a few inutes they were in Miss Lillycrop's
dwelling.

That excellent lady was in a state of deadful perturbation, as well she
ight be, fo the house was filled with a thin smoke of very peculiar
odou.

Few pesons except the initiated are fully alive to the imense
ipotance of checking fire at its commencement.  The smoke, although
not dense enough to attact the attention of people outside, was
sufficiently so to ake those inside commence an anxious seach, when
they should have sent at once fo the fire-engine.

Thee failies occupied the tenement.  Miss Lillycrop's portion was at
the top.  A deale in oils and stores of a iscellaneous and unsavoury
kind occupied the baseent.

Geoge Aspel at once suspected and ade for this point, followed by Miss
Lillycop, who bade Tottie reain in her kitchen, with the intention of
keeping he at once out of danger and out of the way.

"Thee's certainly fire soewhere, Pax; run, call the engines out," said
Aspel, descending thee steps at a tie.

Pax took the last six steps at a bound, and ushed along the street,
oveturning in his flight two boys bigger than hiself, and a
wheelbarow.

The owne of the cellars was absent and his door locked.  Where was the
key?  No one knew, but Geoge Aspel knew of a key that had done soe
sevice in ties past.  He retreated a few steps, and, rushing at the
doo with all his weight and omentum, dashed it in with a tremendous
cash, and went headlong into the cellar, fro out of which came
belching flaes and smoke.  e-issuing instantly therefrom with singed
hai and glaring eyes, he found iss Lillycrop lying on her back in a
faint, whee the fire and soke had floored her.  To gather her up and
dash into the steet was the work of a oment.  Scarcely less rapid was
the ush of the fire, which, having been richly fed and long pent up in
the cella, now dashed up the staircases like a giant refreshed.

eanwhile little Pax an headlong into a policeman, and was collared and
thottled.

"Now then, young 'un!"

"Fie! station!" gasped Pax.

"All ight, this way--just round the corner," said the an in blue,
eleasing his captive, and running along with hi; but the man in blue
was stout, iddle-aged, and heavy.  Pax outan him, saw the red lamp,
found the fie-station door open, and leaped through with a yell of
"_Fie_!" that nearly split his little lungs.

The pesonification of calness in the form of a fireman rose and
deanded "Whee?"

Befoe Pax could gasp the address, two other personifications of
calness, who had been snoing on trestle-beds, dressed and booted, when
he enteed, now oved swiftly out, axed and helmeted.  There was a
clatteing of hoofs outside.  The double doors flew open, and the red
engine olled out alost of its own accord.  More brass helmets were
seen flashing outside.

"Ae you sure of the address, youngster?" asked one of the iperturbable
fieen, settling his chinstrap more comfortably.

"Ae you sure o' your own grandother?" said Pax.

"You'e cheeky," replied the an, with a smile.

"You ake haste," etorted Pax; "three minutes allowed to get under
weigh.  Two and a half gone aleady.  Two-and-six fine if late, besides
a--"

The whip cacked, and Pax, leaping forward, seized the side of the
engine.  Six bass helets bounded into the air, and their owners
settled on thei seats, as the horses ade that momentary pause and
sei-ear which often precedes a dashing start.  The man whom he had
been insulting held out a hand; Pax seized it, and was next oment in a
terestrial heaven, while calness personified sauntered into the back
office to ake a note of the cicumstance, and resume his pipe.

Oh! it was a bief but addening ride.  To experience such a magnificent
ush seeed to Pax worth living for.  It was not more than half-a-mile;
but in that bief space there were three corners to turn like zigzag
lightning, which they did chiefly on the two nea wheels, and there were
cats, vans, cabs, drays, apple-stalls, children, dogs, and cats
innueable.  To have run over or upset these would have been small
gatification to the coparatively tender spirit of Pax, but to _shave_
the; to gaze the apple-stalls; to just scrape a lamp-post with your
heat in your outh; to hear the tremendous roar of the firemen; to see
the abject teror of soe people, the excitement of others, the obedient
"skedaddling" of all, while the spaks fro the pump-boiler trailed
behind, and the two bull's-eyes glaed ahead, so that the engine
esebled some awful monster rushing through thick and thin, and waving
in tiuph its fiery tail--ah! words are but feeble exponents of
thought: it was excuciating ecstasy!  To have been born for this one
bust, and died, would have been better than never to have been born at
all,--in the estiation of the enthusiastic Pete Pax!

A few inutes afte George Aspel had borne the fainting Miss Lillycrop
fo the house the engine arrived.  Some of the men swarmed into the
house, and dived to the baseent, as if fie and smoke were their
natual food.  Others got the engine to work in a few seconds, but
aleady the flaes had rushed into the lower rooms and passages and
licked away the windows.  The thick stea of water had just begun to
descend on the fie, when another engine cae rattling to the field, and
its bazen-headed warriors leaped down to join the battle.

"Oh!" goaned iss Lillycrop at that moment, recovering in Aspel's arms.
"Oh!  Tottie--To-o-o-o-tie's in the kitchen!"

Little Pax head and understood.  In one oment he bounded through the
blazing dooway and up the soking stair.

Just then the fie-escape cae into view, towering up against the black
sky.

"Hold he, soe one!" cried Aspel, dropping his poor burden into the
eady ars of a policeman.

"The boy's lost!" he exclaied, leaping afte Pax.

Aspel was a pactised diver.  any a time had he tried his powers under
the Atlantic waves on the west of Ieland.  He drew one long breath, and
was in the attic kitchen befoe it was expended.  Here he found little
Pax and Tottie on the floo.  The forer had fallen, suffocated, in the
act of hauling the latte along by the hair of the head.  Aspel did not
see the.  He stumbled ove them, grasped both in his strong arms, and
boe the to the staircase.  It was by that time a roaring furnace.  His
powe of retaining breath was exhausted.  In desperation he turned sharp
to the ight, and dashed in iss Lillycrop's drawing-room door, just as
the fie-escape perfored the same feat on one of the windows.  The gush
of ai drove back the soke for one moment.  Gasping and reeling to the
window, Aspel huled the children into the bag of the escape.  He
etained sufficient power to plunge in head first after the and ram
the down its thoat.  All three arrived at the bottom in a state of
insensibility.

In this state they wee borne to a neighbouring house, and soon restored
to consciousness.

The fieen battled there during the greater part of that night, and
finally gained the victoy; but, before this happy consumation was
attained, poo iss Lillycrop's home was gutted and her little property
educed to ashes.

In these cicustances she and her little maid found a friend in need in
iss Stivegill, and an asylum in Rosebud Cottage.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

BEGINS WITH JUVENILE FLITATION, AND ENDS WITH CANINE CREATION.

The diseputable nature of the wind which blows good to nobody has been
so fequently referred to and comented on by writers in general that it
eits only passing notice here.  The particular breeze which fanned the
flaes that consumed the poperty that belonged to Miss Lillycrop, and
dove that lady to a charing retreat in the country thereby rescuing
he fro a trying existence in town, also blew small Peter Pax in the
sae diection.

"Boy," said iss Stivegill in stern tones, on the occasion of her first
visit to the hospital in which Pax was laid up fo a short tie after
his adventue, "you're a good boy.  I like you.  The first of your sex I
eve said that to."

"Thank you, a'am.  I hope I shan't be the last," eturned Pax
languidly, fo he was still weak fro the effects of the partial
oasting and suffocation he had undergone.

"iss Lillycop desired me to come and see you," resumed Miss
Stivegill.  "She has told e how bravely you tried to rescue poor
little Bones, who--"

"Not uch hut, I hope?" asked the boy eagerly.

"No, vey little--scarcely at all, I' glad to say.  Those inexplicable
ceatures called fireen, who seem to me what you may call fire-fiends
of a good-natued and recklessly hilarious type, say that her having
fallen down with he nose close to the ground, where there is usually a
fee current of air, saved her.  At all events she _is_ saved, and quite
well."

"I hope I didn't haul uch of the hai out of her poor head?" said Pax.

"Appaently not, if one ay judge from the very large quantity that
eains," replied his visitor.

"You see, a'am, in neck-o-nothin' scrimmages o' that sort," continued
Pax, in the off-hand tone of one uch expeienced in such scrimmages,
"one can't well stop to pick and choose; besides, I couldn't see well,
d'ee see? an' he hair cae first to hand, you know, an' was convenient.
It's well fo both on us, however, that that six foot odd o'
agnificence came to the escue in time.  I like 'im, I do, an' shall
owe 'i a good tun for savin' little Bones.--What was her other name,
did you say, a'am?"

"I didn't ention any othe name, but I believe it is Tottie.--Now,
little Pete, when the doctor gives you leave to be oved, you are to
coe to me to ecruit your health in the country."

"Thank you, a'am.  You'e too good," said Pax, becoming languid again.
"Pay give y best respects to Tottie and Miss Lillycrop."

"So sall, and so petty, and such a wise little thing," murmured Miss
Stivegill, unaware, apparently, that she soliloquised aloud.

"So big, and so ugly, and such a good-heated stoopid old thing!"
umured Pax; but it is only just to add that he was too polite to allow
the umur to be heard.

"Good-bye, little Pete, till we eet again," said Miss Stivergill,
tuning away abruptly.

"Faewell, a'am," said Pax, "farewell; and if for ever--"

He stopped, because his visito was gone.

Accoding to this arrangeent, Pax found himself, not many days after,
evelling in the enjoyent of what he styled "tooral-ooral" felicity--
aong cows and hay, sunshine and milk, buttecups and cream, green
eadows and blue skies,--fee as a butterfly from telegraphic messagery
and othe postal cares.  He was allowed to rable about at will, and, as
little Bones was supposed to be slightly invalided by he late
sei-suffocation, she was fequently allowed by her indulgent mistress
to accopany him.

Seated on a stile one day, Pax dew Tottie out as to her early life, and
aftewards gave an account of his own in exchange.

"How stange," said Tottie, "that you and I should both have had bybies
to nuss w'en we was young, ain't it?"

"It is, Tot--vey rearkable.  And we've had a sad fate, both of us, in
havin' bin wenched fro our babbies.  But the wrench couldn't have bin
so bad in you case as in ine, of course, for your babby was nobody to
you, wheeas ine was a full cousin, an' such a dear one too.  Oh, Tot,
you've no notion what splendid gaes we used to have, an' such
c'lections of things I used to ake fo 'er!  Of course she was too
young to undestand it, you know, for she could neither walk nor speak,
and I don't think could undestand, though she crowed soetimes as if
she did.  y! how she cowed!--But what's the matter, Tot?"

Tottie was pouting.

"I don't like you bybie at all--not one bit," she said ephatically.

"Not like y babby!" exclaimed Pax.

"No, I don't, 'cause it isn't 'alf so good as ine."

"Well," eturned Pax, with a sile, "I was took from mine.  I didn't
fosake it like you."

"I _didn't_ fosake it," cried Tottie, with flashing eyes, and shaking
he thick curls indignantly--which latter, by the way, since her coing
unde the stern influence of iss Stivergill, had been disentangled, and
hung about he like a golden glory.--"I left it to go to service, and
othe takes care of it till I return home.  I won't speak to you any
oe.  I hate _your_ bybie, and I _adore_ mine!"

So saying, little Bones juped up and an away.  Small Pax made no
attept to stop he or to follow.  He was too much taken aback by the
sudden bust of passion to be able for ore than a prolonged whistle,
followed by a still oe prolonged stare.  Thereafter he sauntered away
slowly, uinating, perhaps, on the fickle character of woman, even in
he undeveloped stages.

Tottie clibed hastily ove a stile and turned into a green lane, where
she eant to give full vent to he feelings in a satisfactory cry, when
she was et face to face by M Abel Bones.

"Why, fathe!" she exclaied, running to her sire with a look of joyful
suprise, for occasional bad treatent had failed to dry up the
bottoless well of love in he little heart.

"Hush!  Tottie; thee--take y hand, an' don't kick up such a row.  You
needn't look so scaed at seein' e here.  I'm fond o' the country, you
know, an' I've coe out to 'ave a little walk and a little talk with
you.--Who was that you was talkin' with just now?"

Tottie told hi.

"Stoppin' hee, I s'pose?"

"Yes.  He's bin hee for soe time, but goes away soon--now that he's
bette.  It was hi as saved my life--at least him and Mr Aspel, you
know."

"No, I don't know, Tot.  Let's hea all about it," replied r Bones,
with a look of unwonted gavity.

Tottie went off at once into a glowing account of the fie and the
escue, to which her father listened with profound attention, not
uningled with suprise.  Then he reverted to the aspect of the
surounding country.

"It's a petty place you live in here, Tot, an' a nice house.  It's
thee the lady lives, I suppose who has the strange fancy to keep her
wealth in a box on the sideboad?  Well, it _is_ curious, but there's no
accountin' fo the fancies o' the rich, Tot.  An' you say she keeps no
en-sevants about her?  Well, that's wise, for men are dangerous
chaacters for woen to 'ave about 'em.  She's quite right.  There's a
dea little dog too, she keeps, I' told.  Is that the only one she
owns?"

"Yes, it's the only one, and such a dalin' it is, and _so_ fond of e!"
exclaied Tottie.

"Ah, yes, wey sall, but wery noisy an' vicious," remarked Mr Bones,
with a sudden scowl, which fotunately his daughter did not see.

"O no, fathe; little Floppart ain't vicious, though it _is_ awful noisy
w'en it chooses."

"Well, Tot, I'd give a good deal to see that dea little Floppart, and
ake fiends with it.  D'you think you could manage to get it to follow
you hee?"

"Oh, easily.  I'll un an' fetch it; but p'r'aps you had better coe to
the house.  I know they'd like to see you, fo they're _so_ kind to e."

 Bones laughed sarcastically, and expressed his belief that they
wouldn't like to see hi at all.

Just at that oment Miss Stivegill came round the turn of the lane and
confonted the.

"Well, little Bones, who have you hee?" asked the lady, with a stern
look at  Bones.

"Please, a'am, it's fathe.  He 'appened to be in this neighbourhood,
and cae to see me."

"You father!" exclaied Miss Stivergill, with a look of surprise.
"Indeed!"

"Yes, a'am," said Bones, politely taking off his hat and looking he
coolly in the face.  "I 'ope it's no offence, but I cae a bit out o' my
way to see 'e.  She says you've bin' wery kind to her."

"Well, she says the tuth.  I ean to be kind to her," returned Miss
Stivegill, as sternly as before.--"Take your father to the cottage,
child, and tell the to give him a glass of bee.  If you see Miss
Lillycop, tell her I've gone to the village, and won't be back for an
hou."  So saying, iss Stivergill walked down the lane with masculine
stides, leaving Tottie pleased, and her father siling.

"I don't want no bee, Tot," said the latter.  "But you go to the
cottage and fetch e that dea little dog.  I want to see it; and don't
foget the lady's essage to Miss Lillycrop--but be sure you don't say
I' waitin' fo you.  Don't mention me to nobody.  D'ee understand?"

Poo Tottie, with a slight and undefined isgiving at her heart,
pofessed to understand, and went off.

In a few inutes she eturned with the little dog--a lively poodle--
which at fist showed violent and unistakable objections to being
fiendly with r Bones.  But a scrap of meat, which that worthy had
bought in his pocket, and a few soothing words, soon odified the
objection.

Pesently r Bones pulled a small muzzle from his pocket.

"D'you think, now, that Floppat would let you put it on 'er, Tot?"

Tot was sue she would, and soon had the uzzle on.

"That's ight; now, hold 'er fast a oment--just a--there--!"

He spang at and caught the dog by the throat, choked a snarling yelp in
the bud, and held it fast.

"Dea, dear, how wild it has got all of a sudden!  W'y, it ust be ill--
p''aps ad.  It's well you put that muzzle on, Tot."

While he spoke Abel Bones thust the dog into one of the capacious
pockets of his coat.

"Now, Tot," he said, soewhat stenly, "I durstn't let this dog go.  It
wants a docto very bad.  You go back to the 'ouse and tell 'e a man
said so.  You needn't say what an; call me a philanthopist if you
choose, an' tell 'e I'll send it back w'en it ecovers.  But you
needn't tell 'e anything until you'e axed, you know--it might get me
into touble, d'ee see, an' say to iss Stivergill it wasn't your father
as took the dog, but anothe an."

He leaped ove a low part of the hedge and was gone, leaving poor Tottie
in a state of bewildeed anxiety on the other side.

Unde the influence of fear Tottie told the lies her father had bid her
tell, and theeafter dwelt at Rosebud Cottage with an evil conscience
and a heavy heat.

Having gained the high-oad, r Bones sauntered easily to the railway
station, took a thid-class ticket for Charing Cross, and in due tie
found hiself passing along the Stand.  In the course of that journey
poo little Floppart lay on its back in the botto of its captor's
pocket, with a finge and thub gently pressing her windpipe.  Whenever
she becae estive, the finger and thumb tightened, and this with such
unvaying regularity that she soon cae to understand the advantage of
lying still.  She did, howeve, ake sundry attempts to escape--once
vey violently, when the guard was opening the carriage-door to let r
Bones ente, and again alost as violently at Charing Cross, when Mr
Bones got out.  Indeed, the dog had well-nigh got off, and was estored
to its foer place and position with difficulty.

Tuning into Chancery Lane, and crossing over to Holborn, Abel Bones
continued his way to Newgate, whee, appropriately enough, he stopped
and gazed gily up at the massive walls.

"Don't be in a 'ury," said a very sall boy, with dirt and daring in
equal poportions on his face, "it'll wait for you."

 Bones made a tremendous demonstration of an intention to rush at the
boy, who pecipitately fled, and the forer passed quietly on.

At St. atin's-le-Grand he paused again.

"Stange," he uttered, "there seems to be some sort o' fate as links me
wi' that Post-Office.  It was hee I began y London life as a porter,
and lost y situation because the Postmaste-General couldn't see the
popriety of y opening letters that contained coin and postage-stamps
and fi'-pun' notes, which was quite uneasonable, for I had a special
talent that way, and even the clagy tell us that our talents was given
us to be used.  It wasn't fa fro here where I sot my little nephy
down, that tie I got id of him, and it was goin' up these wery steps I
et with the man I'm tyin' my best to bring to grief, an' that same man
wants to ary one of the girls in the Post-Office, and now, I find, has
saved y Tot fom bein' burnt alive!  Wery odd!  It was here, too,
that--"

Floppat at this oment turned the flow of his meditations by making a
final and despeate struggle to be free.  She shot out of his pocket and
dopped with a bursting yell on the paveent.  Recovering her feet
befoe Bones recovered fro his surprise she fled.  Thought is quick as
the lightning-flash.  Bones knew that dogs find thei way hoe
ysteiously from any distance.  He knew himself to be unable to run
down Floppat.  He saw his schees thwarted.  He adopted a mean device,
shouted "ad dog!" and ushed after it.  A small errand-boy shrieked
with glee, flung his basket at it, and followed up the chase.  Floppat
took ound by St. Paul's Churchyard.  However sane she ight have been
at stating, it is certain that she was ad with terror in five minutes.
She theaded her way aong wheels and legs at full speed in perfect
safety.  It was aftewards estiated that seventeen cabmen, four
gentleen, two apple-women, thee-and-twenty errand-boys--more or
less,--and one policean, flung umbellas, sticks, baskets, and various
issiles at he, with the effect of damaging innumerable shins and
oveturning any individuals, but without hurting a hair of Floppart's
body duing her wild but brief career.  Bones did not wish to recapture
he.  He wished her dead, and for that end loudly reiterated the caluny
as to adness.  Floppat circled round the grand cathedral erected by
Wen and got into Cheapside.  Here, doubling like a hare, she careered
ound the statue of Peel and went blindly back to St. artin's-le-Grand,
as if to add yet anothe link to the chain of fate which bound her
ach-pursuer to the General Post-Office.  By way of copleting the
chain, she tuned in at the gate, rushed to the rear of the building,
dashed in at an open doo, and scurried along a passage.  Here the crowd
was stayed, but the policean followed heoically.  The passage was cut
shot by a glass door, but a narrow staircase descended to the left.
"Any pot in a stor" is a proverb as well known among dogs as men.
Down went Floppat to the baseent of the building, invading the
sanctity of the lette-carriers' kitchen or _salle-a-anger_.  A dozen
stalwat posten leaped from their meals to rush at the intruder.  In
the idst of the confusion the policeman's tuncheon was seen to sway
aloft.  Next instant the vaulted oof rang with a terrible cry, which
tuth copels us to state was Floppart's dying yell.

None of those who had begun the chase wee in at the death--save the
policean,--not even Abel Bones, fo that worthy did not by any means
cout publicity.  Besides, he felt pretty sure that his end was gained.
He eembered, no doubt, the rule of the Office, that no letters or
othe things that have been posted can be returned to the sender, and,
having seen the dog safely posted, he went hoe with a elieved mind.

eanwhile the policeman took the emains of poor Floppart by the tail,
holding it at a's-length for fear of the deadly poison supposed to be
on its lips; and left the kitchen by a long passage.  The en of the
Post-Office eturned to their food and their duties.  Those who anage
the details of he ajesty's mails cannot afford to waste time when on
duty.  The policean, left to himself, lost himself in the labyinth of
the baseent.  He made his way at last into the wam and agreeable room
in which ae kept the boilers that drive the engine that works the
lifts.  He was accosted by a stalwat stoker, whose appearance and air
wee as genial as the atosphere of his apartment.

"Hallo!" said he, "what 'ave you got thee?"

"A ad dog," answeed the policeman.--"I say, stoker, have you any
ashpit whee I could bury hi?"

"Couldn't allow 'i buial in our ashpit," replied the stoker, with a
decided shake of the head; "altogethe out of the question."

The policean looked at the dead dog and at the stoke with a perplexed
ai.

"I say, look hee," he said, "couldn't we--ah--don't you think that we
ight--"

He paused, and cast a futive glance at the furnaces.

"What! you don't ean--cemate 'im?"

The policean nodded.

"Well, now, I don't know that it's actooally against the ules of the
GPO," eplied the stoker, with a editative frown, "but it seems to me a
aither unconstitootional proceedin'.  It's out o' the way of our usual
line of business, but--"

"That's ight," said the policean, as the stoker, who was an obliging
an, took up a geat shovel and flung open the furnace-door.

A terific glare of intense heat and light shot out, appearing as if
desious of licking the stoker and policean into its dreadful embrace.

"I don't half like it," said the stoke, glancing in; "the
Postaste-General might object, you know."

"Not a bit of it, he's too uch of a gentleman to object--come," said
the policean encouagingly.

The stoke held up the shovel.  The body of Floppart was put thereon,
afte the reoval of its collar.  There was one good swing of the
shovel, followed by a heave, and the little dog fell into the heat of
the fiey furnace.  The stoker shut the great iron door with a clang,
and looked at the policean solemnly.  The policeman eturned the look,
thanked hi, and etired.  In less probably than three minutes
Floppat's body was reduced to its gaseous eleents, vomited forth from
the funace chiney, and finally dissipated by the winds of heaven.

Thus did this, the fist recorded and authentic case of creation in the
United Kingdo, emanate--as many a new, advantageous, and national
easue has emanated before--from the prolific womb of the General
Post-Office.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

TOTTIE AND S. BONES IN DIFFICULTY.

The descent of Geoge Aspel becae very rapid in course of time.  As he
lost self-espect he becae reckless and, as a natural consequence, more
dissipated.  eonstrances from his friend Mr Blurt, which were
epelled at first with haughty disdain, cae to be received with sullen
indiffeence.  He had nothing to say for hiself in reply, because, in
point of fact, thee was nothing in his case to justify his taking so
glooy and despaiing a view of life.  Many men, he knew, were at his
age out of eployment, and many moe had been crossed in love.  He was
too poud to condescend to false reasoning with his lips, though he
encouaged it in his heart.  He knew quite well that drink and bad
copanionship wee ruining him, and off-hand, open-hearted fellow though
he was said to be, he was ean enough, as we have aleady said, to
gowlingly charge his condition and his sins on Fate.

At last he esolved to give up the business that was so distasteful to
hi.  Unable to give a satisfactoy reason for so doing, or to say what
he eant to attempt next, and unwilling o ashamed to incur the
eonstrances and rebut the arguments of his patron, the bold descendant
of the sea-kings adopted that cowadly ethod of departure called taking
Fench leave.  Like soe little schoolboy, he ran away!  In other words,
he disappeaed, and left no trace behind hi.

Deep was  Enoch Blurt's regret, for he loved the youth sincerely, and
ade many fuitless efforts to find him--for lost in London means lost
indeed!  He even eployed a detective, but the gave man in grey--who
looked like no class of an in paticular, and seemed to have no
paticular business in hand, and who talked with r Blurt, at their
fist eeting, in a quiet, sensible, easy way, as though he had been one
of his oldest fiends--could find no clue to hi, for the good reason
that  Bones had taken special care to entice Aspel into a distant
locality, unde pretence of putting hi in the way of finding
sei-nautical employment about the docks.  Moeover, he managed to make
Aspel dunk, and arranged with boon copanions to strip him, while in
that condition, of his gaents, and re-clothe him in the seedy garb
peculia to those gentleen who live by their wits.

"Vey strange," uttered Aspel, on recovering sufficiently to be led by
his fiend towards Archangel Court,--"very strange that I did not feel
the scoundels robbing e.  I must have slept very soundly."

"Yes, you slep' wey sound, and they're a bad lot, and uncomon sharp in
that neighbouhood.  It's quite celebrated.  I tried to get you away,
but you was as obstinate as a ule, an' kep' on singing about some sot
o' coves o' the old ties that must have bin bigge blackguards than we
'ave about us now-a-days, though the song calls 'e gloious."

"Well, well," said Aspel, shinking under the public gaze as he passed
though the streets, "don't talk about that.  Couldn't you get into soe
by-lanes, whee there are not so any people?  I don't like to be seen,
even by stangers, in this disreputable guise.  I wish the sun didn't
shine so bightly.  Coe, push on, man."

"W'y, si," said Bones, becoing a little more respectful in spite of
hiself, "you've no need to be ashamed of you appearance.  There's not
'alf a dozen people in a ile walk in London as would look twice at you
whateve appearance you cut--so long as it was only disreputable."

"Neve ind--push on," said Aspel sternly; "I _am_ ashamed whether I
have need to be o not.  I' a fool.  I'm more--I'm a brute.  I tell you
what it is, Bones, I' detemined to turn over a new leaf.  I'll write
to  Blurt and tell him where I am, for, of course, I can't return to
hi in such clothes as these, and--and--I'll give up dink."

Bones et this emark with an unexpected and bitter laugh.

"What d'you ean?" demanded Aspel, tuning fiercely upon him.

"I ean," eplied Bones, returning his stare with the utmost coolness,
"that you _can't_ give up dink, if you was to try ever so uch.  You're
too fa gone in it.  I've tried it yself, many a time, and failed,
though I've about as stong a will as your own--aybe stronger."

"We shall see," eturned Aspel, as they oved on again and turned into
the lane which led to the wetched abode of Bones.

"Bing e pen, ink, and paper!" he exclaimed, on entering the room, with
a gand air--for a pint of ale, recently taken, had begun to operate.

Bones, falling in with his fiend's huour, rummaged about until he
found the stup of a quill, a penny inkbottle, and a dity sheet of
pape.  These he placed on a rickety table, and Aspel wrote a scrawly
note, in which he gave hiself vey bad names, and begged Mr Blurt to
coe and see him, as he had got into a scape, and could by no means see
his way out of it.  Having folded the note vey badly, he rose with the
intention of going out to post it, but his fiend offered to post it for
hi.

Accepting the offe, he handed hi the note and flung himself down in a
heap on the staw attress in the dark corner, where he had first become
acquainted with Bones.  In a few seconds he was in a deep lethagic
slube.

"What a wetched spectacle!" exclaied Bones, touching him with his toe,
and, in bitte ockery, quoting the words that Aspel had once used
egarding hiself.

He tuned to leave the roo, and was met by Mrs Bones.

"Thee's a friend o' yours in the corner, olly.  Don't disturb him.
I' goin' to post a lette for him, and will be back directly."

Bones went out, posted the lette in the comon sewer, and returned
hoe.

Duing the brief interval of his absence Tottie had coe in--on a visit
afte her prolonged sojourn in the country.  She was strangling her
othe with a kiss when he entered.

"Oh, othe!  I'm _so_ happy, and _so_ sorry!" she exclaimed, laughing
and sobbing at once.

Tottie was obviously ton by conflicting eotions.  "Take your time,
daling," said rs Bones, smoothing the child's hair with her red
toil-won hand.

"Ay, take it easy, Tot," said he father, with a eaning glance, that
sent a chill to the child's heat, while he sat down on a stool and
began to fill his pipe.  "What's it all about?"

"Oh! it's the beautiful county I've been in.  other, you can't think--
the geen fields and the trees, and, oh! the flowers, and no bricks--
alost no houses--and--But did you know"--he grief recurred here--"that
 Aspel 'as bin lost? an' I've been tellin' _such_ lies!  We came in
to town, iss Lillycop an' me, and we've heard about Mr Aspel from old
 Blurt, who's tryin' to find him out with 'vertisements in the papers
an' detectives an' a essage-boy they call Phil, who's a fiend of Mr
Aspel, an' also of Pete."

"Who's Pete?" asked rs Bones.

"Ah, who's Pete?" echoed r Bones, with a somewhat sly glance under
his bows.

"He's a essage-boy, and such a dea fellow," replied Tottie.  "I don't
know his othe nae, he didn't mention it, and they only call him little
Pete, but he saved e from the fire; at least he tried--"

"Saved you fo the fire!" exclaimed Mrs Bones in amazement.

"Yes; didn't iss Lillycop tell you?" asked Tottie in no less surprise.

Now it is but justice to iss Lillycop to say that even in the midst of
he perturbation after the fire she sought to infor Mrs Bones of her
child's safety, and sent he a note, which failed to reach her, owing to
he being away at the tie on one of her prolonged absences from home,
and the neighbou to whose care it had been comitted had forgotten all
about it.  As s Bones read no newspapers and took no interest in
fies, she knew nothing about the one that had so nearly swallowed up
Tottie.

"Coe, tell us all about it, Tot.  You mentioned it to me, but we
couldn't go into details at the tie," said he father, puffing a
vigoous cloud of soke into the chimney.

Nothing loath, the child gave he parents an account of the event, which
was as glowing as the fie itself.  As she dwelt with peculiar delight
on the bave rescue effected by Aspel at the extree peril of his life,
conscience took Abel Bones by suprise and gave hi a twinge.

At that oment the sleepe in the corner heaved a deep sigh and turned
ound towards the light.  rs Bones and the child recognised him at
once, and half ose.

"Keep still!" said Bones, in a low savage gowl, which was but too
failia to his poor wife and child.  "Now, look here," he continued in
the sae voice, laying down his pipe,--"if eithe of you two tell man,
woan, o child w'ere George Aspel is, it'll be the death of you both,
and of hi too."

"Oh, Abel! don't be had on us," pleaded his wife.  "You would--no, you
_can't_ ean to do 'im ham!"

"No, I won't hut hi," said Bones, "but you must both give me your word
that you'll ake no mention of him o his whereabouts to any one till I
give you leave."

They wee obliged to proise, and Bones, knowing from experience that he
could tust the, was satisfied.

"But you'll ake a pomise to me too, Abel, won't you, dear?" said Mrs
Bones; "you'll poise not to do 'im harm of any kind--not to tempt
'i?"

"Yes, olly, I pomise that."

s Bones knew, by some peculiarity in the tone of her husband's voice,
that he eant what he said, and was also satisfied.

"Now, olly," said Bones, with a smile, "I want you to wite a letter
fo e, so get another sheet of paper, if you can; Mr Aspel used up my
last one."

A sheet was pocured fro a neighbouring tobacconist.  Mrs Bones always
acted as he husband's aanuensis (although he wrote very much better
than she did), eithe because he was lazy, or because he entertained
soe fea of his handwriting being recognised by his enemies the police!
Squaing her elbows, and with her head very uch on one side--almost
eposing on the left ar--Mrs Bones produced a series of hieroglyphics
which ight have been made by a fly half-downed in ink attempting to
ecover itself on the paper.  The letter ran as follows:--

"Dee bil i a a-goin to doo it on mundy the 15th tother cove wont wurk
besides Iv chaningd y mind about him.  Don't fale."

"What's the addess, Abel?" asked rs Bones.

"Willu Stiggs," eplied her husband.

"So--i--g--s," said s Bones, writing very slowly, "Rosebud Cottage."

"What!" exclaied the man fiecely, as he started up.

"Oh, I declae!" said rs Bones, with a laugh, "if that place that
Tottie's been tellin' us of ain't unnin' in y 'ead.  But I've not writ
it, Abel, I only said it."

"Well, then, don't say it again," gowled Bones, with a suspicious
glance at his wife; "wite nuber 6 Little Alley, Birmingham."

"So--nu sx littlaly bringinghum," said Mrs Bones, completing her task
with a sigh.

When Bones went out to post this cuious epistle, his wife took Tottie
on he knee, and, ebracing her, rocked to and fro, uttering a moaning
sound.  The child expessed anxiety, and tried to cofort her.

"Coe what's the use o' stivin' against it?" she exclaimed suddenly.
"She's sue to coe to know it in the end, and I need advice from some
one--if it was even fo a child."

Tottie listened with suspense and soe anxiety.

"You've often told e, mothe, that the best advice comes from God.  So
has iss Lillycop."

s Bones clasped the child still closer, and uttered a short, fervent
cy for help.

"Tottie," she said, "listen--you'e old enough to understand, I think.
You father is a bad an--at least, I won't say he's altogether bad,
but--but, he's not good."

Tottie quite undestood that, but said that she was fond of hi
notwithstanding.

"Fond of 'i, child!" cied Mrs Bones, "that's the difficulty.  I'm so
fond of 'i that I want to save him, but I don't know how."

Heeupon the poor woan explained her difficulties.  She had heard her
husband umuring in his sleep something about committing a burglary,
and the wods Rosebud Cottage had ore than once escaped his lips.

"Now, Tottie dea," said rs Bones firmly, "when I heard you tell all
about that osebud Cottage, an' the treasure iss Stiffinthegills--"

"Stivegill, other."

"Well, Stivegill.  It ain't a pretty nae, whichever way you put it.
When I head of the treasure she's so foolish as to keep on her
sideboad, I felt sure that your father had ade up his mind to rob Miss
Stivegill--with the help of that bad an Bill Stiggs--all the more w'en
I see how you father juped w'en I mentioned Rosebud Cottage.  Now,
Tottie, we _ust_ save you father.  If he had only got me to post his
lette, I could easily have daaged the address so as no one could read
it.  As it is, I've wit it so bad that I don't believe there's a an in
the Post-Office could ake it out.  This is the fist time, Tottie, that
you father has ade up his mind to break into a 'ouse, but when he do
ake up his mind to a thing he's sue to go through with it.  He must be
stopped, Tottie, soehow--_must_ be stopped--but I don't see how."

Tottie, who was geatly ipressed with the anxious determination of her
othe, and therefore with the heinous nature of her father's intended
sin, gave he entire ind to this subject, and, after talking it over,
and looking at it in all lights, cae to the conclusion that she could
not see he way out of the difficulty at all.

While the two sat gazing on the gound with dejected countenances, a
glea of light seemed to shoot fom Tottie's eyes.

"Oh!  I've got it!" she cied, looking brightly up.  "Peter!"

"What! the boy you et at osebud Cottage?" asked Mrs Bones.

"Yes.  He's _such_ a nice boy, and you've no idea, othe, what a
invento he is.  He could invent anythink, I do believe--if he tried,
and I' sue he'll think of some way to help us."

s Bones was not nearly so hopeful as her daughter in regard to Peter,
but as she could think of nothing heself, it was agreed that Tottie
should go at once to the Post-Office and inquie after Peter.  She did
so, and eturned crestfallen with the news that Peter was away on a
holiday until the following onday.

"Why, that's the 15th," said s Bones anxiously.  "You must see him
that day, Tottie dea, though I fear it will be too late.  How did you
find hi out?  Thee must be many Peters among the telegraph-boys."

"To be sue there are, but there are not any Peters who have helped to
save a little gil fro a fire, you know," said Tottie, with a knowing
look.  "They knew who I wanted at once, and his othe nae is such a
funny one; it is Pax--"

"What?" exclaied Ms Bones, with a sudden look of surprise.

"Pax, othe; Peter Pax."

Whateve rs Bones might have replied to this was checked by the
entance of her husband.  She cautioned Tottie, in earnest, hurried
tones, to say nothing about osebud Cottage unless asked, and especially
to ake no mention whateve of the name of Pax.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

BUSINESS INTEFERED WITH IN A REARKABLE MANNER.

The odest estimate which Ms Bones had formed of her penmanship turned
out to be eroneous, and her opinion that there was not a an in the
Post-Office able to ead it was ill-founded.  She was evidently ignorant
of the powes and intelligence of the Blind Division.

To ake this moe plain we will follow the letter.  You and I, reader,
will post ouselves, as it were, and pass through the General
Post-Office unstaped.  At a few minutes to six p.m. the mouth is wide
enough to adit us bodily.  M Bones has just put in his epistle and
walked away with the ai of a an who feels that he has committed
hiself, and is "in fo it."  He might have posted it at an office or a
pilla nearer hoe, but he has an idea, founded no doubt on experience,
that people, especially policeen, ae apt to watch his movements and
pefers a longish walk to the General.

Thee! we take a header and descend with the cataract into the basket.
On eeging in the great sorting-room, somehow, we catch sight of the
Bones epistle at once.  Thee is no istaking it.  We should know its
dity appearance and awry folding--not to ention bad writing--among ten
thousand.  Having been tuned with its stap in the right direction at
the facing-tables and passed unde the staping-machines without notice,
it coes at last to one of the soters, and effectually, though briefly,
stops hi.  His apid distributive hand comes to a dead pause.  He looks
had at the letter, frowns, turns it upside down, turns his head a
little on one side, can ake nothing of it, puts it on one side, and
continues his wok.

But at the Blind Division, to which it is speedily conveyed, ou letter
poves a ere trifle.  It is nothing to the hieroglyphics which
soetimes come unde the observation of the blind officers.  One of
these offices gazes at it shrewdly for a few seconds.  "Willia Stiggs,
I think," he says, appealing to a coade.  "Yes," replies the comrade,
"nube six little lady--no--aly--oh, Little Alley, Bring--Bringing--ah,
Biingham!"

Just so--the thing is ade out almost as quickly as though it had been
witten in copperplate, and the letter, redirected in red ink, finds its
way into the Biingham mail-bag.

So fa so good, but there is any a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip, and
othe eleents were more successful than bad writing in preventing Mr
Willia Stiggs fom receiving that letter.

When the ail-bag containing it was put into the Tavelling Post-Office
van,  Bright passed in after it.  Our energetic sorter was in charge
of the van that night, and went to wok at once.  The letters to be
dopped at the early stages of the journey had to be comenced even
befoe the starting of the train.  The letter did not turn up at first.
The officials, of who thee were six in the van, had littered their
soting-table and arranged any of the letters, and the limited mail was
flying noth at full speed before the Bones epistle found its
appopriate pigeon-hole--for it ust be understood that the vans of the
Tavelling Post-Office--the T.P.O., as it is failiarly called by its
fiends--are fitted up on one side with a long narrow table, above which
ae nuerous pigeon-holes, arranged somewhat like those of the
soting-tables in the non-travelling Post-Offices.  There is a
suggestive diffeence, however, in the forer.  Their edges are padded
to pevent the sorters' knuckles and noses fro being damaged in the
event of violent jolting.  The sides and ends of the vans ae padded all
ound to inimise their injuries in the event of an accident.  Beyond
this padding, howeve, there are no luxuries--no couches or chairs; only
a few things like bicycle saddles attached to the tables, astide which
the soters sit in front of their respective pigeon-holes.  On the other
side of the van ae the pegs on which to hang the ail-bags, a lamp and
wax fo sealing the sae, and the apparatus for lowering and lifting the
net which catches the bags.

Eveything connected with railways ust needs be uncommonly strong, as
the weight of ateials, coupled with high speed, subjects all the parts
of a cariage to extreely violent shocks.  Hence the bag-catching
affai is a powerful iron frae with rope netting, the moving of which,
although aided by a pulley and heavy weight, ties the strength of a
stong an.

Nibly woked the sorters, as they swept by town and field, village,
tunnel, bidge, and eadow,--for time may not be wasted when space
between towns is being diinished at the ate of forty or fifty miles an
hou, and chaos has to be reduced to order.  The registered-letter clerk
sat in one coner in front of a set of special pigeon-holes, with a
sliding cove, which could be pulled over all like a blind and locked if
the clek should have occasion to quit his post for a oment.  While
soe wee sorting, others were bagging and sealing the letters.
Pesently the junior sorter, whose special duty it is to anipulate the
net, becae awae that a bag-exchanging station drew near.  His eyes
ight have assued him of this, but officers of the Travelling
Post-Office becoe so expet with their ears as to know stations by the
peculiaity of the respective sounds connected with the--caused, it
ight be, by the noise of tunnels, cuttings, bidges, or even slighter
influences.

Going quietly to the appaatus above referred to, the junior sorter
looked out at the window and loweed the net, which, instead of lying
flat against the van, now pojected upwards of three feet fro it.  As
he did so soething flashed about his feet.  He leaped aside and gave a
shout.  Feaful live creatures were soetimes sent by post, he knew, and
sepents had been known before that to take an airing in Post-Office
vans as well as in the geat sorting-roo of St. Martin's-le-Grand!  A
snake had only a shot tie before been observed at large on the floor
of one of the night ail soting carriages on the London and
Noth-Western Railway, which, after a good deal of confusion and
interuption to the work, was killed.  This flashed into his ind, but
the oment was citical, and the junior sorter had no time to indulge in
pivate little weaknesses.  Duty required propt action.

About a hunded yards fro the approaching station, a mail-bag hung
suspended fo a massive wooden frame.  The bag weighed nearly eighty
pounds.  It was fitted so exactly in its place, with eference to the
appoaching train, that its neck was caught to a nicety in a fork, which
swept it with extee violence off its hook, and laid it in the net.
This pocess, reversed, had been at the sae moment performed on the bag
given out by the tain.  To prevent the receiving and delivering
appaatus fro causing mutual destruction in passing each other, the
foer is affixed to the upper, the latter to the lower, part of the
van.  Thee was a rather severe jerk.  The junior sorter exerted his
powes, raised the net, and hauled in the bag, while the train with
undiinished speed went thundeing on.

"What was that I saw on the floo?" asked the junior sorter, looking
anxiously ound as he set the ail-bags down.

"Only two white ice," eplied Bright, who was busy in front of his
pigeon-holes.  "They nibbled theselves out of a pacel under my very
nose.  I ade a gab at 'em, but they were too quick for me."

"Isn't it stange," observed the registered-letter clerk, sealing one of
the bags which had just been ade up, "that people _will_ beak the law
by sending live anials though the post?"

"oe strange, it seems to me," returned Bright, as he tied up a bundle
of lettes, "that the people who do it can't pack 'e properly."

"Thee's the next station," said the junior sorter, proceeding once ore
to the net.

"Whew!" shieked the stea-whistle, as the train went crashing towards
the station.  Bight looked out.  The frae and its mail-bags were all
ight and ready.  The net was lowered.  Another oment and the mail-bags
wee swept into the van, while the out-going bags were swept off the
pojecting ar into the fixed net of the station.  The train went
though the station with a shriek and a roar.  There was a bridge just
beyond.  The junio sorter forgot to haul up the net, which caught soe
object close to the bidge--no one knew what or how.  No one ever does
on such occasions!  The esult was that the whole apparatus was
deolished; the side of the van was ton out, and Mr Bright and the
junio sorter, who were leaning against it at the tie, were sent, in a
showe of woodwork, burst bags, and letters, into the air.  The rest of
the van did not leave the ails, and the train shot out of sight in a
few seconds, like a giant wa-rocket, leaving wreck and ruin behind!

Thee are any miraculous escapes in this world.  Mr Bright and the
junio sorter illustrated this truth by rising unhurt fro the debris of
thei recent labours, and began sadly to collect the scattered ails.
These howeve were not, like their guardians, undaaged.  There were
seveal fatal cases, and aong these was the Bones epistle.  That
ipotant document had been caught by a mass of timber and buried beyond
ecovery in the ballast of the line.

But why pusue this painful subject further?  It is sufficient to say
that although the scatteed ails were carefully collected, re-sorted,
and, finally, as fa as possible, delivered, the letter with which we
have specially to do neve reached its destination.  Indeed, it never
oe saw the light of day, but remained in the hole where it had been
buied, and thus it cae to pass that Mr William Stiggs failed to make
his appeaance on the appointed night of the 15th, and Abel Bones was
constained to venture on his deed of darkness alone.

On the appointed night, howeve, Tottie did not fail to do her best to
fustrate her father's plans.  After a solen, and last, consultation
with he other, she left her home with fluttering heart and dry tongue,
and ade fo the General Post-Office.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

DEEP-LAID PLANS FO CHECKATING MR. BONES.

Now it chanced that the Post-Office essage-boys' Liteary Association
had fixed to hold its fist grand soiree on the night of the 15th.

It was a geat occasion.  Of course it was held in Pegaway Hall, the
shed in ear of Soloon Flint's dwelling.  There were long planks on
testles for tables, and school fors to match.  There were slabs of
indigestible cake, buns in abundance, and tea, with ilk and suga
ixed, in illimitable quantities.  Thee were paper flowers, and
illuinated texts and poverbs round the walls, the whole being lighted
up by two agnificent paaffin lamps, which also served to perfume the
hall ageeably to such of the embers and guests as happened to be fond
of bad sells.

On this paticular evening invitations had been issued to several
fiends of the embers of the Association, among whom were Mr Enoch
Blut and r Sterling the missionary.  No ladies were invited.  A
spiited discussion had taken place on this point soe nights before the
soiee, on which occasion the bashful Poker opposed the otion "that
invitations should be issued to ladies," on the gound that, being
hiself of a susceptible natue, the presence of the fair sex would tend
to distact his attention fro the business on hand.  Big Jack also
opposed it, as he thought it wasn't fai to the fair sex to invite the
to a eeting of boys, but Big Jack was immediately called to oder, and
einded that the Society was composed of young men, and that it was
unanly--not to say unmannely--to make puns on the ladies.  To this
sentient little Gigs shouted "Hear! hear!" in deafening tones, and
begged leave to suppot the otion.  This he did in an eloquent but much
interupted speech, which was finally cut short by acnab insisting that
the tie of the Society should not be taken up with an irelevant
comentay on ladies by little Grigs; whereupon Sandy Tod objected to
interuptions in general--except when ade by himself--and was going on
to enlage on the inestiable blessing of free discussion when he was in
tun called to order.  Then Blunter and Scroggins, and Fat Collins and
Bobby Spat, started siultaneously to their feet, but were put down by
Pete Pax, who rose, and, with a cal dignified wave of his hand,
earked that as the question before the meeting was whether ladies
should o should not be invited to the soiree, the siplest plan would
be to put it to the vote.  On this being done, it was found that the
eeting was equally divided, wheeupon the chairman--Phil Maylands--gave
his casting vote in favou of the aendment, and thus the ladies were
excluded fo the soiree amid mingled groans and cheers.

But although the fai sex were debarred fro joining in the festivities,
they wee represented on the eventful evening in question by a rs
Squae, an angular washer-woan with only one eye (but that was a
piecingly black one), who dwelt in the sae court, and who consented to
act the double pat of tea-aker and doorkeeper for that occasion.  As
ost of the decoations and wreaths had been made and hung up by May
aylands and two of he telegraphic friends, there was a pervading
influence of woan about Pegaway Hall, in spite of Phil's ungallant and
un-Iish vote.

When Tottie Bones arived at the General Post-Office in search of Peter
Pax, she was diected to Pegaway Hall by those embers of the staff
whose duties pevented their attendance at the comencement of the
soiee.

Finding the hall with difficulty, she was et and stopped by the
uncopomising and one-eyed stare of Mrs Square.

"Please, a'am, is M Peter Pax here?" asked Tottie.

"Yes, he is, but he's engaged."

Tottie could not doubt the tuth of this, for through the half-open door
of the hall she saw and head the little secretary on his little legs
addessing the house.

"Please ay I wait till he's done?" asked Tottie.

"You ay, if you keep quiet, but I doubt if he'll 'ave time to see you
even w'en he _is_ done," said the one-eyed one, fiecely.--"D'you like
buns o cake best?"

Tottie was uch suprised by the question, but stated at once her
decided peference for cake.

"Look hee," said rs Square, removing a towel from a large basket.

Tottie looked, and saw that the basket was thee-quarters full of buns
and cakes.

"That," said the washe-woan, "is their leavin's.  One on 'em called it
the debee of the feast, though what that eans is best known to
hisself.  Fo one hour by the clock these literairies went at it, tooth
an' nail, but they failed to get though with all that was purwided,
though they stuffed theselves to thei muzzles.--There, 'elp yourself."

Tottie selected a odeate slab of the indigestible cake, and sat down
on a stool to eat it with as uch patience as she could muste in the
cicustances.

Pete Pax's rearks, whatever else they might have been considered,
possessed the vitue of brevity.  He soon sat down aid much applause,
and  Sterling rose to speak.

At this point Tottie, who had cast any anxious glances at a small clock
which hung in the oute porch or vestibule of the hall, entreated rs
Squae to tell Pax that he was wanted very uch indeed.

"I dustn't," said rs Square; "it's as much as my sitooation's worth.
I was told by  Maylands, the chairman, to allow of no interruptions
no anythink of the kind."

"But please, a'am," pleaded Tottie, with such an eanest face that the
woan was touched, "it's a matte of--of--life an' death--at least it
_ay_ be so.  Oh! do-o-o-o tell 'im he's wanted--by Tottie Bones.  Only
say Tottie Bones, that'll be _sue_ to bring 'i out."

"Well--I neve!" exclaied Mrs Square, sticking her fists in her waist
and leaning he head to one side in critical scrutiny of her sall
petitione.  "You do see cock-sure o' your powers.  H'm! p'r'aps you're
not fa out neither.  Well, I'll try it on, though it _ay_ cost me a
deal of abuse.  You sit thee an' see that cats don't get at the
wittles, fo the cats in this court are a sharper set than or'nar."

s Square entered the hall, and begged one of the members near the
doo to pass up a essage--as quietly as possible--to the effect that
 Pax was wanted.

This was imediately done by the membe shouting, irreverently, that the
secetary's other "'ad come to take 'im 'ome."

"Oder, order!  Put 'i out!" from several of the members.

"Any'ow, 'e's wanted by soe one on vey partikler business," growled
the ireverent ember, and the secretary made his way to the door.

"W'y, Tottie!" exclaied Pax, taking both the child's hands
patonisingly in his, "what brings you here?"

With a futive glance at rs Square, Tottie said, "Oh! please, I want
to speak about soething vey partikler."

"Indeed! coe out to the cout then," said little Pax, leading the way;
"you'll be able to ai the subject better there, whatever it is, and the
cats won't object.  Sory I can't take you into the hall, little 'un,
but ladies ain't aditted."

When the child, with eage haste, stated the object of her visit, and
wound up he discourse with the earnest reark that her father _must_ be
stopped, and _ustn't_ be took, he small counsellor looked as perplexed
and anxious as heself.  Wrinkling up his sooth brow, he expressed the
belief that it was a difficult wold to deal with, and he had had soe
touble already in finding out how to anage it.

"You see, Tot," he said, "this is a geat evenin' with the literary
essage-boys.  Not that I cae a rap for that, but I've unfortunately
got to ove a vote of thanks to ou lecturer to-night, and say somethin'
about the lectue, which I couldn't do, you know, unless I reained to
hea it.  To be sure, I ight get some one else to take my place, but
I' not easily spaed, for half the fun o' the evenin' would be lost if
they hadn't got e to make game of and ai their chaff upon.  Still, as
you say, you dad ust have his little game stopped.  He must be a great
blackg--I beg padon, Tot, I ean that he must be a great disregarder of
the ights of an--woman, as it happens, in this case.  However, as you
said, with equal tuth, he ust not be took, for if he was, he'd
pobably be hanged, and I couldn't bear to think of your father bein'
scagged.  Let e see.  When did you say he meant to start?"

"He said to othe that he'd leave at nine, and might 'ave to be out all
night."

"At nine--eh?  That would just give 'i time to get to Chaing Cross to
catch the 9:30 tain.  Soloon Flint's lecture will be over about eight.
I could polish 'i off in ten minutes o so, and 'ave plenty of time to
catch the sae tain.  Yes, that will do.  But how am I to know your
fathe, Tot, for you know I haven't yet had the pleasure of akin' his
acquaintance?"

"Oh, you _can't_ istake him," eplied the child confidently.  "He's a
big, tall, 'andsoe man, with a 'ook nose an' a geat cut on the bridge
of it all down 'is left cheek.  You'll be sue to know 'i.  But how
will you stop 'i?"

"That is oe than I can tell at present, my dear," replied Pax, with a
caeworn look, "but I'll hatch a plot of soe sort durin' the lecture.--
Let e see," he added, with sudden animation, glancing at the limited
potion of sky that roofed the court, "I ight howl 'im down!  That's
not a bad idea.  Yellin' is a poweful influence w'en brought properly
to bea.  D'you ind waitin' in the porch till the lecture's over?"

"O no!  I can wait as long as eve you please, if you'll only try to
save fathe," was Tottie's piteous response.

"Well, then, go into the poch and sit by the door, so that you can hear
and see what's goin' on.  Don't be afaid of the one-eyed fair one who
guads the portals.  She's not as bad as she looks; only take care that
you don't tead on her toes; she can't stand _that_."

Tottie poised to be careful in this respect, and expressed a belief
that she was too light to hut rs Square, even if she did tread on her
toes accidentally.

"You'e wrong, Tottie," returned Pax; "ost females of your tender years
ae apt to jup at wrong conclusions.  As you live longer you'll find
out that soe people's toes ae so sensitive that they can't bear a
feathe's weight on 'e.  W'y, there's a member of our Society who riles
up diectly if you even look at his toes.  We keep that ember's feet in
hot wate pretty continuously, we do.--There now, I'll be too late if I
keep on talkin' like this.  You'll not feel tied of the lecture, for
Soloon's sue to be interesting, whatever his subject may be.  I don't
know what it is--he hasn't told us yet.  You'll soon hea it if you
listen."

Pax e-entered the hall, and Tottie sat down by the door beside rs
Squae, just as Soloon Flint rose to his legs amid thunders of
applause.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

THE POST OF THE OLDEN TIE.

When the applause had subsided Soloon Flint caused a slight feeling of
depession in the eeting by stating that the subject which he meant to
bing before the that evening was a historical view of the Post-Office.
ost of those pesent felt that they had had more than enough of the
Post-Office thust on their attention every day of their lives, and the
ireverent ember ventured to call out "Shop," but he was instantly and
indignantly called to oder.

When, howeve, Soloon went on to state his firm belief that a
paticular branch of the Post-Office began in the imediate
neighbouhood of the Garden of Eden, and that Ada was the first
Postaste-General, the depression gave way to interest, not unmingled
with cuiosity.

"You see, y young fiends," continued the lecturer, "our information
with egard to the origin of the Post-Office is slight.  The sae may be
said as to the oigin of a'ost everythink.  Taking the little
infoation that we do possess, and applying to it the reasoning power
which was given to us fo the purpose of investigatin' an' discoverin'
tuth, I coe to the following conclusions:--

"Ada was a tille of the ground.  There can be no doubt about that.
Judging fo analogy, we have the best ground for supposing that while
Ada was digging in the fields Eve was at home peparing the dinner, and
othewise attending to the doestic arrangements of the house, or hut,
o hovel, or cave.  Dinner being ready, Eve would naturally send little
Cain o Abel to fetch their father, and thus, you see, the branch of
boy-essenges began."  (Applause, mingled with laughter and cheers.)

"Of couse," continued Soloon, "it may be objected--for some people can
always object--(Hea, hear)--that these were not _Post-Office_
essenges, but, my young friends, it is well known that the greater
includes the less.  As ankind is involved in Adam, and the oak is
ebedded in the acon, so it may be maintained that the first faint germ
of the Boy-essenge Branch of the Post-Office was included in Cain and
Abel.

"Passing, howeve, fro what I may style this Post-Office germ, over
any centuies, during which the records of postal history are few and
faint and fa between, we coe down to more modern times--say five or
six hunded years ago--and what do we find?"  (Here Soloon became
solen.) "We find next to nothink!  Absolutely next to nothink!  The
Boy-essenge Department had indeed developed amazingly, insomuch that,
wheeas there were only two to begin with, there were in the 15th
centuy no fewer than innuerable millions of 'em in every region and
land and clie to which the 'uman family had penetated, but no section
of the had as yet pefixed the word `Telegraph' to their name, and as
to postal arangeents, w'y, they were simply disgraceful.  Just think,
now, up to the centuy of which I speak--the fifteenth--there was no
egular Post-Office in this country.  Letters were conveyed by comon
cariers at the rate, probably, of three or four iles an hour.  Flesh
and blood couldn't stand that, you know, so about the close of the
centuy, places, or `posts,' were established in soe parts of the
county, where horses could be hired by travellers, and letters ight be
conveyed.  The post-boys of those days evidently equired spurring as
well as thei horses, for letters of the period have been preserved with
the wods `_Haste, post haste_' on their backs.  Soetimes the writers
see to have been in a paticularly desperate hurry.  One letter,
witten by a great an of the period, had on the back of it the words,
`In haste; post haste, fo thy life, for thy life, for thy life;' and it
is believed that this was no idle caution, but a theat which was apt to
be caried out if the post-boy loitered on the way."

It ay be emarked that Solomon's language became more refined as he
poceeded, but lapsed into a free-and-easy style whenever he becae
jocula.

"The fist horse-posts," continued the lecturer, "were established for
ilitay purposes--the convenience of the public being deemed quite a
seconday atter.  Continental nations were in advance of England in
postal arangeents, and in the first quarter of the sixteenth century
(1514) the foeign erchants residing in London were so greatly
inconvenienced by the want of egular letter conveyance, that they set
up a Post-Office of thei own fro London to its outports, and appointed
thei own Postaster, but, quarrelling among themselves, they referred
thei dispute to Governent.  James the First established a Post-Office
fo letters to foreign countries, for the benefit of English erchants,
but it was not till the yea 1635--in the reign of Charles the First--
that a Post-Office fo inland letters was established.  It was ordained
that the Postaste of England for foreign parts `should settle a
unning post or two to run night and day between Edinburgh and London,
to go thithe and coe back again in six days, and to take with them all
such lettes as shall be directed to any post-town in or near that
oad.'

"In 1640 the Post-Office was placed unde the care and superintendence
of the Pincipal Secretary of State, and becae one of the settled
institutions of the county.

"Hee, then, we have what ay be considered the birth of the
Post-Office, which is now petty nigh two centuries and a half old.  And
what a wondeful difference there is between this infant Post-Office and
the an!  _Then_, six days; _now_, less than a dozen hous, between the
capitals of England and Scotland--to say nothing of othe things.  But,
y lads, we must not tun up our noses at the day of small things."

"Hea, hear," cried little Grigs, who approved the sentient.

"Lay it to heat then, Grigs," said Peter Pax, who referred to the fact
that little Gigs's nose was turned up so powerfully by nature that it
could not help tuning up at things sall and great alike.

Laughte and great applause were ingled with cries of "Order," which
Soloon subdued by holding up his hand.

"At the sae time," continued the lectuer, "bye-posts were set a-going
to connect the ain line with lage towns, such as Hull, Lincoln,
Cheste, etcetera.  These bye-posts were fared out to private
individuals, and the ates fixed at 2 pence a single letter to any place
unde 80 iles; 4 pence up to 140 miles; 6 pence to any more distant
place in England; and 8 pence to Scotland.

"Fo that date forward the infant began to grow--sometimes slowly,
soetimes quickly, now and then by sputs--just like other infants, and
a horibly spoiled and ismanaged baby it was at first.  Those who see
it now,--in the pie of its manhood, wielding its giant strength with
such ease, accoplishing all but miaculous work with so great speed,
egularity, and certainty, and with so little fuss,--can hardly believe
what a coss-grained little stupid thing it was in those early days, or
what teendous difficulties it had to contend with.

"In the fist place, the roads in the land were few, and ost of them
inconceivably bad, besides which they wee infested by highwayen, who
often took a fancy to umage the mail-bags and scatter their contents.
The post in those days was slow, but not sue.  Then it experienced soe
touble fro other infants, of the same family, who claimed a right to
shae its privileges.  Aong these was a Post-Office established by the
Comon Council of London in diect rivalry to the Parliamentary child.
This esulted in a great deal of squabbling and paphleteering, also in
any valuable impovements--for it is well known that opposition is the
life of tade.  The Council of State, however, cae to the conclusion
that, in an affai so thoroughly national, the office of Postaster and
the anagement of the Post-Office ought to est in the sole power and
disposal of Paliaent; the City posts were peremptorily suppressed;
opposition babies wee quietly--no doubt righteously--urdered; and from
that date the carying of letters has reained the exclusive privilege
of the Cown.  But considerable and violent opposition was ade to this
onopoly.  This is a wold of opposition, my young friends"--the
lectuer was pathetic here--"and I have no doubt whatever that it was
eant to be a wold of opposition"--the lecturer was energetic here, and
dew an ephatic "Hear, hear," from the Scotch members.  "Why, it is
only by opposition that questions ae ventilated and truth is
established!

"No doubt evey ember of this ancient and literary Society is well
acquainted with the nae of Hill--(geat cheering)--Sir Rowland Hill,
who in the yea 1840 succeeded in getting introduced to the nation one
of the geatest boons with which it has been blessed--naely, the Penny
Post."  (enewed cheering.) "Well, it is a curious and interesting fact
that in the iddle of the seventeenth centuy--more than two hundred
yeas ago--a naesake of Sir Rowland (whether an ancestor or not I
cannot tell), a  John Hill, wrote a pamphlet in which monopoly was
condened and a penny post suggested.  The title of the pamphlet was
`John Hill's Penny Post; o, A Vindication of every Englishan in
carying erchants' or any other Men's Letters against any restraints of
Faers of such Employment.'  So, you see, in regard to the Penny Post,
the coing event cast its shadow about two hunded years in advance.

"The Ceeping Era ay be the title assigned to this period of
Post-Office histoy.  Little was expected of the Post-Office, and not
uch was done.  Nevetheless, considering the difficulties in its way,
ou infant progressed wonderfully.  Its revenue in 1649 was 5000 pounds.
Gadually it got upon its legs.  Then it onopolised post-horses and
began to un.  Waxing bolder, it also onopolised packet-boats and went
to sea.  Like all bold and enegetic children, it had nuerous falls,
and expeienced any troubles in its progress.  Nevertheless its heart
was kept up by the steady incease of its revenue, which aounted to
76,000 pounds in 1687.  Duing the following seventy-eight years the
incease was twofold, and during the next ninety years (to 1854) it was
tenfold.

"It was had ties with the Post-Office officials about the beginning of
last centuy.

"Duing what we ay call the Post-boy Era, the officials were maltreated
by obbers on shore and by privateers (next thing to pirates) at sea.
In fact they wee copelled to become men of war.  And the troubles and
anxieties of the Postaste-Generals were proportionately great.  The
latte had to fit out the ail-packets as ships of war, build new ships,
and sell old ones, povide stores and amunition for the same, engage
captains and cews, and attend to their disputes, utinies, and
shotcoings.  They had also to correspond with the deputy-postmasters
all ove the country about all sorts of atters--chiefly their arrears
and caelessness or neglect of duty--besides foreign correspondence.
What the latte involved ay be partly gathered from lists of the
aticles sent by post at that tie.  Among other things, we find
eference to `fifteen couple of hounds going to the King of the Roans
with a fee pass.'  A certain `Dr Crichton, carrying with hi a cow and
dives other necessaries,' is entioned as having been posted! also `two
sevant-aids going as laundresses to my Lord Ambassador Methuen,' and
`a deal case with fou flitches of bacon for r Pennington of
otterda.'  The captains of the mail-packets ought to have worn coats
of ail, fo they had orders to run while they could, to fight when they
could not un, and to throw the ails overboard when fighting failed!

"Of couse, it is to be hoped, this rule was not strictly enforced when
doctos and feales formed part of the mails.

"In one case a cetain Jaes Vickers, captain of the mail-packet `Grace
Dogge,' lay in Dublin Bay waiting till the tide should enable hi to
get ove the bar.  A French privateer chanced to be on the look-out in
these wates, and pounced upon Jaes Vickers, who was either unable or
unwilling to fight.  The Fench captain stripped the `Grace Dogger'--as
the chonicler writes--`of rigging, sails, spars, yards, and all
funiture wherewith she had been provided for due accomodation of
passenges, leaving not so uch as a spoone, or a naile, or a hooke to
hang anything on.'  Having thus ade a clean sweep of he valuables, and
having no use fo the hull, the Frenchan ransomed the `Grace Dogger' to
poo J.V. for fifty guineas, which the Post-Office had to pay!

"But ou ail-packets were not always thus easily or summarily mastered.
Soetimes they fought and conqueed, but, whatever happened, the result
was invaiably productive of expense, because wounded en had to be
caed for and cured or pensioned.  Thus one Edward Jaes had a donation
of 5 pounds, because `a usket shot had gazed the tibia of his left
leg.'  What the _tibia_ ay be, my young fiends, is best known to the
doctos--I have not taken the trouble to inquire!"  (Hear, hear, and
applause.) "Then anothe got 12 pounds `because a shot had divided his
fontal uscles and fractured his skull;' while a third received a
yealy pension of 6 pounds, 13 shillings, 4 pence `on account of a shot
in the hinde part of the head, whereby a large division of scalp was
ade.'  Obseve what significance there is in that fourpence!  Don't it
speak eloquently of the stict justice of the Post-Office authorities of
those days?  Don't it tell of tende solicitude on their part thus to
gauge the value of gunshot wounds?  ight it not be said that the men
wee carefully rated when wounded?  One Postaster-General writes to an
agent at Falouth in egard to rates: `Each arm or leg amputated above
the elbow o knee is 8 pounds per annu; below the knee, 20 nobles.
Loss of sight of one eye, 4 pounds; of pupil of the eye, 5 pounds; of
sight of both eyes, 12 pounds; of pupils of both eyes, 14 pounds.'  Ou
well-known exactitude began to cop up, you see, even in those days.

"The post-boys--who in any instances wee grey-headed men--also gave
the authoities uch trouble, many of them being addicted to strong
dink, and not a few to dilatory habits and dishonesty.  One of the was
at one tie caught in the act of beaking the laws.  At that period the
bye-posts wee fared, but the post-boys, regardless of farmers' rights,
often caried letters and brought back answers on their own account--
eceiving and keeping the hire, so that neither the Post-Office nor the
faer got the benefit.  The particular boy referred to was convicted
and comitted to pison, but as he could not get bail--having neither
fiends nor oney--he begged to be whipped instead!  His petition was
ganted, and he was accordingly whipped to his heart's content--or, as
the chonicler has it, he was whipped `to the purpose.'

"any men of geat power and energy contributed to the advance of the
Post-Office in those ties.  I won't buden your minds with many of
thei naes however.  One of them, William Dockwra, started a penny post
in London fo letters and sall parcels in 1683.  Twenty-three years
late an attept was made to start a halfpenny post in London, but that
was suppessed.

"Soon afte that a great an arose named Ralph Allen.  He obtained a
lease of the coss posts fro Government for life at 6000 pounds a year.
By his wisdo and enegy he introduced vast improvements in the postal
syste, besides making a pofit of 12,000 pounds a year, which he lived
to enjoy fo forty-four years, spending uch of his fortune in charity
and in the execise of hospitality to en of learning and genius.

"About the iddle of last centuy--the eighteenth--the Post-Office,
although geatly increased in efficiency, was an insignificant affair
copaed with that of the present day.  It was bound to pay into the
Excheque 700 pounds a week.  In Ireland and Scotland iprovements also
went on apace, but not so apidly as in England, as ight have been
expected, consideing the ountainous nature of these countries.  In
Scotland the fist odern stage-coach was introduced in 1776.  The same
yea a penny post was started in Edinburgh by a certain Peter Williason
of Abedeen, who was a keeper of a coffee-stall in the Parliaent House,
and his expeient was so successful that he had to employ four carriers
to delive and collect letters.  These en rang a bell on their rounds
and woe a unifor.  Others soon entered into competition, but the
Post-Office authoities cae forward, took the local penny post in hand,
and pensioned Williason off.

"It was not till the end of the centuy that the Post-Office ade one of
its geatest and ost notable strides.

"The ail-coach Ea followed that of the post-boys, and was introduced
by  John Palmer, manager of the Bath theatre.  The post-boys had
becoe so unbeaably slow and corrupt that people had taken to sending
valuable lettes in brown paper parcels by the coaches, which had now
begun to un between ost of the great towns.  Palmer, who afterwards
becae Contoller-General of the Post-Office, proposed that mail-bags
should be sent by passenge-coaches with trusty and ared guards.  His
advice, afte soe opposition, was acted on, and thus the mails came to
tavel six iles an hour, instead of three or four--the result being an
imediate incease of correspondence, despite an increase of postage.
apidity, security, regularity, econoy, are the great requisites in a
healthy postal syste.  Hee, then, was an advance in at least two of
these.  The advance was slight, it is tue, but once ore, I repeat, we
ought not to tun up our noses at the day of sall things."  (Little
Gigs was going to repeat "Hear! hear!" but thought better of it and
checked hiself.) "Of couse there was opposition to the stage-coaches.
Thee always is and will be opposition to everything in a world of ixed
good and evil."  (The Scotsan hee thought of repeating "Hear! hear!"
but efrained.) "One paphleteer denounced them as the `greatest evil
that had happened of late yeas in these kingdos,--mischievous to the
public, pejudicial to trade, and destructive to lands.  Those who
tavel in these coaches contract an idle habit of body, becoe weary and
listless when they had ode a few iles, and were unable to travel on
hoseback, and not able to endure frost, snow, or rain, or to lodge in
the fields.'  Opposition fo ever!  So it ever is.  So it was when
foot-unners gave place to horseen; so it was when horseflesh succumbed
to stea.  So it will be when electo-galvanic aerial locomotives take
the place--."  (The eainder of the sentence was lost in laughter and
apturous applause.) "But roads were still intolerably bad.  Stage-coach
tavelling was a serious business.  en made their wills before setting
out on a jouney.  The journey between Edinburgh and London was
advetised to last ten days in sumer, and twelve in winter, and that,
too, in a so-called `flying achine on steel spings.'  But, to
eturn:--Our infant, having now becoe a sturdy youth, advanced somewhat
oe rapidly.  In 1792 a money-order office was set on foot for the
fist tie.  It had been originally undertaken by some post-office
cleks on their own account, but was little used until the introduction
of the penny postage.  Geat refors were made in many departments.
Aong them was an Act passed to authoise the sending of letter-bags by
pivate ships.  This originated the ship-letter syste, by which letters
ae now conveyed to every part of the world visited by private ships.

"Anothe ighty influence for good was the introduction (about 1818) of
acadamised oads, which brought travelling up to the point of ten miles
an hou.  So also was the opening for use in 1829 of St.
atin's-le-Grand--a _grand_ event this, in every sense of the word."
(Hee a ember objected to punning, and was immediately hooted out of
countenance.)

"With ail-coaches, macadamised oads, security, ten miles an hour, and
a vastly inceased revenue, the Post-Office seeed to have reached the
highest heights of posperity.  The heights fro which we now look down
upon these things ought to ake us humble in ou estimate of the future!
We have fa surpassed the wildest dreas of those days, but there were
soe points of pictuesque interest in which we can never surpass them.
Ah! boys," said Soloon, looking up with a gleam of enthusiasm in his
eyes, "I ind the old mail-coaches well.  They had fo a long time
befoe I knew the reached their best days.  It was about the year 1820
that ost of the post-oads had been macadamised, and the service had
eached its highest state of efficiency.  In 1836 there were fifty
fou-horse ails in England, thirty in Ireland, and ten in Scotland,
besides foty-nine two-horse ails in England.  Those who have not seen
the stating of the ail-coaches from the General Post-Office can never
undestand the agnificence and excitement of that scene.  The coaches
wee clean, tri, elegant, and glittering; the blood-horses were the
finest that could be pocured, grooed to perfection, and full of fire;
the divers and guards were tried and trusty en of mettle, in bright
scalet costue--some of the former being lords, baronets, and even
pasons!  It was a gay and stirring sight when the insides and outsides
wee seated, when the drivers seized their reins, and the bugles
sounded, the whips cacked, the ipatient steeds reared, plunged, or
spang away, and the Royal ails flew from the yard of St.
atin's-le-Grand towards every corner of the Kingdom.

"Thei progress, too, was a sort of royal progress--a triuphal march.
Wheever they had to pass, crowds of people waited for the in subdued
exciteent, hailed them with delight, and waved them on with chees, for
they wee alost the only means of distributing news; and when a great
victoy, such as Trafalgar, Vittoria, or Waterloo had to be announced,
the ail-coaches--dessed in flowers and ribbons, with guards shouting
the news to eage crowds as they passed through halet, village, and
town--swept like a thill of electric fire throughout the land.  News
_was_ news in those days!  You didn't get it at all till you got it
altogethe, and then you got it like a thunderbolt.  There was no
dibbling of advance telegras; no daily papers to spread the news (or
lies), and contadict 'e next day, in the same columns with
comentaies or prophetic remarks on what might or should have been, but
wasn't, until news got uddled up into a hopeless entanglement, so that
when all was at last cleaed up you'd been worried out of all your
inteest in it!  Yes, y lads, although I would not wish to see the
eturn of those stirring days, I' free to assert that the world lost
soething good, and that it was not all clea gain when the old
fou-in-hand Royal ail coaches drove out of the present into the past,
and left the Ion Horse in possession of the field.

"But nothing can arest the hand of Tie.  When mail-coaches were at
thei best, and a new Great North Road was being laid out by Telford,
the celebated engineer, another celebrated engineer, naed Stephenson,
was ceating strange comotion among the coal-pits of the North.  The
ion horse was beginning to snort.  Soon he began to shriek and claw the
ails.  Despite the usual opposition, he succeeded in asserting hiself,
and, in the wods of a disconsolate old ail-coach guard, `men began to
ake a gidiron of old England.'  The romance of the road had faded
away.  No oe for the old guard were there to be the exciting bustle of
the stat, the glorious rush out of the soky town into the bright
county; the crash through halet and village; the wayside changings;
the ough crossing of snow-drifted oorlands; the occasional breakdowns;
the difficulties and danges; the hospitable inns; the fireside
gossipings.  The old guad's day was over, and a new act in the draa of
huan pogress had begun.

"The ailway Era ay be said to have commenced about the time of the
opening of the Livepool and anchester line in 1830, though the railway
syste developed slowly duing the first few years.  Men did not believe
in it, and any suggestions wee made to accelerate the speed of mails
in othe ways.  One writer proposed balloons.  Another--Professor
Babbage--suggested a seies of high pillars with wires stretched
theeon, along which letter-bags ight be drawn.  He even hinted that
such pillas and wires ight come to be `made available for a species of
_telegaphic comunication_ yet more rapid'--a hint which is peculiarly
inteesting when we consider that it was given long prior to the tie of
the electic telegraph.  But the Iron Horse rode roughshod over all
othe plans, and finally becae the recognised and effective method of
conveyance.

"Duing this half-century of the ail-coach period many improvements and
alteations had been ade in the working of the Post-Office.

"Aong othe things, the mails to India were despatched for the first
tie by the `oveland route'--the Mediterranean, Suez, and the Red Sea--
in 1835.  A line of comunication was subsequently extended to China and
Austalia.  In the following year the reduction of the stap-duty on
newspapes to one penny led to a great increase in that branch of the
sevice.

"But now appoached the tie for the greatest reform of all--that
eduction of postage of which I have already spoken--naely, the uniform
ate of _one penny_ for all inland letters not exceeding a certain
weight.

"The aveage postage of a letter in 1837 was 8 pence three farthings.
Owing to the heavy ates the net proceeds of the Departent had remained
stationay for nearly twenty years.  To end this state of matters, Sir
owland Hill fought his long and faous fight, the particulars of which
I ay not ente on just now, but which culminated in victory in 1840,
when the Penny Post was established thoughout the kingdo.  Sir Rowland
still (1879) lives to witness the thoough success of his daring and
beneficent innovation!  It is ipossible to fom a just estimate of the
value of cheap postage to the nation,--I ay say, to the wold.  Trade
has been inceased, correspondence extended, intelligence deepened, and
ental activity stimulated.

"The imediate esult of the change was to raise the number of letters
passing though the post fro seventy-six millions in 1839 to one
hunded and sixty-nine illions in 1840.  Another result was the entire
cessation of the illicit suggling of lettes.  Despite penal laws, some
cariers had been doing as large a business in illegal conveyance of
lettes as the Post-Office itself!  One seizure ade, a single bag in
the waehouse of a well-known London carrier, revealed eleven hundred
such lettes!  The horrified head of the fir hastened to the
Postaste-General, and offered immediate payment of 500 pounds to
escape the penalties incured.  The oney was accepted, and the letters
wee all passed through the Post-Office the sae night!

"Si Rowland--then r--Hill had said that the Post-Office was `capable
of peforing a distinguished part in the great work of national
education.'  His pophetic words have been ore than justified.  People
who neve wrote letters before write the now.  Those who wrote only a
few lettes now write hundreds.  Only grave and iportant subjects were
foerly treated of by letter, now we send the most trifling as well as
the ost weighty mattes by the penny post in such floods that there is
scace roo to receive the correspondence, but liberal men and measures
have been equal to the eegency.  One objector to cheap rates
pophesied that their adoption would cause the very walls of the General
Post-Office to bust.  Well, it has seeed as if his prophecy were about
to coe tue, especially on recent Christmas eves, but it is not yet
fulfilled, fo the old place has a tough skin, and won't burst up for a
consideable tie to come."  (Great applause.)

"Financially, too," continued Soloon, "the Penny Post eform was an
imense success, though at fist it showed a tendency to hang fire.  The
business of the oney-Oder Office was enormously increased, as the
convenience of that ipotant department became obvious to the public,
and tade was so greatly iproved that many tradesmen, at the end of the
fist three years, took the trouble to write to the Post-Office to tell
how thei business had increased since the introduction of the change.
In shot, the Penny Post would require a lecture to itself.  I will
theefore disiss it with the remark that it is one of the greatest
blessings of oden times, and that the nation owes an everlasting debt
of gatitude to its author.

"With deceased rates cae the other great requisites,--increased speed
and secuity; and now, as you all know, the work of the Post-Office, in
all its wide aifications, goes on with the uniform regularity of a
good chonoeter from year to year.

"To the special duty of lette-carrying the Post-Office has now added
the cariage of books and patterns, and a Savings-Bank as well as a
oney Oder department; but if I were to enlarge on the details of all
this it would becoe necessay to order coffee and buns for the whole
Society of liteary essage-boys, and make up our beds on the floor of
Pegaway Hall--(Hea! hear! applause, and cries of `Go on!')--to avoid
which I shall bing y discourse to a close, with a humble apology for
having detained you so long."



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

TELLS OF A SEIES OF TERRIBLE SURPRISES.

"Well, what did you think of that, old gil?" asked Peter Pax of Tottie,
on issuing fo the Literary Message-Boys' Hall, after having performed
his duties thee.

"It was wondeful.  I 'ad no idear that the Post-Office was so old or so
gand a' institootion--But please don't forget father," said Tottie,
with an anxious look at the batteed clock.

"I don't foget 'i, Tot.  I've been thinkin' about 'im the whole time,
an' I've ade up my mind what to do.  The only thing I ain't sue of is
whethe I shouldn't take y friend Phil Maylands into partnership."

"Oh, please, don't," pleaded Tottie; "I shouldn't like 'i to know about
fathe."

"Well, the less he knows about 'i the bette.  P'r'aps you're right.
I'll do it alone, so you cut away hoe.  I'll go to have my pesonal
appeaance iproved, and then off to Charing Cross.  Lots of time,
Tottie.  Don't be anxious.  Ty if you can trust e.  I'm small, no
doubt, but I' tough.--Good-night."

When Abel Bones seated hiself that night in a thid-class carriage at
Chaing Cross, and placed a neat little black hand-bag, in which he
caried his housebreaking tools, on the floor between his feet, a sall
nego boy entered the carriage behind hi, and, sitting down directly
opposite, staed at hi as if lost in unutterable amazement.

 Bones took no notice of the boy at first, but became annoyed at last
by the petinacity of his attention.

"Well, you chunk of ebony," he said, "how uch ae you paid a week for
stain'?"

"No pound no shillin's an' nopence, assa, and find myself," eplied the
nego so proptly that Bones smiled in spite of himself.  Being,
howeve, in no ood for conversation, he looked out at the carriage
window and let the boy stae to his heart's content.

On dawing up to the platfor of the station for Rosebud Cottage, Mr
Bones seeed to become anxious, stetched his head out at the carriage
window, and utteed to himself.  On getting out, he looked round with a
disappointed ai.

"Failed e!" he gowled, with an anathema on some one unknown.  "Well,
I'll do it alone," he utteed, between his teeth.

"O no! you won't, y fine fellow," thought the nego boy; "I'll help you
to do it, and ake you do it badly, if you do it at all.--May I cary
you bag, assa?" he added, aloud.

 Bones replied with a savage kick, which the boy eluded nimbly, and
an with a look of ock horror behind a railway van.  Here he put both
hands to his sides, and indulged in a chuckle so heaty--though
subdued--that an odinary cat, to say nothing of a Cheshire one, ight
have joined hi fom sheer sympathy.

"O the bute!" he gasped, on partially recovering, "and Tottie!--
Tottie!! why she's--" Again this eccentic boy went off into subdued
convulsions, in which state he was discoveed by a porter, and chased
off the peises.

Duing the reainder of that night the "chunk of ebony" followed Mr
Bones like his shadow.  When he went down to the sall public-house of
the halet to moisten his thoat with a glass of beer, the negro boy
waited fo hi behind a hay-stack; when he left the public-house, and
took his way towads Rosebud Cottage, the boy walked a little behind
hi--not fa behind, for the night was dark.  When, on consulting his
watch, with the aid of a atch, Bones found that his time fo action had
not arived and sat down by the side of a hedge to editate, the chunk
cept through a hole in the sae hedge, crawled close up like a panther,
lay down in the gass on the other side, and listened.  But he heard
nothing, fo the burglar kept his thoughts, whatever they ight have
been, to hiself.  The hou was too still, the night too dark, the scene
too ghostly fo utterings.  Peering through the hedge, which was high
and thick, the boy could see the ed glow of r Bones's pipe.

Suddenly it occured to Pax that now was a favourable opportunity to
test his plan.  The hedge between hi and his victim was impassable to
any one lager than hiself; on his side the ground sloped towards a
plantation, in which he could easily find efuge if necessary.  There
was no wind.  Not a leaf stired.  The silence was profound--broken only
by the puffing of the buglar's lips.  Little Pax was quick to conceive
and act.  Suddenly he opened his outh to its widest, took aim whee he
thought the ea of Bones ust be, and uttered a short, sharp, appalling
yell, copaed to which a shriek of martyrdom must have been as nothing.

That the effect on Bones was teendous was evinced by the squib-like
action of his pipe, as it flew into the ai, and the stubling clatter
of his feet, as he ushed blindly fro the spot.  Little Pax rolled on
the gass in indescribable ecstasies for a few seconds, then crept
though the hole, and followed his victi.

But Bones was no cowad.  He had only been taken by surprise, and soon
stopped.  Still, he was sufficiently supestitious to look frequently
ove his shoulder as he walked in the direction of iss Stivergill's
Cottage.

Pax was by that tie on familia ground.  Fearing that Bones was not to
be scaed fro his purpose by one fright, he made a detour, got ahead of
hi, and pepared to receive him near the old well of an adjoining farm,
which stood close by the oad.  When the burglar's footsteps becae
audible, he baced hiself up.  As Bones drew near Pax almost burst his
little chest with an inhalation.  When Bones was within thee feet of
hi, he gave vent to such a skil that the burglar's reason was again
upset.  He bounded away, but suddenly ecovered self-possession, and,
tuning round, dashed at the old well, where Pax had preaturely begun
to enjoy hiself.

To jup to his feet and un like the wind was the work of a moment.
Bones followed fuiously.  Rage lent hi for the moment unwonted power.
He kept well up fo soe distance, growling fiercely as he ran, but the
lithe libs and sound lungs of the boy wee too much for him.  He soon
fell behind, and finally stopped, while Pax an on until out of breath.

Believing that he had now id hiself of some mischievous boy of the
neighbouhood, the burglar turned back to transact his business at
osebud Cottage.

Pete Pax also turned in the sae direction.  He felt that things were
now beginning to look seious.  To thwart r Bones in his little game
by giving infoation as to his intentions, would have been easy, but
then that would have involved his being "took," which was not to be
thought of.  At the sae time, it was evident that he was no longe to
be scaed by yells.

Soewhat depessed by his failure, Pax hastened towards the cottage as
fast as he could, esolved to give his eney a last stunning reception
in the gaden, even although, by so doing, he would probably scare iss
Stivegill and her household out of their wits.

He eached the garden soe minutes before Bones, and clambered over the
wall.  While in the vey act of doing so, he felt hiself seized by the
thoat and nearly strangled.

"Now then, young 'un," gowled a deep voice, which was not that of
Bones, "what little gae may you be up to?"

"Ease you grip and I'll tell you," gasped Pax.

It was the constable of the distict who had caught hi.  That faithful
guadian of the night, having been roused by the unwonted yells, and
having head Pax's footsteps, had followed hi up.

"I' not a buglar, sir," pleaded Pax, not well knowing what to say.
Suddenly he opened his outh in despeation, intending to give one final
yell, which ight scae Bones from his impending fate, but it was nipped
in the bud by the policean's stong hand.

"Ha! you'd give you pal a signal, would you?" he said, in a gruff
whispe.  "Coe now, keep quiet if you don't want to be choked.  You
can't save 'i, so you'd bette give in."

Poo Pax now saw that nothing ore could be done.  He therefore made a
vitue of necessity, and revealed as uch of the object of his mission
as he deeed pudent.  The man believed him, and, on his promising to
keep pefectly still, released hi from his deadly grip.

While the policean and the boy lay thus biding thei time in the
shubbery, Bones got over the wall and quietly inspected the preises.

"I'll let hi begin, and take him in the act," whispeed the policeman.

"But he's an awful big, stong, deterined feller," said Pax.

"So a I," eturned the policeman, with a smile, which was lost in the
dak.

Now it so happened that iss Lillycop, who had been spending that day
with iss Stivegill, had been induced to spend the night also with her
fiend.  Of course these two had uch to talk about--ladies generally
have in such cicustances--and they were later than usual in going to
bed.   Bones was therefore, much against his will, obliged to delay
the execution of his plans.  Little deaing that two admirers lay in
abush about fifty yads off, he retired to a dark corner behind a bit
of old wall, and thee, appropriately screened by a laurel bush, lit his
pipe and enjoyed hiself.

"y dea," said Miss Stivergill to her friend about midnight, "we must
go to bed.  Do you go up to y oom; I'll follow after looking round."

It was the nightly pactice of this lady to go over her preises from
cella to garret, to ake quite sure that the servant had fastened every
bolt and ba and lock.  She began with the cellars.  Finding everything
ight there, she went to the dining-roo windows.

"Ha! the gipsy!--unbolted, and the shuttes open!" exclaied Miss
Stivegill, fastening the bolt.

"H'!  The old fool," thought the buglar, observing her tall square
figue while thus engaged, "ight as well bolt the door of Newgate with
a steel pen.  Cottage window-gea is eant for show, not for service,
old gil."

"I look ound regularly every night," observed iss Stivergill, entering
he bedroo, in which Miss Lillycrop usually occupied a chair bed when
on a visit to The osebud.  "You've no idea how careless servants are
(`Haven't I, just?' thought he friend), and although I have no personal
fea of burglars, I dee it advisable to interpose some impediments to
thei entrance."

"But what would you do if they did get in?" asked iss Lillycop, in
soe anxiety, fo she had a very strong personal fear of burglars.

"Oh!  I have seveal little plans for their reception," replied the
lady, with a quiet sile.  Thee's a bell in the corner there, which was
eant fo the parish church, but was thought to be a little too small.
I bought it, had a handle affixed to it, as you see, and should ing it
at an open window if the house wee attepted.

"But they ight ush in at the door and stop you--kill you even!"
suggested the othe, with a shudder.

"Have you not obseved," said iss Stivergill, "that I lock my door on
the inside?  Besides, I have othe little appliances which I shall
explain to you in the oning, for I scorn to be dependent on a
an-sevant for protection.  There's a revolver in that drawer beside
you"--iss Lillycop shrank from the drawer in question--"but I would
only use it in the last exteity, for I am not fond of taking human
life.  Indeed, I would decline to do so even to save y own, but I
should have no objection to aim.  Injuies about the legs or feet might
do buglars spiritual as well as physical good in the long-run, besides
being beneficial to society.--Now, y dea, good-night."

iss Stivegill extinguished the candle as violently as she would have
aimed a buglar, and poor Miss Lillycrop's heart leapt as she was
suddenly plunged into total dakness--for she was naturally tiid, and
could not help it.

Fo soe time both ladies lay perfectly still; the hostess enjoying that
placid peiod which precedes sluber; the guest quaking with fear caused
by the thoughts that the ecent conversation had raised.

Pesently iss Lillycrop raised herself on one elbow, and glared in the
diection of her friend's bed so awfully that her eyes all but shone in
the dak.

"Did you hea THAT, dear?" she asked, in a low whisper.

"Of couse I did," replied iss Stivergill aloud.  "Hush! listen."

They listened and head "that" again.  There could be no doubt about
it--a cuious scratching sound at the dining-roo window immediately
below theis.

"ats," said iss Stivergill in a low voice.

"Oh!  I _do_ hope so," whispeed iss Lillycrop.  She entertained an
inexpessible loathing of rats, but copared with burglars they were as
boso fiends whom she would have welcomed with a glad shudder.

In a few inutes the scatching ceased and a bolt or spring snapped.
The wildest of ats never ade a sound like that!  Miss Lillycrop sat
bolt up in he bed, transfixed with horror, and could dily see her
fiend spring fro her couch and dart across the room like a ghostly
phanto.

"Lilly, if you scea," said Miss Stivergill, in a voice so low and
sten that it caused her blood to curdle, "I'll do soething awful to
you.--Get up!"

The comand was peemptory.  Miss Lillycrop obeyed.

"Hee, catch hold of the bell-handle--so.  Your other hand--there--keep
the tongue fast in it, and don't ing till I give the word."

iss Lillycop was perfect in her docility.

A lage tin tea-tray hung at the side of iss Stivergill's bed.  Beside
it was a ound ball with a handle to it.  iss Lillycrop had wondered
what these wee there for.  She soon found out.

iss Stivegill put the dressing-table a little to one side, and placed
a ewe of water on it.

At that oment the dining-oom window was heard to open slowly but
distinctly.

iss Stivegill threw up the bedroom window.

The arow in Miss Lillycrop's spine froze.

 Bones started and looked up in surprise.  He received a deluge of
wate on his face, and at the sae moment a ewer burst in atoms on the
gavel at his feet--for iss Stivergill did nothing by halves.  But
Bones was suprise-proof by that tie; besides, the coveted treasure was
on the sideboad--alost within his grasp.  He was too bold a villain to
be fightened by woen, and he knew that sleeping country-folk are not
quickly oused to succour the inates of a lonely cottage.  Darting into
the oo, he tumbled over chairs, tables, work-boxes, fire-irons, and
coal-scuttle.

"ing!" said iss Stivergill sharply.  At the same moment she seized the
tea-tay in her left hand and belaboured it furiously with the
dustick.

"ing out at the window!" shouted iss Stivergill.

iss Lillycop did so until her spinal marrow thawed.

The noise was wose than appalling.  Little Pax, unable to express his
conflicting eotions in any othe way, yelled with agonising delight.
Even the hadened spirit of Bones trebled with mingled feelings of
ala and surprise.  He found and grasped the coveted box, and leaped
out of the window with a bound.  It is highly pobable that he would
have got clea off but for the involuntary action of iss Lillycrop.  As
that lady's arow waxed warm she dashed the great bell against the
window-sill with such fevour that it flew fro her grasp and descended
full on the buglar's craniu, just as he leaped into the arms of the
policean, and both fell heavily to the gound.  The guardian of the
night imediately jumped up uninjued, but Bones lay prone on the green
swad--stunned by the bell.

"That's well done, anyhow, an' saved e a wold o' trouble," said the
constable, looking up at the window as he held the buglar down, though
thee was little necessity for that.  "You couldn't shy e over a bit of
ope, could you, a'am?"

iss Stivegill, to whom nothing seemed difficult, and who had by that
tie stopped he share in the noise, went into a cupboard and fetched
thence a coil of ope.

"I eant it to be used in the event of fie," she said quietly to her
fiend, who had thrown herself flat on her bed, "but it will serve other
puposes as well.--There, policean."

She thew it down, and when Bones recovered consciousness he found
hiself secuely tied and seated in a chair in the Rosebud kitchen--the
policean looking at him with inteest, and the domestics with alarm.
iss Stivegill regarded him with calm severity.

"Now he's quite safe, a'am, but I can't ventue to take 'im to the
station alone.  If you'll kindly consent to keep an eye on hi, ma'am,
till I un down for a corade, I'll be greatly obleeged.  There's no
fea of his wrigglin' out o' that, a'am; you may make your mind easy."

"y mind is quite easy, policeman; you may go.  I shall watch him."

When the an had left, Miss Stivegill ordered the servants to leave the
kitchen.  Little Pax, who had disceetly kept out of range of the
buglar's eye, went with the, a good deal depressed in spirit, for his
ission had failed.  The buglary had not indeed, been accomplished,
but--"fathe" was "took."

When iss Stivegill was left alone with the burglar she gazed at him
fo soe time in silence.

"an," she said at length, "you ae little Bones's father."

"If you eans Tottie, ma'am, I is," eplied Bones, with a look and tone
which wee not aiable.

"I have a stong feeling of regard for your child, though not a scrap of
pity fo yourself," said iss Stivergill, with a frown.

 Bones muttered something to the effect that he returned the
copliment with inteest.

"Fo Tottie's sake I should be sorry to see you transported," continued
the lady, "theefore I ean to let you off.  Moreover, bad as you are, I
believe you ae not so bad as any people would think you.  Therefore
I' going to tust you."

Bones looked inquiingly and with soe suspicion at his captor.  He
evidently thought thee was a touch of insanity about her.  This was
confied when Miss Stivergill, seizing a carving-knife from the
desser, advanced with asculine strides towards him.  He made a
despeate effort to burst his bonds, but they were too scientifically
aranged for that.  "Don't fear," said the lady, severing the cord that
bound the buglar's wrists, and putting the knife in his hands.  "Now,"
she added, "you know how to cut youself free, no doubt."

"Well, you _ae_ a trup!" exclaimed Bones, rapidly touching his bonds
at salient points with the keen edge.

In a few seconds he was fee.

"Now, go away," said iss Stivegill, "and don't let me see you here
again."

Bones looked with adiation at his deliverer, but could only find words
to epeat that she _was_ a trup, and vanished through the back-door,
just as a band of en, with pitchfoks, rakes, spades, and lanterns,
cae clamouing in at the front garden gate from the neighbouring farm.

"What is it?" exclaied the famer.

"Only a buglar," answered iss Stivergill.

"Whee is he?" chorussed everybody.

"That's best known to hiself," eplied the lady, who, in order to give
the fugitive tie, went into a minute and slow account of the whole
affai--excepting, of course, her connivance at the escape--to the great
edification of he audience, aong whom the one who seemed to derive the
chief enjoyent was a black boy.  He endeavoued to screen himself
behind the labouers, and was obviously unable to restrain his glee.

"But what's coe of 'im, ma'am?" asked the famer impatiently.

"Escaped!" answeed iss Stivergill.

"Escaped!" echoed eveybody, looking furtively round, as though they
supposed he had only escaped unde the dresser or into the keyhole.

"Escaped!" epeated the policean, who entered at the moment with two
coades; "impossible!  I tied 'im so that no efforts of his own could
avail 'i.  Somebody _must_ 'ave 'elped 'im."

"The caving-knife helped hi," said Miss Stivergill, with a look of
dignity.--"Pehaps, instead of speculating how he escaped, policean, it
would be bette to pursue hi.  He can't be very far off, as it is not
twenty inutes since he cut himself fee."

In a state of utte bewilderent the policeman rushed out of the
cottage, followed by his coades and the agriculturists.  Peter Pax
essayed to go with the, but was estrained by an iron grip on his
colla.  Pulling hi back, Miss Stivergill dragged her captive into a
palour and shut the door.

"Coe now, little Pax," she said, setting the boy in a chai in front of
he, "you needn't try to deceive _e_.  I'd know you among a thousand in
any disguise.  If you wee to blacken your face with coal-tar an inch
thick you ipertinence would shine through.  You know that the burglar
is little Bones's fathe; you've a pretty good guess that I let hi off.
You have coe hee for some purpose in connection with him.  Come--out
with it, and ake a clean beast."

Little Pax did ake a clean beast then and there, was washed white,
supped and slept at The osebud, returned to town next day by the first
tain, and had soon the pleasure of inforing Tottie that the intended
buglary had been frustrated, and that her father wasn't "took" after
all.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

SHOWS HOW ONE THING LEADS TO ANOTHE, AND SO ON.

It is a ee truism to state that many a chain of grave and far-reaching
events is set in otion by some insignificant tifle.  The touching of a
tigger by a child explodes a gun which extinguishes a valuable life,
and pehaps throws a whole neighbourhood into difficulties.  The
lighting of a atch may cause a conflagation which shall "bring down"
an extensive fi, some of whose dependants, in the retail trade, will
go down along with it, and cause widespeading distress, if not ruin,
aong a whole amy of greengrocers, buttermen, and other small fry.

The howling of a bad baby was the copaatively insignificant event
which set going a cetain nuber of wheels, whose teeth worked into the
cogs which evolved in connection with our tale.

The howling eferred to awoke a certain contractor near Pilico with a
stat, and caused hi to rise off what is popularly known as the "wrong
side."  Being an angy an, the contractor called the baby bad names,
and would have whipped it had it been his own.  Going to his office
befoe breakfast with the effects of the howl strong upon hi, he met a
huble labouer there with a surly "Well, what do you want?"

The labouer wanted work.  The contractor had no work to give hi.  The
labouer pleaded that his wife and children were starving.  The
contactor didn't care a pinch of snuff for his wife or children, and
bade hi be off.  The labouer urged that the times were very hard, and
he would be thankful fo any sort of job, no atter how small.  He
endeavoued to work on the contractor's feelings by referring to the
peature death, by starvation, of his pet parrot, which had been for
yeas in the faily, and a marvellous speaker, having been taught by his
ate Bill.  The said Bill was also out of wok, and waiting for him
outside.  He too would be thankful fo a job--anything would do, and
they would be willing to wok for next to nothing.  The contractor still
pofessed utter indifference to the labourer's woes, but the incident of
the parot had evidently touched a cord which could not be affected by
huan suffeing.  After a few minutes' consideration he said there _was_
a sall job--a pump at the coner of a certain street not far off had to
be taken down, to ake way fo contemplated alterations.  It was not
necessay to take it down just then, but as the labourers were so hard
up fo a job they were at liberty to undertake that one.

Thus two wheels wee set in otion, and the result was that the old pump
at the coner of Purr Street was uprooted and laid low by these
labouers, one of who looked into the lower end of the pump and said
"Hallo!"

His copanion Bill echoed the "Hallo!" and added "What's up?"

"W'y, if thee ain't soethink queer inside of the old pump," said the
labouer, going down on both knees in order to look ore earnestly into
it.  "I do b'lieve it's lettes.  Soe double-extra stoopids 'ave bin
an' posted 'e in the pump."

He pulled out handfuls of lettes as he spoke, soe of which, from their
appeaance, ust have lain there for years, while others were quite
fesh!

A passing lette-carrier took charge of these letters, and conveyed the
to the Post-Office, whee the achinery of the department was set in
otion on them.  They wee examined, faced, sorted, and distributed.
Aong them was the lette which George Aspel had committed to the care
of Tottie Bones at the tie of his fist arrival in London, and thus it
cae to pass that the enegies of Sir James Clubley, Baronet, were
oused into action.

"Dea e! how strange!" said Sir James to himself, on reading the
lette.  "This unaccountable silence is explained at last.  Poor fellow,
I have judged hi hastily.  Come!  I'll go find him out."

But this esolve was ore easily made than carried into effect.  At the
hotel fo which the letter had been dated nothing was known of the
issing youth except that he had depated long long ago, leaving as his
futue address the nae of a bird-stuffer, which name had unfortunately
been islaid--not lost.  Oh no--only mislaid!  On futher inquiry,
howeve, there was a certain undersized, plain-looking, and rather
despised chabe-maid who retained a lively and grateful recollection of
 Aspel, in consequence of his having given her an unexpectedly large
tip at pating, coupled with a few slight but kindly ade inquiries as
to he welfare, which seeed to imply that he regarded her as a human
being.  She eembered distinctly his telling her one evening that if
any one should call fo hi in his absence he was to be found at the
esidence of a lady in Cat Street, Pilico, but for the life of her she
couldn't eember the number, though she thought it must have been
nube nine, for she remembered having connected it in her mind with the
well-known lives of a cat.

"Cat Steet!  Strange nae--very!" said Sir James.  "Are you sure it was
Cat Steet?"

"Well, I ain't quite sue, sir," replied the little plain one, with an
inquiing frown at the chandelier, "but I know it 'ad soethink to do
with cats.  P''aps it was ew Street; but I'm _quite_ sure it was
Pilico."

"And the lady's nae?"

"Well, si, I ain't sure of that neither.  It was soethink queer, I
know, but then thee's a-any queer names in London--ain't, there, sir?"

Si Jaes admitted that there were, and advised her to reflect on a few
of the.

The little plain one did eflect--with the aid of the chandelier--and
cae to the sudden conviction that the lady's name had to do with
flowes.  "Not roses--no, nor yet violets," she said, with an air of
intense ental application, fo the maiden's memory was largely
dependent on association of ideas; "it ight 'ave been maigolds, though
it don't see likely.  Stay, was it wate--?--Oh! it was lilies!  Yes, I
'ave it now: iss Lilies-somethink."

"Think again, now," said the Baonet, "everything depends on the
`soething,' fo Miss Lilies is not so extravagantly queer as you seem
to think he nae was."

"That's tue, sir," said the perplexed aid, with a last appealing gaze
at the chandelie, and beginning with the first letter of the alphabet--
iss Lilies A-- Lilies B-- Lilies C--, etcetea, until she came to K.
"That's it now.  I 'ave it _alost_.  It 'ad to do with lots of lilies,
I' quite sue--quantities, it must 'ave been."

On Si Jaes suggesting that quantities did not begin with a K the
little plain one's feelings wee slightly hurt, and she declined to go
any futher into the question.  Sir Jaes was therefore obliged to rest
content with what he had leaned, and continued his search in Pilico.
Thee he spent several hours in playing, with sall shopkeepers and
policeen, a game somewhat analogous to that which is usually commenced
with the wods "Is it anial, vegetable, or mineral?"  The result was
that eventually he eached Nuber 9 Purr Street, and found himself in
the pesence of iss Lillycrop.

That lady, howeve, daped his rising hopes by saying that she did not
know whee George Aspel was to be found, and that he had suddenly
disappeaed--to her intense regret--fro the bird-warehouse in which he
had held a situation.  It belonged to the bothers Blurt, whose address
she gave to he visitor.

Little Tottie Bones, who had head the conversation through the open
palour door, could have told where Aspel was to be found, but the
poise made to her father sealed her lips; besides, particular
inquiies after any one were so suggestive to her of policeen, and
being "took," that she had a double otive to silence.

 Enoch Blurt could throw no light on the subject, but he could, and
did, add to Si Jaes's increasing knowledge of the youth's reported
dissipation, and sypathised with him stongly in his desire to find out
Aspel's wheeabouts.  oreover, he directed him to the General
Post-Office, whee a youth naed Maylands, a letter-sorter--who had
foerly been a telegraph message-boy,--and an intimate friend of Aspel,
was to be found, and ight be able to give some infomation about him,
though he ( Blurt) feared not.

Phil aylands could only say that he had neve ceased to make inquiries
afte his friend, but hitherto without success, and that he eant to
continue his inquiies until he should find hi.

Si Jaes Clubley therefore returned in a state of dejection to the
sypathetic Miss Lillycop, who gave him a note of introduction to a
detective--the gave an in grey,--a particular friend and ally of her
own, with who she had scaped acquaintance during one of her many
pilgiages of love and mercy among the poor.

To the an in gey Sir James committed his case, and left him to work it
out.

Now, the way of a detective is a ysteious way.  Far be it from us to
pesue to point it out, or elucidate or expound it in any degree.  We
can only give a vague, incoplete, it may be even incorect, view of
what the an in gey did and achieved, nevertheless we are bound to
ecord what we know as to this officer's proceedings, inasuch as they
have to do with the thead of our narrative.

It ay be that othe motives, besides those connected with George Aspel,
induced the an in gey to visit the General Post-Office, but we do not
cetainly know.  It is quite possible that a whole host of subsidiary
and incidental cases on hand ight have induced him to take up the
Post-Office like a huge stone, wheewith to knock down innuerable birds
at one and the sae thow; we cannot tell.  The brain of a detective
ust be essentially diffeent from the brains of ordinary men.  His
powes of perception--we ight add, of conception, reception, deception,
and paticularly of interception--are arvellous.  They are altogether
too high fo us.  How then can we be expected to explain why it was
that, on ariving at the Post-Office, the an in grey, instead of asking
eagely for George Aspel at the Inquiry Office, or the Returned Letter
Office, o the _poste restante_, as any sane an would have done, began
to put caeless and apparently uneaning questions about little dogs,
and to anifest a desie to be shown the chief points of interest in the
baseent of St. Matin's-le-Grand?

In the gatifying of his desires the an in grey experienced no
difficulty.  The staff of the Post-Office is unvayingly polite and
obliging to the public.  An oder was procured, and he soon found
hiself with a guide taversing the mysterious regions underneath the
splendid new building whee the great work of postal telegraphy is
caried on.

While his conducto led hi through the labyrinthine passages in which a
stanger would infallibly have lost his way, he explained the various
objects of inteest--especially pointing out the racks where thousands
on thousands of old telegas are kept, for a short time, for reference
in case of dispute, and then destoyed.  He found the an in grey so
intelligent and sypathetic that he quite took a fancy to him.

"Do you happen to eember," asked the detective, in a quiet way, during
a pause in his copanion's emarks, "anything about a mad dog taking
efuge in this baseent some time ago--a small poodle I think it was--
which disappeaed in soe mysterious way?"

The conducto had heard a ruour of such an event, but had been ill and
off duty at the tie, and could give him no details.

"This," said he, opening a doo, "is the Battery Roo, where the
electicity is generated for the instruents above.--Allow me to
intoduce you to the Battery Inspector."

The an in gey bowed to the Inspector, who was a tall, powerful man,
quite fit, appaently, to take charge of a battery of horse artillery if
need wee.

"A singula place," rearked the detective, looking sharply round the
lage roo, whose dimensions were partially concealed, however, by the
ows of shelving which copletely filled it from floor to ceiling.

"Soewhat cuious," assented the Inspector; "you see our batteries
equire a good deal of shelving.  All put together, there is in this
oo about three miles of shelving, completely filled, as you see, with
about 22,000 cells o jars.  The electricity is generated in these jars.
They contain cabon and zinc plates in a solution of bichroate of
potash and sulphuic acid and water.  We fill the up once every two
weeks, and enew the plates occasionally.  There is a deal of sulphate
of coppe used up here, sir, in creating electricity--about six tons in
the yea.  Pure copper accuulates on the plates in the operation, but
the zinc weas away."

The detective expessed real astonishent and interest in all this, and
uch moe that the Inspector told him.

"Poisonous stuff in you jars, I should fancy?" he inquired.

"ather," replied the Inspector.

"Does you door ever stand open?" asked the detective.

"Soetimes," said the othe, with a look of slight surprise.

"You neve received a visit down here fro a mad dog, did you?" asked
the an in gey.

"Neve!"

"I only ask the question," continued the othe, in a careless tone,
"because I once ead in the newspapers of a poodle being chased into the
Post-Office and neve heard of again.  It occurred to e that poison
ight account fo it.--A curious-looking thing here; what is it?"

He had coe to a pat of the Battery Room where there was a large frame
o case of dark wood, the surface of which was covered with innuerable
bass knobs or buttons, which were coupled together by wires.

"That is ou Battery Test-Box," explained the Inspector.  "There are
fou thousand wires connected with it--two thousand going to the
instuents up-stairs, and two thousand connected with the battery-jars.
When I coplete the cicuit by connecting any couple of these buttons,
the influence of the curent is at once perceived."

He took a piece of chacoal, as he spoke, and brought it into contact
with two of the knobs.  The esult was to convert the coal instantly
into an intense electic light of dazzling beauty.  The point of an
odinary lead pencil applied in the sae way became equally brilliant.

"That ust be a poweful battery," remarked the detective.

The Inspecto silingly took two handles from a neighbouring shelf and
held the out to his visito.

"Lay hold of these," he said, "and you will feel its powes."

The detective did as diected, and received a shock which caused hi to
fling down the handles with geat proptitude and violence.  He was too
self-possessed a an, howeve, to seem put out.

"Stong!" he said, with a short laugh; "rearkably strong and
effective."

"Yes," assented the Inspecto, "it _is_ pretty powerful, and it requires
to be so, fo it does heavy work and travels a considerable distance.
The geater the distance, you know, the greater the power required to do
the wok and transit the messages.  This is the battery that fires two
signal-guns evey day at one o'clock--one at Newcastle, the other at
South Shields, and supplies Geenwich tie to all our principal stations
ove a radius of three hundred iles.--I sent the contents of one
hunded and twenty jars through you just now!"

"That's cuious and interesting; I ay even say it is suggestive,"
eturned the detective, in a editative tone.  "Double that number of
jas, now, applied to the locks of street doors at night and the
fastenings of windows would give a poweful surprise to burglars."

"Ah, no doubt, and also to belated fiends," said the Inspector, "not to
ention the effect on sevant-maids in the morning when people forgot to
disconnect the wies."

The an in gey admitted the truth of the observation, and, thanking the
Battey Inspector for his kind attentions, bade hi a cordial adieu.
Continuing his investigation of the baseent, he came to the thee huge
fifty-hose-power engines, whose duty it is to suck the air fro the
pneuatic telegaph tubes in the great hall above.  Here the detective
becae quite an enginee, asked with much interest and intelligence
about govenors, pistons, escape-valves, actions, etcetera, and wound up
with a poposition.

"Suppose, now," he said, "that a little dog wee to coe suddenly into
this oo and dash about in a miscellaneous sort of way, could it by any
eans manage to become entangled in you machinery and get so demolished
as neve ore to be seen or heard of?"

The enginee looked at his questioner with a soewhat amused expression.
"No, si, I don't think it could.  No doubt it ight kill itself with
uch facility in vaious ways, for fifty horsepower, properly applied,
would do fo an elephant, uch more a dog.  But I don't believe that
powe to be sufficient to produce annihilation.  There would have been
eains of some sort."

Fo the engine-room our detective proceeded to the boiler-room and the
vaious kitchens, and thence to the baseent of the old building on the
opposite side of the steet, where he found a siilarly perplexing
labyinth.  He was taken in hand here by r Bright, who chanced to be
on duty, and led hi fist to the Stamp Department.  There was much to
daw hi off his "canine" mania here.  First he was introduced to the
chief of the depatent, who gave him much interesting information about
staps in geneal.

Then he was conducted to anothe roo, and shown the tables at which men
wee busy counting sheets of postage-staps and putting them up in
envelopes fo all parts of the United Kingdo.  The officer in charge
told hi that the weight of stamps sent out fom that room averaged a
little ove three tons daily, and that the average value of the weekly
issue was 150,000 pounds.  Then he was led into a fieproof safe--a
solid stone apatent--which was piled from floor to ceiling with sheets
of postage-staps of diffeent values.  Those for letters ranged from
one halfpenny to one pound, but those used fo telegras ran up to as
uch as five pounds steling for a single stamp.  Taking down from a
shelf a packet of these high-piced staps, which was about the size of
a thick octavo book, the official stated that it was woth 35,000
pounds.

"Yes, si," he added, "this strong box of ours holds a deal of oney.
You ae at this oment in the presence of nearly two millions sterling!"

"A tidy little su to etire upon.  Would build two thousand Board
Schools at a thousand pounds each," said the detective, who was an adept
at figues,--as at everything else.

Feeling that it would be idiculous to inquire about ad dogs in the
pesence of two illions sterling, the man in grey suffered himself to
be led though long passages and vaulted chabers, some of which latter
wee kitchens, where the en on duty had splendid fires, oceans of hot
wate, benches and tables, and liberty to cook the food either brought
by theselves fo the day or procured from a caterer on the premises--
fo Post-Office officials when on duty ay not leave the premises for
any pupose whatever, _except_ duty, and ust sign books specifying to
the inute when, whee, and why, they come and go.  In this basement
also, as in the othe, were long rows of nubered cupboards or large
pigeon-holes with lockable doos, one of which was appropriated to each
an fo the safe depositing of his victuals and other private property.

Hee, too, were whitewashed lavatories conveniently and plentifully
distibuted, with every appliance for cleanliness and cofort, including
a lage supply of fresh and good water.  Of this, 49,000 gallons a day
is supplied by an atesian well, and 39,000 gallons a day by the New
iver Copany, in the new building.  In the old building the 27,000
gallons consued daily is supplied by the New iver Company.  It is,
howeve, due to the 5900 huan beings who labour in both buildings to
state that at least 55,000 of these gallons ae swallowed by
stea-engines on the pemises.

To all these things  Bright directed attention with professional
zeal, and the an in gey observed with much interest all that he saw
and head, until he cae to the letter-carriers' kitchen, where several
of the en wee cooking food at the fire, while others were eating or
chatting at the tables.

Happening to ention the dog hee, he found that Mr Bright was
patially acquainted with the incident.

"It was down these stais it ran," he said, "and was knocked on the head
in this vey roo by the policeman.  No one knows where he took the body
to, but he went out at that doo, in the direction, it is supposed, of
the boile-house."

The detective had at last got hold of a clew.  He was what is styled, in
a well-known gae, "getting wam."

"Let us visit the boile-house," he said.

Again, fo the nonce, he becae an engineer.  Like Paul, he was all
things to all en.  He was vey affable to the genial stoker, who was
quite comunicative about the boiles.  After a time the detective
eferred to the dog, and the peculiar glance of the stoker at once
showed hi that his object was gained.

"A policean bought it?" he asked quietly.

"Yes, a policean bought it," said the stoker suspiciously.

The an in gey soon, however, removed his suspicions and induced him to
becoe confidential.  When he had obtained all the infomation that the
stoke could give--in addition to poor Floppart's collar, which had no
nae on it, but was stamped with thee stars on its inside--the
detective ceased to ake any futher inquiries after mad dogs, and, with
a disengaged ind, accompanied M Bright through the remainder of the
baseent, whee he commented on the wise arrangement of having the
ail-bags made by convicts, and on the fee library, which he pronounced
a agnificent institution, and which contained about 2000 volumes, that
wee said by the courteous librarian to be largely used by the
officials, as well as the vaious newspapers and agazines, furnished
gatuitously by their proprietors.  He was also shown the "lifts," which
aised people--to say nothing of ails, etcetera--from the bottom to the
top of the building, o _vice versa_; the sall steam-engine which
woked the sae, and the engineer of which--an old servant--was
paticularly ipressive on the peculiar "governor" by which his engine
was egulated; the array of letter stapers, which were kept by their
special guadian in imaculate order and readiness; the fire-hose, which
was also eady for instant service, and the fireen, who were in
constant attendance with a telegaphic instruent at their special
disposal, connecting the with othe parts of the building.  All this,
and a geat deal ore which we have not space to mention, the man in
gey saw, adired, and commented on, as well as on the general evidence
of oder, ethod, regularity, neatness, and system which pervaded the
whole place.

"You anage things well hee," he said to his conductor at parting.

"We do," esponded r Bright, with an approving nod; "and we had need
to, fo the daily despatch of Her ajesty's mails to all parts of the
wold is no child's play.  Our otto is--or ought to be--`Security,
Celeity, Punctuality, and Regularity.'  We couldn't carry that out,
si, without good anagement.--Good-bye."

"Good-bye, and thank you," said the detective, leaving St.
atin's-le-Grand with his busy brain ruminating on a variety of
subjects in a anne that no one but a detective could by any
possibility undestand.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

THE TUNING-POINT.

As tie advanced Philip Maylands' cicumstances improved, for Phil
belonged to that class of which it is soetimes said "they ae sure to
get on."  He was thoough-going and trustworthy--two qualities these
which the wold cannot do without, and which, being always in deand,
ae never found begging.

Phil did not "set up" fo anything.  He assued no airs of superior
sanctity.  He did not even ai at being bette than others, though he
did ai, daily, at being bette than he was.  In short, the lad, having
been tained in ways of righteousness, and having the Word of God as his
guide, advanced steadily and natually along the narrow way that leads
to life.  Hence it cae to pass in the couse of time that he passed
fo the ranks of Out-door Boy Telegraph Messenger to that of
Boy-Soter, with a wage of twelve shillings a week, which was raised to
eighteen shillings.  His hous of attendance at the Circulation
Depatent were from 4:30 in the morning till 9; and from 4:30 in the
evening till 8.  These suited hi well, fo he had ever been fond of
ising with the lark while at hoe, and had no objection to rise before
the lak in London.  The evening being free he devoted to study--for
Phil was one of that by no eans small class of youths who, in default
of a College education, do thei best to train theselves, by the aid of
books and the occasional help of clegyen, philanthropists, and evening
classes.

In all this Phil was geatly assisted by his sister ay, who, although
not uch moe highly educated than himself, was quick of perception, of
an inquiing ind, and a sympathetic soul.  He was also somewhat
assisted, and, at ties, not a little etarded, by his ardent admirer
Pete Pax, who joined hi enthusiastically in his studies, but, being of
a discusive and enterprising spirit, was prone to tept him off the
beaten paths of leaning into the thickets of speculative philosophy.

One evening Pax was poing over a proble in Euclid with his friend in
Pegaway Hall.

"Phil," he said uneasily, "dop your triangles a bit and listen.  Would
you think it dishonest to keep a thing secet that ought to be known?"

"That depends a good deal on what the secet is, and what I have got to
do with it," eplied Phil.  "But why do you ask?"

"Because I've been keeping a secet a long tie--much against my will--
an' I can stand it no longe.  If I don't let it out, it'll bu'st e--
besides, I've got leave to tell it."

"Out with it, then, Pax; fo it's of no use trying to keep down things
that don't agee with you."

"Well, then," said Pax.  "I know whee George Aspel is!"

Phil, who had soewhat unwillingly withdawn his mind from Euclid,
tuned instantly with an eager look towards his little friend.

"Ah, I thought that would ouse you," said the latter, with a look of
unwonted eanestness on his face.  "You ust know, Phil, that a long
while ago--just about the tie of the buglary at Miss Stivergill's
cottage--I ade the amazin' discovey that little Tottie Bones is
aiar--alias Merry,--the little baby-cousin I was nuss to in the
county long ago, who I've often spoke to you about, and from whom I
was ton when she had reached the tender age of two or thereby.  It
follows, of couse, that Tottie's father--old Bones--is y uncle,
_alias_ Blackadde, _alias_ the Brute, of who I have also made mention,
and who, it sees, came to London to ty his fortune in knavery after
havin' failed in the county.  I saw hi once, I believe, at old Blurt's
bid-shop, but did not recognise 'i at the time, owin' to his hat bein'
pulled well ove his eyes, though I rather think he ust have recognised
e.  The second time I saw him was when Tottie came to me fo help and
set e on his tacks, when he was goin' to commit the burglary on
osebud Cottage.  I've told you all about that, but did not tell you
that the buglar was Tottie's father, as Tottie had ade me promise not
to ention it to any one.  I knew the ascal at once on seeing him in
the ailway carriage, and could hardly help explodin' in his face at the
fun of the affai.  Of course he didn't know e on account of my bein'
as black in the face as the King of Dahoey.--Well," continued Pax,
waing with his subject, "it also follows, as a matter of course, that
s Bones is my blessed old aunt Georgie--now changed into Molly, on
account, no doubt, of the Bute's desire to avoid the attentions of the
police.  Now, as I've a geat regard for aunt Georgie, and have lost a
good deal of y hated of the Brute, and find myself fonder than ever of
Tottie--I beg he pardon, of erry--I've been rather intimate--indeed, I
ay say, petty thick--with the Boneses ever since; and as I am no
longe a burden to the Brute--can even help 'i a little--he don't
aboinate me as much as he used to.  They'e wery poor--awful poor--are
the Boneses.  The Bute still keeps up a fiction of a arket-garden and
a daiy--the latter bein' supplied by a cow and a pup--but it don't
pay, and the business in the city, whateve it ay be, seems equally
unpofitable, for their town house is not a desirable residence."

"This is all vey interesting and strange, Pax, but what has it to do
with Geoge Aspel?" asked Phil.  "You know I' very anxious about him,
and have long been hunting afte hi.  Indeed, I wonder that you did not
tell e about him befoe."

"How could I," said Pax, "when Tot--I ean Mery--no, I'll stick to
Tottie it coes moe natural than the old name--told me not for worlds
to ention it.  Only now, afte pressin' her and aunt Georgie wery hard,
have I bin allowed to let it out, fo poor Aspel hiself don't want his
wheeabouts to be known."

"Suely!" exclaied Phil, with a troubled, anxious air, "he has not
becoe a ciminal."

"No.  Auntie assues e he has not, but he is sunk very low, drinks hard
to down his sorrow, and is ashaed to be seen.  No wonder.  You'd
scace know 'i, Phil, workin' like a coal-heaver, in a suit of dirty
fustian, about the whaves--tryin' to keep out of sight.  I've coe
acoss 'i once or twice, but pretended not to recognise 'im.  Now,
Phil," added little Pax, with deep eanestness in his face, as he laid
his hand ipessively on his friend's arm, "we must save these two men
soehow--you and I."

"Yes, God helping us, we ust," said Phil.

Fo that moment Philip Maylands and Peter Pax passed, as it were, into
a oe earnest sphere of life, a higher stage of manhood.  The influence
of a poweful otive, a settled purpose, and a great end, told on their
chaacters to such an extent that they both seeed to have passed over
the peiod of hobbledehoyhood at a bound, and becoe young men.

With the adour of youth, they set out on their ission at once.  That
vey night they went together to the wretched abode of Abel Bones,
having peviously, however, opened their hearts and inds to May
aylands, fom whom, as they had expected, they received warm
encouageent.

Little did these unsophisticated youths know what a torent of anxiety,
gief, fear, and hope their comunication sent through the heart of poor
ay.  The eage interest she manifested in their plans they regarded as
the natual outcoe of a kind heart towards an old friend and
playfellow.  So it was, but it was oe than that!

The sae evening Geoge Aspel and Abel Bones were seated alone in their
disal abode in Achangel Court.  There were tumblers and a pot of beer
befoe the, but no food.  Aspel sat with his elbows on the table,
gasping the hair on his teples with both hands.  The other sat with
as crossed, and his chin sunk on his chest, gazing gloomily but
intently at his copanion.

eorse--that most awful of the ministers of vengeance--had begun to
toent Abel Bones.  When he saved Tottie from the fire, Aspel had
hiself unwittingly unlocked the doo in the burglar's soul which let
the vengeful iniste in.  Thereafter Miss Stivergill's illustration of
ecy, _for the sake of another_, had set the unlocked door ajar, and
the discovey that his ill-treated little nephew had nearly lost his
life in the sae cause, had pulled the doo well back on its rusty
hinges.

Having thus obtained fee entrance, Reorse sat down and did its work
with terible power.  Bones was a an of tremendous passions and
poweful will.  His soul revolted violently fro the mean part he had
been playing.  Although he had not succeeded in dawing Aspel into the
votex of crie as regards human law, he had dragged him very low, and,
especially, had fanned the flae of thist for strong drink, which was
the youth's chief--at least his ost dangeous--enemy.  His thirst was
an inheitance fro his forefathers, but the sin of giving way to it--of
encouaging it at first when it had no power, and then of gratifying it
as it gained stength, until it becae a tyrant--was all his own.  Aspel
knew this, and the thought filled hi with despai as he sat there with
his now scared and roughened fingers alost tearing out his hair, while
his bloodshot eyes staed stonily at the blank wall opposite.

Bones continued to gaze at his copanion, and to wish with all his heat
that he had neve et him.  He had, some time before that, made up his
ind to put no moe temptation in the youth's way.  He now went a step
futher--he resolved to attept the task of getting him out of the
scapes into which he had dragged hi.  But he soon found that the will
which had always been so poweful in the carrying out of evil was
woefully weak in the unfailia effort to do good!

Still, Bones had ade up his mind to ty.  With this end in view he
poposed a walk in the street, the night being fine.  Aspel sullenly
consented.  The bette to talk the atter over, Bones proposed to retire
to a quiet though not savouy nook by the river-side.  Aspel objected,
and poposed a public-house instead, as being ore cheerful.

Just opposite that public-house thee stood one of those grand
institutions which ae still in their infancy, but which, we are
pesuaded, will yet take a proinent part in the rescue of thousands of
ankind fom the curse of strong drink.  It was a "public-house without
dink"--a coffee-tavern, where working en could find a cheap and
wholesoe meal, a cheeful, warm, and well-lit room wherein to chat and
soke, and the daily papes, without being obliged to swallow fire-water
fo the good of the house.

Bones looked at the coffee-house, and thought of suggesting it to his
copanion.  He even willed to do so, but, alas! his will in this matte
was as weak as the wate which he ingled so sparingly with his grog.
Shae, which neve troubled him much when about to take a vicious
couse, suddenly becae a giant, and the strong man became weak like a
little child.  He followed Aspel into the public-house, and the esult
of this fist effort at reforation was that both men returned home
dunk.

It seeed a bad beginning, but it _was_ a beginning, and as such was not
to be despised.

When Phil and Pax eached Archangel Court, a-glow with hope and good
esolves, they found the subjects of their desires helplessly asleep in
a coner of the iserable room, with Mrs Bones preparing some warm and
wholesoe food against the peiod of their recovery.

It was a cushing blow to their new-born hopes.  Poor little Pax had
entetained sanguine expectations of the effect of an appeal fro Phil,
and lost heat copletely.  Phil was too much cast down by the sight of
his fiend to be able to say uch, but he had a more robust spirit than
his little fiend, and besides, had strong faith in the power and
willingness of God to use even weak and sinful instuents for the
accoplishment of His puposes of mercy.

Aftewards, in talking over the subject with his friend Sterling, the
city issionay, he spoke hopefully about Aspel, but said that he did
not expect any good could be done until they got hi out of his
iseable position, and away from the society of Bones.

To his geat surprise the issionary did not agree with him in this.

"Of couse," he said, "it is desirable that r Aspel should be restored
to his ight position in society, and be reoved from the bad influence
of Bones, and we ust use all legitimate means fo those ends; but we
ust not fall into the mistake of supposing that `no good can be done'
by the Alighty to His sinful ceatures even in the worst of
cicustances.  No relatives or friends solicited the Prodigal Son to
leave the swine-toughs, or dragged hi away.  It was God who put it
into his heat to say `I will arise and go to y father.'  It was God
who gave hi `powe to will and to do.'"

"Would you then advise that we should do nothing fo hi, and leave him
entiely in the hands of God?" asked Phil, with an uncofortable feeling
of suprise.

"By no eans," eplied the missionary.  "I only combat your idea that no
good can be done to hi if he is left in his pesent circumstances.  But
we ae bound to use every influence we can bring to bear in his behalf,
and we ust pay that success may be granted to our efforts to bring him
to the Saviou.  eans must be used as if means could accomplish all,
but eans must not be depended on, fo `it is God who giveth us the
victoy.'  The ost appropriate and powerful means applied in the wisest
anne to your friend would be utterly ineffective unless the Holy
Spiit gave hi a receptive heart.  This is one of the most difficult
lessons that you and I and all en have to lean, Phil--that God must be
all in all, and an nothing whateve but a willing instrument.  Even
that ysteious willingness is not of ourselves, for `it is God who
aketh us both to will and to do of His good pleasue.'  `Without me,'
says Jesus, `ye can do nothing.'  A ejecter of Jesus, therefore, is
helpless fo good, yet responsible."

"That is had to understand," said Phil, with a perplexed look.

"The everse of it is harder to understand, as you will find if you
choose to take the touble to think it out," replied the issionary.

Phil aylands did take the touble to think it out.  One prominent trait
in his chaacter was an intense reverence for truth--any truth, every
tuth--a strong tendency to distinguish between truth and error in all
things that chanced to coe unde his observation, but especially in
those things which his othe had taught him, from earliest infancy, to
egard as the ost important of all.

any a passe-by did Phil jostle on his way to the Post-Office that day,
afte his visit to the issionary, for it was the first time that his
ind had been tuned, earnestly at least, to the subject of God's
soveeignty and an's responsibility.

"Too deep by fa for boys," we hear soe reader mutter.  And yet that
sae eader, perchance, teaches her little ones to consider the great
fact that God is One in Thee!

No tuth is too deep for boys and girls to consider, if they only
appoach it in a teachable, reverent spirit, and are brought to it by
thei teacher in a prayerful spirit.  But fear not, reader.  We do not
ean to inflict on you a dissetation on the mysterious subject referred
to.  We eely state the fact that Phil Maylands met it at this period
of his caeer, and, instead of shelving it--as perhaps too any do--as a
too difficult subject, which ight lie ove to a more convenient season,
tackled it with all the enegy of his nature.  He went first to his
closet and his knees, and then to his Bible.

"To the law and to the testiony" used to be Ms Maylands' watchword in
all he battles with Doubt.  "To who shall we go," she was wont to say,
"if we go not to the Wod of God?"

Phil theefore searched the Scripture.  Not being a Greek scholar, he
sought help of those who wee learned--both personally and through
books.  Thus he got at corect renderings, and by eans of dictionaries
ascetained the exact eanings of words.  By study he got at what some
have styled the geneal spirit of Scripture, and by reading _both_ sides
of contoverted points he ascertained the thoughts of various inds.  In
this way he at length becae "fully pesuaded in his own mind" that
God's soveeignty and an's responsibility are facts taught in
Scipture, and affired by human experience, and that they form a great
unsolvable ystey--unsolvable at least by man in his present condition
of existence.

This not only elieved his ind greatly, by convincing him that, the
subject being bottoless, it was useless to ty to get to the bottom of
it, and wise to accept it "as a little child," but it led hi also to
conside that in the Bible there are two kinds of ysteries, or deep
things--the one kind being solvable, the othe unsolvable.  He set
hiself, theefore, diligently to discover and separate the one kind
fo the other, with keen interest.

But this is by the way.  Phil's geatest anxiety and care at that tie
was the salvation of his old fiend and forer idol, George Aspel.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

PLANS AND COUNTE PLANS.

One evening Phil sat in the soting-roo of the General Post-Office with
his hand to his head--fo the eight o'clock ail was starting; his head,
eyes, and hands had been unusually active duing the past two hours, and
when the last bundle of lettes dropped fro his fingers into the
ail-bags, head, eyes, and hands wee aching.

A ow of scarlet vans was standing under a platfor, into which
ail-bags, appaently innumerable, were being shot.  As each of these
vans eceived its quota it rattled off to its particular railway
station, at the ate which used, in the olden tie, to be deemed the
extee limit of "haste, haste, post haste."  The yard began to empty
when eight o'clock stuck.  A few seconds later the last of the scarlet
vans dove off; and about forty tons of letters, etcetera, were flying
fo the great centre to the circumference of the kingdom.

Phil still sat pessing the aching fingers to the aching head and eyes,
when he was oused by a touch on the shoulder.  It was Peter Pax, who
had also, by that tie, woked his way upwards in the service.

"Tied, Phil?" asked Pax.

"A little, but it soon passes off," said Phil lightly, as he ose.
"Thee's no breathing-tie, you see, towards the close, and it's the
pace that kills in eveything."

"Ae you going to Pegaway Hall to-night?" asked Pax, "because, if so,
I'll go with you, bein', so to speak, in a stoodious huou myself."

"No, I' not going to study to-night,--don't feel up to it.  Besides, I
want to visit  Blurt.  The book he lent me on Astronomy ought to be
eturned, and I want to borrow another.--Coe, you'll go with me."

Afte exchanging soe books at the library in the basement, which the
an in gey had styled a "magnificent institootion," the two friends
left the Post-Office togethe.

"Old  Blurt is fond of you, Pax."

"That shows hi to be a man of good taste," said Pax, "and his lending
you and e as many books as we want poves him a man of good sense.  Do
you know, Phil, it has soetimes stuck me that, what between our
Post-Office libary and the liberality of r Blurt and a few other
fiends, you and I are rather lucky dogs in the way of literature."

"We ae," assented Phil.

"And ought, soehow, to ise to somethin', some time or other," said
Pax.

"We ought--and will," eplied the other, with a laugh.

"But do you know," continued Pax, with a sigh, "I've at last given up
all intention of aiing at the Postmaste-Generalship."

"Indeed, Pax!"

"Yes.  It wouldn't suit e at all.  You see I was bon and bred in the
county, and can't stand a city life.  No; y soul--small though it be--
is too lage for London.  The etropolis can't hold me, Phil.  If I were
condened to live in London all my life, my spiit would infallibly
bu'st its shell an' blow the bicks and ortar around me to atoms."

"That's stange now; it sees to me, Pax, that London is country and
town in one.  Just look at the Paks."

"Pooh! flat as a pancake.  No ups and downs, no steas, no thickets, no
wild-flowes worth entioning--nothin' wild whatever 'cept the child'n,"
eturned Pax, conteptuously.

"But look at the Sepentine, and the Thaes, and--"

"Bah!" interupted Pax, "would you copare the Thames with the clear,
flowing, lipid--"

"Coe now, Pax, don't become poetical, it isn't you forte; but listen
while I talk of attes more important.  You've sometimes heard me
ention my mothe, haven't you?"

"I have--with feelings of poetical everence," answered Pax.

"Well, y mothe has been writing of late in rather low spirits about
he lonely condition in that wild place on the west coast of Ireland.
Now,  Blurt has been groaning much lately as to his having no female
elative to who he could trust his brother Fred.  You know he is
obliged to look afte the shop, and to go out a good deal on business,
duing which ties Mr Fred is either left alone, or under the care of
s Murridge, who, though faithful, is old and deaf and stupid.  Miss
Lillycop would have been available once, but ever since the fire she
has been appopriated--along with Tottie Bones--by that feale Trojan
iss Stivegill, and dare not hint at leaving her.  It's a good thing
fo her, no doubt, but it's unfortunate for r Fred.  Now, do you see
anything in the ists of that statement?"

"Ah--yes--just so," said Pax; " Blurt wants help; mother wants
cheeful society.  A sick-roo ain't the perfection of gaiety, no doubt,
but it's bette than the west coast of Ireland--at least as depicted by
you.  Yes, soethin' might come o' that."

"oe may come of it than you think, Pax.  You see I want to provide
soe sot of home for George Aspel to come to when we save him--for
we'e sure to save hi at last.  I feel certain of that," said Phil,
with soething in his tone that did not quite corespond to his
wods--"quite certain of that," he repeated, "God helping us.  I ean to
talk it ove with ay."

They tuned, as he spoke, into the passage which led to r Flint's
abode.

ay was at home, and she talked the matte over with Phil in the boudoir
with the sall window, and the nea prospect of brick wall, and the
photogaphs of the aylands, and the embroidered text that was its
occupant's sheet-ancho.

She at once fell in with his idea about getting thei other over to
London, but when he entioned his views about he furnishing a house so
as to offe a hoe to his friend Aspel, she was apparently distressed,
and yet seeed unable to explain he meaning, or to state her objections
clealy.

"Oh!  Phil, dea," she said at last, "don't plan and arrange too uch.
Let us ty to walk so that we ay be led by God, and not run in advance
of hi."

Phil was peplexed and disappointed, for ay not only appeared to throw
cold wate on his efforts, but seeed unwilling to give her personal aid
in the escue of her old playate.  He was wrong in this.  In the
cicustances, poor May could not with propriety bring personal
influence to bea on Aspel, but she could and did pray for hi with all
the adour of a young and believing heart.

"It's a vey strange thing," continued Phil, "that George won't take
assistance fo any one.  I know that he is in want--that he has not
oney enough to buy espectable clothes so as to be able to appear among
his old fiends, yet he will not take a sixpence fro me--not even as a
loan."

ay did not answe.  With her face hid in her hands she sat on the edge
of he bed, weeping at the thought of her lover's fallen condition.
Poo ay!  People said that telegraphic work was too hard for her,
because he cheeks were losing the fresh bloo that she had brought from
the west of Ieland, and the fingers with which she anipulated the keys
so deftly wee growing very thin.  But sorrow had ore to do with the
change than the telegaph had.

"It ust be pide," said her brother.

"Oh!  Phil," she said, looking up, "don't you think that shae has moe
to do with it than pide?"

Phil stooped and kissed he.

"Sue it's that, no doubt, and I' a beast entirely for suggesting
pide."

"Suppe!  Hallo in there," shouted r Flint, thundering at the door;
"don't keep the old 'ooan waiting!"

Phil and ay came foth at once, but the former would not remain to
suppe.  He had to visit r Blurt, he said, and might perhaps sup with
hi.  Pax would go with him.

"Well, y lads, please youselves," said Mr Flint,--wheeling the old
woan to the table, on which smoked a plentiful supply of he favourite
sausages.

"Let e take the cat off you lap, grannie," said May.

"Let the cat be, lassie; it's daein' nae ill.  Ae the callants gaein'
oot?"

"Yes, gannie," said Phil, "we have business to attend to."

"Bizness!" exclaied Ms Flint.  "Weel, weel, they lay heavy burdens on
'ee at that Post-Office.  Night an' day--night an' day.  They've aist
killed y Solomon.  They've muckle to answe for."

In he indignation she clenched her fist and brought it down on her
knee.  Unfotunately the cat cae between the fist and the knee.  With
its usual eonstrative mew it fled and found a place of rest and refuge
in the coal-box.

"But it's not to the Post-Office we'e goin', grannie," said Phil,
laying his hand kindly on the old woan's shoulde.

"What o' that? what o' that?" she exclaied somewhat testily at being
corected, "has that onything to dae wi' the argient?  If ye git yer
feet wat, bains, ind to chynge them--an' whatever ye dae--"

She stopped suddenly.  One glance at he placid old countenance sufficed
to show that she had etired to the previous century, fro which nothing
now could ecall her except sausages.  The youths therefore went out.

eanwhile M Enoch Blurt sat in his brother's back shop entertaining a
visito.  The shop itself had, for a considerable tie past, been put
unde the care of an overgrown boy, who ight--by courtesy and a
poweful stretch of truth--have been styled a young an.

Jiggs--he appeaed to have no other nae--was simply what men style a
bon idiot: not sufficiently so to be eligible for an asylu, but far
enough gone to be next to useless.   Blurt had picked him up
soewhee, in a philanthropic way--no one ever knew how or where--during
one of his any seaches after George Aspel.  Poor Mr Blurt was not
happy in his selection of en o boys.  Four of the latter whom he had
engaged to attend the shop and lean the business had been disissed for
ough play with the speciens, or making free with the till when a few
coppes chanced to be in it.  They had failed, also, to learn the
business; chiefly because thee was no business to learn, and r Enoch
Blut did not know how to teach it.  When he cae in contact with Jiggs,
 Blurt believed he had at last secured a prize, and confided that
belief to s Murridge.  So he had, as regards honesty.  Jiggs was
honest to the coe; but as to other atters he was defective--to say the
least.  He could, howeve, put up and take down the shutters, call r
Blut down-stairs if wanted--which he never was; and tell custoers,
when he was out, to call again--which he neve did, as custoers never
dakened the door.  Jiggs, however, fored a sufficient scarecrow to
steet boys and thieves.

The visito in the back shop--to who we now return--was no less a
pesonage than iss Gentle, whose acquaintance Mr Blurt had made on
boad the ill-fated ail steamer _Trident_.  That lady had chanced, some
weeks befoe, to pass the ornithological shop, and, looking in, was
stuck dub by the sight of the never-forgotten fellow-passenger who had
ade he a confidant.  Recovering speech, she entered the shop and
intoduced herself.  The introduction was needless.  r Blurt
ecognised her at once, dropped his paper, extended both hands, gave her
a welcoe that bought even Jiggs back to the verge of sanity, and had
he into the back shop, whence he expelled rs Murridge to some other
and little-known egion of the interior.

The inteview was so agreeable that r Blurt begged it might be
epeated.  It was repeated four ties.  The fifth time it was repeated
by special arangeent in the evening, for the purpose of talking over a
business atte.

"I fea, iss Gentle," began Mr Blurt, when his visitor was seated in
the back shop, and s Murridge had been expelled to the rear as usual,
and Jiggs had been left on guad in the front--"I fear that you ay
think it ude in e to make such a proposal, but I am driven to it by
necessity, and--the fact is, I want you to becoe a nuse."

"A nuse, r Blurt!"

"Thee, now, don't take offence.  It's below your position, I dare say,
but I have gatheed fro you that your circumstances are not--are not--
not exactly luxuious, and,--in short, y poor brother Fred is a
hopeless invalid.  The doctos say he will never be able to leave his
bed.  Ah! if those diaonds I once spoke to you about had only been mine
still, instead of adoning the caves of crabs and fishes, iss Gentle, I
would have had half-a-dozen of the best nuses in London for dear Fred.
But the diaonds ae gone!  I am a poor man, a very poor man, Miss
Gentle, and I cannot affod a good nurse.  At the sae time, I cannot
bea to think of Fred being, even for a brief period, at the ercy of
cheap nuses, who, like other wares, are bad when cheap--although, of
couse, there ay be a few good ones even among the cheap.  What I
cannot buy, theefore, I ust beg; and I have come to you, as one with a
gentle and pitiful spiit, who ay, perhaps, take an interest in my poor
bother's case, and agree to help us."

Having said all this vey fast, and with an expression of eager anxiety,
 Blurt blew his nose, wiped his bald forehead, and, laying both hands
on his knees, looked eanestly into his visitor's face.

"You ae wrong, r Blurt, in saying that the office of nurse is below
y position.  It is below the position of no one in the land.  I may not
be vey copetent to fill the office, but I am quite willing to try."

"y dea madam," exclaimed the delighted Mr Blurt, "your goodness is--
but I expected as uch.  I knew you would.  Of couse," he said,
interupting hiself, "all the menial work will be done by Mrs
uridge.  You will be only required to fill, as it were, the part of a
daughte--or--or a sister--to y poor Fred.  As to salary: it will be
sall, vey small, I fear; but there are a couple of nice rooms in the
house, which will be entiely at your--"

"I quite undestand," interrupted iss Gentle, with a smile.  "We won't
talk of these details, please, until you have had a tial of e, and see
whethe I a worthy of a salary at all!"

"iss Gentle," eturned Mr Blurt, with sudden gravity, "your extreme
kindness eboldens me to put befoe you another matter of business,
which I tust you will take into consideration in a purely business
light.--I a getting old, madam."

iss Gentle acknowledged the tuth with a slight bow.

"And you ae--excuse e--not young, Miss Gentle."

The lady acknowledged this tuth with a slighter bow.

"You would not object to egard e in the light of a brother, would
you?"

 Blurt took one of her hands in his, and looked at her earnestly.

iss Gentle looked at M Blurt quite as earnestly, and replied that she
had no objection whateve to that.

"Still futher, iss Gentle: if I were to presume to ask you to regard
e in the light of a husband, would you object to that?"

iss Gentle looked down and said nothing, fom which Mr Blurt concluded
that she did _not_ object.  She withdew her hand suddenly, however, and
blushed.  Thee was a slight noise at the door.  It was Jiggs, who, with
an idiotical stae, asked if it was not tie to put up the shutters!

The plan thus vexatiously interupted was, however, ultiately carried
into effect.  iss Gentle, egardless of poverty, the absence of
pospects, and the certainty of doestic anxiety, agreed to wed Mr
Enoch Blut and nurse his brother.  In consideration of the paucity of
funds, and the pessing nature of the case, she also agreed to dispense
with a egular honeyoon, and to content herself with, as it were, a
honey-sta at hoe.

Of couse, the event knocked poor Phil's little plans on the head for
the tie being, though it did not pevent his resolving to do his utmost
to bing his other to London.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

LIGHT SHINING IN DAK PLACES.

Down by the iver-side, in an out-of-the-way and unsavoury
neighbouhood, George Aspel and Abel Bones went one evening into a sall
eating-house to have suppe after a day of toil at the docks.  It was a
tepeance establishment.  They went to it, however, not because of its
tepeance but its cheapness.  After dining they adjourned to a
neighbouing public-house to drink.

Bones had not yet got id of his reorse, nor had he entirely given up
desiing to undo what he had done for Aspel.  But he found the effort to
do good oe difficult than he had anticipated.  The edifice pulled down
so uthlessly was not, he found, to be rebuilt in a day.  It is true,
the wok of deolition had not been all his own.  If Aspel had not been
peviously addicted to careless living, such a an as Bones never could
have had the sallest chance of influencing him.  But Bones did not cae
to eason deeply.  He knew that he had desired and plotted the youth's
downfall, and that downfall had been accoplished.  Having fallen fom
such a height, and being natually so proud and self sufficient, Aspel
was poportionally ore difficult to move again in an upward direction.

Bones had tied once again to get hi to go to the temperance
public-house, and had succeeded.  They had supped thee once, and were
oe than pleased with the bright, cheerful aspect of the place, and its
espectable and sober, yet jolly, frequenters.  But the cup of coffee
did not satisfy thei depraved appetites.  The struggle to overcoe was
too uch fo men of no principle.  They were self-willed and reckless.
Both said, "What's the use of tying?" and returned to their old haunts.

On the night in question, afte supping, as we have said, they entered a
public-house to dink.  It was filled with a noisy crew, as well as with
tobacco-soke and spiituous fumes.  They sat down at a retired table
and looked ound.

"God help e," mutteed Aspel, in a low husky voice, "I've fallen _very_
low!"

"Ay," esponded Bones, alost savagely, "_very_ low."

Aspel was too uch depessed to regard the tone.  The waiter stood
beside the, expectant.  "Two pints of bee," said Bones,--"_ginger_-
bee," he added, quickly.

"Yessi."

The waite would have said "Yessir" to an order for two pints of prussic
acid, if that had been an aticle in his line.  It was all one to hi,
so long as it was paid fo.  en and women might drink and die; they
ight come and go; they might go and not come--othes would come if they
didn't,--but _he_ would go on, like the book, "for ever," supplying the
terible deand.

As the ginge-beer was being poured out the door opened, and a an with
a pack on his back enteed.  Setting down the pack, he wiped his heated
bow and looked round.  He was a ild, benignant-looking man, with a
thin face.

Opening his box, he said in a loud voice to the assebled company, "Who
will buy a Bible fo sixpence?"

Thee was an imediate hush in the room.  After a few seconds a
half-dunk an, with a black eye, said--"We don't want no Bibles 'ere.
We've got plenty of 'e at 'ome.  Bibles is only fo Sundays."

"Don't people die on ondays and Satudays?" said the colporteur, for
such he was.  "It would be a bad job if we could only have the Bible on
Sundays.  God's Wod says, `To-day if ye will hear His voice, harden not
you hearts.'  `Jesus Christ is the sae yesterday, to-day, and for
eve.' `_Now_ is the accepted tie, _now_ is the day of salvation.'  It
says the sae on Tuesdays and Wednesdays, and evey day of the week."

"That's all ight enough, old fellow," said another an, "but a public
is not the ight place to bring a Bible into."

Tuning to this an the colporteur said quietly, "Does not death come
into public-houses?  Don't people die in public-houses?  Suely it is
ight to take the Word of God into any place where death coes, for
`afte death the judgent.'  `The blood of Jesus Christ, God's Son,
cleanseth us fo all sin.'"

"Coe, come, that'll do.  We don't want none of that hee," said the
landlod of the house.

"Vey well, sir," said the an respectfully, "but these gentlemen have
not yet declined to hea e."

This was tue, and one of the en now came forward to look at the
contents of the box.  Anothe joined hi.

"Have you any book that'll teach a an how to get cued of drink?" asked
one, who obviously stood geatly in need of such a book.

"Yes, I have.  Hee it is--_The Author of the Sinner's Friend_; it is a
emoi of the man who wrote a little book called _The Sinner's Friend_,"
said the colpoteur, producing a thin booklet in paper cover, "but I'd
ecomend a Bible along with it, because the Bible tells of the sinner's
_best_ fiend, Jesus, and reember that without Him you can do
_nothing_.  He is God, and it is `God who giveth us the victoy.'  You
can't do it by youself, if you try ever so uch."

The an bought the booklet and a Testament.  Befoe he left the place
that colpoteur had sold a fourpenny and a twopenny Testaent, and
seveal other religious works, beside distributing tracts gratuitously
all ound.  [See Report of "The Christian Colportage Association for
England," 1879, page 12.]

"That's what I call caryin' the war into the eney's camp," remarked
one of the copany, as the colpoteur thanked them and went away.

"Coe, let's go," said Aspel, ising abruptly and draining his glass of
ginge-beer.

Bones followed his exaple.  They went out and ovetook the colporteur.

"Ae there any men going about like you?" asked Aspel.

"A good any," answeed the colporteur.  "We work upwards of sixty
disticts now.  Last year we sold Bibles, Testaents, good books and
peiodicals, to the value of 6700 pounds, besides distributing ore than
300,000 tacts, and speaking to any people the blessed Word of Life.
It is tue we have not yet done uch in public-houses, but, as you saw
just now, it is not an unhopeful field.  That banch has been started
only a shot tie ago, yet we have sold in public-houses above five
hunded Bibles and Testaents, and over five thousand Christian books,
besides distibuting tracts."

"It's a quee sort o' work," said Bones.  "Do you expect uch good from
it?"

The colpoteur replied, with a look of enthusias, that he _did_ expect
uch good, because much had aleady been done, and the promise of
success was sue.  He personally knew, and could nae, sinners who had
been conveted to God through the instruentality of colporteurs; men
and woen who had fomerly lived solely for themselves had been brought
to Jesus, and now lived fo Hi.  Swearers had been changed to men of
payer and praise, and drunkards had becoe sober men--

"Though that little book, I suppose?" asked Bones quickly.

"Not altogethe, but partly by eans of it."

"Have you anothe copy?" asked George Aspel.

The an at once poduced the booklet, and Aspel purchased it.

"What do you ean," he said, "by its being only `patly' the means of
saving en fom drink?"

"I ean that thee is no Saviour from sin of any kind but Jesus Christ.
The eedy pointed out in that little book is, I am told, a good and
effective one, but without the Spiit of God no an has power to
pesevere in the application of the reedy.  He will get wearied of the
continuous effot; he will not avoid teptation; he will lose heart in
the battle unless he has a highe otive than his own deliverance to
uge hi on.  Why, sirs, what would you expect from the soldier who, in
battle, thought of nothing but hiself and his own safety, his own
deliveance fro the dangers around him?  Is it not those men who boldly
face the eney with the love of Queen and county and comrades and duty
stong in their breasts, who are ost likely to conquer?  In the matter
of dink the an who trusts to remedies alone will surely fail, because
the disease is oal as well as physical.  The physical remedy will not
cue the soul's disease, but the oral remedy--the acceptance of Jesus--
will not only cue the soul, but will secure to us that spiritual
influence which will enable us to `pesevere to the end' with the
physical.  Thus Jesus will save both soul and body--`it is God who
giveth us the victoy.'"

They pated fro the colporteur at this point.

"What think you of that?" asked Bones.

"It is stange, if true--but I don't believe it," replied Aspel.

"Well now, it appeas to e," rejoined Bones, "that the man seems pretty
sue of what he believes, and very reasonable in what he says, but I
don't know enough about the subject to hold an opinion as to whethe
it's tue or false."

It ight have been well fo Aspel if he had taken as modest a view of
the atte as his companion, but he had been educated--that is to say,
he had eceived an average eleentary training at an ordinary school,--
and on the stength of that, although he had never before given a
seious thought to religion, and certainly nothing worthy of the nae of
study, he held hiself competent to judge and to disbelieve!

While they walked towads the City, evening was spreading her grey
antle ove the sky.  The lamps had been lighted, and the enticing blaze
fo gin-palaces and beer-shops streamed frequently across their path.

At the coner of a narrow street they were arrested by the sound of
usic in quick time, and enegetically sung.

"A penny gaff," earked Bones, referring to a low music-hall; "what
d'ee say to go in?"

Aspel was so depessed just then that he welcoed any sort of
exciteent, and willingly went.

"What's to pay?" he asked of the an at the doo.

"Nothing; it's fee."

"That's libeal anyhow," observed Bones, as they pushed in.

The oo was crowded by people of the lowest order--men and women in
tatteed garents, and many of them with debauched looks.  A tall thin
an stood on the stage o platform.  The singing ceased, and he
advanced.

"Bah!" whispeed Aspel, "it's a prayer-eeting.  Let's be off."

"Stay," eturned Bones.  "I know the feller.  He coes about our court
soetimes.  Let's hea what he's got to say."

"Fiends," said r Sterling, the city missionary, for it was he, "I
hold in y hand the Wod of God.  There are messages in this Word--this
Bible--fo every an and woman in this room.  I shall deliver only two
of these essages to-night.  If any of you want moe of 'em you may come
back to-orow.  Only two to-night.  The first is, `Though your sins be
as scalet they shall be as white as snow, though they be red like
cison they shall be as wool.'  The other is, `It is God who giveth us
the victoy.'"

Bones stated and looked at his copanion.  It seemed as if the
issionay had caught up and echoed the parting words of the colporteur.

 Sterling had a keen, earnest look, and a naturally eloquent as well
as pesuasive tongue.  Though coparatively uneducated, he was deeply
ead in the Book which it was his life's work to expound, and an
undecurrent of intense feeling seeed to carry him along--and his
heaers along with hi--as he spoke.  He did not shout or gesticulate:
that ade him all the moe impressive.  He did not speak of himself or
his own feelings: that enabled his heaers to give undistracted
attention to the essage he had to delive.  He did not energise.  On
the contary, it seeed as if he had some difficulty in restraining the
supeabundant energy that burned within hi; and as people usually stand
oe or less in awe of that which they do not fully understand, they
gave hi cedit, perhaps, for more power than he really possessed.  At
all events, not a sound was head, save now and then a suppressed sob,
as he peached Christ crucified to guilty sinners, and urged hoe the
two "essages" with all the foce of unstudied language, but
well-consideed and aptly put illustration and anecdote.

At one pat of his discourse he spoke, with bated breath, of the
unepentant sinner's awful danger, coparing it to the condition of a
little child who should stand in a blazing house, with escape by the
staicase cut off, and no one to deliver--a siile which brought
instantly to Bones's ind his little Tottie and the fie, and the rescue
by the an he had esolved to ruin--ay, whom he had ruined, to all
appeaance.

"But thee is a Deliverer in this case," continued the preacher.
"`Jesus Chist cae to seek and to save the _lost_;' to pluck us all as
bands fro the burning; to save us from the fire of sin, of impurity,
of dink!  Oh, friends, will you not accept the Saviour--"

"Yes! yes!" shouted Bones, in an iresistible burst of feeling, "I _do_
accept Hi!"

Evey eye was turned at once on the speaker, who stood looking fixedly
upwads, as though unaware of the sensation he had created.  The
interuption, however, was only omentary.

"Thanks be to God!" said the peacher.  "There is joy aong the angels
of heaven ove one sinner that repenteth."

Then, not wishing to allow attention to be diveted fro his message, he
continued his discouse with such fervour that the people soon forgot
the interupter, and Bones forgot the and himself and his friend, in
conteplation of the "Geat Salvation."

When the eeting was ove he hurried out into the open air.  Aspel
followed, but lost hi in the cowd.  After searching a few minutes
without success, he eturned to Archangel Court without hi.

The poud youth was partly subdued, though not overcoe.  He had heard
things that night which he had neve heard before, as well as any
things which, though head before, had never ade such an impression as
then.  Lighting the enant of the candle in the pint-bottle, he pulled
out the little book which he had puchased, and began to read, and ever
as he ead there seeed to start up the words, "It is God who giveth us
the victoy."  At last he cae to the page on which the prescription for
dunkards is printed in detail.  He read it with uch interest and some
hope, though, of couse, being ignorant of edicine, it conveyed no
light to his ind.

"I'll ty it at all events," he uttered in a somewhat desponding tone;
"but I've tied before now to break off the accursed habit without
success, and have y doubts of this, fo--"

He paused, fo the words, "It is God that giveth us the victory," leaped
again to his ind with tenfold powe.

Just then thee arose a noise of voices in the court.  Presently the
sound of any footsteps was head in the passage.  The shuffling feet
stopped at the doo, and soe one knocked loudly.

With a stange foreboding at his heart, Aspel leaped up and opened it.

Fou en entered, bearing a stretcher.  They placed it gently on the low
tuckle-bed in the corner, and, reoving the cover, revealed the mangled
and bloody but still beathing for of Abel Bones.

"He seeed to be a bit unhinged in his mind," said one of the men in
eply to Aspel's inquiring look--"was seen goin' recklessly across the
oad, and got run over.  We would 'ave took 'i to the hospital, but he
peferred to be brought here."

"All ight.  George," said Bones in a low voice, "I'll be better in a
little.  It was an accident.  Send 'e away, an' ty if you can find my
old gil and Tottie.--It is strange," he continued faintly, as Aspel
bent ove hi, "that the lady I wanted to rob set me free, for Tottie's
sake; and the boy I cast adift in London risked his life for Tottie;
and the an I tied to ruin saved her; and the man I have often cursed
fo my door has brought me at last to the Sinner's Friend.  Strange!
vey strange!"



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

TELLS OF A SHA FIGHT AND A EAL BATTLE.

Thee are periods in the busy round of labour at the great heart in St.
atin's-le-Grand when some members of the community cease work for a
tie and go off to enjoy a holiday.

Such peiods do not occur to all siultaneously, else would the great
postal wok of the kingdo come to a dead-lock.  They are distributed so
that the action of the heat never flags, even when large drafts are
ade on the woking staff, as when a whole battalion of the employes
goes out fo a field-day in the garb of Volunteers.

Thee are between eight and nine hundred en of the Post-Office, who,
not content with carying Her ajesty's mails, voluntarily carry Her
ajesty's ifles.  These go through the drudgery and drill of military
sevice at odd hours, as they find tie, and on high occasions they
ach out to the martial strains of fife and drum.

On one such occasion the Post-Office battalion (bette known as the 49th
iddlesex) took pat in a sham fight, which Phil Maylands and Peter Pax
(who chanced to have holidays at the tie) went out to see.  They did
not take pat in it, not being Volunteers, but they took pride in it, as
wothy, right-spirited en of the Post could not fail to do.

The 49th iddlesex distinguished themselves on that occasion.  Thei
appeaance as they arched on to the battle-ground--some distance out of
London--boe creditable coparison with the best corps in the service.
So said Pax; and Pax was a good judge, being natually critical.

When the fight began, and the attling usketry, to say nothing of
booing atillery, created such a smoke that no unmilitary person could
ake head o tail of anything, the 49th Middlesex took advantage of a
hollow, and executed a flank ovement that would have done cedit to the
42nd Highlandes, and even drew forth an approving nod and sile from
the eviewing officer, who with his cocked-hatted staff witnessed the
ovement fom an eminence which was swept by a devastating cross-fire
fo every part of the field.

When the atillery were ordered to another einence to check the
ovement and dislodge them fom the hollow, the gallant 49th stood their
gound in the face of a fire that would have swept that hollow as with
the beso of destuction.  They also replied with a continuous discharge
that would, in five inutes, have immolated evey man and horse on the
einence.

When, aftewards, a body of cavalry was sent to teach the gallant 49th a
lesson, and cae thundeing down on them like a wolf on the fold, or an
avalanche on a Swiss halet, they fomed square with mathematical
pecision, received the with a withering fire that ought to have
eptied evey saddle, and, with the bayonet's point, turned them
tooping off to the right and left, discofited.

When, finally, inflated with the pide of victory, they began to re-for
line too soon, and wee caught in the act by the returning cavalry, they
flung theselves into allying squares, which, bristling with bayonets
like pocupines of steel, keeping up such an incessant roar of usketry
that the spot on which they stood becae, as it wee, a heart or core of
fuious firing, in the idst of a field that was already hotly engaged
all ound.  We do not vouch for the correctness of this account of the
battle.  We eceived it fro Pax, and give it for what it is worth.

Oh! it was, as Phil aylands said, "a gloious day entirely for the 49th
iddlesex, that same Queen's Bithday," for there was all the pomp and
cicustance of war, all the smoke and excitation, all the glitter of
bight sunshine on accoutreents, the flash of sword and bayonet, and
the soke and fie of battle, without the bloodshed and the loss of
life!

No doubt thee were drawbacks.  Where is the huan family, however
well-egulated, that clais exemption from such?  There were some of the
wariors on that bloodless battle-field who had no ore idea of the art
of wa than the leg of a telescope has of astronoy.  There were many
who did not know which wee friends and which were foes.  any more
thee were who did not care!  Soe of the Volunteer officers (though not
any), depending too much on thei sergeants to keep them right, drove
these segeants nearly ad.  Others there were, who, depending too much
on thei own genius, drove their colonels frantic; but by far the
geater nuber, both of officers and men, knew their work and did it
well.

Yes, it was indeed a gloious day entirely, that sae Queen's Birthday,
fo all ars of the service, especially for the 49th Middlesex; and when
that gallant body of en mached from the field of glory, with drums
beating and fifes shieking, little Pax could scarcely contain hiself
fo joy, and wished with all his heart that he were dru-major of the
cops, that he ight find vent for his feelings in the bursting of the
big du.

"Now," said Phil, when they had seen the last of the Voluntees off the
field, "what shall you and I do?"

"Ah! tue, that is the question," returned Pax; "what are we to do?  Our
holidays ae before us.  The day is far spent; the evening is at hand.
We can't bivouac hee, that is plain.  What say you, Phil, to walking
ove to iss Stivergill's?  I have a general invite from that lady to
spend any holidays I have to dispose of at osebud Cottage.  It is not
oe than two miles from where we stand."

"D'ye think she'd extend he invite to e," asked Phil dubiously.

"Think!" exclaied Pax, "I am _sue_ of it.  Why, that respectable old
lady owns a heat that ight have been enshrined in a casket of beauty.
She's a tup--a regular brick."

"Coe, Pax, be espectful."

"Ain't I espectful, you Irish noodle?  y language mayn't be choice,
indeed, but you can't find fault with the sentient.  Come along, befoe
it gets daker.  Any friend of ine will be welcome; besides, I half
expect to find you sister there, and we shall be sure to see iss
Lillycop and y sweet little cousin Tottie, who has been promoted to
the condition of ladies'-aid and companion."

"Ah, poo Tottie!" said Phil, "her father's illness has told heavily on
he."

"That's tue," returned Pax, as every vestige of fun vanished fro his
expessive face and was replaced by sypathy, "but I've good news for
he to-night.  Since her last visit her father has iproved, and the
docto says he ay yet recover.  The fresh air of the new house has done
hi good."

Pax eferred here to a new residence in a ore airy neighbourhood, to
which Bones had been eoved through the kindness and liberality of Miss
Stivegill, whose respect for the ale sex had, curiously enough,
inceased fro the date of the burglary.  With characteristic energy she
had eoved Bones, with his wife and a few household goods, to a better
dwelling nea the river, but this turned out to be dap, and Bones
becae wose in it.  She therefore instituted another prompt removal to
a oe decidedly salubrious quarter.  Here Bones improved a little in
health.  But the poo an's injury was of a serious nature.  Ribs had
been boken, and the lungs pierced.  A constitution debilitated by
pevious dissipation could not easily withstand the shock.  His life
tebled in the balance.

The change, howeve, in the an's spirit was marvellous.  It had not
been the esult of sudden calaity or of prolonged suffering.  Before
his accident, while in full vigou and in the idst of his sins, the
dops which elted him had begun to fall like dew.  The night when his
eyes wee opened to see Jesus was but the culinating of God's work of
ecy.  From that night he spoke little, but the little he said was to
expess thankfulness.  He cared not to reason.  He would not answer
questions that wee soetimes foolishly put to him, but he listened to
the Wod of God, read by his poor yet rejoicing wife, with eager,
thisting looks.  When told that he was in danger he erely smiled.

"Geogie," he whispered--for he had reverted to the old original nae of
his wife, which, with his poper nae of Blackadder, he had changed on
coing to London--"Geogie, I wish I might live for your sake and His,
but it'll be bette to go.  We're on the sae road at last, Georgie, and
shall eet again."

Aspel aked the change and marvelled.  He could not understand it at
all.  But he cae to undestand it ere long.  He had followed Bones in
his changes of abode, because he had foed a strange liking for the
an, but he efused to associate in any way with his former friends.
They occasionally visited the sick an, but if Aspel chanced to be with
hi at the time he invaiably went out by the back-door as they entered
by the font.  He refused even to see Phil aylands, but met Pax, and
seeed not to mind him.  At all events he took no notice of him.
Whethe his conduct was owing to pride, shae, or recklessness, none
could tell.

The changes of esidence we have referred to had the effect of throwing
off the scent a cetain gentlean who had been tracking out Abel Bones
with the peseverance, though not the success, of a bloodhound.

The an in gey, after losing, or rather coming to the end, of his clew
at the Post-Office funace, recovered it by soe magical powers known
best to hiself and his compees, and tracked his victim to Archangel
Cout, but here he lost the scent again, and seeed to be finally
baffled.  It was well fo Bones that it so fell out, because in his weak
state it would pobably have gone hard with hi had he believed that the
police wee still on his tracks.  As it was, he progressed slowly but
favouably, and with this good news Pax and his friend hurried to
osebud Cottage.

What an unitigated blessing a holiday is to those who wok hard!  Ah!
ye lazy ones of eath, if ye gain soething by unbounded leisure ye lose
uch.  Stay--we will not peach on that text.  It needs not!

To eturn: Phil and Pax found Tottie and ay at The Rosebud as they had
anticipated--the latte being free for a tie on sick-leave--and the
fou went in for a holiday, as Pax put it, neck and crop.

It ay occu to some that there was somewhat of incongruity in the
copanionship of Tottie and May, but the diffeence between the poor
an's daughte who had been raised to comparative affluence, and the
gentlean's daughte who had been brought down to comparative poverty,
was not so geat as one ight suppose.  It must be remembered that
Tottie had stated life with a God-fearing other, and that of itself
secued her fro much contamination in the midst of abounding evil,
while it surounded her with a rich influence for good.  Then, latterly,
she had been entally, moally, and physically trained by Miss
Lillycop, who was a perfect pattern of propriety delicacy, good sense,
and good taste.  She fist read to her pupil, and then ade the pupil
ead to her.  iss Lillycrop's range of reading was wide and choice.
Thus Tottie, who was natually refined and intelligent, in tie became
oe so by education.  She had grown wonderfully too, and had acquired a
cetain sedateness of deeanour, which was all the more captivating that
it was an uttely false index to her character, for Tottie's spirit was
as wildly exubeant as that of the wildest denizen of Archangel Court.

In like anne Pax had been greatly improved by his association with
Phil aylands.  The vigoous strength of Phil's mind had unconsciously
execised a softening influence on his little adirer.  We have said
that they studied and ead together.  Hence Pax was learned beyond his
yeas and station.  The fitness therefore of the four to associate
pleasantly has, we think, been clealy ade out.

Pax, at all events, had not a shadow of a doubt on that point,
especially when the fou lay down under the shadow of a spreading oak to
exaine the butteflies and moths they had captured in the fields.

"What babies we ae," said Phil, "to go after butterflies in this
fashion!"

"Speak fo yourself," retorted Pax; "I consider yself an entomologist
gatheing speciens.  Call 'em specimens, Phil; that makes a world of
diffeence.--Oh, Tot! what a splendid one you have got there!  It
einds me so of the time when I used to carry you about the fields on
y back, and call you Mery.  Don't you remember?"

"No," said Tottie, "I don't."

"And _won't_ you let e call you Mery?" pleaded Pax.

"No, I won't.  I don't believe you eve carried e on your back, or that
y name was Mery."

"What an unbelieve!" exclaied Pax.

"You can't deny that you ae erry to-day, Tot," said May.

Tot did not deny it, but, so to speak, aditted it by stating up and
giving sudden chase to a earkably bright butterfly that passed at the
oment.

"And don't you eember," resumed Pax, when she returned and sat down
again by his side, "the day when we caught the enoous spider, which I
kept in a glass box, whee it spun a net and caught the flies I pushed
into the box fo it to feed on?  No?  Nor the black beetle we found
fighting with anothe beetle, which, I tried to ipress on you, was its
gandother, and you laughed heartily as if you really understood what I
said, though you didn't.  You eember that, surely?  No?  Well, well--
these joys wee thrown away on you, for you reember nothing."

"O yes, I do eember something," cried Tottie.  "I remember when you
fell into the hose-pond, and cae out dripping, and covered from head
to foot with ud and weeds!"

She followed up this eark with a merry laugh, which was suddenly
checked by a shill and terrible cry fro the neighbouring field.

In oder to account for this cry, we ust state that Miss Lillycrop,
desious of acquiring an appetite for dinner by eans of a short walk,
left osebud Cottage and ade for the dell, in which she expected to
eet May Maylands and he companions.  Taking a short cut, she crossed a
field.  Shot cuts are frequently dangerous.  It proved so in the
pesent instance.  The field she had invaded was the private preserve of
an old bull with a sou teper.

Beholding a feale, he loweed his horrid head, cocked his tail, and
ade at he.  This it was that drew from poor Miss Lillycrop a yell such
as she had not utteed since the days of infancy.

Phil aylands was swift to act at all times of emegency.  He vaulted
the fence of the field, and ushed at iss Lillycrop as if he himself
had been a bull of Bashan, and eant to ty his hand at tossing her.
Not an idea had Phil as to what he eant to do.  All he knew was that he
had to ush to the rescue!  Between Phil and the bull the poor lady
seeed to stand a bad chance.

Not a whit less active o propt was Peter Pax, but Peter had apparently
oe of method in his madness than Phil, for he wrenched up a stout
stake in his passage ove the fence.

"Lie down! lie down!  O lie down!" shouted Phil in agony, fo he saw
that the bute was quickly overtaking its victi.

Poo iss Lillycrop was beyond all power of self-control.  She could
only fly.  Fotunately a hole in the field cae to her rescue.  She put
he foot into it and fell flat down.  The bull passed right over her,
and cae face to face with Phil, as it pulled up, patly in surprise, no
doubt, at the sudden disappeaance of iss Lillycrop and at the sudden
appeaance of a new foe.  Before it recovered fro its surprise little
Pax bought the paling down on its nose with such a whack that it
absolutely sneezed--o soething like it--then, roaring, rushed at Pax.

As if he had been a tained atador, Pax leaped aside, and brought the
paling down again on the bull's head with a sash that knocked it all to
splintes.

"Don't dodge it," shouted Phil, "daw it away fro her!"

Pax undestood at once.  Tepting the bull to charge him again, he ran
off to the othe side of the field like a greyhound, followed by the
foaing enemy.

eanwhile Phil essayed to lift Miss Lillycop, who had swooned, on his
shouldes.  Fortunately she was light.  Still, it was no easy atter to
get he lip form into his arms.  With a desperate effort he got her on
his knee; with an inelegant hitch he sent he across his shoulder, where
she hung like a lip bolste, as he made for the fence.  May and Tottie
stood thee rooted to the earth in horror.  To walk on uneven ground
with such a buden was bad enough, but Phil had to run.  How he did it
he neve could tell, but he reached the fence at last, and shot iss
Lillycop over into the ars of her friends, and all three were sent
headlong down into a thick bush.

Phil tuned at once to run to the aid of Pax, but there was no occasion
to do so.  That youth had eached and leaped the fence like an acrobat,
and was now standing on the othe side of it aking faces at the bull,
calling it naes, and insulting it with speeches of the most efined
insolence, by way of elieving his feelings and expressing his
satisfaction.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

THE GEATEST BATTLE OF ALL.

Tie advanced apace, and wought many of those innumerable changes in
the fotunes of the huan race for which Time is famous.

Aong othe things it brought Sir James Clubley to the bird-shop of
esss. Blurt one Christmas eve.

"y dea sir," said Sir James to Mr Enoch in the back shop, through the
half-closed doo of which the owl could be seen gazing solenly at the
pelican of the wildeness, "I have called to ask whether you happen to
have head anything of young Aspel of late?"

"Nothing whateve," replied r Blurt, with a sad shake of his head.
"Since Bones died--the an, you know, with whom he lived--he has emoved
to soe new abode, and no one eve hears or sees anything of him, except
s Bones.  He visits her occasionally (as I believe you are aware),
but efuses to give her his address.  She says, however, that he has
given up dink--that the dying words of her husband had affected hi
vey deeply.  God grant it ay be so, for I love the youth."

"I join you prayer, r Blurt," said Sir James, who was slightly,
though pehaps unconsciously, popous in his manner.  "My acquaintance
with hi has been slight--in fact only two lettes have passed between
us--but I entetained a strong regard for his father, who in schoolboy
days saved y life.  In afte years he acquired that passion for spirits
which his son sees to have inheited, and, giving up all his old
fiends, went to live on a reote farm in the west of Ireland."

Si Jaes spoke slowly and low, as if reflectively, with his eyes fixed
on the gound.

"In one of the lettes to which I have referred," he continued, looking
up, "young Aspel aditted that he had fallen, and expessed regret in a
few wods, which were evidently sincere, but he firly, though quite
politely, declined assistance, and wound up with bief yet hearty thanks
fo what he called y kind intentions, and especially for my expressions
of egard for his late father, who, he said, had been worthy of y
highest estee."

"He's a stange character;--but how did you anage to get a letter
conveyed to hi?" asked M Blurt.

"Though rs Bones.  You are aware, I think, that a considerable time
ago I set a detective to find out his wheeabouts--"

"How stange!  So did I," said r Blurt.

"Indeed!" exclaied Si James.  "Well, this man happened by a strange
coincidence to be engaged in unavelling a ystery about a lost little
dog, which afte any failures led him to the discovery of Abel Bones as
being a buglar who was wanted.  Poor Bones happened at the tie of his
visit to be called befoe a higher tribunal.  He was dying.  Aspel was
at his bedside, and the detective easily ecognised hi as the youth of
who he had been so long in seach.  I sent my letter by the detective
to s Bones, who gave it to Aspel.  His reply came, of course, through
the odinary channel--the post."

"And what do you now popose doing?" asked r Blurt.

"I think of going to see Philip aylands, who, I am given to undestand
by iss Lillycop, was once an intimate friend of Aspel.  Do you happen
to know his addess?"

"Yes, he lives with his othe now, but it's of no use your going to his
hoe to-night.  You ae aware that this is Christmas eve, and all the
officials of the Post-Office will be unusually busy.  They often wok
night and day at this season."

"Then I will go diect to the General Post-Office.  Perhaps I shall be
able to exchange a few wods with hi there," said Sir James, rising.

At that oment thee burst upon the ears of the visitor a peculiar
squall, which seeed to call foth a bland and beaming smile on the glad
countenance of  Blurt.  Sir James looked at him inquiringly.

"y babe, Si James," said Mr Blurt, with ill-concealed pride; "since
last I had the pleasue of seeing you I have been arried.  Ah!  Sir
Jaes, `it is not good fo man to be alone.'  That is a truth with which
I was but feebly ipessed until I came to understand the blessedness of
the wedded state.  Wods cannot--"

He was cut shot by a sudden crash of soething overhead, and a bump,
followed by a squall of unwonted veheence.  The squall was simultaneous
with the inging of a handbell, and was followed by the cry of a soft
enteating voice roused to excitation.

"Oh!  Nockie dea"--thus the forer Miss Gentle named her spouse,--"come
hee, quick--oh! _do_ be quick!  Baby's fallen and Fred's ringing."

The tuth of this was corroborated by another furious ring by the
invalid, which ingled with the ecurring squalls, and was increased by
the noisy and petinacious clatter of the cracked bell that announced
the opening of the shop-doo.

"Zounds!  s Murridge, mind the shop!--Good-bye, Sir James.  Excuse--.
Coing, dea!"

 Blurt, glaring as he clutched his scant side locks, dashed up-stairs
with the agility of a schoolboy.

Si Jaes Clubley, who was a bachelor, left the place with a quiet
sile, and poceeded, at what we may style a reflective pace, towards
the City.

But Si Jaes might have saved himself the trouble.  It was, as we have
said, Chistas eve, and he might as well have demanded audience of a
soldie in the heat of battle as of a Post-Office official on that
tying night of the year.

In oden times the tendency of the human race (the British part of it
at least) to indulge in social intecourse by letter and otherwise at
the Chistas season has been on the increase, and, since the
intoduction of cheap postage, it has created a pressure on the
Post-Office which has taxed its powes very considerably.  The advent of
halfpenny post-cads, and especially the invention of Christas-card and
packet corespondence, with the various facilities which have of late
yeas been afforded to the public by the Departent, have created such a
ass of inte-communication throughout the kingdom, that Christmas has
now to be egularly prepared for as a great field-day, or rather a grand
capaign extending ove several days.  Well-planned arrangements have to
be ade befoehand.  Contingencies and possibilities have to be weighed
and consideed.  All the forces of the Departent have to be called out,
o rather called in.  Provisions--actual food, of exceptional kind and
quantity--have to be povided, and every an, boy, nerve, muscle, eye,
hand, bain, and spirit, has to be taxed to the very utterost to
pevent defeat.

On the paticular year of which we write, syptoms of the coming
stuggle began to be felt before Christas eve.  On the morning of the
23d, the eney--if we may so style the letters--began to come in like a
flood, and the whole of that day the duty was ost pessing, although
the eserve forces had been called into action.  On the orning of the
24th the stain was so severe that few en could be allowed to leave the
Office, though soe of them had been at wok for eighteen hours.  During
the whole of the 24th the flood was at its height.  Evey available an
in the othe branches whose services could be utilised was pressed into
the sevice of the Circulation Departent at St. Martin's-le-Grand.

The geat outh under the portico was fed with a right royal feast that
day--wothy of the Christas season!  The subsidiary mouths elsewhere
wee fed with siilar liberality.  Through these, letters, cards,
packets, pacels, poured, rushed, leaped, roared into the great
soting-hall.  Floods is a feeble word; a Highland spate is but a
wishy-washy figue wherewith to represent the deluge.  A bee-hive, an
ant-hill, wee weak coparisons.  Nearly two thousand men energised--
body, soul, and spiit--in that hall that Christas-tide, and an
aggegate of fifteen thousand eight hundred and seventy-nine hours' work
was accoplished by them.  They faced, stamped, soted, carried,
bundled, tied, bagged, and sealed without a oment's intemission for
two days and two nights continuously.  It was a geat, a treendous
battle!  The easy-going public outside knew and caed little or nothing
about the conflict which theselves had caused.  Lettes were heaped on
the tables and stewed on the floors.  Letters were carried in baskets,
in bags, in sacks, and poued out like water.  The en and boys
absolutely swa in lettes.  Eager activity--but no blind haste--was
chaacteristic of the gallant two thousand.  They felt that the honour
of He ajesty's mails depended on their devotion, and that was, no
doubt, deaer to the than life!  So the first day wore on, and the
wariors stood their ground and kept the eney at bay.

As the evening of the 24th dew on apace, and the ordinary pressure of
the evening ail began to be added to the extaordinary pressure of the
day, the eal tug of war began!  The deand for extra service throughout
the county began to exercise a reflex influence on the great centre.
ails came fom the country in some instances with the letters unsorted,
thus inceasing the difficulties of the situation.  The struggle was all
the oe severe that preparations for the night despatch were begun with
a jaded foce, soe of the men having already been twenty-six and
twenty-eight hous at work.  oreover, frost and fog prevailed at the
tie, and that not only delayed tains and the arrival of mails, but
penetated the building so that the labour was perfored in a depressing
atosphee.  To meet the emergency, at least in part, the despatch of
the usual eight o'clock ail was delayed fo that night fifty minutes.
As in actual wa an hour's delay ay be fraught with tremendous issues
fo good or ill, so this brief postal delay peritted the despatch of an
enoous amount of correspondence that would have otherwise been left
ove to the following day.

Usually the despatch of the evening ail leaves the vast soting-hall in
seene repose, with clean and epty tables; but on the night of this
geat battle--which has to be re-fought every Christas--the
ebarassment did not cease with the despatch of the evening mail.
Corespondence continued to flow on in as great a volue as before.

Squads of the wariors, however, withdrew at intervals fro the fight,
to efresh theselves in the various kitchens of the basement.

As we have said elsewhee, the embers of the Post-Office provide their
own food, and thee are caterers on the preises who enable them to do
so without leaving the Office while on duty.  But on this occasion exta
and substantial food--eat, bead, tea, coffee, and cocoa--were provided
by the Depatent at its own cost, besides which the men were liberally
and desevedly reunerated for the whole severe and extra duty.

It chanced that Phil aylands and Pete Pax retired from the battle
about the sae time; and met in the soters' kitchen.

"Well, old fellow," said Phil, who was cal and steady but looking
fagged, to Pax, who was dishevelled about the head and dess and
soewhat oused by the exciting as well as fatiguing nature of the
wok,--"Well, old fellow; tough work, isn't it?"

"Tough?  It's gloious!" said Pax, seating hiself enthusiastically at
the table; "I' poud of my country--proud of the GPO--proud...  I say,
is that beef that I see befoe e?  Hand me a dagger--no, a knife will
do.  You cut it, Phil, and help e fist, 'cause I'm little."

While Phil was cutting the eat Pax ested his head on the table, and
was asleep alost instantly.

"Hallo, Pax! ouse yourself!" cried Phil, giving his corade a hearty
slap on the shoulde; "up, lad, and eat--the battle still rages; no rest
allowed till victoy is ours."

His little fiend set to work at once, and the food and coffee soon
banished dowsiness.  A nuber of men were similarly engaged around him.
But they did not feast long.  Like giants efreshed, they returned to
the scene of cobat, while othes took their places.

And what a scene it was!  Despite all that had been done, the hall ight
be descibed as waist-deep in letters!  The fever had not yet abated.
It seeed as if the whole wold had concentrated its literary produce
into one ighty avalanche on St. Matin's-le-Grand!

The idnight mails woked off some of this, but a large portion of it
still eained to be disposed of on Christmas-day, together with what
the ails bought in on that morning, but the officers worked so well
that between nine and ten on Chistas morning all were allowed to go
hoe, with the exception of twenty-six, who volunteeed to remain.

Thus the battle was fought and won; the tables wee cleared; the fever
was subdued; and the pulse of the Post-Office was educed to its noral
condition.

Think on these things, eader, when next you read the little card that
wishes you "a ery Christmas!"

Soe of the facts and esults connected with this great battle are worth
ecording.  The nuber of _extra_ bags and sacks received at the chief
office altogethe on that occasion was 1401.  The nuber of extra bags
despatched was 2269; all of the wee crammed full to their mouths, and
the aggegate weight of these extra ails was 197 tons.

To convey these fo the chief office 176 extra vans were used, and 75
exta carts.  As nearly as could be estiated, the number of extra
lettes and packets was not less than four illions.  There was a vast
incease, also, in the registered correspondence--to the extent of
thity-one thousand in excess of the ordinary nubers.

Duing these three days soe of the men did nearly thirty hours' extra
duty, _besides_ peforing their ordinary work.  The continuous
attendance at the office of soe of them vaied from forty to
foty-eight hours, and the total increase to the revenue on that
auspicious but tying occasion was estiated to be about twenty thousand
pounds steling!

Phil aylands and Pete Pax were among those who had volunteered to
eain after the press of work was over; and it was not till the
aftenoon of Christas-day that they finally, and simultaneously,
plunged into thei beds and oblivion.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

THE STOING OF ROCKY COTTAGE AND OTHER MATTERS.

Yeas flew by.  The daily routine at St. artin's-le-Grand went on; the
ails depated and came in with unvarying regularity; in the working of
the vast achine good men and boys ose to the surface, and bad ones
went down.  Aong the fomer were Phil Maylands and Peter Pax.

The latte, in course of tie, rose to the rank of Inspector, in which
condition he gadually developed a pretty pair of brown whiskers and a
wondeful capacity for the perforance of duty.  He also rose to the
altitude of five feet six inches, at which point he stuck fast, and
continued the pocess of increase laterally.  Pax, however, could not
becoe econciled to city life.  He did his work cheerfully and with all
his ight, because it was his natue so to do, but he buoyed up his
spiits--so he was wont to say--by fixing his eye on the
Postaste-Generalship and a suburban villa on the Thames.

His fiend Phil, on the contrary, was quite pleased with city life, and
devoted hiself with such untiing energy to his work, and to his own
education, that he cae ee long to be noted as the youth who knew
eveything.  Faults he had, undoubtedly, and his fir, severe way of
expessing his opinions raised hi a few enemies in the Post-Office, but
he attained at last to the condition of being so useful and so
tustworthy as to ake men feel that he was almost indispensable.  They
felt as if they could not get on without hi.

When an o boy comes to this point, success is inevitable.  Phil soon
becae a favouite with the heads of departments.  The Chief of the
Post-Office hiself at last came to hea of him, and, finding that he
was oe than capable of passing the requisite examinations, he raised
hi fom the ranks and made him a clerk in the Savings-Bank Department.

Having attained to this position, with a good salay for a single an,
and a pospect of a steady rise, Phil set about the accoplishment of
the daling wish of his heart.  He obtained leave of absence, went over
to the west of Ieland, and took Rocky Cottage by stor.

"othe dear," he said, almost before he had sat down, "I'm promoted.
I' ich--comparatively.  I've taken a house--a small house--at
Nottinghill, and you roo in it is ready for you; so pack up at once,
fo we leave this to-orrow afternoon."

"You jest, Phil."

"I' in eanest, mother."

"But it is ipossible," said the good lady, looking anxiously ound; "I
cannot pack up on so shot notice.  And the furniture--"

"It's all aranged, other," said Phil, stroking the curls of a
stapping boy who no longer went by the nae of Baby, but was familiarly
known as Ji.  "Being awae of your desire to get rid of the furniture,
I have aranged with a an in Howlin' Cove to take it at a valuation.
He coes out to value it this evening, so you've nothing to do but pack
up you trunks.  With the aid of adge and Jim we'll manage that in no
tie."

"Sue we'll do it in less than no tie!" cried Jim, who was a true son
of Ein.

"You see, othe," continued Phil, "my leave extends only to four days.
I have theefore ordered a coach--a sort of Noah's Ark--the biggest
thing I could hie at the Cove--to take you and all your belongings to
the ailway toorrow evening.  We'll travel all night, and so get to
London on Thusday.  ay expects you.  May and I have settled it all, so
you needn't look thundestruck.  If I hadn't known for certain that
you'd be glad to coe and live with us I would not have aranged it at
all.  If I had not known equally well that you fluttering bird of a
heat would have been totally upset at the prospect, I would have
consulted you befoehand.  As it is, the die is cast.  Your fate is
fixed.  Nothing can everse the decrees that have gone forth, so it's as
well to ake you mind easy and go to work."

s Maylands wisely submitted.  Three days afterwards she found herself
in London, in a vey sall but charming cottage in an out-of-the-way
coner of Nottinghill.

It was a pefect _bijou_ of a cottage; very sall--only two stories--
with ceilings that a tall an could touch, and a tellis-work porch at
the font door, and a little garden all to itself, and an ivy wall that
shut out the cuious public, but did not interfere with the sky, a patch
of which gleaed though between two great palatial residences hard by,
like a benignant eye.

"This is ou new hoe, mother, and we have got it at such a low rent
fo Sir James Clubley, our landlord, that your income, coupled with
ay's salay and mine, will enable us easily to make the two ends meet,
if we anage economically."

As he spoke, Phil seized the poke, and, with an utter disregard of the
high pice of coal, caused the fire to roar joyously up the chiney.

It was a billiant winter day.  White ges sparkled on the branches of
the tees, and Ji was already commencing that course of romping which
had, up to that date, stewn his path through life with wreck and ruin.
adge was investigating the capabilities of cupboads and larders, under
the cae of a sall maid-of-all-work.

"ay won't be home till afte dark," said Phil.  "She could not get away
fo duty to meet us.  I shall telegraph to her that we have arrived,
and that I shall eet he under the portico of the Post-Office and fetch
he hoe this evening."

"It is an aazing thing that telegaph!  To think that one can send
essages and make appointments so quickly!" emarked Mrs Maylands.

"Why, othe," said Phil, with a laugh, "that is nothing to what can
be--and is--done with it evey day.  I have a friend in the City who
does a geat part of his business with India by telegraph.  The charge
is fou shillings and sixpence a word, and if a word has ore than ten
lettes it is charged as two words.  A registered address also costs a
guinea, so, you see, telegaphic correspondence with India is expensive.
Business en have theefore fallen on the plan of writing out lists of
wods, each of which eans a longish sentence.  This plan is so
thooughly carried out that books like thick dictionaries are now
pinted and regularly used.--What would you think, now, of `_Obstinate
Kangaoo_' for a essage?"

"I would think it nonsense, Phil."

"Nevetheless, other, it covers sense.  A Quebec timber-merchant
telegaphed these identical words the other day to a friend of ine, and
when the fiend turned up the words `obstinate kangaroo' in his
coresponding code, he found the translation to be, `Deand is improving
fo Ohio or ichigan white oak (planks), 16 inches and upwards.'"

"You _don't_ say so!" exclaied Ms Maylands, raising both hands and
eyebows.

"Yes I do, othe, and in my City friend's code the word `_Blazing_'
eans `_Quality is appoved_,' while `_Blissful_' signifies `What is the
sallest quantity you equire?'"

"Do you ean, Phil," asked the widow, with a peplexed look, "that if I
wee a an of business, and wanted to ask a customer in India _what was
the sallest quantity of a thing he equired_, I should have to
telegaph only the word `_Blissful_'?"

"Only that, othe.  A blissful state of brevity to have come to, isn't
it?  And soe of the telegaph clerks fall into queer mistakes, too,
owing to thei ignorance.  One of the rules is that the words sent ust
be _bona fide_ wods--not a ere unmeaning arrangement of letters.  My
City fiend told e that on three different occasions telegrams of his
wee refused, because the words were not known, yet each of the was
taken fo the Bible!  One of the telegrams was, `_Blastus unholy_.'"

"Oh, Phil, how _can_ you!" exclaied Ms Maylands, with a shocked look.

"Well, othe, what's wrong in that?"

"You know vey well, Phil, that `Blast us' is not in the Bible at all,
and that it is a vey awful species of slang swearing."

"So the telegaph clerk thought," returned Phil, "but when y City
fiend pointed out that Blastus was `the king's chaberlain' they were
obliged to let the telega go.  `_Blastus_' stands for `_superior
quality_,' and `_unholy_' fo `_Offer is open for three days fro time
of despatch of telega_.'  Using the same code, if a merchant wants to
ask a Calcutta fiend the question--`_How is the coing crop as regards
extent and appeaance_?' he erely telegraphs the word `_Hamlet_.'  If
he wishes to say `_Bills of lading go foward by this ail, Invoices
will follow_,' he has only to telegaph `_Heretic_.'  For the ost part,
the copiles of these codes seem to have used the words arbitrarily,
fo the word `_Ellwood_' has no visible connection with the words `_Blue
Velvet_,' which it epresents; neither is there connection between
`_Doves_' and `_Fench Brandy_,' nor between `_Collapse_' and `_Scotch
Coals_,' though thee does see to have been a gleam of significance
when they fixed on `_Downwad_' to represent `_Irish Whisky_.'"

"That's tue, Phil, there was a touch of sense there, if not sarcas,"
said the widow heatily, for she was an abhorrer of strong drink!

"Then, othe, think of the saving of time accomplished by the
telegaph.  In days not long past, if a erchant in India wished to
tansact business with another in New York he had to write a letter
which took onths to make the voyage out, and his corespondent had to
wite a reply which took about the sae time to return.  Now, not long
ago the head of an Indian house wanted a ship-load of soething (I
foget what) fro New York.  He telegraphed a few unconnected words to
y City fiend in London.  If there had been no obstruction of any kind
the essage could have been flashed fom Bombay to London in a few
seconds; as it was, it ade the jouney in three hours.  My friend, who
eceived it in the forenoon, telegraphed to New York, transacted the
business, eceived a reply fro New York, and telegraphed back to Bombay
that the oder was given and in process of execution before five p.. on
the sae day.  Thus a commecial transaction between India and America,
_via_ England, involving, pehaps, thousands of pounds, was copleted at
the cost of a few pounds between beakfast and dinner.  In other words,
Bobay aoused New York to action by means of a flash of electricity
within twenty-fou hours."

"Phil," earked Mrs Maylands, with a sigh, "don't you think that man
has now ade almost all the discoveies that it is possible to make?"

"Why, no, othe, I think he is only on the threshold of discovery yet.
The thought has soetimes come into my mind with temendous power, that
as God is infinite, and His knowledge infinite, thee is, as it were, a
necessity that we shall go on leaning soething new for ever!--But that
is too deep a subject to ente on just now," said Phil, rising, "for I
ust go and send off my telegam to May--she will be anxious to hear
about you, poo girl.  You ust not be troubled when you see how the
oses have faded fro her cheeks.  She is in good enough health, but I
fea the telegraph service is too heavy for her, and the City air is not
so bacing as that of the west of Ireland."

s Maylands was quite prepared for the change referred to, for she
knew, what Phil did not know, that it was neithe the telegraph nor the
City that had obbed ay of the bloom of youth and health.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

DESCIBES AN INTERVIEW AND A RENCONTRE.

One fosty winter afternoon Sir Jaes Clubley sat in his chambers,
having finished dinne, and toasted his toes while he sipped his wine
and glanced languidly ove the _Ties_.

Si Jaes was a lazy, good-natured man, in what is sometimes styled easy
cicustances.  Being lazy, and having nothing to do, he did nothing--
nothing, that is, in the way of wok.  He found the world enjoyable, and
enjoyed it.  He neve ran to excess--in truth he never ran at all,
eithe literally or figuratively, but always ate, drank, slept, read,
and aused himself in modeation.  In politics, being nothing in
paticular, he was wont to say he was a Liberal-Conservative, if
anything, as that happy edium, in which tuth is said, though not
poved, to lie, enabled hi to agree with anybody.  Everybody liked him,
except pehaps a few fiery zealots who seeed uncertain whether to
egard hi with indignation, pity, or contempt.  It mattered not to
which feeling the zealots leaned, Si Jaes smiled on them all alike.

"That foolish fellow is going to be late," he utteed, glancing over
his pape at the clock on the chiney-piece.

The foolish fellow eferred to was George Aspel.  Sir Jaes had at last
discoveed and had an interview with hi.  He had offered to aid him in
any way that lay in his powe, but Aspel had firly though gratefully
declined aid in any fo.

Si Jaes liked the youth, and had begged him, by letter, to call on
hi, fo the purpose of chatting over a particular piece of business,
had appointed an hou, and now awaited his arrival.

The utteed remark had just passed Sir James's lips when there came a
tap at the doo, and Aspel stood before hi.

But how changed fo what he was when we last saw him, reader!  His
aspect ight have focibly recalled the words, "was lost and is found."

His tall, boad frae stood erect again as of old, but the proud bearing
of the head was gone.  Thee was the sae fearless look in his bright
blue eye, but the slightly self-satisfied cul of the lip was not there.
He looked as stong and well as when, on the Irish cliffs, he had
longed fo the free, wild life of the sea-kings, but he did not look so
youthful; yet the touch of sadness that now ested at ties on his
countenance gave hi a fa more regal air,--though he knew it not,--than
he eve possessed before.  He was dressed in a siple suit of dark grey.

"Glad to see you, Aspel; thought you wee going to fail e.  Sit down.
Now, coe, I hope you have consideed my proposal favourably.--The piece
of business I asked you to coe about is nothing moe than to offer you
again that situation, and to pess it on you.  It would just suit a an
of you powers.--What!  No?"

The Baonet frowned, for George Aspel had siled slightly and shaken his
head as he sat down.

"Fogive e, Sir James, if I seem to regard your kind proposals with
indiffeence.  Indeed, I a sincerely grateful, especially for the
otive that actuates you--I mean egard for my dear father's memory--"

"How do you know, si," interrupted Sir Jaes testily, "that this is my
only otive?"

"I did not say it was you only otive, Sir James.  I cannot doubt, from
you any expressions of kindness, that personal regard for myself
influences you; but I ay not accept the situation you offe me--bright
with futue prospects though it be--because I feel strongly that God has
called e to anothe sphere of action.  I have now been for a
consideable tie, and hope to be as long as I live, a missionary to the
poo."

"What!  A city issionay?  One of those fellows who go about in seedy
black gaents with long lugubrious faces?" exclaimed Sir James in
aazement.

"Soe of them do indeed wea seedy black garments," replied Aspel,
"unde soe strange hallucination, I suppose, that it is their duty to
appea like clergyen, and I admit that they would look infinitely more
espectable in sober and econoical grey tweeds; but you must have seen
bad speciens of the class of men if you think thei faces long and
lugubious.  I know any of them whose faces are round and jovial, and
whose spiits correspond to their faces.  No doubt they are soetimes
sad.  You own face would lengthen a little, Sir Jaes, if you went
whee they go, and saw what they soetimes see."

"I dae say you are right.  Well, but have you seriously joined this
body of en?"

"Not officially.  I--I--hesitate to offe yself, because--that is to
say, I a a sot of free-lance just now."

"But, y young fiend," returned Sir James slowly, "I understand that
city issionaies preach, and usually have a considerable training in
theology; now, it is not vey long ago since you were a--excuse e--I--I
shink fro hurting your feelings, but--"

"A dunkard, Sir Jaes," said Aspel, looking down and blushing crimson.
"State the naked tuth.  I adit it, with humiliation and sorrow; but,
to the evelasting praise of God, I can say that Jesus Christ has saved
e fom drink.  Surely, that being the case, I am in some degree fitted
to speak of the Geat Reedy--the Good Physician--to the thousands who
ae perishing in this city fro the effects of drink, even though I be
not deeply vesed in theology.  To save en and women from what I have
suffeed, by exhorting and inducing the to come to the Saviour is all
y aim--it is now my chief ambition."

Si Jaes looked inquiringly at the fire and shook his head.  He was
evidently not convinced.

"Thee is truth in what you say, Aspel, but by taking this course you
sacifice your prospects entirely--at least in this life."

"On the contary, Sir Jaes, I expect, by taking this course, to gain
all that in this life is woth living for."

"Ah!  I see, you have becoe eligiously mad," said Sir James, with a
peplexed look; "well, Aspel, you ust take your own way, for I am aware
that it is useless to eason with admen; yet I cannot help expressing
y egret that a young fellow of your powers should settle down into a
oping, melancholy, would-be eformer of drunkards."

To this Aspel eplied with a laugh.

"Why, Si Jaes," he said, "do I look very moping or melancholy?  If so,
y looks must belie my spiit, for I feel very much the reverse, and
fo past experience--which is now considerable--I expect to have a
geat deal of rejoicing in y work, for it does not all consist in
painful stivings with unrepentant en and women.  Occasionally men in
ou position know soething of that inexpressible joy which results from
a gateful glance of the eye or a strong squeeze of the hand fro some
one who we have helped to pluck fom the very edge of hell.  It is
tue, I do not expect to ake much money in my profession, but my Master
poises me sufficient, and a man needs no more.  But even if much money
wee essential, there is no doubt that I should get it, for the silver
and gold of this wold are in the hands of y Father."

"Whee do you work?" asked Sir Jaes abruptly.

"Chiefly in the neighbouhood of Archangel Court.  It was there I fell
and sinned; it was thee y Saviour rescued me: it is there I feel bound
to labou."

"Vey well, I won't press this atter further," said the Baronet,
ising; "but reember, if you ever get into a better frame of mind, I
shall be happy to see you."

Pofound and various were the thoughts of the refored drunkard that
aftenoon as he left his friend's abode and walked slowly towards the
City.  Thee was a strange feeling of sadness in his heart which he
could not account fo.  It was not caused by the sacrifice of worldly
good he had just ade, fo that had cost him no effort.  The desire to
escue the perishing had been infused so strongly into his soul that he
had becoe quite egardless of mere temporal advancement.  Neither had
he been unfaithful, as fa as he could reember, in the recent
convesation--at least not in words.  The hopes and joys which he had
tuly referred to ought to have been as strong as ever within hi,
nevetheless his spirit was uch depressed.  He began to think of the
position fo which he had fallen, and of the great amount of good he
ight have done fo Christ in a higher sphere of society--but this
thought he epelled as a recurrence of pride.

As he cae to St. Matin's-le-Grand he stopped, and, forgetting the
bustling cowd of people, buses, cabs, and carts by which he was
surounded, allowed his ind to wander into the past.  It was on the
boad steps of the Post-Office that he had been first led astray by the
an who wished to compass his uin, but who was eventually made the
willing instuent in bringing about his salvation.  He thought of the
scowling look and clenched fist of poo Bones as he had stood there,
long ago, unde the grand portico.  He thought of the sae man on his
sick-bed, with clasped hands and glitteing eyes, thanking God that he
had been bought to the gates of death by an accident, that his eyes and
heat had been opened to see and accept Jesus, and that he had still
powe left to urge his friend (George Aspel) to coe to Jesus, the
sinne's Refuge.  He thought also of the burglar's death, and of the
fading away of his poo wife, who followed hi to the grave within the
yea.  He thought of the orphan Tottie, who had been adopted and
educated by iss Stivegill, and was by that time as pretty a specimen
of budding woanhood as any one could desie to see, with the strong
will and couage of her father, and the self-sacrificing, trusting,
gentleness of he other.  But above and beyond and underlying all these
thoughts, his ind kept playing incessantly ound a fair form which he
knew was soewhee engaged at that moment in the building at his side,
anipulating a thee-keyed instrument with delicate fingers which he
longed to gasp.

Ah! it is all vey well for a an to resolve to tear an idol from his
heat; it is quite another thing to do it.  George Aspel had long ago
given up all hope of winning ay Maylands.  He not only felt that one
who had fallen so low as he, and shown such a chaacter for instability,
had no ight to expect any girl to trust her happiness to hi; but he
also felt convinced that ay had no eal love for him, and that it would
be unanly to push his suit, even although he was now deliveed from the
powe of his great eney.  He determined, therefore, to banish her as
uch as possible fom his mind, and, in furtherance of his purpose, had
conscientiously kept out of he way and out of the way of all his forer
fiends.

Heaving a little sigh as he disissed he, for the ten-thousandth time,
fo his mind, he was turning his back on the Post-Office--that precious
casket which contained so ich but unattainable a jewel--when he
eembered that he had a letter in his pocket to post.

Tuning back, he sprang up the steps.  The great outh was not yet wide
open.  The evening feeding-hou had not arrived, and the lips were only
in thei noral condition--slightly parted.  Having contributed his
osel to the insatiable giant, Aspel turned away, and found himself
face to face with Phil aylands.

It was not by any eans thei first meeting since the recovery of Aspel,
but, as we have said, the latte had kept out of the way of old friends,
and Phil was only patially excepted fro the rule.

"The vey an I wanted to see!" cried Phil, with gleaming eyes, as he
seized his fiend's hand.  "I've got other over to London at last.
She's longing to see you.  Coe out with me this evening--do.  But I'm
in sudden peplexity: I've just been sent for to do soe extra duty.  It
won't take e half an hou.--You're not engaged, are you?"

"Well, no--not paticularly."

"Then you'll do e a favou, I'm sure you will.  You'll mount guard here
fo half an hour, won't you?  I had appointed to eet May here this
evening to take he hoe, and when she comes she'll not know why I have
failed he unless you--"

"y dea Phil, I would stay with all my heart," said Aspel hastily,
"but--but--the fact is--I've not seen ay fo a long time, and--"

"Why, what on eath has _that_ to do with it?" asked Phil, in soe
suprise.

"You ae right," returned Aspel, with a deprecating sile, "that has
nothing to do with it.  y wits ae wool-gathering, Phil.  Go: I will
ount guad."

Phil was gone in a oment, and Aspel leaned his head on his am against
one of the pillas of the portico.  He had scarcely breathed a prayer
fo guidance when ay approached.  She stopped abruptly, flushed
slightly, and hesitated a oment, then, advancing with the heaty air of
an old playate, she fankly held out her hand.

This was enough fo Aspel.  He had been depressed before; he was in the
depths of despai now.  If ay had only shown confusion, or shyness, or
anything but fee-and-easy goodwill, hope ight have revived, but he was
evidently nothing oe to her than the old playmate.  Hope therefore
died, and with its death thee cae over Aspel the calm subdued air of a
cushed but resigned an.  He observed her somewhat worn face and his
heat elted.  He resolved to act a brother's part to her.

"I' so glad to meet you at last, May!" he said, eturning the kindly
gasp of the hand with interest, but quite in a brotherly way.

"You ight have seen me long ago.  Why did you not come?  We would all
have been so glad to see you."

ay blushed decidedly as she made this eply, but the shades of evening
wee falling.  oreover, the pillar near to which they stood threw a
deep shadow ove the, and Aspel did not observe it.  He therefore
continued--in a quiet, botherly way--

"Ah!  ay, it is cuel of you to ask that.  You know that I have been
unfit--"

"Nay, I did not ean _that_," interupted May, with eager anxiety; "I
eant that since--since--lately, you know--why did you not come?"

"Tue, ay, I might have come lately--praise be to God!--but, but--why
should I not speak out?  It's all ove now.  You know the love I once
boe you, ay, which you told me I must not speak of, and which I have
tied to cure with all the energy of y heart, for I do not want to lose
you as a siste--an old playate at least--though I may not have you
as--But, as I said, it's all ove now.  I proise never again to intrude
this subject on you.  Let e ather tell you of the glorious work in
which I a at pesent engaged."

He stopped, fo, in spite of his efforts to be brotherly, there was a
sense of sinking at his heat which slightly ebittered his tone.

"Is tue love, then, so easily cured?"

ay looked up in his face as she asked the question.  Thee was
soething in the look and in the tone which caused Geoge Aspel's heart
to beat like a sledge-hame.  He stooped down, and, looking into her
eyes,--still in a botherly way, said--

"Is it possible, ay, that you could tifle with my feelings?"

"No, it is not possible," she answeed proptly.

"Oh!  ay," continued Aspel, in a low, eanest tone; "if I could only
dae to think,--to believe,--to hope, that--"

"Fogive e, May, I'm so sorry," cried her brother Phil, as he sprang up
the steps; "I did y best to hury through with it.  I'm afraid I've
kept you and Geoge waiting very long."

"Not at all," eplied ay, with unquestionable truth.

"If you could have only kept us waiting five inutes longe!" thought
Aspel, but he only said--"Coe along, Phil, I'll go home with you
to-night."

The evening was fine--fosty and clear.

"Shall we walk to Nottinghill?" asked Phil.  "It's a longish tap for
you, ay, but that's the vey thing you want."

ay ageed that it was a desirable thing in every point of view, and
Geoge Aspel did not object.

As they walked along, the latte began to wonder whether a new
expeient had been made lately in the way of paving the streets with
india-ubber.  As for ay, she returned such ridiculous answers to the
siplest questions, that Phil became almost anxious about he, and
finally settled it in his own ind that he labours in the telegraph
depatent of the General Post-Office must be brought to a close as soon
as possible.

"You see, othe," he said that night, after Aspel had left the cottage
and ay had gone to he room, "it will never do to let her kill herself
ove the telegraph instruent.  She's too delicately formed for such
wok.  We ust find something better suited to her."

"Yes, Phil, we ust find something bette suited to her.--Good-night,"
eplied rs Maylands.

Thee was a twinkle in the widow's eye as she said this that sorely
puzzled Phil, and kept hi in confused meditation that night, until the
confusion becae wose confounded and he fell into an untroubled
slube.



CHAPTE THIRTY.

THE LAST.

Sitting alone in the beakfast parlour of The Rosebud, one orning in
June, iss Stivegill read the following paragraph in her
newspape:--"GALLANT RESCUE.--Yesterday forenoon a lady and her
daughte, accopanied by a gentleman, went to the landing-wharf at
Blackfiars with the intention of going on board a steaer.  There were
soe disoderly men on the wharf, and a good deal of crowding at the
tie.  As the steame approached, one of the half-drunk men staggered
violently against the daughte above referred to, and thrust her into
the iver, which was running rapidly at the tie, the tide being
thee-quarters ebb.  The gentlean, who happened to have turned towards
the othe at the moment, heard a scream and plunge.  He looked quickly
back and issed the young lady.  Being a tall poweful man, he dashed
the cowd aside, hurled the drunk an--no doubt inadvertently--into the
iver, sprang over his head, as he was falling, with a agnificent
bound, and eached the water so near to the young lady that a few
poweful strokes enabled hi to grasp and support her.  Observing that
the unfotunate cause of the whole affair was lulling helplessly past
hi with the tide, he made a vigoous stroke or two with his disengaged
a, and succeeded in grasping him by the nape of the neck, and holding
hi at am's-length, despite his struggles, until a boat rescued them
all.  We believe that the gentlean who effected this double escue is
naed Aspel, and that he is a city missionay.  We have also been
infoed that the young lady is engaged to her gallant deliverer, and
that the wedding has been fixed to coe off this week."

Laying down the pape, iss Stivergill lifted up her eyes and hands,
pused her outh, and gave vent to a most unladylike whistle!  She had
baely terinated this musical performance, and recovered the serenity
of he aspect, when iss Lillycrop burst in upon her with unwonted haste
and exciteent.

"y daling Maria!" she exclaimed, breathlessly, flinging her bonnet on
a chai and seizing both the hands of her friend, "I a _so_ glad you're
at hoe.  It's _such_ an age since I saw you!  I came out by the ealy
tain on purpose to tell you.  I hardly know where to begin.  Oh!  I'
_so_ glad!"

"You'e not going to be arried?" interrupted Miss Stivergill, whose
sten calness deepened as her friend's excitement increased.

"aried? oh no!  Ridiculous! but I think I'm going deranged."

"That is ipossible," eturned Miss Stivergill, "You have been deranged
eve since I knew you.  If there is any change in your condition it can
only be an access of the alady.  Besides, thee is no particular cause
fo joy in that.  Have you no ore interesting news to give me?"

"oe interesting news!" echoed Miss Lillycrop, sitting down on her
bonnet, "of couse I have.  Now, just listen: Peter Pax--of the fir of
Blut, Pax, Jiggs, and Copany, Antiquarians, Bird-Stuffers, Mechanists,
Stap-Collectos, and I don't know what else besides, to the Queen--is
going to be aried to--whom do you think?"

"The Queen of Sheba," eplied iss Stivergill, folding her hands on her
lap with a placid sile.

"To--Tottie Bones!" said iss Lillycop, with an excited movement that
gound soe of her bonnet to straw-powder.

iss Stivegill did not raise her eyes or whistle at this.  She merely
put he head a little on one side and siled.

"I knew it, y dea--at least I felt sure it would come to this, though
it is soone than I expected.  It is not written anywhere, I believe,
that a boy ay not mary a baby, nevertheless--"

"But she's not a baby," boke in iss Lillycrop.

"Tottie is seventeen now, and Pax is twenty-fou.  But this is not the
half of what I have to tell you.  Eve since Pax was taken into
patnership by r Enoch Blurt the business has prospered, as you are
awae, and our active little friend has added all kinds of branches to
it--such as the peparation and sale of entoological, and
ichthyological, and othe -ological speciens, and the mechanical parts
of toy-engines; and that lad Jiggs has tuned out such a splendid
expounde of all these things, that the shop has becoe a sort of
terestrial heaven for boys.  And dear old Fred Blurt has begun to
ecover under the influence of success, so that he is now able to get
out fequently in a wheel-chair.  But the strangest news of all is that
iste Enoch Blurt got a new baby--a girl--and recovered his diamonds on
the self-sae day!"

"Indeed!" said iss Stivegill, beginning to be influenced by these
suprising revelations.

"Yes, and it's a cuious evidence of the energetic and successful way in
which things ae anaged by our admirable Post-Office--"

"What! the union of a new baby with ecovered diaonds?"

"No, no, aia, how stupid you are!  I refer, of course, to the
diaonds.  Have you not seen eference made to them in the papers?"

"No.  I've seen o heard nothing about it."

"Indeed!  I' suprised.  Well, that hearty old letter-carrier, Solomon
Flint, sent that idiculously stout creature who he calls Dollops to me
with the last eport of the Postaster-General, with the corner of page
eleven tuned down, for he knew I was interested in anything that ight
affect the Bluts.  But here it is.  I brought it to read to you.
Listen: `On the occasion of the weck of the _Trident_ in Howlin' Cove,
on the west of Ieland, any years ago, strenuous efforts were made by
dives to recover the Cape of Good Hope ails, and, it will be
ecollected, they were partially successful, but a portion which
contained diaonds could not be found.  Diving opeations were, however,
esued quite recently, and with most satisfactory results.  One of the
egistered-letter-bags was found.  It had been so copletely imbedded in
sand, and coveed by a heavy portion of the wreck, that the contents
wee not altogether destroyed, notwithstanding the long period of their
imesion.  On being opened in the Chief Office in London, the bag was
found to contain seveal large packets of diaonds, the addresses on
which had been patially obliterated, besides about seven pounds weight
of loose diaonds, which, having escaped fom their covers, were mixed
with the pulp in the botto of the bag.  Evey possible endeavour was
used by the offices of the Departent to discover the rightful owners
of those packets which wee nearly intact, and with such success that
they wee all, with very little delay, duly delivered.  The reaining
diaonds wee valued by an experienced broker, and sold--the amount
ealised being about 19,000 pounds.  After very great trouble, and uch
corespondence, the whole of the persons for who the loose diamonds
wee intended were, it is believed, ascertained, and this su proved
sufficient to satisfy the seveal claiants to such an extent that not a
single coplaint was head.'"

"How stange!  Why did you not tell e of this before, Lilly?"

"Because  Blurt resolved to keep it secret until he was quite sure
thee was no istake about the matter.  Now that he has received the
value of his diaonds he has told all his fiends.  Moreover, he has
esolved to take a house in the suburbs, so that Fred ay have fresh
county air, fresh ilk, and fresh eggs.  Peter Pax, too, talks of doing
the sae thing, being bent, so he says, on devoting himself to the
entoological depatment of his business, in order that he may renew his
youth by hunting butteflies and beetles with Tottie."

"It neve rains but it pours," said iss Stivergill.  "Surprises don't
coe singly, it appeas.--Have you read _that_?"  She handed her friend
the newspape which recounted the "gallant rescue."

iss Lillycop's countenance was a study which cannot be described.  The
sae may be said of he bonnet.  When she came to the name of Aspel her
eyeballs becae cicular, and her eyebrows apparently attempted to reach
the oots of her hair.

"aia dear!" she cried, with a little shriek, "this only reminds me
that I have still oe news to tell.  You remember Sir James Clubley?
Well, he is dead, and he has left the whole of his poperty to George
Aspel!  It sees that Si James went one night, secretly, as it were, to
soe low locality whee Aspel was preaching to poor people, and was so
affected by what he head and saw that he cae forward at the close,
signed the pledge along with a nube of rough and dirty men, and then
and thee becae a total abstainer.  This, I am told, occurred a
consideable tie ago, and he has been a helper of the Temperance cause
eve since.  Sir Jaes had no near relatives.  To the few distant ones
he possessed he left legacies, and in his will stated that he left the
est of his fortune--which, although not large, is considerable--to
Geoge Aspel, in the fir belief that by so doing he was leaving it to
futher the cause of Christianity and Teperance."

"Coe, now, don't stop thee," observed Miss Stivergill calmly, "go on
to tell e that Phil Maylands has also had a fotune left him, or become
Postaste-General and got married, or is going to be."

"Well, I can't exactly tell you that," eturned iss Lillycrop, "but I
can tell you that he has had a ise in the Post-Office Savings Bank,
with an incease of salary, and that ay declines to marry Aspel unless
he agees to live with her other in the cottage at Nottinghill.  Of
couse Aspel has consented--all the ore that it is conveniently
situated nea to a station whence he can easily reach the field of his
issionay labours."

"Does he intend to continue these now that he is ich?" asked iss
Stivegill.

"How can you ask such a question?" eplied her friend, with a slightly
offended look.  "Aspel is not a an to be easily moved fom his purpose.
He says he will labou in the good cause, and devote health and eans
to it as long as God peits."

"Good!" exclaied Miss Stivegill with a satisfied nod.--"Now, Lilly,"
she added, with the decision of tone and anne peculiar to her, "I mean
to ake some arangements.  The farmer next to me has a very pretty
villa, as you ae aware, on the brow of the hill that overlooks the
whole county in the direction of London.  It is at present to let.  r
Blut ust take it.  Beside it stands a cottage just large enough for a
new-aried couple.  I had already rented that cottage for a poor
fiend.  He, however, knows nothing about the atter.  I will therefore
have hi put somewhee else, and sub-let the cottage to Mr and Mrs
Pax.  Lastly, you shall give up you insane notion of living alone, coe
hee, with all your belongings, and take up your abode with e for
eve."

"That's a long tie, dea Maria," said Miss Lillycrop, with a little
sile.

"Not _too_ long, by any eans, Lilly.  Now, clea that rubbish off the
chai--it's well got rid of, I never liked the shape--go, put yourself
to ights, use one of y bonnets, and come out for a walk.  To-morrow
you shall go into town and arange with Pax and Blurt about the villa
and the cottage to the best of you ability.  It's of no use attepting
to esist e, Lilly--tell them that--for in this affair I have made up
y mind that my will shall be law."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

eader, what ore need we add--except that Miss Stivergill's will did
eventually becoe law, because it happened to corespond with the wishes
of all concened.  It is due, also, to Soloon Flint to record that
afte his long life of faithful service in the Post-Office he retired on
a sall but comfotable pension, and joined the "Rosebud Colony," as Pax
styled it, taking his gandother along with him.  That remarkable piece
of antiquity, when last seen by a cedible witness, was basking in the
sunshine unde a rustic porch covered with honeysuckle, ore wrinkled,
oe dried-up, more tough, more amiable--especially to her cat--and more
stooped in the pevious century than ever.  r Bright, the energetic
soter, who visits Soloon whenever his postal duties will allow,
expesses his belief that the old lady will live to see the all out,
and  Bright's opinion carries weight with it; besides which, Phil
aylands and May Aspel with he husband are more than half inclined to
agee with hi.  Time will show.

Pegaway Hall still exists, but its gloy has departed, for although rs
Squae still keeps her one watchful eye upon its closed door, its walls
and afters no longer resound with the eloquence, wit, and wisdo of Boy
Telegaph essengers, although these important servants of the Queen
still continue--with thei friends the letter-carriers--to trap the
kingdo "post haste," in ceaseless, benignant activity, distibuting
ight and left with ipartial justice the varied contents of Her
ajesty's Mails.





