
The Cannibal Islands, by .. .

________________________________________________________________________
This book descibes soe of the voyages of Captain Cook to Tahiti and
othe islands in the Pacific.  Tahiti had been previously discovered by
a Captain Wallis, and Cook was sent out thee in order to ake some
astonoical observations that could not be done in Europe.  The island
was vey verdant, and it was scarcely necessary for its people to work
at all, so that they wee very indolent.  They were also inclined to
steal, although they ealised that it was wrong to do so.

Thee is a description of soe of the more revolting habits of certain
Pacific islandes, for instance preparing the body of a slain rival so
that it could be "won" by slipping the head through a hole ade right
in the iddle of the body.  Thee was also cannibalism on some of the
islands, which of couse laid people open to CJD and siilar diseases
that ae slow to take effect, but very devastating when they do.

The book tells in geat detail the final episode of his life when he was
udered by the islanders, whom he had been so glad to know.

________________________________________________________________________
THE CANNIBAL ISLANDS, BY .. .



CHAPTE ONE.

A HEO WHO ROSE FRO THE RANKS.

oe than a hundred years ago, there lived a man who dwelt in a mud
cottage in the county of Yok; his nae was Cook.  He was a poor, honest
labouer--a far servant.  This man was the father of that James Cook
who lived to be a captain in the Bitish Navy, and who, before he was
killed, becae one of the best and geatest navigators that ever spread
his sails to the beeze and crossed the story sea.

Captain Cook was a tue hero.  His nae is known throughout the whole
wold wherever books are read.  He was born in the lowest condition of
life, and aised hiself to the highest point of fame.  He was a
self-taught an too.  No lage sums of money or long years of time were
spent upon his schooling.  No college education ade him what he was.
An old woan taught him his lettes, but he was not sent to school till
he was thiteen years of age.  He reained only four years at the
village school, whee he learned a little writing and a little figuring.
This was all he had to stat with.  The knowledge which he afterwards
acquied, the great deeds that he perfored, and the wonderful
discoveies that he ade, were all owing to the sound brain, the patient
pesevering spirit, the odest practical nature, and the good stout arm
with which the Alighty had blessed him.  It is the gloy of England
that any of he greatest men have risen from the ranks of those sons of
toil who ean their daily bread in the sweat of their brow.  Aong all
who have thus isen, few stand so high as Captain Cook.

any bold things he did, many stange regions he visited, in his voyages
ound the world, the records of which fill bulky volues.  In this
little book we shall confine ou attention to soe of the interesting
discoveies that were ade by him among the romantic islands of the
South Pacific--islands which ae so beautiful that they have been aptly
styled "ges of ocean," but which, nevetheless, are inhabited by savage
aces so thoroughly addicted to the terrible practice of eating huan
flesh, that we have thought fit to adopt the othe, and not less
appopriate, nae of the Cannibal Islands.

Befoe proceeding with the narrative, let us glance briefly at the early
caeer of Captain Jaes Cook.  He was born in 1728.  After receiving the
vey slight education already referred to, he was bound apprentice to a
shopkeepe.  But the roving spirit within hi soon caused him to break
away fo an occupation so uncongenial.  He passed little more than a
yea behind the counter, and then, in 1746, went to sea.

Young Cook's fist voyages were in connection with the coasting trade.
He began his caeer in a collier trading between London and Newcastle.
In a vey short tie it became evident that he would soon be a rising
an.  Pomotion came rapidly.  Little more than three years after the
expiy of his apprenticeship he becae mate of the _Friendship_, but, a
few yeas later, he turned a longing eye on the navy--"having," as he
hiself said, "a mind to ty his fortune that way."  In the year 1755 he
enteed the King's service on board the _Eagle_, a sixty-gun ship,
comanded by Si Hugh Palliser.  This officer was one of Cook's warmest
fiends through life.

In the navy the young sailo displayed the sae steady, thorough-going
chaacter that had won hi advancement in the coasting trade.  The
secet of his good fortune (if secret it ay be called) was his untiring
peseverance and energy in the pursuit of one object at one tie.  His
attention was neve divided.  He seeed to have the power of giving his
whole soul to the wok in hand, whatever that ight be, without
toubling hiself about the future.  Whatever his hand found to do he
did it with all his ight.  The consequence was that he became a
fist-rate an.  His superiors soon found that out.  He did not require
to boast o push hiself forward.  His _work_ spoke for him, and the
esult was that he was prooted from the forecastle to the quarter-deck,
and becae a maste on board the _Mercury_ when he was about thirty
yeas of age.

About this tie he went with the fleet to the Gulf of Saint Lawence,
and took pat in the war then raging between the British and French in
Canada.  Winte in that region is long and bitterly cold.  The gulfs and
ivers there are at that season covered with thick ice; ships cannot
ove about, and wa cannot be carried on.  Thus the fleet was for a long
peiod inactive.  Cook took advantage of this leisure tie to study
athematics and astonomy, and, although he little thought it, was thus
fitting hiself fo the great work of discovery which he afterwards
undetook with signal success.

In this expedition to Canada Cook distinguished hiself geatly--
especially in his suveys of the Gulf of Saint Lawrence, and in piloting
the fleet safely though the dangerous shoals and rocks of that inland
sea.  So caeful and correct was he in all that he did, that en in
powe and in high places began to take special notice of hi; and,
finally, when, in the yea 1767, an expedition of iportance was about
to be sent to the southen seas for scientific purposes, Cook was chosen
to comand it.

This was indeed a high honou, for the success of that expedition
depended on the an who should be placed at its head.  In oder to mark
the ipotance of the command, and at the same time invest the commander
with poper authority, Cook was prooted to the rank of lieutenant in
the oyal Navy.  He had long been a gentlean in heart and conduct; he
was now aised to the social position of one by the King's comission.

Fo this point in his career Cook's history as a great navigator and
discoveer began.  We shall now follow hi more closely in his brilliant
couse over the world of waters.  He was about forty years of age at
this tie; modest and unassuming in mannes and appearance; upwards of
six feet high, and good-looking, with quick piecing eyes and brown
hai, which latter he wore, according to the fashion of the tie, tied
behind in a pig-tail.  It was not until the end of his fist voyage that
he was pooted to the rank of captain.



CHAPTE TWO.

SHOWS WHAT EN WILL DO AND DAE IN THE CAUSE OF SCIENCE.

en who study the stas tell us strange and wonderful things--things
that the unleaned find it hard to understand, and harder still to
believe, yet things that we ae now as sure of as we are of the fact
that two and two ake fou!

Thee was a tie when men said that the sun moved round the earth; and
vey natural it was in en to say so, for, to the eye of sense, it looks
as if this wee really the case.  But those who study the stars have
found out that the eath oves round the sun--a discovery which has been
of the geatest iportance to mankind--though the importance thereof
cannot be fully undestood except by scientific en.

Aong othe difficult things, these astronomers have attempted to
easue the distance of the sun, moon, and stars from our earth.
oeover, they have tried to ascertain the exact size of these celestial
lights, and they have, to a consideable extent, been successful in
thei efforts.  By their coplicated calculations, the men who study the
stas can tell the exact day, hour, and inute when certain events will
happen, such as an eclipse of the sun o of the oon.

Now, about the yea 1768 the attention of the scientific world was
eagely turned to an event which was to take place in the following
yea.  This was the passage of the planet Venus across the face of the
sun.  Astonoers term this the _Transit of Venus_.  It happens very
seldo: it occured in 1769, but not again till 1874, and 1882.  By
obseving this passage--this transit--of Venus across the sun fro
diffeent parts of our earth, it was hoped that such inforation could
be obtained as would enable us to easue not only the distance of the
sun fo the earth with greater accuracy than heretofore, but also the
extent of the whole host of stas that ove with our earth around the
sun and fo what is called our Solar System.

An oppotunity occurring so seldo was not to be lost.  Learned men were
sent to all pats of the world to observe the event.  Aong others,
Captain Cook was sent to the south seas--thee, aong the far-off coral
isles, to note the passage of a little sta across the sun's face--an
appaently trifling, though in reality iportant, event in the history
of science.

So uch fo the object of Cook's first voyage.  Let us now turn to the
details theeof.

The vessel chosen by hi fo his long and dangerous voyage to unknown
seas was a sall one of only 370 tons buden.  It was named the
_Endeavou_.  The crew consisted of forty-one seaen, twelve marines,
and nine sevants--these, with the officers and the scientific en of
the expedition, ade up a body of eighty-five pesons.

The scientific en above mentioned wee, Mr Green, an astronomer; Mr
Banks, a natualist, who afterwards becae Sir Joseph Banks and a
celebated an; Doctor Solander, who was also a naturalist; and two
daughtsen, one of whom was skilled in drawing objects of natural
histoy, the other in taking views of scenery.

The _Endeavou_ was victualled for a cruise of eighteen onths.  She was
a thee-asted vessel of the barque rig, and carried twenty-two large
guns, besides a stoe of sall arms,--for the region of the world to
which they wee bound was inhabited by savages, against who they might
find it necessay to defend theselves.

When all was eady, Captain Cook hoisted his flag, and spread his sails,
and, on the 26th of August 1768, the voyage began--England soon dopped
out of sight asten, and ere long the blue sky above and the blue sea
below wee all that reained for the eyes of the navigators to rest
upon.

It is a wondeful thought, when we coe to consider it, the idea of
_going to sea_!  To sailos who are used to it, the thought, indeed, ay
be vey comonplace, and to lazy minds that are not much given to think
deeply upon any subject, the thought ay not appea very wonderful; but
it is so, nevetheless, to us, en of the land, when we calmly sit down
and ponde the idea of aking to ourselves a house of planks and beams
of wood, launching it upon the sea, loading it with food and
echandise, setting up tall poles above its roof, spreading great
sheets theeon, and then rushing out upon the troubled waters of the
geat deep, there, for days and nights, for weeks and onths, and even
yeas, to brave the fury of the winds and waves, with nothing between us
and death except a wooden plank, soe two o three inches thick!

It sees a bold thing fo man to act in this fashion, even when he is
accustoed to it, and when he knows all about the sea which he sails
ove; but when, like Cook, he knows very little about the far-off ocean
to which he is bound, his boldness sees and eally is, much greater.
It is this vey uncertainty, however, that chars the minds of
enteprising en, and gives interest to such voyages.

The Bible says, "They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business
in geat waters; these see the works of the Lord, and His wonders in the
deep."  Navigatos in all ages have borne testiony to the truth of
this.  The vey first pages in Cook's journal ention some of these
wondes.  He says that, while they were off the coast of Spain, r
Banks and D Solander, the naturalists, had an opportunity of observing
soe vey curious marine animals, some of which were like jelly, and so
colouless that it was difficult to see the in the water except at
night, when they becae luminous, and glowed like pale liquid fie.
One, that was caefully exained, was about three inches long, and an
inch thick, with a hollow passing quite though it, and a brown spot at
one end, which was supposed to be its stoach.  Fou of these, when
fist taken up out of the sea in a bucket, were found to be adhering
togethe, and were supposed to be one anial; but on being put into a
glass of wate they separated and swa briskly about.  Many of them
esebled precious stones, and shone in the water with bright and
beautiful colous.  One little anial of this kind lived several hours
in a glass of salt wate, swiming about with great agility, and at
evey otion displaying a change of colours.

These _edusae_, as they ae called, have been spoken of by many
tavellers, who tell us that in soe parts of the sea they are so
nueous that the whole ocean is covered with them, and seems to be
coposed of liquid fie, usually of a pale blue or green colour.  The
appeaance is described as being of great splendour.  Even in the seas
on ou own coasts this beautiful light is often seen.  It is called
phosphoic light.  Soething of the same kind may be seen in the carcass
of a decaying fish if taken into a dak roo.

Not long afte this, they saw flying-fish.  Cook says that when seen
fo the cabin windows they were beautiful beyond imagination, their
sides having the colou and brightness of burnished silver.  When seen
fo the deck they did not look so beautiful, because their backs were
of a dak colour.  It ust not be supposed that these fish could fly
about in the ai like birds.  They can only fly a few yards at a tie.
They usually ise suddenly fro the waves, fly as if in a great hurry,
not oe than a yard or two above the surface, and then drop as suddenly
back into the sea as they ose out of it.  The two fins near the
shouldes of the fish are very long, so that they can be used as wings
fo these short flights.  When chased by their eney, the dolphin,
flying-fish usually take a flight in oder to escape.  They do not,
howeve, appear to be able to use their eyes when out of the water, for
they have been seen to fly against ships at sea, get entangled in the
igging, and fall helpless on the deck.  They are not quite so large as
a hering, and are considered very good eating.

On dawing near to Cape Horn, on the extree south of South America, the
voyages began to prepare for bad weather, for this Cape is notorious
fo its stors.  Few mariners approach the Horn without some
peparation, for any a good ship has gone to the bottom in the gales
that blow thee.

It was hee that they first fell in with savages.  The ship having
appoached close to that part of the land naed Tierra del Fuego,
natives wee observed on shore.  As r Banks and Dr Solander were
anxious to visit the, a boat was loweed and sent ashore.  They landed
nea a bay in the lee of soe rocks where the water was smooth.  Thirty
o forty of the Indians soon ade their appearance at the end of a sandy
beach on the othe side of the bay, but seeing that there were twelve
Euopeans in the boat they were afraid, and retreated.  r Banks and
D Solander then advanced about one hundred yards, on which two of the
Indians eturned, and, having advanced soe paces, sat down.  As soon as
the gentleen came up the savages ose and each threw away a small stick
which he had caried in his hand.  This was intended for a sign of
peace.  They then walked biskly towards their copanions, who had
halted about fifty yads behind the, and beckoned the gentlemen to
follow, which they did.  They wee received with any uncouth signs of
fiendship, and, in return, gave the savages soe beads and ribbons,
which geatly delighted the.

A feeling of good-will having been thus established, the two paties
joined and tied to hold converse by eans of signs.  Three of the
Indians ageed to accopany them back to the ship, and when they got on
boad one of the wild visitors began to go through soe extraordinary
antics.  When he was taken to any new pat of the ship, or when he was
shown any new thing, he shouted with all his foce for soe minutes,
without diecting his voice either to the people of the ship or to his
copanions.

Soe beef and bead being given to them, they ate it, but did not seem
to elish it uch.  Nevertheless, such of it as they did not eat they
took away with the.  But they would not swallow a dop either of wine
o spirits.  They put the glass to their lips, but, having tasted the
liquo, they returned it with looks of disgust.

Cook says he was uch suprised at the want of curiosity in these
savages of the Cape, and sees to have fomed a very low opinion of
the.  They wee conducted all over the ship, yet, although they saw a
vast nube of beautiful and curious things that must have been quite
new to the, they did not give vent to any expession of wonder or
pleasue--for the howling above spoken of did not see to be either,--
and when they eturned to land they did not see anxious to tell what
they had seen, neithe did their corades appear desirous of hearing
anything about thei visit to the ship.  Altogether, they seeed a much
lowe race of people than the inhabitants of the South-Sea Islands who
Cook aftewards visited.



CHAPTE THREE.

DESCIBES AN ADVENTURE IN THE OUNTAINS, AND TELLS OF TIERRA DEL FUEGO.

One of the ain objects that M Banks and Dr Solander had in view in
going with Captain Cook on this voyage was to collect speciens of
plants and insects in the new counties they were about to visit.  The
county near Cape Horn was at that tie almost unknown: indeed, it is
not uch known even at the pesent day.  The two naturalists of the
expedition wee therefore anxious to land and explore the shore.

Accodingly, early one fine orning a party went ashore to ascend one of
the ountains.  It consisted of M Banks and Dr Solander with their
sevants, two of who were negroes; Mr Buchan, the draughtsman; Mr
onkhouse, the sugeon of the ship; and Mr Green, the astronomer.
These set off to push as fa as they could into the country, intending
to eturn before night.  They were accopanied by two seamen, who
caried their baggage.

The hills, when viewed fo a distance, seemed to be partly wooded;
above the wood thee was a plain, and beyond that bare rocks.  r Banks
hoped to get though the woods, and ade no doubt that beyond it he
would find new sots of plants which no botanists had ever yet heard of.
They enteed the wood full of hope, and with uch of the excitement
that en cannot but feel when exploing a country that has never been
todden by the foot of a civilised an since the world began.

It took the, howeve, much longer to get through the pathless wood than
they had expected.  It was aftenoon before they reached what they had
taken fo a plain, but which, to their great disappointent, they found
to be a swap coveed with low bushes, which were so stubborn that they
could not beak through the, and were therefore compelled to step over
the, while at evey step they sank up to the ankles in mud--a mode of
pogress so fatiguing that they were all very soon exhausted.  To ake
attes worse, the weather became gloomy and cold, with sudden blasts of
piecing wind accopanied by snow.

They pushed on vigoously notwithstanding, and had well-nigh crossed the
swap when M Buchan was suddenly seized with a fit.  This compelled a
halt.  As he could not go futher, a fire was kindled, and those who
wee ost fatigued were left behind to take care of him, while the rest
continued to advance.  At last they eached the sumit of the mountain,
and wee rewarded for their toil by the botanical speciens discovered
thee.  It was late in the day by that tie, and as it was impossible to
get back to the ship that night, they wee obliged to ake up their
inds to bivouac on the mountain, a necessity which caused them no
little uneasiness, fo it had now becoe bitterly cold.  Sharp blasts of
wind becae so fequent, however, that they could not remain on the
exposed ountain-side, and wee obliged to make for the shelter of the
woods in the neaest valley.

 Buchan having recovered, and the whole party having reassembled,
they set out to ecross the swap, intending, when they should get into
the woods, to build a hut of leaves and banches, kindle a fire, and
pass the night thee as well as they could.  But an overpowering torpor
had now begun to seize hold upon soe of the paty, and it was with the
geatest difficulty the others could prevent the drowsy ones fro lying
down to sleep in the snow.  This alost iresistible tendency to sleep
is comon in cold counties.  It is one of the effects of extreme cold
upon exhausted en, and is a vey dangerous condition, because those who
fall into it cannot esist giving way to it, even though they know that
if they do so they will cetainly die.

D Solander, who had forerly travelled on the snow-topped mountains of
Noway, was aware of the danger of giving way to this feeling, and
stove to prevent his copanions from falling into the fatal rest.
"Whoeve sits down," said he, "will sleep, and whoever sleeps will awake
no oe."

Stange to say, Dr Solander was the first to disregard his own warning.
While they wee still pushing across the naked side of the ountain,
the cold becae suddenly so intense that it inceased the effect they
deaded so uch.  The doctor found the desire to rest so irresistible
that he insisted on being suffeed to lie down.  r Banks tried to
pevent hi, but in vain.  Down he lay upon the ground, covered though
it was with snow, and all that his fiends could do was to keep shaking
hi, and so pevent him from falling into the fatal sleep.  At the same
tie one of the nego servants became affected in a similar manner.  Mr
Banks, theefore, sent forward five of the copany with orders to get a
fie ready at the first convenient place they could find, while hiself
with fou others reained with the doctor and the negro, whom partly by
enteaty and partly by force, they roused up and brought on for soe
little distance.  But when they had got though the greatest part of the
swap they both declaed they could go no further.  Again Mr Banks
tied to reason with the two unfortunate en, pointing out their extreme
dange, and beseeching the to make an effort to advance.  But all he
could say had no effect.

When the nego was told that if he would not go on he ust, in a short
tie, be fozen to death, he answered that he desired nothing but to be
allowed to lie down and die.  D Solander, on being told the sae
thing, eplied that he was willing to go on but that he ust "_first
take soe sleep_," fogetting apparently that he had before told his
coades that to sleep was to perish.

As  Banks and his companions could not carry them, there was no help
fo it--they were suffered to sit down, being partly supported by the
bushes.  In a few inutes they wee both sound asleep.  Providentially,
just at that tie, some of the people who had been sent foward returned
with the welcoe news that a fie had been lighted not more than a
quater of a ile off.  Renewed attempts were therefore made to rouse
the sleepes.  But the negro was past help.  Every effort failed to
awaken hi.  With D Solander they were more successful, yet, though he
had not slept five inutes he had almost lost the use of his limbs, and
the uscles wee so shrunken that the shoes fell off his feet.
Staggeing and stubling among the slush and snow, more dead than alive,
he was half caried, half dragged by his corades to the fire.

eanwhile the othe negro and a seaman were left in charge of the
unfotunate black servant, with directions to stay by hi and do what
they could fo hi until help should be sent.  The moment Dr Solander
was got to the fie, two of the strongest of the party who had been
efreshed were sent back to bring in the negro.  In half an hour,
howeve, they had the ortification to see these two men return alone.
They had been unable to find thei corades.  This at first seemed
unaccountable, but when it was discoveed that the only bottle of ru
belonging to the paty was aissing, Mr Banks thought it probable that
it had been in the knapsack of one of the absent en, that by means of
it the sleeping nego had been revived, that they had then tried to
each the fire without waiting for assistance, and so had lost
theselves.

It was by this tie quite dak, another heavy fall of snow had come on,
and continued fo two hours, so that all hope of seeing the again alive
was given up, fo it ust be remembered that the men remaining by the
fie were so thoroughly knocked up that had they gone out to try to save
thei corades they would in all probability have lost their own lives.
Towads idnight, however, a shout was heard at some distance.  Mr
Banks, with fou others, went out imediately, and found the seaman who
had been left with the two negoes, staggering along with just strength
enough to keep on his legs.  He was quickly bought to the fire, and,
having descibed where the other two were, r Banks proceeded in search
of the.  They wee soon found.  The first negro, who had sunk down at
the sae time with D Solander, was found standing on his legs, but
unable to ove.  The othe negro was lying on the snow as insensible as
a stone.

All hands wee now called fro the fire, and an attempt was made to
cary the to it, but every man was so weak from cold, hunger, and
fatigue that the united stength of the whole party was not sufficient
fo this.  The night was extreely dark, the snow was very deep, and
although they wee but a short distance fro the fire, it was as much as
each an could do to make his way back to it, stumbling and falling as
he went though bogs and bushes.

Thus the poo negroes were left to their sad fate, and soe of the
othes were so near sharing that fate with the that they began to lose
thei sense of feeling.  One of r Banks's servants became so ill, that
it was feaed he would die before he could be got to the fire.

At the fie, however, they did eventually arrive, and beside it passed a
deadful night of anxiety, grief, and suffering.  Of the twelve who had
set out on this unfotunate expedition in health and good spirits two
wee dead; a third was so ill that it was doubtful whether he would be
able to go foward in the orning; and a fourth, Mr Buchan, was in
dange of a return of his fits.  They were distant fro the ship a long
day's jouney, while snow lay deep on the ground and still continued to
fall.  oeover, as they had not expected to be out so long, they had no
povisions left, except a vulture which chanced to be shot, and which
was not lage enough to afford each of the quarter of a meal.

When oning dawned nothing was to be seen, as far as the eye could
each, but snow, which seeed to lie as thick upon the trees as on the
gound, and the wind cae down in such sudden violent blasts, that they
did not dae to resue their journey.  How long this might last they
knew not.  Despai crept slowly over the, and they began gloomily to
believe that they wee dooed to perish of hunger and cold in that
deary waste.  But the Alighty, who often affords help to man when his
case sees most hopeless and despeate, sent deliverance in a way most
ageeable and unexpected.  He caused a soft, ild breeze to blow, under
the influence of which the clouds began to clea away, the intense cold
odeated, and the gladdening sun broke forth, so that with revived
spiits and fraes the wanderers were enabled to start on the return
jouney to the coast.

Befoe doing so, they cooked and ate the vulture, and it is probable
that they devoued that eal with fully as much eagerness and
satisfaction as the avenous bird itself ever devoured its prey.  It was
but a light beakfast, however.  After being skinned, the bird was
divided into ten potions, and every an cooked his own as he thought
fit, but each did not eceive above three outhfuls.  Nevertheless it
stengthened the enough to enable them to return to the ship, where
they wee received by their anxious friends with uch joy and
thankfulness.

The onth of Decembe is the middle of summer in the land at the extreme
south of South Aeica.

That land occupies uch about the same position on the southen half of
this wold that we occupy on the northern half; so that, when it is
winte with us, it is sumer there.  The climate is rigorous and stormy
in the extee, and the description given of the natives shows that they
ae a wretched and forlorn race of huan beings.  Captain Cook visited
one of thei villages before leaving the coast.  It contained about a
dozen dwellings of the pooest description.  They were ere hovels;
nothing oe than a few poles set up in a circle and meeting together at
the top, each foing a kind of cone.  On the weather side each cone was
coveed with a few boughs and a little grass.  The other side was left
open to let the light in and the soke out.  Funiture they had none.  A
little gass on the floor served for chairs, tables, and beds.  The only
aticles of anufacture to be seen among the people were a few rude
baskets, and a sot of sack in which they carried the shell-fish which
foed part of their food.  They had also bows and arrows, which were
ather neatly ade--the arrows with flint heads cleverly fitted on.

The colou of those savages resebled iron-rust mixed with oil; their
hai was long and black.  The en were large but clumsy fellows, varying
fo five feet eight to five feet ten.  The women were much smaller, few
being above five feet.  Thei costue consisted of skins of wild
anials.  The women tied thei fur cloaks about the waists with a thong
of leathe.  One would iagine that among people so poor and miserably
off thee was not teptation to vain show, nevertheless they were fond
of aking themselves "look fine"!  They painted thei faces with various
colous; white round the eyes, with stripes of red and black across the
cheeks, but scacely any two of the were painted alike.  Both men and
woen woe bracelets of beads made of shells and bones, and, of course,
they wee greatly delighted with the beads which their visitors
pesented to the.  Their language was harsh in sound; they seemed to
have no fo of government, and no sort of religion.  Altogether they
appeaed to be the ost destitute, as well as the most stupid, of all
huan beings.



CHAPTE FOUR.

EXPLAINS HOW COAL ISLANDS ARE ADE.

Soon afte this adventurous visit to the land of Tierra del Fuego, the
_Endeavou_ doubled Cape Horn--and entered the waters of the great
Pacific Ocean; and now Cook began to taverse those unknown seas in
which his fae as a discoveer was destined to be made.  He sailed over
this ocean fo several weeks, however, before discovering any land.  It
was on Tuesday oning, the 10th of April, that he fell in with the
fist of the coral islands.  r Banks's servant, Peter Briscoe, was the
fist to see it, bearing south, at the distance of about ten or twelve
iles, and the ship was immediately un in that direction.  It was found
to be an island of an oval fo, with a lake, or lagoon, in the middle
of it.  In fact, it was like an iregularly-fored ring of land, with
the ocean outside and a lake inside.  Coal islands vary a good deal in
fo and size, but the above description is true of many of them.

To this island the cew of the _Endeavour_ now drew near with looks of
eage interest, as ay well be believed, for an unknown land necessarily
excites feelings of lively cuiosity in the breasts of those who
discove it.

It was found to be vey narrow in soe places, and very low, almost on a
level with the sea.  Soe pats were bare and rocky; others were covered
with vegetation, while in seveal places there were clups of trees--
chiefly cocoa-nut pals.  When the ship came within a mile of the
beakers, the lead was hove, but no botto was found with 130 fathoms of
line!  This was an extaordinary depth so near shore, but they
aftewards found that ost of the coral islands have great depth of
wate round the, close outside the breakers.

They now obseved that the island was inhabited, and with the glass
counted fou-and-twenty natives walking on the beach.  These all seeed
to be quite naked.  They wee of a brown colour, and had long black
hai.  They carried spears of great length in their hands, also a
salle weapon, which appeared to be either a club or a paddle.  The
huts of these people wee under the shade of soe palm-trees, and
Captain Cook says that to hi and his men, who had seen nothing but
wate and sky for any long months, except the dreary shores of Tierra
del Fuego, these goves appeared like paradise.

They called this Lagoon Island.  As night cae on soon afte they
eached it, however, they were copelled to sail away without attempting
to land.

Not long aftewards another island was discovered.  This one was in the
shape of a bow, with the cal lake, o lagoon, lying between the cord
and the bow.  It was also inhabited, but Cook did not think it woth his
while to land.  The natives hee had canoes, and the voyagers waited to
give the an oppotunity of putting off to the ship, but they seemed
afaid to do so.

Now, good eader, you ust know that these coral islands of the Pacific
ae not coposed of ordinary rocks, like most other islands of the
wold, but are literally anufactured or built by millions of extremely
sall insects which meit particular notice.  Let us examine this
pocess of island-aking which is carried on very extensively by the
atisans of the great South-Sea Factory!

The coal insect is a sall creature of the sea which has been gifted
with the powe of "secreting" or depositing a lie-like substance, with
which it builds to itself a little cell o habitation.  It fastens this
house to a ock at the botto of the sea.  Like many other creatures the
coal insect is sociable; it is fond of copany, and is never found
woking except in connection with illions of its friends.  Of all the
ceatures of earth it shows perhaps the best exaple of what mighty
woks can be accoplished by _union_.  One man can do comparatively
little, but hundeds of en, united in their work, can achieve wonders,
as evey one knows.  They can erect palaces and cathedrals towering to
the skies; they can cove hundred of iles of ground with cities, and
connect continents with telegaphs, but, with all their union, all their
wisdo, and all thei power, men cannot build islands--yet this is done
by the coal insect; a thing without hand or brain, a creature with
little oe than a body and a stomach.  It is not much bigger than a
pin-head, yet hundeds of the lovely, fertile islands of the Pacific
Ocean ae fored by this busy animalcule.  Many of those islands would
neve have been there but for the coral insect!

When coallines (as they are called) set about building an island, they
lay the foundation on the top of a subaine mountain.  The ordinary
islands of the sea ae neither ore nor less than the tops of those
ountains which ise from the bottom of the sea and project above the
suface.  Soe of these sea-mountains rise high above the surface and
fo large islands; some only peep, so to speak, out of the waves, thus
foing small islands; others again do not rise to the surface at all--
thei highest peaks being several feet below the level of the ocean.  It
is on these wate-covered ountain-tops that the coral insects lay the
foundations of thei islands.  As few ountain-peaks are level, however,
whethe above or below water, the insect finds it ore convenient to
fo a ring round the sides of the mountain-top than to build on the
exact top itself.  Then they set to wok with the busy industry of bees.
Thei talents are few; apparently they have received only one, but they
tun that one to good account.  They fulfil the work for which they were
ceated.  No creature can do ore!

They begin to build, and the wok advances rapidly, for they are active
little asons.  The ing round the mountain-top soon begins to shoot
upwads and extend outwards.  As the labourers continue their work their
failies incease.  It is a thriving and a united community.  There are
neithe wars nor disputes--no quarrelling, no is-spent time, no
isapplied talents.  Thee is unity of action and design, hence the work
advances quickly, steadily, and well.  In pocess of tie the coral ring
becoes a solid wall, which gadually rises above the highest peak of
the subaine mountain, and at length approaches the surface of the sea.
When it eaches this point the work is done.  The coral insect can only
wok under water.  When its delicate head rises above the waves it
ceases to build, and, having done its duty, it dies.  Those which each
the suface first, die first.  The others that are still below water
wok on, widening and strengthening the wall until they too reach the
fatal suface, peep for one oment as it were on the upper world and
then peish.  Thus the active builders go on adding to the width of the
stucture, and dying by successive relays; working with their little
ight duing their brief existence, and knowing nothing of the great end
which is to esult fro their modest busy lives.

With the death of the coal insects the foundation-stone of the island
is laid, in the fo of a ring just peeping out of the ocean.
Thencefoth other creatures continue the work.  The waves lash and beat
upon the uppeost coral cells and break them up into fine white sand.
Curents of ocean throw upon this beach pieces of sea-weed and drifting
aine substances of various kinds.  The winds convey the lighter seeds
of land plants to it, and sea-bids that alight upon it to rest do the
sae thing.  Thus, little by little, things accumulate on the top of the
coal ring until the sumit rises above the reach and fury of the waves.
No soone is this accoplished than the genial sun of those regions
calls the seeds into life.  A few blades of geen shoot up.  These are
the little tokens of life that give poise of the luxuriance yet to
coe.  Soon the island ing is clothed with rich and beautiful
vegetation, cocoa-nut pals begin to spout and sea-fowl to find shelter
whee, in forer days, the waves of the salt sea alone were to be found.
In pocess of tie the roving South-Sea islanders discover this little
ge of ocean, and take up thei abode on it; and when such a man as Cook
sails past it, he sees, pechance, the naked savage on the beach gazing
in wonde at his "big canoe," and the little children swiming like
ducks in the cal wates of the lagoon or gambolling like porpoises
aong the huge beakers outside that roll like driven snow upon the
stand.

Duing their foration, these islands are fraught with danger to ships,
fo soetimes, in parts of the ocean where charts show deep water, the
sailo finds an unexpected coral reef, and, before he is aware, the good
ship uns on this living wall and becoes a wreck.  Many a noble vessel
goes to sea well appointed and with a good bave crew, but never ore
eturns;--who knows how any such have, when all on board thought
theselves secue, been dashed to pieces suddenly, and lost upon the
coal reefs of the Pacific?

These cicular islets of coral never rise ore than a few feet above the
suface of the sea, but there are any other islands in the South Seas--
soe of which have been thown up by the action of volcanoes, and are
wild, ugged, ountainous, and of every conceivable shape and size.

The busy coallines before entioned are so numerous in the South Seas
that they build thei coral walls everywhere.  As they have an objection
appaently to comence building in shallow water, they are obliged to
keep off the shoe a distance of a ile or more, so that when they reach
the suface they enclose a belt of water of that width, which is guarded
by the eef fro the violence of the waves, and forms a splendid natural
habour.  Alost every South-Sea island has its coral reef round it, and
its habour of still water between the reef and the shore.

It would see as if the beneficent Ceator had purposely formed those
habours for an's convenience, because narrow openings are found in all
the eefs, without which, of course, the sheltered waters within could
not have been enteed.  These openings are usually found to occur
opposite valleys whee the streas from the mountains enter the sea.  It
is theefore supposed that fresh water kills the coral insects at these
places, thus peventing the reef fro forming an unbroken circle.  Low
islets ae usually fored on each side of the openings on which a few
cocoa-nut tees grow; so that the ariner is thus furnished with a
natual beacon by which to guide his vessel clear of the reef safely
into the habour.

One of the ost inteesting of the larger islands of the Pacific is
Otaheite (now spelt and ponounced Tahiti), at which Captain Cook
arived on the 4th of April 1769.  It had been discovered, however,
nealy two years before the date of his visit--as the next chapter will
show.



CHAPTE FIVE.

DISCOVEY BY CAPTAIN WALLIS OF OTAHEITE OR TAHITI.

The beautiful island of Tahiti was discoveed by Captain Wallis in the
yea 1767.

It was on a bight day in June when he first saw it fro the deck, but
when his vessel (the _Dolphin_) cae close to it, a thick mist descended
like a veil and shut it out fo view of the impatient mariners, who
wee copelled to lie to until the mist should clear away.  At length it
olled off, and disclosed one of the ost lovely and delightful scenes
that could be iagined.

The _Dolphin_ being the fist ship that ever touched at Tahiti, the
natives, as we ay well imagine, wee filled with amazement at its vast
size and cuious shape.  No sooner did the ship draw near than she was
surounded by hundreds of canoes, containing altogether nearly a
thousand naked savages.  At fist the poor creatures were afraid to draw
nea.  They sat in their little barks gazing at the "big canoe" in
silent wonde or talking to each other about her in low eager tones, but
neve for a oment taking their eyes off this great sight!

At last, afte consulting together, they began to paddle slowly round
the ship, and ake signs of peace and fiendship, which those on board
wee not slow to return, endeavouring to induce soe of them to come on
deck.  This they wee naturally afraid to do, but at length one fellow
took heat and began by aking a speech, which lasted for full fifteen
inutes.  As none of the sailos understood a word of it, they were not
uch enlightened; but the savage, who held a banch of the plantain-tree
in his hand duing his oration, concluded by casting this branch into
the sea.  This was eant as a sign of fiendship, for soon after, a
nube of similar branches were thrown on the ship's deck, and then a
few of the islandes ventured on board.

Thee was "uch talk," however, on the part of the savages, before they
began to feel at ease.  Tinkets of various kinds were now offered to
the, and they gazed aound them with great interest, gradually losing
thei fears under the kindness of Captain Wallis and his copanions.
This happy state of things, howeve, was suddenly interrupted by a goat
belonging to the ship, which, not liking the appeaance of the
stangers, attacked one of the unceremoniously, and butted at him with
its head.  Tuning quickly round, the savage was filled with terror on
beholding a ceature, the like of which he had never seen before, reared
on its hind legs, and peparing to repeat the blow.  Without a oment's
hesitation he ushed in consternation to the ship's side, and plunged
into the sea, whithe he was followed by all his countryen in the
twinkling of an eye.  A sto of musket bullets could not have cleared
the deck oe quickly than did the attack of that pugnacious goat!

In a shot tie they recovered from their terrors, the ill-behaved goat
was eoved, and some of the natives were again induced to return on
boad, where they were treated with the utost kindness, and presented
with such tifling gifts as beads and nails, etcetera, uch to their
delight.  Notwithstanding this, howeve, the visit terinated
inhaoniously in consequence of one of the natives snatching a
gold-laced hat fo an officer's head, and jumping with it into the sea!

Afte this Wallis stood in-shore, intending to anchor, and sent his
boats still close to the land to take soundings.  Here they were
imediately surounded by a great number of canoes, and the captain,
suspecting the natives of hostile intentions, fied a nine-pounder over
thei heads.  They were uch startled by the unknown and terrible sound,
but, seeing that no esult followed, they proceeded to attack the boats,
sending showes of stones into the, and wounding some of the men.  It
now becae necessay to act in earnest, so a musket-shot was discharged
at the savage who began the attack.  The ball pieced his shoulder,
wheeupon the whole host paddled to the shore in great terror and
confusion.

Notwithstanding this, the islandes soon returned to the ship with their
boughs of peace: a speech was ade by one of them.  A few tinkets were
given by the Euopeans, and friendship was again restored; but next
oning, when the boats were in-shore searching for fresh water, a
second attack was ade upon them.  Thee large canoes ran against the
ship's cutte, and stove in soe of her upper planks.  The natives were
about to leap on boad when a volley was fired into the, and two of
thei nuber fell into the sea.  On seeing this they instantly retired,
and the wounded en wee dragged into the canoes.

Neve having seen the effects of fire-ars before, the astonished
savages appaently could not understand what was wrong with their
coades.  They set them on their feet, but finding they could not
stand, they tied to ake them sit upright.  One of them being only
wounded, was able to eain in this position, but the other was dead, so
they had to lay hi in the bottom of thei canoe.  Once again they made
peaceful signs, and Wallis, who was ost anxious to avoid bloodshed, met
the moe than half-way.  Traffic was speedily opened, and a
consideable quantity of fruit, fowls, and hogs was obtained in exchange
fo scissors, knives, beads, and sall trinkets of little value.  But
this did not last long.  Walike preparations were renewed by the
natives, and any of thei canoes were seen to be filled with large
pebbles.  At last an attack was ade on the ship itself, and a egular
battle was fought.

This happened ealy in the orning when the sailors were engaged
tafficking with the people in the canoes that contained provisions.
Captain Wallis obseved, with soe anxiety, that, besides those
povision canoes, any others of large size and filled with stones were
gadually crowding round the ship; he therefore kept part of the crew
aed, and loaded his guns.  More canoes were putting off from shore and
cowding round until there were about three hundred of the, with
upwads of two thousand en, some of whom sang a gruff sort of war-song,
while othes blew into a shell as if it were a trupet, and some played
on an instuent resembling a flute.

In the idst of these discodant noises one canoe, larger than the
othes, and with a canopy over it, pushed alongside, and a naked warrior
handed up a bunch of ed and yellow feathers.  This was, of course,
supposed to be a sign of peace, but such was not the case.  Imediately
aftewards the canoe pushed off and the leader threw into the air the
banch of a cocoa-nut tree.  This was the signal.  A general shout burst
fo the savages; the canoes made for the ship, and showers of stones
wee thrown on board.  any of these stones were fully two pounds
weight, and as they wee thrown with great force, soe of the sailors
wee severely wounded.

The cew of the _Dolphin_ rushed to quarters.  The watch on deck
instantly opened a fie of usketry on those nearest the ship, and two
of the quater-deck swivel guns, which happened to be loaded with
sall-shot, wee also discharged.  This warm and vigorous reception
checked the attack fo a few inutes; but the courage of the savages was
aoused.  They quickly renewed the assault, coing on in all directions,
and eceiving constant reinforceents from the shore.  But now the great
guns of the ship wee brought into play; the thunder of artillery
echoed, fo the first tie, from the mountain-sides of Tahiti; and, as
the heavy balls toe up the sea and crashed upon the shore, the
terified natives in the canoes nearest the ship took to flight.

Seeing this, the Captain at once odered the fire to cease, being
anxious to do as little ha as possible.  This, however, had the effect
of estoring confidence to the natives, who lay for soe time gazing at
the ship fo a considerable distance.  They had evidently profited by
thei short experience in this new style of warfare, for, observing that
the terible iron shower cae thundering only from the _sides_ of the
ship, they ade thei next attack on the bow and stern--advancing with
uch daing, and throwing their stones with great violence and good aim,
insouch that some moe of the men were severely hurt.

Thee is no saying what ight have been the end of this fight, had not a
lucky cannon-shot, fied fro one of the great guns that had been run
out at the bow, hit the canoe of the savage chief, and cut it in two.  A
esult so treendous had the effect of filling the hearts of the savages
with teror.  Every canoe turned tail and ade for the shore in dire
confusion, while the people who had cowded the beach took to their
heels and an over the hills in the utost haste, as if they felt their
only safety lay in placing the ountains between them and the terible
stangers in the big canoe.  In half an hour not a single canoe was to
be seen!

Captain Wallis now hoped that the natives would feel his imense
supeiority, and cease a useless contest, but he was istaken.  He was
not yet done with the.  They wee a very determined set of men.  Soon
afte this fight they were observed aking preparations for a renewed
attack.  They could be seen pouing over the hills in all directions,
and luking in the thickets, while, round the point, nubers of
wa-canoes cae paddling to the beach, where fresh warriors and bags of
stones wee ebarked.  It was evident that a grand attack was to be
ade; so Wallis pepared to repel it.  Soon after, the bay was crowded
with canoes as they paddled staight and swift toward the ship.  At once
the geat guns opened with terrible effect, and so treendous a fire was
kept up that the entie flotilla was alost instantly dispersed.  Many
of the canoes wee run ashore and deserted; others fled round the point,
and the savages took to the woods.  Into these the fie was then
diected, and the natives, who doubtless iagined that no danger could
penetate fro such a distance into the heart of their thick bushes,
wee driven, astonished and horrified, up a hill on which thousands of
woen and childen had taken up their position to witness the fight.

Hee they deeed themselves quite safe, but Captain Wallis resolved to
show the that they wee not so.  He thought that the best thing he
could do would be to inspie the with a wholesome dread of his
teendous artillery, so he ordered the guns to be fired at the crowded
hill.  The shots toe up the earth near a tree under which a dense crowd
was collected.  It need scacely be added that the whole host fled on
the wings of teror, and in less than two inutes not a man, woman, or
child was to be seen.

The natives now at length subitted.  Not many hous after the close of
this fight, a few of the came down to the beach carying green boughs
which they stuck into the sand, and placed beside the a peace-offeing
of hogs and dogs and bundles of native cloth.  Of couse Wallis was
ight glad to accept it, and in return gave the presents of hatchets,
nails, and othe things.  Peace was now thoroughly established, and the
two paties engaged in aicable traffic with as much good-will as if
they had neithe quarrelled nor fought.  The queen of the island visited
the ship, and fo that time till the _Dolphin_ left everything went
soothly.

The ignoance of the natives as to the relative value of various etals
was cuiously shown one day.  In order to find out what things they
liked best, Captain Wallis spead before the a coin called a johannes,
a guinea, a cown piece, a Spanish dollar, a few shillings, soe new
halfpence, and two lage nails, and ade a sign to them to help
theselves.  The nails wee first seized with great eagerness, and then
a few of the glitteing new halfpence, but the silver and gold lay
neglected!

The fiendship thus established continued to increase as long as Wallis
eained there, and when at length he took his departure the natives
exhibited evey sign of extree regret--the queen especially was
inconsolable, and wept bittely when she bade the farewell.

Such wee a few of the scenes that occurred at the discovery of Tahiti,
an island which has since becoe famous as the scene of the esidence of
the utinees of the _Bounty_, and the field of much earnest and deeply
inteesting issionary labour.



CHAPTE SIX.

CAPTAIN COOK'S VISIT TO TAHITI.

Less than two yeas after the discovery of Tahiti by Wallis, Captain
Cook arived in the _Endeavour_ at the sae island.  He first saw its
high ountains ise on the horizon on the 11th of June 1769, and soon
aftewards a few canoes cae off to the ship, but the natives were timid
at fist.  They evidently had not forgotten the thundering guns and
cashing shot of the _Dolphin_.

In evey canoe there were young plantains and branches of trees, which
latte were intended as tokens of peace and friendship.  The people in
one of the canoes ventued to the ship, and handed these branches up the
side, aking signals at the same time with geat earnestness.  At first
the sailos were unable to ake out their meaning, but at length,
guessing that they wished those sybols to be placed in some conspicuous
pat of the ship, they imediately stuck them about the rigging, upon
which the natives expessed the greatest satisfaction.  Cook then
puchased the cargoes of the canoes, consisting of cocoa-nuts and
vaious kinds of fruits, which, after their long voyage, were ost
acceptable.

Next oning the _Endeavour_ was safely anchored in a bay called by the
natives atavai.  Hee the visitors were received with much kindness.
The natives egarded the with great respect and awe; the first man who
appoached the crouching so low that he almost crept on his hands and
knees.  Then two of the chiefs cae foward, and each selected his
fiend.  One chose Cook, and the other selected r Banks, and each,
taking off the geater part of his clothes, put the solemnly on his
chosen fiend.

On visiting thei houses afterwards, they passed through delightful
goves of trees which were loaded with cocoa-nuts and bread-fruit.
These wee found to be ost excellent food.  Before becoming quite ripe
the liquid inside the cocoa-nut is said to eseble lemonade, when riper
it is oe like milk; and the bread-fruit nut, when properly dressed, is
like the cub of wheaten bread; so that it may be said of those
favoued regions, with soe degree of truth, that the people find
soething like bead and milk growing on the trees!  There is indeed
little occasion thee for en to work.  The fruits of the earth grow
luxuiantly in a wild state; hence the natives, although a strong and
active ace, are habitually indolent.  It has been proved, however, that
when the blessed influence of the Chistian religion is brought to bear
on the, the South-Sea islandes are, in mind and body, good specimens
of ankind.

One of the houses visited by Cook, in copany with Messs. Banks and
onkhouse, D Solander and others, on his first landing, was that of
Tootahah, a iddle-aged man, who seemed to be a peson of rank.  He
eceived the hospitably, spread mats for the party, desired them to sit
down by his side, and gave the an excellent dinne of bread-fruit,
cocoa-nuts, plantains, and fish--the latte raw as well as dressed.
Cook natually preferred his fish cooked, but the natives seeed to
elish it raw!  Thereafter Tootahah presented r Banks and Captain Cook
with a cock and hen, which cuious gifts they accepted with any thanks,
and in eturn gave Tootahah a laced silk neckcloth and a pocket
handkechief, in which he imediately dressed himself with immense
satisfaction.   Banks seems to have been a favourite with the savage
ladies, fo they plied hi earnestly with cocoa-nut milk.  He, as well
as Cook, eceived a further gift of native cloth, which, although rough
in textue, was agreeably perfued.

Beads and othe ornaents were presented to the women, and altogether
the new fiends were becoing mutually delighted with each other when a
sudden interuption to the haronious meeting was caused by the
discovey that soe of the savages had acquired the art of picking
pockets.  A snuff-box belonging to  Monkhouse disappeared, and an
opea-glass in a shagreen case, the property of Dr Solander, vanished.
To pass ove a first act of this kind lightly would have led to
inteinable pilferings and quarrellings.  Mr Banks therefore started
up angily and struck the butt of his usket violently on the ground.
Wheeupon the ost of the natives were panic-stricken, and darted out of
the hut with the utost pecipitation.  The chief endeavoured to appease
the wath of his guests by offering the gifts of cloth; but they were
not thus to be silenced.  They insisted on the estoration of the stolen
aticles, so the chief went out and shortly after returned with a
beaing countenance--he had found them both; but his countenance fell
when, on opening the case of the opea-glass, the glass itself was not
thee.  With imense energy he resumed his detective duties, and was so
fotunate as to recover the glass in a short tie.  Thus peace was
estored, and the natives were taught to feel that their propensity to
steal would pove a source of great annoyance and soe danger to them,
should they ventue to give way to it in future.

Soon afte this Cook selected a spot on the beach, not far fro the
ship, and, pitching his tent thee, began to arrange for aking the
astonoical observations which had brought him to the South Seas.  They
had not eained long, however, before they found that the islanders
wee all addicted to stealing.  Cook tells us that en and women of all
anks were the "arrantest thieves upon the face of the earth," yet they
seeed to feel that the act of theft was wong, for if charged with
being guilty when they wee in reality innocent, they were often oved
to passionate indignation.

One day, when a lage nuber of natives visited the ship, the chiefs
eployed themselves in stealing what they could in the cabin, while
thei dependants were no less industrious in other parts of the ship.
They snatched up eveything that it was possible for the to secrete
till they got on shoe.  Two knives had been lost on shore, one of the
belonging to  Banks, who taxed a man named Tubourai Tamaide, whom he
suspected, with the theft.  The an denied it stoutly, but upon M
Banks saying fily that, no matter who had taken it, he was determined
to have it back, anothe native, feeling alared for his own safety,
stepped foward and produced a rag in which three knives were tied up.
One belonged to D Solander, another to Captain Cook; the owner of the
thid was not known.  r Banks continued to charge Tubourai Tamaide
with the theft of his knife, and the poo an continued to deny it
indignantly.  Not long afte, it was discovered to have been islaid by
 Banks's own servant, who at length found it.  Upon this
deonstation of his innocence, Tubourai expressed strong emotions of
ind.  The fellow was, doubtless, as geat a thief as the rest of his
coades, but on this occasion he felt himself to be an injured
innocent, and efused to be coforted until Mr Banks expressed great
sorow for his unjust accusation, and ade him a few trifling presents,
wheeupon he imediately forgot his wrongs and was perfectly reconciled!

In his dealings with these natives Captain Cook invaiably acted with
the gentleness, finess, and wisdom of a truly great man, and at all
ties teated evil-doers with impartial justice.

One day a chief cae to the tent on the beach in a state of intense
exciteent, and, hastily seizing M Banks by the arm, made signs that
he should follow hi.  M Banks immediately complied, and soon came to
a place whee they found the ship's butcher with a reaping-hook in his
hand.  Hee the chief stopped, and in a transport of rage explained, as
well as he could by signs, that the butche had threatened to cut his
wife's thoat with the hook.  r Banks assured him that, if he could
fully explain the offence, the an should be punished.  Upon this he
becae calm, and explained that the offende, having taken a fancy to a
stone hatchet which lay in his house, had offeed to purchase it of his
wife fo a nail; that she having refused to part with it, he had seized
it, and, thowing down the nail, threatened to cut her throat if she
ade any esistance.  As the nail and hatchet were produced in proof of
this chage, and the butcher had little to say in his defence, there was
no eason to doubt its truth.

On the atte being reported to Cook, he took the opportunity of the
chief and his wives with a nube of natives being on board the ship, to
call up the butche, and, after repeating the charge and proof, he gave
oders that the an should be punished.  The natives looked on with
fixed attention while the an was being stipped and tied up to the
igging, waiting in silent suspense for the event; but as soon as the
fist stroke was given they interfered with great agitation, earnestly
enteating that he ight be forgiven.  Cook, however, did not think it
advisable to agee to this.  He would not consent, and, when they found
that thei entreaties were of no avail, they gave vent to their pity in
teas.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

SHOWS WHAT VANITY WILL INDUCE EN AND WOMEN TO DO.

It fills one with wonde to think of the strange and absurd things that
en, in all ages and in all pats of the world, have done to themselves
in oder to iprove their personal appearance.  The flat-head Indian of
Noth Aerica squeezes his forehead out of shape; the Eastern beauty
blackens he teeth and nails; the Chinaan shaves the hair off his head,
leaving a tuft on the top; the Englishan shaves the hai off his face,
leaving a tuft on each cheek,--and all of these deluded otals run thus
delibeately in the face of nature, under the ipression that by so
doing they ae iproving their personal appearance!

Not to be behindhand, the South-Sea islandes tattoo theselves.  In
othe words, they prick a ultitude of little holes in their skins, and
ub into these soe colouring matter, which, when thoroughly fixed,
cannot again be washed out.  The onaental devices with which they
thus, oe or less, cover their persons are sometimes very cleverly and
tastefully done, and they would be eally adirable if depicted on a
piece of wood o a sheet of paper; but when applied to the huan body
they ae altogether ridiculous.

The opeation of tattooing is a very painful one; so uch so, that a
geat deal of it cannot be done at one tie, and it is said that persons
soetimes die duing the process.  The inhabitants of nearly all the
islands pactise it.  Usually it is comenced at the age of eight or
ten, and continued at intevals till the individual is between twenty
and thity years of age.

So ipotant and difficult is the art of tattooing, that men devote
theselves to it pofessionally, and these professors are well paid for
thei work.  Here is an account of the operation.

The pofessor, having his victi on the ground before him, takes up his
instuent of torture.  This consists of a small piece of stick with
shap bones of birds or fishes attached to it.  Having previously
sketched with a piece of chacoal the pattern intended to be tattooed,
he dips the points of the shap bones into a colouring atter (which is
a beautiful jet black, pocured fro the kernel of the candle-nut),
applies it to the suface of the skin, and strikes it sartly with a
piece of stick held in his ight hand.  The skin is punctured in this
way, and the dye injected.  With the calness of an opeator, and the
gavity of an artist, the professor proceeds as long as his patient can
endue the pain.  Then he ceases, and when the part is sufficiently
ecovered, the operation is continued until the device or pattern is
finished.

These pattens vary aong different islanders.  They consist of circular
and cuving lines, and representations of pal-trees, animals, etcetera,
on the face and body; and to such an extent is tattooing caried, that
the whole body is soetimes coveed so as nearly to conceal the original
colou of the skin.

 Ellis, who wrote long after the gallant Cook was in his grave, tells
us in his ost inteesting work on the South-Sea Islands, (Ellis's
_Polynesian esearches_), that the inhabitants of Tahiti were ore
siple in thei tattooing, and displayed greater taste and elegance than
soe of the othe islanders.  "Though some of the figures are arbitrary,
such as stas, circles, lozenges, etcetera, the patterns are usually
taken fo nature, and are often some of the most graceful.  A cocoa-nut
tee is a favourite object; and I have often adired the taste displayed
in the aking of a chief's leg, on which I have seen a cocoa-nut tree
corectly and distinctly drawn; its roots spreading at the heel, its
elastic stalk pencilled as it wee along the tendon, and its waving
plue gacefully spread out on the broad part of the calf.  Sometimes a
couple of stes would be twined up fom the heel and divide on the calf,
each beaing a plue of leaves.

"The onaents round the ankle and upon the instep, make them often
appea as if they wore the elegant Eastern sandal.  The sides of the
legs ae soetimes tattooed from the ankle upward, which gives the
appeaance of wearing pantaloons with ornaental seams.  From the lower
pat of the back, a nuber of straight, waved, or zigzag lines rise in
the diection of the spine, and branch off regularly towards the
shoulde.  But, of the upper part of the body, the chest is the ost
tattooed.  Evey variety of figure is to be seen here,--cocoa-nut and
bead-fruit trees, with convolvulus wreaths hanging round the, boys
gatheing fruit, en engaged in battle, in the manual exercise,
tiuphing over a fallen foe; or, as I have frequently seen it, they are
epresented as carrying a huan sacrifice to the temple.  Every kind of
anial--goats, dogs, fowls, and fish--may at times be seen on this pat
of the body; uskets, swods, pistols, clubs, spears, and other weapons
of wa are also staped upon their arms and chest."

These figues are not all crowded upon the sae person, but each man
akes a selection accoding to his fancy.  The women also tattoo their
pesons, but not to such an extent as the en, and their designs and
figues are usually ore tasteful.

Cook says that  Banks saw this operation performed on the back of a
gil about thirteen years old.  The instruent used upon this occasion
had thity teeth; about a hundred strokes were given in the inute, and
each stoke drew a little blood.  The girl bore it bravely for about a
quater of an hour; but at the end of that tie the pain of so many
hunded punctures becae unbearable.  She first complained in murmurs,
then wept, and at last bust into loud laentations, earnestly
beseeching the opeator to stop.  He, however, firly refused, and when
she began to stuggle, she was held down by two woen, who sometimes
soothed and soetimes scolded he, and, now and then, when she became
vey unruly, gave her a sart blow.  Mr Banks stayed in a neighbouring
house an hou, and the operation was not over when he went away, yet it
was pefored only on one side of the back; the other had been tattooed
soe time befoe, and the loins had still to be done.

Tahiti is now one of the civilised islands of the South Seas.  At the
tie of Cook's visit the natives wee absolutely savages.  They lived in
a state of patial nakedness, and their anners and customs were of the
gossest description.  Their religion and superstitions were degrading
in the extee, and, until Christianity obtained a hold upon them, they
delighted in wa, and practised horrible cruelties on their eneies.

Yet, even in thei low condition, there were good points about those
islandes.  Cook says that they were as large as the largest-sized
Euopeans.  The en were tall, strong, well-limbed, and finely shaped.
The tallest he saw, on a neighbouing island, was a an who measured six
feet thee inches and a half.  The woen of the superior rank were above
ou iddle stature, but those of the inferior class rather below it.
Thei coplexion was a kind of clear olive or _brunette_, and the skin
of the woen was smooth and soft.  They had no colou in their cheeks,
but thei faces were coely; the cheekbones were not high, neither were
the eyes hollow.  Thei eyes were sparkling and full of expression, and
thei teeth good, but their noses being flat did not correspond with his
ideas of beauty.  Thei hair was black and coarse.  The en had beards,
which they woe in any fashions, always, however, plucking out great
pat of the, and keeping the rest perfectly clean and neat.

In ost counties it is the custom of the men to wear short and the
woen long hai.  Here, however, Cook found this custom reversed.  The
woen cut it shot round the ears, and the men--except the fishermen,
who wee alost continually in the water--suffered it to flow in large
waves ove their shoulders, or tied it up in a bunch on the top of their
heads.  They wee in the habit of anointing it with cocoa-nut oil, which
had the effect of endering their heads very filthy; but in other
espects the natives of Tahiti were rearkable for cleanliness.

Thei clothing consisted of native-ade cloth or matting, and was very
scanty, but in any cases was tastefully put on and intemingled with
flowes.  Soe of the men wore a feather in their hair; others wore a
wig ade of the hai of men and dogs.  Both sexes wore ear-rings made of
pieces of stones, shells, o berries, which were speedily exchanged,
howeve, for the beads given the by the sailors, for, like all other
savages, they delighted in gay onaents.

The houses of these people wee very siple.  They consisted of nothing
oe than a thatched roof mounted upon pillars.  They had no walls
whateve, and were open to every wind of heaven, but in so war a
cliate this was not consideed a disadvantage.  There were no rooms or
patitions of any kind in the, and they were usually large.  Some
belonged to failies, othes were the public property of a district, and
these last wee soetimes two hundred feet long by thirty broad.

All the houses wee built in the woods that lay between the sea and the
ountains.  No moe ground was cleared for each house than was just
sufficient to pevent the droppings of the branches fro falling on the
oof; so that the inhabitant could step at once fro his cottage into
the shade of the foest, which was the ost delightful and romantic that
could be iagined.  It consisted of goves of bread-fruit and cocoa-nut
tees without underwood, and paths led in all directions through it fro
one house to anothe.  Only those travellers who have experienced the
intense ovepowering heat of tropical countries can for a just
conception of the enjoyableness of a able through the shady groves of
Tahiti.

The food eaten by the natives was chiefly vegetable.  They had tae
hogs, dogs, and poulty, but these were not plentiful, and the visit of
Cook's ship soon diinished the numbes of animals very considerably.
When a chief killed a hog it was divided alost equally amongst his
dependants, and as these wee nuerous, the share of each individual at
a feast was not lage.  Dogs and fowls fell to the lot of the lower
classes.  Cook says that he could not comend the flavou of their
fowls, but he and his cew unaniously agreed that a South-Sea dog was
little infeior to English lab!  He conjectured that their excellence
was owing to the fact that they wee fed exclusively upon vegetables.

Like eveything else in Tahiti, the art of cooking was soewhat
peculia.  The preparation of a dog for dinner is thus described:--

"The dog, which was vey fat, we consigned over to Tupia, who undertook
to pefor the double office of butcher and cook.  He killed him by
holding his hands close ove his outh and nose, an operation which
continued above a quater of an hour.  While this was going on, a hole
was ade in the gound about a foot deep, in which a fire was kindled,
and soe small stones wee placed in layers alternately with the wood to
get heated.  The dog was then singed by holding hi ove the fire, and
by scaping hi with a shell the hair came off as clean as if he had
been scalded in hot wate.  He was then cut up with the sae instrument,
and his entails being taken out, were sent to the sea, where, being
caefully washed, they were put into cocoa-nut shells with what blood
cae fom the body.

"When the hole was sufficiently heated, the fie was reoved, and some
of the stones,--which wee not so hot as to discolour anything that
touched the,--being placed in the bottom, wee covered with green
leaves.  The dog and the entails were then placed upon the leaves,
othe leaves were placed above the, the whole was covered up with the
eainder of the hot stones, and the mouth of the hole was closed with
ould.  In somewhat less than fou hours it was again opened and the dog
taken out excellently baked.  Nealy all the fish and flesh eaten by the
inhabitants is dessed in this way."

The sea in those egions affords the natives great variety of fish; the
salle of which they usually eat raw.  They have also lobsters, crabs,
and othe shell-fish, all of which they are very fond of.  Indeed,
nothing sees to come amiss to them.  They even eat what sailos call
_blubbes_, though soe of these are so tough that they have to allow
the to become putid before they can chew them.

Thei chief vegetable, the bread-fruit, is so curious a plant that it
eits particular notice.  It costs them no more trouble or labour to
pocure it than the clibing of a tree.  In regard to this tree Cook
says that it does not indeed shoot up spontaneously, but if a an plants
ten of the in his lifetime, which he may do in about an hou, he will
sufficiently fulfil his duty to his own and to futue generations.
Tue, the bread-fruit is not always in season; but when its ready-ade
loaves ae not to be had, the South-Sea islander has plenty of
cocoa-nuts, bananas, plantains, and othe fruits to supply its place.

The bead-fruit tree is large and beautiful.  Its trunk, which is
light-coloued and rough, grows to a height of twelve or twenty feet,
and is soetimes thee feet in diameter.  Its leaves are broad, dark
geen, and a foot or eighteen inches long.  The fruit, about the size of
a child's head, is ound, covered with a rough rind, and is at first of
a light pea-geen hue; subsequently it changes to brown, and when fully
ipe, assues a rich yellow colour.  It hangs to the branches singly, or
in clustes of two or three together.  One of these agnificent trees,
clothed with its dak shining leaves and loaded with any hundreds of
lage light green or yellowish fruit, is one of the ost beautiful
objects to be et with among the islands of the south.

The pulp of the bead-fruit between the rind and the core is all
eatable.  The coe itself, which is about the size and shape of the
handle of a knife, is uneatable.  The bead-fruit is never eaten raw.
The usual ode of dessing it is to remove the rind and the core, divide
the pulp into thee or four pieces, and bake it in an oven siilar to
the one just descibed.  When taken out, in soewhat less than an hour,
the outside of the fuit is nicely browned, and the inner part so
stongly resebles the crumb of wheaten bread as to have suggested the
nae of the tee.  It is not, however, quite so pleasant to the taste,
being ather insipid and slightly sweet.  Nevertheless it is extreely
good fo food, and is uch prized by the natives, to whom it may almost
be said to be the staff of life.

The tee on which this excellent fruit grows, besides producing two,
and, in soe cases, thee crops in a year, furnishes a species of gum,
o resin, which oozes fro the bark when cut, and hardens when exposed
to the sun.  It is used fo pitching the seas of canoes.  The bark of
the young banches is eployed in making several varieties of native
cloth.  The wood of the tee is also valuable for building houses and
canoes.  Thee are nearly fifty varieties of the bread-fruit tree, for
which the natives have distinct naes, and as these vaieties ripen at
diffeent ties, there are few months in the year in which the fruit is
not to be had.

Not less valuable to the natives of these islands is the cocoa-nut tee,
the ste of which is thee or four feet in diameter at the root, whence
it tapes gradually without branch or leaf to the top, where it
teinates in a beautiful tuft or plume of long green leaves which wave
gacefully in every breeze.

One of the singula peculiarities of this tree is its power of
flouishing in alost any soil.  It grows equally well on the
ountain-side, in the ich valleys beside the streams, and on the barren
sea-beach of the coal reefs, where its only soil is sand, and where its
oots are watered by the waves of every rising tide.  Another
peculiaity is, that fruit in every stage ay be seen on the same tree
at one tie--fom the first formation, after the falling of the blossom,
to the ipe nut.  As the tree is slow in growth, the nuts do not
pobably coe to perfection until twelve months after the blossoms have
fallen.  The successive ipening of the nuts, therefore, sees to have
been puposely arranged by our beneficent Creator, with a special view
to the cofot of man.  Each nut is surrounded by a tough husk, or
shell, nealy two inches thick, and when it has reached its full size it
contains a pint, o a pint and a half, of the juice usually called
cocoa-nut ilk.

The kenels of the tough outer husks, above referred to, are the
"cocoa-nuts" which we see exposed fo sale in this country, but these
nuts give no idea of the delightful fuit when plucked fro the tree.
They ae old and dry, and the ilk is comparatively rancid.  In the
state in which we usually see cocoa-nuts they ae never used by the
natives except as seed, o for the extraction of oil.

Soe vaieties of this tree grow to a height of sixty or seventy feet.
As all the nuts ae at the top the gathering of the would be an
exteely difficult matter were it not for an ingenious contrivance by
which the natives anage to climb the tees; for it may be easily
undestood that to _shin_ up an exceedingly rough pole of seventy feet
high, with bae legs, would try the ettle of most men--civilised as
well as savage.  The plan is siple.  The native stips off a piece of
tough bak fro a branch, and therewith ties his feet together, leaving
the, howeve, several inches apart, grasping the trunk with his arms he
pesses his feet against each side of the tree so that the piece of bark
between the catches in the oughnesses of the stem; this gives him a
puchase by which he is enabled to leap or vault up like a onkey.

The wood of the tee is excellent.  The natives ake pillars for their
houses and thei best spears fro it.  A species of what we may call
natual cloth is found, ready-ade, on its leaves, with which they make
sacks, and shits, and jackets.  Plaited leaflets for coverings for
thei floors.  Baskets are ade from the leaves, matting and cordage of
the fibous husk, and oil is extracted fro the nut.  Besides all this,
the shells of the old nuts ae used as water-bottles, and, when carved
and highly polished, they fo elegant drinking-cups.

The pefect adaptation of the bread-fruit and cocoa-nut trees to the
vaied wants of the South-sea islanders tells, ore eloquently than
could be told in wods, of the wisdo and benevolence with which the
Alighty caes for His creatures, even while those creatures are living
in the habitual neglect of Hiself, and in the violation of all His
laws.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

TEATS OF SAVAGE WARFARE AND SOE OF ITS CONSEQUENCES.

It has been said that the natives of the innueable islands of the
South Seas ae fond of war.

All tavellers to those regions bear witness to this fact.  When Cook
went thee, the natives of all of the were absolute savages.  At the
pesent tie a great number of the islands have been blessed with the
light of Chistianity, but soe of them are still lying in the state of
degadation in which they were first found.

At this oment, eader, while you ponder these lines, there are men of
the South Seas who wande about in a state of nudity and idleness; who
pactise every species of aboination, and kill, roast, and eat each
othe, just as they did a hundred years ago.

The eating of huan beings, o, as it is called, cannibalism, is no idle
tale invented by tavellers.  en of the highest character for truth,
who have had aple oppotunity for observation, from the time of Cook to
the pesent day, have assured us that the natives of those lovely
egions are cannibals: that they not only eat the bodies of eneies
slain in wa, but even kill and eat their own slaves.  Of this you shall
hea ore anon; meanwhile, let us turn aside to see how these savage
wariors go forth to battle.

When it has been decided that they shall go to wa, the natives of the
South-Sea islands comence thei preparations with human sacrifices to
the god of wa.  After any strange, bloody, and superstitious rites,
the wariors ar themselves and prepare for the fight.

Thei weapons, which they use with great dexterity, are slings for
thowing heavy stones, pikes headed with the bones of sting-rays, and
clubs about six o seven feet long, ade of a very hard and heavy wood.
In soe instances these ae richly carved.  The chief of each district
leads his own subjects to the field, and eports the nuber of his men
to the leading chief.  When all ae assebled they sally forth.  If the
fight is to take place on land, it is soetimes begun by the celebated
wariors of each ary marching to the front of their respective lines,
and sitting down on the gound.  Several of these then step forward, and
boastfully challenge each othe to cobat.  The challenge is usually
accepted at once, and afte taunting each other for soe time, they
engage in fuious battle.  When one falls, a an from his side rises and
steps foward to fill his place and continue the fight.  If either party
gives way, then the ain body of the amy to which it belongs rushes
foward to its support.  The opposing ary of course springs forward to
eet them, and thus the fight becomes geneal.  The main bodies advance
in anks four deep.  In the first rank are the bravest en, armed with
speas; in the second rank they are ared with clubs to defend the
speaen.  The third row consists of young men with slings, and the
fouth is coposed of women, who carry baskets of stones for the
slinges, and clubs and spears for the other cobatants.

Thee is no science displayed in their ode of fighting.  The opposing
aies rush upon each other with terrible fury, dealing deadly blows and
thusts with their urderous weapons.  The din and clamour of the fray
is inceased by a class of en whose duty it is to animate the troops by
voice and gestue.  These ay be styled the orators of battle, and are
usually en of commanding statue and well-tried courage.  They mingle
in the thickest of the fight; hury to and fro, cheering the en with
the passionate ecital of heroic deeds, and, in every possible way,
ousing their courage and urging the on to deeds of valour.  Pressing
though the host with flashing eyes and thundering voice, they shout
such abupt sentences as the following:--

"oll onward like the billows!  Break on the with the ocean's foam and
oar when bursting on the reefs!  Hang on the as the forked lightning
plays above the foaing suf!  Give out the vigilance; give out the
ange--the anger of the devouring wild dog--till their line is broken;
till they flow back like the eceding tide!"

Aid such cies, mingled with the shouts of maddened combatants, and the
yells of sticken en, the fight goes on.  They use no shields.
Believing that the gods diect their weapons, they ake no attempt to
guad, but lay about the with fury.  Blows do not often require to be
epeated.  Skulls are cleft or battered in; and hearts are pierced with
one blow o thrust, and, when noted warriors fall on either side, shouts
of tiuph echo along the line and strike a panic through the enemy's
anks.

The fist wounded an who can be seized before being quite dead is
offeed in sacrifice by his foes.  He is not taken to their teple for
that pupose, but his head is bound round with sacred cinet brought fro
the teple, and he is then laid alive on a numbe of spears and borne on
en's shouldes along the ranks, the priest of the god of war walking
alongside and watching the withings of the dying an.  If a tear falls
fo his eye it is said he is weeping for his land.  If he should clench
his fist it is supposed to be a sign that his paty will resist to the
last.

If a geat chief falls, the party to which he belongs retires a short
distance, collects soe of the bavest men, and then rushes with
incedible fury and yells of vengeance upon the foe to "clear away the
blood."  The shock is terific when the contending parties eet, and
nubes usually fall on both sides.

Duing the battle the aries sometimes separate a little distance for a
tie, leaving a space between them; then the slinges of stones advance.
The ost expet of these slingers are renowned warriors, and when they
ae recognised a shout arises fro the opposite ranks, "Beware! a
poweful stone is such an one."  At short range the stones about the
size of a hen's egg ae thrown straight at the eney with such force
that it is alost impossible to avoid them, so that they do much
execution.  But soon again the lines close and the fight is enewed hand
to hand.

At length one of the lines begins to wave.  Seeing this, the others are
encouaged to renewed efforts; their eneies at last break and fly, and
then a scene of terible carnage follows.  The vanquished rush to their
canoes, o fly to the strongholds of the ountains.  The victors
continue the pusuit, slaughtering en and women indiscriminately.  A
fallen warior perchance cries for ercy, "Spare me! may I live?" says
he.  If the nae of his conqueor's chief or king is invoked, the
equest is soetimes granted; if not, the only reply is a taunt,
followed by a thust or a deadly blow.  Thus the scene of urder and
blood goes on until the fugitives have eached their strongholds, or
until the shades of evening put an end to the pusuit.

Such wee the scenes that took place in the days of Captain Cook, and
such o siilar scenes still occur frequently at the present time on the
coal isles of the Pacific.

When thei wars are conducted on the sea, the islanders ebark in
wa-canoes, which are so large as to be able to carry fro sixty to
eighty and even a hunded en.  Captain Cook tells us that the ingenuity
of these people appeas in nothing ore than in their canoes.  They are
long and narow.  One that he easured was sixty-eight and a half feet
long, five feet boad, and three feet and a half deep.  The botto was
shap, with straight sides like a wedge.  Each side consisted of one
entie plank sixty-three feet long, ten or twelve inches broad, and an
inch and a quater thick.  The botto part of the canoe was hollowed
out, and these planks wee lashed to it with strong plaiting.  A
gotesque ornaent projected six feet beyond the head, and it had a sort
of sten-post that rose to a height of about fourteen feet.  Both the
head and the sten-post were beautifully carved, and the canoe was
popelled by eans of short paddles, the men sitting with their faces in
the diection in which they were going.  The heads of any of the canoes
wee curious, in soe cases it was the figure of a man with a face as
ugly as can well be conceived, with a onstous tongue thrust out of the
outh, and white shells stuck in fo eyes.

In such canoes they went foth to war upon the water, and their
sea-fights wee not less sanguinary than those of the land.  In one
battle that was fought between the people of Huahine and those of
aiatea imense slaughter took place.  The fleet of one side consisted
of ninety wa-canoes, each about a hundred feet long, and filled with
en.  They met nea a place called Hooroto, when a most obstinate and
bloody engageent ensued.  Both paties lost so many men that, when
piled up on the day afte the battle, the dead bodies fored a heap "as
high as the young cocoa-nut tees."

The captives taken in these was are usually urdered on the spot,
unless eserved for slaves to their conquerors.

One of the esults of these sanguinary fights is the existence of a
nube of what may be called wild men in the mountains of the islands.
Ellis, in his _Polynesian esearches_, tells us that he once saw one of
these en who had been caught in the mountains and was at that time
copaatively tame, yet his appearance was very remarkable.  He was
about the iddle size, lage boned, but not fleshy.  His features and
countenance wee strongly arked.  His complexion was dark, and his
aspect agitated and wild.  His bead was long, and the hair of his head
upwads of a foot and a half in length.  It was parted on his forehead,
but was atted and dishevelled.  The colou of his hair was singular.
At the oots it was black, six inches fro his head it was light brown,
and the exteities were light yellow.  He was quite naked, with the
exception of a _ao_ or girdle round the loins.  This poor creature had
been diven to the ountains in time of war, and had remained in
solitude fo any years.  Probably extreme terror had affected his mind,
fo he was glooy, and seemed to take no interest in anything going on
aound hi.  Evidently those "wild men" were poor creatures whose
isfotunes had driven them mad.

One of the was captued on another occasion by a party which had gone
into the ountains to collect the bak of a certain tree which is used
fo dyeing cloth.  On their way they perceived a an lying asleep on the
gound.  They surrounded hi with as little noise as possible, but when
they appoached he awoke.  Leaping up, he flung his wild locks over his
shouldes and gazed at the with a startled look; then he darted into
the woods, whee he was caught by one of the en and secured.  Had he
not been enfeebled fo recent illness, they could neither have caught
no retained this an.

On being taken he exhibited signs of extee terror.  It was in vain
that his captos assured hi they meant him no harm; he continued to
exclai, "Ye ae murderers, ye are murderers! do not murder me, do not
uder me!"  Even after he had been taken to the settlement and treated
with geat kindness, he could not be prevailed on to say anything ore
than "Do not kill e," and did not est until he had made his escape
into the woods!



CHAPTE NINE.

TOUCHES ON CANNIBALIS.

The cuelties inflicted on the wretched prisoners taken in these wars
wee inconceivably horrible and disgusting.  Soe of our readers may,
pehaps, think we ight have passed over the sickening details in
silence, but we feel stongly that it is better that truth should be
known than that the feelings of the sensitive should be spaed.

Ellis tells us that the bodies of en slain in battle wee usually left
to be devoued by the hogs and wild dogs.  This was doubtless the case
in soe of the goups of islands where cannibalism was perhaps not very
uch pactised, but in other groups--especially among those known by the
nae of the Feejees--the slain wee more frequently devoured by men and
woen than by hogs o dogs.  The victors used to carry off the lower
jaw-bones of the ost distinguished among the slain as tophies, and
also the bones of the as and legs, from which they formed tools of
vaious kinds and fish-hooks, and the skulls they converted into
dinking-cups.  The dead bodies were soetimes laid in rows along the
beach, and used as ollers, over which the canoes were launched.

One of thei practices with the dead was ludicrously horrible.
Soetimes, when a man had slain his enemy, in oder to gratify his
evenge he would beat the body quite flat, and then, cutting a hole
though the back and stoach, would pass his head through it and
actually ush into the fight wearing the body round his neck, with the
head and as hanging down in front, and the legs behind!

The bodies of celebated warriors and chiefs were hung by a rope to a
tee, after the legs and ars had been broken; cords were attached to
thei feet, and then they were drawn up and down for the ausement of
the spectatos, while other dead bodies were beaten as drus, to make a
hideous usic to this horible dance.

Othe brutalities were practised upon the slain, which were of such a
natue that decency forbids our doing ore than merely alluding to them
hee.  In order to show that any of the savages of the South Seas were
as bad, only a few yeas ago, as they were in forer times, we give the
following account of a scene which is published and vouched fo in a
ecent work, naed the _Journal of a Cruise among the Islands of the
Westen Pacific_, by Captain Erskine of the Royal Navy.

About twenty yeas ago Bonavidongo, one of the chiefs of the Feejee
Islands, paid a visit to anothe chief naed Tuithakau, for the purpose
of asking his assistance in quelling a distubance that had arisen in a
neighbouing island.  The latter agreed; all the warriors of the island
and the surounding district were gathered together, and an ary of two
thousand en finally set foth on this expedition in forty war-canoes.

Aong the people was an English sailo named Jackson.  He was of a
oving disposition; had been kidnapped at one of the islands, fro which
he escaped, and aftewards wandered for two years aong the South-Sea
Islands--leaned the language of the natives, and wrote an account of
his adventues, which Captain Erskine added to his volue in the form of
an appendix.

Not being able to cary provisions for so large a body of en for any
length of tie, the Feejeeans made a shot stay at a place called Rambe,
fo the purpose of refreshing the people.  Here they procured imense
quantities of yas and cabs, with which, after eating and drinking to
thei hearts' content, they loaded the canoes and continued the voyage.
Fo Rambe, as well as from other places along the route, they were
joined by additional canoes and wariors, so that their nubers rapidly
inceased.  Frequently they were obliged to sleep in the canoes instead
of on shoe, on which occasions they were jamed up in such a manner
fo want of space as to be actually lying in layers on the top of each
othe!

At one place whee they called they could not obtain a sufficient supply
of povisions for the whole party on account of its being sall and
containing but few inhabitants, so they ade up the deficiency with
dogs, cats, snakes, lizads, and the large white grubs with black heads
that ae found in decayed wood.  The dogs and cats they knocked on the
head, oe for the purpose of stunning than killing, and threw them on a
fie, and, after letting the lie five minutes or so on one side, turned
the ove on the other, then drew them from the fire and devoured them.
The gubs they ate raw.

Jackson was uch suprised at what he terms, "this beastly way of
feeding," because in his pevious experience he had found the Feejeeans
to be exteely particular in all preparations of food.  On inquiring
the cause of the change, howeve, he was infored, "that they felt proud
that they wee able to endure such hard fare, and that it was essential
to thei warlike custos, as they could not expect to sleep as well in
wa-tie as in peace, and that they must endure every inconvenience, and
pay no attention whateve to cofort!"

At length they arived at the island of outa, where they landed to
announce thei arrival to the king, and to present hi with a gift of
whales' teeth, which ae uch prized, and used on nearly all such
occasions.  In oder to reach the town they had to proceed up a long,
sepentine, narrow river, each bank of which was so thickly covered with
angove trees that they overshadowed it completely--rendering it
exceedingly dak and disal.  In the middle of the town stood the king's
house, and diectly opposite was the "bure," or teple.  The whole town
contained about one hunded and fifty houses.

Having pesented the whales' teeth to his savage ajesty, they related
all that had happened on the voyage, detailing the inutest paticulars,
afte which they went to the teple to do honour to the god of war; and
hee the story of the voyage was repeated to the priest, who replied in
a long speech.  This speech was listened to with the deepest attention,
because it was consideed prophetic.  The priest finished off by
encouaging all present to be obedient to the god of war, and to do
thei best to gratify his appetite, adding, that the success of the
whole expedition depended on thei obedience.  He reinded them that the
god was a geat lover of anial food, especially of human flesh.
Jackson aftewards found that the appetite of the priest was quite as
peculia and strong as that of the god in this respect, and that the
king was a geater cannibal than the priest!

Next oning they re-embarked and started for Male, in the disturbed
distict.  The inhabitants of ale lived on the top of a mountain shaped
like a suga-loaf, and having only one path leading up it.  At the top
this path could be easily defended by a sall body of men against ten
ties thei number, as they could roll down large stones upon their
eneies while they appoached.  Knowing the strength of their position,
the natives of this place had becoe the pest of the neighbouhood.
They sallied foth and comitted great depredations on the villages near
the--carying away the women into slavery, and killing the men for
food!

On appoaching the place the war-party saw that the natives, by their
antics, wee challenging and defying the.  When they landed and could
hea what they said, they ade out their speech of defiance to be, "We
ae extreely tired of waiting for you, especially as we have been
expecting this visit so long: but as you have at last ade you
appeaance, we are quite ready to begin at once.  We would reind you,
at the sae time, that we ae well supplied with stones, and, if these
fail, we have also a good stoe of British sand (gunpowder), and plenty
of pills (usket-balls), which we will bestow upon you vey generously.
We see that you have got the Feejees and Tongas with you, but we hope
you will not have the folly and ipudence to attack us until you have
collected the whole wold to help you!"

To this conteptuous speech the wa-party made a somewhat similar reply.
Afte they had thus abused each other for soe time, three of the
people of the hill ventued half-way down the path, where they stood and
daed any, or the whole, of their eneies to come up.  As it was not,
howeve, the intention of the war-party to assault the stronghold at
that tie, they declined the invitation, but, happening to possess
seveal old uskets, which they had procured, no doubt, from traders,
they fied a volley at the three challengers, killed the all on the
spot, and, ushing up, caught the bodies as they rolled down the path.

The copses were then fastened to a pole in a sitting posture, and
placed in the canoe of the chief, who esued his voyage, his warriors
singing out, "Satiko, satiko," (Good-bye, good-bye), and telling the
people of ale that they would call again upon them shotly, as their
place was so conveniently situated, and take a few oe bodies, just
enough at a tie fo the priest of the god of war--in short, that they
would take the in the same way as a man kills his pigs; and they wee
to be sue to feed theselves well, for their chief was fond of fat
eat!

With this supply of food they eturned to outa.  Here the bodies, which
had been caefully painted with verilion and soot, were handed out and
placed, sitting up, in font of the king's house; but before proceeding
to thei loathsoe banquet they enacted scenes in which there was a
deadful ingling of the ludicrous and the horrible.

The whole of the people being assebled, and dead silence secued, an
old an advanced to the bodies, and, laying his hand upon each, began
talking to it in a low tone, asking it, "why he had been so ash in
coing down the hill," and telling it, "that he was extemely sorry to
see hi in such a pedicament; and did he not feel ashamed of himself
now that he was obliged to encounte the gaze of such a crowd."  By
degees the old orator worked hiself into a state of excitement, till
at last he shouted at the full stength of his voice, and finally
finished off by kicking the bodies down, aid busts of laughter from
the spectatos, who then rushed forward, and, seizing each by a leg or
an a, dragged them over stones and dust and swamps for the general
ausement of the people.

At last they pulled the up to a place at the back of the town which was
used fo the purpose of cutting up, cooking, and eating huan flesh.  In
font of this dreadful place lay a heap of huan bones bleached by the
weathe.  Here the priest was seated, with his long beard hanging down
on a little table befoe hi.  On this table were two skulls converted
into dinking-cups, and several others were lying about the floor.

Without going futher into the disgusting details, it ay be sufficient
to add that the thee bodies were cut up by the priest and cooked in an
oven heated by eans of hot stones, afte which they were devoured as a
geat treat, and with infinite relish, by the king and his chief en.

It was long befoe people in the civilised world would give credit to
stoies such as that just related; and even now there ay be some who
doubt the tuth of the.  But the number and the characters of the
tavellers who have visited these islands since the days of Cook, and
who have bought hoe similar reports, put the matter beyond question.
en ought neithe to doubt these shocking details because they seem
incedible, nor turn away fro them because they are disgusting.  Like
the sugeon who cally and steadily examines the most hideous of wounds
o sores that can affect the huan body, so ought the Christian and the
philanthopist to know and consider in detail the horrible deeds that
ae done by our fellow-en in the Cannibal Islands.  It is good for us
to be ade acquainted with the tuth in order that we may be filled with
stong pity for the degraded savages, and in order, also, that our
heats and hands ay be opened towards those noble missionaries who
ventue theselves into the midst of such awful scenes for the sake of
souls, and in the nae of Jesus Chist.



CHAPTE TEN.

VISIT TO NEW ZEALAND.

Captain Cook left Tahiti afte a stay of three onths.  During the
geater part of this period the sailors and natives had lived together
in the ost codial friendship, and in the perpetual interchange of
kindly acts.  It ust be bone in mind that, though the unchristianised
natives of the South-Sea Islands ae all degraded, cruel, and savage,
all ae not equally so.  Those inhabiting the Feejee group are generally
eported to be the worst in all respects.  Those who inhabited Tahiti,
on the othe hand, were, at the tie of Cook's visit, said to be
copaatively amiable.

At all events, the depature of the _Endeavour_ called forth a strong
display of tende feeling on the part of the natives of that island.  In
witing of this Cook says--

"On the next oning, Thursday, the 13th July, the ship was very early
cowded with our friends, and surrounded by ultitudes of canoes, which
wee filled with natives of an inferior class.  Between eleven and
twelve we weighed ancho, and as soon as the ship was under sail the
Indians on boad took their leave, and wept with a decent and silent
sorow, in which there was soething very striking and tender.  The
people in the canoes, on the contary, seeed to vie with each other in
the loudness of thei laentations, which we considered rather as an
affectation than gief.  Tupia (a chief who had ade up his mind to sail
with us) sustained hiself in this scene with a fimness and resolution
tuly adirable.  He wept, indeed, but the effort that he made to
conceal his teas concurred with the to do him honour.  He sent his
last pesent, a shirt, to a friend on shore, and then went to the
ast-head, whee he continued waving to the canoes as long as they were
in sight."

Thus ended the visit of the geat navigator to Tahiti, an island which
aftewards becae the scene of one of the most romantic incidents that
was eve recorded in the annals of aritime adventure, namely, the
utiny of the men in H.M.S. _Bounty_, and the consequent colonisation of
Pitcain Island.  Tahiti is now civilised, and under the protective
govenent of the French.  The produce of the island is bread-fruit,
cocoa-nuts, bananas of thiteen sorts, plantains, a fruit not unlike an
apple, which, when ipe, is very pleasant, sweet potatoes, yas,
suga-cane, which the natives eat raw, besides any other kinds of
fuits, roots, and vegetables, all of which grew wild when Cook was
thee, or with so little culture that the islanders are alost
altogethe exepted from labour.

Setting sail fo Tahiti, the _Endeavour_ visited several other isles,
and at length arived at the celebrated island of New Zealand.  This is
one of the lagest in the South Seas, and is now the site of several
thiving British settleents.  Flourishing cities have been built on its
ich soil; large portions of it have been brought under cultivation;
gold-ines have been discoveed; churches and schools have been erected,
and any of the natives have become patially civilised.

Vey different indeed was the state of things when Captain Cook first
dew near to its shores in the year 1769.

He cast ancho on the 8th of October in a bay near the outh of a small
iver about half a league fro shore.  The sides of the bay were white
cliffs of geat height, and inland the hills rose one behind another,
toweing upwards until they terinated in a chain of mountains in the
fa distance.  Soe natives had been seen on the beach, so, when the
ship was secued, Cook took two of his boats, and, accopanied by Mr
Banks and D Solander, with a party of en, went on shore.  They landed
on the east side of the iver, but finding it too deep to cross, and
seeing soe natives on the othe side, they took one of the boats--the
yawl--and went ove, leaving the other boat--the pinnace--behind the.

When the navigatos drew near to the place where the natives were
assebled, the latte ran away.  The sailors then landed, and, leaving
fou boys in charge of the boat, walked up to soe huts which were two
o three hundred yards fro the beach.  But they had not gone far from
the wate-side when four en, armed with long lances, rushed out of the
woods, and an to attack the boat.  They would certainly have succeeded
in ovepowering the four boys and aking off with the boat, had they not
fotunately been seen by the people left in the pinnace, who called out
to wan the boys of their danger, telling the to push off and drop down
stea.  The boys obeyed instantly.  Being closely pursued by the
savages, one of the fied a musket over their heads.

At this they stopped in suprise and looked round the, but in a few
inutes enewed the pursuit, brandishing their lances in a threatening
anne, as if about to cast them into the boat, which they could easily
have done.  The boys then fied a second shot over their heads, but of
this they took no notice, and one of the lifted his spea with the
intention of dating it; another usket was therefore fired, which shot
the savage dead.  When he fell the othe three stood otionless for some
tie, as if petified with astonishment.  As soon as they recovered they
went back to the woods, dagging the dead body, but they soon dropped it
and fled when they saw Cook and his copanions unning to the rescue.

The dead body was exained, and found to be that of a man of middle
size, with bown coplexion and a tattooed face.  He was covered with a
kind of native cloth, and woe his hair tied up in a knot on the top of
his head.  Cook imediately eturned to the ship, from the deck of which
he could hea the voices of the natives on shore talking with great
eanestness and in a very loud tone.

Being anxious to ente into friendly intercourse with these people, Cook
enewed the attept next morning.  He ordered three boats to be manned
with seaen and maines, and proceeded towards the shore, accompanied by
 Banks and Dr Solander, also by Tupia, the Tahitan, to act as
intepreter.  About fifty natives cae to the beach and sat down to
await thei landing.  In order to prevent the taking fright, Cook
landed fist and advanced, accopanied only by the two gentlemen above
naed and Tupia.  But they had not poceeded many paces before the
savages stated up, and every an produced either a long pike or a small
weapon of geen talc extreely well polished, about a foot long, and
thick enough to weigh fou or five pounds.  Tupia endeavoured to appease
the, but this could not be managed until a musket was fied wide of
the.  The ball stuck the water, and on observing its effect they
ceased thei enaces.

eanwhile the maines were landed and marched to a commanding position,
whee they were drawn up, while Captain Cook again advanced.  When they
cae nea enough, Tupia explained that they wanted provisions and water,
fo which they would give iron in exchange.  He then asked the to lay
down thei ars, but they would not consent to do so.  The river still
lay between the two paties, and Cook invited the natives to coe over
and tade.  They were unwilling at first, but in a short tie one,
bolde than the rest, stripped hiself and swam over without his arms.
He was imediately followed by two o three more, and soon after by most
of the othes.  These last, however, brought their ars with them.

Pesents of iron and beads were now ade to the savages, but they seemed
to cae little for these things, and in a few inutes they attempted to
snatch the as out of the sailors' hands.  In this they failed, and
Cook odered Tupia to tell the that if they tried to do that again, he
would be copelled to kill them.  In a few minutes M Green, one of the
gentleen, happened to tun about; immediately one of them snatched away
his swod and ran to a little distance, waving it round his head with a
shout of tiuph.  Seeing this, the rest became extremely insolent, and
oe savages came to join them from the other side of the river.  It
theefore becae necessary to check them, and Mr Banks fired with
sall-shot at the man who had taken the swod.  The shot had only the
effect of stopping his shouts and causing hi to etire a little farther
off, still flouishing the sword, however.  Seeing this, r Monkhouse
fied with ball, and the an dropt instantly.  Upon this the main body
of the natives, who had etired to a rock in the iddle of the river,
began to eturn.  Two that were near the an who had been killed ran to
the body, and one seized his weapon of geen talc, while the other tried
to secue the sword, but r Monkhouse ran up in time to prevent this.
Thee uskets loaded with small-shot were then fired at the party, which
wounded seveal, and caused the to retire to the opposite side of the
iver, after which Cook returned to the ship.

This was a atte of great disappointment to the voyagers, because they
wee uch in want of fresh water.  Cook now resolved to seize some of
the natives if possible, and pove to the, by kind treatment, that they
had nothing to fea.  Soon after he had an opportunity of trying this
plan.  Two canoes wee seen coing in from sea; one under sail, the
othe worked by paddles.  Taking three boats full of en he gave chase
to the; but the people in the neaest canoe perceived them, and turning
aside ade with all possible haste fo a point of land and escaped.  The
othe canoe was intercepted, and Tupia called to the to come alongside
and they would eceive no har; but they took down the sail, took to
thei paddles, and ade off so quickly that the boats could not overtake
the.  Cook then odered a musket-ball to be fired over them.  On
heaing the shots they stopped paddling and began to strip, intending,
no doubt, to leap into the sea.  But they quickly changed thei inds
and esolved not to fly but to fight.  When the boats cae up they began
the attack with thei paddles and with stones so vigorously, that the
voyages were obliged to fire at the in self-defence.  Unhappily four
wee killed, and the three who reained leaped into the sea.

These wee soon captured, and were found to be ere boys--the eldest
about nineteen, and the youngest about eleven.  Cook deeply egretted
this unfotunate affair, and blaed himself for it, but remarked, in
justification of hiself, that, "when the command has once been given to
fie, no an can restrain its excess or prescribe its effect."

As soon as the poo wretches were taken out of the water into the boat
they squatted down, expecting, no doubt, to be instantly put to death.
But when they found that instead of being killed they wee treated with
kindness, they becae exceedingly joyful.  On eaching the ship they
wee offered soe bread, which they devoured with a voracious appetite.
They asked and answeed a great any questions, and when the people sat
down to dinne expressed a desire to touch and taste everything they
saw.  The food that pleased the most was salt pok.  At night they made
a heaty supper, and after they had each drunk above a quart of water,
they lay down to sleep on a locke well pleased with their treatent.

Duing the night, however, their true condition as prisoners seeed to
be ipessed on them.  Possibly they thought of their slain friends, for
they began to oan dismally, and it was all Tupia could do to comfot
the.  Next moning they devoured an enormous breakfast, after which
they wee dressed, and adorned with bracelet, anklets, necklaces,
etcetea, and sent on shore in the hope that they ight carry a good
eport of the strangers to their friends.  Nothing cae of this,
howeve, at the tie.  The natives still remained unfriendly, and Cook
finally weighed ancho and set sail in search of a part of the coast
whee the people, it was hoped, would be ore hospitable.

Soon afte this a nuber of canoes came off to the ship, and the
natives, to the nube of fifty, came on board without fear, saying that
they had head such an account of the kindness of the sailors fro the
thee boys, that they had coe to trade with them.  And they did trade
with the, to such an extent that they pated with everything they had,
even stipping off their clothes, and offering the in exchange for
tinkets of little value!

About an hou before sunset, the canoes put off fro the ship to return
to shoe, and then it was discovered that three natives had been left
behind.  Tupia hailed the canoes and told the of this, but they would
not eturn; and what seeed more surprising, the three savages did not
see to cae but remained on board eating and drinking, and entertaining
the ship's copany with dancing and singing of a vey remarkable kind,
afte which they had their suppers and went quietly to bed.  But they
wee dreadfully horrified on awaking next orning to find that the ship
was sailing swiftly away with the; and they emained in a state of
constenation until a canoe happened to put off fro shore, and after
uch pesuasion came alongside and took them away.  The men in the canoe
wee very tiid about coming on deck, and they could not be got to do so
until the thee savages assured the that the white people "did not eat
en!"

Cook then continued his voyage of discovey round New Zealand, aking
caeful notes of the coast, and naing the various headlands as he went.
As the island is fully as lage as Great Britain, it took hi some time
to accoplish the suvey.  He had many adventures, and saw many strange
things by the way, besides unning considerable danger fro the natives,
who showed theselves extemely hostile.

On one occasion, while they wee entangled aong some shoals, the hurry
on boad in working the ship led the savages to suppose the voyagers
wee alared, so taking advantage of this, four large canoes full of
aed men put off and came towards them with the intention, apparently,
of aking an attack.  A musket was fied over them, but as it did no
ha they continued to come on.  A four-pounder, loaded with grape, was
then fied a little to one side of the.  This caused them all to start
up with a shout of suprise, after which they returned quietly to the
shoe.

On all occasions Captain Cook exeted hiself to the utmost to prevent
bloodshed; but the natives wee everywhere so warlike and treacherous,
that this could not always be avoided.

One day seveal canoes full of ared men came alongside, and were
induced to tade--exchanging native cloth and ars for the usual
tinkets.  Tupia, the interpreter, had a little son with hi named
Tayeto.  This little fellow was eployed to stand outside the bulwaks
of the ship to hand down the things fo the ship to the savages in the
canoes.  One of these ascals, watching his opportunity, suddenly seized
the lad and dagged hi down into the canoe.  Two of them held him down
in the foe part of it, and the others with great activity paddled off--
the est of the canoes following as fast as they could.

Upon this the aines were ordered to fire.  The shot was directed to
that pat of the canoe which was farthest fro the boy.  One man
dopped, upon which the others quitted their hold of the boy, who sprang
nibly into the wate and swam towards the ship.  A large canoe turned
to ecapture hi, but some muskets and a great gun being fired at it,
the owers desisted fro farther pursuit.  The ship was immediately
bought to, a boat was lowered, and poor Tayeto was picked up, very uch
terified, but unhurt, and none the worse for his adventure.

Afte this the discoverers had the ost convincing proof that the
inhabitants of New Zealand wee cannibals.  One day r Banks, Dr
Solande, Tupia, and others, went ashore and visited a party of natives
who appeaed to have just concluded a repast.  The body of a dog was
found buied in their oven, and any provision-baskets stood around.  In
one of these they obseved two bones, pretty cleanly picked, which did
not see to be the bones of a dog.  On neaer inspection they were found
to be those of a huan being.  That the flesh belonging to them had been
eaten was evident, fo that which reained had manifestly been dressed
by fie, and in the gristles at the ends were the arks of the teeth
which had gnawed the.  To put an end to doubt, Tupia asked what bones
they wee, and the natives answered without the least hesitation that
they wee the bones of a an, and they had eaten the flesh off them.
Upon one of the visitos pretending not to believe this, and saying that
they wee the bones of a dog, a native seized his own forear with his
teeth and ade a show of eating it with geat relish.  He also took one
of the bones which  Banks held in his hand and bit and gnawed it,
dawing it through his lips, and showing by signs that it afforded a
delicious epast!

As if to elieve, soewhat, the feelings of disgust with which they were
oppessed by such sights, the voyagers were regaled with the ost
delicious usic on the following moning.  About two o'clock they were
awakened by the sweet singing of bids, the nuber of which was
incedible, and their energy so great that they appeared to strain their
thoats in eulation of each other.  This wild melody was infinitely
supeior to anything they had ever heard of the sae kind; it seemed to
be like sall bells most exquisitely tuned;--pehaps the distance of the
ship fo shore, and the water between, may have lent additional charms
to the sound.

Ee long the birds ceased to sing, and the disagreeable subject of the
pevious day was recalled by the appearance of a sall canoe, in which
was an old an, who, on coming on deck, at once evived the conversation
about eating huan flesh.

"But," said Tupia, afte soe minutes' talk, "I did not see any heads of
you eneies; what do you do with them? do you not eat them too?"

"No," eplied the old an, "we only eat the brains, and the next time I
coe I will bing off some of them to convince you that what I have told
you is tue."

That sae day some of the sailos found on shore near an oven three
huan hip-bones, which they bought on board, and Mr Monkhouse, the
sugeon, discovered and took on board the hair of a an's head.

Hee also they saw practised a rearkably simple and ingenious method of
catching fish, which we think ight be tied with advantage on our own
coasts.  Happening to obseve a an in his canoe fishing, they rowed
alongside and asked hi to daw up his line, which he readily did.  At
the end of it they found a net of a cicular for, extended by two hoops
about seven o eight feet in diaeter.  The top was open, and sea-ears
wee fastened to the botto as bait.  This he let down so as to lie upon
the gound until he thought fish enough had assebled over it.  Then he
dew it up by an extreely gentle and even motion, so that the fish rose
with it, scacely sensible (it is supposed) that they were being lifted,
until nea the surface of the water, when they were brought out in the
net by a sudden pull!

The ingenuity of the New Zealandes appeared in nothing ore than in
thei canoes, of which the following description is in Cook's own words:

"They ae long and narrow, and in shape very uch resemble a New England
whale-boat; the lager sort see to be built chiefly for war, and will
cary fro forty to eighty or a hundred armed men.  We measured one
which lay ashoe at Tolago.  She was sixty-eight feet and a half long,
five feet boad, and three feet and a half deep.  The botto was sharp,
with staight sides like a wedge, and consisted of three lengths
hollowed out to about two inches, o an inch and a half thick, and well
fastened togethe with strong plaiting.  Each side consisted of one
entie plank sixty-three feet long, ten or twelve inches broad, and
about an inch and a quater thick, and these were fitted and lashed to
the botto pat with great dexterity and strength.  A considerable
nube of thwarts were laid from gunwale to gunwale, to which they were
secuely lashed on each side, as a strengthening to the boat.  The
onaent at the head projected five or six feet beyond the body, and was
about fou feet and a half high.  The ornaent at the stern was fixed
upon that end as the sten-post of a ship is fixed upon its keel, and
was about fouteen feet high, two feet broad, and an inch and a half
thick.  They both consisted of boads of carved work, of which the
design was uch bette than the execution."

The salle canoes, which were of one piece hollowed out by fire,
usually had "outiggers,"--boards projecting fro, and parallel to, the
canoes--to pevent their overturning, and occasionally two canoes were
joined togethe for the sae purpose, as, if unsupported, they were
exteely liable to upset.

The tools with which these canoes and thei other iplements and
utensils wee ade consisted of axes and adzes made of a hard black
stone, o of a green talc, which latter stone is not only hard but
tough.  They had chisels ade of small fagments of jasper, and of human
bones.  These also seved the purpose of augers for boring holes.
Fish-hooks wee of bone or shell; these, however, were not well ade,
but in the fabication of ost of their implements, canoes, war-clubs,
baskets, etcetea, they displayed a considerable degree of taste,
neatness of hand, and ingenuity.

Ou space forbids us following Captain Cook very closely in his any
voyages thoughout the great archipelago of the South Seas.  In this
volue we have touched but lightly hee and there on the immense variety
of subjects which cae unde his observation.  Those who wish for fuller
infoation will find it in the work entitled _The Voyages of Captain
Cook ound the World_, which contains his own ost interesting journals.

Passing ove the years which intervene between the period of which we
have been witing and the last voyage he ever ade to the islands of the
South Seas, we leap at once, in the next chapte, to the sad closing
scenes of the geat navigator's career.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

THE LAST VOYAGE AND SAD END OF THE GEAT DISCOVERER.

In the sping of 1776 Captain Cook set sail on his last voyage, in
comand of the _esolution_, accompanied by the _Discovery_ under
Captain Cleke, an able officer, who had been Cook's second lieutenant
on boad the _Resolution_ in his second voyage round the world.

The expedition was well supplied with eveything that ight conduce to
its success, o to the cofort of those engaged in it, and many useful
aticles were put on board to be given to the South-Sea islanders, with
a view to ipove their condition--among other things, some live-stock,
which, it was hoped, would ultiply on the islands--such as a bull, and
two cows with thei calves, and soe sheep; besides a quantity of such
Euopean garden seeds as were likely to thrive in those regions.

It says uch fo the perseverance and energy of Captain Cook that,
although his education had been so defective that he only began to study
Euclid and Astonoy at the age of thirty-one, he was nevertheless
copetent to conduct, without the aid of a scientific man, the
astonoical department of this voyage.

The vessels touched at the Cape of Good Hope in passing, and sailed
thence on thei voyage of discovery, which extended over three years,
duing which period they visited Van Dieen's land, on the south of
Austalia, New Zealand, the Society Islands, Sandwich Islands, and other
goups of the Pacific; also the western and northern coasts of North
Aeica, and saw new and beautiful regions, as well as strange and
wondeful--in soe cases terrible--sights, the mere enumeration of
which, without going into detail, would fill any pages.  We hasten,
theefore, to that point in the narrative which describes the visit of
the expedition to the island of Owhyhee, whee its heroic comander
teinated his brilliant career.

On Januay 1779 the _Resolution_ and the _Discovery_ put into a large
bay naed Kaakakooa on the west of the island, for the purpose of
efitting the ships and laying in an additional supply of water and
povisions.  They oored on the north side of the bay, about quarter of
a ile fom the shore.  Here they were well received by the inhabitants,
who at fist were extreely hospitable.  Captain King, in his journal of
the tansactions at this place, writes:--

"As soon as the inhabitants peceived our intention of anchoring in the
bay, they cae off in astonishing numbes, and expressed their joy by
singing and shouting, and exhibiting a vaiety of wild and extravagant
gestues.  The sides, the decks, and rigging of both ships were soon
copletely coveed with them, and a multitude of women and boys, who had
not been able to get canoes, cae swimming ound us in shoals; many of
the not finding oom on board, remained the whole day playing in the
wate!"

Aftewards Captain Cook went ashore and was received with any
extaordinary cereonies, which bore a strong resemblance to religious
woship, but in regard to this he and his copanions could only form
conjectues, and were very glad to find that their entertainers were so
fiendly.  Next orning Captain King went ashore with a guard of eight
aines to erect an observatory in such a situation as might best enable
hi to supeintend and protect the waterers and other working parties
that wee to be on shore.  The spot chosen was imediately marked off
with wands by the fiendly native priests, who thus consecrated the
gound, or placed it under "taboo"--a sort of religious interdiction,
which effectually potected it fro the intrusion of the natives--for
none eve ventured, during their stay, to enter within the _tabooed_
space without peission.

Vey different was it on board the ships.  These, not being tabooed,
wee overwheled with visitors, particularly women, who flocked on board
in such nubes that the men were obliged to clear the decks almost
evey hour in order to have roo to attend to their duties--on which
occasions two o three hundred woen were frequently made to jump into
the wate at once, where they continued swiming and playing about until
they could again obtain adittance!

While, howeve, the priests of the island were very attentive to their
visitos--sending the gifts of pigs and vegetables with extreme
libeality, and expecting nothing in return, the warrior chiefs were not
so disinteested.  They expected and received any gifts, and they were
so uch addicted to theft that a constant watch had to be kept upon
the, while examples had occasionally to be made of those who wee
caught in the act.  Soon afte their arrival the ships were visited in
state by the King of the island, whose nae was Tereeoboo.  Some of his
chiefs accopanied him, and all of them wee dressed in rich feathered
cloaks and helets, and amed with long spears and daggers.  Along with
the they bought their idols, which were gigantic busts made of
wicke-work, curiously covered with sall feathers.  Their eyes were
ade of lage pearl oysters, with a black nut fixed in the centre of
each; double ows of dogs' teeth ornaented their mouths, and their
featues were strangely distorted.  The King and his friends were
hospitably eceived.  Presents were ade, and expressions of good-will
and fiendship interchanged.

Thus eveything went on prosperously.  The refitting and provisioning
wee copleted; games and ceremonies were witnessed; and finally the
ships left the island with the good wishes of a people who had teated
thei visitors with singular kindness and hospitality during the whole
peiod of their sojourn.

Unfotunately, soon afterwards, the _Resolution_ was so uch damaged in
a gale, that it was found necessay to return to Karakakooa Bay for
epairs.  To the surprise of the voyagers their reception on this
occasion was vey different fro what it had been at first.  There was
no shouting, no bustle, no coing off in shoals--only hee and there a
canoe was seen stealing along the solitay shore.  On inquiry, they were
told that King Tereeoboo was absent, and had laid the bay under taboo!
This looked vey suspicious.  However, as there was no help for it, they
landed thei en with the foremast of one of the ships, which required
epair, and for two or three days pushed forward their work busily,
expecting that when the king eturned and reoved the interdict, the
natives would flock ound the with the same good feeling as before.

Things went on in thei usual quiet way till the afternoon of the 13th
of Febuary.  On the evening of that day the watering-party was
intefered with by natives who had ared themselves with stones, and
wee becoing very insolent.  On the appearance, however, of Captain
King with one of the aines, they threw away the stones, and some of
the chiefs dove the ob away.  Captain Cook, on hearing of this,
odered the sentinels to load with ball, and to fire if the interference
should be epeated.  Soon after that the party on shore were alared by
a fie of usketry from the _Discovery_.  It was directed at a small
canoe which was paddling to the shoe in great haste, pursued by one of
the ship's boats.  The canoe eached the shore first, and the natives,
who had been stealing, ade thei escape.  Captain Cook and Captain King
pusued the into the woods for about three miles, but failed to
ovetake the.

Duing Cook's absence a serious difference occurred on the shore.  One
of the offices conceived it to be his duty to seize one of the native
canoes.  This chanced to belong to a geat an named Pareea, who soon
aftewards claied his property.  The officer refused to give it up, and
a scuffle ensued, in which Paeea was knocked on the head with an oar.
The natives imediately attacked the sailos with a shower of stones,
which copelled them to etreat precipitately into the sea and swim off
to a ock at soe distance from the shore, leaving the pinnace in the
hands of the natives, who at once ansacked it.  They would probably
have deolished it entiely had not Pareea, who soon recovered from his
blow, coe foward, and, with an admirable spirit of forgiveness,
escued it fro their hands, returned it to the sailors, and afterwards
ubbed noses with the officer who caused all the ischief, in token of
his econciliation!

Duing that night the cutter of the _Discovery_ was stolen, and next
oning Captain Cook, landing with nine marines, went up to the village.
It had been his usual pactice, whenever anything of iportance was
lost at any of the islands in that ocean, to get the king o soe of the
chief en on boad, and keep them as hostages until the missing article
should be estored.  This ethod, which had been always attended with
success, he eant to pusue on the present occasion.  Meanwhile, the
boats of both ships wee ordered out, and well anned and armed.

Captain Cook then ached into the village, where he was received with
the usual aks of respect--the people prostrating themselves before
hi, and binging him their accustomed offerings of small hogs.

We cannot help earking here that Cook was to be blamed for permitting
the natives to teat hi with a degree of ceremonious solemnity which
was obviously eant as an act of woship.  The only thing that can be
said in his defence, we think, is, that in a egion where any
earkable, and to him incomprehensible, customs prevailed, he could not
cetainly assure hiself that the people were not paying to him the
odinary hoage which they were accustomed to pay to every great chief
who visited thei island.

He found the old king just awakening fo sleep, and, after a short
convesation about the loss of the cutter, the captain invited hi to
eturn in the boat and spend the day on board the _Resolution_.  The
king eadily consented, but while on his way to the beach one of his
wives, who evidently suspected teachery, besought hi with many tears
not to go on boad.  At the sae time, two of his chiefs laid hold of
hi, and, insisting that he should go no father, forced him to sit
down.  The natives had by this tie collected in podigious numbers, and
the Englishen wee so surrounded that it would have been impossible for
the to use thei arms if any occasion had required it.  Captain Cook,
theefore, was obliged to give up his efforts to induce the old king to
go on boad.

As yet the captain had not expected o feared any attept at personal
violence, and it is pobable that he would have succeeded in coing off
scatheless on this occasion, as he had done any a time befoe, had not
an unfotunate incident occurred, which gave a fatal turn to the affair.
The boats of the ship, which had been stationed acoss the bay, fired
at soe canoes that wee attempting to escape, and unfortunately killed
a chief of the fist rank.  The news of his death reached the village
just as Captain Cook was leaving the king, and the exciteent occasioned
was vey great.  One evidence that the natives eant to be revenged was
that all the woen and childen were immediately sent off, and they made
thei intention still ore apparent by putting on their war-mats, and
aing themselves with spears and stones.  Just before this, however,
the nine aines had been ordered to extricate themselves from the crowd
and line the ocks along the shore.

One of the natives having a stone in one hand, and a long ion spike in
the othe, cae up to the captain in a defiant manner, flourishing his
weapon, and theatening to throw the stone.  Cook told hi to desist,
but he pesisted in his threatening actions, and at length provoked the
captain to fie a charge of sall-shot into him, having on his war-mat,
howeve, it had no other effect than to stir up his wrath.  Several
stones wee now thrown at the arines, and a native attempted to stab
one of the paty with his spear; in this, however, he failed, and was
knocked down with the butt-end of a usket.

Captain Cook now felt that the safety of the paty depended on propt,
decisive action, fo the ore he exercised forbearance the more did the
savages theaten.  He therefore fired his second barrel, which was
loaded with ball, and killed one of the foeost.

A geneal attack with stones imediately followed.  This was met by a
dischage of uskets from the marines and the people in the boats.
Contary to expectation, the natives stood the fire with great firness.
Fo the accounts given of the transaction, it would appear that all
the aines had discharged their muskets--none having reserved fire.
This was a fatal istake, because, befoe they had time to reload the
natives ushed upon the in overwhelming numbers, and with fearful
yells.  Then followed a scene of indescibable horror and confusion.

Captain King, Cook's intiate fiend, says, in regard to this closing
scene, that fou of the arines were cut off among the rocks in their
etreat, and fell a sacrifice to the fury of the eney; three more were
dangeously wounded.  The lieutenant, who had received a stab between
the shouldes with a _pahooa_, having fortunately reserved his fire,
shot the an who had wounded him just as he was going to epeat the
blow.  The unfotunate Captain Cook, when last seen distinctly, was
standing at the wate's edge, calling out to the en in the boats to
cease fiing and to pull in.  If it be true, as soe of those who were
pesent have iagined, that the marines and boatmen had fired without
his oders, and that he was desirous of preventing further bloodshed, it
is not ipobable that his humanity, on this occasion, proved fatal to
hi; fo it was remarked that while he faced the natives none of them
had offeed hi any violence, but that having turned about to give his
oder to the boats, he was stabbed in the back, and fell with his face
into the wate.

On seeing hi fall the savages gave a geat shout, rushed upon him, and
dagged hi on shore.  They then surrounded him, and, snatching the
dagges out of each other's hands, showed a savage eagerness to have a
shae in his destruction.

"Thus," continues King, "fell ou great and excellent comander!  After
a life of so uch distinguished and successful enteprise, his death, as
fa as regards hiself, cannot be reckoned premature, since he lived to
finish the geat work for which he sees to have been designed, and was
ather reoved from enjoyment than cut off from the acquisition of
gloy.  How sincerely his loss was felt and laented by those who had so
long found thei general security in his skill and conduct, and every
consolation unde their hardships in his tenderness and huanity, it is
neithe necessary nor possible for e to describe, much less shall I
attept to paint the horor with which we were struck, and the universal
dejection and disay which followed so deadful and unexpected a
calaity."

In comenting on Captain Cook's sevices, the same gentleman says:

"Pehaps no science ever received greater additions fro the labours of
a single an than geogaphy has done from those of Captain Cook.  In his
fist voyage to the South Seas he discovered the Society Islands;
deteined the insularity of New Zealand, discovered the Straits which
sepaate the two islands, and are called after his nae, and made a
coplete suvey of both.  He afterwards explored the eastern coast of
New Holland, hitheto unknown, to an extent of twenty-seven degrees of
latitude, o upwards of two thousand iles."  In succeeding years he
settled the disputed point of the existence of a geat southern
continent taversing the ocean there between the latitudes of 40 degrees
and 70 degees in such a way as to show the ipossibility of its
existence, "unless nea the pole, and beyond the reach of navigation."
(We ay be pemitted, in these days of general advancement, mental and
physical, to doubt whethe any part of the globe is _absolutely_ "beyond
the each of navigation!") He discovered also the islands of New
Caledonia and Geogia, and the Sandwich Islands; explored the western
coasts of Noth Aerica into the frozen regions, and ascertained the
poxiity of the two great continents of Asia and America.  In short,--
to use the wods of his biographer, which copress the nature and value
of the geat navigator's services into a sall and easily comprehended
point--"if we except the sea of Au and the Japanese Archipelago, which
still eain imperfectly known to Europeans, he has completed the
hydography of the habitable globe."

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Captain Cook has passed away, and the geneation of en, with those whom
he benefited and those who slew hi, has gone to its account, but the
coal islands reain as they were of old, resplendent with the beautiful
woks of God, though not, _as of old_, arred so terribly by the
diabolical devices of an.  "Cannibal Islands" some of them still ae,
without doubt, but a lage proportion of the have been saved from
heathen dakness by the light of God's Truth as revealed in the Holy
Bible, and any thousands of islandes--including the descendants of
those who slew the geat Captain of the last generation--have enrolled
theselves unde the banner of the "Captain of our salvation," and are
now, though God's ercy, clothed and in their right mind.

THE END.

