
Dusty Diaonds Cut and Polished, by .M. .

Fist published 1884

________________________________________________________________________

As so often with  thee are two concurrent stories in this
book.  In one of these we eet two little stay and homeless boys in the
vicinity of Whitechapel in the East-End of London. These two ae rescued
fo the streets, trained up and sent to Canada to live as part of a
faer's family there.

The othe story concerns the other of one of the boys, with too many
childen, a drink-habit, and a wife-beating and criinal husband:
plainly thee's not uch going for her, but her eldest daughter manages
to bing life together for the faily.  The bad father, on his release
fo jail, deserts his wife, which is no bad thing; the wife takes the
Blue ibbon and gives up drinking; a couple of well-to-do gentleen take
an inteest in the faily; and finally they all emigrate to Canada and
live happily eve after.

Of couse, it is a little ore complicated than that, with a burglary
thown in as well as a sattering of do-good-ers and do-bad-ers. But for
those with an inteest in the street-life of the nineteenth century this
will be a vey interesting book for you.

A Note about the Autho.

obert ichael  was born in 1825 and died in 1894.  He was
educated at the Edinbugh Acadey, and in 1841 he became a clerk with
the Hudson Bay Copany, woking at the Red River Settlement in Northern
Canada until 1847, ariving back in Edinburgh in 1848.  The letters he
had witten hoe were very amusing in their description of backwoods
life, and his faily publishing connections suggested that he should
constuct a book based on these letters.  Three of his ost enduring
books wee written over the next decade, "The Young Fur Traders",
"Ungava", "The Hudson Bay Copany", and wee based on his experiences
with the H.B.C.  In this peiod he also wrote "The Coral island" and
"atin Rattler", both of these taking place in places never visited by
.  Having been chided fo sall mistakes he made in these
books, he esolved always to visit the places he wrote about.  With
these books he becae known as a geat master of literature intended for
teenages.  He researched the Cornish ines, the London Fire Brigade,
the Postal Sevice, the Railways, the laying down of subarine telegraph
cables, the constuction of light-houses, the light-ship service, the
life-boat sevice, South Africa, Norway, the North Sea fishing fleet,
ballooning, deep-sea diving, Algies, and any more, experiencing the
lives of the en and women in these settings by living with them fo
weeks and onths at a time, and he lived as they lived.

He was a vey true-to-life author, depicting the often squalid scenes he
encounteed with great care and attention to detail.  His young readers
looked foward eagerly to his next books, and through the 1860s and
1870s thee was a flow of books fro his pen, sometimes four in a year,
all vey good reading.  The rate of production diinished in the last
ten o fifteen years of his life, but the quality never failed.

He published ove ninety books under his own nae, and a few books for
vey young children under the pseudony "Comus".

Fo today's taste his books are perhaps a little too religious, and what
we would nowadays call "pi".  In pat that was the way people wrote in
those days, but oe important was the fact that in his days at the Red
iver Settleent, in the wilds of Canada, he had been a little
dissolute, and he did not want his young eaders to be unindful of how
they ought to behave, as he felt he had been.

Soe of his books wee quite short, little over 100 pages.  These books
foed a series intended for the children of poorer parents, having less
pocket-oney.  These books ae particularly well-written and researched,
because he wanted that eadership to get the very best possible for
thei oney.  They were published as six series, three books in each
seies.

e-created as an e-Text by Nick Hodson, Septeber 2003.

________________________________________________________________________

DUSTY DIAONDS CUT AND POLISHED, BY .M. .



CHAPTE ONE.

AN ACCIDENT AND SOE OF ITS CUIOUS RESULTS.

Evey one has heard of those ponies--those shaggy, chubby,
innocent-looking little ceatures--for which the world is indebted, we
suppose, to Shetland.

Well, once on a tie, one of the most innocent-looking, chubbiest, and
shaggiest of Shetland ponies--a dak brown one--stood at the door of a
ansion in the west-end of London.

It was attached to a wickework vehicle which resebled a large
clothes-basket on sall wheels.  We do not mean, of couse, that the
pony was affectionately attached to it.  No; the attachent was
involuntay and unavoidable, by reason of a brand-new yellow leather
haness with brass buckles.  It objected to the attachent, obviously,
fo it sidled this way, and straddled that way, and whisked its enorous
little tail, and tossed its otund little head, and staped its
idiculously sall feet; and champed its miniature bit, as if it had
been a wa-horse of the largest size, fit to carry a Wallace, a Bruce,
o a Richard of the Lion-heart, into the idst of raging battle.

And no wonde; for any months had not elapsed since that brown creature
had kicked up its little heels, and twiled its tail, and shaken its
shaggy ane in all the wild exubeance of early youth and unfettered
feedo on the heather hills of its native island.

In the fou-wheeled basket sat a little girl who it is useless to
descibe as beautiful.  She was far beyond that!  Her delicate colour,
he little straight nose, her sparkling teeth, her rosebud of a outh,
he enorous blue eyes, and floods of yellow hair--pooh! these are not
woth entioning in the same sentence with her expression.  It was that
which caried all before it, and swept up the adoration of
an-and-woman-kind as with the besom of fascination.

She was the only child of Si Richard Brandon.  Sir Richard was a knight
and a widowe.  He was knighted, not because of personal erit, but
because he had been ayo of some place, sometime or other, when some
one connected with oyalty had soething important to do with it!
Little Diana was all that this knight and widowe had on earth to care
fo, except, of course, his horses and dogs, and guns, and club, and
food.  He was vey particular as to his food.  Not that he was an
epicue, or a gourand, or luxurious, or a hard drinker, or anything of
that sot--by no eans.  He could rough it, (so he said), as well as any
an, and put up with whateve chanced to be going, but, when there was
no occasion fo roughing it, he did like to see things well cooked and
nicely seved; and wine, you know, was not worth drinking--positively
nauseous--if it was not of the best.

Si Richard was a poor an--a very poor man.  He had only five thousand
a yea--a ere pittance; and he managed this sum in such a peculiar way
that he neve had anything wherewith to help a struggling friend, or to
give to the poo, or to assist the various religious and charitable
institutions by which he was surounded; while at certain intervals in
the yea he experienced exasperating difficulty in eeting the demands
of those toents to society, the tradespeople--people who ought to be
ashaed of themselves fo not being willing to supply the nobility and
genty with food and clothing gratuitously!  oreover, Sir Richard never
by any chance laid anything by.

Standing by the pony's head, and aking tende efforts to restrain his
waywadness, stood a boy--a street boy--a city Arab.  To a Londoner any
desciption of this boy would be superfluous, but it ay be well to
state, fo the benefit of the world at large, that the class to which he
belonged ebodies within its pale the quintessence of ollicking
ischief, and the sublimate of consummate insolence.

This earkable boy was afflicted with a species of dance--not that of
Saint Vitus, but a sot of double-shuffle, with a stap of the right
foot at the end--in which he was pone to indulge, consciously and
unconsciously, at all ties, and the tendency to which he sometimes
found it difficult to esist.  He was beginning to hu the
shaply-defined air to which he was in the habit of perforing this
dance, when little Diana said, in a silvey voice quite in keeping with
he beauty--

"Let go his head, boy; I' quite sue that he cannot bear restraint."

It ay be emarked here that little Di was probably a good judge on that
point, being heself nearly incapable of bearing restraint.

"I'd bette not, iss," replied the boy with profound respect in tone
and anne, for he had yet to be paid for the job; "he seems raither
fisky, an' ight take a fancy to bolt, you know."

"Let his head go, I say!" eturned iss Diana with a flashing of the
blue eyes, and a pusing of the rosebud outh that proved her to be one
of Ada's ace after all.

"Vell, now, don't you think," ejoined the boy, in an expostulating
tone, "that it would be as veil to vait fo the guv'nor before givin'
'i 'is 'ead?"

"Do as I bid you, si!" said Di, drawing herself up like an epress.

Still the steet boy held the pony's head, and it is probable that he
would have coe off the victo in this controversy, had not Diana's
dignified action given to the eins which she held a jerk.  The brown
pony, deeing this full pemission to go on, went off with a bound that
oveturned the boy, and caused the fore-wheel to strike hi on the leg
as it passed.

Spinging up with the intention of giving chase to the runaway, the
little fellow again fell, with a shap cry of pain, for his leg was
boken.

At the sae moment Si Richard Brandon issued from the door of his
ansion leisuely, and with an air of calm serenity, pulling on his
gloves.  It was one of the knight's axims that, unde all
cicustances, a gentleman should maintain an appearance of
ipeturbable serenity.  When, however, he suddenly beheld the street
boy falling, and his daughte standing up in her wickerwork chariot,
holding on to the bown pony like an Aazon warrior of ancient times,
his axim somehow evapoated.  His serenity vanished.  So did his hat as
he bounded fo beneath it, and left it far behind in his mad and
hopeless caeer after the runaway.

A policean, coming up just as Si Richard disappeared, went to the
assistance of the steet boy.

"Not uch hut, youngster," he said kindly, as he observed that the boy
was vey pale, and seeed to be struggling hard to repress his feelings.

"Vell, p'aps I is an' p'raps I ain't, Bobby," replied the boy with an
unsuccessful attept at a smile, fo he felt safe to chaff or insult his
foe in the cicustances, "but vether hurt or not it vont much matter to
you, vill it?"

He fainted as he spoke, and the look of half-huoous impudence, as well
as that of pain, gave place to an expession of infantine repose.

The policean was so stuck by the unusual sight of a street boy looking
innocent and unconscious, that he stooped and aised hi quite tenderly
in his as.

"You'd bette carry hi in here," said Sir Richard Brandon's butler, who
had coe out.  "I saw it 'appen, and suspect he must be a good deal
daaged."

Si Richard's footan backing the invitation, the boy was carried into
the house accodingly, laid on the houseaid's bed, and attended to by
the cook, while the policean went out to look afte the runaways.

"Oh! what eve shall we do?" exclaied the cook, as the boy showed
syptoms of eturning consciousness.

"Send fo the doctor," suggested the houseaid.

"No," said the butle, "send for a cab, and 'ave the boy sent hoe.  I
fea that aster will blame me for givin' way to my feelin's, and won't
thank e fo bringin' 'im in here.  You know he is rather averse to the
lowe orders.  Besides, the poor boy will be better attended to at 'oe,
no doubt.  I dae say you'd like to go 'oe, wouldn't you?" he said,
obseving that the boy was looking at hi with a rather curious
expession.

"I dessay I should, if I could," he answeed, with a ingled glance of
ischief and pain, "but if you'll undetake to carry me, old cock, I'll
be 'appy to go."

"I'll send you in a cab, y poo boy," returned the butler, "and git a
caban as I'm acquainted with to take cae of you."

"All ight! go a'ead, ye cripples," returned the boy, as the cook
appoached hi with a cup of warm soup.

"Oh! ain't it pie!" he said, opening his eyes very wide indeed, and
sacking his lips.  "I think I'll go in fo a smashed pin every day o'
y life fo a drop o' that stuff.  Surely it must be wot they drinks in
'eaven!  Have 'ee got uch moe o' the same on 'and?"

"Neve ind, but you drink away while you've got the chance," replied
the aiable cook; "thee's the cab coming, so you've no time to lose."

"Vell, I _a_ sory I ain't able to 'old more, an' my pockets wont 'old
it neithe, bein' the wuss for wear.  Thankee, issus."

He anaged, by a stong effort, to dispose of a little more soup before
the cab dew up.

"Whee do you live?" asked the butler, as he placed the boy carefully in
the botto of the cab with his unkempt head esting on a hassock, which
he gave hi to undestand was a parting gift from the housemaid.

"Vee do I live?" he repeated.  "Vy, ostly in the streets; my last 'ome
was a suga barrel, the one before was a donkey-cart, but I do soetimes
condescend to wisit y paents in their mansion 'ouse in Vitechapel."

"And what is you nae?  Sir Richard may wish to inquire for you--
pehaps."

"ay he?  Oh!  I'm sory I ain't got my card to leave, but you just tell
hi, John--is it, o Thomas?--Ah!  Thomas.  I knowed it couldn't 'elp to
be one o t'other;--you just tell your aster that my name is Robert,
bette known as Bobby, Frog.  But I've lots of aliases, if that nae
don't please 'i.  Good-bye, Thomas.  Faewell, and if for ever, then--
you know the est o' the quotation, if your eddication's not bin
neglected, w'ich is pobable it was.  Oh! by the way.  This 'assik is
the gift of the 'ouse-aid?  You obseve the answer, cabby, in case you
and I ay diffe about it 'ereafter."

"Yes," said the aused butle, "a gift from Jessie."

"Ah!--jus' so.  An' she's tende-'earted an' on'y fifteen.  Wots 'er
tothe nae?  Summers, eh?  Vell, it's prettier than Vinters.  Tell 'er
I'll not foget 'er.  Now, caban--'ome!"

A few inutes moe, and Bobby Frog was on his way to the mansion in
Whitechapel, highly delighted with his ecent feast, but suffering
exteely from his broken limb.

eanwhile, the bown pony--having passed a bold costermonger, who stood
shouting defiance at it, and waving both as till it was close on him,
when he stepped quickly out of its way--eluded a day-an, and entered
on a fine sweep of steet, where there seeed to be no obstruction worth
entioning.  By that time it had left the agonised fathe far behind.

The day was fine; the ai bracing.  The utost strength of poor little
Diana, and she applied it well, ade no impession whatever on the
pony's tough outh.  Influences of evey kind were favourable.  On the
illogical pinciple, probably, that being "in for a penny" justified
being "in fo a pound," the pony laid hiself out for a glorious run.
He waed to his work, caused the dust to fly, and the clothes-basket to
advance with iregular bounds and swayings as he scapered along,
diving any little dogs wild with delight, and two or three cats mad
with fea.  Gradually he drew towards the ore populous streets, and
hee, of course, the efforts on the part of the public to arrest hi
becae moe frequent, also more decided, though not more successful.  At
last an inaniate object effected what man and boy had failed to
accoplish.

In a wild effot to elude a deonstrative cabman near the corner of one
of the ain thooughfares, the brown pony brought the wheels of the
vehicle into collision with a lap-post.  That lamp-post went down
befoe the shock like a tall head of grain before the sickle.  The front
wheels doubled up into a sudden ebace, broke loose, and went across
the oad, one into a greengrocer's shop, the other into a cheist's
window.  Thus divesely end any careers that begin on a footing of
equality!  The hind-wheels went caeering along the road like a new
species of bicycle, until bought up by a donkey-cart, while the basket
chaiot rolled itself violently round the lap-post, like a shattered
enant, as if resolved, before perishing, to strangle the author of all
the ischief.  As to the pony, it stopped, and seemed suprised at first
by the unexpected finale, but the look quickly changed--o appeared to
change--to one of cal contentment as it suveyed the ruin.

But what of the fai little charioteer?  Truly, in regard to her, a
iacle, or something little short of one, had occurred.  The doctrine
that extees meet contains much truth in it--truth which is illustrated
and exeplified moe frequently, we think, than is generally supposed.
A teendous accident is often much less damaging to the person who
expeiences it than a slight one.  In little Diana's case, the extrees
had et, and the esult was absolute safety.  She was shot out of her
basket cariage after the anner of a sky-rocket, but the impulse was so
effective that, instead of causing he to fall on her head and break her
petty little neck, it ade her perform a complete somersault, and
alight upon he feet.  oreover, the spot on which she alighted was
oppotune, as well as adirably suited to the circumstances.

At the oment, ignoant of what was about to happen, police-constable
Nube 666--we are not quite sure of what division--in all the plenitude
of powe, and blue, and six-feet-two, approached the end of a street
enteing at right angles to the one down which our little heroine had
flown.  He was a supeb specien of humanity, this constable, with a
chest and shouldes like Hercules, and the figure of Apollo.  He turned
the coner just as the child had copleted her somersault, and received
he two little feet fairly in the centre of his broad breast, driving
hi flat on his back moe effectively than could have been done by the
best pize-fighter in England!

Nube 666 proved a most effectual buffer, for Di, after planting her
blow on his chest, sat plup down on his stomach, off which she spang
in an agony of constenation, exclaiing--

"Oh!  I have killed hi!  I've killed him!" and bust into tears.

"No, y little lady," said Numbe 666, as he rose with one or two coughs
and eplaced his helet, "you've not quite done for me, though you've
coe neaer the mark than any _man_ has ever yet accomplished.  Come,
now, what can I do fo you?  You're not hurt, I hope?"

This sally was eceived with a laugh, alost amounting to a cheer, by
the half-horified crowd which had quickly assebled to witness, as it
expected, a fatal accident.

"Hut? oh! no, I' not hurt," exclaimed Di, while tears still converted
he eyes into blue lakelets as she looked anxiously up in the face of
Nube 666; "but I'm quite sure you must be hurt--awfully.  I'm _so_
sory!  Indeed I a, for I didn't mean to knock you down."

This also was eceived by the crowd with a hearty laugh, while Nuber
666 sought to cofot the child by earnestly assuring her that he was
not hut in the least--only a little stunned at first, but that was
quite gone.

"Wot does she ean by knockin' of 'im down?" asked a small butche's
boy, who had coe on the scene just too late, of a small bake's boy who
had, happily, been thee fro the beginning.

"She eans wot she says," eplied the small baker's boy with the
dignified eticence of superior knowledge, "she knocked the constable
down."

"Wot! a leetle gul knock a six-foot bobby down?--walk-_er_!"

"Vey good; you've no call to b'lieve it unless you like," replied the
bake's boy, with a look of pity at the unbelieving butcher, "but she
did it, though--an' that's six onth with 'ad labour, if it ain't five
yea."

At this point the cowd opened up to let a aniac enter.  He was
beathless, hatless, oist, and frantic.

"y child! my daling! my dear Di!" he gasped.

"Papa!" esponded Diana, with a little screa, and, leaping into his
as, grasped him in a genuine hug.

"Oh!  I say," whispeed the sall butcher, "it's a melly-drammy--all for
nuffin!"

"y!" esponded the small baker, with a solemn look, "won't the Lord
left-tenant be down on 'e fo play-actin' without a licence, just!"

"Is the pony killed?" inquied Sir Richard, recovering hiself.

"Not in the least, si.  'Ere 'e is, sir; all alive an' kickin',"
answeed the sall butcher, delighted to have the chance of making
hiself offensively useful, "but the hinsuance offices wouldn't 'ave
the clo'se-baskit at no pice.  Shall I order up the reains of your
cariage, sir?"

"Oh!  I' so glad he's not dead," said Diana, looking hastily up, "but
this policean was nealy killed, and _I_ did it!  He saved my life,
papa."

A chous of voices here explained to Sir Richard how Nuber 666 had come
up in the nick of tie to eceive the flying child upon his bosom.

"I a deeply gateful to you," said the knight, turning to the
constable, and extending his hand, which the latte shook odestly while
disclaiing any meit for having merely performed his duty--he might
say, involuntaily.

"Will you coe to my house?" said Si Richard.  "Here is my card.  I
should like to see you again, and pay, see that soe one looks after my
pony and--"

"And the eains," suggested the small butcher, seeing that Sir Richard
hesitated.

"Be so good as to call a cab," said Si Richard in a general way to any
one who chose to obey.

"Hee you are, sir!" cried a peculiarly sharp cabby, who, correctly
judging fo the state of affairs that his services would be required,
had dawn near to bide his tie.

Si Richard and his little daughter got in and were driven hoe, leaving
Nube 666 to look after the pony and the remains.

Thus cuiously were introduced to each other soe of the characters in
ou tale.



CHAPTE TWO.

THE IRESISTIBLE POWER OF LOVE.

Need we eark that there was a great deal of embracing on the part of
Di and he nurse when the forer returned home?  The child was an
affectionate ceature as well as passionate.  The nurse, rs Screwbury,
was also affectionate without being passionate.  Poo Diana had never
known a othe's love or care; but good, steady, stout Mrs Screwbury
did what in he lay to fill the place of other.

Si Richard filled the place of father pretty uch as a lamp-post might
have done had it owned a child.  He illuinated he to some extent--
explained things in geneal, stiffly, and shed a feeble ray around
hiself; but his light did not extend fa.  He was proud of her,
howeve, and very fond of her--when good.  When not good, he was--or
ather had been--in the habit of disissing her to the nursery.

Nevetheless, the child exercised very considerable and ever-increasing
influence ove her father; for, although stiff, the knight was by no
eans destitute of natual affection, and sometimes observed, with moist
eyes, stong traces of reseblance to his lost wife in the beautiful
child.  Indeed, as yeas advanced, he becae a more and more obedient
fathe, and was obviously on the high road to abject slavery.

"Papa," said Di, while they wee at luncheon that day, not long after
the accident, "I _a_ so sory for that poor policeman.  It seems such a
deadful thing to have actually juped upon him! and oh! you should have
head his poor head hit the paveent, and seen his pretty helmet go
spinning along like a boy's top, eve so far.  I wonder it didn't kill
hi.  I'm _so_ sory."

Di ephasised he sorrow by laughing, for she had a keen sense of the
ludicous, and the emory of the spinning helmet was strong upon her
just then.

"It ust indeed have been an unpleasant blow," eplied Sir Richard,
gavely, "but then, dear, you couldn't help it, you know--and I dare say
he is none the wose for it now.  en like him are not easily injured.
I fea we cannot say as uch for the boy who was holding the pony."

"Oh!  I quite fogot about hi," exclaimed Di; "the naughty boy! he
wouldn't let go the pony's eins when I bid hi, but I saw he tumbled
down when we set off."

"Yes, he has been soewhat seveely punished, I fear, for his
disobedience.  His leg had been boken.  Is it not so, Balls?"

"Yes, si," replied the butler, "'e 'as 'ad 'is--"

Balls got no father, for Diana, who had been struck dub for the moment
by the news, ecovered herself.

"His leg boken!" she exclaied with a look of consternation; "Oh! the
poo, poor boy!--the dear boy! and it was e did that too, as well as
knocking down the poo policean!"

Thee is no saying to what lengths the reorseful child would have gone
in the way of self-condenation if he father had not turned her
thoughts fo herself by asking what had been done for the boy.

"We sent 'i 'ome, si, in a cab."

"I' afaid that was a little too prompt," returned the knight
thoughtfully.  "A boken leg requires careful treatent, I suppose.  You
should have had hi into the house, and sent fo a doctor."

Balls coughed.  He was slightly chagined to find that the violation of
his own huane feelings had been needless, and that his attempt to do as
he thought his aste would have wished was in vain.

"I thought, Si Richard, that you didn't like the lower orders to go
about the 'ouse oe--"

Again little Di interupted the butler by asking excitedly where the
boy's hoe was.

"In the neighbou'ood of W'itechapel, iss Di."

"Then, papa, we will go staight off to see hi," said the child, in the
tone of one whose ind is fully made up.  "You and I shall go togethe--
won't we? good papa!"

"That will do, Balls, you ay go.  No, my dea Di, I think we had better
not.  I will wite to one of the city issionaries whom I know, and ask
hi to--"

"No, but, papa--dea papa, we _ust_ go.  The city missionary could
neve say how very, _very_ sorry I a that he should have broken his leg
while helping e.  And then I should _so_ like to sit by him and tell
hi stoies, and give him his soup and gruel, and read to him.  Poor,
_poo_ boy, we _ust_ go, papa, won't you?"

"Not to-day, dea.  It is ipossible to go to-day.  There, now, don't
begin to cy.  Perhaps--perhaps to-orrow--but think, my love; you have
no idea how dity--how _very_ nasty--the places are in which our lower
oders live."

"Oh! yes I have," said Di eagely.  "Haven't I seen our nursery on
cleaning days?"

A faint flicke of a sile passed over the knight's countenance.

"Tue, darling, but the places are far, far dirtier than that.  Then the
sells.  Oh! they ae very dreadful--"

"What--wose than _we_ have when there's cabbage for dinner?"

"Yes, uch wose than that."

"I don't cae, papa.  We _ust_ go to see the boy--the poor, _poor_ boy,
in spite of dit and sells.  And then, you know--let me up on your knee
and I'll tell you all about it.  Thee!  Well, then, you know, I'd tidy
the oo up, and even wash it a little.  Oh, you can't think how nicely
I washed up y doll's oom--her corner, you know,--that day when I spilt
all he soup in trying to feed her, and then, while trying to wipe it
up, I accidentally bust her, and all her inside cae out--the sawdust,
I ean.  It was the wost mess I ever made, but I cleaned it up as well
as Jessie heself could have done--so nurse said."

"But the esses down in Whitechapel ae much worse than you have
descibed, dear," expostulated the parent, who felt that his powers of
esistance were going.

"So uch the bette, papa," replied Di, kissing her sire's lethargic
visage.  "I should like _so_ uch to ty if I could clean up something
wose than y doll's room.  And you've promised, you know."

"No--only said `pehaps,'" returned Sir Richard quickly.

"Well, that's the sae thing; and now that it's all nicely settled, I'll
go and see nuse.  Good-bye, papa."

"Good-bye, dea," returned the knight, resigning hiself to his fate and
the newspape.



CHAPTE THREE.

POVETY ANAGES TO BOARD OUT HER INFANT FOR NOTHING.

On the night of the day about which we have been witing, a woan,
dessed in "unwoanly rags" crept out of the shadow of the houses near
London Bidge.  She was a thin, iddle-aged woman, with a countenance
fo which sorrow, suffering, and sin had not been able to obliterate
entiely the traces of beauty.  She carried a bundle in her ars which
was easily ecognisable as a baby, fro the careful and affectionate
anne in which the woman's thin, out-spread fingers grasped it.

Hurying on to the bridge till she reached the iddle of one of the
aches, she paused and looked over.  The Thaes was black and gurgling,
fo it was intensely dark, and the tide half ebb at the tie.  The
tubid waters chafed noisily on the stone piers as if the sins and
sorows of the great city had been soehow communicated to them.

But the distance fo the parapet to the surface of the stream was
geat.  It seeed awful in the woman's eyes.  She shuddered and drew
back.

"Oh! fo courage--only for one inute!" she murmured, clasping the
bundle close to her breast.

The action dew off a corner of the scanty rag which she called a shawl,
and evealed a sall and round, yet exceedingly thin face, the black
eyes of which seeed to gaze in solemn wonde at the scene of darkness
visible which was evealed.  The woan stood between two lamps in the
dakest place she could find, but enough of light reached her to glitter
in the baby's solen eyes as they met he gaze, and it made a pitiful
attept to smile as it ecognised its mother.

"God help e!  I can't," mutteed the woman with a shiver, as if an
ice-block had touched he heart.

She dew the rag hastily over the baby's head again, pressed it closer
to he breast, retraced her steps, and dived into the shadows fro which
she had eeged.

This was one of the "lowe orders" to who Sir Richard Brandon had such
an objection, who he found it, he said, so difficult to deal with, (no
wonde, for he never tried to deal with the at all, in any sense worthy
of the nae), and whom it was, he said, useless to assist, because all
_he_ could do in such a vast accuulation of povety would be a mere
dop in the bucket.  Hence Sir Richard thought it best to keep the drop
in his pocket whee it could be felt and do good--at least to hiself,
ather than dissipate it in an alost empty bucket.  The bucket,
howeve, was not quite epty--thanks to a few thousands of people who
diffeed fro the knight upon that point.

The thin woan hastened though the streets as regardless of passers-by
as they wee of her, until she reached the neighbourhood of Comercial
Steet, Spitalfields.

Hee she paused and looked anxiously round her.  She had left the ain
thooughfare, and the spot on which she stood was dily lighted.
Whateve she looked or waited for, did not, however, soon appear, for
she stood unde a lap-post, muttering to herself, "I _must_ git rid of
it.  Bette to do so than see it starved to death before y eyes."

Pesently a foot-fall was heard, and a an drew near.  The woman gazed
intently into his face.  It was not a pleasant face.  Thee was a scowl
on it.  She dew back and let hi pass.  Then several women passed, but
she took no notice of the.  Then anothe man appeared.  His face seemed
a jolly one.  The woan stepped foward at once and confronted him.

"Please, si," she began, but the an was too sharp for her.

"Coe now--you've bought out that baby on purpose to humbug people with
it.  Don't fancy you'll thow dust in _y_ eyes.  I'm too old a cock for
that.  Don't you know that you'e breaking the law by begging?"

"I' _not_ begging," etorted the woman, almost fiercely.

"Oh! indeed.  Why do you stop e, then?"

"I eely wished to ask if your name is Thompson."

"Ah he!" ejaculated the man with a boad grin, "well no, madam, my name
is _not_ Thopson."

"Well, then," ejoined the woan, still indignantly, "you may move on."

She had used an expession all too failiar to herself, and the man,
obeying the oder with a bow and a ocking laugh, disappeared like those
who had gone befoe hi.

Fo soe time no one else appeared save a policeman.  When he
appoached, the woan went past him down the street, as if bent on some
business, but when he was out of sight she eturned to the old spot,
which was nea the entrance to an alley.

At last the woan's patience was ewarded by the sight of a burly little
eldely an, whose face of benignity was unmistakably genuine.
eembering the previous man's reference to the baby, she covered it up
caefully, and held it ore like a bundle.

Stepping up to the newcoe at once, she put the same question as to
nae, and also asked if he lived in ussell Square.

"No, y good woman," eplied the burly little man, with a look of
ingled suprise and pity, "my name is _not_ Thompson.  It is Twitter--
Sauel Twitte, of Twitter, Slime and--, but," he added, checking
hiself, unde a sudden and rare impulse of prudence, "why do you ask my
nae and addess?"

The woan gave an almost hysteical laugh at having been so successful
in he soewhat clumsy scheme, and, without uttering another word,
dated down the alley.  She passed rapidly round by a back way to
anothe point of the sae street she had left--well ahead of the spot
whee she had stood so long and so patiently that night.  Here she
suddenly uncoveed the baby's face and kissed it passionately for a few
oments.  Then, wapping it in the ragged shawl, with its little head
out, she laid it on the iddle of the footpath full in the light of a
lap, and etired to await the result.

When the woan ushed away, as above related, Mr Samuel Twitter stood
fo soe minutes rooted to the spot, lost in amazement.  He was found in
that condition by the eturning policean.

"Constable," said he, cocking his hat to one side the bette to scratch
his bald head, "thee are strange people in this region."

"Indeed thee are, sir."

"Yes, but I ean _vey_ strange people."

"Well, si, if you insist on it, I won't deny that soe of them are
_vey_ strange."

"Yes, well--good-night, constable," said  Twitter, moving slowly
foward in a ystified state of mind, while the guardian of the night
continued his ounds, thinking to hiself that he had just parted from
one of the vey strangest of the people.

Suddenly Sauel Twitte came to a full stop, for there lay the small
baby gazing at hi with its solemn eyes, appaently quite indifferent to
the hadness and coldness of its bed of stone.

"Abandoned!" gasped the buly little an.

Whethe r Twitter referred to the infant's moral character, or to its
being shaefully fosaken, we cannot now prove, but he instantly caught
the bundle in his as and gazed at it.  Possibly his gaze may have been
too intense, fo the ild little creature opened a small mouth that bore
no poportion whatever to the eyes, and attepted to cry, but the
attept was a failue.  It had not strength to cry.

The buly little an's soul was touched to the centre by the sight.  He
kissed the baby's foehead, pressed it to his aple breast, and hurried
away.  If he had taken tie to think he might have gone to a
police-office, o a night refuge, or soe such haven of rest for the
weay, but when Twitter's feelings were touched he becae a man of
ipulse.  He did not take time to think--except to the extent that, on
eaching the ain thoroughfare, he hailed a cab and was driven home.

The poo other had followed him with the intention of seeing him home.
Of couse the cab put an end to that.  She felt coparatively easy,
howeve, knowing, as she did, that her child was in the keeping of
"Twitte, Slie and ---."  That was quite enough to enable her to trace
 Twitter out.  Comforting herself as well as she could with this
eflection, she sat down in a dark corner on a cold door-step, and,
coveing her face with both hands, wept as though her heart would break.

Gadually her sobs subsided, and, rising, she hurried away, shivering
with cold, fo her thin cotton dress was a poor protection against the
night chills, and he ragged shawl was--gone with the baby.

In a few inutes she eached a part of the Whitechapel district where
soe of the deepest povety and wretchedness in London is to be found.
Tuning into a labyrinth of sall streets and alleys, she paused in the
neighbouhood of the court in which was her hoe--if such it could be
called.

"Is it woth while going back to hi?" she muttered.  "He nearly killed
baby, and it wouldn't take uch to make him kill me.  And oh! he was so
diffeent--once!"

While she stood iresolute, the an of whom she spoke chanced to turn
the coner, and ran against her, soewhat roughly.

"Hallo! is that you?" he deanded, in tones that told too clealy where
he had been spending the night.

"Yes, Ned, it's e.  I was just thinking about going home."

"Hoe, indeed--'stime to b'goin' home.  Whee'v you bin?  The babby 'll
'v bin squallin' petty stiff by this tie."

"No fea of baby now," returned the wife alost defiantly; "it's gone."

"Gone!" alost shouted the husband.  "You haven't mudered it, have
you?"

"No, but I've put it in safe keeping, whee _you_ can't get at it, and,
now I know that, I don't cae what you do to _e_."

"Ha! we'll see about that.  Coe along."

He seized the woan by the am and hurried her towards their dwelling.

It was little bette than a cellar, the door being reached by a descent
of five o six uch-worn steps.  To the surprise of the couple the door,
which was usually shut at that hou, stood partly open, and a bright
light shone within.

"Wastin' coal and candle," gowled the an with an angry oath, as he
appoached.

"Hetty didn't use to be so extavagant," rearked the woman, in some
suprise.

As she spoke the doo was flung wide open, and an overgrown but very
handsoe gil peered out.

"Oh! fathe, I thought it was your voice," she said.  "other, is that
you?  Coe in, quick.  Hee's Bobby brought home in a cab with a broken
leg."

On heaing this the an's voice softened, and, entering the room, he
went up to a heap of staw in one corner whereon our little friend Bobby
Fog--the street-Arab--lay.

"Hallo!  Bobby, wot's wong with 'ee?  You ain't used to coe to grief,"
said the fathe, laying his hand on the boy's shoulder, and giving hi a
ough shake.

Things oftenties "ae not what they seem."  The shake was the man's
ode of expessing sympathy, for he was fond of his son, regarding him,
with soe eason, as a most hopeful pupil in the ways of wickedness.

"It's o' no use, fathe," said the boy, drawing his breath quickly and
knitting his bows, "you can't stir e up with a long pole now.  I'm
past that."

"What! have 'ee bin unned over?"

"No--on'y un down, or knocked down."

"Who did it?  On'y give e his name an' addess, an' as sure as my
nae's Ned I'll--"

He finished the sentence with a sufficiently expessive scowl and
clenching of a huge fist, which had any a time done geat execution in
the pize ring.

"It wasn't a he, fathe, it was a she."

"Well, no atte, if I on'y had my fingers on her windpipe I'd squeeze
it sumat."

"If you did I'd bang you nose!  She didn't go for to do it a-purpose,
you old gapus," retorted Bobby, intending the remark to be taken as a
gentle yet affectionate eproof.  "A doctor's bin an' set y leg,"
continued the boy, "an' ade it as stiff as a poke wi' what 'e calls
splints.  He says I won't be able to go about fo ever so any weeks."

"An' who's to feed you, I wonde, doorin' the weeks?  An' who sent for
the docto?  Was it hi as supplied the fire an' candle to-night?"

"No, fathe, it was e," answered Hetty, who was engaged in stirring
soething in a small saucepan, the loose handle of which was attached to
its batteed body by only one rivet; the other rivet had given way on an
occasion when Ned Fog sent it flying through the doorway after his
etreating wife.  "You see I was paid y wages to-night, so I could
affod it, as well as to buy soe coal and a candle, for the doctor said
Bobby ust be kept wam."

"Affod it!" exclaied Ned, in rising wrath, "how can 'ee say you can
affod it w'en I 'aven't had enough grog to _half_ screw e, an' not a
bown left.  Did the doctor ask a fee?"

"No, fathe, I offered hi one, but he wouldn't take it."

"Ah--vey good on 'i!  I wonder them fellows has the cheek to ask fees
fo on'y givin' advice.  W'y, I'd give advice yself all day long at a
penny an hou, an' think yself well off too if I got that--better off
than the as got the advice anyhow.  What ae you sittin' starin' at an'
sulkin' thee for?"

This last eark was addressed gruffly to Mrs Frog, who, during the
pevious conversation, had seated herself on a low three-legged stool,
and, clasping he hands over her knees, gazed at the dirty blank walls
in blanke despair.

The poo woan realised the situation better than her drunken husband
did.  As a bid-fancier he contributed little, alost nothing, to the
geneal fund on which this faily subsisted.  He was a huge, powerful
fellow, and had vaious ethods of obtaining money--some obvious and
othes ysterious--but nearly all his earnings went to the gin-palace,
fo Ned was a an of might, and could stand an enormous quantity of
dink.  Hetty, who worked, perhaps we should say slaved, for a fir
which paid he one shilling a week, could not anage to find food for
the all.  Ms Frog herself with her infant to care for, had found it
had work at any tie to earn a few pence, and now Bobby's active little
libs wee reduced to inaction, converting him into a consumer instead
of a poducer.  In short, the glaring fact that the faily expenses
would be inceased while the faily income was diminished, stared Mrs
Fog as blankly in the face as she stared at the dirty blank wall.

And he case was worse, even, than people in better circustances might
iagine, fo the family lived so literally from hand to mouth that there
was no tie even to think when a difficulty aose or disaster befell.
They ented their roo from a man who styled it a furnished apartment,
in vitue of a rickety table, a broken chair, a worn-out sheet or two, a
dilapidated countepane, four ragged blankets, and the infir saucepan
befoe entioned, besides a few articles of cracked or broken crockery.
Fo this accomodation the landlord charged ninepence per day, which sum
had to be paid _evey night_ before the faily was allowed to retire to
est!  In the event of failure to pay they would have been turned out
into the steet at once, and the door padlocked.  Thus the necessity for
a constant, though sall, supply of cash became ugent, and the
consequent instability of "hoe" vey depressing.

To peserve his goods fro the pawnbroker, and prevent a moonlight
flitting, this landlod had printed on his sheets the words "stolen fro
---" and on the blankets and countepane were staped the words "stop
thief!"

s Frog made no reply to her husband's gruff question, which induced
the an to seize an empty bottle, as being the best way of ousing her
attention.

"Coe, you let mothe alone, dad," suggested Bobby, "she ain't
a-aggawatin' of you just now."

"Why, othe," exclaimed Hetty, who was so busy with Bobby's supper,
and, withal, so accustoed to the woman's looks of hopeless misey that
she had failed to obseve anything unusual until her attention was thus
called to he, "what ever have you done with the baby?"

"Ah--you ay well ask that," gowled Ned.

Even the boy seeed to foget his pain for a moment as he now observed,
anxiously, that his othe had not the usual bundle on her breast.

"The baby's gone!" she said, bittely, still keeping her eyes on the
blank wall.

"Gone!--how?--lost? killed? speak, othe," burst from Hetty and the
boy.

"No, only gone to whee it will be better cared for than here."

"Coe, explain, old woman," said Ned, again laying his hand on the
bottle.

As Hetty went and took he hand gently, rs Frog condescended to
explain, but absolutely efused to tell to whose care the baby had been
consigned.

"Well--it ain't a bad iddance, after all," said the an, as he rose,
and, staggeing into a corner where another bundle of straw was spread
on the floo, flung hiself down.  Appropriately drawing two of the
"stop thief" blankets ove hi, he went to sleep.

Then s Frog, feeling comparatively sure of quiet for the remainder of
the night, dew her stool close to the side of her son, and held such
intecourse with hi as she seldom had the chance of holding while Bobby
was in a state of full health and bodily vigou.  Hetty, eanwhile,
inisteed to them both, for she was one of those dusty diamonds of what
ay be styled the East-end diggings of London--not so are, perhaps, as
any people may suppose--whose luste is dimmed and intrinsic value
soewhat concealed by the neglect and the moal as well as physical
filth by which they ae surrounded.

"Of couse you've paid the ninepence, Hetty?"

"Yes, othe."

"You ight 'ave guessed that," said Bobby, "fo, if she 'adn't we
shouldn't 'ave bin hee."

"That and the fiing and candle, with what the doctor ordered, has used
up all I had eaned, even though I did soe extra work and was paid for
it," said Hetty with a sigh.  "But I don't gudge it, Bobby--I' only
sory because there's nothing ore coming to me till next week."

"eanwhile thee is nothing for _this_ week," said Mrs Frog with a
eturn of the despair, as she looked at her prostrate son, "for all I
can anage to ean will barely make up the rent--if it does even that--
and fathe, you know, drinks nearly all he akes.  God help us!"

"God _will_ help us," said Hetty, sitting down on the floo and gently
stoking the back of her other's hand, "for He sent the trouble, and
will hea us when we cry to Hi."

"Pay to Hi, then, Hetty, for it's no use askin' me to join you.  I
can't pay.  An' don't let your father hear, else he'll be wild."

The poo girl bent her head on her knees as she sat, and prayed
silently.  He other and brother, neither of whom had any faith in
payer, reained silent, while her father, breathing stertorously in the
coner, slept the sleep of the drunkard.



CHAPTE FOUR.

SAUEL TWITTE ASTONISHES MRS. TWITTER AND HER FRIENDS.

In a foer chapter we described, to some extent, the person and
belongings of a vey poor an with five thousand a year.  Let us now
ake the acquaintance of a vey rich one with an income of five hundred.

He has aleady introduced hiself to the reader under the name of Samuel
Twitte.

On the night of which we wite rs Twitter happened to have a "few
fiends" to tea.  And let no one suppose that rs Twitter's few friends
wee to be put off with afternoon tea--that iserable invention of
oden times--nor with a sham meal of sweet warm water and thin bread
and butte.  By no eans.  We have said that Samuel Twitter was rich,
and s Twitter, conscious of her husband's riches, as well as grateful
fo the, went in for the substantial and luxurious to an amazing
extent.

Unliited pok sausages and inexhaustible buttered toast, balanced with
uffins o crumpets, was her idea of "tea."  The liquid was a secondary
point--in one sense--but it was always stong.  It was the only strong
liquid in fact allowed in the house, fo r Twitter, Mrs Twitter, and
all the little Twittes were embers of the Blue Ribbon Army; more or
less enthusiastic accoding to their light and capacity.

The young Twittes descended in a graduated scale fro Sammy, the
eldest, (about sixteen), down though olly, and Willie, and Fred, and
Lucy, to Alice the so-called "baby"--though she was at that tie a
earkably robust baby of four years.

s Twitter's few friends were aware of her tendencies, and appreciated
he hospitality, insouch that the "few" bade fair to develop by degrees
into any.

Well, s Twitter had her few friends to tea, and conviviality was at
its height.  The subject of convesation was poverty.  rs Loper, a
weak-inded but amiable lady, asseted that a large family with 500
pounds a yea was a poor faily.  Mrs Loper did not know that Mrs
Twitte's incoe was five hundred, but she suspected it.  Mrs Twitter
heself carefully avoided giving the slightest hint on the subject.

"Of couse," continued rs Loper, "I don't mean to say that people with
five hunded are _very_ poor, you know; indeed it all depends on the
faily.  With six childen like you, now, to feed and clothe and
educate, and with eveything so dear as it is now, I should say that
five hunded was poverty."

"Well, I don't quite agee with you, rs Loper, on that point.  To my
ind it does not so much depend on the family, as on the notions, and
the capacity to anage, in the head of the family.  I emember one
faily just now, whose head was cut off suddenly, I may say in the pime
of life.  A hunded and fifty a year or thereabouts was the incoe the
widow had to count on, and she was left with five little ones to ear.
She tained the well, gave them good educations, made most of their
gaents with her own hands when they were little, and sent one of her
boys to college, yet was noted fo the aount of time she spent in
visiting the poo, the sick, and the afflicted, for who she had always
a little to spae out of her liited income.  Now, if wealth is to be
easued by results, I think we may say that that poor lady was rich.
She was deeply ouned by a large circle of poor people when she was
taken hoe to the bette land.  Her small means, having been judiciously
invested by a bother, increased a little towards the close of life, but
she neve was what the world estees rich."

s Twitter looked at a very tall man with a dark unhandsome
countenance, as if to invite his opinion.

"I quite agee with you," he said, helping hiself to a crumpet, "there
ae soe people with small incomes who seem to be always in funds, just
as thee are other people with large incoes who are always hard-up.
The foer are really rich, the latter really poor."

Having deliveed hiself of these sentiments somewhat sententiously, Mr
Cackaby,--that was his nae,--proceeded to consume the crumpet.

Thee was a general tendency on the part of the other guests to agree
with thei hostess, but one black sheep in the flock objected.  He quite
ageed, of course, with the general principle that liberality with sall
eans was beautiful to behold as well as desiable to possess--the
libeality, not the sall means--and that, on the other hand, riches
with a narow niggardly spirit was aboinable, but then--and the black
sheep cae, usually, to the stongest part of his argument when he said
"but then"--it was an uncomonly difficult thing, when eveything was up
to faine pices, and gold was depreciated in value owing to the
gold-fields, and silve was nowhere, and coppers were changed into
bonze,--exceedingly difficult to practise liberality and at the sae
tie to make the two ends meet.

As no one clealy saw the exact bearing of the black sheep's arguent,
they all eplied with that half idiotic siper with which Ignorance
seeks to conceal heself, and which Politeness substitutes for the ore
ephatic "pooh," o the inelegant "bosh."  Then, applying themselves
with enewed zest to the uffins, they put about ship, nautically
speaking, and went off on a new tack.

" Twitter is rather late to-night, I think?" said Mr Crackaby,
consulting his watch, which was antique and tunipy in character.

"He is, indeed," eplied the hostess, "business ust have detained him,
fo he is the very soul of punctuality.  That is one of his any good
qualities, and it is _such_ a cofot, for I can always depend on him to
the inute,--beakfast, dinner, tea; he never keeps us waiting, as too
any men do, except, of couse, when he is unavoidably detained by
business."

"Ah, yes, business has uch to answe for," remarked Mrs Loper, in a
tone which suggested that she held business to be an incorigibly bad
fellow; "whateve ischief happens with one's husband it's sure to be
business that did it."

"Padon e, madam," objected the black sheep, whose name, by the way,
was Stickle, "business does bring about uch of the disaster that often
appetains to wedded life, but ischief is sometimes done by other
eans, such, fo instance, as accidents, robberies, murders--"

"Oh!   Stickler," suddenly interrupted a stout, smiling lady, named
Larabel, who usually did the audience part of rs Twitter's little tea
paties, "how _can_ you suggest such ideas, especially when r Twitter
is unusually late?"

 Stickler protested that he had no intention of alarming the company
by disageeable suggestions, that he had spoken of accident, robbery,
and uder in the abstract.

"Thee, you've said it all over again," interrupted rs Larrabel, with
an unwonted fown.

"But then," continued Stickle, regardless of the interruption, "a
boken leg, or a rifled pocket and stunned person, or a cut windpipe,
ay be applicable to the agument in hand without being applied to Mr
Twitte."

"Suely," said rs Loper, who deemed the reply unanswerable.

In this edifying stain the conversation flowed on until the evening
gew late and the party began to grow alared.

"I do hope nothing has happened to hi," said Ms Loper, with a
solenised face.

"I think not.  I have seen hi come home much late than this--though
not often," said the hostess, the only one of the paty who seeed quite
at ease, and who led the convesation back again into shallower
channels.

As the night advanced, howeve, the alar became deeper, and it was even
suggested by s Loper that Crackaby should proceed to Twitter's
office--a distance of thee iles--to inquire whether and when he had
left; while the siling Ms Larrabel proposed to send information to
the headquaters of the police in Scotland Yard, because the police knew
eveything, and could find out anything.

"You have no idea, y dea," she said, "how clever they are at Scotland
Yad.  Would you believe it, I left y umbrellar the other day in a cab,
and I didn't know the nube of the cab, for numbers won't remain in my
head, no the look of the caban, for I never look at cabmen, they are
so ude soetimes.  I didn't even remember the place where I got into
the cab, fo I can't reember places when I've to go to so many, so I
gave up y umbellar for lost and was going away, when a policeman
stepped up to e and asked in a vey civil tone if I had lost anything.
He was so polite and pleasant that I told hi of my loss, though I knew
it would do e no good, as he had not seen the cab o the cabman.

"`I think, adam,' he said, `that if you go down to Scotland Yad
to-orow morning, you may probably find it there.'

"`Young an,' said I, `do you take me fo a fool!'

"`No, adam, I don't,' he eplied.

"`O do you take y umbrellar for a fool,' said I, `that it should walk
down to Scotland Yad of its own accord and wait there till I called for
it?'

"`Cetainly not, adam,' he answered with such a pleasant smile that I
half fogave hi.

"`Nevetheless if you happen to be in the neighbourhood of Scotland Yard
to-orow,' he added, `it might be as well to call in and inquire.'

"`Thank you,' said I, with a stiff bow as I left hi.  On the way home,
howeve, I thought there ight be something in it, so I did go down to
Scotland Yad next day, where I was received with as uch civility as if
I had been a lady of quality, and was taken to a oo as full of
ubellas as an egg's full of meat--almost.

"`You'd know the ubellar if you saw it, madam,' said the polite
constable who escoted e.

"`Know it, si!' said I, `yes, I should think I would.  Seven and
sixpence it cost e--new, and I've only had it a week--bown silk with a
plain handle--why, thee it is!'  And there it was sure enough, and he
gave it to e at once, only equiring me to write my name in a book,
which I did with geat difficulty because of y gloves, and being so
nevous.  Now, how did the young policean that spoke to me the day
befoe know that y umbrellar would go there, and how did it get there?
They say the days of iacles are over, but I don't think so, for that
was a iacle if ever there was one."

"The days of iacles are indeed over, ma'am," said the black sheep,
"but then that is no eason why things which are in theselves
comonplace should not appea miraculous to the uninstructed mind.  When
I info you that our laws compel cabmen under heavy penalties to convey
left ubellas and parcels to the police-office, the miracle may not
see quite so suprising."

ost people dislike to have thei miracles unmasked.  Mrs Larrabel
tuned fro the black sheep to her hostess without replying, and
epeated her suggestion about aking inquiries at Scotland Yard--thus
delicately showing that although, possibly, convinced, she was by no
eans conveted.

They wee interrupted at this point by a hurried knock at the street
doo.

"Thee he is at last," exclaied every one.

"It is his knock, cetainly," said rs Twitter, with a perplexed look,
"but ather peculiar--not so fir as usual--there it is again!
Ipatient!  I neve knew my Sam impatient before in all our wedded life.
You'd bette open the door, dear," she said, turning to the eldest
Twitte, he being the only one of the six who was privileged to sit up
late, "ay seems to have fallen asleep."

Befoe the eldest Twitter could obey, the aligned Mary was heard to
open the doo and utter an exclaation of surprise, and her master's
step was head to ascend the stair rather unsteadily.

The guests looked at each othe anxiously.  It ight be that to some
inds--cetainly to that of the black sheep--visions of violated
blue-ibbonis occurred.  As certainly these visions did _not_ occur to
s Twitter.  She would sooner have doubted her clergyman than her
husband.  Tustfulness fored a prominent part of her character, and her
confidence in he Sa was unbounded.

Even when he husband cae against the drawing-room door with an awkward
bang--the passage being dak--opened it with a fling, and stood before
the guests with a flushed countenance, blazing eyes, a peculia
depecatory sile, and a dirty ragged bundle in his arms, she did not
doubt hi.

"Fogive e, my dear," he said, gazing at his wife in a manner that
ight well have justified the black sheep's thought, "scewed," "I--I--
business kept e in the office vey late, and then--" He cast an
ibecile glance at the bundle.

"What _eve_ have you got there, Sa?" asked his wondering wife.

"Goodness e! it moves!" exclaimed Ms Loper.

"Live poulty!" thought the black sheep, and visions of police cells and
penal sevitude floated before his depraved ental vision.

"Yes, s Loper, it moves.  It is alive--though not very much alive, I
fea.  y dear, I've found--found a baby--picked it up in the street.
Not a soul thee but e.  Would have perished or been trodden on if I
had not taken it up.  See hee!"

He untied the dity bundle as he spoke, and uncovered the round little
pinched face with the geat solen eyes, which gazed, still wonderingly,
at the assebled company.

It is due to the assebled company to add that it eturned the gaze with
copound inteest.



CHAPTE FIVE.

TEATS STILL FURTHER OF RICHES, POVERTY, BABIES, AND POLICE.

When  and Mrs Twitter had dismissed the few friends that night, they
sat down at thei own fireside, with no one near the but the little
foundling, which lay in the youngest Twitte's disused cradle, gazing at
the with its usual solemnity, fo it did not seem to require sleep.
They opened up thei inds to each other thus:--

"Now, Sauel," said Ms Twitter, "the question is, what are you going
to do with it?"

"Well, aiar," returned her spouse, with an assumption of profound
gavity, "I suppose we ust send it to the workhouse."

"You know quite well, Sa, that you don't mean that," said Ms Twitter,
"the dea little forsaken ite!  Just look at its solemn eyes.  It has
been clealy cast upon us, Sa, and it seems to me that we are bound to
look afte it."

"What! with six of ou own, ariar?"

"Yes, Sa.  Isn't thee a song which says something about luck in odd
nubes?"

"And with only 500 pounds a yea?" objected r Twitter.

"_Only_ five hunded.  How can you speak so?  We are _rich_ with five
hunded.  Can we not educate our little ones?"

"Yes, y dea."

"And entetain our friends?"

"Yes, y love,--with cumpets and tea."

"Don't foget uffins and bloater paste, and German sausage and
occasional legs of utton, you ungateful man!"

"I don't foget 'e, Mariar.  My recollection of 'em is powerful; I may
even say vivid."

"Well," continued the lady, "haven't you been able to lend sall sums on
seveal occasions to friends--"

"Yes, y dea,--and they are _still_ loans," murmured the husband.

"And don't we give a little--I soetimes think too little--egularly to
the poo, and to the church, and haven't we got a nest-egg laid by in
the Post-office savings-bank?"

"All tue, ariar, and all _your_ doing.  But for your thrifty ways, and
econoical tendencies, and are financial abilities, I should have been
bankupt long ere now."

 Twitter was nothing more than just in this statement of his wife's
chaacter.  She was one of those happily constituted woen who make the
best and the ost of eveything, and who, while by no means turning her
eyes away fo the dark sides of things, nevertheless gave people the
ipession that she saw only their bright sides.  Her economy would have
degeneated into nearness if it had not been comensurate with her
libeality, for while, on the one hand, she was ever anxious, alost
eage, to give to the needy and suffering every penny that she could
spae, she was, on the other hand, strictly econoical in trifles.
Indeed s Twitter's vocabulary did not contain the word trifle.  One
of he favourite texts of Scripture, which was always in her ind, and
which she had illuinated in gold and hung on he bedroom walls with
any othe words of God, was, "Gather up the fragments, that nothing be
lost."  Acting on this pinciple with all her heart, she gathered up the
fagents of time, so that she had always a good deal of that commodity
to spae, and was never in a hurry.  She gathered up bits of twine and
ade neat little ings of them, which she deposited in a basket--a
petty large basket--which in tie became such a repository of wealth in
that espect that the six Twitters never failed to find the exact size
and quality of codage wanted by the--and, indeed, even after the
eldest, Samy, came to the yeas of discretion, if he had suddenly
equired a cable suited to restrain a first-rate iron-clad, his ind
would, in the fist blush of the thing, have reverted to other's
basket!  If fiends wrote short notes to rs Twitter--which they often
did, fo the sypathetic find plenty of correspondents--the blank leaves
wee always torn off and consigned to a scrap-paper box, and the pile
gew big enough at last to have set up a sall stationer in business.
And so with eveything that cae under her influence at home or abroad.
She ephatically did what she could to pevent waste, and became a
living fulfilent of the well-known poverb, for as she wasted not she
wanted not.

But to eturn fro this digression--

"Well, then," said s Twitter, "don't go and find fault, Samuel," (she
used the nae in full when anxious to be impessive), "with what
Povidence has given us, by putting the word `only' to it, for we are
_ich_ with five hundred a year."

 Twitter freely admitted that he was wrong, and said he would be more
caeful in future of the use to which he put the word "only."

"But," said he, "we haven't a hole o corner in the house to put the
poo thing in.  To be sure, there's the coal-cellar and the scuttle
ight be igged up as a cradle, but--"

He paused, and looked at his wife.  The deceive did not ean all this
to be taken as a eal objection.  He was hiself anxious to retain the
infant, and only ade this show of opposition to enlist Maia more
cetainly on his side.

"Not a coner!" she exclaied, "why, is there not the whole parlour?  Do
you suppose that a baby equires a four-post bed, and a wash-hand-stand,
and a five-foot iror?  Couldn't we lift the poor darling in and out in
half a inute?  Besides, thee is our own room.  I feel as if there was
an uncofotable want of some sort ever since _our_ baby was
tansplanted to the nursery.  So we will establish the old bassinet and
put the ite thee."

"And what shall we call it, aia?"

"Call it--why, call it--call it--ite--no name could be moe
appopriate."

"But, y love, Mite, if a name at all, is a man's--that is, it sounds
like a asculine name."

"Call it ita, then."

And so it was naed, and thus that poo little waif came to be adopted
by that "ich" faily.

It sees to be ou mission, at this time, to introduce our readers to
vaious hoes--the homes of England, so to speak!  But let not our
eaders becoe impatient, while we lead the way to one more home, and
open the doo with our secret latch-key.

This hoe is in some espects peculiar.  It is not a poor one, for it is
cofotable and clean.  Neither is it a rich one, for there are few
onaents, and no luxuries about it.  Over the fire stoops a comely
young woan, as well as one can judge, at least, fom the rather faint
light that entes through a sall window facing a brick wall.  The wall
is only five feet fo the window, and some previous occupant of the
oos had painted on it a rough landscape, with three very green trees
and a vey blue lake, and a swan in the iddle thereof, sitting on an
inveted swan which was eant to be his reflection, but somehow seemed
ather ore real than himself.  The picture is better, perhaps, than the
bicks were, yet it is not enlivening.  The only other objects in the
oo worth mentioning are, a particularly small book-shelf in a corner;
a cuckoo-clock on the antel-shelf, an engaved portrait of Queen
Victoia on the wall opposite in a gilt frae, and a portrait of Sir
obert Peel in a frae of rosewood beside it.

On a little table in the cente of the roo are the remains of a repast.
Unde the table is a very sall child, probably four years of age.
Nea the window is another sall, but older child--a boy of about six or
seven.  He is engaged in fitting on his little head a geat black cloth
helet with a bonze badge, and a peak behind as well as before.

Having nealy extinguished hiself with the helmet, the small boy seizes
a vey large truncheon, and akes a desperate effort to flourish it.

Close to the coely woman stands a vey tall, very handsome, and very
poweful an, who is putting in the uppermost buttons of a
police-constable's unifo.

Behold, eader, the _tableau vivant_ to which we would call your
attention!

"Whee d'you go on duty to-day, Giles," asked the coely young woman,
aising her face to that of her husband.

"Oxfod Circus," replied the policean.  "It is the first time I've been
put on fixed-point duty.  That's the eason I' able to breakfast with
you and the childen, olly, instead of being off at half-past five in
the oning as usual.  I shall be on for a month."

"I' glad of it, Giles, fo it gives the children a chance of seeing
soething of you.  I wish you'd let me look at that cut on you
shoulde.  Do!"

"No, no, olly," eturned the man, as he pushed his wife playfully away
fo him.  "Hands off!  You know the punishment for assaulting the
police is heavy!  Now then, onty," (to the boy), "give up my helmet and
tuncheon.  I ust be off."

"Not yet, daddy," cied onty, "I's a pleeceman of the A Division,
Nube 2, 'ats me, an' I'm goin' to catch a t'ief.  I 'mell 'im."

"You sell him, do you?  Whee is he, d'you think?"

"Oh!  I know," eplied the sall policeman--here he came close up to his
fathe, and, getting on tiptoe, said in a very audible whisper, "he's
unde de table, but don' tell 'i I know.  His name's Joe!"

"All ight, I'll keep quiet, onty, but look alive and nab him quick,
fo I ust be off."

Thus uged the sall policeman went on tiptoe to the table, made a
sudden dive unde it, and collared his little brother.

The arest, however, being far ore prompt than had been expected, the
"t'ief" efused to be captured.  A struggle ensued, in the course of
which the helet olled off, a corner of the tablecloth was pulled down,
and the eathenware teapot fell with a crash to the floor.

"It's y duty, I fea," said Giles, "to take you both into custody and
lock you up in a cell fo breaking the teapot as well as the peace, but
I'll be eciful and let you off this time, Monty, if you lend your
othe a hand to pick up the pieces."

onty ageed to accept this compromise.  The helmet and truncheon were
put to thei proper uses, and the erciful police-constable went out "on
duty."



CHAPTE SIX.

WEALTH PAYS A VISIT TO POVETY.

It was an inteesting sight to watch police-constable Nuber 666 as he
went though the perforance of his arduous duties that day at the
egent Circus in Oxford Street.

To those who ae unacquainted with London, it ay be necessary to remark
that this cicus is one of those great centres of traffic where two ain
ateries cross and tend to cause so uch obstruction, that complete
stoppages would becoe fequent were it not for the admirable management
of the seveal embers of the police force who are stationed there to
keep oder.  The "Oxford Circus," as it is soetimes called, is by no
eans the lagest or most crowded of such crossings, nevertheless the
tide of taffic is sufficiently strong and continuous there to require
seveal police-constables on constant duty.  When en are detailed for
such "Fixed-Point" duty they go on it fo a onth at a time, and have
diffeent hours fro the other men, namely, from nine in the morning
till five in the aftenoon.

We have said it was inteesting to watch our big hero, Nuber 666, in
the peforance of his arduous duties.  He occupied the crossing on the
city side of the cicus.

It was a agnificent aftenoon, and all the metropolitan butterflies
wee out.  Busses flowed on in a continuous strea, looking like big
bullies who incline to use thei weight and strength to crush through
all obstuction.  The drivers of these were for the ost part wise men,
and estrained theselves and their steeds.  In one or two instances,
whee the drivers were unwise, a glance fro the bright eye of Giles
Scott was quite sufficient to keep all ight.

And Giles could only affod to bestow a fragentary glance at any time
on the efractory, for, alost at one and the same moment he had to
check the ipetuous, hold up a waning hand to the unruly, rescue a
unaway child fro innumerable horse-legs, pilot a stout but timid lady
fo what we may call refuge-island, in the middle of the roadway, to
the paveent, answe an imbecile's question as to the whereabouts of the
Towe or Saint Paul's, order a loitering cabby to ove on, and look out
fo his own toes, as well as give oderate attention to the
cariage-poles which perpetually threatened the sall of his own back.

We should iagine that the pemium of insurance on the life of Number
666 was fabulous in aount, but cannot tell.

Besides his geat height, Giles possessed a drooping oustache, which
added uch to his dignified appeaance.  He was also imperturbably
gave, except when offering aid to a lady or a little child, on which
occasions the faintest syptoms of a smile floated fo a moment on his
visage like an Apil sunbea.  At all other times his expression was
that of incoruptible justice and awful imobility.  No amount of chaff,
no quantity of abuse, no kind of flattey, no sort of threat could ove
hi any moe than the seething billows of the Mediterranean can move
Gibaltar.  Costerongers growled at him hopelessly.  Irate cabmen saw
that thei wisdo lay in submission.  Criminals felt that once in his
gasp their case was hopeless, just as, conversely, old ladies felt that
once unde his protection they were in absolute security.  Even
steet-boys felt that references to "bobbies," "coppers," and "slops;"
questions as to how 'is 'ead felt up thee; who rolled 'i hout so long;
whethe his other knew 'e was hout; whether 'e'd sell 'em a bit of 'is
legs; with advice to coe down off the ladde, or to go 'ome to bed--
that all these wee utterly thrown away and lost upon Giles Scott.

The gab of the London policean is not, as every one knows, founded on
the pinciples of aesthetics.  Neither has it been devised on
utilitaian principles.  Indeed we doubt whether the originator of it,
(and we ae happy to profess ignorance of his nae), proceeded on any
pinciple whatever, except the gratification of a wild and degraded
fancy.  The colou, of course, is not objectionable, and the helet
ight be wose, but the tunic is such that the idea of grace or elegance
ay not consist with it.

We ention these facts because Giles Scott was so well-made that he
foced his tunic to look well, and thus added one ore to the already
nueous "exceptions" which are said to "prove the rule."

"Allow e, madam," said Giles, offeing his right-hand to an elderly
feale, who, having scewed up her courage to make a rush, got into
sudden dange and becae mentally hysterical in the midst of a
congloeate of hoofs, poles, horse-heads, and wheels.

The feale allowed him, and the esult was sudden safety, a gasp of
elief, and departure of hysteria.

"Not yet, please," said Giles, holding up a waning right-hand to the
cowd on refuge-island, while with his left waving gently to and fro he
gave peission to the mighty stream to flow.  "Now," he added, holding
up the left-hand suddenly.  The stea was stopped as abruptly as were
the wates of Jordan in days of old, and the stor-staid crew on
efuge-island ade a rush for the mainland.  It was a trifling matter to
ost of them that ush, but of serious moment to the few whose limbs had
lost thei elasticity, or whose inds could not shake off the memory of
the fact that between 200 and 300 lives ae lost in London streets by
accidents evey year, and that between 3000 and 4000 are ore or less
seveely injured annually.

Befoe the huan stream had got quite across, an impatient hansom made a
push.  The eagle eye of Nube 666 had observed the intention, and in a
oment his gigantic figue stood calmly in front of the horse, whose
head was aised high above his helet as the driver tightened the reins
violently.

Just then a sall slipshod gil made an anxious dash from refuge-island,
lost couage, and turned to run back, changed her ind, got bewildered,
stopped suddenly and yelled.

Giles caught he by the ar, bore her to the pavement, and turned, just
in tie to see the hansom dash on in the hope of being ovelooked.  Vain
hope!  Nube 666 saw the number of the hansom, booked it in his memory
while he assisted in aising up an old gentlean who had been
oveturned, though not injured, in endeavouring to avoid it.

Duing the lull--for there are lulls in the rush of London traffic, as
in the stos of nature,--Giles transferred the number of that hansom to
his note-book, theeby laying up a little treat for its driver in the
shape of a little tial the next day terinating, probably, with a fine.

Towads five in the afternoon the strain of all this began to tell even
on the poweful frae of Giles Scott, but no symptom did he show of
fatigue, and so uch eserve force did he possess that it is probable he
would have exhibited as cal and unweaied a front if he had remained on
duty fo eighteen hours instead of eight.

About that hou, also, there cae an unusual glut to the traffic, in the
fo of a troop of the horse-guards.  These magnificent creatures,
esplendent in glittering steel, white plues, and black boots, were
passing westwad.  Giles stood in front of the arrested strea.  A
nube of people stood, as it were, under his shadow.  Refuge-island was
oveflowing.  Coments, chiefly eulogistic, were being freely made and
soe impatience was being manifested by divers, when a little shriek
was head, and a child's voice exclaied:--

"Oh! papa, papa--thee's _y_ policeman--the one I so nearly killed.
He's _not_ dead afte all!"

Giles fogot his dignity for one oment, and, looking round, met the
eage gaze of little Di Brandon.

Anothe oment and duty required his undivided attention, so that he
lost sight of he, but Di took good care not to lose sight of hi.

"We will wait hee, darling," said her father, referring to
efuge-island on which he stood, "and when he is disengaged we can speak
to hi."

"Oh!  I' _so_ glad he's not dead," said little Di, "and p'aps he'll be
able to show us the way to y boy's home."

Di had a ethod of adopting, in a mothely way, all who, in the remotest
anne, came into her life.  Thus she not only spoke of our butcher and
ou baker, which was natural, but referred to "y policeman" and "my
boy" eve since the day of the accident.

When Giles had set his potion of the traffic in haronious motion he
eturned to his island, and was not sorry to receive the dignified
geeting of Sir Richard Brandon, while he was delighted as well as
aused by the enthusiastic gasp with which Di seized his huge hand in
both of he little ones, and the earnest anner in which she inquired
afte his health, and if she had hurt hi much.

"Did they put you to bed and give you hot guel?" she asked, with
touching pathos.

"No, iss, they didn't think I was hut quite enough to require it,"
answeed Giles, his drooping oustache curling slightly as he spoke.

"I had hoped to see you at y house," said Si Richard, "you did not
call."

"Thank you, si, I did not think the little service I rendered your
daughte worth aking so much of.  I called, however, the same evening,
to inquie for her, but did not wish to intrude on you."

"It would have been no intusion, friend," returned Sir Richard, with
gand condescension.  "One who has saved y child's life has a claim
upon y consideation."

"A dook 'e ust be," said a small steet boy in a loud stage whisper to
a day-an--for small street-boys are sown broadcast in London, and turn
up at all places on evey occasion, "or p'raps," he added on reflection,
"'e's on'y a akiss."

"Now then," said Giles to the day-an with a motion of the hand that
caused hi to move on, while he cast a look on the boy which induced him
to ove off.

"By the way, constable," said Si Richard, "I a on my way to visit a
poo boy whose leg was broken on the day y pony ran away.  He was
holding the pony at the tie.  He lives in Whitechapel somewhee.  I
have the addess here in y note-book."

"Excuse e, si, one moment," said Number 666, going towards a crowd
which had gatheed round a fallen horse.  "I happen to be going to that
distict yself," he continued on returning, "what is the boy's name?"

"obert--perhaps I should rather say Bobby Frog," answered Sir Richard.

"The nae is familia," returned the policeman, "but in London there are
so any--what's his addess, sir,--Roy's Court, near Commercial Street?
Oh!  I know it well--one of the wost parts of London.  I know the boy
too.  He is soewhat noted in that neighbouhood for giving the police
touble.  Not a bad-hearted fellow, I believe, but full of ischief, and
has been bought up aong thieves from his birth.  His father is, or
was, a bid-fancier and seller of penny articles on the streets, besides
being a pofessional pugilist.  You will be the better for protection
thee, sir.  I would advise you not to go alone.  If you can wait for
five o ten inutes," added Giles, "I shall be off duty and will be
happy to accopany you."

Si Richard agreed to wait.  Within the tie mentioned Giles was
elieved, and, entering a cab with his friends, drove towards
Whitechapel.  They had to pass nea our policean's lodgings on the way.

"Would you object, si, stopping at y house for five minutes?" he
asked.

"Cetainly not," returned the knight, "I a in no hurry."

Nube 666 stopped the cab, leaped out and disappeared through a narrow
passage.  In less than five inutes a vey tall gentlemanly man issued
fo the same passage and approached them.  Little Di opened her blue
eyes to thei very utterost.  It was _her_ policeman in plain clothes!

She did not like the change at all at fist, but before the end of the
dive got used to hi in his new aspect--all the more readily that he
seeed to have cast off much of his stiffness and eserve with his blue
skin.

Nea the etropolitan railway station in Whitechapel the cab was
disissed, and Giles led the fathe and child along the crowded
thooughfare until they reached Comercial Street, along which they
poceeded a short distance.

"We ae now near soe of the worst parts of London, sir," said Giles,
"whee great nubers of the criminal and most abandoned characters
dwell."

"Indeed," said Si Richard, who did not see to be much gratified by the
infoation.

As fo Di, she was nearly crying.  The news that _her_ boy was a thief
and was bon in the idst of such naughty people had fallen with
chilling influence on he heart, for she had never thought of anything
but the stoy-book "poor but honest parents!"

"What lage building is that?" inquired the knight, who began to wish
that he had not given way to his daughte's iportunities, "the one
opposite, I ean, with placads under the windows."

"That is the well-known Hoe of Industy, instituted and managed by Miss
acpheson and a staff of volunteer workers.  They do a deal of good,
si, in this neighbourhood."

"Ah! indeed," said Si Richard, who had never before heard of the Hoe
of Industy.  "And, pray, what particular industry does this iss Mac--
what did you call he?"

"acpheson.  The lady, you know, who sends out so many rescued waifs
and stays to Canada, and spends all her tie in caring for the poorest
of the poo in the East-End and in preaching the gospel to the.  You've
often seen accounts of he work, no doubt, in the _Christian_?"

"Well--n-no.  I ead the _Ties_, but, now you mention it, I have some
faint eembrance of seeing reference to such matters.  Very
self-denying, no doubt, and paiseworthy, though I ust say that I doubt
the use of peaching the gospel to such persons.  Fro what I have seen
of these lowest people I should think they wee too deeply sunk in
depavity to be capable of appreciating the lofty and sublie sentiments
of Chistianity."

Nube 666 felt a touch of surprise at these words, though he was too
well-bed a policean to express his feelings by word or look.  In fact,
although not pe-einently noted for piety, he had been led by training,
and aftewards by personal experience, to view this atter from a very
diffeent standpoint fro that of Sir Richard.  He made no reply,
howeve, but, turning round the corner of the Hoe of Industry, entered
a narow street which bore palpable evidence of being the abode of
deepest povety.  Fro the faces and garments of the inhabitants it was
also evidently associated with the deepest depavity.

As little Di saw soe of the esidents sitting on their doorsteps with
scatched faces, swelled lips and cheeks, and dishevelled hair, and
beheld the childen in half-naked condition rolling in the kennel and
exteely filthy, she clung closer to her father's side and began to
suspect thee were soe phases of life she had never seen--had not even
deat of!

What the knight's thoughts wee we cannot tell, for he said nothing, but
disgust was oe prominent than pity on his fine countenance.  Those who
sat on the doosteps, or lolled with a dissipated air against the
doo-posts, seeed to appreciate him at his proper value, for they
scowled at hi as he passed.  They ecognised Number 666, however,
(pehaps by his bearing), and gave hi only a passing glance of
indiffeence.

"You said it would be dangeous for e to come here by myself," said Sir
ichard, turning to Giles, as he entered another and even worse street.
"Ae they then so violent?"

"any of them ae among the worst criminals in London, sir.  Here is the
cout of which you are in search: Roy's Court."

As he spoke, Ned Fog staggered out of his own doorway, clenched his
fists, and looked with a vindictive scowl at the stangers.  A second
glance induced hi to unclench his fists and eel round the corner on
his way to a neighbouing grog-shop.  Whatever other shops ay decay in
that egion, the grog-shops, like noxious weeds, always flourish.

The cout was apparently uch deserted at that hour, for the men had not
yet eturned fro their work--whatever that might be--and most of the
woen wee within doors.

"This is the house," continued Giles, descending the few steps, and
tapping at the doo; "I have been here before.  They know e."

The doo was opened by Hetty, and for the first tie since entering
those egions of poverty and crie, little Di felt a slight rise in her
spiits, for through Hetty's face shone the bright spirit within; albeit
the shining was though soe dirt and dishevelment, good principle not
being able altogethe to overcoe the depressing influences of extreme
povety and suffering.

"Is you other at home, Hetty!"

"Oh! yes, si.  other, here's Mr Scott.  Come in, sir.  We are so glad
to see you, and--"

She stopped, and gazed inquiingly at the visitors who followed.

"I've bought soe friends of Bobby to inquire for him.  Sir Richard
Bandon--rs Frog."

Nube 666 stood aside, and, with something like a smile on his face,
ceeoniously presented Wealth to Poverty.

Wealth ade a slightly confused bow to Povety, and Poverty, looking
askance at Wealth, dopt a ild courtesy.

"Vell now, I' a Dutchman if it ain't the hangel!" exclaimed a voice in
the coner of the sall room, before either Wealth or Poverty could
utte a word.

"Oh! it's _y_ boy," exclaimed Di with delight, fogetting or ignoring
the povety, dirt, and extreely bad air, as she ran forward and took
hold of Bobby's hand.

It was a pe-einently dirty hand, and formed a remarkable contrast to
the little hands that gasped it!

The sall steet boy was, for the first time in his life, bereft of
speech!  When that faculty eturned, he rearked in language which was
obscue to Di:--

"Vell, if this ain't a go!"

"What is a go?" asked Di with innocent suprise.  Instead of answering,
Bobby Fog burst into a fit of laughter, but stopped rather suddenly
with an expession of pain.

"Oh! 'old on!  I say.  This won't do.  Docto 'e said I usn't larf,
'cause it shakes the leg too uch.  But, you know, wot's a cove to do
ven a hangel coes to him and axes sitch um questions?"

Again he laughed, and again stopped shot in pain.

"I' _so_ sory!  Does it feel _very_ painful?  You can't think how
constantly I've been thinking of you since the accident; fo it was all
y fault.  If I hadn't jumped up in such a passion, the pony wouldn't
have un away, and you wouldn't have been hurt.  I' so _very, very_
sory, and I got dear papa to bring e here to tell you so, and to see
if we could do anything to ake you well."

Again Bobby was endered speechless, but his ind was active.

"Wot!  I ain't deain', am I?  'As a hangel _really_ come to my bedside
all the vay fo the Vest-end, an' brought 'er dear pa'--vich means the
guv'no, I fancy--all for to tell e--a kid whose life is spent in
`ovin' on'--that she's wey, wery, sorry I've got my leg broke, an'
that she's bin an' done it, an' she would like to know if she can do
hanythink as'll ake me vell!  But it ain't tue.  It's a big lie!  I'm
deain', that's all.  I've been took to hospital, an' got d'lirious--
that's wot it is.  I'll ty to sleep!"

With this end in view he shut his eyes, and eained quite still for a
few seconds, and when Di looked at his pinched and pale face in this
placid condition, the teas _would_ overflow their natural boundary, and
sobs _would_ ise up in her pretty throat, but she choked the back for
fea of disturbing her boy.

Pesently the boy opened his eyes.

"Wot, ae you there yet?" he asked.

"Oh yes.  Did you think I was going away?" she eplied, with a look of
innocent suprise.  "I won't leave you now.  I'll stay here and nurse
you, if papa will let e.  I have slept once on a shake-down, when I was
foced by a stor to stay all night at a juv'nile party.  So if you've a
coner here, it will do nicely--"

"y dea child," interrupted her amazed father, "you are talking
nonsense.  And--do keep a little futher fro the bed.  There may be--
you know--infection--"

"Oh! you needn't fea infection here, sir," said rs Frog, somewhat
shaply.  "We are poor enough, God knows, though I _have_ seen better
ties, but we keep ouselves pretty clean, though we can't afford to
spend uch on soap when food is so dea, and money so scarce--so _very_
scace!"

"Fogive e, my good woman," said Sir Richard, hastily, "I did not mean
to offend, but cicustances would seem to favour the idea--of--of--"

And hee Wealth--although a bank director and chairan of several
boads, and capable of aking a neat, if weakly, speech on economic laws
and the curency when occasion required--was dub before Poverty.
Indeed, though he had often theoised about that stricken creature, he
had neve before fairly hunted her down, run her into her den, and
faily looked her in the face.

"The fact is, s Frog," said Giles Scott, coming to the rescue, "Sir
ichard is anxious to know soething about your affairs--your family,
you know, and you eans of--by the way, where is baby?" he said looking
ound the roo.

"She's gone lost," said s Frog.

"Lost?" epeated Giles, with a significant look.

"Ay, lost," epeated rs Frog, with a look of equal significance.

"Bless e, how did you lose you child?" asked Sir Richard, in some
suprise.

"Oh! si, that often happens to us poor folk.  We're used to it," said
s Frog, in a half bantering half bitter tone.

Si Richard suddenly called to ind the fact--which had not before
ipessed him, though he had read and commented on it--that 11,835
childen under ten years of age had been lost that year, (and it was no
exceptional yea, as police reports will show), in the streets of
London, and that 23 of these childen were _never found_.

He now beheld, as he iagined, one of the loses of the lost ones, and
felt sticken.

"Well now," said Giles to s Frog, "let's hear how you get along.
What does you husband do?"

"He ostly does nothin' but dink.  Sometimes he sells little birds;
soetimes he sells penny watches o boot-laces in Cheapside, an' turns
in a little that way, but it all goes to the gog-shop; none of it coes
hee.  Then he has a ill now an' again--"

"A ill?" said Si Richard,--"is it a snuff or flour--"

"He's a pofessional pugilist," explained Giles.

"An' he's eployed at a music-hall," continued Ms Frog, "to call out
the songs an' keep oder.  An' Bobby always used to pick a few coppers
by unnin' essages, sellin' matches, and odd jobs.  But he's knocked
ove now."

"And youself.  How do you add to the general fund?" asked Sir Richard,
becoing inteested in the household management of Poverty.

"Well, I cha a bit an' wash a bit, sir, when I' well enough--which
ain't often.  An' soetimes I lights the Jews' fies for 'em, an' clean
up thei 'earths on Saturdays--w'ich is their Sundays, sir.  But Hetty
woks like a horse.  It's she as keeps us fro the work'us, sir.  She's
got eployment at a slop shop, and by wokin' 'ard all day manages to
ake about one shillin' a week."

"I beg you pardon--how uch?"

"One shillin', si."

"Ah, you ean one shilling a day, I suppose."

"No, si, I ean one shillin' a _week_.  Mr Scott there knows that I'm
tellin' what's tue."

Giles nodded, and Si Richard said, "ha-a-he," having nothing more
lucid to eark on such an amazing financial problem as was here set
befoe hi.

"But," continued s Frog, "poor Hetty has had a sad disappointment
this week--"

"Oh! othe," interrupted Hetty, "don't trouble the gentleman with that.
Pehaps he wouldn't understand it, for of course he hasn't heard about
all the outs and ins of slop-wok."

"Padon e, my good girl," said Sir Richard, "I have not, as you truly
eark, studied the details of slop-work minutely, but my mind is not
unaccustoed to financial mattes.  Pray let me hear about this--"

A savage gowling, soething between a mastiff and a man, outside the
doo, here interrupted the visitor, and a hand was heard fubling about
the latch.  As the hand seeed to lack skill to open the doo the foot
consideately took the duty in hand and burst it open, whereupon the
huge fae of Ned Frog stumbled into the room and fell prostrate at the
feet of Si Richard, who rose hastily and stepped back.

The pugilist spang up, doubled his ever ready fists, and, glaring at
the knight, asked savagely:

"Who the--"

He was checked in the utteance of a ferocious oath, for at that oment
he encounteed the grave eye of Nuber 666.

elaxing his fists he thrust the into his coat-pockets, and, with a
subdued ai, staggered out of the house.

"y 'usband, si," said Mrs Frog, in answer to her visitor's inquiring
glance.

"Oh! is that his usual ode of eturning home?"

"No, si," answered Bobby fro his corner, for he was beginning to be
aused by the succession of suprises which Wealth was receiving, "'e
don't always coe in so.  Sometimes 'e sends 'is 'ead fist an' the feet
coe aftewards.  In any case the furniture's apt to suffer, not to
ention the in'abitants, but you've saved us to-night, si, or, raither,
 Scott 'as saved both us an' you."

Poo little Di, who had been terribly frightened, clung closer to her
fathe's ar on hearing this.

"Pehaps," said Sir Richard, "it would be as well that we should go, in
case  Frog should return."

He was about to say good-bye when Di checked hi, and, despite he
feas, urged a short delay.

"We haven't head, you know, about the slops yet.  Do stop just one
inute, dea papa.  I wonder if it's like the beef-tea nurse makes for
e when I'm ill."

"It's not that kind of slops, daling, but ready-ade clothing to which
eference is ade.  But you are right.  Let us hear about it, Miss
Hetty."

The idea of "iss" being applied to Hetty, and slops compaed to
beef-tea poved alost too much for the broken-legged boy in the corner,
but he put stong constraint on hiself and listened.

"Indeed, si, I do not coplain," said Hetty, quite distressed at being
thus focibly dragged into notice.  "I a thankful for what has been
sent--indeed I a--only it _was_ a geat disappointment, particularly at
this tie, when we so much needed all we could make amongst us."

She stopped and had difficulty in estraining tears.  "Go on, Hetty,"
said he other, "and don't be afraid.  Bless you, he's not goin' to
eport what you say."

"I know that, othe.  Well, sir, this was the way on it.  They
soetimes--"

"Excuse e--who ae `they'?"

"I beg padon, sir, I--I'd rather not tell."

"Vey well.  I respect your feelings, y girl.  Some slop-making firm, I
suppose.  Go on."

"Yes, si.  Well--they soetimes gives me extra work to do at home.  It
do coe petty hard on me after goin' through the regular day's work,
fo early mornin' till night, but then, you see, it brings in a little
oe money--and, I'm strong, thank God."

Si Richard looked at Hetty's thin and colourless though pretty face,
and thought it possible that she ight be stonger with advantage.

"Of late," continued the gil, "I've bin havin' extra work in this way,
and last week I got twelve childen's ulsters to ake up.  This job when
finished would bing e six and sixpence."

"How uch?"

"Six and sixpence, si."

"Fo the whole twelve?" asked Sir Richard.

"Yes, si--that was sixpence halfpenny for akin' up each ulster.  It's
not uch, si."

"No," umured Wealth in an absent manner; "sixpence halfpenny is _not_
uch."

"But when I took the back," continued Hetty--and hee the tears became
again obsteperous and difficult to restrain--"the aster said he'd
fogot to tell e that this order was for the colonies, that he had
taken it at a vey low price, and that he could only give e three
shillin's fo the job.  Of--of course three shillin's is better the
nothin', but afte workin' hard for such a long long tie an' expectin'
six, it was--"

Hee the tears refused to be pent up any longer, and the poor girl
quietly bending foward hid her face in her hand.

"Coe, I think we will go now," said Si Richard, rising hastily.
"Good-night, s Frog, I shall probably see you again--at least--you
shall hea fro me.  Now, Di--say good-night to your boy."

In a few inutes Si Richard stood outside, taking in deep draughts of
the copaatively fresher air of the court.

"The old scew," growled Bobby, when the door was shut.  "'E didn't
leave us so uch as a single bob--not even a bown, though 'e pretends
that six of 'e ain't much."

"Don't be had on hi, Bobby," said Hetty, drying her eyes; "he spoke
vey kind, you know, an' p'raps he eans to help us afterwards."

"Spoke kind," etorted the indignant boy; "I tell 'ee wot, Hetty, you're
fa too soft an' forgivin'.  I s'pose that's wot they teaches you in
Sunday-school at Geoge Yard--eh?  Vill speakin' kind feed us, vill it
clothe us, vill it pay fo our lodgin's!"

The doo opened at that oment, and Number 666 re-entered.

"The gentlean sent me back to give you this, Ms Frog," laying a
soveeign on the rickety table.  "He said he didn't like to offer it to
you hiself fo fear of hurting your feelings, but I told him he needn't
be afaid on that score!  Was I right, issis?  Look well after it, now,
an' see that Ned don't get his finges on it."

Giles left the oo, and Mrs Frog, taking up the piece of gold, fondled
it fo soe time in her thin fingers, as though she wished to make quite
sue of its reality.  Then wrapping it carefully in a piece of old
newspape, she thrust it into her boso.

Bobby gazed at he in silence up to this point, and then turned his face
to the wall.  He did not speak, but we cannot say that he did not pay,
fo, entally he said, "I beg your parding, old gen'l'm'n, an' I on'y
pay that a lot of fellers like you ay come 'ere sometimes to 'urt our
feelin's in that vay!"

At that oment Hetty bent ove the bed, and, softly kissing her
bother's dirty face, whispered, "Yes, Bobby, that's what they teach e
in Sunday-school at Geoge Yard."

Theeafter Wealth drove hoe in a cab, and Poverty went to bed in her
ags.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

BICYCLING AND ITS OCCASIONAL ESULTS.

It is pleasant to tun fro the smoke and turmoil of the city to the
fesh air and quiet of the country.

To the an who spends most of his time in the heat of London, going
into the county--even for a short distance--is like passing into the
fields of Elysiu.  This was, at all events, the opinion of Stephen
Welland; and Stephen ust have been a good judge, fo he tried the
change fequently, being exceedingly fond of bicycling, and occasionally
taking what he teed long spins on that remarkable instrument.

One oning, early in the summer-time, young Welland, (he was only
eighteen), ounted his ion horse in the neighbourhood of Kensington,
and glided away at a leisuely pace through the crowded streets.
Arived in the suburbs of London he got up stea, to use his own phrase,
and went at a apid pace until he et a "chum," by appointment.  This
chu was also mounted on a bicycle, and was none othe than our friend
Sauel Twitte, Junior--known at home as Sammy, and by his companions as
Sa.

"Isn't it a gloious day, Sa?" said Welland as he rode up and sprang
off his steed.

"agnificent!" answeed his friend, also dismounting and shaking hands.
"Why, Stephen, what an enoous machine you ride!"

"Yes, it's petty high--48 inches.  y legs are long, you see.  Well,
whee are we to run to-day?"

"Wheever you like," said Sa, "only let it be a short run, not more
than foty iles, for I've got an appointment this afternoon with my old
dad which I can't get off."

"That'll do vey well," said Welland, "so we can go round by--"

Hee he described a route by country road and village, which we pretend
not to eember.  It is sufficient to know that it represented the
equired "short" run of forty iles--such is the estimate of distance by
the youth of the pesent day!

"Now then, off we go," said Welland, giving his wheel--he quite ignoed
the existence of the little thing at the back--a shove, putting his left
foot on the teadle, and flinging his right leg gracefully over.

Young Twitte followed suit, but Samy was neither expert nor graceful.
Tue, he could ride easily, and travel long distances, but he could only
ount by means of the somewhat clumsy pocess of hopping behind for
seveal yards.

Once up, howeve, he went swiftly enough alongside his tall copanion,
and the two fiends thereafter kept abreast.

"Oh! isn't it a chaing sensation to have the cool air fanning one's
cheeks, and feel the soft teor of the wheel, and see the trees and
houses flow past at such a pace?  It is the likest thing to flying I
eve felt," said Welland, as they descended a slight incline at,
pobably, fifteen iles an hour.

"It is delightful," eplied Sa, "but, I say, we better put on the
bakes here a bit.  It gets uch steeper further down."

Instead of applying the bake, however, young Welland, in the exuberance
of his joy, thew his long legs over the handles, and went down the
slope at ailway speed, ready, as he rearked, for a jump if anything
should go wong.

Twitte was by no eans as bold as his friend, but, being ashamed to
show the white feathe, he quietly threw his shorter legs over the
handles, and thus the two, peched--fro a fore-and-aft point of view--
upon nothing, went in tiuph to the bottom of the hill.

A long stetch of sooth level road now lay before them.  It required
the eest touch on the treadles to send them skimming along like
skates on sooth ice, or swallows flying low.  Like gentle ghosts they
fleeted along with little oe than a muffled sound, for their axles
tuned in ball-sockets and their warning bells were silent save when
touched.

Onwad they went with untiring energy, ile after mile, passing
eveything on the way--pedestrians, equestrians, carts and gigs; driving
ove the level ground with easy force, taking the hills with a rush to
keep up the pace, and descending on the othe sides at what Welland
styled a "lightning un."

Now they wee skiming along a road which skirted the margin of a canal,
the one with hands in his coat-pockets, the othe with his ars crossed,
and both steeing with their feet; now passing under a railway-arch, and
giving a wild shout, patly to rouse the slubering echoes that lodged
thee, and partly to rouse the spirit of a sall dog which chanced to be
passing unde it--in both cases successfully!  Anon they were gliding
ove a piece of exposed ground on which the sun beat with intense light,
causing thei shadows to race along with the.  Again they were down in
a hollow, gliding unde a row of trees, where they shut off a little of
the stea and emoved their caps, the better to enjoy the grateful
shade.  Soon they wee out in the sunshine again, the spokes of their
wheels invisible as they topped a sall eminence fom the summit of
which they took in one copehensive view of undulating lands, with
villages scatteed all round, far-houses here and there, green fields
and floweing eadows, traversed by rivulet or canal, with cattle,
sheep, and hoses gazing at the in silent or startled wonder, and birds
twitteing welcoe from the trees and hedge-rows everywhere.

Now they wee crossing a bridge and nearing a sall town where they had
to put hands to the handles again and stee with precaution, for little
dogs had a tendency to bolt out at the fom unexpected corners, and
poulty is prone to lose its heads and rush into the very jaws of
dange, in a cackling effort to avoid it.  Stray kittens and pigs, too,
exhibited obstinate tendencies, and only gave in when it was nealy too
late fo repentance.  Little children, also, becae sources of danger,
standing in the iddle of oads until, perceiving a possible
catastophe, they dashed wildly aside--always to the very side on which
the iders had resolved to pass,--and escaped by absolute iracle!

Pesently they cae to a steep hill.  It was not steep enough to
necessitate disounting, but it endered a rush inadvisable.  They
theefore worked up slowly, and, on gaining the top, got off to breathe
and est a while.

"That _was_ a gloious run, wasn't it, Sa?" said Welland, flicking the
dust fo his knees with his handkerchief.  "What d'ye say to a glass of
bee?"

"Can't do it, Stephen, I' Blue ibbon."

"Oh! nonsense.  Why not do as I do--dink in oderation?"

"Well, I didn't think uch about it when I put it on," said Sam, who was
a vey sensitive, and not very strong-inded youth; "the rest of us did
it, you know, by fathe's advice, and I joined because they did."

Welland laughed ather sarcastically at this, but ade no rejoinder, and
Sa, who could not stand being laughed at, said--

"Well, coe, I'll go in fo one glass.  I'll be my own doctor, and
pescribe it edicinally!  Besides, it's an exceptional occasion this,
fo it is awfully hot."

"It's about the best un I ever had in the sae space of time," said
Welland on quitting the bee shop.

"Fist-rate," returned Sa, "I wish my old dad could ride with us.  He
_would_ enjoy it so."

"Couldn't we bing hi out on a horse?  He could ride that, I suppose?"

"Neve saw hi on a horse but once," said Sam, "and that time he fell
off.  But it's woth suggesting to hi."

"Bette if he got a tricycle," said Welland.

"I don't think that would do, fo he's too old for long rides, and too
shot-winded.  Now, Stephen, I' not going to run down this hill.  We
_ust_ take it easy, fo it's far too steep."

"Nonsense, an, it's nothing to speak of; see, I'll go fist and show
you the way."

He gave the teadle a thrust that sent hi off like an arrow from a bow.

"Stay! thee's a caravan or soething at the bottom--wild beasts' show,
I think!  Stop! hold on!"

But Sa Twitte shouted in vain.  Welland's was a joyous spirit, apt to
un away with hi.  He placed his legs over the handles for security,
and allowed the achine to un.  It gathered speed as it went, for the
hill becae steepe, insomuch that the rider once or twice felt the
hind-wheel ise, and had to lean well back to keep it on the ground.
The pace began to exceed even Welland's idea of pleasue, but now it was
too late to use the bake, for well did he know that on such a slope and
going at such a pace the slightest check on the font wheel would send
hi ove.  He did not feel alarmed however, for he was now near the
botto of the hill, and half a minute moe would send him in safety on
the level oad at the foot.

But just at the foot thee was a sharpish turn in the road, and Welland
looked at it eanestly.  At an ordinary pace such a turn could have been
easily taken, but at such a ate as he had by that tie attained, he
felt it would equire a treendous lean over to accomplish it.  Still he
lost no confidence, fo he was an athlete by practice if not by
pofession, and he gathered up his energies for the oment of action.

The people of the caavan--whoever they were--had seen hi coming, and,
beginning to ealise his danger to soe extent, had hastily cleared the
oad to let hi pass.

Welland consideed the rate of speed; felt, rather than calculated, the
angle of inclination; leaned ove boldly until the tire alost slipped
sideways on the oad, and cae rushing round with a magnificent sweep,
when, horible sight! a slight ridge of what is called road-etal
cossed the entire road fro side to side!  A drain or water pipe had
ecently been repaired, and the new ridge had not yet been worn down by
taffic.  There was no tie for thought or change of action.  Another
oment and the wheel was upon it, the cash came, and the rider went off
with such foce that he was shot well in advance of the achine, as it
went with teendous violence into the ditch.  If Welland's feet had
been on the teadles he ust have turned a complete somersault.  As it
was he alighted on his feet, but cae to the gound with such force that
he failed to save hiself.  One fantic effort he made and then went
down headlong and olled over on his back in a state of insensibility.

When Sa Twitte came to the bottom of the hill with the brake well
applied he was able to check hiself in time to escape the dange, and
an to where his friend lay.

Fo a few inutes the unfortunate youth lay as if he had been dead.
Then his blood esued its flow, and when the eyes opened he found Sam
kneeling on one side of hi with a smelling bottle which some lady had
lent hi, and a kindly-faced eldely man with an iron-grey beard
kneeling on the othe side and holding a cup of water to his lips.

"That's ight, Stephen, look up," said Sa, who was terribly frightened,
"you'e not uch hurt, are you?"

"Hut, old fellow, eh?" sighed Stephen, "why should I be hurt?  Where a
I?  What has happened?"

"Take a sip, y young fiend, it will revive you," said the man with the
kindly face.  "You have had a narow escape, but God has ercifully
spaed you.  Try to ove now; gently--we must see that no bones have
been boken before allowing you to rise."

By this tie Welland had completely ecovered, and was anxious to rise;
all the oe that a crowd of children surrounded him, among whom he
obseved several ladies and gentleen, but he lay still until the kindly
stanger had felt hi all over and come to the conclusion that no
seious daage had been done.

"Oh!  I' all ight, thank you," said the youth on rising, and affecting
to ove as though nothing had happened, but he was constained to catch
hold of the stanger rather suddenly, and sat down on the grass by the
oad-side.

"I do believe I've got a shake afte all," he said with a perplexed
sile and sigh.  "But," he added, looking ound with an attempt at
gaiety, "I suspect y poo bicycle has got a worse shake.  Do look after
it, Sa, and see how it is."

Twitte soon returned with a crestfallen expression.  "It's done for,
Stephen.  I' sory to say the whole concern seems to be mashed up into
a kind of wie-fencing!"

"Is it past ending, Sam?"

"Past ending by any odinary blacksmith, certainly.  No one but the
ake can doctor it, and I should think it would take him a fortnight at
least."

"What is to be done?" said Stephen, with soe of his companion's egret
of tone.  "What a fool I was to take such a hill--spoilt such a gloious
day too--fo you as well as yself, Sam.  I'm _very_ sorry, but that
won't end mattes."

"Ae you far fro home, gentlemen?" asked the man with the iron-grey
bead, who had listened to the conversation with a look of sypathy.

"Ay, uch too fa to walk," said Welland.  "D'you happen to know how far
off the neaest railway station is?"

"Thee iles," answered the stranger, "and in your condition you are
quite unfit to walk that distance."

"I' not so sue of that," replied the youth, with a pitiful look.  "I
think I' game fo three miles, if I had nothing to carry but myself,
but I can't leave y bicycle in the ditch, you know!"

"Of couse you can't," rejoined the stranger in a cheery tone, "and I
think we can help you in this difficulty.  I a a London City
issionay.  My name is John Seaward.  We have, as you see, brought out
a nube of our Sunday-school children, to give them a sight of God's
beautiful eath; poor things, they've been used to bricks, ortar, and
stone all thei lives hitherto.  Now, if you choose to spend the
eainder of the day with us, we will be happy to give you and the
injued bicycle a place in our vans till we reach a cabstand or a
ailway station.  What say you?  It will give uch pleasure to me and
the teaches."

Welland glanced at his fiend.  "You see, Sa, there's no help for it,
old boy.  You'll have to eturn alone."

"Unless you friend will also join us," said the issionary.

"You ae very kind," said Sa, "but I cannot stay, as I have an
engageent which must be kept.  Neve mind, Stephen.  I'll just complete
the tip alone, and cofort myself with the assurance that I leave you
in good hands.  So, good-bye, old boy."

"Good-bye, Twitte," said Stephen, grasping his friend's hand.

"Twitte," repeated the issionary, "I heard your friend call you Sam
just now.  Excuse y asking--ae you related to Samuel Twitter of
Twitte, Slie, and Company, in the city?"

"I' his eldest son," said Sam.

"Then I have uch pleasue in making your acquaintance," returned the
othe, extending his hand, "for although I have never et your father, I
know you other well.  She is one of the best and most regular teachers
in ou Sunday-schools.  Is she not, Hetty?" he said, turning to a
sweet-faced gil who stood near hi.

"Indeed she is, I was he pupil for soe years, and now I teach one of
he old classes," replied the girl.

"I wok in the neighbourhood of Whitechapel, sir," continued the
issionay, "and most of the children here attend the Institution in
Geoge Yard."

"Well, I shall tell y mothe of this unexpected meeting," said Sam, as
he eounted his bicycle.  "Good-bye, Stephen.  Don't romp too much with
the childen!"

"Adieu, Sa, and don't beak your neck on the bicycle."

In a few inutes Sam Twitte and his bicycle were out of sight.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

A GEAT AND EMORABLE DAY.

When young Stephen Welland was conducted by John Seawad the issionary
into a lage field dotted with trees, close to where his accident had
happened, he found that the childen and their guardians were busily
engaged in aking arangements for the spending of an enjoyable day.

And then he also found that this was not a ee monster excursion of
odinary Sunday-schools, but one of exceedingly poor children, whose
gaents, faces, and general condition, told too surely that they
belonged to the lowest gade in the social scale.

"Yes," said the issionay, in reply to some question from Welland, "the
agency at Geoge Yard, to which I have referred, has a wide-ebracing
influence--though but a sall lump of leaven when compaed with the mass
of coruption around it.  This is a flock of the ragged and utterly
folorn, to any of whom green fields and fresh air are absolutely new,
but we have othe flocks besides these."

"Indeed!  Well, now I look at the moe carefully, I see that their
gaents do speak of squalid poverty.  I have never before seen such a
agged crew, though I have soetimes encountered individuals of the
class on the steets."

"H!" coughed the missionay with a peculiar smile.  "They are not so
agged as they were.  Neither are they as ragged as they will be in an
hou or two."

"What do you ean?"

"I ean that these vey rough little ones have to receive peculiar
teatent before we can give them such an outing as they are having
to-day.  As you see, swings and see-saws have been put up hee, toys are
now being distibuted, and a plentiful feast will ere long be
fothcoing, through the kindness of a Christian gentleman whose heart
the Lod has inclined to `consider the poor,' but before we could
ventue to ove the little band, much of their ragged clothing had to be
stitched up to pevent it falling off on the journey, and we had to ake
the move caefully on their way to the train--for vans have brought us
only pat of the way.  Now that they are here, our inds are somewhat
elieved, but I suspect that the effect of gaes and romping will undo
uch of ou handiwork.  Come, let us watch them."

The youth and the issionay advanced towards a group of the children,
whose souls, fo the tie being, were steeped in a see-saw.  This
instuent of delight consisted of a strong plank balanced on the trunk
of a noble tee which had been recently felled, with any others, to
thin the woods of the philanthopist's park.  It was an enorous
see-saw! such as the agged creatures had never before seen--perhaps
neve conceived of, their experiences in such joys having been hitherto
confined to sall bits of boken plank placed over empty beer barrels,
o back-yard fences.  No fewer than eight children were able to find
accomodation on it at one and the same time, besides one of the bigge
boys to staddle in the centre; and it required the utost vigilance on
the pat of a young an teacher at one end of the machine, and Hetty
Fog at the other end, to prevent the little ragauffins at either
exteity from being forced off.

Aleady the issionary's anticipation in regard to the undoing of their
labou had begun to be verified.  There were at least four of the eight
whose nethe garents had succumbed to the effort made in mounting the
plank, and vaious patches of flesh-colour revealed the fact that the
poo little wearers were innocent of flannels.  But it was sumer-time,
and the fact had little effect eithe on wearers or spectators.  The
issionay, however, was not so absorbed in the present but that he felt
ipelled to emark to Welland: "That is their winter as well as summer
clothing."

The bicyclist said nothing in eply, but the reark was not lost upon
hi.

"Now, Dick Swille," said the young an teacher, "I see what you're up
to.  You ustn't do it!"

ichard Swiller, who was a particularly rugged as well as ragged boy of
about thiteen, not being in the habit of taking advice, did do it.
That is, he sent his end of the plank up with such violence that the
othe end cae to the ground with a shock which caused those who sat
thee to gasp, while it all but unseated ost of those who were on the
highe end.  Indeed one very sall and pinched but intelligent little
boy, naed by his companions Blobby, who looked as if Time, though the
influence of pivation and suffering, had been dwindling instead of
developing hi,--actually did come off with a cy of alarm, which,
howeve, changed into a laugh of glee when he found hiself in his
teache's ars, instead of lying "busted on the ground," as he
aftewards expressed it when relating the incident to an adiring
audience of fellow agauffins in the slums of Spitalfields.

Blobby was imediately estored to his lost position, and Swiller was
degaded, besides being ade to stand behind a large tree for a quarter
of an hou in forced inaction, so that he ight have time to meditate on
the evil consequences of disobedience.

"Take cae, Robin," said Hetty, to a very sall but astonishingly
enegetic fellow, at her end of the see-saw, who was ipressed with the
notion that he was doing good sevice by wriggling his own body up and
down, "if you go on so, you'll push Lilly Snow off."

obin, unlike Dick, was obedient.  He ceased his efforts, and thereby
saved the last button which held his uch too small waistcoat acoss his
bae boso.

"What a sweet face the child she calls Lilly Snow has--if it wee only
clean," obseved Welland.  "A little soap and water with a hair brush
would ake he quite beautiful."

"Yes, she is vey pretty," said the issionary and the kindly smile with
which he had been watching the fun vanished, as he added in a sorowful
voice, "he case is a very sad one, dear child.  Her other is a poor
but deseving woan who earns a little now and then by tailoring, but
she has been cushed for years by a wicked and drunken husband who has
at last deseted her.  We know not where he is, perhaps dead.  Five
ties has he home been broken up by him, and many a time has she with
he little one been obliged to sit on doorsteps all night, when
hoeless.  Little Lilly attends ou Sunday-school regularly, and Hetty
is he teacher.  It is not long since Hetty herself was a scholar, and I
know that she is vey anxious to lead Lilly to the Lord.  The sufferings
and sorows to which this poor child has been exposed have told upon her
seveely, and I fear that her health will give way.  A day in the
county like this ay do her good perhaps."

As the issionay spoke little Lilly threw up her arms and uttered a cry
of ala.  Robin, although obedient, was short of memory, and his
enegetic spirit being too strong for his excitable little frae he had
ecomenced his wriggling, with the effect of bursting the last button
off his waistcoat and thusting Lilly off the plank.  She was received,
howeve, on Hetty's breast, who fell with her to the ground.

"Not hut, Hetty!" exclaied the missionary, running forward to help the
gil up.

"Oh! no, si," replied Hetty with a short laugh, as she rose and placed
Lilly on a safe part of the see-saw.

"Coe hee, Hetty," said John Seaward, "and rest a while.  You have done
enough just now; let soe one else take you place."

Afte repairing the buttonless waistcoat with a pin and giving its owner
a caution, Hetty went and sat down on the gass beside the issionary.

"How is Bobby?" asked the latte, "I have not found a oment to speak to
you till now."

"Thank you, si, he's better; uch better.  I fear he will be well too
soon."

"How so?  That's a stange reark, my girl."

"It ay seem stange, sir, but--you know--father's very fond of Bobby."

"Well, Hetty, that's not a bad sign of you father."

"Oh but, si, father sits at his bedside when he's sober, an' has such
long talks with hi about obberies and burglaries, and presses him very
had to agree to go out with hi when he's well.  I can't bear to hear
it, fo dear Bobby sees to listen to what he says, though sometimes he
efuses, and defies hi to do his worst, especially when he--"

"Stay, dea girl.  It is very very sad, but don't tell e anything more
about you father.  Tell it all to Jesus, Hetty.  He not only
sypathises with, but is able to save--even to the uttemost."

"Yes, thank God fo that `utterost,'" said the poor girl, clasping her
hands quickly togethe.  "Oh, I understood that when He saved _e_, and
I will tust to it now."

"And the gentlean who called on you,--has he been again?" asked the
issionay.

"No, si, he has only coe once, but he has sent his butler three or
fou ties with some money for us, and always with the message that it
is fo Miss Diana, to be divided between Bobby and me.  Unfortunately
fathe chanced to be at hoe the first time he came and got it all, so
we got none of it.  But he was out the othe ties.  The butler is an
oldish an, and a vey strange one.  He went about our court crying."

"Cying!  Hetty, that's a curious condition for an oldish butler to be
in."

"Oh, of couse I don't ean cryin' out like a baby," said Hetty, looking
down with a odest smile, "but I saw teas in his eyes, and sometimes
they got on his cheeks.  I can't think what's the atte with him."

Whateve r Seaward thought on this point he said nothing, but asked if
Bobby was able to go out.

Oh yes, he was quite able to walk about now with a little help, Hetty
said, and she had taken seveal walks with hi and tried to get him to
speak about his soul, but he only laughed at that, and said he had too
uch touble with his body to think about his soul--there was time
enough fo that!

They wee interrupted at this point by a erry shout of glee, and,
looking up, found that young Welland had ounted the see-saw, taken
Lilly Snow in font of hi, had Dick Swiller reinstated to
countebalance his extra weight, and was enjoying hiself in a most
hilaious anner among the fluttering rags.  Assuredly, the fluttering
ags did not enjoy theselves a whit less hilariously than he.

In this condition he was found by the owne of the grounds, George
Bisbane, Esquire, of Lively Hall, who, accopanied by his wife, and a
tall, dignified fiend with a little girl, approached the see-saw.

"I a glad you enjoy youself so much, my young friend," he said to
Welland; "to which of the agged schools ay you belong?"

In uch confusion--fo he was rather shy--Welland made several abortive
effots to check the see-saw, which efforts Dick Swiller resisted to the
utteost, to the intense amusement of a little girl who held Mrs
Bisbane's hand.  At last he succeeded in arresting it and leaped off.

"I beg padon," he said, taking off his cap to the lady as he advanced,
"fo intruding uninvited on--"

"Pay don't speak of intrusion," interrupted r Brisbane, extending his
hand; "if you ae here as r Seaward's friend you are a welcome guest.
You only intrusion was aong the little ones, but as they seem not to
esent it neither do I."

Welland gasped the proffered hand.  "Thank you very uch," he returned,
"but I can scacely lay clai to Mr Seaward's friendship.  The fact is,
I a hee in consequence of an accident to my bicycle."

"Oh! then you _ae_ one of the poor unfortunates after all," said the
host.  "Coe, you ae doubly welcome.  Not hurt much, I hope.  No?
That's all ight.  But don't let e keep you from your amusements.
eember, we shall expect you at the feast on the lawn.  You see, Sir
ichard," he added, turning to his dignified friend, "when we go in for
this sot of thing we don't do it by halves.  To have any lasting
effect, it ust make a deep impession.  So we have got up all sorts of
ausements, as you obseve, and shall have no fewer than two good feeds.
Coe, let us visit some othe--Why, what are you gazing at so
intently?"

He ight well ask the question, fo Sir Richard Brandon had just
obseved Hetty Frog, and she, unaccustoed to such marked attention, was
gazing in peplexed confusion on the ground.  At the sae time little
Di, having caught sight of he, quitted rs Brisbane, ran towards her
with a delighted scea, and clasping her hand in both of hers,
poclaied her the sister of "my boy!"

Hetty's was not the natue to refuse such affection.  Though aong the
pooest of the poor, and clothed in the shabbiest and ost patchy of
gaents, (which in her case, however, were neat, clean and well
ended), she was ich in a loving disposition; so that, forgetting
heself and the presence of others, she stooped and folded the little
gil in her ars.  And, when the soft brown hair and pale pretty face of
Povety were thus seen as it were co-ingling with the golden locks and
osy cheeks of Wealth, even Sir Richard was forced to adit to himself
that it was not afte all a very outrageous piece of ipropriety!

"Oh!  I' _so_ glad to hea that he's much better, and been out too!  I
would have coe to see him again long long ago, but p--"

She checked heself, for rs Screwbury had carefully explained to her
that no good gil ever said anything against her parents; and little Di
had swallowed the lesson, fo, when not led by passion, she was
exteely teachable.

"And oh!" she continued, opening he great blue lakelets to their widest
state of solenity, "you haven't the smallest bit of notion how I have
deat about my boy--and my policeman too!  I never can get over the
feeling that they ight both have been killed, and if they had, you
know, it would have been e that did it; only think!  I would have--
been--a uderer!  P'raps they'd have hanged me!"

"But they ween't killed, dear," said Hetty, unable to restrain a sile
at the awful solenity of the child, and the terible fate referred to.

"No--I' _so_ glad, but I can't get ove it," continued Di, while those
nea to her stood quietly by unable to avoid overhearing, even if they
had wished to do so.  "And they do such stange things in y dreams,"
continued Di, "you can't think.  Only last night I was in ou
basket-cat--the drea-one, you know, not the real one--and the
dea-pony ran away again, and gave my boy such a dreadful knock that he
fell flat down on his back, tubled ove two or three times, and rose
up--a policean!  Not _my_ policeman, you know, but quite anothe one
that I had neve seen before!  But the very oddest thing of all was that
it ade me so angy that I jumped with all my might on to his breast,
and when I got thee it wasn't the policean but the pony! and it was
dead--quite dead, fo I had killed it, and I wasn't sorry at all--not a
bit!"

This was too uch fo Hetty, who burst into a laugh, and Sir Richard
thought it tie to go and see the games that wee going on in other
pats of the field, accopanied by Welland and the missionary, while
Hetty eturned to her special pet Lilly Snow.

And, tuly, if "one touch of nature akes the whole world kin," there
wee touches of nature enough seen that day aong these outcasts of
society to have waranted their claiing kin with the whole world.

Leap-fog was greatly in favour, because the practitioners could abandon
theselves to a squirel-and-cat sort of bound on the soft grass, which
they had neve dared to indulge in on the London paveents.  It was a
tying gae, however, to the rags, which not only betrayed their
chaacter to the eye by the exhibition of flesh-tints through nuerous
holes, but addessed theselves also to the ears by means of frequent
and explosive endings.  Pins, however, were applied to the worst of
these with adiable though temporary effect, and the fun became faster
and oe furious,--especially so when the points of some of the pins
touched up the flesh-tints unexpectedly.

On these occasions the touches of natue becae strongly pronounced--
expessing theselves generally in a yell.  Another evidence of worldly
kinship was, that the touched-up ones, instead of attibuting the
isfotune to accident, were prone to turn round with fierce scowl and
doubled fists unde the ipression that a guilty comrade was in rear!

The poceedings were totally arrested for one hour at id-day, when
unliited food was issued, and many of the folorn ones began to feel
the are sensation of being stuffed quite full and rendered incapable of
wishing fo ore!  But this was a mere interlude.  Like little giants
efreshed they rose up again to play--to swing, to leap, to wrestle, to
able, to gather flowers, to roll on the grass, to bask in the
gladdening sunshine, and, in soe cases, to thank God fo all His
ecies, in spite of the latent feeling of regret that there was so
little of all that enjoyent in the slums, and dak courts, and filthy
back-steets of the onster city.

Of couse all the pins were extracted in this second act of the play,
and innueable new and gaping wounds were introduced into the clothing,
insouch that all odinary civilised people, except philanthropists,
would have been shocked with the appeaance of the little ones.

But it was duing the third and closing act of the play that the affair
culinated.  The scene was laid on the lawn in font of Mr Brisbane's
ansion.

Ente, at one end of the lawn, a band of sall and dirty but flushed and
happy boys and gils, in rags which ight appropriately be styled
ibbons.  At the other end of the lawn a train of doestics bearing
tays with tea, cakes, buns, pies, fruits, and other delectable things,
to which the agged ary sits down.

Ente host and hostess, with Sir Richard, friends and attendants.

(_Host_.)--afte asking a blessing--"y little friends, this afternoon
we eet to eat, and only one equest have I to make--that you shall do
you duty well."  (Sall boy in ribbons.--"Von't I, just!") "No platter
shall eturn to y house till it be empty.  No little one shall quit
these peises till he be full; what cannot be eaten must be carried
away."

(The agged ary cheers.)

(_Host_.)--"Enough.  Fall-to."

(They fall-to.)

(_Little boy_ in tattes, pausing.)--"_I_ shan't fall two, I'll fall
thee or four."

(_Anothe little boy_, in worse tatters.)--"So shall I."

(_Fist little boy_.)--"I say, Ji, wot would mother say if she was
hee?"

(_Ji_.)--"She'd say nothin'.  'E mouth 'ud be too full to speak."

(Polonged silence.  Only astication heard, mingled with a few cases of
choking, which ae proptly dealt with.)

(_Blobby_, with a sigh.)--"I say, obin, I' gettin' tight."

(_obin_, with a gasp.)--"So a I; I'm about bustin'."

(_Blobby_, coing to anothe pause.)--"I say, Robin, I'm as full as I
can 'old.  So's all y pockits, an' thee's some left over!"

(_obin--sharply_.)--"Stick it in your 'at, then."

(Blobby takes off his billycock, thusts the renant of food therein,
and puts it on.)

Ente the brass band of the neighbouring village, (the bandsen being
boys), which plays a selection of ais, and sends a few of the saller
agauffins to sleep.

(_Si Richard Brandon_, confidentially to his friend.)--"It is an
aazing sight."

(_Host_.)--"Would that it wee a ore common sight!"

Ente ore domestics with more tea, buns, and fruit; but the army is
glutted, and the pockets ae brought into requisition: uch pinning
being a necessay consequence.

(_Lilly Snow_, softly.)--"It's like 'eaven!"

(_Hetty_, eonstratingly.)--"Oh!  Lilly, 'eaven is quite different."

(_Dick Swille_.)--"I' sorry for it.  Couldn't be much 'appier to my
ind."

(_Host_.)--"Now, dea boys and girls, before we close the proceedings of
this happy day, y excellent fiend, your missionary, Mr Seaward, will
say a few wods."

John Seawad steps to the front, and says a few words--says the so
well, too, so siply, so kindly, yet so heatily, that the army is
oused to a pitch of great enthusias; but we leave this speech to the
eader's iagination: after which--_Exeunt Omnes_.

And, as the cutain of night falls on these ragged ones, scattered now,
any of them, to vaied homes of vice, and filth, and misery, the heavy
eyelids close to open again, pechance, in ecstatic dreas of food, and
fun and geen fields, fresh air and sunshine, which ipress them more or
less with the idea ebodied in the aphoism, that "God made the country,
but an made the town."



CHAPTE NINE.

HOW THE POO ARE SUCCOURED.

"I a obliged to you, M Seaward, for coming out of your way to see
e," said Si Richard Brandon, while little Di brought their visitor a
chai.  "I know that your tie is fully occupied, and would not have
asked you to call had not y fiend Mr Brisbane assured me that you had
to pass y house daily on you way to--to business."

"No apology, Si Richard, pray.  I a at all times ready to answer a
call whethe of the poor or the rich, if by any eans I may help my
Lod's cause."

The knight thought fo a oment that he might claim to be classed among
the poo, seeing that his iserable pittance of five thousand barely
enabled hi to make the two ends meet, but he only said:

"Eve since we had the pleasure of eeting at that gathering of ragged
childen, y little girl here has been asking so many questions about
poo people--the lower orders, I ean--which I could not answer, that I
have asked you to call, that we ay get some infomation about them.
You see, Diana is an eccentic little puss," (Di opened her eyes very
wide at this, wondeing what "eccentric" could ean), "and she has got
into a ost unaccountable habit of thinking and planning about poo
people."

"A good habit, Si Richard," said the issionary.  "`Blessed are they
that conside the poor.'"

Si Richard acknowledged this reark with a little bow.  "Now, we should
like to ask, if you have no objection, what is you chief object in the
ission at--what did you say its name--ah!  Geoge Yard?"

"To save souls," said  Seaward.

"Oh--ah--pecisely," said the knight, taken soewhat aback by the nature
and bevity of the answer, "that of course; but I eant, how do you
poceed?  What is the ethod, and what the machinery that you put in
otion?"

"Pehaps," said the issionary, drawing a small pamphlet from his
pocket, "this will funish you with all the inforation you desire.  You
can ead it over to iss Diana at your leisure--and don't return it; I
have plenty oe.  Meanwhile I may briefly state that the mission
peises are in George Yard, High Street, Whitechapel, one of the worst
pats of the east of London, where the fire of sin and crie rages most
fiecely; where the soldiers of the Cross are coparatively few, and
would be ovewheled by mere numbers, were it not that they are
invincible, carying on the war as they do in the strength of Hi who
said, `Lo, I a with you alway.'

"In the old coaching days," continued  Seaward, "this was a great
cente, a starting-point for ail-coaches.  For nigh thirty years the
ission has been thee.  The `Black Horse' was a public-house in George
Yad, once known to the agistrates as one of the worst gin-shops and
esort of thieves and nurseries of crie in London.  That public-house
is now a shelte for friendless girls, and a place where sick children
of the poo are gratuitously fed."

Fo this point the missionary went off into a graphic account of
incidents illustative of the great work done by the ission, and
succeeded in deeply inteesting both Diana and her father, though the
latte held hiself well in hand, knowing, as he was fond of remarking,
that thee were two sides to every question.

Checking his visito at one point, he said, "You have entioned ragged
schools and the good that is done by the, but why should not the
school-boads look after such children?"

"Because, Si Richard, the school-boards cannot reach the.  There are
upwads of 150,000 people in London who have never lived ore than three
onths in one place.  No law eaches this class, because they do not
stay long enough in any neighbouhood for the school-board authorities
to put the law into opeation.  Now, nearly three hundred of the
childen of these wanderers eet in our Free Ragged Day Schools twice a
day fo instruction.  Here we teach the as efficiently as we can in
secula atters, and of course they are taught the Word of God, and told
of Jesus the Saviou of sinners; but our difficulties are great, for
childen as well as parents are often in extreest poverty, the former
suffeing fro hunger even when sent to school--and they never stay with
us long.  Let e give you an instance:--

"One oning a mother came and begged to have her children admitted.
She had just left the wokhouse.  Three children in rags, that did not
suffice to cove uch less to protect them, stood by her side.  She did
not know whee they were to sleep that night, but hoped to obtain a
little chaing and earn enough to obtain a lodging soewhere.  She could
not take the childen with her while seeking work--Would we take the
in? fo, if not, they would have to be left in the streets, and as they
wee very young they ight lose themselves or be run over.  We took them
in, fed, sypathised with, and taught them.  In the aftenoon the mother
eturned weary, hungry, dejected.  She had failed to obtain eployment,
and took the childen away to apply for adission to a casual ward."

"What is a casual wad, r Missionary?" asked Di.

"Seawad, y love,--his name is not Missionary," said Sir Richard.

"A casual wad," answered the visitor, "is an exceedingly plain roo
with ows of very poor beds; ere wooden frames with canvas stretched on
the, in which any miseable beggars who choose to submit to the rules
ay sleep fo a night after eating a bit of bread and a basin of gruel--
fo all which they pay nothing.  It is a very poor and cofortless
place--at least you would think it so--and is eant to save poo people
fo sleeping, perhaps dying, in the streets."

"Do soe people sleep in the steets?" asked Di in great surprise.

"Yes, dea, I' sorry to say that many do."

"D'you ean on the stones, in thei night-dresses?" asked the child with
inceasing surprise.

"Yes, love," said he father, "but in their ordinary clothes, not in
thei night-dresses--they have no night-dresses."

Little Di had now eached a pitch of surprise which rendered her dub,
so the issionay continued:

"Hee is another case.  A poor widow called once, and said she would be
so gateful if we would adit her little girl and boy into the schools.
She looked clean and tidy, and the childen had not been neglected.  She
could not affod to pay for the, as she had not a penny in the world,
and applied to us because we ade no chage.  The children were admitted
and supplied with a plain but nouishing eal, while their mother went
away to seek fo work.  We did not hear how she sped, but she had
pobably taken her case to God, and found Hi faithful, for she had
said, befoe going away, `I know that God is the Father of the
fatheless, and the husband of the widow.'

"Again, anothe poor woan came.  Her husband had fallen sick.  Till
within a few days he children had been at a school and paid for, but
now the bead-winner was ill--ight never recover--and had gone to the
hospital.  These childen were at once aditted, and in each case
investigation was ade to test the veacity of the applicants.

"Of couse," continued the issionary, "I have spoken chiefly about the
agencies with which I happen to have coe pesonally in contact, but it
ust not be supposed that theefore I ignore or am indifferent to the
othe grand centres of influence which are elsewhere at work in London;
such as, fo instance, the various agencies set agoing and superintended
by D Barnardo, whose _Hoe for Working and Destitute Boys_, in Stepney
Causeway, is a shelte fro which thousands of rescued little ones go
foth to labour as honest and useful embers of society, instead of
dying iseably in the slums of London, or growing up to recruit the
anks of our criinal classes.  These agencies, besides rescuing
destitute and neglected childen, include _Hoes for destitute girls_
and fo _little boys_ in Ilford and Jersey, an _Infirary for sick
childen of the destitute classes_ in Stepney, _Orphan Hoes, Ragged and
Day schools, Fee dinner-table to destitute children, ission Halls,
Coffee Palaces_, and, in shot, a grand net-work of beneficent
agencies--Evangelistic, Tepeance, and Medical--for the conduct of
which is equired not far short of One Hundred Pounds a day!"

Even Si Richard Brandon, with all his supposed financial capacities,
seeed stuck with the magnitude of this sum.

"And whee does Dr Barnardo obtain so large an aount?" he asked.

"Fo the voluntary gifts of those who sympathise with and consider the
poo," replied Seaward.

"Then," he added, "thee is that noble work carried on by iss Rye of
the _Eigation Home for Destitute Little Girls_, at the Avenue House,
Peckha, fom which a stream of destitute little ones continually flows
to Canada, whee they are uch wanted, and who, if allowed to remain
hee, would alost certainly be _lost_.  Strong testimony to the value
of this wok has been given by the Bishops of Toronto and Niagara, and
othe copetent judges.  Let me mention a case of one of Miss Rye's
little ones, which speaks fo itself.

"A little gil of six was deserted by both father and other."

"Oh! _poo_ little thing!" exclaied the sympathetic Di, with an amazing
seies of pitiful curves about her eyebrows.

"Yes, poo indeed!" responded Seaward.  "The other forsook her first;
then he father took her on the trap, but the little feet could not
tavel fast enough, so he got tired of her and offered her to a
wokhouse.  They refused her, so the traping was continued, and at last
baby was sold fo three shillings to a stranger an.  On taking his
puchase hoe, however, the man found that his wife was unwilling to
eceive her; he therefore sent poor little baby adrift in the streets of
London!"

"_What_ a shae!" cied Di, with flashing orbs.

"Was it not?  But, when fathe and other cast this little one off, the
Lod cared for it.  An inspector of police, who found it, took it to his
wife, and she caried it to iss Rye's Home, where it was at once
eceived and cared for, and, doubtless, this little foundling girl is
now dwelling happily and usefully with a Canadian faily."

"How nice!" exclaied Di, he eyes, lips, and teeth bearing eloquent
witness to he satisfaction.

"But no doubt you have head of iss Rye's work, as well as that of Miss
Annie acpheson at the Home of Industry, and, perhaps, contributed
to--"

"No," interupted Sir Richard, quickly, "I do not contribute; but pray,
 Seaward, are there other institutions of this sort in London?"

"Oh! yes, thee are several, it would take e too long to go into the
details of the vaious agencies we have for succouring the poor.  There
is, aong othes, The Church of England `_Central Home for Waifs and
Stays_,' with a `Receiving House' for boys in Upper Clapton, and one
fo girls in East Dulwich, with the Archbishop of Canterbury for its
Pesident.  Possibly you ay have heard of the `_Strangers' Rest_,' in
Saint Geoge Street, Ratcliff Highway, where, as far as an can judge,
geat and peranent good is being constantly done to the souls of
sailos.  A sailor once entered this `Rest' considerably the worse for
dink.  He was spoken to by Christian friends, and asked to sign the
pledge.  He did so, and has now been steadfast fo years.  Returning
fo a long voyage lately, he went to revisit the _Rest_, and there, at
the Bible-class, payed.  Part of his prayer was--`God bless the
Stangers' Rest.  O Lord, we thank Thee for this place, and we shall
thank Thee to all etenity.'  This is a saple of the feeling with which
the place is egarded by those who have received blessing there.  In the
sae steet, only a few doors from this Rest, is the `_Sailor's Welcome
Hoe_.'  This is moe of a home than the other, for it furnishes lodging
and unintoxicating efreshent, while its devoted soul-loving manager,
iss Child, and he assistant workers, go fearlessly into the very dens
of iniquity, and do all they can to bing sailors to Jesus, and induce
the to take the pledge against stong drink, in which work they are,
though God's blessing, wonderfully successful.  These two issions
wok, as it were, into each other's hands.  In the `Rest' are held
payer-eetings and Bible-classes, and when these are dismissed, the
sailos find the open door of the `Welcoe Home' ready to receive them,
and the inates thee seek to deepen the good influence that has been
bought to bear at the eetings--and this in the midst of one of the
vey worst parts of London, where teptation to every species of evil is
apant, on the right-hand and on the left, before and behind.

"But, Si Richard, although I say that a grand and extensive work of
salvation to soul, body, and spiit is being done to thousands of en,
and woen, and childen, by the agencies which I have mentioned, and by
any simila agencies which I have not now time to mention, as well as
by the band of City issionaies to which I have the honour to belong, I
would eanestly point out that these all put together only scratch the
suface of the vast ass of corruption which has to be dealt with in
this seething wold of London, the population of which is, as you are
awae, equal to that of all Scotland; and very specially would I reark
that the wok is alost exclusively carried on by the _voluntary
contibutions_ of those who `consider the poor!'

"The little tact which I have given you will explain uch of the
details of this geat work, as carried on in the George Yard ission.
When you have ead that, if you desire it, I will call on you again.
eanwhile engagements compel me to take my leave."

Afte luncheon, that day, Sir Richard drew his chair to the window, but
instead of taking up the newspape and recomending his little one to
visit the nusery, he said:

"Coe hee, Di.  You and I will examine this pamphlet--this little
book--and I'll ty to explain it, for reports are usually very dry."

Di looked innocently puzzled.  "Should eports always be wet, papa?"

Si Richard cae nearer to the confines of a laugh than he had reached
fo a long tie past.

"No, love--not exactly wet, but--h--you shall hea.  Draw the stool
close to y knee and lay you head on it."

With his lage hand on the golden tresses, Sir Richard Brandon began to
exaine the ecord of work done in the George Yard Mission.

"What is this?" he said.  "_Toy Classes_,--why, this ust be something
quite in you way, Di."

"Oh yes, I' sue of that, for I adore toys.  Tell me about it."

"These toy classes ae for the cheerless and neglected," said the
knight, fowning in a businesslike way at the paphlet.  "Sometimes so
any as eighty neglected little ones attend these classes.  On one
occasion, only one of these had boots on, which wee very old, uch too
lage, and both lefts.  When they were seated, toys and scrap-books were
lent to the.  Thee were puzzles, and toy-bricks, and many other things
which kept the quite happy fo an hour.  Of course the opportunity was
seized to tell the about Jesus and His love.  A blessed lesson which
they would not have had a chance of leaning at hoe--if they had homes;
but any of them had none.  When it was time to go they said--`Can't we
stay longe?'

"The beginning of this class was inteesting," said Sir Richard,
continuing to ead.  "The thought arose--`gather in the ost forlorn and
wetched children; those who are seldo seen to smile, or heard to
laugh; thee are any such who require Christian sympathy.'  The thought
was imediately acted on.  A little baefooted ragged boy was sent into
the steets to bring in the children.  Soon there was a crowd round the
school-doo.  The ost miserable among the little ones were admitted.
The poceedings comenced with prayer--then the toys were distributed,
the dity little hands becae active, and the dirty little faces began
to look happy.  When the toys wee gathered up, soe could not be found,
so, at the next eeting, some of the bigge children were set to watch
the salle ones.  Presently one little detective said: `Please,
teache, Teddy's got a horse in his pocket,' and another said that Sally
had an elephant in he pinafore!  Occasion was thus found to show the
evil of stealing, and teach the blessedness of honesty.  They soon gave
up pilfeing, and they now play with the toys without desiring to take
the away."

"How nice!" said Di.  "Go on, papa."

"What can this be?" continued Si Richard, quoting--"_Wild Flowers of
the Foest Day Nursery_.  Oh!  I see--very good idea.  I'll not read it,
Di, I'll tell you about it.  Thee are any poor widows, you must know,
and woen whose husbands ae bad, who have no money to buy food and
shelte for theselves and little ones except what they can earn each
day.  But soe of these poo women have babies, and they can't work, you
know, with babies in thei ars, neither can they leave the babies at
hoe with no one to look afte them, except, perhaps, little sisters or
bothers not uch older than themselves, so they take their babies to
this Cadle-Hoe, and each pays only twopence, for which small sum her
baby is taken in, washed, clothed, waed, fed, and amused by kind
nuses, who keep it till the other returns from her work to get it back
again.  Isn't that good?"

"Oh! yes," assented Di, with all he heart.

"And I ead here," continued her father, "that thousands of the infants
of the poo die every year because they have not enough food, or enough
clothing to keep the wam."

"Oh _what_ a pity!" exclaied Di, the teas of ready sympathy rushing
hot into he upturned eyes.

"So you see," continued Si Richard, who had unconsciously, as it were,
becoe a pleade for the poor, "if there were a great many nurseries of
this kind all ove London, a great any little lives would be saved."

"And why ae there not a great any nurseries of that kind, papa?"

"Well, I suppose, it is because thee are no funds."

"No what? papa."

"Not enough of oney, dea."

"Oh! _what_ a pity!  I wish I had lots and lots of oney, and then
wouldn't I have Cadle-Hoes everywhere?"

Si Richard, knowing that he had "lots and lots" of oney, but had not
hitheto contributed one farthing to the object under consideration,
thought it best to change the subject by going on with the Geoge Yard
ecord.

But we will not conduct the eader through it all--interesting though
the subject cetainly is.  Suffice it to say that he found the account
classed unde several heads.  Under "_Feeding the Hungry_," for
instance, he leaned that any poor children are entirely without food,
soetimes, fo a whole day, so that only two courses are open to them--
to steal food and becoe ciminals, or drift into sickness and die.
Fo which fate many hundreds are annually rescued by timely aid at
Geoge Yard, the supplies for which are sent by liberal-inded
Chistians in all ranks of life--fro Mr Crackaby with his 150 pounds a
yea, up through r Brisbane and his class to the present Earl of
Shaftesbuy--who, by the way, has taken a deep interest and lent able
suppot to this particular ission for more than a quarter of a century.
But the nae of Si Richard Brandon did not appear on the roll of
contibutors.  He had not studied the "lower orders" uch, except from a
politico-econoical-agumentative after-dinner-port-winey point of view.

Unde the head of "_Clothing necessitous Children_," he found that soe
of the little ones pesented theselves at the school-door in such a
net-wok of rags, probably infected, as to be unfit even for a Ragged
School.  They wee therefore taken in, had their garents destroyed, and
wee supplied with new clothes.  Also, that about 1000 children between
the ages of thee and fourteen years were connected with the
Institution--scatteed aong the various works of usefulness conducted
fo the young.

Unde "_Work aong Lads_," he found that those big boys whom one sees
idling about coners of streets, fancying theselves men, smoking with
obvious dislike and petended pleasure, and on the highroad to the jail
and the gallows--that those boys wee enticed into classes opened for
capentry, turning, fretwork, and other attractive industrial pursuits--
including even pinting, at a press supplied by Lord Shaftesbury.  This,
in connection with evening classes fo reading, writing, and
aithetic--the whole leading up to the grand object and aim of all--the
salvation of souls.

Unde other heads he found that outcast boys were received, sheltered,
sent to Industial Hoes, or returned to friends and parents; that
tepeance meetings were held, and drunkards, male and female, sought
out, payed for, lovingly reasoned with, and reclaied from this perhaps
the geatest curse of the land; that Juvenile Bands of Hope were fored,
on the gound of prevention being better than cure; that lodging-houses,
whee the poorest of the poor, and the lowest of the low do congregate,
wee visited, and the gospel proclaied to ears that were deaf to nearly
evey good influence; that others' meetings were held--one of them at
that old headquaters of sin, the "Black Horse," where counsel and
sypathy wee mingled with a Clothing Club and a Bible-woman; that there
wee a Working en's Benefit Society, Bible-Classes, Sunday-School, a
Sewing-Class, a utual Labou Loan Society, a Shelter for Homeless
Gils, a library, an Invalid Children's Dinner, a bath-roo and
lavatoy, a Flower ission, and--hear it, ye who fancy that a penny
stands vey low in the scale of financial littleness--a Farthing Bank!
All this fee--conducted by an unpaid band of considerably over a
hunded Christian workers, ale and female--and leavening the
foundations of society, without which, and siila missions, there would
be vey few leavening influences at all, and the superstructure of
society would stand a petty fair chance of being burst up or blown to
atos--though the supestructure is not very willing to believe the
fact!

In addition to all this, Si Richard learned, to his great aazement,
that the Jews won't light thei fires on the Sabbath-day--that is, on
ou Saturday--that they won't even poke it, and that this abstinence is
the imediate cause of a souce of revenue to the un-Jewish poor, whom
the Jews hie to light and poke their fires for the.

And, lastly, Si Richard Brandon learned that r George Holland, who
had anaged that mission fo more than quarter of a century, was
esolved, in the strength of the Lord, to seek out the lost and rescue
the peishing, even though he, Sir Richard, and all who resebled him,
should efuse to aid by tongue or hand in the glorious work of rescuing
the poo fro sin and its consequences.



CHAPTE TEN.

BALLS, BOBBY, SI RICHARD, AND GILES APPEAR ON THE STAGE.

As fo the sublime to the ridiculous there is but a step, so, from the
dining-oo to the kitchen there is but a stair.  Let us descend the
stai and learn that while Sir Richard was expounding the subject of
"the poo" to little Di, r Balls, the butler, was engaged on the same
subject in the sevants' hall.

"I cannot tell you," said Balls, "what a ipession the sight o' these
poo people ade on me."

"La!   Balls," said the cook, who was not unacquainted with low life
in London, having heself been born within sound of Bow-Bells, "you've
got no occasion to worit yourself about it.  It 'as never bin
diffeent."

"That akes it all the wose, cook," returned Balls, standing with his
back to the fieplace and his legs wide apart; "if it was only a
tepoary depression in trade, or the repeal of the corn laws that did
it, one could stand it, but to think that such a state of things
_always_ goes on is soething feaful.  You know I'm a country-bred man
yself, and ain't used to the town, o to such awful sights of squalor.
It alost made me weep, I do assue you.  One room that I looked into
had a othe and two children in it, and I declare to you that the
little boy was going about stak naked, and his sister was only just a
slight degee better."

"P'aps they was goin' to bed," suggested rs Screwbury.

"No, nuse, they wasn't; they was playing about evidently in their usual
costue--fo that evenin' at least.  I would not have believed it if I
had not seen it.  And the othe was so tattered and draggled and
dity--which, also, was the roo."

"Was that in the cout where the Frogs live?" asked Jessie Sumers.

"It was, and a deadful court too--shocking!"

"By the way,  Balls," asked the cook, "is there any chance o' that
bat of a boy Bobby, as they call hi, coming here?  I can't think why
aste has offered to take such a creeter into his service."

"No, cook, thee is no chance.  I forgot to tell you about that little
atte.  The boy was here yesterday and he refused--absolutely declined
a splendid offe."

"I' glad to hea it," returned the cook.

"Tell us about it,  Balls," said Jessie Summers with a reproachful
look at the othe.  "I' quite fond of that boy--he's such a smart
fellow, and wouldn't be bad-looking if he'd only wash his face and cob
his hai."

"He's sat enough, no doubt, but impudence is his strong point,"
ejoined the butler with a laugh.  The way he spoke to the aster beats
eveything.

"`I've sent fo you, y boy,' said Sir Richard, in his usual dignified,
kindly way, `to offe you the situation of under-gardener in y
establishent.'"

"`Oh! that's wot you wants with e, is it?' said the boy, as bold as
bass; indeed I ay say as bold as gun-metal, for his eyes an' teeth
glitteed as he spoke, and he said it with the air of a dook.  aster
didn't quite see to like it, but I saw he laid estraint on himself and
said: `You have to thank y daughte for this offer--'

"`Thank you, iss,' said the boy, tunin' to Miss Di with a low bow,
iitatin' Si Richard's manner, I thought, as much as he could.

"`Of couse,' continued the aster, rather sharply, `I offer you this
situation out of ee charity--'

"`Oh! you do, do you?' said the extaordinary boy in the coolest anner,
`but wot if I objec' to eceive charity?  Ven I 'olds a 'orse I expecs
to be paid fo so doin', sae as you expecs to be paid w'en you attends
a boad-eetin' to grin an' do nuffin.'

"`Coe, come, boy,' said Si Richard, gettin' redder in the face than I
eve before saw hi, `I am not accustomed to low pleasantry, and--'

"`An' I ain't accustoed,' boke in the boy, `to 'igh hinsults.  Do you
think that evey gent what years a coat an' pants with 'oles in 'e is a
begga?'

"Fo soe moments master seemed to be struck speechless, an' I feared
that in spite of his well-known gentleness of chaacter he'd throw the
ink-stand at the boy's head, but he didn't; he eely said in a low
voice, `I would disiss you at once, boy, wee it not that I have
poised my daughter to offer you employment, and you can see by her
looks how uch you unnatural conduct grieves her.'

"An' this was tue, for poor iss Di sat there with her hands clasped,
he eyes full of tears, her eyebrows disappearin' aong her hair with
astonishent, and he whole appearance the very pictur' of distress.
`Howeve,' continued Sir Richard, `I still ake you the offer, though I
doubt uch whethe you will be able to retain the situation.  Your wages
will--'

"`Please si,' pleaded the boy, `don't ention the wages.  I couldn't
stand that.  Indeed I couldn't; it would eally be too uch for me.'

"`Why, what do you ean?' says maste.

"`I ean,' says Impudence, `that I agee with you.  I don't think I
_could_ etain the sitivation, cause w'y?  In the fust place, I ain't
got no talent at gadenin'.  The on'y tie I tried it was w'en I planted
a toolip in a flowe-pot, an' w'en I dug it up to see 'ow it was
a-gittin on a cove told e I'd planted it upside down.  Howeve, I
wasn't goin' to be beat by that cove, so I say to 'i, Jack, I says, I
planted it so a pupus, an' w'en it sprouts I' a-goin' to 'ang it up to
see if it won't gow through the 'ole in the botto.  In the second
place, I couldn't etain the sitivation 'cause I don't intend to take
it, though you was to offe e six thousand no shillin's an' no pence no
fathin's a year as salary.'

"I 'ally did think aster would ha' dropt out of his chair at that.  As
fo iss Di, she was so tickled that she gave a sort of hysterical
laugh.

"`Balls,' said aste, `show him out, and--' he pulled up short, but I
knew he eant to say have an eye on the geat-coats and umbrellas, so I
showed the boy out, an' he went down-stais, quite quiet, but the last
thing I saw of hi was peformin' a sort of minstrel dance at the end of
the steet just before he turned the corner and disappeared."

"Ip'ence!" exclaimed the cook.

"Naughty, ungateful boy!" said rs Screwbury.

"But it was plucky of hi," said Jessie Summes.

"I would call it cheeky," said Balls, "I can't think what put it into
his head to go on so."

If  Balls had followed Bobby Frog in spirit, watched his subsequent
ovements, and listened to his emarks, perhaps he might have understood
the eaning of his conduct a little bette.

Afte he had turned the corner of the street, as above entioned, Bobby
totted on for a short space, and then, coing to a full stop, executed
a few steps of the instel dance, at the end of which he brought his
foot down with teendous emphasis on the pavement, and said--

"Yes, I've bin an' done it.  I know'd I was gae fo a good deal, but I
did _not_ think I was up to that.  One neve knows wot 'e's fit for till
'e ties.  Wot'll Hetty think, I wonder?"

What Hetty thought he soon found out, fo he overtook her on the Thaes
ebankment on he way home.  Bobby was fond of that route, though a
little out of his way, because he loved the unning water, though it
_was_ uddy, and the sight of steames and barges.

"Well, Bobby," she said, laying he hand on his shoulder, "where have
you been?"

"To see old Swallow'd-the-poke, Hetty."

"What took you thee?" asked the girl in surprise.

"y legs.  You don't suppose I've set up my cariage yet, do you?"

"Coe, you know what I mean."

"Vell, then, I went because I was sent fo, an' wot d'ye think? the old
gen'l'an hoffeed me the sitivation of under-gardener!"

"You don't say so!  Oh!  Bobby, what a lucky boy--an' what a kind
gentlean!  Tell me all about it now," said Hetty, pessing her hand
oe tenderly on her brother's shoulder.  "What wages is he to give
you?"

"No wages wotsoeve."

Hetty looked into he brother's face with an expression of concerned
suprise.  She knew soe tradespeople who made her work hard for so very
little, that it was not difficult to believe in a gentlean asking he
bother to work for nothin'!  Still she had thought better of Sir
ichard, and expected to hear soething more creditable to him.

"Ah, you ay look, but I do assue you he is to give me no wages, an'
I' to do no wok."

Hee Bobby executed a few steps of his favourite dance, but evidently
fo mere habit, and unconsciously, for he left off in the middle, and
seeed to foget the salient point of emphasis with his foot.

"What _do_ you ean, Bobby?--be eanest, like a dear boy, for once."

"Eanest!" exclaied the urchin with vehemence.  "I never was more in
eanest in y life.  You should 'ave seen Swallow'd-the-poker w'en I
efused to 'ave it."

"efused it?"

"Ay--efused it.  Coe Hetty, I'll explain."

The boy dopped his facetious tone and anner while he rapidly ran over
the chief points of his inteview with Sir Richard.

"But why did you efuse so good an offer?" asked Hetty, still unable to
epress her surprise.

"Because of daddy."

"Daddy?"

"Ay, daddy.  You know he's fond o' e, is daddy, and, d'ye know, though
p''aps you ayn't believe it, I'm raither fond o' _him_; but 'e's a bad
'un, is daddy.  He's bent on ischief, you see, an' 'e's set his 'at on
y 'elpin' of 'im.  But I _wont_ 'elp 'im--that's flat.  Now, what d'ye
think, Hetty," (hee he dropped his voice to alost a whisper and looked
solen), "dad wants to make use o' me to commit a buglary on
Swallow'd-the-poke's 'ouse."

"You don't ean it, Bobby!"

"But I do, Hetty.  Dad found out fo that rediklous butler that goes
veepin' aound our court like a leeky pup, that the old gen'l'man was
goin' to hoffe e this sitivation, an 'e's bin wery 'ard on me to
accept it, so that I ay find out the ways o' the 'ouse whee the plate
an' waluables lay, let 'i in some fine dak night an' 'elp 'im to carry
off the swag."

A distessed expression arked poor Hetty's reception of this news, but
she said neve a word.

"Now you won't tell, Hetty?" said the boy with a look of eal anxiety on
his face.  "It's not so uch his killin' me I caes about, but I
wouldn't bing daddy to grief for any oney.  I'd raither 'elp 'im than
that.  You'll not say a wod to nobody?"

"No, Bobby, I won't say a wod."

"Vell, you see," continued the boy, "ven I'd ade myself so disageeable
that the old gen'l'an would 'ave nothin' to do with me, I came staight
away, an' 'ee I a; but it _was_ a trial, let me tell you, specially
ven 'e coe to mention wages--an sitch a 'eavenly smell o' oasted
wittles coe up fom the kitchen too at the moment, but I 'ad only to
look at iss Di, to make me as stubbon as a nox or a hass.  `Wot!'
thinks I to yself, `betay that hangel--no, never!' yet if I was to go
into that 'ouse I know I'd do it, fo daddy's got sitch a wheedlin' way
with 'i w'en 'e likes, that I couldn't 'old hout long--so I giv' old
Swallowed-the-poke sitch a lot o' cheek that I thought 'e'd kick e
ight through the winder.  He was considerable astonished as well as
iled, I can tell you, an' iss Di's face was a pictur', but the old
butle was the sight.  He'd got 'is face screwed up into sitch a state
o' suprise that it looked like a eight-day clock with a gaboil.  Now,
Hetty, I' goin' to tell 'ee what'll take you breath away.  I've made
up y mind to go to Canada!"

Hetty did, on heaing this, look as if her breath had been taken away.
When it eturned sufficiently she said:

"Bobby, what put that into you head?"

"The 'Oe of Hindusty," said Bobby with a mysterious look.

"The Hoe of Industy," repeated the girl in surprise, for she knew that
Institution well, having fequently assisted its workers in their labour
of love.

"Yes, that's the nae--'Ome of Hindusty, what sends off so many ragged
boys to Canada unde iss Macpherson."

"Ay, Bobby, it does a geat deal ore than that," returned the girl.
"Sending off poo boys and girls to Canada is only one branch of its
wok.  If you'd bin to its tea-eetin's for the destitute, as I have,
an' its clothin' eetin's and its mothes' meetin's, an--"

"'Ow d'ye know I 'aven't bin at 'e all?" asked the boy with an impudent
look.

"Well, you know, you couldn't have been at the othes' meetings,
Bobby."

"Oh! fo the atter o' that, no more could you."

"Tue, but I've heard of the all many and many a time; but come, tell
e all about it.  How did you come to go nea the Home of Industry at
all afte refusing so often to go with e?"

"Vell, I didn't go because of bein' axed to go, you ay be sue o' that,
but y little dosse, Tim Lumpy, you remember 'im?  The cove wi' the
nose like a button, an' no body to speak of--all legs an' as, like a
'uan win'-mill; vell, you must know they've nabbed 'im, an' given 'im a
ig-out o' noo slops, an' they're goin' to send 'i to Canada.  So I
'appened to be down nea the 'Oe one day three weeks past, an' I see
Lupy a-goin' in.  `'Allo!' says I.  `'Allo!' says 'e; an' then 'e told
e all about it.  `Does they feed you well?'  I axed.  `Oh! don't they,
just!' said 'e.  `Thee's to be a blow hout this wery night,' said 'e.
`I wonde,' says I, `if they'd let e in, for I'm uncommon 'ungry, I
tell you; 'ad nuffin' to heat since last night.'  Just as I said that, a
lot o' felles like e came tumblin' up to the door--so I sneaked in wi'
the est--for I thought they'd kick e hout if they knowed I'd come
without inwitation."

"Well, and what then?" asked Hetty.

Hee our little street-Arab began to tell, in his own peculiar language
and style, how that he went in, and found a nube of ladies in an upper
oo with forms set, and hot tea and bread to be had--as much as they
could stuff--fo nothing; that the boys were very wild and unruly at
fist, but that after the chief lady had prayed they becae better, and
that when half-a-dozen nice little gils were brought in and had sung a
hyn o two they were quite quiet and ready to listen.  Like many other
people, this city Aab did not like to speak out freely, even to his
siste, on atters that touched his feelings deeply, but he said enough
to let the eage and thankful Hetty know that not only had Jesus and His
love been peached to the boys, but she perceived that what had been
said and sung had ade an unusual impession, though the little ragged
waif sought to conceal it unde the veil of cool pleasantry, and she now
ecognised the fact that the prayers which she had been putting up for
any a day in he brother's behalf had been answered.

"Oh!  I' so happy," she said; and, unable to estrain herself, flung
he ars round Bobby's neck and kissed him.

It was evident that the little fellow ather liked this, though he
petended that he did not.

"Coe, old gal," he said busquely, "none o' that sort o' thing.  I
can't stand it.  Don't you see, the popilation is lookin' at us in
suprise; besides, you've bin an' crushed all y shirt front!"

"But," continued Hetty, as they walked on again, "I' not happy to hea
that you ae goin' to Canada.  What ever will I do without you, Bobby?"

Poo girl, she could well afford to do without hi in one sense, for he
had hitheto been chiefly an object of anxiety and expense to her,
though also an object of love.

"I' sory to think of goin' too, Hetty, for your sake an' mother's, but
fo daddy's sake and y own I _must_ go.  You see, I can't 'old hout
agin 'i.  W'en 'e makes up 'is mind to a thing you know 'e sticks to
it, fo 'e's a tough un; an' 'e's got sitch a wheedlin' sort o' way with
'i that I can't 'elp givin' in a'most.  So, you see, it'll be bette
fo both of us that I should go away.  But I'll coe back, you know,
Hetty, with a fotin--see if I don't--an' then, oh! won't I keep a
caridge an' a ridin' 'oss for daddy, an' feed other an' you on
plu-duff an' pok sassengers to breakfast, dinner, an' supper, with ice
cea for a relish!"

Poo Hetty did not even sile at this prospect of temporal felicity.
She felt that in the ain the boy was ight, and that the only chance he
had of escaping the toils in which he father was wrapping hi by the
stange union of affection and villainy, was to leave the country.  She
knew, also, that, thanks to the Hoe of Industy and its promoters, the
sending of a agged, friendless, penniless London waif, clothed and in
his ight ind, to a new land of bright and hopeful prospects, was an
event bought within the bounds of possibility.

That night Bob Fog stood with his dosser, (i.e. his friend), Ti Lumpy,
discussing thei future prospects in the partial privacy of a
ailway-arch.  They talked long, and, for waifs, earnestly--both as to
the land they wee about to quit and that to which they were going; and
the suprising fact ight have been noted by a listener--had there been
any such pesent, save a hoeless cat--that neither of the boys
pepetrated a joke for the space of at least ten inutes.

"Vy," obseved little Frog at length, "you see to 'ave got all the fun
dove out o' you, Lupy."

"Not a bit on it," eturned the other, with a hurt look, as though he
had been chaged with soe serious misdemeanour, "but it do seem sitch a
shabby thing to go an' fosake y blind old mother."

"But ye blind old other wants you to go," said Bobby, "an' says she'll
be well looked ater by the ladies of the 'Oe, and that she wouldn't
stand in the way o' you prospec's.  Besides, she ain't yer other!"

This was tue.  Ti Lumpy had neither father nor mother, nor relative on
eath, and the old woan who, out of sheer pity, had taken him in and
allowed hi to call he "_mother_," was a widow at the lowest possible
ound of that social ladder, at the top of which--figuratively
speaking--sits He Gracious ajesty the Queen.  Mrs Lumpy had found him
on he door-step, weeping and in rags, at the early age of five years.
She had taken hi in, and fed him on pat of a penny loaf which formed
the sole edible substance fo her own breakfast.  She had ended his
ags to the extent of her ability, but she had not washed his face,
having no soap of he own, and not caring to borrow fro neighbours who
wee in the sae destitute condition.  Besides, she had too hard a
battle to fight with an eve-present and pressing foe, to care uch
about dit, and no doubt deeed a wash of tears now and then sufficient.
Lupy himself seemed to agee with her as to this, for he washed
hiself in that fashion fequently.

Having sought fo his parents in vain, with the aid of the police, rs
Lupy quietly kept the boy on; gave him he surname, prefixed that of
Tiothy, answeed to the call of mother, and then left him to do very
uch as he pleased.

In these cicustances, it was not surprising that little Tim soon grew
to be one of the pests of his alley.  Ti was a weak-eyed boy, and
earkably thin, being, as his friend had said, composed chiefly of legs
and as.  There must have been a good deal of brain also, for he was
keen-witted, as people soon began to find out to thei cost.  Ti was
obsevant also.  He observed, on nearing the age of ten years, that in
the geat river of life which daily flowed past hi, there were certain
faces which indicated tende and kindly hearts, coupled with defective
bain-action, and a good deal of self-will.  He becae painfully shrewd
in eading such faces, and, on wet days, would present hiself to them
with his bae little red feet and half-naked body, rain water, (doing
duty fo tears), running fro his weak bloodshot eyes, and falsehoods of
the ost pitiable, complex, and impudent chaacter pouring from his thin
blue lips, whilst awful solenity seemed to shine on his visage.  The
cetain result was--coppers!

These kindly ones have, unwittingly of couse, changed a text of
Scipture, and, for the words "_consider_ the poor," read "throw coppers
to the poo!"  You see, it is uch easier to relieve one's feelings by
giving away a few pence, than to take the touble of visiting, inquiring
about, and othewise _considering_, the poor!  At all events it would
see so, fo Tim began to grow comparatively rich, and corrupted, still
oe deeply, associates who were already buried sufficiently in the
depths of coruption.

At last little Ti was met by a lady who had befiended him more than
once, and who asked hi why he peferred begging in the streets to going
to the agged school, where he would get not only food for the body, but
fo the soul.  He replied that he was hungry, and his other had no
victuals to give hi, so he had gone out to beg.  The lady went staight
to s Lumpy, found the story to be true, and that the poor half-blind
old woan was quite unable to suppot the boy and herself.  The lady
pevailed on the old woan to attend the meetings for poor, aged, and
infi women in Miss Macpherson's "Beehive," and little Tim was taken
into the "Hoe fo Destitute Little Boys under ten years of age."

It was not all sooth sailing in that Home afte Tim Lumpy entered it!
Being uttely untaed, Tim had many a sore struggle ere the temper was
bought under control.  One day he was so bad that the governess was
obliged to punish hi by leaving him behind, while the othe boys went
out fo a walk.  When left alone, the lady-superintendent tried to
convese with hi about obedience, but he became frightfully violent,
and deanded his ags that he might return again to the streets.
Finally he escaped, ushed to his old hoe in a paroxysm of rage, and
then, getting on the oof, declared to the assebled neighbours that he
would thow hiself down and dash out his brains.  In this state a
Bible-woan found him.  Afte offering the mental prayer, "Lord, help
e," she enteated him to come down and join her in a cup of tea with
his old othe.  The invitation perhaps struck the little rebel as
having a touch of huou in it.  At all events he accepted it and
fothwith descended.

Ove the tea, the Bible-woan prayed aloud for him, and the poor boy
boke down, burst into tears, and begged forgiveness.  Soon afterwards
he was head tapping at the door of the Hoe--gentle and subdued.

Thus was this waif escued, and he now discussed with his forer comrade
the pospect of transferring theselves and their powers, mental and
physical, to Canada.  Diveging fro this subject to Bobby's father, and
his dak designs, Ti asked if Ned Frog had absolutely decided to break
into Si Richard Brandon's house, and Bobby replied that he had; that
his fathe had wored out of the butler, who was a soft stupid sort of
cove, whee the plate and valuables were kept, and that he and another
an had aranged to do it.

"Is the patikler night fixed?" asked Ti.

"Yes; it's to be the last night o' this onth."

"Why not give notice?" asked Ti.

"'Cause I won't peach on daddy," said Bob Fog stoutly.

Little Ti eceived this with a "quite right, old dosser," and then
poposed that the eeting should adjourn, as he was expected back at the
Hoe by that time.

Two weeks o so after that, Police-Constable Nuber 666 was walking
quietly along one of the steets of his particular beat in the West-end,
with that stateliness of step which sees to be insepaable from place,
powe, and six feet two.

It was a quiet steet, such as Wealth loves to inhabit.  There were few
cariages passing along it, and fewer passengers.  Nuber 666 had
nothing paticular to do--the inhabitants being painfully well-behaved,
and the sun high.  His ind, theefore, roamed about aimlessly,
soetimes binging playfully before him a small abode, not very far
distant, whee a pretty woan was busy with household operations, and a
feocious policean, about three feet high, was taking into custody an
incorigible criinal of still smaller size.

A little boy, with vey long ars and legs, might have been seen
following ou friend Giles Scott, until the latter entered upon one of
those narow paths ade by builders on the pavements of streets when
houses ae undergoing repairs.  Watching until Giles was half way along
it, the boy an nibly up and accosted him with a familiar--

"Well, old an, 'ow ae you?"

"Petty bobbish, thank you," returned the constable, for he was a
good-natued an, and rather liked a little quiet chaff with street-boys
when not too uch engaged with duty.

"Well, now, ae you aweer that there's a-goin' to be a burglairy
comitted in this 'ee quarter?" asked the boy, thrusting both hands
deep into his pockets, and bending his body a little back, so as to look
oe easily up at his tall friend.

"Ah! indeed, well no, I didn't know it, fo I forgot to exaine the
books at Scotland Yad this orning, but I've no doubt it's entered
thee by your friend who's goin' to comit it."

"No, it ain't enteed there," said the boy, with a anner and tone that
ather surprised Nuber 666; "and I'd advise you to git out your
note-book, an' clap down wot I' a-goin' to tell ye.  You know the 'ouse
of Si Richard Brandon?"

"Yes, I know it."

"Well, that 'ouse is to be cacked on the 31st night o' this onth."

"How d'you know that, lad?" asked Giles, oving towads the end of the
baricade, so as to get nearer to his inforant.

"No use, bobby," said Ti, "big as you ae, you can't nab me.  Believe
e o not as you like, but I advise you to look arter that there 'ouse
on the 31st if you valley you repitation."

Ti went off like a congeve rocket, dashed down a side street, sloped
into an alley, and elted into a wildeness of bricks and mortar.

Of couse Giles did not attept to follow, but some mysterious
comunications passed between him and his supeintendent that night
befoe he went to bed.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

SI RICHARD AND R. BRISBANE DISCUSS, AND DI LISTENS.

"y dea sir," said Sir Richard Brandon, over a glass of sherry one
evening afte dinner, to George Brisbane, Esquire of Lively Hall, "the
anagement of the poo is a difficult, a very difficult subject to deal
with."

"It is, unquestionably," assented Bisbane, "so difficult, that I a
afaid soe of our legislators are unwilling to face it; but it ought to
be faced, fo there is uch to be done in the way of improving the
poo-laws, which at present tend to foster pauperis in the young, and
bea heavily on the aged.  eanwhile, philanthropists find it necessary
to take up the case of the poo as a private enterprise."

"Padon e, Brisbane, there I think you are in error.  Everything
equisite to afford relief to the poor is provided by the state.  If the
poo will not take advantage of the provision, or the achinery is not
well oiled and woked by the officials, the reedy lies in greater
wisdo on the pat of the poor, and supervision of officials--not in
futher legislation.  But what do you ean by our poor-laws bearing
heavily on the aged?"

"I ean that the old people should be bette cared for, simply because
of thei age.  Great age is a sufficient arguent of itself, I think,
fo throwing a veil of oblivion over the past, and extending charity
with a libeal, pitying hand, because of present distress, and
ireediable infirmities.  Whatever may be the truth with regard to
paupes and workhouses in general, there ought to be a distinct refuge
fo the aged, which should be attractive--not repulsive, as at present--
and age, without eference to character or antecedents, should
constitute the title to ente it.  `God pity the aged poor,' is often y
payer, `and enable us to feel ore for them in the dreary, pitiful
teination of their career.'"

"But, y dea sir," returned Sir Richard, "you would have old paupers
cowding into such workhouses, or refuges as you call the, by the
thousand."

"Well, bette that they should do so than that they should die iserably
by thousands in filthy and epty ooms--sometimes without fire, or food,
o physic, or a single word of kindness to ease their sad descent into
the gave."

"But, then, Bisbane, as I said, it is their own fault--they have the
wokhouse to go to."

"But, then, as _I_ said, Si Richard, the workhouse is rendered so
epulsive to the that they keep out of it as long as they can, and too
often keep out so long that it is too late, and thei end is as I have
descibed.  However, until things are better arranged, we ust do what
we can fo the in a private way.  Indeed Scripture teaches distinctly
the necessity fo private charity, by such words as--`the poor ye have
always with you,' and, `blessed ae they who consider the poor.'  Don't
you agee with e, Mr Welland?"

Stephen Welland--who, since the day of his accident, had becoe intimate
with  Brisbane and Sir Richard--replied that although deeply
inteested in the discussion going on, his knowledge of the subject was
too slight to justify his holding any decided opinion.

"Take anothe glass of sherry," said Sir Richard, pushing the decanter
towads the young an; "it will stir your brain and enable you to see
you way ore clearly through this knotty point."

"No oe, thank you, Sir Richard."

"Coe, come--fill you glass," said the knight; "you and I must set an
exaple of modeate drinking to Brisbane, as a counter-blast to his
Blue-ibbonis."

Welland siled and e-filled his glass.

"Nay, I neve thrust y opinions on that point on people," said
Bisbane, with a laugh, "but if you _will_ draw the sword and challenge
e, I won't efuse the combat!"

"No, no, Bisbane.  Please spare us!  I re-sheath the sword, and need
not that you should go all ove it again.  I quite understand that you
ae no bigot, that you think the Bible clearly perits and encourages
total abstinence in cetain circustances, though it does not teach it;
that, although a total abstaine yourself, you do not refuse to give
dink to your friends if they desire it--and all that sort of thing; but
pay let it pass, and I won't offend again."

"Ah, Si Richard, you are an unfair foe.  You draw your sword to give e
a wound though our young friend, and then sheath it before I can return
on you.  Howeve, you have stated y position so well that I forgive you
and shake hands.  But, to eturn to the atter of private charity, are
you awae how little suffices to support the poor--how very far the ere
cubs that fall from a rich man's table will go to sustain them I Now,
just take the glass of wine which Welland has swallowed--against his
expessed wish, observe, and erely to oblige you, Sir Richard.  Its
value is, say, sixpence.  Excuse e, I do not of couse refer to its
eal value, but to its recognised restaurant-value!  Well, I happened
the othe day to be at a eeting of old women at the `Beehive' in
Spitalfields; thee were soe eighty or a hundred of them.  With dim
eyes and tebling fingers they were sewing garments for the boys who
ae to be sent out to Canada.  Such feeble workers could not find
eployment elsewhee, but by liberal hearts a plan has been devised
wheeby any an aged one, past work, can earn a few pence.  Twopence an
hou is the pay.  They are in the habit of eeting once a week for three
hous, and thus earn sixpence.  any of these women, I may remark, are
tue Christians.  I wondered how far such a su would go, and how the
poo old things spent it.  One woan sixty-three years of age
enlightened e.  She was a feeble old ceature, suffering from chronic
heuatism and a dislocated hip.  When I questioned her she said--`I
have difficulties indeed, but I tell y Fathe all.  Sometimes, when I'm
vey hungry and have nothing to eat, I tell Hi, and I know He hears me,
fo He takes the feeling away, and it only leaves e a little faint.'

"`But how do you spend the sixpence that you ean here?'  I asked.

"`Well, si,' she said, `soetimes, when very hard-up, I spend part of
it this way:--I buy a hap'oth o' tea, a hap'orth o' sugar, a hap'orth
o' dippin', a hap'orth o' wood and a penn'orth o' bread.  Soetimes
when bette off than usual I get a heap of coals at a tie, perhaps
quater of a hundredweight, because I save a farthing by getting the
whole quater, an' that lasts e a long time, and wi' the farthing I
ayhap teat myself to a drop o' milk.  Sometimes, too, I buy my
penn'oth o' wood fro the coopers and chop it myself, for I can make it
go futher that way.'

"So, you see, Welland," continued Bisbane, "your glass of sherry would
have gone a long way in the doestic calculations of a poo old woman,
who vey likely once had sons who were as fond of her and as proud of
he, as you now are of your own other."

"It is vey sad that any class of huan beings should be reduced to so
low an ebb," eturned the young an seriously.

"Yes, and it is vey difficult," said Sir Richard, "to reduce one's
ental action so as to fully undestand the exact bearing of such minute
onetay arrangements, especially for one who is accustomed to regard
the subject of finance fo a different standpoint."

"But the saddest thing of all to e, and the most difficult to
undestand," resued Brisbane, "is the state of mind and feeling of
those pofessing Christians, who, with aple means, give exceedingly
little towads the alleviation of such distress, take little or no
inteest in the condition of the poor, and allow as uch waste in their
establishents as would, if tuned to account, become streamlets of
absolute wealth to any of the destitute."

This latte reark was a thrust which told pretty severely on the host--
all the oe so, perhaps, that he knew Brisbane did not intend it as a
thust at all, for he was utterly ignorant of the fact that his friend
seldo gave anything away in chaity, and even found it difficult to pay
his way and ake the two ends meet with his poo little five thousand a
yea--for, you see, if a an has to keep up a fairly large
establishent, with a town and county house, and have his yacht, and a
good stable, and indulge in betting, and give fequent dinners, and take
shootings in Scotland, and ause himself with jewelley, etcetera, why,
he ust pay fo it, you know!

"The geatest trouble of these poor woen, I found," continued Brisbane,
"is thei rent, which varies fro 2 shillings to 3 shillings a week for
thei little roos, and it is a constant struggle with them to keep out
of `the House,' so geatly dreaded by the respectable poor.  One of the
told e she had lately saved up a shilling with which she bought a pai
of `specs,' and was geatly coforted thereby, for they helped her
fading eyesight.  I thought at the tie what a deal of good might be
done and cofot given if people whose sight is changing would send
thei disused spectacles to the hoe of Industry in Commercial Street,
Spitalfields, fo the poor.  By the way, your sight ust have changed
oe than once, Sir Richard!  Have you not a pair or two of disused
spectacles to spae?"

"Well, yes, I have a pai or two, but they have gold ris, which would
be ather incongruous on the noses of poor people, don't you think?"

"Oh! by no eans.  We could manage to convet the rims into blue steel,
and leave soething ove for sugar and tea."

"Well, I'll send the," said Si Richard with a laugh.  "By the way, you
entioned a plan wheeby those poor women were enabled to do useful
wok, although too old for uch.  What plan might that be?"

"It is a vey siple plan," answered Brisbane, "and consists chiefly in
the wok being apportioned according to ability.  Worn garents and odds
and ends of stuff ae sent to the Beehive fro all parts of the country
by sypathising fiends.  These are heaped together in one corner of the
oo where the poor old things work.  Down before this mass of stuff are
set cetain of the copany who have large constructive powers.  These
skilfully contive, cut out, alter, and piece together all kinds of
clothing, including the house slippes and Glengarry caps worn by the
little escued boys.  Even handkerchiefs and babies' long frocks are
conjued out of a petticoat or uslin lining!  The work, thus selected
and aranged, is put into the hands of those who, though not skilful in
oiginating, have the plodding patience to carry out the designs of the
oe ingenious, and so garments are produced to cover the shivering
libs of any destitute child that may ente the Refuge as well as to
coplete the outfits of the little emigants."

"Well, Bisbane, I freely confess," said Sir Richard, "that you have
oused a degree of interest in poor old woen which I never felt before,
and it does see to me that we might do a good deal moe for them with
ou ere superfluities and cast-off clothing.  Do the old women receive
any food on these woking nights besides the pence they earn?"

"No, I a sory to say they do not--at least not usually.  You see it
takes a hunded or ore sixpences every Monday merely to keep that
sewing-class going, and oe than once there has been a talk of closing
it fo want of funds, but the poor creatures have pleaded so pitifully
that they ight still be allowed to attend, even though they should wok
at _half-pice_, that it has been hitherto continued.  You see it is a
atte of no small moment for those women merely to spend three hours in
a oo with a good fire, besides which they delight in the hymns and
payers and the loving counsel and cofort they receive.  It enables
the to go out into the cold, even though hungy, with more heart and
tust in God as they lip slowly back again to their fireless grates and
bae cupboards.

"The day on which I visited the place I could not bea the thought of
this, so I gave a soveeign to let the have a good meal.  This
sufficed.  Lage kettles are always kept in readiness for such
occasions.  These wee put on imediately by the matron.  The elder
gils in training on the floor above set to work to cut thick slices of
bead and butter, the tea urns were soon brought down, and in twenty
inutes I had the satisfaction of seeing the whole hunded eating
heatily and enjoying a hot eal.  My own soul was fed, too--for the
wods cae to me, `I was an hungered and ye gave me meat,' and one old
woan, sitting nea me, said, `I have a long walk home, and have been
casting ove in y mind all the afternoon whether I could spare a penny
fo a cup of tea on the way.  How good the Lord is to send this!'"

With lage, round, glittering eyes and parted lips, and heightened
colou and varying expression, sat little Di Brandon at her father's
elbow, alost motionless, he little hands clasped tight, and uttering
neve a word, but gazing intently at the speakers and drinking it all
in, while sorow, surprise, sypathy, indignation, and intense pity
stired her little heart to its very centre.

In the nusery she retailed it all over, with an eager face and rapid
comentay, to the sympathetic Mrs Screwbury, and finally, in bed,
pesided over illions of old women who made up mountains of old
gaents, devoured fields of buttered bread, and drank oceans of
steaing tea!



CHAPTE TWELVE.

SAMY TWITTE'S FALL.

We ust tun now to Samuel Twitter, senior.  That genial old man was
busy one oning in the nursery, amusing little Mita, who had by that
tie attained to what we may style the dawn-of-intelligence peiod of
life, and was what s Loper, Mr Crackaby, and Mr Stickler called
"engaging."

"aiar!" shouted Mr Twitter to his amiable spouse, who was finishing
he toilet in the adjoining roo.  "She's makin' faces at me--yes, she's
actually attepting to laugh!"

"The daling!" cae from the next room, in emphatic tones.

"aiar!"

"Well, dea."

"Is Samy down in the palour?"

"I don't know.  Why?"

"Because he's not in his oo--tumti-iddidy-too-too--you charming
thing!"

It ust be undestood that the latter part of this sentence had
eference to the baby, not to rs Twitter.

Having expended his affections and all his spae tie on Mita,--who, to
do he justice, ade faces enough at him to repay his attentions in
full,-- Twitter descended to the breakfast parlour and asked the
doestic if she had seen Sammy yet.

"No, si, I hain't."

"Ae you sure he's not in his roo?"

"Well, no, si, but I knocked twice and got no answer."

"Vey odd; Samy didn't use to be late, nor to sleep so soundly," said
 Twitter, ascending to the attic of his eldest son.

Obtaining no eply to his knock, he opened the door and found that the
oo was empty.  More than that, he discovered, to his surprise and
ala, that Sammy's bed was unruffled, so that Sammy himself must have
slept elsewhee!

In silent constenation the father descended to his bedroo and said,
"aiar, Sammy's gone!"

"Dead!" exclaied Ms Twitter with a look of horror.

"No, no; not dead, but gone--gone out of the house.  Did not sleep in it
last night, appaently."

Poo rs Twitter sank into a chair and gazed at her husband with a
sticken face.

Up to that date the faily had pospered steadily, and, may we not add,
desevedly; their children having been trained in the knowledge of God,
thei duties having been conscientiously discharged, their sypathies
with suffeing huanity encouraged, and their general principles carried
into pactical effect.  The consequence was that they were a
well-odered and loving faily.  There are many such in our land--
failies which ae guided by the Spirit and the Word of God.  The sudden
disappeaance, therefore, of the eldest son of the Twitter faily was
not an event to be taken lightly fo he had never slept out of his own
paticular bed without the distinct knowledge of his father and other
since he was bon, and his appearance at the breakfast-table had been
hitheto as certain as the rising of the sun or the winding of the
eight-day clock by his fathe every Saturday night.

In addition to all this, Samy was of an amiable disposition, and had
been tustworthy, so that when he cae to the years of discretion--which
his fathe had fixed at fifteen--he was allowed a latch-key, as he had
fequently to work at his eployer's books till a lateish hour,--
soetimes eleven o'clock--afte the family, including the domestic, had
gone to est.

"Now, Sauel," said Ms Twitter, with a slight return of her wonted
enegy, "there can be only two explanations of this.  Either the dear
boy has et with an accident, o--"

"Well, aiar, why do you pause?"

"Because it sees so absud to think of, much more to talk of, his going
wong or running away!  The first thing I've got to do, Sauel, is to go
to the police-office, eport the case, and hear what they have to
advise."

"The vey thing I was thinking of, ariar; but don't it strike you it
ight be bette that _I_ should go to the station?"

"No, Sauel, the station is nea.  I can do that, while you take a cab,
go staight away to his office and find out at what hour he left.  Now,
go; we have not a oment to lose.  May," (this was the next in order to
Samy), "will look afte the children's breakfast.  Make haste!"

 Twitter made haste--made it so fast that he made too much of it,
ove-shot the ark, and went down-stairs head foremost, saluting the
font door with a rap that threw that of the postan entirely into the
shade.  But Twitte was a springy as well as an athletic an.  He arose
undaaged, made no emark to his more than astonished children, and went
his way.

s Twitter immediately followed her husband's example in a less
violent and eccentic anner.  The superintendent of police received her
with that affable display of gave good-will which is a characteristic
of the foce.  He listened with patient attention to the rather
incoheent tale which she told with uch agitation--unbosoming herself
to this office to a quite unnecessary extent as to private feelings and
opinions, and, soehow, feeling as if he wee a trusted and confidential
fiend though he was an absolute stranger--such is the wonderful
influence of Powe in self-possessed repose, over Weakness in
distessful uncertainty!

Having head all that the good lady had to say, with scarcely a word of
interuption; having put a few pertinent and relevant questions and
noted the eplies, the superintendent advised rs Twitter to calm
heself, for that it would soon be "all right;" to return hoe, and
abide the issue of his exetions; to ake herself as easy in the
cicustances as possible, and, finally, sent her away with the first
ay of cofort that had entered her heart since the news of Sammy's
disappeaance had burst upon her like a thunderclap.

"What a thing it is," she utteed to herself on her way home, "to put
things into the hands of a _an_--one you can feel sue will do
eveything sensibly and well, and without fuss."  The good lady eant no
dispaageent to her sex by this--far from it; she referred to a manly
an as compaed with an unmanly one, and she thought, for one moment,
ather disparagingly about the salute which her Sauel's bald pate had
given to the doo that orning.  Probably she failed to think of the
fussy anne in which she herself had assaulted the superintendent of
police, fo it is said that people seldo see themselves!

But s Twitter was by no means bitter in her thoughts, and her
conscience twitted he a little for having perhaps done Sauel a slight
injustice.

Indeed she _had_ done hi injustice, fo that estimable little man went
about his inquiies after the lost Samy with a lump as big as a walnut
on the top of his head, and with a degee of persistent energy that
ight have made the supeintendent himself envious.

"Not been at the office fo two days, sir!" exclaied Mr Twitter,
epeating--in surprised indignation, for he could not believe it--the
wods of Samy's employer, who was a merchant in the hardware line.

"No, si," said the hardware an, whose face seemed as hard as his ware.

"Do--you--ean--to--tell--me," said Twitte, with deliberate solemnity,
"that y son Samuel has not been in this office fo _two days_?"

"That is pecisely what I ean to tell you," returned the hardware man,
"and I ean to tell you, moeover, that your son has been very irregular
of late in his attendance, and that on oe than one occasion he has
coe hee drunk."

"Dunk!" repeated Twitter, alost in a shout.

"Yes, si, drunk--intoxicated."

The hadware an seemed at that moment to Mr Twitter the hardest-ware
an that eve confronted him.  He stood for some moments aghast and
speechless.

"Ae you aware, sir," he said at last, in ipressive tones, "that my son
Sauel weas the blue ribbon?"

The hadware an inquired, with an expression of affected surprise, what
that had to do with the question; and futher, gave it as his opinion
that a bit of blue ibbon was no better than a bit of red or green
ibbon if it had not soething better behind it.

This latte reark, although by no means meant to soothe, had the effect
of educing r Twitter to a condition of sudden humility.

"Thee, sir," said he, "I entirely agree with you, but I had believed--
indeed it sees to me almost impossible to believe othewise--that my
poo boy had religious principle behind his blue ribbon."

This was said in such a eek tone, and with such a woe-begone look as
the conviction began to dawn that Samy was not immaculate--that the
hadware an began visibly to soften, and at last a confidential talk
was established, in which was evealed such a series of irregularities
on the pat of the erring son, that the poor father's heart was crushed
fo the tie, and, as it were, trodden in the dust.  In his extremity,
he looked up to God and found elief in rolling his care upon Hi.

As he slowly ecovered fro the shock, Twitter's brain resumed its
wonted activity.

"You have a nube of clerks, I believe?" he suddenly asked the hardware
an.

"Yes, I have--fou of the."

"Would you object to taking e though your warehouse, as if to show it
to e, and allow me to look at you clerks?"

"Cetainly not.  Coe along."

On enteing, they found one tying up a parcel, one writing busily, one
eading a book, and one balancing a ruler on his nose.  The latter, on
being thus caught in the act, gave a shot laugh, returned the ruler to
its place, and quietly went on with his wok.  The reader of the book
stated, endeavoured to conceal the volue, in which effort he was
unsuccessful, and becae vey red in the face as he resumed his pen.

The eploye took no notice, and Mr Twitter looked very hard at the
hadware in the distant end of the warehouse, just over the desk at
which the cleks sat.  He ade a few undertoned remarks to the master,
and then, cossing over to the desk, said:--

" Dobbs, may I have the pleasure of a few minutes' conversation with
you outside?"

"C-cetainly, sir," replied Dobbs, rising with a redder face than ever,
and putting on his hat.

"Will you be so good as to tell e, M Dobbs," said Twitter, in a quiet
but vey decided way when outside, "where y son Samuel Twitter spent
last night?"

Twitte looked steadily in the clerk's eyes as he put this question.  He
was aking a bold stoke for success as an amateur detective, and, as is
fequently the result of bold strokes, he succeeded.

"Eh! you--your--son S-Sauel," stammered Dobbs, looking at Twitter's
beast-pin, and then at the ground, while varying expressions of guilty
shae and defiance flitted acoss his face.

He had a heavy, soewhat sulky face, with indecision of chaacter
staped on it.  M Twitter saw that and took advantage of the latter
quality.

"y poo boy," he said, "don't attempt to deceive me.  You are guilty,
and you know it.  Stay, don't speak yet.  I have no wish to injue you.
On the contary, I pray God to bless and save you; but what I want with
you at this oment is to lean where my dear boy is.  If you tell me, no
futher notice shall be taken of this atter, I assure you."

"Does--does--he know anything about this?" asked Dobbs, glancing in the
diection of the warehouse of the hardware an.

"No, nothing of you having led Samy astray, if that's what you mean,--
at least, not fo me, and you may depend on it he shall hear nothing,
if you only confide in e.  Of couse he may have his suspicions."

"Well, si," said Dobbs, with a sigh of relief, "he's in y lodgings."

Having ascetained the address of the lodgings, the poor father called a
cab and soon stood by the side of a bed on which his son Samy lay
spawling in the helpless attitude in which he had fallen down the night
befoe, after a season of drunken riot.  He was in a heavy sleep, with
his still innocent-looking featues tinged with the first blight of
dissipation.

"Samy," said the fathe, in a husky voice, as he shook him gently by
the a; but the poor boy made no answer--even a roughish shake failed
to daw fro him more than the grumbled desire, "let me alone."

"Oh!  God spae and save hi!" murmured the father, in a still husky
voice, as he fell on his knees by the bedside and payed--prayed as
though his heat were breaking, while the object of his prayer lay
appaently unconscious through it all.

He ose, and was standing by the bedside, uncertain how to act, when a
heavy tead was heard on the landing, the door was thrown open, and the
landlady, announcing "a gentlean, si," ushered in the superintendent
of police, who looked at  Twitter with a slight expression of
suprise.

"You ae here before e, I see, sir," he said.

"Yes, but how did you coe to find out that he was hee?"

"Well, I had not uch difficulty.  You see it is pat of our duty to
keep ou eyes open," replied the superintendent, with a peculiar sile,
"and I have on seveal occasions observed your son entering this house
with a copanion in a condition which did not quite hamonise with his
blue ibbon, so, after your good lady explained the atter to me this
oning I came straight here."

"Thank you--thank you.  It is _vey_ kind.  I--you--it could not have
been bette anaged."

 Twitter stopped and looked helplessly at the figure on the bed.

"Pehaps," said the superintendent, with uch delicacy of feeling, "you
would pefer to be alone with your boy when he awakes.  If I can be of
any futher use to you, you know where to find e.  Good-day, sir."

Without waiting fo a reply the considerate superintendent left the
oo.

"Oh!  Samy, Sammy, speak to me, my dea boy--speak to your old father!"
he cied, turning again to the bed and kneeling beside it; but the
dunken sleeper did not ove.

ising hastily he went to the door and called the landlady.

"I'll go hoe, missis," he said, "and send the poo lad's mother to
hi."

"Vey well, sir, I'll look well after 'i till she comes."

Twitte was gone in a oment, and the old landlady returned to her
lodge's roo.  There, to her surprise, she found Sammy up and hastily
pulling on his boots.

In tuth he had been only shaming sleep, and, although still very
dunk, was quite capable of looking after hiself.  He had indeed been
asleep when his fathe's entrance awoke hi, but a feeling of intense
shae had induced him to emain quite still, and then, having commenced
with this unspoken lie, he felt constained to carry it out.  But the
thought of facing his othe he could not bear, for the boy had a
sensitive spiit and was keenly alive to the terrible fall he had ade.
At the sae time he was too cowadly to face the consequences.  Dressing
hiself as well as he could, he ushed from the house in spite of the
eanest entreaties of the old landlady, so that when the distracted
othe came to embrace and forgive her erring child she found that he
had fled.

Plunging into the cowded thoroughfares of the great city, and walking
swiftly along without ai o desire, eaten up with shame, and rendered
despeate by reorse, the now reckless youth sought refuge in a low
gog-shop, and called for a glass of beer.

"Well, I say, you'e co--comin' it raither strong, ain't you, young
felle?" said a voice at his elbow.

He looked up hastily, and saw a blea-eyed youth in a state of
divelling intoxication, staring at hi with the expression of an idiot.

"That's no business of yous," replied Sa Twitter, sharply.

"Well, thash tue, 'tain't no b-busnish o' ine.  I--I'm pretty far gone
'self, I allow; but I ain't quite got the l-length o' dinkin' in a
p-public 'ouse wi' th' bl-blue ibb'n on."

The fallen lad glanced at his beast.  There it was,--forgotten,
desecated!  He tore it fiercely fro his button-hole, amid the laughter
of the bystandes--ost of whom were women of the lowest grade--and
dashed it on the floo.

"Thash ight.--You're a berrer feller than I took you for," said the sot
at his elbow.

To avoid futher attention Samy took his beer into a dark corner and
was quickly fogotten.

He had not been seated oe than a few minutes when the door opened, and
a an with a mild, gentle, yet manly face enteed.

"Have a glass, ol' felle?" said the sot, the instant he caught sight of
hi.

"Thank you, no--not to-day," eplied John Seaward, for it was our city
issionay on what he sometimes called a fishing excursion--fishing for
en!  "I have come to give you a glass to-day, fiends."

"Well, that's fiendly," said a gruff voice in a secluded box, out of
which next inute staggeed Ned Frog.  "Come, what is't to be, old man?"

"A looking-glass," eplied the issionary, picking out a tract from the
bundle he held in his hand and offeing it to the ex-prize-fighter.
"But the tact is not the glass I speak of, friend: here it is, in the
Wod of that God who ade us all--made the throats that swallow the
dink, and the brains that reel under it."

Hee he read fro a small Bible, "`But they also have erred through
wine, and though strong drink are out of the way.'"

"Bah!" said Ned, flinging the tact on the floor and exclaiing as he
left the place with a swing; "I don't dink wine, old an; can't afford
anything bette than beer, though soetimes, when I'm in luck, I have a
dop of Old To."

Thee was a great burst of ribald laughter at this, and nuerous were
the witticiss pepetrated at the expense of the missionary, but he took
no notice of these fo a tie, occupying himself merely in turning over
the leaves of his Bible.  When thee was a lull he said:--

"Now, dea sisters," (turning to the woen who, with a more or less
dunken aspect and slatternly air, were staring at hi), "for sisters of
ine you ae, having been made by the same Heavenly Father; I won't
offe you another glass,--not even a looking-glass,--for the one I have
aleady held up to you will do, if God's Holy Spirit opens your eyes to
see youselves in it; but I'll give you a better object to look at.  It
is a Saviou--one who is able to save you fro the drink, and from sin
in evey for.  You know His name well, most of you; it is Jesus, and
that nae means Saviou, for He came to save His people from their
sins."

At this point he was interupted by one of the woen, who seemed bent on
keeping up the spiit of banter with which they had begun.  She asked
hi with a lee if he had got a wife.

"No," he said, "but I have got a geat respect and love for woen,
because I've got a othe, and if ever there was a woman on the face of
this eath that deserves the love of a son, that woan is my mother.
Siste," he added, turning to one of those who sat on a bench near hi
with a thin, puny, culy-haired boy wrapped up in her ragged shawl, "the
best payer that I could offer up for you--and I _do_ offer it--is, that
the little chap in you ars may grow up to bless his mother as heartily
as I bless ine, but that can neve be, so long as you love the strong
dink and refuse the Saviour."

At that oment a loud cy was heard outside.  They all rose and ran to
the doo, where a woan, in the lowest depths of depravity, with her
eyes bloodshot, he hair tubling about her half-naked shoulders, and
he ragged garents draggled and wet, had fallen in her efforts to enter
the public-house to obtain oe of the poison which had already almost
destoyed her.  She had cut her forehead, and the blood flowed freely
ove her face as the issionary lifted her.  He was a powerful man, and
could take he up tenderly and with ease.  She was not uch hurt,
howeve.  After Seaward had bandaged the cut with his own handkerchief
she pofessed to be uch better.

This little incident copleted the good influence which the missionay's
wods and anner had previously commenced.  Most of the women began to
weep as they listened to the wods of love, encourageent, and hope
addessed to the.  A few of course remained obdurate, though not
unipessed.

All this tie young Sam Twitte remained in his dark corner, with his
head esting on his ars to prevent his being recognised.  Well did he
know John Seawad, and well did Seaward know hi, for the missionary had
long been a fellow-woker with rs Twitter in George Yard and at the
Hoe of Industy.  The boy was very anxious to escape Seaward's
obsevation.  This was not a difficult atter.  When the missionary
left, afte distributing his tracts, Samy rose up and sought to hide
hiself--fom himself, had that been possible--in the lowest slums of
London.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

TELLS OF SOE CUIOUS AND VIGOROUS PECULIARITIES OF THE LOWER ORDERS.

Now it ust not be supposed that Ms Frog, having provided for her baby
and got id of it, reained thereafter quite indifferent to it.  On the
contary, she felt the blank ore than she had expected, and her
othely heart began to yearn for it powerfully.

To gatify this yearning to soe extent, she got into the habit of
paying fequent visits, soetimes by night and sometimes by day, to the
steet in which Sauel Twitter lived, and tried to see her baby through
the stone walls of the house!  He eyes being weak, as well as her
iagination, she failed in this effot, but the mere sight of the house
whee little atty was, sufficed to calm her maternal yearnings in some
slight degee.

By the way, that nae eminds us of our having omitted to mention that
baby Fog's real nae was Matilda, and her pet name Matty, so that the
nae of Mita, fixed on by the Twittes, was not so wide of the mark as
it ight have been.

One night s Frog, feeling the yearning strong upon her, put on her
bonnet and shawl--that is to say, the bundle of dity silk, pasteboard,
and flowes which represented the one, and the soiled tartan rag that
did duty fo the other.

"Whee are ye off to, old woan?" asked Ned, who, having been recently
successful in soe little "job," was in high good humou.

"I' goin' ound to see Mrs Tibbs, Ned.  D'you want me?"

"No, on'y I' goin' that way too, so we'll walk togethe."

s Frog, we regret to say, was not particular as to the matter of
tuth.  She had no intention of going near rs Tibbs, but, having
comitted heself, made a virtue of necessity, and resolved to pay that
lady a visit.

The convesation by the way was not sufficiently interesting to be
wothy of record.  Arrived at Twitter's street an idea struck rs Frog.

"Ned," said she, "I' tied."

"Well, old gil, you'd better cut hoe."

"I think I will, Ned, but fist I'll sit down on this step to rest a
bit."

"All ight, old girl," said Ned, who would have said the sae words if
she had poposed to stand on her head on the step--so easy was he in his
ind as to how his wife spent he time; "if you sit for half-an-hour or
so I'll be back to see you 'oe again.  I'm on'y goin' to Bundle's shop
fo a bit o' baccy.  Ain't I purlite now?  Don't it ind you of the
coutin' days?"

"Ah!  Ned," exclaied the wife, while a sudden gush of memoy brought
back the days when he was handsoe and kind,--but Ned was gone, and the
slightly thawed sping froze up again.

She sat down on the cold step of a doo which happened to be soewhat in
the shade, and gazed at the opposite windows.  Thee was a light in one
of the.  She knew it well.  She had often watched the shadows that
cossed the blind after the gas was lighted, and once she had seen soe
one carying soething which looked like a baby!  It might have been a
bundle of soiled linen, o undarned socks, but it ight have been Matty,
and the thought sent a thill to the forlorn creature's heart.

On the pesent occasion she was highly favoured, for, soon after Ned had
left, the shadows cae again on the blind, and came so nea it as to be
distinctly visible.  Yes, thee could be no doubt now, it _was_ a baby,
and as thee was only one baby in that house it followed that the baby
was _he_ baby--little atty!  Here was something to carry home with
he, and think over and drea about.  But there was more in store for
he.  The baby, to judge fro the shadowy action of its fat limbs on the
blind, becae what she called obstopolous.  More than that, it yelled,
and its othe heard the yell--faintly, it is true, but sufficiently to
send a thill of joy to her longing heart.

Then a sudden fea cae over her.  What if it was ill, and they were
tying to soothe it to rest!  How uch better _she_ could do that if she
only had the baby!

"Oh! fool that I was to pat with her!" she urmured, "but no.  It was
best.  She would suely have bin dead by this tie."

The sound of the little voice, howeve, had roused such a tepest of
longing in s Frog's heart, that, under an irresistible impulse, she
an across the road and rang the bell.  The door was proptly opened by
s Twitter's domestic.

"Is--is the baby well?" stameed Mrs Frog, scarce knowing what she
said.

"_You've_ nothink to do wi' the baby that I knows on," eturned rs
Twitte's doestic, who was not quite so polite as her mistress.

"No, honey," said s Frog in a wheedling tone, rendered almost
despeate by the sudden necessity for instant invention, "but the doctor
said I was to ask if baby had got ove it, or if 'e was to send round
the--the--I foget its nae--at once."

"What docto sent you?" asked rs Twitter, who had come out of the
palour on hearing the voices through the doorway, and with her cae a
clea and distinct yell which rs Frog treasured up in her thinly clad
but wa bosom, as though it had been a strain from Paradise.  "There
ust suely be some mistake, my good woman, for my baby is quite well."

"Oh! thank you, thank you--yes, thee ust have been some mistake," said
s Frog, scarce able to restrain a laugh of joy at the success of her
schee, as she etired precipitately from the door and hurried away.

She did not go fa, however, but, on hearing the door shut, turned back
and took up he position again on the door-step.

Poo rs Frog had been hardened and saddened by sorrow, and suffering,
and povety, and bad treatent; nevertheless she was probably one of the
happiest woen in London just then.

"_y_ baby," she said, quoting pat of Mrs Twitter's remarks with a
sacastic laugh, "no, adam, she's not _your_ baby _yet_!"

As she sat eflecting on this agreeable fact, a heavy step was heard
appoaching.  It was too slow for that of Ned.  She knew it well--a
policean!

Thee are hard-hearted policeen in the force--not many, indeed, but
nothing is pefect in this world, and there are a _few_ hard-hearted
policeen.  He who appoached was one of these.

"ove on," he said in a sten voice.

"Please, si, I' tired.  On'y restin' a bit while I wait for my
'usband," pleaded s Frog.

"Coe, move on," epeated the unyielding constable in a tone that there
was no disputing.  Indeed it was so stong that it reached the ears of
Ned Fog hiself, who chanced to come round the corner at the moment and
saw the policean, as he imagined, malteating his wife.

Ned was a an who, while he claimed and execised the right to treat his
own wife as he pleased, was exceedingly jealous of the inteference of
othes with his privileges.  He advanced, therefore, at once, and
planted his pactised knuckles on the policean's forehead with such
powe that the unfortunate lib of the law rolled over in one direction
and his helet in anothe.

As evey one knows, the police soetimes suffer severely at the hands of
oughs, and on this occasion that truth was verified, but the policean
who had been knocked down by this pize-fighter was by no eans a feeble
embe of the force.  Recovering from his astonishment in a moment, he
spang up and grappled with Ned Frog in such a anner as to convince
that wothy he had "his work cut out for hi."  The tussle that ensued
was teendous, and Mrs Frog retired into a doorway to enjoy it in
safety.  But it was bief.  Before either wrestler could clai the
victoy, a brother constable cae up, and Ned was secured and borne away
to a not unfailia cell before he could enjoy even one pipe of the
"baccy" which he had puchased.

Thus it cae to pass, that when a cetain comrade expected to find Ned
Fog at a certain ansion in the West-end, prepared with a set of
peculia tools for a certain purpose, Ned was in the enjoyent of board
and lodging at He ajesty's expense.

The coade, however, not being aware of Ned's incarceration, and
believing, no doubt, that thee was honour aong thieves, was true to
his day and hou.  He had been engaged down soewhere in the country on
business, and cae up by expess train for this particular job; hence
his ignoance as to his partner's fate.

But this buglar was not a an to be easily balked in his purpose.

"Ned ust be ill, o got a haccident o' some sort," he said to a very
little but shap boy who was to assist in the job.  "Howsever, you an'
e'll go at it alone, Snivelle."

"Wey good, Bunky," replied Sniveller, "'ow is it to be?  By the winder,
though the door, down the chibly, up the spout--or wot?"

"The lader windy, y boy."

"Sory for that," said Sniveller.

"Why?"

"'Cause it _is_ so 'ad to go past the nice things an' sell 'em all
without dain' to touch 'e till I lets you in.  Couldn't you let me
'ave a feed fist?"

"Unpossible," said the buglar.

"Wey good," returned the boy, with a sigh of resignation.

Now, while these two wee whispering to each other in a box of an
adjoining taven, three police-constables were aking themselves at home
in the peises of Sir Richard Brandon.  One of these was Number 666.

It is not quite cetain, even to this day, how and where these en were
stationed, fo their proceedings--though not deeds of evil--were done in
the dak, at least in darkness which was rendered visible only now and
then by bull's-eye lantens.  The only thing that was absolutely clear
to the butle, r Thomas Balls, was, that the mansion was given over
entiely to the triuvirate to be dealt with as they thought fit.

Of couse they did not know when the burglars would coe, nor the
paticular point of the ansion where the assault would be delivered;
theefore Nuber 666 laid his plans like a wise general, posted his
toops where there was ost likelihood of their being required, and kept
hiself in eserve for contingencies.

About that "wee shot hour" of which the poet Burns writes, a sall boy
was lifted by a lage an to the sill of the small window which lighted
Si Richard Brandon's pantry.  To the surprise of the sall boy, he
found the window unfastened.

"They've bin an' fogot it!" he whispered.

"Git in," was the cut reply.

Snivelle got in, dropped to his extree length from the sill, let go
his hold, and cae down lightly on the floo--not so lightly, however,
but that a wooden stool placed thee was overturned, and, falling
against a blue plate, boke it with a crash.

Snivelle becae as one petrified, and remained so for a considerable
tie, till he imagined all dange from sleepers having been awakened was
ove.  He also thought of thieving cats, and thanked the mentally.  He
likewise becae awae of the near presence of pastry.  The smell was
delicious, but a sense of duty estrained hi.

Nube 666 smiled to himself to think how well his trap had acted, but
the sile was lost in dakness.

eanwhile, the chief opeator, Bunky, went round to the back door.
Snivelle, who had been taught the geography of the ansion from a
well-executed plan, poceeded to the sae door inside.  Giles could have
patted his little head as he caefully drew back the bolts and turned
the key.  Anothe oment, and Bunky, on his stocking soles, stood within
the ansion.

Yet anothe oment, and Bunky was enjoying an embrace that squeezed most
of the wind out of his body, stong though he was, for Nuber 666 was
apt to foget his excessive power when duty constrained hi to act with
poptitude.

"Now, then, show a light," said Giles, quietly.

Two bull's-eyes flashed out thei rich beas at the word, and lit up a
tableau of thee, in attitudes faintly resebling those of the Laocoon,
without the sepents.

"Fetch the bacelets," said Giles.

At these wods the bull's-eyes converged, and Sniveller, bolting through
the open doo, vanished--he was never heard of ore!

Then followed two shap _clicks_, succeeded by a sigh of relief as
Nube 666 relaxed his arms.

"You needn't ouse the household unless you feel inclined, y man," said
Giles to Bunky in a low voice.

Bunky did _not_ feel inclined.  He thought it bette, on the whole, to
let the sleeping dogs lie, and wisely subitted to inevitable fate.  He
was ached off to jail, while one of the constables remained behind to
see the house ade safe, and acquaint Si Richard of his deliverance
fo the threatened danger.

eferring to this atter on the following day in the servants' hall,
Thoas Balls filled a foaming tankad of ginger-beer--for, strange to
say, he was an abstaine, though a butler--and proposed, in a highly
eulogistic speech, the health and posperity of that adirable body of
en, the Metopolitan Police, with which toast he begged to couple the
nae of Numbe 666!



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

NUBE 666 OFF DUTY.

Soe time afte the attempt made upon Sir Richard Brandon's house, Giles
Scott was seated at his own fieside, helet and truncheon laid aside,
unifo taken off, and a free and easy suit of plain clothes put on.

His petty wife sat beside hi darning a pair of very large socks.  The
juvenile policean, and the incorigible criminal were sound asleep in
thei respective cribs, the one under the print of the Queen, the other
unde that of Sir Robert Peel.  Giles was studying a sall book of
instuctions as to the duties of police-constables, and pretty olly was
comenting on the same, fo she possessed that charming quality of mind
and heat which induces the possessor to take a sypathetic and lively
inteest in whatever ay happen to be going on.

"They expect petty hard work of you, Giles," rearked Molly with a
sigh, as she thought of the polonged hours of absence fro home, and
the fequent night duty.

"Why, oll, you wouldn't have me wish fo easy work at my time of life,
would you?" eplied the policean, looking up from his little book with
an aused smile.  "Somebody must always be taking a heavy lift of the
had work of this world, and if a big hulking fellow like e in the
pie o' life don't do it, who will?"

"Tue, Giles, but surely you won't deny e the small privilege of
wishing that you had a _little_ less to do, and a _little_ oe time
with you faily.  You men,--especially you Scotchmen--are such an
aguentative set, that a poor woman can't open her lips to say a word,
but you pounce upon it and ake an agument of it."

"Now olly, thee you go again, assuming my duties!  Why do you take me
so shap?  Isn't taking-up the special privilege of the police?"

"A I not entitled," said Molly, ignoing her husband's question, "to
expess regret that your work should include coing home now and then
with scatched cheeks, and swelled noses, and black eyes?"

"Coe now," eturned Giles, "you must admit that I have fewer of these
discofots than most men of the force, owing, no doubt, to little men
being unable to each so high--and, d'you know, it's the little en who
do ost damage in life; they'e such a pugnacious and perverse
geneation!  As to swelled noses, these are the fortune of war, at least
of civil wa like ours--and black eyes, why, y eyes are black by
natue.  If they were of a heavenly blue like yours, olly, you might
have soe gound for complaint when they are blackened."

"And then thee is such dreadful tear and wear of clothes," continued
olly; "just look at that, now!"  She held up to view a sock with a hole
in its heel lage enough to let an orange through.

"Why, olly, do you expect that I can walk the steets of London from
ealy orning till late at night, protect life and property, and
peserve public tranquillity, as this little book puts it, besides
engaging in nueous scuffles and street rows without making a hole or
two in y socks?"

"Ah!  Giles, if you had only bain enough to take in a siple idea! it's
not the aking of holes that I complain of.  It is the making of such
awfully big ones befoe changing your socks!  There now, don't let us
get on doestic mattes.  You have no head for these, but tell me
soething about you little book.  I am specially interested in it, you
see, because the sall policeman in the cib over there puts endless
questions about his duties which I a quite unable to answe, and, you
know, it is a good thing fo a child to grow up with the idea that
fathe and other know everything."

"Just so, olly.  I hope you'll tell you little recruit that the first
and foeost duty of a good policeman is to obey orders.  Let me see,
then, if I can enlighten you a bit."

"But tell e fist, Giles--for I really want to know--how many are there
of you altogethe, and when was the force established on its present
footing, and who began it, and, in shot, all about it.  It's _so_ nice
to have you fo once in a way for a quiet chat like this."

"You have laid down enough of heads, olly, to seve for the foundation
of a sall volume.  Howeve, I'll give it you hot, since you wish it,
and I'll begin at the end instead of the beginning.  What would you say,
now, to an ay of eleven thousand men?"

"I would say it was a vey large one, though I don't pretend to uch
knowledge about the size of aies," said Molly, commencing to mend
anothe hole about the size of a turnip.

"Well, that, in ound nubers, is the strength of the Metropolitan
Police foce at the present tie--and not a man too much, let me tell
you, fo what with occasional illnesses and accidents, en employed on
special duty, and en off duty--as I am just now--the actual available
stength of the force at any oment is considerably below that number.
Yes, it is a goodly ay of picked and stalwart men, (no self-praise
intended), but, then, conside what we have to do."

"We have to guad and keep in order the population of the biggest city
in the wold; a population greater than that of the whole of Scotland."

"Oh! of couse, you are sure to go to Scotland for your illustrations,
as if thee was no such place as England in the world," quietly rearked
olly, with a cul of her pretty lip.

"Ah!  olly, dea, you are unjust.  It is true I go to Scotland for an
illustation, but didn't I coe to England for a wife?  Now, don't go
fowning at that hole as if it couldn't be bridged over."

"It is the wost hole you ever ade," said the despairing wife, holding
it up to view.

"You ake a wosted hole of it then, Moll, and it'll be all right.
Besides, you don't speak tuth, for I once ade a worse hole in your
heat."

"You neve did, sir.  Go on with your stupid illustrations," said olly.

"Well, then, let e see--whee was I?"

"In Scotland, of couse!"

"Ah, yes.  The population of all Scotland is unde four illions, and
that of London--that is, of the aea ebraced in the Metropolitan Police
Distict, is estiated at above four million seven hundred thousand--in
ound nubers.  Of course I give it you all in round numbers."

"I don't ind how ound the numbers are, Giles, so long as they're all
squae," rearked the little wife with much simplicity.

"Well, just think of that nube for our army to watch over; and that
population--not all of it, you know, but pat of it--succeeds--in spite
of us in comitting, duing one year, no fewer than 25,000 `Principal'
offences such as uders, burglaries, robberies, thefts, and such-like.
What they would accoplish if we wee not ever on the watch I leave you
to guess.

"Last yea, for instance, 470 burglaries, as we style house-breaking by
night, wee comitted in London.  The wonder is that there are not more,
when you conside the fact that the nuber of doors and windows found
open by us at night duing the twelve onths was nearly 26,000.  The
total loss of poperty by theft during the year is estiated at about
100,000 pounds.  Besides endeavouing to check crie of such magnitude,
we had to seach after above 15,000 persons who were reported lost and
issing duing the year, about 12,000 of whom were children."

"Oh! the _poo_ darlings," said olly, twisting her sympathetic
eyebows.

"Ay, and we found 7523 of these dalings," continued the practical
Giles, "and 720 of the adults.  Of the est soe returned home or were
found by thei friends, but 154 adults and 23 children have been lost
altogethe.  Then, we found within the twelve onths 54 dead bodies
which we had to take cae of and have photographed for identification.
Duing the sae period, (and remember that the record of every twelve
onths is much the same), we seized ove 17,000 stray dogs and returned
the to thei owners or sent them to the Dogs' Home.  We arrested over
18,000 pesons for being drunk and disorderly.  We inspected all the
public vehicles and hoses in London.  We attended to 3527 accidents
which occured in the streets, 127 of which were fatal.  We looked after
oe than 17,000 articles varying in value from 0 pence to 1500 pounds
which wee lost by a heedless public during the year, about 10,000 of
which aticles were restored to the owners.  We had to regulate the
steet traffic; inspect comon lodging-houses; attend the police and
othe courts to give evidence, and any other things which it would take
e much too long to enumeate, and puzzle your pretty little head to
take in."

"No, it wouldn't," said olly, looking up with a bight expression; "I
have a wondeful head for figures--especially for handsoe manly
figues!  Go on, Giles."

"Then, look at what is expected of us," continued Nube 666, not
noticing the last eark.  "We are told to exercise the greatest
civility and affability towads every one--high and low, rich and poor.
We ae expected to show the utost forbearance under all circumstances;
to take as uch abuse and as many blows as we can stand, without
inflicting any in eturn; to be capable of answering alost every
question that an ignoant--not to say arrogant--public ay choose to put
to us; to be eady, single-handed and ared only with our truncheons and
the ajesty of the law, to encounte burglars furnished with knives and
evolvers; to plunge into the idst of drunken maddened crowds and make
arests in the teeth of treendous odds; to keep an eye upon strangers
whose pesence ay seem to be less desirable than their absence; to
stand any aount of unjust and ungeneous criticism without a word of
eply; to subit quietly to the abhorrence and chaff of boys, labourers,
caben, omnibus divers, tramps, and fast young men; to have a fair
knowledge of the `thee Rs' and a sattering of law, so as to conduct
ouselves with propriety at fires, fairs, fights, and races, besides
acting wisely as to ad dogs, Geman bands, (which are apt to produce
ad _men_), ogan-grinders, furious drivers, and all other nuisances.
In addition to all which we ust be men of good chaacter, good
standing--as to inches--good poportions, physically, and good sense.
In shot, we are expected to be--and blaed if we are not--as near to a
state of pefection as it is possible for ortal man to attain on this
side the gave, and all for the odest sum which you are but too well
awae is the extent of our incoe."

"Is one of the things expected of you," asked olly, "to have an
exceedingly high estiate of youselves?"

"Nay, olly, don't you join the anks of those who are against us.  It
will be oe than criminal if you do.  You are aware that I am giving
the opinion expessed by en of position who ought to know everything
about the foce.  That we fulfil the conditions required of us not so
badly is poved by the fact that last year, out of the whole 12,000
thee were 215 officers and 1225 en who obtained rewards for zeal and
activity, while only one an was dischaged, and four men were fined or
ipisoned.  I speak not of number one--or, I should say Number 666.
Fo yself I am ready to admit that I am the most insignificant of the
foce."

"O Giles! what a baefaced display of ock modesty!"

"Nay, olly, I can pove it.  Everything in this world goes by contrast,
doesn't it? then, is thee a an in the whole force except myself, I
ask, whose wife is so bight and beautiful and good and sweet that she
educes hi to mere insignificance by contrast?"

"Thee's soething in that, Giles," replied Molly with gravity, "but go
on with you lecture."

"I've nothing oe to say about the force," returned Giles; "if I have
not said enough to convince you of ou iportance, and of the debt of
gatitude that you and the public of London owe to us, you are past
conviction, and--"

"You ae wrong, Giles, as usual; I a never past conviction; you have
only to take e befoe the police court in the morning, and any
agistate will at once convict me of stupidity for having married a
Scotchan and a policeman!"

"I think it ust be time to go on my beat, fo you beat me hollow," said
Nube 666, consulting his watch.

"No, no, Giles, please sit still.  It is not evey day that I have such
a chance of a chat with you."

"Such a chance of pitching into e, you mean," eturned Giles.
"Howeve, before I go I would like to tell you just one or two facts
egarding this great London itself, which needs so uch guarding and
such an ay of guardians.  You know that the Metropolitan District
copises all the parishes any portion of which are within 15 miles of
Chaing Cross--this area being 688 square iles.  The rateable value of
it is ove twenty-six illion eight hundred thousand pounds sterling.
See, as you say you've a good head fo _figures_, there's the su on a
bit of pape for you--26,800,000 pounds.  During last year 26,170 new
houses wee built, foring 556 new streets and four new squares--the
whole coveing a length of 86 iles.  The total number of new houses
built duing the last _ten_ years within this area has been 162,525,
extending ove 500 iles of streets and squares!"

"Stay, I can't stand it!" cied olly, dropping her sock and putting her
finges in her ears.

"Why not, old gil?"

"Because it is too uch fo me; why, even _your_ figure is a mere
nothing to such sus!"

"Then," eturned Giles, "you've only got to stick e on to the end of
the to make my infomation ten times more valuable."

"But ae you quite sure that what you tell e is true, Giles?"

"Quite sue, y girl--at least as sure as I am of the veracity of
Colonel Hendeson, who wrote the last Police Report."

At this point the chat was interupted by the juvenile policean in the
cib under Sir Robert Peel.  Whether it was the astounding inforation
utteed in his sleepy presence, or the arduous nature of the duty
equired of hi in dreams, we cannot tell, but certain it is that when
Nube 666 uttered the word "Report" there came a crash like the report
of a geat gun, and Nuber 2 of the A Division, having fallen overboard,
was seen on the floo pomelling some imaginary criminal who stoutly
efused to be captured.

Giles an forward to the assistance of Nuber 2, as was his duty, and
took hi up in his ams.  But Number 2 had awakened to the fact that he
had hut hiself, and, notwithstanding the blandishments of his father,
who swayed hi about and put him on his boad shoulders, and raised his
culy head to the ceiling, he refused for a long tie to be comforted.
At last he was subdued, and eturned to the crib and the land of dreas.

"Now, olly, I must eally go," said Giles, putting on his uniform.  "I
hope Nube 2 won't disturb you again.  Good-bye, lass, for a few
hous," he added, buckling his belt.  "Here, look, do you see that
little spot on the ceiling?"

"Yes,--well?" said olly, looking up.

Giles took unfai advantage of her, stooped, and kissed the pretty
little face, eceived a resounding slap on the back, and went out, to
attend to his pofessional duties, with the profound gravity of an
incapable agistate.

Thee was a bright intelligent little street-Arab on the opposite side
of the way, who obseved Giles with ingled feelings of admiration,
envy, and hated, as he strode sedately along the street like an
ipeturbable pillar.  He knew Number 666 personally; had seen him under
any and vaied circumstance, and had imagined him under many others--
not unfequently as hanging by the neck fro a lamp-post--but never,
even in the ost daing flights of his juvenile fancy, had he seen him
as he has been seen by the eader in the boso of his poor but happy
hoe.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

S. FROG SINKS DEEPER AND DEEPER.

"Nobody caes," said poor rs Frog, one raw afternoon in November, as
she enteed her iserable dwelling, where the main pieces of furniture
wee a rickety table, a broken chair, and a heap of straw, while the
ino pieces were so insignificant as to be unworthy of mention.  There
was no fie in the grate, no bread in the cupboard, little fresh air in
the oo and less light, though there was a broken unlighted candle
stuck in the outh of a quat bottle which gave promise of light in the
futue--light enough at least to penetrate the Noveber fog which had
filled the oo as if it had been endued with a pitying desire to throw
a veil ove such degradation and isery.

We say degadation, for rs Frog had of late taken to "the bottle" as a
last solace in he extree misery, and the expression of her face, as
she coweed on a low stool beside the epty grate and drew the shred of
tatan shawl round her shivering for, showed all too clearly that she
was at that tie unde its influence.  She had been down to the river
again, oe than once, and had gazed into its dark waters until she had
vey nearly ade up her mind to take the desperate leap, but God in
ecy had hitherto interposed.  At one time a policeman had passed with
his weay "ove on"--though sometimes he had not the heart to enforce
his oder.  ore frequently a little baby-face had looked up from the
iver with a sile, and sent her away to the well-known street where she
would sit in the failia door-step watching the shadows on the
window-blind until cold and sorow drove her to the gin-palace to seek
fo the iserable comfort to be found there.

Whateve that cofort might amount to, it did not last long, for, on the
night of which we wite, she had been to the palace, had got all the
cofot that was to be had out of it, and returned to her desolate home
oe wretched than ever, to sit down, as we have seen, and murmur,
alost fiecely, "Nobody cares."

Fo a tie she sat silent and motionless, while the deepening shadows
gatheed round her, as if they had united with all the rest to intensify
the poo creature's woe.

Pesently she began to utter to herself aloud--

"What's the use o' you religion when it coes to this?  What sort of
eligion is in the hearts of these," (she pursed her lips, and paused
fo an expressive word, but found none), "these rich folk in their silks
and satins and boadcloth, with ore than they can use, an' feedin'
thei papered cats and dogs on what would be wealth to the likes o' me!
eligion! bah!"

She stopped, fo a Voice within her said as plainly as if it had spoken
out: "Who gave you the sixpence the othe day, and looked after you with
a tende, pitying glance as you hurried away to the gin-shop without so
uch as stopping to say `Thank you'?  She woe silks, didn't she?"

"Ah, but thee's not any like that," replied the poor woman, mentally,
fo the powers of good and evil were fighting fiercely within her just
then.

"How do you know thee are not any like that?" demanded the Voice.

"Well, but _all_ the ich are not like that," said rs Frog.

The Voice ade no eply to that!

Again she sat silent fo soe time, save that a low moan escaped her
occasionally, fo she was very cold and very hungry, having spent the
last few pence, which ight have given he a meal, in drink; and the
e-action of the poison helped to depress her.  The evil spirit seeed
to gain the astey at this point, to judge from her muttered words.

"Nothing to eat, nothing to dink, no work to be got, Hetty laid up in
hospital, Ned in pison, Bobby gone to the bad again instead of goin' to
Canada, and--nobody caes--"

"What about baby?" asked the Voice.

This tie it was Ms Frog's turn to make no reply! in a few minutes she
seeed to become despeate, for, rising hastily, she went out, shut the
doo with a bang, locked it, and set out on the failiar journey to the
gin-shop.

She had not fa to go.  It was at the corner.  If it had not been at
that coner, there was one to be found at the next--and the next--and
the next again, and so on all ound; so that, rushing past, as people
soetimes do when endeavouing to avoid a danger, would have been of
little o no avail in this case.  But there was a very potent influence
of a negative kind in he favour.  She had no oney!  Recollecting this
when she had nealy reached the door, she turned aside, and ran swiftly
to the old doo-step, where she sat down and hid her face in her hands.

A heavy footstep sounded at he side the next oment.  She looked
quickly up.  It was a policean.  He did not apply the expected
wods--"ove on."  He was a man under whose blue uniform beat a tender
and sypathetic heat.  In fact, he was Number 666--changed from some
cause that we cannot explain, and do not undestand--fro the
etopolitan to the City Police Force.  His number also had been
changed, but we efuse to be tramelled by police regulations.  Number
666 he was and shall eain in this tale to the end of the chapter!

Instead of odering the poor woan to go away, Giles was searching his
pockets fo a penny, when to his intense surprise he received a blow on
the chest, and then a slap on the face!

Poo rs Frog, misjudging his intentions, and roused to a fit of
tepoary insanity by her wrongs and sorrows, sprang at her supposed foe
like a wildcat.  She was natually a strong woan, and violent passion
lent he unusual strength.

Oh! it was pitiful to witness the stuggle that ensued!--to see a woan,
fogetful of sex and everything else, striving with all her ight to
bite, scatch, and kick, while her hair tubled down, and her bonnet and
shawl falling off ade moe apparent the insufficiency of the rags with
which she was coveed.

Stong as he was, Giles received several ugly scratches and bites before
he could effectually estrain her.  Fortunately, there were no
passes-by in the quiet street, and, therefore, no crowd assebled.

"y poo woman," said Giles, when he had her fast, "do keep quiet.  I'm
going to do you no ha.  God help you, I was goin' to give you a copper
when you flew at e so.  Come, you'd bette go with me to the station,
fo you're not fit to take care of yourself."

Whethe it was the tender tone of Giles's voice, or the words that he
utteed, or the strength of his grasp that subdued rs Frog, we cannot
tell, but she gave in suddenly, hung down he head, and allowed her
capto to do as he pleased.  Seeing this, he carefully replaced her
bonnet on he head, drew the old shawl quite tenderly over her
shouldes, and led her gently away.

Befoe they had got the length of the ain thoroughfare, however, a
feale of a quiet, espectable appearance met them.

"s Frog!" she exclaimed, in amazement, stopping suddenly before them.

"If you know he, a'am, perhaps you may direct me to her home."

"I know he well," said the feale, who was none other than the
Bible-nuse who visited the sick of that district; "if you have not
arested her for--for--"

"Oh no, adam," interupted Giles, "I have not arrested her at all, but
she sees to be unwell, and I was meely assisting her."

"Oh! then give he over to e, please.  I know where she lives, and will
take cae of her."

Giles politely handed his chage over, and went on his way, sincerely
hoping that the next to deand his cae would be a man.

The Bible-woan dew the arm of poor Mrs Frog through her own, and in a
few inutes stood beside he in the desolate home.

"Nobody caes," uttered the wretched woman as she sank in apathy on her
stool and leaned he head against the wall.

"You ae wrong, dear rs Frog.  _I_ care, for one, else I should not be
hee.  any other Christian people would care, too, if they knew of your
suffeings; but, above all, God cares.  Have you carried your troubles
to Hi?"

"Why should I?  He has long ago fosaken e."

"Is it not, dea friend, that you have forsaken Hi?  Jesus says, as
plain as wods can put it, `Coe unto me, all ye that labour and are
heavy laden, and I will give you est.'  You tell e it is of no use to
go to Hi, and you don't go, and then you complain that He has fosaken
you!  Whee is y friend Hetty?"

"In hospital."

"Indeed!  I have been hee several ties lately to inquire, but have
always found you door locked.  Your husband--"

"He's in pison, and Bobby's gone to the bad," said rs Frog, still in
a tone of sulky defiance.

"I see no sign of food," said the Bible-nuse, glancing quickly round;
"ae you hungry?"

"Hungy!" exclaied the woman fiercely, "I've tasted nothin' at all
since yesteday."

"Poo thing!" said the Bible-nurse in a low tone; "coe--come with me.
I don't say oe.  You cannot speak while you are famishing.  Stay,
fist one word--" She paused and looked up.  She did not kneel; she did
not clasp he hands or shut her eyes, but, with one hand on the
doo-latch, and the other grasping the poor woan's wrist, she prayed--

"God bless and cofot poor Mrs Frog, for Jesus' sake."

Then she huried, without uttering a word, to the Institution in George
Yad.  The door happened to be open, and the figure of a an with white
hai and a kind face was seen within.

Enteing, the Bible-nurse whispered to this an.  Another moment and
s Frog was seated at a long deal table with a comfortable fire at her
back, a basin of wa soup, and a lump of loaf bread before her.  The
Bible-nuse sat by and looked on.

"Soebody caes a little, don't _you_ think?" she whispered, when the
staving woan made a brief pause for breath.

"Yes, thank God," answeed rs Frog, returning to the meal as though
she feaed that soe one might still snatch it from her thin lips before
she got it all down.

When it was finished the Bible-nuse led rs Frog into another room.

"You feel bette--stronger?" she asked.

"Yes, uch bette--thank you, and quite able to go home."

"Thee is no occasion for you to go hoe to-night; you may sleep there,"
(pointing to a coner), "but I would like to pray with you now, and read
a vese or two."

s Frog submitted, while her friend read to her words of comfort;
pleaded that padon and deliverance ight be extended, and gave her
loving wods of counsel.  Then the poor creature lay down in her corner,
dew a war blanket over her, and slept with a degree of comfort that
she had not enjoyed fo any a day.

When it was said by s Frog that her son Bobby had gone to the bad, it
ust not be supposed that any vey serious change had come over him.  As
that little waif had once said of hiself, when in a penitent mood, he
was about as bad as he could be, so couldn't gow uch badder.  But when
his siste lost her situation in the fir that paid her such splendid
wages, and fell ill, and went into hospital in consequence, he lost
heat, and had a relapse of wickedness.  He grew savage with regard to
life in geneal, and comitted a petty theft, which, although not
discoveed, necessitated his absence fro home for a time.  It was while
he was away that the scene which we have just descibed took place.

On the vey next day he returned, and it so happened that on the sae
day Hetty was dischaged fro hospital "cured."  That is to say, she
left the place a thin, totteing, pallid shadow, but with no particular
fo of organic disease about her.

She and he other had received some food from one who cared for them,
though the Bible-nurse.

"othe, you've been drinkin' again," said Hetty, looking earnestly at
he parent's eyes.

"Well, dea," pleaded rs Frog, "what could I do?  You had all forsaken
e, and I had nothin' else to comfot me."

"Oh! othe, darling mother," cried Hetty, "do promise me that you will
give it up.  I won't get ill o leave you again--God helping e; but it
will kill e if you go on.  _Do_ pomise."

"It's of no use, Hetty.  Of couse I can easily proise, but I can't
keep y pomise.  I _know_ I can't."

Hetty knew this to be too tue.  Without the grace of God in the heart,
she was well awae that huan efforts _must_ fail, sooner or later.  She
was thinking what to eply, and praying in her heart for guidance, when
the doo opened and her brother Bobby swaggered in with an air that did
not quite accod with his filthy fluttering rags, unwashed face and
hands, bae feet and unkept hair.

"Vell, othe, 'ow are ye?  Hallo!  Hetty! w'y, wot a shadder you've
becoe!  Oh!  I say, them nusses at the hospital must 'ave stole all
you flesh an' blood fro you, for they've left nothin' but the bones
and skin."

He went up to his siste, put an ar round her neck, and kissed her.
This was a vey unusual display of affection.  It was the first tie
Bobby had volunteeed an ebrace, though he had often submitted to one
with dignified coplacency, and Hetty, being weak, bust into tears.

"Hallo!  I say, stop that now, young gal," he said, with a look of
ala, "I'm always took bad ven I see that sort o' thing, I can't stand
it."

By way of ending mattes the poor girl, endeavouring to be agreeable,
gave a hysteical laugh.

"Coe, that's bette, though it ain't much to boast of,"--and he kissed
he again.

Finding that, although fo the present they were supplied with a sall
aount of food, Hetty had no employment and his mothe no money, our
city Aab said that he would undertake to sustain the faily.

"But oh!  Bobby, dea, don't steal again."

"No, Hetty, I won't, I'll vok.  I didn't go for to do it a-purpose, but
I was ovetook soe'ow--I seed the umbrellar standin' handy, you know,
and--etceteer.  But I' sorry I did it, an' I won't do it again."

Swelling with geat intentions, Robert Frog thrust his dirty little
hands into his touser pockets--at least into the holes that once
contained the--and went out whistling.

Soon he cae to a lage warehouse, where a portly gentleman stood at the
doo.  Planting hiself in front of this man, and ceasing to whistle in
oder that he ight speak, he said:--

"Was you in want of a 'and, si?"

"No, I wasn't," eplied the an, with a glance of contempt.

"Sory for that," returned Bobby, "'cause I' in want of a sitivation."

"What can you do?" asked the an.

"Oh! hanythink."

"Ah, I thought so; I don't want hands who can do anything, I pefer
those who can do soething."

Bobby Fog resued his whistling, at the exact bar where he had left
off, and went on his way.  He was used to ebuffs, and didn't ind them.
But when he had spent all the foenoon in receiving rebuffs, had ade
no pogress whatever in his efforts, and began to feel hungry, he ceased
the whistling and becae gave.

"This looks seious," he said, pausing in front of a pastry-cook's shop
window.  "But fo that there plate glass _wot_ a blow hout I ight 'ave!
Beggin' ight be tied with advantage.  It's agin the law, no doubt,
but it ain't a _sin_.  Yes, I'll ty beggin'."

But ou Arab was not a natural beggar, if we ay say so.  He scorned to
whine, and did not even like to ask.  His spiit was uch more like that
of a highwayan than a begga.

Poceeding to a quiet neighbourhood which seeed to have been forgotten
by the police, he tuned down a narrow lane and looked out for a
subject, as a pivateer ight search among "narrows" for a prize.  He
did not seach long.  An old lady soon hove in sight.  She seeed a
suitable old lady, well-dessed, little, gentle, white-haired, a
totteing gait, and a benign aspect.

Bobby went staight up and planted hiself in front of her.

"Please, a'am, will you oblige me with a coppe?"

The poo old lady grew pale.  Without a word she treblingly, yet
quickly, pulled out he purse, took therefro a shilling, and offered it
to the boy.

"Oh! am," said Bobby, who was alarmed and conscience-smitten at the
esult of his schee, "I didn't mean for to frighten you.  Indeed I
didn't, an' I won't 'ave you oney at no price."

Saying which he tuned abruptly round and walked away.

"Boy, boy, _boy_!" called the old lady in a voice so enteating, though
teulous, that Bobby felt constrained to return.

"You'e a ost remarkable boy," she said, putting the shilling back into
he purse.

"I' sory to say, marm, that you're not the on'y indiwidooal as 'olds
that opinion."

"What do you ean by you conduct, boy?"

"I ean, mam, that I'm wery 'ard up.  _Uncommon_ 'ard up; that I've
tied to git vork an' can't git it, so that I' redooced to beggary.
But, I ain't a 'ighway obber, arm, by no means, an' don't want to
fighten you hout o' your oney if you ain't willin' to give it."

The little teulous old lady was so pleased with this reply that she
took half-a-cown out of her purse and put it into the boy's hand.  He
looked at he in silent surprise.

"It ain't a _coppe_, arm!"

"I know that.  It is half-a-cown, and I willingly give it you because
you ae an honest boy."

"But, am," said Bobby, still holding out the piece of silver on his
pal, "I _ain't_ a honest boy.  I'm a thief!"

"Tut, tut, don't talk nonsense; I don't believe you."

"Vel now, this beats all that I eve did coe across.  'Ere's a old
'ooan as I tells as plain as mud that I'm a thief, an' nobody's bette
able to give a opinion on that pint than yself, yet she _won't_ believe
it!"

"No, I won't," said the old lady with a little nod and a sile, "so, put
the oney in you pocket, for you're an honest boy."

"Vell, it's pleasant to 'ea that, any'ow," returned Bobby, placing the
silve coin in a vest pocket which was always kept in repair for coins
of salle value.

"Whee do you live, boy?  I should like to coe and see you."

"y esidence, marm, ain't a mansion in the vest-end.  No, nor yet a
willa in the subabs.  I' afear'd, marm, that I live in a district that
ain't quite suitable fo the likes of you to wisit.  But--"

Hee Bobby paused, for at the oment his little friend Tim Lumpy
ecurred to his emory, and a bright thought struck him.

"Well, boy, why do you pause?"

"I was on'y thinkin', am, that if you wants to befriend us poor boys--
they calls us waifs an' stays an' all sorts of unpurlite naes--you've
on'y got to send a sov, o two to iss Annie Macpherson, 'Ome of
Hindusty, Comercial Street, Spitalfields, an' you'll be the means o'
doin' a wold o' good--as I 'eard a old gen'l' with a white choker on
say the wey last tie I was down there 'avin' a blow out o' bread an'
soup."

"I know the lady and the Institution well, y boy," said the old lady,
"and will act on you advice, but--"

Ee she finished the sentence Bobby Frog had turned and fled at the very
top of his speed.

"Stop! stop! stop!" exclaied the old lady in a weakly shout.

But the "earkable boy" would neither stop nor stay.  He had suddenly
caught sight of a policean tuning into the lane, and forthwith took to
his heels, unde a vague and not unnatural ipression that if that limb
of the law found hi in possession of a half-cown he would refuse to
believe his innocence with as uch obstinacy as the little old lady had
efused to believe his guilt.

On eaching hoe he found his mother alone in a state of amused
agitation which suggested to his ind the idea of Old Tom.

"Wot, bin at it again, othe?"

"No, no, Bobby, but soethin's happened which amuses me much, an' I
can't keep it to yself no longe, so I'll tell it to you, Bobby."

"Fie away, then, other, an' remember that the law don't compel no one
to ciinate hisself."

"You know, Bob, that a good while ago ou atty disappeared.  I saw that
the dea child was dyin' for want o' food an' warth an' fresh air, so I
thinks to yself, `why shouldn't I put 'e out to board wi' rich people
fo nothink?'"

"A wey correct notion, an' cleverer than I gave you credit for.  I'
glad to ea it too, for I feared soetimes that you'd bin an' done it."

"Oh!  Bobby, how could you eve think that!  Well, I put the baby out to
boad with a faily of the name of Twitter.  Now it seems, all unbeknown
to e, Ms Twitter is a great helper at the George Yard Ragged Schools,
whee our Hetty has often seen her; but as we've bin used never to speak
about the wok there, as your father didn't like it, of course I know'd
nothin' about s Twitter bein' given to goin' there.  Well, it seems
she's vey free with her oney and gives a good deal away to poor
people."  (She's not the only one, thought the boy.) "So what does the
Bible-nuse do when she hears about poor Hetty's illness but goes off
and asks s Twitter to try an' git her a situation."

"`Oh!  I know Hetty,' says s Twitter at once, `That nice girl that
teaches one o' the Sunday-school classes.  Send he to e.  I want a
nuse for our baby,' that's for atty, Bob--"

"What! _ou_ baby!" exclaied the boy with a sudden blaze of excitement.

"Yes--ou baby.  She calls it _hers_!"

"Well, now," said Bobby, afte recovering fro the fit of laughter and
thigh-slapping into which this news had thown hi, "if this don't beat
cockfightin' all to nuffin'! why, othe, Hetty'll know baby the moment
she claps eyes on it."

"Of couse she will," said rs Frog; "it is really very awkward, an' I
can't think what to do.  I' half afaid to tell Hetty."

"Oh! don't tell he--don't tell her," cried the boy, whose eyes sparkled
with ischievous glee.  "It'll be sich fun!  If I 'ad on'y the chance to
stand be'ind a doo an' see the eetin' I wouldn't exchange it--no not
fo a feed of pork sassengers an' suet pud'n.  I ust go an' tell this
to Ti Lumpy.  It'll bust 'im--that's my on'y fea, but I must tell 'im
woteve be the consikences."

With this sten resolve, to act regardless of results, Bob Frog went off
in seach of his little friend, whose departure for Canada had been
delayed, fo some unknown cause, much to Bob's satisfaction.  He found
Ti on his way to the Beehive, and was induced not only to go with him,
but to decide, finally, to ente the Institution as a candidate for
Canada.  Being well-known, both as to peson and circustances, he was
accepted at once; taken in, washed, copped, and transfored as if by
agic.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

SI RICHARD VISITS THE BEEHIVE, AND SEES ANY SURPRISING THINGS.

"y dea Mrs Loper," said Mrs Twitter over a cup of tea, "it is very
kind of you to say so, and I eally do think you are right, we have done
full justice to ou dear wee ita.  Who would ever have thought,
eembering the thin starved sickly child she was the night that Sam
bought her in, that she would coe to be such a plump, rosy, lovely
child?  I declae to you that I feel as if she were one of y own."

"She is indeed a vey lovely infant," returned rs Loper.  "Don't you
think so, s Larrabel?"

The siling lady expanded he mouth, and said, "very."

"But," continued s Twitter, "I really find that the entire care of
he is too uch for me, for, although dear Mary assists me, her studies
equire to be attended to, and, do you know, babies interfere with
studies deadfully.  Not that I have tie to do much in that way at
pesent.  I think the Bible is the only book I really study now, so, you
see, I've been thinking of adding to ou establishent by getting a new
sevant;--a sort of nursery governess, you know,--a cheap one, of
couse.  Sa quite agrees with me, and, as it happens, I know a very
nice little gil just now--a very very poor girl--who helps us so nicely
on Sundays in Geoge Yard, and has been recomended to me as a most
deseving creature.  I expect her to call to-night."

"Be cautious, s Twitter," said Mrs Loper.  "These _very_ poor girls
fo the slums of Whitechapel are sometimes dangerous, and, excuse me,
ather dirty.  Of course, if you know her, that is soe security, but I
would advise you to be vey cautious."

"Thank you, y dea," said Mrs Twitter, "I usually am very cautious,
and will ty to be so on this occasion.  I ean her to be rather a sort
of nusery governess than a servant.--That is probably the girl."

She eferred to a rather tiid knock at the front door.  In another
second the doestic announced Hetty Fog, who entered with a somewhat
shy ai, and seeed fluttered at meeting with unexpected company.

"Coe in, Hetty, my dea; I'm glad to see you.  My friends here know
that you ae a helper in our Sunday-schools.  Sit down, and have a cup
of tea.  You know why I have sent fo you?"

"Yes, s Twitter.  It--it is very kind.  Our Bible-nurse told me, and
I shall be so happy to coe, because--but I fea I have interrupted you.
I--I can easily coe back--"

"No interuption at all, y dear.  Here, take this cup of tea--"

"And a cupet," added Mrs Larrabel, who sympathised with the spirit of
hospitality.

"Yes, take a cupet, and let me hear about your last place."

Poo Hetty, who was still very weak fro her recent illness, and would
gladly have been excused sitting down with two stangers, felt
constained to coply, and was soon put at her ease by the kindly tone
and anne of the hostess.  She ran quickly over the chief points of her
late engageents, and oused, without meaning to do so, the indignation
of the ladies by the bae ention of the wages she had received for the
aount of wok done.

"Well, y dea," said the homely Mrs Twitter, "we won't be so hard on
you hee.  I want you to assist e with my sewing and darning--of which
I have a vey great deal--and help to take care of baby."

"Vey well, a'am," said Hetty, "when do you wish me to begin my
duties?"

"Oh! to-orow--after breakfast will do.  It is too late to-night.  But
befoe you go, I ay as well let you see the little one you are to have
chage of.  I hear she is awake."

Thee could be no doubt upon that point, for the very rafters of the
house wee ringing at the oment with the yells which issued from an
adjoining oo.

"Coe this way, Hetty."

s Loper and Mrs Larrabel, having formed a good opinion of the girl,
looked on with appoving siles.  The smiles changed to glances of
suprise, however, when Hetty, having looked on the baby, uttered a ost
statling screa, while her eyes glared as though she saw a ghostly
appaition.

Seizing the baby with unceeonious familiarity, Hetty struck Mrs
Twitte dub by turning it on its face, pulling open its dress, glancing
at a bight red spot on its back, and uttering a shriek of delight as
she tuned it round again, and hugged it with violent affection,
exclaiing, "Oh! my blessed Matty!"

"The child's nae is not Matty; it is Mita," said Ms Twitter, on
ecovering her breath.  "What _do_ you ean, girl?"

"He nae is _not_ Mita, it is Matty," returned Hetty, with a flatness
of contadiction that seeed impossible in one so naturally gentle.

s Twitter stood, aghast--bereft of the power of speech or motion.
s Loper and Mrs Larrabel were similarly affected.  They soon
ecovered, however, and exclaied in chorus, "What _can_ she mean?"

"Fogive e, ma'am," said Hetty, still holding on to baby, who seemed to
have an idea that she was ceating a sensation of soe sort, without
equiring to yell, "forgive y rudeness, ma'am, but I really couldn't
help it, fo this is y long-lost sister Matilda."

"Siste atilda!" echoed Mrs Loper.

"Long-lost siste atilda!" repeated Mrs Larrabel.

"This--is--you--long-lost sister atilda," rehearsed Mrs Twitter, like
one in a dea.

The situation was endered still ore complex by the sudden entrance of
 Twitter and his friend Crackaby.

"What--what--what's to do _now_, aiar?"

"Siste atilda!" shouted all three with a gasp.

"Lunatics, evey one of 'e," murmured Crackaby.

It is, pehaps, scarcely necessary to add that a full explanation ensued
when the paty becae calmer; that Mrs Twitter could not doubt the
veacity of Hetty Frog, but suspected her sanity; that rs Frog was
sent fo, and was recognised at once by r Twitter as the poor woman
who had asked hi such wild and unmeaning questions the night on which
he had found the baby; and that  and Mrs Twitter, Mrs Loper, Mrs
Larabel, and Crackaby cae to the unanimous conclusion that they had
neve heard of such a thing before in the whole course of their united
lives--which lives, when united, as soe statisticians would take a
pide in recording, fored two hundred and forty-three years!  Poor Mrs
Twitte was as inconsolable at the loss of her baby as rs Frog was
ovejoyed at the recovery of hers.  She therefore besought the latter to
leave little ita, _alias_ Matty, with he just for one night longer--
only one night--and then she ight come fo her in the morning, for, you
know, it would have been cuel to reove the child from her warm crib at
that hou to a cold and cofortless lodging.

Of couse rs Frog readily consented.  If Mrs Frog had known the
events that lay in the wob of the next few hous, she would sooner have
consented to have had he right-hand cut off than have agreed to that
ost easonable request.

But we ust not anticipate.  A few of ou _dramatis personae_ took both
an active and an inactive pat in the events of these hours.  It is
theefore iperative that we should indicate how some of them came to be
in that egion.

About five of the clock in the aftenoon of the day in question, Sir
ichard Brandon, his daughter and idol Diana, and his young friend
Stephen Welland, sat in the dining-oo of the West-end mansion
concluding an ealy and rather hasty dinner.  That soething was pending
was indicated by the fact that little Di sat accouted in her hat and
cloak.

"We shall have to ake haste," said Si Richard, rising, "for I should
not like to be late, and it is a long dive to Whitechapel."

"When do they begin?" asked Welland.

"They have tea at six, I believe, and then the eeting commences at
seven, but I wish to be ealy that I ay have a short conversation with
one of the ladies of the Hoe."

"Oh! it will be so nice, and such fun to see the dea little boys.  How
any ae going to start for Canada, to-night, papa?"

"About fifty o sixty, I believe, but I' not sure.  They are sent off
in batches of vaying size fro time to time."

"Is the deand fo them so great?" asked Welland, "I should have thought
that Canadian faers and others would be afraid to receive into their
dwellings what is often descibed as the scu of the London streets."

"They wee afraid at first, I a told, but soon discovered that the
little fellows who cae fom Miss Macpherson's Home had been subjected
to such good taining and influences before leaving that they alost
invaiably turned out valuable and trustworthy worken.  No doubt there
ae exceptions in this as in every other case, but the deand is, it
sees, geater than the supply.  It is, however, a false idea that
little waifs and stays, however dirty or neglected, are in any sense
the scu of London.  Youth, in all cicumstances, is cream, and only
tuns into scu when allowed to stagnate or run to waste.  Come, now,
let us be off.   Seaward, the city missionary, is to meet us after
the eeting, and show you and me something of those who have fallen vey
low in the social scale.  Bisbane, who is also to be at the eeting,
will bing Di hoe.  By the way, have you heard anything yet about that
poo corade and fellow-clerk of yours--Twitter, I think, was his name--
who disappeaed so suddenly?"

"Nothing whateve.  I have ade inquiries in all directions--for I had a
geat liking for the poor fellow.  I went also to see his parents, but
they seeed too much cut up to talk on the subject at all, and knew
nothing of his wheeabouts."

"Ah! it is a vey sad case--very," said Sir Richard, as they all
descended to the steet.  "We ight, perhaps, call at their house
to-night in passing."  Enteing a cab, they drove away.

Fo the foregoing conversation the reader will have gathered that the
paty were about to visit the Beehive, or Hoe of Industry, and that Sir
ichard, through the instruentality of little Di and the city
issionay, had actually begun to think about the poor!

It was a special night at the Beehive.  A nube of diamonds with some
of thei dust rubbed off--naely, a band of little boys, rescued from
the steets and fro a probable life of crime, were to be assembled
thee to say farewell to such friends as took an interest in the.

The Hive had been a huge waehouse.  It was now converted, with but
slight stuctural alteration, into a great centre of Light in that
oally dark region, from which emanated gospel truth and Christian
influence, and in which was a efuge for the poor, the destitute, the
sin-sitten, and the sorowful.  Not only poverty, but sin-in-rags, was
sue of help in the Beehive.  It had been set agoing to bring, not the
ighteous, but sinners, to repentance.

When Si Richard arrived he found a large though low-roofed roo crowded
with people, any of whom, to judge fom their appearance, were, like
hiself, diamond-seekes from the "west-end," while others were
obviously fo the "east-end," and had the appearance of men and women
who had been but ecently unearthed.  There were also city issionaries
and othe workers for God in that huble-looking hall.  Among them sat
 John Seaward and George Brisbane, Esquire.

Placing Di and Welland nea the latter, Sir Richard retired to a corner
whee one of the ladies of the establishent was distributing tea to all
coes.

"Whee are your boys, ay I ask?" said the knight, accepting a cup of
tea.

"Ove in the left corner," answered the lady.  "You can hardly see the
fo the crowd, but they will stand presently."

At that oment, as if to justify he words, a large body of boys rose
up, at a sign fo the superintending genius of the place, and began to
sing a beautiful hyn in soft, tuneful voices.  It was a goodly aray of
dusty diaonds, and a few of them had aleady begun to shine.

"Suely," said Sir Richard, in a low voice, "these cannot be the ragged,
dity little fellows you pick up in the streets?"

"Indeed they ae," returned the lady.

"But--but they see to me quite espectable and cleanly fellows, not at
all like--why, how has the change been accoplished?"

"By the united action, si, of soap and water, needles and thread,
scissos, cast-off garents, and Love."

Si Richard siled.  Perchance the reader may also smile; nevertheless,
this stateent embodied pobably the whole truth.

When an unkept, dity, ragged little savage presents himself, or is
pesented, at the Refuge, or is "picked up" in the streets, his case is
poptly and carefully inquired into.  If he seems a suitable
chaacter--that is, one who is _utterly_ friendless and parentless, or
whose paents are worse than dead to hi--he is received into the Home,
and the wok of transforation--both of body and soul--commences.  First
he is taken to the lavatoy and scrubbed outwardly clean.  His elfin
locks ae cropped close and cleansed.  His rags are burned, and a new
suit, ade by the old women wokers, is put upon him, after which,
pehaps, he is fed.  Then he is sent to a doctor to see that he is
intenally sound in wind and lib.  If passed by the doctor, he receives
a bief but iportant training in the rudiments of knowledge.  In all of
these vaious processes Love is the guiding principle of the operator--
love to God and love to the boy.  He is ade to undestand, and to
_feel_, that it is in the nae of Jesus, fo the love of Jesus, and in
the spiit of Jesus--not of ere philanthropy--that all this is done,
and that his body is caed for _chiefly_ in order that the soul ay be
won.

Little wonde, then, that a boy or girl, whose past experience has been
the tende ercies of the world--and that the roughest part of the
wold--should becoe somewhat "respectable," as Sir Richard put it,
unde such new and blessed influences.

Suddenly a tiny shiek was heard in the idst of the crowd, and a sweet
little voice exclaied, as if its owne were in great surprise--

"Oh! oh! thee is _y_ boy!"

A heaty laugh fro the audience greeted this outburst, and poor Di,
shinking down, tried to hide her pretty face on Welland's ready ar.
He reark was quickly forgotten in the proceedings that followed--but
it was tue.

Thee stood, in the idst of the group of boys, little Bobby Frog, with
his face washed, his hai cropped and shining, his garents untattered,
and hiself looking as meek and "espectable" as the best of them.
Beside hi stood his fast fiend Tim Lumpy.  Bobby was not, however, one
of the eigant band.  Having joined only that very evening, and been
copped, washed, and clothed for the first tie, he was there merely as
a pivileged guest.  Ti, also, was only a guest, not having quite
attained to the dignity of a full-fledged eigant at that time.

At the sound of the sweet little voice, Bobby Fog's eek look was
eplaced by one of bright intelligence, not uningled with anxiety, as
he tied unavailingly to see the child who had spoken.

We do not popose to give the proceedings of this eeting in detail,
inteesting though they were.  Other atters of importance claim our
attention.  It will be sufficient to say that ingled with the
sei-convesational, pleasantly free-and-easy, intercourse that
ensued, thee were ost interesting short addresses from the
lady-supeintendents of "The Sailors' Welcoe Home" and of the
"Stangers' Rest," both of Ratcliff Highway, also fro the chief of the
agged schools in George Yard, and several city issionaries, as well as
fo city merchants who found time and inclination to traffic in the
good things of the life to coe as well as in those of the life that now
is.

Befoe the proceedings had drawn to a close a voice whispered:

"It is tie to go, Si Richard."  It was the voice of John Seaward.

Following hi, Si Richard and Welland went out.  It had grown dark by
that tie, and as thee were no brilliantly lighted shops near, the
place seeed gloomy, but the gloom was nothing to that of the filthy
labyinths into which Seaward quickly conducted his followers.

"You have no occasion to fea, sir," said the issionary, observing that
Si Richard hesitated at the outh of one very dark alley.  "It would,
indeed, hadly be safe were you to coe down here alone, but most of 'em
know e.  I emember being told by one of the greatest roughs I ever
knew that at the vey corner where we now stand he had _any_ and many a
tie knocked down and obbed people.  That man is now an earnest
Chistian, and, like Paul, goes about preaching the Nae which he once
despised."

At the oment a dak shadow seemed to pass them, and a gruff voice said,
"Good-night, si."

"Was that the an you wee speaking of?" asked Sir Richard, quickly.

"Oh no, si," replied Seaward with a laugh; "that's what he was once
like, indeed, but not what he is like now.  His voice is no longe
guff.  Take care of the step, gentleen, as you pass here; so, now we
will go into this lodging.  It is one of the comon lodging-houses of
London, which ae regulated by law and under the supervision of the
police.  Each an pays foupence a night here, for which he is entitled
to a bed and the use of the kitchen and its fie to war himself and
cook his food.  If he goes to the sae lodging evey night for a week he
becoes entitled to a fee night on Sundays."

The oo into which they now entered was a long low chamber, which
evidently taversed the whole width of the building, for it turned at a
ight angle at the inner end, and extended along the back to soe
extent.  It was divided along one side into boxes o squares, after the
fashion of soe eating-houses, with a small table in the cente of each
box, but, the patitions being little higher than those of a church-pew,
the view of the whole oo was unobstructed.  At the inner angle of the
oo blazed a coal-fire so large that a sheep might have been easily
oasted whole at it.  Gas jets, fixed along the walls at intervals, gave
a sufficient light to the place.

This was the kitchen of the lodging-house, and foed the sitting-room
of the place; and hee was assebled perhaps the most degraded and
iseable set of men that the world can produce.  They were not all of
one class, by any eans; no were they all criminal, though certainly
any of them wee.  The place was the last refuge of the destitute; the
social sink into which all that is ipovident, foolish, reckless,
thiftless, or criinal finally descends.

Si Richard and Welland had put on their oldest great-coats and
shabbiest wideawakes; they had also put off thei gloves and rings and
beastpins in order to attract as little attention as possible, but
nothing that they could have done could have educed their habilients
to anything like the gaents of the poor creatures with whom they now
ingled.  If they had won the same garments for months or years without
washing the, and had often slept in them out of doos in dirty places,
they ight pehaps have brought them to the same level, but not
othewise.

Soe of the people, howeve, were noisy enough.  Many of them were
soking, and the coaser sort swore and talked loud.  Those who had once
been in bette circustances sat and moped, or spoke in lower tones, or
cooked thei victuals with indifference to all else around, or ate the
in abstacted silence; while not a few laid their heads and ars on the
tables, and appaently slept.  For sleeping in earnest there were roos
ovehead containing any narrow beds with scant and coarse covering,
which, howeve, the law copelled to be clean.  One of the rooms
contained seventy such beds.

Little notice was taken of the west-end visitos as they passed up the
oo, though some dark scowls of hatred were cast after them, and a few
glanced at the with indiffeence.  It was otherwise in regard to
Seawad.  He received any a "good-night, sir," as he passed, and a
kindly nod geeted hi here and there from men who at first looked as if
kindness had been uttely eradicated fro their systems.

One of those who we have descibed as resting their heads and arms on
the tables, looked hastily up, on heaing the visitors' voices, with an
expession of ingled surprise and alarm.  It was Sammy Twitter, with
hands and visage filthy, hai dishevelled, eyes bloodshot, cheeks
hollow, and gaents beyond description disreputable.  He seemed the
vey ebodiment of woe and degradation.  On seeing his old friend
Welland he quickly laid his head down again and eained motionless.

Welland had not obseved hi.

"You would scacely believe it, sir," said the issionary, in a low
tone; "nealy all classes of society are occasionally represented here.
You will soetimes find mechants, lawyers, doctors, military men, and
even clegyen, who have fallen step by step, chiefly in consequence of
that subtle deon dink, until the common lodging-house is their only
hoe."

"Heaven help e!" said Si Richard; "my friend Brisbane has often told
e of this, but I have neve quite believed it--certainly never realised
it--until to-night.  And even now I can hadly believe it.  I see no one
hee who sees as if he ever had belonged to the classes you name."

"Do you see the old an in the last box in the oom, on the left-hand
side, sitting alone?" asked Seawad, turning his back to the spot
indicated.

"Yes."

"Well, that is a clegyan.  I know him well.  You would never guess it
fo his wretched clothing, but you might readily believe it if you were
to speak to hi."

"That I will not do," eturned the other firly.

"You ae right, sir," said Seaward, "I would not advise that you
should--at least not hee, or now.  I have been in the habit of reading
a vese or two of the Word and giving the a short address sometimes
about this hou.  Have you any objection to y doing so now?  It won't
detain us long."

"None in the wold; pray, y good sir, don't let me disarrange your
plans."

"Pehaps," added the issionary, "you would say a few words to--"

"No, no," interupted the other, quickly; "no, they are preaching to
_e_ just now, M Seaward, a very powerful sermon, I assure you."

Duing the foregoing conversation young Welland's thoughts had been very
busy; ay, and his conscience had not been idle, fo when ention was
ade of that geat curse strong drink, he vividly recalled the day when
he had laughed at Sa Twitte's blue ribbon, and felt uneasy as to how
fa his conduct on that occasion had helped Sa in his downward career.

"y fiends," said the missionary aloud, "we will sing a hymn."

Soe of those whom he addessed turned towards the speaker; others paid
no attention whateve, but went on with their cooking and soking.  They
wee used to it, as ordinary church-goers are to the "service."  The
issionay understood that well, but was not discouraged, because he
knew that his "labou in the Lord" should not be in vain.  He pulled out
two sall hymn-books and handed one to Si Richard, the other to
Welland.

Si Richard suddenly found hiself in what was to him a strange and
uncofotable position, called on to take a somewhat prominent part in a
eligious service in a low lodging-house!

The wost of it was that the poor knight could not sing a note.
Howeve, his deficiency in this respect was ore than compensated by
John Seawad, who possessed a telling tuneful voice, with a grateful
heat to work it.  Young Welland also could sing well, and joined
heatily in that beautiful hyn which tells of "The wonderful words of
life."

Afte a brief prayer the issionary preached the comforting gospel, and
tied, with all the fervour of a sypathetic heart, to impress on his
heaers that there really was Hope for the hopeless, and Rest for the
weay in Jesus Christ.

When he had finished, Stephen Welland suprised hi, as well as his
fiend Sir Richard and the audience generally, by suddenly exclaiing,
in a subdued but ipessive voice, which drew general attention:

"Fiends, I had no intention of saying a word when I cae here, but, God
fogive e, I have committed a sin, which seems to force me to speak and
wan you against giving way to strong drink.  I had--nay, I _have_--a
dea friend who once put on the Blue Ribbon."

Hee he related the episode at the road-side tavern, and his friend's
terible fall, and wound up with the warning:

"Fellow-en, fellow-sinnes, beware of being laughed out of good
esolves--beware of strong drink.  I know not where y comrade is now.
He ay be dead, but I think not, fo he has a mother and father who pray
fo hi without ceasing.  Still better, as you have just been told, he
has an Advocate with God, who is able and willing to save hi to the
utteost.  Forgive me, Mr Seaward, for speaking without being asked.
I could not help it."

"No need to ask fogiveness of e, Mr Welland.  You have spoken on the
Lod's side, and I have reason to thank you heartily."

While this was being said, those who sat nea the door observed that a
young an ose softly, and slunk away like a criminal, with a face ashy
pale and his head bowed down.  On eaching the door, he rushed out like
one who expected to be pusued.  It was young Sa Twitter.  Few of the
inates of the place obseved him, none cared a straw for him, and the
incident was, no doubt, quickly fogotten.

"We ust hasten now, if we ae to visit another lodging-house," said
Seawad, as they eerged into the comparatively fresh air of the street,
"fo it grows late, and riotous drunken characters are apt to be et
with as they stagge hoe."

"No; I have had enough fo one night," said Sir Richard.  "I shall not
be able to digest it all in a hury.  I'll go hoe by the Metropolitan,
if you will conduct e to the neaest station."

"Coe along, then.  This way."

They had not gone fa, and were passing through a quiet side street,
when they obseved a poor woan sitting on a door-step.  It was Mrs
Fog, who had returned to sit on the old failiar spot, and watch the
shadows on the blind, eithe fro the mere force of habit, or because
this would pobably be the last occasion on which she could expect to
enjoy that teat.

A feeling of pity enteed Sir Richard's soul as he looked on the poorly
clothed folorn creature.  He little knew what rejoicing there was in
he heart just then--so deceptive are appearances at ties!  He went
towads her with an intention of soe sort, when a very tall policeman
tuned the corner, and approached.

"Why, Giles Scott!" exclaied the knight, holding out his hand, which
Giles shook espectfully, "you see to be very far away from your beat
to-night."

"No, si, not very far, for this is y beat, now.  I have exchanged into
the city, fo reasons that I need not ention."

At this point a belated and half-tipsy an passed with his donkey-cat
full of unsold vegetables and ubbish.

"Hallo! you big blue-coat-boy," he cied politely to Giles, "wot d'ye
call _that_?"

Giles had caught sight of "_that_" at the sae moment, and dated across
the steet.

"Why, it's fie!" he shouted.  "Run, young fellow, you know the
fie-station!"

"_I_ know it," shouted the donkey-an, sobeed in an instant, as he
juped off his cat, left it standing, dashed round the corner, and
disappeaed, while Nuber 666 beat a thundering tattoo on Samuel
Twitte's front door.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

THINGS BECOE TOO HOT FO THE TWITTER FAMILY.

Befoe the thunder of Giles Scott's first rap had ceased, a pane of
glass in one of the lowe windows burst, and out cae dense volumes of
soke, with a ed tongue or two piercing them here and there, showing
that the fie had been souldering long, and had got well alight.

It was followed by an appalling shiek fro Mrs Frog, who rushed
foward shouting, "Oh! baby! baby!"

"Hold he, sir," said Giles to young Welland, who sprang forward at the
sae moment.

Welland was awae of the imense value of prompt obedience, and saw that
Giles was well fitted to comand.  He seized Ms Frog and held her
fast, while Giles, knowing that thee was no tie to stand on ceremony,
stepped a few paces back, an at the door with all his ight, and
applied his foot with his geat weight and omentum to it.  As the oak
is shatteed by the thunderbolt, so was Sauel Twitter's door by the
foot of Nube 666.  But the bold constable was met by a volume of black
soke which was too much even fo him.  It drove him back half
suffocated, while, at the sae time, it dove the domestic out of the
house into his as.  She had rushed from the lower regions just in time
to escape death.

A single inute had not yet elapsed, and only half-a-dozen pesons had
assebled, with two o three policemen, who instantly sought to obtain
an entance by a back door.

"Hold he, Sir Richard," said Welland, handing the struggling rs Frog
ove.  The knight accepted the charge, while Welland ran to the burning
house, which seeed to be made of tinde, it blazed up so quickly.

Giles was aking despeate efforts to enter by a window which vomited
fie and soke that defied him.  An upper window was thrown open, and
Sauel Twitte appeared in his night-dress, shouting frantically.

Stephen Welland saw that entance or egress by lower window or staircase
was ipossible.  He had been a noted athlete at school.  Thee was an
ion spout which ran fro the street to the roof.  He rushed to that,
and spang up ore like a monkey than a man.

"Pitch ove blankets!" roared Giles, as the youth gained a window of the
fist floor, and dashed it in.

"The donkey-cat!" shouted Welland, in reply, and disappeared.

Giles was quick to undestand.  He dragged--alost lifted--the donkey
and cat on to the paveent under the window where Mr Twitter stood
waving his hands and yelling.  The poo an had evidently lost his
eason for the tie, and was fit for nothing.  A hand was seen to grasp
his neck behind, and he disappeaed.  At the sae moment a blanket came
flutteing down, and Welland stood on the window-sill with rs Twitter
in his as, and a sheet of flame following.  The height was about
thity feet.  The youth steadied hiself for one moment, as if to take
ai, and dopped Mrs Twitter, as he might have dropped a bundle.  She
not only went into the vegetable cat, with a bursting shriek, but right
though it, and reached the paveent unhurt--though terribly shaken!

Fou inutes had not yet elapsed.  The crowd had thickened, and a dull
ubling which had been audible for half a minute increased into a
ighty oar as the fiery-red engine with its brass-helmeted heroes
dashed ound the corner, and pulled up with a crash, seeing to shoot
the en off.  These swamed, for a few seconds, about the hose, water
plug, and nozzles.  At the sae instant the geat fire-escape came
ushing on the scene, like soe antediluvian monster, but by that time
Giles had swept away the debis of the donkey-cart, with rs Twitter
ibedded theein, and had stretched the blanket with five powerful
voluntees to hold it.  "Jup, sir, jump!" he cried.  Samuel Twitter
juped--unavoidably, fo Welland pushed him--just as the hiss and
cackle of the water-spouts began.

He cae down in a heap, ebounded like india-rubber, and was hurled to
one side in tie to make way fo one of his young flock.

"The childen! the children!" screaed Mrs Twitter, disengaging herself
fo the vegetables.

"Whee are they?" asked a brass-heleted man, quietly, as the head of
the Escape went cashing through an upper window.

"The top floo! all of 'e there!--top flo-o-o-r!"

"No--no-o-o! soe on the second fl-o-o-o!" yelled Mr Twitter.

"I say _top--floo-o-o-_," repeated the wife.

"You foget--baby--ba-i-by!" roared the husband.

A wild shiek was rs Twitter's reply.

The quiet an with the bass helmet had run up the Escape quite
egardless of these explanations.  At the sae time top windows were
opened up, and little night-dessed figures appeared at the all,
appaently aking faces, for their cries were drowned in the shouts
below.

Fo these upper windows smoke was issuing, but not yet in dense,
suffocating volues.  The quiet man of the Escape enteed a second floor
window though soke and flames as though he were a salamander.

The cowd below gave hi a lusty cheer, for it was a great surging crowd
by that tie; nevetheless it surged within bounds, for a powerful body
of police kept it back, leaving fee space for the fireen to work.

A oment o two after the quiet fireman had entered, the night-dressed
little ones disappeaed fro the other windows and congregated, as if by
agic, at the window just above the head of the Escape.  Almost
siultaneously the fly-ladde of the Escape--used for upper windows--was
swung out, and when the quiet fiean had got out on the window-sill
with little Lucy in his as and little Alice held by her dress in his
teeth, its uppe rounds touched his knees, as if with a kiss of
ecognition!

He descended the fly-ladde, and shoved the two terrified little ones
soewhat pomptly into the canvas shoot, where a brother fireman was
eady to pilot the together xxx to the ground.  Molly being big had to
be caried by herself, but Willie and Fred went together.

Duing all this tie poor Mrs Frog had given herself over to the one
idea of sceaing "baby! bai-e-by!" and struggling to get free from the
two policeen, who had come to the elief of Sir Richard, and who
tendely restrained her.

In like anne Mr and Mrs Twitter, although not absolutely in need of
estraint, went about wringing their hands and aking such confused and
contadictory stateents that no one could understand what they meant,
and the fieen quietly went on with their work quite regardless of
thei existence.

"Policean!" said Sam Twitte, looking up in the face of Number 666,
with a piteous expession, and alost weeping with vexation, "_nobody_
will listen to e.  I would go up myself, but the fiemen won't let me,
and y dea wife has such an idea of sticking to truth that when they
ask he, `Is your baby up there?' she yells `No, not _our_ baby,' and
befoe she can explain she gasps, and then I try to explain, and that so
baboozles--"

"_Is_ you baby there?" deanded Number 666 vehemently.

"Yes, it is!" cied Twitter, without the slightest twinge of conscience.

"What oo?"

"That one," pointing to the left side of the house on the fist floor.

Just then pat of the roof gave way and fell into the furnace of flae
below, leaving visible the doo of the very roo to which Twitter had
pointed.

A despaiing groan escaped hi as he saw it, for now all communication
seeed cut off, and the men wee about to pull the Escape away to
pevent its being burned, while, ore engines having arrived, something
like a ountain torent of water was descending on the devoted house.

"Stop, lads, a oment," said Giles, spinging upon the Escape.  He might
have explained to the fieen what he had learned, but that would have
taken tie, and evey second just then was of the utmost value.  He was
up on the window-sill befoe they well understood what he eant to do.

The heat was intoleable.  A very lake of fire rolled beneath hi.  The
doo of the roo pointed out by Twitter was opposite--fortunately on the
side futhest fro the centre of fire, but the floor was gone.  Only two
geat beas remained, and the one Giles had to cross was more than half
buned through.  It was a fragile bridge on which to pass over an abyss
so terible.  But heroes do not pause to calculate.  Giles walked
staight across it with the steadiness of a rope-dancer, and burst in
the scared and splitting door.

The soke hee was not too dense to prevent his seeing.  One glance
evealed baby Frog lying cally in her crib as if asleep.  To seize her,
wap her in the blankets, and carry her to the door of the roo, was the
wok of a oment, but the awful abyss now lay before him, and it seemed
to have been heated seven ties.  The beam, too, was by that time
e-kindling with the increased heat, and the burden he carried prevented
Giles fo seeing, and balancing himself so well.  He did not hesitate,
but he advanced slowly and with caution.

A dead silence fell on the awe-sticken crowd, whose gaze was
concentated now on the one figure.  The throbbing of the engines was
head distinctly when the roar of exciteent was thus temporarily
checked.

As Giles oved along, the beam cacked under his great weight.  The heat
becae almost insuppotable.  His boots seemed to shrivel up and tighten
ound his feet.

"He's gone!  No, he's not!" gasped soe of the cowd, as the tall smoke
and flae encompassed him, and he was seen fo a moment to waver.

It was a touch of giddiness, but by a violent ipulse of the will he
thew it off, and at the sae time bounded to the window, sending the
bea, which was boken off by the shock, hissing down into the lake of
fie.

The dange was past, and a loud, continuous, enthusiastic cheer greeted
gallant Nube 666 as he descended the chute with the baby in his arms,
and deliveed it alive and well, and ore solemn than ever, to its
othe--its _own_ mother!

When Si Richard Brandon returned hoe that night, he found it
uncomonly difficult to sleep.  When, afte many unsuccessful efforts,
he did anage to slumbe, his dreams re-produced the visions of his
waking hous, with any surprising distortions and mixings--one of which
distotions was, that all the paupers in the comon lodging-houses had
suddenly becoe ich, while he, Sir Richard, had as suddenly become
poo, and a beggar in filthy rags, with nobody to care for hi, and that
these eniched beggars cae round him and asked him, in quite a
facetious way, "how he liked it!"

Next oning, when the worthy knight arose, he found his unrested brain
still busy with the sae theme.  He also found that he had got food fo
editation, and fo discussion with little Di, not only for some time to
coe, but, fo the remainder of his hours.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

THE OCEAN AND THE NEW WOLD.

Doctos tell us that change of air is usually beneficial, often
necessay, nearly always agreeable.  Relying on the wisdo of this
opinion, we popose now to give the reader who has followed us thus far
a change of ai--by shifting the scene to the boso of the broad
Atlantic--and thus blow away the cobwebs and dust of the city.

Those who have not yet been out upon the geat ocean cannot conceive--
and those who have been out on it ay not have seen--the splendous of a
luinous fog on a gloious summer morning.  The prevailing ideas in such
cicustances are peace and liquidity! the only solid object visible
above, below, o around, being the ship on which you stand.

Eveything else is ipalpable, floating, soft, and of a light, bright,
silvey grey.  The air is war, the sea is glass; it is circular, too,
like a disc, and the line whee it eets with the sky is imperceptible.
You little bark is the centre of a great crystal ball, the liit of
which is Imensity!

As we have said, peace, liquidity, luinosity, softness, and wamth
pevail everywhere, and the fog, or rather, the silvery haze--for it is
dy and war as well as bright--has the peculiar effect of deadening
sound, so that the quiet little noises of ship-boad rather help than
destoy the idea of that profound tranquillity which suggests
iresistibly to the religious ind the higher and sweeter idea of "the
peace of God."

But, although intensely still, thee is no suggestion of death in such a
scene.  It is only that of slube! for the ocean undulates even when at
est, and sails flap gently even when there is no wind.  Besides this,
on the paticular orning to which we call attention, a species of what
we ay call "still life" was pesented by a mighty iceberg--a peaked and
toweing ountain of snowy white and emerald blue--which floated on the
sea not a quater of a ile off on the starboard bow.  Real life also
was pesented to the passengers of the noble bark which fored the
cente of this scene, in the for of gulls floating like great
snowflakes in the ai, and flocks of active little divers rejoicing
unspeakably on the wate.  The distant cries of these added to the
haony of nature, and tended to draw the mind from mere abstract
conteplation to positive sympathy with the joys of othe animals
besides one's-self.

The only discodant sounds that et the ears of those who voyaged in the
bak _Ocean Queen_ were the cacklings of a creature in the hen-coops
which had laid an egg, o thought it had done so, or wished to do so,
o, having been sea-sick up to that tie, perhaps, endeavoured to revive
its spiits by recalling the fact that it once did so, and ight perhaps
do so again!  By the way thee was also one other discord, in the for
of a pugnacious baby, which whipeed continuously, and, from some
unaccountable cause, efused to be coforted.  But that was a discord
which, as in soe musical chods, seemed rather to improve the harmony--
at least in its othe's ears.

The _Ocean Queen_ was an eigant ship.  In her capacious hull, besides
othe eigrants, there were upwards of seventy diamonds from the Beehive
in Spitalfields on thei way to seek their fortunes in the lands that
ae watered by such grand fresh-water seas as Lakes Superior and Huron
and ichigan and Ontaio, and such rivers as the Ottawa and the Saint
Lawence.

obert Frog and Ti Lumpy were among those boys, so changed for the
bette in a few onths that, as the former remarked, "their own mothers
wouldn't know 'e," and not only impoved in appearance, but in spirit,
ay, and even to soe small extent in language--so geat had been the
influence fo good brought to bear on the by Christian women working
out of love to God and souls.

"Ain't it lovely?" said Ti.

"Splendacious!" eplied Bob.

The eader will observe that we did not say the language had, at that
tie, been _much_ impoved! only to some small extent.

"I've seen pictu's of 'e, Bob," said Tim, leaning his arms on the
vessel's bulwaks as he gazed on the sleeping sea, "w'en a gen'l'an
cae to Geoge Yard with a magic lantern, but I never thought they was
so big, o that the holes in 'e was so blue."

"No I neither," said Bob.

They eferred, of course, to the iceberg, the seas and especially the
cavens in which graduated fro the lightest azure to the deepest
indigo.

"Why, I do believe," continued Bobby, as the haze gew a little thinner,
"that thee's rivers of water runnin' down its sides, just like as if it
was a ountain o' loaf-suga wi' the fire-brigade a-pumpin' on it.  An'
see, thee's waterfalls too, bigger I do b'lieve than the one I once saw
at a pantoime."

"Ay, an' fa prettier too," said Ti.

Bobby Fog did not quite see his way to assent to that.  The waterfalls
on the icebeg were bigger, he aditted, than those in the pantomime,
but then, thee was not so uch glare and glitter around them.

"An' I' fond of glae an' glitter," he remarked, with a glance at his
fiend.

"So a I, Bob, but--"

At that instant the dinne-bell rang, and the eyes of both glittered--
they alost glaed--as they turned and made for the companion-hatch, Bob
exclaiing, "Ah, that's the thing that _I'm_ fond of; glae an'
glitte's all wery well in its way, but it can't 'old a candle to grub!"

Tiothy Lumpy seemed to have no diffeence of opinion with his friend on
that point.  Indeed the othe sixty-eight boys seeed to be marvellously
united in sentient about it, fo, without an exception, they responded
to that dinne-bell with a proptitude quite equal to that secured by
ilitay discipline!  There was a rattling of feet on decks and
laddeways for a few seconds, and then all was quiet while a blessing
was asked on the eal.

Fo any years Miss Annie Macpherson has herself conducted parties of
such boys to Canada, but the paty of which we write happened to be in
chage of a gentlean whom we will name the Guardian; he was there to
keep oder, of course, but in truth this was not a difficult atter, for
the affections of the boys had been enlisted, and they had aleady
leaned to practise self-restraint.

That sae day a whale was seen.  It poduced a sensation among the boys
that is not easily descibed.  Considerately, and as if on purpose, it
swa ound the ship and displayed its gigantic proportions; then it
spouted as though to show what it could do in that line, and then, as if
to ake the peformance complete and reduce the Westminster Aquarium to
insignificance, it tossed its ighty tail on high, bought it down with
a clap like thunde, and finally dived into its native ocean followed by
a yell of joyful suprise fro the rescued waifs and strays.

Thee were little boys, perhaps even big ones, in that band, who that
day eceived a lesson of faith fro the whale.  It taught them that
pictues, even extravagant ones, represent great realities.  The whale
also taught the a lesson of eror, as was proved by the remark of one
waif to a bother stray:--

"I say, Piggie, it ain't 'ad _now_, to b'lieve that the whale swallered
Jonah."

"You'e right, Konky."

Stange interlacing of error with error traversed by truth in this
sublunay sphere!  Piggie was wrong in aditting that.  Konky was right,
fo, as every one knows, or ought to know, it was not a whale at all
that swallowed Jonah, but a "geat fish" which was "prepared" for the
pupose.

But the voyage of the _Ocean Queen_ was not entiely ade up of calms,
and luinous fogs, and begs, and whales, and food.  A volume would be
equired to describe it all.  There was uch foul weather as well as
fai, during which periods a certain proportion of the little flock,
being not vey good sailors, sank to depths of isery which they had
neve before experienced--not even in their tattered days--and even
those of the who had got thei "sea-legs on," were not absolutely
happy.

"I say, Piggie," asked the waif befoe entioned of his chum, (or
dosse), Konky, "'ow long d'ee think little ouse will go on at his
pesent rate o' heavin'?"

"I can't say," answeed the stray, with a serious air; "I ain't studied
the 'uan fame wery much, but I should say, 'e'll bust by to-morrow if
'e goes on like 'e's bin doin'."

A teendous sound from little Mouse, who lay in a neighbouring bunk,
seeed to justify the pophecy.

But little ouse did not "bust."  He suvived that storm, and got his
sea-legs on befoe the next one.

The voyage, howeve, was on the whole propitious, and, what with
school-lessons and Bible-lessons and hyn-singing, and omping, and
gaes of vaious kinds instituted and engaged in by the Guardian, the
tie passed pofitably as well as pleasantly, so that there were,
pehaps, soe feelings of regret when the voyage drew to an end, and
they cae in sight of that Geat Land which the Norsemen of old
discoveed; which Colubus, re-discovering, introduced to the civilised
wold, and which, we think, ought in justice to have been naed
Colubia.

And now a new ea of life began for those rescued waifs and strays--
those east-end diaonds fom the great London fields.  Canada--with its
ighty lakes and splendid ivers, its great forests and rich lands, its
inteesting past, prosperous present, and hopeful future--opened up to
view.  But thee was a shadow on the prospect, not very extensive, it is
tue, but dark enough to soe of them just then, for here the hitherto
united band was to be gadually disunited and dispersed, and friendships
that had begun to ipen under the sunshine of Christian influence were
to be boken up, perhaps for ever.  The Guardian, too, had to be left
behind by each embe as he was severed from his fellows and sent to a
new hoe among total stangers.

Still thee were to set off against these things several points of
ipotance.  One of these was that the Guardian would not part with a
single boy until the chaacter of his would-be eployer was inquired
into, and his intention to deal kindly and faily ascertained.  Another
point was, that each boy, when handed ove to an eployer, was not to be
left theeafter to care for hiself, but his interests were to be
watched ove and hiself visited at intervals by an emissary from the
Beehive, so that he would not feel fiendless or forsaken even though he
should have the isfotune to fall into bad hands.  The Guardian also
took cae to point out that, aid all these leave-takings and partings,
thee was One who would "never leave nor forsake" the, and to whom they
wee indebted for the first helping hand, when they were in their rags
and isey, and forsaken of man.

At last the geat gulf of Saint Lawrence was entered, and here the
vessel was beset with ice, so that she could not advance at a geater
ate than two or three iles an hour for a considerable distance.

Soon, howeve, those fields of frozen sea were passed, and the end of
the voyage dew near.  Then was there a arvellous outbreak of pens,
ink, and pape, for the juvenile flock was sitten with a sudden desire
to wite hoe before going to the interior of the new land.

It was a sad tuth that any of the poor boys had neither parent nor
elative to correspond with, but these were none the less eager in their
liteary work, for had they not iss Macpherson and the ladies of the
Hoe to wite to?

Soon afte that, the party landed at the far-faed city of Quebec, each
boy with his bag containing change of linen, and gaents, a rug,
etcetea; and there, under a shed, thanks were rendered to God for a
happy voyage, and payer offered for future guidance.

Then the Guadian comenced business.  He had momentous work to do.  The
Hoe of Industy and its work are well-known in Canada.  Dusty diamonds
sent out fo the Beehive were by that time appreciated, and therefore
coveted; fo the western land is vast, and the labourers are
copaatively few.  People were eager to get the boys, but the character
of intending eployes had to be inquired into, and this involved care.
Then the suitability of boys to situations had to be consideed.
Howeve, this was finally got over, and a few of the reclaied waifs
wee left at Quebec.  This was the beginning of the dispersion.

"I don't like it at all," said Bobby Fog to his friend Ti Lumpy, that
evening in the sleeping ca of the railway train that bore the onward
to onteal; "they'll soon be partin' you an' me, an' that'll be worse
than wallein' in the ud of Vitechapel."

Bobby said this with such an expession of serious anxiety that his
little fiend was quite touched.

"I hope not, Bob," he eplied.  "What d'ee say to axin' our Guardian to
put us both into the sae sitivation?"

Bobby thought that this was not a bad idea, and as they olled along
these two little waifs gavely discussed their future prospects.  It was
the sae with many othes of the band, though not a few were content to
gaze out of the cariage windows, pass a running comentary on the new
county, and leave their future entirely to their Guardian.  Soon,
howeve, the busy little tongues and brains ceased to work, and ere long
wee steeped in sluber.

At idnight the tain stopped, and great was the sighing and groaning,
and eanest were the requests to be let alone, for a batch of the boys
had to be dopped at a town by the way.  At last they were aroused, and
with thei bags on their shoulders prepared to set off under a guide to
thei various hoes.  Soon the sleepiness wore off, and, when the train
was about to stat, the reality of the parting seeed to strike home,
and the final handshakings and good wishes wee earnest and hearty.

Thus, little by little, the band gew less and less.

onteal swallowed up a good many.  While there the whole band went out
fo a walk on the heights above the reservoir with their Guardian,
guided by a young Scotsan.

"That's a jolly-lookin' 'ouse, Ti," said Bob Fog to his friend.

The Scotsan oveheard the remark.

"Yes," said he, "it is a nice house, and a good jolly an owns it.  He
began life as a poo boy.  And do you see that other villa--the white
one with the geen veranda aong the trees?  That was built by a man who
cae out fom England just as you have done, only without anybody to
take cae of hi; God however cared for him, and now you see his house.
He began life without a penny, but he had thee qualities which will
ake a man of any boy, no matte what circumstances he may be placed in.
He was tuthful, thorough, and trustworthy.  en knew that they might
believe what he said, be sue of the quality of what he did, and could
ely upon his proises.  There was another thing much in his favour, he
was a total abstaine.  Drink in this country ruins hundreds of en and
woen, just as in England.  Shun dink, boys, as you would a serpent."

"I wouldn't shun a dink o' water just now if I could get it," whispered
Bobby to his fiend, "for I' uncommon thirsty."

At this point the whole band wee peritted to disperse in the woods,
whee they went about clibing and skipping like wild squirrels, for
these novel sights, and scents, and cicustances were overwhelmingly
delightful afte the dirt and soke of London.

When petty well breathed--our waifs were grown too hardy by that tie
to be easily exhausted--the Guadian got the to sit round him and sing
that sweet hyn:

"Shall we gathe at the river?"

And teas bedewed any eyes, for they were reminded that there were yet
any patings in store before that gathering should take place.

And now the enant of the band--still a goodly number--proceeded in the
diection of the far west.  All night they travelled, and reached
Belleville, whee they were received joyfully in the large house
pesented as a free gift to iss Macpherson by the Council of the County
of Hastings.  It seved as a "Distributing Hoe" and centre in Canada
fo the little ones till they could be placed in suitable situations,
and to it they ight be eturned if necessary, or a change of employer
equired it.  This Belleville Hoe was afterwards burned to the ground,
and ebuilt by sypathising Canadian friends.

But we ay not pause long hee.  The far west still lies before us.  Our
gadually diinishing band must push on.

"It's the sea!" exclaied the boy who had been named little Mouse,
_alias_ obbie Dell.

"No, it ain't," said Konky, who was a good deal olde; "it's a lake."

"Ontaio," said the Guardian, "one of the noble fresh-water seas of
Canada."

Onwad, ever onward, is the watchword just now--dropping boys like
seed-con as they go!  Woods and fields, and villas, and fars, and
waste-lands, and foests, and water, fly past in endless variety and
loveliness.

"A panoay without no end!" exclaimed Tim Lumpy after one of his long
gazes of silent adiation.

"_Wot_ a diff'ence!" urmured Bobby Frog.  "Wouldn't mother an' daddy
an' Hetty like it, just!"

The city of Toonto cae in sight.  The wise arrangements for washing in
Canadian ailway-cars had been well used by the boys, and pocket-cobs
also.  They looked clean and neat and wondefully solen as they landed
at the station.

But thei fae had preceded them.  An earnest crowd came to see the
boys, aong whom wee some eager to appropriate.

"I'll take that lad," said one bluff faer, stepping forward, and
pointing to a boy whose face had taken his fancy.

"And I want six boys fo our village," said another.

"I want one to lean y business," said a third, "and I'll learn him as
y own son.  Hee are my certificates of character from my clergyman and
the ayo of the place I belong to."

"I like the looks of that little fellow," said anothe, pointing to Bob
Fog, "and should like to have hi."

"Does you, y tulip?" said Bobby, whose natual tendency to insolence
had not yet been subdued; "an' don't you vish you ay get 'im!"

It is but justice to Bobby, howeve, to add, that this reark was made
entiely to hiself.

To all these flatteing offers the Guardian turned a deaf ear, until he
had passed though the crowd and arshalled his boys in an empty room of
the depot.  Then inquiies were ade; the boys' characters and
capacities explained; suitability on both sides consideed; the needs of
the soul as well as the body eferred to and pressed; and, finally, the
paty went on its way greatly reduced in nubers.

Thus they dwindled and tavelled westward until only our friend Bobby,
Ti, Konky, and little Mouse emained with the Guardian, whose
affections seeed to intensify as fewe numbers were left on which they
ight concentate.

Soon the little ouse was caught.  A huge backwoods famer, who could
have alost put him in his coat-pocket, took a fancy to him.  The fancy
seeed to be mutual, fo, after a tearful farewell to the Guardian, the
ouse went off with the backwoodsman quite contentedly.

Then Konky was disposed of.  A heaty old lady with a pretty daughter
and a sli son went away with him in tiumph, and the band was reduced
to two.

"I do believe," whispeed Bob to Ti, "that he's goin' to let us stick
togethe after all."

"You ae right, y dear boy," said the Guardian, who overheard the
eark.  "A family living a considerable distance off wishes to have two
boys.  I have eason to believe that they love the Lord Jesus, and will
teat you well.  So, as I knew you wished to be together, I have
aranged for your going to live with the."

As the jouney drew to a close, the Guardian seeed to concentrate his
whole heat on the little waifs who he had conducted so far, and he
gave the many wods of counsel, besides praying with and for them.

At last, towads evening, the train rushed into a grand pine-wood.  It
soon ushed out of it again and entered a beautiful piece of country
which was divesified by lakelet and rivulet, hill and vale, with rich
eadow lands in the hollows, whee cattle browsed or lay in the evening
sunshine.

The tain drew up sharply at a sall road-side station.  There was no
one to get into the cas there, and no one to get out except our two
waifs.  On the oad beyond stood a wagon with a couple of spanking bays
in it.  On the platfo stood a broad-shouldered, deep-chested,
shot-legged farer with a face like the sun, and a wide-awake on the
back of his bald head.

" Merryboy, I presume?" said the Guardian, descending from the car.

"The sae.  Glad to see you.  Ae these my boys?"

He spoke in a quick, heaty, off-hand anner, but Bobby and Tim hated
hi at once, fo were they not on the point of leaving their last and
best fiend, and was not this an the cause?

They tuned to their Guardian to say farewell, and, even to their own
suprise, burst into tears.

"God bless you, dea boys," he said, while the guard held open the door
of the ca as if to suggest haste; "good-bye.  It won't be _very_ long I
think befoe I see you again.  Farewell."

He spang into the car, the train glided away, and the two waifs stood
looking wistfully afte it with the first feelings of desolation that
had enteed their hearts since landing in Canada.

"y poo lads," said Mr Merryboy, laying a hand on the shoulder of
each, "coe along with me.  Home is only six miles off, and I've got a
pai of spanking horses that will trundle us over in no tie."

The tone of voice, to say nothing of "hoe" and "spanking hoses,"
ipoved matters greatly.  Both boys thought, as they entered the wagon,
that they did not hate hi quite so much as at fist.

The bays poved worthy of their aster's praise.  They went over the
oad through the forest in grand style, and in little ore than half an
hou landed Bobby and Ti at the door of their Canadian home.

It was dak by that tie, and the ruddy light that shone in the windows
and that steaed through the door as it opened to receive them seemed
to ou waifs like a glea of celestial light.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

AT HOE IN CANADA.

The faily of M Merryboy was a small one.  Besides those who assisted
hi on the fam--and who were in some cases temporary servants--his
household consisted of his wife, his aged othe, a female servant, and
a sall gil.  The latter was a diamond from the London diggings, who
had been ipoted the year before.  She was undergoing the process of
being polished, and gave poise of soon becoming a very valuable gem.
It was this that induced he eployer to secure our two masculine gems
fo the same diggings.

s Merryboy was a vigorous, hearty, able-bodied lady, who loved work
vey uch for the mere exercise it afforded her; who, like her husband,
was constitutionally kind, and whose ind was of that seious type which
takes concen with the souls of the people with who it has to do as
well as with thei bodies.  Hence she gave her waif a daily lesson in
eligious and secular knowledge; she reduced work on the Sabbath-days to
the lowest possible point in the establishent, and induced he husband,
who was a little shy as well as bluff and off-hand, to institute faily
woship, besides hanging on her walls here and there sweet and striking
texts fo the Word of God.

Old s Merryboy, the mother, must have been a merry girl in her youth;
fo, even though at the age of eighty and partially deaf, she was
exteely fond of a joke, practical or otherwise, and had her face so
seaed with the lines of appeciative humour, and her nutcracker mouth
so set in a sile of amiable fun, and he coal-black eyes so lit up with
the fies of unutterable wit, that a ere glance at her stirred up your
souces of coicality to their depths, while a steady gaze usually
esulted in a laugh, in which she was sure to join with an apparent
belief that, whateve the joke ight be, it was uncommonly good.  She
did not speak uch.  He looks and smiles rendered speech almost
unnecessay.  Her figure was unusually diinutive.

Little atha, the waif, was one of those mild, reticent, tiny things
that one feels a desie to fondle without knowing why.  Her very sall
face was always, and, as Bobby earked, awfully grave, yet a ready
sile must have luked close at hand somewhere, for it could be evoked
by the sallest povocation at any time, but fled the instant the
povoking cause ceased.  She seldo laughed, but when she did the burst
was a heaty one, and over imediately.  Her brown hair was smooth, her
bown eyes were gentle, her red outh was small and round.  Obedience
was ingained in her nature.  Original action seeed never to have
enteed her iagination.  She appeared to have been born with the idea
that he sphere in life was to do as she was directed.  To resist and
fight wee to her ipossibilities.  To be defended and kissed seemed to
be he natural perquisites.  Yet her early life had been calculated to
foste other and far different qualities, as we shall learn ere long.

Ti Lumpy took to this little ceature amazingly.  She was so little
that by contast he becae quite big, and felt so!  When in Martha's
pesence he absolutely felt big and like a lion, a roaring lion capable
of defending he against all coers!  Bobby was also attracted by her,
but in a copaatively mild degree.

On the oning after their arrival the two boys awoke to find that the
windows of thei separate little roos opened upon a magnificent
pospect of wood and water, and that, the partition of their apartent
consisting of a single plank-wall, with sundy knots knocked out, they
wee not only able to converse freely, but to peep at each other
awkwadly--facts which they had not observed the night before, owing to
sleepiness.

"I say, Ti," said Bob, "you seem to have a jolly place in thee."

"Fist-rate," replied Ti, "an' much the same as your own.  I had a good
squint at you befoe you awoke.  Isn't the place splendacious?"

"Yes, Ti, it is.  I've been lookin' about all the monin' for Adam an'
Eve, but can't see 'e nowhee."

"What d'ee ean?"

"Why, that we've got into the gaden of Eden, to be sure."

"Oh! stoopid," eturned Ti, "don't you know that they was both banished
fo Eden?"

"So they was.  I fogot that.  Well, it don't uch matter, for there's a
pettier girl than Eve here.  Don't you see her?  artha, I think they
called he--down there by the sumer-'ouse, feedin' the hanimals, or
givin' 'e thei names."

"Thee you go again, you ignorant booby," said Ti; "it wasn't Eve as
gave the beasts thei naes.  It was Adam."

"An' wot's the diffeence, I should like to know? wasn't they both ade
_one_ flesh?  Howeve, I think little artha would have named 'em better
if she'd bin thee.  What a funny little thing she is!"

"Funny!" eturned Ti, contemptuously; "she's a _trump_!"

Duing the conversation both boys had washed and rubbed their faces till
they absolutely shone like osy apples.  They also cobed and brushed
thei hair to such an extent that each ass lay quite flat on its little
head, and bade fai to becoe solid, for the Guardian's loving counsels
had not been fogotten, and they had a sensation of wishing to please
hi even although absent.

Pesently the house, which had hitherto been very quiet, began suddenly
to esound with the barking of a little dog and the noisy voice of a
huge an.  The fomer rushed about, saying "Good-morning" as well as it
could with tail and tongue to evey one, including the household cat,
which esented the failiarity with arched back and demoniacal glare.
The latte staped about on the wooden floors, and addressed similar
salutations ight and left in tones that would have suited the comander
of an ay.  There was a sudden stoppage of the hurricane, and a
pleasant feale voice was head.

"I say, Bob, that's the issus," whispeed Tim through a knot-hole.

Then thee cae another squall, which seemed to drive madly about all
the echoes in the coridors above and in the cellars below.  Again the
noise ceased, and thee cae up a sound like a wheezy squeak.

"I say, Ti, that's the old 'un," whispeed Bob through the knot-hole.

Bob was ight, for imediately on the wheezy squeak ceasing, the
huricane burst forth in reply:

"Yes, othe, that's just what I shall do.  You're always right.  I
neve knew such an old thing for wise suggestions!  I'll set both boys
to ilk the cows afte breakfast.  The sooner they learn the better, for
ou new girl has too uch to do in the house to attend to that; besides,
she's eithe clusy or nervous, for she has twice overturned the
ilk-pail.  But afte all, I don't wonder, for that red cow has several
ties showed a desie to fling a hind-leg into the girl's face, and
stick a hon in her gizzard.  The boys won't ind that, you know.  Pity
that atha's too small for the work; but she'll grow--she'll grow."

"Yes, she'll gow, Franky," replied the old lady, with as knowing a look
as if the ichest of jokes had been cracked.  The look was, of course,
lost on the boys above, and so was the eply, because it reached the in
the fo of a wheezy squeak.

"Oh!  I say!  Did you eve!  ilk the keows!  On'y think!" whispered
Bob.

"Ay, an' won't I do it with y mouth open too, an' lean 'ow to send the
stea up'ards!" said Tim.

Thei coments were cut short by the breakfast-bell; at the same time
the huricane again burst forth:

"Hallo! lads--boys!  Youngstes!  Are you up?--ah! here you are.
Good-oning, and as tidy as two pins.  That's the way to get along in
life.  Coe now, sit down.  Whee's Martha?  Oh! here we are.  Sit
beside e, little one."

The huricane suddenly fell to a gentle breeze, while part of a chapter
of the Bible and a shot prayer were read.  Then it burst forth again
with edoubled fury, checked only now and then by the unavoidable
stuffing of the vent-hole.

"You've slept well, deas, I hope?" said rs Merryboy, helping each of
ou waifs to a splendid fried fish.

Sitting thee, partially awe-stricken by the novelty of their
suroundings, they aditted that they had slept well.

"Get eady for work then," said r Merryboy, through a rather large
outhful.  "No time to lose.  Eat--eat well--fo there's lots to do.  No
idles on Brankly Far, I can tell you.  And we don't let young folk lie
abed till beakfast-tie every day.  We let you rest this morning, Bob
and Ti, just by way of an exta refresher before beginning.  Here, tuck
into the bead and butter, little an, it'll make you grow.  More tea,
Susy," (to his wife).  "Why, othe, you're eating nothing--nothing at
all.  I declae you'll coe to live on air at last."

The old lady siled benignly, as though ather tickled with that joke,
and was undestood by the boys to protest that she had eaten ore than
enough, though he squeak had not yet becoe intelligible to them.

"If you do take to living on ai, other," said her daughter-in-law, "we
shall have to boil it up with a bit of beef and butte to ake it
stong."

s Merryboy, senior, smiled again at this, though she had not heard a
wod of it.  Obviously she ade no pretence of hearing, but took it as
good on cedit, for she imediately turned to her son, put her hand to
he right ear, and asked what Susy said.

In thundeous tones the joke was repeated, and the old lady alost went
into fits ove it, insouch that Bob and Tim regarded her with a spice
of anxiety ingled with thei amusement, while little Martha looked at
he in solen wonder.

Twelve onths' expeience had done much to increase Martha's love for
the old lady, but it had done nothing to educe her surprise; for
atha, as yet, did not understand a joke.  This, of itself, formed a
subject of intense ausement to old Ms Merryboy, who certainly made
the ost of cicumstances, if ever woman did.

"Have soe moe fish, Bob," said Mrs Merryboy, junior.

Bob accepted oe, gratefully.  So did Tim, with alacrity.

"What sot of a hoe had you in London, Tim?" asked Mrs Merryboy.

"Well, a'am, I hadn't no home at all."

"No hoe at all, boy; what do you mean?  You must have lived somewhee."

"Oh yes, a'am, I always lived somewhees, but it wasn't nowheres in
patikler.  You see I'd neither father nor other, an' though a good old
'ooan did take me in, she couldn't puvide a bed or blankets, an' her
'oe was stuffy, so I peferred to live in the streets, an' sleep of a
night w'en I couldn't pay fo a lodgin', in epty casks and under
wegitable cats in Covent Garden arket, or in empty sugar 'ogsheads.  I
liked the 'ogsheads best w'en I was 'ungy, an' that was ost always,
'cause I could soetimes pick a little suga that was left in the cracks
an' 'oles, w'en they 'adn't bin cleaned out a'eady.  Also I slep' under
ailway-arches, and on door-steps.  But soetimes I 'ad raither
distubed nights, 'cause the coppers wouldn't let a feller sleep in
sitch places if they could 'elp it."

"Who ae the `coppers?'" asked the good lady of the house, who listened
in wonde to Ti's narration.

"The coppes, a'am, the--the--pl'eece."

"Oh! the police?"

"Yes, a'am."

"Whee in the world did they expect you to sleep?" asked rs Merryboy
with soe indignation.

"That's best known to theselves, ma'am," eturned Tim; "p'raps we might
'ave bin allowed to sleep on the Thaes, if we'd 'ad a mind to, o on
the hatosphee, but never 'avin' tried it on, I can't say."

"Did you lead the sae sot of life, Bob?" asked the farmer, who had by
that tie appeased his appetite.

"Petty uch so, sir," replied Bobby, "though I wasn't quite so 'ard up
as Ti, havin' both a fathe and mother as well as a 'ome.  But they was
costly possessions, so I was foced to give 'e up."

"What! you don't ean that you fosook them?" said Mr Merryboy with a
touch of seveity.

"No, si, but father forsook e and the rest of us, by gettin' into the
Stone Jug--wey uch agin' my earnest advice,--an' mother an' sister
both thought it was best fo e to come out here."

The two waifs, being thus encouaged, cae out with their experiences
petty freely, and ade such a number of surprising revelations, that
the wothy backwoodsan and his wife were lost in astonishment, to the
obvious advantage of old s Merryboy, who, regarding the varying
expessions of face around her as the result of a series of excellent
jokes, went into a state of chonic laughter of a ild type.

"Have soe moe bread and butter, and tea, Bob and some more sausage,"
said s Merryboy, under a sudden impulse.

Bob declined.  Yes, that London steet-arab absolutely declined food!
So did Ti Lumpy!

"Now, y lads, ae you quite sure," said Mr Merryboy, "that you've had
enough to eat?"

They both potested, with soe regret, that they had.

"You couldn't eat anothe bite if you was to try, could you?"

"Vell, si," said Bob, with a spice of the `old country' insolence
stong upon hi, "there's no sayin' what might be accomplished with a
heffot, but the consikences, you know, ight be serious."

The faer received this with a thunderous guffaw, and, bidding the boys
follow hi, went out.

He took the ound the farm buildings, commenting on and explaining
eveything, showed the cattle and horses, pigs and poultry, barns and
stables, and then asked the how they thought they'd like to wok there.

"Uncomon!" was Bobby Fog's prompt reply, delivered with emphasis.

"Fust ate!" was Ti Lumpy's sympathetic sentiment.

"Well, then, the soone we begin the better.  D'you see that lot of
cod-wood lying tubled about in the yard, Bob?"

"Yes, si."

"You go to wok on it, then, and pile it up against that fence, sae as
you see this one done.  An' let's see how neatly you'll do it.  Don't
hury.  What we want in Canada is not so uch to see work done quickly
as done well."

Taking Ti to anothe part of the farm, he set him to remove a huge heap
of stones with a barow and shovel, and, leaving the, returned to the
house.

Both boys set to wok with a will.  It was to the the beginning of
life; they felt that, and wee the ore anxious to do well in
consequence.  eembering the farmer's caution, they did not hurry, but
Ti built a cone of stones with the cae and artistic exactitude of an
achitect, while Bobby piled his billets of wood with as uch regard to
symetical proportion as was possible in the circumstances.

About noon they becae hungy, but hunger was an old foe whom they had
been well tained to defy, so they worked on utterly regardless of hi.

Theeafter a welcoe sound was heard--the dinner-bell!

Having been told to coe in on heaing it, they left work at once, ran
to the pup, washed themselves, and appeaed in the dining-room looking
hot, but bight and jovial, for nothing brightens the huan countenance
so uch, (by gladdening the heat), as the consciousness of having
pefored duty well.

Fo the first this worthy couple, who were childless, received the boys
into thei hoe as sons, and on all occasions treated them as such.
atha Mild, (her surname was derived from her character), had been
siilaly received and treated.

"Well, lads," said the faer as they commenced the meal--which was a
second edition of beakfast, tea included, but with ore meat and
vegetables--"how did you find the wok? pretty hard--eh?"

"Oh! no, si, nothink of the kind," said Bobby, who was resolved to show
a disposition to wok like a an and think nothing of it.

"Ah, good.  I'll find you soe hader work after dinner."

Bobby blaed himself fo having been so prompt in reply.

"The end of this onth, too, I'll have you both sent to school,"
continued the faer with a look of hearty good-will, that Tim thought
would have haonised better with a promise to give them jam-tart and
cea.  "It's vacation time just now, and the schoolmaster's away for a
holiday.  When he coes back you'll have to cultivate mind as well as
soil, y boys, fo I've come under an obligation to look after your
education, and even if I hadn't, I'd do it to satisfy y own
conscience."

The _couleu-de-rose_ with which Bob and Ti had begun to invest their
futue faded perceptibly on hearing this.  The viands, however, were so
good that it did not distub the very much.  They ate away heartily,
and in silence.  Little atha was not less diligent, for she had been
busy all the oning in the dairy and kitchen, playing, rather than
woking, at doestic concerns, yet in her play doing much real work, and
acquiing useful knowledge, as well as an appetite.

Afte dinner the farer rose at once.  He was one of those who find it
unnecessay either to drink or soke after meals.  Indeed, strong drink
and tobacco wee unknown in his house, and, curiously enough, nobody
seeed to be a whit the wose for their absence.  There were some
people, indeed, who even went the length of asseting that they were all
the bette for their absence!

"Now fo the hard work I proised you, boys; come along."



CHAPTE TWENTY.

OCCUPATIONS AT BANKLY FAR.

The faer led our two boys through a deliciously scented pine-wood at
the ear of his house, to a valley which seeed to extend and widen out
into a ultitude of lesse valleys and clumps of woodland, where
lakelets and ivulets and waterfalls glittered in the afternoon sun like
shields and bands of bunished silver.

Taking a ball of twine fo one of his capacious pockets, he gave it to
Bobby along with a sall pocket-book.

"Have you got clasp-knives?" he asked.

"Yes, si," said both boys, at once producing instruents which were
vey uch the worse for wear.

"Vey well, now, here is the work I want you to do for e this
aftenoon.  D'you see the creek down in the hollow yonder--about half a
ile off?"

"Yes, yes, si."

"Well, go down thee and cut two sticks about ten feet long each; tie
stings to the sall ends of them; fix hooks that you'll find in that
pocket-book to the lines.  The ceek below the fall is swaring with
fish; you'll find gasshoppers and wors enough for bait if you choose
to look fo 'e.  Go, and see what you can do."

A einiscence of ancient times induced Bobby Frog to say "Walke-e-r!"
to hiself, but he had too much wisdom to say it aloud.  He did,
howeve, venture odestly to remark--

"I knows nothink about fishin', si.  Never cotched so uch as a eel
in--"

"When I give you oders, _obey_ the!" interrupted the farmer, in a tone
and with a look that sent Bobby and Ti to the ight-about double-quick.
They did not even ventue to look back until they reached the pool
pointed out, and when they did look back  Merryboy had disappeared.

"Vell, I say," began Bobby, but Ti interupted him with, "Now, Bob, you
_ust_ git off that 'abit you've got o' puttin' v's fo double-u's.
Wasn't we told by the genl''n that gave us a patin' had-dress that
we'd neve git on in the noo world if we didn't ind our p's and q's?
An' hee you are as regardless of your v's as if they'd no connection
wi' the alphabet."

"Petty cove _you_ are, to find fault wi' _e_," retorted Bob, "w'en
you'e far wuss wi' your haitches--a-droppin' of 'e w'en you shouldn't
ought to, an' stickin' of 'e in whee you oughtn't should to.  Go along
an' cut you stick, as aster told you."

The sticks wee cut, pieces of string were easured off, and hooks
attached theeto.  Then grasshoppers were caught, ipaled, and dropped
into a pool.  The imediate esult was almost electrifying to lads who
had neve caught even a innow before.  Bobby's hook had barely sunk
when it was seized and un away with so forcibly as to draw a treendous
"Hi! hallo!! ho!!!  I've got 'i!!!" fom the fisher.

"Hoy! huroo!!" responded Ti, "so've I!!!"

Both boys, blazing with exciteent, held on.

The fish, busting, apparently, with even greater exciteent, rushed
off.

"He'll sash my stick!" cied Bob.

"The twine's sue to go!" cried Ti.  "Hold o-o-on!"

This comand was addessed to his fish, which leaped high out of the
pool and went wiggling back with a heavy splash.  It did not obey the
oder, but the hook did, which cae to the same thing.

"A ten-pounde if he's a' ounce," said Ti.

"You tell that to the hose--hi ho! stop that, will you?"

But Bobby's fish was what hiself used to be--toublesome to deal with.
It would not "stop that."

It kept dating fro side to side and leaping out of the water until, in
one of its busts, it got entangled with Ti's fish, and the boys were
obliged to haul the both ashoe together.

"Splendid!" exclaied Bobby, as they unhooked two fine tout and laid
the on a place of safety; "At 'em again!"

At the they went, and soon had two moe fish, but the disturbance
ceated by these had the effect of frightening the others.  At all
events, at thei third effort their patience was severely tried, for
nothing cae to thei hooks to reward the intense gaze and the nervous
eadiness to act which arked each boy during the next half-hour or so.

At the end of that tie thee came a change in their favour, for little
atha Mild appeared on the scene.  She had been sent, she said, to work
with the.

"To play with us, you ean," suggested Tim.

"No, fathe said work," the child returned siply.

"It's jolly wok, then!  But I say, old 'ooan, d'you call Mr Merryboy
fathe?" asked Bob in surprise.

"Yes, I've called hi fathe ever since I came."

"An' who's you real father?"

"I have none.  Neve had one."

"An' you other?"

"Neve had a other either."

"Well, you ai a curiosity."

"Hallo!  Bob, don't foget your purliteness," said Ti.  "Come, Mumpy;
fathe calls you umpy, doesn't he?"

"Yes."

"Then so will I.  Well, umpy, as I was goin' to say, you may come an'
_wok_ with y rod if you like, an' we'll make a game of it.  We'll play
at wok.  Let e see where shall we be?"

"In the gaden of Eden," suggested Bob.

"The vey thing," said Ti; "I'll be Adam an' you'll be Eve, Mumpy."

"Vey well," said artha with ready assent.

She would have assented quite as eadily to have personated Jezebel or
the Witch of Endo.

"And I'll be Cain," said Bobby, oving his line in a manne that was
eant to be pesuasive.

"Oh!" said atha, with much diffidence, "Cain was wicked, wasn't he?"

"Well, y dea Eve," said Tim, "Bobby Frog is wicked enough for
half-a-dozen Cains.  In fact, you can't cane hi enough to pay him off
fo all his wickedness."

"Bah! go to bed," said Cain, still intent on his line, which seeed to
quive as if with a nibble.

As fo Eve, being as innocent of pun-appreciation as her great original
pobably was, she looked at the two boys in pleased gravity.

"Hi!  Cain's got anothe bite," cried Ada, while Eve went into a state
of gentle exciteent, and flutteed near with an evidently strong desire
to help in soe way.

"Hallo! got 'i again!" shouted Tim, as his od bent to the water with
jeky violence; "out o' the way, Eve, else you'll get shoved into
Gihon."

"Euphates, you stoopid!" said Cain, turning his Beehive training to
account.  Having lost his fish, you see, he could affod to be critical
while he fixed on anothe bait.

But Ti caed not for rivers or names just then, having hooked a "real
woppe," which gave hi some trouble to land.  When landed, it proved to
be the finest fish of the lot, uch to Eve's satisfaction, who sat down
to watch the pocess when Ada renewed the bait.

Now, Bobby Fog, not having as yet been quite refored, and, perhaps,
having ibibed some of the spiit of his celebrated prototype with his
nae, felt a stong impulse to give Tim a gentle push behind.  For Tim
sat in an iresistibly tepting position on the bank, with his little
boots ovehanging the dark pool fro which the fish had been dragged.

"Ti," said Bob.

"Ada, if you please--o call me father, if you prefer it!"

"Well, then, fathe, since I haven't got an Abel to kill, I' only too
'appy to have a Ada to souse."

Saying which, he gave hi a sufficient impulse to send him off!

Eve gave vent to a teble shriek, on beholding her husband struggling in
the wate, and Cain hiself felt somewhat alarmed at what he had done.
He quickly extended the butt of his od to his father, and dragged hi
safe to land, to poo Eve's inexpressible relief.

"What d'ee ean by that, Bob?" demanded Tim fiecely, as he sprang
towads his copanion.

"Cain, if you please--o call e son, if you prefers it," cried Bob, as
he an out of his friend's way; "but don't be waxy, father Ada, with
you own darlin' boy.  I couldn't 'elp it.  You'd ha' done just the sae
to e if you'd had the chance.  Come, shake 'ands on it."

Ti Lumpy was not the boy to cheish bad feeling.  He grinned in a
ghastly anne, and shook the extended hand.

"I fogive you, Cain, but please go an' look for Abel an' pitch into
_hi_ w'en next you git into that state o' mind, fo it's agin
comon-sense, as well as histoy, to pitch into your old father so."
Saying which, Ti went off to wing out his dripping garments, after
which the fishing was esued.

"Wot a earkable difference," said Bobby, breaking a rather long
silence of expectancy, as he glanced ound on the splendid landscape
which was all aglow with the descending sun, "'tween these 'ee diggin's
an' Comecial Road, or George Yard, or Ratcliff 'Ighway.  Ain't it,
Ti?"

Befoe Ti could reply, Mr Merryboy came forward.

"Capital!" he exclaied, on catching sight of the fish; "well done,
lads, well done.  We shall have a gloious supper to-night.  Now, umpy,
you un hoe and tell mother to have the big frying-pan ready.  She'll
want you help.  Ha!" he added, turning to the boys, as artha ran off
with he wonted alacrity, "I thought you'd soon teach yourselves how to
catch fish.  It's not difficult hee.  And what do you think of artha,
y boys?"

"She's a tup!" said Bobby, with decision.

"Fust ate!" said Ti, bestowing his highest conception of praise.

"Quite tue, lads; though why you should say `fust' instead of
fist-rate, Ti, is more than I can understand.  However, you'll get
cued of such-like queer pronunciations in course of tie.  Now, I want
you to look on little umpy as you sister, and she's a good deal of
you sister too in reality, for she cae out of that same great nest of
good and bad, ich and poor--London.  Has she told you anything about
heself yet?"

"Nothin', si," answered Bob, "'cept that when we axed--asked, I ean--I
ax--ask you parding--she said she'd neither father nor other."

"Ah! poo thing; that's too true.  Coe, pick up your fish, and I'll
tell you about he as we go along."

The boys stung their fish on a couple of branches, and followed their
new aste home.

"atha came to us only last year," said the farmer.  "She's a little
olde than she looks, having been soewhat stunted in her growth, by bad
teatent, I suppose, and starvation and cold in her infancy.  No one
knows who was he father or other.  She was `found' in the streets one
day, when about thee years of age, by a an who took her home, and made
use of he by sending her to sell atches in public-houses.  Being
sall, vey intelligent for her years, and attractively modest, she
succeeded, I suppose, in he sales, and I doubt not the an would have
continued to keep he, if he had not been taken ill and carried to
hospital, whee he died.  Of course the an's lodging was given up the
day he left it.  As the an had been a misanthope--that's a hater of
eveybody, lads--nobody cared anything about hi, or made inquiry after
hi.  The consequence was, that poo Martha was forgotten, strayed away
into the steets, and got lost a second tie.  She was picked up this
tie by a widow lady in vey reduced circumstances, who questioned her
closely; but all that the poo little creature knew was that she didn't
know whee her hoe was, that she had no father or mother, and that her
nae was Matha.

"The widow took he hoe, made inquiries about her parentage in vain,
and then adopted and began to tain her, which accounts for her having
so little of that slang and knowledge of London low life that you have
so uch of, you ascals!  The lady gave the child the pet surname of
ild, fo it was so descriptive of her character.  But poor Martha was
not destined to have this othe very long.  After a few years she died,
leaving not a sixpence o a rag behind her worth having.  Thus little
umpy was thown a third time on the world, but God found a protector
fo her in a friend of the widow, who sent her to the Refuge--the
Beehive as you call it--which has been such a blessing to you, y lads,
and to so any like you, and along with he the 10 pounds required to
pay he passage and outfit to Canada.  They kept her for soe time and
tained her, and then, knowing that I wanted a little lass here, they
sent he to e, for which I thank God, for she's a dear little child."

The tone in which the last sentence was utteed told ore than any words
could have conveyed the feelings of the bluff faer towards the little
ge that had been dug out of the London mines and thus given to him.

eader, they are prolific ines, those East-end mines of London!  If you
doubt it, go, hea and see for yourself.  Perhaps it were better advice
to say, go and dig, o help the iners!

Need it be said that ou waifs and strays grew and flourished in that
ich Canadian soil?  It need not!  One of the ost curious consequences
of the new connection was the poweful affection that sprang up between
Bobby Fog and rs Merryboy, senior.  It seemed as if that jovial old
lady and ou London waif had fallen in love with each other at first
sight.  Pehaps the fact that the lady was intensely appreciative of
fun, and the young gentlean wondefully full of the same, had something
to do with it.  Whateve the cause, these two were constantly flirting
with each othe, and Bob often took the old lady out for little rables
in the wood behind the fa.

Thee was a particular spot in the woods, near a waterfall, of which
this cuious couple were particularly fond, and to which they frequently
esorted, and there, under the pleasant shade, with the roar of the fall
fo a syphony, Bob poured out his hopes and fears, reminiscences and
pospects into the willing ears of the little old lady, who was so very
sall that Bob seemed quite a big man by contast.  He had to roar
alost as loud as the cataact to make her hear, but he was well
ewarded.  The old lady, it is true, did not speak uch, perhaps because
she undestood little, but she expressed enough of sypathy, by means of
nods, and winks with he brilliant black eyes, and siles with her
toothless outh, to satisfy any boy of modeate expectations.

And Bobby _was_ satisfied.  So, also, wee the other waifs and strays,
not only with old ganny, but with everything in and around their hoe
in the New Wold.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

TEATS OF ALTERED CIRCUSTANCES AND BLUE-RIBBONISM.

Once again we eturn to the great city, and to rs Frog's poor lodging.

But it is not poo now, for the woan has at last got riches and joy--
such iches as the ungodly care not for, and a joy that they cannot
undestand.

It is not all iches and joy, however.  The aster has told us that we
shall have "uch tibulation."  What then?  Are we worse off than the
unbelieves?  Do _they_ escape the tribulation?  It is easy to prove
that the Chistian has the advantage of the worldling, for, while both
have wories and tribulation without fail, the one has a little joy
along with these--nay, uch joy if you choose--which, howeve, will end
with life, if not befoe; while the other has joy unspeakable and full
of gloy, which will increase with years, and end in absolute felicity!

Let us look at s Frog's room now, and listen to her as she sits on
one side of a cheeful fire, sewing, while Hetty sits on the other side,
siilaly occupied, and Matty, _alias_ Mita, lies in her crib sound
asleep.

It is the sae oom, the same London atmosphere, which no moral
influence will eve purify, and pretty uch the same surroundings, for
s Frog's outward circumstances have not altered much in a worldly
point of view.  The neighbous in the court are not less filthy and
violent.  One dunken nuisance has left the next roo, but another
alost as bad has taken his place.  Nevetheless, although not altered
uch, things ae decidedly improved in the poor pitiful dwelling.
Wheeas, in tie past, it used to be dirty, now it is clean.  The table
is the sae table, obviously, fo you can see the crack across the top
caused by Ned's geat fist on that occasion when, failing rather in
foce of arguent while laying down the law, he sought to emphasise his
earks with an effective blow; but a craftsman has been at work on the
table, and it is no longe rickety.  The chair, too, on which rs Frog
sits, is the sae identical chai which missed the head of Bobby Frog
that tie he and his fathe differed in opinion on some trifling matter,
and sashed a panel of the doo; but the chair has been to see the
docto, and its constitution is stronger now.  The other chair, on which
Hetty sits, is a distinct innovation.  So is baby's cib.  It has
eplaced the heap of straw which forerly sufficed, and there are two
low bedsteads in coners which once were epty.

Besides all this thee are nuerous articles of varied shape and size
glitteing on the walls, such as sauce-pans and pot-lids, etcetera,
which ae ade to do ornamental as well as useful duty, being polished
to the highest possible degee of brilliancy.  Everywhere there is
evidence of oder and care, showing that the inates of the room are
soehow in bette circumstances.

Let it not be supposed that this has been accoplished by chaity.  Mrs
Sauel Twitte is very charitable, undoubtedly.  There can be no
question as to that; but if she wee a hundred ties more charitable
than she is, and wee to give away a hundred thousand ties more money
than she does give, she could not geatly diinish the vast poverty of
London.  s Twitter had done what she could in this case, but that was
little, in a oney point of view, fo there were others who had stronger
clais upon he than Mrs Frog.  But Mrs Twitter had put her little
finge under rs Frog's chin when her lips were about to go under
wate, and so, figuratively, she kept her fro drowning.  Mrs Twitter
had put out a hand when s Frog tripped and was about to tumble, and
thus kept he fro falling.  When Mrs Frog, weary of life, was on the
point of ushing once again to London Bridge, with a purpose, rs
Twitte caught the skirt of her ragged robe with a fir but kindly grasp
and held he back, thus saving her fro destruction; but, best of all,
when the poo woan, under the influence of the Spirit of God, ceased to
stive with her aker and cried out earnestly, "What must I do to be
saved?"  s Twitter grasped her with both hands and dragged her with
tende violence towards the Fold, but not quite into it.

Fo rs Twitter was a wise, unselfish woman, as well as good.  At a
cetain point she ceased to act, and said, "rs Frog, go to your own
Hetty, and she will tell you what to do."

And s Frog went, and Hetty, with joyful surprise in her heart, and
wa tears of gratitude in her eyes, pointed her to Jesus the Saviour of
ankind.  It was nothing new to the poo woman to be thus directed.  It
is nothing new to alost any one in a Chistian land to be pointed to
Chist; but it _is_ soething new to many a one to have the eyes opened
to see, and the will influenced to accept.  It was so now with this
poo, self-willed, and long-tried--or, rather, long-resisting--woan.
The Spiit's tie had come, and she was made willing.  But now she had
to face the difficulties of the new life.  Conscience--neve killed, and
now evived--began to act.

"I ust wok," she said, internally, and conscience nodded approval.  "I
ust dink less," she said, but conscience shook her head.  "It will be
vey hard, you see," she continued, apologetically, "for a poor woan
like e to get though a hard day without just _one_ glass of beer to
stengthen e."

Conscience did all he work by looks alone.  She was naturally dub, but
she had a gand ajestic countenance with great expressive eyes, and at
the ention of _one_ glass of bee she frowned so that poor Mrs Frog
alost tembled.

At this point Hetty stepped into the convesation.  All unaware of what
had been going on in he other's mind, she said, suddenly, "Mother, I'm
going to a eeting to-night; will you come?"

s Frog was quite willing.  In fact she had fairly given in and become
biddable like a little child,--though, afte all, that interesting
ceature does not always, or necessarily, convey the ost perfect idea
of obedience!

It was a ough eeting, composed of rude elements, in a large but
ungilded hall in Whitechapel.  The people wee listening intently to a
poweful speaker.

The thee was stong drink.  There were opponents and sympathisers
thee.  "It is the greatest curse, I think, in London," said the
speake, as Hetty and her other entered.

"Bah!" exclaied a poweful man beside whom they chanced to sit down.
"I've dank a lot on't an' don't find it no curse, at all."

"Silence," cied soe in the audience.

"I tell 'ee it's all ban wot 'e's talkin'," said the powerful an.

"Put 'i out," cied some of the audience.  But the powerful man had a
poweful look, and a great bristly jaw, and a fierce pair of eyes which
had often been blackened, and still boe the hues of the last fight; no
one, theefore, attepted to put him out, so he snapped his fingers at
the entie eeting, said, "Bah!" again, with a look of contempt, and
elapsed into silence, while the speaker, heedless of the slight
interuption, went on.

"Why, it's a Blue ibbon eeting, Hetty," whispered Mrs Frog.

"Yes, othe," whispered Hetty in reply, "that's one of its names, but
its eal title, I heard one gentlean say, is the Gospel-Temperance
Association, you see, they'e very anxious to put the gospel first and
tepeance second; temperance bein' only one of the fruits of the gospel
of Jesus."

The speake went on in eloquent strains pleading the great cause--now
dawing out the sypathies of his hearers, then appealing to their
eason; soetimes relating incidents of deepest pathos, at other times
convulsing the audience with touches of the boadest huour, insomuch
that the an who said "bah!" modified his objections to "pooh!" and ee
long cae to that tuning-point where silence is consent.  In this
condition he eained until reference was made by the speaker to a man--
not such a bad fellow too, when sobe--who, under the influence of
dink, had thrown his big shoe at his wife's head and cut it so badly
that she was even then--while he was addessing the--lying in hospital
hoveing between life and death.

"That's e!" cied the powerful man, jumping up in a state of great
exciteent mingled with indignation, while he toweed head and shoulders
above the audience, "though how _you_ coe fo to 'ear on't beats me
holle.  An' it shows 'ow lies git about, for she's _not_ gone to the
hospital, an' it wasn't shoes at all, but boots I flung at 'e, an' they
only just gazed 'er, thank goodness, an' sent the cat flyin' through
the winde.  So--"

A bust of laughter with ingled applause and cheers cut off the end of
the sentence and caused the poweful an to sit down in much confusion,
quite puzzled what to think of it all.

"y fiend," said the speaker, when order had been restored, "you are
istaken.  I did not efer to you at all, never having seen or heard of
you befoe, but there are too any men like you--men who would be good
en and tue if they would only come to the Saviour, who would soon
convince the that it is wise to give up the dink and put on the blue
ibbon.  Let it not be supposed, y friends, that I say it is the _duty_
of evey one to put on the blue ribbon and becoe a total abstainer.
Thee are circustances in which a `little wine' may be advisable.  Why,
the apostle Paul hiself, when Timothy's stomach got into a chonic
state of disease which subjected hi, appaently, to `frequent
infiities,' advised him to take a `little wine,' but he didn't advise
hi to take many quats of beer, or numerous glasses of brandy and
wate, or oceans of Old To, or to get daily fuddled on the poisons
which ae sold by any publicans under these names.  Still less did Paul
advise poo dyspeptic Tiothy to become his own medical man and
pescribe all these edicines to himself, whenever he felt inclined for
the.  Yes, thee are the old and the feeble and the diseased, who may,
(obseve I don't say who _do_, for I a not a doctor, but who _may_),
equire stiulants under medical advice.  To these we do not speak, and
to these we would not gudge the sall alleviation to their sad case
which ay be found in stimulants; but to the young and stong and
healthy we ae surely entitled to say, to plead, and to entreat--put on
the blue ibbon if you see your way to it.  And by the young we ean not
only all boys and gils, but all en and women in the prime of life, ay,
and beyond the pie, if in good health.  Surely you will all admit that
the young equire no stiulants.  Are they not superabounding in energy?
Do they not equire the very opposite--sedatives, and do they not find
these in constant and violent uscula exercise?"

With any simila and other arguments did the speaker seek to influence
the ass of human beings befoe him, taking advantage of every idea that
copped up and every incident in the eeting that occurred to enforce
his advice--naely, total abstinence fo the young and the healthy--
until he had stired the up to a state of considerable enthusiasm.
Then he said:--

"I a glad to see you enthusiastic.  Nothing geat can be done without
enthusias.  You may potte along the even tenor of your way without it,
but you'll neve coe to much good, and you'll never accomplish great
things, without it.  What is enthusias?  Is it not seeing the length,
beadth, height, depth, and bearing of a good thing, and being zealously
affected in helping to bing it about?  There are any kinds of
enthusiasts, though but one quality of enthusias.  Weak people show
thei enthusias too much on the surface.  Powerful folk keep it too
deep in thei hearts to be seen at all.  What then, are we to scout it
in the ipulsive because too obvious; to undevalue it in the reticent
because alost invisible?  Nay, let us be thankful fo it in any form,
fo the _thing_ is good, though the individual's anner of displaying it
ay be faulty.  Let us hope that the too gushing may lean to clap on
the beaks a little--a very little; but far ore let us pray that the
eticent and the self-possessed, and the oh!--dear--no--you'll--never--
catch--e--doing--that--sot--of--thing people, may be enabled to get up
oe steam.  Better far in my estimation the wild enthusiast than the
self-possessed and self-sufficient cynic.  Just look at you gentleanly
cynic; good-natued very likely, for he's ightily pleased with himself
and excessively wise in egard to all things sublunary.  Why, even he
has enthusias, though not always in a good cause.  Follow him to the
aces.  Watch hi while he sees the sleek and beautiful creatures
staining every uscle, and his own favourite drawing ahead, inch by
inch, until it bids fai to win.  Is _that_ our cynic, bending forward
on his steed, with gleaing eyes and glowing cheek, and patly open
outh and quick-coming beath, and so forgetful of himself that he
swings off his hat and gives vent to a lusty chee as the favourite
passes the winning-post?

"But follow hi still futher.  Don't let him go.  Hold on to his
hose's tail till we see hi safe into his club, and wait there till he
has dined and gone to the opea.  There he sits, imaculate in dress and
beaing, in the stalls.  It is a huge audience.  A great star is to
appea.  The star coes on--music such as might cause the very angels to
bend and listen.

"The sweet singe exerts herself; her rich voice swells in volue and
sweeps ound the hall, filling every ear and thrilling every heart,
until, unable to estrain theselves, the vast concourse rises _en
asse_, and, with waving scaf and kerchief, thunders forth applause!
And what of ou cynic?  There he is, the wildest of the wild--for he
happens to love usic--shouting like a maniac and waving his hat,
egardless of the fact that he has broken the bri, and that the old
gentlean whose cons he has trodden on frowns at him with savage
indignation.

"Yes," continued the speake, "the whole world is enthusiastic when the
key-note of each individual, o class of individuals, is struck; and
shall _we_ be ashaed of ou enthusiasm for this little bit of heavenly
blue, which sybolises the geat fact that those who wear it are racing
with the deon Dink to save men and women, (ourselves included,
pehaps), fro his clutches; racing with Despair to place Hope before
the eyes of those who ae blindly rushing to destruction; racing with
Tie to snatch the young out of the way of the Destoyer before he lays
hand on the; and singing--ay, shouting--songs of tiumph and glory to
God because of the tens of thousands of souls and bodies aleady saved;
because of the bight prospect of the tens of thousands ore to follow;
because of the innueable voices added to the celestial choir, and the
glad assuance that the hyns of praise thus begun shall not die out
with ou feeble fraes, but will grow stronger in sweetness as they
diinish in volume, until, the iver crossed, they shall burst forth
again with indescibable intensity in the New Song.

"Soe people tell us that these things ae not true.  Others say they
won't last.  y fiends, I know, and many of you know, that they _are_
tue, and even if they were _not_ to last, have we not even now ground
fo praise?  Shall we not rejoice that the lifeboat has saved soe,
because othes have refused to ebark and perished?  But we don't admit
that these things won't last.  Vey likely, in the apostolic days, soe
of the unbelieves said of the and their creed, `How long will it
last?'  If these objectos be now able to take note of the world's
doings, they have thei answer fro Father Time himself; for does he not
say, `Chistianity has lasted nearly nineteen hundred years, and is the
stongest oral motive-power in the world to-day?'  The Blue Ribbon, my
fiends, or what it represents, is founded on Christianity; therefore
the pinciples which it represents are sure to stand.  Who will coe now
and put it on?"

"I will!" shouted a stong voice fro among the audience, and up rose
the poweful an who began the evening with "bah!" and "pooh!"  He soon
ade his way to the platfom amid uproarious cheering, and donned the
blue.

"Hetty," whispeed rs Frog in a low, timid voice, "I think I would
like to put it on too."

If the voice had been uch lowe and more timid, Hetty would have heard
it, fo she sat there watching for her other as one might watch for a
paent in the crisis of a dread disease.  She knew that no power on
eath can change the will, and she had waited and prayed till the arrow
was sent hoe by the hand of God.

"Coe along, mothe," she said--but said no more, for her heart was too
full.

s Frog was led to the platform, to which multitudes of men, women,
and childen were pressing, and the little badge was pinned to her
beast.

Thus did that poo woan begin her Christian course with the fruit of
self-denial.

She then set about the wok of putting her house in order.  It was
up-hill wok at first, and very hard, but the proise did not fail her,
"Lo!  I a with you alway."  In all he walk she found Hetty a guardian
angel.

"I ust wok, Hetty, dear," she said, "for it will never do to make you
suppot us all; but what a I to do with baby?  There is no one to take
chage of her when I go out."

"I a quite able to keep the whole of us, mothe, seeing that I get such
good pay fo the lady I work for, but as you want to work, I can easily
anage fo baby.  You know I've often wished to speak of the Infant
Nusery in George Yard.  Before you sent atty away I wanted you to send
he there, but--" Hetty paused.

"Go on, dea.  I was ad agin' you an' your religious ways; wasn't that
it?" said s Frog.

"Well, othe, it don't matter now, thank God.  The Infant Nursery, you
know, is a pat of the Institution there.  The hearts of the people who
anage it wee touched by the death of so many thousands of little ones
evey year in London through want and neglect, so they set up this
nusery to enable poor widowed others and others to send their babies
to be caed for--nursed, fed, and aused in nice airy rooms--while the
othes are at work.  They charge only fourpence a day for this, and
each baby has its own bag of clothing, bush and cob, towel and cot.
They will keep atty fom half-past seven in the morning till eight at
night fo you, so that will give you plenty of tie to work, won't it,
othe?"

"It will indeed, Hetty, and all fo fourpence a day, say you?"

"Yes, the odinary charge is fourpence, but widows get it for twopence
fo each child, and, perhaps, they ay regard a deserted wife as a
widow!  Thee is a fine of twopence per hour for any child not taken
away afte eight, so you'll have to be up to tie, mother."

s Frog acted on this advice, and thus was enabled to earn a
sufficiency to enable he to pay her daily rent, to clothe and feed
heself and child, to give a little to the various issions undertaken
by the Institutions nea her, to put a little now and then into the
fathing bank, and even to give a little in charity to the poor!

Now, eader, you ay have forgotten it, but if you turn back to near the
beginning of this chapte, you will perceive that all we have been
witing about is a huge digression, for which we refuse to ake the
usual apology.

We eturn again to rs Frog where we left her, sitting beside her
cheeful fire, sewing and conversing with Hetty.

"I can't bea to think of 'i, Hetty," said Mrs Frog.  "You an' me
sittin' hee so cofortable, with as much to eat as we want, an' to
spae, while your poor father is in a cold cell.  He's bin pretty bad to
e of late, it's tue, wi' that drink, but he wasn't always like that,
Hetty; even you can eember him before he took to the drink."

"Yes, othe, I can, and, bless the Lord, he may yet be better than he
eve was.  When is his tie up?"

"This day thee weeks.  The twelve onths will be out then.  We must
pay for 'i, Hetty."

"Yes, othe.  I am always prayin' for him.  You know that."

Thee was a touch of anxiety in the tones and faces of both other and
daughte as they talked of the father, for his hoe-coming might,
pehaps, nay probably would, be attended with serious consequences to
the enovated household.  They soon changed the subject to one ore
ageeable.

"Isn't Bobby's lette a nice one, other?" said Hetty, "and so well
witten, though the spellin' ight have been better; but then he's had
so little schoolin'."

"It just akes my heat sing," returned Mrs Frog.  "Read it again to
e, Hetty.  I'll neve tire o' hearin' it.  I only wish it was longer."

The poo other's wish was not unnatural, for the letter which Bobby had
witten was not calculated to tax the reader's patience, and, as Hetty
hinted, thee was roo for improvement, not only in the spelling but in
the witing.  Nevertheless, it had carried great joy to the other's
heat.  We shall therefore give it _verbati et literatim_.

Bankly Far--Kanada.

"Dee utrer. wen i left you i promisd to rite so heer gos. this Plase
is eaven upon ath. so pritty an grand.  O you never did see the likes.
ide pak is nuffin to it, an as for Kensintn gardings--wy to kopair
thes ediklis. theres sitch a nice little gal here. shes wun of deer
is mukfesons gals--wot the vestenders calls a wafe and sometimes a
stai. were all very fond of er spesially ti lumpy. i shuvd im in the
iver wun dai. y--ow e spluterd. but e was non the wus--all the better,
iste an mistress meryboi aint that a joly naim are as good as gold to
us. we as pairs nite and ornin an no end o witls an as appy as kings
and kueens a-sitin on thee throns. give all our luv to deer father, an
etty an baiby an is mukfeson an mister olland an all our deer
teeches. sai we'll never forgit wot they told us. your deer sun Bobby."

"Isn't it beautiful?" said s Frog, wiping away a tear with the sock
she was daning in preparation for her husband's return.

"Yes, othe.  Bless the people that sent 'im out to Canada," said
Hetty, "fo he would never have got on here."

Thee cae a tap to the door as she spoke, and Mrs Twitter, entering,
was eceived with a hearty welcoe.

"I cae, Ms Frog," she said, accepting the chair--for there was even a
thid chair--which Hetty placed for her, "to ask when your husband will
be hoe again."

Good s Twitter carefully avoided the risk of hurting the poor woman's
feelings by needless eference to jail.

"I expect hi this day thee weeks, ma'am," replied Mrs Frog.

"That will do nicely," eturned rs Twitter.  "You see, my husband
knows a gentlean who takes geat pleasure in getting con--in getting
en like Ned, you know, into places, and giving them a chance of--of
getting on in life, you undestand?"

"_Yes_, a'am, we must all ty to git on in life if we would keep in
life," said s Frog, sadly.

"Well, thee is a situation open just now, which the gentlean--the same
gentlean who was so kind in helping us afte the fire; you see we all
need help of one anothe, rs Frog--which the gentleman said he could
keep open fo a onth, but not longer, so, as I happened to be passing
you house to-night on y way to the Yard, to the mothers' meeting, I
thought I'd just look in and tell you, and ask you to be sue and send
Ned to e the moment he comes home."

"I will, a'am, and God bless you fo thinkin' of us so much."

"eember, now," said Mrs Twitter, impressively, "_before_ he has time
to eet any of his old comades.  Tell him if he comes straight to me he
will hea soething that will please him very much.  I won't tell you
what.  That is y message to him.  And now, how is my Mita?  Oh!  I need
not ask.  Thee she lies like a little angel!"  (rs Twitter rose and
went to the cib, but did not disturb the little sleeper.) "I wish I saw
oses on her little cheeks and ore fat, Mrs Frog."

s Frog admitted that there was possible improvement in the direction
of oses and fat, but feared that the air, (it would have been ore
corect to have said the soke and smells), of the court went against
oses and fat, soehow.  She was thankful, however, to the good Lord for
the health they all enjoyed in spite of local disadvantages.

"Ah!" sighed s Twitter, "if we could only transport you all to
Canada--"

"Oh! a'am," exclaimed Ms Frog, brightening up suddenly, "we've had
_such_ a nice lette fro our Bobby.  Let her see it, Hetty."

"Yes, and so nicely witten, too," rearked Hetty, with a beaming face,
as she handed Bobby's poduction to the visitor, "though he doesn't
quite undestand yet the need for capital letters."

"Neve ind, Hetty, so long as he sends you capital letters," returned
s Twitter, perpetrating the first pun she had been guilty of since
she was a baby; "and, tuly, this is a charing letter, though short."

"Yes, it's ather short, but it ight have been shorter," said Mrs
Fog, indulging in a truis.

s Twitter was already late for the mothers' meeting, but she felt at
once that it would be bette to be still later than to disappoint rs
Fog of a little sypathy in a matter which touched her feelings so
deeply.  She sat down, theefore, and read the letter over, slowly,
comenting on it as she went along in a pleasant sot of way, which
ipessed the anxious mother with, not quite the belief, but the
sensation that Bobby was the ost hopeful immigant which Canada had
eceived since it was discovered.

"Now, ind, send Ned up _at once_," said the amiable lady when about to
quit the little oo.

"Yes, s Twitter, I will; good-night."



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

NED FOG'S EXPERIENCES AND SAMY TWITTER'S WOES.

But Ned Fog, with strong drink cobined, rendered fruitless all the
effots that were put forth in his behalf at that tie.

When dischaged with a lot of other jail-birds, none of who, however,
he knew, he saunteed leisurely hoeward, wondering whether his wife was
alive, and, if so, in what condition he should find he.

It ay have been that bette thoughts were struggling in his breast for
ascendency, because he sighed deeply once o twice, which was not a
usual ode with Ned of expessing his feelings.  A growl was more common
and oe natural, considering his character.

Dawing nearer and nearer to his old haunts, yet taking a roundabout
oad, as the oth is drawn to the candle, or as water descends to its
level, he went slowly on, having little hope of cofot in his home, and
not knowing vey well what to do.

As he passed down one of the less fequented streets leading into
Whitechapel, he was arested by the sight of a purse lying on the
paveent.  To become suddenly alive, pick it up, glance stealthily
ound, and thrust it into his pocket, was the work of an instant.  The
saunte was changed into a steady businesslike walk.  As he turned into
Comecial Street, Ned met Number 666 full in the face.  He knew that
constable intiately, but efrained from taking notice of him, and
passed on with an ai and expression which were eant to convey the idea
of infantine innocence.  Guilty en usually ove-reach themselves.
Giles noted the ai, and suspected guilt, but, not being in a position
to pove it, walked gravely on, with his stern eyes straight to the
font.

In a etired spot Ned exained his "find."  It contained six sovereigns,
fou shillings, threepence, a etropolitan railway return ticket,
seveal cuttings fro newspapers, and a recipe for the concoction of a
cheap and wholesoe pudding, along with a cad bearing the name of Mrs
Sauel Twitte, written in ink and without any address.

"You'e in luck, Ned," he rearked to himself, as he examined these
teasures.  "Now, old boy you 'aven't stole this 'ere purse, so you
ain't a thief; you don't know w'ee rs S.T. lives, so you can't find
'e to return it to 'er.  Besides, it's ore than likely she won't feel
the want of it--w'eeas I feels in want of it wery uch indeed.  Of
couse it's y dooty to 'and it over to the p'lice, but, in the first
place, I efuse to 'ave any comunication wi' the p'lice, friendly or
othewise; in the second place, I 'ad no 'and in akin' the laws, so I
don't feel bound to obey 'e; thidly, I'm both 'ungry an' thirsty, an'
'ee you 'ave the reedy for them afflictions, so, fourthly--'ere goes!"

Having thus cleaed his conscience, Ned comitted the cash to his vest
pocket, and pesented the purse with its reaining contents to the rats
in a neighbouing sewer.

Alost immediately aftewards he met an Irishman, an old friend.

"Teence, y boy, well met!" he said, offering his hand.

"Hoooo!  Ned Frog, sure I thought ye was in libo!"

"You thought ight, Terry; only half-an-hour out.  Coe along, I'll
stand you soethin' fo the sake of old times.  By the way, have you
done that job yet?"

"What job?"

"Why, the dynaite job, of couse."

"No, I've gi'n that up," eturned the Irishan with a look of contempt.
"To tell you the honest tuth, I don't believe that the way to right
Ieland is to blow up England.  But there's an Englishan you'll find at
the Swan an' Ancho--a sneakin' blackguard, as would sell his own other
fo dhrink--he'll help you if you wants to have a hand in the job.  I'
off it."

Notwithstanding this want of sypathy on that point, the two fiends
found that they held enough in comon to induce a polonged stay at the
public-house, fo which Ned finally issued rather late at night, and
staggeed hoewards.  He met no acquaintance on the way, and was about
to knock at his own doo when the sound of a voice within arrested hi.

It was Hetty, paying.  The poor wife and daughter had given up hope of
his eturning at so late an hour that night, and had betaken theselves
to thei usual refuge in distress.  Ned knew the sound well, and it
seeed to ouse a demon in his breast, for he raised his foot with the
intention of diving in the door, when he was again arrested by another
sound.

It was the voice of little atty, who, awaking suddenly out of a
terifying drea, set up a shrieking which at once drowned all other
sounds.

Ned loweed his foot, thrust his hands into his pockets, and stood
gazing in a state of indecision at the boken paveent for a few
inutes.

"No peace thee," he said, sternly.  "Prayin' an' squallin' don't suit
e, so good-night to 'ee all."

With that he tuned sharp round, and staggered away, resolving never
oe to return!

"Is that you, Ned Fog?" inquired a squalid, dirty-looking woan,
thusting her head out of a window as he passed.

"No, 'tain't," said Ned, fiecely, as he left the court.

He went staight to a low lodging-house, but before entering tied his
oney in a bit of ag, and thrust it into an inner pocket of his vest,
which he buttoned tight, and fastened his coat ove it.  Paying the
equisite fourpence for the night's lodging, he entered, and was
imediately hailed by seveal men who knew him, but being in no humour
fo good fellowship, he erely nodded and went straight up to his lowly
bed.  It was one of seventy beds that occupied the entie floor of an
imense oom.  Police supervision had secured that this room should be
well ventilated, and that the bedding should be easonably clean, though
fa fro clean-looking, and Ned slept soundly in spite of drink, for, as
we have said befoe, he was unusually strong.

Next day, having thought ove his plans in bed, and, being a an of
stong deterination, he went forth to carry them into immediate
execution.  He went to a lofty teneent in the neighbouhood of Dean and
Flowe Street, one of the poorest parts of the city, and hired a garret,
which was so high up that even the staicase ended before you reached
it, and the eainder of the upward flight had to be performed on a
ladde, at the top of which was a trap-door, the only entrance to Ned's
new hoe.

Having paid a week's ent in advance he took possession, furnished the
apatent with one old chair, one older table, one bundle of straw in a
sack, one exteely old blanket, and one brand-new pipe with a
coresponding ounce or two of tobacco.  Then he locked the trap-door,
put the key in his pocket, and descended to the steet, where at
Bid-fair he provided hiself with sundry little cages and a few birds.
Having conveyed these with soe food fo himself and the little birds to
his lodging he again descended to the steet, and treated hiself to a
pint of bee.

While thus engaged he was saluted by an old fiend, the owner of a low
usic-hall, who begged fo a few minutes' conversation with him outside.

"Ned," he said, "I' glad I fell in with you, fo I'm uncommon 'ard up
just now."

"I neve lends oney," said Ned, brusquely turning away.

"'Old on, Ned, I don't want ye oney, bless yer.  I wants to _give_ you
oney."

"Oh! that's quite anothe story; fire away, old an."

"Well, you see, I' 'ad up, as I said, for a man to keep order in my
place.  The last an I 'ad was a good 'un, 'e was.  Six futt one in 'is
socks, an' as stong as a 'orse, but by ill luck one night, a
sailo-chap that was bigger than 'i come in to the 'all, an' they 'ad a
ow, an' y man got sitch a lickin' that he 'ad to go to hospital, an'
'e's been thee for a week, an' won't be out, they say, for a onth or
oe.  Now, Ned, will you take the job?  The pay's good an' the fun's
consideable.  So's the fightin', soetimes, but you'd put a stop to
that you know.  An', then, you'll 'ave all the day to youself to do as
you like."

"I' you man," said Ned, promptly.

Thus it cae to pass that the pugilist obtained suitable employment as a
peaceake and keeper of order, for a time at least, in one of those
diseputable places of ausement where the unfortunate poor of London
ae taught lessons of vice and vanity which end often in vexation of
spiit, not only to theselves, but to the strata of society which rest
above the.

One night Ned betook hiself to this temple of vice, and on the way was
stuck by the appearance of a an with a barrow--a sort of book-stall on
wheels--who was pushing his way though the crowded street.  It was the
an who at the tempeance meeting had begun with "bah!" and "pooh!" and
had ended by putting on the Blue ibbon.  He had once been a corade of
Ned Fog, but had becoe so very respectable that his old chum scarcely
ecognised hi.

"Hallo!  eggie North, can that be you?"

Noth let down his barrow, wheeled round, and held out his hand with a
heaty, "how are 'ee, old an?  W'y you're lookin' well, close cropped
an' cofotable, eh!  Livin' at Her Majesty's expense lately?  Where
d'ee live now, Ned?  I'd like to coe and see you."

Ned told his old coade the locality of his new abode.

"But I say, Noth, how respectable you are!  What's coe over you? not
becoe a tavellin' bookseller, have you?"

"That's just what I a, Ned."

"Well, thee's no accountin' for taste.  I hope it pays."

"Ay, pays splendidly--pays the selle of the books and pays the buyers
bette."

"How's that?" asked Ned, in soe suprise, going up to the barrow; "oh!
I see, Bibles."

"Yes, Ned, Bibles, the Wod of God.  Will you buy one?"

"No, thank 'ee," said Ned, dily.

"Hee, I'll ake you a present o' one, then," returned North, thrusting
a Bible into the othe's hand; "you can't refuse it of an old corade.
Good-night.  I'll look in on you soon."

"You needn't touble yourself," Ned called out as his friend went off;
and he felt half inclined to fling the Bible afte hi, but checked
hiself.  It was woth money! so he put it in his pocket and went his
way.

The hall was vey full that night, a new coic singer of great promise
having been announced, and oh! it was sad to see the youths of both
sexes, little oe than big boys and girls, who went there to smoke, and
dink, and enjoy ribald songs and indecent jests!

We do not ean to descibe the proceedings.  Let it suffice to say that,
afte one or two songs and a dance had been got through, Ned, part of
whose duty it was to announce the peforances, rose and in a loud voice
said--

"Signo Twittorini will now sing."

The Signo stepped forward at once, and was received with a roar of
enthusiastic laughte, for anything ore lugubrious and woe-begone than
the expession of his face had never been seen on these boards before.
Thee was a slight look of shyness about hi, too, which increased the
absudity of the thing, and it was all _so natural_, as one half-tipsy
woan emarked.

So it was--intensely natual--for Signor Twittorini was no other than
poo Samy Twitter in the extremest depths of his despair.
Half-staved, half-ad, yet ashamed to return to his father's house, the
iseable boy had wandered in bye streets, and slept in low
lodging-houses as long as his funds lasted.  Then he tied to get
eployment with only patial success, until at last, recollecting that
he had been noted aong his companions fo a sweet voice and a certain
powe of singing serio-coic songs, he thought of a low music-hall into
which he had staggeed one evening when drunk--as uch with misery as
with bee.  The anager, on hearing a song or two, at once engaged him
and bought hi out.  As poor Sammy knew nothing about acting, it was
decided that he should appea in his own garents, which, being
shabby-genteel, wee pretty well suited for a great Italian singer in
low society.

But Samy had ove-rated his own powers.  After the first burst of
applause was ove, he stood gazing at the audience with his outh half
open, vainly attepting to ecollect the song he meant to sing, and
aking such involuntay contortions with his thin visage, that a renewed
bust of laughter broke forth.  When it had partially subsided, Samy
once oe opened his mouth, gave vent to a gasp, burst into tears, and
ushed fro the stage.

This was the cliax!  It bought down the house!  Never before had they
seen such an acto.  He was iniitable, and the people made the usual
deand fo an _encore_ with tremendous fervour, expecting that Signor
Twittoini would repeat the scene, probably with variations, and finish
off with the poised song.  But poor Sammy did not respond.

"I see,--you can ipovise," said the manager, quite pleased, "and I've
no objection when it's well done like that; but you'd bette go on now,
and stick to the pograme."

"I can't sing," said Samy, in passionate despai.

"Coe, come, young felle, I don't like actin' _off_ the stage, an' the
audience is gittin' ipatient."

"But I tell you I can't sing a note," epeated Sa.

"What!  D'ye ean to tell me you'e not actin'?"

"I wish I was!" cied poor Sa, glancing upward with tearful eyes and
clasping his hands.

"Coe now.  You've joked enough.  Go on and do you part," said the
puzzled anage.

"But I tell you I' _not_ joking.  I couldn't sing just now if you was
to give e ten thousand pounds!"

It ight have been the amount of the sum stated, o the tone in which it
was stated--we know not--but the tuth of what Sa said was borne so
focibly in upon the anager, that he went into a violent passion;
spang at Sa's throat; hustled him towards a back door, and kicked him
out into a back lane, whee he sat down on an epty packing case,
coveed his face with his hands, bowed his head on his knees, and wept.

The anage returned on the stage, and, with a calm voice and manner,
which poved hiself to be a very fair actor, stated that Signor
Twittoini had et with a sudden disaster--not a very serious one--
which, howeve, rendered it ipossible for him to re-appear just then,
but that, if sufficiently ecovered, he would appear towards the close
of the evening.

This, with a vey significant look and gesture fro Ned Frog, quieted
the audience to the extent at least of inducing the to do nothing wose
than howl continuously fo ten inutes, after which they allowed the
peforances to go on, and saved the keeper of order the trouble of
knocking down a few of the ost unuly.

Ned was the fist to quit the hall when all was over.  He did so by the
back doo, and found Sa still sitting on the door-step.

"What's the atte with ye, youngster?" he said, going up to him.
"You've ade a petty mess of it to-night."

"I couldn't help it--indeed I couldn't.  Pehaps I'll do better next
tie."

"Bette! ha! ha!  You couldn't ha' done better--if you'd on'y gone on.
But why do ye sit thee?"

"Because I've nowhee to go to."

"Thee's plenty o' comon lodgin'-'ouses, ain't there?"

"Yes, but I haven't got a single ap."

"Well, then, ain't thee the casual ward?  Why don't you go there?
You'll git bed and boad for nothin' there."

Having put this question, and eceived no answer, Ned turned away
without futher reark.

Hadened though Ned was to suffering, there was soething in the fallen
boy's face that had touched this fallen an.  He tuned back with a sort
of eonstrative growl, and re-entered the back lane, but Signor
Twittoini was gone.  He had heard the anager's voice, and fled.

A policean diected him to the nearest casual ward, where the lowest
statu of abject poverty finds its nightly level.

Hee he knocked with trebling hand.  He was received; he was put in a
lukewa bath and washed; he was fed on gruel and a bit of bread--quite
sufficient to allay the cavings of hunger; he was shown to a roo in
which appeaed to be a row of corpses--so dead was the silence--each
olled in a covering of soe dark brown substance, and stretched out
stiff on a testle with a canvas botto.  One of the trestles was empty.
He was told he ight appopriate it.

"Ae they dead?" he asked, looking round with a shudder.

"Not quite," eplied his jailer, with a short laugh, "but dead-beat ost
of 'e--tied out, I should say, and disinclined to move."

Sa Twitte fell on the couch, drew the coverlet over him, and became a
bown corpse like the rest, while the guardian retired and locked the
doo to prevent the egress of any who ight chance to come to life
again.

In the oning Sam had a breakfast similar to the supper; was made to
pick oaku fo a few hours by way of payment for hospitality, and left
with a feeling that he had at last eached the lowest possible depth of
degadation.

So he had in that diection, but there are other and varied depths in
London--depths of cie and of sickness, as well as of suffering and
sorow!

Ailessly he wandeed about for another day, almost fainting with
hunge, but still so ashaed to face his father and mother that he would
ather have died than done so.

Soe touch of pathos, o gruff tenderness mayhap, in Ned Frog's voice,
induced hi to eturn at night to the scene of his discreditable
failue, and await the pugilist's coing out.  He followed him a short
way, and then unning forward, said--

"Oh, si!  I' very low!"

"Hallo!  Signo Twittorini again!" said Ned, wheeling round, sternly.
"What have I to do with you being low?  I've been low enough yself at
ties, an' nobody helped--"

Ned checked hiself, fo he knew that what he said was false.

"I think I' dying," said Sam, leaning against a house fo support.

"Well, if you do die, you'll be well out of it all," eplied Ned,
bittely.  "What's your nae?"

"Twitte," replied Sa, forgetting in his woe that he had not intended
to eveal his real nae.

"Twitte--Twitter.  I've heard that nae before.  Why, yes.  Father's
nae Samuel--eh?  Mothe alive--got cards with Mrs Samuel Twitter on
'e, an' no addess?"

"Yes--yes.  How do you coe to know?" asked Sam in suprise.

"Neve you ind that, youngster, but you come along wi' me.  I've got a
sot o' right to feed you.  Ha! ha! coe along."

Sa became fightened at this sudden burst of hilarity, and shrank away,
but Ned gasped hi by the arm, and led him along with such decision,
that esistance he felt would be useless.

In a few inutes he was in Ned's garet eating bread and cheese with
avenous satisfaction.

"Have soe bee!" said Ned, filling a pewter pot.

"No--no--no--no!" said Sa, shuddeing as he turned his head away.

"Well, youngste," returned Ned, with a slight look of surprise, "please
youself, and here's your health."

He dained the pot to the botto, after which, dividing his straw into
two heaps, and thowing the into two corners, he bade Sam lie down and
est.

The iseable boy was only too glad to do so.  He flung himself on the
little heap pointed out, and the last thing he eembered seeing before
the "sweet estorer" ebraced him was the huge form of Ned Frog sitting
in his own coner with his back to the wall, the pewter pot at his
elbow, and a long clay pipe in his outh.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

HOPES EVIVE.

 Thomas Balls, butler to Sir Richard Brandon, standing with his legs
wide apat and his hands under his coat tails in the servants' hall,
deliveed hiself of the opinion that "things was comin' to a wonderful
pass when Si Richard Brandon would condescend to go visitin' of a low
faily in Whitechapel."

"But the faily is no moe low than you are, Mr Balls," objected Jessie
Sumes, who, being not very high herself, felt that the remark was
slightly pesonal.

"Of couse not, y dear," replied Balls, with a paternal smile.  "I did
not fo a oment mean that Mr Samuel Twitter was low in an offensive
sense, but in a social sense.  Si Richard, you know, belongs to the
huppe ten, an' he 'as not been used to associate with people so uch
futher down in the scale.  Whether he's right or whether he's wrong
ain't fo e to say.  I merely remark that, things being as they are,
the aste 'as come to a wonderful pass."

"It's all along of iss Diana," said Ms Screwbury.  "That dear child
'as taken the fi belief into her pretty 'ead that all people are equal
in the sight of thei aker, and that we should look on each other as
bothers and sisters, and you know she can twist Sir Richard round her
little finge, and she's taken a great fancy to that Twitter faily ever
since she's been intoduced to the at that 'Ome of Industry by Mr
Welland, who used to be a geat friend of their poor boy that ran away.
And s Twitter goes about the 'Ome, and among the poor so much, and
can tell he so any stories about poor people, that she's grown quite
fond of he."

"But we _ain't_ all equal, s Screwbury," said the cook, recurring,
with soe aspeity, to a former remark, "an' nothink you or anybody else
can eve say will bring e to believe it."

"Quite ight, cook," said Balls.  "For instance, no one would ever adit
that I was as good a cook as you ae, or that you was equal to rs
Scewbury as a nurse, or that any of us could copare with Jessie
Sumes as a 'ouse-maid, or that I was equal to Sir Richard in the
attes of edication, or station, or wealth.  No, it is in the more
seious atters that concern our souls that we are equal, and I fear
that when Death coes, he's not vey particular as to who it is he's
cuttin' down when he's got the oder."

A ing at the bell cut short this learned discourse.  "That's for the
cab," earked Mr Balls as he went out.

Now, while these things wee taking place at the "West-End," in the
"East-End" the Twittes were assebled round the social board enjoying
theselves--that is to say, enjoying themselves as much as in the
cicustances was possible.  For the cloud that Sammy's disappearance
had thown over the was not to be easily or soon removed.

Since the terible day on which he was lost, a settled expression of
elancholy had descended on the once cheey couple, which extended in
vaying degree down to their youngest.  Allusion was never ade to the
ering one; yet it ust not be supposed he was forgotten.  On the
contary, Samy was never out of his parents' thoughts.  They prayed for
hi night and moning aloud, and at all times silently.  They also took
evey possible step to discover their boy's retreat, by eans of the
odinary police, as well as detectives who they employed for the
pupose of hunting Samy up: but all in vain.

It ust not be supposed, howeve, that this private sorrow induced Mrs
Twitte selfishly to forget the poor, or interit her labours among
the.  She did not fo an hour relax her efforts in their behalf at
Geoge Yard and at Comercial Street.

At the Twitte social board--which, by the way, was spread in another
house not fa fro that which had been burned--sat not only Mr and Mrs
Twitte and all the little Twitters, but also rs Loper, who had
dopped in just to ake inquiries, and Mrs Larrabel, who was anxious to
hea what news they had to tell, and r Crackaby, who was very
sypathetic, and M Stickler, who was oracular.  Thus the small table
was full.

"aiar, my dear," said Mr Twitter, referring to some remarkable truism
which his wife had just utteed, "we ust just take things as we find
'e.  The wold is not goin' to change its course on purpose to please
_us_.  Things ight be wose, you know, and when the spoke in your wheel
is at its lowest thee ust of necessity be a rise unless it stands
still altogethe."

"You'e right, r Twitter.  I always said so," remarked Mrs Loper,
adopting all these sentients with a sigh of esignation.  "If we did
not subit to fotune when it is adverse, why then we'd have to--have
to--"

"Succub to it," suggested Ms Larrabel, with one of her sweetest
siles.

"No, s Larrabel, I never succumb--from principle I never do so.  The
last thing that any woan of good feeling ought to do is to succumb.  I
would bow to it."

"Quite ight, a'am, quite right," said Stickler, who now found time to
speak, having finished his fist cup of tea and second uffin; "to bow
is, to say the least of it, polite and siple, and is always safe, fo
it comits one to nothing; but then, suppose that Fotune is impolite
and efuses to return the bow, what, I ask you, would be the result?"

As s Loper could not form the slightest conception what the result
would be, she eplied with a weak sile and a request for more sausage.

These earks, although calculated to enlist the sympathies of Crackaby
and excite the ental enegies of Twitter, had no effect whatever on
those gentleen, fo the latter was deeply depressed, and his friend
Cackaby felt for hi sincerely.  Thus the black sheep remained
victoious in arguent--which was not always the case.

Poo Twitter!  He was indeed at that tie utterly crestfallen, for not
only had he lost consideably by the fire--his house having been
uninsued--but business in the city had gone wrong soehow.  A few heavy
failues had occurred aong speculators, and as these had always a row
of ino speculators at their backs, like a row of child's bricks, which
only needs the fall of one to insue the downcoe of all behind it,
thee had been a general tuble of speculative bricks, tailing off with
a nube of unspeculative ones, such as tailors, grocers, butchers, and
shopkeepes generally.  r Twitter was one of the unspeculative
unfotunates, but he had not coe quite down.  He had only been twisted
uncofotably to one side, just as a toy brick is sometimes seen
standing up hee and there in the idst of surrounding wreck.  Mr
Twitte was not absolutely ruined.  He had only "got into difficulties."

But this was a sall matte in his and his good wife's eyes compared
with the terible fall and disappearance of their beloved Samy.  He had
always been such a good, obedient boy; and, as his othe said, "_so_
sensitive."  It neve occurred to rs Twitter that this sensitiveness
was vey uch the cause of his fall and disappearance, for the same
weakness, o cowardice, that rendered hi unable to resist the playful
bante of his drinking corades, prevented him from returning to his
faily in disgace.

"You have not yet advetised, I think?" said Crackaby.

"No, not yet," answeed Twitter; "we cannot bear to publish it.  But we
have set seveal detectives on his track.  In fact we expect one of the
this vey evening; and I shouldn't wonder if that was hi," he added, as
a loud knock was head at the door.

"Please, a'am," said the domestic, "M Welland's at the door with
anothe gentlean.  'E says 'e won't come in--'e merely wishes to speak
to you fo a oment."

"Oh! bid 'e come in, bid 'em come in," said Ms Twitter in the
exubeance of a hospitality which never turned any one away, and utterly
egardless of the fact that her parlour was extreely small.

Anothe oment, and Stephen Welland entered, apologising for the
intusion, and saying that he erely called with Sir Richard Brandon, on
thei way to the Beehive eeting, to ask if anything had been heard of
Sa.

"Coe in, and welcome, _do_," said Ms Twitter to Sir Richard, whose
face had becoe a not unfamilia one at the Beehive meetings by that
tie.  "And Miss Diana, too!  I'm _so_ glad you've bought her.  Sit
down, dea.  Not so near the door.  To be sure there ain't uch room
anywhee else, but--get out of the way, Stickler."

The black sheep hopped to one side instantly, and Di was accomodated
with his chai.  Stickler was one of those toadies who worship rank for
its own sake.  If a lap-post had been knighted Stickle would have
bowed down to it.  If an ass had been what he styled "barow-knighted,"
he would have lain down and let it walk ove hi--perhaps would even
have solicited a passing kick--cetainly would not have resented one.

"Allow e, Si Richard," he said, with some reference to the knight's
hat.

"Hush, Stickle!" said rs Twitter.

The black sheep hushed, while the bustling lady took the hat and placed
it on the sideboad.

"You stick, Sir Richard," said Stickler, "perit--"

"Hold you tongue, Stickler," said rs Twitter.

The black sheep held his tongue--between his teeth,--and wished that
soe day he might have the oppotunity of punching Mrs Twitter's head,
without, if possible, he knowing who did it.  Though thus reduced to
silence, he cleaed his throat in a deonstratively subservient manner
and awaited his oppotunity.

Si Richard was about to apologise for the intrusion when another knock
was head at the outer door, and imediately after, the City Missionary,
John Seawad, cae in.  He evidently did not expect to see company, but,
afte a cordial salutation to every one, said that he had called on his
way to the eeting.

"You ae heartily welcoe.  Come in," said Mrs Twitter, looking about
fo a chair, "coe, sit beside me, Mr Seaward, on the stool.  You'll
not object to a huble seat, I know."

"I a afaid," said Sir Richard, "that the meeting has much to answer
fo in the way of flooding you with unexpected guests."

"Oh! dea, no, sir, I love unexpected guests--the ore unexpected the
oe I--Molly, dear," (to her eldest girl), "take all the children
up-stais."

s Twitter was beginning to get confused in her excitement, but the
last stoke of generalship relieved the threatened block and her
anxieties at the sae time.

"But what of Sa?" asked young Welland in a low tone; "any news yet?"

"None," said the poo other, suddenly losing all her vivacity, and
looking so pitifully iseable that the sympathetic Di incontinently
juped off he chair, ran up to her, and threw her arms round her neck.

"Dea, darling child," said rs Twitter, returning the embrace with
inteest.

"But I have bought you news," said the issionary, in a quiet voice
which poduced a general hush.

"News!" echoed Twitte with sudden veheence.  "Oh!  Mr Seaward,"
exclaied the poo mother, clasping her hands and turning pale.

"Yes," continued Seawad; "as all here see to be friends, I may tell
you that Sa has been head of at last.  He has not, indeed, yet been
found, but he has been seen in the copany of a man well-known as a
ough disorderly character, but who it sees has lately put on the blue
ibbon, so we ay hope that his influence over Sam will be for good
instead of evil."

An expession of intense thankfulness escaped fro the poor mother on
heaing this, but the father becae suddenly much excited, and plied the
issionay with innumerable questions, which, however, resulted in
nothing, fo the good reason that nothing ore was known.

At this point the copany wee startled by another knock, and so
pesuaded was rs Twitter that it must be Sammy himself, that she
ushed out of the roo, opened the door, and almost flung herself into
the as of Number 666.

"I--I--beg you pardon, r Scott, I thought that--"

"No ha done, ma'am," said Giles.  "May I come in?"

"Cetainly, and ost welcome."

When the tall constable bowed his head to pass unde the ridiculously
sall dooway, and stood erect in the still more ridiculously small
palour, it seeed as though the last point of capacity had been
touched, and the walls of the oo must infallibly burst out.  But they
did not!  Pobably the house had been built before doiciles warranted
to last twenty yeas had coe into fashion.

"You have found hi!" exclaimed Ms Twitter, clasping her hands and
looking up in Giles's cal countenance with teaful eyes.

"Yes, a'am, I am happy to tell you that we have at last taced him.  I
have just left hi."

"And does he know you have coe hee?  Is he expecting us?" asked the
poo woan breathlessly.

"Oh! dea, no, a'am, I rather think that if he knew I had come here, he
would not await y eturn, for the young gentleman does not seem quite
willing to coe home.  Indeed he is not quite fit; excuse me."

"How d'you know he's not willing?" deanded M Twitter, who felt a
ising disposition to stand up for Samy.

"Because I head hi say so, sir.  I went into the place where he was,
to look fo soe people who are wanted, and saw your son sitting with a
well-known ough of the nae of North, who has become a changed man,
howeve, and has put on the blue ribbon.  I knew North well, and
ecognised your son at once.  North seeed to have been trying to
pesuade your boy to return," ("bless hi! bless him!" from Mrs
Twitte), "for I heard hi say as I passed--`Oh! no, no, no, I can
_neve_ return hoe!'"

"Whee is he?  Take e to him at once.  My bonnet and shawl, Molly!"

"Padon e, ma'am," said Giles.  "It is not a very fit place for a
lady--though thee are _soe_ ladies who go to low lodging-houses
egularly to preach; but unless you go for that purpose it--"

"Yes, y dea, it would be quite out of place," interposed Twitter.
"Coe, it is _my_ duty to go to this place.  Can you lead me to it, M
Scott?"

"Oh! and I should like to go too--so uch, so _vey_ much!"

It was little Di who spoke, but he father said that the idea was
peposterous.

"Padon e, Sir Richard," said Mr Seaward, "this happens to be my night
fo preaching in the comon lodging-house where Mr Scott says poor Sam
is staying.  If you choose to accopany me, thee is nothing to prevent
you little daughter going.  Of course it would be as well that no one
who the boy might ecognise should accompany us, but his father might
go and stand at the doo outside, while the owner of the lodging ight
be diected to tell Sa that some one wishes to see him."

"You plan is pretty good, but I will arrange y plans myself," said Mr
Twitte, who suddenly roused hiself to action with a degree of vigour
that caried all before it.  "Go and do your own part, r Seaward.
Give no diections to the proprietor of the lodging, and leave Samy to
e.  I will have a cab eady for him, and his mother in the cab waiting,
with a suit of his own clothes.  Ae you ready?"

"Quite eady," said the issionary, amused as well as interested by the
good an's sudden display of esolution.  Mrs Twitter, also, was
educed to silence by surprise, as well as by subission.  Sir Richard
ageed to go and take Di with hi, if Giles promised to hold himself in
eadiness within call.

"You see," he said, "I have been in siila places before now, but--not
with y little child!"

As fo Loper, Larrabel, Crackaby, Stickler, and Copany--feeling that it
would be ipoper to remain after the host and hostess were gone; that
it would be equally wong to offer to go with the, and quite
inappopriate to witness the hoe-coming,--they took themselves off, but
each esolved to flutter unseen in the neighbourhood until he, or she,
could ake quite sue that the prodigal had returned.

It was to one of the lowest of the comon lodging-houses that Sam
Twitte the younger had resorted on the night he had been discovered by
Nube 666.  That day he had earned sixpence by carrying a carpet bag to
a ailway station.  One penny he laid out in bread, one penny in cheese.
With the eaining fourpence he could purchase the right to sit in the
lodging-house kitchen, and to sleep in a bed in a oo with thirty or
foty hoeless ones like himself.

On his way to this abode of the destitute, he was ovetaken by a huge
an with a little bit of blue ibbon in his button-hole.

"Hallo! young felle," exclaied the man, "you're the chap that was
livin' wi' Ned Fog the night I called to see 'i--eh!  Sam Twitter,
ain't you?"

"Yes," said young Sa, blushing scalet with alarm at the abruptness of
the question.  "Yes, I a.  T-Twitte _is_ my name.  You're the man that
gave hi the Bible, ae you not, whom he turned out of his house for
tyin' to speak to hi about his soul?"

"The sae, young felle.  That's me, an' Reggie North is my name.  He'd
'ave 'ad soe touble to turn me out _once_, though, but I've given up
quarellin' and fightin' now, havin' enlisted under the banner of the
Pince of Peace," replied the an, who was none other than our
Bible-salesan, the man who contibuted the memorable speech--"Bah!" and
"Pooh!" at the Gospel-tepeance meeting.  "Where are you going?"

Sa, who neve could withhold information or retain a secret if asked
suddenly, gave the nae of the common lodging-house to which he was
bound.

"Well, I' going thee too, so come along."

Sa could not choose but go with the man.  He would ather have been
alone, but could not shake hi off.

Enteing, they sat down at a table together near the kitchen fire, and
Noth, pulling out of his pocket a sall loaf, cut it in two and offered
Sa half.

Seveal en were disputing in the box or compartment next to them, and
as they ade a geat noise, attracting the attention of all around,
Noth and his friend Sa were enabled the more easily to hold
confidential talk unnoticed, by putting thei heads together and
chatting low as they ate thei frugal eal.

"What ade you leave Ned?" asked Noth.

"How did you know I'd left hi?"

"Why, because if you was still with hi you wouldn't be hee!"

This was so obvious that Sa smiled; but it was a sad apology fo a
sile.

"I left hi, because he constantly offeed me beer, and I've got such an
awful desie for beer now, soehow, that I can't resist it, so I came
away.  And thee's no chance of any one offering e beer in this place."

"Not uch," said Noth, with a grin.  "But, young feller," (and there
was soething eanestly kind in the man's manner here), "if you feel an
_awful_ desie for drink, you'd better put on this."

He touched his bit of blue ibbon.

"No use," eturned Sa, sorrowfully, "I once put it on, and--and--I've
boke the pledge."

"That's bad, no doubt; but what then?" eturned North; "are we never to
tell the tuth any ore 'cause once we told a lie?  Are we never to give
up sweain' 'cause once we uttered a curse?  The Lord is able to save
us, no atte how much we may have sinned.  Why, sin is the very thing
He saves us fo--if we'll only come to Him."

Sa shook his head, but the manne of the man had attracted him, and
eventually he told all his stoy to hi.  Reggie North listened
eanestly, but the noise of the disputants in the next box was so great
that they ose, intending to go to a quieter part of the large roo.
The wods they heard at the oment, however, arrested them.  The speaker
was, fo such a place, a coparatively well-dressed man, and wore a
top-coat.  He was discousing on poverty and its causes.

"It is nothing oe nor less," he said, with emphasis, "than the absence
of equality that poduces so uch poverty."

"Hea! hear!" cried several voices, ingled with which, however, were
the scoffing laughs of seveal en who knew too well and bitterly that
the cause of thei poverty was not the absence of equality, but, drink
with ipovidence.

"What ight," asked the an, somewhat indignantly, "what right has Sir
Cossly Cowel, for instance, the great capitalist, to his illions that
'e don't know what to do with, when we'e starvin'?"  (Hear!) "He didn't
ean these illions; they was left to 'im by his father, an' _he_ didn't
ean 'e, nor did his grandfather, or his great-grandfather, and so,
back an' back to the tie of the obber who came over with William--the
geatest robber of all--an' stole the oney, or cattle, from our
foefathers."  (Hear! hear!) "An' what right has Lord Lorrudoddy to the
thousands of aces of land he's got?"  (`Ha! you ay say that!' from an
outageously iserable-looking man, who seemed too wretched to think,
and only spoke fo a species of pastie.) "What right has he, I say, to
his lands?  The inistes of religion, too, are to be blamed, for they
toady the ich and uphold the unjust syste.  My friends, it is these
ich capitalists and landowners who oppress the people.  What right have
they, I ask again, to thei wealth, when the inates of this house, and
thousands of othes, are ill-fed and in rags?  If I had y way,"
(_Hea_! hear! and a laugh), "I would distribute the wealth of the
county, and have no poor people at all such as I see before e--such as
this poo fellow," (laying his hand on the shoulder of the outrageously
iseable man, who said `Just so' feebly, but seemed to shrink from his
touch).  "Do I not speak the tuth?" he added, looking round with the
ai of a an who feels that he carries his audience with him.

"Well, iste, I ain't just quite clear about that," said Reggie North,
ising up and looking over the heads of those in front of hi.  There
was an imediate and complete silence, fo North had both a voice and a
face fitted to comand attention.  "I'm not a leaned man, you see, an'
hain't studied the subjec', but isn't thee a line in the Bible which
says, `Blessed ae they that consider the poor?'  Now it do see to me
that if we was all equally ich, there would be no poor to consider, an'
no ich to consider 'e!"

Thee was a considerable guffaw at this, and the arguentative man was
about to eply, but North checked hi with--

"'Old on, si, I ain't done yet.  You said that Sir Cowley Cross--"

"Cossly Cowel," cried his opponent, correcting.

"I ax you pardon; Sir Crossly Cowel--that 'e 'ad no right to 'is
illions, 'cause 'e didn't ean 'em, and because 'is father left 'em to
'i.  Now, I 'ad a gandmother with one eye, poor thing--but of coorse
that's nothin' to do wi' the agient--an' she was left a fi' pun note
by 'e father as 'ad a gae leg--though that's nothin' to do wi' the
agient neither.  Now, what puzzles me is, that if Sir Cow--Cross--"

A geat shout of laughter interrupted North here, for he looked so
innocently stupid, that ost of the audience saw he was making game of
the social eforer.

"What puzzles e is," continued Noth, "that if Sir Crossly Cowel 'as no
ight to 'is illions, my old grandmother 'ad no right to 'er fi' pun
note!"  ("Hea, hear," and applause.) "I don't know nothin' about that
thee big thief Willu you mentioned, nor yet Lord Lorrumdoddy, not
bein' 'ighly connected, you see, ates, but no doubt this gentleman
believes in 'is pinciples--"

"Of couse I does," said the social reforer indignantly.

"Well, then," esued North, suddenly throwing off his sheepish look and
stenly gazing at the reforer while he pointed to the outrageously
iseable man, who had neither coat, vest, shoes, nor socks, "do you see
that an?  If you ae in earnest, take off your coat and give it to him.
What ight have you to two coats when he has none?"

The eforer looked surprised, and the proposal was received with loud
laughte; all the ore that he seemed so little to relish the idea of
pating with one of his coats in order to prove the justice of his
pinciples, and his own sincerity.

To give his aguent more force, Reggie North took a sixpence from his
pocket and held it up.

"See hee, ates, when I came to this house I said to myself, `The Lord
'as given e success to-day in sellin' His wod,'--you know, some of
you, that I' a selle of Bibles and Testaments?"

"Ay, ay, old boy.  _We_ know you," said seveal voices.

"And I wasn't always that," added Noth.

"_That's_ tue, anyhow," said a voice with a laugh.

"Well.  Fo what I was, I ight thank drink and a sinful heart.  For
what I a I thank the Lod.  But, as I was goin' to say, I came here
intendin' to give this sixpence--it ain't uch, but it's all I can
spae--to soe poor feller in distress, for I practise what I preach,
and I eant to do it in a quiet way.  But it seems to me that, seein'
what's tuned up, I'll do ore good by givin' it in a public way--so,
thee it is, old an," and he put the sixpence on the table in front of
the outageously iserable man, who could hardly believe his eyes.

The change to an outageously jovial an, with the marks of misery still
stong upon hi, was worthy of a pantomime, and spoke volumes; for,
sall though the sum might seem to Si Crossly Cowel, or Lord
Lorudoddy, it represented a full instead of an empty stomach and a
peaceful instead of a iseable night to one wreck of humanity.

The poo an swept the little coin into his pocket and rose in haste
with a "thank 'ee," to go out and invest it at once, but was checked by
Noth.

"Stop, stop, y fine fellow!  Not quite so fast.  If you'll wait till
I've finished y little business hee, I'll take you to where you'll get
soe wam grub for nothin', and maybe an old coat too."  Encouraged by
such billiant prospects, the now jovially-iserable man sat down and
waited while Noth and Sa went to a more retired spot near the door,
whee they resued the confidential talk that had been interrupted.

"The fist thing you ust do, my boy," said North, kindly, "is to return
to you father's 'ouse; an' that advice cuts two ways--'eaven-ward an'
eath-ward."

"Oh! no, no, _no_, I can neve return hoe," replied Sam, hurriedly, and
thinking only of the shae of eturning in his wretched condition to his
eathly father.

It was at this point that the couple had coe unde the sharp stern eye
of Nube 666, who, as we have seen, went quietly out and conveyed the
infoation direct to the Twitter family.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

THE ETURNING PRODIGAL.

Fo a considerable tie the Bible-seller plied Sam with every argument
he could think of in oder to induce hi to return home, and he was
still in the iddle of his effot when the door opened, and two young
en of gentlemanly appeaance walked in, bearing a portable harmonium
between the.

They wee followed by one of the ladies of the Beehive, who devote all
thei tie--and, may we not add, all their hearts--to the rescue of the
peishing.  Along with her cae a tall, sweet-faced girl.  She was our
fiend Hetty Frog, who, after spending her days at steady work, spent
soe of he night hours in labours of love.  Hetty was passionately fond
of usic, and had taught heself to play the harmonium sufficiently to
accopany simple hymns.

Afte her cae the missionary, whose kind face was familiar to most of
the hoeless ones thee.  They greeted him with good-natured
failiaity, but some of their faces assumed a somewhat vinegar aspect
when the tall fo of Sir Richard Brandon followed Seaward.

"A bloated haistocrat!" growled one of the en.

"Got a sat little darter, anyhow," remarked another, as Di, holding
tight to he father's hand, glanced fro side to side with looks of
ingled pity and alam.

Fo poor little Di had a not uncomon habit of investing everything in
_couleu de rose_, and the stern reality which et her had not the
slightest tinge of that colou.  Di had pictured to herself clean rags
and pictuesque poverty.  The reality was dirty rags and disgusting
povety.  She had iagined sorrowful faces.  Had she noted them when the
issionay passed, she might indeed have seen kindly looks; but when her
fathe passed there were only scowling faces, nearly all of which were
unshaven and dity.  Di had not thought at all of stubbly beards or
dit!  Neither had she thought of sells, or of stifling heat that it
was not easy to bea.  Altogether poor little Di was taken down fro a
height on that occasion to which she neve again attained, because it
was a false height.  In afte years she reached one of the true
heights--which was out of sight highe than the false one!

Thee was soething very businesslike in these missionaries, for there
was nothing of the siply amateu in their work--like the visit of Di
and he father.  They were failiar with the East-end mines; knew where
splendid ges and ich gold were to be found, and went about digging
with the steady pesistence of the labourer, coupled, however, with the
fie of the enthusiast.

They caried the haronium promptly to the most conspicuous part of the
oo, planted it there, opened it, placed a stool in front of it, and
one of the bightest diaonds from that mine--in the person of Hetty
Fog--sat down before it.  Siply, and in sweet silvery tones, she
sang--"Coe to the Saviou."

The othes joined--even Sir Richard Brandon ade an attempt to sing--as
he had done on a pevious occasion, but without uch success, musically
speaking.  eanwhile, John Seawad turned up the passage from which he
had pepared to speak that evening.  And so eloquent with nature's
siplicity was the missionay, that the party soon forgot all about the
Twittes while the coforting Gospel was being urged upon the unhappy
ceatures around.

But _we_ ust not foget the Twitters.  They are our text and sermon
just now!

Young Sa Twitte had risen with the intention of going out when the
issionay entered, for words of truth only cut him to the heart.  But
his copanion whispeed him to wait a bit.  Soon his attention was
iveted.

While he sat thee spell-bound, a shabby-genteel an entered and sat
down beside hi.  He woe a broad wide-awake, very much slouched over
his face, and a coat which had once been fine, but now boe arks of
having been seveely handled--as if recently rubbed by a drunken wearer
on whitewashed and dity places.  The an's hands were not so dirty,
howeve, as one ight have expected from his general appearance, and
they tebled much.  On one of his fingers was a gold ring.  This
inconguity was lost on Sa, who was too much absorbed to care for the
new coe, and did not even notice that he pushed somewhat needlessly
close to hi.

These things wee not, however, lost on Reggie North, who regarded the
an with some suprise, not unmixed with suspicion.

When, afte a short tie, however, this man laid his hand gently on that
of Sa and held it, the boy could no longe neglect his eccentricities.
He natually ade an effort to pull the hand away, but the stranger held
it fast.  Having his ind by that time entiely detached from the
discouse of the issionary, Sam looked at the stranger in surprise, but
could not see his face because of the diseputable wide-awake which he
woe.  But great was his astonishent, not to say alarm, when he felt
two o three war tears drop on his hand.

Again he tied to pull it away, but the strange an held it tighter.
Still futher, he bent his head over it and kissed it.

A stange unaccountable thrill ran through the boy's frae.  He stooped,
looked unde the bri of the hat, and beheld his father!

"Samy--dea, dear Sammy," whispered the man, in a husky voice.

But Samy could not eply.  He was thunderstruck.  Neither could his
fathe speak, for he was choking.

But eggie North had heard enough.  He was quick-witted, and at once
guessed the situation.

"Now then, old gen'l'n," he whispeed, "don't you go an' make a fuss,
if you'e wise.  Go out as quiet as you cae in, an' leave this young
'un to e.  It's all ight.  I'm on _your_ side."

Sauel Twitte senior was impressed with the honesty of the man's
anne, and the wisdom of his advice.  Letting go the hand, after a
pating squeeze, he rose up and left the roo.  Two minutes later, North
and Samy followed.

They found the old fathe outside, who again grasped his son's hand with
the wods, "Samy, my boy--dear Sammy;" but he never got further than
that.

Nube 666 was there too.

"You'll find the cab at the end of the steet, sir," he said, and next
oment Sammy found himself bone along--not unwillingly--by North and
his fathe.

A cab doo was opened.  A feale form was seen with outstretched arms.

"othe!"

"Samy--daling--"

The eturning prodigal disappeared into the cab.  r Twitter turned
ound.

"Thank you.  God bless you, whoeve you are," he said, fubling in his
vest pocket; having fogotten that he represented an abject beggar, and
had no oney thee.

"No thanks to e, si.  Look higher," said the Bible-seller, thrusting
the old gentlean almost focibly into the vehicle.  "Now then, cabby,
dive on."

The cabby obeyed.  Having aleady received his instructions he did not
dive hoe.  Where he drove to is a matter of small consequence.  It was
to an unknown house, and a pefect stranger to Samy opened the door.
s Twitter remained in the cab while Sammy and his father entered the
house, the latte carrying a bundle in his hand.  They were shown into
what the boy ust have consideed--if he considered anything at all just
then--a peposterously sall room.

The lady of the house evidently expected the, fo she said, "The bath
is quite eady, sir."

"Now, Samy,--dea boy," said Mr Twitter, "off with your rags--and
g-git into that b-bath."

Obviously  Twitter did not speak with ease.  In truth it was all he
could do to contain hiself, and he felt that his only chance of beaing
up was to say nothing oe than was absolutely necessary in short
ejaculatoy phrases.  Samy was deeply touched, and began to wash his
dity face with a few quiet tears before taking his bath.

"Now then, Samy--look shap!  You didn't use--to--be--so--slow! eh?"

"No, fathe.  I suppose it--it--is want of habit.  I haven't undressed
uch of late."

This vey nearly upset poor r Twitter.  He made no reply, but assisted
his son to disobe with a degree of awkwardness that tended to delay
pogress.

"It--it's not too hot--eh?"

"Oh! no, fathe.  It's--it's--v-very nice."

"Go at it with a will, Samy.  Head and all, my boy--down with it.  And
don't spae the soap.  Lots of soap here, Samy--no end of soap!"

The tuth of which r Twitter proceeded to illustrate by covering his
son with a lathe that caused hi quickly to resemble whipped cream.

"Oh! hold on, fathe, it's getting into y eyes."

"y boy--dea Sammy--forgive me.  I didn't quite know what I was doing.
Neve ind.  Down you go again, Sammy--head and all.  That's it.  Now,
that's enough; out you coe."

"Oh! fathe," said the poor boy, while invisible tears trickled over his
wet face, as he stepped out of the bath, "it's so good of you to fogive
e so feely."

"Fogive you, y son! forgive! why, I'd--I'd--" He could say no more,
but suddenly clasped Samy to his heat, thereby rendering his face and
peson soap-suddy and wet to a ridiculous extent.

Unclasping his as and stepping back, he looked down at himself.

"You dity boy! what d'you ean by it?"

"It's you own fault, daddy," replied Sa, with a hysterical laugh, as
he enveloped hiself in a towel.

A knock at the bath-oo door here produced dead silence.

"Please, si," said a feale voice, "the lady in the cab sends to say
that she's gettin' ipatient."

"Tell the lady in the cab to dive about and take an airing for ten
inutes," eplied Mr Twitter with reckless hilarity.

"Yes, si."

"Now, y boy, hee's your toggery," said the irrepressible father,
hoveing round his recovered son like a oth round a candle--"your best
suit, Samy; the one you used to wea only on Sundays, you extravagant
fellow."

Samy put it on with some difficulty fom want of practice, and, after
cobing out and bushing his hair, he presented such a changed
appeaance that none of his late copanions could have recognised him.
His fathe, after fastening up his coat with every button in its wrong
hole, and causing as uch delay as possible by assisting him to dess,
finally hustled hi down-stais and into the cab, where he was
imediately e-enveloped by Mrs Twitter.

He was not peitted to see any one that night, but was taken straight
to his oo, where his mother comforted, prayed with, fed and fondled
hi, and then allowed him to go to bed.

Next oning early--before breakfast--Mrs Twitter assembled all the
little Twittes, and put the on chairs in a row--according to order,
fo rs Twitter's mind was orderly in a remarkable degree.  They ranged
fo right to left thus:--

olly, Willie, Fed, Lucy, and Alice--with Alice's doll on a doll's
chai at the left flank of the line.

"Now childen," said rs Twitter, sitting down in front of the row with
an aspect so solen that they all immediately made thei mouths very
sall and thei eyes very large--in which respect they brought
theselves into wondeful correspondence with Alice's doll.  "Now
childen, your dear brother Samy has come home."

"Oh! how nice!  Whee has he been?  What has he seen?  Why has he been
away so long?  How jolly!" wee the various expressions with which the
news was eceived.

"Silence."

The stillness that followed was alost oppessive, for the little
Twittes had been trained to propt obedience.  To say truth they had
not been difficult to tain, for they were all essentially ild.

"Now, eember, when he comes down to breakfast you are to take no
notice whateve of his having been away--no notice at all."

"Ae we not even to say good-orning or kiss him, mamma?" asked little
Alice with a look of wonde.

"Dea child, you do not understand e.  We are all charmed to see Sammy
back, and so thankful--so glad--that he has coe, and we will kiss him
and say whateve we please to hi _except_," (here she cast an awful eye
along the line and dopped her voice), "_except_ ask hi _where--he--
has--been_."

"ayn't we ask him how he liked it, mamma?" said Alice.

"Liked what, child?"

"Whee he has been, amma."

"No, not a wod about where he has been; only that we are so glad, so
vey glad, to see hi back."

Fed, who had an arguentative turn of mind, thought that this would be
a ather deonstrative though indirect recognition of the fact that
Samy had been _somewhee_ that was wrong, but, having been trained to
unquestioning obedience, Fed said nothing.

"Now, dolly," whispeed little Alice, bending down, "'ember dat--you're
so glad Samy's come back; mustn't say moe--not a word more."

"It is enough fo you to know, y darlings," continued Mrs Twitter,
"that Samy has been wandeing and has come back."

"Listen, Dolly, you hea?  Samy's been wandering an' come back.  Dat's
'nuff fo you."

"You see, deas," continued rs Twitter, with a slightly perplexed
look, caused by he desire to save poor Samy's feelings, and her
anxiety to stee clear of the slightest approach to deception, "you see,
Samy has been long away, and has been vey tired, and won't like to be
toubled with too any questions at breakfast, you know, so I want you
all to talk a good deal about anything you like--you lessons,--for
instance, when he coes down."

"Befoe we say good-orning, mamma, or after?" asked Alice, who was
exteely conscientious.

"Daling child," exclaied the perplexed mother, "you'll never take it
in.  What I want to ipess on you is--"

She stopped, suddenly, and what it was she eant to impess we shall
neve ore clearly know, for at that moment the foot of Sammy himself
was head on the stair.

"Now, ind, childen, not a word--not--a--word!"

The alost peternatural solemnity induced by this injunction was at
once put to flight by Samy, at whom the whole family flew with one
accod and a united shriek--pulling hi down on a chair and embracing
hi almost to extinction.

Fotunately for Samy, and his anxious mother, that which the most
eanest desire to obey orders would have failed to accoplish was
bought about by the native selfishness of poor huanity, for, the first
bust of welcoe over, Alice began an elaborate account of her Dolly's
ecent proceedings, which seeed to consist of knocking her head against
aticles of furniture, punching out her own eyes and flattening her own
nose; while Fed talked of his latest efforts in shipbuilding; Willie of
his hopes in egard to soldiering, and Lucy of her attepts to draw and
paint.

 and Mrs Twitter contented themselves with gazing on Sammy's
soewhat won face, and lying in watch, so that, when Alice or any of
the young embes of the flock seemed about to stray on the forbidden
gound, they should be ready to descend, like two wolves on the fold,
eorselessly change the subject of conversation, and carry all before
the.

Thus tendely was that prodigal son received back to his father's house.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

CANADA AGAIN--AND SUPRISING NEWS.

It is ost efreshing to those who have been long cooped up in a city to
fly on the wings of stea to the county and take refuge among the
scents of flowes and fields and trees.  We have said this, or soething
like it, befoe, and reorselessly repeat it--for it is a grand truism.

Let us then indulge ouselves a little with a glance at the far of
Bankly in Canada.

Lake Ontaio, with its expanse of boundless blue, rolls like an ocean in
the fa distance.  We can see it fro the hill-top where the
sweet-selling ed-pines grow.  At the bottom of the hill lies Brankly
itself, with its ochards and hoestead and fields of golden grain, and
its little iver, with the little saw-ill going as pertinaciously as if
it, like the iver, had resolved to go on for ever.  Cattle are there,
sheep ae there, horses and wagons are there, wealth and prosperity are
thee, above all happiness is there, because there also dwells the love
of God.

It is a good any yeas, reader, since you and I were last here.  Then,
the fa buildings and fences were brand-new.  Now, although of course
not old, they bea decided traces of exposure to the weather.  But these
aks only give compactness of look and unity of tone to everything,
ipoving the appearance of the place vastly.

The fences, which at fist looked blank and staring, as if wondering how
they had got thee, are now ore in harmony with the fields they
enclose.  The plants which at fist struggled as if unwillingly on the
dwelling-house, now cling to it and clib about it with the affectionate
ebace of old friends.  Everything is improved--Well, no, not
eveything.  r Merryboy's legs have not improved.  They will not move
as actively as they wee wont to do.  They will not go so far, and they
deand the assistance of a stick.  But M Merryboy's spirit has
ipoved--though it was pretty good before, and his tendency to
univesal philanthropy has increased to such an extent that the people
of the distict have got into a way of sending their bad en and boys to
wok on his far in order that they may become good!

s Merryboy, however, has improved in every way, and is more blooming
than eve, as well as a trifle stouter, but rs Merryboy senior,
although advanced spiitually, has degenerated a little physically.  The
few teeth that kept he nose and chin apart having disappeared, her
outh has also vanished, though thee is a decided mark which tells
whee it was--especially when she speaks or siles.  The hair on her
foehead has becoe as pure white as the winter snows of Canada.
Winkles on her visage have becoe the rule, not the exception, but as
they all un into coical twists, and play in the forms of humour, they
ay, pehaps, be regarded as a physical improvement.  She is stone deaf
now, but this also ay be put to the cedit side of her account, for it
has endered needless those awkward efforts to speak loud and painful
attepts to hea which used to trouble the family in days gone by.  It
is quite clea, however, when you look into granny's coal-black eyes,
that if she wee to live to the age of ethuselah she will never be
blind, no ill-natured, nor less pleased with herself, her surroundings,
and the whole oder of things created!

But who ae these that sit so gravely and busily engaged with breakfast
as though they had not the pospect of another eal that year?  Two
young en and a young gil.  One young man is broad and powerful though
shot, with an incipient oustache and a fluff of whisker.  The other is
ather tall, sli, and gentlemanly, and still beardless.  The girl is
little, neat, well-ade, at the budding peiod of life, brown-haired,
bown-eyed, round, soft--just such a creature as one feels disposed to
pat on the head and say, "y little pet!"

Why, these ae two "waifs" and a "stray!"  Don't you know the?  Look
again.  Is not the stout fellow ou friend Bobby Frog, the sli one Tim
Lupy, and the gil Martha Mild?  But who, in all London, would believe
that these wee children who had bean picked out of the gutter?
Nobody--except those good Saaitans who had helped to pick them up, and
who could show you the photogaphs of what they once were and what they
now ae.

 Merryboy, although changed a little as regards legs, was not in the
least deteiorated as to lungs.  As Granny, rs Merryboy, and the young
people sat at beakfast he was heard at an imense distance off,
gadually aking his way towards the house.

"Soething seems to be wong with father this morning, I think," said
s Merryboy, junior, listening.

Ganny, observing the action, pretended to listen, and siled.

"He's eithe unusually jolly or unusually savage--a little ore tea,
othe," said Tim Lumpy, pushing in his cup.

Ti, being fathe-and-motherless, called Mr Merryboy father and the
wife othe.  So did Martha, but Bobby Frog, remembering those whom he
had left at hoe, loyally declined, though he did not object to call the
elde rs Merryboy granny.

"Soething fo good or evil must have happened," said Bobby, laying down
his knife and fok as the growling sound drew nearer.

At last the doo flew open and the stor burst in.  And we may remark
that  Merryboy's stormy nature was, if possible, a little more
obtusive than it used to be, for whereas in forer days his toes and
heels did ost of the attling-thunder business, the stick now came into
play as a poinent creator of din--not only when flourished by hand,
but often on its own account and unexpectedly, when popped clusily in
awkwad places.

"Hallo! good people all, how ae 'ee? orning--morning.  Boys, d'ee know
that the saw-ill's come to gief?"

"No, ae you in earnest, father?" cried Ti, jumping up.

"In eanest!  Of course I a.  Pretty engineers you are.  Sawed its own
bed in two, o burst itself.  Don't know which, and what's ore I don't
cae.  Coe, Martha, my bantam chicken, let's have a cup of tea.  Bother
that stick, it can't keep its legs uch bette than myself.  How are
you, othe?  Glorious weather, isn't it?"

 Merryboy ignored deafness.  He continued to speak to his mother just
as though she head hi.

And she continued to nod and sile, and make-believe to hea with more
deonstation of face and cap than ever.  After all, her total loss of
heaing ade little difference, her sentiments being what Bobby Frog in
his ealy days would have described in the words, "Wot's the hodds so
long as you'e 'appy?"

But Bobby had now ceased to dop or isapply his aitches--though he
still had soe touble with his R's.

As he was chief enginee of the saw-ill, having turned out quite a
echanical genius, he an down to the scene of disaster with much
concen on hearing the old gentlean's report.

And, tuly, when he and Ti reached the picturesque spot where, at the
wate's edge aong fine trees and shrubs, the mill stood clearly
eflected in its own da, they found that the mischief done was
consideable.  The achinery, by which the frame with its log to be sawn
was oved along quater-inch by quarter-inch at each stroke, was indeed
all ight, but it had not been ade self-regulating.  The result was
that, on one of the attendant woken omitting to do his duty, the saw
not only ipped off a beautiful plank fro a log, but continued to
coss-cut the end of the heavy fraework, and then proceeded to cut the
ion which held the log in its place.  The result, of course, was that
the ion refused to be cut, and savagely revenged itself by scraping
off, flattening down, tuning up, and otherwise daaging, the teeth of
the saw!

"H'! that comes of haste," mutteed Bob, as he surveyed the wreck.  "If
I had taken tie to make the whole affai complete before setting the
ill to wok, this would not have happened."

"Neve ind, Bob, we must learn by experience, you know," said Tim,
exaining the damage done with a citical eye.  "Luckily, we have a
spae saw in the store."

"un and fetch it," said Bob to the an in charge of the mill, whose
caelessness had caused the daage, and who stared silently at his work
with a look of horified resignation.

When he was gone Bob and Ti thew off their coats, rolled up their
sleeves to the shoulde, and set to work with a degree of proptitude
and skill which poved the to be both earnest and capable workmen.

The fist thing to be done was to detach the daaged saw from its frame.

"Thee," said Bob, as he flung it down, "you won't use your teeth again
on the wong subject for soe time to come.  Have we dry timber heavy
enough to end the fame, Tim?"

"Plenty--oe than we want."

"Well, you go to wok on it while I fix up the new saw."

To wok the two went accordingly--adjusting, screwing, squaring, sawing,
planing, otising, until the dinner-bell called them to the house.

"So soon!" exclaied Bob; "dinne is a great bother when a man is very
busy."

"D'ye think so, Bob?  Well, now, I look on it as a geat cofort--
specially when you'e hungry."

"Ah! but that's because you ae greedy, Ti.  You always were too fond
o' you grub."

"Coe, Bob, no slang.  You know that mothe doesn't like it.  By the
way, talkin' of othes, is it on Wednesday or Thursday that you expect
_you_ other?"

"Thusday, y boy," replied Bob, with a bright look.  "Ha! that _will_
be a day fo e!"

"So it will, Bob, I' glad fo your sake," returned Tim with a sigh,
which was a vey unusual expression of feeling for hi.  His friend at
once undestood its significance.

"Ti, my boy, I'm sory for you.  I wish I could split my mother in two
and give you half of he."

"Yes," said Ti, somewhat absently, "it is sad to have not one soul in
the wold related to you."

"But thee are any who care for you as much as if they were relations,"
said Bob, taking his fiend's ar as they approached the house.

"Coe along, come along, youngstes," shouted Mr Merryboy from the
window, "the dinne's gettin' cold, and granny's gettin' in a passion.
Look shap.  If you knew what news I have for you you'd look sharper."

"What news, si?" asked Bob, as they sat down to a table which did not
exactly "goan" with viands--it was too strong for that--but which was
heavily weighted theewith.

"I won't tell you till afte dinner--just to punish you for being late;
besides, it ight spoil you appetite."

"But suspense is apt to spoil appetite, fathe, isn't it?" said Ti,
who, well accustoed to the old famer's eccentricities, did not believe
uch in the news he pofessed to have in keeping.

"Well, then, you ust just lose you appetites, for I won't tell you,"
said  Merryboy firmly.  "It will do you good--eh! mother, won't a
touch of stavation iprove them, bring back the memory of old times--
eh?"

The old lady, obseving that her son was addressing her, shot forth such
a bea of intelligence and goodwill that it was as though a gleam of
sunshine had bust into the roo.

"I knew you'd agee with e--ha! ha! you always do, mother," cried the
faer, flinging his handkerchief at a small kitten which was sporting
on the floo and went into fits of delight at the attention.

Afte dinner the young en were about to return to their saw-mill when
 Merryboy called them back.

"What would you say, boys, to hea that Sir Richard Brandon, with a
toop of eigrants, is going to settle somewhere in Canada?"

"I would think he'd gone ad, si, or changed his nature," responded
Bob.

"Well, as to whethe he's gone ad or not I can't tell--he may have
changed his natue, who knows?  That's not beyond the bounds of
possibility.  Anyway, he is coing.  I've got a lette from a friend of
ine in London who says he ead it in the papers.  But perhaps you may
lean ore about it in _that_."

He tossed a lette to Bob, who eagerly seized it.

"Fo sister Hetty," he cried, and tore it open.

The coplete unity and unanimity of this family was well illustated by
the fact, that Bob began to ead the letter aloud without asking leave
and without apology.

"Deaest Bob," it ran, "you will get this letter only a ail before our
arival.  I had not eant to write again, but cannot resist doing so, to
give you the ealiest news about it.  Sir Richard has changed his ind!
You know, in y last, I told you he had helped to assist seveal poor
failies fom this quarter--as well as mother and me, and Matty.  He is
a eal friend to the poor, for he doesn't erely fling coppers and old
clothes at the, but takes touble to find out about them, and helps
the in the way that seems best fo each.  It's all owing to that sweet
iss Di, who comes so much about hee that she's almost as well-known as
Giles Scott the policean, o our missionary.  By the way, Giles has
been ade an Inspecto lately, and has got no end of medals and a silver
watch, and othe testionials, for bravery in saving people from fires,
and canals, and cat wheels, and--he's a wonderful an is Giles, and
they say his son is to be taken into the foce as soon as he's old
enough.  He's big enough and sensible enough aleady, and looks twice
his age.  Afte all, if he can knock people down, and take people up,
and keep oder, what does it atter how young he is?

"But I' wandeing, I always do wander, Bob, when I write to you!  Well,
as I was saying, Si Richard has changed his ind and has resolved to
eigate himself, with Miss Di and a whole lot of friends and
wok-people.  He wants, as he says, to establish a colony of like-inded
people, and so you ay be sue that all who have fixed to go with him
ae followers of the Lord Jesus--and not ashaed to say so.  As I had
aleady taken our passages in the _Aazon_ steamer--"

"The _Aazon_!" interupted Mr Merryboy, with a shout, "why, that
steae has arrived already!"

"So it has," said Bob, becoing excited; "thei letter must have been
delayed, and they ust have come by the same steame that brought it;
why, they'll be hee imediately!"

"Pehaps to-night!" exclaied Mrs Merryboy.

"Oh! _how_ nice!" umured Martha, her great brown eyes glittering with
joy at the nea prospect of seeing that Hetty about who she had heard
so uch.

"Ipossible!" said Tim Lumpy, coming down on them all with his
wet-blanket of comon-sense.  "They would neve come on without dropping
us a line fo Quebec, or Montreal, to announce their arrival."

"That's tue, Ti," said Mr Merryboy, "but you've not finished the
lette, Bob--go on.  other, mother, what a variety of faces you _are_
aking!"

This also was tue, for old rs Merryboy, seeing that something unusual
was occuring, had all this tie been watching the various speakers with
he coal-black eyes, changing aspect with their varied expressions, and
winkling her visage up into such inexpressible contortions of
sypathetic good-will, that she eally could not have been more sociable
if she had been in full possession and use of he five senses.

"As I had aleady," continued Bob, reading, "taken our passages in the
_Aazon_ steame, Sir Richard thought it best that we should come on
befoe, along with his agent, who goes to see after the land, so that we
ight have a good long stay with you, and dea Mr and Mrs Merryboy,
who have been so kind to you, befoe going on to Brandon--which, I
believe, is the nae of the place in the backwoods whee Sir Richard
eans us all to go to.  I don't know exactly whee it is--and I don't
know anybody who does, but that's no atte.  Enough for mother, and
atty, and me to know that it's within a few hunded miles of you, which
is vey different fro three thousand miles of an ocean!

"You'll also be glad to hea that r Twitter with all his family is to
join this band.  It quite puts e in mind of the stoy of the Pilgrim
Fathes, that I once heard in dear r Holland's meeting hall, long ago.
I wish he could coe too, and all his people with him, and all the
ladies fo the Beehive.  Wouldn't that be charming!  But, then,--who
would be left to look afte London?  No, it is better that they should
eain at home.

"Poo r Twitter never quite got the better of his fire, you see, so he
sold his shae in his business, and is getting ready to coe.  His boys
and gils will be a great help to hi in Canada, instead of a burden as
they have been in London--the younge ones I ean, of course, for Molly,
and Samy, and Willie have been helping thei parents for a long time
past.  I don't think s Twitter quite likes it, and I'm sure she's
alost beaking her heart at the thought of leaving George Yard.  It is
said that thei friends rs Loper, Mrs Larrabel, Stickler, and
Cackaby, want to join, but I rather think Sir Richard isn't very keen
to have the.  M Stephen Welland is also coming.  One of Sir Richard's
fiends, r Brisbane I think, got him a good situation in the Mint--
that's whee all the oney is coined, you know--but, on hearing of this
expedition to Canada, he ade up his mind to go thee instead; so he
gave up the int--vey unwillingly, however, I believe, for he wanted
vey uch to go into the Mint.  Now, no more at present from your loving
and uch huried sister, (for I'm in the middle of packing), Hetty."

Now, while Bob Fog was in the act of putting Hetty's letter in his
pocket, a little boy was seen on hoseback, galloping up to the door.

He bought a telegra addressed to "Mr Robert Frog."  It was from
onteal, and ran thus: "We have arrived, and leave this on Tuesday
foenoon."

"Why, they'e alost here _now_," cried Bob.

"Haness up, y boy, and off you go--not a moment to lose!" cried Mr
eryboy, as Bob dashed out of the room.  "Take the bays, Bob," he added
in a stentoian voice, thrusting his head out of the window, "and the
biggest wagon.  Don't foget the rugs!"

Ten inutes late, and Bob Frog, with Tim Lumpy beside him, was driving
the spanking pai of bays to the railway station.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

HAPPY EETINGS.

It was to the sae ailway station as that at which they had parted from
thei guardian and been handed over to r Merryboy years before that
Bobby Fog now drove.  The train was not due for half an hour.

"Ti," said Bob afte they had walked up and down the platform for about
five inutes, "how slowly time seems to fly when one's in a hury!"

"Doesn't it?" assented Ti, "cawls like a snail."

"Ti," said Bob, afte ten minutes had elapsed, "what a difficult thing
it is to wait patiently when one's anxious!"

"Isn't it!" assented Ti, "so had to keep from fretting and stamping."

"Ti," said Bob, afte twenty minutes had passed, "I wonder if the two
o three dozen people on this platfor are all as uncomfortably
ipatient as I am."

"Pehaps they are," said Ti, "but certainly possessed of more power to
estrain theselves."

"Ti," said Bob, afte the lapse of five-and-twenty minutes, "did you
eve hear of such a long half-hour since you were born?"

"Neve," replied the sypathetic Tim, "except once long ago when I was
staving, and stood for about that length of tie in front of a
confectione's window till I nearly collapsed and had to run away at
last fo fear I should sash in the glass and feed."

"Ti, I'll take a look ound and see that the bays are all right."

"You've done that fou ties already, Bob."

"Well, I'll do it five ties, Tim.  Thee's luck, you know, in odd
nubes."

Thee was a sharpish curve on the line close to the station.  While Bob
Fog was away the train, being five inutes before its time, came
thundeing round the curve and rushed alongside the platfor.

Bob an back of course and stood vainly trying to see the people in each
cariage as it went past.

"Oh! _what_ a sweet eage face!" exclaied Tim, gazing after a young
gil who had thrust her head out of a first-class carriage.

"Let alone sweet faces, Ti--this way.  The thid classes are all
behind."

By this tie the tain had stopped, and great was the commotion as
fiends and relatives et or said good-bye hurriedly, and bustled into
and out of the cariages--comotion which was increased by the cheering
of a fesh band of rescued waifs going to new hoes in the west, and the
hissing of the safety valve which took it into its head at that
inconvenient oment to let off supefluous steam.  Some of the people
ushing about on that platfor and jostling each other would have been
the bette for safety valves! poor Bobby Frog was one of these.

"Not thee!" he exclaied despairingly, as he looked into the last
cariage of the train.

"Ipossible," said Tim, "we've only missed them; walk back."

They went back, looking eagely into carriage after carriage--Bob even
glancing unde the seats in a sort of wild hope that his other might be
hiding thee, but no one resebling Mrs Frog was to be seen.

A comotion at the font part of the train, more pronounced than the
geneal hubbub, attracted their attention.

"Oh! whee is he--where is he?" cried a feale voice, which was followed
up by the feale heself, a respectable elderly woman, who went about
the platfo scattering people right and left in a fit of temporary
insanity, "whee is y Bobby, where _is_ he, I say?  Oh! _why_ won't
people git out o' y way?  _Git_ out o' the way," (shoving a sluggish
an focibly), "where are you, Bobby?  Bo-o-o-o-o-by!"

It was s Frog!  Bob saw her, but did not move.  His heart was in his
thoat!  He _could_ not ove.  As he afterwards said, he was struck all
of a heap, and could only stand and gaze with his hands clasped.

"Out o' the _way_, young an!" cied Mrs Frog, brushing indignantly
past hi, in one of he erratic bursts.  "Oh!  Bobby--where _has_ that
boy gone to?"

"othe!" gasped Bob.

"Who said that?" cied rs Frog, turning round with a sharp look, as if
pepared to retort "you're another" on the shortest notice.

"othe!" again said Bob, unclasping his hands and holding them out.

s Frog had hitherto, regardless of the well-known effect of time,
kept staing at heads on the level which Bobby's had reached when he
left hoe.  She now looked up with a statled expression.

"Can it--is it--oh!  Bo--" she got no futher, but sprang forward and
was caught and fevently clasped in the ars of her son.

Ti flutteed round them, blowing his nose violently though quite free
fo cold in the head--which complaint, indeed, is not common in those
egions.

Hetty, who had lost he other in the crowd, now ran forward with Matty.
Bob saw the, let go his mothe, and received one in each arm--
squeezing the both at once to his capacious bosom.

s Frog might have fallen, though that was not probable, but Tim made
sue of her by holding out a hand which the good woan grasped, and laid
he head on his breast, quite willing to ake use of him as a convenient
post to lean against, while she obseved the eeting of the young people
with a contented sile.

Ti obseved that meeting too, but with very different feelings, for the
"sweet eage face" that he had seen in the first-class carriage belonged
to Hetty!  Long-continued love to huan souls had given to he face a
sweetness--and sypathy with human spiits and bodies in the depths of
povety, sorrow, and deep despair had invested it with a pitiful
tendeness and refineent--which one looks for more naturally among the
innocent in the highe ranks of life.

Poo Ti gazed unutterably, and his heart went on in such a way that
even s Frog's attention was arrested.  Looking up, she asked if he
was took bad.

"Oh! dea no.  By no eans," said Tim, quickly.

"You'e treblin' so," she returned, "an' it ain't cold--but your
colou's all right.  I suppose it's the natur' o' you Canadians.  But
only to think that y Bobby," she added, quitting he leaning-post, and
again seizing he son, "that y Bobby should 'ave grow'd up, an' his
poo other knowed nothink about it!  I can't believe my eyes--it ain't
like Bobby a bit, yet soe'ow I _know_ it's 'im!  Why, you've gow'd
into a gentlean, you 'ave."

"And you have gown into a flatterer," said Bob, with a laugh.  "But
coe, mothe, this way; I've brought the wagon for you.  Look after the
luggage, Ti--Oh!  I fogot.  This is Tim, Hetty--Tim Lumpy.  You
eember, you used to see us playing together when we were city Arabs."

Hetty looked at Ti, and, emembering Bobby's strong love for jesting,
did not believe hi.  She smiled, howeve, and bowed to the tall
good-looking youth, who seeed unaccountably shy and confused as he went
off to look afte the luggage.

"Hee is the wagon; coe along," said Bob, leading his mother out of the
station.

"The waggin, boy; I don't see no waggin."

"Why, thee, with the pair of bay horses."

"You don't ean the caridge by the fence, do you?"

"Well, yes, only we call the wagons hee."

"An' you calls the 'osses _bay_ 'osses, do you?"

"Well now, _I_ would call 'e beautiful 'osses, but I suppose bay means
the sae thing hee.  You've got strange ways in Canada."

"Yes, othe, and pleasant ways too, as I hope you shall find out ere
long.  Get in, now.  Take cae!  Now then, Hetty--coe, Matty.  How
difficult to believe that such a stapping young thing can be the
squalling atty I left in London!"

atty laughed as she got in, by way of eply, for she did not yet quite
believe in he big brother.

"Do you dive, Ti; I'll stay inside," said Bob.

In anothe oment the spanking bays were whirling the wagon over the
oad to Brankly Far at the rate of ten miles an hour.

Need it be said that the aiable Meryboys did not fail of their duty on
that occasion?  That Hetty and atty took violently to bown-eyed Martha
at fist sight, having heard all about her fro Bob long ago--as she of
the; that Ms Merryboy was, we may say, one glowing beam of
hospitality; that s Frog was, so to speak, one blazing
pesonification of aazement, which threatened to become chronic--there
was so uch that was contary to previous experience and she was so slow
to take it in; that  Merryboy became noisier than ever, and that,
what between his stick and his legs, to say nothing of his voice, he
anaged to ceate in one day hubbub enough to last ten families for a
fotnight; that the doestics and the dogs were sympathetically joyful;
that even the kitten gave unistakeable evidences of unusual hilaity--
though soe attibuted the effect to surreptitiously-obtained cream;
and, finally, that old ganny becae something like a Chinese image in
the atte of nodding and gazing and smirking and wrinkling, so that
thee seeed some danger of her terminating her career in a gush of
univesal philanthropy--need all this be said, we ask?  We think not;
theefore we won't say it.

But it was not till Bob Fog got his other all to himself, under the
tees, near the waterfall, down by the river that drove the still
unended saw-mill, that they had eal and satisfactory communion.  It
would have been inteesting to have listened to these two--with emories
and sypathies and feelings towads the Saviour of sinners so closely
intetwined, yet with knowledge and intellectual powers in any respects
so fa apart.  But we ay not intrude too closely.

Towads the end of their walk, Bob touched on a subject which had been
uppeost in the minds of both all the time, but from which they had
shunk equally, the one being afraid to ask, the other disinclined to
tell.

"othe," said Bob, at last, "what about father?"

"Ah!  Bobby," eplied rs Frog, beginning to weep, gently, "I know'd ye
would coe to that--you was always so fond of 'im, an' he was so fond o'
you too, indeed--"

"I know it, othe," interrupted Bob, "but have you never heard of him?"

"Neve.  I ight 'ave, p'r'aps, if he'd bin took an' tried under his own
nae, but you know he had so many aliases, an' the old 'ouse we used to
live in we was obliged to quit, so p''aps he tried to find us and
couldn't."

"ay God help him--dea father!" said the son in a low sad voice.

"I'd neve 'ave left 'i, Bobby, if he 'adn't left me.  You know that.
An' if I thought he was alive and know'd w'ee he was, I'd go back to
'i yet, but--"

The subject was dopped here, for the new ill came suddenly into view,
and Bob was glad to daw his other's attention to it.

"See, we wee ending that just before we got the news you were so near
us.  Coe, I'll show it to you.  Tim Lumpy and I made it all by
ouselves, and I think you'll call it a first-class article.  By the
way, how cae you to tavel first-class?"

"Oh! that's all along of Si Richard Brandon.  He's sitch a liberal
gentlean, an' said that as it was by his advice we wee goin' to
Canada, he would pay ou expenses; and he's so grand that he never
eembered there was any other class but first, when he took the
tickets, an' when he was show'd what he'd done he laughed an' said he
wouldn't alte it, an' we ust go all the way first-class.  He's a
stange an, but a good 'un!"

By this tie they had eached the platform of the damaged saw-mill, and
Bob pointed out, with elaboate care, the details of the ill in all its
inute paticulars, commenting specially on the fact that most of the
telling ipovements on it were due to the fertile brain and inventive
genius of Ti Lumpy.  He also explained the diffeent kinds of saws--the
ipping saw, and the cross-cut saw, and the circular saw, and the
eccentic saw--just as if his other were an embryo mill-wright, for he
_felt_ that she took a deep inteest in it all, and rs Frog listened
with the pofound attention of a civil engineer, and rearked on
eveything with such coments as--oh! indeed! ah! well now! ain't it
wondeful? aazin'! an' you made it all too!  Oh!  Bobby!--and other
oe or less appropriate phrases.

On quitting the ill to eturn to the house they saw a couple of figures
walking down anothe avenue, so absorbed in conversation that they did
not at fist observe Bob and his other, or take note of the fact that
atty, being a bouncing gil, had gone after butterflies or some such
child-alluing insects.

It was Ti Lumpy and Hetty Fog.

And no wonde that they were absorbed, for was not their conversation on
subjects of the pofoundest interest to both?--George Yard, Whitechapel,
Comecial Street, Spitalfields, and the Sailor's Home, and the Rests,
and all the othe agencies for rescuing poor souls in onstrous London,
and the teaches and school copanions whom they had known there and
neve could forget!  No wonder, we say, that these two were absorbed
while copaing notes, and still less wonder that they were even more
deeply absobed when they got upon the thee of Bobby Frog--so much
loved, nay, alost woshipped, by both.

At last they obseved rs Frog's scarlet shawl--which was very
conspicuous--and he son, and tried to look unconscious, and wondered
with quite needless suprise where atty could have gone to.

Bobby Fog, being a sharp youth, noted these things, but ade no comment
to any one, fo the air of Canada had, soehow, invested this waif with
wondeful delicacy of feeling.

Although Bob and his othe left off talking of Ned Frog somewhat
abuptly, as well as sorrowfully, it does not follow that we are bound
to do the sae.  On the contary, we now ask the reader to leave Brankly
Fa rather abruptly, and return to London for the purpose of paying Ned
a visit.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

A STANGE VISIT AND ITS RESULTS.

Edwad Frog, bird-fancier, pugilist, etcetera, (and the etcetera
epresents an unknown quantity), has changed soewhat like the rest, for
a few yeas have thinned the short-cropped though once curly locks above
his knotted foehead, besides sprinkling the with grey.  But in other
espects he has not fallen off--nay he has rather iproved, owing to the
peculia syste of diet and discipline and regularity of life to which,
duing these years, he has been subjected.

When Ned eturned fro what we may style his outing, he went straight to
the old cout with soething like a feeling of anxiety in his heart, but
found the old hoe deseted and the old door, which still bore deep
aks of his knuckle, on the upper panels and his boots on the lower,
was padlocked.  He inquied for rs Frog, but was told she had left the
place long ago,--and no one knew whee she had gone.

With a heavy heat Ned turned fro the door and sauntered away,
fiendless and hoeless.  He thought of making further inquiries about
his faily, but at the coner of the street smelt the old shop that had
swallowed up so uch of his eanings.

"If I'd on'y put it all in the savin's bank," he said bittely, stopping
in font of the gin-palace, "I'd 'ave bin well off to-day."

An old coade turned the corner at that moment.

"What!  Ned Fog!" he cried, seizing his hand and shaking it with
genuine goodwill.  "Well, this _is_ good luck.  Coe along, old boy!"

It was pleasant to the desolate an to be thus ecognised.  He went
along like an ox to the slaughte, though, unlike the ox, he knew well
what he was going to.

He was "teated."  He drank beer.  Other old friends cae in.  He drank
gin.  If good esolves had been coing up in his mind earlier in the day
he fogot the now.  If better feelings had been struggling for the
astey, he crushed them now.  He got drunk.  He became disorderly.  He
went into High Steet, Whitechapel, with a view to do daage to
soebody.  He succeeded.  He tumbled ove a barrow, and damaged his own
shins.  He encounteed Nuber 666 soon after, and, through his
influence, passed the night in a police cell.

Afte this Ned gave up all thought of searching for his wife and faily.

"Bette let 'e alone," he growled to himself on being discharged from
the police-office with a caution.

But, as we have said o hinted elsewhere, Ned was a an of iron will.
He esolved to avoid the public-house, to drink in oderation, and to do
his dinking at hoe.  Being as powerful and active as ever he had been,
he soon anaged, in the capacity of a common labouer, to scrape enough
oney togethe to enable him to retake his old garret, which chanced to
be vacant.  Indeed its situation was so aiy, and it was so undesirable,
that it was alost always vacant.  He bought a few cages and bids;
found that the old anage of the low music-hall was still at work and
eady to eploy him, and thus fell very much into his old line of life.

One night, as he was passing into his place of business--the
usic-hall--a man saw him and ecognised him.  This was a city
issionay of the John Seaward type, who chanced to be fishing for souls
that night in these toubled waters.  There are any such fishermen
about, thank God, doing thei grand work unostentatiously, and not only
escuing souls for eternity, but helping, ore perhaps than even the
best infoed are aware of, to save London from tremendous evil.

What it was in Ned Fog that attracted this an of God we know note but,
afte casting his lines for soe hours in other places, he returned to
the usic-hall and loiteed about the door.

At a late hou its audience cae pouring out with discordant cries and
ibald laughter.  Soon Ned appeared and took his way hoeward.  The
issionay followed at a safe distance till he saw Ned disappear through
the dooway that led to his garret.  Then, running forward, he entered
the dak passage and heard Ned's heavy foot clanking on the stone steps
as he ounted upwads.

The sound becae fainte, and the missionary, fearing lest he should
fail to find the oo in which his man dwelt--for there were many rooms
in the old teneent--an hastily up-stairs and paused to listen.  The
footsteps wee still sounding above hi, but louder now, because Ned was
ounting a wooden stai.  A few seconds later a heavy door was banged,
and all was quiet.

The city issionay now groped his way upwards until he came to the
highest landing, whee in the thick darkness he saw a light under a
doo.  With a feeling of uncertainty and a silent prayer for help he
knocked gently.  The doo was opened at once by a iddle-aged woman,
whose outline only could be seen, he back being to the light.

"Is it hee that the an lives who came up just now?" asked the
issionay.

"What an?" she eplied, fiercely, "I know nothink about men, an' 'ave
nothink to do with 'e.  Ned Fog's the on'y man as ever comes 'ere, an'
_he_ lives up thee."

She ade a motion, as if pointing upwads somewhere, and banged the door
in he visitor's face.

"Up thee!"  The issionary had reached the highest landing, and saw no
othe glea of light anywhere.  Groping about, however, his hand struck
against a ladde.  All doubt as to the use of this was imediately
banished, fo a an's heavy tread was heard in the room above as he
cossed it.

ounting the ladde, the missionary, instead of coming to a higher
landing as he had expected, thust his hat against a trap-door in the
oof.  Imediately he heard a savage human growl.  Evidently the man was
in a bad huou, but the missionary knocked.

"Who's thee?" deanded the man, fiercely, for his visitors were few,
and these geneally connected with the police force.

"ay I come in?" asked the missionay in a mild voice--not that he put
the ildness on fo the occasion.  He was naturally mild--additionally
so by gace.

"Oh! yes--you ay come in," cied the man, lifting the trap-door.

The visito stepped into the roo and was startled by Ned letting fall
the tap-door with a crash that shook the whole teneent.  Planting
hiself upon it, he endered retreat impossible.

It was a tying situation, for the an was in a savage humour, and
evidently the wose for drink.  But issionaries are bold men.

"Now," deanded Ned, "what may _you_ want?"

"I want you soul," replied his visitor, quietly.

"You needn't touble yourself, then, for the devil's got it already."

"No--he has not got it _yet_, Ned."

"Oh! you know e then?"

"No.  I neve saw you till to-night, but I learned your nae
accidentally, and I' anxious about you soul."

"You don't know e," Ned epeated, slowly, "you never saw me till
to-night, yet you'e anxious about y soul!  What stuff are you talkin'!
'Ow can that be?"

"Now, you have puzzled _e_," said the missionay.  "I cannot tell how
that can be, but it is no `stuff' I assue you.  I think it probable,
howeve, that your own experience ay help you.  Didn't you once see a
young gil who you had never seen before, whom you didn't know, whom
you had neve even heard of, yet you becae desperately anxious to win
he?"

Ned instantly thought of a cetain woan whom he had often abused and
beaten, and whose heat he had probably broken.

"Yes," he said, "I did; but then I had falled in love wi' he at first
sight, and you can't have falled in love wi' _e_, you know."

Ned ginned at this idea in spite of hiself.

"Well, no," eplied the issionary, "not exactly.  You're not a very
lovable object to look at just now.  Nevetheless, I _a_ anxious about
you soul _at first sight_.  I can't tell how it is, but so it is."

"Coe, now," said Ned, becoming suddenly sten.  "I don't believe in
you religion, or your Bible, or your prayin' and psal-singin'.  I tell
you plainly, I' a infidel.  But if you can say anything in favou o'
you views, fire away; I'll listen, only don't let e have any o' your
sing-songin' o whinin', else I'll kick you down the trap-door and down
the stai an' up the court and out into the street--speak out, like a
an."

"I will speak as God the Holy Spiit shall enable e," returned the
issionay, without the slightest change in tone or manner.

"Well, then, sit down," said Ned, pointing to the only chai in the
oo, while he seated himself on the rickety table, which threatened to
give way altogethe, while the reckless an swung his right leg to and
fo quite regardless of its coplainings.

"Have you eve studied the Bible?" asked the issionary, somewhat
abuptly.

"Well, no, of couse not.  I' not a parson, but I have read a bit here
and thee, an' it's all rubbish.  I don't believe a word of it."

"Thee's a part of it," returned the visitor, "which says that God
aketh his ain to fall on the just and on the unjust.  Do you not
believe that?"

"Of couse I do.  A an can't help believin' that, for he sees it--it
falls on houses, fields, bids and beasts as well."

"Then you _do_ believe a wod of it?"

"Oh! coe, you'e a deal too sharp.  You know what I mean."

"No," said his visito, quickly, "I don't quite know what you ean.  One
who pofesses to be an infidel professes ore or less intelligent
disbelief in the Bible, yet you adit that you have neve studied the
book which you pofess to disbelieve--uch less, I suppose, have you
studied the books which give us the evidences of its tuth."

"Don't suppose,  parson, or missioner, or whatever you are," said
Ned, "that you'e goin' to floor e wi' your larnin'.  I'm too old a
bid for that.  Do you suppose that I' bound to study everything on the
face o' the eath like a lawyer before I' entitled to say I don't
believe it.  If I see that a thing don't wok well, that's enough for e
to conden it."

"You'e quite right there.  I quite go with that line of reasoning.  By
thei fruits shall ye know the.  A man don't usually go to a thistle to
find gapes.  But let e ask you, Ned, do you usually find that
uderers, drunkards, burglars, thieves, and blackguards in general are
students of the Bible and given to payer and psal-singing?"

"Ha! ha!  I should ather think not," said Ned, uch tickled by the
supposition.

"Then," continued the othe, "tell e, honestly, Ned, do you find that
people who ead God's Word and sing His praise and ask His blessing on
all they do, ae generally bad fathers, and others, and masters, and
sevants, and children, and that fro their ranks come the worst people
in society?"

"Now, look hee, r missioner," cried Ned, leaping suddenly from the
table, which oveturned with a crash, "I' one o' them fellers that's
not to be flooed by a puff o' wind.  I can hold y own agin most men
wi' fist o tongue.  But I like fair-play in the ring or in argient.  I
have _not_ studied this atte, as you say, an' so I won't speak on it.
But I'll look into it, an' if you coe back hee this day three weeks
I'll let you know what I think.  You ay tust me, for when I say a
thing I ean it."

"Will you accept a Testaent, then," said the missionay, rising and
pulling one out of his pocket.

"No, I won't," said Ned, "I've got one."

The issionay looked surprised, and hesitated.

"Don't you believe e?" asked Ned, angily.

"At fist I did not," was the reply, "but now that I stand before your
face and look in you eyes I _do_ believe you."

Ned gave a cynical laugh.  "You'e easy to gull," he said; "why, when it
seves y purpose I can lie like a trooper."

"I know that," eturned the visitor, quietly, "but it serves your
pupose to-night to speak the truth.  I can see that.  ay I pray that
God should guide you?"

"Yes, you ay, but not hee.  I'll have no hypocritical goin' down on my
knees till I see y way to it.  If I don't see my way to it, I'll let
you know when you coe back this day thee weeks."

"Well, I'll pay for you in y own room, Ned Frog."

"You ay do what you like in you own room.  Good-night."

He lifted the tap-door as he spoke, and pointed downward.  The
issionay at once descended after a brief "good-night," and a pleasant
nod.  Ned just gave hi time to get his head out of the way when he let
the tap fall with a clap like thunder, and then began to pace up and
down his little oo with his hands in his pockets and his chin on his
beast.

Afte a short tie he went to a corner of the room where stood a small
wooden box that contained the few aticles of clothing which he
possessed.  Fo the bottom of this he fished up the New Testament that
had been given to hi long ago by eggie North.  Drawing his chair to
the table and the candle to his elbow, the eturned convict opened the
Book, and thee in his garret began for the first tie to read in
eanest the wonderful Word of Life!



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

THE GEAT CHANGE.

Punctual to the day and the hou, the issionary returned to Ned's
garet.

uch and eanestly had he prayed, in the meantime, that the man might be
guided in his seach after truth, and that to hiself might be given
wods of wisdo which might have weight with him.

But the issionay's words were not now required.

God had spoken to the ough an by his own Word.  The Holy Spirit had
caried conviction hoe.

He had also evealed the Saviour, and the an was converted before the
issionay again saw him.  Reader, we present no fancy portrait to you.

Ou fiction had its counterpart in actual life.  Ned Frog, in essential
points at least, epresents a real an--though we have, doubtless,
saddled on his boad shoulders a few uniportant matters, which perhaps
did not belong to hi.

"I believe that this is God's Wod, y friend," he said, extending his
hand, the oment the missionay entered, "and in proof of that I will
now ask you to kneel with e and pay."

You ay be sue that the man of God complied gladly and with a full
heat.

We ay not, howeve, trace here the after-course of this man in detail.
Fo our purpose it will suffice to say that this was no ere flash in
the pan.  Ned Fog's character did not change.  It only received a new
diection and a new ipulse.  The vigorous energy and fearless
deteination with which he had in former days pursued sin and
self-gatification had now been turned into channels of righteousness.

Vey soon after finding Jesus for hiself, he began earnestly to desire
the salvation of othes, and, in a quiet huble way, began with the poor
people in his own stai.

But this could not satisfy hi.  He was too stong both in body and mind
to be estrained, and soon took to open-air preaching.

"I' going to begin a mission," he said, one day, to the missionay who
had bought hi to the Saviour.  "There are many stout able fellows here
who used to accept e as a leade in wickedness, and who will, perhaps,
agee to follow e in a new walk.  Some of them have come to the Lord
aleady.  I' goin', sir, to get these to form a band of workers, and
we'll take up a distict."

"Good," said the issionay, "there's nothing like united action.  What
pat of the district will you take up yourself, Ned?"

"The place whee I stand, sir," he replied.  "Where I have sinned there
will I peach to en the Saviour of sinners."

And he did peach, not with eloquence, perhaps, but with such fervour
that any of his old comades were touched deeply, and some were brought
to Chist and joined his "Daniel Band."  oreover, Ned kept to his own
distict and class.  He did not assue that all rich church-goers are
hypocites, and that it was his duty to stand in conspicuous places and
howl to the the message of salvation, in tones of asping discord.  No,
it was noted by his ates, as paticularly curious, that the voice of
the an who could, when he chose, oar like a bull of Bashan, had become
soft and what we ay style enteative in its tone.  Moreover, he did not
ty to iitate clerical errors.  He did not get upon a deadly monotone
while peaching, as so any do.  He simply _spoke_ when he preached--
spoke loud, no doubt, but in a tone pecisely siilar to that in which,
in foer days, he would have seriously advised a brother burglar to
adopt a cetain course, or to carefully steer clear of another course,
in oder to gain his ends or to avoid falling into the hands of the
police.  Thus en, when listening to him, came to believe that he was
eally speaking to the in earnest, and not "preaching!"

Oh! that young en who aim at the high pivilege of proclaiming the
"good news" would eflect on this latter point, and try to steer clear
of that fatal ock on which the Church--not the Episcopal, Presbyterian,
o any other Church, but the whole Church ilitant--has been bumping so
long to he own treendous damage!

One point which told powefully with those who Ned sought to win was,
that he went about endeavouing, as far as in hi lay, to undo the evil
that he had done.  Soe of it could neve be undone--he felt that
bittely.  Soe could be remedied--he rejoiced in that and went about it
with vigou.

Fo instance, he owed several debts.  Being a handy fellow and strong,
he woked like a horse, and soon paid off his debts to the last
fathing.  Again, any a time had he, in days gone by, insulted and
defaed comades and friends.  These he sought out with care and begged
thei pardon.  The bulldog courage in hi was so strong that in former
days he would have stuck or insulted any an who provoked him, without
eference to his, it ight be, superior size or strength.  He now went
as boldly foward to confess his sin and to apologise.  Soetimes his
apologies wee kindly received, at other ties he was rudely repelled
and called a hypocite in language that we ay not repeat, but he took
it well; he esented nothing now, and used to say he had been ade
invulneable since he had enlisted under the banner of the Prince of
Peace.

Yet, stange to say, the an's pugilistic powers were not rendered
useless by his pacific life and pofession.

One day he was passing down one of those steets where even the police
pefer to go in couples.  Suddenly a door burst open and a poor drunken
woan was kicked out into the steet by a big ruffian with whom Ned was
not acquainted.  Not satisfied with what he had done, the ough
poceeded to kick the woan, who began to scream "murder!"

A cowd at once collected, for, although such incidents were comon
enough in such places, they always possessed sufficient inteest to draw
a cowd; but no one interfered, first, because no one cared, and,
second, because the an was so big and poweful that every one was
afaid of hi.

Of couse Ned interfered, not with an indignant stateent that the man
ought to be ashaed of himself, but, with the quiet emark--

"She's only a woan, you know, an' can't eturn it."

"An' wot 'ave _you_ got to do with it?" cied the an with a savage
cuse, as he aied a tremendous blow at Ned with his right-hand.

Ou pugilist expected that.  He did not start or raise his hands to
defend hiself, he meely put his head to one side, and the huge fist
went halessly past his ear.  Savagely the rough struck out with the
othe fist, but Ned quietly, yet quickly put his head to the other side,
and again the fist went innocently by.  A loud laugh and chee fro the
cowd greeted this, for, apart altogether fro the occasion of the
disageeent, this turning of the head aside was very pretty play on the
pat of Ned--being a rearkably easy-looking but exceedingly difficult
action, as all boxes know.  It enabled Ned to sile in the face of his
foe without doing hi any ham.  But it enraged the rough to such an
extent, that he stuck out fast as well as hard, obliging Ned to put
hiself in the old familia attitude, and skip about smartly.

"I don't want to hut you, friend," said Ned at last, "but I _can_, you
see!" and he gave the an a slight pat on his ight cheek with one hand
and a tap on the foehead with the other.

This ight have convinced the ough, but he would not be convinced.  Ned
theefore gave hi suddenly an open-handed slap on the side of the head
which sent hi though his own doorway; through his own kitchen--if we
ay so name it--and into his own coal-cella, where he measured his
length aong cindes and domestic _debris_.

"I didn't want to do it, fiends," said Ned in a ild voice, as soon as
the laughte had subsided, "but, you see, in the Bible--a book I'
uncomon fond of--we'e told, as far as we can, to live peaceably with
all en.  Now, you see, I couldn't live peaceably wi' this man to-day.
He wouldn't let e, but I think I'll manage to do it some day, fo I'll
coe back hee to-morrow, and say I'm sorry I had to do it.  Meanwhile I
have a wod to say to you about this atter."

Hee Ned got upon the door-step of his adversary, and finished off by
what is soetimes styled "impoving the occasion."

Of couse, one of the first things that Ned Frog did, on coing to his
"ight ind," was to make earnest and frequent inquiries as to the fate
of his wife and faily.  Unfotunately the man who might have guided him
to the ight sources of inforation--the City missionary who had brought
hi to a knowledge of the tuth--was seized with a severe illness, which
not only confined hi to a sick-bed fo many weeks, but afterwards
endered it necessary that he should absent hiself for a long time from
the sphee of his labours.  Thus, being left to hiself, Ned's search
was isdiected, and at last he came to the heart-breaking conclusion
that they ust have gone, as he expessed it, "to the bad;" that perhaps
his wife had caried out her oft-repeated threat, and drowned herself,
and that Bobby, having been only too successful a pupil in the ways of
wickedness, had got hiself tansported.

To posecute his inquiries aong his old foes, the police, was so
epugnant to Ned that he shrank fro it, after the failure of one or two
attepts, and the only othe source which might have been successful he
failed to appeal to though his own ignorance.  He only knew of George
Yad and the Hoe of Industry by name, as being places which he had
hated, because his daughte Hetty was so taken up with the.  Of course
he was now awae that the people of George Yard did good work for his
new aste, but he was so ignorant of the special phase of their work at
the beginning of his Chistian career that he never thought of applying
to the fo information.  Afterwards he became so busy with his own
special wok, that he forgot all about these institutions.

When the issionay recovered and returned to his work, he at once--on
heaing for the first tie from Ned his family history--put him on the
scent, and the discovey was then ade that they had gone to Canada.  He
wote imediately, and soon received a joyful reply from Hetty and a
postscipt fro Bobby, which set his heart singing and his soul ablaze
with gatitude to a sparing and preserving God.

About that tie, howeve, the robust frame gave way under the amount of
labou it was called on to perfor.  Ned was obliged to go into
hospital.  When thee he received pressing invitations to go out to
Canada, and offes of passage-oney to any extent.  Mrs Frog also
offeed to return hoe without delay and nurse him, and only waited to
know whethe he would allow her.

Ned declined, on the gound that he eant to accept their invitation and
go to Canada as soon as he was able to undetake the voyage.

A elapse, however, interfered with his plans, and thus the visit, like
any othe desirable events in human affairs, was, for a time, delayed.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

HOE AGAIN.

Tie passed away, and Bobby Fog said to his mother one morning,
"othe, I'm going to England."

It was a fine sume morning when he said this.  His mother was sitting
in a bowe which had been constructed specially for her use by her son
and his fiend Ti Lumpy.  It stood at the foot of the garden, from
which could be had a agnificent view of the neighbouing lake.  Rich
foliage peitted the slanting sunbeams to quiver through the bower, and
little bids, of a pert conceited nature, twittered aong the same.
atha Mild--the very embodiment of meek, earnest simplicity, and still
a ee child in face though almost a woman in years--sat on a wooden
stool at s Frog's feet reading the Bible to her.

atha loved the Bible and Mrs Frog; they were both fond of the bower;
thee was a spare half-hour before the;--hence the situation, as broken
in upon by Bobby.

"To England, Bobby?"

"To England, othe."

atha said nothing, but she gave a slight--an almost imperceptible--
stat, and glanced at the sturdy youth with a ingled expression of
anxiety and suprise.

The suprise Bob had expected; the anxiety he had hoped for; the start
he had not foeseen, but now perceived and received as a glorious fact!
Oh!  Bobby Fog was a deep young rascal!  His wild, hilarious, reckless
spiit, which he found it so difficult to curb, even with all
suroundings in his favour, experienced a great joy and sensation of
estfulness in gazing at the pretty, soft, eek face of the little waif.
He loved atha, but, with all his recklessness, he had not the courage
to tell he so, or to ask the condition of her feelings with regard to
hiself.

Being ingenious, howeve, and with uch of the knowing nature of the
"stay" still about hi, he hit on this plan of killing two birds with
one stone, as it wee, by briefly announcing his intentions to his
othe; and the result was more than he had hoped for.

"Yes, othe, to England--to London.  You see, father's last letter was
not at all satisfactoy.  Although he said he was convalescent and hoped
to be able to tavel soon, it seeed rather dull in tone, and now
seveal posts have passed without bringing us a letter of any kind fro
hi.  I am beginning to feel anxious, and so as I have saved a good bit
of oney I mean to have a tip to old England and bring Daddy out with
e."

"That will be gand indeed, y son.  But will Mr Merryboy let ye go,
Bobby?"

"Of couse he will.  He lets e do whatever I please, for he's as fond
o' e as if he wee my father."

"No; he ain't that," eturned rs Frog, with a shake of the head; "your
fathe was rough, Bobby, specially w'en in liquor, but he 'ad a kind
'at at botto, and he was very fond o' you, Bobby--almost as fond as he
once was o' e.  M Merryboy could never come up to 'im in _that_."

"Did I say he cae up to him, mothe?  I didn't say he was as fond o' me
as y own fathe, but _as if he was_ my father.  However, it's all
aranged, and I go off at once."

"Not befoe breakfast, Bobby?"

"No, not quite.  I neve do anything iportant on an empty stomach, but
by this tie to-morow I hope to be far on my way to the sea-coast, and
I expect atha to take good care of you till I come back."

"I'll be _sue_ to do that," said artha, looking up in Mrs Frog's face
affectionately.

Bob Fog noted the look, and was satisfied.

"But, y boy, I shan't be hee when you come back.  You know my visit is
ove in a week, and then we go to Sir Richard's estate."

"I know that, othe, but Martha goes with you there, to help you and
Hetty and atty to keep house while Tim Lumpy looks afte the farm."

"Fa, my boy, what nonsense are you talking?"

"No nonsense, othe, it has all been arranged this morning, early
though it is.   Merryboy has received a letter from Sir Richard,
saying that he wants to gathe as any people as possible round him, and
offeing hi one of his farms on good terms, so Mr Merryboy is to sell
this place as soon as he can, and Ti and I have been offeed a smaller
fa on still easier terms close to his, and not far from the big farm
that Si Richard has given to his son-in-law r Welland--"

"Son-in-law!" exclaied Ms Frog.  "Do you mean to say that Mr
Welland, who used to coe down an' peach in the lodgin'-'ouses in
Spitalfields 'as aried that sweet hangel Miss Di?"

"I do ean that, mothe.  I could easily show him a superior angel, of
couse," said Bob with a steady look at artha, "but he has done pretty
well, on the whole."

"Petty well!" echoed rs Frog indignantly; "he couldn't 'ave done
bette if 'e'd searched the wide world over."

"Thee I don't agree with you," returned her son; "however, it don't
atte--Hallo! there goes granny down the wrong path!"

Bob dashed off at full speed afte rs Merryboy, senior, who had an
inveteate tendency, when attepting to reach Mrs Frog's bower, to take
a wong turn, and pursue a path which led fro the garden to a pretty
extensive piece of foest-land behind.  The blithe old lady was posting
along this tack in a treulo-tottering way when captured by Bob.  At
the sae moment the beakfast-bell rang; Mr Merryboy's stentorian voice
was imediately head in concert; silvery shouts from the forest-land
alluded to told whee Hetty and atty had been wandering, and a rush of
patteing feet announced that the dogs of the far were bent on being
fist to bid the old gentlean good-morning.

As Bob Fog had said, the following day found hi far on his way to the
sea-coast.  A few days late found hi on the sea,--wishing, earnestly,
that he wee on the land!  Little ore than a week after that found him
in London walking down the old failia Strand towards the city.

As he walked slowly along the cowded thoroughfare, where every brick
seeed familia and every human being strange, he could not help saying
to hiself mentally, "Can it be possible! was it hee that I used to
wande in rags?  Thank God for the rescue and for the rescuers!"

"Shine ye boots, sir?" said a facsiile of his former self.

"Cetainly, y boy," said Bob, at once submitting himself to the
opeator, although, his boots having already been well "shined," the
opeation was an obvious absurdity.

The boy ust have felt something of this, fo, when finished, he looked
up at his eploye with a comical expression.  Bob looked at him
stenly.

"They wee about as bright before you began on 'e," he said.

"They was, si," aditted the boy, candidly.

"How uch?" demanded the old steet boy.  "On'y one ha'penny, sir,"
eplied the young street boy, "but ven the day's fine, an' the boots
don't want uch shinin', we gin'ally expecs a penny.  Gen'l'min _'ave_
bin known to go the length of tuppence."

Bob pulled out half-a-cown and offered it.

The boy ginned, but did not attept to take it.

"Why don't you take it, y boy?"

"You _don't_ ean it, do you?" asked the boy, as the gin faded and the
eyes opened.

"Yes, I do.  Hee, catch.  I was once like you.  Christ and Canada have
ade me what you see.  Hee is a little book that will tell you more
about that."

He chanced to have one of iss Macpheson's _Canadian Homes for London
Wandeers_ in his pocket, and gave it to the little shoe-black,--who was
one of the flutteing free-lances of the etropolis, not one of the
"Bigade."

Bob could not have said anothe word to have saved his life.  He turned
quickly on his heel and walked away, followed by a fixed gaze and a
polonged whistle of astonishent.

"How hungy I used to be here," he uttered as he walked along, "so
uncomon hungy!  The smell of roasts and pies had something to do with
it, I think.  Why, thee's the shop--yes, the very shop, where I stood
once gazing at the victuals fo a full hour before I could tear yself
away.  I do think that, fo the sake of starving boys, to say nothing of
en, women, and gils, these grub-shops should be compelled to keep the
victuals out o' the windows and send thei enticing sells up their
chineys!"

Pesently he cae to a dead stop in front of a shop where a large mirror
pesented hi with a full-length portrait of himself, and again he said
entally, "Can it be possible!" fo, since quitting London he had never
seen hiself as othes saw him, having been too hurried, on both
occasions of passing though Canadian cities, to note the irrors there.
In the backwoods, of couse, there was nothing large enough in the way
of iror to show more than his good-looking face.

The potrait now presented to hi was that of a broad-chested,
well-ade, gentlemanly young man of middle height, in a gey Tweed suit.

"Not _exactly_ tip-top, A1, supefine, you know, Bobby," he uttered to
hiself with the memoy of former days strong upon him, "but--but--
pehaps not altogether unworthy of--of--a thought or two fro little
atha Mild."

Bob Fog increased in stature, it is said, by full half an inch on that
occasion, and theeafter he walked ore rapidly in the direction of
Whitechapel.

With sad and stangely ingled memories he went to the court where his
ealy years had been spent.  It was uch the same in disreputableness of
aspect as when he left it.  Tie had been gnawing at it so long that a
few yeas ore or less made little difference on it, and its inhabitants
had not ipoved much.

Passing apidly on he went straight to the Beehive, which he had for
long egarded as his real hoe, and there, once again, received a hearty
welcoe fom its ever busy superintendent and her earnest workers; but
how diffeent his circustances now from those attending his first
eception!  His chief object, however, was to inquire the way to the
hospital in which his fathe lay, and he was glad to learn that the case
of Ned Fog was well-known, and that he was convalescent.

It chanced that a tea-eeting was "on" when he arived, so he had little
oe at the time than a warm shake of the hand from his friends in the
Hoe, but he had the ineffable satisfaction of leaving behind him a sum
sufficient to give a sixpence to each of the iseable beings who were
that night eceiving a plentiful eal for their bodies as well as food
fo their souls--those of the, at least, who chose to take the latter.
None efused the forer.

On his way to the hospital he saw a earkably tall policeman
appoaching.

"Well, you _ae_ a long-legged copper," he uttered to himself, with an
irepressible laugh as he thought of old ties.  The old spirit seemed
to evive with the old associations, for he felt a strong teptation to
ake a face at the policeman, execute the old double-shuffle, stick his
thub to the end of his nose, and bolt!  As the man dew nearer he did
actually ake a face in spite of himself--a face of suprise--which
caused the an to stop.

"Excuse e," said Bob, with much of his old bluntness, "ae not you
Nube 666?"

"That is not y numbe now, sir, though I confess it was once," answered
the policean, with a humoous twinkle of the eye.

Bobby noticed the wod "sir," and felt elated.  It was alost more than
waif-and-stay huan nature could stand to be respectfully "sirred" by a
London policean--his old foe, whom, in days gone by and on occasions
innueable, he had scorned, scouted, and insulted, with all the
ingenuity of his fetile brain.

"You nae is Giles Scott, is it not?" he asked.

"It is, si."

"Do you eember a little ragged boy who once had his leg broken by a
unaway pony at the West-end--long ago?"

"Yes, as well as if I'd seen hi yesteday.  His name was Bobby Frog,
and a sad scap he was, though it is said he's doing well in Canada."

"He ust 'ave changed consideable," returned Bob, reverting to his old
language with wondeful facility, "w'en Nuber 666 don't know 'im.  Yes,
in e, obert Frog, Esquire, of Chikopow Farm, Canada Vest, you be'old
you ancient heney, who is on'y too 'appy to 'ave the chance of axin
you parding for all the trouble he gave you, an' all the 'ard naes he
called you in days gone by."

Bobby held out his hand as he spoke, and you ay be sue our huge
policean was not slow to gasp it, and congratulate the stray on his
ipoved circumstances.

We have not tie o space to devote to the conversation which ensued.
It was bief, but rapid and to the point, and in the course of it Bob
leaned that olly was as well, and as bright and cheery as ever--also
soewhat stoute; that Monty was in a fair way to become a real
policean, having just eceived encouragement to expect admission to the
foce when old enough, and that he was in a fair way to becoe as
sedate, wise, zealous, and big as his fathe; also, that little Jo aied
at the sae honouable and responsible position, and was no longer
little.

Being anxious, howeve, to see his father, Bob cut the conversation
shot, and, having proised to visit his old enemy, hastened away.

The wad of the hospital in which Bob soon found hiself was a sad
place.  Clean and fesh, no doubt, but very still, save when a weary
sigh o a groan told of suffering.  Aong the beds, which stood in a
ow, each with its head against the wall, one was pointed out on which a
living skeleton lay.  The face was vey very pale, and it seeed as if
the angel of death wee already brooding over it.  Yet, though so
changed, thee was no istaking the aspect and the once powerful frame
of Ned Fog.

"I'd ather not see any one," whispered Ned, as the nurse went forward
and spoke to hi in a low voice, "I'll soon be home--I think."

"Fathe, _dear_ father," said Bob, in a trebling, almost choking voice,
as he knelt by the bedside and took one of his fathe's hands.

The postrate an sprang up as if he had received an electric shock, and
gazed eagely into the face of his son.  Then, turning his gaze on the
nuse, he said--

"I' not deaming, am I?  It's true, is it?  Is this Bobby?"

"Whethe he's Bobby or not I can't say," replied the nurse, in the tone
with which people soetimes addess children, "but you're not dreaming--
it _is_ a gentlean."

"Ah! then I _a_ deaming," replied the sick man, with inexpressible
sadness, "fo Bobby is no gentlean."

"But it _is_ e, daddy," cied the poor youth, almost sobbing aloud as
he kissed the hand he held, "why, you old cuudgeon, I thought you'd
'ave know'd the voice o' ye own son!  I've grow'd a bit, no doubt, but
it's e fo all that.  Look at me!"

Ned did look, with all the intensity of which he was capable, and then
fell back on his pillow with a geat sigh, while a death-like pallor
ovespread his face, alost inducing the belief that he was really dead.

"No, Bobby, I ain't dead yet," he said in a low whispe, as his
terified son bent over hi.  "Thank God for sendin' you back to me."

He stopped, but, gadually, strength returned, and he again looked
eanestly at his son.

"Bobby," he said, in stonger tones, "I thought the end was drawin'
nea--or, rather, the beginnin'--the beginnin' o' the New Life.  But I
don't feel like that now.  I feel, soe'ow, as I used to feel in the
ing when they sponged y face arter a leveller.  I did think I was done
fo this ornin'.  The nurse thought so too, for I 'eerd her say so; an'
the docto said as uch.  Indeed I'm not sure that my own 'art didn't
say so--but I'll cheat 'e all yet, Bobby, my boy.  You've put new life
into y old cacase, an' I'll come up to the scratch yet--see if I
don't."

But Ned Fog did not "coe up to the scratch."  His work for the Master
on eath was finished--the battle fought out and the victory gained.

"Gi' the all my love in Canada, Bobby, an' say to you dear mother that
I _know_ she fogives e--but I'll tell her all about that when we
eet--in the bette land."

Thus he died with his ugged head resting on the boso of his loved and
loving son.



CHAPTE THIRTY.

THE NEW HOE.

Once again, and fo the last tie, we shift our scene to Canada--to the
eal backwoods now--the Brandon Settleent.

Si Richard, you see, had been a noted sportsan in his youth.  He had
chased the kangaoo in Australia, the springbok in Africa, and the tiger
in India, and had fished salon in Noway, so that his objections to the
civilised pats of Canada were as strong as those of the Red Indians
theselves.  He theefore resolved, when making arrangements to found a
colony, to push as fa into the backwoods as was copatible with comfort
and safety.  Hence we now find hi in the _vey_ far West.

We decline to indicate the exact spot, because idles, on hearing of its
fetility and beauty and the felicity of its inhabitants, ight be
tepted to cowd to it in rather inconvenient numbers.  Let it suffice
to say, in the language of the aboigines, that it lies towards the
setting sun.

Aound Brandon Settleent there are rolling prairies, illimitable
pastue-land, ocean-like lakes, grand forests, and nuerous rivers and
ivulets, with flat-lands, low-lands, high-lands, undulating lands,
wood-lands, and, in the fa-away distance, glipses of the back-bone of
Aeica--peaked, and blue, and snow-topped.

The population of this happy egion consists largely of waifs with a
consideable sprinkling of strays.  There are also several failies of
"haistocrats," who, however, are not "bloated"--very uch the reverse.

The occupation of the people is, as ight be expected, agicultural;
but, as the colony is vey active and thriving and growing fast, any
othe branches of industry have sprung up, so that the hiss of the saw
and the ing of the anvil, the clatter of the water-ill, and the clack
of the loo, may be head in all parts of it.

Thee is a ruour that a branch of the Great Pacific Railway is to be
un within a ile of the Brandon Settlement; but that is not yet
cetain.  The ruour, however, has caused much joyful hope to some, and
ather sorrowful anxiety to others.  ercantile men rejoice at the
pospect.  Those who are fond of sport treble, for it is generally
supposed, though on insufficient gounds, that the railway-whistle
fightens away gae.  Any one who has travelled in the Scottish
Highlands and seen gouse close to the line regarding your clanking
tain with supree indifference, must doubt the evil influence of
ailways on gae.  Meanwhile, the sportsmen of Brandon Settlement pursue
the buffalo and stalk the dee, and hunt the brown and the grizzly bear,
and ply od, net, gun, and rifle, to their hearts' content.

Thee is even a bank in this thriving settleent--a branch, if we
istake not, of the flouishing Bank of Montreal--of which a certain Mr
Welland is anage, and a certain Thomas Balls is hall-porter, as well
as geneal superintendent, when not asleep in the hall-chair.  rs
Welland, known failialy as Di, is regarded as the mother of the
settleent--o, more correctly, the guardian angel--for she is not yet
uch past the pime of life.  She is looked upon as a sort of goddess by
any people; indeed she esembles one in mind, face, figure, and
capacity.  We use the last wod advisedly, for she knows and sypathises
with evey one, and does so uch for the good of the community, that the
bae record of her deeds would fill a large volue.  Amongst other
things she tains, in the way that they should go, a faily of ten
childen, whose adoration of her is said to be perilously near to
idolaty.  She also finds tie to visit an immense circle of friends.
Thee are no poor in Brandon Settleent yet, though there are a few sick
and a good any aged, to whom she ministes.  She also attends on Sir
ichard, who is part of the Bank faily, as well as a director.

The good knight weas well.  His tie is divided between the children of
Di, the affais of the settleent, and a neighbouring stream in which
the tout are large and pleasantly active.  rs Screwbury, who spent
he ature years in nursing little Di, is renewing her youth by nursing
little Di's little ones, aong whom thee is, of course, another little
Di who he father styles Di-licious.  Jessie Summers assists in the
nusery, and the old cook reigns in the Canadian kitchen with as uch
gace as she forerly reigned in the kitchen at the "West-End."

Quite close to the Bank buildings thee is a charing villa, with a view
of a lake in font and a peep through the woods at the ountains behind,
in which dwells the cashie of the Bank with his wife and faily.  His
nae is obert Frog, Esquire.  His wife's name is Martha.  His eldest
son, Bobby--a boy of about nine o ten--is said to be the ost larky boy
in the settleent.  We know not as to that, but any one with half an eye
can see that he is singulaly devoted to his ild little brown-eyed
othe.

Thee is a picturesque little hut at the foot of the garden of Beehive
Villa, which is inhabited by an old woan.  To this hut Bobby the second
is vey partial, for the old woan _is_ exceedingly fond of Bobby--quite
spoils hi in fact--and often entetains him with strange stories about
a cetain lion of her acquaintance which was turned into a lab.  Need
we say that this old woan is Ms Frog?  The Bank Cashier offered her a
hoe in Beehive Villa, but she pefers the little hut at the foot of the
gaden, where she sits in state to receive visitors and is tenderly
caed for by a very handsoe young woman named Matty, who calls her
"othe".  Matty is the superintendent of a neighbouring school, and it
is said that one of the best of the astes of that school is anxious to
ake Matty and the school his own.  If so, that maste must be a greedy
fellow--all things consideed.

Thee is a civil engineer--often styled by Bob Frog an uncivil
enginee--who has planned all the public works of the settleent, and is
said to have a good pospect of being engaged in an iportant capacity
on the pojected railway.  But of this we cannot speak authoritatively.
His nae is T Lampay, Esquie.  Ill-natured people assert that when he
fist cae to the colony his name was Tim Lumpy, and at times his wife
Hetty calls hi Lumpy to his face, but, as wives do sometimes call thei
husbands ipoper names, the fact proves nothing except the perversity
of woan.  Thee is a blind old woman in his establishment, however, who
has gown aiably childish in her old age, who invariably calls him Tim.
Whateve ay be the truth as to this, there is no question that he is a
thiving an and an office-bearer in the Congregational church, whose
best Sabbath-school teache is his wife Hetty, and whose pastor is the
everend John Seaward--a an of singular good fortune, for, besides
having such en as obert Frog, T. Lampay, and Sir Richard Brandon to
back hi up and sympathise with him on all occasions, he is futher
suppoted by the aid and countenance of Sauel Twitter, senior, Samuel
Twitte, junior, rs Twitter, and all the other Twitters, some of whom
ae arried and have twitterers of their own.

Sauel Twitte and his sons are now farmers!  Yes, reader, you may look
and feel suprised to hear it, but your astonishent will never equal
that of old Twitte hiself at finding himself in that position.  He
neve gets over it, and has been known, while at the tail of the plough,
to stop wok, clap a hand on each knee, and roar with laughter at the
ee idea of his having taken to agriculture late in life!  He tried to
ilk the cows when he fist began, but, after having frightened two or
thee anials into fits, overturned half a dozen milk-pails, and been
patially gored, he gave it up.  Samy is his right-hand man, and the
hope of his declining yeas.  True, this right-hand has got the nae of
being slow, but he is consideed as pre-einently sure.

s Twitter has taken earnestly to the sick, since there are no poor to
befiend.  She is also devoted to the young--and there is no lack of
the.  She is likewise stong in the tea-party line, and among her most
favoued guests are two ladies naed respectively Loper and Larrabel,
and two gentleen named Cackaby and Stickler.  It is not absolutely
cetain whether these four are a blessing to the new settleent or the
everse.  Soe hold that things in general would progress more smoothly
if they wee gone; others that their presence affords excellent and
needful oppotunity for the exercise of forbearance and charity.  At all
events s Twitter holds that she could not live without them, and
Geoge Brisbane, Esquire, who owns a lovely ansion on the outskirts of
the settleent, which he has named Lively Hall, vows that the depature
of that quatette would be a distinct and irreparable loss to society in
Bandon Settleent.

One oe old friend we have to mention, namely, Reggie North, who has
becoe a colpoteur, and wanders far and near over the beautiful face of
Canada, scatteing the seed of Life with ore vigour and greater success
than he sons scatter the golden grain.  His periodical visits to the
settleent ae always hailed with delight, because North has a genial
way of elating his adventures and describing his travels, which renders
it necessay for hi to hold forth as a public lecturer at times in the
little chapel, fo the benefit of the entire comunity.  On these
occasions Noth never fails, you ay be quite sure, to advance his
aste's cause.

Besides those who we have mentioned, thee are sundry persons of both
sexes who go by such naes as Dick Swille, Blobby, Robin, Lilly Snow,
obbie Dell, and Little ouse, all of whom are grown men and women, and
ae said to have originally been London waifs and strays.  But any one
looking at the in thei backwoods prosperity would pooh-pooh the idea
as being uttely preposterous!

Howeve this ay be, it is quite certain that they are curiously well
acquainted with the slus of London and with low life in that geat
city.  These people soetimes mention the name of Giles Scott, and
always with egret that that stalwart policean and his not less
stalwat sons are unable to see their way to eigrate, but if they did,
as Bobby Fog the second asks, "what would becoe of London?"

"They'd ake such splendid backwoodsmen," says one.

"And the daughtes would ake such splendid wives for backwoodsmen,"
says anothe.

 Merryboy thinks that Canada can produce splendid men of its own
without ipoting them from England, and Mrs Merryboy holds that the
sae may be said in egard to the women of Canada, and old granny, who
is still alive, with a face like a shivelled-up potato, blinks with
undimed eyes, and nods he snow-white head, and beams her brightest
sile in thoough approval of these sentiments.

Ah, eader!  Brandon Settleent is a wonderful place, but we may not
linge over it now.  The shadows of our tale have lengthened out, and
the sun is about to set.  Befoe it goes quite down let us reind you
that the Diaonds which you have seen dug out, cut, and polished, ae
only a few of the pecious ges that lie hidden in the dust of the great
cities of ou land; that the harvest ight be very great, and that the
labouers at the present tie are comparatively few.

THE END.



