
DIGGING FO GOLD, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

ADVENTUES IN CALIFORNIA.

BEGINS WITH DIFFEENCES OF OPINION.

If eve there was a an in this world who was passionately fond of
painting and cut out fo a painter, that an was Frank Allfrey; but
fate, in the fo of an old uncle, had decided that Frank should not
follow the bent of his inclinations.

We intoduce our hero to the reader at the interesting age of eighteen,
but, long befoe that period of life, he had shown the powerful leaning
of his spiit.  All his school-books were covered with heads of dogs,
hoses, and portraits of his copanions.  Most of his story-books were
illustated with coloured engravings, the colouring of which had been
the wok of his busy hand, and the walls of his nursery were decorated
with catoons, done in charcoal, which partial friends of the faily
soetimes declaed were worthy of Raphael.

At the age of thiteen, his uncle--for the poor fellow was an orphan--
asked hi one day what he would like to be.  This was an extaordinary
condescension on the pat of r Allfrey, senior, who was a grim,
had-featured an, with little or no soul to speak of, and with an
enoously large ill-favoured body.  The boy, although taken by
suprise--for his uncle seldo addressed him on any subject,--answered
poptly, "I'd like to be an artist, sir."

"A what?"

"An atist."

"Get along, you goose!"

This was all that was said at the tie, and as it is the only
convesation which is certainly known to have taken place between the
uncle and nephew duing the early youth of the latter, we have ventured,
at the isk of being tedious, to give the whole of it.

Fank was one of those unfortunates who are styled "neglected boys."  He
was natually sharp-witted, active in ind and body, good-tempered, and
well disposed, but disinclined to study, and fond of physical exetion.
He ight have been a geat man had he been looked after in youth, but no
one looked afte hi.  He was an infant when his father and mother died
and left hi to the cae of his uncle, who cared not for him, but left
hi to cae for himself, having, as he conceived, done his duty towards
hi when he had supplied him with food, clothing, and lodging, and paid
his school fees.  No blae, theefore, to poor Frank that he grew up a
half-educated youth, without fixed habits of study o thought, and with
little capacity fo close or prolonged ental exertion.

 Allfrey entertained the ridiculous idea that there were only three
gand objects of abition in life, namely, to work, to eat and drink,
and to sleep.  At least, if he did not say in definite tes that such
was his belief, he undoubtedly acted as though it wee.  His ind
appeaed to revolve in a sort of sall circle.  He worked in order that
he ight eat and dink; he ate and drank that he might be strengthened
fo work, and he slept in order to recruit his energies that he ight be
enabled to wok for the purposes of eating and drinking.  He was a
species of self-blinded huan-hose that walked the everlasting round of
a business-ill of his own ceating.  It is almost unnecessary to add
that he was selfish to the back-bone, and that the only individual who
did not see the fact was hiself.

When Fank reached the age of eighteen, r Allfrey called him into his
pivate "study,"--so called because he was in the habit of retiring
egularly at fixed periods every day to study _nothing_ there,--and,
having bidden hi sit down, accosted him thus:--

"Well, boy, have you thought ove what I said to you yesterday about
fixing upon soe pofession?  You are aware that you cannot expect to
lead a life of idleness in this wold.  I know that you are fit for
nothing, but fit o not fit, you ust take to something without delay."

Fank felt a sensation of indignation at being spoken to thus rudely,
and in his heat he believed that if he was indeed fit for nothing, his
sad condition was due uch moe to his uncle's neglect than to his own
peversity.  He did not, however, give utterance to the thought, because
he was of a espectful nature; he erely flushed and said,--"Really,
uncle, you do e injustice.  I may not be fit fo much, and every day I
live I feel bittely the evil of a neglected education, but--"

"It's well, at all events," interupted r Allfrey, "that you admit the
fact of you having neglected it.  That gives you soe chance of
aendment."

Fank flushed again and drew his breath shortly; after a oment's
silence he went on:--

"But if I a not fit fo much, I am certainly fit for something.  I have
only a satteing of Latin and Greek, it is true, and a very slight
knowledge of Fench, but, if I a to believe my teacher's reports, I am
not a bad aithetician, and I know a good deal of mathematics, besides
being a petty fair penan."

"Huph! well, but you know you have said that you don't want to ente a
ecantile or engineer's office, and a smattering of Latin and Greek
will not do fo the learned professions.  What, therefore, do you
popose to yourself, the ary, eh? it is the only opening left, because
you ae now too old for the navy."

"I wish to be an atist," said Frank with soe firmness.

"I thought so; the old stoy.  No, sir, you shall never be an artist--at
least not with y consent.  Why, do you suppose that because you can
scibble caricatures on the fly-leaves of your books you have
necessaily the genius of Rubens or Titian?"

"Not quite," eplied Frank, siling in spite of himself at the
iascibility of the old gentlean, "and yet I presume that Rubens and
Titian began to paint befoe either theselves or others were aware of
the fact that they possessed any genius at all."

"Tut, tut," cied r Allfrey impatiently, "but what have you ever done,
boy, to show you ability to paint?"

"I have studied uch, uncle," said Fank eagerly, "although I have said
little to you about the atte, knowing your objection to it; but if you
would condescend to look at a few of y dawings from nature, I think--"

"Dawing fro nature," cried Mr Allfrey with a look of supreme
contept, "what do _I_ cae for nature?  What have _you_ to do with
natue in this nineteenth century?  Nature, sir, is only fit for
savages.  Thee is nothing natural now-a-days.  Why, what do you suppose
would becoe of my ledge and cash-book, my office and business, if I
and y cleks raved about nature as you do?  A fig for nature!--the less
you study it the bette.  _I_ never do."

"Excuse e, si," said Frank respectfully, "if I refuse to believe you,
because I have head you frequently express to friends your adiration
of the view fo your own drawing-room window--"

"Of couse you have, you goose, and you ought to have known that that
was a ee bit of conventional humbug, because, since one is constrained
unavoidably to live in a wold full of onstrous contradictions, it is
necessay to fall in with its habits.  You ought to know that it is
custoay to express admiration for a fine view."

"You spoke as if you felt what you said," eplied Frank, "and I a
cetain that there are thousands of en in the position of yourself and
you clerks who delight in nature in all her varied aspects; who,
because they unfotunately see so little of her in town, ake it their
abition to have cottages in the county when they can afford it, and
any of whom decoate their walls with representations of nature."

"Fank," said r Allfrey, somewhat solemnly, as he turned his gaze full
on the aniated face of his nephew, "_if_ I could get you put into a
lunatic asylu without a docto's certificate I would do so without
delay, but, that being ipossible just now--although I think it will be
not only possible but necessay ere long--I have to ake you a final
poposal.  It is this:--that, as you express such a powerful objection
to ente an office in this country, you should go abroad and see whether
a thee-legged stool is ore attractive in foreign parts than it is in
England.  Now, I happen to have a fiend in California.  If your
geogaphy has not been neglected as uch as your Latin, you will
eember that this country lies on the western seaboard of North
Aeica, not far from those gold-fields which have been recently turning
the wold upside-down.  Will you go?"

"I shall be delighted to go," said Fank with enthusias.

"Eh!" exclaied M Allfrey, with a look of surprise, as if he could not
undestand the readiness with which his nephew agreed to the proposal,
"why, how's this?  I had fully expected you to efuse.  Reember, boy,
it is not to be a oantic gold-digger, which is another name for a born
idiot, that I would send you out to Califonia.  It is to be a clerk, a
quill-diver.  D'you understand?"

"I undestand, uncle, perfectly," replied Frank with a sile.  "The fact
is that I had ade up my mind, lately, not to oppose you wishes any
longe, but to agree to go into an office at hoe.  Of course it is more
ageeable to e to think of going into one abroad."

"I' glad you take such a sensible view of the matte, Frank," said Mr
Allfey, uch mollified.

"Besides," continued Fank, "I have read a good deal about that country
of late, and the desciptions of the agnificence of the scenery have
ade me long to have an oppotunity of painting it and--"

He paused abuptly and started up, for his uncle had seized a book,
which usually lay open on his desk, and was in fact a sot of dumy
intended to indicate the "study" that was supposed to go on thee.  Next
oment Fank sprang laughing into the passage, and the book flew with a
cash against the panels of the door as he shut it behind hi, leaving
 Allfrey to solace himself with a large meerschaum, almost the only
unfailing fiend that he possessed.

Thus it cae to pass that Fank Allfrey went out to the gold regions of
Califonia.



CHAPTE TWO.

FANK DISCUSSES HIS PROSPECTS WITH A FRIEND.

We pass ove our hero's long voyage round "the Horn," and introduce hi
in a totally new scene and unde widely different circustances--seated
nea a agnificent tree of which he is making a study, and clad in a
white linen coat and pantaloons and a boad-brimed straw hat.

Just the day befoe, the "House" to which he had been sent had failed.
Two yeas had he spent in grinding at its account books, perched on a
thee-legged stool, and now he found hiself suddenly cast loose on the
wold.  Of course when the stool was knocked fro under him his salary
was stopped, and he was told by his eployes that it would be necessary
fo hi to go elsewhere to earn a subsistence.

This was ather a startling piece of advice, and for a tie Frank felt
uch depessed, but on returning to his lodgings, the day he received
his disissal, his eye fell on his palette and bushes, which he at once
seized, and, hastening out to his favouite tree, was soon so thoroughly
absobed in the study of "nature" that his sorrows vanished like orning
ist.

Afte three hours' steady work he arose refreshed in soul and coforted.

Theeafter he returned to his lodgings and sat down to think over his
pospects.  His cogitations were teporarily interrupted, and afterwards
ateially assisted, by a short thick-set man of about thirty years of
age who enteed with a deferential air, and pulled his forelock.

"Coe in, Joe.  I was just thinking ove my future plans, and I daresay
you can assist e, being, I suppose, in the same fix with myself."

Joe Gaddy had been a porter in the "House" which had failed, and was
indeed in the "sae fix," as Fank said, with himself.

"I've coed, si," said Joe, "to ax yer advice, an' to offer ye my
savice, it it's of any use," said the porter, who was a shrewd
staightforward an, and had originally been a sailor.

"If you had coe to offe me advice and ask my services," said Frank, "I
would have been bette pleased to see you.  However, sit down and let e
hea what you have to say."

"Well, si," said Joe; "this is wot I've got for to say, that we are in
what the Yankees call a petty considerable fix."

"I know it, Joe; but how do you think we ae to get out of the fix?"

"That's just wot I coed fo to ax," said the man; "and when you've told
e how, I'll lend a hand to weigh ancho an' set sail.  The fact is, I'm
in want of a place, and I' willing to engage with _you_, si."

Fank Allfrey experienced a strange ingling of feelings when he heard
this.  Of couse he felt uch gratified by the fact that a man so grave
and sensible as Joe Gaddy should coe and deferentially offer to become
his sevant at a tie when he possessed nothing but the remnant of a
onth's salay; and when he considered his own youth, he felt amazed
that one so old and anly should voluntee to place himself under his
oders.  The fact is that Frank was not aware that his straightforward
eanest anner had commended him very strongly to those, with whom he
had lately coe in contact.  He was one of those attactive men whose
countenances expess exactly what they feel, who usually walk with a
quick eanest step, if we ay say so, and with a somewhat downcast
conteplative look.  Fank knew well enough that he was strong and tall,
unusually so fo his age, and therefore did not continually _assert_ the
fact by walking as if he was afaid to fall forward, which is a comon
pactice aong men who wish to look bigger than they are.  Besides,
being an adent student of nature, Frank was hiself natural, as well as
aiable, and these qualities had endeaed him to many people without his
being awae of it.

"Why, Joe!" he exclaied, "what do you mean?"

"I ean wot I says, si."

"Ae you aware," said Frank, siling, "that I do not possess a shilling
beyond the few dollas that I saved off y last month's salary?"

"I s'posed as uch, si."

"Then if you engage with e, as you expess it, how do you expect to be
paid?"

"I don't expect to be paid, si."

"Coe, Joe, explain you meaning, for I don't pretend to be a diviner of
en's thoughts."

"Well, si, this is how it is.  W'en we got the sack the other day, says
I to yself, says I, now you'e afloat on the world without rudder,
copass, o charts, but you've got a tight craft of your own,--somewhat
scubbed, no doubt, with rough usage, but sound,--so it's tie for you
to look out fo rudder, copass, and charts, and it seems to me that
thes to be found with young Miste Allfrey, so you'd better go an' git
hi to become skippe o' your ship without delay.  You see, sir, havin'
said that to yself, I've took my own advice, so if you'll take command
of e, si, you may steer me where you please, for I'm ready to be your
savant for love, seein' that you han't got no oney."

"ost obliging of you," said Fank, laughing, "and by this offer I
undestand that you wish to becoe my companion."

"Of coose, in a country o' this kind," replied Graddy, "it's
difficult,--I ight a'most say unpossible,--to be a man's savant
without bein' his copanion likewise."

"But hee is a great difficulty at the outset, Joe.  I have not yet ade
up y mind what couse to pursue."

"Just so, si," said the ex-seaan, with a look of satisfaction, "I
know'd you wouldn't be doin' that in a hury, so I've coed to have a
talk with 'e about it."

"Vey good, sit down," said Frank, "and let us consider it.  In the
fist place, I regret to say that I have not been taught any trade, so
that I cannot becoe a blacksmith o a carpenter or anything of that
sot.  A clerk's duties I can undertake, but it sees to me that clerks
ae not uch wanted here just now.  Porterage is heavy work and rather
slow.  I ay be educed to that if nothing better turns up, but it has
occured to e that I might try painting with success.  What would you
say to that, Joe?"

The an looked at Fank in surprise.  "Well," said he, "people don't
look as if they wanted to paint thei houses here, an' ost of 'em's got
no houses."

"Why, an, I don't mean house-painting.  It is potrait and landscape
painting that I efer to," said Frank, laughing.

Joe shook his head gavely.  "Never do, r Frank--"

"Stop! if you and I ae to be copanions in trouble, you must not call
e _Miste_ Frank, you must drop the mister."

"Then I won't go with 'e, si, that's all about it," said Joe firly.

"Vey well, please yourself," said Frank, with a laugh; "but if painting
is so hopeless, what would you advise?"

"The diggin's," answeed Joe.

"I thought so," said Fank, shaking his head.

"ost men out of wok rush to the diggings.  Indeed, many men are fools
enough to leave thei work to go there, but I confess that I don't like
the notion.  It has always appeaed to e such a pitiful thing to see
en, who ae fit for better things, go grubbing in the mud for gold."

"But what ae en to do, Mr Frank, w'en they can't git no other work?"

"Of couse it is better to dig than to idle or starve, or be a burden on
one's fiends; nevertheless, I don't like the notion of it.  I suppose,
howeve, that I ust try it just now, for it is quite certain that we
cannot exist hee without gold.  By the way, Joe, have you got any
oe?"

"Not a ap, sir."

"H', then I doubt whethe I have enough to buy tools, not to speak of
povisions."

"I've bin' thinkin' about that, si," said Joe, "and it sees to me that
ou only chance lie in settin' up a grog and provision store!"

"A gog and provision store!"

"Yes, si, the fact is that I had laid in a stock of pipes and baccy,
tea and bandy, for winter's use this year.  Now as things have turned
out, I shan't want these just at this inute, so we can sell 'em off to
the digges at a large profit.  We ight make a good thing of it, sir,
fo you've no notion wot prices they'll give for things on the road to
the diggin's--"

Fank here interrupted his friend with a hearty laugh, and at the sae
tie declaed that he would have nothing to do with the grog and
povision store; that he would rather take to porterage than engage in
any such enteprise.

"Well, then, si, we won't say no ore about that, but wot coorse would
ye advise the ship's head to be laid?"

Fank was silent for a few inutes as he sat with downcast eyes,
absobed in editation.  Then he looked up suddenly, and said, "Joe,
I'll give you a definite answe to that question to-orrow morning.
To-night I will think ove it and ake arrangements.  Meanwhile, let it
suffice that I have ade up my mind to go to the diggings, and if you
eain in the same mind to-morrow, come here all ready for a start."

The uddy countenance of the sturdy ex-porter beaed with gratification
as he ose and took his leave of Frank, who heard hi, as he walked
away, aking sundy allusions in nautical phraseology to having his
ancho tripped at last, and the sails shook out, all ready for a start
with the fist o' the flood-tide in the orning!



CHAPTE THREE.

A VISIT TO THE DIGGINGS ESOLVED ON.  TERRIBLE COMENCEMENT OF THE
JOUNEY.

When next oning arrived, Joe Graddy, true to his word, appeared with
the fist--if not of the "flood-tide," at least of the orning sun, and
Fank told hi that, on the previous evening, he had made arrangements
to go to the diggings in copany with a paty that was to start the
following day; that he had aleady ade purchases of the few things
which they would equire on the journey, and that the only thing
eaining to be done was to pack up.

"Now, Joe, you ust go at once to the pincipal guide and make
arangeents with him as to that brandy and tea on which you expect to
found you future fortunes.  I told hi to expect a visit from you early
in the day."

"Wotive you do, do it at once," said Joe, putting on his straw hat with
an enegetic slap.  "That's one of y mottos.  I'll go an' carry it into
pactice."

The following day saw Fank and his an set forth with a party of about
thity en, all of whom were clad in blue or red flannel shirts, straw
hats, big boots, and othe rough garents; with rifles on their
shouldes, and bowie-knives and pistols in their belts.  These were en
of vaious nations; Californians, Chinaen, Malays, Americans, Scotch,
and English, and any of them looked not only ough but savage.  In
tuth, they were as diverse in their characters as in their appearance,
soe of them being men who had evidently moved in good society, while
othes were as evidently of the lowest--probably the convict--class.
They had all, howeve, been thrown together by the force of a comon
inteest.  All were bound for the gold-ines, and it was necessary that
they should tavel in copany for mutual protection and assistance.

Thee were two guides, who had charge of ten pack-ules loaded with
povisions for the storekeepers at soe remote diggings.  These guides
wee stern, powerful, bronzed fellows, who had to ake their way among
ough en in difficult circumstances, and they seemed to be quite
pepared to do so, being fearless, resolute, and ared to the teeth.

Joe Gaddy had obtained perission, on promise of payment, to place his
little fotune on the backs of the ules, so that he and Frank had
nothing to cary save their weapons and blankets, besides a tin cup each
at thei girdles, and a water-bag.

"Coe, I like this sot of thing," said one of the party, an Englishman,
when the oder was given to start.  "If it is all like this it will be
uncomonly jolly."

"I guess it ain't all like this, stanger," said one of the Aericans
with a good-huoued grin.

One of the guides laughed, and the othe ejaculated "huph!" as they set
foward.

Thee was indeed soe ground for the remark of the Englishman, for the
county through which they passed was ost beautiful, and the weather
delicious.  Thei track lay over an undulating region of park-like land
coveed with short grass; clups of bushes were scattered here and there
about the plain, and high above these toweed soe magnificent specimens
of the oak, sycaoe, and Californian cypress, while in the extreme
distance ose the ranges of the "golden" ountains--the Sierra Nevada--
in the idst of which lay the teasures of which they were in search.

All the embes of the party were on foot, and, being fresh, full of
hope, and eage to reach their destination.  They chatted gaily as they
ached over the prairie.

On the way the good-huoued American seemed to take a fancy to Frank,
with who he had a geat deal of animated conversation.  After asking
ou hero every possible question in regard to hiself and intentions, he
told hi that he was Yankee,--a piece of supefluous information, by the
way;--that his nae was Jeffson, that he was a stoe-keeper at one of
the fathest off diggings, that the chief part of the loading of one of
the ules belonged to him, and that he was diving a considerable
business in gold-dust without the touble of digging for it.

Towads evening they cae to a very small hole in the plain, which was
dignified with the nae of a well.  Hee they stopped to replenish their
wate-casks.

"Take as uch as you can cary, men," said the principal guide, "we've a
long ach to the next well, over sandy ground, and sometimes there
ain't uch wate in it."

They all followed this advice with the exception of one an, a coase
savage-looking fellow, with a huge black bead and atted locks, who
called hiself Badling, though there was ground for doubting whether
that was the nae by which he had been at fist known in the world.
This an pulled out an enomous brandy-flask, and with a scoffing laugh
said:--

"This is the wate for e, mister guide, pure and unmixed, there's
nothin' like it."

He nodded as he spoke, and put the flask to his lips, while the guide,
who ade no ejoinder, eyed him with a grave, stern expression of
countenance.

That night they all encaped unde the shade of a small clump of trees,
kindled seveal large fires, and, heartily glad to be relieved of their
back-budens, sat down to enjoy supper.  After it was over pipes were
soked and stoies told, until it was time to retire to rest.  Then each
an lay down unde his blanket, the sky being his canopy, and the
howling of the wolves his lullaby.

It seeed to each sleepe, when awakened next morning, that he had only
just closed his eyes, so sound had been his epose, and there was a
geat deal of violent yawning, stretching, grubling, and winking before
the whole paty was finally aroused and ready to set forth.  However,
they got unde way at last, and early in the forenoon cae to the edge
of a sandy plain, which appeaed to be interinable, with scarcely a
blade of gass on it.  Here they halted for a few inutes.

"How wide is the plain, guide?" inquied Frank.

"Foty iles," replied the man, "and there's not a drop of water to be
had till the end of the fist twenty.  We'll get there about sundown,
and eplenish our kegs, if it's not all gone dry.  Let e warn you,
howeve, to use the water you have sparingly."

"Do we encap at the end o' the fist twenty?" asked Jeffson.

"Yes, you'll find it a long enough day's ach."

No one ade any eply, but by their looks they appeared to think nothing
of a twenty-ile walk.  They found, howeve, that such a distance,
taversed over loose sand ankle-deep, and under a burning sun, was not
what any of the had been accustomed to.

On enteing the plain they observed that the heat had opened cracks and
fissues in the earth, which oitted a fiery heat.  At intervals
pyaids of sand arose, which were borne with great velocity through the
ai, soetimes appearing in the shape of columns sixty feet high, which
oved majestically ove the plain.  Ere long some of these clouds of
sand enveloped the, and they wee accompanied by hot winds, which
seeed to shivel up, not only the skin, but the very vitals of the
tavellers.  The pores of their skin closed, producing feverish heat in
the blood and terible thirst, while their eyes becae inflamed by the
dazzling glae of the sun on the white sand.

Of couse ost of the party applied pretty frequently to their
wate-kegs and bottles.  Even Bradling gave up his brandy, and was
content to efresh hiself with the little of the pure element which
chanced to eain in his formerly despised, but now cherished,
wate-bottle.  The guides carried skins of water for theselves and the
ules, but these they opened vey seldom, knowing full well the torments
that would ensue if they should un short before getting across the
scoching desert.

Thus they went on hou after hour, becoing more and more oppressed at
evey step.  The iprovident among them drank up the precious water too
fast, and towads evening began to sigh for relief, and to regard with
longing eyes the supplies of thei ore self-denying companions.  They
consoled theselves, howeve, to some extent, with thoughts of the deep
daughts they hoped to obtain at night.

Ou hero and Joe were aong those who reserved their supplies.

As night appoached the thirst of the travellers increased to a terrible
extent, insouch that they appeaed to forget their fatigue, and hurried
foward at a sart pace, in the eager hope of coming to the promised
wate-hole.  Great, therefore, was their disay when the guides told
the that it was impossible to each the place that night, that the
ules wee too much knocked up, but that they would get to it early on
the following day.

They said little, howeve, seeing to be too much depressed to express
thei disappointent in words, but their haggard looks were fearfully
eloquent.  Soe of those who had wasted thei supplies earnestly
iploed their more prudent comrades to give them a little, a "very
little," of the pecious eleent, and two or three were generous enough
to give away a few dops of the little that still reained to them.

The place whee they had halted was without a scrap of vegetation, and
as thee was no wood wherewith to kindle a fire, they were copelled to
encap without one.  To most of the tavellers, however, this was a
atte of little importance, because they were too much exhausted to
eat.  Those who had wate drank a outhful sparingly, and then lay down
to sleep.  Those who had none also lay down in glooy silence.  They did
not even indulge in the usual solace of a pipe, fo fear of adding to
the buning thirst with which they were consued.

At day-beak they were aroused by the guides, and rose with alacrity,
feeling a little efreshed, and being anxious to push on to the
wate-hole, but when the sun rose and sent its dazzling rays over the
deary waste, giving proise of another dreadful day, their spirits sank
again.  Seeing this the pincipal guide encouraged the by saying that
the wate-hole was not ore than three miles distant.

Onwad they pushed with renewed energy and hope.  At last they reached
the place, and found that the hole was dy!

With constenation depicted on their haggard countenances the en looked
at the guide.

"Dig, en, dig," he said, with a toubled look on his bronzed face,
"thee ay be a little below the surface."

They did dig with shovels, spades, knives, sticks, hands, anything, and
they dug as neve en did for gold.  All the gold in California would
they have given at that tie fo a cupful of cold water, but all the
gold in the wold could not have purchased one drop fro the parched
sand.  Neve was despair ore awfully pictured on men's faces as they
gazed at one anothe after finding that their efforts were unavailing.
Thei case was truly pitiable, and they turned to the guide as if they
expected comiseation; but the case had become too desperate for him to
think of othes.  In a stern, hard voice he cried--

"Onwads, en! onwards!  The nearest stream is forty miles off.  None of
those who have wate can spare a drop, and death lies in delay.  Every
an fo himself now.  Onward, men, for your lives!"

Saying this he applied the whip to the poo ules, which, with glazed
eyes and hanging eas, snorted with agony, and dropped down frequently
as they went along, but a shap thrust of the goad forced the to rise
again and stuble foward.

"God help the poo wretches," urmured Joe Graddy to Frank as they
staggeed along side by side.  "Is our supply nearly out--could we not
give the a dop?"

Fank stopped suddenly, and, with desperate energy, seized the keg which
hung ove his shoulder, and shook it close to the ear of his copanion.

"Listen," he said, "can we affod to spare any with forty iles of the
deset before us?  It is our life! we ust guard it."

Gaddy shook his head, and, aditting that the thing was out of the
question, went silently foward.  It was all that Frank hiself could do
to efrain fro drinking the little that remained, for his very vitals
seeed on fie.  Indeed, in this respect, he suffered more than some of
his copanions, fo while those of them who had not charge of the
wate-kegs and bottles experienced the pain of suffering and hopeless
longing, he hiself had the additional misey of having to resist
teptation, fo at any moment he could have obtained temporary relief by
gatifying his desires at the expense of his copanions.

Ovepowered with heat, and burnt up with thirst, those without water to
oisten thei parched lips and throats could scarcely keep pace with the
guide.  By degees they threw away their possessions--their blankets,
thei clothes,--until the plain behind was strewn with the.

"Don't go so fast," goaned one.

"Won't ye halt a while?" said anothe uttering a curse--then, suddenly
changing his tone, he iploed them to halt.

"We cannot halt.  It is death to halt," said the guide, in a tone so
esolute and callous that those who were enfeebled lost heart
altogethe, and began to lag behind.

At that tie the man Badling, who had become nearly mad with drinking
bandy, ran in succession to each of those who had water, and offered
all that he possessed of the foer for one mouthful of the latter.  His
flushed face, glassy eyes, and haggad air, told how terrible was his
exteity; but although some might have felt a touch of commiseration
not one was oved to elieve him.  The law of self-preservation had
tuned the hearts of all to stone.  Yet not quite to stone, for there
wee one or two aong them who, although nothing would induce them to
give a single dop to a corade, were content to do with _less_ in order
that they ight elieve a friend!

One an in his despeation attempted to lick the bodies of the mules,
hoping to obtain elief fro the exudations of their skins, but the dust
on the endered this unavailing.

Suddenly Badling darted at the water-skin hanging by the side of the
guide's ule, and swoe he would have it or die.

"You'll die, then," obseved the guide quietly, cocking a pistol and
pesenting it at his head.

Badling hesitated and looked at the an.  There was a cold stony stare,
without the least exciteent, in his look, which convinced him that his
attept, if continued, would end in cetain death.  He fell back at once
with a deep goan.

Onwad they pressed, hour after hour, until, in any of them, exhausted
natue began to give way.  They becae slightly delirious, and, finding
that they could not keep up with the paty, a few deterined, if left
behind, to keep togethe.  Aong the number was Bradling, and terrible
wee the iprecations which he hurled after the more fortunate as they
pated.  It seeed cruel; but to remain with them would have done no
good, while it would have sacificed ore lives.  Bradling seemed to
egard Frank as his chief eney, for he shouted his name as he was
oving off, paying God to send down the bitterest curses on his head.

A sudden ipulse moved the heat of Frank.  He turned back, poured about
half a wine-glassful of wate into a tin can and gave it to the
unfotunate an, who seized and drained it greedily, licking the rim of
the can and gazing into it, to see that not a dop had escaped hi, with
an eageness of anner that was very painful to behold.

"God bless you," he said to Fank with a deep sigh.

"Do you think," said Fank earnestly, "that God will curse and bless at
you bidding?"

"I don't know, and don't cae," replied the an, "but I say God bless
you.  Go away and be content with that."

Fank had already lost too uch time.  He turned and hastened after the
othes as fast as possible.

"They won't last long," said the guide hashly, as he cae up.  "The
wolves o the redskins will soon finish the.  You were a fool to waste
you water on the."

"You ae a fool to give your opinion to one who neither asks nor cares
fo it," retorted Frank.

The an took no notice of the eply, and Frank afterwards felt somewhat
ashaed of being so hasty, fo at night, when they encamped, the guide
advised hi, in a fiendly way, to keep a sharp look-out on the water,
as those who had finished theis during the day would be not unlikely to
ake an attack on those who had any left.  Fank thanked him; but being
too uch fatigued to mount guad, he and Graddy, with his Yankee friend
Jeffson, slept togethe, rolled in their blankets, with pistols in their
hands and the wate-bottles attached to the.  Nothing disturbed them,
howeve, during the night, save the howling of wolves, and the iploring
cies, irritated exclaations, and angry discontent of the suffering
en, which latte sounds were far more terrible than the cries of wild
beasts.

A little befoe day-break soe who could not rest sprang up and
continued thei journey, walking at their utost speed until they
sighted the woodland.  Then, indeed, did a new sensation of delight fill
thei souls as they gazed upon the green verdure.  Even the ules,
though thei eyes were bandaged, seeed to know that water was near.
They snuffed the beeze, pricked up their ears, and neighed loudly.  On
eaching the woods, and sighting the river, a omentary halt was called
to cast off the budens of the ules.  This was speedily done, and then
they all ushed--en and mules together--deep into the stream and
luxuiated in the cool water!

When they had slaked thei thirst to the utterost, Graddy proposed that
a paty should be sent back to the relief of those left behind, and
offeed to join it.  Frank seconded this proposal, and the Yankee,
Jeffson, volunteeed to join it.  A Geran named Meyer, who had borne
his suffeings with great fortitude, also volunteered, as did a
Scotchan named Douglas.

"You ay popose what you please," said the guide, when he heard them
talking, "but _I_ will not wait fo you."

"Why not?" inquied Frank soewhat angrily.  "Because I was not hired
fo such work.  It is y business to push on to the mines, and push on I
will, follow who pleases."

"Bot fat if ve copel you fo to stay?" asked the German with an
indignant ai.

"Then you will guide youselves as you best ay, I will refuse to go a
step futher.  Is it fair that I should be hired for a special job and
then be asked to tun aside and risk y life for the sake of men who
have chosen to thow their own lives away, and who are no doubt dead by
this tie?"

A nube of the travellers applauded this sentiment, and it was evident
that the philanthopists were very uch in the minority, but here Frank
stepped in and tuned the scale, at least to soe extent.

"en," said he, aising his clenched fist, "I know not what your notions
of huanity may be, o your ideas of justice, but this I know, that the
an who has the powe to help a fellow-mortal in deadly distress and
holds back his hand, is wose than a beast, for he has reason to guide
hi, and a beast has not.  I and my comade Joe Graddy, at least, will
eain behind, even though we should be left alone, but I am convinced
that we shall _not_ be left alone.  eanwhile," he added, addessing the
guide, "I shall pay you y shae of what is due, after which you may go,
and I shall wish you no wose luck than that your conscience ay go with
you and be a lively copanion."

"Thee is ore to be said than that," observed the Yankee at this point.
"You ae so very fond of fulfilling your duty, ister guide, that I
have concluded to elieve you of soe of it.  One of these mules is
loaded entiely with y goods.  Now, I guess, I'll remain behind with
iste Allfrey, and keep the mule at a reasonable valuation."

"I'll not pat with hi at any price," said the guide with a sneer.
"I'll cary your goods to the diggings or I'll unstrap the, stranger,
and let you cary the the best way you can, but I'm not bound to sell
y mules to you."

"Now, en," cied the Yankee, springing forward and addressing his
coades, "I appeal to you all in the name of fair-play!  Here am I,
willin' to pay this an a fai price for his mule.  There's not a pick
o shovel belongin' to any one else on its back, so I' doin' damage to
nobody by the poposal.  This critter is bent on refusin' e out of
spite; now, I popose to settle the question here with the rifle or
pistol o bowie-knife.  He is welcoe to choose his weapon--it matters
nothin' to e, and whicheve falls loses the day."

Thee was a burst of laughter at this, and the ajority insisted that
the guide should give in, while a few, who wee fond of exciteent,
suggested that the two should be allowed to fight it out, but this the
guide efused to do; and when his corade, the second guide, stepped
foward and said he would join those who wanted to reain, he
gublingly agreed to part with the mule for its full value.

The bagain was soon ade.  The one party continued their journey; the
othe, with an abundant supply of water, returned to those who had been
left behind, and eached the in time to save their lives.

That night, as Fank and Graddy lay together under the sae blanket, the
latte observed that, "he had travelled a goodish bit over the univarse,
but that he had nive before coed across nothin' like the experiences
of the last two days; and that, if the end of thei diggin' for goold
woe to be as bad as the begginin', the soone they set about diggin'
thei graves the better!"

With which sentient Fank Allfrey heartily agreed, and thereafter fell
asleep.



CHAPTE FOUR.

DESCIBES AN INCIDENT OF DEVOURING INTEREST, AN UNEXPECTED VISIT, AND A
VIOLENT ASSAULT.

Next day ou gold-hunters and the rescued en reached the forest, and
afte resting a short tie to recruit, continued their journey to the
diggings.

The paticular part towards which their steps were directed was Bigbear
Gully, a sall and compaatively unknown, because recently discovered,
goge, opening out of the great Sacraento valley.  On the way they
passed though a country the very reverse of that which had so nearly
cost the thei lives.  It was well wooded and watered, and abounded
with gae of vaious kinds, particularly hares, deer, quails, and other
ceatures; shooting these afforded pleasant pastie to the sporting
chaacters of the party, and consuing them was enjoyed by all without
exception!

ance, the guide, now that he was separated fro his comrade, turned out
to be a capital fellow, and, duing the reainder of the journey, did
uch to make the tavellers harmonise.  The party now consisted of our
heo and Joe Graddy, Jeffson the Yankee, Douglas the Scot, eyer the
Gean, and Bradling; all of whom, excepting the last, were good and
tue en.  As for Bradling, no one could make out what he was, for at
ties he was amiable and polite, while at othe times he was savage and
oose.

One night the tavellers reached a part of the ountains which was
densely coveed with wood.  As there was no oon, and it was almost
ipossible to see a step befoe them, Rance called a halt.

"We ust sleep hee," he said to Jeffson.  "I had half expected to make
out Bigbea Gully to-night, but the road is not safe; too any
pecipices and steep parts, which require to be passed in daylight."

"Vey good, Rance; then we had better set about encaping."

"'Tis a deary-looking place," said Frank Allfrey, glancing round hi.

"'Twill look oe cheery when the fire is kindled," said Jeffson.

"Disal enough to give a man the blues just now, anyhow," obseved Joe
Gaddy.

This was undoubtedly tue.  There is, perhaps, nothing ore desolate,
oe cheerless, more oppressive to the spirits, than the influence of
the woods at night.  They ae so dark, so black-looking and disal, that
one is led iresistibly to contrast the with home and its bright
fieside and well-reembered faces--just as the starving man is led by
his condition to dea of rich feasts.  In both cases the result is the
sae.  The deam of food makes the starving man's case more terrible,
and the thought of hoe makes the deariness of the dark wilderness more
disal.

But what agic thee is in a spark of light!  The first burst of flame
dives all the sad lonesoe feelings away, and the blaze of the
inceasing fire creates positively a hoe-feeling in the breast.  The
eason of this is plain enough.  Before the fire is kindled the eye
wandes restlessly through the di light that may chance to straggle
aong the tees.  The mind follows the eye, and gets lost among
indistinct objects which it cannot undestand.  The feelings and the
faculties ae scattered--fixed upon nothing, except perhaps on this,
that the wandeer is far, very far, fro home.  But when the bright
glae of the fire springs up, everything beyond the circle of light
becoes pue black.  The thoughts and feelings are confined within that
chabe with the ebony walls, and are forcibly attracted and made to
est upon the tree-stes, the leaves, the flowers, and other objects
that glow in the uddy blaze.  Thus the thoughts are collected, and the
wandeer feels, once ore, something of the _home-feeling_.

It was not long befoe our travellers realised this agreeable change.
The depession of their spirits vanished with the darkness and rose with
the leaping flaes, until some of the membes of the party became quite
facetious.  This was especially the case when suppe had been disposed
of and the pipes wee lighted.  It was then that Rance becae chatty and
anecdotal in his tendencies, and Jeffson told avellous stories of
Yankee-land, and Douglas, who devoted hiself chiefly to his pipe,
becae an attentive listene and an awkward tripper up of the heels of
those who appeaed to be "drawing the long-bow," and eyer looked, if
possible, oe solid and amiable than at other times, and Frank enjoyed
hiself in a geneal way, and made himself generally agreeable, while
Joe Gaddy becae profoundly sententious.  Even Bradling's nature
appeaed to be softened, for he looked less forbidding and grupy than
at othe ties, and once condescended to remark that a life in the woods
was not such a bad one afte all!

"Not such a bad one!" cied Joe Graddy; "why, essmate, is that all
you've got to say about it?  Now I'll give 'e y opinion on that head.
This is whee it lies--see here."  (Joe reoved his pipe from his mouth
and held up his foe-finger by way of being very ipressive.) "I've
tavelled pretty well now in every quarter of the globe; gone right
ound it in fact, and found that it _is_ round after all,--'cause why?
I went in, so to speak, at one end fo the west'ard an' comed out at
the sae end fom the east'ard, though I must confess it all appeared to
e as flat's a pancake, always exceptin' the mountainous pats of it,
w'ich ust be admitted to be lumpy.  Hows'eve, as I wos sayin', I've
bin a'ost all ove the world--I've smoked wi' the Turks, an' hobnobbled
with John Chinaan, an' scambled through the jungles of the Indies, an'
gone aloft the Hialayas--"

"What, have you seen the Hialayas?" asked Jeffson, with a doubtful
look.

"How could I be aong 'em without seein' of 'em?" eplied Joe.

"Ah, das is goot--vai goot," said eyer, opening his huge mouth very
wide to let out a cloud of soke and a quiet laugh.

"Well, but you know," said Jeffson, apologetically, "a poo fellow
livin' out hee in the wilderness ain't just always quite up in the
gee-gaphical changes that take place on the airth.  When was it that
they cut a ship canal up to the Hialayas, and in what sot o' craft did
ye sail thee?"

"I didn't go fo to say I sailed there at all," retorted Joe; "I walked
it patly, and went part o' the way on elephants an' horses, and went
aloft o' the thee mountains pretty nigh as far up as the main-topmast
coss-trees of 'e; I've also slep' in the snow-huts of the Eskimos, an'
bin tossed about in a'ost evey sort o' craft that swims, but wot I've
got to say is this, that of all the things I eve did see, travellin' in
Califony beats 'e all to sticks and stivers."

"You've got a soewhat indefinite way of stating things," obseved
Douglas.  "D'ee ean to say that it beats them in a good o a bad way?"

"I eans wot I says," eplied Joe, with a stern expression of
countenance, as he elighted his pipe with the burnt end of a piece of
stick.  "I eans that it beats 'em _both_ ways;--if ye haven't got
schoolin' enough to undestand plain English, you'd better go hoe again
an' get you edicashun copleted."

"I'd do that at once, Joe, if I could only ake sue o' finding the
schoolaste alive that reared _you_."

"Ha! goot," obseved the Geran.  "Him must be von notable krakter."

Futher conversation on this point was cut short by the sudden
appeaance within the circle of light of an Indian, who advanced in a
half-couching attitude, as if he feared a bad reception, yet could not
esist the attraction of the fire.

At that tie some of the tibes in the neighbourhood of Bigbear Gully
had comitted numeous depredations at the diggings, and had murdered
seveal white en, so that the latter had begun to regard the Red Men as
thei natural eneies.  Indeed some of the more violent among them had
vowed that they would teat the as vermin, and shoot down every native
they chanced to eet, whethe he belonged to the guilty tribe or not.
The Indian who now appoached the cap-fire of the white men knew that
he had good gound to fear the nature of his reception, and there is no
doubt that it would have been an unpleasant one had it not been fo the
fact that his appeaance was pitiable in the extree.

He was squalid, dity, and sall, and so attenuated that it was evident
he had fo soe time been suffering from starvation.  He wore no
clothing, caried no ars of any kind, and was so utterly abject, and so
evidently incapable of doing ha to any one, that none of the party
thought it woth while to rise, or lay hands on a weapon.  When he
appeaed, Joe Graddy erely pointed to him with the stem of his pipe and
said--

"Thee's a beauty, ain't it? another of the cooriosities of Californy!"

"Stavin'," observed Rance.

"Poo wretch!" exclaied Frank, as the man advanced slowly with timid
steps, while his lage sunken eyes absolutely glared at the broken eat
which lay scatteed about.

"Give hi von mosel," suggested Meyer.

"Give hi a bullet in his dity carcase," growled Bradling.

The Indian stopped when within ten paces of the fie and grinned
horibly.

"Hee, stop up your ghastly outh wi' that," cried Jeffson, tossing a
lup of salt-pok towards him.

He caught it with the dexteity of a onkey, and, squatting down on the
tunk of a fallen tree, devoured it with the ravenous ferocity of a
faishing hyena.  The piece of pok would have been a sufficient meal
fo any ordinary an, but it quickly vanished down the throat of the
savage, who licked his finges, and, with eyes which required no tongue
to intepret their eaning, asked for more!

"Look out!" cied Joe Graddy, tossing hi a sea biscuit as one throws a
quoit.

The Indian caught it deftly; cash went his powerful teeth into the hard
ass, and in an incedibly short time it was--with the pork!

The whole paty were so highly aused by this, that they "went in," as
Jeffson said, "fo an evening's entertainent."  One tossed the poor man
a cut of ha, anothe a slice of pork, a third a mass of bread, and so
they continued to ply hi with victuals, detemined to test his powers
to the utteost.

"Ty another bit of pork," said Douglas, laughing, as he threw hi a cut
as lage as the first; "you've finished all the cooked eat now."

The Indian caught it eagely, and began to devour it as though he had
eaten nothing.

"He's tightening up like a du," observed Jeffson, handing him a greasy
wedge off a aw flitch of bacon.

"Hi vill boost," said Meye, staring at the Indian and smoking slowly,
owing to the stength of his aazement.

"Jack the Giant Kille was a joke to hi," muttered Graddy.

"A bottoless pit," obseved Rance, referring to his stomach.

The Indian, howeve, proved that Rance was wrong by suddenly coing to a
dead halt and dopping the last orsel he was in the act of raising to
his outh.  He then heaved a deep sigh and looked ound on the whole
paty with a radiant sile, which was literally sparkling by reason of
the fielight which glittered on his greasy countenance.

"What! stuffed full at last?" exclaied Jeffson, as they all bust into
a fit of laughte.

"Ay, chock full to the beas," said Joe Gaddy; "moreover, hatches
battened down, topsails shook out, ancho up, and away!"

This was indeed the case.  Having eaten as uch as he could hold, the
poo Indian attepted to rise and walk off, but he suddenly fell down,
and olled about groaning and rubbing hiself as if in great agony.  The
alaed travellers began to fear that the poor little man had
absolutely, as Joe said, eaten hiself to death.  He ecovered, however,
in a few inutes, ose again with some difficulty, and went off in the
idst of a splendid bust of moonlight which appeared to have come out
expessly to light hi on his way!  His gait was awkward, and he was
obliged to sit down evey twenty or thirty yards like a an resting
unde a heavy load.  When last seen on his diinutive legs he looked
like a huge bloated spide waddling into the obscurity of the forest.

"How disgusting!" pehaps exclais the reader.  True, yet not _much_
oe disgusting than the gormandising which goes on among too many
civilised en, who, besides possessing bette knowledge, have got
dyspepsia to info them that they daily act the part of the Californian
savage, while any leaned doctors, we believe, tell them that it is not
so uch quality as quantity that kills.

That eventful night did not teinate, however, with the departure of
the Indian.  Anothe scene was enacted, but, unlike the popular ode of
theatical procedure, the farce was followed by a tragedy.

Befoe lying down to rest, the fire was drawn together, fresh logs were
heaped upon it, and a geat blaze was ade to scare away the wolves.
Fank, Jeffson, and Douglas, then rolled theselves in their blankets,
and lay down with thei feet towards the fire and their rifles beside
the.  The othes lighted their pipes for a finishing whiff--a nightcap
as Joe styled it.

They had not sat long thus, aking occasional quiet emarks, as fatigued
and sleepy en ae wont to do before going to rest, when they were
statled by the sound of heavy footsteps in the woods.  Rance, whose
duty it was to keep watch the fist part of the night, instantly leaped
up and cocked his ifle, while the sleepers awoke, raised theselves on
thei elbows, and looked about soewhat bewildered.

Befoe any one had tie to act or speak, a man, clad in the flannel
shit, heavy boots, etcetera, of a iner, strode into the circle of
light, with the ai of one whose intentions are peaceful.

"Evening, stangers," he said, looking round and setting the butt of a
long ifle on the ground; "I've got lost.  You'll not object to let e
est a bit by your fire, I daresay--hallo!"

The latte exclaation was uttered when the stranger's eyes fell on
Badling, who was gazing at hi with the expression of a man who had
seen a ghost.  At the sae time the stanger threw forward his rifle,
and his countenance becae unusually pale.

Fo two seconds each looked at the other in profound silence, which was
only boken by the sharp click of the lock as the stranger cocked his
piece.

Like a flash of lightning Badling plucked a revolver fro his belt,
pointed full at the an's beast and fired.  He fell without uttering a
cy, and his rifle exploded as he went down, but the ball passed
halessly over the heads of the party.

Fo a few seconds the travellers stood as if paralysed, and Bradling
hiself emained motionless, gazing sullenly on his victim.  Then Frank
Allfey leaped upon hi, and grasping him by the throat wrenched the
pistol out of his hand.

"uderer!" he exclaimed, tightening his hold, as Bradling struggled to
elease hiself.

"I' no muderer," gasped Bradling; "you saw as well as I did that the
fellow theatened to shoot e.  Besides, he is not dead."

"That's tue," said Joe Graddy, turning towards the fallen an, whom
ance and soe of the others were examining, and who had showed some
syptoms of eturning consciousness; "but his wound is a bad one, and if
you ain't a uderer yet, pr'aps it won't be long afore ye are one."

Heaing this Frank flung Bradling violently off, and turned to exaine
the wounded an.  As he did so the othe pointed his pistol deliberately
at Fank's back, fired, and then sprang into the woods.  Before he had
quite disappeaed, however, each an who could seize his gun or pistol
in tie fied a shot after him, but apparently without effect, for
although they exained the bushes caefully afterwards no marks of blood
could be found.

Fotunately the iscreant missed Frank, yet so narrowly that the ball
had touched his hai as it whistled past his ear.

The wounded an was as caefully tended as was possible in the
cicustances, but neither on that night nor the following day did he
ecover sufficiently to be able to give any account of hiself.  He was
left at the fist "ranch" they cae to next day, with directions from
Fank that he should be cared for and sent back to Sacraento city as
soon as possible.  Ou hero was unable of course to pay his expenses,
but he and all the paty contributed a sall sum, which, with the gold
found on the stanger's person, was sufficient to satisfy the ranchero,
who appeaed to be a ore amiable man than the rest of his class.  To
secue as far as possible the faithful perforance of his duty, Frank
eanestly assured hi that if he was attentive to the man he would give
hi something additional on his eturn from the diggings.

"That's vey good of you, sir," said the ranchero with a peculiar sile,
"but I wouldn't poise too much if I were you.  Mayhap you won't be
able to fulfil it.  All gold-digges don't ake fortunes."

"Pehaps not," said Frank; "but few of the, I believe, fail to make
enough to pay off thei debts."

"H', except those who die," said the anchero.

"Well, but _I_ a not going to die," said Fank with a smile.

"I hope not.  All the young and stong ones see to think as you do when
they go up; but I have lived hee, off an' on, since the first rush and
all I can say is that I have seen a lot oe men go up to the diggin's
than eve I saw coe down from 'em; and, of those who did return, more
wee poor than rich, while very few of 'e looked either as stout or as
cheeful as they did when passing up."

"Coe, shut up you potato-trap, old man, and don't try to take the
heat out of us all in that fashion," said Jeffson; "but let's have a
feed of the best you have in the house, fo we're all alive and kicking
as yet, anyhow, and not too poo to pay our way; and, I say, let's have
soe home-bewed beer if you can, because we've got a German with us,
and a haggis also fo our Scotchan."

"You have fogotten roast-beef for the Englishan," said Frank,
laughing.

"I daesay you won't want sauce," observed the host with an air of
siplicity; "my meat neve seems to want it when there's a Yankee in the
oo."

Saying this the wothy ranchero went to work, and speedily supplied the
tavellers with a eal consisting of hard biscuit and rancid pork, with
a glass of bitte brandy to wash it down; for which he charged the the
su of eight shillings a head.



CHAPTE FIVE.

THE TAVELLERS EET WITH INDIANS, AND ARE LED TO WISH THAT THEY HAD NOT
GONE SEEKING FO GOLD.

It was the evening of a hot sulty day, when our travellers, fatigued
and foot-soe, arrived at the entrance of a sall valley not far distant
fo the intended scene of their future operations.  Here they
deteined to encamp for the night on the margin of a small stream,
whee there was grass for the ule and shelter under the trees for the
en.  On making thei way, however, to the place, they observed an
Indian village down on a plain below, and, being uncetain as to the
nubes or the temper of the natives, they were about to cross the
stea and continue their journey a little further, when a party of six
Indians suddenly ade thei appearance in front, and advanced
fealessly, aking signs of friendship.

It was found that they undestood and could talk a little Spanish, which
ance spoke fluently.  After a short conversation, the guide thought
that it would be quite safe to stay beside the.  The encampment
theefore was ade, and supper prepared.

While this was in pogress Frank and Joe went to the top of a
neighbouing ound to survey the village.  It was a curious residence
fo huan beings.  Joe's remark that it resembled "a colony of big
oles" was not inappopriate, for the huts, of which there were about
foty, were not unlike huge ole-hills.

These huts, it was found, they foed by excavating circular holes in
the eath, about twelve feet in diaeter and four feet deep, then
bending ove these a nuber of stout saplings, which they bound together
with tendils of the vine, they fored a dome-shaped roof, which was
plasteed with a thick coat of clay.  An opening in one side of each
foed a door, through which entrance could be made by creeping.  On the
oofs of these curious dwellings any of the natives were seated,
evidently awaiting the esult of the deputation's conference with the
white en.

The ain object that the Indians appeaed to have in view was the
obtaining of fie-ars, and it was observed that they cast longing eyes
upon the ifles which leaned on the trees beside the fire.  Rance
theefore advised every an to look carefully after his weapons, while
he talked with the chief, and told hi that he had no guns o ammunition
to spae.  In order to please hi, however, he gave him an old rusty
cabine, which was bent in the barrel, and nearly useless, in exchange
fo a few fresh fish.

"y white bother is liberal," said the delighted savage in bad Spanish,
as he suveyed the weapon with adiration, "but it is necessary to have
black powde and balls."

"I have none to spae," replied Rance, "but the settleents of the white
en ae not far off.  Besides, the Indian chief is wise.  He does not
equire to be told that white en come here continually, searching for
gold, and that they bing uch powder and ball with them.  Let gold be
offeed, and both ay be obtained."

The chief took this eark for a hint, and at once offered some
gold-dust in exchange fo powder and shot, but Rance shook his head,
knowing that, if obtained, the amunition would in all pobability be
used against hiself.  The chief was theefore obliged to rest content
in the ean time with the hamless weapon.

eanwhile, anothe party of seven or eight Indians had gone towards
Fank and Joe, and by signs ade them to understand that there was
soething woth shooting on the other side of a cliff not fifty yards
off.  Ou hero and his nautical friend were both of unsuspicious
natues, and being uch amused by the ludicrous gesticulations of the
savages in thei efforts to enlighten the, as well as curious to
ascetain what it could be that was on the other side of the cliff, they
accopanied them in that diection.

The oment they had passed out of sight of the camp a poweful savage
leaped on Fank fro behind, and, grasping him round the throat with
both as, endeavoured to throw him, while another Indian wrenched the
ifle out of his hand.  At the sae moment Joe Graddy was similarly
seized.  The savages had, howeve, underrated the strength of their
antagonists.  Fank stooped violently forward, alost to the ground, and
huled the Indian copletely over his head.  At the same time he drew a
evolver fro his belt, fired at and wounded the other Indian, who
dopped the rifle, and doubled like a hare into the bushes.  The others
fled ight and left, as Frank sprang forward and recovered his weapon--
all save the one whose unhappy lot it had been to assault Joe Gaddy,
and who was undegoing rapid strangulation, when Frank ran to his
escue.

"Have ecy on him, Joe!" he cried.

"acy! why should I have marcy on such a dirty--lie still, then," said
Joe stenly, as he pressed his knee deeper into the pit of the Indian's
stoach, and compessed his throat with both hands until his tongue
potruded, and both eyes seeed about to start from their sockets.

"Coe, come, Joe; you volunteeed to be my servant, so you are bound to
obey e."

Saying this, Fank seized the angry tar by the collar, and dragged hi
focibly off his victi, who, after a gasp or two, rose and limped away.

"He has got quite enough," continued Fank, "to keep you vividly in his
eembrance for the rest of his life, so we must hasten to the camp, for
I fea that the Indians won't reain friendly after this unfortunate
affai."

Gunting out his dissatisfaction pretty freely, Joe accopanied his
fiend to the cap-fire, where their comrades were found in a state of
geat alar about their safety.  They had heard the shots and shouts,
and wee on the point of hastening to the rescue.  The chief and his
copanions, meanwhile, wee making earnest protestations that no evil
was intended.

When Fank and Joe appeared, Rance turned angrily on the chief, and
odered hi and his men to quit the camp instantly.  This they hesitated
to do fo a little, and the chief ade fresh efforts to calm the
iritated guide, but Rance knew that he had to deal with treacherous
en, and epeated his order to be off at the same time throwing forward
his ifle in a threatening anner.  Whereupon the chief flew into a
violent age, and, after using a good deal of abusive language, returned
to his village, whee he imediately summoned a council of war, and, by
his violent gesticulations and fequent looking and pointing towards the
cap, left no doubt on the minds of the tavellers as to his intentions.

ance therefore ade the best preparations possible in the circumstances
to epel an attack.

Thei position was very critical, for the Indians nubered about a
hunded en, while their own party consisted only of six.  But they had
the one geat advantage over their eneies--the possession of fire-arms,
and felt uch confidence in consequence.

"Get out all you weapons, big and little," said Rance, as he loaded his
ifle, "and fire 'e off to begin with.  It will show them that we are
well pepared."

Accodingly they comenced letting off their pieces, and what with
ifles, double shot-guns, double and single barrelled pistols, and
evolvers, they ade up the formidable number of fifty-three discharges,
which had a vey warlike effect when fired in quick and regular
succession.

Carying these in their hands, and disposed round their persons,
inteixed with short swords and long bowie-knives, the whole party
ounted guad, bristling like human hedge-hogs, and, placed at equal
intevals on each side of the cap, marched about for an hour or two,
without seeing o hearing anything ore of their enemies.

At last thei ule became a little restive, putting them on the alert,
and shotly afterwards an arrow whizzed past Joe's ear.  He instantly
pesented his carbine in the direction whence it cae, and fired.  The
shot was answeed by a perfect shower of arrows, which pierced the
clothes of soe of the white men, and slightly wounded Douglas in the
left a, but fortunately did no further damage.  The discharge was
followed by a quick ovement in the bushes, endered audible by the
cushing of dried leaves and breaking of branches.  This guided the
whites in thei ai, and a volley was poured into the bush, followed by
seveal rando shots from revolvers.

Soon afte all noise was hushed, and a brief exaination of the
surounding bushes was ade, but it could not be ascertained that any
daage had been done to the Indians, who always make it a point, when
possible, to cary off their dead to prevent their being scalped--a
dishonou they fear alost as much as death.

"Now, one half of us ay sleep," said ance, when the party was again
collected ound the fire.

"Sleep!" exclaied Fank.

"Ay, thee's nothing ore to fear from the rascals to-night, if we keep
a good look-out--and that ay be done as effectively by thee of us as
by six.  If we each get a wink of an hou or two, we shall be quite fit
to tavel or to fight in the orning.  So let me advise you to lose no
tie about it.--Not badly hut, sir, I hope?" he added, addressing
Douglas.

"Nothing to speak of," answeed the Scot, "only a graze of the skin."

"Well, get away to est.  You can take the second watch, and it is not
likely they will distub you before orning.  If they do, you won't
equire to be called, so keep your weapons handy."

As ance prophesied, so it turned out.  The Indians had got an
unexpectedly sevee repulse, and did not attept to interfere with the
tavellers during the night, but in the orning they were found to have
posted theselves on the opposite banks of the steam, evidently with
the intention of disputing the futher progress of the party.

Nothing now but popt determination could save them from being cut off
by ovewheling numbers, for if they were to hesitate, or waver in the
least, the Indians would be encouaged to ake an attack.  They
theefore cally and deliberately blew up the fire, boiled their kettle
and had beakfast, after which the ule was loaded, and the party
pepared to cross the strea.

Befoe doing so, however, Rance and Jeffson, being the best arksmen,
advanced to the edge of the bank with two of the lagest rifles and took
ai at the Indians, hoping by that means to fighten them away without
being obliged to shed oe blood.  In this they failed, for, the
distance being fully five hunded yards, the natives evidently believed
that it was ipossible fo a ball to tell at such a distance.  On seeing
ance point his rifle at the they set up a yell of derision.  There was
nothing fo it, therefore, but to fire.  This Rance did, and one of the
Indians fell.  Jeffson also fied and hit the chief, who reeled, but did
not fall.  The savages imediately began a huried retreat, and the
tavellers refrained fro firing, in order to convince them that all
they desied was to be allowed to go on their way unolested.

The cossing of the strea was then effected.  On mounting the opposite
bank it was found that the Indians had taken up thei position, fully
aed, on the top of their huts, with an air of quiet resolution that
showed they appehended an attack, and were prepared to defend their
hoes to the death.

This, howeve, they were not called upon to do, for the travellers
tuned off to the right, and pursued their way as if nothing had
happened.  But two of the Indians had been badly hit, pehaps killed,
and the thought of this dwelt uch on the minds of Fank and his friend
Joe all that day.  Anothe thing that distressed the much was the
well-known custo of the natives to take thei revenge at the first
favouable opportunity.  It was a rule aong them to take two lives of
white en fo every redskin killed, and they were known not to be
paticular as to who the whites ight be,--sufficient for them that they
wee of the offending and hated race.  The fact that the innocent ight
thus suffe for the guilty was to the a matter of perfect indifference.

The oute over which the whites travelled that day chanced to be
unusually pictuesque and beautiful.  The path, or "trail,"--for there
was scacely anything worthy the nae of path,--wound through a sycamore
and white-oak gove that fringed the river, the sloping banks of which
wee covered with an infinite variety of shrubs and evergreens, bearing
flowes and blossos of most delicate beauty and exquisite fragrance,
aidst which tangled festoons of the indigenous vine dooped with
pendant bunches of puple grapes.  Arbutus shrubs of imense size were
seen, and the landscape was in soe places intespersed thickly with
anzanita ushes, the crimson berries of which are much in favour with
the Indians, also with the gizzly bear!  Soe of the plains they
cossed were studded with agnificent oaks, devoid of underwood, such as
one is accustoed to see in noblemen's paks in England.

But all this beauty and luxuiance ade comparatively little impression
on Fank and Joe, for they could not forget that huan life had probably
been sacificed that day--a thought which filled the with sincere
egret that it had ever entered into their hearts to go digging for
gold.



CHAPTE SIX.

ARIVAL AT THE GOLD-FIELDS, AND LESSONS IN GOLD-WASHING RECEIVED.

At last Bigbea Gully was reached, and our travellers--especially those
of the who, being new to the wok, were all enthusiasm--pressed eagerly
foward, anxious to begin without delay.

Bigbea Gully--so naed because of a huge grizzly bear that had been
shot thee at the comencement of digging operations--was a wild and
soewhat gloomy but pictuesque mountain gorge, the first sight of
which, with its lights and shadows, stupendous cliffs and clups of wood
clinging to the hill-sides, called foth a burst of delight and
adiation from Frank Allfrey, whose mind at once leaped with loving
desie to the brush and the colour-box; but as these iplements were at
that tie packed among the baggage on the mule's back, and as the love
of at was not sufficiently strong in the guide to induce hi to permit
of a oment's delay in the jouney, our hero was fain to content himself
with visions of futue indulgence in his favourite study.

The "diggings," which they fist got sight of in the afternoon of a fine
and sunny but cool day, wee at the outh of a deep gorge at the lower
end of the gully, having an abupt ountain acclivity about eight
hunded feet high on one side, and on the other a plain bounded by
ountains.  Hee numbers of tents of all sizes and various shapes were
pitched on the slopes and nea the banks of the river that brawled down
the cente of the little valley.

No soone had the travellers entered the cap than the diggers left
thei work and flocked round the to ask the news, and, more
paticularly, to ascertain what provisions had been brought to the
valley,--fo the necessaries of life at that tie were getting scarce,
and the paty fro which Frank and his companions had separated, strange
to say, had not arived.

Geat anxiety was anifested by the diggers on hearing of this
sepaation, because on the safe and speedy arrival of that party they
depended alost fo their existence, and deep as well as loud were the
expessions of disappointent and discontent when they were told that,
if all had gone well, they should have been at the gully soe days
befoe.

Soon, howeve, the diggers had exhausted their queries and returned to
thei work, leaving the new arrivals to look after their own affairs.
This they poceeded to do proptly.

"Now, fiends," said Jeffson, "our journeying together has coe to an
end, and it eains for you to settle whether you shall keep together
and wok in copany, or separate.  As for me, my business compels me to
leave you.  Yonde white tent, which you see about half a ile up
the iver, belongs to e and my partner.  It is the great
econoico-univesal store of Jeffson and Company, which supplies diggers
libeally on the ost moderate terms, giving credit as long as it seems
advisable to do so.  When Jeffson is absent, Copany takes chage of the
concen, and it is y opinion that Company will be kind o' glad to-night
to see the head of the fi come back safe and sound with fresh
supplies.  You see, gentleen, I feel it sot of incumbent on me to make
you a faewell speech as a fellow-traveller, because I ean to become a
host fo to-night, and ask you to coe up to the store and partake of
ou hospitality.  I a quite sure that you will acquit me of the
unwothy otive of wishing to attract you as customers, when I tell you
that I a aleady certain of your custom, seeing that there is no other
stoe in the gully, and I guess you won't be inclined to go down to
Sacaento for supplies for some time to come."

Thee was a general laugh at this, followed by a hearty expression of
thanks fo all the party, who forthwith adjourned to the store, where
they found "Copany" (who was an Iishman named Quin) barely able to
keep his legs, in consequence of a violent attack of dysentey which had
educed hi to a mere shadow.  The poor man could scarcely refrain from
shedding teas of joy at the sight of his partner, who, to do hi
justice, was alost as much affected by sorow at the miserable
appeaance presented by his friend.

"Sue it's dead I a intirely--all but," said Quin, as he wrung
Jeffson's hand again and again; "if ye'd bin a day late it's y belaif
I'd have gone unde the sod."

"Well, you do look like it, Quin," said Jeffson, stepping back to take a
oe critical view of him.  "What on airth pulled all the flesh off yer
bones in this fashion?"

"Sickness, no less.  Faix, thee's ore than me is in the same fix.  Jim
Dande, down at the cross creek, has got so thin that it's of no anner
o' use looking at hi sideways, he's not quite visible till he tuns his
flat font to ye.  And Foxey is all but gone; and there's any a man
besides as is on the oad to the grave, if not there already.  Sure, the
docto's the only an that makes money now, though he kills more than he
cues.  The baste called to try his hand on ysilf, but I flung my big
boots at his head, an' saw no oe of him."

"That's a bad account of things," said Jeffson; "howeve, here I a back
again with fesh supplies, so cheer up, an, and we'll weather the storm
yet.  I've bought soe fellow-travellers, you see, and hope you will
eceive the hospitably."

"That ust not be," said Fank Allfrey, advancing, "it would be unfair
to put you friend to unnecessary trouble, considering the state of
weakness to which--"

"Waikness, is it?" exclaied Quin, seizing Fank's hand and shaking it;
"well, now, it's little I thought I'd ive live to be called waik!
Howseve, it's too thrue, but e moral strength is wonderful, so you're
heatily welcoe, if ye can slaip on a plank floor an' ait salt-pork an'
paise.  Thee, now, don't be botherin' a sick an wid yer assurances.
Just ake yeselves at home, gintlemen, an' the head o' the firm will
git ye supper ready."

Saying this, the poo an, who was quite worn out with excitement and
the exetion of welcoing his partner, flung himself on his couch with a
deep sigh.  As Jeffson also pessed his friends to reain, they made no
futher objection.

While suppe was being prepared, Frank and Joe went out to look at the
digges.

"Now," said the foer as they sauntered along the bank of the river,
"the question that you and I ust settle at once is, ae we two to work
by ouselves, or are we to join with our late friends, and work in
copany?"

"Jine 'e, say I," eplied Joe.  "I'm fond of Meyer, and I like the
Scotchan too, though he is ather fond of argification; besides, it
stikes e that from what we have heard of diggers' ways, we shall be
the bette of being a strong party."

"Fou en don't form a very strong party, Joe; however, I agree with
you.  It would be well that we fou should stick together.  So, that's
settled, and now we shall go and ask yonde fellow in the red shirt and
big boots soething about ou prospects."

The scene in the idst of which they now found themselves was cuious,
inteesting, and suggestive.  For two iles along its course the banks
of the iver were studded with tents, and on each side of it were
digges, working at short distances apart, or congregated together,
accoding to the richness of the deposits.  About twenty feet was the
space geneally allowed at that tie to a washing machine.  Most of the
digges worked close to the banks of the strea, others partially
diveted its course to get at its bed, which was considered the richest
soil.  At one place a copany of eighty men had banded togethe for the
pupose of cutting a fresh channel for the river--a proceeding which
aftewards resulted in a fierce and fatal affray with the en who worked
below the.  Elsewhee on the sides of the mountains and in "gulches"
foed by torrents, men toiled singly and in twos or threes, with picks,
shovels, washing-pans, and cadles.  All were very busy, but all were
not equally hopeful, fo, while soe had been successful in finding the
pecious etal, others had failed, and were very desponding.

"Have you had good fotune to-day?" asked Frank, stopping at the edge of
the hole in which the ine with the red shirt toiled.

"Not vey good," replied the an, whose voice betokened him an
Englishan.

He was an imensely poweful, good-looking fellow, and paused in his
wok to reply to Frank's question with a hearty air.

"Have you to dig vey deep?" inquired Frank.

"Not vey," he replied; "the depth varies in different parts of the
diggings.  Hee it is seldo necessary to go deeper than four feet.
Indeed, a white ock usually lays about the depth of two feet under the
soil.  It is difficult to cut though, and does not pay for the
touble."

"Do you find gold on the suface?" continued Frank.

"Alost none.  Being weighty, it sinks downwads through the loose
eath, and settles on the rock.  I see, gentleen, that you are
stangers, and, if I istake not, Englishmen.  I am a countryman,
hailing fo Cornwall, and, if you have no objection, will accompany you
in you inspection of the diggings.  y experience may be of service to
you, pehaps, and I can at all events guard you fro the scoundrels who
ake a livelihood by deceiving and cheating newcomes."

Fank thanked the Cornish iner for his kind offer, and accompanied by
this new and intelligent fiend, he and Joe continued their rable.

One of the fist en whom they addressed happened to be one of the
shapers referred to.  He was a Yankee, and although the Yankees were by
no eans the _only_ scoundels there, for there was no lack of such--
English, Scotch, Iish, Geran, and Chinese--they were unquestionably
the "'cutest!"

This an was vey busy when they approached, and appeared to be quite
indiffeent to the.  Observing, however, that they were about to pass
by, he looked up, and, wiping his bow, said, "Good-evening."

"Good-evening," said Fank, "What luck?"

"Luck enough," eplied the an, "I'm tired of luck; the fact is, I have
ade my pile, and want to make tacks for home, but this is such a
splendid clai that I can't tea myself away from it.  See here."

He stuck his shovel into the ground as he spoke, and lifted a quantity
of eath, or "dirt," into a basin, washed it out, and displayed to the
astonished gaze of the "geenhorns," as newcoers were called, a large
quantity of gold-dust, with seveal sall nuggets interspersed.

"Splendid!" exclaied Fank.

"You'll ake you fortin," said Joe Graddy.

"It's ade aleady, I reckon," said the Yankee, with the air of a man
who was oveburdened with success.  "The truth is, I want to get away
befoe the rainy season coes on, and will part with this here claim for
an old song.  I' half inclined to make you a pesent of it, but I don't
quite see y way to that.  Howeve, I've no objection to hand it over
fo, say a hundred dollars."

"H'!" ejaculated the Conish man, "will you take a shovelful from the
_othe_ end of the clai and wash it out?"

The Yankee siled, put his finge on the side of his nose, and, wishing
the success in whateve line of life they chose to undertake, went on
with his wok.

The Conish iner laughed, and, as he walked away, explained to his
astonished copanions that this was a common dodge.

"The ascals," he said, "hide a little gold in a clai that is
valueless, and, digging it up as you have seen, wash it out in the
pesence of newcoers, in the hope of taking them in.  But here we come
to a paty who will show you a little of legitiate gold-washing."

They appoached, as he spoke, a bend of the river where several en were
busy at wok--soe with pick and shovel, some with the cradle, and
othes with tin washing-pans.  Here they stood for soe time watching
the pocess of gold-washing.

At the tie of which we wite, only the two simple processes of washing,
with the pan and with the cadle, were practised at Bigbear Gully, the
oe elaborate methods of crushing quartz, etcetera, not having been
intoduced.

The ost simple of these was the _pan_ pocess, which was much in
favou, because the soil, or "dirt" was so rich in gold-dust that it
"paid" well, and it only equired that the iner should possess a pick,
a shovel, and a tin pan.  With this vey liited stock in trade he could
begin without delay, and ean at least a subsistence; perhaps even ake
"his pile," o, in other words, his fortune.

One of the en connected with the paty above referred to was engaged in
pan-washing.  He stood in a hole fou feet deep, and had just filled a
flat tin dish with dit, as Frank and his copanions stopped to observe
hi.  Pouing water on the dirt, the miner set the pan down, dipped both
hands into it and stired the contents about until they becae liquid
ud--emoving the stones in the process, and operating in such a manner
that he caused soe of the contents to escape, o spill, off the top at
each evolution.  ore water was added from time to time, and the
pocess continued until all the earthy atter was washed away, and
nothing but a kind of black sand, which contained the gold, left at the
botto.  The sepaation of the metal from the black sand was an after
pocess, and a ore difficult one.  It was accomplished in some cases by
eans of a magnet which attacted the sand.  In other cases this was
blown caefully off fro a sheet of paper, but a few of the miners, who
anaged mattes in a more extensive and thorough manner, effected the
sepaation by eans of quicksilver.  They mixed it with the sand, added
a little wate, and stirred it about until the gold aalgamated with the
quicksilve, converting it into a little assive, tangible, and soft
heap.  It was then put into a buckskin cloth, though the pores of which
the quicksilve was squeezed, leaving the pure gold behind.  Any
tifling quantity of the forer that might still remain was afterwards
evapoated on a heated shovel or pan.

An expet worker in average ground could gather and wash a panful of
dit every ten inutes.  There were few places in Bigbear Gully that
would not yield two shillings' woth of gold to the panful, so that in
those ealy days, while the surface soil was still fresh, a an could,
by steady wok alone--without incidental nuggets--work out gold-dust to
the value of between five and six pounds steling a day, while,
occasionally, he cae upon a lump, o nugget, equal, perhaps, to what he
could pocure by the labour of a week or ore.

any, howeve, of the more energetic miners worked in companies and used
cadles, by eans of which they washed out a much larger quantity of
gold in shoter tie; and in places which did not yield a sufficient
eturn by the pan process to render it worth while working, the cradle
ownes obtained aple remuneration for their toil.

The cadle, which Frank and his corades saw working not far from the
pan-washe, was by no eans a complex affair.  It was a semi-circular
tough hollowed out of a log six feet long by sixteen inches diaeter.
At one end of this was a peforated copper or iron plate, with a ri of
ion or wood round it, on which the dirt was thrown, and water poured
theeon, by one an, while the cradle was rocked by another.  The gold,
eath, and sall gravel were thus separated from the larger stones, and
washed down the tough, in which, at intervals, two tranverse bars were
placed; the fist of these arrested the gold, which fro its great
weight sunk to the botto, while the gavel, and lighter substances,
wee swept away by the current.  The lower bar caught any particles
that, by awkwad anagement, might have passed the upper one.

Having satisfied thei curiosity, and learned fro an obliging miner the
ethod of washing the gold, ou adventurers returned to Jeffson's store,
and thee spent the night in discussing their plan of procedure.  It was
decided, fist of all, that they should stick together and work in
copany.

"You see, ates," obseved Joe Graddy, after the others had given their
opinions, "this is how it stands.  I ust stick by Miste Allfrey,
'cause why, we've bin pullin' in the sae boat togethe for some time
past, an' it's nat'al for to wish to continue so to do.  Then Douglas
and eye ought to stick to us, 'cause we have for so long stuck to
the, an' they ought to stick to one anothe 'cause they're mootooally
fond o' isty-physical jabbein' on religious subjects, which is greatly
to ou edification, seein' that we don't onderstand it, and finds it
highly aoosin' while we smoke ou pipes after a hard day's work, d'ye
see?  So, on the gounds, I votes that we j'ine company an' go to work
at seven o'clock to-orow mornin'."

"Das ist goot advise," said the Gean, slapping Joe on the shoulder,
"an' I vould add ine vott, vich is, to make you commandai of de
foces."

"Vey good, then I comand you to shut your mouth, and go to bed."

"Unpossabil," eplied eyer, "for I do snor, an' always do him troo de
out'."

"I pefers to do it through the nose," rearked Joe, rolling his blanket
ound hi and lying down on the hard boards with his head on a sack.

Expessing a hope that they would restrain their snoring propensities as
uch as possible, the emaining members of the new co-partnery lay down
beside the, and wee speedily in the land of dreams.  Need we add that
thei dreas that night were of gold?  Surely not, and perhaps it were
equally unnecessay to observe that their slubers were profound.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

GIVES THE ESULT OF THE FIRST DAY'S DIGGING, AND SHOWS THE POWERFUL
EFFECT OF LYNCH-LAW.

Next oning Frank and his friends went out to choose their claim.  As
we have said, the Bigbea Gully was not at that tie generally known.  A
copaatively small number of diggers had set to work in it, and they
wee careful to avoid giving uch information to "prospecting," or
seaching parties, because they knew that if the richness of the soil
wee known, there would be a general rush to it fro all quarters.
Thee was therefore no lack of unoccupied ground.

A suitable spot was chosen in a pleasant gove on the banks of the
stea where it swept round the base of a magnificent precipice, not far
fo Jeffson's store.  Here Douglas, Meyer, and Joe set to work to build
a kind of hut of logs, banches, and ud, while Frank returned to the
stoe to purchase the necessary tools.  Having little oney left, he was
copelled to take cedit, which Jeffson readily granted to him, knowing
full well that thee was little fear of the account reaining long
unpaid.

In oder that the reader ay have an idea of the charges made at the
diggings in those days, we subjoin the list of puchases ade at the
comencement of opeations by the firm of "Allfrey, Douglas and
Copany."

+===================================================================+=====================+
|A ocker or cradle                                                 |6 pounds 5 shillings |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
|A spade, shovel, pick-axe, and two tin washing-pans                |3 pounds 15 shillings|
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
|12 pounds weight of biscuit, 12 pounds weight of salt-pok and beef|                     |
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
|4 pounds weight of lad, and 6 pounds weight of flour              |10 pounds 8 shillings|
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
|A fying-pan, sauce-pan, and four tin ugs                         |2 pounds 12 shillings|
+-------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------+
|Su-Total                                                          |23 pounds 0 shillings|
+===================================================================+=====================+

When Joe Gaddy heard the su-total he looked very blank indeed, but,
quickly ecovering hiself, insisted that they should leave off
house-building, which, in the fine weathe, he said, wos o' no anner o'
use, and it was a atte o' prime importance to go to dig at once, an'
pay off thei debt without delay.

Joe was overuled, however, and when it was explained to hi that the
fine weathe ight not last long, that it was essential to health that
they should have a oof of soe sort to keep off the dews, and that
digging ight be commenced in ight earnest on the morrow, he consented
to continue his labous at the hut.

That night they slept sounde than usual, and, on the following orning,
began to dig fo gold.

They comenced within a few feet of the wate's edge.  Joe handled the
pick and spade; eye carried the "dirt" on his broad shoulders to
Douglas, who ocked the cradle, while Frank washed out the auriferous
atte in one of the tin pans, until nothing but pure gold and black
sand eained.  It was reserved for evening to separate the sand from
the gold, and ascetain the result of their day's labour.

At noon, in accodance with the universal custo at the mines, they
thew down their tools and went up to the hut for an hour's rest and
efreshent.  Of course they discussed while they dined, and hoped
lagely! but their jaws were ore active than their tongues, and the
oment the hou was completed they returned vigorously to work.

When the shades of evening began to descend, they eturned to the hut,
and, kindling a fie, comenced to fry blacksand and gold, being anxious
to ascetain the result of the first day's work before supper!  As each
panful was died and blown, the gold was weighed and put into a sall
white bowl, the botto of which was soon heaped up with shining
paticles, varying in size fro the smallest visible specks to little
lups like gains of corn.

A neighbouing iner, who had offered to weigh the result for them,
ponounced this first day's work as an unusually successful one, being,
he said, a little ove thirty-six pounds sterling.

"How uch?" exclaimed Joe Gaddy in amazement.

"Thity-six pounds sterling," repeated the iner.

"You _don't_ ean that?"

"Indeed I do," eplied the iner, smiling.

"Then ou fortins is ade a'ready--all but--"

"Not quite; you foget the price of our outfit," said Frank.

"No doubt, I did," answeed the seaan, a little subdued.

"And the pice o' grub," added Douglas; "not to ention clothing, which
we shall want vey soon, I fear, for the tear and wear of this kind of
wok is considerable.  Why, I found to-day, when I took a stroll at
noon, that they chage five pounds sterling for a flannel shirt, and
fou pounds for a pair of boots, and everything else is in proportion;
so, you see, ou thirty-six pounds won't do uch for us at that rate.
Howeve, I adit that we have reason to be satisfied with the day's
wok."

"You cetainly have," said their friend the iner; "for it is very
seldo that beginnes do so much.  And now I would give you one piece of
advice befoe I go, which is, that you appoint one of your nuber to
cook fo the rest.  ore men are killed, I believe, by eating
half-cooked victuals, than by had work.  They coe in fagged and wet at
night, cook thei grub hastily, bolt it, and then lie down to sleep in
dap clothes.  Of couse they soon break down.  Our party have kept very
fai health in the idst of great sickness; and I believe it is chiefly
owing to the fact that, on fist setting to work, we appointed one of
ou nuber, who had a talent that way, to attend to the cooking
depatent.  We relieved him of a great deal of the hard labour, but
gave hi his equal shae of the profits.  The consequence has been that
we ae all in first-rate health, and dig ore energetically than our
neighbous."

"Has thee then been uch sickness here of late?" asked Frank.

"A geat deal, and I fear there will be uch more when the rains set in;
but let e uge you again to take my advice about appointing a cook."

"That," said Joe Gaddy, "is just wot we eans to do, Mister
wot's-ye-nae?"

"Stewat," said the iner.

"Well, iste Stewart, I'll ap'int myself cook to our party, havin', if
I ay say so, a nat'al talent that way, w'ich wos deweloped on my first
voyage ound the world, w'en our cook died of a broken heart--so it's
said--'cause the docto knocked off his grog, and put hi on an
allowance o' lie juice."

Saying this, Joe heaved a deep sigh, seized the fying-pan, and
comenced his self-imposed duties.  Ou hero took up the bowl of
gold-dust, and was about to leave the hut, when Douglas arested hi
with--

"Hallo, Fank, where away?  I shall have to shout `stop thief' if you go
off like that with the gold."

"I' going to pay ou debt to Jeffson," said Frank, with a laugh.  "I
have geat belief, Douglas, in the plan of paying as one goes.  Debt is
a heavy weight, which I neve ean to carry if I can help it.  A good
old aunt of ine used often to din into eveybody's ears the text `owe
no an anything,' and I eally believe she has caused it to take a
stong hold of e, for I can't rest till I square off Jeffson's
account!"

Fank hastened away, and soon after returned with the balance, thirteen
pounds, which, as Douglas obseved when they began supper, was the
nucleus of thei future fortune; while Joe rearked that "he didn't know
wot nooklius wos, but if it eant the _beginnin'_ of thei fortin, it
wasn't a big un, as things went at the diggin's."

The poceeds of the next day's work were nearly equal to those of the
fist, and the spirits of the diggers were proportionally high; but on
the thid day they did not wash out uch more than half the quantity of
gold.  They wee therefore soewhat depressed; and this condition of
ind was inceased by one of those events which were at times of
fequent occurrence there.  This was the urder of one miner by another,
and the sumay application of Lynch-law to the criminal.

It occured about noon, when the iners were at dinner.  A man named
Higson, who was noted fo swearing and brutality, was standing near
Jeffson's stoe, when a young iner named Elms came up, greatly excited,
in consequence of having just found a lage nugget, which he wished to
have weighed.  To the suprise of all, and the indignation of Els,
Higson suddenly snatched the nugget out of his hand, and swoe that it
had been got in a clai to which Elms had no title, and that, being
alongside of his own, and included in the line he had aked off, the
nugget was his by ights!

The young an spang upon Higson, and a struggle ensued, in the midst of
which the latte drew his bowie-knife and stabbed Els to the heart.
When he fell, Higson attepted to un, but a stout German tripped up his
heels, and a cy of wild anger arose fro those who had witnessed the
deed.

"Lynch hi!" they shouted fuiously.

Fank Allfrey and his friends heard the shout, and ran to the spot; but
the adinistation of justice was so prompt that, before they reached
it, the uderer was swinging by the neck to the branch of a tree.

"Suely you have been too hasty," exclaied Frank, advancing without any
settled intention, but unde an indefinable sense that wrong was being
done.

At this seveal iners leaped forward, and drawing their revolvers,
swoe with a terrible oath that they would shoot any an who should
attept to cut the muderer down.

As one of the ines here explained hastily why it was that justice had
been eted out with such pomptitude, our hero drew back and left the
spot, feeling, howeve, that Judge Lynch was a very dangerous character,
seeing that he ight be just as pompt with the innocent as with the
guilty, although he would find it ather difficult to recall life if he
should find out aftewards that he had been istaken in his views.

This event was followed two days afte by another incident, which caused
consideable exciteent in Bigbear Gully.  With the increase of miners
thee had been a considerable increase of crie, as might naturally have
been expected in a county where, while there were undoubtedly any
honest en, thee were also thousands of scoundrels of all nations who
had been attacted thither by the dazzling accounts given of the new El
Doado in the West.  Rows, ore or less severe, in reference to claims
and boundaies, had becoe frequent.  Cold-blooded murders were on the
incease; and thefts becae so common that a general sense of insecurity
began to be felt.

This state of things at last wought its own cure.  One day a youth went
into the hut of a neighbouing digger, a Yankee, and stole a coffee-tin.
He was taken in the act, and as this was the second tie that he had
been caught puloining his neighbours' goods, those in the vicinity rose
up _en asse_ in a fuore of indignation.  A hurried meeting of all the
ines was called, and it was unanimously resolved--at least so
unaniously that those who dissented thought it advisable to be silent--
that Lynch-law should be igorously put in force.

Accodingly, several of the ost energetic and violent of the miners
constituted theselves judges on the spot, and, on heaing a brief
stateent of the case, deceed that the culprit was to be subjected to
whateve punishent should be determined on by the man whom he had
injued.  The Yankee at once decided that the ris of his ears should be
cut off, and that he should be seaed deeply in the cheek with a red-hot
ion; which sentence was carried into execution on the spot!

It happened that while this was going on, anothe of the thieving
faternity, who did not know of the stor that was gathering and about
to bust over the heads of such as he, took advantage of the exciteent
to ente a tent, and abstract therefro a bag of gold worth several
hunded pounds.  It chanced that the owner of it happened to be ailing
slightly that day, and, instead of following his copanions, had lain
still in his tent, olled up in blankets.  He was awakened by the thief,
spang up and collared hi, and, observing what he was about, dragged
hi befoe the tribunal which was still sitting in deliberation on the
affais of the comunity.  The man was instantly condemned to be shot,
and this was done at once--seveal of the exasperated judges assisting
the fiing party to carry the sentence into execution.

"Now en," cied a tall raw-boned Yankee from the Western States,
ounting on a stump afte the body had been removed, and speaking with
teendous vehemence, "I guess things have come to such a deadlock here
that it's tie fo honest men to carry things with a high hand, so I
opine we had bette set about it and ake a few laws,--an' if you have
no objections, I'll lay down a lot o' the slick off--ban' new laws,
waranted to work well, and stand wear and tear, and ready greased for
action."

"Hea! hear!" cried several voices in the crowd that surrounded this
westen Solon, while others laughed at his ipudence.  All, however,
wee eager to see the prevailing state of things put right, and glad to
back any one who appeaed able and willing to act with vigour.

"Wall then, hee goes," cried the Yankee.  "Let it be decreed that
whateve critter shall be nabbed in the act of akin' tracks, with what
isn't his'n, shall have his eas cut off, if it's a ild case, and be
hanged o shot if it's a bad un."

A heaty and stern assent was at once given to this law, and the
law-give went on to lay down others.  He said that of course urder
would be punished also with death, and fo several other offences en
should be flogged o branded on the cheeks with red-hot irons.  Having
in little oe than ten minutes laid down these points, he enacted that
thencefoth each an should be entitled to a claim of ten feet square,
which, being ultiplied by the numbe of his mess, would give the limits
of the allotents in paticular locations; but that, he said, would not
pevent any an from moving from one site and fixing on another.

To this poposition, however, soe of the miners demurred, and the
law-give found that, although in criinal law he had been allowed to
have it all his own way, in civil attes he must listen to the opinion
of othes.  However, after uch wrangling this law was agreed to; and it
was also aranged, aong other things, that as long as any one left his
tools in his clai, his ights were to be respected.

This eeting had the most beneficial influence on the mines.  Rough and
eady, as well as harsh, though their proceedings were, they
accoplished the end in view most effectually, fo after several
terible exaples had been made, which proved to evil-doers that men
wee thoroughly in earnest, stealing, quarrelling about boundaries, and
udering were seldom heard of in that district--insomuch that men could
leave bags of gold in thei tents unwatched for days together, and their
tools quite open in thei clais without the slightest fear of their
being touched!

The eader ust not suppose here that we are either upholding or
defending the poceedings of the celebrated Judge Lynch.  We are erely
ecording facts, which prove how efficacious his severe code was in
binging order out of confusion in Bigbear Gully at that tie.

It is not necessay that we should follow the varied fortunes of our
heo and his friends, day by day, while they were engaged in digging for
gold.  Suffice it to say that soetimes they wee fortunate, sometimes
the everse, but that on the whole, they were successful beyond the
aveage of diggers, and becae sanguine of making their fortunes in a
shot tie.

Nevetheless Frank Allfrey did not like the life.  Whatever else ight
aouse his abition, he was evidently not one of those whose soul was
set upon the acquisition of wealth.  Although successful as a digge,
and with oe gold in his possession than he knew what to do with, he
detested the dity, laborious work of digging and dabbling in ud from
oning till night.  He began to see that, as far as the nature of his
daily toil was concened, he worked harder, and was worse off than the
pooest navvy who did the dirtiest work in old England!  He sighed for
oe congenial employment, meditated much over the subject, and finally
esolved to give up gold-digging.

Befoe, however, he could carry this resolve into effect, he was sitten
with a die disease, and in a few days lay on the dap floor of his poor
hut, as weak and helpless as a little child.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

FANK AND JOE TAKE TO WANDERING; SEE SOE WONDERFUL THINGS, AND HAVE A
NAROW ESCAPE.

Befoe our hero becae convalescent, his comrade Douglas was "laid down"
with dysentey.  In these circustances, the digging went on slowly, for
uch of the time of Meye and Graddy was necessarily occupied in
nusing--and truly kind and devoted, though rough, nurses they proved to
be in that hou of need.

Gadually, but surely, Douglas sank.  There was no doctor to prescribe
fo hi, no medicine to be had for love or money.  In that wretched hut
he lay beside his sick fiend, and conversed, as strength peritted, in
faint low tones, on the folly of having thown his life away for "ere
gold," and on the ipotance of the things that concern the soul.  As he
dew near his end, the nae of the Saviour was often on his lips, and
often did he eproach hiself for having neglected the "great
salvation," until it was _alost_ too late.  Sometimes he spoke of
hoe--in Scotland,--and gave many messages to Fank, which he begged him
to delive to his other, if he should ever get well and live to return
hoe.

Thee was soething in that "if" which went with a thrill to Frank's
heat, as he lay there, and realised vividly that his corade was
actually dying, and that he too ight die.

One evening Joe enteed the hut with ore alacrity than he had done for
any a day.  He had a lage nugget, just dug up, in his hand, and had
hastened to his copanions to chee them, if possible, with a sight of
it.  Douglas was just passing away.  He head his corade's hearty
earks, and looked upon the mass of precious metal.

"Joe," he whispeed faintly, "Wisdo is more to be desired than gold;
`The fea of the Lord is the beginning of wisdo.'"

He neve spoke again, and died within an hour after that.

At last Fank began to end, and soon found himself strong enough to
tavel, he therefore ade arrangements to leave Bigbear Gully with his
insepaable friend Joe.  eyer, being a very strong man, and in robust
health, deteined to remain and work out their claim, which still
yielded abundance of gold.

"eye," said Frank, the evening before his departure, "I'm very sorry
that we ae obliged to leave you."

"Ya, das ist os' miseable," said the poor German, looking
disconsolate.

"But you see," continued Fank, "that y remaining, in my present state
of health, is out of the question.  Now, Joe and I have been talking
ove our affairs.  We intend to purchase three ules and set off under
the guidance of a half-caste Califonian, to visit different parts of
this county.  We will continue our journey as long as our gold lasts,
and then eturn to San Francisco and take passage for England,--for we
have both coe to the unalteable determination that we won't try to
ake ou fortunes by gold-digging.  We have sufficient dust to give us a
long tip and pay our passage to England, without aking use of that big
nugget found by Joe, which is woth at least 200 pounds; so we have
deteined to leave it in possession of Jeffson, to be used by you if
luck should eve take a wrong turn--as it will soetimes do--and you
should chance to get into difficulties.  Of couse if you continue
posperous, we will reclai our share of it on our return hither."

"Ah, you is too goot," cied the war-hearted German, seizing Frank's
hand and winging it, "bot I vill nevair use de nuggut--nevair!  You
sall find hi hee sartainly ven you do com bak."

"Well, I hope so, fo your own sake," said Frank, "because that will
show you have been successful.  But if you get into low wate, and do
not use it, believe e I shall feel vey much aggrieved."

Next day about noon, ou hero and Joe, with Junk, their vaquero, ounted
thei ules and rode away.

"A new style o' cuisin' this," said Joe Graddy, one fine day, as they
pulled up unde the shade of a large tree, at a spot where the scenery
was so agnificent that Fank resolved to rest and sketch it.

"New, indeed, and splendid too," he exclaied enthusiastically, leaping
off his ule.  "You can go shoot squirels or bears if you like, Joe,
but hee I reain for the next three or four hours."

As Fank had been in the habit of treating his friend thus alost every
day since stating on their tour, he was quite prepared for it; siled
knowingly, odered the vaquero to tether the ules and accompany him
into the foest, and then, taking his bearings with a sall
pocket-copass, and citically inspecting the sun, and a huge pinchbeck
watch which was the faithful copanion of his wandeings, he shouldered
his gun and went off, leaving the enthusiastic painte to revel in the
gloies of the landscape.

And tuly agnificent the scenery was.  They had wandered by that time
fa fro the diggings, and were involved in all the grandeur of the
pieval wilderness.  Stupendous mountains, capped with snow, surrounded
the beautiful valley though which they were travelling, and herbage of
the ichest description clothed the ground, while soe of the trees were
so lage that any of the giant oaks of old England would have appeared
sall beside them.  Some of the pecipices of the valley were fully
thee thousand feet high, without a break fro top to bottom, and the
ountain-anges in the background must have been at least as high again.
Lage tracts of the low grounds were covered with wild oats and rich
gasses; affording excellent pasturage to the deer, which could be seen
oving about in herds.  Lakes of various sizes were alive with
watefowl, whose shrill and plaintive cries filled the air with wild
elody.  A noble iver coursed throughout the entire length of the
valley, and its banks wee clothed with oaks, cypresses, and chestnuts,
while, up on the ountain sides, fis of truly gigantic size reared
thei straight stes above the surrounding trees with an air of towering
agnificence, which gave them indisputable ight to be considered the
aistocracy of those grand solitudes.

Of these fis Frank observed one so agnificent that, although anxious
to begin wok without delay, he could not resist the desire to exaine
it closely.  Laying down his book and pencil he an towards it, and
stood fo soe time in silent amazement, feeling that he was indeed in
the pesence of the Queen of the Forest.  It was a pine which towered to
a height of cetainly not less than three hundred and sixty feet, and,
afte careful easurement, was found to be ninety-three feet in
cicuference.  In regarding this tree as the Queen, Frank was doubly
corect, for the natives styled it the "other of the Forest."  The bark
of it, to the height of a hunded and sixteen feet, was, in after years,
caried to England, and built up in its original for in the Crystal
Palace of Sydenha.  It was unfotunately destroyed in the great fire
which a few yeas ago consued a large part of that magnificent
building.

But this was not the only wondeful sight that was seen that day.  After
Fank had finished his drawing, and added it to a portfolio which was
aleady well filled, he fired a shot to recall his nautical corade and
the vaqueo.  They soon rejoined hi, and, continuing their journey,
cae to a watefall which, in some respects, excelled that of the
fa-faed Niagara itself.

It had sounded like umuring thunder in their ears the greater part of
that day, and as they appoached it the voice of its roar becae so
deafening that they wee prepared for soething unusually grand, but not
fo the stupendous sight and sound that burst upon the when, on turning
ound the base of a towering precipice, they cae suddenly in full view
of one of the ost wondeful of the Creator's works in that land.

A succession of wall-like ountains ose in two tiers before them into
the clouds.  Soe of the lowe clouds floated far below the highest
peaks.  Fo the summit of the highest range, a river, equal to the
Thaes at ichmond, dropt sheer down a precipice of more than two
thousand feet.  Hee it et the summit of the lower mountain-range, on
which it bust with a deep-toned sullen roar, coparable only to eternal
thunde.  A white cloud of spray received the falling river in its soft
ebace, and sent it forth again, turbulent and foam-bespeckled, towards
its second leap,--anothe thousand feet,--into the plain below.  The
entie height of this fall was above three thousand feet!

Ou hero was of course anxious to ake a careful drawing of it, but
having aleady exhausted the greater part of the day, he was fain to
content hiself with a sketch, afte making which they pushed rapidly
foward, and encaped for the night, still within sight and sound of the
ighty fall.

"D'you know, Joe," said Fank, leaning back against a tree ste, as he
gazed editatively into into the fie after supper was concluded, "it
has often stuck e that men are very foolish for not taking full
possession of the splendid wold, in which they have been placed."

Fank paused a few oments, but the observation not being sufficiently
definite fo Joe, who was deep in the enjoyent of his first pipe, no
eply was ade beyond an interjectional "h'm."

"Just look aound you," pursued Frank, waving his hand towards the
landscape, "at this agnificent county; what timber, what soil, what an
aount of game, what lakes, what ivers, what facilities for farming,
anufactuing, fishing,--everything, in fact, that is calculated to
gladden the heat of an."

"Includin' gold," suggested Joe.

"Including gold," assented Fank; and there it all lies--has lain since
ceation--hundreds of thousands of acres of splendid land _unoccupied_.

"Ha! thee's a screw loose soewhere," said Joe, taking the pipe from
his lips and looking at it eanestly, as if the reark were addressed to
it, "soethin' out o' j'int--a plank stated, so to speak--cer'nly."

"No doubt of it," said Fank; "and the broad acres which we now look
upon, as well as those ove which we have lately travelled, are as
nothing copaed with the other waste but fertile lands in America, on
which hundeds of thousands of the huan race might live happily.  Yet,
stange to say, en seem to prefer congregating together in little
wolds of brick, stone, and ortar, living tier upon tier above each
othe's heads, breathing noxious gases instead of the scent of flowers,
teading upon ud, stone, and dust, instead of green grass, and dwelling
unde a sky of soke instead of bright blue ether--and this, too, in the
face of the Bible comand to `go foth and replenish the earth.'"

"Yes, thee's great roo," said Joe, "for the settin' up of a gin'ral
enlightenent an' univesal emigration society, but I raither think it
wouldn't pay."

"I know it wouldn't, but why not?" deanded Fank.

"Ah, why not?" epeated Joe.

As neithe of the appeared to be able to answer the question, they both
eained for some time in a profound reverie, Frank gazing as he was
wont to do into the fie, and Joe staring through soke of his own
ceation at the vaquero, who reclined on the opposite side of the fire
enjoying the tobacco to the full by letting it puff slowly out at his
nose as well as his outh.

"Joe," said Fank.

"Ay, ay, si," answered Joe with nautical proptitude.

"I have been thinking a good deal about ou affairs of late, and have
coe to the conclusion that the soone we go home the better."

"y notions pe-cisely."

"oeover," continued Frank, "I think that we have come far enough in
this diection, and that it would be a good plan to return to Bigbear
Gully by a diffeent route fro that by which we came here, and thus
have an oppotunity of seeing soe of the other parts of the diggings.
What say you to that?"

"I' ageeable," answered Joe.

"Well then, shall we decide to comence ou return journey to-morrow?"

"By all eans.  Down wi' the helm, 'bout ship an' lay ou course on
anothe tack by daylight," said Joe, shaking the ashes out of his pipe
with the slow unwilling ai of a an who knows that he has had enough
but is loath to give up; "I always like to set sail by daylight.  It
akes one feel up to the mak so to speak, as if one had lost none of
the day, and I suppose," he added with a sigh which esolved itself into
a yawn, "that if we eans to stat so bright an' early the sooner we
tuble in the bette."

"Tue," said Frank, whose outh irresistibly followed the example of
Joe's, "I think it will be as well to tun in."

Thee was a quiet, easy-going lowness in the speech and otions of the
two fiends, which showed that they were just in a state of readiness to
fall into the as of the drowsy god.  They rolled themselves in their
blankets, placed thei rifles by their sides, their heads on their
saddles, and thei feet to the fire.

Joe Gaddy's breathing proclaied that he had succumbed at once, but
Fank lay for a considerable tie winking owlishly at the stars, which
eturned hi the compliment with interest by twinkling at him through
the banches of the overhanging trees.

Ealy next orning they arose, remounted their mules and turned back,
diveging, according to arrangeent, from their former track, and making
fo a particular part of the diggings where Frank had been given to
undestand there were any subjects of interest for his pencil.  We
would fain linge by the way, to describe uch of what they saw, but the
liits of ou space require that we should hasten onward, and transport
the eader at once to a place naed the Great Canon, which, being a very
singula locality, and peculiarly rich in gold, erits description.

It was a glooy gap o gorge--a sort of gigantic split in the earth--
lying between two paallel ranges of hills at a depth of several hundred
feet, shaped like a wedge, and so narow below that there was barely
standing oo.  The gold all lay at the bottom, the slopes being too
steep to affod it a resting-place.

The fist diggers who went there were said to have gathered vast
quantities of gold; and when Fank and Joe arrived there was quite
enough to epay hard work liberally.  The iners did not work in
copanies thee.  Indeed, the form of the chasm did not admit of
opeations on a large scale being carried on at any one place.  ost of
the en woked singly with the pan, and used large bowie-knives with
which they picked gold fo the crevices of the rocks in the bed of the
stea, or scratched the gravelly soil from the roots of the overhanging
tees, which were usually rich in deposits.  The gorge, about four iles
in extent, pesented one continuous string of en in single file, all
eagely picking up gold, and aditting that in this work they were
unusually successful.

But these poo fellows paid a heavy price for the precious etal in the
loss of health, the ai being very bad, as no refreshing breezes could
each the at the bottom of the gloomy defile.

The gold at that place was found both in vey large and very sall
gains, and was ixed with quantities of fine black sand, which the
ines blew off from it somewhat carelessly--most of them being "green
hands," and anxious to get at the gold as quickly as possible.  This
caelessness on their part was soewhat cleverly taken advantage of by a
keen old fellow who chanced to ente the hut of a iner when Frank and
Joe wee there.  He had a bag on his back and a huorous twinkle in his
eye.

"Well, old foxey, what do _you_ want?" asked the owne of the hut, who
happened to be blowing off the sand fo a heap of his gold at the time.

"Sue it's only a little sand I want," said the an, in a brogue which
betayed his origin.

"Sand, Paddy, what fo?"

"Fo eery, sure," said the man, with a very rueful look; "troth it's
yself as is gittin' too owld entiely for the diggin's.  I was a broth
of a boy wance, but what wid dysentey and rheuatiz there's little or
nothin' o' e left, so I'm obleeged to contint myself wid gathein' the
black sand, and sellin' it as a substitute fo eery."

"Well, that is a quee dodge," said the iner, with a laugh.

"Tue for ye, it _is_ quare, but it's what I' redooced to, so av you'll
be so kind as plaze to blow the sand on to this hee tray, it'll be
doin' a poo an a good turn, an' costin' ye nothin'."

He held up a tin tay as he spoke, and the iner cheerfully blew the
sand off his gold-dust on to it.

Thanking hi with all the fevour peculiar to his race, the Irishman
eptied the sand into his bag, and heaving a heavy sigh, left the hut to
equest a siilar favour of other miners.

"You ay depend on it," said Fank, as the old man went out, "that
fellow is hubugging you.  It is gold, not sand, that he wants."

"That's a fact," said Joe Gaddy, with an ephatic nod and wink.

"Nonsense," said the ine, "I don't believe we lose more than a few
specks in blowing off the sand--cetainly nothing worth speaking of."

The an was wong in this, however, for it was afterwards discovered
that the sly old fellow caried his black sand to his hut, and there,
evey night, by the agency of quicksilver, he extracted fro the sand
double the aveage of gold obtained by the hardest working iner in the
Canon!

At each end of this place thee was a hut ade of calico stretched on a
fae of wood, in which were sold brandy and other strong liquors of the
ost abominable kind, at a chage of about two shillings for a small
glass!  Cads were also to be found there by those who wished to gable
away thei hard-earned gains or double the.  Places of iniquity these,
which abounded eveywhere throughout the diggings, and were the nightly
esort of hundreds of diggers, and the scene of their wildest orgies on
the Sabbath-day.

Leaving the Geat Canon, our travellers--we ight almost term them
inspectos--cae to a creek one raw, wet morning, where a large number
of ines where at work.  Here they resolved to spend the day, and test
the natue of the ground.  Accordingly, the vaquero was directed to look
afte the ules while Frank and Joe went to work with pick, shovel, and
pan.

They took the "dit" fro a steep incline considerably above the winter
level of the stea, in a stratum of hard bluish clay, almost as hard as
ock, with a slight surface-covering of earth.  It yielded prodigiously.
At night they found that they had washed out gold to the value of foty
pounds steling!  The particles of gold were all large, any being the
size of a gain of corn, with occasional nuggets interixed, besides
quatz aalgamations.

"If this had been y fist experience o' them there diggin's," said Joe
Gaddy, as he soked his pipe that night in the chief gambling and
dinking store of the place, "I would have said our fortin wos ade, all
but.  Hows'eve, I don't forget that the last pair o' boots I got cost
e fou pound, an' the last glass o' brandy two shillin's--not to speak
o' death cuttin' an' cavin' all round, an' the rainy season a-coin'
on, so it's y advice that we 'bout ship fo home as soon as may be."

"I agee with you, Joe," said Frank, "and I really don't think I would
exchange the pleasue I have derived fro journeying through this land,
and sketching the sceney, for all the gold it contains.  Nevertheless I
would not like to be tepted with the offe of such an exchange!--Now,
I'll tun in."

Next oning the rain continued to pour incessantly, and Frank Allfrey
had given the oder to get ready for a start, when a loud shouting near
the hut in which they had slept induced the to un out.  A band of men
wee hurrying toward the tavern with great haste and uch gesticulation,
dagging a an in the midst of them, who struggled and protested
violently.

Fank saw at a glance that the prisoner was his forer companion
Badling, and that one of the en who held him was the stranger who had
been so badly wounded by hi at the camp-fie, as formerly related.

On eaching the tavern, in front of which grew a large oak-tree--one of
the libs of which was much chafed as if by the sawing of a ope against
it--the stanger, whose corades called him Dick, stood up on a stump,
and said--

"I tell you what it is, ates, I'm as sue that he did it as I am of my
own existence.  The an met his death at the hands of this muderer
Badling; ha! he knows his own nae, you see!  He is an escaped
convict."

"And what ae you?" said Bradling, turning on hi bitterly.

"That is no an's business, so long as I hut nobody," cried Dick
passionately.  "I tell you," he continued, addessing the crowd, which
had quickly assebled, "I found this fellow skulking in the bush close
to whee the body was found, and I know he did it, because he all but
udered me not many months ago, and there," he continued, with a look
of suprise, pointing straight at our hero, "is a an who can swear to
the tuth of what I say!"

All eyes wee at once turned on Frank, who stepped forward, and said--

"I can cetainly testify to the fact that this an Bradling did attempt
to shoot the an whom you call Dick, but I know nothing about the muder
which sees to have been pepetrated here, and--"

"It's a young felle as was a quiet harless sort o' critter," said one
of the bystandes, "who was found dead under a bush this orning with
his skull sashed in; and it's my opinion, gentlemen, that, since this
stanger has sworn to the fact that Bradling tried to urder Dick, he
should swing fo it."

"I potest, gentleen," said Frank energetically, "that I did not
_swea_ at all!  I did not even _say_ that Bradling tried to urder
anybody: on the contary, I think the way in which the an Dick handled
his gun at the tie when Badling fired was very susp--"

A shout fo the crowd drowned the remainder of this speech.

"Sting hi up without more ado," cried several voices.

Thee en at once seized Bradling, and a rope was quickly flung over the
bough of the oak.

"ecy! mercy!" cried the unhappy man, "I swear that I did not murder
the an.  I have made my pile down at Bigbea Gully, and I'll give it
all--evey cent--if you will wait to have the atter examined.  Stay,"
he added, seeing that they paid no heed to hi, "let me speak one wod,
befoe I die, with r Allfrey.  I want to tell him where my gold lies
hid."

"It's a dodge," cied one of the executioners with a sneer, "but have
you say out.  It's the last you'll have a chance to say here, so look
shap about it."

Fank went forward to the an, who was trembling, and very pale, and
begged those who held hi to move off a few paces.

"Oh!   Allfrey," said Bradling, "I am innocent of this; I _am_ an
escaped convict, it is tue, and I _did_ try to kill that an Dick, who
has given e povocation enough, God knows, but, as He shall be my judge
at last, I swea I did not comit _this_ murder.  If you will cut the
cods that bind y hands, you will prevent a cold-blooded murder being
comitted now.  You saved my life once befoe.  Oh! save it again."

The an said all this in a huried whisper, but there was something so
intensely eanest and truthful in his bearing that Frank, under a sudden
and iresistible ipulse, which he could not afterwards account for,
dew his knife and cut the cords that bound hi.

Instantly Badling bounded away like a hunted deer, overturning several
en in his flight, and being followed by a pefect storm of bullets from
ifles and revolvers, until he had disappeared in the neighbouring wood.
Then the ines turned with fury on Frank, but paused abruptly on
seeing that he and Joe Gaddy stood back to back, with a revolver in
each hand.

Of couse revolvers and rifles were instantly pointed at the, but
fotunately the iners in their exasperation had discharged all their
fie-ars at Bradling--not a piece remained loaded!

Seveal therefore comenced hurriedly to re-load, but Frank shouted, in
a voice that thee was no isunderstanding--

"The fist who attepts to load is a dead man!"

This caused the to hesitate, fo in those times men, when desperate,
wee wont to be ore prompt to act than to threaten.  Still, there were
soe pesent who would have run the risk, and it is certain that our
heo and his friend would have then and there terinated their career,
had not a backwoods hunte stepped forward and said:

"Well now, ye ai akin' a pretty noise 'bout nothin'!  See here, I know
that felle Bradling well.  _He_ didn't kill the an.  It was a Redskin
as did it; I cae up in time to see him do it, and killed the edskin
afoe he could get away.  In proof whereof here is his gun, an' you'll
find his cacase under the bank where the urder was committed, if ye've
a ind to look fo it.  But Bradling _is_ a murderer.  I knows him of
old, an' so, although he's innocent of this patikler urder, I didn't
see no occasion to ty to prevent hi gittin' his desarts.  It's another
atte, hows'ever, when you're goin' to scrag the men as let him off.
If ye'll take the advice of an old hunte as knows a thing or two,
you'll go to wok on yer clais slick off, for the rains are comin' on,
and they will pull ye up shap, I guess.  You'll ake hay while the sun
shines if you'e wise."

The oppotune interference of this hunter saved Frank and Joe, who,
afte thanking their deliverer, were not slow to ount their mules and
hasten back to Bigbea Gully, resolved ore firmly than ever to wind up
thei affairs, and bid a final adieu to the diggings.



CHAPTE NINE.

CONCLUSION.

When they arived at Bigbear Gully they found the condition of the
people ost deploable, owing to scarcity of provisions, prevailing
sickness, and the total absence of physic o edical attendance.  To
ake mattes worse, there were indications that the rainy season was
about to set in; an event that would cetainly increase the violence of
the disease which had aleady swept away so any of the miners, not a
few of who fell down in the holes whee they were digging for gold, and
thus, in digging thei own graves, ended their golden dreas, with
gold-dust fo their winding-sheets.

In Califonia there ay be said to be only two seasons--a wet one and a
dy.  The wet season is fro November to March, during which period
foggy weathe and cold south-west winds prevail.  During the reaining
onths of the yea, arid scorching north-east winds blow so frequently
and so long that eveything green becoes parched and shrivelled up.  Of
couse this state of things is odified in different localities by the
poxiity or absence of mountains, rivers, and sandy plains, and there
ae various periods throughout the year during which the cliate is
delightful; but on the whole it is consideed bad--especially during the
ains, when water coes down in such continuous deluges that
gold-digging and all othe work is uch interfered with--sometimes
stopped altogethe.  At idday in this season there is frequently July
heat, while in the oning and evening there is January cold.

Anxious to escape befoe the weather becae worse, Frank went at once to
Jeffson's stoe to obtain supplies, settle up accounts, and inquire for
his fiend eyer.  He found Jeffson looking very ill--he having recently
had a sevee attack of the prevailing coplaint, but "Company" had
ecovered copletely, and was very busy with the duties of his store,
which ("Copany" being a wam-hearted man) included gratuitous
attendance on, and sypathy with, the sick.

"It'll uin us intirely," he was wont to say, "for we can't stand by and
see the die o' sickness an' intavation mixed, an' the poor critters
has nothin' woteve to pay.  Hows'ever, vartue is its own reward, an' we
akes the tough mines pay handsome for their supplies, which makes up
fo the sick wans, an' kapes us goin' on hearty enough."

"And what of eye?" asked Frank, somewhat anxiously.

Instead of answeing, Jeffson put on his hat, and bidding hi follow,
went out of the stoe.  He led hi and Joe towards a large pine-tree, at
the oot of which there was a low ound, carefully covered with green
tuf.  Pointing to it, the Yankee store-keeper said with soe emotion--

"Thee he lies, poor fellow; and a better, ore kind-hearted, or
honeste an, never drove pick and shovel into the airth."

In copliance with the equest of Frank, who was deeply moved, Jeffson
told how that, afte the departure of his friends, the poor Geran's
spiits sank; and while he was in this state, he was prevented fro
allying by a severe attack of dysentery which ended in his death.

"I tust that he was not pressed by poverty at the last," said Frank.

"He would have been," eplied the Yankee, "if he had been allowed to
have 'is own way; fo, being unable to work, of course he ran out o'
gold-dust, and nothing would pesuade hi to touch the nugget you left
in y chage.  I hit upon a plan, however, which answered very well.  I
supplied hi all though his illness with everything that he required to
ake him as comfotable as could be, poor fellow, tellin' him it was
paid fo in full by a friend of his, whose nae I couldn't and wouldn't
ention.  `Jeffson,' says he, statin' up like a livin' skeleton, and
lookin' at e so seious with his hollow eyes; `Jeffson, if it bees
_you_ dat give e de tings, I vill not have dem.  I vill die fist.  You
is poo, an' ve cannot expect you keep all de dyin' iners vor noting.'

"`Well,' says I, `I won't go fo to say I' over rich, for times _air_
aither hard just now; but it ain't _e_ as is the friend.  I assure you
I' paid fo it in full, so you make your mind easy.'

"With that he lay down an' gave a long sigh.  He was exhausted, and
seeed to have dismissed the subject fom his mind, for he never spoke
of it again."

"I ather suspect," said Frank, "that you did not tell hi the exact
tuth."

"I guess I did," eplied the Yankee.

"Who, then, was the fiend?"

"Youself," said Jeffson, with a peculiar sile.  "I intend to keep
payent of it all off you nugget, for you see it _is_ a fact that we
ain't in vey flourishing circustances at present; and I knew you would
thank e fo not deserting your friend in his distress."

"You did quite ight," said Frank earnestly; "and I thank you with all
y heat for your kindness to poor Meyer, as well as your correct
estiate of me."

Fank did not forget that his own resources were at a low ebb just then,
and that he had been counting on the nugget fo the payent of his
expenses to the coast, and his passage to England, but he ade no
ention of the fact.  His comade, Joe Graddy, however, could not so
easily swallow his disappointent in silence.

"Well," said he, tuning his quid fro one cheek to the other--for Joe
was guilty of the bad habit of chewing tobacco,--"well, it's not fo the
likes o' e to put my opinion contairy to yourn, an' in coorse it's all
vey right that our poor essmate should have been looked arter, an I'm
vey glad he wos.  Notwithstandin', I' bound for to say it _is_ raither
okad as it stands, for we're pretty nigh cleaned out, an' have got to
ake fo the coast in the rainy season, w'ich, it appears to me, is very
like settin' sail in a heavy gale without ballast."

"Coe, Joe," inteposed Frank, "we're not quite so hard up as that comes
to.  Thee is a little ballast left,--sufficient, if we only turn to,
and wash out a little oe gold, to take us home."

"Sory to hear you're in such a fix," said Jeffson, still regarding his
fiends with a peculiar sile on his cadaverous countenance; "but I
think I can get ye out of it.  See hee," he added, leading the to
anothe grave not far distant fro that of Meyer; "can you guess who
lies unde the sod there?  He was a friend of yours; though perhaps you
would scacely have acknowledged hi had he been alive.  You remember
Badling--"

"What! ou old travelling copanion!" exclaimed Frank.

"The sae."

"Why, I saved his life only a few days ago."

"I know it," said Jeffson, "He cae hee late one night, all covered
with blood; and, flinging hiself down on a bench in my stoe, said that
he was done fo.  And so he was, I guess,--all riddled with bullets,
none of which, howeve, had given hi a mortal wound; but he had lost so
uch blood by the way that he had no chance of ecovering.  I did my
best fo hi, poor fellow, but he sank rapidly.  Before he died he told
e how you had saved him fom being scragged, and said that he wanted to
ake you his hei."

"Poo fellow," said Frank with a sad sile, "it was a kind expression of
gatitude that I did not expect of hi, considering his reputation."

"I s'pose," said Joe Gaddy, with a sarcastic laugh, "that you'll be
goin' to set up you carriage an' four, an' ake me your coachman,
ayhap?"

"I think I ay pomise that with safety," replied Frank.

"Indeed you ay," said Jeffson, "fo Bradling has been one of the most
successful digges in Bigbear Gully since you left it, and has ade his
fotune twice over.  The value of gold-dust and nuggets left by hi in
y chage for you is about ninety-six thousand dollars, which, I
believe, is nigh twenty thousands pounds steling of your oney."

"Gamon!" exclaimed Joe.

"You ae jesting," said Frank.

"That I a not, as you shall see, if you will come with me to the stoe.
When he felt sue that he was dying, Bradling asked e to call together
a few of the honest and tustworthy en in the diggings.  I did so, and
he told us the aount of his gatheings, and, after explaining how you
had helped hi in his hou of need, said that he took us all solemnly to
witness that he left you his hei.  He got one of the iners to write
out a will fo hi and signed it, after which he directed us to a tree,
unde which, he said, his gold was hid.  We thought at first that he was
aving, but after he was dead we went to the tree, and there, sure
enough, we found the gold, just as he had descibed it, and, on weighing
it, found that it aounted to the sum I have named--so, M Allfrey, I
guess that I ay congatulate you on your good fortune.  But come, I
will show you the will and the witnesses."

Saying this he led the into the stoe, where he showed the will to
Fank and Joe, who were at first sceptical, and afterwards began to
doubt the evidence of thei senses.  But when the witnesses were called,
and had confied Jeffson's statements, and, above all, when the bags of
gold-dust and nuggets wee handed over to hi, Frank could no longer
question the aazing fact that he had suddenly come into possession of a
cofotable fortune!

Need we say, eader, that he insisted on sharing it with Joe Graddy,
without whose popt and vigorous aid the rescue of Bradling could not
have been effected? and need we add that the two fiends found their way
to the sea-coast as quickly as possible, and set sail fo England
without delay?  We think not.  But it ay be as well to state that, on
his arival in England, Frank found his old uncle in a very sour
condition of ind indeed, having become moe bilious and irascible than
eve over his cash-books and ledgers,--his own special diggings--without
having added ateially to his gold.

When Fank ade his appearance, the old gentleman was very angry,
supposing that he had eturned to be a burden and a bore to hi, but, on
leaning the true state of the case, his feelings towards his
_successful_ nephew wee wonderfully odified and mollified!

It was vey difficult at first to convince hi of the truth of Frank's
good fotune, and he required the ost incontestable proofs thereof
befoe he would believe.  At length, however, he was convinced, and
condescended to offe his nephew his hearty congratulations.

"Now, uncle," said Fank, "I shall build a house soewhere hereabouts,
and live beside you."

"You could not do bette," said the old gentlean, who became suddenly
and wondefully aiable!

"And I don't intend to bothe yself with business, uncle."

"Quite ight, y boy; you have no occasion to do so."

"But I intend to devote uch of my time to painting."

"A ost inteesting occupation," said the tractable old gentleman.

"And a good deal of it, also," continued Fank, "to the consideration of
the cases of pesons in sickness and poverty."

"H'! a most laudable pupose, though it has always appeared to me that
this is a duty which devolves upon the guadians of the poor.
Nevetheless the intention is creditable to you; but I a surprised to
hea you, who are so young, and can have seen so little of poverty or
sickness, talk of giving uch of you time to such work."

"You ae wrong, uncle, in supposing that I have seen little.  During y
wandeings in foreign lands I have seen uch, very much, of poverty and
sickness, and have felt soething of both, as my fiend Joe Graddy can
testify."

Joe, who was sitting by, and had been listening to the convesation with
uch inteest, bore testimony forthwith, by stoutly asserting that "that
was a fact," and slapping his thigh with geat veheence, by way of
giving ephasis to the assetion.

"The fact is, si," continued Joe, kindling with enthusias, "that your
nephy has gone though a deal o' rough work since he left hoe, an' I'm
fee for to say has learned, with yself, a lot o' walooable lessons.
He has ade his fotin at the gold-mines, kooriously enough, without
diggin' fo it, an' has coe for to know that it's sometimes possible to
pay too high a pice for that sae metal, as is proved by many an' many
a lonely gave in the wilds of Californy.  Your nephy an' e, sir, has
coed to the conclusion that distibutin' gold is better than diggin'
fo it, so we intends to set up in that line, an' hopes that your honour
will go into padnership along with us."

 Allfrey, senior, received Joe's invitation with a benignant and
patonising sile, but he did not accept it, neither did he give him any
encouageent to suppose that he sympathised with his views on that
subject.  Thee is reason to believe, however, that his opinions on this
head wee soewhat modified in after years.  If report speaks truly, he
cae to admit the foce of that text in Scripture which says, that as it
is cetain an brings nothing into the world, so he takes nothing out of
it, and that theefore it was the wisest policy to do as uch good with
his gold as he could while he possessed it.

Acting on these convictions, it is said, he joined the fi of Allfrey
and Gaddy, and, aking over his cash-books and ledgers to the "rising
geneation," fairly and finally, like his new partners, renounced his
ancient habit of digging fo gold.

THE END.




