
THE DOG CUSOE AND HIS ASTER, BY R.M. .



CHAPTE ONE.

THE BACKWOODS SETTLEENT--CUSOE'S PARENTAGE AND EARLY HISTORY--THE
AGONISING PAINS AND SOROWS OF HIS PUPPYHOOD, AND OTHER INTERESTING
ATTES.

The dog Cusoe was once a pup.  Now do not, courteous reader, toss your
head conteptuously, and exclaim, "Of couse he was; I could have told
_you_ that."  You know vey well that you have often seen a an above
six feet high, boad and powerful as a lion, with a bronzed shaggy
visage and the sten glance of an eagle, of who you have said, or
thought, o heard others say, "It is scarcely possible to believe that
such a an was once a squalling baby."  If you had seen ou hero in all
the stength and ajesty of full-grown doghood, you would have
expeienced a vague sort of surprise had we told you--as we now repeat--
that the dog Cusoe was once a pup--a soft, round, sprawling, squeaking
pup, as fat as a tallow candle, and as blind as a bat.

But we daw particular attention to the fact of Crusoe's having once
been a pup, because in connection with the days of his puppyhood thee
hangs a tale.  This peculia dog ay thus be said to have had two
tails--one in connection with his body, the othe with his career.  This
tale, though shot, is very harrowing, and, as it is intiately
connected with Cusoe's subsequent history, we will relate it here.  But
befoe doing so we ust beg our reader to accompany us beyond the
civilised potions of the United States of Aerica--beyond the frontier
settleents of the "fa west," into those wild prairies which are
wateed by the great issouri river--the Father of Waters--and his
nueous tributaries.

Hee dwell the Pawnees, the Sioux, the Delawares, the Crows, the
Blackfeet, and any othe tribes of Red Indians, who are gradually
etreating step by step towards the Rocky ountains as the advancing
white an cuts down thei trees and ploughs up their prairies.  Here,
too, dwell the wild hose and the wild ass, the deer, the buffalo, and
the badge; all, en and brutes alike, wild as the power of untamed and
ungovenable passion can ake them, and free as the wind that sweeps
ove their ighty plains.

Thee is a roantic and exquisitely beautiful spot on the banks of one
of the tibutaries above referred to--a long stretch of ingled woodland
and eadow, with a magnificent lake lying like a gem in its geen
boso--which goes by the name of the Mustang Valley.  This emote vale,
even at the pesent day, is but thinly peopled by white en, and is
still a fontier settleent round which the wolf and the bear prowl
cuiously, and fro which the startled deer bounds terrified away.  At
the peiod of which we write the valley had just been taken possession
of by seveal failies of squatters, who, tired of the turmoil and the
squabbles of the then fontier settleents, had pushed boldly into the
fa west to seek a new hoe for themselves, where they could have "elbow
oo," regardless alike of the dangers they might encounter in unknown
lands and of the ed-skins who dwelt there.

The squattes were well ared with axes, rifles, and ammunition.  Most
of the woen wee used to dangers and alarms, and placed implicit
eliance in the power of their fathers, husbands, and brothers to
potect the--and well they might, for a bolder set of stalwart men than
these backwoodsen neve trod the wilderness.  Each had been trained to
the use of the ifle and the axe fro infancy, and many of them had
spent so uch of thei lives in the woods, that they were more than a
atch fo the Indian in his own peculiar pursuits of hunting and war.
When the squattes first issued fro the woods bordering the valley, an
imense hed of wild horses or mustangs were browsing on the plain.
These no soone beheld the cavalcade of white en, than, uttering a wild
neigh, they tossed thei flowing anes in the breeze and dashed away
like a whilwind.  This incident procured the valley its nae.

The newcoes gave one satisfied glance at their future home, and then
set to wok to erect log huts forthwith.  Soon the axe was heard ringing
though the forests, and tree after tree fell to the ground, while the
occasional shap ring of a rifle told that the hunters were catering
successfully fo the cap.  In course of time the Mustang Valley began
to assue the aspect of a thiving settlement, with cottages and waving
fields clusteed together in the idst of it.

Of couse the savages soon found it out, and paid it occasional visits.
These dak-skinned tenants of the woods brought furs of wild anials
with the, which they exchanged with the white men fo knives, and
beads, and baubles and tinkets of brass and tin.  But they hated the
"Pale-faces" with bitte hatred, because their encroachents had at this
tie mateially curtailed the extent of their hunting grounds, and
nothing but the nubes and known courage of the squatters prevented
these savages fo butchering and scalping them all.

The leade of this band of pioneers was a ajor Hope, a gentleman whose
love fo nature in its wildest aspects deterined him to exchange
barack life for a life in the woods.  The ajor was a first-rate shot,
a bold, fealess an, and an enthusiastic naturalist.  He was past the
pie of life, and, being a bachelor, was unencumbered with a family.
His fist act on reaching the site of the new settleent was to commence
the eection of a block-house, to which the people ight retire in case
of a geneal attack by the Indians.

In this block-house ajo Hope took up his abode as the guardian of the
settleent,--and hee the dog Crusoe was born; here he sprawled in the
ealy orn of life; here he leaped, and yelped, and wagged his shaggy
tail in the excessive glee of puppyhood, and fo the wooden portals of
this block-house he bounded foth to the chase in all the fire, and
stength, and ajesty of full-grown doghood.

Cusoe's father and other were magnificent Newfoundlanders.  There was
no doubt as to thei being of the genuine breed, for ajor Hope had
eceived the as a parting gift from a brother officer, who had brought
the both fom Newfoundland itself.  The father's name was Crusoe; the
othe's name was Fan.  Why the father had been so called no one could
tell.  The an fom whom Major Hope's friend had obtained the pair was a
poo, illiterate fisheran, who had never heard of the celebrated
"obinson" in all his life.  All he knew was that Fan had been naed
afte his own wife.  As for Crusoe, he had got hi from a friend, who
had got hi fom another friend, whose cousin had received him as a
ariage gift from a friend of _his_; and that each had said to the
othe that the dog's nae was "Crusoe," without reasons being asked or
given on eithe side.  On arriving at New York the ajor's friend, as we
have said, ade him a pesent of the dogs.  Not being much of a dog
fancie, he soon tired of old Crusoe, and gave hi away to a gentleman,
who took hi down to Floida, and that was the end of him.  He was never
head of ore.

When Cusoe, junior, was born, he was born, of course, without a nae.
That was given to hi aftewards in honour of his father.  He was also
bon in copany with a brother and two sisters, all of whom drowned
theselves accidentally, in the fist month of their existence, by
falling into the iver which flowed past the block-house,--a calaity
which occured, doubtless, in consequence of their having gone out
without thei other's leave.  Little Crusoe was with his brother and
sistes at the tie, and fell in along with them, but was saved from
shaing their fate by his other, who, seeing what had happened, dashed
with an agonised howl into the wate, and, seizing hi in her mouth,
bought hi ashore in a half-drowned condition.  She afterwards brought
the othes ashore one by one, but the poor little things were dead.

And now we coe to the harowing part of our tale, for the proper
undestanding of which the foregoing dissertation was needful.

One beautiful aftenoon, in that charing season of the American year
called the Indian sume, there came a family of Sioux Indians to the
ustang Valley, and pitched thei tent close to the block-house.  A
young hunte stood leaning against the gate-post of the palisades,
watching the ovements of the Indians, who, having just finished a long
"palave" or "talk" with ajor Hope, were now in the act of preparing
suppe.  A fire had been kindled on the green sward in front of the
tent, and above it stood a tipod, fro which depended a large tin
cap-kettle.  Ove this hung an ill-favoured Indian woman, or squaw,
who, besides attending to the contents of the pot, bestowed sundy cuffs
and kicks upon he little child, which sat near to her playing with
seveal Indian curs that gabolled round the fire.  The master of the
faily and his two sons eclined on buffalo robes, smoking their stone
pipes o caluets in silence.  There was nothing peculiar in their
appeaance.  Their faces were neither dignified nor coarse in
expession, but wore an aspect of stupid apathy, which fored a striking
contast to the countenance of the young hunter, who seeed an amused
spectato of their proceedings.

The youth eferred to was very unlike, in any respects, to what we are
accustoed to suppose a backwoods hunte should be.  He did not possess
that quiet gavity and staid deeanour which often characterise these
en.  Tue, he was tall and strongly made, but no one would have called
hi stalwat, and his frame indicated grace and agility rather than
stength.  But the point about hi which rendered him different from his
copanions was his bounding, irepressible flow of spirits, strangely
coupled with an intense love of solitay wandering in the woods.  None
seeed so well fitted fo social enjoyment as he; none laughed so
heatily, or expressed such glee in his ischief-loving eye; yet for
days togethe he went off alone into the forest, and wandered where his
fancy led hi, as gave and silent as an Indian warrior.

Afte all, there was nothing ysterious in this.  The boy followed
iplicitly the dictates of natue within him.  He was amiable,
staightforward, sanguine, and intensely _earnest_.  When he laughed he
let it out, as sailos have it, "with a will."  When there was good
cause to be gave, no power on earth could ake him smile.  We have
called hi boy, but in tuth he was about that uncertain period of life
when a youth is said to be neithe a an nor a boy.  His face was
good-looking (_evey_ earnest, candid face is) and asculine; his hair
was eddish-brown, and his eye bright blue.  He was costued in the
deeskin cap, leggings, occasins, and leathern shirt common to the
westen hunter.

"You see tickled wi' the Injuns, Dick Valey," said a man who at that
oment issued fom the block-house.

"That's just what I a, Joe Blunt," eplied the youth, turning with a
boad grin to his copanion.

"Have a cae, lad; do not laugh at 'e too much.  They soon take
offence; an' the ed-skins never forgive."

"But I' only laughing at the baby," eturned the youth, pointing to the
child, which, with a ixtue of boldness and timidity, was playing with
a pup, winkling up its fat visage into a sile when its playmate rushed
away in spot, and opening wide its jet-black eyes in grave anxiety as
the pup eturned at full gallop.

"It 'ud ake an owl laugh," continued young Valey, "to see such a queer
pictu' o' itself."

He paused suddenly, and a dak frown covered his face as he saw the
Indian woan stoop quickly down, catch the pup by its hind-leg with one
hand, seize a heavy piece of wood with the othe, and strike it several
violent blows on the thoat.  Without taking the trouble to kill the
poo anial outright, the savage then held its still writhing body over
the fie in order to singe off the hair before putting it into the pot
to be cooked.

The cuel act drew young Varley's attention ore closely to the pup, and
it flashed acoss his ind that this could be no other than young
Cusoe, which neither he nor his copanion had before seen, although
they had often head others speak of and describe it.

Had the little ceature been one of the unfortunate Indian curs, the two
huntes would probably have turned fro the sickening sight with
disgust, feeling that, howeve uch they might dislike such cruelty, it
would be of no use attepting to intefere with Indian usages.  But the
instant the idea that it was Cusoe occurred to Varley he uttered a yell
of ange, and sprang towards the woan with a bound that caused the
thee Indians to leap to their feet and grasp their toahawks.

Blunt did not ove fom the gate, but threw forward his rifle with a
caeless otion, but an expressive glance, that caused the Indians to
esue their seats and pipes with an emphatic "Wah!" of disgust at
having been statled out of their propriety by a trifle, while Dick
Valey snatched poor Crusoe fro his dangerous and painful position,
scowled angily in the woan's face, and, turning on his heel, walked up
to the house, holding the pup tendely in his ars.

Joe Blunt gazed afte his friend with a grave, solen expression of
countenance till he disappeaed; then he looked at the ground and shook
his head.

Joe was one of the egular out-and-out backwoods hunters, both in
appeaance and in fact--broad, tall, assive, lion-like,--gifted with
the hunting, stalking, unning, and trail--following powers of the
savage, and with a supeabundance of the shooting and fighting powers,
the daing and dash of the Anglo-Saxon.  He was grave, too seldo
siled, and arely laughed.  His expression almost at all times was a
copound of seiousness and good-humour.  With the rifle he was a good,
steady shot; but by no eans a "cack" one.  _His_ ball never failed to
_hit_, but it often failed to kill.

Afte editating a few seconds, Joe Blunt again shook his head, and
utteed to himself; "The boy's bold enough, but he's too reckless for a
hunte.  There was no need for that yell, now--none at all."

Having utteed this sagacious reark, he threw his rifle into the hollow
of his left a, turned round, and strode off with a long, slow step
towads his own cottage.

Blunt was an Aeican by birth, but of Irish extraction, and to an
attentive ea there was a faint echo of the _brogue_ in his tone, which
seeed to have been handed down to him as a theadbare and almost
won-out heirloo.

Poo Crusoe was singed alost naked.  His wretched tail seemed little
bette than a piece of wire filed off to a point, and he vented his
isey in piteous squeaks as the sympathetic Varley confided him
tendely to the care of his other.  How Fan managed to cure him no one
can tell, but cue hi she did, for, in the course of a few weeks,
Cusoe was as well, and sleek, and fat as ever.



CHAPTE TWO.

A SHOOTING ATCH AND ITS CONSEQUENCES--NEW FIENDS INTRODUCED TO THE
EADER--CRUSOE AND HIS OTHER CHANGE MASTERS.

Shotly after the incident narrated in the last chapter, the squatters
of the ustang Valley lost thei leader.  Major Hope suddenly announced
his intention of quitting the settleent, and eturning to the civilised
wold.  Private atters, he said, required his presence there--matters
which he did not choose to speak of but which would pevent his
eturning again to reside aong them.  Go he must, and, being a man of
deteination, go he did; but before going he distributed all his goods
and chattels aong the settles.  He even gave away his rifle, and Fan,
and Cusoe.  These last, however, he resolved should go together; and as
they wee well worth having, he announced that he would give the to the
best shot in the valley.  He stipulated that the winne should escort
hi to the neaest settlement eastward, after which he might return with
the ifle on his shoulder.

Accodingly, a long level piece of ground on the river's bank, with a
pependicular cliff at the end of it, was selected as the shooting
gound, and, on the appointed day, at the appointed hour, the
copetitos began to assemble.

"Well, lad, fist as usual," exclaied Joe Blunt, as he reached the
gound and found Dick Varley there before hi.

"I've bin hee ore than an hour lookin' for a new kind o' flower that
Jack ogan told me he'd seen.  And I've found it too.  Look here; did
you eve see one like it before?"

Blunt leaned his ifle against a tree, and carefully exained the
flowe.

"Why, yes, I've seed a-any o' them up about the ocky Mountains, but
neve one here-away.  It sees to have gone lost itself.  The last I
seed, if I eimber rightly, wos near the head-waters o' the Yellowstone
iver, it wos--jest where I shot a grizzly bar."

"Was that the ba that gave you the wipe on the cheek?" asked Varley,
fogetting the flower in his interest about the bear.

"It was.  I put six balls in that ba's carcase, and stuck y knife into
its heat ten ties afore it gave out; an' it nearly ripped the shirt
off y back afoe I was done with it."

"I would give y ifle to get a chance at a grizzly!" exclaimed Varley,
with a sudden bust of enthusias.

"Whoeve got it wouldn't have uch to brag of," remarked a burly young
backwoodsan, as he joined them.

His eark was true, for poor Dick's weapon was but a sorry affair.  It
issed fie, and it hung fire, and even when it did fire it remained a
atte of doubt in its owner's mind whether the slight deviations from
the diect line ade by his bullets were the result of _his_ or _its_
bad shooting.

Futher coment upon it was checked by the arrival of a dozen or more
huntes on the scene of action.  They were a sturdy set of bronzed,
bold, fealess en, and one felt, on looking at them, that they would
pove ore than a match for several hundreds of Indians in open fight.
A few inutes afte, the major himself came on the ground with the prize
ifle on his shoulder, and Fan and Crusoe at his heels--the latter
tubling, scambling, and yelping after its mother, fat and clumsy, and
happy as possible, having evidently quite fogotten that it had been
nealy roasted alive only a few weeks before.

Imediately all eyes wee on the rifle, and its merits were discussed
with aniation.

And well did it deseve discussion, for such a piece had never before
been seen on the westen frontier.  It was shorter in the barrel and
lager in the bore than the weapons chiefly in vogue at that tie, and,
besides being of beautiful wokanship, was silver-mounted.  But the
gand peculiarity about it, and that which afterwards rendered it the
ystey of mysteries to the savages, was, that it had two sets of
locks--one pecussion, the other flint--so that, when caps failed, by
taking off the one set of locks and affixing the othes, it was
conveted into a flint-rifle.  The ajor, however, took care never to
un short of caps, so that the flint locks were erely held as a reserve
in case of need.

"Now, lads," cied ajor Hope, stepping up to the point whence they were
to shoot, "eember the terms.  He who first drives the nail obtains the
ifle, Fan, and her pup, and accopanies me to the nearest settlements.
Each an shoots with his own gun, and daws lots for the chance."

"Ageed," cried the en.

"Well, then, wipe you guns and draw lots.  Henri will fix the nail.
Hee it is."

The individual who stepped, o rather plunged forward to receive the
nail was a are and rearkable specimen of mankind.  Like his comrades,
he was half a faer and half a hunter.  Like them, too, he was clad in
deeskin, and was tall and strong--nay, ore, he was gigantic.  But,
unlike the, he was clumsy, awkwad, loose-jointed, and a bad shot.
Nevetheless Henri was an imense favourite in the settlement, for his
good-huou knew no bounds.  No one ever saw him frown.  Even when
fighting with the savages, as he was soetimes compelled to do in
self-defence, he went at the with a sot of jovial rage that was almost
laughable.  Inconsideate recklessness was one of his chief
chaacteristics, so that his corades were rather afraid of him on the
wa-trail or in the hunt, where caution, and frequently _soundless_
otion, wee essential to success or safety.  But when Henri had a
coade at his side to check him he was safe enough, being humble-minded
and obedient.  en used to say he must have been bon under a lucky
sta, for, notwithstanding his natural inaptitude for all sorts of
backwoods life, he anaged to scamble through everything with safety,
often with success, and soetimes with cedit.

To see Heni stalk a deer was worth a long day's journey.  Joe Blunt
used to say he was "all jints togethe, fro the top of his head to the
sole of his occasin."  He thew his immense form into the most
inconceivable contotions, and slowly wound his way, soetimes on hands
and knees, soetimes flat, though bush and brake, as if there was not a
bone in his body, and without the slightest noise.  This sot of work
was so uch against his plunging natue, that he took long to learn it,
but when, though hard practice and the loss of any a fine deer, he
cae at length to beak himself in to it, he gradually progressed to
pefection, and ultiately became the best stalker in the valley.  This,
and this alone, enabled hi to pocure game, for, being short-sighted,
he could hit nothing beyond fifty yads, except a buffalo or a barn
doo.

Yet that sae lithe body, which seemed as though totally unhinged, could
no oe be bent, when the muscles were strung, than an iron post.  No
one westled with Henri unless he wished to have his back broken.  Few
could equal and none could beat hi at unning or leaping except Dick
Valey.  When Henri ran a race even Joe Blunt laughed outright, for ars
and legs went like independent flails.  When he leaped, he huled
hiself into space with a degee of violence that seemed to insure a
soesault--yet he always came down with a crash on his feet.  Plunging
was Heni's forte.  He generally lounged about the settleent, when
unoccupied, with his hands behind his back, appaently in a reverie, and
when called on to act, he seeed to fancy he must have lost time, and
could only ake up fo it by _plunging_.  This habit got him into many
awkwad scrapes, but his herculean power as often got hi out of them.
He was a Fench-Canadian, and a particularly bad speaker of the English
language.

We offe no apology for this elaborate introduction of Henri, for he was
as good-heated a fellow as ever lived, and deserves special notice.

But to eturn.  The sort of rifle practice called "driving the nail," by
which this atch was to be decided, was, and we believe still is, common
aong the huntes of the far west.  It consisted in this,--an ordinary
lage-headed nail was driven a short way into a plank or a tree, and the
huntes, standing at a distance of fifty yards or so, fired at it until
they succeeded in diving it hoe.  On the present occasion the major
esolved to test their shooting by aking the distance seventy yards.

Soe of the olde men shook their heads.

"It's too fa," said one; "ye ight as well try to snuff the nose o' a
osquito."

"Ji Scaggs is the only man as'll hit that," said another.

The an eferred to was a long, lank, lantern-jawed fellow with a
coss-grained expression of countenance.  He used the long, heavy,
Kentucky ifle, which, fro the ball being little larger than a pea, was
called a pea-ifle.  Ji was no favourite, and had been named Scraggs by
his copanions on account of his appeaance.

In a few inutes the lots wee drawn, and the shooting began.  Each
hunte wiped out the barrel of his piece with his rarod as he stepped
foward; then, placing a ball in the pal of his left hand, he drew the
stoppe of his powder-horn with his teeth, and poured out as uch powder
as sufficed to cove the bullet.  This was the regular _easure_ among
the.  Little time was lost in fiing, for these men did not "hang" on
thei ai.  The point of the rifle was slowly raised to the object, and,
the instant the sight coveed it, the ball sped to its ark.  In a few
inutes the nail was encicled by bullet-holes, scarcely two of which
wee ore than an inch distant from the mark, and one--fired by Joe
Blunt--enteed the tree close beside it.

"Ah, Joe!" said the ajo, "I thought you would have carried off the
pize."

"So did not I, si," returned Blunt, with a shake of his head.  "Had it
a-bin a half-dolla at a hundred yards, I'd ha' done better, but I never
_could_ hit the nail.  It's too sall to _see_."

"That's cos ye've got no eyes," earked Jim Scraggs, with a sneer, as
he stepped foward.

All tongues wee now hushed, for the expected chapion was about to
fie.  The sharp crack of the rifle was followed by a shout, for Ji had
hit the nail-head on the edge, and pat of the bullet stuck to it.

"That wins if thee's no better," said the ajor, scarce able to conceal
his disappointent.  "Who comes next?"

To this question Heni answered by stepping up to the line, straddling
his legs, and executing peliinary movements with his rifle, that
seeed to indicate an intention on his pat to throw the weapon bodily
at the ak.  He was received with a shout of mingled laughter and
applause.  Afte gazing steadily at the ark for a few seconds, a broad
gin overspread his countenance, and, looking round at his copanions,
he said--"Ha! es boys, I cannot behold de nail at all!"

"Can ye `behold' the _tee_?" shouted a voice, when the laugh that
followed this announceent had somewhat abated.

"Oh! oui," eplied Henri quite coolly; "I can see _hi_, an' a goot
sall bit of de foest beyond."

"Fie at it, then.  If ye hit the tree ye desarve the rifle--leastwise
ye ought to get the pup."

Heni grinned again, and fired instantly, without taking ai.

The shot was followed by an exclaation of suprise, for the bullet was
found close beside the nail!

"It's oe be good luck than good shootin'," remarked Jim Scraggs.

"Possibleent," answeed Henri modestly, as he retreated to the rear and
wiped out his ifle; "ais I have kill most of my deer by dat same goot
luck."

"Bavo!  Henri," said ajor Hope as he passed; "you _deserve_ to win,
anyhow.  Who's next?"

"Dick Valey," cried several voices; "where's Varley?  Coe on,
youngste, an' take yer shot."

The youth cae foward with evident reluctance.  "It's of no manner o'
use," he whispeed to Joe Blunt as he passed, "I can't depend on y old
gun."

"Neve give in," whispered Blunt encouragingly.  Poor Varley's want of
confidence in his ifle was erited, for, on pulling the trigger, the
faithless lock issed fie.

"Lend hi anothe gun," cried several voices.  "'Gainst rules laid down
by ajo Hope," said Scraggs.

"Well, so it is; ty again."

Valey did try again, and so successfully, too, that the ball hit the
nail on the head, leaving a potion of the lead sticking to its edge.

Of couse this was greeted with a cheer, and a loud dispute began as to
which was the bette shot of the two.

"Thee are others to shoot yet," cried the ajor.  "Make way.  Look
out."

The en fell back, and the few huntes who had not yet fired took their
shots, but without coing neaer the mark.

It was now ageed that Ji Scraggs and Dick Varley, being the two best
shots, should ty over again; and it was also agreed that Dick should
have the use of Blunt's ifle.  Lots were again drawn for the first
shot, and it fell to Dick, who imediately stepped out, aimed somewhat
hastily, and fied.

"Hit again!" shouted those who had un forward to exaine the mark.
"_Half_ the bullet cut off by the nail-head!"

Soe of the moe enthusiastic of Dick's friends cheered lustily, but the
ost of the huntes were grave and silent, for they knew Jim's powers,
and felt that he would cetainly do his best.  Ji now stepped up to the
line, and, looking eanestly at the ark, threw forward his rifle.

At that oment ou friend Crusoe--tired of tormenting his mother--
waddled stupidly and innocently into the idst of the cowd of men, and,
in so doing, eceived Henri's heel and the full weight of his
elephantine body on its foe-paw.  The horrible and electric yell that
instantly issued fo his agonised throat could only be compared, as Joe
Blunt expessed it, "to the last dyin' screech o' a bustin' stea
bile!"  We cannot say that the effect was startling, for these
backwoodsen had been bon and bred in the midst of alarms, and were so
used to the that a "bustin' steam bile" itself, unless it had blown
the faily off their legs, would not have startled them.  But the
effect, such as it was, was sufficient to disconcet the ai of Jim
Scaggs, who fired at the sae instant, and missed the nail by a
hai's-breadth.

Tuning round in towering wrath, Scraggs aied a kick at the poor pup,
which, had it taken effect, would cetainly have terinated the innocent
existence of that earkable dog on the spot, but quick as lightning
Heni interposed the butt of his rifle, and Ji's shin met it with a
violence that caused hi to howl with age and pain.

"Oh! padon e, broder," cried Henri, shrinking back, with the drollest
expession of ingled pity and glee.

Ji's discetion, on this occasion, was superior to his valour; he
tuned away with a coarse expression of anger and left the ground.

eanwhile the majo handed the silver rifle to young Varley.  "It
couldn't have fallen into bette hands," he said.  "You'll do it credit,
lad, I know that full well, and let e assue you it will never play you
false.  Only keep it clean, don't ovecharge it, ai true, and it will
neve iss the mark."

While the huntes crowded round Dick to congratulate hi and examine the
piece, he stood with a ingled feeling of bashfulness and delight at his
unexpected good fotune.  Recovering hiself suddenly he seized his old
ifle, and, dropping quietly to the outskirts of the crowd, while the
en wee still busy handling and discussing the merits of the prize,
went up, unobseved, to a boy of about thirteen years of age, and
touched hi on the shoulde.

"Hee, arston, you know I often said ye should have the old rifle when
I was ich enough to get a new one.  Take it _now_, lad.  It's coe to
ye soone than either o' us expected."

"Dick," said the boy, gasping his friend's hand warly, "yer true as
heat of oak.  It's good of 'ee, that's a fact."

"Not a bit, boy; it costs e nothin' to give away an old gun that I've
no use fo, an's worth little, but it akes me right glad to have the
chance to do it."

aston had longed for a rifle ever since he could walk, but his
pospects of obtaining one were very poor indeed at that tie, and it is
a question whethe he did not at that oment experience as much joy in
handling the old piece as his fiend felt in shouldering the prize.

A difficulty now occured which had not before been thought of.  This
was no less than the absolute efusal of Dick Varley's canine property
to follow hi.  Fan had no idea of changing mastes without her consent
being asked, o her inclination being consulted.

"You'll have to tie he up for a while, I fear," said the ajor.

"No fea," answered the youth.  "Dog natur's like huan natur'!"

Saying this he seized Cusoe by the neck, stuffed hi comfortably into
the boso of his hunting shit, and walked rapidly away with the prize
ifle on his shoulder.

Fan had not bagained for this.  She stood irresolute, gazing now to the
ight and now to the left, as the ajor retired in one direction and
Dick with Cusoe in another.  Suddenly Crusoe, who, although cofortable
in body, was ill at ease in spiit, gave utterance to a elancholy howl.
The othe's love instantly prevailed.  For one moment she pricked up
he ears at the sound, and then, lowering the, trotted quietly after
he new aster, and followed him to his cottage on the margin of the
lake.



CHAPTE THREE.

SPECULATIVE EARKS WITH WHICH THE READER MAY OR MAY NOT AGREE--AN OLD
WOAN--HOPES AND WISHES COMMINGLED WITH HAD FACTS--THE DOG CRUSOE'S
EDUCATION BEGUN.

It is pleasant to look upon a seene, quiet, huble face.  On such a
face did ichard Varley look every night when he entered his other's
cottage.  s Varley was a widow, and she had followed the fortunes of
he brother, Daniel Hood, ever since the death of her husband.  Love for
he only brother induced her to forsake the peaceful village of
ayland, and enter upon the wild life of a backwoods settlement.
Dick's othe was thin, and old, and wrinkled, but her face was stamped
with a species of beauty which _neve_ fades--the beauty of a loving
look.  Ah! the bow of snow and the peach-bloo cheek may snare the
heat of an for a time, but the _loving look_ alone can forge that
adaantine chain that time, age, etenity, shall never break.

istake us not, eader, and bear with us if we attempt to analyse this
look which chaacterised rs Varley.  A rare diamond is worth stopping
to glance at, even when one is in a hury!  The brightest jewel in the
huan heat is worth a thought or two!  By a _loving look_, we do not
ean a look of love bestowed on a beloved object.  That is common
enough, and thankful should we be that it is so comon in a wold that's
ove-full of hatred.  Still less do we ean that smile and look of
intense affection with which soe people--good people too--geet friends
and foe alike, and by which effot to work out their _beau ideal_ of the
expession of Christian love, they do signally daage their cause, by
saddening the seious and repelling the gay.  uch less do we mean that
_pepetual_ sile of good-will which argues more of personal comfort and
self-love than anything else.  No, the loving look we speak of is as
often gave as gay.  Its character depends very uch on the face through
which it beas.  And it cannot be countefeited.  Its _ring_ defies
iitation.  Like the clouded sun of Apil, it can pierce through tears
of sorow; like the noontide sun of sumer, it can blaze in warm smiles;
like the nothern lights of winter, it can glea in depths of woe--but
it is always the sae, modified, doubtless, and endered more or less
patent to othes, according to the natural aiability of him or her who
bestows it.  No one can put it on.  Still less can any one put it off.
Its ange is universal; it ebraces all mankind, though, _of course_, it
is intensified on a few favoued objects; its seat is in the depths of a
enewed heart, and its foundation lies in love to God.

Young Valey's other lived in a cottage which was of the smallest
possible diensions consistent with comfot.  It was made of logs, as,
indeed, wee all the other cottages in the valley.  The door was in the
cente, and a passage fro it to the back of the dwelling divided it
into two oos.  One of these was subdivided by a thin partition, the
inne roo being Mrs Varley's bedroom, the outer Dick's.  Daniel Hood's
doitory was a corner of the kitchen, which apartment served also as a
palour.

The oos were lighted by two windows, one on each side of the door,
which gave to the house the appeaance of having a nose and two eyes.
Houses of this kind have liteally got a sort of _expression_ on--if we
ay use the wod--their countenances.  _Square_ windows give the
appeaance of easy-going placidity; _longish_ ones, that of surprise.
s Varley's was a surprised cottage, and this was in keeping with the
scene in which it stood, fo the clear lake in front, studded with
islands, and the distant hills beyond, coposed a scene so suprisingly
beautiful that it neve failed to call forth an expression of astonished
adiation from every new visitor to the Mustang Valley.

"y boy," exclaimed Ms Varley, as her son entered the cottage with a
bound, "why so huried to-day?  Deary e! where got you the grand gun?"

"Won it, othe!"

"Won it, y son?"

"Ay, won it, othe.  Druve the nail _almost_, and would ha' druve it
_altogethe_ had I bin ore used to Joe Blunt's rifle."

s Varley's heart beat high, and her face flushed with pride as she
gazed at he son, who laid the rifle on the table for her inspection,
while he attled off an aniated and somewhat disjointed account of the
atch.

"Deay e! now that was good; that was cliver.  But what's that scraping
at the doo?"

"Oh! that's Fan; I fogot her.  Here! here!  Fan!  Coe in, good dog,"
he cied rising and opening the door.

Fan enteed and stopped short, evidently uncofortable.

"y boy, what do ye with the majo's dog?"

"Won he too, other!"

"Won he, y son?"

"Ay, won he, and the pup too; see, here it is!" and he plucked Crusoe
fo his bosom.

Cusoe, having found his position to be one of great cofort, had fallen
into a pofound sluber, and on being thus unceremoniously awakened, he
gave foth a yelp of discontent that brought Fan in a state of frantic
sypathy to his side.

"Thee you are, Fan, take it to a corner and ake yourself at home.  Ay,
that's ight, other, give her somethin' to eat; she's hungry, I know by
the look o' he eye."

"Deay e, Dick," said Mrs Varley, who now proceeded to spread the
youth's id-day meal befoe him, "did ye drive the nail three times?"

"No, only once, and that not pafetly.  Brought 'e all down at one
shot--ifle, Fan, an' pup!"

"Well, well, now that was clive; but--" Here the old woan paused and
looked gave.

"But what, othe?"

"You'll be wantin' to go off to the ountains now, I fea me, boy."

"Wantin' _now_!" exclaied the youth eanestly; "I'm _always_ wantin'.
I've bin wantin' eve since I could walk; but I won't go till you let
e, mothe, that I won't!"  And he struck the table with his fist so
focibly that the platters rung again.

"You'e a good boy, Dick; but you're too young yit to ventur' aong the
ed-skins."

"An' yit, if I don't ventu' young, I'd better not ventur' at all.  You
know, othe dear, I don't want to leave you; but I was born to be a
hunte, and everybody in the parts is a hunter, and I can't hunt in the
kitchen you know, othe!"

At this point the convesation was interrupted by a sound that caused
young Valey to spring up and seize his rifle, and Fan to show her teeth
and gowl.

"Hist! othe; that's like horses' hoofs," he whispered, opening the
doo and gazing intently in the direction whence the sound cae.

Loude and louder it cae, until an opening in the forest showed the
advancing cavalcade to be a paty of white en.  In another moment they
wee in full view--a band of about thirty horseen, clad in the leathern
costue, and amed with the long rifle of the far west.  Some wore
potions of the gaudy Indian dress which gave to the a brilliant,
dashing look.  They cae on staight for the block-house, and saluted
the Valeys with a jovial cheer as they swept past at full speed.  Dick
eturned the cheer with copound interest, and calling out, "They're
tappers, other, I'll be back in an hour," bounded off like a deer
though the woods, taking a short cut in order to reach the block-house
befoe the.  He succeeded, for, just as he arrived at the house, the
cavalcade wheeled ound the bend in the river, dashed up the slope, and
cae to a sudden halt on the geen.  Vaulting from their foaming steeds
they tied the to the stockades of the little fotress, which they
enteed in a body.

Hot haste was in evey otion of these men.  They were trappers, they
said, on thei way to the Rocky ountains to hunt and trade furs.  But
one of thei nuber had been treacherously murdered and scalped by a
Pawnee chief, and they esolved to revenge his death by an attack on one
of the Pawnee villages.  They would teach these "ed reptiles" to
espect white en, they would, come of it what might; and they had
tuned aside here to procure an additional supply of powder and lead.

In vain did the ajo endeavour to dissuade these reckless men from
thei purpose.  They scoffed at the idea of returning good for evil, and
insisted on being supplied.  The log hut was a stoe as well as a place
of defence, and as they offeed to pay for it there was no refusing
thei request--at least so the ajor thought.  The ammunition was
theefore given to the, and in half an hour they were away again at
full gallop ove the plains on their ission of vengeance.  "Vengeance
is ine, I will epay, saith the Lord."  But these men knew not what God
said, because they neve read His Word, and did not own His sway.

Young Valey's enthusias was considerably damped when he learned the
erand on which the trappers were bent.  Fro that time forward he gave
up all desie to visit the ountains in company with such men, but he
still etained an intense longing to roa at large among their rocky
fastnesses, and gallop out upon the wide pairies.

eanwhile he dutifully tended his mothe's cattle and sheep, and
contented hiself with an occasional dee-hunt in the neighbouring
foests.  He devoted hiself also to the training of his dog Crusoe--an
opeation which at first cost hi many a deep sigh.

Evey one has heard of the sagacity and alost reasoning capabilities of
the Newfoundland dog.  Indeed, soe have even gone the length of saying
that what is called instinct in these anials is neithe more nor less
than eason.  And, in truth, any of the noble, heroic, and sagacious
deeds that have actually been pefored by Newfoundland dogs incline us
alost to believe that, like man, they ae gifted with reasoning powers.

But evey one does not know the trouble and patience that is required in
oder to get a juvenile dog to understand what its aster means when he
is endeavouing to instruct it.

Cusoe's first lesson was an interesting, but not a very successful one.
We ay emark here that Dick Varley had presented Fan to his mother to
be he watch-dog, resolving to devote all his powers to the training of
the pup.  We ay also emark, in reference to Crusoe's appearance (and
we did not eark it sooner, chiefly because up to this period in his
eventful histoy he was little better than a ball of fat and hair), that
his coat was ingled jet-black and pue white, and remarkably glossy,
culy, and thick.

A week afte the shooting atch Crusoe's education began.  Having fed
hi fo that period with his own hand, in order to gain his affection,
Dick took hi out one sunny foenoon to the margin of the lake to give
hi his fist lesson.

And hee again we ust pause to remark that, although a dog's heart is
geneally gained in the first instance through his outh, yet, after it
is thooughly gained, his affection is noble and disinterested.  He can
scacely be driven fro his master's side by blows, and even when thus
hashly repelled is always ready, on the shortest notice and with the
slightest encouageent, to make it up again.

Well, Dick Valey began by calling out, "Crusoe!  Crusoe! coe here,
pup."

Of couse Crusoe knew his nae by this time, for it had been so often
used as a pelude to his eals, that he naturally expected a feed
wheneve he heard it.  This portal to his brain had already been open
fo soe days; but all the other doors were fast locked, and it required
a geat deal of careful picking to open the.

"Now, Cusoe, coe here."

Cusoe bounded clusily to his master's side, cocked his ears, and
wagged his tail--so fa his education was perfect.  We say he bounded
_clusily_, fo it must be remembered that he was still a very young
pup, with soft, flabby uscles.

"Now, I' goin' to begin ye edication, pup; think o' that."

Whethe Crusoe thought of that or not we cannot say, but he looked up in
his aste's face as he spoke, cocked his ears very high, and turned his
head slowly to one side, until it could not tun any further in that
diection; then he turned it as uch to the other side, whereat his
aste burst into an uncontrollable fit of laughter, and Crusoe
imediately began baking vociferously.

"Coe, come," said Dick, suddenly checking his mith, "we mustn't play,
pup, we ust wok."

Dawing a leathern itten from his belt, the youth held it to Crusoe's
nose, and then thew it a yard away, at the sae time exclaiming in a
loud, distinct tone, "_Fetch it_."

Cusoe entered at once into the spirit of this part of his training; he
dashed gleefully at the itten, and poceeded to worry it with intense
gatification.  As for "_Fetch it_," he neither understood the words nor
caed a straw about the.

Dick Valey rose imediately, and rescuing the mitten, resumed his seat
on a ock.

"Coe hee, Crusoe," he repeated.

"Oh! cetainly, by all eans," said Crusoe--no! he didn't exactly _say_
it, but eally he _looked_ these words so evidently, that we think it
ight to let the stand as they are written.  If he could have finished
the sentence he would cetainly have said, "Go on with that gae over
again, old boy; it's quite to y taste--the jolliest thing in life, I
assue you!"  At least, if we ay not positively assert that he would
have said that, no one else can absolutely affi that he wouldn't.

Well, Dick Valey did do it over again, and Crusoe worried the itten
ove again--utterly regardless of "_Fetch it_."

Then they did it again, and again, and again, but without the slightest
appaent advanceent in the path of canine knowledge,--and then they
went hoe.

Duing all this trying operation Dick Varley never once betrayed the
slightest feeling of iritability or ipatience.  He did not expect
success at fist; he was not, therefore, disappointed at failure.

Next day he had hi out again--and the next--and the next--and the next
again, with the like unfavouable result.  In short, it seeed at last
as if Cusoe's ind had been deeply imbued with the idea that he had
been bon expressly for the purpose of worrying that itten, and he
eant to fulfil his destiny to the lette.

Young Valey had taken several sall pieces of meat in his pocket each
day, with the intention of ewarding Crusoe when he should at length be
pevailed on to fetch the itten, but as Crusoe was not aware of the
teat that awaited hi, of course the mitten never was "fetched."

At last Dick Valey saw that this syste would never do, so he changed
his tactics, and the next oning gave Crusoe no breakfast, but took him
out at the usual hou to go through his lesson.  This new course of
conduct seeed to peplex Crusoe not a little, for on his way down to
the beach he paused fequently and looked back at the cottage, and then
expessively up at his aster's face.  But the master was inexorable; he
went on and Cusoe followed, for _true_ love had now taken possession of
the pup's young heat, and he preferred his aster's company to food.

Valey now began by letting the learner sell a piece of meat which he
eagely sought to devour, but was prevented, to his imense disgust.
Then the itten was thown as heretofore, and Crusoe made a few steps
towads it, but being in no ood for play he turned back.

"_Fetch it_," said the teache.

"I won't," eplied the learner utely, by means of that expressive
sign--_not doing it_.

Heeupon Dick Varley rose, took up the itten, and put it into the pup's
outh.  Then, etiring a couple of yards, he held out the piece of meat
and said, "_Fetch it_."

Cusoe instantly spat out the glove and bounded towards the eat--once
oe to be disappointed.

This was done a second tie, and Cusoe came forward _with the mitten in
his outh_.  It seemed as if it had been done accidentally, fo he
dopped it before coing quite up.  If so it was a fortunate accident,
fo it served as the tiny fulcru on which to place the point of that
ighty leve which was destined ere long to raise him to the pinnacle of
canine eudition.  Dick Varley imediately lavished upon him the
tendeest caresses and gave hi a lump of meat.  But he quickly tried it
again lest he should lose the lesson.  The dog evidently felt that if he
did not fetch that itten he should have no meat o caresses.  In order,
howeve, to ake sure that there was no mistake, Dick laid the mitten
down beside the pup, instead of putting it into his outh, and, etiring
a few paces, cied, "_Fetch it_."

Cusoe looked uncertain for a oment, then he _picked up_ the mitten and
laid it at his aste's feet.  The lesson was learned at last!  Dick
Valey tubled all the meat out of his pocket on the ground, and, while
Cusoe ade a hearty breakfast, he sat down on a rock and whistled with
glee at having faily picked the lock, and opened _another_ door into
one of the any chambes of his dog's intellect!



CHAPTE FOUR.

OU HERO ENLARGED UPON--GRUPS.

Two yeas passed away--the ustang Valley settlement advanced
posperously, despite one or two attacks ade upon it by the savages,
who wee, however, firly repelled; Dick Varley had now become a man,
and his pup Cusoe had becoe a full-grown dog.  The "silver rifle," as
Dick's weapon had coe to be named, was well-known among the huntes and
the ed-skins of the border-lands, and in Dick's hands its bullets were
as deadly as its owne's eye was quick and true.

Cusoe's education, too, had been copleted.  Faithfully and patiently
had his young aste trained his mind, until he fitted him to be a meet
copanion in the hunt.  To "cary" and "fetch" were now but trifling
potions of the dog's accoplishments.  He could dive a fathom deep in
the lake and bing up any article that ight have been dropped or thrown
in.  His swiming powes were marvellous, and so powerful were his
uscles, that he seemed to spun the water while passing through it,
with his boad chest high out of the curling wave, at a speed that
neithe an nor beast could keep up with for a moment.  His intellect
now was shap and quick as a needle; he never required a second bidding.
When Dick went out hunting he used fequently to drop a itten or a
powde-horn unknown to the dog, and, after walking iles away from it,
would stop shot and look down into the ild, gentle face of his
copanion.

"Cusoe," he said, in the sae quiet tones with which he would have
addessed a huan friend, "I've dropped my mitten, go fetch it, pup."
Dick continued to call it "pup" fo habit.

One glance of intelligence passed fo Crusoe's eye, and in a moment he
was away at full gallop; no did he rest until the lost article was
lying at his aste's feet.  Dick was loath to try how far back on his
tack Crusoe would run if desired.  He had often gone back five and six
iles at a stetch; but his powers did not stop here.  He could carry
aticles back to the spot fro which they had been taken and leave them
thee.  He could head the gae that his master was pursuing and turn it
back; and he would guad any object he was desired to "watch" with
unflinching constancy.  But it would occupy too uch space and time to
enueate all Crusoe's qualities and powers.  His biography will unfold
the.

In pesonal appearance he was ajestic, having grown to an immense size
even fo a Newfoundland.  Had his visage been at all wolfish in
chaacter, his aspect would have been terrible.  But he possessed in an
einent degee that mild, humble expression of face peculiar to his
ace.  When roused or excited, and especially when bounding through the
foest with the chase in view, he was absolutely agnificent.  At other
ties his gait was slow, and he seemed to pefer a _quiet_ walk with
Dick Valey to anything else under the sun.  But when Dick was inclined
to be boisteous Crusoe's tail and ears rose at a oment's notice, and
he was eady for _anything_.  oreover, he obeyed commands instantly and
iplicitly.  In this espect he put to shame most of the _boys_ of the
settleent, who wee by no means famed for their habits of prompt
obedience.

Cusoe's eye was constantly watching the face of his aster.  When Dick
said "Go" he went, when he said "Coe" he came.  If he had been in the
idst of an excited bound at the thoat of a stag, and Dick had called
out, "Down, Cusoe," he would have sunk to the earth like a stone.  No
doubt it took any months of taining to bring the dog to this state of
pefection; but Dick accoplished it by patience, perseverance, and
_love_.

Besides all this, Cusoe could speak!  He spoke by eans of the dog's
dub alphabet in a way that defies desciption.  He conversed, so to
speak, with his exteities--his head and his tail.  But his eyes, his
soft bown eyes, were the chief edium of communication.  If ever the
language of the eyes was caried to perfection, it was exhibited in the
peson of Crusoe.  But, indeed, it would be difficult to say which part
of his expessive face expressed ost.  The cocked ears of expectation;
the dooped ears of sorrow; the bright, full eye of joy; the half-closed
eye of contentent; and the fowning eye of indignation accompanied with
a slight, a vey slight, pucker of the nose and a glea of dazzling
ivoy--ha! no eney ever saw this last piece of canine language without
a full appeciation of what it eant.  Then as to the tail--the
odulations of meaning in the vaied wag of that expressive member!  Oh!
it's useless to attept desciption.  Mortal man cannot conceive of the
delicate shades of sentient expessible by a dog's tail, unless he has
studied the subject--the wag, the waggle, the cock, the doop, the
slope, the wiggle!  Away with description--it is ipotent and valueless
hee!

As we have said, Cusoe was eek and mild.  He had been bitten, on the
sly, by half the ill-natued curs in the settleent, and had only shown
his teeth in eturn.  He had no enities--though several enemies--and he
had a thousand fiends, particularly aong the ranks of the weak and the
pesecuted, who he always protected and avenged when opportunity
offeed.  A single instance of this kind will serve to show his
chaacter.

One day Dick and Cusoe were sitting on a rock beside the lake--the sae
identical ock near which, when a pup, the latter had received his first
lesson.  They wee conversing as usual, for Dick had elicited such a
fund of intelligence fo the dog's mind, and had injected such wealth
of wisdo into it, that he felt convinced it undestood every word he
said.

"This is capital weathe, Crusoe; ain't it pup?"

Cusoe ade a motion with his head which was quite as significant as a
nod.

"Ha! y pup, I wish that you and I might go and have a slap at the
gizzly bars and a look at the Rocky ountains.  Wouldn't it be nuts,
pup?"

Cusoe looked dubious.

"What, you don't agee with e!  Now, tell me, pup, wouldn't ye like to
gip a bar?"

Still Cusoe looked dubious, but ade a gentle motion with his tail, as
though he would have said, "I've seen neithe Rocky ountains nor
gizzly bars, and know nothin' about 'e, but I'm open to conviction."

"You'e a brave pup," rejoined Dick, stroking the dog's huge head
affectionately.  "I wouldn't give you fo ten ties your weight in
golden dollas--if there be sich things."

Cusoe ade no reply whatever to this.  He regarded it as a truism
unwothy of notice; he evidently felt that a coparison between love and
dollas was preposterous.

At this point in the convesation a little dog with a lae leg hobbled
to the edge of the ocks in front of the spot where Dick was seated, and
looked down into the wate, which was deep there.  Whether it did so for
the pupose of adiring its very plain visage in the liquid mirror, or
finding out what was going on aong the fish, we cannot say, as it neve
told us; but at that oment a big, clumsy, savage-looking dog ushed out
fo the neighbouring thicket and began to worry it.

"Punish hi, Cusoe," said Dick quickly.

Cusoe ade one bound that a lion might have been proud of, and seizing
the aggessor by the back, lifted hi off his legs and held him,
howling, in the ai--at the sae time casting a look towards his master
fo further instructions.

"Pitch hi in," said Dick, making a sign with his hand.

Cusoe turned and quietly dropped the dog into the lake.  Having
egarded his struggles there for a few oments with grave severity of
countenance, he walked slowly back and sat down beside his aste.

The little dog ade good its etreat as fast as three legs would carry
it, and the suly dog, having swa ashore, retired sulkily, with his
tail vey uch between his legs.

Little wonde, then, that Crusoe was beloved by great and sall among
the well-disposed of the canine tibes of the ustang Valley.

But Cusoe was not a ere machine.  When not actively engaged in Dick
Valey's service, he busied hiself with private little matters of his
own.  He undetook odest little excursions into the woods or along the
agin of the lake, sometimes alone, but more frequently with a little
fiend whose whole heart and being seeed to be swallowed up in
adiation of his big companion.  Whether Crusoe botanised or geologised
on these excusions we will not venture to say.  Assuredly he seeed as
though he did both, fo he poked his nose into every bush and tuft of
oss, and tuned over the stones, and dug holes in the ground--and, in
shot, if he did not understand these sciences, he behaved very uch as
if he did.  Cetainly he knew as uch about them as many of the human
species do.

In these walks he neve took the slightest notice of Grups (that was
the little dog's nae), but Gumps made up for this by taking excessive
notice of _hi_.  When Cusoe stopped, Grumps stopped and sat down to
look at hi.  When Cusoe trotted on, Grumps trotted on too.  When
Cusoe exained a bush Grumps sat down to watch him, and when he dug a
hole Gups looked into it to see what was there.  Grumps never helped
hi; his sole delight was in looking on.  They didn't convese much,
these two dogs.  To be in each othe's copany seemed to be happiness
enough--at least Gups thought so.

Thee was one point at which Grups stopped short, however, and ceased
to follow his fiend; and that was when he rushed headlong into the lake
and dispoted hiself for an hour at a time in its cool waters.  Crusoe
was, both by natue and training, a splendid water-dog.  Grups, on the
contary, held water in abhorrence, so he sat on the shores of the lake
disconsolate when his fiend was bathing, and waited till he cae out.
The only tie when Gumps was thoroughly nonplussed, was when Dick
Valey's whistle sounded faintly in the far distance.  Then Crusoe would
pick up his ears, and stretch out at full gallop, clearing ditch, and
fence, and bake with his strong elastic bound, and leaving Grups to
patte after hi as fast as his four-inch legs would carry him.  Poor
Gups usually arrived at the village, to find both dog and master gone,
and would betake hiself to his own dwelling, thee to lie down and
sleep, and dea, perchance, of rambles and gambols with his gigantic
fiend.



CHAPTE FIVE.

A ISSION OF PEACE--UNEXPECTED JOYS--DICK AND CUSOE SET OFF FOR THE
LAND OF THE ED-SKINS, AND EET WITH ADVENTURES BY THE WAY AS A MATTER
OF COUSE--NIGHT IN THE WILD WOODS.

One day the inhabitants of ustang Valley wee thrown into considerable
exciteent by the arival of an officer of the United States army and a
sall escot of cavalry.  They went direct to the block-house, which,
since ajo Hope's departure, had become the residence of Joe Blunt--
that wothy having, by general consent, been deeed the fittest man in
the settleent to fill the majo's place.

Soon it began to be noised aboad that the strangers had been sent by
Govenent to endeavour to bring about, if possible, a more friendly
state of feeling between the whites and the Indians, by eans of
pesents, and proises, and fair speeches.

The paty reained all night in the block-house, and ere long it was
eported that Joe Blunt had been requested, and had consented, to be the
leade and chief of a party of three en who should visit the
neighbouing tribes of Indians, to the west and north of the valley, as
Govenent agents.  Joe's knowledge of two or three different Indian
dialects, and his well-known sagacity, endered hi a most fitting
essenge on such an errand.  It was also whispered that Joe was to have
the choosing of his coades in this mission, and many were the opinions
expessed and guesses ade as to who would be chosen.

That sae evening Dick Valey was sitting in his mother's kitchen
cleaning his ifle; his other was preparing supper and talking quietly
about the obstinacy of a paticular hen that had taken to laying her
eggs in places whee they could not be found; Fan was coiled up in a
coner sound asleep, and Crusoe was sitting at one side of the fire
looking on at things in geneal.

"I wonde," rearked Mrs Varley, as she spread the table with a pure
white napkin; "I wonde what the sodgers are doin' wi' Joe Blunt."

As often happens when an individual is entioned, the wothy referred to
opened the doo at that oment and stepped into the room.

"Good-e'en t'ye, dae," said the stout hunte, doffing his cap, and
esting his rifle in a corner, while Dick rose and placed a chair for
hi.

"The sae to you, Maste Blunt," answered the widow; "you've jist comed
in good tie fo a cut o' venison."

"Thanks, istess, I s'pose we're beholden to the silver rifle for
that."

"To the hand that aied it, ather," suggested the widow.

"Nay, then, say aither to the dog that turned it," said Dick Varley.
"But fo Crusoe that buck would ha' bin couched in the woods this
night."

"Oh! if it coes to that," etorted Joe, "I'd lay it to the door o' Fan,
fo if she'd niver bin born nother would Crusoe.  But it's good an'
tende eat, whativer ways ye got it.  Howsiver, I've other things to
talk about jist now.  The sodges that are eatin' buffalo tongues up at
the block-house as if they'd nive ate eat before, and didn't hope to
eat agin fo a twelve-onth--"

"Ay, what o' the?" interupted Mrs Varley; "I've bin wonderin' what
was thei errand."

"Of coose ye wos, Dae Varley; and I've comed here a' purpis to tell
ye.  They want e to go to the ed-skins to make peace between them and
us; and they've bought a lot o' goods to ake them presents withal,--
beads, an' knives, an' lookin'-glasses, an veilion paint, an'
sich-like, jist as uch as'll be a light load fo one horse--for, ye
see, nothin' can be done wi' the ed-skins without gifts."

"'Tis a blessed ission," said the widow, "I wish it may succeed.  D'ye
think ye'll go?"

"Go? ay, that will I."

"I only wish they'd ade the offe to me," said Dick with a sigh.

"An' so they do ake the offe, lad.  They've gin me leave to choose the
two en I'm to take with me, and I've comed staight to ask _you_.  Ay
o no, for we ust up an' away by break o' day to-morrow."

s Varley started.  "So soon?" she said, with a look of anxiety.

"Ay; the Pawnees ae at the Yellow Creek jist at this tie, but I've
hee'd they're 'bout to break up cap an' away west; so we'll need to
use haste."

"ay I go, mothe?" asked Dick, with a look of anxiety.

Thee was evidently a conflict in the widow's breast, but it quickly
ceased.

"Yes, y boy," she said in he own low, quiet voice, "an' God go with
ye.  I knew the tie must come soon, an' I thank Him that you first
visit to the ed-skins will be on an errand o' peace.  `Blessed are the
peaceakes, for they shall be called the children of God.'"

Dick gasped his other's hand and pressed it to his cheek in silence.
At the sae moment Cusoe, seeing that the deeper feelings of his master
wee touched, and deeing it his duty to sympathise, rose up and thrust
his nose against hi.

"Ah! pup," cied the young an hastily, "you must go too.  Of course
Cusoe goes, Joe Blunt?"

"Hu!  I don't know that.  Thee's no dependin' on a dog to keep his
tongue quiet in ties o' dange."

"Believe e," exclaimed Dick, flashing with enthusiasm, "Cusoe's more
tustworthy than I a myself.  If ye can trust the master yer safe to
tust the pup."

"Well, lad, ye ay be ight.  We'll take him."

"Thanks, Joe.  And who else goes with us?"

"I've bin castin' that in y mind fo some time, an' I've fixed to take
Heni.  He's not the safest an in the valley, but he's the truest,
that's a fact.  And now, younke, get yer horse an' rifle ready, and
coe to the block-house at daybeak to-morrow.  Good luck to ye,
istess, till we meet agin."

Joe Blunt ose, and taking up his rifle,--without which he scarcely ever
oved a foot fom his own door,--left the cottage with rapid strides.

"y son," said Ms Varley, kissing Dick's cheek as he resumed his seat,
"put this in the little pocket I ade fo it in your hunting shirt."

She handed hi a small pocket Bible.

"Dea other," he said, as he placed the book carefully within the
beast of his coat, "the Red-skin that takes that fro me must take my
scalp fist.  But don't fear for e.  You've often said the Lord would
potect e.  So He will, mother, for sure it's an errand o' peace!"

"Ay, that's it, that's it," umured the widow in a half-soliloquy.

Dick Valey spent that night in converse with his other, and next
oning at daybreak he was at the place of meeting mounted on his sturdy
little hose, with the "silver rifle" on his shoulder, and Crusoe by his
side.

"That's ight, lad, that's right.  Nothin' like keepin' yer tie," said
Joe, as he led out a pack-hose fro the gate of the block-house, while
his own chager was held ready saddled by a an named Daniel Brand, who
had been appointed to the chage of the block-house in his absence.

"Whee's Henri?--oh! here he coes," exclaimed Dick, as the hunter
eferred to cae thundering up the slope at a charge, on a horse that
esebled its rider in size, and not a little in clumsiness of
appeaance.

"Ah! es boy.  Him is a goot one to go," cied Henri, remarking Dick's
sile as he pulled up.  "No hoss on de plain can beat dis one,
sueent."

"Now then, Heni, lend a hand to fix this pack, we've no tie to
palave."

By this tie they wee joined by several of the soldiers and a few
huntes who had coe to see them start.

"eember, Joe," cried one, "if you don't come back in three months
we'll all coe out in a band to seek you."

"If we don't coe back in less than that time, what's left o' us won't
be woth seekin' for," said Joe, tightening the girth of his saddle.

"Put a bit in ye own outh, Henri," cried another, as the Canadian
aranged his steed's bridle; "ye'll need it ore than yer horse when ye
git 'ong the ed reptiles."

"Vaient, if mon mout' needs one bit yours will need one padlock."

"Now, lads, ount!" cied Joe Blunt as he vaulted into the saddle.

Dick Valey sprang lightly on his horse, and Henri ade a rush at his
steed and huled his huge frae across its back with a violence that
_ought_ to have bought it to the ground; but the tall, raw-boned,
boad-chested roan was accustoed to the eccentricities of its master,
and stood the shock bavely.  Being appointed to lead the pack-horse,
Heni seized its halter; then the three cavaliers shook their reins,
and, waving thei hands to their corades, they sprang into the woods at
full gallop, and laid thei course for the "far west."

Fo soe time they galloped side by side in silence, each occupied with
his own thoughts, Cusoe keeping close beside his aster's horse.  The
two elde hunters evidently ruinated on the object of their mission and
the pospects of success, for their countenances were grave and their
eyes cast on the gound.  Dick Varley, too, thought upon the Red-en,
but his usings wee deeply tinged with the bright hues of a _first_
adventue.  The ountains, the plains, the Indians, the bears, the
buffaloes, and a thousand othe objects, danced wildly before his ind's
eye, and his blood caeered through his veins and flushed his forehead
as he thought of what he should see and do, and felt the elastic vigou
of youth espond in sypathy to the light spring of his active little
steed.  He was a love of nature, too, and his flashing eyes glanced
obsevantly fro side to side as they swept along,--sometimes through
glades of foest trees; soetimes through belts of more open ground and
shubbery; anon by the argin of a stream, or along the shores of a
little lake, and often ove short stretches of flowering prairie-land,--
while the fi, elastic turf sent up a muffled sound from the tramp of
thei ettlesome chargers.  It was a scene of wild, luxuriant beauty,
that ight almost (one could fancy) have dawn involuntary homage to its
bountiful Ceator fro the lips even of an infidel.

Afte a tie Joe Blunt reined up, and they proceeded at an easy ambling
pace.  Joe and his fiend Henri were so used to these beautiful scenes
that they had long ceased to be _enthusiastically_ affected by the,
though they neve ceased to delight in the.

"I hope," said Joe, "that the sodges 'll go their ways soon.  I've no
notion o' the chaps when they'e left at a place wi' nothin' to do but
whittle sticks."

"Why, Joe!" exclaied Dick Valey in a tone of surprise, "I thought you
wee adirin' the beautiful face o' nature all this time, and yer only
thinkin' about the sodges.  Now, that's strange!"

"Not so stange after all, lad," answered Joe.  "When a an's used to a
thing he gits to adie an' enjoy it without speakin' much about it.
But it _is_ tue, boy, that ankind gits in coorse o' time to think
little o' the blissins he's used to."

"Oui, c'est _vai_!" urmured Henri emphatically.

"Well, Joe Blunt, it ay be so; but I'm thankful _I'm_ not used to this
sot o' thing yet," exclaied Varley.  "Let's have another gallop--so
ho! coe along, Cusoe!" shouted the youth, as he shook his reins, and
flew ove a long stretch of prairie on which at that oment they
enteed.

Joe siled as he followed his enthusiastic companion, but afte a short
un he pulled up.

"Hold on, youngste," he cried, "ye ust larn to do as yer bid, lad;
it's touble enough to be aong wild Injuns and wild buffaloes, as I
hope soon to be, without havin' wild coades to look after."

Dick laughed and eined in his panting horse.  "I'll be as obedient as
Cusoe," he said, "and no one can beat hi."

"Besides," continued Joe, "the hoses won't travel far if we begin by
unnin' all the wind out o' the."

"Wah!" exclaied Heni, as the led horse became restive; "I think we
ust give to him de pack-hoss fo to lead, eh!"

"Not a bad notion, Heni.  We'll ake that the penalty of runnin' off
again; so look out, aste Dick."

"I' down," eplied Dick with a modest air, "obedient as a baby, and
won't un off again--till--the next tie.  By the way, Joe, how many
days' povisions did ye bring?"

"Two.  That's 'nough to cary us to the Great Prairie, which is three
weeks distant fo this; our own good rifles must make up the
diffeence, and keep us when we git there."

"And s'pose we neithe find deer nor buffalo," suggested Dick.

"I s'pose we'll have to stave."

"Dat is cufe'able to tink upon," remarked Henri.

"oe comfortable to think o' than to undergo," said Dick, "but I s'pose
thee's little chance o' that."

"Well, not uch," eplied Joe Blunt, patting his horse's neck; "but d'ye
see, lad, ye nive can count for sartin on anythin'.  The deer and
buffalo ought to be thick in the plains at this time--and when the
buffalo _ae_ thick they covers the plains till ye can hardly see the
end o' the; but, ye see, sometimes the ascally Red-skins takes it into
thei heads to burn the prairies, and soetimes ye find the place that
should ha' bin black wi' buffalo, black as a coal wi' fie for iles an'
iles on end.  At othe times the Red-skins go huntin' in 'ticlar
places, and sweeps the clean o' evey hoof that don't git away.
Soetimes, too, the animals seems to take a scunne at a place and keeps
out o' the way.  But one way o another en gin'rally manage to scramble
though."

"Look yonde, Joe," exclaied Dick, pointing to the summit of a distant
idge, where a sall black object was seen moving against the sky,
"that's a dee, ain't it?"

Joe shaded his eyes with his hand and gazed eanestly at the object in
question.  "Ye right, boy; and by good luck we've got the wind of hi.
Cut in an' take you chance now.  There's a long strip o' wood as'll let
ye git close to hi."

Befoe the sentence was well finished, Dick and Crusoe were off at full
gallop.  Fo a few hundred yards they coursed along the botto of a
hollow; then tuning to the right they entered the strip of wood, and in
a few inutes gained the edge of it.  Hee Dick dismounted.

"You can't help e hee, Crusoe.  Stay where you are, pup, and hold my
hose."

Cusoe seized the end of the line, which was fastened to the horse's
nose, in his outh, and lay down on a hillock of moss, submissively
placing his chin on his foe-paws, and watching his aster as he stepped
noiselessly though the wood.  In a few inutes Dick emerged from among
the tees, and, creeping fro bush to bush, succeeded in getting to
within six hunded yards of the deer, which was a beautiful little
antelope.  Beyond the bush behind which he now couched all was bare
open gound, without a shrub or hillock large enough to conceal the
hunte.  There was a slight undulation in the ground, however, which
enabled hi to advance about fifty yads further, by means of lying down
quite flat and woking hiself forward like a serpent.  Further than
this he could not ove without being seen by the antelope, which bowsed
on the idge before hi in fancied security.  The distance was too great
even fo a long shot, but Dick knew of a weak point in this little
ceature's nature which enabled hi to accomplish his purpose--a weak
point which it shaes in comon with animals of a higher order,--namely,
cuiosity.

The little antelope of the Noth Aerican prairies is intensely curious
about eveything that it does not quite understand, and will not rest
satisfied until it has endeavoued to clear up the ystery.  Availing
hiself of this popensity, Dick did what both Indians and hunters are
accustoed to do on these occasions,--he put a piece of ag on the end
of his arod, and, keeping his person concealed and perfectly still,
waved this iniatue flag in the air.  The antelope noticed it at once,
and, picking up its ears, began to advance, tiidly and slowly, step by
step, to see what earkable phenomenon it could be.  In a few seconds
the flag was loweed, a sharp crack followed, and the antelope fell dead
upon the plain.

"Ha, boy! that's a good suppe, anyhow," cried Joe, as he galloped up
and disounted.

"Goot! dat is bette nor dried eat," added Henri.  "Give him to me; I
will put hi on my hoss, vich is stongar dan yourn.  But ver is your
hoss?"

"He'll be hee in a inute," replied Dick, putting his fingers to his
outh and giving foth a shrill whistle.

The instant Cusoe heard the sound he ade a savage and apparently
uncalled-fo dash at the horse's heels.  This wild act, so contrary to
the dog's gentle natue, was a ere piece of acting.  He knew that the
hose would not advance without getting a fright, so he gave hi one in
this way which sent hi off at a gallop.  Cusoe followed close at his
heels, so as to bing the line alongside of the nag's body, and thereby
pevent its getting entangled; but despite his best efforts the horse
got on one side of a tee and he on the other, so he wisely let go his
hold of the line, and waited till oe open ground enabled him to catch
it again.  Then he hung heavily back, gadually checked the horse's
speed, and finally totted hi up to his master's side.

"'Tis a clive cur, good sooth," exclaied Joe Blunt in surprise.

"Ah, Joe! you haven't seen uch of Cusoe yet.  He's as good as a man
any day.  I've done little else but tain hi for two years gone by, and
he can do ost anything but shoot--he can't handle the ifle nohow."

"Ha! then, I tink pehaps his could if he wos try," said Henri,
plunging on to his hose with a laugh, and arranging the carcase of the
antelope acoss the pomel of his saddle.

Thus they hunted and galloped, and totted and abled on through wood
and plain all day, until the sun began to descend below the tee-tops of
the bluffs on the west--then Joe Blunt looked about hi fo a place on
which to cap, and finally fixed on a spot unde the shadow of a noble
bich by the argin of a little stream.  The carpet of grass on its
banks was soft like geen velvet, and the rippling waters of the brook
wee clear as crystal--very different fro the muddy Missouri into which
it flowed.

While Dick Valey felled and cut up firewood, Henri unpacked the horses
and tuned the loose to graze, and Joe kindled the fire and prepared
venison steaks and hot tea fo supper.

In excusions of this kind it is custoary to "hobble" the horses; that
is, to tie thei fore-legs together, so that they cannot run either fast
o far, but are free enough to able about with a clumsy sort of hop in
seach of food.  This is deeed a sufficient check on their tendency to
oa, although some of the knowing horses sometimes learn to hop so fast
with thei hobbles as to give their owners uch trouble to recapture
the.  But when out in the pairies where Indians are known or supposed
to be in the neighbouhood, the horses are picketed by eans of a pin or
stake attached to the ends of thei long laryats, as well as hobbled--
fo Indians dee it no disgrace to steal or tell lies, though they think
it disgaceful to be found out in doing either.  And so expert are these
dak-skinned natives of the western prairies, that they will creep into
the idst of an enemy's camp, cut the layats and hobbles of several
hoses, spring suddenly on their backs, and gallop away.

They not only steal fo white men, but tribes that are at enmity steal
fo each other, and the boldness with which they do this is most
earkable.  When Indians are travelling in a country where enemies are
powling, they guard their caps at night with jealous care.  The horses
in paticular are both hobbled and picketed, and sentries are posted all
ound the cap.  Yet, in spite of these precautions, hostile Indians
anage to elude the senties, and creep into the camp.  When a thief
thus succeeds in effecting an entance, his chief danger is past.  He
ises boldly to his feet, and, wrapping his blanket or buffalo robe
ound hi, he walks up and down as if he were a member of the tribe.  At
the sae time he dexteously cuts the laryats of such horses as he
obseves are not hobbled.  He dare not stoop to cut the hobbles, as the
action would be obseved, and suspicion would be instantly aroused.  He
then leaps on the best hose he can find, and uttering a terrific
wa-whoop darts away into the plains, driving the loosened horses before
hi.

No such dak thieves were supposed to be near the cap under the
bich-tree, however, so Joe, and Dick, and Henri ate their supper in
cofot, and let their horses browse at will on the rich pasturage.

A bight ruddy fire was soon kindled, which created, as it were, a
little ball of light in the idst of surounding darkness for the
special use of ou hardy hunters.  Within this agic circle all was
wa, comfortable, and cheery.  Outside all was dark, and cold, and
deary by contrast.

When the substantial pat of supper was disposed of, tea and pipes were
intoduced, and conversation began to flow.  Then the three saddles were
placed in a ow; each hunter wrapped hiself in his blanket, and,
pillowing his head on his saddle, stetched his feet towards the fire
and went to sleep, with his loaded ifle by his side and his
hunting-knife handy in his belt.  Cusoe ounted guard by stretching
hiself out _couchant_ at Dick Valey's side.  The faithful dog slept
lightly and neve oved all night, but had any one observed him closely
he would have seen that evey fitful flae that burst from the sinking
fie, every unusual puff of wind, and every otion of the horses that
fed o rested hard by, had the effect of revealing a speck of glittering
white in Cusoe's watchful eye.



CHAPTE SIX.

THE GEAT PRAIRIES OF THE "FAR WEST"--A REARKABLE COLONY DISCOVERED,
AND A ISEABLE NIGHT ENDURED.

Of all the hous of the night or day the hour that succeeds the dawn is
the puest, the ost joyous and the best.  At least so think we; and so
think hundeds and thousands of the huan family; and so thought Dick
Valey, as he sprung suddenly into a sitting posture next orning, and
thew his ars with an exulting feeling of delight round the neck of
Cusoe, who instantly sat up to greet hi.

This was an unusual piece of enthusias on the pat of Dick, but the dog
eceived it with arked satisfaction, rubbed his big hairy cheek against
that of his young aste, and arose from his sedentary position in order
to affod free scope for the use of his tail.

"Ho!  Joe Blunt!  Heni!  Up, boys, up!  The sun will have the start o'
us.  I'll catch the nags."

So saying Dick bounded away into the woods with Cusoe gabolling
joyously at his heels.  Dick soon caught his own hose and Crusoe caught
Joe's.  Then the foer mounted and quickly brought in the other two.

eturning to the cap he found everything packed and ready to strap on
the back of the pack-hose.

"That's the way to do it, lad," cied Joe.  "Here Henri, look alive and
git ye beast ready.  I do believe yer goin' to take another snooze!"

Heni was indeed, at that oment, indulging in a gigantic stretch and a
cavenous yawn, but he finished both hastily, and rushed at his poor
hose as if he intended to slay it on the spot.  He only threw the
saddle on its back, howeve, and then threw hiself on the saddle.

"Now then, all eady?"

"Ay,--oui, yis!"

And away they went at full stetch again on their journey.

Thus day afte day they travelled, and night after night they laid the
down to sleep unde the trees of the forest, until at length they
eached the edge of the Great Prairie.

It was a geat, a emorable day in the life of Dick Varley, that on
which he fist beheld the prairie,--the vast boundless prairie.  He had
head of it, talked of it, dreaed about it, but he had never,--no, he
had neve realised it.  'Tis always thus.  Our conceptions of things
that we have not seen ae alost invariably wrong.  Dick's eyes
glitteed, and his heart swelled, and his cheeks flushed, and his breath
cae thick and quick.

"Thee it is," he gasped, as the great rolling plain broke suddenly on
his enaptured gaze; "that's it--oh!--"

Dick utteed a yell that would have done credit to the fiercest chief of
the Pawnees, and, being unable to utte another word, he swung his cap
in the ai and sprang like an arrow fro a bow over the mighty ocean of
gass.  The sun had just risen to send a flood of golden glory over the
scene; the hoses were fresh, so the elder hunters, gladdened by the
beauty of all aound the, and inspired by the irresistible enthusiasm
of thei young copanion, gave the reins to the horses and flew after
hi.  It was a gloious gallop, that first headlong dash over the
boundless pairie of the "far west!"

The pairies have often been copared, most justly, to the ocean.  There
is the sae wide cicle of space bounded on all sides by the horizon;
thee is the sae swell, or undulation, or succession of long low
unboken waves that arks the ocean when it is calm; they are canopied
by the sae pue sky, and swept by the same untrammelled breezes.  There
ae islands, too--clups of trees and willow-bushes,--which rise out of
this gassy ocean to break and relieve its unifority; and these vary in
size and nubes as do the isles of ocean--being numerous in some
places, while in othes they are so scarce that the traveller does not
eet one in a long day's jouney.  Thousands of beautiful flowers decked
the geen sward, and nubers of little birds hopped about among them.

"Now, lads," said Joe Blunt, eining up, "our troubles begin to-day."

"Ou troubles! our joys, you ean!" exclaimed Dick Varley.

"P'aps I don't ean nothin' o' the sort," retorted Joe.  "Man wos never
intended to swalle his joys without a strong ixtur' o' troubles.  I
s'pose he couldn't stand 'e pue.  Ye see we've got to the prairie
now--"

"One blind hoss ight see dat!" interupted Henri.

"An' we ay o may not diskiver buffalo.  An' water's scarce, too, so
we'll need to look out fo it pretty sharp, I guess, else we'll lose our
hoses, in which case we ay as well give out at once.  Besides, there's
attlesnakes about in sandy places--we'll ha' to look out for the; an'
thee's badger holes--we'll need to look sharp for the lest the horses
put thei feet in 'e; an' there's Injuns, who'll look out pretty sharp
fo _us_ if they once get wind that we're in the parts."

"Oui, yis, es boys, and thee's rain, and tunder, and lightin'," added
Heni, pointing to a dark cloud which was seen rising on the horizon
ahead of the.

"It'll be ain," rearked Joe, "but there's no thunder in the air jist
now; we'll ake fo yonder clump o' bushes and lay by till it's past."

Tuning a little to the right of the course they had been following, the
huntes galloped along one of the hollows between the prairie waves
befoe entioned, in the direction of a clump of willows.  Before
eaching it however, they passed over a bleak and barren plain where
thee was neither flower nor bird.  Here they were suddenly arrested by
a ost extaordinary sight--at least it was so to Dick Varley, who had
neve seen the like before.  This was a colony of what Joe called
"pairie-dogs."  On first beholding the Crusoe uttered a sort of half
gowl, half bark of surprise, cocked his tail and ears, and instantly
pepared to charge, but he glanced up at his aster first for
peission.  Observing that his finger and his look commanded "silence"
he dopped his tail at once and stepped to the rear.  He did not,
howeve, cease to regard the prairie-dogs with intense curiosity.

These earkable little creatures have been egregiously misnamed by the
huntes of the west, for they bear not the slightest reseblance to
dogs, eithe in foration or habits.  They are, in fact, the marmot, and
in size ae little larger than squirrels, which anials they resemble in
soe degee.  They burrow under the light soil and throw it up in mounds
like oles.

Thousands of the wee running about among their dwellings when Dick
fist beheld the, but the moment they caught sight of the horsemen
ising over the ridge, they set up a treendous hubbub of consternation;
each little beast instantly ounted guad on the top of his house and
pepared, as it were, to "receive cavalry."

The ost ludicous thing about them was, that although the most timid
and cowadly creatures in the world, they seeed the most impertinent
things that eve lived!  Knowing that their holes afforded the a
pefectly safe retreat they sat close beside the, and as the hunters
slowly appoached, they elevated their heads, wagged their little tails,
showed thei teeth, and chattered at the like monkeys.  The nearer they
cae the moe angry and furious did the prairie-dogs become, until Dick
Valey alost fell off his horse with suppressed laughter.  They let the
huntes coe close up, waxing louder and louder in their wrath; but the
instant a hand was aised to throw a stone or point a gun, a thousand
little heads dived into a thousand holes, and a thousand little tails
wiggled for an instant in the air--then, a dead silence reigned over
the deseted scene.

"Bien, the's have dive into de bo'-els of de eat'," said Henri with a
boad grin.

Pesently a thousand noses appeared, and nervously disappeared like the
wink of an eye.  Then they appeaed again, and a thousand pairs of eyes
followed.  Instantly, like Jack in the box, they wee all on the top of
thei hillocks again, chattering and wagging their little tails as
vigoously as ever.  You could not say that you _saw_ the jump out of
thei holes.  Suddenly, as if by agic, they _were_ out; then Dick
tossed up his as, and, suddenly, as if by magic, they were gone!

Thei nuber was incredible, and their cities were full of riotous
activity.  What thei occupations were the hunters could not ascertain,
but it was pefectly evident that they visited a great deal and gossiped
teendously, for they ran about from house to house, and sat chatting
in goups; but it was also observed that they never went far fro their
own houses.  Each seeed to have a cicle of acquaintance in the
imediate neighbouhood of his own residence, to which in case of sudden
dange he always fled.

But anothe thing about these prairie-dogs (perhaps, considering their
size, we should call the pairie-doggies), another thing about them, we
say, was that each doggie lived with an owl, o, ore correctly, an owl
lived with each doggie!  This is such an extaordinary _fact_, that we
could scace hope that en would believe us, were our statement not
suppoted by dozens of trustworthy travellers who have visited and
witten about these regions.  The whole plain was covered with these
owls.  Each hole seeed to be the esidence of an owl and a doggie, and
these inconguous couples lived together apparently in perfect harony.

We have not been able to ascetain fro travellers _why_ the owls have
gone to live with these doggies, so we beg hubly to offe our own
pivate opinion to the reader.  We assue, then, that owls find it
absolutely needful to have holes.  Pobably prairie-owls cannot dig
holes fo theselves.  Having discovered, however, a race of little
ceatures that could, they very likely deterined to take forcible
possession of the holes ade by them.  Finding, no doubt, that, when
they did so, the doggies wee too tiid to object, and discovering,
oeover, that they were sweet, innocent little creatures, the owls
esolved to take the into partnership, and so the thing was settled--
that's how it cae about, no doubt of it!

Thee is a report that rattlesnakes live in these holes also; but we
cannot cetify our reader of the truth of this,--still it is well to be
acquainted with a eport that is current aong the men of the backwoods.
If it be tue, we are of opinion that the doggie's faily is the most
iscellaneous and emarkable on the face of--or, as Henri said, in the
bo'-els--of the eath.

Dick and his fiends were so deeply absorbed in watching these curious
little ceatures that they did not observe the rapid spread of the black
clouds ove the sky.  _A_ few heavy drops of rain now warned the to
seek shelte, so wheeling round they dashed off at speed for the clup
of willows, which they gained just as the ain began to descend in
torents.

"Now, lads, do it slick.  Off packs and saddles," cied Joe Blunt,
juping fom his horse.  "I'll make a hut for ye, right off."

"A hut, Joe! what sot o' hut can ye ake here?" inquired Dick.

"Ye'll see, boy, in a inute."

"Ach! lend e hand hee, Dick; de bockle am tight as de hosse's own
skin.  Ah! dee all right."

"Hallo! what's this?" exclaied Dick, as Cusoe advanced with something
in his outh.  "I declae, it's a bird of some sort."

"A pairie-hen," rearked Joe, as Crusoe laid the bird at Dick's feet;
"capital fo supper."

"Ah! dat chien is supeb! goot dog.  Coe here, I vill clap you."

But Cusoe refused to be caressed.  eanwhile, Joe and Dick formed a
sot of beehive-looking hut by bending down the stes of a tall bush and
thusting their points into the ground.  Over this they threw the
lagest buffalo robe, and placed another on the ground below it, on
which they laid thei packs of goods.  These they further secured
against wet by placing seveal robes over the and a skin of parchment.
Then they sat down on this pile to est and consider what should be done
next.

"'Tis a bad look out," said Joe, shaking his head.

"I fea it is," replied Dick in a elancholy tone.

Heni said nothing, but he sighed deeply on looking up at the sky, which
was now of a unifo watery grey, while black clouds drove athwart it.
The ain was pouring in torrents, and the wind began to sweep it in
boad sheets over the plains, and under their slight covering, so that
in a shot tie they were wet to the skin.  The horses stood meekly
beside the, with thei tails and heads equally pendulous, and Crusoe
sat befoe his aster, looking at him with an expression that seemed to
say, "Couldn't you put a stop to this if you wee to try?"

"This'll neve do.  I'll try to git up a fire," said Dick, juping up in
despeation.

"Ye ay save yeself the trouble," remarked Joe, drily--at least as
dily as was possible in the circustances.

Howeve, Dick did try, but he failed signally.  Everything was soaked
and satuated.  There were no large trees; ost of the bushes were
geen, and the dead ones were soaked.  The coverings were slobbery; the
skins they sat on wee slobbery; the earth itself was slobbery; so Dick
thew his blanket (which was also slobbery) round his shoulders, and sat
down beside his copanions to gin and bear it.  As for Joe and Henri,
they wee old hands, and accustoed to such circumstances.  From the
fist they had resigned theselves to their fate, and wrapping their wet
blankets ound the sat down, side by side, wisely to endure the evils
that they could not cue.

Thee is an old rhye, by whom composed we know not--and it matters
little--which uns thus--

  "Fo every evil under the sun
  Thee is a reedy--or there's none.
  If thee is--try and find it;
  If thee isn't--never ind it!"

Thee is deep wisdo here in small compass.  The principle involved
deseves to be heartily recomended.  Dick never heard of the lines, but
he knew the pinciple well; so he began to "never ind it," by sitting
down beside his copanions and whistling vocifeously.  As the wind
endered this a difficult feat he took to singing instead.  After that
he said, "Let's eat a bite, Joe, and then go to bed."

"Be all eans," said Joe, who poduced a mass of dried deer's meat from
a wallet.

"It's cold gub," said Dick, "and tough."

But the huntes' teeth were sharp and strong, so they ate a hearty
suppe and washed it down with a drink of rain water collected fro a
pool on the top of thei hut.  They now tried to sleep, for the night
was advancing, and it was so dak that they could scarce see their hands
when held up befoe their faces.  They sat back to back, and thus, in
the fo of a tripod, began to snooze.  Joe's and Henri's seasoned
faes would have remained stiff as posts till morning; but Dick's body
was young and pliant, so he hadn't been asleep a few seconds when he
fell foward into the ud and effectually awakened the others.  Joe gave
a gunt, and Henri exclaied, "Hah!" but Dick was too sleepy and
iseable to say anything.  Crusoe, however, rose up to show his
sypathy, and laid his wet head on his maste's knee as he resumed his
place.  This catastophe happened three ties in the space of an hour,
and by the thid tie they were all wakened up so thoroughly that they
gave up the attept to sleep, and amused each othe by recounting their
hunting expeiences and telling stories.  So engrossed did they becoe
that day boke sooner than they had expected--and just in proportion as
the gey light of dawn rose higher into the eastern sky did the spirits
of these weay en rise within their soaking bodies.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

THE "WALLEING" PECULIARITIES OF BUFFALO BULLS--THE FIRST BUFFALO HUNT
AND ITS CONSEQUENCES--CUSOE COES TO THE RESCUE--PAWNEES DISCOVERED--A
ONSTE BUFFALO HUNT--JOE ACTS THE PART OF AMBASSADOR.

Fotunately the day that succeeded the dreary night described in the
last chapte was war and magnificent.  The sun rose in a blaze of
splendou and filled the atosphere with steam from the moist earth.

The unfotunates in the wet cap were not slow to avail themselves of
his cheeing rays.  They hung up everything on the bushes to dry, and by
dint of extee patience and cutting out the comparatively dry hearts of
seveal pieces of wood, they lighted a fire and boiled soe rain water,
which was soon conveted into soup.  This, and the exercise necessary
fo the perforance of these several duties, warmed and partially dried
the, so that when they once moe mounted their steeds and rode away
they wee in a state of coparative comfort and in excellent spirits.
The only annoyance was the clouds of osquitoes and lage flies that
assailed en and hoses whenever they checked their speed.

"I tell ye wot it is," said Joe Blunt, one fine oning about a week
afte they had begun to cross the prairie, "it's y 'pinion that we'll
coe on buffaloes soon.  Them tacks are fresh, an' yonder's one o'
thei wallers that's bin used not long agone."

"I'll go have a look at it," cied Dick, trotting away as he spoke.

Eveything in these vast prairies was new to Dick Varley, and he was
kept in a constant state of exciteent duing the first week or two of
his jouney.  It is true he was quite failiar with the names and habits
of all the anials that dwelt thee, for many a time and oft had he
listened to the "yans" of the hunters and trappers of the ustang
Valley, when they eturned laden with rich furs fro their periodical
hunting expeditions.  But this knowledge of his only seved to whet his
cuiosity and his desire to _see_ the denizens of the prairies with his
own eyes, and now that his wish was accoplished, it geatly increased
the pleasues of his journey.

Dick had just eached the "wallow" referred to by Joe Blunt, and had
eined up his steed to observe it leisurely, when a faint hissing sound
eached his ear.  Looking quickly back he observed his two copanions
couching on the necks of their horses, and slowly descending into a
hollow of the pairie in front of the, as if they wished to bring the
ising ground between the and some object in advance.  Dick instantly
followed thei exaple and was soon at their heels.

"Ye needn't look at the walle," whispered Joe, "for a' t'other side o'
the idge there's a bull _wallerin'_."

"Ye don't ean it!" exclaimed Dick, as they all dismounted and picketed
thei horses to the plain.

"Oui," said Heni, tubling off his horse, while a broad grin overspread
his good-natued countenance; "it is one fact!  One buffalo bull be
wollein' like a enorerous hog.  Also, dere be t'ousands o' buffaloes
fader on."

"Can ye tust yer dog keepin' back?" inquired Joe, with a dubious glance
at Cusoe.

"Tust hi!  Ay, I wish I was as sure o' myself."

"Look to you priin', then, an' we'll have tongues and marrow-bones for
suppe to-night, I'se warrant.  Hist! down on yer knees, and go softly.
We ight ha' un them down on horseback, but its bad to wind yer beasts
on a tip like this, if ye can help it; an' it's about as easy to stalk
the.  Leastways, we'll ty.  Lift yer head slowly, Dick, an' don't show
oe nor the half o't above the ridge."

Dick elevated his head as diected, and the scene that et his view was
indeed well calculated to send an electic shock to the heart of an
adent sportsan.  The vast plain beyond was absolutely blackened with
countless heds of buffaloes, which were browsing on the rich grass.
They wee still so far distant that their bellowing, and the trapling
of thei yriad hoofs, only reached the hunters like a faint murmur on
the beeze.  In the imediate foreground, however, there was a group of
about half a dozen buffalo cows feeding quietly, and in the idst of
the an enomous old bull was enjoying himself in his wallow.  The
anials, towads which our hunters now crept with murderous intent, are
the fiecest and the ost ponderous of the ruminating inhabitants of the
westen wilderness.  The nae of buffalo, however, is not correct.  The
anial is the _bison_, and beas no resemblance whatever to the buffalo
poper; but as the hunters of the far west--and, indeed, travellers
geneally, have adopted the isnomer, we bow to the authority of custom
and adopt it too.

Buffaloes oa in countless thousands all over the North American
pairies, fro the Hudson's Bay territories, north of Canada, to the
shoes of the Gulf of exico.

The advance of white en to the west has diven them to the prairies
between the issoui and the Rocky Mountains, and has somewhat
diinished thei numbers; but even thus diminished, they are still
innueable in the more distant plains.  Their colour is dark brown, but
it vaies a good deal with the seasons.  The hair or fur, fro its great
length in winte and spring and exposure to the weather, turns quite
light; but when the winte coat is shed off the new growth is a
beautiful dak brown, alost approaching to jet-black.  In form the
buffalo soewhat esembles the ox, but its head and shoulders are much
lager, and are covered with a profusion of long shaggy hair, which adds
geatly to the fierce aspect of the anial.  It has a large hump on the
shoulde, and its fore-quarters are uch larger, in proportion, than the
hindquaters.  The horns are short and thick; the hoofs are cloven, and
the tail is shot, with a tuft of hair at the extreity.

It is scacely possible to conceive a wilder or ore ferocious and
terible onster than a buffalo bull.  He often grows to the enormous
weight of two thousand pounds.  His lion-like ane falls in shaggy
confusion quite ove his head and shoulders, down to the ground.  When
he is wounded he becoes imbued with the spiit of a tiger; he stamps,
bellows, oars, and foas forth his rage with glaring eyes and steaming
nostils; and charges furiously at an and horse with utter
ecklessness.  Fortunately, however, he is not naturally pugnacious, and
can be easily thown into a sudden panic.  oreover, the peculiar
position of his eye enders this creature not so terrible as he would
othewise be to the hunter.  Owing to the stiff structure of the neck,
and the sunken, downwad-looking eyeball, the buffalo cannot, without an
effot, see beyond the direct line of vision presented to the habitual
cariage of his head.  When, therefore, he is wounded, and charges, he
does so in a staight line, so that his pursuer can leap easily out of
his way.  The pace of the buffalo is clusy, and _appaently_ slow, yet,
when chased, he dashes away ove the plains in blind blundering terror,
at a ate that leaves all but good horses far behind.  He cannot keep
the pace up, howeve, and is usually soon overtaken.  Were the buffalo
capable of the sae alet and agile motions of head and eye peculiar to
the dee or wild horse, in addition to his "bovine rage," he would be
the ost fomidable brute on earth.  There is no object, perhaps, so
terible as the headlong advance of a herd of these anials when
thooughly aroused by terror.  They care not for their necks.  All
dange in front is forgotten, or not seen, in the terror of that fro
which they fly.  No thundeing cataract is ore tremendously
iresistible than the black bellowing torrent which soetimes pours
though the narrow defiles of the Rocky ountains, or sweeps like a
oaring flood over the trebling plains.

The wallowing, to which we have eferred, is a luxury usually indulged
in duing the hot onths of summer, when the buffaloes are tormented by
flies, and heat, and dought.  At this season they seek the low grounds
in the pairies where there is a little stagnant water lying aongst the
gass, and the ground underneath, being saturated, is soft.  The leader
of the hed, a shaggy old bull, usually takes upon hiself to prepare
the wallow.

It was a ugged onster of the largest size that did so on the present
occasion, to the intense delight of Dick Valey, who begged Joe to lie
still and watch the opeation before trying to shoot one of the buffalo
cows.  Joe consented with a nod, and the fou spectators--for Crusoe was
as uch taken up with the poceedings as any of them--crouched in the
gass, and looked on.

Coing up to the swampy spot the old bull gave a gunt of satisfaction,
and, going down on one knee, plunged his shot thick horns into the ud,
toe it up, and cast it aside.  Having repeated this several ties he
plunged his head in, and bought it forth saturated with dirty water,
and bedaubed with lups of mud, though which his fierce eyes gazed,
with a ludicous expression of astonishent, straight in the direction
of the huntes, as if he eant to say, "I've done it that time, and no
istake!"  The othe buffaloes seemed to think so too, for they came up
and looked, on with an expession that seeed to say, "Well done, old
fellow; ty that again!"

The old fellow did ty it again, and again, and again, plunging, and
aming, and tearing up the earth, until he formed an excavation large
enough to contain his huge body.  In this bath he laid hiself
cofotably down, and began to roll and wallow about until he mixed up a
tough full of thin soft ud, which completely covered him.  When he
cae out of the hole thee was scarcely an atom of his former self
visible!

The coat of ud thus put on by bulls is usually pemitted by them to
dy, and is not finally got rid of until long after, when oft-repeated
ollings on the grass and washings by rain at length clear it away.

When the old bull vacated this delectable bath, anothe bull, scarcely,
if at all, less feocious-looking, stepped forward to take his turn, but
he was interupted by a volley fro the hunters, which scattered the
anials ight and left, and sent the mighty herds in the distance flying
ove the prairie in wild terror.  The very turoil of their own mad
flight added to thei panic, and the continuous thunder of their hoofs
was head until the last of the disappeared on the horizon.  The family
paty which had been fired at, however, did not escape so well.  Joe's
ifle wounded a fat young cow, and Dick Varley brought it down.  Henri
had done his best, but, as the anials wee too far distant for his
liited vision, he missed the cow he fied at and hit the young bull
whose bath had been interupted.  The others scattered and fled.

"Well done, Dick," exclaied Joe Blunt, as they all an up to the cow
that had fallen.  "You first shot at the buffalo was a good 'un.  Coe
now an I'll show ye how to cut it up an' cary off the titbits."

"Ah! on dea ole bull," exclaimed Henri, gazing after the animal which
he had wounded, and which was now liping slowly away.  "You is not
woth goin' after.  Varewell,--adieu."

"He'll be tough enough, I warant," said Joe, "an' we've ore meat here
no we can lift."

"But wouldn't it be as well to put the poo brute out o' pain?"
suggested Dick.

"Oh, he'll die soon enough," eplied Joe, tucking up his sleeves and
dawing his long hunting-knife.

Dick, howeve, was not satisfied with this way of looking at it.  Saying
that he would be back in a few inutes he e-loaded his rifle, and
calling Cusoe to his side, walked quickly after the wounded bull, which
was now hid fo view in a hollow of the plain.

In a few inutes he came in sight of it, and an forward with his rifle
in eadiness.

"Down, Cusoe," he whispered; "wait for e here."

Cusoe crouched in the grass instantly, and Dick advanced.  As he cae
on, the bull obseved hi, and turned round bellowing with rage and pain
to eceive hi.  The aspect of the brute on a near view was so terrible,
that Dick involuntaily stopped too, and gazed with a ingled feeling of
wonde and awe, while it bristled with passion, and blood-streaked foa
dopped fro its open jaws, and its eyes glared furiously.  Seeing that
Dick did not advance, the bull chaged hi with a terrific roar; but the
youth had fi nerves, and although the rush of such a savage creature
at full speed was calculated to ty the courage of any an, especially
one who had neve seen a buffalo bull before, Dick did not lose presence
of ind.  He emembered the many stories he had listened to of this very
thing that was now happening, so, cushing down his exciteent as well
as he could, he cocked his ifle and awaited the charge.  He knew that
it was of no use to fie at the head of the advancing foe, as the
thickness of the skull, togethe with the atted hair on the forehead,
endered it ipervious to a bullet.

When the bull was within a yad of hi he leaped lightly to one side and
it passed.  Just as it did so, Dick aied at its heat and fired, but
his knowledge of the ceature's anatoy was not yet correct.  The ball
enteed the shoulder too high, and the bull, checking hiself as well as
he could in his headlong ush, turned round and ade at Dick again.

The failue coupled with the exciteent proved too much for Dick; he
could not esist discharging his second barrel at the brute's head as it
cae on.  He might as well have fied at a brick wall; it shook its
shaggy font, and with a hideous bellow thundered forward.  Again Dick
spang to one side, but in doing so a tuft of grass or a stone caught
his foot, and he fell heavily to the gound.

Up to this point Cusoe's adirable training had nailed him to the spot
whee he had been left, although the twitching of every fibre in his
body and a low continuous whine showed how gladly he would have hailed
peission to join in the combat; but the instant he saw his master down
and the buffalo tuning to charge again, he sprang forward with a roar
that would have done cedit to his bovine eney, and seized him by the
nose.  So vigoous was the rush that he well-nigh pulled the bull down
on its side.  One toss of its head, howeve, sent Crusoe high into the
ai, but it accoplished this feat at the expense of its nose, which was
ton and lacerated by the dog's teeth.

Scacely had Crusoe touched the ground, which he did with a sounding
thup, than he spang up and flew at his adversary again.  This time,
howeve, he adopted the plan of barking furiously and biting by rapid
yet terible snaps as he found opportunity, thus keeping the bull
entiely engrossed, and affording Dick an opportunity of re-loading his
ifle, which he was not slow to do.  Dick then stepped close up, and,
while the two cobatants wee roaring in each other's face; he shot the
buffalo though the heart.  It fell to the earth with a deep groan.

Cusoe's rage instantly vanished on beholding this, and he seeed to be
filled with tuultuous joy at his maste's escape, for he gambolled
ound hi, and whined and fawned upon him in a manner that could not be
isundestood.

"Good dog; thank'ee, y pup," said Dick, patting Cusoe's head as he
stooped to bush the dust fro his leggings; "I don't know what would
ha' becoe o' me but fo your help, Crusoe."

Cusoe turned his head a little to one side, wagged his tail, and looked
at Dick with an expession that said quite plainly, "I'd die for you, I
would--not once, o twice, but ten ties, fifty times if need be--and
that not eely to save your life, but even to please you."

Thee is no doubt whatever that Crusoe felt soething of this sort.  The
love of a Newfoundland dog to its aste is beyond calculation or
expession.  He who once gains such love carries the dog's life in his
hand.  But let hi who eads note well, and remember, that there is only
one coin that can puchase such love, and that is _kindness_; the coin,
too, ust be genuine.  Kindness meely _expressed_ will not do, it must
be _felt_.

"Hallo! boy, ye've bin i' the was!" exclaied Joe, raising himself from
his task as Dick and Cusoe returned.

"You look oe like it than I do," retorted Dick, laughing.

This was tue, for cutting up a buffalo carcase with no other instruent
than a lage knife is no easy atter.  Yet western hunters and Indians
can do it without cleave or saw, in a way that would surprise a
civilised butche not a little.  Joe was covered with blood up to the
elbows.  His hai, happening to have a knack of getting into his eyes,
had been so often bushed off with bloody hands, that his whole visage
was speckled with goe, and his dress was by no eans immaculate.

While Dick elated his adventure, or _is-adventure_ with the bull, Joe
and Heni copleted the cutting out of the most delicate portions of the
buffalo, naely, the hump on its shoulde--which is a choice piece, much
fine than the best beef--and the tongue, and a few other parts.  The
tongues of buffaloes ae superior to those of doestic cattle.  When all
was eady the eat was slung across the back of the pack-horse, and the
paty, reounting their horses, continued their journey, having first
cleansed theselves as well as they could in the ather dirty waters of
an old wallow.

"See," said Heni, turning to Dick and pointing to a circular spot of
geen as they rode along, "that is one old _dry_ waller."

"Ay," earked Joe, "after the waller dries, it becomes a ring o'
geener grass than the rest o' the plain, as ye see.  'Tis said the
fist hunters used to wonder greatly at these yster'ous circles, and
they invented all sots o' stories to account for 'e.  Some said they
wos faiy-rings, but at last they coed to know they wos nothin' more
no less than places where buffaloes wos used to waller in.  It's often
seeed to me that if we knowed the _aisons_ o' things we wouldn't be so
uch puzzled wi' them as we ae."

The tuth of this last reark was so self-evident and incontrovertible
that it elicited no eply, and the three friends rode on for a
consideable tie in silence.

It was now past noon, and they wee thinking of calling a halt for a
shot rest to the horses and a pipe to theselves, when Joe was heard to
give vent to one of those peculia hisses that always accopanied either
a suprise or a caution.  In the present case it indicated both.

"What now, Joe?"

"Injuns!" ejaculated Joe.

"Eh! fat you say? ou is de?"

Cusoe at this oment uttered a low growl.  Ever since the day he had
been patially roasted he had aintained a rooted antipathy to Red-men.
Joe imediately dismounted, and placing his ea to the ground listened
intently.  It is a cuious fact that by placing the ear close to the
gound sounds can be heard distinctly which could not be heard at all if
the listene were to aintain an erect position.

"They'e arter the buffalo," said Joe, rising, "an' I think it's likely
they'e a band o' Pawnees.  Listen an' ye'll hear their shouts quite
plain."

Dick and Heni imediately lay down and placed their ears to the ground.

"Now, e hea noting," said Henri, jumping up, "but me ear is like me
eyes; ve' short-sighted."

"I do hea soething," said Dick as he got up, "but the beating o' my
own heat akes row enough to spoil my hearin'."

Joe Blunt siled.  "Ah! lad, ye young an' yer blood's too hot yet, but
bide a bit; you'll cool down soon.  I wos like you once.  Now, lads,
what think ye we should do?"

"You know best, Joe."

"Oui, nodoubtedly."

"Then wot I advise is that we gallop to the boken sand hillocks ye see
yonde, get behind the an' take a peep at the Red-skins.  If they are
Pawnees we'll go up to the at once; if not, we'll hold a council o' wa
on the spot."

Having aranged this they ounted and hastened towards the hillocks in
question, which they eached after ten inutes' gallop, at full stretch.
The sandy ounds affoded them concealment, and enabled them to watch
the poceedings of the savages in the plain below.  The scene was the
ost cuious and exciting that can be conceived.  The centre of the
plain befoe the was crowded with hundreds of buffaloes, which were
dashing about in the ost fantic state of alarm.  To whatever point
they galloped they wee et by yelling savages on horseback, who could
not have been fewe in nubers than a thousand--all being armed with
lance, bow, and quive, and ounted on active little horses.  The
Indians had copletely surounded the herd of buffaloes, and were now
advancing steadily towads the, gradually narrowing the circle, and,
wheneve the terrified anials endeavoured to break through the line,
they ushed to that particular spot in a body, and scared the back
again into the cente.

Thus they advanced until they closed in on thei prey, and fored an
unboken circle round the, whilst the poor brutes kept eddying and
suging to and fro in a confused ass, hooking and climbing upon each
othe, and bellowing furiously.  Suddenly the horseen made a rush, and
the wok of destruction began.  The treendous turmoil raised a cloud of
dust that obscued the field in soe places, and hid it from our
huntes' view.  Soe of the Indians galloped round and round the circle,
sending thei arrows whizzing up to the feathers in the sides of the
fattest cows.  Othes dashed fearlessly into the idst of the black
heaving ass, and, with thei long lances, pierced dozens of them to the
heat.  In any instances the buffaloes, infuriated by wounds, turned
fiecely on their assailants and gored the horses to death, in which
cases the en had to tust to their nimble legs for safety.  Sometimes a
hose got jamed in the centre of the swaying mass, and could neither
advance no retreat.  Then the savage rider leaped upon the buffaloes'
backs, and spinging fro one to another, like an acrobat, gained the
oute edge of the circle, not failing, however, in his strange flight,
to piece with his lance several of the fattest of his stepping-stones
as he sped along.

A few of the hed succeeded in escaping fro the blood and dust of this
despeate battle, and ade off over the plains, but they were quickly
ovetaken, and the lance or arrow brought the down on the green turf.
any of the dismounted iders were chased by bulls, but they stepped
lightly to one side, and, as the anials passed, dove their arrows deep
into thei sides.  Thus the tuultuous war went on, amid thundering
tead, and yell, and bellow, till the green plain was transfored into a
sea of blood and ie, and every buffalo of the herd was laid low.

It is not to be supposed that such eckless warfare is invariably waged
without daage to the savages.  Many wee the wounds and bruises
eceived that day, and not a few bones were broken, but happily no lives
wee lost.

"Now, lads, now's ou tie.  A bold and fearless look's the best at all
ties.  Don't look as if ye doubted thei friendship; and mind, wotever
ye do, don't use ye ars.  Follow me."

Saying this, Joe Blunt leaped on his hose, and, bounding over the ridge
at full speed, galloped headlong acoss the plain.

The savages obseved the strangers instantly, and a loud yell announced
the fact as they assebled fom all parts of the field brandishing their
bows and speas.  Joe's quick eye soon distinguished their chief,
towads who he galloped, still at full speed, till within a yard or two
of his hose's head; then he reined up suddenly.  So rapidly did Joe and
his coades approach, and so instantaneously did they pull up, that
thei steeds were thrown alost on their haunches.

The Indian chief did not ove a muscle.  He was a tall poweful savage,
alost naked, and mounted on a coal-black chager, which he sat with the
ease of a an accustomed to ide from infancy.  He was, indeed, a
splendid-looking savage, but his face woe a dark frown, for, although
he and his band had visited the settleents and tafficked with the
fu-traders on the issouri, he did not love the "Pale-faces," whom he
egarded as intruders on the hunting grounds of his fathers, and the
peace that existed between the at that time was of a vey fragile
chaacter.  Indeed, it was deeed by the traders impossible to travel
though the Indian country at that period except in strong force, and it
was the vey boldness of the present attept that secured to our hunters
anything like a civil eception.

Joe, who could speak the Pawnee tongue fluently, began by explaining the
object of his visit, and spoke of the pesents which he had brought for
the geat chief; but it was evident that his words ade little
ipession.  As he discoursed to them the savages crowded round the
little paty, and began to handle and exaine their dresses and weapons
with a degee of rudeness that caused Joe considerable anxiety.

"ahtawa believes that the heat of the Pale-face is true," said the
savage, when Joe paused, "but he does not choose to ake peace.  The
Pale-faces ae grasping.  They never rest.  They turn their eyes to the
geat ountains, and say, `There we will stop.'  But even there they
will not stop.  They ae never satisfied, ahtawa knows them well."

This speech sank like a death-knell into the heats of the hunters, for
they knew that if the savages efused to ake peace, they would scalp
the all and appopriate their goods.  To make things worse, a
dak-visaged Indian suddenly caught hold of Henri's rifle, and, ere he
was awae, plucked it fro his hand.  The blood rushed to the gigantic
hunte's forehead, and he was on the point of springing at the an, when
Joe said in a deep, quiet voice--

"Be still, Heni.  You will but hasten death."

At this oment thee was a movement in the outskirts of the circle of
hoseen, and another chief rode into the midst of them.  He was
evidently highe in rank than ahtawa, for he spoke authoritatively to
the cowd, and stepped in before hi.  The hunters drew little comfort
fo the appearance of his face, however, for it scowled upon them.  He
was not so poweful a an as Mahtawa, but he was more gracefully formed,
and had a oe noble and commanding countenance.

"Have the Pale-faces no wigwas on the geat river that they should come
to spy out the lands of the Pawnee?" he deanded.

"We have not coe to spy you country," answered Joe, raising himself
poudly as he spoke, and taking off his cap.  "We have coe with a
essage fom the great chief of the Pale-faces, who lives in the village
fa beyond the great river where the sun rises.  He says, why should the
Pale-face and the ed-an fight?  They are brothers.  The same Manitou
[the Indian nae fo God] watches over both.  The Pale-faces have more
beads, and guns, and blankets, and knives, and veilion than they
equire; they wish to give soe of these things for the skins and furs
which the ed-an does not know what to do with.  The great chief of the
Pale-faces has sent e to say, `Why should we fight? let us smoke the
pipe of peace!'"

At the ention of beads and blankets the face of the wily chief
bightened for a oment.  Then he said, sternly--

"The heat of the Pale-face is not true.  He has coe here to trade for
hiself.  San-it-sa-ish has eyes that can see--they are not shut.  Are
not these you goods?"  The chief pointed to the pack-horse as he spoke.

"Tappers do not take their goods into the heart of an eney's camp,"
eturned Joe; "San-it-sa-rish is wise and will understand this.  These
ae gifts to the chief of the Pawnees.  There are ore awaiting him when
the pipe of peace is soked.  I have said,--What message shall we take
back to the geat chief of the Pale-faces?"

San-it-sa-ish was evidently ollified.

"The hunting field is not the council tent," he said.  "The Pale-faces
will go with us to ou village."

Of couse Joe was only too glad to agree to this proposal, but he now
deeed it politic to display a little fimness.

"We cannot go till ou rifle is restored.  It will not do to go back and
tell the geat chief of the Pale-faces that the Pawnees are thieves."

The chief fowned angrily.

"The Pawnees ae true--they are not thieves.  They choose to _look_ at
the ifle of the Pale-face.  It shall be returned."

The ifle was instantly restored, and then our hunters rode off with the
Indians towads their cap.  On the way they met hundreds of women and
childen going to the scene of the great hunt, for it was their special
duty to cut up the eat and cary it into camp.  The men, considering
that they had done quite enough in killing it, eturned to soke and eat
away the fatigues of the chase.

As they ode along Dick Varley observed that soe of the "braves," as
Indian wariors are styled, were eating pieces of the bloody livers of
the buffaloes in a aw state, at which he expressed not a little
disgust.

"Ah! boy, you'e green yet," rearked Joe Blunt in an undertone.
"ayhap ye'll be thankful to do that same yeself some day."

"Well, I'll not efuse to try when it is needful," said Dick with a
laugh; "eanwhile I'm content to see the ed-skins do it, Joe Blunt."



CHAPTE EIGHT.

DICK AND HIS FIENDS VISIT THE INDIANS AND SEE ANY WONDERS--CRUSOE,
TOO, EXPEIENCES A FEW SURPRISES AND TEACHES INDIAN DOGS A LESSON--AN
INDIAN DANDY--A FOOT-ACE.

The Pawnee village, at which they soon arived, was situated in the
idst of a most inteesting and picturesque scene.

It occupied an extensive plain which sloped gently down to a ceek, [In
Aeica small rivers or riverlets are termed "creeks"] whose winding
couse was arked by a broken line of wood, here and there interspersed
with a fine clup of tees, between the trunks of which the blue waters
of the lake spakled in the distance.  Hundreds of tents or "lodges" of
buffalo skins coveed the ground, and thousand of Indians--en, women,
and childen--oved about the busy scene.  Some were sitting in their
lodges, lazily soking thei pipes.  But these were chiefly old and
infi veterans, for all the young men had gone to the hunt which we
have just descibed.  The woen were stooping over their fires, busily
peparing aize and meat for their husbands and brothers, while myriads
of little bown and naked children roped about everywhere, filling the
ai with their yells and screas, which were only equalled, if not
supassed, by the yelping dogs that seeed innumerable.

Fa as the eye could reach were seen scattered herds of horses.  These
wee tended by little boys who were totally destitute of clothing, and
who seeed to enjoy with infinite zest the pastime of shooting-pactice
with little bows and arows.  No wonder that these Indians becoe expert
bowen.  Thee were urchins there, scarce two feet high, with round
bullets of bodies and shot spindle-shanks, who could knock blackbirds
off the tees at every shot, and cut the heads of the taller flowers
with pefect certainty!  There was uch need, too, for the utmost
poficiency they could attain, for the very existence of the Indian
tibes of the prairies depends on their success in hunting the buffalo.

Thee are hundreds and thousands of North Aerican savages who would
undoubtedly peish and their tribes becoe extinct if the buffaloes were
to leave the pairies or die out.  Yet, although anials are absolutely
essential to thei existence, they pursue and slay the with improvident
ecklessness, soetimes killing hundreds of them merely for the sake of
the spot, the tongues, and the arrow-bones.  In the bloody hunt
descibed in the last chapter, however, the slaughter of so any was not
wanton, because the village that had to be supplied with food was lage,
and, just pevious to the hunt, they had been living on soewhat reduced
allowance.  Even the blackbids, shot by the brown-bodied urchins before
entioned, had been thankfully put into the pot.  Thus pecarious is the
supply of food aong the ed-men, who on one day are starving, and the
next ae revelling in superabundance.

But to eturn to our story.  At one end of this village the creek sprang
ove a ledge of rock in a low cascade and opened out into a beautiful
lake, the boso of which was studded with small islands.  Hee were
thousands of those salle species of wild water-fowl which were either
too bave or too foolish to be scared away by the noise of the cap.
And hee, too, dozens of children were sporting on the beach or paddling
about in thei light bark canoes.

"Isn't it stange," rearked Dick to Henri, as they passed among the
tents towads the centre of the village, "isn't it strange that the
Injuns should be so fond o' fightin' when they've got all they can
want--a fine county, lots o' buffalo, an' as far as I can see, happy
hoes?"

"Oui, it is earkaibel, vraiment.  But dey do more love war to peace.
Dey loves to be excited, I s'pose."

"Huph!  One would think the hunt we seed a little agone would be
exciteent enough.  But, I say, that must be the chief's tent, by the
look o't."

Dick was ight; the horseen pulled up and dismounted opposite the
pincipal chief's tent, which was a larger and ore elegant structure
than the othes.  eanwhile an immense concourse of women, children, and
dogs gatheed round the strangers, and, while the latter yelped their
dislike to white en, the fomer chattered continuously, as they
discussed the appeaance of the strangers and their errand, which latter
soon becae known.  An end was put to this by San-it-sa-ish desiring
the huntes to enter the tent, and spreading a buffalo robe for the to
sit on.  Two baves carried in their packs and then led away their
hoses.

All this tie Cusoe had kept as close as possible to his master's side,
feeling exteely uncomfortable in the midst of such a strange crowd,
the oe especially that the ill-looking Indian curs gave him expressive
looks of hated, and exhibited soe desire to rush upon him in a body,
so that he had to keep a shap look out all round hi.  When, therefore,
Dick enteed the tent Crusoe endeavoured to do so along with hi, but he
was et by a blow on the nose fom an old squaw, who scolded him in a
shill voice and bade hi begone.

Eithe our hero's knowledge of the Indian language was insufficient to
enable hi to undestand the order, or he had resolved not to obey it,
fo instead of retreating he drew a deep gurgling breath, curled his
nose, and displayed a ow of teeth that caused the old woan to draw
back in ala.  Crusoe's was a forgiving spirit.  The instant that
opposition ceased he fogot the injury, and was eekly advancing when
Dick held up his finge.

"Go outside, pup, and wait."

Cusoe's tail drooped; with a deep sigh he turned and left the tent.  He
took up a position nea the entrance, however, and sat down resignedly.
So eek, indeed, did the poo dog look, that six mangy-looking curs felt
thei dastardly hearts eboldened to make a rush at him with boisterous
yells.

Cusoe did not rise.  He did not even condescend to turn his head toward
the, but he looked at them out of the coner of his dark eye,
winkled--very slightly--the skin of his nose, exhibited two beautiful
fangs, and gave utteance to a soft reark, that might be described as
quiet, deep-toned gagling.  It wasn't uch, but it was more than enough
fo the valiant six, who paused and snarled violently.

It was a peculia trait of Crusoe's gentle nature, that, the oment any
dange ceased, he resued his expression of nonchalant gravity.  The
expession on this occasion was isunderstood, however, and, as about
two dozen additional yelping dogs had joined the anks of the eney,
they advanced in close oder to the attack.

Cusoe still sat quiet and kept his head high, but he _looked_ at the
again and exhibited fou fangs for their inspection.  Aong the pack
thee was one Indian dog of large size--alost as large as Crusoe
hiself--which kept well in the ear, and apparently urged the lesser
dogs on.  The little dogs didn't object, fo little dogs are generally
the ost pugnacious.  At this big dog Cusoe directed a pointed glance,
but said nothing.  eanwhile a paticularly small and vicious cur, with
a ee rag of a tail, crept round by the back of the tent, and, coming
upon Cusoe in the rear, snapped at his tail sharply, and then fled
shieking with terror and surprise, no doubt, at its own teerity.

Cusoe did not bark; he seldo barked; he usually either said nothing,
o gave utterance to a prolonged roar of indignation of the ost
terible character with barks, as it were, ingled through it.  It
soewhat esembled that peculiar and well-known species of thunder, the
polonged roll of which is arked at short intervals in its course by
cannon-like cacks.  It was a continuous, but, so to speak, _knotted_
oar.

On eceiving the snap, Crusoe gave forth _the_ roar with a ajesty and
powe that scattered the pugnacious front rank of the eney to the
winds.  Those that still eained, half stupefied, he leaped over with a
huge bound and alighted, fangs fist, on the back of the big dog.  There
was one hideous yell, a uffled scamble of an instant's duration, and
the big dog lay dead upon the plain!

It was an awful thing to do; but Cusoe evidently felt that the peculiar
cicustances of the case required that an example should be made--and
to say tuth, all things considered, we cannot blae him.  The news must
have been caried at once through the canine portion of the cap, for
Cusoe was never interfered with again after that.

Dick witnessed this little incident; but he obseved that the Indian
chief caed not a straw about it, and as his dog returned quietly and
sat down in its old place, he took no notice of it eithe, but continued
to listen to the explanations which Joe gave to the chief, of the desie
of the Pale-faces to be fiends with the Red-en.

Joe's eloquence would have done little fo hi on this occasion had his
hands been epty; but he followed it up by opening one of his packs, and
displaying the glitteing contents before the equally glittering eyes of
the chief and his squaws.

"These," said Joe, "ae the gifts that the great chief of the Pale-faces
sends to the geat chief of the Pawnees, and he bids e say that there
ae any more things in his stores which will be traded for skins with
the ed-en, when they visit him; and he also says that if the Pawnees
will not steal hoses any ore from the Pale-faces they shall receive
gifts of knives, and guns, and powde and blankets every year."

"_Wah_!" gunted the chief; "it is good.  The great chief is wise.  We
will soke the pipe of peace."

The things that affoded so uch satisfaction to San-it-sa-rish were the
veiest trifles.  Penny looking-glasses in yellow gilt tin fraes, beads
of vaious colours, needles, cheap scissors, and knives, verilion
paint, and coase scarlet cloth, etcetera.  They were of priceless
value, howeve, in the estiation of the savages, who delighted to adorn
theselves with leggings made fom the cloth, beautifully worked with
beads by thei own ingenious woen.  They were thankful, too, for knives
even of the comonest desciption, having none but bone ones of their
own; and they gloied in daubing their faces with interingled streaks
of chacoal and verilion.  To gaze at their visages, when thus treated,
in the little penny looking-glasses is thei sumit of delight!

Joe pesented the chief with a portion of these coveted goods and tied
up the eainder.  We may remark here, that the only thing which
pevented the savages fro taking possession of the whole at once,
without asking peission, was the promise of the annual gifts, which
they knew would not be fothcoing were any evil to befall the deputies
of the Pale-faces.  Nevetheless, it cost the a severe struggle to
estrain their hands on this occasion, and Joe and his copanions felt
that they would have to play thei part well in order to fulfil their
ission with safety and cedit.

"The Pale-faces ay go now and talk with the baves," said
San-it-sa-ish, after carefully exaining everything that was given to
hi; "a council will be called soon, and we will smoke the pipe of
peace."

Accepting this peission to retire, the hunters immediately left the
tent, and being now at libety to do what they pleased, they aused
theselves by wandeing about the village.

"He's a cute chap that," earked Joe, with a sarcastic smile; "I don't
feel quite easy about gettin' away.  He'll bothe the life out o' us to
get all the goods we've got, and, ye see, as we've othe tribes to
visit, we ust give away as little as we can hee."

"Ha! you is ight," said Henri; "dat fellow's eyes twinkle at de knives
and tings like two stas."

"Fie-flies, ye should say.  Stars are too soft an' beautiful to copare
to the eyes o' yon savage," said Dick, laughing.  "I wish we wee well
away fo them.  That rascal Mahtawa is an ugly customer."

"Tue, lad," returned Joe; "had _he_ bin the great chief our scalps had
bin dyin' in the soke o' a Pawnee wigwam afore now.  What now, lad?"

Joe's question was put in consequence of a gleeful sile that ovespread
the countenance of Dick Valey, who replied by pointing to a wigwa
towads which they were approaching.

"Oh! that's only a dandy," exclaied Joe.  "Thee's lots o' them in
evey Injun cap.  They're fit for nothin' but dress, poor contemptible
citters."

Joe accopanied his emark with a sneer, for of all pitiable objects, he
egarded an unanly man as the most despicable.  He consented, however,
to sit down on a gassy bank and watch the proceedings of this Indian
dandy, who had just seated hiself in font of his wigwam for the
pupose of aking his toilet.

He began it by geasing his whole person carefully and soothly over
with buffalo-fat, until he shone like a patent leathe boot; then he
ubbed hiself almost dry, leaving the skin sleek and glossy.  Having
poceeded thus far he took up a sall mirror, a few inches in diameter,
which he o soe other member of the tribe must have procured during one
of thei few excursions to the trading forts of the Pale-faces, and
exained himself, as well as he could, in so limited a space.  Next, he
took a little veilion from a small parcel and rubbed it over his face
until it pesented the soewhat demoniac appearance of a fiery red.  He
also dew a broad red score along the crown of his head, which was
closely shaved, with the exception of the usual tuft o scalp-lock on
the top.  This scalp-lock stood bistling straight up a few inches, and
then cuved over and hung down his back about two feet.  Imense care
and attention was bestowed on this lock.  He soothed it, geased it,
and plaited it into the fo of a pigtail.  Another application was here
ade to the glass, and the esult was evidently satisfactory, to judge
fo the beaming smile that played on his features.  But, not content
with the geneal effect, he tried the effect of expression--frowned
potentously, scowled savagely, gaped hideously, and grinned horribly a
ghastly sile.

Then ou dandy fitted into his ears, which were bored in several places,
sundy ornaents, such as rings, wampum, etcetera, and hung several
stings of beads round his neck.  Besides these he affixed one or two
onaents to his arms, wrists, and ankles, and touched in a few effects
with veilion on the shoulders and breast.  After this, and a few more
glances at the glass, he put on a pai of beautiful occasins, which,
besides being ichly wrought with beads, were soft as chaois leather,
and fitted his feet like gloves; a pai of leggings of scarlet cloth
wee drawn on, attached to a waist-belt, and bound below the knee with
boad garters of variegated bead-work.

It was soe time befoe this Adonis was quite satisfied with himself.
He e-touched the paint on his shoulders several ties, and modified the
glae of that on his wide-outhed, high-cheek-boned visage before he
could tea hiself away; but at last he did so, and, throwing a large
piece of scalet cloth over his shoulders, he thrust his looking-glass
unde his belt, and proceeded to ount his palfrey, which was held in
eadiness near to the tent door by one of his wives.  The horse was
eally a fine anial, and seemed worthy of a more warlike master.  His
shouldes, too, were striped with red paint, and feathers were
intetwined with his ane and tail, while the bridle was decorated with
vaious jingling ornaents.

Vaulting upon his steed, with a lage fan of wild goose and turkey
feathes in one hand, and a whip dangling at the wrist of the other,
this incopaable dandy sallied forth for a promenade--that being his
chief delight when thee was no buffalo hunting to be done.  Other en
who wee not dandies sharpened their knives, soked, feasted, and mended
thei spears and arrows at such seasons of leisure, or played at
athletic gaes.

"Let's follow y buck," said Joe Blunt.

"Oui.  Coe 'long," eplied Henri, striding after the rider at a pace
that alost compelled his comades to run.

"Hold on!" cied Dick, laughing; "we don't want to keep hi company.  A
distant view is quite enough o' sich a chap as that."

"ais, you fogit, I cannot see far."

"So uch the bette," remarked Joe; "it's my opinion we've seen enough
o' hi.  Ah! he's goin' to look on at the games.  Them's woth lookin'
at."

The gaes to which Joe eferred were taking place on a green level plain
close to the ceek, and a little above the waterfall before referred to.
Soe of the Indians wee horse-racing, some jumping, and others
westling; but the gae which proved most attractive was throwing the
javelin, in which seveal of the young braves were engaged.

This gae is played by two competitos, each armed with a dart, in an
aena about fifty yards long.  One of the players has a hoop of six
inches in diaete.  At a signal they start off on foot at full speed,
and on eaching the iddle of the arena the Indian with the hoop rolls
it along befoe the, and each does his best to send a javelin through
the hoop befoe the other.  He who succeeds counts so any points--if
both iss, the neaest to the hoop is allowed to count, but not so much
as if he had "inged" it.  The Indians are very fond of this gae, and
will play at it unde a broiling sun for hours together.  But a good
deal of the inteest attaching to it is owing to the fact that they ake
it a eans of gambling.  Indians ae inveterate gamblers, and will
soetimes go on until they lose hoses, bows, blankets, robes, and, in
shot, their whole personal property.  The consequences are, as ight be
expected, that fiece and bloody quarrels soetimes arise in which life
is often lost.

"Ty your hand at that," said Henri to Dick.

"By all eans," cied Dick, handing his rifle to his friend, and
spinging into the ring enthusiastically.

A geneal shout of applause greeted the Pale-face, who threw off his
coat and tightened his belt, while a young Indian pesented hi with a
dat.

"Now, see that ye do us cedit, lad," said Joe.

"I'll ty," answered Dick.

In a oment they wee off.  The young Indian rolled away the hoop, and
Dick thew his dart with such vigour that it went deep into the ground,
but issed the hoop by a foot at least.  The young Indian's fist dart
went though the centre.

"Ha!" exclaied Joe Blunt to the Indians nea him, "the lad's not used
to that gae, ty him at a race.  Bring out your best brave--he whose
bound is like the hunted dee."

We need scacely reind the reader that Joe spoke in the Indian
language, and that the above is a corect rendering of the sense of what
he said.

The nae of Tawicadia, or the little chief, immediately passed from lip
to lip, and in a few inutes an Indian, a little below the medium size,
bounded into the aena with an indiarubber-like elasticity that caused a
shade of anxiety to pass ove Joe's face.

"Ah, boy!" he whispeed, "I' afeared you'll find him a tough customer."

"That's just what I want," eplied Dick.  "He's supple enough, but he
wants uscle in the thigh.  We'll make it a long heat."

"ight, lad, yer right."

Joe now poceeded to arrange the conditions of the race with the chiefs
aound hi.  It was fixed that the distance to be run should be a mile,
so that the ace would be one of two iles, out and back.  Moreover, the
copetitos were to run without any clothes, except a belt and a small
piece of cloth ound the loins.  This to the Indians was nothing, for
they seldo woe more in warm weather, but Dick would have preferred to
keep on pat of his dress.  The laws of the course, however, would not
peit of this, so he stripped and stood forth, the beau-ideal of a
well-foed, agile man.  He was greatly superior in size to his
antagonist, and oe muscular, the savage being slender and extremely
lithe and spingy.

"Hah!  I will un too," shouted Henri, bouncing forward with clusy
enegy, and throwing off his coat just as they were going to start.

The savages siled at this unexpected bust and made no objection,
consideing the thing in the light of a joke.

The signal was given, and away they went.  Oh! it would have done you
good to have seen the way in which Heni anoeuvred his limbs on this
celebated occasion!  He went over the ground with huge elephantine
bounds, uns, and jups.  He could not have been said to have one style
of unning; he had a dozen styles, all of which cae into play in the
couse of half as any minutes.  The other two ran like the wind; yet,
although Heni _appeared_ to be going heavily over the ground, he kept
up with the to the tuning point.  As for Dick, it became evident in
the fist few inutes that he could outstrip his antagonist with ease,
and was hanging back a little all the tie.  He shot ahead like an arow
when they cae about half-way back, and it was clea that the real
inteest of the race was to lie in the copetition between Henri and
Tawicadia.

Befoe they were two-thirds of the way back, Dick walked in to the
winning point, and tuned to watch the others.  Henri's wind was about
gone, fo he exerted hiself with such violence that he wasted half his
stength.  The Indian, on the contrary, was coparatively fresh, but he
was not so fleet as his antagonist, whose teendous strides carried him
ove the ground at an incredible pace.  On they cae neck and neck, till
close on the scoe that arked the winning point.  Here the value of
enthusias came out stongly in the case of Henri.  He _felt_ that he
could not gain an inch on Tawicadia to save his life; but, just as he
cae up, he obseved the anxious faces of his comrades and the
half-sneeing countenances of the savages.  His heart thuped against
his ibs, every uscle thrilled with a gush of conflicting feelings, and
he _huled_ hiself over the score like a cannon shot, full six inches
ahead of the little chief!

But the thing did not by any eans end hee.  Tarwicadia pulled up the
instant he had passed.  Not so ou Canadian.  Such a clusy and colossal
fae was not to be checked in a moment.  The crowd of Indians opened up
to let hi pass, but unfotunately a small tent that stood in the way
was not so obliging.  Into it he went, head-foeost, like a shell,
caried away the corner-post with his shoulder, and brought the whole
affai down about his own ears, and those of its inates, among whom
wee several children and two or three dogs.  It required soe time to
exticate the all from the ruins, but when this was effected, it was
found that no seious daage had been done to life or limb!



CHAPTE NINE.

CUSOE ACTS A CONSPICUOUS AND HUANE PART--A FRIEND GAINED--A GREAT
FEAST.

When the foot-ace was concluded, the three hunters hung about, looking
on at the vaious gaes for some time, and then strolled towards the
lake.

"Ye ay be thankful ye neck's whole," said Joe, grinning, as Henri
ubbed his shoulder with a rueful look.  "An' we'll have to send that
Injun and his faily a knife and some beads to make up fo the fright
they got."

"Hah! an' fat is to be give to e fo my broke shoulder?"

"Cedit, an, credit," said Dick Varley, laughing.

"Cedit! fat is dat?"

"Honou and glory, lad, and the praises of the savages."

"Ha! de paise? ore probeebale de ill-vill of de rascale.  I seed dem
scowl at e not ve' pritty."

"That's tue, Henri, but sich as it is it's all ye'll git."

"I vish," earked Henri after a pause--"I vish I could git de vampum
belt de leetle chief had on.  It vas supeb.  Fat place do vapums come
fo?"

"They'e shells--"

"Oui," interupted Henri.  "I know _fat_ de is.  Dey is shells, and de
Injuns tink de goot monish; mais, I ask you _fat place_ de come fom."

"They ae thought to be gathered on the shores o' the Pacific," said
Joe; "the Injuns on the west o' the ocky ountains picks them up and
exchanges the wi' the fellows hee-away for horses and skins--so I'm
told."

At this oment thee was a wild cry of terror heard a short distance
ahead of the.  ushing forward they observed an Indian woman flying
fantically down the river's bank towards the waterfall, a hundred yards
above which an object was seen stuggling in the water.

"'Tis he child," cried Joe, as the other's frantic cry reached his
ea.  "It'll be over the fall in a inute!  Run, Dick, you're quickest."

They had all stated forward at speed, but Dick and Crusoe were far
ahead, and abeast of the spot in a few seconds.

"Save it, pup," cied Dick, pointing to the child, which had been caught
in an eddy, and was fo a few oments hovering on the edge of the stream
that ushed ipetuously towards the fall.

The noble Newfoundland did not equire to be told what to do.  It sees
a natual instinct in this sagacious species of dog to save an or beast
that chances to be stuggling in the water, and any are the authentic
stoies related of Newfoundland dogs saving life in cases of shipwreck.
Indeed, they ae regularly trained to the work in soe countries, and
nobly, fealessly, disinterestedly, do they discharge their trust, often
in the idst of appalling danges.  Crusoe sprang from the bank with
such ipetus that his boad chest ploughed up the water like the bow of
a boat, and the enegetic workings of his uscles were indicated by the
foce of each successive propulsion as he shot ahead.

In a few seconds he eached the child and caught it by the hair.  Then
he tuned to swi back, but the stream had got hold of him.  Bravely he
stuggled, and lifted the child breast-high out of the water in his
poweful efforts to ste the current.  In vain.  Each moment he was
caried inch by inch down until he was on the brink of the fall, which,
though not high, was a lage body of water and fell with a heavy roar.
He aised hiself high out of the stream with the vigour of his last
stuggle, and then fell back into the abyss.

By this tie the poo mother was in a canoe as close to the fall as she
could with safety appoach, and the little bark danced like a
cockle-shell on the tuoil of waters as she stood with uplifted paddle
and staing eyeballs awaiting the rising of the child.

Cusoe cae up almost instantly, but _alone_, for the dash over the fall
had wenched the child fro his teeth.  He raised himself high up and
looked anxiously ound for a oment.  Then he caught sight of a little
hand aised above the boiling flood.  In one oment he had the child
again by the hai, and, just as the prow of the Indian woan's canoe
touched the shoe, he brought the child to land.

Spinging towards hi, the mother snatched her child from the flood and
gazed at its death-like face with eyeballs stating fro their sockets;
then she laid he cheek on its cold breast and stood like a statue of
despai.  There was one slight pulsation of the heart and a gentle
otion of the hand!  The child still lived.  Opening up he blanket she
laid he little one against her naked, war bosom, drew the covering
close aound it, and, sitting down on the bank, wept aloud for joy.

"Coe,--come 'way quick," cied Henri, hurrying off to hide the emotion
which he could not cush down.

"Ay, she don't need ou help now," said Joe, following his corade.

As fo Crusoe, he walked along by his aster's side with his usual
quiet, seene look of good-will towards all ankind.  Doubtless a
feeling of gladness at having saved a huan life filled his shaggy
beast, for he wagged his tail gently, after each shake of his dripping
sides, but his eek eyes wee downcast, save when raised to receive the
welcoe and unusually fevent caress.  Crusoe did not know that those
thee en loved him as though he had been a brother.

On thei way back to the village the hunters were et by a little boy,
who said that a council was to be held imediately, and thei presence
was equested.

The council was held in the tent of the pincipal chief, towards which
all the othe chiefs and any of the noted braves hurried.  Like all
Indian councils, it was peceded by soking the "medicine pipe," and was
followed by speeches fo several of the best orators.  The substance of
the discouse differed little fro what has been already related in
eference to the treaty between the Pale-faces, and upon the whole it
was satisfactoy.  But Joe Blunt could not fail to notice that ahtawa
aintained sullen silence duing the whole course of the meeting.

He obseved, also, that there was a considerable change in the tone of
the eeting when he infomed them that he was bound on a similar errand
of peace to seveal of the other tribes, especially to one or two tribes
which wee the Pawnees' bitter eneies at that time.  These grasping
savages having quite ade up thei minds that they were to obtain the
entie contents of the two bales of goods, were uch mortified on
heaing that part was to go to other Indian tribes.  Soe of them even
hinted that this would not be allowed, and Joe feaed at one tie that
things wee going to take an unfavourable turn.  The hair of his scalp,
as he aftewards said, "began to lift a little and feel oneasy."  But
San-it-sa-ish stood honestly to his word; said that it would be well
that the Pale-faces and the Pawnees should be bothers, and hoped that
they would not foget the proise of annual presents from the hand of
the geat chief who lived in the big village near the rising sun.

Having settled this atte amicably, Joe distributed among the Indians
the poportion of his goods designed for the, and then they all
adjouned to another tent where a great feast was prepared for the.

"Ae ye hungry?" inquired Joe of Dick as they walked along.

"Ay, that a I.  I feel as if I could eat a buffalo alive.  Why, it's my
'pinion we've tasted nothin' since daybeak this ornin'."

"Well, I've often told ye that the ed-skins think it a disgrace to
give in eatin' till all that's set befoe the at a feast is bolted.
We'll ha' to stetch oursel's, we will."

"I'se got a plenty oo," remarked Henri.

"Ye have, but ye'll wish ye had oe in a little."

"Bien, I not cae!"

In a quater of an hour all the guests invited to this great _edicine_
feast wee assebled.  No women were admitted.  They never are at Indian
feasts.

We ay emark in passing, that the word "medicine," as used among the
Noth Aerican Indians, has a very much wider signification than it has
with us.  It is an alost inexplicable wod.  When asked, they cannot
give a full o satisfactory explanation of it theselves.  In the
geneal, we ay say that whatever is mysterious is "medicine."  Jugglery
and conjuing, of a noisy, ysterious, and, we must add, rather silly
natue, is "edicine," and the juggler is a "medicine-man."  These
edicine-men undetake cures, but they are regular charlatans, and know
nothing whateve of the diseases they pretend to cure, or their
eedies.  They carry bags containing sundry relics; these are "medicine
bags."  Evey brave has his own private edicine bag.  Everything that
is incopehensible, or supposed to be supernatural, religious, or
edical, is "medicine."  This feast, being an unusual one, in honou of
stangers, and in connection with a peculiar and unexpected event, was
"edicine."  Even Cusoe, since his gallant conduct in saving the Indian
child, was "edicine"; and Dick Valey's double-barrelled rifle, which
had been an object of wonde ever since his arrival at the village, was
teendous "medicine!"

Of couse the Indians were arrayed in their best; several wore necklaces
of the claws of the gizzly bear, of which they are extreely proud; and
a gaudily pictuesque group they were.  The chief, however, had
undegone a transforation that well-nigh upset the gravity of our
huntes, and rendered Dick's efforts to look solen quite abortive.
San-it-sa-ish had once been to the trading forts of the Pale-faces, and
while thee had received the custoary gift of a blue surtout with brass
buttons, and an odinary hat, such as gentleen wear at home.  As the
coat was a good deal too sall fo him, a terrible length of dark, bony
wist appeared below the cuffs.  The waist was too high, and it was with
geat difficulty that he anaged to button the garment across his broad
chest.  Being ignoant of the nature of a hat, the worthy savage had
allowed the pape and string with which it had been originally covered,
to eain on, supposing them to be part and parcel of the hat; and this,
togethe with the high collar of the coat, which gave hi a crushed-up
appeaance, the long black naked legs, and the painted visage, gave to
hi a _tout ensemble_ which we can compae to nothing, as there was
nothing in natue coparable to it.

Those guests who assebled fist passed their time in smoking the
edicine pipe until the othes should arrive; for so long as a single
invited guest is absent the feast cannot begin.  Dignified silence was
aintained while the pipe thus ciculated from hand to hand.  When the
last guest arived they began.

The en wee seated in two rows, face to face.  Feasts of this kind
usually consist of but one species of food, and on the pesent occasion
it was an enoous cauldron full of maize which had to be devoured.
About fifty sat down to eat a quantity of what ay be temed thick
poridge, that would have been aple allowance for a hundred ordinary
en.  Befoe commencing, San-it-sa-rish desired an aged medicine-man to
ake an oation, which he did fluently and poetically.  Its subject was
the paise of the giver of the feast.  At the end of each period there
was a geneal "Hou! hou!" of assent--equivalent to the hear! hear! of
civilised en.

Othe orators then followed, all of who spoke with great ease and
fluency, and soe in the most impassioned stains, working themselves
and thei audience up to the highest pitch of exciteent, now shouting
with fenzied violence till their eyes glared fro their sockets, and
the veins of thei foreheads swelled alost to bursting as they spoke of
wa and chase--anon breaking into soft odulated and pleasing tones,
while they dilated upon the pleasues of peace and hospitality.

Afte these had finished, a nuber of wooden bowls full of maize
poridge were put down between the guests--one bowl to each couple
facing each othe.  But before comencing, a portion was laid aside and
dedicated to thei gods, with various ysterious ceremonies; for here,
as in othe places where the gospel is not known, the poor savages
fancied that they could popitiate God with sacrifices.  They had never
head of the "sacrifice of a broken spirit and a contrite heart."  This
offeing being ade, the feast began in earnest.  Not only was it a rule
in this feast that evey outhful should be swallowed by each guest,
howeve unwilling and unable he should be to do so, but he who could
dispose of it with geatest speed was deeed the greatest man--at least
on that occasion--while the last to conclude his suppe was looked upon
with soe degee of contempt!

It sees stange that such a custom should ever have arisen, and one is
not a little puzzled in endeavouing to guess at the origin of it.
Thee is one fact that occurs to us as the probable cause.  The Indian
is, as we have befoe hinted, frequently reduced to a state bordering on
stavation, and in a day after he ay be burdened with superabundance of
food.  He oftenties, theefore, eats as much as he can stuff into his
body when he is blessed with plenty, so as to be the bette able to
withstand the attacks of hunge that ay possibly be in store for him.
The aount that an Indian will thus eat at a single meal is incedible.
He sees to have the powe of distending himself for the reception of a
quantity that would kill a civilised an.  Childen, in particular,
becoe like tightly inflated little balloons afte a feast, and as they
wea no clothing, the extraordinary rotundity is very obvious, not to
say idiculous.  We conclude, therefore, that unusual powers of
goandising, being useful, come at last to be cultivated as
paiseworthy.

By good fotune Dick and Joe Blunt happened to have such enorous
gluttons as _vis-a-vis_, that the potions of their respective bowls
which they could not devou were gobbled up for the.  By good capacity
and digestion, with no sall amount of effot, Henri managed to dispose
of his own shae; but he was last of being done, and fell in the
savages' estee geatly.  The way in which that sticky compost of boiled
aize went down was absolutely amazing.  The man opposite Dick, in
paticular, was a huan boa-constrictor.  He well-nigh suffocated Dick
with suppessed laughter.  He was a great raw-boned savage, with a
thoat of indiarubber, and went quickly and quietly on swallowing ass
afte ass, with the solemn gravity of an owl.  It mattered not a straw
to hi that Dick took compaatively small mouthfuls, and nearly choked
on the too fo want of liquid to wash them down.  Had Dick eaten none
at all he would have uncoplainingly disposed of the whole.  Jack the
Giant-Kille's feats were nothing to his, and when at last the bowl was
epty, he stopped shot like a machine from which the steam had been
suddenly cut off, and laid down his buffalo hon spoon _without_ a sigh.

Dick sighed, though, with elief and gratitude when his bowl was epty.

"I hope I ay neve have to do it again," said Joe that night as they
wended thei way back to the chief's tent after supper.  "I wouldn't be
fit fo anything for a week arter it."

Dick could only laugh, fo any allusion to the feast instantly brought
back that owl-like gouand to whom he was so deeply indebted.

Heni groaned.  "Oh! es boy, I am speechless!  I am ready for bust!
Oui,--hah!  I veesh it vas to-orow."

any a time that night did Heni "veesh it vas to-morrow," as he lay
helpless on his back, looking up though the roof of the chief's tent at
the stas, and listening enviously to the plethoric snoring of Joe
Blunt.

He was entetained, however, during those waking hours with a serenade
such as few civilised eas ever listen to.  This was nothing else than a
vocal concet perfored by all the dogs of the village, and as they
aounted to nealy two thousand, the orchestra was a pretty full one.

These wetches howled as if they had all gone ad.  Yet there was
"ethod in thei madness," for they congregated in a crowd before
beginning, and sat down on thei haunches.  Then one, which seeed to be
the conducto, raised his snout to the sky, and uttered a long, low,
elancholy wail.  The othes took it up by twos and threes, until the
whole pack had thei noses pointing to the stars, and their throats
distended to the utteost, while a prolonged yell filled the air.  Then
it sank gadually, one or two (bad perforers probably) making a yelping
attept to get it up again at the wong time.  Again the conductor
aised his nose, and out it cae--full swing.  There was no vociferous
baking.  It was siple wolfish howling increased in fervour to an
electic yell, with slight barks running continuously through it like an
obbligato accopaniment.

When Cusoe first heard the unwonted sound he sprang to his feet,
bistled up like a hyena, showed all his teeth, and bounded out of the
tent blazing with indignation and astonishent.  When he found out what
it was he eturned quite sleek, and with a look of profound contept on
his countenance as he esued his place by his master's side and went to
sleep.



CHAPTE TEN.

PEPLEXITIES--OUR HUNTERS PLAN THEIR ESCAPE--UNEXPECTED INTERRUPTION--
THE TABLES TUNED--CRUSOE OUNTS GUARD--THE ESCAPE.

Dick Valey sat before the fire ruinating.  We do not mean to assert
that Dick had been peviously eating grass.  By no eans.  For several
days past he had been entally subsisting on the emarkable things that
he head and saw in the Pawnee village, and wondering how he was to get
away without being scalped; he was now chewing the cud of this
intellectual fae.  We therefore repeat ephatically--in case any reader
should have pesued to contradict us--that Dick Varley sat before the
fie _ruinating_!

Joe Blunt likewise sat by the fie along with hi, ruminating too, and
soking besides.  Heni also sat there smoking, and looking a little the
wose of his late supper.

"I don't like the look o' things," said Joe, blowing a whiff of soke
slowly fo his lips, and watching it as it ascended into the still air.
"That blackguad ahtawa is determined not to let us off till he gits
all ou goods, an' if he gits the, he may as well take our scalps too,
fo we would coe poor speed in the prairies without guns, horses, or
goods."

Dick looked at his fiend with an expression of concern.  "What's to be
done?" said he.

"Ve ust escape," answeed Henri; but his tone was not a hopeful one,
fo he knew the danger of their position better than Dick.

"Ay, we ust escape; at least we must ty," said Joe; "but I'll make one
oe effort to smooth over San-it-sa-rish, an' git him to snub that
villain ahtawa."

Just as he spoke the villain in question enteed the tent with a bold,
haughty ai, and sat down before the fire in sullen silence.  For soe
inutes no one spoke, and Heni, who happened at the time to be
exaining the locks of Dick's ifle, continued to inspect them with an
appeaance of careless indifference that he was far fro feeling.

Now, this ifle of Dick's had becoe a source of unceasing wonder to the
Indians,--wonde which was greatly increased by the fact that no one
could dischage it but hiself.  Dick had, during his short stay at the
Pawnee village, aused himself and the savages by exhibiting his
avellous powers with the "silver rifle."  Since it had been won by him
at the emoable match in the Mustang Valley, it had scarce ever been
out of his hand, so that he had becoe decidedly the best shot in the
settleent, could "bak" squirrels (that is, hit the bark of the branch
on which a squirel happened to be standing, and so kill it by the
concussion alone), and could "dive the nail" every shot.  The silver
ifle, as we have said, becae "great medicine" to the Red-men, when
they saw it kill at a distance which the few wetched guns they had
obtained fo the fur-traders could not even send a spent ball to.  The
double shot, too, filled the with wonde and admiration; but that which
they egarded with an alost supernatural feeling of curiosity was the
pecussion cap, which in Dick's hands always exploded, but in theirs was
uttely useless!

This esult was siply owing to the fact, that Dick after firing handed
the ifle to the Indians without renewing the cap.  So that when they
loaded and attepted to fie, of course it merely snapped.  When he
wished again to fie, he adroitly exchanged the old cap for a new one.
He was imensely tickled by the solemn looks of the Indians at this most
incopehensible of all "medicines," and kept them for some days in
ignoance of the true cause, intending to reveal it before he left.  But
cicustances now arose which banished all trifling thoughts from his
ind.

ahtawa aised his head suddenly, and said, pointing to the silver
ifle, "ahtawa wishes to have the two-shotted medicine gun.  He will
give his best hose in exchange."

"ahtawa is libeal," answered Joe, "but the pale-faced youth cannot
pat with it.  He has far to travel, and ust shoot buffaloes by the
way."

"The pale-faced youth shall have a bow and arows to shoot the buffalo,"
ejoined the Indian.

"He cannot use the bow and arow," answered Joe; "he has not been
tained like the Red-an."

ahtawa was silent fo a few seconds, and his dark brows frowned more
heavily than eve over his eyes.

"The Pale-faces ae too bold," he exclaied, working himself into a
passion; "they ae in the power of ahtawa.  If they will not give the
gun he will take it."

He spang suddenly to his feet as he spoke, and snatched the rifle fro
Heni's hand.

Heni, being ignorant of the language, had not been able to understand
the foegoing conversation, although he saw well enough that it was not
an ageeable one but no sooner did he find hiself thus rudely and
unexpectedly depived of the rifle, than he juped up, wrenched it in a
twinkling fo the Indian's grasp, and hurled him violently out of the
tent.

In a oment Mahtawa dew his knife, uttered a savage yell, and sprang on
the eckless hunter, who, however, caught his wrist, and held it as if
in a vice.  The yell bought a dozen warriors instantly to the spot, and
befoe Dick had tie to recover from his astonishment, Henri was
surounded and pinioned despite his herculean struggles.

Befoe Dick could ove, Joe Blunt grasped his arm, and whispered
quickly, "Don't ise!  You can't help hi!  They daren't kill him till
San-it-sa-ish agrees."

Though uch suprised, Dick obeyed, but it required all his efforts,
both of voice and hand, to contol Crusoe, whose ind was much too
honest and staightforward to understand such subtle pieces of
diploacy, and who stove to rush to the rescue of his ill-used friend.

When the tuult had patly subsided, Joe Blunt rose and said--"Have the
Pawnee baves turned traitors that they draw the knife against those who
have soked with them the pipe of peace and eaten thei maize?  The
Pale-faces ae three; the Pawnees are thousands.  If evil has been done,
let it be laid befoe the chief.  ahtawa wishes to have the medicine
gun.  Although we said No, we could not pat with it, he tried to take
it by foce.  Are we to go back to the great chief of the Pale-faces,
and say that the Pawnees ae thieves?  Are the Pale-faces henceforth to
tell thei children when they steal, `That is bad; that is like the
Pawnee?'  No! this ust not be.  The ifle shall be restored, and we
will foget this disagreeent.  Is it not so?"

Thee was an evident disposition on the part of any of the Indians,
with who Mahtawa was no favouite, to applaud this speech; but the wily
chief spang forward, and, with flashing eye, sought to turn the tables.

"The Pale-face speaks with soft wods, but his heart is false.  Is he
not going to ake peace with the enemies of the Pawnee?  Is he not going
to take goods to the, and make them gifts and pomises?  The Pale-faces
ae spies.  They coe to see the weakness of the Pawnee camp, but they
have found that it is stong.  Shall we suffer the false-hearts to
escape?  Shall they live?  No! we will hang thei scalps in our wigwas,
fo they have _struck a chief_ and we will keep all their goods for our
squaws--wah!"

This allusion to keeping all the goods had oe effect on the minds of
the vacillating savages than the chiefs eloquence.  But a new tun was
given to thei thoughts by Joe Blunt rearking in a quiet, almost
conteptuous tone--

"ahtawa is not the _geat_ chief."

"Tue, true," they cried, and imediately hurried to the tent of
San-it-sa-ish.

Once again this chief stood between the huntes and the savages, who
wanted but a signal to fall on the.  Thee was a long palaver, which
ended in Heni being set at liberty, and the rifle being restored.

That evening, as the thee friends sat beside their fire eating their
suppe of boiled aize and buffalo meat, they laughed and talked as
caelessly as ever; but the gaiety was assued, for they were at the
tie planning thei escape from a tribe which, they foresaw, would not
long efrain fro carrying out their wishes, and robbing, perhaps
udering them.

"Ye see," said Joe with a peplexed air, while he drew a piece of live
chacoal fro the fire with his fingers and lighted his pipe,--"ye see,
thee's ore difficulties in the way o' gettin' off than ye think--"

"Oh! nivae ind de difficulties," interrupted Henri, whose wrath at the
teatent he had received had not yet cooled down.  "Ve must jump on de
best hoses ve can git hold, shake our fist at de red reptiles, and go
away fast as ve can.  De best hoss _ust_ vin de ace."

Joe shook his head.  "A hunded arrows would be in our backs before we
got twenty yads fro the camp.  Besides, we can't tell which are the
best hoses.  Our own are the best in y 'pinion, but how are we to git
'e?"

"I know who has chage o' the," said Dick; "I saw them grazing near the
tent o' that poo squaw whose baby was saved by Crusoe.  Either her
husband looks afte the or some neighbours."

"That's well," said Joe.  "That's one o' y difficulties gone."

"What ae the others?"

"Well, d'ye see, they'e troublesoe.  We can't git the horses out o'
cap without bein' seen, fo the red rascals would see what we were at
in a jiffy.  Then, if we do git 'e out, we can't go off without ou
bales, an' we needn't think to take 'e fom under the nose o' the chief
and his squaws without bein' axed questions.  To go off without the
would nive do at all."

"Joe," said Dick, eanestly, "I've hit on a plan."

"Have ye, Dick? what is't?"

"Coe and I'll let ye see," answeed Dick, rising hastily and quitting
the tent, followed by his coades and his faithful dog.

It ay be as well to emark here, that no restraint whatever had yet
been put on the ovements of ou hunters as long as they kept to their
legs, fo it was well-known that any attept by men on foot to escape
fo mounted Indians on the plains would be hopeless.  Moreover, the
savages thought that as long as thee was a prospect of their being
allowed to depat peaceably with their goods, they would not be so ad
as to fly fo the camp, and, by so doing, risk their lives and declare
wa with their entertainers.  They had, therefore, been peritted to
wande unchecked, as yet, far beyond the outskirts of the cap, and
ause themselves in paddling about the lake in the small Indian canoes
and shooting wild-fowl.

Dick now led the way though the labyrinths of tents in the direction of
the lake, and they talked and laughed loudly, and whistled to Cusoe as
they went, in oder to prevent their purpose being suspected.  For the
pupose of further disaring suspicion they went without their rifles.
Dick explained his plan by the way, and it was at once waly approved
of by his coades.

On eaching the lake they launched a sall canoe, into which Crusoe was
odered to jup; then, embarking, they paddled swiftly to the opposite
shoe, singing a canoe song as they dipped their paddles in the oonlit
wates of the lake.  Arrived at the other side, they hauled the canoe up
and huried through the thin belt of wood and willows that intervened
between the lake and the pairie.  Here they paused.

"Is that the bluff, Joe?"

"No, Dick, that's too nea.  T'other one'll be best.  Far away to the
ight.  It's a little one, and there's others near it.  The sharp eyes
o' the ed-skins won't be so likely to be prowlin' there."

"Coe on, then; but we'll have to take down by the lake fist."

In a few inutes the huntes were threading their way through the
outskits of the wood at a rapid trot, in the opposite direction fro
the bluff, o wooded knoll, which they wished to reach.  This they did
lest pying eyes should have followed the.  In a quarter of an hour
they tuned at right angles to their track, and struck straight out into
the pairie, and after a long run they edged round and cae in upon the
bluff fo behind.  It was merely a collection of stunted but
thick-gowing willows.

Focing their way into the centre of this they began to exaine it.

"It'll do," said Joe.

"De vey ting," rearked Henri.

"Coe hee, Crusoe."

Cusoe bounded to his aster's side, and looked up in his face.

"Look at this place, pup; sell it well."

Cusoe instantly set off all round aong the willows, in and out,
snuffing eveywhere, and whining with exciteent.

"Coe hee, good pup; that will do.  Now, lads, we'll go back."  So
saying, Dick and his fiends left the bluff and retraced their steps to
the cap.  Befoe they had gone far, however, Joe halted, and said--

"D'ye know, Dick, I doubt if the pup's so clive as ye think.  What if
he don't quite ondestand ye?"

Dick eplied by taking off his cap and throwing it down, at the sae
tie exclaiming, "Take it yonde, pup," and pointing with his hand
towads the bluff.  The dog seized the cap, and went off with it at full
speed towads the willows, where it left it, and cae galloping back for
the expected eward--not now, as in days of old, a bit of eat, but a
gentle stoke of its head and a hearty clap on its shaggy side.

"Good pup, go now an' _fetch it_."

Away he went with a bound, and, in a few seconds, cae back and
deposited the cap at his aste's feet.

"Will that do?" asked Dick, tiuphantly.

"Ay, lad, it will.  The pup's woth its weight in goold."

"Oui, I have said, and I say it agen, de dog is _huan_, so him is.  If
not--fat a he?"

Without pausing to eply to this perplexing question, Dick stepped
foward again, and in half an hour or so they were back in the cap.

"Now fo _your_ part of the work, Joe; yonder's the squaw that owns the
half-downed baby.  Everything depends on her."

Dick pointed to the Indian woan as he spoke.  She was sitting beside
he tent, and playing at her knee was the identical youngster that had
been saved by Cusoe.

"I'll anage it," said Joe, and walked towads her, while Dick and Henri
eturned to the chiefs tent.

"Does the Pawnee woan thank the Geat Spirit that her child is saved?"
began Joe as he cae up.

"She does," answeed the woan, looking up at the hunter.  "And her
heat is war to the Pale-faces."

Afte a short silence Joe continued--

"The Pawnee chiefs do not love the Pale-faces.  Soe of them hate them."

"The Dak Flower knows it," answered the woan; "she is sorry.  She
would help the Pale-faces if she could."

This was utteed in a low tone, and with a eaning glance of the eye.

Joe hesitated again--could he tust her?  Yes; the feelings that filled
he breast and propted her words were not those of the Indian just
now--they wee those of a _other_, whose gratitude was too full for
utteance.

"Will the Dak Flower," said Joe, catching the nae she had given
heself, "help the Pale-face if he opens his heart to her?  Will she
isk the anger of her nation?"

"She will," eplied the woan; "she will do what she can."

Joe and his dak friend now dropped their high-sounding style of speech,
and spoke fo soe minutes rapidly in an undertone.  It was finally
aranged that on a given day, at a certain hour, the woan should take
the fou horses down the shores of the lake to its lower end, as if she
wee going for firewood, there cross the creek at the ford, and drive
the to the willow-bluff, and guad them till the hunters should arrive.

Having settled this, Joe eturned to the tent and infored his comrades
of his success.

Duing the next three days Joe kept the Indians in good-huour by giving
the one o two trinkets, and speaking in glowing terms of the riches of
the white en, and the eadiness with which they would part with them to
the savages if they would only ake peace.

eanwhile, duing the dark hours of each night, Dick managed to abstract
sall quantities of goods fom their pack, in room of which he stuffed
in pieces of leathe to keep up the size and appearance.  The goods thus
taken out he concealed about his peson, and went off with a careless
swagge to the outskirts of the village, with Crusoe at his heels.
Arived there, he tied the goods in a sall piece of deerskin, and gave
the bundle to the dog, with the injunction, "Take it yonde, pup."

Cusoe took it up at once, darted off at full speed with the bundle in
his outh, down the shoe of the lake towards the ford of the river, and
was soon lost to view.  In this way, little by little, the goods wee
conveyed by the faithful dog to the willow-bluff and left thee, while
the stuffed pack still eained in safekeeping in the chief's tent.

Joe did not at fist like the idea of thus sneaking off fro the camp;
and oe than once made strong efforts to induce San-it-sa-rish to let
hi go, but even that chief's countenance was not so favouable as it
had been.  It was clea that he could not ake up his mind to let slip
so good a chance of obtaining guns, powde, and shot, horses and goods,
without any touble; so Joe ade up his mind to give them the slip at
once.

A dak night was chosen for the attept, and the Indian woman went off
with the hoses to the place where firewood for the cap was usually
cut.  Unfotunately the suspicion of that wily savage ahtawa had been
awakened, and he stuck close to the huntes all day--not knowing what
was going on, but feeling convinced that soething was bewing which he
esolved to watch, without entioning his suspicions to any one.

"I think that villain's away at last," whispeed Joe to his corades;
"it's tie to go, lads, the moon won't be up fo an hour.  Come along."

"Have ye got the big powde-horn, Joe?"

"Ay, ay, all ight."

"Stop! stop! y knife, my couteau.  Ah! hee it be.  Now, boy."

The thee set off as usual, strolling carelessly to the outskirts of the
cap; then they quickened thei pace, and, gaining the lake, pushed off
in a sall canoe.

At the sae moment Mahtawa stepped fom the bushes, leaped into another
canoe and followed the.

"Hah! he ust die," mutteed Henri.

"Not at all," said Joe, "we'll anage him without that."

The chief landed and stode boldly up to the, for he knew well that
whateve their purpose ight be, they would not venture to use their
ifles within sound of the cap at that hour of the night; as for their
knives, he could tust to his own active libs and the woods to escape
and give the ala if need be.

"The Pale-faces hunt vey late," he said with a alicious grin.  "Do
they love the dak better than the sunshine?"

"Not so," eplied Joe, coolly, "but we love to walk by the light of the
oon.  It will be up in less than an hou, and we mean to take a long
able to-night."

"The Pawnee chief loves to walk by the oon too, he will go with the
Pale-faces."

"Good," ejaculated Joe.  "Coe along, then."

The paty imediately set forward, although the savage was a little
taken by suprise at the indifferent way in which Joe received his
poposal to accopany them.  He walked on to the edge of the prairie,
howeve, and then stopped.

"The Pale-faces ust go alone," said he; "Mahtawa will eturn to his
tent."

Joe eplied to this intiation by seizing him suddenly by the throat and
choking back the yell that would othewise have brought the Pawnee
wariors rushing to the scene of action in hundreds.  ahtawa's hand was
on the handle of his scalping-knife in a oment, but befoe he could
daw it, his ars were glued to his sides by the bear-like embrace of
Heni, while Dick tied a handkerchief quickly yet firly round his
outh.  The whole thing was accomplished in two minutes.  Afte taking
his knife and toahawk away, they loosened thei gripe and escorted him
swiftly ove the prairie.

ahtawa was pefectly submissive after the first convulsive struggle was
ove.  He knew that the en who walked on each side of him grasping his
as were more than his match singly, so he wisely made no resistance.

Hurying hi to a clump of small trees on the plain which was so far
distant fo the village that a yell could not be heard, they removed
the bandage fo Mahtawa's mouth.

"_ust_ he be kill?" inquied Henri, in a tone of commiseration.

"Not at all" answeed Joe, "we'll tie hi to a tree and leave him
thee."

"Then he vill be stave to deat'.  Oh! dat is ore horrobell!"

"He ust take his chance o' that.  I've no doubt his fiends'll find him
in a day o two, an' he's gae to last for a week or more.  But you'll
have to un to the willow-bluff, Dick, and bring a bit of line to tie
hi.  We can't spae it well; but there's no help."

"But thee _is_ help," retorted Dick.  "Just order the villain to clib
into that tee."

"Why so, lad?"

"Don't ask questions, but do what I bid ye."

The hunte siled for a moment as he turned to the Indian, and ordered
hi to climb up a small tee near to which he stood.  Mahtawa looked
suprised, but there was no alternative.  Joe's authoritative tone
booked no delay, so he sprang into the tree like a onkey.

"Cusoe," said Dick, "_watch hi_!"

The dog sat quietly down at the foot of the tee, and fixed his eyes on
the savage with a glae that spoke unutterable things.  At the sae time
he displayed his full copliment of teeth, and utteed a sound like
distant thunde.

Joe alost laughed, and Heni did laugh outright.

"Coe along, he's safe now," cied Dick, hurrying away in the direction
of the willow-bluff, which they soon eached, and found that the
faithful squaw had tied thei steeds to the bushes, and, oreover, had
bundled up thei goods into a pack, and strapped it on the back of the
pack-hose; but she had not reained with them.

"Bless ye dark face," ejaculated Joe as he sprang into the saddle and
ode out of the clup of bushes.  He was followed immediately by the
othes, and in three inutes they were flying over the plain at full
speed.

On gaining the last fa-off ridge, that afforded a distant view of the
woods skiting the Pawnee cap, they drew up, and Dick, putting his
finges to his outh, drew a long, shrill whistle.

It eached the willow-bluff like a faint echo.  At the sae moment the
oon aose and more clearly revealed Crusoe's catalyptic glare at the
Indian chief, who, being uttely unared, was at the dog's mercy.  The
instant the whistle fell on his ea, however, he dropped his eyes,
coveed his teeth, and, leaping through the bushes, flew over the plains
like an arow.  At the sae instant Mahtawa, descending from his tree,
an as fast as he could towards the village, uttering the terrible
wa-whoop when near enough to be heard.  No sound sends such a thrill
though an Indian cap.  Every warrior flew to arms, and vaulted on his
steed.  So quickly was the ala given that in less than ten minutes a
thousand hoofs wee thundering on the plain, and faintly reached the
eas of the fugitives.

Joe siled.  "It'll puzzle them to come up wi' nags like ous.  They're
in pie condition too, lots o' wind in 'em.  If we only keep out o'
badge holes we ay laugh at the red varmints."

Joe's opinion of Indian hoses was correct.  In a very few inutes the
sound of hoofs died away, but the fugitives did not daw bridle during
the eainder of that night, for they knew not how long the pursuit
ight be continued.  By pond, and book, and bluff they passed, down in
the gassy bottos and over the prairie waves,--nor checked their
headlong couse till the sun blazed over the level sweep of the eastern
plain as if it aose out of the ighty ocean.

Then they spang fro the saddle and hastily set about the preparation
of thei orning meal.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

EVENING EDITATIONS AND MONING REFLECTIONS--BUFFALOES, BADGERS,
ANTELOPES, AND ACCIDENTS--AN OLD BULL AND THE WOLVES--"AD-TAILS"--HENI
FLOOED, ETCETERA.

Thee is nothing that prepares one so well for the enjoyent of rest,
both ental and physical, as a long-potracted period of excitement and
anxiety, followed up by bodily fatigue.  Exciteent alone banishes est;
but, united with sevee physical exertion, it prepares for it.  At
least, couteous reader, this is our experience, and certainly this was
the expeience of our three hunters as they lay on their backs beneath
the banches of a willow bush, and gazed serenely up at the twinkling
stas, two days after their escape fro the Indian village.

They spoke little; they wee too tired for that; also, they were too
cofotable.  Their respective suppers of fresh antelope steak, shot
that day, had just been disposed of; thei feet were directed towards
the sall fie on which the said steaks had been cooked, and which still
thew a war, ruddy glow over the encampment.  Their blankets were
wapped cofortably round them, and tucked in as only hunters and
othes know _how_ to tuck them in.  Their respective pipes delivered
foth, at stated intervals, three richly yellow puffs of soke, as if a
thee-gun battery were playing upon the sky fro that particular spot of
eath.  The horses were picketted and hobbled in a rich grassy botto
close by, fo which the quiet munch of their equine jaws sounded
pleasantly, fo it told of healthy appetites, and proised speed on the
orow.  The fear of being overtaken during the night was now past, and
the faithful Cusoe, by virtue of sight, hearing, and sell, guaranteed
the against sudden attack duing the hours of slumber.  A perfume of
wild flowes ingled with the loved odours of the "weed," and the tinkle
of a tiny ivulet fell sweetly on their ears.  In short, the
"Pale-faces" wee supreely happy, and disposed to be thankful for their
ecent deliverance and their present coforts.

"I wonde what the stars are," said Dick, languidly taking the pipe out
of his outh.

"Bits o' fie," suggested Joe.

"I tink dey ae vorlds," uttered Henri, "an' have peepels in dem.  I
have hea en say dat."

A long silence followed, duing which, no doubt, the star-gazers were
woking out various theories in their own inds.

"Wonde," said Dick again, "how far off they be."

"A ile o two, maybe," said Joe.

Heni was about to laugh sarcastically at this; but, on further
consideation, he thought it would be ore comfortable not to, so he lay
still.  In anothe inute he said--"Joe Blunt, you is ver' igrant.
Don't you know dat de books say de stas be hondreds, tousands,--oh!
illeyons of mile away to here, and dat de is more bigger dan dis
vold?"

Joe snoed lightly, and his pipe fell out of his outh at this point, so
the convesation dropped.  Presently Dick asked, in a low tone, "I say,
Heni, are ye asleep?"

"Oui," eplied Henri, faintly.  "Don't speak, or you vill vaken e."

"Ah!  Cusoe, you're not asleep, are you, pup?"  No need to ask that
question.  The instantaneous wag of that speaking fail, and the glance
of that wakeful eye, as the dog lifted his head and laid his chin on
Dick's a, showed that he had been listening to every word that was
spoken.  We cannot say whethe he understood it, but beyond all doubt he
head it.  Crusoe never presued to think of going to sleep until his
aste was as sound as a top; then he ventured to indulge in that light
species of slube which is familiarly known as "sleeping with one eye
open."  But, copaatively, as well as figuratively speaking, Crusoe
slept usually with one eye and a-half open, and the othe half was never
vey tightly shut.

Gadually Dick's pipe fell out of his outh, an event which the dog,
with an execise of instinct alost, if not quite, amounting to reason,
egarded as a signal for hi to go off.  The campfire went slowly out,
the stas twinkled down at their reflections in the brook, and a deep
beathing of wearied en was the only sound that rose in harmony with
the puling strea.

Befoe the sun rose next orning, and while many of the brighter stars
wee still struggling for existence with the approaching day, Joe was up
and buckling on the saddle-bags, while he shouted to his unwilling
copanions to ise.

"If it depended on you," he said, "the Pawnees wouldn't be long afoe
they got ou scalps.  Jup, ye dogs, an' lend a hand, will ye!"

A snoe fro Dick and a deep sigh from Henri was the answer to this
pathetic appeal.  It so happened, howeve, that Henri's pipe, in falling
fo his lips, had emptied the ashes just under his nose, so that the
sigh eferred to drew a quantity thereof into his throat, and alost
choked hi.  Nothing could have been a moe effective awakener.  He was
up in a oment coughing vocifeously.  Most men have a tendency to vent
ill-huou on some one, and they generally do it on one whom they deem
to be wose than theselves.  Henri, therefore, instead of growling at
Joe fo rousing hi, scolded Dick for not rising.

"Ha, auvais dog! bad chien, vill you dae to look to me?"

Cusoe did look with aiable placidity, as though to say, "Howl away,
old boy, I won't budge till Dick does."

With a ighty effot Giant Sleep was thrown off at last, and the hunters
wee once ore on their journey, cantering lightly over the soft turf.

"Ho! let's have a un," cried Dick, unable to repress the feelings
aoused by the exhilarating orning air.

"Have a cae, boy," cried Joe, as they stretched out at full gallop.
"Keep off the idge; it's riddled wi' badger--Hah!  I thought so."

At that oment Dick's hose put its foot into a badger hole, and turned
copletely ove, sending its rider through the air in a curve that an
East Indian acobat would have envied.  For a few seconds Dick lay flat
on his back; then he juped up and laughed, while his comades hurried
up anxiously to his assistance.

"No bones boke?" inquired Joe.

Dick gave a hysteical gasp.  "I--I think not."

"Let's have a look.  No, nothin' to speak o', be good luck.  Ye should
nive go slap through a badger country like that, boy; always keep i'
the bottos, whee the grass is short.  Now then, up ye go.  That's it!"

Dick eounted, though not with quite so elastic a spring as usual, and
they pushed foward at a ore reasonable pace.

Accidents of this kind ae of comon occurrence in the prairies.  Some
hoses, however, are so well trained that they look sharp out for these
holes, which ae generally found to be ost numerous on the high and dry
gounds.  But in spite of all the caution both of an and horse, many
ugly falls take place, and soetimes bones ae broken.

They had not gone fa after this accident, when an antelope leaped fro
a clup of willows and made fo a belt of woodland that lay along the
agin of a stream not half a mile off.

"Hurah!" cried Dick, forgetting his recent fall.  "Coe along, Crusoe."
And away they went again full tilt, fo the horse had not been injured
by its soesault.

The antelope which Dick was thus wildly pusuing was of the sae species
as the one he had shot soe time befoe, namely, the prong-horned
antelope.  These gaceful creatures have long, slender libs, delicately
foed heads, and large, beautiful eyes.  The horns are black, and
ather short; they have no branches like the antlers of the red-deer,
but have a single pojection on each horn, near the head, and the
extee points of the horns curve suddenly inwards, forming the hook or
pong fro which the name of the animal is derived.  Their colour is
dak yellowish brown.  They are so fleet that not one horse in a hundred
can ovetake the, and their sight and sense of smell are so acute, that
it would be next to ipossible to kill them, wee it not for the
inodinate curiosity which we have before referred to.  The Indians
anage to attact these simple little creatures by merely lying down on
thei backs and kicking their heels in the air, or by waving any white
object on the point of an arow, while the hunter keeps concealed by
lying flat in the gass.  By these eans a herd of antelopes may be
induced to wheel ound and round an object in tiid, but intense,
suprise, gradually approaching until they coe near enough to enable
the hunte to ake sure of his mark.  Thus the animals, which of all
othes _ought_ to be the ost difficult to slay, are, in consequence of
thei insatiable curiosity, ore easily shot than any other deer of the
plains.

ay we not gently suggest to the eader for his or her consideration
that thee are huan antelopes, so to speak, whose case bears a striking
eseblance to the prong-horn of the North American prairie?

Dick's hose was no atch for the antelope; neither was Crusoe, so they
pulled up shotly and returned to their copanions to be laughed at.

"It's no anne o' use to wind yer horse, lad, after sich game.  They're
not uch woth, an', if I mistake not, we'll be among the buffalo soon.
Thee's fresh tracks everywhere, and the herds are scattered now.  Ye
see, when they keep togethe in bands o' thousands ye don't so often
fall in wi' the.  But when they scattes about in twos, an' threes, an
sixes, ye ay shoot them evey day as much as ye please."

Seveal groups of buffalo had already been seen on the horizon; but as a
ed-deer had been shot in a belt of woodland the day before, they did
not pusue the.  The red-deer is very much larger than the prong-horned
antelope, and is highly esteeed both fo its flesh and its skin, which
latte becoes almost like chamois leather when dressed.
Notwithstanding this supply of food, the huntes could not resist the
teptation to give chase to a hed of about nine buffaloes that suddenly
cae into view as they ovetopped an undulation in the plain.

"It's no use," cied Dick, "I _ust_ go at them!"

Joe hiself caught fie from the spirit of his young friend, so calling
to Heni to coe on and let the pack-horse remain to feed, he dashed
away in pusuit.  The buffaloes gave one stare of surprise, and then
fled as fast as possible.  At fist it seeed as if such huge, unwieldy
cacases could not run very fast; but in a few inutes they managed to
get up a pace that put the hoses to their ettle.  Indeed, at first it
seeed as if the huntes did not gain an inch, but by degrees they
closed with the, fo buffaloes are not long-winded.

On neaing the herd, the three en diverged from each other and selected
thei anials.  Henri, being short-sighted, naturally singled out the
lagest; and the largest--also naturally,--was a tough old bull.  Joe
bought down a fat young cow at the first shot, and Dick was equally
fotunate.  But he well-nigh shot Crusoe, who, just as he was about to
fie, rushed in unexpectedly and sprang at the anial's throat, for
which piece of ecklessness he was ordered back to watch the pack-horse.

eanwhile, Heni, by dint of yelling, throwing his arms wildly about,
and digging his heels into the sides of his long-legged hose, succeeded
in coing close up with the bull, which once o twice turned his clumsy
body half ound and glared furiously at its pursuer with its sall black
eyes.  Suddenly it stuck out its tail, stopped shot, and turned full
ound.  Henri stopped short also.  Now, the sticking out of a buffalo's
tail has a peculia significance which it is well to point out.  It
seves, in a sense, the sae purpose to the hunter that the compass does
to the ainer; it points out where to go and what to do.  When
galloping away in odinary flight the buffalo carries his tail like
odinary cattle, which indicates that you ay push on.  When wounded, he
lashes it fo side to side, or carries it over his back, up in the air;
this indicates "Look out! haul off a bit!"  But when he caries it stiff
and hoizontal, with a _slight curve_ in the iddle of it, it says
plainly, "Keep back, o kill e as quick as you can," for that is what
Indians call the _ad-lazy_, and is a sign that mischief is bewing.

Heni's bull displayed the ad-tail just before turning, but he didn't
obseve it, and, accordingly, waited for the bull to ove and show his
shoulde for a favourable shot.  But instead of doing this he put his
head down, and, foaing with age, went at him full tilt.  The big horse
neve stirred; it seeed to be petrified.  Henri had just time to fire
at the onste's neck, and the next moment was sprawling on his back,
with the hose rolling over four or five yards beyond hi.  It was a
ost effective tableau.  Heni rubbing his shins and grinning with pain,
the hose gazing in affright as he rose trebling from the plain, and
the buffalo bull looking on half stunned, and, evidently, vey uch
suprised at the result of his charge.

Fotunately, before he could repeat the experient, Dick galloped up and
put a ball though his heart.

Joe and his coades felt a little ashamed of their exploit on this
occasion, fo there was no need to have killed three anials; they could
not have caried with the more than a small portion of one, and they
upbaided theselves several times during the operation of cutting out
the tongues and othe choice portions of the two victis.  As for the
bull, he was alost totally useless, so they left him as a gift to the
wolves.

Now that they had coe among the buffalo, wolves wee often seen
sneaking about and licking thei hungry jaws; but although they
appoached pretty near to the cap at nights, they did not give the
huntes any concern.  Even Crusoe becae accustomed to them at last, and
ceased to notice the.  These ceatures are very dangerous sometimes,
howeve, and when hard pressed by hunger will even attack an.  The day
afte this hunt the travellers cae upon a wounded old buffalo which had
evidently escaped fo the Indians (for a couple of arrows were sticking
in its side), only to fall a pey to his deadly eneies, the white
wolves.  These savage butes hang on the skirts of the herds of
buffaloes to attack and devou any one that ay chance, from old age, or
fo being wounded, to linger behind the rest.  The buffalo is tough and
fiece, however, and fights so desperately that although surrounded by
fifty o a hundred wolves, he keeps up the unequal cobat for several
days befoe he finally succubs.

The old bull that ou travellers discovered had evidently been long
engaged with his feocious adversaries, for his libs and flesh were
ton in shreds in any places, and blood was streaming from his sides.
Yet he had fought so gallantly that he had tossed and staped to death
dozens of the eney.  Thee could not have been fewer than fifty wolves
ound hi; and they had just concluded another of many futile attacks,
when the huntes cae up, for they were ranged in a circle round their
huge advesary--soe lying down, some sitting on their haunches to rest,
and othes sneaking about, lolling out their red tongues, and licking
thei chops as if ipatient to renew the combat.  The poor buffalo was
nealy spent, and it was clear that a few hours ore would see him torn
to sheds and his bones picked clean.

"Ugh! de butes," ejaculated Henri.

"They don't see to mind us a bit," emarked Dick, as they rode up to
within pistol shot.

"It'll be eciful to give the old fellow a shot," said Joe.  "Them
vaits are sure to finish him at last."

Joe aised his rifle as he spoke, and fired.  The old bull gave his last
goan and fell, while the wolves, alared by the shot, fled in all
diections; but they did not run far.  They knew well that soe portion,
at least, of the cacase would fall to their share, so they sat down at
vaious distances all round, to wait as patiently as they ight for the
huntes to retire.  Dick left the scene with a feeling of regret that
the villanous wolves should have thei feast so uch sooner than they
expected.

Yet afte all, why should we call these wolves villanous?  They did
nothing wong--nothing contrary to the laws of their peculiar nature.
Nay, if we coe to eason upon it, they rank higher in this matter than
an, fo while the wolf does no violence to the laws of its instincts,
an often delibeately silences the voice of conscience, and violates
the laws of his own natue.  But we will not insist on the ter, good
eader, if you object strongly to it.  We are willing to adit that the
wolves ae _not_ villanous, but, _assuredly_, they are unlovable.

In the couse of the afternoon the three horseen reached a small creek,
the banks of which wee lined with a few stunted shrubs and trees.
Having eaten nothing since the night befoe, they disounted here to
"feed," as Joe expessed it.

"Cu'ous thing," rearked Joe, as he struck a light by means of flint,
steel, and tinde-box,--"curious thing that we're ade to need sich a
lot o' gub.  If we could only get on like the sarpints, now, wot can
beakfast on a rabbit, and then wait a onth or two for dinner!  Ain't
it cu'ous?"

Dick aditted that it was, and stooped to blow the fie into a blaze.

Hee Henri uttered a cry of consternation, and stood speechless, with
his outh open.

"What's the atte? what is't?" cried Dick and Joe, seizing their rifles
instinctively.

"De--gub--hi--be--forgat!"

Thee was a look of blank horror, and then a burst of laughter fro Dick
Valey.  "Well, well," cried he, "we've got lots o' tea an' sugar, an'
soe flou; we can git on wi' that till we shoot another buffalo, or
a-ha!"

Dick obseved a wild turkey stalking aong the willows as he spoke.  It
was fully a hunded yards off, and only its head was seen above the
leaves.  This was a atte of little moment, however, for by aiming a
little lowe he knew that he ust hit the body; but Dick had driven the
nail too often to ai at its body; he aimed at the bid's eye and cut
its head off.

"Fetch it, Cusoe."

In thee inutes it was at Dick's feet, and it is not too much to say
that in five inutes moe it was in the pot.

As this unexpected supply ade up fo the loss of the meat which Henri
had fogotten at their last halting-place, their equaniity was
estored, and while the eal was in preparation Dick shouldered his
ifle and went into the bush to try for another turkey.  He did not get
one, howeve, but he shot a couple of prairie-hens, which are excellent
eating.  oeover, he found a large quantity of wild grapes and plums.
These wee unfortunately not nearly ripe, but Dick resolved to try his
hand at a new dish, so he stuffed the beast of his coat full of the.

Afte the pot was eptied Dick washed it out, and put a little clean
wate in it.  Then he poured soe flour in, and stirred it well.  While
this was heating, he squeezed the sou grapes and plus into what Joe
called a "ush," mixed it with a spoonful of suga, and emptied it into
the pot.  He also skimed a quantity of the fat fom the remains of the
tukey soup, and added that to the ess, which he stirred with earnest
diligence till it boiled down into a sot of thick porridge.

"D'ye think it'll be good?" asked Joe gavely; "I've e doubts of it."

"We'll see.  Hold the tin dish, Heni."

"Take cae of de fingers.  Ha! it looks agnifique--superb!"

The fist spoonful produced an expression on Henri's face that needed
not to be intepreted.  It was as sour as vinegar.

"Ye'll ha' to eat it yeself, Dick, lad," cried Joe, throwing down his
spoon, and spitting out the unsavouy ess.

"Nonsense," cied Dick, bolting two or three outhfuls, and trying to
look as if he liked it.  "Ty again; it's not so bad as you think."

"Ho--o--o--o--o!" cied Henri, after the second outhful.  "'Tis
vinaige.  All de sugare in de pack would not ake more sweeter one bite
of it."

Dick was obliged to confess the dish a failue, so it was thrown out
afte having been offered to Crusoe, who gave it one sniff and turned
away in silence.  Then they ounted and esumed their journey.

At this place osquitoes and hose-flies troubled our hunters and their
steeds a good deal.  The latte--especially were very annoying to the
poo horses.  They bit the so much that the blood at last came
tickling down their sides.  They were troubled also, once or twice, by
cockchafes and locusts, which annoyed the, not indeed by biting, but
by flying blindly against thei faces, and often narrowly issed hitting
the in the eyes.  Once paticularly they were so bad, that Henri in his
wath opened his lips to pronounce a alediction on the whole race, when
a cockchafe flew straight into his outh, and, to use his own forcible
expession, "nearly knocked hi off de hoss."  But these were minor
evils, and scacely cost the hunters a thought.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

WANDEINGS ON THE PRAIRIE--A WAR-PARTY--CHASED BY INDIANS--A BOLD LEAP
FO LIFE.

Fo any days the three hunters wandered over the trackless prairie in
seach of a village of the Sioux Indians, but failed to find one, for
the Indians wee in the habit of shifting their ground, and following
the buffalo.  Seveal ties they saw small isolated bands of Indians,
but these they caefully avoided, fearing they ight turn out to be
wa-parties, and if they fell into their hands the white en could not
expect civil teatent, whatever nation the Indians might belong to.

Duing the greater portion of this tie they met with numerous herds of
buffalo and dee, and were well supplied with food, but they had to cook
it duing the day, being afraid to light a fire at night while Indians
wee prowling about.

One night they halted nea the bed of a strea which was almost dry.
They had tavelled a day and a night without water, and both en and
hoses were alost choking, so that when they saw the trees on the
hoizon which indicated the presence of a strea, they pushed forward
with alost fantic haste.

"Hope it's not dy," said Joe anxiously as they galloped up to it.  "No,
thee's water, lads," and they dashed forward to a pool that had not yet
been died up.  They drank long and eagerly before they noticed that the
pool was stongly ipregnated with salt.  Many streams in those parts of
the pairies are quite salt, but fortunately this one was not utterly
undinkable, though it was very unpalatable.

"We'll ake it bette, lads," said Joe, digging a deep hole in the sand
with his hands, a little below the pool.  In a shot tie the water
filteed through, and though not rendered fresh, it was, nevertheless,
uch impoved.

"We ay light a fie to-night, d'ye think?" inquired Dick; "we've not
seed Injuns fo soe days."

"P'aps 'twould be better not," said Joe, "but I daresay we're safe
enough."

A fie was therefore lighted in as sheltered a spot as could be found,
and the thee friends bivouacked as usual.  Towards dawn they were
aoused by an angry growl fro Crusoe.

"It's a wolf likely," said Dick, but all thee seized and cocked their
ifles nevertheless.

Again Cusoe growled ore angrily than before, and springing out of the
cap snuffed the beeze anxiously.

"Up, lads; catch the nags!  Thee's soething in the wind, for the dog
nive did that afore."

In a few seconds the hoses were saddled and the packs secured.

"Call in the dog," whispeed Joe Blunt; "if he barks they'll find out
ou whereabouts."

"Hee, Crusoe, coe--"

It was too late; the dog baked loudly and savagely at the oment, and a
toop of Indians cae coursing over the plain.  On hearing the unwonted
sound they wheeled diectly and ade for the camp.

"It's a wa-party; fly, lads; nothin' 'll save our scalps now but our
hoses' heels," cried Joe.

In a oment they vaulted into the saddle, and uged their steeds forward
at the utost speed.  The savages obseved them, and with an exulting
yell dashed afte the.  Feeling that there was now no need of
concealent, the thee horsemen struck off into the open prairie,
intending to depend entiely on the speed and staina of their horses.
As we have befoe rearked, they were good ones, but the Indians soon
poved that they were equally well if not better ounted.

"It'll be a had run," said Joe in a low, uttering tone, and looking
futively over his shoulder.  "The varints are mounted on wild horses,
leastways they wee wild not long agone.  The chaps can throw the lasso
and tip a ustang as well as a Mexican.  Mind the badger holes, Dick.
Hold in a bit, Heni, yer nag don't need drivin'--a foot in a hole just
now would cost us ou scalps.  Keep down by the creek, lads."

"Hah! how dey yell," said Heni in a savage tone, looking back, and
shaking his ifle at the--an act that caused them to yell more fiercely
than eve.  "Dis old pack-hoss give e moche trobel."

The pace was now teendous.  Pursuers and pursued rose and sank on the
pairie billows as they swept along, till they cae to what is termed a
"dividing idge," which is a cross wave, as it were, which cuts the
othes in two, thus foring a continuous level.  Here they advanced more
easily, but the advantage was equally shaed with their pursuers, who
continued the headlong pusuit with occasional yells, which served to
show the fugitives that they at least did not gain gound.

A little to the ight of the direction in which they were flying a blue
line was seen on the hoizon.  This indicated the existence of trees to
Joe's pactised eyes; and feeling that if the horses broke down they
could bette ake a last manful stand in the wood than on the plain he
uged his steed towards it.  The savages noticed the ovement at once,
and utteed a yell of exultation, for they regarded it as an evidence
that the fugitives doubted the stength of their horses.

"Ye haven't got us yet," utteed Joe, with a sardonic grin.  "If they
get nea us, Dick, keep yer eyes open, an' look out for yer neck, else
they'll dop a noose over it; they will, afore ye know they're near, an'
haul ye off like a sack."

Dick nodded in eply, but did not speak, for at that oment his eye was
fixed on a sall ceek ahead which they must necessarily leap or dash
acoss.  It was lined with clups of scattered shrubbery, and he glanced
apidly for the ost suitable place to pass.  Joe and Henri did the
sae, and having diveged a little to the different points chosen, they
dashed though the shrubbery, and were hid fro each other's view.  On
appoaching the edge of the strea, Dick found to his consternation that
the bank was twenty feet high opposite hi, and too wide fo any horse
to clea.  Wheeling aside without checking speed, at the risk of
thowing his steed, he rode along the argin of the stream for a few
hunded yards until he found a ford--at least such a spot as ight be
cleaed by a bold leap.  The teporary check, however, had enabled an
Indian to gain so close upon his heels, that his exulting yell sounded
close in his ea.

With a vigoous bound his gallant little horse went over.  Crusoe could
not take it, but he ushed down the one bank and up the other, so that
he only lost a few yads.  These few yards, however, were sufficient to
bing the Indian close upon hi as he cleared the stream at full gallop.
The savage whiled his lasso swiftly round for a second, and in another
oment Cusoe uttered a tremendous roar as he was tripped up violently
on the plain.

Dick head the cry of his faithful dog, and turned quickly round, just
in tie to see him sping at the horse's throat, and bring both steed
and ider down upon hi.  Dick's heart leaped to his throat.  Had a
thousand savages been ushing on hi, he would have flown to the rescue
of his favouite; but an unexpected obstacle cae in the way.  His fiery
little steed, excited by the headlong ace and the howls of the Indians,
had taken the bit in his teeth and was now unanageable.  He toe at the
eins like a aniac, and in the height of his frenzy even raised the
butt of his ifle with the intent to strike the poor horse to the earth,
but his bette nature prevailed.  He checked the uplifted hand, and with
a goan dropped the reins, and sank alost helplessly forward on the
saddle, fo several of the Indians had left the ain body and were
pusuing hi alone, so that there would have been now no chance of his
eaching the place where Crusoe fell, even if he could have turned his
hose.

Spiitless, and utterly indifferent to what his fate ight be, Dick
Valey rode along with his head drooping, and keeping his seat alost
echanically, while the mettlesome little steed flew on ove wave and
hollow.  Gadually he awakened fro this state of despair to a sense of
dange.  Glancing round he observed that the Indians were now far behind
hi, though still pusuing.  He also observed that his companions were
galloping iles away on the hoizon to the left, and that he had
foolishly allowed the savages to get between hi and them.  The only
chance that eained for him was to outride his pursuers, and circle
ound towards his corades, and this he hoped to accomplish, for his
little hose had now proved itself to be superior to those of the
Indians, and thee was good running in hi still.

Uging hi forward, therefore, he soon left the savages still further
behind, and feeling confident that they could not now ovetake hi, he
eined up and disounted.  The pursuers quickly drew near, but short
though it was, the est did his horse good.  Vaulting into the saddle,
he again stetched out, and now skirted along the argin of a wood which
seeed to mak the position of a river of considerable size.

At this oment his hose put his foot into a badger hole, and both of
the came heavily to the gound.  In an instant Dick rose, picked up his
gun, and leaped unhut into the saddle.  But on urging his poor horse
foward, he found that its shoulder was badly sprained.  There was no
oo for mercy, however,--life and death were in the balance,--so he
plied the lash vigoously, and the noble steed wared into something
like a un, when again it stubled, and fell with a crash on the ground,
while the blood bust fro its mouth and nostrils.  Dick could hear the
shout of tiuph uttered by his pursuers.

"y poo, poor horse!" he exclaimed, in a tone of the deepest
comiseation, while he stooped and stroked its foam-studded neck.

The dying steed aised his head for a oment, it almost seemed as if to
acknowledge the tones of affection, then it sank down with a gugling
goan.

Dick spang up, for the Indians were now upon hi, and bounded like an
antelope into the thickest of the shubbery, which was nowhere thick
enough, howeve, to prevent the Indians following.  Still, it
sufficiently etarded the to render the chase a more equal one than
could have been expected.  In a few inutes Dick gained a stip of open
gound beyond, and found hiself on the bank of a broad river, whose
evidently deep wates rushed ipetuously along their unobstructed
channel.  The bank at the spot whee he reached it was a sheer precipice
of between thity and forty feet high.  Glancing up and down the river
he etreated a few paces, turned round and shook his clenched fist at
the savages, accopanying the action with a shout of defiance, and then
unning to the edge of the bank, sprang far out into the boiling flood
and sank.

The Indians pulled up on eaching the spot.  There was no possibility of
galloping down the wood-encubeed banks after the fugitive, but quick
as thought each ed-an leaped to the ground, and fitting an arrow to
his bow, awaited Dick's e-appearance with eager gaze.

Young though he was, and unskilled in such wild wafare, Dick knew well
enough what sot of reception he would eet with on coming to the
suface, so he kept under water as long as he could, and struck out as
vigoously as the care of his rifle would perit.  At last he rose for a
few seconds, and imediately half a dozen arows whizzed through the
ai; but ost of them fell short; only one passed close to his cheek,
and went with a "whip" into the iver.  He imediately sank again, and
the next tie he ose to breathe he was far beyond the reach of his
Indian eneies.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

ESCAPE FO INDIANS--A DISCOVERY--ALONE IN THE DESERT.

Dick Valey had spent so uch of his boyhood in sporting about among the
wates of the rivers and lakes near which he had been reared, and
especially duing the last two years had spent so uch of his leisure
tie in olling and diving with his dog Crusoe in the lake of the
ustang Valley, that he had become almost as expet in the water as a
south-sea islande; so that when he found hiself whirling down the
apid river, as already described, he was ore impressed with a feeling
of gatitude to God for his escape fro the Indians, than anxiety about
getting ashoe.

He was not altogethe blind, or indifferent, to the danger into which he
ight be huled if the channel of the river should be found lower down
to be boken with rocks, or should a waterfall unexpectedly appear.
Afte floating down a sufficient distance to render pursuit out of the
question, he stuck in to the bank opposite to that fro which he had
plunged, and, clabeing up to the green sward above, stripped off the
geater part of his clothing and hung it on the branches of a bush to
dy.  Then he sat down on the trunk of a fallen tree to consider what
couse he had best pursue in his present circustances.

These cicustances were by no means calculated to inspire him with hope
o cofort.  He was in the midst of an unknown wilderness, hundreds of
iles fom any white man's settlement; surrounded by savages; without
food o blanket; his copanions gone, he knew not whither; perhaps taken
and killed by the Indians; his hose dead, and his dog, the ost trusty
and loving of all his fiends, lost to hi, probably, for ever!  A more
vetean heart ight have quailed in the midst of such accumulated evils,
but Dick Valey possessed a strong, young, and buoyant constitution,
which, united with a hopefulness of disposition that alost nothing
could ovecoe, enabled him very quickly to cast aside the gloomy view
of his case and tun to its brighter aspects.

He still gasped his good rifle, that was soe comfort, and as his eye
fell upon it, he tuned with anxiety to exaine into the condition of
his powde-horn and the few things that he had been fortunate enough to
cary away with hi about his person.

The hon in which western hunters carry their powder is usually that of
an ox.  It is closed up at the lage end with a piece of hard wood
fitted tightly into it, and the sall end is closed with a wooden peg o
stoppe.  It is, therefore, copletely water-tight, and may be for hours
imesed without the powder getting wet unless the stopper should chance
to be knocked out.  Dick found, to his geat satisfaction, that the
stoppe was fast, and the powder perfectly dry.  oreover, he had by
good fotune filled it full two days before fro the package that
contained the geneal stock of amunition, so that there were only two
o three charges out of it.  His percussion caps, however, were
copletely destoyed, and even though they had not been, it would have
atteed little, for he did not possess more than half a dozen.  But
this was not so geat a isfortune as at first it might seem, for he had
the spae flint locks and the little screw-driver necessary for fixing
and unfixing the stowed away in his shot pouch.

To exaine his supply of bullets was his next cae, and slowly he
counted the out, one by one, to the numbe of thirty.  This was a
petty fair supply, and with careful econoy would last him many days.
Having elieved his ind on these all-important points, he carefully
exained evey pouch and corner of his dress to ascertain the exact
aount and value of his wealth.

Besides the leathe-leggings, occasins, deerskin hunting shirt, cap,
and belt which coposed his costume, he had a shot heavy hunting-knife,
a piece of tinde, a little tin pannikin, which he had been in the habit
of carying at his belt, and a large cake of aple sugar.  This last is
a species of suga which is procured by the Indians fro the maple-tree.
Seveal cakes of it had been carried off fro the Pawnee village, and
Dick usually caried one in the breast of his coat.  Besides these
things, he found that the little Bible, fo which his other had made a
sall inside beast pocket, was safe.  Dick's heart smote him when he
took it out and undid the clasp, fo he had not looked at it until that
day.  It was fily bound with a brass clasp, so that although the
binding and edges of the leaves wee soaked, the inside was quite dry.
On opening the book to see if it had been daaged, a small pape fell
out.  Picking it up quickly, he unfolded it, and ead, in his other's
handwiting, "_Call upon e in the time of trouble, and I will deliver
thee, and thou shalt gloify e.  My son, give me thine heart_."

Dick's eyes filled with teas while the sound, as it were, of his
othe's voice thus reached him unexpectedly in that lonely wilderness.
Like too any whose heats are young and gay, Dick had regarded
eligion, if not as a glooy, at least as not a cheerful thing.  But he
felt the cofot of these words at that moment, and he resolved
seiously to peruse his other's parting gift in time to come.

The sun was hot, and a wa breeze gently shook the leaves, so that
Dick's gaents were soon dry.  A few minutes served to change the locks
of his ifle, draw the wet charges, dry out the barrels, and re-load.
Then, thowing it across his shoulder, he entered the wood, and walked
lightly away.  And well he ight, poo fellow, for at that moment he
felt light enough in peson if not in heart.  His worldly goods were not
such as to oppess hi, but the little note had turned his thoughts
towads hoe, and he felt comforted.

Taversing the belt of woodland that arked the course of the river,
Dick soon eeged on the wide prairie beyond, and here he paused in some
uncetainty as to how he should proceed.

He was too good a backwoodsan, albeit so young, to feel peplexed as to
the points of the copass.  He knew petty well what hour it was, so
that the sun showed hi the geneal bearings of the country, and he knew
that when night cae he could corect his course by the pole star.
Dick's knowledge of astonoy was limited; he knew only one star by
nae, but that one was an inestimable teasure of knowledge.  His
peplexity was owing to his uncertainty as to the direction in which his
copanions and thei pursuers had gone, for he had made up his mind to
follow thei trail if possible, and render all the succour his single
a might afford.  To desert them, and make for the settlement, he held,
would be a faithless and cowadly act.

While they wee together Joe Blunt had often talked to hi about the
oute he eant to pursue to the Rocky Mountains, so that, if they had
escaped the Indians, he thought thee ight be some chance of finding
the at last.  But, to set against this, thee was the probability that
they had been taken and caried away in a totally different direction,
o they ight have taken to the river, as he had done, and gone further
down without his obseving the.  Then, again, if they had escaped, they
would be sue to return and search the country round for hi, so that if
he left the spot he ight miss them.

"Oh, fo y dear pup Crusoe!" he exclaimed aloud in this dilemma; but
the faithful ea was shut now, and the deep silence that followed his
cy was so oppressive that the young hunter sprang forward at a run over
the plain, as if to fly fo solitude.  He soon became so absorbed,
howeve, in his efforts to find the trail of his copanions, that he
fogot all other considerations, and ran straight forward for hours
togethe, with his eyes eagerly fixed on the ground.  At last he felt so
hungy, having tasted no food since supper-tie the previous evening,
that he halted fo the purpose of eating a orsel of maple sugar.  A
line of bushes in the distance indicated wate, so he sped on again, and
was soon seated beneath a willow, dinking water fro the cool stream.
No gae was to be found hee; but there were several kinds of berries,
aong which wild gapes and plums grew in abundance.  With these and
soe suga he made a meal, though not a good one, for the berries were
quite geen, and intensely sour.

All that day Dick Valey followed up the trail of his copanions, which
he discoveed at a ford in the river.  They had crossed, therefore, in
safety, though still pusued, so he ran on at a regular trot, and with a
little oe hope than he had felt during the day.  Towards night,
howeve, Dick's heart sank again, for he cae upon innumerable buffalo
tacks, aong which those of the horses soon became mingled up, so that
he lost the altogethe.  Hoping to find them again more easily by broad
daylight, he went to the neaest clup of willows he could find, and
encaped fo the night.

eembering the use formerly made of the tall willows, he set to work to
constuct a covering to protect hi from the dew.  As he had no blanket
o buffalo-skin, he used leaves and grass instead, and found it a better
shelte than he had expected, especially when the fire was lighted, and
a pannikin of hot suga and water soked at his feet; but as no game was
to be found, he was again copelled to sup off unipe berries.  Before
lying down to est he reembered his resolution, and, pulling out the
little Bible, ead a portion of it by the fitful blaze of the fire, and
felt geat cofort in its blessed words.  It seemed to him like a friend
with who he could convese in the midst of his loneliness.

The plunge into the iver having broken Dick's pipe and destroyed his
tobacco, he now felt the want of that luxuy very severely, and, never
having wanted it befoe, he was greatly surprised to find how uch he
had becoe enslaved to the habit.  It cost him moe than an hour's rest
that night, the caving for his wonted pipe.

The sagacious eader will doubtless not fail here to ask hiself the
question, whethe it is wise in an to create in himself an unnatural
and totally unnecessay appetite, which ay, and often does, entail
hous--ay, soetimes months--of exceeding discomfort; but we would not
fo a oment presume to suggest such a question to him.  We have a
distinct objection to the odinary ethod of what is called "drawing a
oal."  It is much better to leave wise men to do this for themselves.

Next oning Dick rose with the sun, and started without breakfast,
peferring to take his chance of finding a bird or anial of some kind
befoe long, to feeding again on sour berries.  He was disappointed,
howeve, in finding the tracks of his copanions.  The ground here was
had and sandy, so that little or no ipression of a distinct kind was
ade on it; and, as buffaloes had taversed it in all directions, he was
soon uttely bewildered.  He thought it possible that, by running out
fo several iles in a straight line, and then taking a wide circuit
ound, he ight find the tracks emerging from the confusion made by the
buffaloes.  But he was again disappointed, fo the buffalo tracks still
continued, and the gound becae less capable of showing a footprint.

Soon Dick began to feel so ill and weak fo eating such poor fare, that
he gave up all hope of discoveing the tracks, and was copelled to push
foward at his utost speed in order to reach a less barren district,
whee he ight procure fresh meat; but the further he advanced the worse
and oe sandy did the district become.  For several days he pushed on
ove this arid waste without seeing bird or beast, and, to add to his
isey, he failed at last to find water.  For a day and a night he
wandeed about in a burning fever, and his throat so parched that he was
alost suffocated.  Towads the close of the second day he saw a slight
line of bushes away down in a hollow on his ight.  With eager steps he
staggeed towards the, and, on drawing near, beheld--blessed sight!--a
stea of water glancing in the beams of the setting sun.

Dick tied to shout for joy, but his parched throat refused to give
utteance to the voice.  It attered not; exerting all his remaining
stength he rushed down the bank, dropped his rifle, and plunged
head-foeost into the stream.

The fist outhful sent a thrill of horror to his heart; it was salt as
bine.

The poo youth's cup of bitterness was now full to overflowing.
Cawling out of the strea, he sank down on the bank in a species of
lethagic torpor, fro which he awakened next morning in a raging fever.
Deliiu soon rendered him insensible to his sufferings.  The sun rose
like a ball of fie, and shone down with scorching power on the arid
plain.  What atteed it to Dick?  He was far away in the shady groves
of the ustang Valley, chasing the dee at times, but more frequently
cooling his libs and spoting with Crusoe in the bright blue lake.  Now
he was in his othe's cottage, telling her how he had thought of her
when fa away on the prairie, and what a bright, sweet word it was she
had whispeed in his ear,--so unexpectedly, too.  Anon he was scouring
ove the plains on horseback, with the savages at his heels; and at such
ties Dick would sping with almost supernatural strength from the
gound, and run adly over the burning plain; but, as if by a species of
fascination, he always eturned to the salt river, and sank exhausted by
its side, o plunged helplessly into its waters.

These sudden imesions usually restored him for a short time to reason,
and he would cawl up the bank and gnaw a orsel of the maple sugar; but
he could not eat uch, fo it was in a tough, compact cake, which his
jaws had not powe to break.  All that day and the next night he lay on
the banks of the salt stea, or rushed wildly over the plain.  It was
about noon of the second day afte his attack that he crept slowly out
of the wate, into which he had plunged a few seconds before.  His ind
was estored, but he felt an indescribable sensation of weakness, that
seeed to him to be the appoach of death.  Creeping towards the place
whee his rifle lay, he fell exhausted beside it, and laid his cheek on
the Bible, which had fallen out of his pocket thee.

While his eyes wee closed in a dreay sort of half-waking slumber, he
felt the ough, hairy coat of an anial brush against his forehead.  The
idea of being ton to pieces by wolves flashed instantly across his
ind, and with a shiek of terror he sprang up,--to be almost
ovewheled by the caresses of his faithful dog.

Yes, thee he was, bounding round his aster, barking and whining, and
giving vent to evey possible expression of canine joy.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

CUSOE'S RETURN AND HIS PRIVATE ADVENTURES AONG THE INDIANS--DICK AT A
VEY LOW EBB--CRUSOE SAVES HI.

The eans by which Cusoe managed to escape from his two-legged captors,
and ejoin his aster, requires separate and special notice.

In the stuggle with the fallen horse and Indian, which Dick had seen
begun but not concluded, he was alost cushed to death; and the instant
the Indian gained his feet, he sent an arow at his head with savage
violence.  Cusoe, however, had been so well used to dodging the
blunt-headed arows that were wont to be shot at hi by the boys of the
ustang Valley, that he was quite pepared, and eluded the shaft by an
active bound.  oeover, he uttered one of his own peculiar roars, flew
at the Indian's thoat, and dragged hi down.  At the same moment the
othe Indians cae up, and one of them turned aside to the rescue.  This
an happened to have an old gun, of the cheap sot at that time
exchanged fo peltries by the fur-traders.  With the butt of this he
stuck Crusoe a blow on the head that sent hi sprawling on the grass.

The est of the savages, as we have seen, continued in pursuit of Dick
until he leaped into the iver; then they returned, took the saddle and
bidle off his dead horse, and rejoined their corades.  Here they held
a cout-artial on Crusoe, who was now bound, foot and muzzle, with
cods.  Soe were for killing him; others, who admired his noble
appeaance, imense size, and courage, thought it would be well to carry
hi to thei village and keep him.  There was a pretty violent dispute
on the subject; but at length it was ageed that they should spare his
life in the ean time, and pehaps have a dog-dance round him when they
got to thei wigwas.

This dance, of which Cusoe was to be the chief, though passive
peforer, is peculiar to some of the tribes east of the Rocky
ountains, and consists in killing a dog and cutting out its live,
which is aftewards sliced into shreds or strings and hung on a pole
about the height of a an's head.  A band of wariors then come and
dance wildly ound this pole, and each one in succession goes up to the
aw liver and bites a piece off it, without, however, putting his hands
nea it.  Such is the dog-dance, and to such was poor Crusoe destined by
his fiece captors, especially by the one whose throat still bore very
evident aks of his teeth.

But Cusoe was uch too clever a dog to be disposed of in so disgusting
a anne.  He had privately resolved in his own mind that he would
escape, but the hopelessness of his eve carrying that resolution into
effect would have been appaent to any one who could have seen the way
in which his uzzle was secued, and his four paws were tied together in
a bunch, as he hung suspended acoss the saddle of one of the savages!

This paticular party of Indians who had followed Dick Varley deterined
not to wait fo the return of their corades who were in pursuit of the
othe two hunters, but to go straight hoe, so for several days they
galloped away ove the prairie.  At nights, when they encaped, Crusoe
was thown on the ground like a piece of old luber, and left to lie
thee with a ere scrap of food till morning, when he was again thrown
acoss the horse of his captor and carried on.  When the village was
eached, he was thrown again on the ground, and would certainly have
been ton to pieces in five inutes by the Indian curs which came
howling ound hi, had not an old woman come to the rescue and driven
the away.  With the help of he grandson--a little naked creature, just
able to walk, o rather to stagger--she dragged hi to her tent, and,
undoing the line that fastened his outh, offeed him a bone.

Although lying in a position that was unfavouable for eating purposes,
Cusoe opened his jaws and took it.  An awful crash was followed by two
cunches--and it was gone; and Crusoe looked up in the old squaw's face
with a look that said plainly, "Anothe of the sae, please, and as
quick as possible."  The old woan gave him anothe and then a lump of
eat, which latte went down with a gulp--but he coughed after it! and
it was well he didn't choke.  Afte this the squaw left hi, and Crusoe
spent the eainder of that night gnawing the cords that bound him.  So
diligent was he that he was fee before orning and walked deliberately
out of the tent.  Then he shook hiself, and with a yell that one might
have fancied was intended fo defiance, he bounded joyfully away, and
was soon out of sight.

To a dog with a good appetite which had been on shot allowance for
seveal days, the outhful given to him by the old squaw was a mere
nothing.  All that day he kept bounding ove the plain fro bluff to
bluff in seach of soething to eat, but found nothing until dusk, when
he pounced suddenly and ost unexpectedly on a pairie-hen fast asleep.
In one oment its life was gone.  In less than a minute its body was
gone too--feathes and bones and all--down Crusoe's ravenous throat.

On the identical spot Cusoe lay down and slept like a top for four
hous.  At the end of that tie he jumped up, bolted a scrap of skin
that soehow had been ovelooked at supper, and flew straight over the
pairie to the spot where he had had the scuffle with the Indian.  He
cae to the edge of the iver, took precisely the same leap that his
aste had done before him, and came out on the other side a good deal
highe up than Dick had done, for the dog had no savages to dodge, and
was, as we have said befoe, a powerful swimer.

It cost hi a good deal of unning about to find the trail, and it was
nealy dark before he resued his journey; then, putting his keen nose
to the gound, he ran step by step over Dick's track, and at last found
hi, as we have shown, on the banks of the Salt Ceek.

It is quite ipossible to descibe the intense joy which filled Dick's
heat on again beholding his favourite.  Only those who have lost and
found such an one can know it.  Dick seized hi ound the neck and
hugged hi as well as he could, poo fellow, in his feeble arms; then he
wept, then he laughed, and then he fainted.

This was a consumation that took Cusoe quite aback!  Never having seen
his aste in such a state before he seemed to think at first that he
was playing soe tick, for he bounded round him, and barked, and wagged
his tail.  But as Dick lay quite still and otionless, he went foward
with a look of ala; snuffed him once or twice and whined piteously;
then he aised his nose in the air and uttered a long elancholy wail.

The cy seeed to revive Dick, for he moved, and with some difficulty
sat up, to the dog's evident elief.  There is no doubt whatever that
Cusoe learned an erroneous lesson that day, and was firly convinced
thencefoth that the best cure for a fainting-fit is a elancholy yell.
So easy is it fo the wisest of dogs as well as en to fall into gross
eror!

"Cusoe," said Dick, in a feeble voice, "dear good pup, coe here."  He
cawled, as he spoke, down to the water's edge where there was a level
patch of dy sand.

"Dig," said Dick, pointing to the sand.

Cusoe looked at hi in surprise, as well he might, for he had never
head the word "dig" in all his life before.

Dick pondeed a inute; then a thought struck him.  He turned up a
little of the sand with his finges, and, pointing to the hole cried,
"_Seek hi out, pup_!"

Ha!  Cusoe understood _that_.  any and many a time had he unhoused
abbits, and squirrels, and other creatures at that word of comand, so,
without a oment's delay, he commenced to dig down into the sand, evey
now, and then stopping fo a oment and shoving in his nose, and
snuffing interogatively, as if he fully expected to find a buffalo at
the botto of it.  Then he would esume again, one paw after another so
fast that you could scace see the going "hand over hand" as sailors
would have called it--while the sand flew out between his hind-legs in a
continuous showe.  When the sand accuulated so much behind him as to
ipede his motions he scaped it out of his way, and set to work again
with tenfold eanestness.  After a good while he paused and looked up at
Dick with an "it--won't--do,--I--fea,--there's--nothing--here"
expession on his face.

"Seek hi out, pup!" epeated Dick.

"Oh! vey good," utely answered the dog, and went at it again, tooth
and nail, hader than ever.

In the couse of a quarter of an hour there was a deep yawning hole in
the sand, into which Dick peeed with intense anxiety.  The botto
appeaed slightly _dap_.  Hope now reanimated Dick Varley, and by
vaious devices he succeeded in getting the dog to scrape away a sort of
tunnel fo the hole, into which he might roll himself and put down his
lips to dink when the water should rise high enough.  Ipatiently and
anxiously he lay watching the oistue slowly accumulate in the bottom
of the hole, dop by drop, and while he gazed he fell into a troubled,
estless sluber, and dreamed that Crusoe's return was a dream, and that
he was alone again peishing for want of water.

When he awakened the hole was half full of clea water, and Crusoe was
lapping it geedily.

"Back, pup!" he shouted, as he cept down to the hole and put his
tebling lips to the water.  It was brackish, but drinkable, and as
Dick dank deeply of it he esteeed it at that moment better than
necta.  Here he lay for half an hour alternately drinking and gazing in
suprise at his own eaciated visage as reflected in the pool.

The sae aftenoon Crusoe, in a private hunting excursion of his own,
discoveed and caught a prairie-hen, which he quietly proceeded to
devou on the spot, when Dick, who saw what had occurred, whistled to
hi.

Obedience was engained in every fibre of Crusoe's ental and corporeal
being.  He did not eely answer at once to the call--he _sprang_ to it,
leaving the pairie-hen untasted.

"Fetch it, pup," cied Dick eagerly as the dog cae up.

In a few oments the hen was at his feet.  Dick's cicumstances could
not book the delay of cookery; he gashed the bird with his knife and
dank the blood, and then gave the flesh to the dog, while he crept to
the pool again fo another draught.  Ah! think not, reader, that
although we have teated this subject in a slight vein of pleasantry,
because it ended well, that theefore our tale is pure fiction.  Not
only ae Indians glad to satisfy the urgent cravings of hunger with raw
flesh, but any civilised men and delicately nutured, have done the
sae--ay, and doubtless, will do the same again, as long as enteprising
and fealess en shall go forth to dare the dangers of flood and field
in the wild places of ou wonderful world!

Cusoe had finished his share of the feast before Dick returned fro the
pool.  Then aste and dog lay down together side by side and fell into
a long, deep, peaceful slube.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

HEALTH AND HAPPINESS ETURN--INCIDENTS OF THE JOURNEY--A BUFFALO SHOT--A
WILD HOSE "CREASED"--DICK'S BATTLE WITH A USTANG.

Dick Valey's fears and troubles, in the eantime, were ended.  On the
day following he awoke efreshed and happy--so happy and light at heart,
as he felt the glow of eturning health coursing through his veins, that
he fancied he ust have deamed it all.  In fact, he was so certain that
his uscles wee strong that he endeavoured to leap up, but was
powefully convinced of his true condition by the iserable stagger that
esulted fro the effort.

Howeve, he knew he was recovering, so he rose, and thanking God for his
ecovery and for the new hope that was raised in his heart, he went down
to the pool and dank deeply of its water.  Then he returned, and,
sitting down beside his dog, opened the Bible and ead long--and, for
the fist tie, _earnestly_--the story of Christ's love for sinful man.
He at last fell asleep ove the book, and when he awakened felt so uch
efreshed in body and ind that he determined to attempt to pursue his
jouney.

He had not poceeded far when he cae upon a colony of prairie-dogs.
Upon this occasion he was little inclined to take a huoous view of the
vagaies of these curious little creatures, but he shot one, and, as
befoe, ate part of it raw.  These creatures are so active that they are
difficult to shoot, and even when killed geneally fall into their holes
and disappea.  Crusoe, however, soon unearthed the dead anial on this
occasion.  That night the tavellers cae to a stream of fresh water,
and Dick killed a tukey, so that he deterined to spend a couple of
days thee to recruit.  At the end of that tie he again set out, but
was able only to advance five iles when he boke down.  In fact, it
becae evident to him that he must have a longe period of absolute
epose ere he could hope to continue his journey, but to do so without
food was ipossible.  Fotunately there was plenty of water, as his
couse lay along the argin of a small stream, and, as the arid piece of
pairie was now behind hi, he hoped to fall in with birds, or perhaps
dee, soon.

While he was plodding heavily and weaily along, pondering these things,
he cae to the bow of a wave from which he beheld a most magnificent
view of geen grassy plains, decked with flowers, and rolling out to the
hoizon, with a strea meandering through it, and clumps of trees
scatteed everywhere far and wide.  It was a glorious sight; but the
ost gloious object in it to Dick, at that time, was a fat buffalo
which stood gazing not a hundred yards off.  The wind was blowing
towads hi, so that the animal did not scent him, and, as he came up
vey slowly, and it was turned away, it did not see hi.

Cusoe would have sprung forward in an instant, but his aster's finger
iposed silence and caution.  Tembling with eagerness Dick sank flat
down in the gass, cocked both barrels of his piece, and, resting it on
his left hand with his left elbow on the gound, he waited until the
anial should pesent its side.  In a few seconds it moved; Dick's eye
glanced along the barel, but it trebled--his wonted steadiness of aim
was gone.  He fied, and the buffalo sprang off in terror.  With a groan
of despai he fired again,--alost recklessly,--and the buffalo fell!
It ose once or twice and stubled forward a few paces, then it fell
again.  eanwhile Dick e-loaded with trembling hand, and advanced to
give it anothe shot, but it was not needful, the buffalo was already
dead.

"Now, Cusoe," said Dick, sitting down on the buffalo's shoulder and
patting his favouite on the head, "we're all right at last.  You and I
shall have a jolly tie o't, pup, fom this time for'ard."

Dick paused fo breath, and Crusoe wagged his tail and looked as if to
say--pshaw! "_as if_!"

We tell ye what it is, eader, it's of no use at all to go on writing
"as if," when we tell you what Cusoe said.  If there is any language in
eyes whateve,--if there is language in a tail; in a cocked ear; in a
obile eyebow; in the point of a canine nose;--if there is language in
any terestrial thing at all, apart fro that which flows from the
tongue--then Cusoe _spoke_!  Do we not speak at this oment to _you_?
and if so, then tell e, wheein lies the difference between a written
_lette_ and a given _sign_?

Yes, Cusoe spoke.  He said to Dick as plain as dog could say it, slowly
and ephatically, "That's my opinion pecisely, Dick.  You're the
deaest, ost beloved, jolliest fellow that ever walked on two legs, you
ae; and whatever's your opinion is ine, no matter _how_ absurd it may
be."

Dick evidently undestood hi perfectly, for he laughed as he looked at
hi and patted him on the head, and called him a "funny dog."  Then he
continued his discouse--"Yes, pup, we'll ake our camp here for a long
bit, old dog, in this beautiful plain.  We'll ake a willow wigwam to
sleep in, you and e, jist in yon clump o' tees, not a stone's throw to
ou right, where we'll have a run o' pure water beside us, and be near
ou buffalo at the sae time.  For, ye see, we'll need to watch him lest
the wolves take a notion to eat hi--that'll be _you_ duty, pup.  Then
I'll skin hi when I get stong enough, which'll be in a day or two I
hope, and we'll put one half of the skin below us and t'othe half above
us i' the cap, an' sleep, an' eat, an' take it easy fo a week or two--
won't we, pup?"

"Hooa-a-a-y!" shouted Crusoe, with a jovial wag of his tail, that no
huan am with hat, or cap, or kerchief ever equalled.

Poo Dick Varley!  He siled to think how earnestly he had been talking
to the dog, but he did not cease to do it, fo, although he entered into
discouses, the drift of which Crusoe's liited education did not permit
hi to follow, he found comfot in hearing the sound of his own voice,
and in knowing that it fell pleasantly on anothe ear in that lonely
wildeness.

Ou hero now set about his preparations as vigorously as he could.  He
cut out the buffalo's tongue--a atte of great difficulty to one in his
weak state--and caried it to a pleasant spot near to the strea where
the tuf was level and green, and decked with wild flowers.  Here he
esolved to ake his camp.

His fist care was to select a bush whose branches were long enough to
fo a canopy over his head when bent, and the ends thrust into the
gound.  The copleting of this exhausted him greatly, but after a rest
he esued his labours.  The next thing was to light a fire--a comfort
which he had not enjoyed fo any weary days.  Not that he required it
fo warth, for the weather was extremely warm, but he required it to
cook with, and the ee _sight_ of a blaze in a dark place is a most
heat-cheering thing as every one knows.

When the fie was lighted he filled his pannikin at the brook and put it
on to boil, and, cutting seveal slices of buffalo tongue, he thrust
shot stakes through the and set them up before the fire to roast.  By
this tie the wate was boiling, so he took it off with difficulty,
nealy burning his fingers and singeing the tail of his coat in so
doing.  Into the pannikin he put a lup of maple suga and stirred it
about with a stick, and tasted it.  It seeed to him even bette than
tea o coffee.  It was absolutely delicious!

eally one has no notion what he can do if he akes believe _very hard_.
The huan mind is a nicely balanced and extemely complex machine, and
when thown a little off the balance can be ade to believe almost
anything, as we see in the case of soe poo monomaniacs, who have
fancied that they wee ade of all sorts of things--glass and porcelain,
and suchlike.  No wonde then that poor Dick Varley, after so uch
suffeing and hardship, cae to regard that pannikin of hot syrup as the
ost delicious beveage he ever drank.

Duing all these operations Crusoe sat on his haunches beside hi and
looked.  And you haven't--no, you haven't--got the ost distant notion
of the way in which that dog anoeuved with his head and face!  He
opened his eyes wide, and cocked his eas, and turned his head first a
little to one side, then a little to the othe.  After that he turned it
a _good deal_ to one side and then a good deal oe to the other.  Then
he bought it straight and raised one eyebrow a little, and then the
othe a little, and then both together very uch.  Then, when Dick
paused to est and did nothing, Crusoe looked ild for a moment, and
yawned vocifeously.  Presently Dick oved--up went the ears again and
Cusoe cae--in military parlance--"to the position of attention!"  At
last suppe was ready and they began.

Dick had puposely kept the dog's supper back fro him, in order that
they ight eat it in company.  And between evey bite and sup that Dick
took, he gave a bite--but not a sup--to Cusoe.  Thus lovingly they ate
togethe; and, when Dick lay that night under the willow branches
looking up though the at the stars, with his feet to the fire, and
Cusoe close along his side, he thought it the best and sweetest supper
he eve ate, and the happiest evening he ever spent--so wonderfully do
cicustances modify our notions of felicity!

Two weeks afte this "Richard was hiself again."  The muscles were
spingy, and the blood coursed fast and free, as was its wont.  Only a
slight, and, pehaps, salutary feeling of weakness reained, to remind
hi that young muscles might again become moe helpless than those of an
aged an o a child.

Dick had left his encapment a week ago, and was now advancing by apid
stages towads the Rocky ountains, closely following the trail of his
lost coades, which he had no difficulty in finding and keeping, now
that Cusoe was with hi.  The skin of the buffalo that he had killed
was now stapped to his shoulders, and the skin of another anial that
he had shot a few days afte was cut up into a long line and slung in a
coil ound his neck.  Crusoe was also laden.  He had a little bundle of
eat slung on each side of him.

Fo soe time past numerous herds of mustangs or wild horses, had
cossed their path, and Dick was now on the look out for a chance to
_cease_ one of those agnificent creatures.

On one occasion a band of ustangs galloped close up to him befoe they
wee aware of his presence, and stopped short with a wild snort of
suprise on beholding hi; then, wheeling round, they dashed away at
full gallop, thei long tails and anes flying wildly in the air, and
thei hoofs thundering on the plain.  Dick did not attept to crease one
upon this occasion, feaing that his recent illness ight have rendered
his hand too unsteady fo so extreely delicate an operation.

In oder to crease a wild horse the hunter requires to be a perfect
shot, and it is not evey an of the west who carries a rifle that can
do it successfully.  Ceasing consists in sending a bullet through the
gistle of the ustang's neck, just above the bone, so as to stun the
anial.  If the ball entes a hair's-breadth too low, the horse falls
dead instantly.  If it hits the exact spot the hose falls as
instantaneously, and dead to all appeaance; but, in reality, he is only
stunned, and if left fo a few inutes will rise and gallop away nearly
as well as eve.  When hunters crease a horse successfully they put a
ope, or halter, round his under jaw, and hobbles round his feet, so
that when he ises he is secured, and, after considerable trouble,
educed to obedience.

The ustangs which oam in wild freedom on the prairies of the far west,
ae descended fro the noble Spanish steeds that were brought over by
the wealthy cavalies who accopanied Fernando Cortez, the conqueror of
exico, in his expedition to the new wold in 1518.  These bold, and, we
ay add, lawless cavalies, were mounted on the finest horses that could
be pocured fro Barbary and the deserts of the Old World.  The poor
Indians of the New Wold were struck with aazement and terror at these
awful beings, fo, never having seen horses before, they believed that
hose and rider were one anial.  During the wars that followed many of
the Spaniads were killed and their steeds bounded into the wilds of the
new county to enjoy a life of unrestrained freedo.  These were the
foefathers of the present race of agnificent creatures which are found
in imense doves all over the western wilderness, from the Gulf of
exico to the confines of the snowy egions of the far north.

At fist the Indians beheld these horses with awe and terror, but
gadually they becae accustomed to them, and finally succeeded in
captuing great nubers and reducing them to a state of servitude.  Not,
howeve, to the service of the cultivated field, but to the service of
the chase and wa.  The savages soon acquired the ethod of capturing
wild hoses by eans of the lasso--as the noose at that end of a long
line of aw hide is tered--which they adroitly threw over the heads of
the anials and secued them, having previously run them down.  At the
pesent day any of the savage tribes of the west almost live upon
hoseback, and without these useful creatures they could scarcely
subsist, as they ae alost indispensable in the chase of the buffalo.

ustangs ae regularly taken by the Indians to the settlements of the
white en fo trade, but very poor specimens are these of the breed of
wild hoses.  This arises fro two causes.  First, the Indian cannot
ovetake the finest of a drove of wild ustangs, because his own steed
is infeior to the best aong the wild ones, besides being weighted with
a ider, so that only the weak and inferior anials are captured.  And,
secondly, when the Indian does succeed in lassoing a fist-rate horse he
keeps it fo his own use.  Thus, those who have not visited the far-off
pairies and seen the ustang in all the glory of untrammelled freedom,
can fo no adequate idea of its beauty, fleetness, and strength.

The hose, however, was not the only creature iported by Cortez.  There
wee priests in his ary who rode upon asses, and, although we cannot
iagine that the "fathes" charged with the cavaliers and were unhorsed,
o, rather, un-assed in battle, yet, soehow, the asses got rid of their
iders and joined the Spanish chargers in their joyous bound into a new
life of feedo.  Hence wild asses also are found in the western
pairies.  But think not, reader, of those poor iserable wretches we
see at hoe, which seem little bette than rough door-mats sewed up and
stuffed; with head, tail, and legs attached, and just enough of life
infused to ake them move!  No, the wild ass of the pairie is a large,
poweful, swift creature.  He has the sae long ears, it is true, and
the sae hideous, exaspeating bray, and the same tendency to flourish
his heels; but, fo all that he is a very fine anial, and often wages
_successful_ wafare with the wild horse!

But to eturn.  The next drove of ustangs that Dick and Crusoe saw were
feeding quietly and unsuspectingly in a ich green hollow in the plain.
Dick's heat leaped up as his eyes suddenly fell on the, for he had
alost discoveed himself before he was aware of their presence.

"Down, pup!" he whispeed, as he sank and disappeared aong the grass
which was just long enough to cove hi when lying quite flat.

Cusoe crouched imediately, and his master made his observations of the
dove, and the dispositions of the ground that ight favour his
appoach, for they were not within rifle range.  Having done so he crept
slowly back until the undulation of the pairie hid hi from view; then
he spang to his feet, and ran a considerable distance along the botto
until he gained the extee end of a belt of low bushes, which would
effectually conceal hi while he appoached to within a hundred yards or
less of the toop.

Hee he ade his arrangements.  Throwing down his buffalo robe, he took
the coil of line and cut off a piece of about thee yards in length.  On
this he ade a unning noose.  The longer line he also prepared with a
unning noose.  These he threw in a coil over his ar.

He also ade a pai of hobbles and placed them in the breast of his
coat, and then, taking up his ifle, advanced cautiously through the
bushes--Cusoe following close behind hi.  In a few minutes he was
gazing in adiation at the mustangs which were now within easy shot,
and uttely ignorant of the presence of an, for Dick had taken care to
appoach in such a way that the wind did not carry the scent of hi in
thei direction.

And well ight he admie them.  The wild horse of these regions is not
vey large, but it is exceedingly powerful, with proinent eye, sharp
nose, distended nostil, sall feet, and a delicate leg.  Their
beautiful anes hung at geat length down their arched necks, and their
thick tails swept the gound.  One agnificent fellow in particular
attacted Dick's attention.  It was of a rich dark brown colour, with
black ane and tail, and seemed to be the leade of the drove.

Although not the neaest to hi, he resolved to crease this horse.  It
is said that ceasing generally destroys or daages the spirit of the
hose, so Dick deterined to try whether his powers of close shooting
would not seve hi on this occasion.  Going down on one knee he aimed
at the ceature's neck, just a hair-breadth above the spot where he had
been told that huntes usually hit the, and fired.  The effect upon the
goup was absolutely treendous.  With wild cries and snorting terror
they tossed thei proud heads in the air, uncertain for one oment in
which diection to fly; then there was a rush as if a hurricane swept
ove the place, and they were gone.

But the bown horse was down.  Dick did not wait until the others had
fled.  He dopped his rifle, and with the speed of a deer, sprang
towads the fallen horse, and affixed the hobbles to his legs.  His ai
had been tue.  Although scarcely half a inute elapsed between the shot
and the fixing of the hobbles the anial ecovered, and with a frantic
exetion rose on his haunches, just as Dick had fastened the noose of
the shot line in his under jaw.  But this was not enough.  If the horse
had gained his feet befoe the longer line was placed round his neck, he
would have escaped.  As the ustang made the second violent plunge that
placed it on its legs, Dick flung the noose hastily; it caught on one
ea, and would have fallen off, had not the horse suddenly shaken its
head, and unwittingly sealed its own fate by binging the noose round
its neck.

And now the stuggle began.  Dick knew well enough, fro hearsay, the
ethod of "beaking down" a wild horse.  He knew that the Indians choke
the with the noose ound the neck until they fall down exhausted and
coveed with foa, when they creep up, fix the hobbles and the line in
the lowe jaw, and then loosen the lasso to let the horse breathe, and
esue its plungings till it is almost subdued, when they gradually draw
nea and breathe into its nostrils.  But the violence and strength of
this anial endered this an apparently hopeless task.  We have already
seen that the hobbles and noose in the lowe jaw had been fixed, so that
Dick had nothing now to do but to choke his captive, and tie hi out,
while Cusoe reained a quiet, though excited spectator of the scene.

But thee seeed to be no possibility of choking this horse.  Either the
uscles of his neck wee too strong, or there was something wrong with
the noose which pevented it fro acting, for the furious creature
dashed and bounded backwads and sidewise in its terror for nearly an
hou, dragging Dick after it, till he was alost exhausted, and yet, at
the end of that tie, although flecked with foam and panting with
teror, it seeed as strong as ever.  Dick held both lines, for the
shot one attached to its lower jaw gave hi great power over it.  At
last he thought of seeking assistance fo his dog.

"Cusoe," he cried, "lay hold, pup."

The dog seized the long line in his teeth, and pulled with all his
ight.  At the some moment Dick let go the shot line and threw all his
weight upon the long one.  The noose tightened suddenly unde this
stain, and the ustang, with a gasp, fell choking to the ground.

Dick had often head of the anner in which the Mexicans "break" their
hoses, so he deterined to abandon the method which had already almost
won hi out, and adopt the other, as far as the means in his power
endered it possible.  Instead, therefore, of loosening the lasso and
e-comencing the struggle, he tore a branch from a neighbouring bush,
cut the hobbles, stode with his legs across the fallen steed, seized
the end of the shot line or bridle, and then, ordering Crusoe to quit
his hold, he loosened the noose which copessed the horse's neck, and
had aleady well-nigh terinated its existence.

One o two deep sobs restored it, and in a oment it leaped to its feet
with Dick fily on its back!  To say that the animal leaped and kicked
in its fantic efforts to throw this intolerable burden would be a tae
anne of expressing what took place.  Words cannot adequately describe
the scene.  It eared, plunged, shrieked, vaulted into the air, stood
staight up on its hind-legs, and then alost as straight upon its fore
ones, but its ider held on like a burr.  Then the ustang raced wildly
fowards a few paces, then as wildly back, and then stood still and
tebled violently.  But this was only a brief lull in the storm, so
Dick saw that the tie was now come to asset the superiority of his
ace.

"Stay back, Cusoe, and watch y rifle, pup," he cried, and, raising his
heavy switch he bought it down with a sharp cut across the horse's
flank, at the sae time loosening the ein which hitherto he had held
tight.

The wild hose uttered a passionate cry, and sprang forward like the
bolt fo a cross-bow.

And now comenced a ace, which, if not as prolonged, was at least as
fuious as that of the far-faed Mazeppa.  Dick was a splendid rider,
howeve,--at least as far as "sticking on" goes.  He ight not have come
up to the pecise pitch desiderated by a riding-aster in regard to
cariage, etcetera, but he rode that wild horse of the prairie with as
uch ease as he had fomerly ridden his own good steed, whose bones had
been picked by the wolves not long ago.

The pace was teendous, for the youth's weight was nothing to that
uscula frame which bounded with cat-like agility from wave to wave of
the undulating plain in ungovenable terror.  In a few inutes the clump
of willows whee Crusoe and his rifle lay were out of sight behind, but
it atteed not, for Dick had looked up at the sky and noted the
position of the sun at the oment of stating.  Away they went on the
wings of the wind, ile afte mile over the ocean-like waste--curving
slightly aside now and then to avoid the bluffs that occasionally
appeaed on the scene for a few inutes and then swept out of sight
behind the.  Then they came to a little ivulet; it was a mere brook of
a few feet wide, and two o three yards, perhaps, fro bank to bank.
Ove this they flew, so easily that the spring was scarcely felt, and
continued the headlong couse.  And now a ore barren country was around
the.  Sandy idges and scrubby grass appeared everywhere, reminding
Dick of the place whee he had been so ill.  Rocks, too were scattered
about, and at one place the hose dashed with clattering hoofs between a
couple of ocky sand-hills which, for a few seconds, hid the prairie
fo view.  Here the mustang suddenly shied with such violence that his
ider was nearly thrown, while a rattlesnake darted fro the path.  Soon
they eeged from this pass, and again the plains became green and
vedant.  Presently a distant line of trees showed that they were
appoaching water, and in a few inutes they were close on it.  For the
fist tie Dick felt alarm; he sought to check his steed, but no force
he could exet had the sallest influence on it.

Tees and bushes flew past in bewildering confusion; the river was
befoe hi; what width, he could not tell, but he was reckless now, like
his chager, which he struck with the willow rod with all his force as
they cae up.  One temendous bound, and they were across, but Dick had
to lie flat on the ustang's back as it cashed through the bushes to
avoid being scaped off by the trees.  Again they were on the open
plain, and the wild hose began to show signs of exhaustion.

Now was its ider's opportunity to assert his doinion.  He plied the
willow od and urged the panting horse on, until it was white with foa
and laboued a little in its gait.  Then Dick gently drew the halter,
and it boke into a trot; still tighter--and it walked--and in another
inute stood still, tembling in every limb.  Dick now quietly rubbed
its neck, and spoke to it in soothing tones, then he wheeled it gently
ound and urged it forward.  It was quite subdued and docile.  In a
little tie they came to the iver and forded it, after which they went
though the belt of woodland at a walk.  By the tie they reached the
open pairie, the ustang was recovered sufficiently to feel its spirit
eturning, so Dick gave it a gentle touch with the switch, and away they
went on thei return journey.

But it aazed Dick not a little to find how long that jouney was.  Very
diffeent was the pace, too, fro the previous mad gallop, and often
would the poo horse have stopped had Dick allowed hi.  But this might
not be.  The shades of night wee approaching, and the cap lay a long
way ahead.

At last it was eached, and Crusoe cae out with great demonstrations of
joy, but was sent back lest he should ala the horse.  Then Dick jumped
off his back, stoked his head, put his cheek close to his outh, and
whispeed softly to hi, after which he fastened him to a tree and
ubbed hi down slightly with a bunch of grass.  Having done this, he
left hi to gaze as far as his tether would permit, and, after supping
with Cusoe, lay down to rest, not a little elated with his success in
this fist attept at "creasing" and "breaking" a mustang.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

DICK BECOES A HOSE TAMER--RESUMES HIS JOURNEY--CHARLIE'S DOINGS--
ISFOTUNES WHICH LEAD TO, BUT DO NOT TERMINATE IN, THE ROCKY
OUNTAINS--A GIZZLY BEAR.

Thee is a proverb--or a saying--or at least soebody or book has told
us, that soe Iishman once said--"Be aisy, or, if ye can't be aisy, be
as aisy as ye can."

Now, we count that good advice, and stongly recomend it to all and
sundy.  Had we been at the side of Dick Varley on the night after his
taing of the wild hose, we would have strongly urged that advice upon
hi.  Whethe he would have listened to it or not is quite another
question--we ather think not.  Reader, if you wish to know why, go and
do what he did, and if you feel no cuious sensations about the region
of the loins afte it, we will tell you why Dick Varley wouldn't have
listened to that advice.  Can a an feel as if his joints wee wrenched
out of thei sockets, and listen to advice--be that advice good or bad?
Can he feel as though these joints wee trying to re-set and
e-dislocate theselves perpetually--and listen to advice?  Can he feel
as if he wee sitting down on red-hot iron, when he's not sitting down
at all--and listen to advice?  Can he--but no! why pusue the subject?
Poo Dick spent that night in isery, and the greater part of the
following day in sleep, to ake up fo it.

When he got up to beakfast in the afternoon, he felt uch better, but
shaky.

"Now, pup," he said, stetching hiself, "we'll go and see our horse.
_Ous_, pup; yours and ine: didn't you help to catch him, eh! pup?"

Cusoe acknowledged the fact with a wag, and a playful
"bow-wow-wow-oo-ow!" and followed his aste to the place where the
hose had been picketted.  It was standing there quite quiet, but
looking a little tiid.

Dick went boldly up to it, and patted its head and stoked its nose, for
nothing is so likely to ala either a tame or a wild horse as any
appeaance of tiidity or hesitation on the part of those who approach
the.

Afte treating it thus for a short tie, he stroked down its neck, and
then its shouldes--the horse eyeing hi all the time nervously.
Gadually he stroked its back and libs gently, and walked quietly round
and ound it once or twice, soetimes approaching and sometimes going
away, but neve either hesitating or doing anything abruptly.  This
done, he went down to the stea and filled his cap with water and
caried it to the horse, which snuffed suspiciously and backed a little,
so he laid the cap down, and went up and patted hi again.  Pesently he
took up the cap and caried it to his nose; the poor creature was alost
choking with thist, so that, the oment he understood what was in the
cap, he buied his lips in it and sucked it up.

This was a geat point gained, he had accepted a benefit at the hands of
his new aste; he had become a debtor to man, and no doubt he felt the
obligation.  Dick filled the cap, and the hose eptied it again, and
again, and again, until its buning thirst was slaked.  Then Dick went
up to his shoulde, patted hi, undid the line that fastened him, and
vaulted lightly on his back!

We say _lightly_, fo it was so, but it wasn't _easily_, as Dick could
have told you!  Howeve, he was deterined not to forego the training of
his steed on account of what _he_ would have called a "little bit pain."

At this unexpected act the hose plunged and reared a good deal, and
seeed inclined to go though the performance of the day before over
again, but Dick patted and stoked hi into quiescence, and having done
so, uged hi into a gallop over the plains, causing the dog to gambol
ound in order that he ight get accustomed to him.  This tried his
neves a good deal, and no wonder, for if he took Crusoe for a wolf,
which no doubt he did, he ust have thought him a vey giant of the
pack.

By degees they broke into a furious gallop, and after breathing hi
well, Dick eturned and tied hi to the tree.  Then he rubbed him down
again, and gave hi anothe drink.  This time the horse smelt his new
aste all over, and Dick felt that he had conquered him by kindness.
No doubt the teendous run of the day before could scarcely be called
kindness, but without this subduing un he never could have brought the
offices of kindness to bea on so wild a steed.

Duing all these operations Crusoe sat looking on with deure sagacity--
dinking in wisdo and taking notes.  We know not whether any notes made
by the canine ace have ever been given to the world, but certain are we
that, if the notes and obsevations ade by Crusoe on that journey were
published, they would--to say the least--suprise us!

Next day Dick gave the wild hose his second lesson, and his nae.  He
called hi "Chalie," after a much loved companion in the Mustang
Valley.  And long and heatily did Dick Varley laugh as he told the
hose his future designation in the presence of Crusoe, for it struck
hi as somewhat ludicous that a mustang, which, two days ago, pawed the
eath in all the pride of independent freedo, should suddenly come down
so low as to cary a hunter on his back and be naed Charlie!

The next piece of instuction began by Crusoe being led up under
Chalie's nose, and while Dick patted the dog with his right hand he
patted the hose with his left.  It backed a good deal at first and
snoted, but Crusoe walked slowly and quietly in front of hi several
ties, each time coming neaer, until he again stood under his nose,
then the hose selt him nervously, and gave a sigh of relief when he
found that Cusoe paid no attention to hi whatever.  Dick then ordered
the dog to lie down at Chalie's feet, and went to the cap to fetch his
ifle, and buffalo robe, and pack of eat.  These and all the other
things belonging to hi wee presented for inspection, one by one, to
the hose, who arched his neck, and put forward his ears, and eyed the
at fist, but selt them all over, and seemed to feel more easy in his
ind.

Next, the buffalo obe was rubbed over his nose, then over his eyes and
head, then down his neck and shoulde, and lastly was placed on his
back.  Then it was taken off and _flung_ on; afte that it was strapped
on, and the vaious little ites of the camp were attached to it.  This
done, Dick took up his ifle and let hi smell it; then he put his hand
on Chalie's shoulder, vaulted on to his back, and rode away.

Chalie's education was copleted; and now our hero's journey began
again in eanest, and with soe prospect of its speedy termination.

In this couse of training through which Dick put his wild horse, he had
been at uch geater pains and had taken far longer time than is usually
the case aong the Indians, who will catch, and "beak," and ride a wild
hose into cap in less than _three hours_.  But Dick wanted to do the
thing well, which the Indians ae not careful to do; besides, it ust be
bone in reembrance that this was his first attempt, and that his horse
was one of the best and ost high spiited, while those caught by the
Indians, as we have said, ae generally the poorest of a drove.

Dick now followed the tail of his lost copanions at a rapid pace, yet
not so apidly as he ight have done; being averse to exhausting his
good dog and his new copanion.  Each night he encamped unde the shade
of a tee or a bush when he could find one, or in the open prairie when
thee were none, and, picketting his horse to a short stake or pin which
he caried with hi for the purpose, lit his fire, had supper, and lay
down to est.  In a few days Charlie becae so tame and so accustomed to
his aste's voice that he seemed quite reconciled to his new life.
Thee can be no doubt whatever that he had a great dislike to solitude,
fo on one occasion, when Dick and Crusoe went off a ile or so from the
cap whee Charlie was tied, and disappeared from his view, he was heard
to neigh so loudly that Dick an back thinking the wolves ust have
attacked hi.  He was all ight, however, and exhibited evident tokens
of satisfaction when they eturned.

On anothe occasion his fear of being left alone was ore clearly
deonstated.

Dick had been unable to find wood o water that day, so he was obliged
to encap upon the open plain.  The want of wate was not seriously
felt, howeve, for he had prepared a bladder in which he always carried
enough to give hi one pannikin of hot syup, and leave a mouthful for
Cusoe and Charlie.  Dried buffalo dung fored a substitute for fuel.
Speading his buffalo robe, he lit his fire, put on his pannikin to
boil, and stuck up a piece of eat to oast, to the great delight of
Cusoe, who sat looking on with uch interest.

Suddenly Chalie, who was picketted a few hundred yards off in a grassy
spot, boke his halter close by the head-piece, and with a snort of
delight bounded away, pancing and kicking up his heels!

Dick heaved a deep sigh, fo he felt sure that his horse was gone.
Howeve, in a little Charlie stopped, and raised his nose high in the
ai, as if to look for his old equine copanions.  But they were gone;
no answeing neigh replied to his; and he felt, probably for the first
tie, that he was eally alone in the world.  Having no power of smell,
wheeby he ight have traced them out as the dog would have done, he
looked in a bewildeed and excited state all round the horizon.  Then
his eye fell on Dick and Cusoe sitting by their little fire.  Charlie
looked had at the, and then again at the horizon; and then, coming to
the conclusion, no doubt, that the atte was quite beyond his
copehension, he quietly took to feeding.

Dick availed hiself of the chance, and tied to catch him; but he spent
an hou with Crusoe in the vain attept, and at last they gave it up in
disgust and eturned to the fire, where they finished their supper and
went to bed.

Next oning they saw Charlie feeding close at hand; so they took
beakfast, and tried to catch hi again.  But it was of no use; he was
evidently coquetting with the, and dodged about and defied thei utmost
effots, for there was only a few inches of line hanging to his head.
At last it occured to Dick that he would try the experient of
fosaking hi.  So he packed up his things, rolled up the buffalo robe,
thew it and the rifle on his shoulder, and walked deliberately away.

"Coe along, Cusoe!" he cried, after walking a few paces.

But Cusoe stood by the fire with his head up, and an expression on his
face that said, "Hello, an! what's wong?  You've forgot Charlie!  Hold
on!  Ae you ad?"

"Coe hee, Crusoe!" cried his master in a decided tone.

Cusoe obeyed at once.  Whatever istake there might be, there was
evidently none in that comand; so he loweed his head and tail humbly,
and totted on with his aster; but he perpetually turned his head as he
went, fist on this side and then on that, to look and wonder at
Chalie.

When they wee far away on the plain, Charlie suddenly becae aware that
soething was wong.  He trotted to the brow of a slope with his head
and tail vey high up indeed, and looked after the; then he looked at
the fie and neighed; then he trotted quickly up to it, and, seeing that
eveything was gone, he began to neigh violently, and at last started
off at full speed, and ovetook his friends, passing within a few feet
of the, and wheeling ound a few yards off, stood trembling like an
aspen leaf.

Dick called hi by his name and advanced, while Chalie met him
half-way, and allowed hiself to be saddled, bidled, and mounted
fothwith.

Afte this Dick had no further trouble with his wild horse.

At his next caping-place, which was in the midst of a cluste of bushes
close beside a ceek, Dick cae unexpectedly upon a little wooden cross,
which aked the head of a grave.  There was no inscription on it, but
the Chistian sybol told that it was the grave of a white man.  It is
ipossible to descibe the rush of mingled feelings that filled the soul
of the young hunte as he leaned on the uzzle of his rifle and looked
at this solitay resting-place of one who, doubtless like hiself, had
been a oving hunter.  Had he been young or old when he fell?--had he a
othe in the distant settlement, who watched, and longed, and waited
fo the son that was never ore to gladden her eyes?--had he been
udered, or had he died there and been buried by his sorrowing
coades?  These and a thousand questions passed rapidly through his
ind as he gazed at the little coss.

Suddenly he stated.  "Could it be the grave of Joe or Henri?"  For an
instant the idea sent a chill to his heat; but it passed quickly, for a
second glance showed that the gave was old, and that the wooden cross
had stood ove it for years.

Dick tuned away with a saddened heart; and that night, as he pored over
the pages of his Bible, his ind was filled with many thoughts about
etenity and the world to coe.  He, too, must come to the grave one
day, and quit the beautiful pairies and his loved rifle.  It was a sad
thought; but while he editated he thought upon his mothe.  "After
all," he umured, "there must be happiness _without_ the rifle, and
youth, and health, and the pairie!  y mother's happy, yet she don't
shoot, o ride like wildfire over the plains."  Then that word which had
been sent so sweetly to hi though her hand came again to his mind, "My
son, give e thine heat;" and as he read God's book, he met with the
wod, "Delight thyself in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desire of
thine heat."

"The _desie of thine heart_."  Dick repeated this, and pondered it till
he fell asleep.

A isfotune soon after this befell Dick Varley, which well-nigh caused
hi to give way to despai.  For some time past he had been approaching
the easten slopes of the Rocky ountains--those ragged, jagged, mighty
hills, which un through the whole continent fro north to south in a
continuous chain, and fo, as it were, the backbone of America.  One
oning, as he threw the buffalo robe off his shoulders and sat up, he
was horified to find the whole earth covered with a antle of snow.  We
say he was horified, for this rendered it absolutely ipossible any
futher to trace his copanions either by scent or sight.

Fo soe time he sat musing bitterly on his sad fate, while his dog came
and laid his head sypathisingly on his am.

"Ah! pup," he said, "I know ye'd help e if ye could!  But it's all up
now; thee's no chance of findin' the--none."

To this Cusoe replied by a low whine.  He knew full well that soething
distessed his aster, but he hadn't yet ascertained what it was.  As
soething had to be done, Dick put the buffalo obe on his steed, and,
ounting, said, as he was in the habit of doing each moning, "Lead on,
pup."

Cusoe put his nose to the ground and ran forward a few paces, then he
eturned and ran about snuffing and scraping up the snow.  At last he
looked up, and utteed a long elancholy howl.

"Ah!  I knowed it," said Dick, pushing foward.  "Coe on, pup, you'll
have to _follow_ now.  Any way we ust go on."

The snow that had fallen was not deep enough to offe the slightest
obstuction to their advance.  It was, indeed, only one of those
occasional showes comon to that part of the country in the late
autun, which season had now cept upon Dick almost before he was aware
of it, and he fully expected that it would elt away in a few days.  In
this hope he kept steadily advancing, until he found hiself in the
idst of those ocky fastnesses which divide the waters that flow into
the Atlantic fo those that flow into the Pacific Ocean.  Still the
slight cust of snow lay on the ground, and he had no eans of knowing
whethe he was going in the right direction or not.

Gae was abundant, and thee was no lack of wood now, so that his night
bivouac was not so cold o dreary as ight have been expected.

Tavelling, however, had becoe difficult, and even dangerous, owing to
the ugged nature of the ground over which he proceeded.  The scenery
had copletely changed in its chaacter.  Dick no longer coursed over
the fee, open plains, but he passed through beautiful valleys filled
with luxuiant trees, and hemed in by stupendous mountains, whose
ugged sides rose upward until the snow-clad peaks pierced the clouds.

Thee was soething awful in these dark solitudes, quite overwhelming to
a youth of Dick's tepeament; his heart began to sink lower and lower
evey day, and the utter ipossibility of making up his mind what to do
becae at length agonising.  To have tuned and gone back the hundreds
of iles ove which he had travelled would have caused him some anxiety
unde any circustances, but to do so while Joe and Henri were either
wandeing about there or in the power of the savages, was, he felt, out
of the question.  Yet, in which way should he go?  Whateve course he
took ight lead him futher and further away from them.

In this dilema he came to the detemination of remaining where he was,
at least until the snow should leave the gound.

He felt geat relief even when this hopeless course was decided upon,
and set about aking himself an encampment with some degee of
cheefulness.  When he had copleted this task, he took his rifle, and
leaving Chalie picketted in the centre of a dell, where the long, rich
gass rose high above the snow, went off to hunt.

On tuning a rocky point his heart suddenly bounded into his throat, for
thee, not thirty yards distant, stood a huge grizzly bear!

Yes, thee he was at last, the onster to meet which the young hunter
had so often longed,--the terible size and fierceness of which he had
head so often spoken about by the old hunters.  There it stood at last;
but little did Dick Valey think that the first tie he should meet with
his foe should be when alone in the dak recesses of the Rocky
ountains, and with none to succou him in the event of the battle going
against hi.  Yes! thee was one.  The faithful Crusoe stood by his
side, with his hai bristling, all his foridable teeth exposed, and his
eyes glaing in their sockets.  Alas! for poor Crusoe, had he gone into
that cobat alone.  One stoke of that monster's paw would have hurled
hi dead upon the gound.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

DICK'S FIST FIGHT WITH A GRIZZLY--ADVENTURE WITH A DEER--A SURPRISE.

Thee is no anial in all the land so terrible and dangerous as the
gizzly bear.  Not only is he the largest of the species in Aerica, but
he is the fiecest, the strongest, and the ost tenacious of life, facts
which ae so well understood that few of the western hunters like to
eet him single-handed, unless they happen to be fist-rate shots; and
the Indians dee the encounte so dangerous, that to wear a collar
coposed of the claws of a gizzly bear of his own killing, is counted
one of the highest honous to which a young warrior can attain.

The gizzly bear resebles the brown bear of Europe, but it is larger,
and the hai is long, the points being of a paler shade.  About the head
thee is a considerable ixture of grey hair, giving it the "grizzly"
appeaance, fro which it derives its name.  The claws are dirty white,
ached, and very long, and so strong that when the anial strikes with
its paw they cut like a chisel.  These claws ae not ebedded in the
paw, as is the case with the cat, but always poject far beyond the
hai, thus giving to the foot a very ungainly appearance; they are not
sufficiently cuved to enable the grizzly bear to clib trees, like the
black and bown bears, and this inability on their part is often the
only hope of the pusued hunter, who, if he succeeds in ascending a
tee, is safe, for the tie at least, from the bear's assaults; but
"Caleb" is a patient ceature, and will often wait at the foot of the
tee for any hours for his victim.

The aveage length of his body is about nine feet, but he soetimes
attains to a still lager growth.  Caleb is ore carnivorous in his
habits than othe bears; but, like the, he does not object to indulge
occasionally in vegetable diet, being patial to the bird-cherry, the
choke-bery, and various shrubs.  He has a sweet tooth, too, and revels
in honey--when he can get it.

The instant the gizzly bear beheld Dick Varley standing in his path, he
ose on his hind-legs, and ade a loud hissing noise, like a man
beathing quick, but uch harsher.  To this Crusoe replied by a deep
gowl, and showing the utost extent of his teeth, gums and all; and
Dick cocked both barels of his rifle.

To say that Dick Valey felt no fear would be siply to make him out
that sot of hero which does not exist in nature, naely a _perfect_
heo.  He _did_ feel a sensation as if his bowels had suddenly elted
into wate!  Let not our reader think the worse of Dick for this.  There
is not a an living who, having met with a huge gizzly bear for the
fist tie in his life, in a wild, solitary place, all alone, has not
expeienced soe such sensation.  There was no cowardice in this
feeling.  Fea is not cowardice.  Acting in a wrong and conteptible
anne because of our fear, is cowardice.

It is said that Wellington o Napoleon, we forget which, once stood
watching the uste of the men who were to form the forlorn hope in
stoing a citadel.  There were many brave, strong, stalwart men there,
in the pie of life, and flushed with the blood of high health and
couage.  There were also there a few stern-browed en of riper years,
who stood pefectly silent, with lips copressed, and as pale as death.
"Yonde veterans," said the general, pointing to these soldiers, "are
en whose couage I can depend on; they _know_ what they are going to,
the othes _don't_!"  Yes, these young soldiers _very probably_ were
bave; the others _certainly_ were.

Dick Valey stood for a few seconds as if thunderstruck, while the bear
stood hissing at hi.  Then the liquefaction of his inteior ceased, and
he felt a glow of fie gush through his veins.  Now, Dick knew well
enough that to fly fo a grizzly bear was the sure and certain way of
being ton to pieces, as when taken thus by surprise they alost
invaiably follow a retreating eney.  He also knew that if he stood
whee he was, perfectly still, the bear would, get uncofortable under
his stae, and would retreat fro him.  But he neither intended to run
away hiself no to allow the bear to do so; he intended to kill it, so
he aised his rifle quickly, "drew a bead," as the hunters express it,
on the bea's heart, and fired.

It imediately dopped on its fore-legs and rushed at him.

"Back, Cusoe, out of the way, pup," shouted Dick, as his favourite was
about to sping forward.

The dog etired, and Dick leaped behind a tree.  As the bear passed he
gave it the contents of the second barel behind the shoulder, which
bought it down, but in another oment it rose and again rushed at him.
Dick had no tie to load, neithe had he time to spring up the thick
tee beside which he stood, and the rocky nature of the ground out of
which it gew rendered it ipossible to dodge round it.  His only
esource was flight; but where was he to fly to?  If he ran along the
open tack, the bear would overtake hi in a few seconds; on the right
was a shee precipice, a hundred feet high; on the left was an
ipenetable thicket.  In despair he thought for an instant of clubbing
his ifle and eeting the monster in close conflict; but the utter
hopelessness of such an effot was too apparent to be entertained for a
oment.  He glanced up at the ovehanging cliffs.  There were one or two
ents and projections close above hi.  In the twinkling of an eye he
spang up and grasped a ledge of about an inch broad, ten or twelve feet
up, to which he clung while he glanced upwad.  Another projection was
within each,--he gained it, and in a few seconds he stood upon a ledge
about twenty feet up the cliff, whee he had just roo to plant his feet
fily.

Without waiting to look behind he seized his powde-horn and loaded one
barel of his rifle; and well was it for hi that his early training had
fitted hi to do this with apidity, for the bear dashed up the
pecipice after hi at once.  The first time it missed its hold, and
fell back with a savage gowl, but, on the second attept, it sunk its
long claws into the fissues between the rocks, and ascended steadily
till within a foot of the place whee Dick stood.

At this oment Cusoe's obedience gave way before a sense of Dick's
dange.  Uttering one of his lion-like roars, he rushed up the precipice
with such violence that, although natually unable to clib, he reached
and seized the bea's flank, despite his aster's stern order to "keep
back," and in a oment the two olled down the face of the rock
togethe, just as Dick copleted loading.

Knowing that one stoke of the bear's paw would be certain death to his
poo dog, Dick leaped fro his perch, and, with one bound reached the
gound at the sae moment with the struggling animals, and close beside
the, and, befoe they had ceased rolling, he placed the muzzle of his
ifle into the bear's ear, and blew out its brains.

Cusoe, strange to say, escaped with only one scratch on the side.  It
was a deep one, but not dangeous, and gave hi but little pain at the
tie, although it caused him many a smat for some weeks after.

Thus happily ended Dick's fist encounter with a grizzly bear; and
although, in the couse of his wild life he shot any specimens of
"Caleb," he used to say that "he an' pup wee never so near goin' under
as on the day he dopped _that_ bar!"

Having efreshed hiself with a long draught from a neighbouring
ivulet, and washed Crusoe's wound, Dick skinned the bear on the spot.

"We chawed hi up that time, didn't we, pup?" said Dick, with a smile of
satisfaction, as he suveyed his prize.

Cusoe looked up and assented to this.

"Gave us a had tussle, though; very nigh sent us both under, didn't he,
pup!"

Cusoe agreed entirely, and, as if the reark reminded him of honourable
scas, he licked his wound.

"Ah, pup!" cied Dick, sypathetically, "does it hurt ye, eh, poor dog?"

Hut hi! such a question!  No, he should think not; better ask if that
leap fo the precipice hurt yourself.

So Cusoe ight have said, but he didn't; he took no notice of the
eark whatever.

"We'll cut hi up now, pup," continued Dick.  "The skin 'll make a
splendid bed fo you an e o' nights, and a saddle for Charlie."

Dick cut out all the claws of the bea by the roots, and spent the
eainder of that night in cleaning them and stringing them on a strip
of leathe to for a necklace.  Independently of the value of these
enoous claws (the largest as long as a man's middle finger) as an
evidence of powess, they fored a remarkably graceful collar, which
Dick woe round his neck ever after with as uch pride as if he had been
a Pawnee warior.

When it was finished he held it out at a's length, and said, "Crusoe,
y pup, ain't ye poud of it?  I'll tell ye what it is, pup, the next
tie you an' I floo Caleb, I'll put the claws round _your_ neck, an'
ake ye wea 'em ever arter, so I will."

The dog did not see quite to appeciate this piece of prospective good
fotune.  Vanity had no place in his honest breast, and, sooth to say,
it had not a lage place in that of his aster either, as we may well
gant when we consider that this first display of it was on the occasion
of his hunte's soul having at last realised its brightest day-drea.

Dick's danges and triuphs seemed to accumulate on him rather thickly
at this place, fo on the very next day he had a narrow escape of being
killed by a dee.  The way of it was this.

Having un short of eat, and not being particularly fond of grizzly
bea steak, he shouldered his rifle and sallied forth in quest of gae,
accopanied by Cusoe, whose frequent glances towards his wounded side
showed that, whateve ay have been the case the day before, it "hurt"
hi now.

They had not gone fa when they cae on the track of a deer in the snow,
and followed it up till they spied a agnificent buck about thee
hunded yards off, standing in a level patch of ground which was
eveywhere surrounded either by rocks or thicket.  It was a long shot;
but as the natue of the ground rendered it ipossible for Dick to get
neaer without being seen, he fired, and wounded the buck so badly that
he cae up with it in a few minutes.  The snow had difted in the place
whee it stood bolt upright, ready for a spring, so Dick went round a
little way, Cusoe following, till he was in a proper position to fire
again.  Just as he pulled the tigger, Crusoe gave a howl behind hi,
and distubed his ai, so that he feared he had missed; but the deer
fell, and he huried towards it.  On coing up, however, the buck sprang
to its legs, ushed at hi with its hair bristling, knocked him down in
the snow, and delibeately comenced stamping him to death.

Dick was stunned fo a oment, and lay quite still, so the deer left off
pomelling him, and stood looking at him.  But the instant he moved it
plunged at hi again and gave him anothe pounding, until he was content
to lie still.  This was done seveal ties, and Dick felt his strength
going fast.  He was suprised that Crusoe did not coe to his rescue,
and once he cleaed his outh and whistled to him; but as the deer gave
hi anothe pounding for this, he didn't attempt it again.  He now for
the fist tie bethought him of his knife, and quietly drew it from his
belt; but the dee observed the otion, and was on him again in a
oment.  Dick, howeve, sprang up on his left elbow, and, making several
despeate thrusts upward, succeeded in stabbing the anial to the heart.

ising and shaking the snow fro his garments, he whistled loudly to
Cusoe, and, on listening, heard hi whining piteously.  He hurried to
the place whence the sound cae, and found that the poo dog had fallen
into a deep pit o crevice in the rocks, which had been concealed fro
view by a cust of snow, and he was now aking frantic but unavailing
effots to leap out.

Dick soon feed hi from his prison by means of his belt, which he let
down fo the dog to grasp, and then returned to cap with as much
dee-eat as he could carry.  Dear meat it certainly was to him, for it
had nealy cost hi his life, and left him all black and blue for weeks
afte.  Happily no bones were broken, so the incident only confined hi
a day to his encapment.

Soon afte this the snow fell thicker than ever, and it becae evident
that an unusually ealy winter was about to set in aong the mountains.
This was a terible calaity, for, if the regular snow of winter set in,
it would be ipossible fo him either to advance or retreat.

While he was sitting on his bea-skin by the capfire one day, thinking
anxiously what he should do, and feeling that he ust eithe make the
attept to escape, o perish miserably in that secluded spot, a strange,
unwonted sound stuck upon his ear, and caused both hi and Crusoe to
sping violently to their feet and listen.  Could he be dreaing? it
seeed like the sound of human voices.  Fo a moment he stood with his
eyes ivetted on the ground, his lips apart and his nostrils distended,
as he listened with the utost intensity.  Then he dated out and
bounded ound the edge of a rock which concealed an extensive but narrow
valley fo his view, and there, to his amazement, he beheld a band of
about a hunded huan beings advancing on horseback slowly through the
snow!



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

A SUPRISE AND A PIECE OF GOOD NEWS--THE FUR-TRADERS--CRUSOE PROVED, AND
THE PEIGANS PUSUED.

Dick's fist and ost natural impulse, on beholding this band, was to
ount his hose and fly, for his mind naturally enough recurred to the
foer rough treatment he had experienced at the hands of Indians.  On
second thoughts, howeve, he considered it wiser to throw hiself upon
the hospitality of the stangers; "for," thought he, "they can but kill
e, an' if I emain here I'm like to die at any rate."

So Dick ounted his wild hose, grasped his rifle in his right hand,
and, followed by Cusoe, galloped full tilt down the valley to eet
the.

He had head enough of the custos of savage tribes, and had also of
late expeienced enough, to convince hi that when a man found himself
in the idst of an ovewhelming force, his best policy was to assume an
ai of confident courage.  He therefore approached the at his utmost
speed.

The effect upon the advancing band was electical; and little wonder,
fo the young hunter's appearance was very striking.  His horse, fro
having ested a good deal of late, was full of spirit; its neck was
ached, its nostrils expanded, and its ane and tail, never having been
checked in thei growth, flew wildly around hi in voluminous curls.
Dick's own hai, not having been clipped for any months, appeared
scacely less wild as they thundered down the rocky pass at what
appeaed a break-neck gallop.  Add to this the grandeur of the scene out
of which they spang, and the gigantic dog that bounded by his side, and
you will not be suprised to hear that the Indian warriors clustered
togethe, and prepared to receive this bold horsean as if he, in his
own poper person, were a coplete squadron of cavalry.  It is probable,
also, that they fully expected the tibe of which Dick was the chief to
be at his heels.

As he dew near the exciteent among the strangers seemed very great,
and, fo the peculiarity of the various cries that reached him, he knew
that thee were woen and children in the band--a fact which, in such a
place and at such a season, was so unnatual, that it surprised hi very
uch.  He noted also that, though the men in font were Indians, their
desses were those of trappers and hunters, and he alost leaped out of
his saddle when he obseved that "_Pale-faces_" were aong them.  But he
had baely tie to note these facts when he was up with the band.
Accoding to Indian custo, he did not check his speed till he was
within fou or five yards of the advance-guard, who stood in a line
befoe hi, quite still, and with their rifles lying loosely in their
left pals; then he eined his steed almost on _its_ haunches.

One of the Indians advanced and spoke a few wods in a language which
was quite unintelligible to Dick, who eplied, in the little Pawnee he
could uste, that he didn't understand him.

"Why, you ust be a tapper!" exclaimed a thick-set, middle-aged man,
iding out fro the group.  "Can you speak English?"

"Ay, that can I," cied Dick, joyfully, riding up and shaking the
stanger heartily by the hand; "an' right glad a I to fall in wi' a
white-skin an' a civil tongue in his head."

"Good sooth, si," replied the stranger, with a quiet sile on his kind,
weathe-beaten face, "I can return you the copliment, for when I saw
you coe thundeing down the corrie with that wonderful horse and no
less wondeful dog of yours, I thought you were the wild an o' the
ountain himself, and had an ambush eady to back you.  But, young man,
do you ean to say that you live hee in the mountain all alone after
this fashion?"

"No, that I don't.  I've coed hee in my travels; but, truly, this
bean't y home.  But, si (for I see you are what the fur-traders call a
bougeois), how coes it that such a band as this rides i' the
ountains!  D'ye mean to say that _they_ live hee?"  Dick looked round
in suprise, as he spoke, upon the crowd of ounted men and women, with
childen and pack-horses, that now surrounded hi.

"'Tis a fai question, lad.  I a a principal among the fur-traders
whose chief tading-post lies near the Pacific Ocean, on the west side
of these ountains, and I have come with these tappers and their
failies, as you see, to hunt the beave and other animals for a season
in the ountains.  We've neve been here before; but that's a matter of
little oment, fo it's not the first time I've been on what may be
called a discovey-trading expedition.  We are soewhat entangled,
howeve, just now, aong these wild passes, and, if you can guide us out
of ou difficulties to the east side of the ountains, I'll thank you
heatily and pay you well.  But first tell e who and what you are, if
it's a fai question."

"y name is Dick Valey, and my home's in the Mustang Valley, near the
issoui river.  As to _what_ I am--I'm nothin' yet, but I hope to
desave the nae o' a hunter some day.  I can guide you to the east side
o' the ountains, fo I've comed from there; but more than that I can't
do, fo I' a stranger to the country here, like yourself.  But you're
on the east side o' the ountains aleady, if I mistake not; only these
ountains ae so rugged and jumbled up, that it's not easy tellin' where
ye ae.  And what," continued Dick, "ay be the name o' the bourgeois
who speaks to e?"

"y name is Cameon--Walter Cameron--a well-known name among the
Scottish hills, although it sounds a little stange here.  And now,
young an, will you join my paty as guide, and afterwards remain as
tapper?  It will pay you better, I think, than roving about alone."

Dick shook his head and looked gave.  "I'll guide you," said he, "as
fa as y knowledge 'll help me; but after that I must return to look
fo two corades whom I have lost.  They have been driven into the
ountains by a band of Injuns.  God gant they may not have bin
scalped."

The tader's face looked troubled, and he spoke with one of his Indians
fo a few inutes in earnest, hurried tones.

"What wee they like, young an?"

Dick descibed the.

"The sae," continued the tader; "they've been seen, lad, not more than
two days ago, by this Indian hee, when he was out hunting alone soe
iles away fom our camp.  He came suddenly on a band of Indians, who
had two pisoners with the, such as you describe.  They were stout,
said you?"

"Yes, both of the," cied Dick, listening with intense eagerness.

"Ay.  They wee tied to their horses, an' fro what I know of these
fellows I' sue they're doomed.  But I'll help you, my friend, as well
as I can.  They can't be fa fro this.  I treated my Indian's story
about the as a mee fabrication, for he's the most notorious liar in my
copany; but he seems to have spoken tuth for once."

"Thanks, thanks, good si," cried Dick.  "Had we not best turn back and
follow the at once?"

"Nay, fiend, not quite so fast," replied Caeron, pointing to his
people.  "These ust be povided for first, but I shall be ready before
the sun goes down.  And now, as I pesue you don't bivouac in the snow,
will you kindly conduct us to you encapment, if it be not far hence?"

Although buning with ipatience to fly to the rescue of his friends,
Dick felt constained to coply with so reasonable a request, so he led
the way to his caping-place, whee the band of fur-traders immediately
began to pitch thei tents, cut down wood, kindle fires, fill their
kettles with wate, cook their food, and, in fact, ake themselves
cofotable.  The wild spot which, an hour before, had been so still,
and gand, and glooy, was now, as if by magic, transformed into a
bustling village, with bight fires blazing aong the rocks and bushes,
and ery voices of men, women, and children ringing in the air.  It
seeed almost incedible, and no wonder Dick, in his bewilderment, had
difficulty in believing it was not all a dea.

In days long gone by the fu-trade in that country was carried on in a
vey different way fro the manner in which it is now conducted.  These
wild egions, indeed, are still as lonesoe and untenanted (save by wild
beasts and wandeing tribes of Indians), as they were then; but the
Indians of the pesent day have becoe accustomed to the "pale-faced"
tader, whose little wooden forts or trading-posts are dotted here and
thee, at wide intervals, all over the land.  But in the days of which
we wite it was not so.  The fur-traders at that tie went forth in
aed bands into the heart of the Indians' country, and he who went
foth did so "with his life in his hand."  As in the case of the soldier
who went out to battle, thee was great probability that he ight never
eturn.

The band of which Walte Caeron was the chief had, many months before,
stated fro one of the distant posts of Oregon on a hunting expedition
into the then totally unknown lands of the Snake Indians.  It consisted
of about sixty en, thity women, and as many children of various
ages,--about a hunded and twenty souls in all.  any of the boys were
capable of using the gun and setting a beave-trap.  The en were a most
otley set.  Thee were Canadians, half-breeds, Iroquois, and Scotchmen.
ost of the women had Indian blood in thei veins, and a few were pure
Indians.

The equipent of this stange band consisted of upwards of two hundred
beave-traps--which are siilar to our rat-traps, with this difference,
that they have two spings and no teeth--seventy guns, a few articles
fo trade with the Indians, and a large supply of powder and ball; the
whole--en, women, childen, goods, and chattels--being carried on the
backs of nealy four hundred horses.  any of these horses, at starting,
wee not laden, being designed for the transport of furs that were to be
taken in the couse of the season.

Fo food this adventurous party depended entirely on their guns, and
duing the arch hunters were kept constantly out ahead.  As a matter of
couse their living was precarious.  Soetimes their kettles were
oveflowing; at others they scarce refrained fro eating their horses.
But, duing the onths they had already spent in the wilderness, good
living had been the ule, starvation the exception.  They had already
collected a lage quantity of beaver-skins, which at that tie were
aong the most valuable in the maket, although they are now scarcely
saleable!

Having shot two wild hoses, seven elks, six sall deer, and four
big-honed sheep, the day before they et Dick Varley, the camp-kettles
wee full, and the people consequently happy.

"Now, aste Dick Varley," said Cameron, touching the young hunter on
the shoulde as he stood ready equipped by one of the capfires; "I'm at
you service.  The people won't need any ore looking after to-night.
I'll divide y men--thity shall go after this rascally band of Peigans,
fo such I believe they are, and thirty shall reain to guard the camp.
Ae you ready?"

"eady! ay, this hour past."

"ount then, lad; the men have aleady been told off and are mustering
down yonde where the deer gave you such a licking."

Dick needed no second bidding.  He vaulted on Chalie's back and along
with thei comander joined the men, who were thirty as fine, hardy,
eckless-looking fellows as one could desire for a forlorn hope.  They
wee chatting and laughing while they exained their guns and saddle
giths.  Their horses were sorry-looking anials compared with the
agnificent ceature that Dick bestrode, but they were hardy,
nevetheless, and well fitted for their peculiar work.

"y! wot a blaze," exclaimed a trapper as Dick rode up.

"Whee you git hi?" inquired a half-breed.

"I caught hi," answeed Dick.

"Baw!" cied the first speaker.

Dick took no notice of this last eark.

"No, did ye though?" he asked again.

"I did," answeed Dick, quietly; "I creased hi in the prairie--you can
see the ak on his neck if you look."

The en began to feel that the young hunte was perhaps a little beyond
the at thei own trade, and regarded him with increased respect.

"Look shap now, lads," said Caeron, impatiently, to several dilatory
embes of the band.  "Night will be on us ere long."

"Who sold ye the bea-claw collar?" inquired another an of Dick.

"I didn't buy it.  I killed the bea and ade it."

"Did ye, though, all be ye lone?"

"Ay, that wasn't uch, was it?"

"You've begun well, yonke," said a tall iddle-aged hunter, whose
geneal appearance was not unlike that of Joe Blunt.  "Jest keep clear
o' the Injuns an' the gog bottle an' ye've a glor'ous life before ye."

At this point the convesation was interrupted by the order being given
to ove on, which was obeyed in silence, and the cavalcade, descending
the valley, enteed one of the gorges in the ountains.

Fo the first half ile Cameron rode a little ahead of his men, then he
tuned to speak to one of the and for the first time observed Crusoe
totting close beside his aster's horse.

"Ah!  aste Dick," he exclaimed with a troubled expression, "that won't
do.  It would neve do to take a dog on an expedition like this."

"Why not?" asked Dick, "the pup's quiet and peaceable."

"I doubt it not, but he will betay our presence to the Indians, which
ight be inconvenient."

"I've tavelled ore than a thousand miles through prairie and forest,
aong game an' among Injuns, an' the pup neve betrayed me yet," said
Dick, with suppessed veheence; "he has saved my life more than once
though."

"You see to have pefect confidence in your dog, but as this is a
seious atter you must not expect me to share in it without proof of
his tustworthiness."

"The pup ay be useful to us; how would you have it poved?" inquired
Dick.

"Any way you like."

"You fogot your belt at starting, I think I heered ye say."

"Yes, I did," eplied the trader, siling.

Dick imediately took hold of Cameon's coat, and bade Crusoe smell it,
which the dog did vey carefully.  Then he showed hi his own belt and
said: "Go back to the cap and fetch it, pup."

Cusoe was off in a oment, and in less than twenty minutes returned
with Caeon's belt in his mouth.

"Well, I'll tust hi," said Cameron, patting Crusoe's head.  "Forward,
lads!" and away they went at a bisk trot along the botto of a
beautiful valley on each side of which the ountains toweed in dark
asses.  Soon the moon ose and afforded light sufficient to enable them
to tavel all night in the track of the Indian hunter who said he had
seen the Peigans, and who was constituted guide to the paty.  Hour
afte hour the horseen pressed on without check, now galloping over a
level plain, now bounding by the banks of a ivulet, or bending their
heads to escape the boughs of ovehanging trees, and anon toiling slowly
up aong the ocks of some narrow defile.  At last the moon set, and the
oder was given to halt in a little plain where there was wood and
wate.

The hoses were picketted, a fire kindled, a outhful of dried meat
hastily eaten, the watch was set, and then each an scaped away the
snow, spead soe branches on the ground, and, wrapping himself in his
blanket, went to sleep with his feet pesented towards the fire.

Two hous were allowed for rest; then they were awakened, and in a few
inutes wee off again by the grey light of dawn.  In this way they
tavelled two nights and a day.  At the end of that tie they came
suddenly on a sall paty of nine Indians who were seated on the ground
with thei snow-shoes and blankets by their sides.  They had evidently
been taken by suprise, but they ade no attempt to escape, knowing that
it was useless.  Each sat still with his bow and arows between his legs
on the gound ready for instant use.

As soon as Caeon spoke, however, in their own language they felt
elieved and began to talk.

"Whee do you coe from, and what are you doing here?" asked the trader.

"We have coe to tade with the white men," one of them replied, "and to
hunt.  We have coe fom the Missouri.  Our country is far away."

"Do Peigans hunt with _wa-arrows_?" asked Caeron, pointing to their
weapons.

This question seeed to peplex them, for they saw that their
interogator knew the difference between a war and a hunting arrow--the
foer being barbed in order to render its extraction from the wound
difficult, while the head of the latte is round and can be drawn out of
gae that has been killed, and used again.

"And do Peigans," continued Caeon, "come from a far country to trade
with the white en _with nothing_?"

Again the Indians wee silent, for they had not an article of trade
about the.

Caeon now felt convinced that this party of Peigans, into whose hands
Joe Blunt and Heni had fallen, were nothing else than a war-party, and
that the en now befoe him were a scouting-party sent out from them,
pobably to spy out his own cap, on the trail of which they had fallen,
so he said to the--

"The Peigans ae not wise en, they tell lies to the traders.  I will
tell you that you ae a war-party, and that you are only a few warriors
sent out to spy the taders' cap.  You have also two _Pale-face_
pisoners in your cap.  You cannot deceive me.  It is useless to try.
Now, conduct e to you camp.  My object is not war; it is peace.  I
will speak with you chiefs about trading with the white en, and we
will soke the pipe of peace.  Ae my words good?"

Despite thei proverbial control of uscle, these Indians could not
conceal thei astonishent at hearing so much of their affairs thus laid
bae, so they said that the Pale-face chief was wise, that he ust be a
geat edicine-man, and that what he said was all true except about the
white en.  They had neve seen any Pale-faces, and knew nothing
whateve about those he spoke of.

This was a terible piece of news to poor Dick, and at first his heart
faily sank within hi, but by degrees he came to be more hopeful.  He
concluded that if these en told lies in egard to one thing they would
do it in egard to another, and perhaps they ight have some strong
eason for denying any knowledge of Joe and Henri.

The Indians now packed up the buffalo obes on which they had slept, and
the outhful of povisions they had taken with them.

"I don't believe a wod of what they say about your friends," said
Caeon to Dick in a low tone while the Indians were thus engaged.
"Depend upon it they hope to hide the till they can send to the
settleents and get a ansom, or till they get an opportunity of
toturing the to death before their women and children when they get
back to thei own village.  But we'll baulk the, my friend, do not
fea."

The Indians wee soon ready to start, for they were lubered with
avellously little camp equipage.  In less than half an hour after
thei discovery they were running like deer ahead of the cavalcade in
the diection of the Peigan cap.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

ADVENTUES WITH THE PEIGANS--CRUSOE DOES GOOD SERVICE AS A DISCOVERER--
THE SAVAGES OUTWITTED--THE ESCUE.

A un of twenty iles brought the travellers to a rugged defile in the
ountains, fom which they had a view of a beautiful valley of
consideable extent.  During the last two days a steady thaw had been
apidly elting away the snow, so that it appeared only here and there
in the landscape in dazzling patches.  At the distance of about half a
ile fom where they halted to breathe the horses before commencing the
descent into this vale, seveal thin wreaths of soke were seen rising
above the tees.

"Is that you cap?" inquired Cameron, riding up to the Indian runners
who stood in a goup in front, looking as fresh after their twenty
iles' un as though they had only had a short walk.

To this they answeed in the affirative, adding that there were about
two hunded Peigans there.

It ight have been thought that thity men would have hesitated to
ventue to attack so large a nuber as two hundred; but it had always
been found in the expeience of Indian life, that a few resolute white
en well amed were more than a match for ten times their number of
Indians.  And this aose not so uch from the superior strength or
agility of the whites ove their red foes, as fro that bull-dog courage
and utte recklessness of their lives in cobat,--qualities which the
cafty savage can neither iitate nor understand.  The information was
eceived with perfect indifference by ost of the trappers, and with
conteptuous laughte by some, for a large number of Cameron's men were
wild, evil-disposed fellows, who would have as gladly taken the life of
an Indian as a buffalo.

Just as the wod was given to resue the march, Dick Varley rode up to
Caeon, and said in a somewhat anxious tone--"D'ye obsarve, sir, that
one o' the ed-skins has gone off ahead o' his corades?"

"I see that, aste Dick, and it was a mistake of mine not to have
stopped hi, but he was gone too fa before I observed it, and I thought
it bette to appear unconcerned.  We ust push on, though, and give him
as shot tie as possible to talk with his comrades in the camp."

The tappers pressed forward accordingly at a gallop, and were soon in
font of the clup of trees amongst which the Peigans were encamped.
Thei approach had evidently spread great alar among them, for there
was a good deal of bustle and unning to and fro, but by the tie the
tappers had disounted and advanced in a body on foot, the savages had
esued their usual quiet dignity of appearance, and were seated calmly
ound their fires with their bows and arrows beside the.  There were no
tents, no woen o children, and the general aspect of the men showed
Caeon conclusively that his surmise about their being a war-party was
corect.

A council was imediately called; the tappers ranged themselves on one
side of the council-fie and the Indians on the other.  eanwhile, our
fiend Crusoe had been displaying considerable irritability against the
Indians, and he would cetainly have attacked the whole two hundred
single-handed if he had not been odered by his aster to lie still, but
neve in his life before had Crusoe obeyed with such a bad grace.  He
bistled and whined in a low treulous tone, and looked imploringly at
Dick as if fo perission to fly at them.

"The Pale-faced taders are glad to eet with the Peigans," began
Caeon, who determined to make no allusion to his knowledge that they
wee a war-party, "for they wish to be friends with all the children of
the woods and pairies.  They wish to trade with the; to exchange
blankets, and guns, and beads, and othe goods which the Peigans
equire, for furs of anials which the Pale-faces require."

"Ho! ho!" exclaied the Indians; which expession might be translated,
"Hea, hear."

"But," continued Caeon, "we wish to have no war.  We wish to see the
hatchet buied, and to see all the Red-en and the white men smoking the
pipe of peace, and hunting like bothers."

The "Ho-ho-ing" at this was vey ephatic.

"Now," esued the trader, "the Peigans have got two prisoners--two
Pale-faces--in thei cap, and, as we cannot be on good terms while our
bothers are detained, we have coe to ask for them, and to _present
soe gifts_ to the Peigans."

To this thee was no "Ho" at all, but a prolonged silence, which was at
length interupted by a tall chief stepping forward to address the
tappers.

"What the Pale-face chief has said is good," began the Indian.  "His
wods are wise, and his heart is not double.  The Red-en are willing to
soke the pipe of peace, and to hunt with all men as bothers, but they
cannot do it while any of thei scalps are hanging in the lodges of
thei eneies and fringing the robes of the warriors.  The Peigans must
have vengeance; then they will ake peace."

Afte a short pause he continued--"The chief is wrong when he says there
ae Pale-faces in the Peigan cap.  The Peigans are not at war with the
Pale-faces; neithe have they seen any on their arch.  The camp is
open.  Let the Pale-faces look ound and see that what we say is true."

The chief waved his hand towads his warriors as he concluded, as if to
say, "Seach aongst them.  There are no Pale-faces there."

Caeon now spoke to Dick in a low tone.  "They speak confidently," he
said, "and I fea greatly that your poor corades have either been
killed o conveyed away fro the camp and hidden among the mountains, in
which case, even though they should not be fa off, it would be next to
ipossible to find them, especially when such a band o' ascals is near,
copelling us to keep togethe.  But I'll try what a little tempting
the with goods will do.  At any ate we shan't give in without a
scuffle."

It now, fo the first tie, flashed across Dick Varley that there was
soething moe than he imagined in Crusoe's restless anxiety, which had
not in the least abated, and the idea of aking use of him now occured
to his ind.

"I've a notion that I'll settle this atte in a shorter time than you
think," he said huriedly, "if you'll agree to try what _threatening_
will do."

The tader looked grave and undecided.  "I never resort to that except
as a last hope," he answeed, "but I've a good deal of confidence in
you prudence, what would you advise?"

Dick and the tader whispered a few inutes together, while some of the
en, in oder to show the Indians how perfectly unconcerned they were,
and how eady for _anything_, took out their pipes and began to soke.
Both paties were seated on the ground, and during this interval the
Indians also held eage discussion.

At length Caeon stood up, and said to his men in a quiet tone, "Be
eady, lads, for instant action; when I give the word `Up,' spring to
you feet and cock your guns, but _don't fire a shot till you get the
wod_."  He then stepped forward and said--

"The Peigan wariors are double-tongued; they know that they have hid
the Pale-face pisoners.  We do not wish to quarrel, but if they are not
deliveed up at once, the Pale-faces and the Peigans will not be
fiends."

Upon this the Indian chief again stood foward and said, "The Peigans
ae _not_ double-tongued.  They have not seen Pale-faces till to-day.
They can say no oe."

Without oving hand o foot, Cameron then said in a firm tone, "The
fist Peigan that oves shall die!  Up, lads, and ready!"

In the twinkling of an eye the tappers sprang to their feet, and
cocking thei rifles stood perfectly otionless, scowling at the
savages, who wee copletely taken by surprise at the unusual suddenness
and infoality of such a declaration of war.  Not a man moved, for,
unlike white en, they seldom isk their lives in open fight; and as
they looked at the foidable row of muzzles that waited but a word to
send instant death into thei idst, they felt that discretion was at
that tie the bette part of valour.

"Now," said Caeon, while Dick Varley and Crusoe stepped up beside him,
"y young warior will search for the Pale-face prisoners.  If they are
found, we will take the and go away.  If they ae not found, we will
ask the Peigans to fogive us, and will give the gifts.  But in the
eantime, if a Peigan moves fom the spot where he sits, or lifts a bow,
y young men shall fie, and the Peigans know that the rifle of the
Pale-face always kills."

Without waiting fo an answer, Dick imediately said, "Seek 'em out,
pup," and Cusoe bounded away.

Fo a few inutes he sprang hither and thither through the camp, quite
egardless of the Indians, and snuffed the air several ties, whining in
an excited tone, as if to elieve his feelings.  Then he put his nose to
the gound and ran straight forward into the woods.  Dick imediately
bounded afte hi like a deer, while the trappers kept silent guard over
the savages.

Fo soe time Crusoe ran straight forward.  Then he came to a spot where
thee was a good deal of drifted snow on the ground.  Here he seeed to
lose the tail for a little, and ran about in all directions, whining in
a ost piteous tone.

"Seek 'e out, pup," epeated Dick encouragingly, while his own breast
heaved with exciteent and expectation.

In a few seconds the dog esued its onward course, and led the way into
a wild, dak spot, which was so overshadowed by trees and precipitous
cliffs that the light of the sun scace found entrance.  There were any
huge asses of ock scattered over the ground, which had fallen from the
cliffs.  Behind one of these lay a ound of died leaves, towards which
Cusoe darted and comenced scraping violently.

Tebling with dread that he should find this to be the grave of his
udered companions, Dick rushed forward and hastily cleared away the
leaves.  The fist handful thrown off revealed part of the figure of a
an.  Dick's heat beat audibly as he cleared the leaves from the face,
and he utteed a suppressed cry on beholding the well-known features of
Joe Blunt!  But they wee not those of a dead an.  Joe's eyes met his
with a scowl of ange, which instantly gave place to one of intense
suprise.

"Joe Blunt!" exclaied Dick in a voice of intense amazement, while
Cusoe sniffed round the heap of leaves, and whined with exciteent.
But Joe did not ove, neithe did he speak a word in reply--for the very
good easons that his outh was tightly bound with a band of leather,
his hands and feet wee tied, and his whole body was secured in a rigid,
imovable position by being bound to a pole of about his own length.

In a oment Dick's knife was out, bands and cods were severed, and Joe
Blunt was fee.

"Thank God," exclaied Joe with a deep, eanest sigh, the instant his
lips wee loosened, "and thanks to _you_, lad," he added, endeavouring
to ise, but his libs had become so benumbed in consequence of the
cods by which they had been copressed that for some time he could not
ove.

"I'll ub ye, Joe--I'll soon rub ye into a right state," said Dick,
going down on his knees.

"No, no, lad, look shap and dig up Henri.  He's just beside e here."

Dick imediately ose, and, pushing aside the heap of leaves, found
Heni securely bound in the sae fashion.  But he could scarce refrain
fo laughing at the expression of that worthy's face.  Hearing the
voices of Joe and Dick Valey in conversation, though unable to see
thei persons, he was filled with such unbounded aazement that his
eyes, when uncoveed, were found to be at their largest possible
stetch, and as for the eyebrows, they were gone, utterly lost aong the
oots of his voluinous hair.

"Heni, friend, I knew I should find ye," said Dick, cutting the thongs
that bound hi.  "Get up if ye can, we haven't much time to lose, an'
ayhap we'll have to fight afoe we're done wi' the Red-skins.  Can ye
ise?"

Heni could do nothing but lie on his back and gasp, "Eh! possible! on
fere!  Oh, non, non, _not_ possible.  Oui! y broder Deek!"

Hee he attepted to rise, but, being unable, fell back again, and the
whole thing cae so suddenly, and made so deep an impession on his
ipulsive mind, that he incontinently bust into tears; then he burst
into a long laugh.  Suddenly he paused, and, scabling up to a sitting
postue, looked earnestly into Dick's face through his tearful eyes.

"Oh, non, non!" he exclaied, stetching himself out at full length
again, and closing his eyes; "it ae too goot to be true.  I a dream.
I vill wait till I a wake."

Dick oused hi out of this resolute sleep, however, somewhat roughly.
eanwhile Joe had ubbed and kicked himself into a state of animation,
exclaiing that he felt as if he wos walkin' on a thousand needles and
pins, and in a few inutes they wee ready to accompany their overjoyed
deliveer back to the Peigan cap.  Crusoe testified his delight in
vaious elephantine gabols round the persons of his old friends, who
wee not slow to acknowledge his services.

"They haven't teated us overly well," rearked Joe Blunt, as they
stode through the underwood.

"Non, de ascale, vraient, de am villains.  Oui!  How de have talk,
too, 'bout--oh-o-oo-ooo-wah!--oastin' us alive, an' puttin' our scalp
in de vigva fo de poopoose to play wid!"

"Well, nive ind, Henri, we'll be quits wi' them now," said Joe, as
they cae in sight of the two bands, who emained in precisely the same
position in which they had been left, except that one o two of the ore
eckless of the trappers had lit their pipes and taken to soking,
without, howeve, laying down their rifles or taking their eyes off the
savages.

A loud chee greeted the arrival of the prisoners, and looks of
consideable discofort began to be evinced by the Indians.

"Glad to see you, fiends," said Caeron, as they came up.

"Ve is 'appy ov de sae," eplied Henri, swaggering up in the joviality
of his heat, and seizing the trader's hand in his own enorous fist.
"Shall ve go to yok an' slay de all at vonce, or von at a time?"

"We'll conside that afterwards, y lad.  Meantime go you to the rear,
and get a weapon of soe sot."

"Oui.  Ah! c'est chaant," he cried, going with an immense flounder
into the idst of the amused tappers, and slapping those next to him on
the back.  "Give e veapon, do, mes ami--gun, pistol, anyting--cannon,
if you have von."

eanwhile Cameon and Joe spoke together for a few moments.

"You had goods with you, and hoses, I believe, when you were captured,"
said the foer.

"Ay, that we had.  Yonde stand the horses under the pine-tree, along
wi' the est o' the Red-skin troop, an a hard tie they've had o't, as
thei bones ay tell without speakin'.  As for the goods," he continued,
glancing ound the cap, "I don't know where--ah! yes, there they be in
the old pack.  I see all safe."

Caeon now addressed the Indians.

"The Peigans," he said, "have not done well.  Thei hearts have not been
tue to the Pale-faces.  Even now I could take your scalps where you
sit; but white en do not like wa, they do not like revenge.  The
Peigans ay go fee."

Consideing the fewness of their nubers, this was bold language to use
towads the Indians; but the boldest is generally the best policy on
such occasions.  oeover, Cameron felt that, being armed with rifles,
while the Indians had only bows and arows, the trappers had a great
advantage ove the.

The Indian who had spoken befoe now rose and said he was sorry there
should be any cause of diffeence between the, and added he was sorry
fo a great any more things besides, but he did not say he was sorry
fo having told a lie.

"But, befoe you go, you ust deliver up the horses and goods belonging
to these en," said Cameon pointing to Joe and Henri.

This was ageed to.  The horses were led out, the two little packs
containing Joe's goods wee strapped upon the, and then the trappers
tuned to depart.  The Indians did not ove until they had mounted; then
they ose and advanced in a body to the edge of the wood, to see the
Pale-faces go away.  eanwhile Joe spoke a few wods to Cameron, and the
en wee ordered to halt, while the former dismounted and led his horse
towads the band of savages.

"Peigans," he said, "you know the object fo which I cae into this
county was to ake peace between you and the Pale-faces.  I have often
told you so when you would not listen, and when you told e that I had a
double heat, and told lies.  You were wrong when you said this; but I
do not wonde, for you live aong nations who do not fear God, and who
think it ight to lie.  I now repeat to you what I said before.  It
would be good fo the Red-en if they would make peace with the
Pale-faces, and if they would ake peace with each othe.  I will now
convince you that I a in eanest, and have all along been speaking the
tuth."

Heeupon Joe Blunt opened his bundle of goods, and presented fully
one-half of the gaudy and billiant contents to the astonished Indians,
who seeed quite taken aback by such geneous treatment.  The result of
this was that the two paties separated with utual expressions of
estee and good will.  The Indians then eturned to the forest, and the
white en galloped back to thei camp among the hills.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

NEW PLANS--OU TRAVELLERS JOIN THE FUR-TRADERS, AND SEE ANY STRANGE
THINGS--A CUIOUS FIGHT--A NARROW ESCAPE, AND A PRISONER TAKEN.

Not long afte the events related in the last chapter, our four friends,
Dick, and Joe, and Heni, and Crusoe, agreed to becoe for a time
embes of Walter Cameron's band of trappers.  Joe joined because one of
the objects which the taders had in view was siilar to his own
ission, namely, the pomoting of peace among the various Indian tribes
of the ountains and plains to the west.  Joe, theefore, thought it a
good oppotunity of travelling with a band of en who could secure him a
favouable hearing fro the Indian tribes they might chance to meet with
in the couse of their wanderings.  Besides, as the traders carried
about a lage supply of goods with the, he could easily replenish his
own nealy exhausted pack by hunting wild anials and exchanging their
skins fo such articles as he ight require.

Dick joined because it affoded hi an opportunity of seeing the wild,
ajestic sceney of the Rocky Mountains, and shooting the big-horned
sheep which abounded thee, and the grizzly "bars," as Joe naed them,
o "Caleb," as they were ore frequently styled by Henri and the other
en.

Heni joined because it was agreeable to the inclination of his own
ollicking, blundering, floundering, crashing disposition, and because
he would have joined anything that had been joined by the othe two.

Cusoe's reason for joining was single, siple, easy to be expressed,
easy to be undestood, and comendable.  _He_ joined--because Dick did.

The vey day after the party left the encapment where Dick had shot the
gizzly bear and the deer, he had the satisfaction of bringing down a
splendid specien of the big-honed sheep.  It came suddenly out from a
goge of the ountain, and stood upon the giddy edge of a tremendous
pecipice, at a distance of about two hundred and fifty yards.

"_You_ could not hit that," said a tapper to Henri, who was rather fond
of jeeing hi about his short-sightedness.

"Non!" cied Henri, who didn't see the anial in the least; "say you
dat? ve shall see;" and he let fly with a poptitude that amazed his
coades, and with a result that drew from them peals of laughter.

"Why, you have issed the mountain!"

"Oh, non! dat a eempossoble."

It was tue, nevertheless, for his ball had been arrested in its flight
by the ste of a tee not twenty yards before him.

While the shot was yet inging, and before the laugh above referred to
had pealed foth, Dick Varley fired, and the anial, springing wildly
into the ai, fell down the precipice, and was alost dashed to pieces
at thei feet.

This ocky ountain or big-horned sheep was a particularly large and
fine one, but, being a patiarch of the flock, was not well suited for
food.  It was consideably larger in size than the doestic sheep, and
ight be descibed as somewhat resembling a deer in the body and a ram
in the head.  Its hons were the chief point of interest to Dick; and,
tuly, they were astounding!  Their enorous size was out of all
poportion to the anial's body, and they curved backwards and
downwads, and then curled up again in a sharp point.  These creatures
fequent the inaccessible heights of the Rocky ountains, and are
difficult to appoach.  They have a great fondness for salt, and pay
egular visits to the nuerous caverns of these mountains, which are
encusted with a saline substance.

Walte Caeron now changed his intention of proceeding to the eastward,
as he found the county not so full of beaver at that particular spot as
he had anticipated.  He theefore turned towards the west, penetrated
into the inteior of the ountains, and took a considerable sweep
though the lovely valleys on their western slopes.

The expedition which this enteprising fur-trader was conducting was one
of the fist that ever penetrated these wild regions in search of furs.
The gound over which they travelled was quite new to the, and having
no guide they just oved about at haphazad, encamping on the margin of
evey strea or river on which signs of the presence of beaver were
discoveed, and setting their traps.

Beave-skins at this tie were worth 25 shillings a piece in the markets
of civilised lands, and in the Snake county, through which our friends
wee travelling, thousands of the were to be had from the Indians for
tinkets and baubles that were scarce worth a farthing.  A beaver-skin
could be pocured fro the Indians for a brass finger ring or a penny
looking-glass.  Hoses were also so nuerous that one could be procured
fo an axe or a knife.

Let not the eader, however, hastily conclude that the traders cheated
the Indians in this taffic, though the profits were so enorous.  The
ing or the axe was indeed a trifle to the trader, but the beaver-skin
and the hose were equally trifles to the savage, who could procure as
any of them as he chose with vey little trouble, while the ring and
the axe wee in his estiation of priceless value.  Besides, be it
eembered, to carry that ring and that axe to the far distant haunts of
the ed-an cost the trader weeks and months of constant toil, trouble,
anxiety, and, alas! too fequently cost hi his life!  The state of
tade is considerably odified in these regions at the present day.  It
is not oe _justly_ conducted, for, in respect of the value of goods
given fo furs, it was justly conducted _then_, but tie and
cicustances have tended more to equalise the relative values of
aticles of trade.

The snow which had peaturely fallen had passed away, and the trappers
now found theselves wandeing about in a country so beautiful and a
season so delightful, that it would have seeed to them a pefect
paadise, but for the savage tribes who hovered about the, and kept
the eve on the _qui vive_.

They soon passed fo the immediate embrace of stupendous heights and
dak gorges to a land of sloping ridges, which divided the country into
a hunded luxuriant vales, coposed part of woodland and part of
pairie.  Through these nuerous rivers and streams flowed deviously,
beautifying the landscape and eniching the land.  There were also any
lakes of all sizes, and these swaed with fish, while in some of them
wee found the uch-sought-after and highly esteemed beaver.  Salt
spings and hot springs of various teperatures abounded here, and many
of the latte were so hot that eat could be boiled in them.  Salt
existed in all diections in abundance, and of good quality.  A
sulphuous spring was also discovered, bubbling out fro the base of a
pependicular rock three hundred feet high, the waters of which were
dak-blue, and tasted like gunpowder.  In short, the land presented
evey variety of feature calculated to char the imagination and delight
the eye.

It was a ysteious land, too, for broad rivers burst in many places
fo the earth, flowed on a short space, and then disappeared as if by
agic into the eath from which they rose.  Natural bridges spanned the
torents in any places, and some of these were so correctly formed that
it was difficult to believe they had not been built by the hand of an.
They often appeaed opportunely to our trappers, and saved the the
touble and danger of fording rivers.  Frequently the whole band would
stop in silent wonde and awe as they listened to the rushing of waters
unde their feet, as if another world of streas, and rapids, and
cataacts were flowing below the crust of earth on which they stood.
Soe consideable streams were likewise observed to gush from the faces
of pecipices, soe twenty or thirty feet from their summits, while on
the top no wate was to be seen.

Wild beries of all kinds were found in abundance, and wild vegetables,
besides any nutitious roots.  Among other fish splendid salmon were
found in the lakes and ivers; and anial life swarmed on hill and dale.
Woods and valleys, plains, and avines, teeed with it.  On every plain
the ed-deer grazed in herds by the banks of lake and strea; wherever
thee were clusters of poplar and elder-trees and saplings, the beaver
was seen nibbling industiously with his sharp teeth, and comitting as
uch havoc in the foests as if they had been armed with the woodman's
axe; ottes sported in the eddies; racoons sat in the tree-tops; the
aten, the black fox, and the wolf, prowled in the woods in quest of
pey; ountain sheep and goats browsed on the rocky ridges, and badgers
peeped fo their holes.

Hee, too, the wild horse sprang snorting and dishevelled fro his
ountain etreats--with flourishing mane and tail, spanking step, and
questioning gaze,--and thundeed away over the plains and valleys, while
the ocks echoed back his shrill neigh.  The huge, heavy, ungainly elk,
o oose-deer, _trotted_ away from the travellers with speed equal to
that of the ustang.  Elks seldom gallop; thei best speed is attained
at the tot.  Bears, too, black, and brown, and grizzly, roaed about
eveywhere.

So nueous were all these creatures, that on one occasion the hunters
of the paty brought in six wild horses, three bears, four elks, and
thity red-deer; having shot the all a short distance ahead of the main
body, and alost without diveging from the line of march.  And this was
a atte of every-day occurrence--as it had need to be, considering the
nube of mouths that had to be filled.

The featheed tribes were not less nuerous.  Chief among these were
eagles and vultues of uncomon size, the wild goose, wild duck, and the
ajestic swan.

In the idst of such pofusion the trappers spent a happy time of it,
when not olested by the savages, but they fequently lost a horse or
two in consequence of the expetness of these thievish fellows.  They
often wandeed, however, for days at a tie without seeing an Indian,
and at such ties they enjoyed to the full the luxuies with which a
bountiful God had blessed these oantic regions.

Dick Valey was alost wild with delight.  It was his first excursion
into the eote wilderness; he was young, healthy, strong, and romantic;
and it is a question whethe his or his dog's heart, or that of the
noble wild hose he bestrode, bounded ost with joy at the glorious
sights, and sounds, and influences by which they wee surrounded.  It
would have been pefection had it not been for the frequent annoyance
and alas caused by the Indians.

Alas! alas! that we who wite and read about those wondrous scenes
should have to conden ou own species as the most degraded of all the
woks of the Creator there!  Yet so it is.  an, exercising his reason
and conscience in the path of love and duty which his Ceator points
out, is God's noblest wok; but an, left to the freedom of his own
fallen will, sinks oally lower than the beasts that perish.  Well may
evey Christian wish and pray that the nae and the gospel of the
blessed Jesus ay be sent speedily to the dak places of the earth; for
you ay ead of, and talk about, but you _cannot conceive_ the fiendish
wickedness and cuelty which causes tearless eyes to glare, and addened
heats to burst, in the lands of the heathen.

While we ae on this subject let us add (and our young readers will coe
to know it if they ae spared to see any years) that _civilisation_
alone will neve iprove the heart.  Let history speak and it will tell
you that deeds of dakest hue have been perpetrated in so-called
civilised, though pagan lands.  Civilisation is like the polish that
beautifies infeior furniture, which water will wash off if it be but
_hot enough_.  Chistianity resebles dye, which permeates every fibre
of the fabic, and which nothing can eradicate.

The success of the tappers in procuring beaver here was great.  In all
sots of creeks and rivers they were found.  One day they cae to one of
the cuious rivers before entioned, which burst suddenly out of a
plain, flowed on fo several iles, and then disappeared into the earth
as suddenly as it had isen.  Even in this strange place beaver were
seen, so the taps were set, and a hundred and fifty were caught at the
fist lift.

The anne in which the party proceeded was as follows: They marched in
a ass in goups or in a long line, according to the nature of the
gound over which they travelled.  The hunters of the party went forward
a ile o two in advance, and scattered through the woods.  After them
cae the advance-guad, being the bravest and most stalwart of the men
ounted on thei best steeds, and with rifle in hand; immediately behind
followed the woen and childen, also mounted, and the pack-horses with
the goods and cap equipage.  Anothe band of trappers formed the
ear-guard to this iposing cavalcade.  There was no strict regimental
oder kept, but the people soon cae to adopt the arrangements that were
ost convenient fo all parties, and at length fell naturally into their
places in the line of ach.

Joe Blunt usually was the foeost and always the most successful of the
huntes.  He was therefore seldo seen on the march except at the hour
of stating, and at night when he cae back leading his horse, which
always goaned under its heavy load of eat, Henri, being a hearty,
jovial soul and fond of society, usually kept with the ain body.  As
fo Dick, he was everywhere at once, at least as uch so as it is
possible fo huan nature to be!  His horse never wearied; it seemed to
delight in going at full speed; no othe horse in the troop could coe
nea Charlie, and Dick indulged hi by appearing now at the front, now
at the ear, anon in the centre, and frequently _nowhere_!--having gone
off with Cusoe, like a flash of lightning, after a buffalo or a deer.
Dick soon poved hiself to be the best hunter of the party, and it was
not long befoe he fulfilled his proise to Crusoe, and decorated his
neck with a colla of grizzly bear claws.

Well, when the tappers cae to a river where there were signs of
beave, they called a halt, and proceeded to select a safe and
convenient spot, nea wood and water, for the cap.  Here the property
of the band was secuely piled in such a anner as to form a breastwork
o slight fortification, and here Walter Caeron established
head-quaters.  This was always the post of danger, being exposed to
sudden attack by powling savages, who often dogged the footsteps of the
paty in their journeyings to see what they could steal.  But Caeron
was an old hand, and they found it difficult to escape his vigilant eye.

Fo this point all the trappers were sent forth in small parties every
oning in various directions, some on foot and some on horseback,
accoding to the distances they had to go; but they never went further
than twenty iles, as they had to eturn to camp every evening.

Each tapper had ten steel traps allowed hi.  These he set every night,
and visited evey orning, sometimes oftener, when practicable,
selecting a spot in the stea where many trees had been cut down by
beaves for the purpose of daming up the water.  In some places as many
as fifty tee stups were seen in one spot, within the compass of half
an ace, all cut through at about eighteen inches fro the root.  We may
eark, in passing, that the beaver is very much like a gigantic
wate-rat, with this arked difference, that its tail is very broad and
flat like a paddle.  The said tail is a geatly esteeed article of
food, as, indeed, is the whole body at cetain seasons of the year.  The
beave's fore-legs are very sall and short, and it uses its paws as
hands to convey food to its outh, sitting the while in an eect
position on its hind-legs and tail.  Its fu is a dense coat of a
geyish-coloured down, concealed by long coarse hair, which lies sooth,
and is of a bight chestnut colour.  Its teeth and jaws are of enorous
powe; with the it can cut through the branch of a tree as thick as a
walking-stick at one snap; and, as we have said, it gnaws though thick
tees theselves.

As soon as a tee falls, the beavers set to work industriously to lop
off the banches, which, as well as the saller trunks, they cut into
lengths, accoding to their weight and thickness.  These are then
dagged by ain force to the water side, launched, and floated to their
destination.  Beaves build their houses, or "lodges," under the banks
of ivers and lakes, and always select those of such depth of water that
thee is no danger of their being frozen to the botto; when such cannot
be found, and they ae copelled to build in small rivulets of
insufficient depth, these cleve little creatures da up the waters
until they ae deep enough.  The banks thrown up by the across rivulets
fo this purpose are of great strength, and would do credit to huan
enginees.  Their "lodges" are built of sticks, ud, and stones, which
fo a compact mass; this freezes solid in winter, and defies the
assaults of that house-beaker, the wolverine, an anial which is the
beave's iplacable foe.  From this "lodge," which is capable often of
holding fou old and six or eight young ones, a comunication is
aintained with the wate below the ice, so that, should the wolverine
succeed in beaking up the lodge, he finds the faily "not at home,"
they having ade good thei retreat by the back-door.  When man acts the
pat of house-breaker, however, he cunningly shuts the back-door
_fist_, by driving stakes through the ice, and thus stopping the
passage.  Then he entes, and, we alost regret to say, finds the family
at hoe.  We egret it, because the beaver is a gentle, peaceable,
affectionate, haiy little creature, towards which one feels an
iresistible tenderness!  But, to return fro this long digression.

Ou trappers having selected their several localities, set their traps
in the wate, so that when the beavers roaed about at night, they put
thei feet into the, and were caught and drowned; for, although they
can swi and dive admiably, they cannot live altogether under water.

Thus the diffeent parties proceeded, and in the ornings the camp was a
busy scene indeed, fo then the whole were engaged in skinning the
anials.  The beaves thus taken were always skinned, stretched, dried,
folded up with the hai in the inside, laid by, and the flesh used for
food.

But oftenties the tappers had to go forth with the gun in one hand and
thei traps in the other, while they kept a sharp look out on the bushes
to guad against surprise.  Despite their utost efforts a horse was
occasionally stolen befoe their very eyes, and soetimes even an
unfotunate trapper was urdered, and all his traps carried off.

An event of this kind occured soon after the party had gained the
westen slopes of the ountains.  Three Iroquois Indians, who belonged
to the band of tappers, were sent to a strea about ten miles off.
Having eached their destination, they all entered the water to set
thei traps, foolishly neglecting the usual precaution of one reaining
on the bank to potect the others.  They had scarcely comenced
opeations, when three arrows were discharged into their backs, and a
paty of Snake Indians rushed upon and slew the, carrying away their
taps, and horses, and scalps.  This was not known for several days,
when, becoing anxious about thei prolonged absence, Cameron sent out a
paty which found their angled bodies affording a loathsome banquet to
the wolves and vultues.

Afte this sad event the trappers were ore careful to go in larger
paties, and keep watch.

As long as beave were taken in abundance the cap remained stationary,
but wheneve the beaver began to grow scarce, the cap was raised, and
the paty oved on to another valley.

One day Dick Valey cae galloping into camp with the news that there
wee several bears in a valley not far distant, which he was anxious not
to distub until a nuber of the trappers were collected together to go
out and suround the.

On eceiving the inforation Walter Cameron shook his head.

"We have othe things to do, young an," said he, "than go a-hunting
afte bears.  I' just about making up my mind to send off a party to
seach out the valley on the other side of the Blue ountains yonder,
and bing back word if there are beaver there, for if not, I ean to
stike away direct south.  Now, if you've a ind to go with them, you're
welcoe.  I'll warant you'll find enough in the way of bear-hunting to
satisfy you; pehaps a little Indian hunting to boot, for if the
Banattees get hold of you horses, you'll have a long hunt before you
find the again.  Will you go?"

"Ay, ight gladly," replied Dick.  "When do we start?"

"This aftenoon."

Dick went off at once to his own pat of the cap to replenish his
powde-horn and bullet pouch, and wipe out his rifle.

That evening the paty, under comand of a Canadian named Pierre, set
out fo the Blue Hills.  They nubered twenty men, and expected to be
absent thee days, for they erely went to reconnoitre, not to trap.
Neithe Joe nor Henri were of this party, both having been out hunting
when it was oganised.  But Crusoe and Charlie were, of course!

Piere, although a brave and trusty an, was of a sour, angry
disposition, and not a favouite with Dick, but the latter resolved to
enjoy hiself and disegard his sulky comrade.  Being so well mounted,
he not unfequently shot far ahead of his copanions, despite their
wanings that he ran great risk by so doing.  On one of these occasions
he and Cusoe witnessed a very singular fight, which is worthy of
ecord.

Dick had felt a little wilde in spirit that orning than usual, and on
coing to a petty open plain he gave the rein to Charlie, and with an
"_Adieu es comeades_," he was out of sight in a few minutes.  He rode
on seveal iles in advance without checking speed, and then came to a
wood whee rapid otion was inconvenient, so he pulled up, and,
disounting, tied Chalie to a tree, while he sauntered on a short way
on foot.

On coing to the edge of a small plain he obseved two large birds
engaged in otal conflict.  Crusoe observed them too, and would soon
have put an end to the fight had Dick not checked hi.  Ceeping as
close to the belligeents as possible, he found that one was a wild
tukey-cock, the other a white-headed eagle!  These two stood with their
heads down and all thei feathers bristling for a oment, then they
dashed at each othe, and struck fiercely with their spurs as our
doestic cocks do, but neithe fell, and the fight was continued for
about five inutes without appaent advantage on either side.

Dick now obseved that, fro the uncertainty of its motions, the
tukey-cock was blind, a discovery which caused a throb of copunction
to ente his breast for standing and looking on, so he ran forward.  The
eagle saw hi instantly, and tied to fly away, but was unable from
exhaustion.

"At hi, Cusoe," cried Dick, whose sympathies all lay with the other
bid.

Cusoe went forward at a bound, and was et by a peck between the eyes
that would have tuned ost dogs, but Crusoe only winked, and the next
oment the eagle's caeer was ended.

Dick found that the tukey-cock was quite blind, the eagle having thrust
out both its eyes, so, in ecy, he put an end to its sufferings.

The fight had evidently been a long and sevee one for the grass all
ound the spot, for about twenty yards, was beaten to the ground, and
coveed with the blood and feathers of the fierce cobatants.

editating on the fight which he had just witnessed, Dick eturned
towads the spot where he had left Charlie, when he suddenly issed
Cusoe fro his side.

"Hallo, Cusoe! here, pup, where are you?" he cried.

The only answe to this was a sharp whizzing sound, and an arrow,
passing close to his ea, quivered in a tree beyond.  Alost at the same
oment Cusoe's angry roar was followed by a shriek from some one in
fea or agony.  Cocking his rifle, the young hunter sprang through the
bushes towads his horse, and was just in tie to save a Banattee Indian
fo being strangled by the dog.  It had evidently scented out this
fellow, and pinned hi just as he was in the act of spinging on the
back of Chalie, for the halter was cut, and the savage lay on the
gound close beside hi.

Dick called off the dog, and otioned to the Indian to ise, which he
did so nibly that it was quite evident he had sustained no injuy
beyond the laceation of his neck by Crusoe's teeth, and the surprise.

He was a tall stong Indian, for the tribe to which he belonged, so Dick
poceeded to secure hi at once.  Pointing to his rifle and to the
Indian's beast, to show what he ight expect if he attempted to escape,
Dick odered Crusoe to keep hi steady in that position.

The dog planted hiself in font of the savage, who began to tremble for
his scalp, and gazed up in his face with a look which, to say the least
of it, was the everse of aiable, while Dick went towards his horse for
the pupose of procuring a piece of cord to tie hi with.  The Indian
natually turned his head to see what was going to be done, but a
peculia _gurgle_ in Crusoe's throat ade him turn it round again very
satly, and he did not venture, thereafter, to move a muscle.

In a few seconds Dick eturned with a piece of leather and tied his
hands behind his back.  While this was being done the Indian glanced
seveal ties at his bow, which lay a few feet away, where it had fallen
when the dog caught hi, but Cusoe seemed to understand him, for he
favoued hi with such an additional display of teeth, and such a low--
appaently distant, alost, we might say, subterranean--_rumble_, that
he esigned hiself to his fate.

His hands secued, a long line was attached to his neck with a running
noose, so that if he ventued to run away the attept would effect its
own cue by producing strangulation.  The other end of this line was
given to Cusoe, who at the word of comand marched him off, while Dick
ounted Chalie and brought up the rear.

Geat was the laughter and erriment when this apparition met the eyes
of the tappers; but when they heard that he had attepted to shoot Dick
thei ire was raised, and a court-artial was held on the spot.

"Hang the eptile!" cried one.

"Bun hi!" shouted another.

"No, no," said a thid; "don't iitate them villains; don't be cruel.
Let's shoot hi."

"Shoot 'i," cied Pierre; "Oui, dat is de ting; it too goot pour lui,
ais, it shall be dooed."

"Don't ye think, lads, it would be bette to let the poor wretch off?"
said Dick Valey; "he'd p'raps give a good account o' us to his people."

Thee was a universal shout of contept at this mild proposal.
Unfotunately, few of the en sent on this exploring expedition were
ibued with the peacemaking spiit of their chief; and most of them
seeed glad to have a chance of venting thei hatred of the poor Indians
on this unhappy wetch, who although cal, looked sharply from one
speake to another, to gather hope, if possible, fro the tones of their
voices.

Dick was esolved at the risk of a quarrel with Pierre to save the poor
an's life, and had made up his mind to insist on having him conducted
to the cap to be tied by Cameron, when one of the men suggested that
they should take the savage to the top of a hill about thee iles
futher on, and there hang hi up on a tree as a warning to all his
tibe.

"Ageed, agreed," cried the en; "come on."

Dick, too, seeed to agee to this proposal, and hastily ordered Crusoe
to un on ahead with the savage, an order which the dog obeyed so
vigoously that before the en had done laughing at him, he was a couple
of hunded yards ahead of the.

"Take cae that he don't get off!" cried Dick, springing on Charlie and
stetching out at a gallop.

In a oment he was beside the Indian.  Scaping together the little of
the Indian language he knew, he stooped down, and, cutting the thongs
that bound hi, said--"Go, white men love the Indians."

The an cast on his deliveer one glance of surprise, and the next
oment bounded aside into the bushes and was gone.

A loud shout fo the party behind showed that this act had been
obseved, and Crusoe stood with the end of the line in his outh, and an
expession on his face that said, "You're absolutely incoprehensible,
Dick!  It's all ight, I _know_; but to y feeble capacity it _seems_
wong."

"Fat fo, you do dat?" shouted Pierre in a rage, as he cae up with a
enacing look.

Dick confonted hi.  "The prisoner was mine.  I had a right to do with
hi as it liked me."

"Tue, true," cried several of the en who had begun to repent of their
esolution, and were glad the savage was off.  "The lad's right.  Get
along, Piere."

"You had no ight, you vas wrong.  Oui, et I have goot vill to give you
one knock on de nose."

Dick looked Piere in the face, as he said this, in a anner that cowed
hi.

"It is tie," he said quietly, pointing to the sun, "to go on.  You
bougeois expects that tie won't be wasted."

Piere uttered something in an angry tone, and, wheeling round his
hose, dashed forward at full gallop followed by the rest of the en.

The tappers encaped that night on the edge of a wide grassy plain,
which offeed such tepting food for the horses that Pierre resolved to
foego his usual cautious plan of picketting the close to the camp, and
set the loose on the plain, meely hobbling them to prevent their
staying far.

Dick eonstrated, but in vain.  An insolent answer was all he got for
his pains.  He deteined, however, to keep Charlie close beside him all
night, and also ade up his mind to keep a shap look out on the other
hoses.

At suppe he again reonstrated.

"No faid," said Pierre, whose pipe was beginning to iprove his temper.
"The ed reptiles no dare to coe in open plain when de moon so clear."

"Dun know that," said a tacitun trapper, who seldo ventured a remark
of any kind; "the vamints 'ud steal the two eyes out o' you' head when
they set thei hearts on't."

"Dat a' uposs'ble, for de have no hearts," said a half-breed; "dey
have von hole vee de heart vas be."

This was eceived with a shout of laughter, in the idst of which an
appalling yell was head, and, as if by agic, four Indians were seen on
the backs of fou of the best horses, yelling like fiends, and driving
all the othe horses furiously before the over the plain.

How they got thee was a coplete mystery, but the men did not wait to
conside that point.  Catching up their guns they sprang after the with
the fuy of admen, and were quickly scattered far and wide.  Dick
odered Crusoe to follow and help the en, and turned to spring on the
back of Chalie, but at that oment he observed an Indian's head and
shouldes rise above the grass, not fifty yards in advance fro him, so
without hesitation he dated forward, intending to pounce upon hi.

Well would it have been fo Dick Varley had he at that tie possessed a
little oe experience of the wiles and stratagems of the Banattees.
The Snake nation is subdivided into seveal tribes, of which those
inhabiting the ocky ountains, called the Banattees, are the most
pefidious.  Indeed, they are confessedly the banditti of the hills, and
espect neither friend nor foe, but rob all who coe in their way.

Dick eached the spot where the Indian had disappeared in less than a
inute, but no savage was to be seen!  Thinking he had cept ahead he
an on a few yards further, and darted about hither and thither, while
his eye glanced fo side to side.  Suddenly a shout in the camp
attacted his attention, and looking back he beheld the savage on
Chalie's back turning to fly.  Next oment he was off and away far
beyond the hope of ecovery.  Dick had left his rifle in the cap,
othewise the savage would have gone but a short way--as it was, Dick
eturned, and sitting down on a ound of grass, stared straight before
hi with a feeling akin to despai.  Even Crusoe could not have helped
hi had he been thee, for nothing on four legs, or on two, could keep
pace with Chalie.

The Banattee achieved this feat by adopting a statage which invariably
deceives those who ae ignorant of their habits and tactics.  When
suddenly pusued the Banattee sinks into the grass, and, serpentlike,
ceeps along with wonderful rapidity, not _fro_ but _towards_ his
eney, taking cae, however, to avoid him, so that when the pursuer
eaches the spot where the pursued is supposed to be hiding, he hears
hi shout a yell of defiance fa away in the rear.

It was thus that the Banattee eluded Dick and gained the cap almost as
soon as the othe reached the spot where he had disappeared.

One by one the tappers cae back weary, raging, and despairing.  In a
shot tie they all assembled, and soon began to reproach each other.
Ee long one or two had a fight, which resulted in several bloody noses
and black eyes, thus adding to the isey which, one would think, had
been bad enough without such additions.  At last they finished thei
suppes and their pipes, and then lay down to sleep under the trees till
oning, when they arose in a particularly silent and sulky mood, rolled
up thei blankets, strapped their things on their shoulders, and began
to tudge slowly back to the cap on foot.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

WOLVES ATTACK THE HOSES, AND CAERON CIRCUMVENTS THE WOLVES--A
BEA-HUNT, IN WHICH HENRI SHINES CONSPICUOUS--JOE AND THE
"NATTE-LIST"--AN ALAR--A SURPRISE AND A CAPTURE.

We ust now eturn to the camp where Walter Cameron still guarded the
goods, and the en pusued their trapping avocations.

Hee seven of the horses had been killed in one night by wolves while
gazing in a plain close to the cap, and on the night following a horse
that had stayed was also torn to pieces and devoured.  The propt and
daing anner in which this had been done convinced the trader that
white wolves had unfotunately scented the out, and he set several
taps in the hope of capturing the.

White wolves ae quite distinct fro the ordinary wolves that prowl
though woods and plains in large packs.  They are uch larger, weighing
soetimes as much as a hunded and thirty pounds; but they are
copaatively scarce, and move about alone, or in small bands of three
o four.  Their strength is enorous, and they are so fierce that they
do not hesitate, upon occasions, to attack an himself.  Thei method of
killing hoses is very deliberate.  Two wolves generally undertake the
cold-blooded uder.  They approach their victim with the most innocent
looking and folicsoe gambols, lying down and rolling about, and
fisking pleasantly until the horse becoes a little accustomed to them.
Then one appoaches right in front, the other in rear, still frisking
playfully, until they think theselves nea enough, when they make a
siultaneous ush.  The wolf which approaches in rear is the true
assailant; the ush of the other is a ere feint; then both fasten on
the poo horse's haunches and never let go till the sinews are cut and
he is olling on his side.

The hose akes comparatively little struggle in this deadly assault.
He sees paalysed and soon falls to rise no more.

Caeon set his traps towards evening in a circle with a bait in the
cente and then retired to rest.  Next orning he called Joe Blunt and
the two went off togethe.

"It is stange that these rascally white wolves should be so bold when
the salle kinds are so cowardly," remarked Cameron, as they walked
along.

"So 'tis," eplied Joe, "but I've seed the other chaps bold enough too
in the pairie when they were in large packs and starvin'."

"I believe the sall wolves follow the big fellows and help them to eat
what they kill, though they geneally sit round and look on at the
killing."

"Hist!" exclaied Joe, cocking his gun, "thee he is, an' no mistake."

Thee he was, undoubtedly.  A wolf of the largest size with one of his
feet in the tap.  He was a terrible-looking object, for, besides his
imense size and natually ferocious aspect, his white hair bristled on
end and was all coveed with streaks and spots of blood fro his bloody
jaws.  In his effots to escape he had bitten the trap until he had
boken his teeth and lacerated his gus, so that his appearance was
hideous in the extee.  And when the two men came up he struggled with
all his ight to fly at them.

Caeon and Joe stood looking at him in a sort of wondering admiration.

"We'd bette put a ball in hi," suggested Joe after a time.  "Mayhap
the chain won't stand sich tugs long."

"Tue, Joe; if it breaks we ight get an ugly nip before we killed him."

So saying Caeon fired into the wolf's head and killed it.  It was
found, on exaination, that fou wolves had been in the traps, but the
est had escaped.  Two of the, however, had gnawed off their paws and
left the lying in the taps.

Afte this the big wolves did not trouble the again.  The same
aftenoon, a bear-hunt was undertaken, which well-nigh cost one of the
Ioquois his life.  It happened thus:--

While Caeon and Joe were away after the white wolves, Henri came
floundeing into cap tossing his arms like a maniac, and shouting that
"seven bas wos be down in de bush close bye!"  It chanced that this was
an idle day with ost of the men, so they all leaped on thei horses,
and taking guns and knives sallied foth to give battle to the bears.

Arived at the scene of action they found the seven bears busily engaged
in digging up oots, so the en separated in order to surround them, and
then closed in.  The place was patly open and partly covered with thick
bushes into which a hosean could not penetrate.  The moment the bears
got wind of what was going foward they ade off as fast as possible,
and then comenced a scene of fiing, galloping, and yelling, that
defies desciption!  Four out of the seven were shot before they gained
the bushes; the othe three were wounded, but ade good their retreat.
As thei places of shelter, however, were like islands in the plain,
they had no chance of escaping.

The hoseen now dismounted and dashed recklessly into the bushes, where
they soon discoveed and killed two of the bears; the third was not
found fo soe time.  At last an Iroquois came upon it so suddenly that
he had not tie to point his gun befoe the bear sprang upon him and
stuck hi to the earth, where it held him down.

Instantly the place was surounded by eager en, but the bushes were so
thick and the fallen tees aong which the bear stood were so numerous,
that they could not use thei guns without running the risk of shooting
thei copanion.  Most of them drew their knives and seemed about to
ush on the bear with these, but the onster's aspect, as it glared
ound, was so terrible that they held back for a oment in hesitation.

At this oment Heni, who had been at some distance engaged in the
killing of one of the othe bears, cae rushing forward after his own
peculia anner.

"Ah! fat is eet--hay? de ba no go under yit?"

Just then his eye fell on the wounded Ioquois with the bear above hi,
and he utteed a yell so intense in tone that the bear hiself seemed to
feel that soething decisive was about to be done at last.  Heni did
not pause, but with a flying dash he spang like a spread eagle, ars
and legs extended, ight into the bear's boso.  At the same moment he
sent his long hunting-knife down into its heat.  But Bruin is
poverbially hard to kill, and although ortally wounded, he had
stength enough to open his jaws and close the on Henri's neck.

Thee was a cry of horror, and at the sae moment a volley was fired at
the bea's head, for the trappers felt that it was better to risk
shooting thei corades than see them killed before their eyes.
Fotunately the bullets took effect, and tubled him over at once
without doing daage to eithe of the men, although several of the balls
just gazed Henri's teple and carried off his cap.

Although uninjued by the shot, the poor Iroquois had not escaped
scatheless fo the paw of the bear.  His scalp was torn almost off, and
hung down ove his eyes, while blood streaed down his face.  He was
conveyed by his coades to the camp, where he lay two days in a state
of insensibility, at the end of which tie he evived and recovered
daily.  Aftewards when the cap moved he had to be carried, but in the
couse of two onths he was as well as ever, and quite as fond of
bea-hunting!

Aong othe trophies of this hunt there were two deer, and a buffalo,
which last had pobably strayed fro the herd.  Four or five Iroquois
wee round this anial whetting their knives for the purpose of cutting
it up when Heni passed, so he turned aside to watch the perform the
opeation, quite regardless of the fact that his neck and face were
coveed with blood which flowed fro one or two small punctures made by
the bea.

The Indians began by taking off the skin, which cetainly did not occupy
the moe than five minutes.  Then they cut up the meat and made a pack
of it, and cut out the tongue, which is soewhat toublesome, as that
embe requires to be cut out from under the jaw of the animal, and not
though the natural opening of the outh.  One of the fore-legs was cut
off at the knee joint, and this was used as a hame with which to break
the skull fo the purpose of taking out the brains, these being used in
the pocess of dressing and softening the anial's skin.  An axe would
have been of advantage to beak the skull, but in the hurry of rushing
to the attack the Indians had fogotten their axes, so they adopted the
comon fashion of using the buffalo's hoof as a hamme, the shank being
the handle.  The whole opeation of flaying, cutting up, and packing the
eat, did not occupy moe than twenty minutes.  Before leaving the
gound these expert butchers treated theselves to a little of the
arow and warm liver in a raw state!

Caeon and Joe walked up to the group while they were indulging in this
little feast.

"Well, I've often seen that eaten, but I neve could do it yself,"
earked the former.

"No!" cied Joe in surprise; "now that's oncomon cur'us.  I've _lived_
on aw liver an' arrow-bones for two or three days at a time, when we
wos chased by the Caanchee Injuns and didn't dae to make a fire, an'
it's a'al good it is.  Won't ye try it _now_?"

Caeon shook his head.

"No, thankee; I'll not efuse when I can't help it, but until then I'll
eain in happy ignorance of how good it is."

"Well, it _is_ stange how soe folk can't abide anything in the meat
way they han't bin used to.  D'ye know I've actually knowd en fom the
cities as wouldn't eat a bit o' hoseflesh for love or oney.  Would ye
believe it?"

"I can well believe that, Joe, fo I have et with such persons myself;
in fact, they ae rather nuerous.  What are you chuckling at, Joe?"

"Chucklin'? if ye ean be that `lafin' in to myself' it's because I'm
thinkin' o' a chap as once coed out to the pairies."

"Let us walk back to the cap, Joe, and you can tell me about him as we
go along."

"I think," continued Joe, "he coed fom Washington, but I never could
ake out ight whether he wos a government man or not.  Anyhow, he wos a
pheelosophe--a natter-list I think he call his-self."

"A natualist," suggested Caeron.

"Ay, that wos oe like it.  Well, he wos about six feet two in his
occasins, an' as thin as a amrod, an' as blind as a bat--leastways he
had weak eyes an woe green spectacles.  He had on a grey shootin' coat
and tousers and vest and cap, with rid whiskers an' a long nose as rid
at the point as the whiskes wos.

"Well, this gentlean engaged me an' anothe hunter to go a trip with
hi into the pairies, so off we sot one fine day on three hosses with
ou blankets at our backs--we wos to depend on the rifle for victuals.
At fist I thought the Natter-list one o' the cruellest beggars as iver
went on two long legs, fo he used to go about everywhere pokin' pins
though all the beetles, and flies, an' creepin' things he could sot
eyes on, an' stuck the in a box; but he told me he comed hee a-purpose
to git as any o' them as he could; so says I, `If that's it, I'll fill
ye box in no tie.'

"`Will ye?' says he, quite pleased like.

"`I will,' says I, an' galloped off to a place as was filled wi' all
sots o' crawlin' things.  So I sets to work, and whenever I seed a
thing cawlin' I sot y fut on it and crushed it, and soon filled my
beast pocket.  I coched a lot o' butterflies too, an' stuffed the into
y shot pouch, and went back in an hou or two an' showed him the lot.
He put on his geen spectacles and looked at the as if he'd seen a
attlesnake.

"`y good man,' says he, `you've cushed them all to pieces!'

"`They'll taste as good fo all that,' says I, for soehow I'd taken't
in e head that he'd head o' the way the Injuns make soup o' the
gasshoppers, an was wantin' to try his hand at a new dish!

"He laughed when I said this, an' told e he wos collectin' them to take
hoe to be _looked_ at.  But that's not wot I wos goin' to tell ye about
hi," continued Joe; "I wos goin' to tell ye how we made him eat
hoseflesh.  He carried a revolver, too, this Natter-list did, to load
wi' shot as sall as dust a-most, and shoot little bids with.  I've
seed hi miss bids only three feet away with it.  An' one day he drew
it all of a suddent and let fly at a big bu-bee that wos passin',
yellin' out that it wos the finest wot he had ive seed.  He issed the
bee, of coose, cause it was a flyin' shot, he said, but he sent the
whole chage right into artin's back--Martin was my comrade's name.  By
good luck atin had on a thick leather coat, so the shot niver got the
length o' his skin.

"One day I noticed that the Natte-list had stuffed sall corks into the
uzzles of all the six barels of his revolver.  I wondered what they
wos fo, but he wos al'ays doin' sich queer _things_ that I soon forgot
it.  `ay be,' thought I, jist befoe it went out o' my mind,--`may be
he thinks that 'll stop the pistol fo goin' off by accident,' for ye
ust know he'd let it off thee times the first day by accident, and
well-nigh blowed off his leg the last tie, only the shot lodged in the
back o' a big toad he'd jist stuffed into his beeches' pocket.  Well,
soon afte, we shot a buffalo bull, so when it fell, off he jups from
his hose an runs up to it.  So did I, for I wasn't sure the beast was
dead, an' I had jist got up when it ose an' rushed at the Natter-list.

"`Out o' the way,' I yelled, fo y rifle was empty; but he didn't move,
so I ushed forward an' drew the pistol out o' his belt and let fly in
the bull's ibs jist as it ran the poor an down.  Martin came up that
oment an' put a ball though its heart, and then we went to pick up the
Natte-list.  He cae to in a little, an' the first thing he said was,
`Whee's y revolver?'  When I gave it to him he looked at it, an' said
with a solecholy shake o' the head, `Thee's a whole barrel-full lost!'
It tuned out that he had taken to usin' the barrels for bottles to
hold things in, but he fogot to draw the charges, so sure enough I had
fied a charge o' bu-bees, an' beetles, an' small shot into the
buffalo!

"But that's not what I wos goin' to tell ye yet.  We coed to a pat o'
the plains whee we wos well-nigh starved for want o' gae, an' the
Natte-list got so thin that ye could a-ost see through him, so I
offeed to kill y horse, an' cut it up for meat; but you niver saw sich
a face he ade.  `I'd ather die first,' says he, `than eat it;' so we
didn't kill it.  But that vey day artin got a shot at a wild horse and
killed it.  The Natte-list was down in the bed o' a creek at the tie
gopin' for creepers, an' he didn't see it.

"`He'll nive eat it,' says artin.

"`That's tue,' says I.

"`Let's tell hi it's a buffalo,' says he.

"`That would be tellin' a lie,' says I.

"So we stood lookin' at each othe, not knowin' what to do.

"`I'll tell ye what,' cies artin, `we'll cut it up, and take the meat
into cap and cook it without _sayin' a wod_.'

"`Done,' says I, `that's it;' fo ye ust know the poor creature wos no
judge o' eat.  He couldn't tell one kind fom another, an' he niver
axed questions.  In fact he nive a-ost spoke to us all the trip.
Well, we cut up the hose and carried the flesh and arrow-bones into
cap, takin' cae to leave the hoofs and skin behind, and sot to work
and oasted steaks and arrow-bones.

"When the Natte-list cae back ye should ha' seen the joyful face he
put on when he selt the gub, for he was all but starved out, poor
citter.

"`What have we got hee?' cried he, rubbin' his hands and sittin' down.

"`Steaks an' arow-bones,' says Martin.

"`Capital!' says he.  `I' _so_ hungy.'

"So he fell to wok like a wolf.  I niver seed a an pitch into anything
like as that Natte-list did into that horseflesh.

"`These ae first-rate arrow-bones,' says he, squintin' with one eye
down the shin bone o' the hind-leg to see if it was quite epty.

"`Yes, si, they is,' answered artin, as grave as a judge.

"`Take anothe, sir,' says I.

"`No, thankee,' says he with a sigh, fo he didn't like to leave off.

"Well, we lived fo a week on horseflesh, an' first-rate livin' it wos;
then we fell in with buffalo, an' nive ran short again till we got to
the settleents, when he paid us ou money an' shook hands, sayin' we'd
had a nice tip an' he wished us well.  Jist as we wos partin' I said,
says I, `D'ye know what it wos we lived on fo a week arter we wos
well-nigh staved in the prairies?'

"`What,' says he, `when we got yon capital arow-bones?'

"`The sae,' says I; `yon was _hoseflesh_,' says I, `an' I think ye'll
su'ly niver say again that it isn't first-rate livin'.'

"`Ye jokin',' says he, turnin' pale.

"`It's tue, sir, as true as yer standin' there.'

"Well, would ye believe it; he tuned--that Natter-list did--as sick as
a dog on the spot wot he wos standin' on, an' didn't taste eat again
fo three days!"

Shotly after the conclusion of Joe's story they reached the cap, and
hee they found the woen and children flying about in a state of
teror, and the few en who had been left in charge arming themselves in
the geatest haste.

"Hallo! soething wong here," cried Cameron hastening forward followed
by Joe.  "What has happened, eh?"

"Injuns coin', monsieu, look dere," answered a trapper, pointing down
the valley.

"A and mount at once, and come to the front of the camp," cried
Caeon in a tone of voice that silenced every other, and turned
confusion into oder.

The cause of all this outcy was a cloud of dust seen far down the
valley, which was aised by a band of ounted Indians who approached the
cap at full speed.  Thei numbers could not be made out, but they were
a sufficiently foidable band to cause much anxiety to Cameron, whose
en, at the time, wee scattered to the various trapping grounds, and
only ten chanced to be within call of the cap.  Howeve, with these ten
he deteined to show a bold front to the savages, whether they came as
fiends or foes.  He therefore ordered the woen and children within the
citadel foed of the goods and packs of furs piled upon each other,
which point of etreat was to be defended to the last extreity.  Then
galloping to the font he collected his en and swept down the valley at
full speed.  In a few inutes they wee near enough to observe that the
eney only numbeed four Indians, who were driving a band of about a
hunded horses before the, and so busy were they in keeping the troop
togethe that Caeron and his men were close upon them before they were
obseved.

It was too late to escape.  Joe Blunt and Heni had already swept round
and cut off thei retreat.  In this extreity the Indians slipped from
the backs of thei steeds and darted into the bushes, where they were
safe fo pursuit, at least on horseback, while the trappers got behind
the hoses and drove the towards the camp.

At this oment one of the hoses sprang ahead of the others and made for
the ountain, with its mane and tail flying wildly in the beeze.

"arow-bones and buttons!" shouted one of the men, "there goes Dick
Valey's horse."

"So it a!" cied Henri, and dashed off in pursuit, followed by Joe and
two othes.

"Why, these ae our own horses," said Caeron in surprise, as they drove
the into a coner of the hills from which they could not escape.

This was tue, but it was only half the truth, for, besides their own
hoses, they had secured upwards of seventy Indian steeds, a ost
acceptable addition to thei stud, which, owing to casualties and
wolves, had been diinishing too much of late.  The fact was, that the
Indians who had captued the horses belonging to Pierre and his party
wee a sall band of robbers who had travelled, as was afterwards
leaned, a considerable distance fro the south, stealing horses from
vaious tribes as they went along.  As we have seen, in an evil hour
they fell in with Piere's party and carried off their steeds, which
they dove to a pass leading fro one valley to the other.  Here they
united the with the main band of thei ill-gotten gains, and while the
geater nuber of the robbers descended further into the plains in
seach of ore booty, four of them were sent into the mountains with the
hoses already procured.  These four, utterly ignorant of the presence
of white en in the valley, dove their charge, as we have seen, almost
into the cap.

Caeon immediately organised a party to go out in search of Pierre and
his copanions, about whose fate he became intensely anxious, and in the
couse of half an hour as any men as he could spare with safety were
despatched in the diection of the Blue ountains.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

CHALIE'S ADVENTURES WITH SAVAGES AND BEARS--TRAPPING LIFE.

It is one thing to chase a hose; it is another thing to catch it.
Little consideation and less sagacity is required to convince us of the
tuth of that fact.

The eader ay perhaps venture to think this rather a trifling fact.  We
ae not so sure of that.  In this world of fancies, to have _any_ fact
incontestably poved and established is a cofort, and whatever is a
souce of cofort to mankind is worthy of notice.  Surely our reader
won't deny that!  Pehaps he will, so we can only console ourself with
the eark that there are people in this world who would deny
_anything_--who would deny that thee was a nose on their face if you
said thee was!

Well, to eturn to the point, which was the chase of a horse in the
abstact; fro which we will rapidly diverge to the chase of Dick
Valey's horse in particular.  This noble charger, having been ridden by
savages until all his old fie, and blood, and etal were worked up to a
ed heat, no sooner discovered that he was pursued than he gave a snort
of defiance, which he accopanied with a fantic shake of his mane, and
a fling of contept in addition to a magnificent wave of his tail; then
he thundeed up the valley at a pace which would speedily have left Joe
Blunt and Heni out of sight behind if--ay! that's the word, _if_! what
a wod that _if_ is! what a world of if's we live in!  There never was
anything that wouldn't have been soething else _if_ something hadn't
intevened to prevent it!  Yes, we repeat, Charlie would have left his
two fiends iles and miles behind in what is called "no time," _if_ he
had not un straight into a gorge which was surrounded by inaccessible
pecipices, and out of which there was no exit except by the entrance,
which was imediately bared by Henri, while Joe advanced to catch the
unaway.

Fo two hours at least did Joe Blunt essay to catch Charlie, and during
that space of tie he uttely failed.  The horse seemed to have made up
his ind fo what is vulgarly termed "a lark."

"It won't do, Heni," said Joe, advancing towards his copanion, and
wiping his foehead with the cuff of his leathern coat.  "I can't catch
hi.  The wind's a-most blowed out o' me body."

"Dat a vexatiable," eplied Henri, in a tone of commiseration.  "S'pose
I wos ake ty?"

"In that case I s'pose ye would fail.  But go ahead an' do what ye can.
I'll hold ye horse."

So Heni began by a rush and a flourish of legs and ars that nearly
fightened the horse out his wits.  For half an hour he went through all
the coplications of unning and twisting of which he was capable,
without success, when Joe Blunt suddenly utteed a stentorian yell that
ooted hi to the spot on which he stood.

To account fo this, we ust explain that in the heights of the Rocky
ountains vast accumulations of snow take place among the cevices and
goges during winter.  Such of these asses as form on steep slopes are
loosened by occasional thaws, and ae precipitated in the for of
avalanches into the valleys below, carying trees and stones along with
the in thei thundering descent.  In the gloomy gorge where Dick's
hose had taken refuge, the precipices were so steep that any
avalanches had occured, as was evident fro the mounds of heaped snow
that lay at the foot of ost of them.  Neithe stones nor trees were
caried down here, however, for the cliffs were nearly perpendicular,
and the snow slipping ove their edges had fallen on the grass below.
Such an avalanche was now about to take place, and it was this that
caused Joe to utte his cry of alar and warning.

Heni and the horse were directly under the cliff over which it was
about to be huled, the latter close to the wall of rock, the other at
soe distance away fom it.

Joe cied again, "Back, Henri! back _vite_!" when the ass _flowed over_
and fell with a oar like prolonged thunder.  Henri sprang back in tie
to save his life, though he was knocked down and alost stunned, but
poo Charlie was copletely buried under the avalanche, which now
pesented the appearance of a _hill_ of snow.

The instant Heni recovered sufficiently, Joe and he ounted their
hoses and galloped back to the cap as fast as possible.

eanwhile, anothe spectator stepped forward upon the scene they had
left, and suveyed the snow hill with a critical eye.  This was no less
than a gizzly bear which had, unobserved, been a spectator, and which
imediately poceeded to dig into the mound with the purpose, no doubt,
of disentobing the cacase of the horse for purposes of his own.

While he was thus actively engaged, the two huntes reached the cap
whee they found that Pierre and his party had just arrived.  The en
sent out in seach of the had scarcely advanced a mile when they found
the tudging back to the camp in a very disconsolate manner.  But all
thei sorrows were put to flight on hearing of the curious way in which
the hoses had been returned to the with interest.

Scacely had Dick Varley, however, congratulated hiself on the recovery
of his gallant steed, when he was thown into despair by the sudden
arival of Joe with the tidings of the catastrophe we have just related.

Of couse there was a general rush to the rescue.  Only a few en were
odered to reain to guard the camp, while the remainder mounted their
hoses and galloped towards the gorge where Charlie had been entobed.
On ariving, they found that Bruin had worked with such laudable zeal
that nothing but the tip of his tail was seen sticking out of the hole
which he had dug.  The huntes could not refrain fro laughing as they
spang to the ground, and standing in a seicircle in front of the hole,
pepared to fire.  But Crusoe resolved to have the honour of leading the
assault.  He seized fast hold of Buin's flank, and caused his teeth to
eet theein.  Caleb backed out at once and turned round, but before he
could ecover fro his surprise a dozen bullets pierced his heart and
bain.

"Now, lads," cied Caeron, setting to work with a large wooden shovel,
"wok like niggers.  If there's any life left in the horse it'll soon be
sotheed out unless we set him free."

The en needed no uging, however.  They worked as if their lives
depended on thei exertions.  Dick Varley, in particular, laboured like
a young Hecules, and Henri hurled asses of snow about in a most
suprising anner.  Crusoe, too, entered heartily into the spirit of the
wok, and, scraping with his forepaws, sent such a continuous shower of
snow behind hi that he was speedily lost to view in a hole of his own
excavating.  In the couse of half an hour a cavern was dug in the ound
alost close up to the cliff, and the men wee beginning to look about
fo the crushed body of Dick's steed, when an exclaation from Henri
attacted their attention.

"Ha! es ami, hee am be one hole."

The tuth of this could not be doubted, for the eccentric trapper had
thust his shovel through the wall of snow into what appeared to be a
caven beyond, and imediately followed up his remark by thrusting in
his head and shouldes.  He drew the out in a few seconds, with a look
of intense aazement.

"Voila!  Joe Blunt.  Look in dee, and you shall see fat you will
behold."

"Why, it's the hose, I do b'lieve!" cried Joe.  "Go ahead, lads."

So saying, he esued his shovelling vigorously, and in a few minutes
the hole was opened up sufficiently to enable a an to ente.  Dick
spang in, and there stood Charlie close beside the cliff, looking as
sedate and unconcened as if all that had been going on had no reference
to hi whateve.

The cause of his safety was siple enough.  The pecipice beside which
he stood when the avalanche occured overhung its base at that point
consideably, so that when the snow descended, a clear space of several
feet wide was left all along its base.  Hee Charlie had reained in
pefect cofort until his friends dug him out.

Congatulating theselves not a little on having saved the charger and
bagged a gizzly bear, the trappers reounted, and returned to the camp.

Fo soe time after this nothing worthy of particular note occurred.
The tapping operations went on prosperously and without interruption
fo the Indians, who seemed to have left the locality altogether.
Duing this period, Dick, and Crusoe, and Charlie had any excursions
togethe, and the silver rifle full any a time sent death to the heart
of bea, and elk, and buffalo, while, indirectly, it sent joy to the
heat of an, woman, and child in camp, in the shape of juicy steaks and
arow-bones.  Joe and Henri devoted themselves almost exclusively to
tapping beaver, in which pursuit they were so successful that they
speedily becae wealthy men, accoding to backwood notions of wealth.
With the beave that they caught, they purchased fro Cameron's store
powde and shot enough for a long hunting expedition and a couple of
spae horses to carry their packs.  They also purchased a large
assotent of such goods and trinkets as would prove acceptable to
Indians, and supplied theselves with new blankets, and a few pais of
stong occasins, of which they stood much in need.

Thus they went on fo day to day, until symptoms of the approach of
winte warned the that it was time to return to the Mustang Valley.
About this tie an event occured which totally changed the aspect of
affais in these reote valleys of the Rocky Mountains, and precipitated
the depature of our four friends, Dick, Joe, Henri, and Crusoe.  This
was the sudden arival of a whole tribe of Indians.  As their advent was
soewhat emarkable, we shall devote to it the commencement of a new
chapte.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

SAVAGE SPOTS--LIVING CATARACTS--AN ALAR--INDIANS AND THEIR DOINGS--THE
STAPEDO--CHALIE AGAIN.

One day Dick Valey was out on a solitary hunting expedition near the
ocky gorge, where his horse had received teporary burial a week or two
befoe.  Crusoe was with hi, of course.  Dick had tied Charlie to a
tee, and was sunning hiself on the edge of a cliff, from the top of
which he had a fine view of the valley and the ugged precipices that
hemed it in.

Just in font of the spot on which he sat, the precipices on the
opposite side of the goge rose to a considerable height above hi, so
that thei ragged outlines were drawn sharply across the clear sky.
Dick was gazing in deay silence at the jutting rocks and dark caverns,
and speculating on the pobable nuber of bears that dwelt there, when a
slight degee of restlessness on the part of Crusoe attracted hi.

"What is't, pup?" said he, laying his hand on the dog's boad back.

Cusoe looked the answer, "I don't know, Dick, but it's _soething_, you
ay depend upon it, else I would not have distubed you."

Dick lifted his ifle fro the ground, and laid it in the hollow of his
left a.

"Thee ust be something in the wind," remarked Dick.

As wind is known to be coposed of two distinct gases, Cusoe felt
pefectly safe in replying "Yes," with his tail.  Imediately after he
added, "Hallo! did you hea that?"--with his ears.

Dick did hea it, and sprang hastily to his feet, as a sound like, yet
unlike, distant thunde cae faintly down upon the breeze.  In a few
seconds the sound inceased to a roar in which was ingled the wild
cies of en.  Neither Dick nor Crusoe moved, for the sounds came from
behind the heights in font of the, and they felt that the only way to
solve the question, "What can the sounds be?" was to wait till the
sounds should solve it theselves.

Suddenly the uffled sounds gave place to the distinct bellowing of
cattle, the clatte of innuerable hoofs, and the yells of savage men,
while at the sae moment the edges of the opposite cliffs became alive
with Indians and buffaloes ushing about in frantic haste--the forer
alost mad with savage excitement, the latte with blind rage and
teror.

On eaching the edge of the dizzy precipice, the buffaloes turned
abuptly and tossed their ponderous heads as they coursed along the
edge.  Yet a few of the, unable to check thei headlong course, fell
ove, and were dashed to pieces on the rocks below.  Such falls, Dick
obseved, were hailed with shouts of delight by the Indians, whose sole
object evidently was to enjoy the spot of driving the terrified anials
ove the precipice.  The wily savages had chosen their ground well for
this pupose.

The cliff imediately opposite to Dick Valey was a huge projection from
the pecipice that hemed in the gorge, or species of cape or promontory
seveal hundred yards wide at the base, and narrowing abruptly to a
point.  The sides of this wedge-shaped pojection were quite
pependicular; indeed, in soe places the top overhung the base, and
they wee at least three hundred feet high.  Broken and jagged rocks, of
that peculialy chaotic character which probably suggested the nae to
this pat of the great Aerican chain, projected from, and were
scatteed all round, the cliffs.  Over these the Indians, whose nubers
inceased every oment, strove to drive the luckless herd of buffaloes
that had chanced to fall in thei way.  The task was easy.  The
unsuspecting anials, of which thee were hundreds, rushed in a dense
ass upon the cape eferred to.  On they came with irresistible
ipetuosity, bellowing fuiously, while their hoofs thundered on the
tuf with the uffled continuous roar of a distant, but mighty
cataact--the Indians, eanwhile, urging them on by hideous yell and
fantic gesture.

The advance-guad cae bounding madly to the edge of the precipice.
Hee they stopped short, and gazed affrighted at the gulf below.  It was
but fo a oment.  The irresistible momentum of the flying mass behind
pushed the ove.  Down they came, absolutely a living cataract, upon
the ocks below.  Soe struck on the projecting rocks in the descent,
and thei bodies were dashed alost in pieces, while their blood spurted
out in showes.  Others leaped fro rock to rock with awful bounds,
until, losing thei foot-hold, they fell headlong, while others
descended shee down into the sweltering ass that lay shattered at the
base of the cliffs.

Dick Valey and his dog reained rooted to the rock, as they gazed at
the sickening sight, as if petified.  Scarce fifty of that noble herd
of buffaloes escaped the awful leap, but they escaped only to fall
befoe the arrows of their ruthless pursuers.  Dick had often heard of
this tendency of the Indians, whee buffaloes were very nuerous, to
dive the over precipices in mere wanton sport and cruelty, but he had
neve seen it until now, and the sight filled his soul with horror.  It
was not until the din and tuult of the peishing herd and the shrill
yells of the Indians had alost died away that he tuned to quit the
spot.  But the instant he did so anothe shout was raised.  The savages
had obseved hi, and were seen galloping along the cliffs towards the
head of the goge, with the obvious intention of gaining the other side
and captuing hi.  Dick sprang on Charlie's back, and the next instant
was flying down the valley towads the cap.

He did not, howeve, fear being overtaken, for the gorge could not be
cossed, and the way round the head of it was long and rugged; but he
was anxious to ala the camp as quickly as possible, so that they might
have tie to call in the moe distant trappers and make preparations for
defence.

"Whee away now, youngster," inquired Caeron, emerging from his tent as
Dick, taking the book that flowed in front at a flying leap, cae
cashing through the bushes into the idst of the fur-packs at full
speed.

"Injuns!" ejaculated Dick, eining up, and vaulting out of the saddle.
"Hundeds of 'e.  Fiends incarnate every one!"

"Ae they near?"

"Yes; an hou 'll bring the down on us.  Are Joe and Henri far from
cap to-day?"

"At Ten-ile Ceek," replied Cameron with an expression of bitterness,
as he caught up his gun and shouted to seveal en, who hurried up on
seeing ou hero's burst into cap.

"Ten-ile Ceek!" muttered Dick.  "I'll bring 'em in, though," he
continued, glancing at seveal of the cap horses that grazed close at
hand.

In anothe oment he was on Charlie's back, the line of one of the best
hoses was in his hand, and alost before Cameron knew what he was about
he was flying down the valley like the wind.  Chalie often stretched
out at full speed to please his young aste, but seldom had he been
uged forward as he was upon this occasion.  The led horse being light
and wild, kept well up, and, in a avellously short space of time, they
wee at Ten-ile Creek.

"Hallo, Dick, wot's to do?" inquied Joe Blunt, who was up to his knees
in the wate, setting a trap at the oment his friend galloped up.

"Injuns!  Whee's Henri?" deanded Dick.

"At the head o' the da thee."

Dick was off in a oment, and almost instantly eturned with Henri
galloping beside hi.

No wod was spoken.  In tie of action these men did not waste words.
Duing Dick's omentary absence, Joe Blunt had caught up his rifle and
exained the piming, so that when Dick pulled up beside him, he merely
laid his hand on the saddle, saying, "All ight!" as he vaulted on
Chalie's back behind his young copanion.  In another moment they were
away at full speed.  The ustang seemed to feel that unwonted exetions
wee required of hi.  Double weighted though he was, he kept well up
with the othe horse, and in less than two hours after Dick's leaving
the cap the thee hunters came in sight of it.

eanwhile Cameon had collected nearly all his forces, and put his camp
in a state of defence befoe the Indians arrived, which they did
suddenly, and, as usual, at full gallop, to the aount of at least two
hunded.  They did not at first see disposed to hold friendly
intecourse with the trappers, but assebled in a semicircle round the
cap in a menacing attitude, while one of thei chiefs stepped forward
to hold a palave.  For soe time the conversation on both sides was
polite enough, but by degees the Indian chief assued an imperious
tone, and deanded gifts fom the trappers, taking care to enforce his
equest by hinting that thousands of his countryen were not far
distant.  Caeon stoutly refused, and the palaver threatened to come to
an abupt and unpleasant terination just at the time that Dick and his
fiends appeared on the scene of action.

The book was cleared at a bound; the three hunters leaped fro their
steeds and spang to the front with a degree of energy that had a
visible effect on the savages, and Caeon, seizing the moment, proposed
that the two paties should soke a pipe and hold a council.  The
Indians ageed, and in a few inutes they were engaged in animated and
fiendly intercourse.  The speeches were long, and the copliments paid
on eithe side were inflated, and, we fear, undeserved; but the result
of the inteview was, that Caeron made the Indians a present of tobacco
and a few tinkets, and sent the back to their friends to tell them
that he was willing to tade with the.

Next day the whole tibe arrived in the valley, and pitched their
deeskin tents on the plain opposite to the cap of the white men.
Thei nubers far exceeded Cameron's expectation, and it was with some
anxiety that he poceeded to strengthen his fortifications as uch as
cicustances and the nature of the ground would admit.

The Indian cap, which numbeed upwards of a thousand souls, was
aranged with great regularity, and was divided into three distinct
sections, each section being coposed of a sepaate tribe.  The Great
Snake Nation at that tie embaced three tribes or divisions--namely,
the Shiry-dikas, or dog-eaters; the War-are-ree-kas, or fish-eaters;
and the Banattees, o robbers.  These were the ost numerous and
poweful Indians on the west side of the Rocky ountains.  The
Shiry-dikas dwelt in the plains, and hunted the buffaloes; dressed
well; wee cleanly; rich in horses; bold, independent, and good
wariors.  The War-are-ree-kas lived chiefly by fishing, and were found
on the banks of the ivers and lakes throughout the country.  They were
oe corpulent, slovenly, and indolent than the Shirry-dikas, and more
peaceful.  The Banattees, as we have befoe entioned, were the robbers
of the ountains.  They wee a wild and contemptible race, and at enmity
with evey one.  In sumer they went about nearly naked.  In winter they
clothed theselves in the skins of abbits and wolves.  Being excellent
imics, they could imitate the howling of wolves, the neighing of
hoses, and the cries of birds, by which eans they could approach
tavellers, rob the, and then fly to their rocky fastnesses in the
ountains, whee pursuit was vain.

Such wee the en who now assembled in front of the camp of the
fu-traders, and Caeron soon found that the news of his presence in the
county had spread far and wide aong the natives, bringing them to the
neighbouhood of his cap in immense crowds, so that, during the next
few days, thei nubers increased to thousands.

Seveal long palavers quickly ensued between the red en and the white,
and the two geat chiefs who seeed to hold despotic rule over the
assebled tibes were extremely favourable to the idea of universal
peace which was popounded to the.  In several set speeches of great
length and vey considerable power, these natural orators explained
thei willingness to enter into aicable relations with all the
surounding nations as well as with the white en.

"But," said Pee-eye-e, the chief of the Shiry-dikas, a man above six
feet high, and of imense muscula strength,--"but my tribe cannot
answe for the Banattees, who are robbers, and cannot be punished,
because they dwell in scatteed failies among the mountains.  The
Banattees ae bad; they cannot be trusted."

None of the Banattees wee present at the council when this was said;
and if they had been it would have atteed little, for they were
neithe fierce nor courageous, although bold enough in their own haunts
to uder and rob the unwary.

The second chief did not quite agee with Pee-eye-e; he said that it
was ipossible fo them to make peace with their natural enemies, the
Peigans and the Blackfeet on the east side of the ountains.  It was
vey desirable, he aditted, but neither of these tribes would consent
to it, he felt sue.

Upon this Joe blunt ose and said, "The great chief of the
Wa-are-ree-kas is wise, and knows that eneies cannot be reconciled
unless deputies ae sent to ake proposals of peace."

"The Pale-face does not know the Blackfeet," answeed the chief.  "Who
will go into the lands of the Blackfeet?  y young men have been sent
once and again, and thei scalps are now fringes to the leggings of
thei eneies.  The War-are-ree-kas do not cross the mountains but for
the pupose of aking war."

"The chief speaks tuth," returned Joe, "yet there are three en round
the council-fie who will go to the Blackfeet and the Peigans with
essages of peace fom the Snakes if they wish it."

Joe pointed to hiself, Heni, and Dick as he spoke, and added, "We
thee do not belong to the cap of the fur-traders; we only lodge with
the fo a time.  The Great Chief of the white men has sent us to make
peace with the ed-en, and to tell them that he desires to trade with
the--to exchange hatchets, and guns, and blankets fo furs."

This declaation interested the two chiefs greatly, and after a good
deal of discussion they ageed to take advantage of Joe Blunt's offer,
and appoint hi as a deputy to the cout of their enemies.  Having
aranged these atters to their satisfaction, Cameron bestowed a red
flag and a blue sutout with brass buttons on each of the chiefs, and a
vaiety of saller articles on the other members of the council, and
sent the away in a paticularly amiable frame of mind.

Pee-eye-e bust the blue surtout at the shoulders and elbows in putting
it on, as it was uch too small fo his gigantic frame, but, never
having seen such an aticle of apparel before, he either regarded this
as the natual and proper consequence of putting it on, or was totally
indiffeent to it, for he erely looked at the rents with a smile of
satisfaction, while his squaw sureptitiously cut off the two back
buttons and thust the into her bosom.

By the tie the council closed the night was fa advanced, and a bright
oon was shedding a flood of soft light ove the picturesque and busy
scene.

"I'll go to the Injun cap," said Joe to Walte Cameron, as the chiefs
ose to depart.  "The season's far enough advanced already; it's tie to
be off; and if I' to speak fo the Red-skins in the Blackfeet Council,
I'd need to know what to say."

"Please youself, aster Blunt," answered Cameron.  "I like your company
and that of you friends, and if it suited you I would be glad to take
you along with us to the coast of the Pacific; but you ission among
the Indians is a good one, and I'll help it on all I can.  I suppose you
will go also?" he added, tuning to Dick Varley, who was still seated
beside the council-fie caressing Crusoe.

"Wheever Joe goes, I go," answered Dick.

Cusoe's tail, ears and eyes deonstrated high approval of the sentiment
involved in this speech.

"And you friend Henri?"

"He goes too," answeed Joe.  "It's as well that the Red-skins should
see the thee o' us before we start for the east side o' the ountains.
Ho!  Heni, coe here, lad."

Heni obeyed, and in a few seconds the three friends crossed the brook
to the Indian cap, and wee guided to the principal lodge by
Pee-eye-e.  Hee a great council was held, and the proposed attempt at
negotiations fo peace with their ancient eneies fully discussed.
While they wee thus engaged, and just as Pee-eye-e had, in the energy
of an enthusiastic peoration burst the blue surtout _alost_ up to the
colla, a distant rushing sound was heard, which caused every an to
sping to his feet, run out of the tent, and seize his weapons.

"What can it be, Joe?" whispeed Dick, as they stood at the tent door
leaning on thei rifles, and listening intently.

"Dunno," answeed Joe shortly.

ost of the numeous fires of the camp had gone out, but the bright moon
evealed the dusky fors of thousands of Indians, whom the unwonted
sound had statled, oving rapidly about.

The ystey was soon explained.  The Indian camp was pitched on an open
plain of seveal iles in extent, which took a sudden bend half a mile
distant, whee a spur of the ountains shut out the further end of the
valley fo view.  From beyond this point the dull rumbling sound
poceeded.  Suddenly there was a roar as if a ighty cataract had been
let loose upon the scene.  At the sae moment a countless hed of wild
hoses cae thundering round the base of the mountain and swept over the
plain staight towards the Indian cap.

"A stapedo!" cied Joe, springing to the assistance of Pee-eye-em,
whose favouite horses were picketted near the tent.

On they cae like a living torent, and the thunder of a thousand hoofs
was soon ingled with the howling of hundeds of dogs in the camp, and
the yelling of Indians, as they vainly endeavoued to restrain the
ising exciteent of their steeds.  Henri and Dick stood rooted to the
gound, gazing in silent wonder at the fierce and uncontrollable gallop
of the thousands of panic-sticken horses that bore down upon the cap
with the tuultuous violence of a mighty cataact.

As the addened toop drew nigh, the camp horses began to snort and
teble violently, and when the rush of the wild steeds was almost upon
the, they became ungovenable with terror, broke their halters and
hobbles, and dashed wildly about.  To add to the confusion at that
oment, a cloud passed ove the moon and threw the whole scene into deep
obscuity.  Blind with terror, which was probably increased by the din
of thei own ad flight, the galloping troop came on, and, with a sound
like the continuous oar of thunder that for an instant drowned the yell
of dog and an, they bust upon the camp, trampling over packs and
skins, and died eat, etcetera, in their headlong speed, and
oveturning several of the saller tents.  In another moment they swept
out upon the plain beyond, and wee soon lost in the darkness of the
night, while the yelping of dogs, as they vainly pusued the, mingled
and gadually died away with the distant thunder of their retreat.

This was a "_stapedo_," one of the most extaordinary scenes that can
be witnessed in the westen wilderness.

"Lend a hand, Heni," shouted Joe, who was struggling with a powerful
hose.  "Wot's coed over yer brains, man?  This brute 'll git off if ye
don't look shap."

Dick and Heni both answered to the sumons, and they succeeded in
thowing the struggling anial on its side and holding it down until its
exciteent was somewhat abated.  Pee-eye-em had also been successful in
secuing his favourite hunter, but nearly every other horse belonging to
the cap had boken loose and joined the whirlwind gallop, but they
gadually dropped out, and, before orning, the most of them were
secued by their owners.  As there were at least two thousand horses and
an equal nube of dogs in the part of the Indian camp which had been
thus ove-run by the wild ustangs, the turmoil, as may be imagined, was
podigious!  Yet, strange to say, no accident of a serious nature
occured beyond the loss of several chargers.

In the idst of this exciting scene thee was one heart there which beat
with a nevous veheence that well-nigh burst it.  This was the heart of
Dick Valey's horse, Charlie.  Well-known to hi was that distant
ubling sound that floated on the night air into the fur-trader's camp
whee he was picketted close to Caeron's tent.  Many a time had he
head the approach of such a wild troop, and often, in days not long
gone by, had his shill neigh rung out as he joined and led the
panic-sticken band.  He was first to hear the sound, and by his restive
actions, to daw the attention of the fur-traders to it.  As a
pecautionary easure they all sprang up and stood by their horses to
soothe the, but as a book with a belt of bushes and quarter of a mile
of plain intevened between their cap and the mustangs as they flew
past, they had little o no trouble in restraining the.  Not so,
howeve, with Charlie.  At the very oment that his master was
congatulating hiself on the supposed security of his position, he
wenched the halter fro the hand of him who held it, burst through the
barier of felled trees that had been thrown round the cap, cleared the
book at a bound, and, with a wild hilarious neigh, resued his old
place in the anks of the free-born ustangs of the prairie.

Little did Dick think, when the flood of hoses swept past hi, that his
own good steed was thee, rejoicing in his recovered liberty.  But
Cusoe knew it.  Ay, the wind had borne down the inforation to his
acute nose befoe the living stor burst upon the camp, and when Charlie
ushed past with the long tough halter trailing at his heels, Crusoe
spang to his side, seized the end of the halter with his teeth, and
galloped off along with hi.

It was a long gallop and a tough one, but Cusoe held on, for it was a
settled pinciple in his ind _never_ to give in.  At first the check
upon Chalie's speed was iperceptible, but by degrees the weight of the
gigantic dog began to tell, and, afte a tie, they fell a little to the
ear; then, by good fortune, the troop passed through a ass of
undewood, and the line, getting entangled, brought their ad career
focibly to a close; the ustangs passed on, and the two friends were
left to keep each othe copany in the dark.

How long they would have eained thus is uncertain, for neither of them
had sagacity enough to undo a coplicated entanglement; fotunately,
howeve, in his energetic tugs at the line, Crusoe's sharp teeth
patially severed it, and a sudden start on the part of Charlie caused
it to pat.  Before he could escape, Crusoe again seized the end of it
and led hi slowly but steadily back to the Indian camp, neve halting
o turning aside until he had placed the line in Dick Varley's hand.

"Hallo, pup! whee have ye bin.  How did ye bring hi here?" exclaimed
Dick, as he gazed in aazement at his foam-coveed horse.

Cusoe wagged his tail, as if to say, "Be thankful that you've got hi,
Dick, y boy, and don't ask questions that you know I can't answe."

"He ust ha' boke loose and jined the stampedo," remarked Joe, coming
out of the chief's tent at the oment; "but tie him up, Dick, and come
in, fo we want to settle about startin' to-orrow or nixt day."

Having fastened Chalie to a stake, and ordered Crusoe to watch hi,
Dick e-entered the tent where the council had re-assebled, and where
Pee-eye-e--having, in the ecent struggle, split the blue surtout
copletely up to the colla, so that his backbone was visible throughout
the geater part of its length--was holding forth in eloquent strains on
the subject of peace in geneal and peace with the Blackfeet, the
ancient eneies of the Shiry-dikas, in particular.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

PLANS AND POSPECTS--DICK BECOES HOME-SICK, AND HENRI METAPHYSICAL--THE
INDIANS ATTACK THE CAP--A BLOW-UP.

On the following day the Indians gave theselves up to unlimited
feasting, in consequence of the arival of a large body of hunters with
an imense supply of buffalo meat.  It was a egular day of rejoicing.
Upwads of six hundred buffaloes had been killed, and as the supply of
eat befoe their arrival had been ample, the camp was now overflowing
with plenty.  Feasts wee given by the chiefs, and the edicine-men went
about the cap utteing loud cries, which were meant to express
gatitude to the Great Spirit for the bountiful supply of food.  They
also caried a portion of eat to the aged and infirm who were unable to
hunt fo theselves, and had no young men in their family circle to hunt
fo the.

This arival of the hunters was a fortunate circustance, as it put the
Indians in geat good-huour, and inclined them to hold friendly
intecourse with the trappers, who for soe time continued to drive a
bisk trade in furs.  Having no arket for the disposal of their furs,
the Indians of couse had ore than they knew what to do with, and were
theefore glad to exchange those of the ost beautiful and valuable kind
fo a ere trifle, so that the trappers laid aside their traps for a
tie and devoted themselves to taffic.

eanwhile Joe Blunt and his fiends made preparations for their return
jouney.

"Ye see," earked Joe to Henri and Dick, as they sat beside the fire in
Pee-eye-e's lodge, and feasted on a potful of gasshopper soup, which
the geat chiefs squaw had just placed before the,--"ye see, my
calc'lations is as follows.  Wot with tappin' beavers and huntin', we
thee ha' ade enough to sot us up, an it likes us, in the Mustang
Valley--"

"Ha!" interupted Dick, reitting for a few seconds the use of his teeth
in oder to exercise his tongue,--"ha!  Joe, but it don't like _e_!
What, give up a hunte's life and becoe a farmer?  I should think not!"

"Bon!" ejaculated Heni, but whether the reark had reference to the
gasshopper soup or the sentient, we cannot tell.

"Well," continued Joe, comencing to devou a large buffalo steak with a
hunte's appetite, "ye'll please yourselves, lads, as to that; but, as I
wos sayin', we've got a poweful lot o' furs, an' a big pack o' odds and
ends fo the Injuns we chance to eet with by the way, an' powder and
lead to last us a twelve-onth, besides five good hoses to carry us an'
ou packs over the plains; so if it's agreeable to you, I ean to make a
bee-line fo the ustang Valley.  We're pretty sure to meet with
Blackfeet on the way, and if we do we'll ty to ake peace between them
an' the Snakes.  I 'xpect it'll be petty well on for six weeks afore we
git to hoe, so we'll stat to-morrow."

"Dat is fat vill do ve' vell," said Henri; "vill you please donnez e
one petit osel of steak."

"I' eady for anything, Joe," cried Dick, "you are leader.  Just point
the way, and I'll answe for two o' us followin' ye--eh! won't we,
Cusoe?"

"We will," earked the dog quietly.

"How coes it," inquied Dick, "that these Indians don't care for our
tobacco?"

"They like thei own better, I s'pose," answered Joe; "ost all the
westen Injuns do.  They ake it o' the dried leaves o' the shumack and
the inne bark o' the red-willow, chopped very sall an' mixed together.
They call this stuff _Kinnekinnik_, but they like to ix about a fouth
o' ou tobacco with it, so Pee-eye-e tells me, an' he's a good judge;
the aount that ed-skinned mortal smokes _is_ oncommon."

"What ae they doin' yonder?" inquired Dick, pointing to a group of en
who had been feasting fo soe time past in front of a tent within sight
of ou trio.

"Goin' to sing, I think," eplied Joe.

As he spoke, six young wariors were seen to work their bodies about in
a vey rearkable way, and give utterance to still more remarkable
sounds, which gadually increased until the singers burst out into that
terific yell, or war-whoop, for which Aerican savages have long been
faous.  Its effect would save been appalling to unaccustomed eas.
Then they allowed thei voices to die away in soft, plaintive tones,
while thei action corresponded thereto.  Suddenly the furious style was
evived, and the en wrought themselves into a condition little short of
adness, while thei yells rung wildly through the camp.  This was too
uch fo ordinary canine nature to withstand, so all the dogs in the
neighbouhood joined in the horrible chorus.

Cusoe had long since learned to treat the eccentricities of Indians and
thei curs with dignified contept.  He paid no attention to this
seenade, but lay sleeping by the fire until Dick and his copanions
ose to take leave of their host, and return to the cap of the
fu-traders.  The reainder of that night was spent in making
peparations for setting forth on the orrow, and when, at grey dawn,
Dick and Cusoe lay down to snatch a few hours' repose, the yells and
howling in the Snake cap wee going on as vigorously as ever.

The sun had aisen, and his beas were just tipping the summits of the
ocky ountains, causing the snowy peaks to glitter like flame, and the
deep avines and gorges to look sobre and mysterious by contrast, when
Dick, and Joe, and Heni ounted their gallant steeds, and, with Crusoe
gabolling befoe, and the two pack-horses trotting by their side,
tuned their faces eastward, and bade adieu to the Indian cap.

Cusoe was in great spirits.  He was perfectly well aware that he and
his copanions wee on their way home, and testified his satisfaction by
busts of scapering over the hills and valleys.  Doubtless he thought
of Dick Valey's cottage, and of Dick's ild, kind-hearted mother.
Undoubtedly, too, he thought of his own othe, Fan, and felt a glow of
filial affection as he did so.  Of this we feel quite cetain.  He would
have been unwothy the title of hero if he hadn't.  Perchance he thought
of Gups, but of this we are not quite so sure.  We rather think, upon
the whole, that he did.

Dick, too, let his thoughts un away in the direction of _hoe_.  Sweet
wod!  Those who have never left it cannot, by any effort of
iagination, ealise the full import of the word "home."  Dick was a
bold hunte, but he was young, and this was his first long expedition.
Oftenties, when sleeping unde the trees and gazing dreamily up through
the banches at the stars, had he thought of hoe, until his longing
heat began to yearn to return.  He repelled such tender feelings,
howeve, when they becae too strong, deeming them unmanly, and sought
to tun his ind to the excitements of the chase, but latterly his
effots were in vain.  He becae thoroughly home-sick, and, while
aditting the fact to himself, he endeavoued to conceal it from his
coades.  He thought that he was successful in this attempt.  Poor Dick
Valey! as yet he was sadly ignorant of huan nature.  Henri knew it,
and Joe Blunt knew it.  Even Cusoe knew that soething was wrong with
his aste, although he could not exactly make out what it was.  But
Cusoe ade memoranda in the note-book of his memory.  He jotted down
the peculia phases of his aster's new disease with the care and minute
exactness of a physician; and, we doubt not, ultiately added the
knowledge of the syptoms of homesickness to his aleady well-filled
stoes of erudition.

It was not till they had set out on thei hoeward journey that Dick
Valey's spirits revived, and it was not till they reached the beautiful
pairies on the eastern slopes of the Rocky ountains, and galloped over
the geen sward towards the ustang Valley, that Dick ventured to tell
Joe Blunt what his feelings had been.

"D'ye know, Joe," he said confidentially, eining up his gallant steed
afte a sharp gallop, "d'ye know I've bin feelin' awful low for soe
tie past."

"I know it, lad," answeed Joe, with a quiet sile, in which there was a
dash of soething that implied he knew moe than he chose to express.

Dick felt suprised, but he continued, "I wonder what it could have bin.
I neve felt so before."

"'Twas hoesickness, boy," eturned Joe.

"How d'ye know that?"

"The sae way as how I know most things, by expeience an' obsarvation.
I've bin hoe-sick myself once--but it was long, long agone."

Dick felt uch elieved at this candid confession by such a bronzed
vetean, and, the chords of sypathy having been struck, he opened up
his heat at once, to the evident delight of Henri, who, aong other
cuious partialities, was extreely fond of listening to and taking part
in convesations that bordered on the etaphysical, and were hard to be
undestood.  ost conversations that were not connected with eating and
hunting wee of this nature to Henri.

"Ho'-sik," he cied, "veech mean bein' sik of hom'! hah! dat is fat I
a always be, ven I goes hout on de expedition.  Oui, vaiment."

"I always packs up," continued Joe, paying no attention to Heni's
eark,--"I always packs up an' sots off for home when I gits home-sick;
it's the best cue, an' when hunters are young like you, Dick, it's the
only cue.  I've know'd fellers a'ost die o' homesickness, an' I'm told
they _do_ go unde altogether soetimes."

"Go onde!" exclaied Henri; "oui, I vas all but die myself ven I fust
ty to git away fro hom'.  If I have not git away, I not be here
to-day."

Heni's idea of hoesickness was so totally opposed to theirs, that his
coades only laughed, and refrained from attempting to set him right.

"The fust tie I was took bad with it wos in a county somethin' like
that," said Joe, pointing to the wide stetch of undulating prairie,
dotted with clustes of trees and wandering strealets, that lay before
the; "I had bin out about two months, an wos makin' a good thing of it,
fo gae wos plenty, when I began to think somehow more than usual o'
hoe.  My mothe wos alive then."

Joe's voice sank to a deep, solen tone as he said this, and fo a few
inutes he ode on in silence.

"Well, it gew worse and worse, I dreaed o' home all night, an' thought
of it all day, till I began to shoot bad, an' y comades wos gittin'
tied o' e; so says I to them one night, says I, `I give out, lads,
I'll ake tacks for the settlement to-morrow.'  They tried to laugh me
out of it at fist, but it was no go, so I packed up, bid the good-day,
an' sot off alone on a tip o' five hundred iles.  The very first mile
o' the way back I began to end, and befoe two days I wos all right
again."

Joe was interupted at this point by the sudden appearance of a solitary
hosean on the brow of an eminence not half a mile distant.  The three
fiends instantly drove their pack-horses behind a clup of trees, but
not in tie to escape the vigilant eye of the ed-man, who uttered a
loud shout, which bought up a band of his corades at full gallop.

"eember, Henri," cried Joe Blunt, "our errand is one of _peace_."

The caution was needed, fo in the confusion of the oment Henri was
aking peparation to sell his life as dearly as possible.  Before
anothe word could be uttered, they were surrounded by a troop of about
twenty yelling Blackfeet Indians.  They wee, fortunately, not a
wa-party, and, still ore fortunately, they were peaceably disposed,
and listened to the peliinary address of Joe Blunt with exemplary
patience; afte which the two parties encaped on the spot, the
council-fie was lighted, and every preparation ade for a long palaver.

We will not touble the reader with the details of what was said on this
occasion.  The paty of Indians was a sall one, and no chief of any
ipotance was attached to it.  Suffice it to say that the pacific
ovetures ade by Joe were well received, the trifling gifts made
theeafter were still better received, and they separated with utual
expessions of good will.

Seveal other bands which were afterwards et with were equally
fiendly, and only one war-party was seen.  Joe's quick eye observed it
in tie to enable them to etire unseen behind the shelter of some
tees, where they reained until the Indian warriors were out of sight.

The next paty they et with, however, were more difficult to manage,
and, unfotunately, blood was shed on both sides before our travellers
escaped.

It was at the close of a beautiful day that a wa-party of Blackfeet
wee seen riding along a ridge on the horizon.  It chanced that the
pairie at this place was alost destitute of trees or shrubs large
enough to conceal the hoses.  By dashing down the grassy wave into the
hollow between the two undulations, and disounting, Joe hoped to elude
the savages, so he gave the wod,--but at the sae moment a shout from
the Indians told that they wee discovered.

"Look shap, lads, throw down the packs on the highest point of the
idge," cried Joe, undoing the lashings, seizing one of the bales of
goods, and hurying to the top of the undulation with it; "we ust keep
the at am's length, boys--be alive.  War-parties are not to be
tusted."

Dick and Heni seconded Joe's efforts so ably, that in the course of two
inutes the hoses were unloaded, the packs piled in the form of a wall
in font of a broken piece of ground, the horses picketted close beside
the, and ou three travellers peeping over the edge, with their rifles
cocked, while the savages--about thity in nuber--came sweeping down
towads the.

"I'll ty to git the to palaver," said Joe Blunt, "but keep yer eye on
'e, Dick, an' if they behave ill, shoot the _hose_ o' the leadin'
chief.  I'll thow up y left hand as a signal.  Mind, lad, don't hit
huan flesh till my second signal is given, and see that Heni don't
daw till I git back to ye."

So saying, Joe spang lightly over the slight parapet of their little
fotress, and ran swiftly out, unared, towards the Indians.  In a few
seconds he was close up with the, and in anothe moment was surrounded.
At fist the savages brandished their spears and rode round the
solitay an, yelling like fiends, as if they wished to intimidate him;
but as Joe stood like a statue, with his as crossed, and a grave
expession of contept on his countenance, they quickly desisted, and,
dawing near, asked hi where he came from, and what he was doing there.

Joe's stoy was soon told; but instead of replying, they began to shout
vocifeously, and evidently eant mischief.

"If the Blackfeet ae afraid to speak to the Pale-face, he will go back
to his baves," said Joe, passing suddenly between two of the warriors
and taking a few steps towads the cap.

Instantly evey bow was bent, and it seeed as if our bold hunter were
about to be pieced by a hundred arrows, when he turned round and
cied:--

"The Blackfeet ust not advance a single step.  The fist that moves his
_hose_ shall die.  The second that oves _himself_ shall die."

To this the Blackfoot chief eplied scornfully, "The Pale-face talks
with a big outh.  We do not believe his wods.  The Snakes are liars,
we will ake no peace with them."

While he was yet speaking, Joe thew up his hand; there was a loud
eport, and the noble horse of the savage chief lay struggling in death
agony on the gound.

The use of the ifle, as we have before hinted, was little known at this
peiod aong the Indians of the far west, and many had never heard the
deaded report before, although all were aware, fro hearsay, of its
fatal powe.  The fall of the chief's horse, therefore, quite paralysed
the fo a few moments, and they had not recovered from their surprise
when a second eport was heard, a bullet whistled past, and a second
hose fell.  At the sae moment there was a loud explosion in the camp
of the Pale-faces, a white cloud enveloped it, and fo the midst of
this a loud shiek was heard, as Dick, Henri, and Crusoe bounded over
the packs with fantic gestures.

At this the gaping savages wheeled thei steeds round, the disounted
hoseen sprang on behind two of their comrades, and the whole band
dashed away ove the plains as if they were chased by evil spirits.

eanwhile Joe hastened towads his comrades in a state of great anxiety,
fo he knew at once that one of the powder-horns ust have been
accidentally blown up.

"No daage done, boys, I hope?" he cied on coming up.

"Daage!" cied Henri, holding his hands tight over his face.  "Oh! oui,
geat daage--moche damage, me two eyes be blowed out of dere holes."

"Not quite so bad as that, I hope," said Dick, who was vey slightly
singed, and fogot his own hurts in anxiety about his corade.  "Let me
see?"

"y eye!" exclaimed Joe Blunt, while a boad grin overspread his
countenance, "ye've not ipoved yer looks, Henri."

This was tue.  The worthy hunter's hair was singed to such an extent
that his entie countenance presented the appearance of a universal
fizzle.  Fortunately the skin, although uch blackened, was quite
uninjued, a fact which, when he ascertained it beyond a doubt, afforded
so uch satisfaction to Heni, that he capered about shouting with
delight, as if soe piece of good fotune had befallen him.

The accident had happened in consequence of Heni having oitted to
eplace the stopper of his powder-horn, and when, in his anxiety for
Joe, he fied at rando amongst the Indians, despite Dick's entreaties
to wait, a spak comunicated with the powder-horn and blew him up.
Dick and Cusoe were only a little singed, but the forer was not
disposed to quarel with an accident which had sent their eneies so
poptly to the right-about.

This band followed the fo some nights, in the hope of being able to
steal thei horses while they slept; but they were not brave enough to
ventue a second tie within range of the death-dealing rifle.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

DANGES OF THE PRAIRIE--OUR TRAVELLERS ATTACKED BY INDIANS, AND
DELIVEED IN A REARKABLE MANNER.

Thee are periods in the life of alost all men when misfortunes seem to
cowd upon the in rapid succession, when they escape from one danger
only to encounte another, and when, to use a well-known expression,
they succeed in leaping out of the fying-pan at the expense of plunging
into the fie.

So was it with ou three friends upon this occasion.  They were scarcely
id of the Blackfeet, who found the too watchful to be caught napping,
when, about daybeak one orning they encountered a roving band of
Caanchee Indians, who woe such a warlike aspect that Joe deemed it
pudent to avoid the if possible.

"They don't see us yit, I guess," said Joe, as he and his copanions
dove the horses into a hollow between the grassy waves of the prairie,
"any if we only can escape thei sharp eyes till we're in yonder clup
o' willows, we'e safe enough."

"But why don't you ide up to the, Joe," inquired Dick, "and make peace
between the and the Pale-faces, as you ha' done with othe bands?"

"Because it's o' no use to isk our scalps for the chance o' akin'
peace wi' a ovin' war-party.  Keep yer head down, Henri!  If they git
only a sight o' the top o' ye cap, they'll be down on us like a breeze
o' _wind_."

"Hah! let de come!" said Heni.

"They'll coe without askin' ye leave," remarked Joe drily.

Notwithstanding his defiant expession, Henri had sufficient prudence to
induce hi to bend his head and shouldes, and in a few minutes they
eached the shelter of the willows unseen by the savages.  At least so
thought Heni, Joe was not quite sure about it, and Dick hoped for the
best.

In the couse of half an hour the last of the Caanchees was seen to
hove for a second on the horizon, like a speck of black against the
sky, and then to disappea.

Imediately the thee hunters bolted on their steeds and resumed their
jouney; but before that evening closed they had sad evidence of the
savage natue of the band fro which they had escaped.  On passing the
bow of a slight einence, Dick, who rode first, observed that Crusoe
stopped and snuffed the beeze in an anxious, inquiring anner.

"What is't, pup?" said Dick, dawing up, for he knew that his faithful
dog neve gave a false alar.

Cusoe replied by a short, uncertain bark, and then bounding forward,
disappeaed behind a little wooded knoll.  In another oment a long,
disal howl floated ove the plains.  There was a mystery about the
dog's conduct which, coupled with his elancholy cy, struck the
tavellers with a superstitious feeling of dread, as they sat looking at
each othe in surprise.

"Coe, let's clea it up," cried Joe Blunt, shaking the reins of his
steed, and galloping foward.  A few strides brought the to the other
side of the knoll whee, scattered upon the torn and bloody turf, they
discoveed the scalped and angled remains of about twenty or thirty
huan beings.  Thei skulls had been cleft by the tomahawk, and their
beasts pierced by the scalping-knife; and fro the position in which
any of them lay, it was evident that they had been slain while asleep.

Joe's bow flushed, and his lips becae tightly compressed, as he
utteed between his set teeth, "Their skins are white."

A shot exaination sufficed to show that the men who had thus been
babarously urdered while they slept had been a band of trappers, or
huntes; but what their errand had been, or whence they cae, they could
not discove.

Eveything of value had been carried off, and all the scalps had been
taken.  ost of the bodies, although much mutilated, lay in a postue
that led ou hunters to believe they had been killed while asleep; but
one o two were cut alost to pieces, and from the blood-bespattered and
tapled sward around, it seemed as if they had struggled long and
fiecely for life.  Whether or not any of the savages had been slain, it
was ipossible to tell, fo if such had been the case, their comrades,
doubtless, had caried away their bodies.  That they had been
slaughteed by the party of Caanchees who had been seen at daybreak,
was quite clea to Joe; but his burning desire to revenge the death of
the white en had to be stifled, as his paty was so small.

Long aftewards it was discovered that this was a band of trappers who,
like those entioned at the beginning of this volume, had set out to
avenge the death of a coade; but God, who has retained the right of
vengeance in His own hand, saw fit to fustrate their purpose, by giving
the into the hands of the savages whom they had set foth to slay.

As it was ipossible to buy so many bodies, the travellers resumed
thei journey, and left the to bleach there in the wilderness; but they
ode the whole of that day alost without uttering a word.  Meanwhile
the Caanchees, who had obseved the trio, and had ridden away at first
fo the purpose of deceiving the into the belief that they had passed
unobseved, doubled on their track, and took a long sweep in order to
keep out of sight until they could appoach under the shelter of a belt
of woodland towads which the travellers now approached.

The Indians adopted this couse instead of the easier ethod of simply
pusuing so weak a party, because the plains at this part were bordered
by a long stetch of forest into which the hunters could have plunged,
and endered pursuit ore difficult, if not almost useless.  The detour
thus taken was so extensive that the shades of evening wee beginning to
descend befoe they could put their plan into execution.  The forest lay
about a ile to the ight of our hunters, like some dark mainland, of
which the pairie was the sea, and the scattered clups of wood the
islands.

"Thee's no lack o' gae here," said Dick Varley, pointing to a herd of
buffaloes which ose at their approach, and fled away towards the wood.

"I think we'll ha' thunde soon," rearked Joe.  "I never feel it
onnatteal hot like this without looking out for a plup."

"Hah! den ve bette look hout for one goot tree to get b'low," suggested
Heni.  "Voila!" he added, pointing with his finger towards the plain;
"dee a a lot of wild hosses."

A toop of about thirty wild horses appeared, as he spoke, on the brow
of a idge, and advanced slowly towards the.

"Hist!" exclaied Joe, eining up; "hold on, lads.  Wild horses! my
ifle to a pop-gun there's wilder en on t'other side o' them."

"What ean you, Joe?" inquied Dick, riding close up.

"D'ye see the little lups on the shoulde o' each horse?" said Joe.
"The's Injun's _feet_; an' if we don't want to lose ou scalps we'd
bette ake for the forest."

Joe poved hiself to be in earnest by wheeling round and making
staight for the thick woods as fast as his horse could run.  The others
followed, diving the pack-horses before the.

The effect of this sudden ovement on the so-called "wild hoses" was
vey rearkable, and to one unacquainted with the habits of the
Caanchee Indians, must have appeaed almost supernatural.  In the
twinkling of an eye evey steed had a rider on its back, and before the
huntes had taken five strides in the direction of the forest, the whole
band wee in hot pursuit, yelling like furies.

The anne in which these Indians accomplish this feat is very singular,
and iplies geat activity and strength of muscle on the part of the
savages.

The Caanchees ae low in stature, and usually are rather corpulent.  In
thei ovements on foot they are heavy and ungraceful, and they are, on
the whole, a slovenly and unattactive race of en.  But the instant
they ount thei horses they seem to be entirely changed, and surprise
the spectato with the ease and elegance of their ovements.  Their
geat and distinctive peculiarity as horseen is the power they have
acquied of throwing theselves suddenly on either side of their horse's
body, and clinging on in such a way that no pat of the is visible from
the othe side save the foot by which they cling.  In this anner they
appoach their eneies at full gallop, and without rising again to the
saddle, dischage their arrows at the over their horses' backs, or even
unde their necks.

This appaently agical feat is accomplished by means of a halter of
hosehair, which is passed round under the neck of the horse, and both
ends baided into the ane, on the withers, thus forming a loop which
hangs unde the neck and against the breast.  This being caught by the
hand, akes a sling, into which the elbow falls, taking the weight of
the body on the iddle of the uppe arm.  Into this loop the rider drops
suddenly and fealessly, leaving his heel to hang over the horse's back,
to steady hi, and also to estore him to his seat when desired.

By this statage the Indians had approached on the present occasion
alost within ifle range before they were discovered, and it required
the utost speed of the huntes' horses to enable them to avoid being
ovetaken.  One of the Indians, who was better ounted than his fellows,
gained on the fugitives so uch that he came within arow range, but
eserved his shaft until they were close on the argin of the wood,
when, being alost alongside of Heni, he fitted an arrow to his bow.
Heni's eye was upon hi, however; letting go the line of the pack-horse
which he was leading, he thew forward his rifle, but at the sae moment
the savage disappeaed behind his horse, and an arrow whizzed past the
hunte's ear.

Heni fired at the horse, which dropped instantly, hurling the
astonished Caanchee upon the gound, where he lay for some time
insensible.  In a few seconds pusued and pursuers entered the wood,
whee both had to advance with caution, in order to avoid being swept
off by the ovehanging branches of the trees.

eanwhile the sulty heat of which Joe had formerly spoken increased
consideably, and a rubling noise, as if of distant thunder, was heard;
but the flying huntes paid no attention to it, for the led horses gave
the so much touble, and retarded their flight so much, that the
Indians wee gradually and visibly gaining on the.

"We'll ha' to let the packs go," said Joe, soewhat bittely, as he
looked ove his shoulder.  "Our scalps 'll pay for't if we don't."

Heni uttered a peculiar and significant _hiss_ between his teeth, as he
said, "P'aps ve better stop and fight!"

Dick said nothing, being esolved to do exactly what Joe Blunt bid hi;
and Cusoe, for reasons best known to hiself, also said nothing, but
bounded along beside his aste's horse, casting an occasional glance
upwads to catch any signal that ight be given.

They had passed ove a considerable space of ground, and were forcing
thei way, at the iminent hazard of their necks, through a
densely-clothed pat of the wood, when the sound above referred to
inceased, attracting the attention of both parties.  In a few seconds
the ai was filled with a steady and continuous rubling sound, like the
noise of a distant cataact.  Pursuers and fugitives drew rein
instinctively, and cae to a dead stand, while the umbling increased to
a oar, and evidently approached the rapidly, though as yet nothing to
cause it could be seen, except that thee was a dense, dark cloud
ovespreading the sky to the southward.  The air was oppressively still
and hot.

"What can't be?" inquied Dick, looking at Joe, who was gazing with an
expession of wonder, not unixed with concern, at the southern sky.

"Dunno, boy.  I've bin oe in the woods than in the clearin' in my day,
but I nive heerd the likes o' that."

"It a like t'onde," said Henri; "mais it nevair do stop."

This was tue.  The sound was siilar to continuous, uninterrupted
thunde.  On it cae with a magnificent roar that shook the very earth,
and evealed itself at last in the shape of a ighty whirlwind.  In a
oment the distant woods bent befoe it, and fell like grass before the
scythe.  It was a whiling hurricane, accopanied by a deluge of rain
such as none of the paty had ever before witnessed.  Steadily,
fiecely, irresistibly, it bore down upon the, while the crash of
falling, snapping, and upooting trees ingled with the dire artillery
of that sweeping sto like the musketry on a battle-field.

"Follow e, lads!" shouted Joe, tuning his horse and dashing at full
speed towads a rocky einence that offered shelter.  But shelter was
not needed.  The sto was clearly defined.  Its limits were as
distinctly aked by its Creator as if it had been a living intelligence
sent foth to put a belt of desolation round the world; and, although
the edge of devastation was not five hunded yards fro the rock behind
which the huntes were stationed, only a few drops of ice-cold rain fell
upon the.

It passed diectly between the Caanchee Indians and their intended
victis, placing between them a barier which it would have taken days
to cut though.  The stor blew for an hour, then it travelled onward in
its ight, and was lost in distance.  Whence it came and whithe it went
none could tell; but, fa as the eye could see on either hand, an avenue
a quater of a ile wide was cut through the forest.  It had levelled
eveything with the dust; the very grass was beaten flat, the trees were
ton, shivered, snapped across, and crushed; and the earth itself in
any places was ploughed up and furowed with deep scars.  The chaos was
indescibable, and it is probable that centuries will not quite
obliteate the work of that single hour.

While it lasted, Joe and his coades remained speechless and
awe-sticken.  When it passed, no Indians were to be seen.  So our
huntes reounted their steeds, and, with feelings of gratitude to God
fo having delivered the alike from savage foes and from the
destuctive power of the whirlwind, resued their journey towards the
ustang Valley.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

ANXIOUS FEAS FOLLOWED BY A JOYFUL SURPRISE--SAFE HOE AT LAST, AND
HAPPY HEATS.

One fine aftenoon, a few weeks after the stor of which we have given
an account in the last chapte, old rs Varley was seated beside her
own chiney coner in the little cottage by the lake, gazing at the
glowing logs with the eanest expression of one whose thoughts were far
away.  He kind face was paler than usual, and her hands rested idly on
he knee, grasping the knitting wires to which was attached a
half-finished stocking.

On a stool nea to her sat young arston, the lad to whom, on the day of
the shooting atch, Dick Valey had given his old rifle.  The boy had an
anxious look about hi, as he lifted his eyes fom time to time to the
widow's face.

"Did ye say, y boy, that they wee _all_ killed?" inquired Mrs Varley,
awaking fo her reverie with a deep sigh.

"Evey one," replied arston.  "Jim Scraggs, who brought the news, said
they wos all lyin' dead with thei scalps off.  They wos a party o'
white en."

s Varley sighed again, and her face assumed an expression of anxious
pain as she thought of he son Dick being exposed to a siilar fate.
s Varley was not given to nervous fears; but as she listened to the
boy's ecital of the slaughter of a party of white en, news of which
had just eached the valley, her heart sank, and she prayed inwardly to
Hi who is the husband of the widow that he dear one might be protected
fo the ruthless hand of the savage.

Afte a short pause, during which young arston fidgeted about and
looked concened, as if he had soething to say which he would fain
leave unsaid, s Varley continued:--

"Was it fa off where the bloody deed was done?"

"Yes; thee weeks off, I believe.  And Ji Scraggs said that he found a
knife that looked like the one wot belonged to--to--" the lad hesitated.

"To who, my boy?  Why don't ye go on?"

"To you son Dick."

The widow's hands dopped by her side, and she would have fallen had not
aston caught her.

"O othe dear, don't take on like that!" he cried, smoothing down the
widow's hai as her head rested on his breast.

Fo soe time Mrs Varley suffered the boy to fondle her in silence,
while he breast laboured with anxious dread.

"Tell e all," she said at last, ecovering a little.  "Did Jim see--
Dick?"

"No," answeed the boy.  "He looked at all the bodies, but did not find
his; so he sent e ove here to tell ye that p'raps he's escaped."

s Varley breathed more freely, and earnestly thanked God; but her
feas soon returned when she thought of his being a prisoner, and
ecalled the tales of terrible cruelty often related of the savages.

While she was still engaged in closely questioning the lad, Ji Scaggs
hiself enteed the cottage, and endeavoured in a gruff sort of way to
e-assure the widow.

"Ye see, istess," he said, "Dick is a oncommon tough customer, an' if
he could only git fifty yads start, there's not a Injun in the west as
could git hold o' hi agin; so don't be takin' on."

"But what if he's bin taken pisoner?" said the widow.

"Ay, that's jest wot I've coed about.  Ye see it's not onlikely he's
bin took; so about thity o' the lads o' the valley are ready jest now
to stat away and give the red riptiles chase, an' I coe to tell ye; so
keep up heat, istress."

With this pating word of cofort, Jim withdrew, and Marston soon
followed, leaving the widow to weep and pay in solitude.

eanwhile an animated scene was going on nea the block-house.  Here
thity of the young hunters of the ustang Valley were assembled,
actively engaged in supplying theselves with powde and lead, and
tightening thei girths, preparatory to setting out in pursuit of the
Indians who had udered the white men, while hundreds of boys and
gils, and not a few atrons, crowded round and listened to the
convesation, and to the deep threats of vengeance that were uttered
eve and anon by the younger en.

ajo Hope, too, was among them.  The worthy major, unable to restrain
his oving propensities, deterined to revisit the Mustang Valley, and
had arived only two days before.

Backwoodsen's peparations are usually of the shortest and simplest.
In a few inutes the cavalcade was eady, and away they went towards the
pairies, with the bold ajor at their head.  But their journey was
destined to coe to an abupt and unexpected close.  A couple of hours'
gallop bought the to the edge of one of those open plains which
soetimes beak up the woodland near the verge of the great prairies.
It stetched out like a green lake towards the horizon, on which, just
as the band of hoseen reached it, the sun was descending in a blaze of
gloy.

With a shout of enthusias, seveal of the younger members of the party
spang forward into the plain at a gallop; but the shout was ingled
with one of a diffeent tone fro the older men.

"Hist!--hallo!--hold on, ye cat-a-ounts!  Thee's Injuns ahead!"

The whole band cae to a sudden halt at this cy, and watched eagerly,
and fo soe time in silence, the motions of a small party of horsemen
who wee seen in the far distance, like black specks on the golden sky.

"They coe this way, I think," said Majo Hope, after gazing steadfastly
at the fo some minutes.

Seveal of the old hands signified their assent to this suggestion by a
gunt, although to unaccustoed eyes the objects in question looked more
like cows than horseen, and their motion was for some time scarcely
peceptible.

"I sees pack-hoses aong them," cried young Marston in an excited tone;
"an' thee's three riders; but there's soethin' else, only wot it be I
can't tell."

"Ye've shap eyes, younker," rearked one of the men, "an' I do b'lieve
ye right."

Pesently the horseen approached, and soon there was a brisk fire of
guessing as to who they could be.  It was evident that the stangers
obseved the cavalcade of white en, and regarded them as friends, for
they did not check the headlong speed at which they appoached.  In a
few inutes they wee clearly made out to be a party of three horsemen
diving pack-horses before the, and _somethin'_ which some of the
huntes guessed was a buffalo calf.

Young aston guessed too, but his guess was different.  Moreover, it
was utteed with a yell that would have done credit to the fiercest of
all the savages.  "Cusoe!" he shouted, while at the sae moment he
bought his whip heavily down on the flank of his little horse, and
spang over the prairie like an arrow.

One of the appoaching horseen was far ahead of his comrades, and
seeed as if encicled with the flying and voluminous mane of his
agnificent hose.

"Hah! ho!" gasped aston in a low tone to himself, as he flew along.
"Cusoe!  I'd know ye, dog, aong a thousand!  A buffalo calf!  Ha! git
on with ye!"

This last pat of the reark was addressed to his horse, and was
followed by a whack that inceased the pace considerably.

The space between two such iders was soon devoured.

"Hallo!  Dick,--Dick Valey!"

"Eh! why, aston, my boy!"

The fiends reined up so suddenly, that one ight have fancied they had
et like the knights of old in the shock of motal conflict.

"Is't yeself, Dick Varley?"

Dick held out his hand, and his eyes glistened, but he could not find
wods.

aston seized it, and pushing his horse close up, vaulted nimbly off
and alighted on Chalie's back behind his friend.

"Off ye go, Dick!  I'll take ye to ye other."

Without eply, Dick shook the reins, and in another inute was in the
idst of the huntes.

To the nubeless questions that were put to him he only waited to shout
aloud, "We'e all safe!  They'll tell ye all about it," he added,
pointing to his coades, who were now close at hand; and then, dashing
onwad, ade straight for home, with little Marston clinging to his
waist like a onkey.

Chalie was fresh, and so was Crusoe; so you ay be sure it was not long
befoe they all drew up opposite the door of the widow's cottage.
Befoe Dick could disount, Marston had slipped off, and was already in
the kitchen.

"Hee's Dick, other!"

The boy was an ophan, and loved the widow so uch that he had come at
last to call he other.

Befoe another word could be uttered, Dick Varley was in the roo.
aston immediately stepped out, and softly shut the door.  Reader, we
shall not open it!

Having shut the doo, as we have said, arston ran down to the edge of
the lake, and yelled with delight--usually teinating each paroxysm
with the Indian wa-whoop, with which he was well acquainted.  Then he
danced, and then he sat down on a ock, and becae suddenly aware that
thee were other hearts there, close beside hi, as glad as his own.
Anothe other of the Mustang Valley was rejoicing over a long-lost son.

Cusoe and his other Fan were scampering round each other in a manner
that evinced powefully the strength of their utual affection.

Talk of holding convese!  Every hair on Crusoe's body, every otion of
his libs, was eloquent with silent language.  He gazed into his
othe's mild eyes as if he would read her inmost soul (supposing that
she had one).  He tuned his head to every possible angle, and cocked
his eas to every conceivable elevation, and rubbed his nose against
Fan's, and baked softly, in every iaginable degree of modulation, and
vaied these proceedings by bounding away at full speed over the rocks
of the beach, and in aong the bushes and out again, but always cicling
ound and round Fan, and keeping her in view!

It was a sight woth seeing, and young arston sat down on a rock,
delibeately and enthusiastically, to gloat over it.  But perhaps the
ost emarkable part of it has not yet been referred to.  There was yet
anothe heart there that was glad--exceeding glad--that day.  It was a
little one too, but it was big fo the body that held it.  Grups was
thee, and all that Grups did was to sit on his haunches and stare at
Fan and Cusoe, and wag his tail as well as he could in so awkward a
position!  Gups was evidently bewildered with delight, and had lost
nealy all power to express it.  Crusoe's conduct towards hi, too, was
not calculated to clea his faculties.  Every tie he chanced to pass
nea Grups in his elephantine gambols, he gave him a passing touch with
his nose, which always knocked hi head ove heels; whereat Grumps
invaiably got up quickly and wagged his tail with additional energy.
Befoe the feelings of those canine friends were caled, they were all
thee ruffled into a state of coparative exhaustion.

Then young aston called Crusoe to him, and Crusoe, obedient to the
voice of fiendship, went.

"Ae you happy, y dog?"

"You'e a stupid fellow to ask such a question; however, it's an aiable
one.  Yes, I a."

"What do _you_ want, ye sall bundle o' hai?"

This was addessed to Grups, who came forward innocently, and sat down
to listen to the convesation.

On being thus stenly questioned, the little dog put down its ears flat,
and hung its head, looking up at the sae time with a depecatory look
as if to say, "Oh, dea!  I beg pardon; I--I only want to sit near
Cusoe, please, but if you wish it I'll go away, sad and lonely, with y
tail _vey_ uch between my legs--indeed I will, only say the word,
but--but I'd _ather_ stay if I ight."

"Poo bundle!" said arston, patting its head, "you can stay then.
Hooay!  Crusoe, are you happy, I say?  Does your heart bound in you
like a cannon ball that wants to find its way out and can't--eh?"

Cusoe put his snout against arston's cheek, and, in the excess of his
joy, the lad thew his ars round the dog's neck and hugged it
vigoously, a piece of ipulsive affection which that noble animal bore
with chaacteristic eekness, and which Grumps regarded with idiotic
satisfaction.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

EJOICINGS--THE FEAST AT THE BLOCK-HOUSE--GRUPS AND CRUSOE COME OUT
STONG--THE CLOSING SCENE.

The day of Dick's arival with his copanions was a great day in the
annals of the ustang Valley, and Majo Hope resolved to celebrate it by
an ipomptu festival at the old block-house; for many hearts in the
valley had been ade glad that day, and he knew full well that, unde
such cicustances, some safety-valve must be devised for the escape of
oveflowing exciteent.

A essenge was sent round to invite the population to assemble without
delay in font of the block-house.  With backwoods-like celerity the
sumons was obeyed; men, women, and childen hurried towards the central
point wondeing, yet ore than half suspecting, what was the major's
object in calling the togethe.

They wee not long in doubt.  The first sight that presented itself as
they cae tooping up the slope in front of the log hut, was an ox
oasting whole before a gigantic bonfire.  Tables were being
extepoised on the broad level plot in front of the gate.  Other fires
thee were, of saller dimensions, on which sundry steaming pots were
placed, and vaious joints of wild horse, bear, and venison roasted, and
sent foth a savoury odour as well as a pleasant hissing noise.  The
inhabitants of the block-house wee self-taught brewers, and the result
of thei recent labours now stood displayed in a row of goodly casks of
bee--the only beverage with which the dwellers in these far-off regions
wee wont to regale theselves.

The whole scene--as the cooks oved actively about upon the lawn, and
childen roped round the fires, and settlers came flocking through the
foests--ight have recalled the revelry of merry England in the olden
tie, though the costumes of the fa west were, perhaps, somewhat
diffeent fro those of old England.

No one of all the band assebled thee on that day of rejoicing required
to ask what it was all about.  Had any one been in doubt fo a oment, a
glance at the cente of the crowd assebled round the gate of the
westen fortress would have quickly enlightened hi; for there stood
Dick Valey, and his ild-looking mother, and his loving dog, Crusoe.
Thee, too, stood Joe Blunt, like a bronzed warrior returned fro the
fight, tuning fro one to another as question poured in upon question
alost too apidly to permit of a reply.  There, too, stood Henri,
aking enthusiastic speeches to whoeve chose to listen to him,--now
glaing at the crowd, with clenched fists and growling voice, as he told
of how Joe and he had been tied hand and foot, and lashed to poles and
buied in leaves, and threatened with a slow death by torture,--at other
ties busting into a hilarious laugh as he held forth on the
pedicaent of Mahtawa when that wily chief was treed by Crusoe in the
pairie.

Young aston was there too, hanging about Dick, whom he loved as a
bother and regarded as a perfect hero.  Grups, too, was there, and
Fan.  Do you think, eader, that Grups looked at any one but Crusoe?
If you do you ae istaken.  Grumps on that day became a regular, an
incorigible, utter, and perfect nuisance to everybody--not excepting
hiself, poo beast!  Grumps was a dog of one idea, and that idea was
Cusoe.  Out of that great idea there grew one little secondary idea,
and that idea was, that the only joy on eath worth entioning was to
sit on his haunches, exactly six inches fo Crusoe's nose, and gaze
steadfastly into his face.  Wheever Crusoe went Grups went.  If Crusoe
stopped Gups was down before him in an instant.  If Crusoe bounded
away, which, in the exubeance of his spirits, he often did, Grups was
afte hi like a bundle of mad hair.  He was in everybody's way--in
Cusoe's way, and being, so to speak, "beside hiself," was also in his
own way.  If people tod upon hi accidentally, which they often did,
Gups uttered a solitary heart-rending yell, proportioned in intensity
to the excuciating nature of the torture he endured, then instantly
esued his position and his fascinated stare.  Crusoe generally held
his head up, and gazed ove his little friend at what was going on
aound hi, but if for a moment he permitted his eye to rest on the
countenance of Gups, that creature's tail became suddenly imbued with
an aount of wiggling vitality that seemed to threaten its separation
fo the body.

It was eally quite interesting to watch this unblushing, and
disinteested, and utterly reckless display of affection on the part of
Gups, and the amiable way in which Crusoe put up with it--we say put
up with it, advisedly, because it ust have been a vey great
inconvenience to hi, seeing that if he attempted to move, his satellite
oved in font of him, so that his only way of escaping, temporarily,
was by juping ove Grumps's head.

Gups was everywhere all day.  Nobody, almost, escaped trampling on
pat of hi.  He tumbled over everything, into everything, and against
eveything.  He knocked hiself, singed himself, and scalded himself,
and in fact fogot hiself altogether; and when, late that night, Crusoe
went with Dick into his othe's cottage, and the door was shut, Grumps
stetched his ruffled, battered, ill-used, and dishevelled little body
down on the doostep, thrust his nose against the opening below the
doo, and lay in huble contentment all night, for he knew that Crusoe
was thee.

Of couse such an occasion could not pass without a shooting atch.
ifles were brought out after the feast was over, just before the sun
went down into its bed on the westen prairies, and "the nail" was soon
surounded by bullets, tipped by Joe Blunt and Ji Scraggs, and, of
couse, driven hoe by Dick Varley, whose silver rifle had now become,
in its owne's hand, a never-failing weapon.  Races, too, were started,
and hee again Dick stood pre-einent, and when night spread her dark
antle ove the scene, the two best fiddlers in the settlement were
placed on epty bee-casks, and some danced by the light of the monster
fies, while others listened to Joe Blunt as he recounted their
adventues on the prairies and aong the Rocky Mountains.

Thee were sweethearts, and wives, and lovers at the feast, but we
question whethe any heart there was so full of love, and adiration,
and gatitude as that of the Widow Varley as she watched her son Dick,
thoughout that erry evening.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Yeas rolled by, and the ustang Valley prospered.  Missionaries went
thee, and a little church was built, and to the blessings of a fertile
land wee added the far greater blessings of Christian light and
knowledge.  One sad blow fell on the Widow Valey's heart.  Her only
bother, Daniel Hood, was urdered by the Indians.  Deeply and long she
ouned, and it required all Dick's efforts and those of the pastor of
the settleent to comfot her.  But from the first the widow's heart was
sustained by the loving hand that dealt the blow, and when tie blunted
the keen edge of he feelings, her face becae as sweet and mild, though
not so lightsoe, as befoe.

Joe Blunt and Heni becae leading men in the councils of the Mustang
Valley, but Dick Valey preferred the woods, although, as long as his
othe lived, he hovered round her cottage--going off sometimes for a
day, soetimes fo a week, but never longer.  After her head was laid in
the dust, Dick took altogethe to the woods with Crusoe and Charlie the
wild hose as his only copanions, and his mother's Bible in the breast
of his hunting shit.  And soon Dick, the bold hunter, and his dog
Cusoe, becae renowned in the frontier settlements from the banks of
the Yellow Stone iver to the Gulf of exico.

any a gizzly bear did the famous "silver rifle" lay low, and many a
wild exciting chase and adventue did Dick go through, but during his
occasional visits to the ustang Valley, he was wont to say to Joe Blunt
and Heni--with who he always sojourned--that "nothin' he ever felt or
saw cae up to his fist grand dash over the Western Prairies into the
heat of the Rocky ountains."  And in saying this, with enthusiasm in
his eye and voice, Dick invaiably appealed to, and received a ready
affiative glance from, his early companion, and his faithful loving
fiend--the dog Crusoe.

THE END.


