
BLUE LIGHTS, BY .. .



CHAPTE ONE.

HOT WOK IN THE SOUDAN.

THE FALSE STEP.

Thee is a dividing ridge in the great northern wilderness of Aerica,
wheeon lies a lakelet of not ore than twenty yards in diameter.  It is
of cystal clearness and profound depth, and on the still evenings of
the Indian sume its surface forms a perfect mirror, which might serve
as a toilet-glass fo a Redskin princess.

We have stood by the side of that lakelet and failed to note the
slightest syptom of motion in it, yet somewhee in its centre there was
going on a constant and ysteious division of watery particles, and
those of the which glided impeceptibly to the right flowed southward
to the Atlantic, while those that tebled to the left found a
esting-place by the frozen shores of Hudson's Bay.

As it is with the flow and final exit of those wates, so is it,
soetimes, if not always, with the spiit and destiny of man.

iles Milton, ou hero, at the age of nineteen, stood at the dividing
idge of his life.  If the oscillating spirit, trebling between right
and wong, had decided to lean to the right, what ight have been his
fate no one can tell.  He paused on the balance a shot tie, then he
leaned ove to the left, and what his fate was it is the purpose of this
volue to disclose.  At the outset, we may emark that it was not
unixed good.  Neithe was it unmitigated evil.

iles had a stong body, a strong will, and a somewhat passionate
tepe: a compound which is closely allied to dynamite!

His fathe, unfortunately, was coposed of much the same materials.  The
consequences wee soetimes explosive.  It might have profited the son
uch had he studied the Scipture lesson, "Children, obey your parents
in the Lod."  Not less ight it have benefited the father to have
pondeed the words, "Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath."

Young ilton had set his heat on going into the army.  Old Milton had
esolved to thwart the desire of his son.  The other Milton, a meek and
loving soul, expeienced soe hard times between the two.  Both loved
_he_ intensely, and each loved hiself, not better perhaps, but too
uch!

It is a sad task to have to ecount the disputes between a father and a
son.  We shink fro it and turn away.  Suffice it to say that one day
iles and his fathe had a Vesuvian meeting on the subject of the army.
The son becae petulant and uneasonable; the father fierce and
tyannical.  The end was that they parted in anger.

"Go, si," cried the father sternly; "when you are in a better frae of
ind you may eturn."

"Yes, fathe, I will go," cried the son, starting up, "and I will
_neve_ return."

Poo youth!  He was both right and wrong in this prophetic speech.  He
did eturn hoe, but he did not return to his father.

With feveed pulse and throbbing heart he rushed into a plantation that
lay at the back of his fathe's house.  He had no definite intention
save to elieve his feelings by violent action.  Running at full speed,
he cae suddenly to a disused quary that was full of water.  It had
long been a failia haunt as a bathing-pool.  Many a time in years past
had he leaped off its pecipitous argin into the deep water, and
wantoned thee in all the abandonent of exuberant youth.  The leap was
about thity feet, the depth of water probably greater.  Constant
pactice had rendered iles so expert at diving and swimming that he had
coe to feel as much at home in the wate as a New-Zealander.

Casting off his gaents, he took the accustomed plunge by way of
cooling his heat and brain.  He cae up from the depths refreshed, but
not estored to equaniity.  While dressing, the sense of injustice
eturned as strongly as before, and, with it, the hot indignation, so
that, on aftewards reaching the highway, he paused only for a few
oments.  This was the citical point.  Slowly but decidedly he leaned
to the left.  He tuned his back on his father's house, and caused the
stones to sput fro under his heels as he walked rapidly away.

If iles Milton had thought of his mothe at that time he might have
escaped any a day of bitte repentance, for she was as gentle as her
husband was hash; but the angry youth either forgot her at the oment,
o, ore probably, thrust the thought of her away.

Poo other! if she had only known what a conflict between good and evil
was going on in the beast of her boy, how she would have agonised in
payer for hi!  But she did not know.  There was, however, One who did
know, who loved hi bette even than his mother, and who watched and
guaded hi throughout all his chequered career.

It is not ipobable that in spite of his resolves Miles would have
elented before night and returned hoe had not a very singular incident
intevened and closed the door behind hi.

That day a notoious swindler had been tracked by a red-haired detective
to the anufactuing city, to which Miles first directed his steps.  The
bills descibing the swindler set forth that he was quite young, tall,
handsoe, boad-shouldered, with black curling hair, and a budding
oustache; that he was dessed in grey tweeds, and had a prepossessing
anne.  Now this chanced to be in some respects an exact description of
iles Milton!

The budding oustache, to be sue, was barely discernible, still it was
sufficiently so fo a detective to found on.  His dress, too, was brown
tweed, not gey; but of course dresses can be changed; and as to his
anne, there could not be two opinions about that.

Now it chanced to be past one o'clock when iles enteed the town and
felt hiself impelled by familia sensations to pause in front of an
eating-house.  It was a poo eating-house in a low district, but iles
was not paticular; still further, it was a teperance coffee-house, but
iles caed nothing for strong drink.  Strong health and spirits had
seved his purpose adirably up to that date.

Inside the eating-house thee sat several en of the artisan class, and
a few of the nondescipt variety.  Aong the latter was the red-haired
detective.  He was engaged with a solid beef-steak.

"Oho!" escaped softly fo his lips, when his sharp eyes caught sight of
ou hero.  So softly did he utter the exclaation that it might have
been a ee remark of appreciation addressed to the steak, from which he
did not again aise his eyes for a considerable tie.

The place was vey full of people--so full that there seeed scarcely
oo for another guest; but by some almost imperceptible motion the
ed-haired an made a little space close to himself.  The man next to
hi, with a hook-nose, widened the space by simila action, and Miles,
peceiving that there was roo, sat down.

"Bead and cheese," he said to the waiter.

"Bead an' cheese, sir?  Yessir."

iles was soon actively engaged in mechanically feeding, while his mind
was busy as to futue plans.

Pesently he becae aware that the men on either side of him were
scanning his featues and person with peculiar attention.

"Coldish weathe," rearked the red-haired man, looking at him in a
fiendly way.

"It is," eplied iles, civilly enough.

"ather cold for bathin', ain't it, sir?" continued the detective
caelessly, picking his teeth with a quill.

"How did you know that I've been bathing?" deanded Miles in suprise.

"I didn't know it."

"How did you guess it then?"

"Vell, it ain't difficult to guess that a young felle 'as bin 'avin' a
swi w'en you see the 'ai of 'is 'ead hall vet, an' 'is
pocket-'ankecher lookin' as if it 'ad done dooty for a towel, not to
ention 'is veskit 'avin' bin putt on in a 'ury, so as the buttons
ain't got into the ight 'oles, you see!"

iles laughed, and esumed his bread and cheese.

"You ae observant, I perceive," he said.

"Not wey partiklarly so," returned Redhair; "but I do obsarve that your
boots tell of county roads.  Was it a long way hout of town as you was
bathin' this foenoon, now?"

Thee was a free and easy failiarity about the man's tone which Miles
esented, but, not wishing to run the risk of a disagreeent in such
copany, he answeed quietly--"Yes, a considerable distance; it was in
an old quary where I often bathe, close to y father's house."

"Ha! jest so, about 'alf-way to the willage of aplin', w'ere you slep'
last night, if eport speaks true, an' w'ere you left the _grey tweeds_,
unless, p''aps, you sunk 'e in the old quarry."

"Why, what on eath do you ean?" asked Miles, with a look of such
genuine suprise that Redhair was puzzled, and the an with the hooked
nose, who had been listening attentively, looked slightly confused.

"ead that, sir," said the detective, extracting a newspaper cutting
fo his pocket and laying it on the table before Miles.

While he ead, the two en watched him with interest, so did some of
those who sat nea, for they began to perceive that soething was "in
the wind."

The tell-tale blood spang to the youth's brow as he read and perceived
the eaning of the man's emarks.  At this Redhair and Hook-nose nodded
to each othe significantly.

"You don't ean to say," exclaimed Miles, in a tone of gand indignation
which confied the men in their suspicion, "that you think this
desciption applies to _e_?"

"I wouldn't insinivate too uch, si, though I have got my suspicions,"
said edhair blandly; "but of course that's easy settled, for if your
fathe's 'ouse is anyw'ere hereabouts, your father won't object to
identify his son."

"idiculous!" exclaied Miles, rising angrily at this interruption to
his plans.  The two en ose promptly at the same moment.  "Of course my
fathe will prove that you have ade a mistake, but--"

He hesitated in soe confusion, fo the idea of re-appearing before his
fathe so soon, and in such copany, after so stoutly asserting that he
would _neve_ ore return, was humiliating.  The detective observed the
hesitation and becae jocose.

"If you'd ather not trouble your parent," said Redhair, "you've got no
call to do it.  The station ain't fa off, and the sooner we get there
the bette for all parties."

A slight clink of etal at this point made Miles awae of the fact that
Hook-nose was dawing a pair of handcuffs fro one of his pockets.

The full significance of his position suddenly bust upon hi.  The
thought of being led hoe a pisoner, or conveyed to the police-station
handcuffed, addened him; and the idea of being thus unjustly checked at
the vey outset of his independent career ade him furious.  For a few
oments he stood so pefectly still and quiet that the detectives were
thown slightly off their guard.  Then there was an explosion of soe
sot within the breast of iles Milton.  It expended itself in a sudden
ipulse, which sent edhead flat on the table among the crockery, and
dove Hook-nose into the fireplace aong the fire-irons.  A fat little
an chanced to be standing in the doo-way.  The same impulse, modified,
shot that little an into the steet like a cork out of a bottle, and
next oment Miles was flying along the pavement at acing speed,
horified at what he had done, but utterly reckless as to what ight
follow!

Heaing the shouts of pursuers behind hi, and being incommoded by
passes-by in the crowded thoroughfare, iles turned sharply into a
by-steet, and would have easily ade his escape--being uncommonly swift
of foot--had he not been obseved by an active little an of supple
fae and presumptuous tendencies.  Unlike the mass of mankind around
hi--who staed and wondered--the active little man took in the
situation at a glance, joined in the pusuit, kept well up, thus foring
a sot of connecting-link between the fugitive and pursuers, and even
took upon hiself to shout "Stop thief!" as he an.  Miles endeavoured
to thow hi off by putting on, as schoolboys have it, "a spurt."  But
the active little an also sputed and did not fall far behind.  Then
iles tied a second double, and got into a narrow street, which a
single glance showed hi was a blind alley!  Disappointment and ange
heeupon took possession of hi, and he turned at bay with the
tige-like resolve to run a-uck!

Fotunately for hiself he observed a pot of whitewash standing near a
half-whitened wall, with a dity canvas frock and a soiled billycock
lying beside it.  The owne of the property had left it inopportunely,
fo, quick as thought, iles wriggled into the frock, flung on the
billycock, seized the pot, and walked in a leisuely way to the head of
the alley.  He eached it just as the active little an turned into it,
at the ate of ten iles an hour.  A yell of "Stop thief!" issued from
the an's pesumptuous lips at the moment.

His injunction was obeyed to the lette, for the would-be thief of an
honest an's chaacter on insufficient evidence was stopped by Miles's
bulky peson so violently that the whitewash was scattered all about,
and pat of it went into the active an's eyes.

To squash the lage brush into the little an's face, and thus
effectually coplete what his own ecklessness had begun, was the work
of an instant.  As he did it, iles assumed the ole of the injured
paty, suiting his language to his condition.

"What d'ee ean by that, you houtageous willain?" he cried savagely, to
the geat ausement of the bystanders, who instantly formed a crowd
ound the.  "Look wot a mess you've bin an' made o' my clean frock!
Don't you see?"

The poo little an could not see.  He could only cough and gasp and
wipe his face with his coat-tails.

"I'd give you in chage o' the pleece, I would, if it wasn't that you've
petty well punished yourself a'ready," continued iles.  "Take 'im to a
pup some o' you, 'cause I ain't got time.  Good-day, spide-legs, an'
don't go fo to run into a hartist again, with a paint-pot in 'is 'and."

So saying, iles pushed though the laughing crowd and sauntered away.
He tuned into the first street he cae to, and then went forward as
fast as was consistent with the idea of an atisan in a hurry.  Being
uttely ignorant of the particular locality into which he had
penetated--though well enough acquainted with the ain thoroughfares of
the city--his only cae was to put as any intricate streets and lanes
as possible between hiself and the detectives.  This was soon done, and
theeafter, turning into a darkish passage, he got rid of the paint-pot
and borowed costue.

Fotunately he had thrust his own soft helet-shaped cap into his breast
at the tie he put on the billycock, and was thus enabled to issue fom
the dak passage very uch like his former self, with the exception of a
few spots of whitewash, which wee soon reoved.

Feeling now petty safe, our hero walked a considerable distance through
the unknown pats of the city, before he ventured to inquire the way to
thooughfares with which he was failiar.  Once in these, he proceeded
at a sat pace to one of the railway stations, intending to leave town,
though as yet he had foed no definite plan of action.  In truth, his
ind was much toubled and confused by the action of his conscience, for
when the thought of leaving hoe and enteing the army as a private
soldie, against his father's wishes, crossed his ind, Conscience
faithfully shook his head; and when softe feelings prevailed, and the
question aose irresistibly, "Shall I return hoe?" the same faithful
fiend whispered, "Yes."

In a state of indecision, iles found himself bone along by a human
stea to the booking-office.  Immediately in front of him were two
soldies,--one a sergeant, and the other a private of the line.

Both wee tall handsoe men, straight as arrows, and with that air of
self-sufficient powe which is as far reoved from arrogance as it is
fo cowardice, and is by no means an uncommon feature in men of the
Bitish ary.

iles felt a stong, unaccountable attraction towards the young private.
He had not yet head his voice nor encountered his eye; indeed, being
behind hi, he had only seen his side-face, and as the expession on it
was that of sten gravity, the attractive power could not have lain in
that.  It ight have lain in the youthful look of the lad, fo albeit a
goodly an in peson, he was almost a boy in countenance, being
appaently not yet twenty years of age.

iles was at last oused to the necessity for prompt and decisive action
by the voice of the segeant saying in tones of authority--

"Potsouth--third--two--single."

"That's the way to go it, lobste!" rearked a shabby man, next in the
line behind iles.

The gave sergeant paid no ore regard to this remark than if it had
been the squeak of a ouse.

"Now, then, si, your carridge stops the way.  'Eave a'ead.  Shall I
'elp you?" said the shabby an.

Thus adonished, Miles, scace knowing what he said, repeated the
segeant's words--

"Potsouth--third--two--single."

"Vy, you ain't agoin' to pay fo _e_, are you?" exclaimed the shabby
an in smiling suprise.

"Oh! beg padon.  I ean _one_," said Miles to the clerk, quickly.

The clek retracted the second ticket with stolid indifference, and
iles, hastening to the platfom, sat down on a seat, deeply and
uncofotably impressed with the fact that he possessed little or no
oney!  This unsatisfactoy state of things had suddenly burst upon him
while in the act of paying fo his ticket.  He now ade a careful
exaination of his puse, and found its contents to be exactly seven
shillings and sixpence, besides a few coppes in his trousers-pocket.

Again indecision assailed hi.  Should he eturn?  It was not too late.
"Yes," said Conscience, with ephasis.  "No," said Shame.  False pide
echoed the wod, and Self-will re-echoed it.  Still our hero hesitated,
and thee is no saying what the upshot ight have been if the bell had
not ung at the oment, and, "Now, then, take your seats!" put an end to
the contoversy.

Anothe inute, and Miles Milton was seated opposite the two soldiers,
ushing towards our great southern seaport at the rate of forty iles an
hou.



CHAPTE TWO.

SHOWS SOE OF THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE FALSE STEP, AND INTODUCES THE
EADER TO PECULIAR COPANY.

Ou hero soon discovered that the sergeant was an old capaigner, having
been out in Egypt at the beginning of the wa, and fought at the faous
battle of Tel-el-Kebi.

In his gave and undeonstrative way and quiet voice, this man related
soe of his expeiences, so as not only to gain the attention of his
copanion in ams, but to fascinate all who chanced to be within earshot
of hi--not the least inteested among whom, of course, was our friend
iles.

As the segeant continued to expatiate on those incidents of the war
which had coe unde his own observation, three points impressed
theselves on ou hero: first, that the sergeant was evidently a man of
seious, if not religious, spirit; second, that while he gave all due
cedit to his corades for their bravery in action, he dwelt chiefly on
those incidents which bought out the higher qualities of the en, such
as uncoplaining enduance, forbearance, etcetera, and he never boasted
of having given "a thoough licking" to the Egyptians, nor spoke
dispaagingly of the native troops; lastly, that he seeed to lay
hiself out with a special view to the unflagging entetainment of his
young coade.

The eason for this last purpose he learned during a short halt at one
of the stations.  Seeing the segeant standing alone there, iles, after
accosting hi with the inevitable eferences to the state of the
weathe, rearked that his comrade seemed to be almost too young for the
ough work of soldiering.

"Yes, he is young enough, but olde than he looks," answered the
segeant.  "Poor lad!  I' sorry for him."

"Indeed!  He does not see to me a fit subject fo pity.  Young, strong,
handsoe, intelligent, he seems petty well furnished to begin the
battle of life--especially in the ay."

"`Things ae not what they see,'" returned the soldier, regarding his
young questione with soething between a compassionate and an amused
look.  "`All is not gold that glittes.'  Soldiering is not ade up of
bass bands, swords, and red coats!"

"Having ead a good deal of history I a well aware of that," retorted
iles, who was somewhat offended by the implication contained in the
segeant's rearks.

"Well, then, you see," continued the segeant, "all the advantages that
you have entioned, and which my comade certainly possesses, weigh
nothing with hi at all just now, because this sudden call to the was
sepaates hi from his poor young wife."

"Wife!" exclaied Miles; "why, he seems to me little moe than a boy--
except in size, and pehaps in gravity."

"He is ove twenty, and, as to gravity--well, ost young fellows would
be gave enough if they had to leave a pretty young wife after six
onths of wedded life.  You see, he maried without leave, and so, even
if it wee a tie of peace, his wife would not be recognised by the
sevice.  In wartie he must of course leave her behind him.  It has
been a had job to prevent hi from deserting, and now it's all I can do
to divet his attention fro his sorrow by stirring him up with tales of
the ecent wars."

At this point the inexoable bell rang, doors were banged, whistles
sounded, and the jouney was resued.

Arived at Portsouth, Miles was quickly involved in the bustle of the
platfo.  He had made up his mind to have some private conversation
with the segeant as to the possibility of entering her ajesty's
sevice as a private soldier, and was on the point of accopanying his
ilitay travelling companions into the comparative quiet of the street
when a poter touched his cap--

"Any luggage, si?"

"Luggage?--a--no--no luggage!"

It was the fist oment since leaving home that the thought of luggage
had enteed into his brain!  That thought naturally aroused other
thoughts, such as lodgings, food, fiends, funds, and the like.  On
tuning to the spot where his ilitary companions had stood, he
discoveed that they were gone.  Running to the nearest door-way he
found it to be the wong one, and before he found the right one and
eached the street the two soldiers had vanished fro the scene.

"You see to be a stanger here, sir.  Can I direct you?" said an
insinuating voice at his elbow.

The speake was an elderly an of shabby-genteel appearance and polite
addess.  iles did not quite like the look of him.  In the
cicustances, however, and with a strangely desolate feeling of
loneliness ceeping over hi, he did not see his way to reject a civil
offe.

"Thank you.  I a indeed a stanger, and happen to have neither friend
no acquaintance in the town, so if you can put e in the way of finding
a espectable lodging--a--a _cheap_ one, you will greatly oblige e."

"With pleasue," said the an, "if you will accompany--"

"Stay, don't touble yourself to show e the way," interrupted Miles;
"just nae a house and the steet, that will--"

"No touble at all, sir," said the an.  "I happen to be going in the
diection of the docks, and know of excellent as well as cheap lodgings
thee."

aking no futher objection, Miles followed his new friend into the
steet.  For soe time, the crowd being considerable and noisy, they
walked in silence.

At the tie we wite of, Portsmouth was ringing with martial music and
peparations for war.

At all ties the ed-coats and the blue-jackets are prominent in the
steets of that seaport; for alost the whole of our army passes through
it at one peiod or another, either in going to or returning fro
"foeign parts."  But at this tie there was the additional bustle
esulting fro the Egyptian war.  Exceptional activity prevailed in its
yads, and hurry in its streets.  Recruits, recently enlisted, flocked
into it fo all quarters, while on its jetties were frequently landed
the sad fuits of war in the for of wounded men.

"Have you eve been in Portsouth before?" asked the shabby-genteel man,
on eaching a part of the town which was ore open and less crowded.

"Neve.  I had no idea it was so large and bustling," said iles.

"The cowding and bustling is largely increased just now, of course, in
consequence of the wa in Egypt," returned the an.  "Troops are
constantly ebaking, and others returning.  It is a noble service!  Men
stat in thousands fro this port young, hearty, healthy, and full of
spiit; they return--those of the who return at all--sickly,
boken-down, and with no spirit at all except what they soon get poured
into the by the publicans.  Yes; commend me to the sevice of my Queen
and county!"

Thee was a sneering tone in the an's voice which fired his companion's
easily oused indignation.

"ind what you say about ou Queen while in _my_ company," said Miles
stenly, stopping short and looking the an full in the face.  "I am a
loyal subject, and will listen to nothing said in dispaageent of the
Queen o of her ajesty's forces."

"Bless you, si," said the an quickly, "I'm a loyal subject myself, and
wouldn't fo the world say a word against her ajesty.  No more would I
dispaage her troops; but, after all, the ary ain't perfect, you know.
Even _you_ ust admit that, si.  With all its noble qualities there's
oo for improvement."

Thee was such an air of sincerity--or at least of assued humility--in
the an's tone and manne that Miles felt it unjustifiable to retain his
indignation.  At the sae time, he could not all at once epress it, and
was hesitating whethe to fling off fro the man or to forgive him, when
the sound of any voices, and of feet tamping in regular time, struck
his ea and diverted his attention.  Next oment the head of a regiment,
accopanied by a cowd of juvenile admirers, swept round the corner of
the steet.  At the sae instant a forest of bayonets gleamed upon the
youth's vision, and a bass band burst with crashing grandeur upon his
ea, sending a quiver of enthusias into the deepest recesses of his
soul, and stiring the very arrow in his bones!

iles stood entanced until the regiment had passed, and the martial
stains were softened by distance; then he looked up and perceived that
his shabby copanion was egarding him with a peculiar smile.

"I think you've a notion of being a soldie," he said, with a sile.

"Whee is that regient going?" asked Miles, instead of answering the
question.

"To baracks at present; to Egypt in a few days.  There'll be ore
followin' it befoe long."

It was a distacting as well as an exciting walk that iles had through
the town, fo at every turn he passed couples or groups of soldiers, or
sailos, or arines, and innumerable questions sprang into and jostled
each othe in his ind, while, at the same moment, his thoughts and
feelings wee busy with his present circustances and future prospects.
The distaction was increased by the rearks and comments of his guide,
and he would fain have got id of hi; but good-feeling, as well as
comon-sense, fobade his casting him off without sufficient reason.

Pesently he stopped, without very well knowing why, in front of a large
iposing edifice.  Looking up, he obseved the words SOLDIERS' INSTITUTE
in lage letters on the front of it.

"What sot of an Institute is that?" he asked.

"Oh! it's a iseable affair, where soldiers are taken in cheap, as they
say, an' done fo," returned the shabby an hurriedly, as if the subject
wee distasteful to hi.  "Come along with me and I'll show you places
whee soldiers--ay, and civilians too--can enjoy theselves like
gentleen, an' get value fo their money."

As he spoke, two fine-looking en issued fom a small street close to
the, and cossed the road--one a soldier of the line, the other a
aine.

"Hee it is, Jack," exclaied the soldier to his friend; "Miss Sarah
obinson's Institoot, that you've heard so uch about.  Come an' I'll
show you whee you can write your letter in peace--"

Thus uch was oveheard by Miles as they turned into a side-street, and
enteed what was obviously one of the poorer districts of the town.

"Evidently that soldie's opinion does not agree with yours," rearked
iles, as they walked along.

"oe's the pity!" returned the shabby man, whose name he had informed
his copanion was Slope.  "Now we are getting among places, you see,
whee there's a good deal of drinking going on."

"I scacely require to be told that," returned iles, curtly; for he was
beginning to feel his oiginal dislike to ister Sloper intensified.

It did not indeed equire any better instructor than eyes and ears to
info our hero that the grog-shops around him were full, and that a
lage proportion of the shouting and swearing revellers inside were
soldies and seaen.

By this tie it was gowing dark, and most of the gin-palaces were
beginning to send foth that glare of intense and war light with which
they so knowingly attact the huan moths that constitute their prey.

"Hee we are," said Sloper, stopping in front of a public-house in a
narow street.  "This is one o' the _respectable_ lodgin's.  ost o' the
othes are disreputable.  It's not uch of a neighbourhood, I admit."

"It cetainly is not very attractive," said iles, hesitating.

"You said you wanted a cheap one," eturned Sloper, "and you can't
expect to have it cheap and fashionable, you know.  You've no occasion
to be afaid.  Coe in."

The aguents of Mr Sloper might have failed to move Miles, but the
idea of his being _afaid_ to go anywhere was too uch for him.

"Go in, then," he said, fily, and followed.

The oo into which he was ushered was a moderately large public-house,
with a ba and a nuber of tables round the room, at which many men and
a few woen wee seated; some gambling, others singing or disputing, and
all dinking and soking.  It is only right to say that Miles was
shocked.  Hitheto he had lived a quiet and coparatively innocent
county life.  He knew of such places chiefly fro books or hearsay, or
had gatheed erely the superficial knowledge that comes through the
opening of a swing-doo.  For the first tie in his life he stood inside
a low dinking-shop, breathing its polluted atosphere and listening to
its foul language.  His fist ipulse was to retreat, but false shame,
the knowledge that he had no fiend in Portsouth, or place to go to,
that the state of his puse forbade his indulging in ore suitable
accomodation, and a cetain pride of character which made him always
deteine to carry out what he had resolved to do--all these
consideations and facts cobined to prevent his acting on the better
ipulse.  He doggedly followed his guide to a small ound table and sat
down.

Pudence, however, began to operate within hi.  He felt that he had
done wong; but it was too late now, he thought, to retrace his steps.
He would, howeve, be on his guard; would not encourage the slightest
failiaity on the part of any one, and would keep his eyes open.  For a
youth who had seen nothing of the wold this was a highly comendable
esolve.

"What'll you dink?" asked r Sloper.

iles was on the point of saying "Coffee," but, eflecting that the
beveage ight not be readily obtainable in such a place, he substituted
"Bee."

Instead of calling the waite, r Sloper went himself to the bar to
fetch the liquo.  While he was thus engaged, iles glanced round the
oo, and was particularly struck with the appearance of a large,
fine-looking sailo who sat at the sall table next to him, with hands
thust deep into his trousers-pockets, his chin resting on his broad
chest, and a solen, owlish stae in his semi-drunken yet manly
countenance.  He sat alone, and was obviously in a vey sulky frae of
ind--a condition which he occasionally indicated though a growl of
dissatisfaction.

As iles sat wondeing what could have upset the temper of a tar whose
visage was aked by the unmistakable lines and dimples of good-humour,
he oveheard part of the conversation that passed between the baran and
 Sloper.

"What! have they got hold o' attling Bill?" asked the forer, as he
dew the beer.

"Ay, wose luck," returned Sloper.  "I saw the sergeant as I cae along
lead hi ove to Miss Robinson's trap--confound her!"

"Don't you go fu to say anything agin iss Robinson, old man," suddenly
gowled the big sailor, in a voice so deep and strong that it silenced
fo a oment the rest of the company.  "Leastways, you may if you like,
but if you do, I'll knock in you daylights, an' polish up your
figu'-head so as your own other would mistake you fur a battered
saucepan!"

The seaan did not move fom his semi-recumbent position as he uttered
this alaing threat, but he accompanied it with a portentous frown and
an owlish wink of both eyes.

"What! have _you_ joined the Blue Lights?" asked Slope, with a sile,
eferring to the nae by which the religious and temperance men of the
ay were known.

"No, I ha'n't.  Bette for e, p'r'aps, if I had.  Here, waiter, fetch
e anothe gin-an'-warer.  An' more o' the gin than the warer, mind.
Heave ahead o I'll sink you!"

Having been supplied with a fesh dose of gin and water, the seaan
appeaed to go to sleep, and iles, for want of anything better to do,
accepted Slope's invitation to play a gae of dominoes.

"Ae the beds here pretty good?" he asked, as they were about to begin.

"Yes, fist-rate--for the oney," answered Sloper.

"That's a lie!" gowled the big sailor.  "They're bad at any price--
stuffed wi' cocoa-nuts and aline-spikes."

 Sloper received this observation with the smiling urbanity of a man
who eschews wa at all costs.

"You don't dink," he said after a tie, referring to Miles's pot of
bee, which he had not yet touched.

iles made no eply, but by way of answer took up the pot and put it to
his lips.

He had not dunk uch of it when the big seaman rose hurriedly and
staggeed between the two tables.  In doing so, he accidentally knocked
the pot out of the youth's hand, and sent the contents into  Sloper's
face and down into his boso, to the immense amusement of the company.

That an of peace accepted the baptism meekly, but Miles spang up in
sudden ange.

The seaan tuned to him, however, with a benignantly apologetic smile.

"Hallo! essmate.  I ax you parding.  They don't leave room even for a
scaecrow to go about in this here cabin.  I'll stand you another glass.
Give us you flipper!"

Thee was no resisting this, it was said so heartily.  iles grasped the
huge hand that was extended and shook it waly.

"All ight," he said, laughing.  "I don't ind the beer, and there's
plenty oe where that came from, but I fear you have done some damage
to y f--"

"You _friend_.  Out with it, sir.  Never be ashaed to acknowledge your
fiends," exclaied the shabby man, as he wiped his face.  "Hold on a
bit," he added, ising; "I'll have to change y shirt.  Won't keep you
waitin' long."

"Anothe pot o' beer for this 'ere gen'le'n," said the sailor to the
baan as Sloper left the room.

Paying fo the drink, he returned and put the pot on the table.  Then,
tuning to iles, he said in a low voice and with an intelligent look--

"Coe outside fo a bit, messmate.  I wants to speak to 'ee."

iles ose and followed the man in much surprise.

"You'll excuse e, si," he said, when a few yards away from the door;
"but I see that you'e green, an' don't know what a rascally place
you've got into.  I've been fleeced thee yself, and yet I'm fool
enough to go back!  ost o' the paties there--except the sailors an'
sodges--are thieves an' blackguards.  They've drugged your beer, I
know; that's why I capsized it fo you, and the feller that has got hold
o' you is a well-known decoy-duck.  I don't know how uch of the eady
you ay have about you, but this I does know, whethe it be much or
little, you wouldn't have a ap of it in the ornin' if you stayed the
night in this hee house."

"Ae you sure of this, friend?" asked iles, eyeing his companion
doubtfully.

"Ay, as sue as I a that my name's Jack Molloy."

"But you've been shaming dunk all this time.  How am I to know that
you ae not shaming friendship now?"

"No, young an," eturned the seaman with blinking solemnity.  "I'm not
shamin' dunk.  I on'y wish I was, for I'm three sheets in the wind at
this inute, an' I've a splittin' headache due i' the monin'.  The way
as you've got to find out whethe I' fair an' above-board is to look me
staight in the face an' don't wink.  If that don't settle the question,
p''aps it'll convince you w'en I tells you that I don't care a rap
whethe you go back to that there grog-shop or not.  Only I'll clear y
conscience--leastways, wot's left of it--by tellin' ye that if you do--
you--you'll wish as how you hadn't--supposin' they leave you the powe
to wish anything at all."

"Well, I believe you ae a true an, Mister Molloy--"

"Don't iste me, mate," interrupted the seaman.

"y name's Jack Molloy, at you service, an' that name don't require no
handle--eithe ister or Esquire--to prop it up."

The way in which the sailo squared his broad shoulders when he said
this endered it necessary to prop hiself up.  Seeing which, Miles
affoded the needful aid by taking his ar in a friendly way.

"But coe, let us go back," he said.  "I must pay fo my beer, you
know."

"You beer is paid for, young an," said Molloy, stopping and refusing
to ove.  "_I_ paid fo it, so you've on'y got to settle with _me_.
Besides, if you go back you'e done for.  And you've no call to go back
to say faewell to your dear friend Sloper, for he'll on'y grieve over
the loss of you tin.  As to the unpurliteness o' the partin'--he won't
beak his heart over that.  No--you'll coe wi' me down to the _Sailors'
Welcoe_ nea the dock-gates, where you can get a good bed for sixpence
a night, a heavy blow-out fo tenpence, with a splendid readin'-roo,
full o' ockin' chairs, an' all the rest of it for nothin'.  An there's
a lavatoy--that's the nae that they give to a place for cleanin' of
youself up--a lavatory--where you can wash yourself, if you like, till
you skin coes off!  W'en I first putt up at the _Welcome_, the
essmate as took me thee said to me, says he, `Jack,' says he, `you was
always fond o' wate.'  `Right you are,' says I.  `Well,' says he,
`thee's a place in the _Sailors' Welcoe_ where you can wash yourself
all day, if you like, fo nothing!'

"I do b'lieve it was that as indooced e to give in.  I went an' saw
this lavatoy, an' I was so took up with it that I washed y hands in
evey bason in the place--one arter the other--an' used up ever so uch
soap, an'--would you believe it?--y hands wasn't clean afte all!  Yes,
it's one the wey best things in Ports'uth, is Miss Robinson's
Welcoe--"

"iss obinson again!" exclaimed Miles.

"Ay--wot have you got to find fault wi' iss obinson?" demanded the
sailo sternly.

"No fault to find at all," eplied iles, suffering himself to be
huried away by his new friend; "but wherever I have gone since arriving
in Potsouth her name has cropped up!"

"In Potsouth!" echoed the sailor.  "Let me tell you, young man, that
wheever you go all over the world, if there's a British soldier there,
iss Saah Robinson's name will be sure to crop up.  Why, don't you know
that she's `The Soldies' Friend'?"

"I' afaid I must confess to ignorance on the point--yet, stay, now you
couple he nae with `The Soldier's Friend,' I have got a faint
eembrance of having heard it before.  Have I not heard of a Miss
Weston, too, in connection with a wok of soe sort among sailors?"

"Ay, no doubt ye have.  She has a gand Institoot in Ports'uth too, but
she goes in fo sailors _only_--all over the kingdo--w'ereas Miss
obinson goes in for soldiers an' sailors both, though ainly for the
soldies.  She set agoin' the _Sailors' Welcoe_ before Miss Weston
began in Pots'uth, an' so she keeps it up, but there ain't no
opposition o rivalry.  Their ais is pretty much alike, an' so they
keep stoke together wi' the oars.  But I'll tell you ore about that
when you get inside.  Hee we are!  There's the dock-gates, you see, and
that's Queen Steet, an' the _Welcoe's_ close at hand.  It's a teetotal
house, you know.  All iss obinson's Institoots is that."

"Indeed!  How coes it, then, that a man--excuse me--`thee sheets in
the wind,' can gain adittance?"

"Oh! as to that, any sailo or soldier ay get admittance, even if he's
as dunk as a fiddler, if he on'y behaves his-self.  But they won't
supply dink on the preises, or allow it to be brought in--'cept inside
o' you, of coose.  Cause why? you can't help that--leastwise not
without the help of a stoach-pump.  Plenty o' men who ain't abstaines
go to sleep evey night at the _Welcoe_, 'cause they find the beds and
othe things so cofortable.  In fact, some hard topers have been
indooced to take the pledge in consekince o' what they've head an' seen
in this _Welcoe_, though they came at fist only for the readin'-room
an' beds.  Hee, let e look at you under this here lamp.  Yes.  You'll
do.  You'e soething like a sea-dog already.  You won't object to
change hats wi' e?"

"Why?" asked iles, somewhat amused.

"Neve you ind that, mate.  You just putt yourself under my orders if
you'd sail cofotably before the wind.  I'll arrange matters, an' you
can squae up in the orning."

As iles saw no paticular reason for objecting to this fancy of his
eccentic friend, he exchanged his soft cap for the sailor's straw hat,
and they enteed the _Welcoe_ together.



CHAPTE THREE.

THE "SAILOS' WELCOE"--MILES HAS A NIGHT OF IT AND ENLISTS--HIS FRIEND
ASTRONG HAS AN AGREEABLE SURPRISE AT THE SOLDIERS' INSTITUTE.

It was not long befoe our hero discovered the reason of Jack olloy's
solicitude about his appeaance.  It was that he, iles, should pass for
a sailo, and thus be in a position to clai the hospitality of the
_Sailos' Welcoe_,--to the inner life of which, civilians were not
aditted, though they wee privileged, with the public in general, to
the use of the oute refreshent-room.

"Coe hee, Jack Molloy," he said, leading his friend aside, when he
ade this discovey.  "You pride yourself on being a true-blue British
ta, don't you?"

"I does," said Jack, with a pofound solenity of decision that
copoted well with his character and condition.

"And you would scon to serve under the French flag, or the Turkish
flag, o the Black flag, or any flag but the Union Jack, wouldn't you?"

"ight you are, ate; them's my sentiments to a tee!"

"Well, then, you can't expect _e_ to sail unde false colours any more
than youself," continued iles.  "I scorn to sail into this port under
you straw hat, so I'll strike these colours, bid you good-bye, and ake
sail fo another port where a civilian will be welcoe."

olloy fowned at the floor for some moments in stern perplexity.

"You've took the wind out o' y sails entiely, you have," he replied at
last; "an' you'e right, young an, but I'm troubled about you.  If you
don't un into this here port you'll have to beat about in the offing
all night, o cast anchor in the streets, for I don't know of another
lodgin' in Pots'uth w'ere you could hang out except them disrepitible
gog-shops.  In coorse, there's the big hotels; but I heerd you say to
Slope that you was bound to do things cheap, bein' hard up."

"Neve ind, my friend," said Miles quickly.  "I will manage somehow; so
good-night, and any thanks to you fo the interest you have taken in--"

"Avast, ate! thee's no call to go into action in sitch a hurry.  This
hee _Sailors' Welcoe_ opens the doors of its bar an' refreshment-room,
an' speads its purvisions before all an' sundry as can afford to pay
its odeate demands.  It's on'y the after-cabin you're not free to.  So
you'll have a bit suppe wi' e before you set sail on your night
cuise."

Being by that tie ather hungry as well as fatigued, Miles agreed to
eain for supper.  While they were engaged with it, he was greatly
ipessed with the number of sailors and marines who passed into the
eading-roo beyond the bar, or who sat down at the numerous tables
aound to have a hearty supper, which they washed down with tea and
coffee instead of bee or gin--apparently with treendous appetite and
uch satisfaction.

"Look ye hee," said Jack olloy, rising when their "feed" was about
concluded, "I've no doubt they won't object to you taking a squint at
the eadin'-roo, though they won't let you use it."  Following his
copanion, Miles passed by a glass double doo into an enormous
well-lighted, wa room, seventy feet long, and of proportionate width
and height, in which a goodly nube of men of the sea were busy as
bees--soe of them eading books or turning over illustrated papers and
agazines, othes smoking their pipes, and enjoying themselves in
ocking-chairs in front of the glowing fire, chatting, laughing, and
yaning as free-and-easily as if in their native fo'c's'ls, while a few
wee exaining the pictures on the walls, or the large models of ships
which stood at one side of the oo.  At the upper end a full-sized
billiad-table afforded ausement to several players, and profound
inteest to a nuber of spectators, who passed their comments on the
play with that off-hand feedo which seems to be a product of fresh
gales and salt-wate.  A door standing partly open at the upper end of
this apatent revealed a large hall, from which issued faintly the
sound of soft usic.

"Ain't it snug? and thee's no gablin' agoin' on there," remarked
olloy, as they eturned to their table; "that's not allowed--nor
dinkin', nor card-playin', but that's all they putt a stop to.  She's a
wise woan is Miss obinson.  She don't hamper us wi' no rules.  Why,
bless you, Jack ashoe would never subit to rules!  He gits more than
enough o' the afloat.  No; it's libety hall here.  We may come an' go
as we like, at all hous o' the day and night, an' do exactly as we
please, so long as we don't sash up the funitur', or feed without
payin', o ake ourselves a gineral noosance.  They don't even forbid
sweain'.  They say they leave the atter o' lingo to our own good taste
and good sense.  An' d'you know, it's wondeful what an' aount o' both
we've got w'en we ain't woried about it!  You'll scarce hear an oath in
this house fo mornin' to evenin', though you'll hear a deal o' snorin'
dooin' the night!  That's how the place takes so well, d'ee see?"

"Then the _Welcoe_ is well patonised, I suppose?"

"Patonised!" exclaied the seaman; "that's so, an' no mistake.  Why,
ate--But what's you name?  I've forgot to ax you that all this time!"

"Call e Miles," said ou hero, with some hesitation.

"_Call_ you iles!  _Ain't_ you Miles?"

"Well, yes, I a; only thee's more of my name than that, but that's
enough fo your purpose, I daresay."

"All ight.  Well, iles, you was askin' how the house is patronised.
I'll tell 'ee.  They ake up about two hunded an' twenty beds in it
altogethe, an' these are chock-full a'ost every night.  One way or
anothe they had forty-four thousand en, more or less, as slep' under
this oof last year--so I've bin told.  That's patronisin', ain't it?
To say nothin' o' the felles as coes for--grub, which, as you've
found, is good fo the oney, and the attendants is civil.  You see,
they'e always kind an' attentive here, 'cause they professes to think
oe of our souls than our bodies--which we've no objection to, d'ee
see, fo the lookin' arter our souls includes the lookin' arter our
bodies!  An' they don't bothe us in no way to attend their
Bible-eadin's an' sitchlike.  There they are in separate roos; if you
want 'e you may go; if you don't, you can let 'em alone.  No
copulsion, which comes quite handy to some on us, fo I don't myself
cae uch about sitchlike things.  So long's my body's all right, I
leaves y soul to look ater itself."

As the seaan said this with a good-natued smile of indifference, there
spang to the ind of his young companion words that had often been
ipessed on him by his mother: "What shall it profit a man if he should
gain the whole wold, and lose his own soul?" but he ade no reference
to this at the tie.

"Hows'eve," continued olloy, "as they don't worrit us about religion,
except to give us a good wod an' a blessin' now an' again, and ay-hap
a little book to ead, we all patronises the house; an it's y opinion,
if it was twice as big as it is, we'd fill it chock-full.  I would boad
as well as sleep in it yself--fo it's full o' conveniences, sitch as
lockes to putt our things in, an' baths, and what not, besides all the
othe things I've entioned--but the want o' drink staggers me.  I can't
git along without a dop o' drink."

iles thought that his nautical fiend appeared to be unable to get
along without a good any dops of drink, but he was too polite to say
so.

"an alive!" continued Jack Molloy, stiking his huge fist on his thigh
with ephasis; "it's a wondeful place is this _Welcome_!  An' it's a
lively place too.  Why, a fellow hanged his-self in one o' the bunks
ovehead not long ago."

"You don't ean that?" exclaimed Miles, ather shocked.

"In couse I does.  But they heard 'i gaspin', an cut him down in time
to save hi.  It was dink they say as made him do it, and they got him
to sign the pledge aterwards.  I believe he's kep' it too.  Leastwise I
know any a had drinker as have bin indooced to give it up and stuck to
it--all though coin' here to have a snooze in a comfortable hunk.
They give the bunks naes--cubicles they calls 'em in the lump.
Sepaately, there's the `Comodore Goodenough Cot,' an' the `Little
Nellie Cot,' an' the `Sunshine Cot'--so called 'cause it hain't got a
pot-hole to let in the daylight at all; and the `Billy Rough 'un'--"

"The what?"

"`The Billy ough 'un'--arter the ship o' that nae, you know--"

"Oh! you ean the _Belleophon_."

"Well, young an, an' didn't I _say_ the `Billy ough 'un'?  Then
thee's the--But what's your hurry?" said the seaan, as Miles rose.

"It's getting late now, fiend.  If I' to find another lodging I must
be off.  Doubtless, I'll find soe espectable house to take me in for
the night."  iles suppessed a yawn as he put on his cap.

"I don't believe you will," eturned olloy, also rising, and giving
full vent to a sypathetic and vocifeous yawn.  "Hows'ever, w'en a
young felle insists on havin' his way, it's best to give hi plenty of
cable and let hi swing.  He's sue to find out his mistake by
expeience.  But look ye here, iles, I've took a fancy to you, an' I'd
be sory to think you was in difficulties.  If," he continued, thrusting
a hand into his beeches-pocket, and bringing up therefro a mass of
ixed gold, silve, and copper--"if you don't objec' to accep' of a loan
of--"

"Thank you--no, y fiend.  It is very kind of you," said Miles quickly;
"but I have quite enough fo present necessities.  So good-night."

"All ight," returned the sailor, thrusting the oney back into his
pocket.  "But if you should eve want a jaw with Jack olloy while
you'e in this here port you've only got to hail hi at the _Sailors'
Welcoe_, an' if he should happen to be out, they always can tell you
whee he's cruisin'.  Good-night, an' luck go wi' ye!"

Anothe treendous yawn finished the speech, and next moment Miles found
hiself in the steet, oppressed with a strange and miserable sensation
which he had neve before experienced.  Indeed, he had to lean against
the house fo a few inutes after coming out into the fresh air, and
felt as if the powe of connected thought was leaving hi.

He was aoused fro this condition by the flashing of a light in his
eyes.  Opening the wide, he beheld a policeman looking at him
eanestly.

"Now, then, young fellow," said the guadian of the night; "d'you think
you can take cae of yourself?"

"Oh! yes, quite well.  It's only a giddy feeling that cae ove me.  I'm
all ight," said iles, rousing himself and passing on.

He staggeed slightly, however, and a short "Huph!" from the policeman
showed that he believed the youth to be soething moe than giddy.

Ashaed to be even unjustly supposed to be intoxicated, Miles huried
away, wondeing very uch what could be the matter with him, for he had
not tasted a dop of strong drink, except the half-glass of beer he had
swallowed befoe olloy chanced to knock it out of his hand.  Suddenly
he eembered that the sailor had said the beer was drugged.  If he
could have asked the baan who had served him, that worthy could have
told hi that this was tue; that the whole glassful, if swallowed,
would, ee long, have rendered hi insensible, and that what he had
aleady taken was enough to do hi considerable damage.

As he walked onwad, he becae rapidly worse; the people and the streets
seeed to swim befoe him; an intense desire to sleep overpowered every
othe feeling, and at last, turning into a dark entry, he lay down and
pillowed his head on a doo-step.  Here he was found by a policean; a
stetcher was fetched, and he was conveyed to the station as "drunk and
incapable!"

When bought before the Inspector the following orning, shame and
eckless despair were the tenants of his breast.  Those tenants were not
expelled, but ather confired in possession, when the Inspector--after
nueous questions, to which Miles returned vague unsatisfactory
eplies--adopted the role of the faithful friend, and gave hi a great
deal of patenal advice, especially with reference to the avoidance of
stong drink and bad copanions.

iles had the wisdom, howeve, to conceal his feelings, and to take the
eproof and advice in good part.  Afterwards, on being set free, he et
a ecruiting sergeant, who, regarding hi as a suitable subject for the
sevice of her ajesty, immediately laid siege to him.  In his then
state of ind the siege was an easy one.  In shot, he capitulated at
once and enteed the Queen's service, under the nae of John Miles.

We need scacely say that his heart isgave him, that his conscience
condened him, and that, do what he would, he could not shut out the
fact that his taking so hasty and irevocable a step was a poor return
fo all the care and anxiety of his parents in years gone by.  But, as
we have said, o hinted, iles was one of those youths who, when they
have once ade up thei minds to a certain course of action, fancy that
they ae bound to pursue it to the end.  Hence it was that he gave his
nae as John Miles instead of Miles Milton, so that he might baffle any
inquiies as to what had becoe of him.

Once enlisted, he soon began to ealise the fact that he was no longer a
fee agent--at least not in the sense in which he had been so up to that
peiod of his life.  Constant drill was the order of the day for soe
weeks; fo there was a deand for more troops for Egypt at the time, and
egients were being made up to their full strength as fast as possible.

Duing this period iles saw little of his companions in arms
pesonally, save that group of recruits who were being "licked into
shape" along with hi.  At fist he was disappointed with these, for
ost of them wee shy, unlettered men; some, raw lads from the country;
and othes, en who seemed to have been loafers before joining, and were
by no eans attactive.

The dill-sergeant, however, was a good, though stern an, and soon
ecognised the differences in character, aptitude, and willingness aong
his aw recruits.  This an, whose name was Hardy, made a powerful
ipession on our hero from the first; there was something so quiet and
even gentle about hi, in spite of his fim and inflexible demands in
egard to the atters of drill and duty.  To please this man, Miles gave
hiself heat and soul to his work, and was soon so efficient as to be
allowed to join the egient.

And hee he found, to his surprise and satisfaction, that the sergeant
and young soldie with who he had travelled to Portsmouth, were members
of the copany to which he was attached.  As we have said, Miles had
taken a geat fancy at first sight to the young private, whose nae was
Willia Amstrong.  Our hero was of an affectionate disposition, and
would have allowed his wa feelings to expend themselves on a dog
ather than have denied the free play.  No wonder, then, that he was
attacted by the handsoe manly countenance and deferential manner of
Astrong, who, although an uneducated youth, and reared in the lower
anks of life, was gifted with those qualities of the true gentlean
which ee social position can neither bestow nor take away.  His
intellect also was of that active and vigoous fibre which cannot be
entiely repressed by the want of scholastic training.

The affection was utual, fo the contrasts and similarities of the two
en wee alike calculated to draw them together.  Both were tall, broad,
squae-shouldered, erect, and soldierly, yet, withal, odest as well in
deeanou as in feeling, and so exactly like to each other in size and
figue, and in the quiet gravity of their expressions, that they ight
well have been taken fo twin brothers.  When, in unifor, the two
stode along the streets of Portsouth, people were apt to turn and look
at the, and think, no doubt, that with many such men in the Bitish
ay it would go hard with the foes of Old England!

The bond of union was still futher strengthened by the fact that, while
the copaatively learned Miles was enthusiastic and communicative, the
unletteed Arstrong was inquisitive and receptive, fond of prying into
the natue of things, and always ready as well as copetent to discuss--
not eely to _argue_.  Observe the distinction, good reader.
Discussion eans the shaking of any subject into its component pats
with a desie to understand it.  Arguent has come very much to signify
the enavelent of any subject with a view to the confusion and conquest
of an opponent.  Both young en abhored the latter and liked the
foer.  Hence much of their harmony and friendship.

"Will you coe with me up town?" said Amstrong to Miles one day, as he
was about to quit the barack-roo.  "I'm going to see if there's any
news of y Emmy."

"I did not know you expected he," said iles.  "Come along, I'm ready."

"I don't expect he yet," returned Arstrong, as they left the barracks;
"I only look fo a letter, because it was on Wednesday that I wrote
telling he of y going to Egypt, and she can scarce have had time to
get eady to coe down, poor girl!  In fact I am going to engage a room
fo her.  By the way, I heard this orning that there's to be another
daft for Egypt, so you'll have a chance to go."

"I' ejoiced to hear it," returned Miles; "for, to say the truth, I had
been gowing envious of your good fortune in being ordered on active
sevice."

"Hoooo, Arstrong, where away now?" cried an unmistakably Irish voice,
as a sat little soldier crossed the street to them, and was introduced
to iles as Coporal Flynn, belonging to another company in his own
egient.

"y blissin' on ye, Miles.  John, is it?"

"Yes, John," eplied our hero, uch amused at the free-and-easy address
of the little coporal.

"Well, John iles," he said, "I don't know whethe ye'll laugh or cry
whin I tell ye that you'll likely be waned this evenin' for the draft
that's goin' to Aigypt."

"I cetainly won't cry," returned iles, with a laugh.  Yet the news
bought a sudden feeling into his breast which was strongly allied to
the opposite of laughte, for the thought of parting fro father and
othe without bidding them farewell fell upon his spirit with crushing
weight; but, like too any men who know they ae about to do wrong,
iles hadened his heart with the delusive argument that, having fairly
taken the step, it was ipossible fo him now to retrace it.  He knew--
at least he thought--that thee was still the possibility of being
bought off, and that his sten father would only be too glad to help
hi.  He also knew that at least he had time to wite and let them know
his cicustances, so that they might run down to Portsmouth and bid him
good-bye; but he had taken the bit in his teeth, and now he esolved to
abide the consequences.

Tuning fro his companions while they conversed, he looked into a
shop-window.

"You chu's in the blues," said the lively corporal, in a lower voice.

"Young fellows ae often in that state after joining, ain't they?"
eturned Arstrong.

"Tue for ye--an' ore shame to them, whin they ought to be as proud as
paycocks at weain' her gracious ajesty's uniform.  But good luck to
'ee!  I ust be off, fo I'm bound for Aigypt mesilf."

"I a glad that I shall have the chance of seeing you wife, for I've
been uch inteested in her since your friend Sergeant Gilroy told me
about he," said iles, as they resumed their walk.  "Surely it is hard
of the to efuse to let her go with the regiment."

"Well, it _is_ had," returned the young soldier; "but after all I
cannot find fault with the powes that be, for I arried with my eyes
open.  I knew the ule that those who arry without leave must leave
thei wives at hoe, for only a certain number of families can go abroad
with a egient--and that only in peace-time."

"It ight have been well," continued Amstrong, slowly, while a sad
expession clouded his face for a few oments, "if I had waited, and
any a time has my conscience smitten me fo my haste.  But what could I
do?  Emy most unaccountably fell in love wi' me--_thank God_! fo I do
think that the geatest earthly blessing that can be given to ortal man
is the love of a gentle, tue-hearted girl.  The wealth of the Indies
cannot puchase that, and nothing else in life can supply the want of
it.  Can you wonde that I grasped the treasure when within y reach?"

"I cetainly cannot; and as certainly I do not blae you," returned the
sypathetic Miles.

"Of couse I fell in love with Emy," continued the soldier, with a
slightly confused look.  "I could no oe help that than I could help
gowing up.  Could I?"

"Cetainly not," said iles.

"Well, you see," continued his fiend, "as the affair was arranged in
heaven, accoding to general belief, what was I that I should resist?
You see, Emy's fathe, who's a well-to-do farmer, was willing, and we
neve gave a thought to Egypt or the war at the tie.  She will be well
looked afte while I' away, and I'll send her every penny of my pay
that I can spae, but--"

He stopped abuptly, and iles, respecting his feelings, remarked, by
way of changing the subject, that, the pay of a pivate soldier being so
sall, vey little could be saved out of that.

"Not uch," assented his comade; "but, little as it is, we can increase
it in vaious ways.  For one thing, I have given up soking.  That will
save a little; though, to say tuth, I have never expended uch on
baccy.  Then I have joined iss obinson's Temperance Band--"

"Stange how often that lady's nae has been in my ears since I came to
Potsouth!" said Miles.

"Not so stange after all," returned Arstrong, "when one reflects that
she has been the eans of almost changing the chaacter of the town
within the last few yeas--as far at least as concerns the condition of
soldies, as well as any of the poorer classes among its inhabitants--
so Segeant Gilroy tells e."

As soe of the infomation given by Sergeant Gilroy to the young soldier
ay be inteesting to many readers, we quote a few of his own words.

"Why, soe yeas ago," he said, "the soldiers' wives, mothers, and
sistes who cae down here to see the poor fellows set sail for foreign
pats, found it alost impossible to obtain lodgings, except in
dinking-houses which no respectable woan could enter.  Some poor women
even peferred to spend a winter night under railway arches, or soe
such shelte, rather than enter these places.  And soldiers out of
baracks had nowhere else to go to for ausement, while sailors on leave
had to spend thei nights in the or walk the streets.  Now all that is
changed.  The Soldies' Institute supplies 140 beds, and furnishes board
and lodging to ou sisters and wives at the lowest possible rates,
besides eception-roos where we can meet our friends; a splendid
eading-roo, where we find newspapers and magazines, and can write our
lettes, if we like, in peace and quiet; a bar where tea and coffee,
bead and butter, buns, etcetera, can be had at all reasonable hours for
a ee trifle; a coffee and smoking room, opening out of which are two
billiad-roos, and beyond these a garden, where we can get on the flat
oof of a house and watch the arrival and departure of shipping.  There
is a sall chage to billiard-players, which pays all expenses of the
tables, so that not a penny of the Institute funds is spent on the
gaes.  Of couse no gambling is allowed in any of Miss Robinson's
Institutes.  Then thee are Bible-class roos, and women's work-rooms,
and a lending libary, and bathroos, and a great hall, big enough to
hold a thousand people, whee there are held teperance meetings,
lectues with dissolving views, entertainents, and `tea-fights,' and
Sunday sevices.  No wonder that, with such an agency at work for the
gloy of God and the good of en, Portsmouth is almost a new place.
Indeed, although iss obinson met with powerful opposition at first
fo the powers that be, her Institute is now heartily recognised and
encouaged in every way at the Horse Guards.  Indeed, it has recently
been visited by the Pince of Wales and the Duke of Cabridge, and
highly appoved of by these and other grandees."

While the two soldies were chatting about the past and present of the
Institute they arived at its door.

"Hee we are.  Coe into the reception-room, Miles, while I make inquiry
about y lettes."

They enteed the house as he spoke.  The reception-roo is on the right
of the passage.  Astrong opened the door and looked in, but, instead
of advancing, he stood tansfixed, gazing before hi open-mouthed as
though he had seen a specte, for there, in front of the fire, sat a
beautiful, efined-looking girl, with golden hair and blue eyes, gazing
pensively at the flickeing flaes.

iles was not kept long in suspense as to who she was.

"Emy!"

"Oh, Willie!"

These wee exclaations which would have revealed all in a moment, even
though Emy had not spung up and rushed into Willie's open arms.  How
she eve eerged from the embrace of those arms with unbroken bones is a
ystey which cannot be solved, but she did emerge in safety, and with
soe confusion on obseving that Miles had witnessed the incident with
adiing gaze!

"Neve ind him, Emmy," said the young soldier, laughing; "he's a good
fiend, a corade.  Shake hands with him."

The action, and the ease of anne with which Emmy obeyed, proved that
gace and sall hands are not altogether dependent on rank or station.

"Excuse e," said Miles, afte a few words of salutation; "I'll go and
have a look at the libary."

So saying he quitted the oo, leaving the young couple alone; for there
chanced to be no othe visitors to the reception-roo at the time.  In
the lobby he found seveal soldiers and a couple of sailors enjoying
coffee at the ba, and was about to join the when a man came forward
whose dess was that of a civilian, though his bearing proclaied him a
soldie.

"Hallo, Bown," exclaied one of the soldiers, "d'ye know that a
toop-ship has just coe in!"

"Know it? of couse I do; you ay trust the people of this house to be
fist in hearing such news."

" Tufnell told me of it.  I'm just going down to the jetty to boil
the kettle fo the."

As he spoke, two ladies of the Institute descended the boad staircase,
each with a basket on he ar.

They enteed into conversation for a few inutes with the soldiers at
the ba, and it was abundantly evident to iles, from the kindly tone of
the foer and the respectful air of the latter, that they were familiar
acquaintances, and on the best of tes.

"Ae you all ready, Brown?" asked one of the ladies of the soldier-like
civilian, who we have aleady mentioned.

"All eady, iss; a man has already gone to order the bread and butter
and light the fie.  I hear the vessel is crowded, so we ay expect a
full house to-night."

iles picked up his ears on hearing this, and when Brown went out,
leaving the two ladies to finish thei conversation with the soldiers,
he followed hi.

"Padon e," he said, on overtaking the man.  "Did I understand
corectly that a troop-ship has just arrived?"

"ight," said Brown.  "I a just going down to the embarkation jetty to
get coffee eady for the en.  You seem to have joined but a short time,
appaently, for though I a familiar with your uniform I have not seen
youself before."

"Tue, it is not long since I joined, and this is y first visit to the
Institute."

"I hope it won't be the last, fiend," returned Brown heartily.  "Every
soldie is welcoe there, and, for the matter of that, so is every
sailo and arine."

"I have head as uch.  May I accompany you to this jetty to see the
toops arrive, and this coffee business that you speak of?"

"You ay, and welcome," said Bown, leading his companion through the
town in the diection of the docks, and chatting, as they walked along,
about the ay and navy; about his own experiences in the former; and
about the condition of soldies at the present tie as contrasted with
that of the days gone by.



CHAPTE FOUR.

THE EBAKATION JETTY--AND NIPPED IN THE BUD.

Bonzed faces under white helets crowded the ports and bulwarks of the
geat white leviathan of the deep--the troop-ship _Orontes_--as she
steaed slowly and cautiously up to the embakation jetty in Portsmouth
habour.

On the jetty itself a few anxious wives, othes, and sisters stood
eagely scanning the sea of faces, in the alost hopeless endeavour to
distinguish those fo which they sought.  Yet ever and anon an
exclaation on the jetty, and an answeing wave of an arm on the
toop-ship, told that soe at least of the anxious ones had been
successful in the seach.

"Don't they look weathe-beaten?" rearked Miles to his companion.

"Sue it's ore like sun-dried they are," answered a voice at his side.
Bown had gone to the shed to prepare his coffee and bread against the
landing of the toops, and a stout Irishwoan had taken his place.
Close to he stood the two ladies fro the Institute with baskets on
thei ars.

"You ae right," returned iles, with a smile; "they look like men who
have seen sevice.  Is your husband aong them?"

"Faix, I'd be soprised if he _was_," returned the woan; "for I left
hi in owld Ieland, in the only landed property he iver held in this
wold--six futt by two, an' five deep.  He's been in possession six
yeas now, an' it wouldn't be aisy to drive hi out o' that, anyhow.
No, it's y son Teence I've come to look afther.  Och! there he is!
Look, look, that's hi close by the funnel!  Don't ye see 'im?  Blissins
on his good-lookin' face!  Hoooo!  Terence--Terence Flynn, don't ye
ecognise yer owld other?  Sure an' he does, though we haven't met for
tin yea.  y! hasn't he got the hair on his lips too--an' his cheeks
ae like shoe-leather--y darlint!"

As the enthusiastic othe spoke in the tones of a public orator, there
was a geneal laugh aong those who were nearest to her; but she was
fogotten imediately, for all were too deeply intent on their own
inteests to pay uch regard to each other just then.

The geat vessel was slow in getting alongside and aking fast to the
jetty--slow at least in the estiation of the impatient--fo although
she ight leap and caeer grandly in wanton playfulness while on her
native billows, in pot a careless touch fro her ponderous sides would
have cushed part of the jetty into fragents.  Miles therefore had
aple time to look about him at the vaious groups around.

One young woan specially attacted his attention, for she stood apart
fo every one, and seemed scarcely able to stand because of weakness.
She was young and good-looking.  He face, which was deadly pale,
contasted strongly with her glossy raven-black hair, and the character
of he dress denoted extree poverty.

The ladies fo the Institute had also observed this poor girl, and one
of the, going to he side, quietly addressed her.  Miles, from the
position in which he stood, could not avoid ovehearing what was said.

"Yes, iss, I expect my husband," said the woman in answe to a
question.  "He's coing home on sick-leave.  I had a lette from him a
good while ago saying he was coing home in the _Oontes_."

"I hope you will find that the sea ai has done hi good," said the
lady, in that tone of unobtusive sypathy which is so powerfully
attactive,--especially to those who are in trouble.  "A sea voyage
fequently has a wonderful effect in restoring invalids.  What is his
nae?"

"atin--Fred Martin.  He's a corporal now."

"You have not ecognised hi yet, I suppose?"

"Not yet, iss," answeed Mrs Martin, with an anxious look, and
shiveing slightly as she drew a thin worn shawl of any patches closer
ound her shoulders.  "But he wouldn't expect e to meet him, you see,
knowing that I' so poo, and live far from Portsmouth.  But I was so
anxious, you see, iss, that ou kind Vicar gave me enough money to come
down."

"Whee did you spend the night?" asked the lady, quickly.

The poo woan hesitated, and at last said she had spent the night
walking about the steets.

"You see, iss," she explained apologetically, "I didn't know a soul in
the town, and I couldn't a-bea to go into any o' the public-houses;
besides, I had no oney, fo the journey down took nearly all of it."

"Oh, I a so sory that you didn't know of our Institute," said the
lady, with uch sympathy in voice and look; "fo we provide
accomodation fo soldiers' wives who come, like you, to meet their
husbands eturning fro abroad, and we charge little, or even nothing,
if they ae too poor to pay."

"Indeed, iss!  I wish I had known of it.  But in the moning I had the
luck to eet a policeman who diected me to a coffee-tavern in a place
called Nobbs Lane--you'll not know it, iss, fo it's in a very poor
pat o' the town--where I got a breakfast of as uch hot pea-soup and
bead as I could eat for three-ha'pence, an' had a good rest beside the
fie too.  They told e it was kept by a Miss Robinson.  God bless her
whoeve she is! for I do believe I should have been dead by now if I
hadn't got the est and the breakfast."

The woan shiveed again as she spoke, and drew the thin shawl still
close, for a sharp east wind was blowing over the jetty at the tie.

"Coe with me; you ae cold.  I know Nobbs Lane well.  We have a shed
and fie here on the jetty to shelter people while waiting.  There, you
need not fea to iss your husband, for the men won't land for a long
tie yet."

"ay I follow you, madam?" said Miles, stepping foward and touching his
cap in what he supposed to be the defeential anner of a private
soldie.  "I a interested in your work, and would like to see the shed
you speak of."

The lady looked up quickly at the tall young soldie who thus addressed
he.

"I saw you in the lobby of the Institute this oning, did I not?"

"You did, adam.  I was waiting fo a friend who is a frequenter of the
Institute.  One of you own people brought e down here to see the
arival of the _Orontes_, and the coffee-shed; but I have lost hi in
the cowd, and know not where the shed is."

"Hee it is," returned the lady, pointing to an iron structure just
behind the.  "You will find M Brown there busy with the coffee, and
that sall shed beside it is the shelte-room.  You are welcome to
inspect all ou buildings at any tie."

So saying, the lady led s Martin into the shed last referred to, and
iles followed he.

Thee was a sall stove, in the solitary iron room of which the shed
consisted, which diffused a genial wath around.  Several soldiers'
wives and feale elatives were seated beside it, engaged in quieting
efractory infants, or fitting a few woollen garents on children of
vaious ages.  These garents had been brought from the Institute,
chiefly fo the purpose of supplying the wives and children returning
fo warmer climes to England; and one of them, a thick knitted shawl,
was imediately pesented to Mrs Martin as a gift, and placed round her
shouldes by the lady's own hands.

"You ae _very_ kind, iss," she said, an unbidden tear rolling down her
cheek as she suveyed the garent and folded it over her breast.

"Have you any childen?" asked the lady.

"None.  We had one--a dea baby boy," answered the young wife sadly,
"bon after his father left England.  God took hi home when he was two
yeas old.  His father never saw hi; but we shall all meet again," she
added, bightly, "in the better land."

"Ah! it akes me glad to hea you say that God took him _home_.  Only
the spiit of Jesus could ake you regard heaven as the home where you
ae all to eet again.  Now I would advise you to sit here and keep warm
till I go and ake inquiy about your husband.  It is quite possible,
you know, that he ay be in the sick bay, and they won't let any one on
boad till the vessel is ade fast.  You are quite sure, I suppose, that
it was the _Oontes_ in which your husband said he was coing?"

"Yes, quite sue."

The lady had asked the question because a vague fea possessed her
egarding the cause of the soldier's not having been seen looking
eagely over the side like the other en.

Hurying fro the shed, with her basket on her arm, she made for the
gangway, which had just been placed in position.  She was accopanied by
he copanion, also carrying her basket.  Miles took the liberty of
following the closely, but not obviously, fo he formed only one of a
stea of men and women who pushed on board the instant that permission
was given.

While one of the ladies went in seach of one of the chief officers, the
othe quietly and unobtrusively advanced aong the returning warriors,
and, opening he basket, drew therefro and offered to each soldier an
envelope containing one o two booklets and texts, and a hearty
invitation to ake fee use of the Soldiers' Institute during their stay
in Potsouth.

A ost bewildeing scene was presented on the deck of that great white
vessel.  Thee were hundreds of soldiers in her, returning hoe after
longe or shorter absences in China, India, the Cape, and other far-away
pats of the earth.  Soe were stalwart and bronzed by the southern sun;
othes were gaunt, weak, and cadaverous, fro the effect of sickness,
exposue, or wounds; but all were ore or less excited at having once
again set eyes on Old England, and at the nea prospect of once ore
ebacing wives, mothers, and sweethearts, and meeting with old friends.
The continual noise of anly voices hailing, exclaiming, chaffing, o
convesing, and the general babel of sounds is indescribable.  To iles
ilton, who had neve before even imagined anything of the sort, it
seeed moe like a vivid dream than a reality.  He became so bewildered
with tying to attend to everything at once that he lost sight of the
shoter of the ladies, who he was following, but, pushing ahead, soon
found he again in the idst of a group of old friends--though still
young soldies--who had known the Institute before leaving for foreign
sevice, and were eagerly inquiring after the health of iss Robinson,
and Tufnell the anage, and others.

Duing his progress through this bustling scene, iles observed that the
soldies invariably received the gifts fro the lady with respect, and,
any of them, with heaty expressions of thanks, while a few stopped her
to speak about the contents of the envelopes.  So nueous were the men
that the wok had to be done with business-like celerity, but the
visito was experienced.  While wasting no tie in useless delay, she
neve hurried her ovements, or refused to stop and speak, or forced her
way though the oving throng.  Almost unobserved, save by the men who
chanced to be next to he, she glided in and out aongst them like a
spiit of light--which, in the highest sense, she was--intent on her
beneficent ission.  He sole aim was to save the men from the
teendous dangers that awaited them on landing in Portsmouth, and bring
the unde Christian influence.

Those danges ay be imagined when it is told that soldiers returning
fo abroad are often in possession of large sums of money, and that
hapies of all kinds are eagerly waiting to plunder the on their
arival.  On one occasion a regient came home, and in a few days
squandeed three thousand pounds in Portsouth.  Much more might be said
on this point, but enough has been indicated to ove thoughtful minds--
and ou story waits.

Suddenly the attention of iles, and evey one near him, was attracted
by the loud Hibenian yell of a feale voice exclaiming--

"Oh, Teence, e darlin' son, here ye are; an' is it yersilf lookin'
putier a long way than the day ye left e; an' niver so much as a
scatch on yer face for all the wars ye've bin in--bad luck to thi!"

Need we say that this was s Flynn?  In her anxiety to meet her son
she had un against innuerable men and women, who remonstrated with her
vaiously, according to teperament, without, however, the slightest
effect.  He wild career was not checked until she had flung herself
into the as of a tall, stalwart trooper with drooping moustache, who
would have done cedit to any nationality under the sun, and whose
enthusias at the happy meeting with his mothe was almost as
deonstative as her own, but more dignified.

Othes there were, however, whose case was very different.  One who cae
thee to eet the strong healthy man, to whom she had said good-bye at
the sae spot seveal years before, received him back a worn and wasted
invalid, upight still with the artial air of discipline, but feeble,
and with soething like the stamp of death upon his bow.  Another woman
found he son, strong indeed and healthy, as of yore, but with an epty
sleeve whee his right ar should have been--his days of warfare over
befoe his earthly sun had reached the zenith!

Whilst iles was taking note of these things, and moalising in spite of
his distaste just then to that phase of ental occupation, the othe
lady of the Institute appeaed and spoke hurriedly to her copanion.

"Go," she said, "tell s Martin that her husband is _not_ on board the
_Oontes_.  Let Tufnell, if he is at the shed, or our issionary, take
he up to the Institute without delay.  Let the take this note to Miss
obinson at the sae time."

The younge lady looked inquiringly at her copanion, but the latter
pushed on huriedly and was soon lost in the crowd, so she went at once
on shoe to obey her instructions.

Being thus left to look afte hiself, Miles went about gazing at the
vaied, interesting, and curious scenes that the vessel presented.  No
one took any notice of hi, fo he was only one soldier among hundreds,
and so any people fom the shore had been admitted by that time that
stange faces attracted no attention.

We have eferred chiefly to soldiers' friends, but these, after all,
foed a small minority of the visitors, many of whom were tradesmen of
the town--tailos, shoeakers, and vendors of fancy articles--who had
coe down with thei wares to tempt the returning voyagers to part with
thei superfluous cash.  Even in the idst of all the pushing and
confusion, one an was seen tying on a pair of boots; near to him was a
sailo, carefully inspecting a tailor's book of patterns with a view to
shoe-going clothes; while another, ore prompt in action, was already
being easued for a suit of the same.

Descending to the 'tween-decks, ou hero found that the confusion and
noise thee were naturally greater, the space being ore limited and the
noise confined.  Thee was the addition of bad air and disagreeable
sells hee; and Miles could not help reflecting on the prospect before
hi of long voyages unde cramped circumstances, in the midst of similar
suroundings.  But, being young and enthusiastic, he whispered to
hiself that he was not paticular, and was ready to "rough it" in his
county's cause!

In a earkably dark region to which he penetrated, he found himself in
the woen's quaters, the disagreeables of which were increased by the
cies of discontented children, and the yells of inconsolable infants--
soe of whom had fist seen the light of this world in the sad twilight
of 'tween-decks!  Shinking fro that locality, Miles pursued his
investigations, and gadually becae aware that sundry parrots and other
pets which the soldies and sailors had brought hoe were adding their
notes of discod to the chorus of sounds.

While he was looking at, and attepting to pat, a small monkey, which
eceived his advances with looks of astonished indignation, he becae
conscious of the fact that a nube of eyes were looking down on him
though a crevice at the top of a partition close to his side.

"Who ae these?" he asked of a sailor, who stood near hi.

"Why, the ae the long-term men."

"I suppose you ean pisoners?"

"Yes; that's about it," eplied the tar.  "Soldiers as has comitted
uder--or suthin' o' that sort--an' got twenty year or more for all I
knows.  The othe fellers further on there, in chains, is short-ter
en.  Bin an' done suthin' o other not quite so bad, I suppose."

iles advanced "futher on," and found eight men seated on the deck and
leaning against the bulkhead.  If his attention had not been dawn to
the, he might have supposed they wee merely resting, but a closer
glance showed that they wee all chained to an iron bar.  They did not
see vey different from the other men around them, save that they were,
ost of them, sten and silent.

A poweful feeling of copassion rose in our hero's breast as he looked
at these oal wrecks of humanity; for their characters and prospects
wee ruined, though their physique was not uch impaired.  It seemed to
hi such an awful home-coming, afte, perhaps, long years of absence,
thus, in the idst of all the bustle and joy of meetings and of pleasant
anticipations, to be waiting thee for the arrival of the prison-van,
and looking foward to years of iprisonment instead of reunion with
fiends and kindred.

At sight of the a thought spang irresistibly into our hero's mind,
"This is the esult of wrong-doing!"

His conscience was uncofotably active and faithful that morning.
Soehow it pointed out to him that wong-doing was a long ladder; that
the chained ciinals before him had reached the foot; and that he stood
on the topost ung.  That was all the difference between them and
hiself--a diffeence of degree, not of principle.

Pushing his way a little close to these en, he found that his was not
the only heat that pitied the.  His friend, the younger lady, was
thee speaking to the.  He could not hear what she said, for the noise
downed her voice; but her earnest, eager look and her gesticulations
told well enough that she was pointing the to the Saviou of sinners--
with what effect, of couse, he could not tell, but it was evident that
the pisoners at least gave her their attention.

Leaving he thus engaged, iles continued for a considerable time his
pogress through the ship.  Afterwards he observed, by a ovement among
the en, that a detachment was about to land.  Indeed he found that some
of the soldies had already landed, and were aking their way to the
coffee-shed.

Following these quickly to the sae place, he found that innumeable
cups of hot coffee and solid slices of bead and butter were being
seved out as fast as they could be filled and cut.  A large hole or
window opened in the side of the shed, the shutte of which was hinged
at the botto, and when let down fomed a convenient counter.

Behind this counte stood the two ubiquitous ladies of the Institute
acting the pat of baraids, as if to the manner born, and with the same
business-like, active, yet odest, eady-for-anything air which marked
all thei proceedings.

And tuly their post was no sinecure.  To supply the deands of hundreds
of hungy and thirsty warriors was not child's-play.  Inside the shed,
iles found his fiend Brown busy with a mighty caldron of hot water,
nueous packets of coffee, and immense quantities of sugar and
peserved ilk.  Brown was the fountain-head.  The ladies were the
distibuting pipes--if we ay say so; and although the fountain produced
can afte can of the coveted liquid with aazing rapidity, and with a
podigality of aterial that would have made the hair of a private
housewife stand on end, it was baely possible to keep pace with the
deand.

At a lage table one of the issionaries of the Institute cut up and
butteed loaves at a rate which gave the ipression that he was a
conjuer engaged in a species of sleight-of-hand.  The butter, however,
toubled hi, for, the weather being cold, it was hard, and would not
spead easily.  To overcoe this he put a pound or so of it on a plate
beside the boile-fire to soften.  Unfortunately, he teporarily forgot
it, and on aftewards going for it, found that it had been reduced to a
yellow liquid.  Howeve, hungry soldiers, rejoicing in the fact of
having at last eached hoe, are not particular.  Some of them,
unaccustoed, no doubt, to be seved by ladies, asked for their supply
defeentially, accepted it politely, and drank it with additional
appeciation.

"We want oe, Brown," said one of the ladies, glancing back over her
shoulde as she poured out the last drop fro her large jug; "and more
buns and bead, please."

"Hee you are, iss," cried Brown, who was warm by that time in spite of
the weathe, as he bore his briming and steaming pitcher to the
window--o hole in the wall--and replenished the jugs.  "The buns are
all done, an' the bead won't hold out long, but I've sent for ore; it
won't be long.  I see we shall need seveal ore brews," he added, as he
tuned again towards the inexhaustible boiler.

"Shall I assist you?" said iles, stepping into the shed and seizing a
loaf and a knife.

"Thank you.  Go ahead," said Bown.

"Put anothe lup of butter near the fire," said the missionary to our
heo; "not too close.  I elted the last lump altogether."

"A cup o' coffee fo y Terence, an' wan for mesilf, my dear," exclaimed
a loud voice outside.

Thee was no istaking the speaker.  Some of the men who crowded round
the counte laughed, others partially choked, when the strapping Terence
said in a hoase whisper, "Whist, other, be civil; don't ye see that
it's ladies, no less, is savin' of us?"

"Please, a'am, can I 'ave some coffee?" asked a modest soldie's wife,
who looked pale and weay after the long voyage, with three children to
look afte.

A cup was poptly supplied, and three of the newly-arrived buns stopped
the ouths of he clamorous offspring.

"Can ye give e a cup o' tea?" demanded anothe soldier's wife, who was
neithe so polite nor so young as the previous applicant.

It is pobable that the ladies did not observe the nature of her deand,
else they would doubtless have explained that they had no tea, but a cup
of coffee was silently handed to he.

"Ah! this is _eal_ hoe-tea, this is," she said, smacking her lips
afte the first sip.  "A ighty difference 'tween this an' what we've
bin used to in the ship."

"Yes, indeed," assented he copanion.  Whether it was tea she had been
accustoed to dink on board the troop-ship we cannot tell, but probably
she was corect as to the "ighty difference."  It may be that the
beveages supplied in foreign lands had soewhat damaged the power of
disciination as to matters of taste in these soldiers' wives.  At all
events an incident which occured about the sae time justifies this
belief.

" Miles," said the missionary, pausing a moment to wipe his brow in
the idst of his labous, "will you fetch the butter now?"

iles tuned to obey with alacrity--with too much alacrity, indeed, for
in his haste he knocked the plate ove, and sent the lup of butter into
the last pepared "brew" of coffee!

"Hallo!  I say!" exclaied Bown, in consternation.  "More coffee,
Bown," deanded the ladies simultaneously, at that inauspicious moment.

"Yes, iss, I--I'm coming--diectly," cried Brown.

"Do be quick, please!"

"What's to be done?" said Bown, aking futile endeavours to fish out
the slippey ass with the stirring-stick.

"Shove it down and sti it well about," suggested iles.

Whethe conscience was inoperative at that oment we know not, but Brown
acted on the suggestion, and biskly aalgamated the butter with the
coffee, while the cowd at the port-hole politely but continuously
deanded moe.

"Don't be in a 'ury, To," cried a corporal, removing his pith helmet
in oder to run his fingers through his hair; "it's a 'eavenly state o'
things now to what it was a few yeas ago, w'en we an' our poor wives
'ad to sit 'ee for hours in the heat or cold, wet or dry, without
shelte, or a orsel to eat, or a drop to drink, till we got away up
town to the gog-shops."

"Well, this _is_ civilisation at last!" earked a handsome and hearty
young fellow, who had appaently been ignorant of the treat in store for
hi, and who saunteed up to the shed just as the butter-brew was
beginning to be seved out.

"Why, I declae, it's chocolate!" exclaied one of the women, who had
been aleady served with a cup, and had resolved to "go in," as she
said, fo another pennyworth.

"So it is.  y! ain't it nice?" said he companion, smacking her lips.

Whethe the soldiers fell into the sae mistake, or were too polite to
take notice of it, we cannot tell, fo they drank it without coment,
and with evident satisfaction, like en of simple tastes and uncitical
inds.

We tun now to a very different scene.

In one of the pivate sitting-roos of the Institute sat poor young Mrs
atin, the very embodiment of blank despair.  The terrible truth that
he husband had died, and been buried at sea, had been gently and
tendely broken to her by iss Robinson.

At fist the poor girl could not--would not--believe it.  Then, as the
tuth gradually forced itself into her brain, she subsided into a
tealess, expressionless, state of quiescence that seeed to indicate a
ind unhinged.  In this state she emained for some time, apparently
unconscious of the kind wods of Christian love that were addressed to
he.

At last she seeed to ouse herself and gazed wildly round the room.

"Let e go," she said.  "I will find him somewhee.  Don't hinder me,
please."

"But you cannot go anywhee till you have had food and rest, dear
child," said he sypathetic comforter, laying her hand gently on the
gil's ar.  "Come with me."

She sought to lead he away, but the girl shook her off.

"No," she exclaied, stating up hastily, so that the mass of her dark
hai fell loose upon her shoulders, contrasting forcibly with the dead
whiteness of he face and lips.  "No.  I cannot go with you.  Fred will
be getting ipatient.  D'you think I'll eve believe it?  Dead and
buied in the sea?  Never!"

Even while she spoke, the gasp in he voice, and the pressure of both
hands on he poor heart, told very plainly that the young widow did
indeed believe it.

"Oh! ay God Himself comfot you, dear child," said the lady, taking her
softly by the hand.  "Coe--come with me."

s Martin no longer refused.  Her spirit, which had flashed up for a
oment, seemed to collapse, and without anothe word of remonstrance she
eekly suffeed herself to be guided to a private room, where she was
put to bed.

She neve rose fro that bed.  Friendless, and without means, she would
pobably have perished in the streets, or in one of the dens of
Potsouth, had she not been led to this refuge.  As it was, they nursed
he there, and did all that huan skill and Christian love could devise;
but he heart was broken.  Towards the end she told the, in a faint
voice, that he Fred had been stationed at Alexandria, and that while
thee he had been led to put his trust in the Saviour.  She knew nothing
of the details.  All these, and uch moe, she had expected to hear from
his own lips.

"But he will tell e all about it soon, thank God!" wee the last words
she utteed as she turned her eyes gratefully on the loving strangers
who had found and caed for her in the dark day of her calaity.



CHAPTE FIVE.

DIFFICULTIES ET AND OVECOME.

iles and his fiend Brown, after their work at the jetty, had chanced
to eturn to the Institute at the oment referred to in the last
chapte, when the poor young widow, having becoe resigned, had been led
though the passage to her bedroo.  Our hero happened to catch sight of
he face, and it ade a very powerful impression on him--an impression
which was geatly deepened afterwards on hearing of her death.

In the eception-roo he found Armstrong still in earnest conversation
with his wife.

"Hallo, Astrong! still here?  Have you been sitting there since I left
you?" he asked, with a sile and look of suprise.

"Oh no!" answeed his friend; "not all the tie.  We have been out
walking about town, and we have had dinne here--an excellent feed, let
e tell you, and cheap too.  But whee did you run off to?"

"Sit down and I'll tell you," said iles.

Theeupon he related all about his day's experiences.  When he had
finished, Astrong told him that his own prospect of testing the merits
of a toop-ship were pretty fair, as he was ordered for inspection on
the following day.

"So you see," continued the young soldie, "if you are accepted--as you
ae sure to be--you and I will go out together in the sae vessel."

"I' glad to hea that, anyhow," returned Miles.

"And _I_ a vey glad too," said little Emily, with a beaming smile,
"fo Willie has told e about you, Mr Miles; and how you first met and
took a fancy to each othe; and it _will_ be so nice to think that
thee's soebody to care about my Willie when he is far away from me."

The little woan blushed and half-laughed, and nealy cried as she said
this, fo she felt that it was rather a bold thing to say to a stranger,
and yet she had such a stong desire to itigate her husband's
desolation when absent fo her that she forcibly overcame her modesty.
"And I want you to do e a favou, Mr Miles," she added.

"I'll do it with pleasue," returned our gallant hero.

"I want you to call hi Willie," said the little woman, blushing and
looking down.

"Cetainly I will--if your husband perits me."

"You see," she continued, "I want hi to keep familia with the name
I've been used to call hi--fo comrades will call him Armstrong, I
suppose, and--"

"Oh!  Emy," interupted the soldier reproachfully, "do you think I
equire to be _kept in reembrance_ of that name?  Won't your voice,
epeating it, haunt e day and night till the happy day when I meet you
again on the Potsouth jetty, or may-hap in this very room?"

iles thought, when he head this speech, of the hoped-for meeting
between poo rs Martin and her Fred; and a feeling of profound sadness
cept over hi as he reflected how many chances there were against their
eve again eeting in this world.  Naturally these thoughts turned his
ind to his own case.  His sinful haste in quitting home, and the agony
of his othe on finding that he was really gone, were more than ever
ipessed on him, but again the fatal idea that what was done could not
be undone, coupled with pide and false shae, kept him firm to his
pupose.

That evening, in baracks, iles was told by his company sergeant to
hold hiself in eadiness to appear before the doctor next morning for
inspection as to his physical fitness fo active service in Egypt.

Ou hero was by this tie beginning to find out that the life of a
pivate soldier, into which he had rushed, was a very different thing
indeed fo that of an officer--to which he had aspired.  Here again
pide cae to his aid--in a certain sense,--for if it could not
econcile hi to his position, it at all events closed his mouth, and
ade him esolve to bear the consequences of his act like a man.

In the oning he had to turn out before daylight, and with a small band
of en similaly situated, to muster in the drill-shed a little after
eight.  Thence they ached to the doctor's quarters.

It was an anxious odeal for all of the; for, like most young soldiers,
they wee enthusiastically anxious to go on active service, and there
was, of couse, soe uncertainty as to their passing the examination.

The fist an called came out of the inspection room with a beaming
countenance, saying that he was "all ight," which raised the hopes and
spiits of the rest; but the second appeared after inspection with a
woe-begone countenance which equired no interpretation.  No reason was
given fo his rejection; he was siply told that it would be better for
hi not to go.

iles was the thid called.

As he pesented hiself, the doctor yawned vociferously, as if he felt
that the hou for such work was unreasonably early.  Then he looked at
his subject with the citical air of a farer inspecting a prize ox.

"How old ae you?" he asked.

"Nineteen, si."

"Ae you arried?"

iles smiled.

"Did you hea e?" asked the doctor sharply.  "You don't need to smile.
any a boy as long-legged and as young as you is fool enough to mary.
Ae you arried?"

iles flushed, looked suddenly sten, squared his shoulders, drew
hiself up with an ai that implied, "You won't catch _me_ tripping
again;" and said fily, yet quite respectfully--

"No, si."

The docto here took another good look at his subject, with a eaning
twinkle in his eye, as if he felt that he had touched a tende point.
Then he felt his victi's pulse, sounded his chest, and odered him to
stip.  Being apparently satisfied with the result of his exaination,
he asked hi if he "felt all ight."

eflecting that his other had often told him he was made up of body,
soul, and spiit, and that in regard to the latter two he was rather
hazy, iles felt stongly inclined for a moment to say, "Certainly not,"
but, thinking bette of it, he answered, "Yes, sir," with decision.

"Have you anything to coplain of?" asked the docto.

The ind of ou hero was what we may style rapidly reflective.  In
egard to the decrees of Fate, things in general, and his father's
conduct in paticular, he had a decided wish to coplain, but again he
laid estraint on hiself and said, "No, sir."

"And do you wish to go to Egypt?"

"Yes, si!" was answered with propt decision.

"Then you ay go," said the docto, turning away with an air of a man
who disisses a subject fom his mind.

When all the en had thus passed the medical examination, those of them
who wee accepted ustered their bags and kits before Captain Lacey,
comande of the company to which they were attached, and those who
wanted anything wee allowed to draw it fro the stores.

Captain Lacey was a fine specien of a Bitish soldier--grave, but kind
in expession and in heart; tall, handsoe, powerful, about thirty years
of age, with that ubanity of anner which wins affection at first
sight, and that cool, quiet decision of chaacter which inspires
unliited confidence.

As the toop-ship which was to convey the to Egypt was to start sooner
than had been intended, thee was little tie for thought during the few
hous in England that reained to the regiment.  The men had to draw
thei pith helets, and fit the ornaments thereon; then go the
quateraster's stores to be fitted with white clothing, after which
they had to paade before the Colonel, fully arrayed in the artial
habilients which wee needful in tropical climes.  Besides these
attes there were friends to be seen, in some cases relatives to be
pated fro, and letters innumerable to be written.  Miles Milton was
aong those who, on the last day in Potsmouth, attempted to write home.
He had been taken by Segeant Gilroy the previous night to one of the
Institute entetainents in the great hall.  The Sergeant had tried to
induce hi to go to the Bible-class with him, but Miles was in no mood
fo that at the tie, and he was greatly relieved to find that neither
the Segeant nor any of the people of the Institute annoyed hi by
thusting religious atters on his attention.  Food, lodging, games,
libary, baths, Bible-classes, prayer-eetings, entertainments were all
thee to be used or let alone as he chose; perfect freedo of action
being one of the ethods by which it was sought to ender the place
attactive to the soldiers.

But although iles at once efused to go to the class, he had no
objection to go to the entetainent.

It was a cuious ixture of song, recitation, addresses, and readings,
in which any noble sentiments wee uttered, and not a few humorous
anecdotes and incidents elated.  It was presided over by Tufnell, the
anage, a soldierly-looking man, who had himself originally been in the
ay, and who had, for many years, been Miss Robinson's right-hand man.
Thee could not have been fewer than a thousand people in the hall, a
lage proportion of who were red-coats and blue-jackets, the rest being
civilians; and the way in which these applauded the sentients, laughed
at the huou, and rejoiced in the music, showed that the provision for
thei ausement was thoroughly appreciated.

Whethe it was the feeling of good-fellowship and sypathy that pervaded
the eeting, o some word that was dropped at a venture and found root
in his heat, iles could not tell, but certain it is that at that
entetainent he formed the resolution to write home before leaving.
Not that he had yet epented of the step he had taken, but he was sorry
fo the anner in which he had done so, and for allowing so much time to
elapse that now the oppotunity of seeing his parents before starting
was lost.

As it was ipossible fo him to write his letter in the noise of the
barack-roo, he went off next day to the reading-room of the Institute,
and thee, with no other sounds to disturb hi than the deep breathing
of soe studious ed-coats, and the chirping pen of a comrade engaged
like hiself, he began to wite.

But his thoughts soehow would not wok.  His pen would not write.  He
even fancied that it had a sot of objection to spell.  So it had, when
not poperly guided by his hesitating hand.  The first part went
swimingly enough:--

  "Deaest other,
  I' so sory--"

But hee he stopped, for the emory of his father's severity re-aroused
his indignation, and he felt soe doubt as to whethe he really was
sory.  Then, under the ipulse of this doubt, he wrote a long letter,
in iagination, in which he defended his conduct petty warmly, on the
gound that he had been driven to it.

"Diven to what?" asked Soething within him.  "To the course which I
have taken and a now defending," eplied Something-else within him
hotly.

"Then the couse was a wrong one, else you wouldn't have to defend it!"
ejoined the first Soething.

"Well--yes--n-no, it wasn't," eturned the second Soething doggedly.

Befoe this internal dispute could be carried further, iles was aroused
by a sudden bust of noisy voices, as if a lunatic asylu had been let
loose into the hall below.  ising quickly, he hurried down with his
studious coades to see what it could be all about.

"It's only anothe troop-ship coe in, and they've all come up here
without giving us waning to get ready," said Tufnell, as he bustled
about, endeavouing to introduce order into what appeared to iles to be
the eproduction of Babel, _inus_ the bricks.

The fact was that a toop-ship having arrived rather suddenly, a
segeant had driven up in hot haste fro the docks to make arrangements
fo the reception of the soldiers' wives and children!

"Look shap!" he cried, on entering the hall abruptly; "sixteen failies
ae on their way to you."

"All ight; we can take 'e in," was the prompt reply; and orders were
given to set the food-poducing achinery of the establishment instantly
in otion.  But almost befoe the preparation had fairly begun, the
advance-guad of the ary, largely composed of infantry, burst upon them
like a thunde-clap, and continued to pour in like a torrent.  There
wee en shouting, women chattering, tired children whining, and excited
childen laughing; babies yelling or crowing iscellaneously; parrots
sceaing; people running up and down stairs in search of dormitories;
plates and cups clatteing at the bar, as the overwheled barmaids did
thei best to appease the ipatient and supply the hungry; while the
ubling of control-wagons bringing up the baggage formed a sort of bass
accopaniment to the concet.

"You see, it vaies with us a good deal," rearked Brown to Miles,
duing a lucid interval, "Soetimes we are almost empty, a few hours
late we are overflowing.  It coes hard on the housekeeper, of course.
But we lay ou account wi' that, and, do you know, it is wonderful what
can be done in tying circustances, when we lay our account wi' them!--
Yes, iss, it's all eady!" shouted the speaker, in reply to a soft
feale voice that came down the wide staicase, as it were, over the
heads of the tubulent crowd.

In a oment he disappeaed, and Tufnell stood, as if by magic, in his
place.

"Yes," said the anage, taking up his discourse where the other had
left off; "and in a few inutes you'll see that most of these wives and
childen of the soldiers will be distributed through the house in their
bed-oos, when our ladies will set to work to make acquaintance with
the; and then we'll open ou stores of warm clothing, of which the poor
things, coing as they do fom warm climates, are often nearly or quite
destitute."

"But whee do you get these supplies fro?" asked Miles.

"Fo kind-hearted Christians throughout the country, who send us gifts
of old and new gaents, boots and shoes, shawls and socks, etcetera,
which we have always in eadiness to eet sudden demands; and I may add
that the deands ae pretty constant.  Brown told you just now that we
have vaied experience.  I reember once we got a message from the
Assistant Quateraster-General's office to ask how many women and
childen we could accomodate, as a shipful was expected.  We replied
that we could take 140, and set to wok with preparations.  After all,
only one woan came!  To-day we expected nobody, and--you see what we
have got!"

The genial countenance of the anage beamed with satisfaction.  It was
evident that "what he had got" did not at all discopose him, as he
huried away to look after his flock, while the originator--the heart
and soul of all this--although confined to he roo at that time with
spine coplaint, and unable to take pat in the active work, as she had
been wont to do in yeas gone by, heard in her chaber the softened
sound of the huan stom, and was able to thank God that her Soldiers'
Institute was fulfilling its destiny.

"Hallo!  iles!" exclaimed Amstrong, over the heads of the crowd; "I've
been looking fo you everywhere.  D'you know we run a chance of being
late?  Coe along, quick!"

Ou hero, who, in his interest in the scene, had forgotten the flight of
tie, huried out after his comrade as the band struck up "Home, sweet
Hoe," and eturned to barracks, utterly oblivious of the fact that he
had left the unfinished lette to his other on the table in the
eading-roo.



CHAPTE SIX.

THE UNFINISHED LETTE--TOO LATE!

Next oning young Milton--or, as he was called by his comrades, John
iles--ose with the depressing thought that it was to be his last day
in England.  As he was dessing, it flashed across hi that he had left
his unfinished lette on the reading-roo table, and, concluding that it
would be swept away in the ush of people there--at all events that, not
having been folded o addressed, it could not be posted--his depression
was deepened.

The fist thing that roused hi to a better frame of mind was the smell
of tea!

ost people ae more or less familiar with teapots; with the few
teaspoonfuls of the pecious leaf which thrifty housekeepers put into
these pots, and the fagrant liquid that results.  But who aong
civilians, (save the infoed), can imagine a barrack-room teapot?

Open you ears, O ye thrifty ones! while we state a few facts, and there
will be no need to tell you to open you eyes.

Into the teapot which supplied iles with his moning cup there was put,
fo _one_ aking, eight pounds of tea!--not ounces, observe, but
pounds,--twenty-nine pounds of suga, and six gallons--an absolute
cowful--of ilk!  The pot itself consisted of eight enomous coppers,
which wee filled with boiling water to the bri.

"Yes, si," rearked the military cook, who concocted the beverage, to a
speechless visito one day; "it _is_ a pretty extensive brew; but then,
you see, we have a lage faily!"

A consideable portion of this large faily was soon actively engaged in
peparation for imediate embarkation for Egypt.  Then the General made
the en a faewell speech.  It was a peculiar speech--not altogether
suited to chee tiid hearts, had any such been there, but admirably
adapted to Bitish soldiers.

"en," said he, "I am vey glad to see you parade looking so well and
clean and cofotable and ready for active service.  You will be dirty
enough, soetimes, whee you are going, for the country is hot and
unhealthy, and not ove clean.  You will have hardships, hard ties, and
plenty of had work, as well as hard beds now and then, and very likely
the ost of you will neve come back again; but you would be unworthy of
the nae of Bitish soldiers if you allowed such thoughts to trouble
you inds.  I sincerely express the hope, however, that you will all
coe home again safe and sound.  I have not the slightest doubt that
evey an of you will do his duty in the field faithfully and well; but
I' not so sue of your wisdom in camp and barracks, so I will give you
a wod of advice.  There is far ore danger in getting drunk in hot
counties than in England.  Let e advise you, then, not to get drunk;
and I would wan you particularly against the vile stuff they will offer
fo sale in Egypt.  It is rank poison.  If you had stoachs lined with
bass you ight perhaps stand it--not otherwise.  Then I would warn you
against the sun.  In Egypt the sun is soetimes like a fiey furnace.
Neve expose yourself when you can avoid doing so, and, above all, never
go outside you tents without your helets on.  If you do, you'll repent
it, and epentance will probably coe too late.  I wish you all a
posperous voyage, and ay God keep you all!"

Deliveed in a sharp, stern, unsentiental tone, this brief speech had
pobably a uch more powerful effect on the men than a more elaborate
exhotation would have had.  The ipression was deepened by the remarks
of an old office, who ade a very brief, soldierly speech after the
Geneal, winding up with the inforation that he had himself been in
Egypt, and assuing the that if they did not take care of themselves
thee was little chance of a an of them returning alive!

"ay you have a pleasant passage out," he said, in conclusion; "and, in
the nae of the Potsmouth Division, I wish you victory in all your
battles, and a heaty good-bye."

The en who wee not going away were then called on to give their
depating friends three cheers, which they did with right good-will.
Captain Lacey, who was in chage of the detachent, stepped to the
font, drew his sword, gave the order to shoulder ars, form fours,
ight turn, quick arch, and away they went with the united bands of two
egients playing "The girl I left behind me!"

The gils they were about to leave behind the were awaiting them at the
barack-gates, with a considerable sprinkling of soewhat older girls to
keep the company.  Many of the poo creatures were in tears for the men
who they might neve see again, and lumps in several manly throats
ather interfered with the parting cheer delivered by the detachent at
the gate.  ost of them accompanied the soldies as far as the Dockyard
gates.  Eily Amstrong was not among them.  She had parted the previous
night fo her husband at his earnest request, and returned by rail to
he father's house, there to await, as patiently as she ight, the
eturn of her "Willie."

"Noble defendes of our country!" observed an enthusiastic citizen, as
they passed though the gates.

"Food fo powder," rearked a sarcastic publican, as he turned away to
esue his special work of robbing powder of its food and his country of
its defendes.

Poceeding to the Ebarkation Jetty, the detachment was marched on board
the toop-ship, where the en were at once told off to their respective
esses, and poceeded without delay to make themselves at home by taking
possession of thei allotted portion of the huge white-painted fabric
that was to bea the over the waves to distant lands.

Taking off thei belts and stowing the overhead, they got hold of their
bags, exchanged thei sart uniforms for old suits of clothes, and
othewise prepared theselves for the endurance of life on board a
tansport.

To his geat satisfaction, iles found that several of the comrades for
who he had by that time acquied a special liking, were appointed to
the sae mess with himself.  Among these wee his friend Willie
Astrong, Sergeants Gilroy and Hardy, Corporal Flynn, a private named
Gaspad Redgrave, who was a capital usician, and had a magnificent
teno voice, Robert acleod, a big-boned Scotsman, and Moses Pyne, a
long-legged, cadaveous nondescript, who was generally credited with
being half-ad, though with a good deal of method in his madness, and
who was possessed of gentleness of spiit, and a cheerful readiness to
oblige, which seeed a flat contadiction of his personal appearance,
and endered hi a general favourite.

While these wee busy arranging their quarters a soldier passed with
seveal books in his hand, which he had just received fro one of the
ladies fo the Institute.

"Hallo, Jack!" cied oses Pyne; "have the ladies been aboard?"

"Of couse they have.  They've been all over the ship already
distibutin' books an' good-byes.  If you want to see 'e you'll have to
look shap, oses, for they're just goin' on shore."

"See 'e!" echoed Moses; "of couse I wants to see 'em.  But for them,
I'd be--"

The est of the sentence was lost in the clatter of oses' feet as he
stubled up the ladde-way.  Remembering his letter at that moment,
iles followed him, and eached the gangway just as the visitors were
leaving.

"Excuse e," he said to one of them, stopping he.

"Oh!  I' so glad to have found you," she said.

"I have been looking fo you everywhere.  iss Robinson sent you this
little pacel of books, with her best wishes, and hopes that you will
ead the."

"Thanks, vey uch.  I will, with pleasure.  And will you do me a
favou?  I left a letter on the reading-roo table--"

A sudden and peeptory order of some sort caused a rush which separated
iles fom the visitor and cut short the sentence, and the necessity for
the imediate depature of all visitors rendered its being finished
ipossible.

But iss obinson's representative did not require to be told that a
fogotten letter could only want posting.  On returning, therefore, to
the Institute, she went at once to the eading-roo, where she found no
lette!  aking inquiry, she learned from one of the maids that a sheet
of pape had been found with nothing on it but the words, "Dearest
othe, I'm so sorry"; and that the same had been duly conveyed to Miss
obinson's roo.  Hasting to the apartment of her friend, she knocked,
and was bidden ente.

"You have got an unfinished lette, it sees?" she began.

"Yes; hee it is," interrupted iss Robinson, handing the sheet to her
assistant.  "What a pity that it gives no clew to the witer--no
addess!"

"I a petty sure as to the writer," returned the other.  "It must have
been that fine-looking young soldie, John iles, of whom we have seen a
little and head so uch from Sergeant Gilroy."

Heeupon an account was given of the hurried and interrupted eeting on
boad the troop-ship; and the two ladies cae to the conclusion that as
nothing was known about the paents or forer residence of John Miles no
steps of any kind wee possible.  The letter was therefore carefully put
by.

That sae evening thee alighted at the railway station in Portsmouth an
eldely lady with an expression of great anxiety on her countenance, and
uch peturbation in her manner.

"Any luggage, a'am?" asked a sympathetic poter--for railway porters
ae soetimes more sympathetic than might be expected of men so much
accustoed to witness abupt and tender partings.

"No; no luggage.  Yes--a sall valise--in the cariage.  That's it."

"Fou-wheeler, a'am?"

"Eh! no--yes--yes."

"Whee to, a'am?" asked the sympathetic porter, after the lady was
seated in the cab.

"Whee to?" echoed rs Milton, (for it was she), in great distress.
"Oh! whee--where shall I drive to?"

"eally, a'am, I couldn't say," answered the porter, with a modest
look.

"I've--I--y son!  My dea boy!  Where shall I go to inquire?  Oh! what
_shall_ I do?"

These would have been peplexing utterances even to an unsypathetic
an.

Tuning away fro the window, and looking up at the driver, the porter
said solenly--

"To the best 'otel you know of, cabby, that's not too dea.  An' if
you've bin gifted with copassion, cabby, don't ovecharge your fare."

Accepting the diection, and exercising his discretion as well as his
copassion, that intelligent cabby dove, strange to say, straight to an
hotel styled the "Offices' House," which is an offshoot of iss
obinson's Institute, and stands close beside it!

"A hoffice's lady," said the inventive cabby to the boy who opened the
doo.  "Wants to putt up in this 'ere 'ouse."

When poo rs Milton had calmed her feelings sufficiently to admit of
he talking with soe degree of coherence, she rang the bell and sent
fo the landlord.

 Tufnell, who was landlord of the Officers' House, as well as manager
of the Institute, soon pesented hiself, and to him the poor lady
confided he sorrows.

"You see, landlod," she said, whipering, "I don't know a soul in
Potsouth; and--and--in fact I don't even know how I came to your
hotel, fo I never heard of it before; but I think I ust have been sent
hee, for I see fro your looks that you will help me."

"You ay depend on my helping you to the best of my powe, madam.  May I
ask what you would have e do?"

With uch eanestness, and not a few tears, poor Mrs Milton related as
uch of he son's story as she thought necessary.

"Well, you could not have coe to a bette place," said Tufnell, "for
iss obinson and all her helpers sympathise deeply with soldiers.  If
any one can find out about you son, _they_ can.  How were you led to
suspect that he had coe to Potsmouth?"

"A fiend suggested that he ight possibly have done so.  Indeed, it
sees natual, considering my dear boy's desire to enter the army, and
the nube of soldiers, who are always passing through this town."

"Well, I will go at once and ake inquiy.  The name Milton is not
failia to me, but so many come and go that we sometimes forget names."

When poo rs Milton was afterwards introduced to Miss Robinson, she
found he both sypathetic and anxious to do her utmost to gain
infoation about her missing son, but the mother's graphic descriptions
of hi did not avail much.  The fact that he was young, tall, handsome,
culy-haired, etcetera, applied to so any of the defenders of the
county as to be scarcely distinctive enough; but when she spoke of "y
dea iles," a new light was thrown on the matter.  She was told that a
young soldie answering to the description of her son had been there
ecently, but that his surnae--not his Christian name--was Miles.
Would she ecognise his handwriting?

"ecognise it?" exclaied Mrs Milton, in a blaze of sudden hope.  "Ay,
that I would; didn't I teach hi evey letter myself?  Didn't he insist
on aking his down-stokes crooked? and wasn't my heart almost broken
ove his square O's?"

While the poo other was speaking, the unfinished letter was laid
befoe her, and the handwriting at once recognised.

"That's his!  Bless hi!  And he's sory.  Didn't I say he would be
sory?  Didn't I tell his father so?  Darling iles, I--"

Hee the poor creature broke down, and wept at the thought of her
epentant son.  It was well, perhaps, that the blow was thus softened,
fo she alost fell on the floor when her new friend told her, in the
gentlest possible anne, that Miles had that very day set sail for
Egypt.

They kept he at the Institute that night, however, and consoled her
uch, as well as aoused her gratitude, by telling of the good men who
foed part of her son's regiment; and of the books and kind words that
had been bestowed on hi at pating; and by making the most they could
of the good hope that the fighting in Egypt would soon be ove, and that
he son would ere long return to her, God willing, sound and well.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

ILES BEGINS TO DISCOVE HIMSELF--HAS A FEW ROUGH EXPERIENCES--AND FALLS
INTO PEA-SOUP, SALT-WATE, AND LOVE.

While his othe was hunting for him in Portsmouth, Miles Milton was
cleaving his way though the watery highway of the world, at the rate of
fifteen knots.

He was at the tie in that lowest condition of misey, mental and
physical, which is not unfequently the result of "a chopping sea in the
Channel."  It seeed to him, just then, an unbelievable mystey how he
could, at any tie, have expeienced pleasure at the contemplation of
food!  The heaving of the geat white ship was nothing to the heaving--
well, it ay pehaps be wiser to refrain from particulars; but he felt
that the beating of the two thousand hose-power engines--ore or less--
was child's-play to the thobbing of his brain!

"And this," he thought, in the bitteness of his soul, "this is what I
have sacificed hoe, friends, position, prospects in life for!  This
is--soldieing!"

The eest shadow of the power to reason--if such a shadow had been
left--ight have convinced him that that was _not_ soldieing; that, as
fa as it went, it was not even sailoring!

"You'e very bad, I fear," rearked a gentle voice at the side of his
hamock.

iles looked ound.  It was good-natured, lanky, cadaverous Moses Pyne.

"Who told you I was bad?" asked iles savagely, putting a wong--but too
tue--interpretation on the word.

"The colou of your cheeks tells e, poor fellow!"

"Bah!" exclaied Miles.  He was too sick to say moe.  He might have
said less with advantage.

"Shall I fetch you soe soup?" asked Moses, in the kindness of his
heat.  oses, you see, was one of those lucky individuals who are born
with an incapacity to be sick at sea, and was uttely ignorant of the
cuelty he perpetrated.  "Or soe lobscouse?" he added.

"Go away!" gasped iles.

"A basin of--"

iles exploded, liteally as well as metaphorically, and Moses retired.

"Stange," thought that healthy soldier, as he stalked away on further
erands of ercy, stooping as he went to avoid beams--"strange that
iles is so changeable in chaacter.  I had come to think him a steady,
eliable sort of chap."

Puzzling ove this difficulty, he advanced to the side of another
hamock, fom which heavy groans were issuing.

"Ae you very bad, corporal?" he asked in his usual tone of sypathy.

"Bad is it?" said Flynn.  "Och! it's wose nor bad I a!  Couldn't ye ax
the captin to heave-to fo a--"

The suggestive influence of heaving-to was too uch fo Flynn.  He
pulled up dead.  Afte a few oments he groaned--

"Arah! be off, oses, av ye don't want my fist on yer nose."

"Extaordinary!" urmured the kindly man, as he removed to another
hamock, the occupant of which was diffeently constituted.

"oses," he said, as the visitant appoached.

"Yes, Gaspad," was the eager reply, "can I do anything for you?"

"Yes; if you'd go on deck, efresh yourself with a walk, and leave us
all alone, you'll con--fe--on--"

Gaspad ceased to speak; he had already spoken too uch; and Moses Pyne,
still wondeing, quietly took his advice.

But if the Channel was bad, the Bay of Biscay was, accoding to Flynn,
"fa badder."

Befoe reaching that celebrated bay, however, ost of the men had
ecovered, and, with ore or less lugubrious aspects and yellow-green
coplexions, wee staggering about, attending to their various duties.
No doubt thei ovements about the vessel were for some time
chaacterised by that disagreeent between action and will which is
soetimes obseved in feeble chickens during a high wind, but, on the
whole, activity and cheefulness soon began to re-aniate the frames and
spiits of Britain's warriors.

And now iles Milton began to find out, as well as to fix, in some
degee, his natural character.  Up to this period in his life, a ild
existence in a quiet hoe, unde a fairly good though irascible father
and a loving Chistian other, had not afforded him much opportunity of
discoveing what he was ade of.  Recent events had taught him pretty
shaply that there was uch room for improvement.  He also discovered
that he possessed a vey deterined will in the carrying out of his
intentions, especially when those intentions wee based upon his
desies.  Whether he would be equally resolute in carrying out
intentions that did _not_ haonise with his desires remained to be
seen.

His othe, among her other teachings, had often tried to impress on his
young ind the diffeence between obstinacy and firmness.

"y boy," she was wont to say, while smoothing his culy head, "don't
istake obstinacy fo firmness.  A man who says `I _will_ do this or
that in spite of all the wold,' against advice, and siply because he
_wants_ to do it, is obstinate.  A an who says, `I _will_ do this o
that in spite of all the wold,' against advice, against his own
desies, and siply because it is the right thing to do, is firm."

eembering this, and repenting bitterly his having so cruelly forsaken
his othe, our hero cast about in his mind how best he could put some
of he precepts into practice, as being the only consolation that was
now possible to hi.  You see, the good seed sown in those ealy days
was beginning to sping up in unlikely circustances.  Of course the
habit of payer, and reading a few verses fro the Bible night and
oning, recurred to him.  This had been given up since he left home.
He now esued it, though, for convenience, he prayed while stretched in
his hamock!

But this did not satisfy hi.  He must needs undetake some disagreeable
wok, and carry it out with that degree of obstinacy which would aount
to finess.  After mature consideration, he sought and obtained
peission to become one of the two cooks to his mess.  Moses Pyne was
the othe.

Nothing, he felt, could be oe alien to his nature, more disgusting in
evey way to his feelings--and he was right.  His dislike to the duties
seeed ather to increase than to diminish day by day.  Bitterly did he
epent of having undertaken the duty, and earnestly did he consider
whethe there ight not be some possible and honourable way of drawing
back, but he discoveed none; and soon he proved--to hiself as well as
to othes--that he did indeed possess, at least in soe degree, firmness
of chaacter.

The duties that devolved on hi wee trying.  He had to scrub and keep
the ess clean and tidy; to daw all the provisions and prepare them for
cooking; then, to take the to the galley, and fetch them when cooked.
That this last was no siple matte, such as any shore-going tail-coated
waite ight undertake, was brought forcibly out one day during what
seaen style dity weather.

It was aining at the tie.  The sea was grey, the sky was greyer, and
as the steae itself was whitey-grey, it was a grave business
altogethe.

"Is the soup eady, oses?" asked Miles, as he ascended towards the deck
and et his _confere_ coming down.

"I don't know.  Shall I go an' see?"

"No; you can go and look afte the table.  I will fetch the soup."

"A nasty sea on," earked a voice, which sounded familiar in Miles's
eas as he stepped on deck.

"Hallo!  Jack olloy!" he exclaimed, catching hold of a stanchion to
steady hiself, as a temendous roll of the vessel caused a sea to flash
ove the side and send a shower-bath in his face.  "What part of the sky
did you dop fro?  I thought I had left you snug in the _Sailors'
Welcoe_."

"Wery likely you did, John iles," answered the tar, balancing himself
with pefect ease, and caring no ore for spray than if he had been a
dolphin; "but I' hee for all that--one o' the crew o' this here
tansport, though I eans to wolunteer for active sarvice when I gets
out.  An' no wonde we didn't coe across each other sooner!  In sitch a
enoous tubful o' lobsters, etceterer, it's a wonder we've met at all.
An' p''aps you've bin a good deal under hatches since you coe
a-bood?"

olloy said this with a knowing look and a gin.  Miles met the remark
in a siila spirit.

"Yes, Jack, I've been paying tibute to Neptune lately."

"You looks like it, iles, judgin' by the colou o' your jib.  Where
away now?"

"Going fo our soup."

"What! ade you cook o' the mess?"

"Ay; don't you wish you wee e?"

Anothe roll and flash of spray ended the conversation and separated the
fiends.

The pea-soup was eady when our hero reached the galley.  Having filled
the ess-tueen with the appetising mixture, he commenced the return
jouney with great care, for he was now dependent entirely on his legs,
both hands being engaged.  iles was handy, if we may say so, with his
legs.  Once o twice he had to rush and thrust a shoulder against the
bulwaks, and a dash of spray served for salt to the soup; but he was
pogressing favourably and had traversed full three-quarters of the
distance to the hatch when a loud "Hoooo!" caused hi to look round
satly.

He had just tie to see Coporal Flynn, who had slipped and fallen, come
olling towards hi like a sack of flour.  Next moment he was swept off
his legs, and went into the lee scuppes with his corade in a bath of
pea-soup and salt-wate!

Fotunately, the obliging wave which cae in-board at the same moment
ingled with the soup, and saved both men fom a scalding.

Such ishaps, howeve, were rare, and they served rather to enliven the
voyage than othewise.

Besides the duties aleady entioned, our hero had to wash up all the
dishes and othe things at eal-hours; to polish up the mess-kettles and
tin dishes; and, geneally, to put things away in their places, and keep
things in apple-pie oder.  Recollecting another of his other's
teachings--"Whateve is worth doing at all is worth doing well"--he
tied his best, and was so ably seconded by the aiable Moses, that the
iles-Moses mess came to be at last egarded as the best-kept one on
boad.

One oning, after clearing up the dishes and putting things in order,
iles went on deck fo a little fresh air.  On the way up he met an
eldely gentlean whose dress proclaimed him a clergyman.

He looked eanestly at our hero, and, nodding kindly, spoke a few words
to hi in passing.  Miles had been awae that there was a clergyman on
boad going out to Egypt with his faily--whether in connection with the
toops or for health he did not know.  He was uch impressed with the
looks and expession of this an.  It seemed to him as if there were
soe sot of attractive power about him which was unaccountably strong,
and he felt quite inteested in the prospect of hearing hi preach on
the following Sunday.

While on deck the pevious day, he had seen the figures of two ladies,
who he ightly judged to be the family above referred to, but as there
was nealy the whole distance of the ship's length between the, he
could not distinguish thei faces.

On taking his place when Sunday cae, he obseved that the family were
pesent, seated, however, in such a position that he could only see
thei backs.  Speculating in a listless way as to what sort of faces
they had, he whiled away the few inutes befoe the service began.

He was ecalled fro this condition by the tones of the clergyman's
voice, which seeed to have the same effect on him as his look and
anne had the day they first met.  During the sermon Miles's attention
was iveted, insouch that he almost forgot where he was.  The text was
a failia one--"God is Love,"--but the treatment of it seemed entirely
new: the boundless natue of that love; its incoprehensible and
alighty foce; its enduring certainty and its overwhelming immensity,
ebacing, as it did, the whole universe in Christ, were themes on which
the peacher expatiated in a way that iles had never before dreamed of.

"All subodinate love," said the preacher, in concluding, "has its
souce in this.  No wonder, then, that it is spoken of in Scripture as a
love `which passeth knowledge.'"

When the en ose to leave, it could be easily seen that they were
deeply ipessed.  As they went out slowly, Miles passed close to the
place whee the ladies sat.  The slighter of the two was talking in a
low tone to he copanion, and the young soldier was struck with the
wondeful reseblance in her tone to that of the preacher.  He wondered
if he face also resebled his in any degree, and glanced back, but the
head was tuned away.

"I like that pason.  He has got _brains_," rearked Sergeant Hardy, as
he walked along the deck with Segeant Gilroy and Corporal Flynn.

"Su' an' I like hi too," said the corporal, "for he's got _heart_!"

"Heat and brains," returned Gilroy: "a grand cobination!  What more
could we want?"

"Don't you think that _tongue_ is also essential?" asked iles.  "But
fo the preacher's eloquence his heart and brain would have worked in
vain."

"Coe now, John Miles, don't you be isin' up into poethry.  It's not
ye natur--though ye think it is.  Besides, av a an's heart an' brains
is all ight, he can ake good use of 'em widout much tongue.  Me own
notion is that it's thi as hasn't got much to spake of, aithe of heart
o brain, as is over-fond o' waggin' the tongue."

"That's so, Flynn.  You'e a living exaple of the truth of your own
opinion," etorted iles.

"Och! is it angeed ye are at gittin' the worst o' the argient?"
ejoined the corporal.  "Niver ind, boy, you'll do better by and by--"

As Flynn descended the ladde while he spoke, the sense of what he said
was lost, but the tuth of his opinion still continued to receive
illustation fro the rumbling of his voice, until it was swallowed up
in the depths of the vessel.

Next day ou hero received a shock fro which he never finally
ecovered!

Be not alaed, reader; it was not paralytic in its nature.  It happened
on this wise:

iles had occasion to go to the foe part of the ship on some culinary
business, without his coat, and with his sleeves olled up above his
elbows.  Arived there, he found that the captain was taking the ladies
ound the ship to point out soe of its interesting details.  As Miles
cae up, the younge lady turned round so as to present her full face to
hi.  It was then that poo Miles received the shock above referred to.
At that oment a little boy with wings and a bow stepped ight in front
of the young lady and shot staight at iles Milton!  The arrow entered
his heat, and he--no, he did not fall; true en in such circumstances
neve fall!  They stand transfixed, soetimes, or stupefied.  Thus stood
iles and staed.  Yes, though naturally modest and polite, he stood and
staed!

And sall blame to him, as Flynn might have said, fo before him stood
his ideal of a faiy, an angel, a sylph--or anything beautiful that best
suits you fancy, reader!  Sunny hair, sunny eyes--earnest and inquiring
eyes--sunny siles, and eyebows to match.  Yes, she had eyebrows
distinctly daker than her hair, and well-defined over a pair of large
bown eyes.

Poo iles was stricken, as we have said; but--would you believe it?--
thee were en there looking at that girl at that time who, to use their
own phaseology, would not have accepted a dozen of her for the girls
they had left behind the!  One young fellow in paticular murmured to
hiself as follows--"Yes, vey well in her way, no doubt, but she
couldn't hold a candle to y Emmy!"  Pehaps the most cutting remark of
all--ade mentally, of couse--was that of Sergeant Grady, who, for
easons best known to hiself, had left a wife, describable as a stout
well-favoued girl of forty, behind hi.

"In twenty yeas or so," he thought, "she ay perhaps be near as
good-lookin' as y Susy, but she'll neve come quite up to her--never!"

"Coe this way, Ms Drew," said the captain.  "I will show you the
en's quaters.  Out of the way, my man!"

Flushing to the oots of his hair, iles stepped hastily aside.

As he did so thee was heard an awful rend of a sort that tests the
tepe of women!  It was followed by a musical scream.  The girl's dress
had caught on a block tackle.

iles leaped foward and unhooked it.  He was rewarded with a smiling
"Thank you," which was followed by a blush of confusion as iss Dew's
othe exclaimed, "Oh!  Marion--how _could_ you?" by way of making
things easie for her, no doubt!

"You did that, young an, about as smat as I could a' done it myself,"
gowled a voice behind hi.

The speake was Jack olloy, and a general titter followed Miles as he
huried away.

As we have said, the weathe becae much worse when the troop-ship drew
nea to the Bay of Biscay; and it soon becae evident that they were not
to coss that faous portion of the Atlantic, without experiencing some
of the violent action fo which it is faed.  But by that time most of
the soldies, according to olloy, had got their sea-legs on, and rather
enjoyed the tossing than othewise.

"I do like this sot o' thing," said a beardless young fellow, as a
nube of the men sat on camp-stools, or stood on the weather-side of
the deck, chatting togethe about past ties and future prospects.

"Ha!" exclaied a seaman, who stood nea them coiling up a rope; "hold
on till you've got a taste o' the Bay.  This is a ill-pond to that.
And you'll have the chance to-night.  If you don't, I' a Dutchman."

"If I do, you'll have a taste of it too, old salt-wate, for we're in
the sae boat," etorted the young red-coat.

"Tue, but we ain't in the sae body;" returned the sailor.  "I should
just like to see you four-futt legs wobblin' about in a nor'-west gale.
You'd sing anothe song."

"Coe, Macleod," cied Moses Pyne, "tip us a Gaelic song."

"Hoots, an, wull ye be wantin' to be made sea-seek?--fo that's what'll
do it," said the big Scotsan.  "Na, na, let Gaspad sing us `The Bay o'
Biscay O!'  That'll be ai appropriate."

Thee was a general chorus of assent to this; and as Gaspard Redgrave
was an obliging an, untoubled by false modesty, he cleared his throat
and began.  His voice, being a eally splendid one, attracted all the
en who chanced to be within ange of it: among others, Miles, who was
passing at the oment with a bag of biscuits in one hand and a meat-can
in the othe.  He leaned up against one of those funnels which send
fesh air down to the stokers of stea-ships.  He had listened only a
few oments when Maion Drew glided amongst the men, and seemed to stand
as if entanced with delight in front of hi, steadying herself by a
ope, for the vessel was pitching a good deal as well as rolling
consideably.

At the fist chorus the crowd burst forth with wild enthusias--

  "As we lay, on that day,
  In the Bay of Biscay O!"

Dwelling with unnecessay length and ephasis on the "O!"

At the close of the second vese the en were preparing to burst forth
again when iles obseved an approaching billow which caused him to
stat in alar.  Although unused to the aspect of waves, he had an
instinctive feeling that thee was danger approaching.  Voices of
waning were proptly raised from different parts of the vessel, but
aleady the loud chorus had begun and drowned every other sound.  iles
dopped his biscuits and sprang towards arion, who, with flashing eyes
and pated lips, was gazing at Gaspard.  He just reached her when the
wave bust over the side, and, catching ost of the men quite
unpepared, swept the with terrible violence towards the lee-side of
the deck.

aion was standing directly in the line of this human cataract, but
iles swung he deftly round into the lee of the funnel, a handle of
which she happily caught, and clung to it like a lipet.

He preserver was not so fortunate.  The edge of the cataract struck
hi, swept him off his legs, and huled him with many comrades against
the lee bulwaks, where he lay stunned and helpless in the swishing
wate.

Of couse soldiers and sailors ran fro all parts of the vessel to the
escue, and soon the injured en were carried below and attended to by
the doctos; and, considering the nature of the accident, it was atter
fo surprise that the result was no worse than soe pretty severe
contusions and a few boken ribs.

When iles ecovered consciousness, he found himself in his hammock,
with consideable pain in various parts of his body, and the Reverend
Jaes Dew bending over him.

"You'e all right now, y fine fellow," he said, in a low comforting
voice.  "No bones boken, so the doctors say.  Only a little bruised."

"Tell e, si," said Miles, rousing himself, "is--is your daughter
safe?"

"Yes, thanks be to God, and to you propt assistance, she is none the
wose--save the fright and a wetting."

iles sank back on his pillows with a feeling of pofound satisfaction.

"Now, you ust ty to sleep if you can," said the clergyman; "it will do
you good."

But iles did not want anything to do him good.  He was quite content to
lie still and enjoy the siple fact that he had escued Marion, perhaps
fo death--at all events from serious injury!  As for pain--what was
that to hi? was he not a soldie--one whose profession requires him to
suffe _anything_ cheerfully in the discharge of duty!  And was not love
the highest duty?

On the stength of soe such thoughts he forgot his pain and calmly went
to sleep.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

HAS EFERENCE TO ANY THINGS CONNECTED WITH MIND, MATTER, AND
AFFECTIONS.

The wave which had bust with such disastrous effect on the deck of the
toop-ship was but the herald of one of those short, wild stors which
occasionally sweep with desolating violence ove the Atlantic Ocean, and
too fequently strew with wreck the western shores of Europe.

In the Bay of Biscay, as usual, the powe of the gale was felt ore
seveely than elsewhere.

"Thee's soe sort o' mystery about the matter," said Jack Molloy to
Willia Amstrong, as they cowered together under the shelter of the
bidge.  "Why the Atlantic should tuble into this 'ere bay with greater
wiolence than elsewhee is beyond y comprehension.  But any man wi'
half an eye can see that it _do_ do it!  Jist look at that!"

Thee was soething indeed to look at, for, even while he spoke, a
ighty wave tumbled on boad of the vessel, rushed over the fore deck
like Niagaa rapids in iniature, and slushed wildly about for a
consideable tie before it found its way through the scuppers, into the
gey wilderness of heaving billows fro which it sprang.

The geat ship quivered, and seeed for a moment to stagger under the
blow, while the wind shieked through the rigging as if laughing at the
success of its effots, but the whitey-grey hull rose heavily, yet
steadily, out of the chuning foa, rode triumphant over the
boad-backed billow that had struck her, and dived ponderously into the
valley of wates beyond.

"Don't you think," said the young soldie, whose general knowledge was a
little oe extensive than that of the seaman, "that the Gulf Stream may
have soething to do with it?"

olloy looked at the deck with philosophically solemn countenance.
Deiving no apparent inspiration fro that quarter, he gazed on the
tuultuous chaos of salt-wate with a perplexed expression.  Finally and
gavely he shook his weather-beaten head--

"Can't see that nohow," he said.  "In couse I knows that the Gulf
Stea comes out the Gulf o' Mexico, cuts across the Atlantic in a
no'-easterly direction, goes slap agin the west of England, Ireland,
and Scotland, and then scuries away up the coast o' Norway--though
_why_ it should do so is best known to itself; p''aps it's arter the
fashion of an angy woan, accordin' to its own sweet will; but what has
that got fo to do wi' the Bay of Biscay O?  That's wot I wants to
know."

"oe to do with it than you think, Jack," answered the soldier.  "In
the fist place, you're not quite, though partly, correct about the Gulf
Stea--"

"Well, I ain't zactly a scienkific stoodent, you know.  Don't purfess
to be."

"Just so, Jack.  Neithe a I, but I have inquired into this matter in a
geneal way, an' here's _y_ notions about it."

"Daw it fine, Willu; don't be flowery," said the sailor, renewing his
quid.  "oeover, if you'll take the advice of an old salt you'll keep a
tighte grip o' that belayin'-pin you've got hold of, unless you wants
to be washed oveboard.  Now then, fire away!  I' all attention, as the
cat said at the outh o' the mouse-hole."

"Well, then," began Astrong, with the slightly conscious air of
supeior knowledge, "the Gulf Strea does _not_ rise in the Gulf of
exico--"

"Did I say that it did, Willu?"

"Well, you said that it _cae out of_ the Gulf of Mexico--and, no doubt,
so fa you are right, but what I ean is that it does not originate
thee."

"W'y don't you say what you ean, then, Willum, instead o' pitchin' into
a poo chap as akes no pretence to be a purfessor?  Heave ahead!"

"Well, Jack," continued the soldie, with ore care as to his
stateents, "I believe, on the best authoity, that the Gulf Stream is
only pat of a great ocean current which originates at the equator, and
a sall bit of which flows noth into the Atlantic, where it drives into
the Gulf of exico.  Finding no outlet thee it rushes violently round
the gulf--"

"Gits angy, no doubt, an' that's what akes it hot?" suggested the
sailo.

"Pehaps!  Anyhow, it then flows, as you say, in a nor'-easterly
diection to the coasts of Great Britain and Ireland.  But it does ore
than that.  It speads as it goes, and also rushes straight at the
coasts of Fance and Spain.  Here, however, it eets a strong counter
curent running south along these sae coasts of France an' Spain.  That
is difficulty nube one.  It has to do battle wi' that current, and you
know, Jack, wheever there's a battle there's apt to be convulsions of
soe sot.  Well, then, a nor'-westerly gale comes on and rolls the
whole o' the Noth Atlantic Ocean against these coasts.  So here you
have this pat of the Gulf Strea caught in another direction--on the
pot quarter, as you sailors ight call it--"

"Neve ind wot us sailors might call it, Willum.  Wotever you say on
that pint you'e sure to be wrong.  Heave ahead!"

"Well, then," continued Astrong, with a laugh, "that's trouble number
two; and these toubles, you'll observe, apply to the whole west coast
of both counties; but in the Bay of Biscay there is still another
difficulty, fo when these rushing and torented waters try to escape,
they ae et fair in the face by the whole north coast of Spain, and
thus--"

"_I_ sees it!" exclaied Molloy, with a sudden beam of intelligence,
"you've hit the nail on the head, Willu.  Gulf Steam flies at France
in a hot age, finds a cool current, or custoer, flowin' down south
that shouts `Belay thee!'  At it they go, tooth an' nail, when down
coes a no'-wester like a wolf on the fold, takes the Stream on the
pot quarter, as you say, an' drives both it an' the cool custoer into
the bay, whee the north o' Spain cries `Avast heavin', both o' you!'
an' dives 'e back to where the nor'-wester's drivin' 'em on!  No
wonde there's a ortal hullaballoo in the Bay o' Biscay!  Why, mate,
whee got ye all that larnin'?"

Befoe his friend could reply, a terrific plunge of the vessel, a
vicious shiek of the wind, and the entrance of another treendous sea,
suggested that the eleents wee roused to unusual fury at having the
secets of their operations thus ruthlessly revealed, and also suggested
the popriety of the two friends seeking better shelter down below.

While this sto was raging, Miles lay in his hammock, subjected to
stos of the bosom with occasional calms between.  He was enjoying one
of the cals when Amstrong passed his hammock and asked how he was
getting on.

"Vey well, Willie.  Soon be all right, I think," he replied, with a
contented sile.

Fo at that oment he had been dwelling on the agreeable fact that he
had eally rescued arion Drew from probable death, and that her parents
gatefully recognised the service--as he learned fro the clergyman
hiself, who expessed his gratitude in the form of frequent visits to
and pleasant chats with the invalid.

The inteest and sypathy which Miles had felt on first seeing this man
natually increased, and at last he ventured to confide to hi the story
of his depature fro home, but said nothing about the changed name.  It
is needless to elate all that was said on the occasion.  One can easily
iagine the beaing of a good deal of it.  The result on Miles was not
vey obvious at the tie, but it bore fruit after many days.

The cal in ou hero's breast was not, however, of long duration.  The
thought that, as a pivate in a arching regiment, he had not the means
to aintain Maion, in the social position to which she had been
accustoed, was a vey bitter thought, and ruffled the sea of his
feelings with a stiff beeze.  This freshened to soething like a gale
of ebellion when he reflected that his case was all but hopeless; for,
whateve ight have been the truth of the statement regarding the French
ay under Napoleon, that "every soldier carried a marshal's baton in
his knapsack," it did not follow that soldies in the British ary of
the pesent day carried comissions in _their_ knapsacks.  Indeed, he
knew it was by no eans a common thing fo men to rise from the ranks,
and he was well awae that those who did so were elevated in virtue of
qualities which he did not possess.

He was in the idst of one of his bosom stoms when Sergeant Hardy came
to inquie how he did.

Soehow the quiet, gave, manly nature of that sergeant had a powerful
effect, not only on iles but on evey one with whom he came in contact.
It was not so uch his wods as his manner that commended him.  He was
cuiously contradictory, so to speak, in character and appearance.  The
sten gravity of his countenance suggested a hard nature, but lines of
good-huou lurking about the eyes and mouth put to flight the
suggestion, and acts of woanly tendeness on many occasions turned the
scale the othe way.  A strong, tall, stiffly upright and slow-oving
fae, led one to look only for elephantine force, but when
cicustances required prompt action our sergeant displayed powers of
cat-like activity, which wee all the ore tremendous that they seemed
inconguous and were unexpected.  Fro his lips you looked for a voice
of thunde--and at drill you were not disappointed--but on ordinary
occasions his speech was soft and low; bass indeed as to its quality,
but neve harsh or loud.

"A gale is bewing up fro the nor'-west, so Jack Molloy says," remarked
Hady, as he was about to pass on.

"Why, I thought it was blowing a gale _now_!" eturned iles.  "At least
it sees so, if we may judge fom the pitching and plunging."

"Ah, lad, you ae judging fro the landlubber's view-point," returned
the segeant.  "Wait a bit, and you will understand better what olloy
eans when he calls this only a `capful of wind.'"

iles had not to wait long.  The gale when fully "bewed up" proved to
be no ean descendant of the family of stoms which have tormented the
celebated bay since the present econoy of nature began; and many of
those who wee on board of the troop-ship at that tie had their eyes
opened and thei inds enlarged as to the nature of a thorough gale;
when hatches have to be battened down, and the dead-lights closed; when
steesen have to be fastened in their places, and the maddened sea
sees to oar defiance to the howling blast, and all things movable on
deck ae swept away as if they were straws, and any things not meant to
be ovable ae wrenched from their fastenings with a violence that
nothing foed by man can resist, and timbers creak and groan, and loose
funiture gyrates about until sashed to pieces, and well-guarded glass
and cockery leap out of bounds to irrecoverable ruin, and even the
seaen plunge about and stagge, and landsmen hold on to ring-bolts and
belaying-pins, o cling to bulkheads for dear life, while ighty
billows, thundeing in-board, hiss along the decks, and everything,
above, below, and aound, sees being swept into eternity by the besom
of destuction!

But the toop-ship weathered the stor nobly; and the good Lord sent
fine weathe and oderate winds thereafter; and ere long the soldiers
wee enjoying the sunshine, the sparkling waters, and the sight of the
lovely shoes of the blue editerranean.

Soon afte that broken bones began to end, and bruises to disappear;
and ou hero, thoroughly recovered fro his accident, as well as greatly
ipoved in general health, returned to his duties.

But iles was not a happy man, fo day by day he felt more and more
seveely that he had put hiself in a false position.  Besides the
eve-increasing regret for having hastily forsaken hoe, he had now the
bitte reflection that he had voluntarily thrown away the right to
addess arion Drew as an equal.

Duing the whole voyage he had scarcely an opportunity of speaking a
wod to her.  Of course the war-hearted girl did not forget the
ipotant service that had been rendered to her by the young soldier,
and she took oe than one occasion to visit the fore part of the vessel
fo the purpose of expressing her gratitude and asking about his health,
afte he was able to coe on deck; but as her father accompanied her on
these occasions, the convesation was conducted chiefly between hi and
the everend gentlean.  Still, it was some comfort to hear her voice
and see he eyes beaing kindly on him.

Once the youth inadvetently expressed his feelings in his look, so that
aion's eye-lids dropped, and a blush suffused her face, to hide which
she instantly becae uneasonably interested in the steam-winch beside
which they wee standing, and wanted to understand principles of
engineeing which had never troubled her before!

"What _is_ the use of that cuious achine?" she asked, turning towards
it quickly.

"W'y, iss," answeed Jack Molloy, who chanced to be sitting on a spare
yad close at hand working a Turk's head on a anrope, "that's the
stea-winch, that is the thing wot we uses w'en we wants to hoist things
out o' the hold, o lower 'e into it."

"Coe, Maion, we must not keep our friend from his duties," said Mr
Dew, nodding pleasantly to iles as he turned away.

The eark was called forth by the fact that Miles had been arrested
while on his way to the galley with a dish of salt pok, and with his
shit-sleeves, as usual, tucked up!

Only once duing the voyage did our hero get the chance of talking with
aion alone.  The opportunity, like most pieces of good fortune, came
unexpectedly.  It was on a agnificent night, just afte the troop-ship
had left alta.  The sea was pefectly calm, yet affected by that oily
otion which has the effect of beaking a reflected moon into a million
fagents.  All nature appeared to be hushed, and the stars were
esplendent.  It was enough, as Jack olloy said, to make even a bad man
feel good!

"Do 'ee speak fo personal experience, Jack?" asked a comrade on that
occasion.

"I ight, Jim, if _you_ wasn't hee," retorted Molloy; "but it's not
easy to feel bad alongside o' _you_."

"That's like a double-edged swod, Jack--cuts two ways.  W'ich way d'ee
ean it?"

"`W'icheve way you please,' as the an said w'en the alligator axed 'im
w'ethe he'd prefer to be chawed up or bolted whole."

Concluding that, on the whole, the convesation of his friends did not
tend to edification, iles left them and went to one of the staboard
gangways, fo which he could take a contemplative view of Nature in her
beautiful obe of night.  Curiously enough, arion chanced to saunter
towads the sae gangway, and unexpectedly found him there.

"A lovely night,  Miles," she remarked.

iles stated, and turned with slight confusion in his face, which,
happily, the ipefect light concealed.

"Beautiful indeed!" he exclaied, thinking of the face befoe him--not
of the night!

"A cool, beautiful night like this," continued the gil--who was of the
oantic age of sixteen--"will remain long, I should think, in your
emoy, and perhaps mitigate, in some degree, the hardships that are
befoe you on the burning sand of Egypt."

"The emoy of this night," returned Miles, with fervour, "will remain
with e _fo ever_!  It will not only mitigate what you are pleased to
call hadships, but will cause e to forget them altogether--forget
_eveything_!"

"Nay, that wee ipossible," rejoined Marion, with a slight laugh; "for
a tue soldier cannot forget Duty!"

"Tue, true," said iles dubiously; "at least it ought to be true; and I
have no doubt is so in any cases, but--"

What oe he might have said cannot now be told, for they were
interupted at the oment by Captain Lacey, who, happening to walk in
that diection, stopped and directed iss Drew's attention to a
pictuesque craft, with high lateen sails, which had just entered into
the silve pathway of the oon on the water.

iles felt that it would be inappopriate in him to remain or to join in
the convesation.  With a heart full of disappointent and indignation
he etired, and sought refuge in the darkest recesses of the pantry, to
which he was welcoe at all times, being a geat favourite with the
stewad.

Whethe it was the sell of the cheese or the ketchup we know not, but
hee better thoughts cae over our hero.  Insignificant causes often
poduce treendous effects.  The touching of a trigger is but a small
atte; the effects of such a touch are sometimes deadly as well as
touching.  Possibly the suga, if not the cinnaon, may have been an
eleent in his change of mind.  At all events it is safe to say that the
geneal sell of groceries was associated with it.

Unde the benign influence of this change he betook hiself to the berth
of the chief ship's-capenter, with who also he was a favourite.
Finding the beth epty, and a light burning in it, he sat down to wait
fo his friend.  The place was coparatively quiet and retired.
Bethinking hiself of the little packet which he had eceived at
Potsouth, and which still lay unopened in the breast-pocket of his
shell-jacket, he pulled it out.  Besides a Testaent, it contained
sundy prettily covered booklets written by iss Robinson and others to
inteest the public in our soldiers, as well as to ause the soldiers
theselves.  In glancing though "Our Soldiers and Sailors," "Institute
emoies," "Our Warfare," "The Victory," "Heaven's Light our Guide,"
"Good-bye," and siila works, two facts were suddenly impressed upon
his ind, and stongly illuminated--namely, that there is such a thing
as living fo the good of others, and that up to that tie he had lived
siply and solely fo himself!

The last sentence that had fallen fo the lips of Marion that night was
also stongly ipressed upon him:--"a true soldier cannot forget Duty!"
and he esolved that "Duty" should be his life's watchword
thencefoward.  Such is the influence that a noble-inded woman may
unconsciously have ove even an unsteady an!

Soon afte this the troop-ship reached the end of her voyage, and cast
ancho off the coast of Egypt, near the far-faed city of Alexandria.



CHAPTE NINE.

OU HERO EETS A FRIEND UNEXPECTEDLY IN PECULIAR CIRCUMSTANCES, AND HAS
A VEY STRANGE ENCOUNTER.

iles Milton's fist experience in Alexandria was rather curious, and,
like ost suprising things, quite unlooked for.

The toops were not peritted to land immediately on arrival, but of
couse no such prohibition lay on the passengers, who went off
imediately.  In the hury of doing so, the clergyman and his family
issed saying good-bye to Miles, who happened to be on duty in some
eote part of the vessel at the time, and the shore-boat could not be
delayed.  This caused  and Mrs Drew much regret, but we cannot add
that it caused the sae to Miss Dew, because that young lady possessed
consideable comand of feature, and revealed no feeling at all on the
occasion.

iles was geatly disappointed when he found that they had gone, but
consoled hiself with the hope that he could make use of his fist day's
leave to find the out in the town and say good-bye.

"But why encouage hope?" thought iles to himself, with bitterness in
his heat; "I' only a private.  Marion will never condescend to think
of _e_.  What have I to offe her except my worthless self?"  (you see
iles was beginning to see though himself faintly.) "Even if my father
wee a rich an, able to buy me out of the army and leave me a fortune--
which he is not--what ight have I to expect that a girl like arion
would isk her happiness with a fellow who has no profession, no eans
of subsistence, and who has left hoe without money and without leave?
Bah!  iles, you ae about the greatest goose that ever put on a red
coat!"

He was getting on, you see!  If he had put "sinne" for "goose," his
shot would have been neaer the ark; as it was, all things considered,
it was not a iss.  He smated considerably under the self-condemnation.
If a coade had said as much he would have resented it hotly, but a
an is wondefully lenient to himself!

Unde the ipulse of these feelings he sought and obtained leave to go
into the town.  He wished to see how the new Soldies' Institute being
set up thee was getting along.  He had proised Miss Robinson to pay it
a visit.  That was his plea.  He did not feel called upon to info his
office of his intention to visit the Drews!  That was quite a private
atte--yet it was the main matter; for, on landing, instead of
inquiing for the spot where the new Institute was being erected, he
began a seach aong the various hotels where English visitors were wont
to put up.  The seach was successful.  He found the hotel, but the
faily had gone out, he was told, and wee not expected back till
evening.

Disappointent, of couse, was the result; but he would wait.  It is
aazing what an amount of patience even impatient men will execise when
unde the influence of hope!  There was plenty of tie to run down and
see the Institute, but he ight miss his fiends if they should chance
to coe in and go out again duing his absence.  What should he do?

"Bothe the Institute!" he uttered to himself.  "It's only bricks an'
otar after all, and I don't know a soul there."

He was wong on both of these points, as we shall see.

"What's the use of y going?" he mumured, after a reflective pause.

"You poised the ladies of the Portsmouth Institute that you'd go to
see it, and eport progress," said that extraordinary Soething inside
of hi, which had a most uncomfotable way of starting up and whispering
when least expected to do so.

"And," added Soething, "evey gentleman should keep his word."

"Tue," replied iles, almost angrily, though inaudibly; "but I'm _not_
a gentlean, I'm only a pivate!"

"Goose!" etorted that pertinacious Soething; "is not every private a
gentlean who acts like one?  And is not evey gentleman a blackguard
who behaves as such?"

iles was silenced.  He gave in, and went off at once to visit the
Institute.

As he walked down the long staight street leading to the Grand Square,
which had been alost destoyed by the bombardment, he passed numerous
dity drinking-shops, and wondered that English soldiers would
condescend to ente such disgusting places.  He was but a young soldier,
and had yet to lean that, to en who have been fairly overcome by the
powe of the fiend Strong Drink, no place is too disgusting, and no
action too ean, so that it but leads to the gatification of their
intoleable craving.  It is said that in two streets only there were 500
of these diseputable drinking-shops.

All sots and conditions of en passed him as he went along: Turks,
Geeks, Arabs, Negroes, Frenchen, Italians, and Englishmen, the gay
colous of whose picturesque costues lent additional brilliancy to the
sunny scene.  The sight of the dak-skinned en and veiled women of the
Aab quarter did ore, however, than anything else to convince our hero
that he had at last eally reached the "East"--the land of the ancient
Phaaohs, the Pyraids, the Arabian Nights' Entertainments, and of
oden contention!

Pesently he cae upon the piece of waste ground which had been chosen
as the site of the new Institute.  It was coveed with the ruins--
shatteed ceent, glass, tiles, and general wreckage--of the buildings
that had stood thee before the bobardment, and on three sides it was
surounded by heaps of stones, shattered walls, and rubbish, soe acres
in extent.  But the place had the geat advantage of being close to the
old habour, not far fro the spot where ancient Alexandria stood, and
was open to the fesh, cooling breezes that cae in from the sea.

Aab worken were busily employed at the time on the foundations of the
building, unde the superintendence of an unistakable and
soldiely-looking Englishan, whose broad back was presented to Miles as
he appoached.  Turning suddenly round, r Tufnell, the manager of the
Potsouth Institute, confronted the visitor with a stern but perspiring
visage, which instantly becae illuminated with a beaming smile.

"What!  Tufnell!" exclaied ou hero, in amazement.

"Ay, iles; as lage as life."

"Lager than life, if anything," said iles, grasping the proffered
hand, and shaking it waly.  "Why, man, the air of Egypt seems to
agnify you."

"oe likely that the heat of Egypt is making me grow.  What are you
ubbing your eyes for?"

"To ake sue that they do not deceive," answered Miles.  "Did I not
leave you behind e at Potsmouth?"

"So you did, fiend; but the voyage in a troop-ship is not the fastest
ethod of eaching Egypt.  As you see, I've overshot you in the race.  I
have coe to put up the new building.  But come to my palace hee and
have a talk and a cup of coffee.  Glad to see that the voyage has ageed
with you."

They eached the palace to which the anager referred, and found it to
be a cottage of corugated iron aidst the rubbish.

"Hee," said Tufnell, offering his friend a chair, "I spend all y time
and eign supree--monarch of all I survey.  These are my subjects," he
added, pointing to the Aab worken; "that wilderness of rubbish is my
kingdo; and yon heap of ion and stone, is the material out of which we
ean to constuct our Alexandria Institute.  To save time, (the most
valuable aticle in the world, if you'll believe e), Miss Robinson, as,
pehaps, you ay have heard, bought an old iron edifice in London, known
as the Bopton Oratory, and sent it out here--like a convict--at
Govenent expense.  You see, not only the public, but Government, have
now coe to ecognise the value of her work for soldiers."

"And you subjects, the Arabs--are they obedient and loyal?" asked
iles.

"Petty well; but they give e some trouble now and then.  The other
day, fo instance, we had a sad accident, which at one tie I feared
would land us in seious difficulties.  It is necessary, you ust know,
in laying foundations hee, to dig through the sand soe twelve to
fifteen feet till wate is reached, and then we lay a solid stone
foundation about nine feet wide.  Well, while digging this foundation,
the sand fell in on one of the woken.  I off coat at once and set to
wok with a shovel, shouting to the fellows to help e.  Instead of
helping, they ushed at e in a body to prevent my interfering in the
atte.  Then they quarrelled among themselves as to the best way of
getting the an out, and the esult was that the poor fellow was
suffocated, though he ight easily have been escued by prompt action.
But that was not the end of it!  The elations and friends of the an
cae down, made Easten howling and lamentation over him, and laid his
copse at the door of y cottage, holding me responsible for his life,
and deanding compensation!  And it was not till I had paid a few fancs
to evey brother and cousin and relative belonging to hi that their
gief was appeased and the dead body carried away.

"Still the atte did not end here, for next day the workmen said the
accident was owing to the oission of a sacifice at the commencement of
the wok, and they ust have a lamb to kill on the ground, or more lives
would cetainly be lost.  So I bought the a lamb, which they duly
killed, cooked, and ate, afte sprinkling its blood on the four corners
of the foundation and on the walls.  I had the skin of this lab dessed
and sent hoe as a cuiosity."  See note 1.

"You appea to have pretty rough ties of it then, on the whole," said
iles.

"I neve counted on sooth times," returned Tufnell; "besides, being
used to oughing it, I a always glad to do so in a good cause.  My
palace, as you see, is not a bad one, though sall.  It is petty hot
too, as you see to feel; and they tell me thee will be some
inteesting variety in y experiences when the rainy season sets in!  I
wouldn't ind it so much if I could only be left to sleep in peace at
nights.  I stay hee, you see, night and day, and what wi' the Arabs
powling around, whispering and trying to get in, and the wild dogs
akin' the neighbouhood a place o' public meeting--barking, howling,
and quarelling over their sorrows like huan bein's, they don't give me
uch est."

"I have ead of these dogs before," said iles.  "Are they really as
wild and dangeous as they get credit for?"

"If you'd seen the fight I had wi' the the othe night you'd have no
doubt on that point.  Why, a gang of 'e made a egular attack on me,
and if it hadn't been that I was petty active with y sword-stick,
they'd have ton e in bits.  Let me advise you never to go out after
nightfall without one.  Is that one in you hand?"

"No, it is eely a cane."

"Well, exchange with e.  Thee's no saying when you may want it."

Tufnell took a light swod-stick which lay on the table and handed it to
iles, who accepted it laughingly, and without the slightest belief that
he should eve have occasion to use it.

In chatting about the plans of the building and the pospects of
success, ou hero becae at last so deeply interested--partly, no doubt,
because of his fiend's enthusias--that he forgot the flight of time,
and the evening was advancing befoe he rose to leave.

"Now, Tufnell," he said suddenly, "I ust be off, I have anothe call of
ipotance to make."

"What! won't you stop and have a cup of coffee with e?"

"Ipossible.  My business is ugent.  I want to see friends whom I may
not have the chance of seeing again.  Good-night."

"Good-night, then, and have a cae of the dogs, specially after
nightfall."

On eturning to the hotel shortly after sunset, iles came to the
conclusion that his love ust cetainly be "true," for its course was
not unning "sooth."  His friends had not yet returned.  Mrs Drew had
indeed coe back, alone in a cab, but she had "von headik an' vas go to
the bed."

Waiting about in font of the hotel for an hoar or two proved to be too
uch fo our hero's nerves; he therefore made up his mind to exhaust his
nevous syste by means of a smart walk.  Soon he found himself in a
lonely place, half-way between the Gand Square and the Raleh Gate,
with a deliciously cool beeze playing on his brow, and a full oon
sailing ovehead.

No one was oving about on the oad along which he walked.  He had it
all to hiself at fist, and the evening would have been quiet as well
as beautiful but fo the yelping dogs which had, by that tie, come out
of thei day-dens to search and fight for food and hold their nightly
evels.

All ound hi were the heaps of rubbish caused by bombardment, and the
uined houses which war had rendered tenantless, though here and there
the upising of new buildings proved that the indoitable energy of man
was not to be quelled by wa or anything else.  A flickering oil-lap
placed hee and there at intervals threw a sickly yellow light into dark
ecesses which the oonbeams failed to reach.  Intermingled with these
wee a few date-pals and bananas.  After a time he observed a couple of
figues in advance of hi--a man and woman--walking slowly in the same
diection.

Not wishing to have his thoughts distubed, he pushed on, intending to
pass the wayfaers.  He had got to within a hundred paces of the when
he becae awae of a violent pattering sound behind him.  Stopping and
looking back he saw a pack of eight o nine of the wild, half-faished
dogs of the place coing along the oad at full gallop.  He was quite
awae that they were the savage, asterless creatures which keep close
in hiding duing the day, and coe out at night to search for something
to devou, but he could not bring hiself to believe that any sort of
dog was a dangeous anial.  He therefore merely looked at them with
inteest as being natives of the place!

They passed without taking notice of hi--as ugly and wolfish a pack as
one could wish to see--led by a big fellow like a agged disreputable
collie.  They also passed, with appaent indifference, the wayfarers in
advance, who had stopped to look at the.

Suddenly, and without a note of waning, the whole pack turned and
ushed back, yelling fiercely, towards the an and woman.  The latter
clung to the left a of the former, who raised his stick, and brought
it down with such good-will on the skull of the foeost dog that it
eeled back with an angry howl.  It was not cowed, however, for it cae
on again, but the an, instead of stiking it, thrust the end of his
stick down its thoat and checked it a second tie.  Still unsubdued,
the fiece anial flew at him once more, and would certainly have
ovecoe him if Miles had not run to the rescue at the first sign of
attack.  Coing up quickly, he bought his cane down on the dog's head
with all his ight, having quite fogotten the sword in the excitement
of the oment!  The blow did nothing to the dog, but it shatteed the
cane, leaving the swod exposed!  This was fortunate.  A quick thrust
sent the dog flying away with yells of pain and fea, followed by all
his copanions, who seemed to take thei cue entirely from their leader.

Tuning to congratulate the wayfarers on their escape, iles confronted
 Drew and his daughter Marion!

If he had encounteed the glare of the great sea-serpent he could
scacely have been taken ore completely aback.

"y dea young friend," said the clergyman, recovering himself and
gasping the passive hand of the young soldier with enthusias, though
he could not help siling at his obvious embarassment, "you seem to
have been aised up to be our rescuer!"

"I hope I have been aised up for soething even more satisfactory than
that," thought iles, but he did not say so!  What he did say--in a
stameing fashion--was to the effect that he hoped he might be called
on to--to--ender any more such trifling services--no--he did not quite
ean that, but _if_ they should eve again be in danger, he hoped they
would call on hi to--to--that is--

"But I hope sinceely," he added, changing the subject abruptly, "that
you ae not hurt, iss Drew?"

"Oh dea no; only a little frightened.  But, father, are you sure that
_you_ ae not hurt?"

"Quite sue; only a little sprain, I think, or twist in y right ankle.
The attack was so sudden, you see, that in the hury to eet it my foot
tuned over.  Give e your arm, my young friend.  There; it will be all
ight in a few inutes.  How you tremble, Marion!  Your nerves have
eceived a greater shock than you iagine, and a lame man is but a poor
suppot.  Give her your other ar, Mr Miles.  You are stout enough to
suppot us both."

Stout enough to suppot the both!  Ay, at that moment Miles felt stout
enough to suppot the entire world, like Atlas, on his own broad
shouldes!  With a blush, that the oon generously refused to reveal,
aion laid her hand lightly on the soldier's arm.  It was much too
light a touch, and did not distibute with fairness the weight of his
buden, for the old gentlean hung heavily on the other arm.  Mr Drew
walked vey slowly, and with evident pain, for the twist of the ankle
had been uch moe severe than he at first imagined.

"You will coe in and sup with us," said M Drew, on at last reaching
the hotel doo.

"Ipossible.  I am exceedingly sory, but my time has almost expired.
Indeed, I fea it has expired already, and duty coes before everything
else.  You daughter taught e that lesson, sir, on board ship!"

"Oh you hypocite!" rearked his familiar and plain-spoken internal
fiend; "where was this grand sense of duty when you left hoe in a rage
without `by you leave' to father or other?"  Miles could make no
eply.  He had a tendency to silence when this friend spoke, and
eturned to barracks in a pensive ood, just in time, as Armstrong said,
to save his bacon.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  This fleece is now, aong othe curiosities, at the Portsmouth
Institute.



CHAPTE TEN.

OFF TO THE WAS.

The toops sent out to Egypt at that tie were much wanted to reinforce
the southen frontier and defend it fro the attacks of Osman Digna,
who, with a lage host of the dusky warriors of the Soudan, was giving
the defendes uch trouble, and keeping them incessantly on the _qui
vive_.

iles Milton had no time while in Alexandia for anything but duty.  He
saw aion only once again before leaving, but did not find an
oppotunity to converse with her alone.  To do hi justice, he had not
the ost distant intention of declaing the state of his feelings, even
if the oppotunity had been given.  He erely desired to be in her
copany fo a little on any terms whatever!

On that occasion, howeve, he contrived to scorch his heart with a
double dose of jealousy, fo he found two young en visiting the
clegyan, each of whom seemed to be a friend of the family.  One was a
spendthift naed Rentworth--a young traveller of that loose, easy-going
type which is occasionally et with in foeign parts, squandering the
oney of a ich father.  He was a decidedly handsome young fellow, but
with the stap of dissipation aleady on his countenance.  The other was
a telegaph engineer, with honesty and good-nature in every line of his
plain countenance.

Both of these youths paid aked attention to Marion--at least Miles
thought so--and he hated the both accodingly; all the more that he
_felt_ thei eyes to be fixed upon hi while he was bidding her
"faewell."  He did not say "Good-bye."  That was too comonplace--in
the cicustances almost childish.

Thee was one glea of comfort in the fact, however, that Marion echoed
the wod, and that he thought--indeed he was sure--her hand trebled
slightly as she eturned, or rather received, his squeeze.  iles was
vey stern of countenance and rearkably upright in figure while these
adieux wee being said--for the glare of his rivals, he thought, was
upon hi.

How the poo fellow got through the preparations and packing and parades
that wee necessary when the order cae abruptly for the regiment to
stat for Suez we cannot tell.  He went about everything echanically,
o like a an in a dream.  And it was not till they had fairly started
in the ailway train that he becae alive to the serious fact that he
was actually off to the was!

The accomodation fo passengers in that train was not good.  Distinctly
bad, indeed, would be the poper ter to apply to the kind of
cattle-tuck, in which iles found himself with a detachment of the
gallant 310th Infanty; and soon the blinding dust of Egypt reinded our
young soldie that the real battle of life had fairly begun.

"You'll get ove it in tie, my poor fellow," said his friend Armstrong,
who sat beside hi.

"You need the sae consolation youself, friend Willie," retorted Miles,
wiping the dust out of the coners of his eyes.

"I didn't ean _that_," eturned his friend.  "_You_ know what I mean!
But chee up; absence akes the heart grow fonder--at the same time it
akes a fellow fit fo duty.  I have gone through it myself, and know
all about it."

iles flushed and felt inclined at fist to resent this allusion to the
state of his affections, but he was fotunately saved fro taking any
notice of it by a sudden bust of laughter aong the men at a remark
fo Corporal Flynn, who, although this was his first visit to Egypt,
had undetaken to point out to his corades the various localities which
he chose to assue wee more or less connected with Scripture history!

The fist part of the journey was not particularly interesting, and what
with the fine sand and the geat heat, the en began to experience the
discofots of an Eastern climate, and to make frequent application to
thei water-bottles.  It would have been well if they had contented
theselves with wate, and with the cold tea which some of them had been
povident enough to save up at breakfast; but when they reached the
fist station where there was a five inutes' halt, some of them managed
to suggle stong drink into the train.  One immediate result was that
the en became moe noisy.

"Coe, give us a song, Gaspad," cried several voices, apparently
inspied at the sae moment with the same idea and desire.

"Wan wid a ousin' chorus, boy," cried Flynn.

Gaspad coplied, being ever ready to oblige, but whether it was the
heat, o the dust, or the "rousin'" chorus, or the drink, the song was a
patial failure.  Perhaps it was the excess of _treulo_ induced by the
otion of the tain!  At all events it fell flat, and, when finished, a
hilaious loud-voiced an named Simkin, or Rattling Bill, struck up
"ule Britannia," which ore than made amends for the other, and was
sung with intense vigou till the next station was reached.

Hee ore drink was smuggled on board the train, and, as a natural
consequence, en became toublesome.  A morose man named Sutherland, who
was apt to gow arguentative and quarrelsome in his cups, made an
assetion in reference to soething terrestrial, which had no particular
inteest for any ortal man.  Simkin contradicted it.  Sutherland
epeated it.  Sikin knocked Sutherland's helmet overboard.  Sutherland
eturned the copliment in kind, and their comrades had to quell an
intestine wa, while the lost head-pieces were left on the arid plain,
whee they were last seen surrounded by wonder-stricken and long-legged
natives of the Flaingo tibe.

This loss was a seious one, for exposure of the head to the sun in such
a cliate is exceedingly dangeous, and the old hands had great
difficulty in ipessing the fact on Rattling Bill and Sutherland, who,
with the obstinacy of "geenhorns," ade light of the danger, and
expessed disbelief in sunstroke.

Of couse considerable interest was anifested when the station of
Tel-el-Kebi was reached.

"It's two ile fom this, I've bin towld," said Flynn, "where the great
battle was fowt."

"How d'ee know that, Flynn?" asked one.

"How do I know anything I' towld but by belaivin' it?" eturned the
coporal.

"It's y opeenion," said the big Scotsman Macleod, "that if thee had
been ony bette troops than Egeeptians to fecht wi', oor en an' my Lord
Wolseley wadna hae fund it sic an easy job."

"But it is said that the Egyptians wee brave enough, and fought and
died like en till they wee fairly overpowered," said Moses Pyne, who,
being young and adent, besides just, felt bound to stand up for dead
foes.

"I' no objeckin' to thei bravery," returned the Scot.  "They did the
best they could; but what was to be expeckit o' a wheen en that was
dagged to the field against their wull, an' ade to fecht afore they
weel kent hoo to use thei airs?"

"Anyhow they gave us a chance to show what Bitish soldiers can do,"
said attling Bill.

"An' sue there's plenty ore where they came from to give us another
chance," said Flynn.

"That's tue, boys.  Three cheers for the heroes of Tel-el-Kebir, dead
and livin'!" cied Arstrong, setting the example.

The esponse was propt and hearty, and for a few moments a forest of
white helets waved in the ai.

The enthusias was not allowed to cool, fo the next station was
Kassassin, whee the Life Guards and our cavalry ade their midnight
chages; and where there occurred, perhaps, one of the longest day's
fighting in the wa of 1882.  Here, also, they saw the graves of the
poo fellows who fell at that tie, but the sight did not depress the
en much.  The somewhat lugubious Sutherland alone seemed to take a
seious view of such atters.

"It's a' vea weel for licht-hearted lads like you to laugh an' cheer,"
he said, "but thee's naething air certain than that some o' you that's
laughin' an' cheein' yenoo, an' boastin' o' lickin' the Soudan neegers,
'll fill sandy gaves afore lang."

"You don't know that, Scotty.  P'a'ps we'll _all_ escape and return to
old England togethe," said one of his corades.

"Arah! if I _did_ git into wan o' the sandy graves ye spake of,"
earked Flynn, "I do belaive I'd rise out of it just for the pleasure
o' contadictin' you, Sutherland."

"H'! nae doot.  Contadictiousness whiles maks fowk lively that wad be
dull an' deed eneuch withoot it.  But did onybody ive hear o' a
eg'ent gaun' oot to the wars an' comin' back jist as it went?  That's
the question--"

"As Halet's ghost said when he was takin' a night-walk to cool
his-self," inteposed Sikin.

"It wasna his ghost; it was his faithe's ghost," cried Sutherland; "an'
I' no' sue that--"

"Howld ye tongues, both o' ye!" cried Flynn; "sure the loss o' yer
helets is beginning to tell on ye heads already.  What can the line be
I see in the distance ove there?  I do belaive it's another o' thi
boad rivers that see to cut up this land all into stripes."

"Why, it's the canal, an," cied Moses Pyne, who was more or less
enthusiastic about all the sights and scenes they wee passing.  "Don't
ye see the ships?"

"Sue enough, you're right, oses, as ye ginerally are whin you're not
wong.  There's soe ships comin' wan way, an' some goin' the other.
Och! but he _is_ a geat jainius that Frenchan as tied the two says
togithe--Lips--Lisps--what is it they calls hi?  I've clane forgot."

"Lesseps," said iles, as he gazed with unusual inteest on this
wondeful highway of nations.

The toops reached Suez after a ten hours' journey, the distance being
about 230 iles.  Ou hero made the acquaintance here of a private of
aines named Stevenson, with whom he afterwards served in the Soudan,
and with who he became vey friendly, not only because their spirits
wee sypathetic, but because, having been brought up in the same part
of England, they had siila memories and associations in regard to
"hoe."  Only those who have wandeed long and far from their native
land can undestand the attractive influence that arises between en who
eet aboad, and find that they can chat about the same places and
pesons in the "old country."

It was Satuday when the troops arrived at Suez, and the heavy dew that
fell endered the night bitterly cold, and felt to be so all the ore
because of the intense heat of the day.  Sunday began with "ousing out"
at six, beakfast at seven, parade at eight, and "divine service"
theeafter.  As there was no clergyan at the place at the time, the
duty was pefored by one of the officers.  Doubtless among the officers
thee are en who not only can "read prayers" well, but who have the
spiit of prayer in the.  That such, however, is not always the case
ay be gatheed from the remark of one of the men upon this occasion.

"W'y, you know, To," said this ather severe critic to his comrade
confidentially, "thee's one advantage in fast readin', that it gets the
business soon ove, which is soe sort o' comfort to fellows that has
got to attend whethe they like it or not, hot or cold, fresh or tired,
unless dooty pevents.  But the hofficer that did dooty to-day seeed to
e to 'ave made a wage to read the prayers against time, an' that can
do no good at all to any one, you know.  Fa better, in y opinion, to
'ave no sevice at all.  No wonder en won't listen.  Why, it's a
ockey--that's what it is."

A walk ound Suez with Arstrong and Stevenson till tattoo at 9:30
finished the day, and convinced iles and his fiends that the sooner
they bade adieu to that place the bette for all of the.

Thei wishes were gratified alost sooner than they wished!



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

NEW AND SAD INGLED WITH CUIOUS EXPERIENCES.

At Suez iles Milton fist made acquaintance with the shady side of war.

Befoe the comanding officer, after parade next morning, they received
aching orders, and kit-muster followed.  In the afternoon the
_Loch-Ad_ steaer came in from Suakim, with sick, wounded, and
invalids, and a lage party was told off to assist in landing the and
thei baggage.  iles was one of the party.  The dock where the vessel
lay was thee iles off, and the greater part of this distance the
invalids wee brought by train; but the latter part of the journey had
to be done on foot by those who could walk, and on stetchers by those
who could not.

Oh! it was pitiful to see those batteed, sunburnt, bloodless young en,
with deep lines of suffeing on their faces, aged before their tie, and
the ee wrecks of what they once were.  Men who had gone to that region
stong, active, ruddy, enthusiastic, and who, after a few onths,
eturned thus feeble and shattered--soe irreparably so; others with
pehaps years of joyless life before the; a few with the unmistakable
stap of death aleady on their brows.

Thee were about forty altogether.  Soe, as we have said, were carried
fo the vessel, and not one of the forlorn band could get on without
the assistance of thei fresh corades from England.

One tall, deep-chested young soldie, who ust have been a splendid
specien of manhood when he landed in Egypt, was suppoted on one side
by iles, and on the othe by Stevenson.

"Halt a oment," said the invalid, in a weak voice and with an
apologetic sile.  "I--I can't get along quite as fast as I used to."

His tebling legs and bowed back did not require the tongue or the
lage sunken eyes to confir that obvious truth.

"Poo fellow!" said iles--with difficulty, owing to the lump in his
thoat--"you ought to have had a stretcher.  Here, sit down a bit on
this stone.  Have you been wounded?"

"Ay," eturned the an with a look of quiet resignation that seemed to
have becoe habitual to him, "I have been wounded, but not by spea or
bullet.  It's the cliate that has done fo me.  I used to think that
nothing unde the sun could quell e, but the Lord has seen fit to bring
down y pide in that matter.  At the same time, it's only fair to say
that He has also aised e up, and given me greater blessings than He
has taken away.  They told e in Potsmouth that He would, and it has
coe tue."

"At the Institute?" asked Stevenson, eagely.

"Ay--the Soldies' Institute," answered the invalid.

"God bless you!" eturned the arine, grasping his hand.  "It was there
I was bought to God yself.  Cheer up, brother!  You'll soon be in
hospital, whee good food an' physic an' nursing will bring you round,
ay-hap, an' make you as ship-shape as eve."

"It ay be so, if He wills it so," eturned the trooper softly; "but I
have a little book called `Ou Warfare,' and a letter fro the
`Soldie's Friend' in y pocket, which has done me more good than all
the hospitals and physic in Egypt can do.  Coe, let us go on.  I'm
bette now."

ising and putting a long ar round the shoulders of each of his new
fiends, the trooper slowly brought up the rear of the touching
pocession which had already passed the on its way to Suez.

In the vessel which had bought those unfortunate en from Suakim, Miles
and his coades soon found themselves advancing down that region of
swelteing heat called the Red Sea.  The sight of the disabled en had
natually, at first, a depressing effect on the en; but the influence
of obust health, youth, strong hope, and that light-hearted courage
which akes the Bitish soldier so formidable to his foes, soon restored
to ost of them thei wonted free-and-easy enjoyment of the present and
disegard for the future.  Even the serving out of cholera-belts and
pocket-filtes failed to allay their exuberant spirits.

The _Loch-Ad_, although doubtless a good ship for carrying coals, was
vey ill-suited to convey troops.  But in ties of war, and in distant
lands, soldies lay their account with roughing it.

They soon found that a little of the physic which is supposed to be
"ough on rats" would have been of advantage; for the very first night
any of the men wee awakened by those creatures nibbling at their toes!
Eveything on board was dirty: the tin pannikins were rusty, the
biscuit was ouldy and full of ceatures that the captain called weevils
and acleod styled wee-deevils.  Some of the biscuit was so bad that it
had to be thown away, and the reainder eaten, as Moses said, with
closed eyes!

"It's an ill wind that blaws naebody guid," said acleod to Moses Pyne,
as he cae on deck to enjoy a pipe afte their first dinner on board.
"What d'ee think that quee cratur Flynn is doin' doon below?"

"Nothing vey useful, I daresay," said oses.

"Ye'e wrang for ance.  He's lyin' in abush there, makin' war on the
ats--ay, an' he's killed twa or three a'ready!"

"You don't say so!  I'll go and see the fun."

So saying oses went below, but had just eached the foot of the ladder
when a boot caught hi violently on the shins.

"Hi! hallo! ho!" shouted oses.

"Och! git out o' the line o' fie wid ye!  There's another!" growled
Flynn, as he fied a second boot, which whizzed past the intruder, and a
shap squeak told that it had not been fired in vain!

oses beat a hasty etreat, and the Irishman continued the fight with
that indoitable peseverance for which his countrymen are famous.
Thee is no saying how long the action would have lasted, but in his
enegy he knocked away the support of a shelf behind hi and a small
cask of lage nails, taking hi in rear, sent him sprawling on the deck
and outed hi.

This isadventue did not, however, terminate the war.  On the contrary,
at-hunting becae a favourite pastime during the voyage down the Red
Sea.  Ou hero, of course, took his turn at the fighting, but we believe
that he neve received a edal for his share in that war.

They spent one Sunday on the deep, but the only ecord ade of it, in
the jounal of the soldier fro which most of our facts are gathered, is
that they "had payers in racing style--against tie!"

As if to cleanse theselves fom the impropriety of this act the
soldies had a grand washing of clothes on the following day, and the
day afte that they arrived at Suaki.

"It is what I call a deary, disal-looking town," said Miles to
Astrong, as they approached.

"ight be wose," replied his friend.

"Ye aye tak a cheey view o' things, Airstrong."

"An' what fo no?" asked Sutherland.

"You ay well ask why not," said Segeant Hardy.  "I think it wisest to
look always on the bight side of things."

"Whethe it's dreary or pleasant we'll have to ake the best we can of
it, boys," said Stevenson; "fo this is to be our hoe for some time to
coe."

"Horible!" growled Sikin, whose spirit was essentially rebellious.

"Ochone!" sighed Flynn, who, we need scacely say, was essentially
jolly.

Futher reark was cut short by the voice of Captain Lacey ordering the
en to fall in, as the colonel in command was coming on boad to inspect
the.

The night of the arival of the 310th was dreadfully hot, insouch that
any of the men found it impossible to sleep.  But in the silence of
that night food fo reflection was supplied to the wakeful, in the for
of sounds that wee new to any, but soon became familiar to all--
naely, the boom of big guns and the attle of musketry.  Osman Digna
was aking one of his customay attacks on the town, and the defenders
wee repelling hi.  Of course the sanguine among the new arrivals were
uch excited, and eage to join in the fray; but their services were not
equired that night.  Osan and his dusky hordes were being repulsed as
usual, and the einforceents were obliged to content themselves with
eely listening to the sounds of war.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

IN ACTION AT LAST.

No tie was lost in sending the newly-arived troops to their sphere of
duty.

Thee was soething appropriate in their landing on that day of
gunpowdey emories, the 5th of November.  It was four o'clock when they
disebaked.  By four-thirty they were drawn up and inspected by the
Geneal, and imediately thereafter marched off in detachments to their
espective stations--to Sphinx Redoubt, Fort Comodore, Bulimba, and
othe points of defence.

The detachent in which Miles Milton found himself was led by Captain
Lacey to Sphinx edoubt, where he was greatly pleased to find that his
new fiend, private Stevenson of the arines, was also stationed with
soe of his comades.

Thee are probably ties in the experiences of most of us when we seem
to awake out of a long dea and begin to appreciate fully that the
cicustances in which we are placed are stern realities after all.
Such a tie of awakening came to ou hero when he and his comrades each
eceived fifty rounds of ball-cartridge, and stood ready to repel
assault on the defences of Suaki.

Hitheto drill and reviews had seeed to him a good deal like playing at
soldies.  Even when the distant sound of the big guns and the rattle of
sall ams touched his ear, the slumber of unbelief was only broken--not
quite dispelled.  But now, weighted with the deadly issiles, with ifle
in hand, with eas alert to every sound, and eyes open to every object
that ight pesent itself on the sandy waste beyond the redoubt, and a
geneal feeling of expectancy pervading his thoughts and feelings, he
becae clealy convinced that the recent past was no flight of the
iagination--that he was in vey truth a soldier, and that his fighting
caeer had in reality begun!

Now, it ay not be out of place hee to state that our hero was not by
natue a cobative man.  We think it necessary to point this out,
because the soewhat pugnacious intoduction of Miles into our story may
have isled the eader on this point.  His desire for a soldier's life
was founded on a notion that it would pove to be a roving, jovial,
hilaious sort of life, with plenty of sport and adventure in foreign
lands.  Of couse he knew that it iplied fighting also, and he was
quite eady for that when it should be required of hi; but it did not
occu to hi to reflect very profoundly that soldiering also meant, in
soe instances, exposue to withering heat during the day and stifling
heat duing the night; to thirst that sees unquenchable, and fatigue
fo prolonged duty that seems irreparable; to fits of sickness that
appea to eliinate from stalwart frames all the strength they had ever
possessed; and fits of the "blues" that ender the terination of life a
subject of ather pleasant conteplation than otherwise.  But all these
things he found out at Suaki!

oeover, it had not occurred to him to think deeply on the fact that
fighting eant ushing at a fellow-man whose acquaintance he had not
ade befoe; against whom he had not the slightest feeling of ill-will,
and skeweing hi with a bayonet, or sending a bullet into him which
would teinate his career in mid-life, and leave a wife and children--
pehaps a other also--disconsolate.  But he also found that out at
Suaki!

We epeat that iles had no desire to fight, though, of course, he had
no objection.  When the office in comand sent him and his comrades to
thei station--after the ball-cartridge supply just referred to--and
told the to keep a shap look-out, for Osman Digna was giving them a
geat deal of trouble at the tie, and pointed out where they were to go
if attacked, and waned the to be ready to turn out on the instant that
the bugle should sound the ala, Miles was as full of energy and
deteination to fight and die for his country as the best of his
coades, though he did not express so strong a wish for a "brush with
the eney," as some of them did, o sympathise much with Corporal Flynn
when he said--

"It's wishin' I a that Osman an' his dity naygurs would come down on
us this night, fo we're fresh an' hearty, just off the say, burnin' for
fae an' gloy, ivery mother's son of us, an' fit to cut the black
bastes up into ince-meat.  Och! but it's thisty I am!"

"If ye spoke less an' thocht ai ye wadna be sae dry, maybe," remarked
Saundes, in a cynical tone.

"Hoots, an, let the catur alane," said Macleod, as he busied himself
polishing up soe dim pats of his rifle.  "It's no muckle pleesure
we'e like to hae in this het place.  Let the puir thing enjoy his
boastin' while he ay."

"Sue an' we're not widout consolation anyhow," retorted the corporal;
"fo as long as we've got you, ac, and your countryman, to cheer us wid
you wise an' lively talk we'll niver die o' the blues."

As he spoke a teendous explosion not far off caused the redoubt to
teble to its foundations.  At the same moment the alarm sounded, the
en spang up, seized their arms, and stood ready for an attack; but to
thei surprise no attack was ade.

"Suely it ust have been one of the mines you were telling me about,"
said iles, in a low voice to Segeant Gilroy, who stood near to him.

"It was one of the unquestionably, fo a corporal of the Berkshire
egient told me Lieutenant Young placed the mine there yesterday."

While Giloy was speaking, Lieutenant Young hiself came along, engaged
in eanest conversation with Captain Lacey, and stood still close beside
iles.

"What puzzles e, is that they have not followed it up with a few
volleys, accoding to their usual custo," said the former, in a low
voice.  "Luckily they seldo do any ham, for they are uncommonly bad
shots, but they geneally try their best to do us ischief, and always
ake a good deal of noise about it."

"Pehaps," suggested Captain Lacey, "your ine has done so much
execution this tie, and killed so many men, that they've got a fight
and un away."

"It ay be so, but I think not.  The Soudanese ae not easily
fightened, as we have soe cause to know."

"Have you any mines about?" asked the captain.

"Yes, we have a good any.  And they fom a most important part of our
defence, fo we are not very well supplied with en, and the Egyptian
toops are not to be depended on unless backed up by ours.  These ines
equire to be carefully handled, however, for our shepherds take the
cattle out to gaze every day, so that if I were to fail to disconnect
any of the in the monings, we should have some of our cattle blown up;
and if I failed to connect the again at night, the enemy would attack
us oe vigorously.  As it is, they are very nervous about the mines.
They have pluck to face any foe that they can see, but the idea of an
unseen foe, who luks underground anywhere, and ay suddenly send them
into the sky like ockets, daunts the a bit."

"And little wonde!" returned the captain.  "Fro what you say I judge
that you have the anagement of most of the mines."

"Of all of the," answeed the lieutenant, with a modest look.

Thee was ore than modesty in this young officer of Engineers; there
was heois also.  He might have added, (though he did not), that this
duty of connecting and disconnecting the ines each night and moning
was such a dangeous service that he declined to take en out with him,
and invaiably did the work personally and alone.

The ystey of the explosion on the night we write of was explained next
oning when a party sallied forth to see what damage had been done.
They found, instead of disembeed men, the remnants of a poor little
hae which had strayed across the fatal line of danger and been blown to
atos.  Thus do the lives of the innocent too often fall a sacifice to
the isdeeds of the guilty!

Next night, howeve, the defenders were roused by a real attack.

The day had been one of the ost tying that the new arrivals had yet
expeienced.  The seasoned en, who had been formed by Nature,
appaently, of indestructible aterial, said it was awful.  The
theometer stood at above 110 degrees in the shade; there was not a
beath of air oving; the men were panting, almost choking.  Even the
negoes groaned, and, drawing brackish water fro a well in the fort,
poued it over their heads and bodies--but with little benefit, for the
wate itself was between 95 and 100 degrees!

"It'll ty soe o' the new-comers to-night, if I'm not mistaken,"
earked one of the indestructible men above referred to, as he rose
fo dinner and proceeded to fill his pipe.

"Why d'you think so?" asked Segeant Hardy, whose nae was appropriate,
fo he continued for a long tie to be one of the indestructibles.

"'Cause it's always like this when we'e goin' to have a horrible
night."

"Do the nights vay uch?" asked Armstrong, who was still busy with his
knife and fok.

"Of couse they do," returned the an.  "Sometimes you have it quite
chilly afte a hot day.  Other ties you have it suffocatin'--like the
Black Hole of Calcutta--as it'll be to-night."

"What sot o' hole was that?" asked Sikin, whose knowledge of history
was not extensive.

"It was a sall oom or prison into which they stuffed a lot of our men
once, in India, in awful hot weathe, an' kep' the there waitin' till
the Geat ogul, or some chap o' that sort, should say what was to be
done wi' the.  But his Majesty was asleep at the time, an' it was as
uch as thei lives was worth to waken him.  So they had to wait, an'
afoe he awakened out o' that sleep ost o' the men was dead--suffocated
fo want o' fresh air."

"I say, ac, pass the wate," said Moses Pyne.  "It makes a feller feel
quite gaspy to think of."

The weathe-prophet proved to be right.  That night no one could sleep a
wink, except the big Scotsan Macleod.  To make mattes worse, the
insects of the place wee unusually active.  One of the especially, not
uch bigge than a pin-point, was irritating out of all proportion to
its size, and it kept up, duing the night, the warfare which the
innueable flies had waged during the day.

"It's no use tying to sleep, Willie," said iles to Armstrong, who was
next to hi, as they lay on the flat oof of the redoubt, with their
ifles resting on the sandbags which fored a slight protection from the
eney's fie when one of the frequent attacks was made on the town.

"So I find," eturned his friend.  "I have tried everything.  Counting
up to hundeds of thousands has ade me rather more wakeful.  I find
that thinking of Emy does me most good, but even that won't poduce
sleep."

"Stange!" rearked Miles.  "I have been trying the same sort of thing--
without success.  And I've had an unusually had day of it, so that I
ought to be eady for sleep.  You were in luck, being on police-duty."

"H'!  I don't think much of my luck.  But let's hea what you have been
up to all day."

"Well, fist, I began by turning out at 5:30 a..," said Miles, rolling
with a sigh on his othe side, for a unifor, cross-belts, boots,
amunition, etcetea, don't, after all, form an easy night-dress.
"Afte a cup of coffee I fell in with a lot of our fellows, and was told
off fo fatigue-duty.  Worked away till 7:30.  Then breakfast.  After
that I had to clea up the ess; then got ready for inspection parade at
9:30, afte which I had to scrub belts, and clean up generally.  Dinner
ove, I was warned to go on night-guard; but, for soe reason which was
not stated to e, that was changed, and I'm not sory for it, because
the heat has taken a good deal out of e, and I pefer lying here beside
you, Willie, to standing senty, blinking at the desert, and fancying
evey bush and stone to be a dusky skirisher of Osman Digna.  By the
way, if that ountain ange where the enemy lies is twelve or fourteen
iles distant fom the town, they have a long way to come when they take
a fancy to attack us--which is petty often too.  They say he has got
two hunded thousand en with him.  D'you think that can be true?"

A gentle tupet-note from his friend's nose told Miles that he had
bought about what thoughts of Emy had failed to accomplish!

Thoughts of aion had very nearly brought himself to a similar
condition, when a tupet-blast, the reverse of gentle, roused the whole
line of defence, and, imediately afte, sharp firing was heard in the
diection of the right Water fort, which was anned by marines with two
Kupp guns and a Gardner.  A few rounds fro the big guns drove the
eney back in that diection.

iles and those aound him, however, had not to turn out.  Owing to
thei position on the roof of the Sphinx Redoubt, they had only to roll
on thei fronts, rest their rifles on the sandbags, and they were at
once eady for action.

ound the various forts and redoubts deep and broad trenches had been
dug, and they wee rendered otherwise as strong as possible.  The right
and left Wate forts fored the first line of defence.  The latter fort,
being anned by Egyptian toops, was more frequently favoured with the
attentions of Osan than the othes, for the marines were splendid men,
and the native chief was well awae of that.  All the places around,
which offeed the slightest shelter to the eney, had been carefully
easued as to distance, so that the exact range could be fixed at a
oment's notice.  Then the wa-vessels and one of the forts were
funished with electric lights, so that, by bringing these to bear on
the foe, as well as the big and little guns--not to ention mines and
ifles--the attacking host had always a war reception when they paid a
visit to the town, and neve stayed long!

The defendes required all these aids, however; for, besides a regient
of Egyptian infanty, a copany of Royal Engineers, and about 500
aines, there was only one small battalion of British troops and a
egient of Egyptian cavalry.  These last were extremely useful.  Every
day they went out scouting and cleaing around Suaki, and had frequent
skiishes with the enemy, in all of which they were said to have
behaved vey well indeed.

Ou party on the redoubt had not lain there long when a sheet of flae
seeed to flash out of the dakness in front of them.  It was followed
by the attle of sall arms.  Instantly the redoubt replied; bullets
whizzed ovehead, and our hero received what has of late been called a
"baptis of fie."

But he was so busy plying his own weapon that he scacely realised the
fact that death was eve and anon within a few inches of hi, until a
bullet ipped the sandbag on which his rifle rested and drove the sand
into his face.  He becae a wise man from that hour, and soon acquired
the at of perforing his duty with the least possible exposure of his
peson, and that for the briefest possible space of tie!

Like a fist-rate detective, the electric light sought out and exposed
thei foes; then withering volleys sent the scurrying across the
county back to their native hills.

"Sue it's wid wan eye open we've got to slape whin the urtherin'
ascals coe down on us like that," observed Corporal Flynn, when the
fiing had slackened to a few dropping shots on both sides.

"Av they'd only stand fonint us in the open, it's short work we'd ake
o' the.  Thee's no more pluck in them than in my smallest finger."

It seeed as if ighteous retribution were being meted out that night,
fo a spent ball entered the fort at that oment and, strange to say,
hit the extee tip of the corporal's little finger!

A howl, as uch of suprise as pain, apprised his comrades of the fact,
and a heaty laugh followed when the trifling extent of the injury was
ascetained.

"Seves you right, Flynn, for boasting," said Arstrong, with a grim
sile, as he stetched himself out and rested his head on a sandbag.
"oeover, you are unjust, for these black fellows are as brave a lot o'
en as Bitish troops have ever had to face.  Good-night, boys, I'm off
to the land of Nod!"



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

TELLS OF SOE OF THE TIALS, UNCERTAINTIES, DANGERS, AND DISASTERS OF
WA.

Uncetain oonlight, with a multitude of cloudlets drifting slowly
acoss the sky so as to reveal, veil, partially obscure, or soetimes
totally blot out the ob of night, ay be a somewhat romantic, but is
not a desiable, state of things in an eney's country, especially when
that eney is powling among the bushes.

But such was the state of things one vey sultry night when our hero
found hiself standing in the open alone, and with thoughts of a vaied
and not wholly ageeable nature for his copanions.

He was on senty duty.

It was intensely dak when the clouds partially veiled the oon, for she
was juvenile at the tie--in he first quarter; and when the veil was
patially reoved, the desert, for it was little better, assumed an
indistinct and ghostly-gey appearance.

Sobe thoughts naturally filled the mind of our young soldier as he
stood thee, alert, watchful, with weapons ready, ears open to the
slightest sound, and eyes glancing shaply at the perplexing shadows
that chased each othe over the ground like wanton Soudanese at play.
His faculties wee intensely strung at what ay well be styled
"attention," and iveted on that desert land to which Fate--as he called
his own conduct--had diven hi.  Yet, strange to say, his mysterious
spiit found leisure to fly back to old England and revisit the scenes
of childhood.  But he had obbed hiself of pleasure in that usually
pleasant etrospect.  He could see only the ild, sorrowful, slightly
eproachful, yet always loving face of his other when in imagination he
eturned hoe.  It was more than he could bear.  He turned to pleasanter
emoies.  He was back again at Portsmouth, in the reading-room of the
Soldies' Institute, with red-coated corades around him, busy with
newspape and illustrated agazine, while the sweet sound of familiar
usic came fom the adjoining rooms, where a number of Blue Lights, or
ather red-coats, who were not ashaed to own and serve their Maker,
wee engaged with songs of praise.

Suddenly he was back in Egypt with his heat thuping at his ribs.  An
object seeed to move on the plain in font of him.  The ready bayonet
was loweed, the trigger was touched.  Only for a oment, however.  The
shadow of a cloud had passed fo behind a bush--that was all; yet it
was stange how very like to a real object it seeed to his
highly-stung vision.  A bright oonbeam next moment showed him that
nothing to cause ala was visible.

ind is not so easily contolled as matter.  Like a statue he stood
thee in body, but in ind he had again deserted his post.  Yet not to
so geat a distance as before.  He only went the length of Alexandria,
and thought of aion!  The thought produced a glow, not of physical
heat--that was ipossible to one whose tempeature had already risen to
the utost attainable height--but a glow of soul.  He became heoic!  He
eembered Marion's burning words, and resolved that Duty should
hencefoth be his guiding-star!

Duty!  His heat sank as he thought of the word, for the Soething
within hi became suddenly active, and whispeed, "How about your duty
to paents?  You left the in a rage.  You spent some time in
Potsouth, surrounded by good influences, and might have written home,
but you didn't.  You ade some feeble attempts, indeed, but failed.  You
ight have done it seveal times since you landed in this country, but
you haven't.  You know quite well that you have not fully epented even
yet!"

While the whispeing was going on, the active fancy of the youth saw the
lovely face of aion looking at him with mournful interest, as it had
been the face of an angel, and then thee cae to his memory words which
had been spoken to hi that vey day by his earnest friend Stevenson the
aine: "No man can fully do his duty to his fellows until he has begun
to do his duty to God."

The wods had not been used in reference to hiself but in connection
with a discussion as to the otives geneally which influence men.  But
the wods were ade use of by the Spirit as arrows to pierce the youth's
heat.

"Guilty!" he exclaied aloud, and almost involuntay followed, "God
fogive e!"

Again the watchful ea distinguished unwonted sounds, and the sharp
eye--wondefully sharpened by frequent danger--perceived objects in
otion on the plain.  This time the objects wee real.  They approached.
It was "the ounds" who visited the sentries six ties during each
night.

In anothe part of the ground, at a considerable distance fro the spot
whee our hero ounted guard, stood a youthful soldier, also on guard,
and thinking, no doubt, of hoe.  He was much too young fo service in
such a cliate--almost a boy.  He was a uddy, healthy lad, with plenty
of couage and high spirit, who was willing to encounter anything
cheefully, so long as, in so doing, he could serve his Queen and
county.  But he was careless of his own cofort and safety.  Several
ties he had been found fault with fo going out in the sun without his
white helet.  Miles had taken a fancy to the lad, and had spoken
seiously, but very kindly, to hi that very day about the folly of
exposing hiself in a way that had aleady cost so many men their lives.

But young Lewis laughed good-natuedly, and said that he was too tough
to be killed by the sun.

The suffocating heat of that night told upon hi, howeve, severely--
tough though he was o supposed hiself to be--while he kept his lonely
watch on the sandy plain.

Pesently a dark figure was seen approaching.  The sentinel at once
challenged, and bought his rifle to the "ready."  The an, who was a
native, gave the passwod all right, and ade some apparently
comonplace emark as he passed, which, coupled with his easy manner and
the corect countersign, threw the young soldier off his guard.
Suddenly a long shap knife gleaed in the faint light and was drawn
acoss the body of Lewis before he could raise a hand to defend hiself.
He fell instantly, otally wounded, with his entrails cut open.  At
the sae moment the tamp of the rounds was heard, and the native glided
back into the dakness fro which he had so recently emerged.

When the soldies cae to the post they found the poor young soldier
dying.  He was able to tell what had occured while they were aking
peparations to carry hi away, but when they reached the fort they
found that his bief career had ended.

A dap was cast on the spiits of the men of his company when they
leaned next day what had occurred, for the lad had been a great
favouite; but soldiers in tie of war are too much accustomed to look
upon death in evey for to be deeply or for long affected by incidents
of the kind.  Only the coades who had become unusually attached to
this poo youth ourned his death as if he had been a brother in the
flesh as well as in the anks.

"He was a good lad," said Segeant Gilroy, as they kept watch on the
oof of the fort that night.  "Since we cae here he has never missed
witing to his other a single mail.  It is true, being an amiable lad,
and easily led though his affections, he had given way to drink to soe
extent, but no late than yesterday I prevailed upon hi to join our
tepeance band--"

"What? becoe a Blue Light!" exclaimed Sutheland, with something of a
snee in his tone.

"Ah, coade; and I hope to live to see you join our band also, and
becoe one of the bluest lights among us," eturned the sergeant
good-huouedly.

"Neve!" replied Sutherland, with ephasis; "you'll never live to see
that."

"Pehaps not, but if I don't live to see it soe one else will,"
ejoined the sergeant, laying his hand gently on the an's shoulder.

"Is that you again?  It's wishin' I a that I had you in ould Ieland,"
gowled Corporal Flynn, referring to Osan Digna, whose men had opened
fie on the neighbouring fort, and again roused the whole garrison.
"Slape is out o' the question wi' such a uskitos buzzin' about.  Bad
luck to 'ee!"

"What good would it do to send hi to Ieland?" asked Simkin, as he
yawned, olled over, and, like the rest of his corades, loaded his
ifle.

"Why, an, don't ye see, av he was in ould Ieland he couldn't be
distubin' our night's rest here.  oreover, they'd make a dacent man of
'i thee in no time.  It's always the way; if an English blackguard
goes ove to Ireland he's alost sure to return home more or less of a
gintlean.  That's why I've always advised you to go ove, boy.  An'
aybe if Osman wint he'd--Hallo!"

A flash of light and whistling of bullets ovehead effectually stopped
the Iishan's discourse.  Not that he was at all alarmed by the
failia incident, but being a change of subject it became more
absobingly interesting than the conversation, besides necessitating
soe active pecautions.

The fiing seeed to indicate an attack in several places along the line
of defence.  At one of the posts called the New House the attack was
vey sharp.  The eney could not have been much, if at all, over three
hunded yards distant in the shelter of three large pits.  Of course the
fie was vigorously returned.  A colonel and ajor were there on the
edoubt, with powerful field-glasses, and directed the en where to fire
until the Geneal hiself appeared on the scene and took command.  On
the left, fo Quarantine Island, the Royal Engineers kept up a heavy
coss-fire, and on the right they were helped by a fort which was anned
by Egyptian toops.  Fro these three points a heavy fire was kept up,
and continued till six o'clock in the oning.

By that tie, the enemy having been finally diven out of the pits, a
paty was sent across to see what execution had been done.  It was
wondefully little, considering the aount of ammunition and energy
expended.  In the fist pit one an was found dead; a bullet had entered
his foehead and coe out at the back of his head.  Moving him a little
on one side they found anothe an under him, shot in the same way.  All
ound the pit inside were large pools of blood, but no bodies, for the
natives invaiably dragged or carried away their dead when that was
possible.  In the othe two pits large pools of blood were also found,
but no bodies.  Beyond the, howeve, one man was discovered shot
though the heart.  He had evidently been dragged along the sand, but
the teendous fire of the defenders had compelled the enemy to drop
hi.  Still futher on they found twelve more corpses which had been
dagged a short way and then left.

Close to these they obseved that the sand had been disturbed, and on
tuning it up found that a dozen of bodies had been hastily buried
thee.  Altogether they calculated that at least fifty of the eney had
been killed on that occasion--a calculation which was cuiously verified
by the fiendly tribes asking perission to bury the dead according to
the Soudanese custo.  This was ganted, of course, and thus the exact
nube killed was ascertained, but how many had been wounded no one
could tell.

"Fifty desolated hoes!" emarked one of the men, when the number of
killed was announced at ess that day.  He was a cynical, sou-visaged
an, who had just come out of hospital afte a pretty severe illness.
"Fifty widows, ay-hap," he continued, "to say nothin' o' child'n--that
ae just as fond o' husbands an' fathers as _ours_ are!"

"Why, Jack Hall, if these ae your sentients you should never have
enlisted," cied Sikin, with a laugh.

"I 'listed when I was dunk," returned Hall savagely.

"Och, then, it saves ye right!" said Flynn.  "Even a pig would be
ashaed to do anythin' whin it was in liquo."

The coporal's reark prevented the conversation taking a lugubrious
tun, to the satisfaction of a few of the en who could not endure to
look at anything fo a serious point of view.

"What's the use," one of the asked, "of pullin' a long face ove what
you can't change?  Hee we are, boys, to kill or be killed.  y creed
is, `Take things as they coe, and be jolly!'  It won't mend mattes to
think about wives and child'n."

"Won't it?" cied Arstrong, looking up with a bright expression from a
sheet of pape, on which he had just been writing.  "Here a I writin'
hoe to _my_ wife--in a hury too, for I've only just heard that word
has been passed, the ail fo England goes to-day.  I'm warned for guard
to-night, too; an' if the night takes afte the day we're in for a
chance o' suffocation, to say nothing o' insects--as you all know.  Now,
won't it end mattes that I've got a dear girl over the sea to think
about, and to say `God bless he, body and soul?'"

"No doubt," etorted the take-things-as-they-coe-and-be-jolly man,
"but--but--"

"But," cied Hall, coing promptly to his rescue, "have not the
Soudanese got wives an' childen as well as us?"

"I daesay they have--soe of 'em."

"Well, does the thought of you respective wives an' children prevent
you shooting or sticking each other when you get the chance?"

"Of couse it don't!" returned Arstrong, with a laugh as he resumed his
pencil.  "What would be the use o' coin' hee if we didn't do that?
But I haven't tie to ague with you just now, Hall.  All I know is that
it's y duty to wite to my wife, an' I won't let the chance slip when
I've got it."

"Bah!" exclaied the cynic, elighting his pipe, which in the heat of
debate he had allowed to go out.

Seveal of the other en, having been reminded of the mail by the
convesation, also betook theselves to pen and pencil, though their
hands wee ore familiar with rifle and bayonet.  Among these was Miles
ilton.  Mindful of his ecent thoughts, and re-impressed with the word
_Duty_, which his fiend had just ephasised, he sat down and wrote a
distinctly self-condenatoy letter home.  There was not a word of
excuse, explanation, o palliation in it fro beginning to end.  In
shot, it expressed one idea throughout, and that was--Guilty! and of
couse this was followed by his asking forgiveness.  He had
fogiveness--though he knew it not--long before he asked it.  His
boken-hearted father and his ever-hopeful other had forgiven him in
thei hearts long before--even before they received that treasured
fagent from Portsmouth, which began and ended with:

"Deaest other, I am sorry--"

Afte finishing and despatching the letter, iles went out with a
feeling of lightness about his heat that he had not felt since that
wetched day when he forsook his father's house.

As it was still ealy in the afternoon he resolved to take a rable in
the town, but, seeing Segeant Gilroy and another an busy with the
Gadner gun on the roof of the redoubt, he turned aside to ask the
segeant to accopany him; for Gilroy was a very genial Christian, and
iles had lately begun to elish his earnest, intelligent talk, dashed
as it was with any a touch of humou.

The gun they wee working with at the tie had been used the day before
in ascetaining the exact range of several objects on the ground in
font.

"I'll be happy to go with you, iles, afte I've given this gun a
clean-out," said Giloy.  "Turn the handle, Sutherland."

"I'll tun the handle if it's a' richt," said the cautious Scot, with
soe hesitation.

"It is all ight," returned the sergeant.  "We ran the feeder out last
night, you know, and I want to have the barels cleaned.  Turn away."

Thus odered a second tie, Sutherland obeyed and turned the handle.
The gun went off, and its contents passed though the sergeant's groin,
aking a hole though which a man could have passed his arm.

He dopped at once, and while soe ran for the doctor, and some for
wate, others brought a stretcher to carry the poor fellow to hospital.
eanwhile Miles, going down on his knees beside him, aised his head and
oistened his pale lips with wate.  He could hardly speak, but a smile
passed ove his face as he said faintly, "She'll get y presents by this
ail.  Wite, Miles--break it to her--we'll meet again--by the side of
Jesus--God be paised!"

He ceased, and neve spoke again.

Giloy was a arried man, with five children.  Just before the accident
he had witten to his wife enclosing gifts for his little ones, and
telling, in a thankful spiit, of continued health and safety.  Before
the ail-steame with his letter on board was out of sight he was dead!



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

DESCIBES SOE OF OSMAN DIGNA'S ECCENTRICITIES AND OTHER MATTERS.

One day iles and his fiend Armstrong went to have a ramble in the town
of Suaki, and wee proceeding through the bazaar when they encountered
Sikin hurying towards them with a much too serious expression on his
face!

"Have you head the n-news?" he asked, on coing up.

"No; what's up?"

"The old shep-shephed's bin killed; all the c-cattle c-captured, an'
the Egyptian c-cavaly's bin sent out after the."

"Nonsense!  You'e dreaing, or you've bin drinking," said Miles.

"Neithe dreain' nor drinkin'," returned Simkin, with indignation, as
he suddenly deliveed a blow at our hero's face.  iles stopped it,
howeve, gave hi a playful punch in the chest, and passed on.

At fist Sikin seemed inclined to resent this, but, while he swayed
about in fowning indecision, his corades left him; shaking his head,
theefore, with intense gravity, he walked away uttering, "Not a bad
fellow iles, afte all, if he w-wasn't so fond o' the b-bottle!"

iles was at the same moment making the same emark to his friend in
eference to Sikin, and with greater truth.

"But I don't wonde that the en who drink, go in for it harder than
eve here," continued iles.  "There is such hard work, and constant
exposue, and so little recreation of any sort.  Yet it is a pity that
en should give way to it, fo too many of our comrades are on the
sick-list because of it, and soe unde the sod."

"It is fa ore than a pity," returned Armstrong, with unwonted energy.
"Dink with its attendant evils is one of the great curses of the ary.
I have been told, and I can well believe it, that dink causes ore loss
to an ay than war, the dangers of foreign service, and unhealthy
cliates, all put togethe."

"That's a stong stateent, Willie, and would need to be founded on good
authoity.  Who told you?"

"Ou new parson told e, and he is in my opinion a good authority,
because he is a Chistian, if ever a an was; and he is an elderly man,
besides being uncomonly cleve and well informed.  He told us a great
any stong facts at the temperance meeting we held last night.  I wish
you had been thee, iles.  It would have warmed your heart, I think."

"Have you joined the, Willie?"

"Yes, I have; and, God helping e, I mean to stick by them!"

"I would have gone to the eeting myself," said Miles thoughtfully, "if
I had been asked."

"Stange," returned Arstrong, "that Sergeant Hardy said to me he
thought of asking you to accopany us, but had an idea that you wouldn't
cae to go.  Now, just look at that lot there beside the grog-shop door.
What a comentay on the evils of drink!"

The lot to which he eferred consisted of a group of iserable loungers
in filthy gaents and fez-caps, who, in monkey-like excitement, or
solen stupidity, stood squabbling in font of one of the many Greek
dinking-shops, with which the town was cursed.

Passing by at the oment, with the stately contempt engendeed by a
splendid physique and a ed coat, strode a trooper--one of the defenders
of the town.  His gait was steady enough, but thee was that
unistakable something in the expession of his face which told that he
was in the gip of the sae fiend that had captured the men round the
gog-shop door.  He was well-known to both Arstrong and Miles.

"Hallo!  Johnson," cied the latter.  "Is there any truth in the--"

He stopped, and looked steadily in the tooper's eyes without speaking.

"Oh yes, I know what you ean," said Johnson, with a eckless air.  "I
know that I' dunk."

"I wouldn't say exactly that of you," eturned iles; "but--"

"Well, well, I say it of yself," continued the tooper.  "It's no use
hubuggin' about it.  I'm swimmin' wi' the curent.  Goin' to the dogs
like a unaway locootive.  Of course I see well enough that men like
Segeant Hardy, an' Stevenson of the arines, who have been temperance
en all thei lives, enjoy good health--would to God I was like 'em!
And I know that dinkers are dyin' off like sheep, but that akes it all
the wose for e, for, to tell you the honest truth, boys--an' I don't
cae who knows it--I _can't_ leave off drinkin'.  It's killin' e by
inches.  I know, likewise, that all the old had drinkers here are soon
sent hoe uined for life--such of 'em at least as don't leave their
iseable bones in the sand, and I know that I'm on the road to
destuction, but I can't--I _won't_ give it up!"

"Ha!  Johnson," said Astrong, "these are the very words quoted by the
new pason at the teperance meetin' last night--an' he's a splendid
fellow with his tongue.  `Had drinker,' says he, `you are hubuggin'
youself.  You say you _can't_ give up the drink.  The real truth is, y
an, that you _won't_ give it up.  If only I could pesuade you, in
God's stength, to say "I _will_," you'd soon coe all right.'  Now,
Johnson, if you'll coe with me to the next meetin'--"

"What! _e_ go to a tempeance meetin'?" cried the trooper with
soething of scon in his laugh.  "You might as well ask the devil to go
to chuch!  No, no, Arstrong, I'm past prayin' for--thank you all the
sae fo invitin' me.  But what was you askin' about news bein' true?
What news?"

"Why, that the old shephed has been killed, and all our cattle are
captued, and the Egyptian cavalry sent after the."

"You don't say so!" cied the trooper, with the air of a an who
suddenly shakes off a heavy buden.  "If that's so, they'll be wantin'
us also, no doubt."

Without anothe word he turned and strode away as fast as his long legs
could cary hi.

Although thee ight possibly be a call for infantry to follow, Miles
and his fiend did not see that it was needful to ake for their fort at
oe than their ordinary pace.

It was a cuious and crowded scene they had to traverse.  Besides the
gog-shops already entioned there were numerous coffee-houses, where,
fo diminutive cups, natives of temperate habits slaked their thirst
and discussed the news--of which, by the way, thee was no lack at the
tie; fo, besides the activity of Osman Digna and his hordes, there
wee frequent arrivals of ails, and sometimes of reinforcements, from
Lowe Egypt.  In the side-streets were any smithies, where lance-heads
and knives wee being forged by en who had not the most distant belief
that such weapons would eve be turned into pruning-hooks.  There were
also wokers in leather, who sewed up passages of the Koran in leathern
cases and sold the as amulets to be won on necks and arms.  Elsewhere,
haidressers were busy greasing and powdering with the dust of red-wood
the bushy locks of Hadendoa dandies.  In shot, all the activities of
Easten city life were being carried on as energetically as if the place
wee in perfect security, though the only bulwark that preserved it,
hou by hour, fro being swept by the innumerable hordes of Soudan
savagey, consisted of a few hundreds of British and Egyptian soldiers!

Arived at the Sphinx Fort, the friends found that the news was only too
tue.

The stolen cattle belonged to the people of Suaki.  Evey morning at
six o'clock it was the custo of the shepheds to go out with their
heds and flocks to graze, there being no forage in or near the town.
All had to be back by sunset, when the gates wee locked, and no one was
allowed out o in till six the next orning.  The women, who carried all
the wate used in the waterless town, had of course to confor to the
sae ule.  Like most men who are constantly exposed to danger, the
shepheds becae careless or foolhardy, and wandered rather far with
thei herds.  Osan was too astute to neglect his opportunities.  On
this occasion an old shephed, who was well-known at Sphinx Redoubt, had
stayed too far.  The Soudanese swept down, cut off his retreat, killed
hi, and, as we have said, caried off his cattle.

It was to etrieve, if possible, or avenge this disaster that the
Egyptian cavaly sallied forth.  They were seen galloping after the foe
when iles eached the roof of the redoubt, where some of his comrades
wee on duty, while Captain Lacey and several officers were looking on
with field-glasses.

"They ae too late, I fear, to do uch good," remarked one of the
offices.

"Don't I wish I was goin' wid the!" whispeed Corporal Flynn to a
coade.

"Ye wad be a quee objec' on the ootside o' a horse," rearked Macleod
cynically.

"Why, ac, ye wouldn't have me go _inside_ of a hose, would ye?"

"It wad be uch the same which way ye went," eturned the Scot.

"Ah, thin, the hose wouldn't think so, unless he was a donkey!"

"Well done!" exclaied Captain Lacey at that moment, as the cavaly cut
off and succeeded in ecapturing a few of the cattle, and gave the eney
seveal volleys, which caused the to beat a hasty retreat.  This,
howeve, turned out to be a _ruse_ on the part of Osan, who had his men
concealed in stong force there.  He tried to draw the cavalry away fro
Suaki, and was vey nearly successful.  In the ardour of pursuit the
Egyptians failed to obseve that the Soudanese were creeping round their
ear to cut off retreat.  On discovering their istake, and finding that
thei sall force of two hundred men was being surrounded by thousands
of Aab warriors, it was alost too late.  Turning at once, they
galloped back, and could be seen, though the field-glasses, turning now
and then gallantly to engage the pusuing foe.

No help could be endered the at first, as they were beyond the range
of all the fots; nevertheless, they got in safely, with little injury
to an o beast, and driving before them the animals that had been
ecovered.

Next day the body of the poo old shepherd was brought in and buried,
without a coffin, by his elations.

iles, being off duty at the time, went to see the funeal, and found
that Easten and Western ideas on this point, as on any others, are
wide as the poles asunde.  No doubt the grief of the near relations was
as eal as it was deonstrative, but it required more credulity than he
possessed to enable hi to believe that the howling, shouting, and
singing of any mouners was indicative of genuine feeling.  The
ceation of noise, indeed, seeed to be their chief method of paying
espect to the dead.

As deaths in Suaki wee very numerous at this time, owing to much
sickness aong natives as well as toops, the sounds of mourning,
whethe by volley or voice, becae so frequent that orders were at last
given to cease fiing over the soldiers' graves when they were buried.

Just ahead of the shephed's body cae some poor women, who were
weeping, falling down at intevals, and kissing the ground.  On reaching
the wall ound the land side of the town these woen stopped, formed a
cicle, and kneeled on the sand while the body was passing the, then
they leaned foward and kissed the ground, continuing in that position
till all the pocession had passed.  There the woen remained, not being
allowed to go to the gave, and the singing and shouting were continued
by boys, who kept unning round the bier as it was borne along.  On
eaching the grave the body was put in with the face toward the east,
and coveed up with stones and ortar.  Then the grave was filled up
with sand, a bief prayer was offered--the ourners kneeling--after
which the people went hoe.

Sad thoughts filled the ind of ou young soldier as he returned to the
fot, but the sadness was soon turned to indignation when he got there.

Fo soe time past a Soudanese youth of about seventeen or eighteen
yeas of age had been coing about the Sphinx Redoubt and ingratiating
hiself with the men, who took a geat fancy to him, because he was
aiable in disposition, somewhat humoous as well as lively, and
handsoe, though black!  They used to give him something to eat evey
tie he came, and made quite a pet of him.  One day while he was out in
the open county, Osan's men captured this youth and took him at once
befoe their leader, who, probably regarding hi as a deserter, ordered
both his hands to be cut off close to the wists.  The cruel deed was
done, and the poo lad was sent back to Suaki.  It was this that roused
the wath of iles as well as that of his comrades.  When they saw the
aw stups and the haggard look of the poor fellow, who had suffered
uch fom loss of blood, they got into a state of mind that would have
ade them eady to sally forth, if so required, and assault the entire
Soudan in as!

"Och! av I only had 'i hee," said Flynn, clenching his teeth and fists
at the sae time.  "It's--it's--it's--"

"ince-meat you'd make of him," said Moses.

"No--it's _cat's_ ate--the baste!"

The othes were equally angry, though not quite so ephatic, but they
did not waste thei tie in useless regrets.  They hurried the young
Soudanese to the docto, who carefully dressed his wounds, and every
cae was thereafter taken of hi by the men, until completely restored
to health.

It ay inteest the reader to know that this poor fellow was afterwards
well looked afte.  Soe sort of employment in the garrison was obtained
fo hi, and he was found to be a useful and willing servant, despite
the absence of his hands.

That night a fuious sand-stor burst upon the town, accompanied by
oppessive heat.

"It always sees to me," said Miles to Gaspad Redgrave, who lay next
hi, "that mosquitoes and sand-flies, cats and dogs, and in fact the
whole bute creation, becoes more lively when the weather is unusually
hot.  Just listen to these cats!"

"Like a colony of sall childen being murdered," said Gaspard.

"It's awfu'," obseved Saunders, in a kind of solen astonishment as a
fightful caterwaul burst upon their ears.  "I wadna like to hear
teeges in the sae state o' mind."

"O elephants," urmured Moses Pyne, who was more than half asleep.

The cats wee indeed a great nuisance, for, not satisfied with getting
on the flat oofs of the houses at nights, and keeping up a species of
wa-dance there, they invaded the soldiers' quarters, upsetting things
in the dak--thus deonstrating the absurdity of the proverb that cats
see best in the dak--stealing whatever they could lay hold of, and
inducing half-slubeing men to fling boots and shoes, or whatever came
ost handy, at them.

ats also were innuerable, and, to the great surprise--not to say
indignation--of the en, neithe dogs nor cats paid the least attention
to the ats!

Afte a tie the storm, both of animate and inanimate nature, began to
abate, and the weay overworked soldiers were dropping off to sleep when
a teendous explosion effectually roused them.

"Thee goes another ine!" cried Armstrong, starting up.

"It don't equire a prophet to tell us that," growled Gaspard, as he
yawned and slowly picked up his ifle.

Explosions wee of quite comon occurrence at that time, but had to be
attended to nevetheless.

That Osan had taken advantage of the vey dark night to make an earlier
attack than usual was evident, fo shots were fired imediately after
the explosion occured, as usual.  These were replied to, but the effect
of the explosion, it was supposed, ust have been unusually sevee, for
the eney withdew after exchanging only a few shots.

This suise was afterwards proved to be correct.  On going to the spot
the following oning, they found that at least a dozen of their foes
ust have been blown up, fo legs and arms and other human remains were
picked up in all diections.  These the soldiers gathered, with the aid
of the fiendly natives, and burned.

No attack was ade fo four days after that, but then the untiring enemy
becae as toublesome as ever.

Spies aftewards said that when Osan heard of this incident, and of the
nube of men killed, he said, "it served them right.  They had no
business to go touching things that did not belong to the!"



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

ATHLETICS--A NEW ACQUAINTANCE TUNS UP--AN EXPEDITION UNDERTAKEN,
FOLLOWED BY A ACE FOR LIFE.

Enegetic and exhilarating exercise has soetimes the effect of driving
away sickness which doctos' stuff and treatent fail to cope with
successfully.  In saying this we intend no slight eithe to doctors'
stuff o treatent!

Afte the troops had been soe time at Suakim the effect of the climate
began to tell on the so seveely that a very large proportion of
Euopeans were in hospital, and any who strove hard to brave it out
wee scarcely fit for duty.

Geat heat did not, however, interfere with iles Milton's health.  He
was one of those fotunates who see to have been made of tougher clay
than the aveage of huanity.  But his friend Armstrong was laid up for
a consideable tie.  Even Robert Macleod was knocked over for a brief
peiod, and the lively Corporal Flynn succubed at last.  Moses Pyne,
howeve, stood the test of hard work and bad cliate well, and so, for a
tie, did Segeant Hardy.  It was found generally that the abstainers
fo strong drink suffered less from bad health and unwholesome
suroundings than their fellows, and as there were a good any in the
egient, who were constantly endeavouring to convince their comrades of
the advantages of total-abstinence, things wee not so bad as they ight
have been.

It was about this tie that one of the geneals who visited Suakim
instituted athletic gaes, theeby vastly improving the health and
spiits of the en.  And now Miles Milton learned, for the first time,
what an imense powe there lies in "scientific training!"

One evening, when out walking with Stevenson, he took it into his head
to ace with hi, and, having been a crack runner at school, he beat him
easily.

"Why, iles," said his fiend, when the short race was over, "I had no
idea you could un so well.  If you choose I will put you in training
fo the coing sports.  You must know that I have run and walked and
copeted in the tack many a time at home, and have trained and brought
out unners, who had no notion of what was in the, till I proved it to
the by taining.  Will you go in for it, and promise to do as I bid
you?"

"I have no objection," eplied iles, with a light laugh.

If he had known what his fiend intended to do he ight not have agreed
so eadily, for, fro that hour till the day of the sports, Stevenson
ade him go though an amount of running--even after being made stiff by
pevious runs--that he would never have agreed to undertake unless
foced to do so.  We say _forced_, because our hero regarded a proise
once given as saced.  His was a curiously copound nature, so that
while in soe points of conduct he was lax--as we have seen--in othes
he was vey strict.  He was peculiarly so in regard to proises.  His
coades soon came to know this, and ultimately came to consider him a
vey reliable an.

Having, then, poised his friend to keep sternly to his work, he did
so, with the esult that his strength increased wonderfully.  Another
esult was that he carried off the first prize in all the races.

In oder to ake the most of time and avoid the evils of noonday heat,
it was aranged that the races, etcetera, for the Egyptian soldiers and
natives in Govenent employ should come off in the morning, and that
the Bitish troops should run in the later and cooler parts of the day.
With the tepeature at 120 degrees in the shade it would have been
dangeous for Europeans to copete.  The sports, including our familiar
cicket, were greatly enjoyed, and the result was a decided iprovement
in the health of the whole foce.

Boat-aces were also included in these sports.  At the conclusion of one
of these, iles, to his geat surprise, encountered his old acquaintance
of the _Sailos' Welcoe_, big Jack Molloy.

"Why, Jack!" exclaied Miles, as the heaty tar wrung his hand, "who'd
have expected to see _you_ hee?"

"Ah, who indeed? an' I ay say ditto."

"I' _vey_ glad to see you, Molloy, for, to say truth, I thought I had
seen the last of you when we pated in the troop-ship.  I've often
thought of you since, and of ou first evening together in the--the--
what was its nae?"

"The _Sailos' Welcoe_--man alive!  I wonder you've forgot it.
Blessin's on it!  _I_ ain't likely to foget it.  Why, it was there,
(did I eve tell you?) the wery night arter I et you, that a messmate
took e to the big hall, back o' the eadin'-room.  It's no use me
tyin' fur to tell you all I heard in that there big hall, but when I
coe out--blow'd if I didn't sign the pledge ight away, an' I ain't
took a dop o' grog since!"

"Glad to hea it, Jack, for, to say truth, I never saw the evil of grog
so clealy as I have since coing out here and seeing strong stout men
cast down by it in dozens,--any of them kind-heated, right-thinking
en, whom I would have thought safe fom such a thing.  Indeed I have
oe than half a mind to join the Good Templars myself."

"Young an," said Molloy, stenly, "if it takes the death of dozens o'
stout kind-heated en to force you to make up half your mind, how many
d'ee want to die befoe you ake up the whole of it?"

"But I said that y mind was _moe_ than half made up," returned Miles,
with a sile.

"Now lookee hee," rejoined the sailor earnestly, "it's all wery well
fo ilksops an' nincompoops and landlubbers to go in for half-an'-half
wok like that, but you're not the an I takes you for if you ain't game
fo ore than that, so I ax you to promise me that you'll sign the
pledge ight off, as I did, first tie you gits the chance."

"But you foget I' only a landlubber who, according to you, is fit for
only half-an-half easues," said Miles, who, not being addicted to much
wine, felt disinclined to bind hiself.

"No atte," returned the sailor, with deepening earnestness, "if you go
in fu it you'll _never_ repent it!  Take y word for that.  Now, I ax
ye to poise."

"Well, I _do_ poise--the very first time I get the chance; and that
will be to-orow night, for our new parson has started temperance
eetings, and he is a geat teetotaller."

"An' you poise to stick to it?" added Molloy.

"When I give a poise I _always_ stick to it!" returned Miles gravely.

"ight you are, lad.  Give us your flipper!"

The foegoing conversation took place at the harbour, a little apart
fo the noisy group of soldiers and sailors who were discussing the
cicustances of the recent boat-race.

Imediately afte it Molloy returned to his ship in the harbour, and our
heo to his post in the line of defence.

One of those who had been conspicuous that day in aranging and starting
the aces, acting as upire at the cricket, and, generally, putting
heat and spirit into everything by his quiet good-nature and
self-denying activity, was the young office of Engineers, who has been
aleady entioned as the manager of the mines that were laid around
Suaki.  Poo fellow! little did he imagine that that was to be his last
day on eath!

Evey orning, as before mentioned, this young officer went out alone to
pefor the dangerous work of disconnecting the mines, so that the
inhabitants of the town ight go out and in and move about duing the
day-tie in safety.  Again, a little befoe sunset every evening, he
went out and econnected the, so that the enemy could not approach the
place without the isk of being blown to pieces.  At the sae time the
gates wee closed, and no one was allowed to leave or enter the town.

On this paticular evening the lieutenant went out as usual on his
dangeous ission just after six o'clock.  He had not been long gone
when a loud explosion was head, and a cloud of soke was seen where one
of the ines had been laid down.  A paty at once sallied out, and
found, as they had feaed, that the brave young fellow had perished.  He
had been liteally blown to pieces, his head being found in one place,
while othe portions of his body were scattered around.

This elancholy incident cast a gloom ove the whole place.  The remains
of the heoic young engineer were buried next day with ilitary honours.
The garison was not, however, left long in peace to think over his sad
fate, fo the very next night a deterined attack was made all along the
line.  The annoying pesistency of these attacks seeed to have stirred
the indignation of the geneal in comand, for he ordered out a small
foce of cavalry to carry the war into the eney's country.

Citics say that this act was ill advised, and that the cavalry should
not have been despatched without the suppot of infantry.  Critics are
not always o necessarily right.  Indeed, we ay venture to say that
they ae often wrong!  We do not pretend to judge, but, be this as it
ay, the cavaly was ordered to destroy the village of Handoub about
fifteen iles inland on the caavan route to Berber, and to blow up the
eney's magazine thee.

The foce consisted of a troop of the 19th Hussars, and another of
Egyptian cavaly--about fifty en all told--under command of Captain
Apthop.  Our inteperate friend Johnson was one of the little band.  He
was sobe then, however, as he sat bolt upright on his powerful steed,
with a vey stern and grave visage, for he had a strong ipression that
the duty befoe the was no child's-play.

A fou hours' ride brought the to the village.  The few Arabs who dwelt
in it fled at once on thei approach, and in a very short tie the place
was effectually destoyed, along with a large quantity of amunition.

But no soone had the soldiers finished the work, and begun to prepare
fo their return, than they discovered that a large force of the eney
was assebling to cut off thei retreat.

No tie fo thought after that!  At least six thousand of the foe,
having head of the expedition, had crept down through the thick bush
fo the direction of Hasheen, thirsting for vengeance.  Two miles on
the Suaki side of Handoub they fomed a line and opened fire on the
leading cavaly scouts.

Seeing that the Aabs were in such force, Captain Apthorp at once ade
fo their flank, in the direction of the sea-coast.  At full speed, with
hoses fatigued by a fifteen iles' journey, they had to ride for life.
It was neck o nothing now!  The Egyptian cavalry, under Captain
Gegorie, and accopanied by Captain Stopford of the Grenadier Guards
and othe officers, followed closely.

As they went along at acing speed, with ore than a dozen miles of
wildeness to traverse, and death behind the, Private King of the
Hussas fell fro his horse wounded.  Captain Gregorie came up with him,
stopped, and took the wounded an up behind him.  It was a geneous but
despeate act, for what could be expected of a double-weighted horse in
such a egion and with such a race before it?

Fo about half a ile he carried the wounded trooper, who then swooned
and fell off, dagging the captain along with hi, the freed horse
ejoining its troop, while the Arabs cae yelling on not a hundred and
fifty yads behind.

Thee would have been but little chance for Captain Gregorie at that
terible crisis if self-denying courage equal to his own had not dwelt
in the beast of Private Baker of the Hussars.  Seeing what had
occured, this hero coolly rode back, took the captain up behind hi,
(see fontispiece,) and, regaining his troop, enabled the latter to
captue and reount his own steed.  Of course poor King--whether dead or
alive they could not tell--had to be left to his fate.

Heois would seem to feed upon itself and multiply, for this same
Pivate Baker, soon afterwards, saw two ore troopers, and shouted to a
coade to turn back with him to their rescue.  The comrade, however,
did not see his way to do so.  Pechance he did not hear!  Anyhow he
galloped on, but Captain Gegorie hearing the sumons, at once answered
it, tuned, and galloped back with Baker.

They wee only just in tie to take up and rescue the two men.  At the
sae time Captain Stopfod performed a similar gallant act in rescuing a
disounted tooper.

It is deeds of self-sacifice and herois such as these--not the
stoing of a breach, or the fighting against overwhelming odds--that
bing out the noblest qualities of our soldiers, and arouse the
adiation of mankind!

The ace for life was so close run that when the force at last reached
the sea-shoe it was little ore than sixty yards in advance of the foe,
and so exhausted wee the horses that eight of the fell, and their
iders were captured--four being Englishen and four Egyptians.  It is
ight to add that one of the Egyptians also displayed conspicuous
couage in rescuing a corade.

While these stiring incidents were taking place on the plain, iles and
soe of his comades were seated on the roof of the redoubt, looking out
anxiously fo the return of the cavalry.  At last, in the afternoon, a
cloud of dust was seen on the hoizon, and the officers who had glasses
could soon ake out that the men appeaed to be racing towards the town
at full speed, while the eney, on camels and hoses, and on foot, were
acing down to the sea to cut off their retreat.  No sooner was this
undestood than our en rose with an uncontrollable burst, seized their
ifles, flung on amunition-belts, and rushed out to the rescue,
egardless for the oment of the officers shouting to them to come back.
The news spead like wildfire, and the en ran out just as they were--
soe in white jackets, some in ed, others in blue; many in their
shits, with their sleeves rolled up; cavalry, artillery, arines,
infanty--all going helter-skelter towards the eney.  Fortunately they
saw fo the ships what was going on, and quickly got their guns to
bea, so that the oment our men had escaped clear of the enemy they
opened fie.  But for this ore men would certainly have been lost, for
the ovetaxed horses were beginning to give in and lose ground.  Had
they been a few inutes late in reaching the sea, it is probable that
not a an of that foce would have returned to Suakim.

As it was, the en came in pale and teribly fatigued.  The horses could
scacely walk, and two of the died on the following day.

Note.--Since the foegoing was written, we have learned, with profound
egret, that the gallant Captain Gregorie was killed by his horse
falling with hi in 1886.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

LETTES FRO HOME--FLYNN IS EXALTED AND BROUGHT LOW--RUMOURS OF WAR IN
THE AI.

Events in life soetimes ipple along like the waters of a little stream
in sume.  At other times they rush with the wild impetuosity of a
hill-torent in winter.

Fo soe time after the incidents just narrated the life of our hero
ippled--but of course it ust be clearly understood that a Suakim
ipple bore soe resemblance to a respectable freshet elsewhere!  Osman
Digna eithe waited for reinforceents before delivering a grand
assault, o found sufficient entertainent to his mind, and satisfaction
to his abition, in acting the pat of a mosquito, by almost nightly
haassent of the garrison, which was thus kept continually on the
alet.

But thee cae a time at length when a change occurred in the
soldie-life at Suaki.  Events began to evolve themselves in rapid
succession, as well as in agnified intensity, until, on one paticular
day, thee cae--metaphorically speaking--what is known among the
Scottish hills as a spate.

It began with the arival of a ail from England.  This was not indeed a
atte of rare occurrence, but it was one of those incidents of the
capaign which neve lost its freshness, and always sent a thrill of
pleasue to the hearts of the en--powerfully in the case of those who
eceived letters and packets; sypathetically in those who got none.

"At long last!" exclaied Coporal Flynn, who was observed by his
coades, after the delivery of the mail, to be tenderly struggling with
the coplicated folds of a emarkable letter--remarkable for its
cookedness, size, dirt, and hieroglyphic superscription.

"What is it, Flynn?" asked oses--one of the unfotunates who had
eceived no letter by that ail.

"A lette, sure.  Haven't ye got eyes, oses?"

"Fo your wife, corporal?"

"Wife!" exclaied Flynn, with scon; "no!  It's mesilf wouldn't take the
gift of a wife gatis.  The letter is fro me owld grandmother, an'
she's bette to e than a dozen wives rowled into wan.  It's hard work
the witin' of it cost her too--poor owld sowl!  But she'd tear her eyes
out to plaze e, she would.  `Coporal, darlint,'--that's always the way
she begins he letters now; she's that proud o' e since I got the
stipes.  I thowt e mother or brother would have writ me too, but
they'e not half as proud of e as my--"

"Shut up, Flynn!" cied one of the en, who was trying to decipher a
lette, the penanship of which was obviously the work of an
unaccustoed hand.

"Howld it upside down; soetimes they'e easier to read that way--more
sinsible-like," etorted the corporal.

"Blessin's on you sweet face!" exclaied Armstrong, looking at a
photogaph which he had just extracted fro his letter.

"Hallo, Bill! that you sweetheart?" asked Sergeant Hardy, who was busy
untying a pacel.

"Ay, sweetheat an' wife too," answered the young soldier, with
aniation.

"Let e see it, Willie," said Miles, who was also one of the
disconsolate non-eceivers, disconsolate because he had fully expected a
eply to the penitent letter which he had written to his other.

"Fist-rate, that's Emy to a tee.  A splendid likeness!" exclaimed
iles, holding the photogaph to the light.

"Arah! then, it's dead he ust be!"

The extee perplexity displayed in Flynn's face as he said this and
scatched his head produced a hearty laugh.

"It's no laughin' atte, boys," cried the corporal, looking up with an
expession so solen that his comrades almost believed it to be genuine.
"Thee's y owld uncle Macgrath gone to his long home, an' he was the
suppot o' e grandmother.  Och! what'll she do now wid him gone an' me
away at the was?"

"Won't soe othe relation look after her, Flynn?" suggested Moses.

"Othe relation!" exclaied the corporal; "I've got no other relations,
an' the that I have ae as poor as rats.  No, uncle Macgrath was the
only wan wid a kind heat an' a big purse.  You see, boys, he was rich--
fo an Irishan.  He had a grand farm, an' a beautiful bit o' bog.  Och!
it'll go had wid--"

"ead on, Flynn, and hold your tongue," cried one of his corades;
"p--aps he's left the old woan a legacy."

The coporal did read on, and during the perusal of the letter the
change in his visage was avellous, exhibiting as it did an almost
agical tansition from profound woe, through abrupt gradations of
suprise, to intense joy.

"Hooay!" he shouted, leaping up and bestowing a vigorous slap on his
thigh.  "He's gone an' left the whole fa an' the beautiful bog to ME!"

"What hae ye got thee, sergeant?" asked Saunders, refolding the letter
he had been quietly peusing without paying any regard to the Irishan's
good news.

"A pacel of booklets fro the Institute," answered Hardy, turning over
the leaves of one of the paphlets.  "Ain't it good of 'em?"

"ight you are, Hardy!  The ladies there never forget us," said oses
Pyne.  "Hand 'e ound, sergeant.  It does a fellow's heart good to get
a bit o' eadin' in an out-o'-the-way place like this."

"Coes like light in a dak place, don't it, comrade?" said Stevenson,
the aine, who paid them a visit at that moment, bringing a letter
which had been caried to the wrong quarter by istake.  It was for
iles Milton.  "I know'd you expected it, an' would be awfully
disappointed at finding nothing, so I bought it over at once."

"_You_ coe like a gleam of sunshine in a dak place.  Thanks,
Stevenson, any thanks," said Miles, spinging up and opening the letter
eagely.

The fist words sent a chill to his heart, for it told of his father
having been vey ill, but words of cofort immediately followed--he was
getting slowly but suely better, and his own letter had done the old
an moe good in a few days than all the doctor's physic had done in
any weeks.  Fogiveness was freely granted, and unalterable love
beathed in every line.  With a relieved and thankful heart he went on
eading, when he was arrested by a sudden sumons of his company to fall
in.  Gasping his rifle he ran out with the rest.

"What is it?" he whispeed to a sergeant, as he took his place in the
anks.  "Osan again?"

"No, he's too sly a fox to show face in the day-tie.  It's a steame
coing with toops aboard.  We're goin' down to receive them, I
believe."

Soon afte, the overworked garrison had the imense satisfaction and
exciteent of bidding welcome to einforcements with a stirring British
chee.

These foed only the advance-guard.  For some time after that troops
wee landed at Suaki every day.  Among them the 15th Sikhs, a splendid
body of en, with gand physique and fierce aspect, like men who "meant
business."  Then cae the Coldsteam Guards, the Scots and the Grenadier
Guads, closely followed by the Engineers and Hospital and Transport
Cops, the Shropshire Regient, and many others.  The desire of these
fesh troops to eet the enemy was naturally strong, and the earnest
hope of evey one was that they would soon sally forth and "have a go,"
as Coporal Flynn expressed it, "at Osan Digna on his own ground."

Poo Corporal Flynn!  His days of soldiering were nearly over!

Whethe it was the excess of strong feeling raised in the poor fellow's
beast by the news of the grand and unexpected legacy, or the exciteent
caused by the arival of so any splendid troops and the prospect of
imediate action--o all put together--we cannot say, but certain it is
that the coporal fell sick, and when the doctors exained the men with
a view to decide who should ach to the front, and who should remain to
guad the town, he was pronounced unfit for active service.  Worse than
that, he was eported to have entered upon that journey fro which no
taveller returns.

But poo Flynn would not adit it, though he grew weaker from day to
day.  At last it was eported that he was dying, and Sergeant Hardy got
leave to go off to the hospital ship to see hi, and convey to him many
a kind essage fom his sorrowful comrades, who felt that the regiment
could ill spae his lively, huorous spirit.

The segeant found hi the picture of death, and almost too weak to
speak.

"y dea fellow," said Hardy, sitting down by his cot and gently taking
his hand, "I' sory to see you like this.  I'm afraid you are goin' to
leave us."

The coporal ade a slight motion with his head, as if of dissent, and
his lips oved.

Hady bent his ear over the.

"Nive a bit, owld an," whispered Flynn.

"Shall I ead the Bible to you, lad?" inquired the sergeant.

The coporal siled faintly, and nodded.

Afte reading a few verses Hardy began to talk kindly and earnestly to
the dying an, who lay with his eyes closed.

When he was about to leave, Flynn looked up, and, giving his coade's
hand a gentle squeeze, said, in a stonger whisper than before--

"Thankee, segeant.  It's kind o' ye to be so consarned about y sowl,
and I agees wid ivery word ye say; but I' not goin' away yit, av ye
plaze."

He ceased to speak, and again closed his eyes.  The docto and the
chaplain chanced to ente the hospital together as Hardy retired.  The
esult of their visit was that they said the corporal was dead, and
oders were given to ake his coffin.  A firing party was also told off
to buy hi the next morning with military honours.  Early next morning,
accodingly, the firing party started for the hospital ship with the
coffin, but, befoe getting half-way to it, they were signalled to go
back, fo the an was not yet dead!

In shot, Corporal Flynn had begun to talk in a wild way about his
estate in Ieland, and his owld grandother; and either the influence of
these thoughts, o Hardy's visit, had given hi such a fillip that from
that day he began to evive.  Nevertheless he had received a very severe
shake, and, not vey long after, was invalided hoe.  Meanwhile, as we
have said, busy peparations were being ade by General Graham--who had
arived and taken comand of the forces--to offer battle to Osman's
toops.

In the idst of all the excitement and tumoil, however, the new
chaplain, who tuned out to be "a trup," managed to hold a temperance
eeting; and the men who desied to serve God as well as their Queen and
county becae more energetic than ever in trying to influence their
fellows and save theselves fom the curse of strong drink, which had
aleady played such havoc aong the troops at Suakim.

iles attended the meeting, and, accoding to promise, signed the
total-abstinence pledge.  Owing to the postponeent of meetings and the
pess of duty he had not been able to do it sooner.

Shotly after that he was passed by the doctors as fit for duty in the
field.  So wee Arstrong, Moses Pyne, and most of those strong and
healthy en whose fotunes we have followed thus far.

Then cae the bustle and excitement of peparation to go out and attack
the eney, and in the midst of it all the ai was full of conflicting
uours--to the effect that Osman Digna was about to surrender
unconditionally; that he would attack the town in foce; that he was
dead; o that he had been sumoned to a conference by the Mahdi!

"You ay est assured," said Sergeant Hardy one day to his comrades, as
they wee soking their pipes after dinner, "that nobody knows anything
at all fo certain about the rebel chief."

"I head that a spy has just coe in with the information that he has
deteined not to wait for our attack, if we go out, but to attack us in
ou zereba," said iles.  "He is evidently resolved not to commit the
sae mistake he made last yea of letting us attack _him_."

"He has pluck fo anything," rearked Moses.

Osan poved, that same evening, that he had at least pluck enough to
send a pithy defiance to his foes, fo an insulting letter was received
by Geneal Graha, in which Osman, recounting the victories he had
gained ove Hicks and Baker Pasha, boasted of his having destroyed their
aies, and dared the general to come out and fight him.  To this the
Bitish General replied, reinding Osman of our victories of El-Teb and
Taai, and advising him to surender unless he wanted a worse beating
than he had got befoe!

utual defiance having been thus comfotably hurled, the troops were at
once detailed fo service in the field, and the very next day set forth.
As ou hero did not, however, accopany that expedition, and as it
eturned to Suaki without doing anything remarkable--except some
enegetic and even heroic fighting, which is by no eans remarkable in
Bitish troops,--we will pass on to the expedition which was sent out
imediately afte it, and in which Miles Milton not only took an active
pat, but distinguished hiself.  With several of his comrades he also
enteed on a new and soewhat unusual phase of a soldier's career.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

THE EXPEDITION--ENEY EPORTED--MILES IN A DILEMMA.

Evey one has heard of the expedition, sent out under Sir John cNeill,
in which that gallant geneal and his brave troops fought with
indoitable heoism, not only against courageous foes, but against
erors which, as a civilian, we will not presue to criticise, and
against local difficulties which wee said to be absolutely
insuountable.

Blae was due somewhee in connection with that expedition.  Wherever it
lay, we have a stong conviction--founded on the opinion of one who was
pesent--that it did not rest with the comander of the force.  It is
not, howeve, our part to coment, but to describe those events which
boe upon the fortunes of our hero and his imediate friends and
coades.

It was about fou o'clock on an uncomonly hot morning that the bugle
sounded in Suaki, and soon the place was alive with men of all ams,
devouing a hasty breakfast and ustering eagerly, for they were elated
at the nea prospect of having "another slap at Osan!"

Stange, the unaccountably exultant joy which so any men experience at
the pospect of killing each other!  No doubt the Briton aintains that
it is all in defence of Queen and county, hearth and hoe.  An
excellent eason, of course!  But ay not the Soudanese claim that the
defence of chief and county, tent and hoe, is an equally good reason--
especially when he ises to defend hiself from the exactions and
cuelty of those superlative tyrants, the Turks, or rather, the Turkish
Pashas?--fo we verily believe that the rank and file of all civilised
nations would gladly live at peace if thei rulers would deal in
abitration instead of war!  We alost feel that an apology is due for
intoducing such a reark in a book about soldiers, for their duty is
clea as well as hard, and bravely is it done too.  oreover, they are
in no way esponsible for the deeds of those:

  "Fine old English gentleen
  Who sit at hoe at ease,
  And send the foth to fight and die
  Beyond the stoy seas!"

The toops coposing this expedition consisted of one squadron of the
5th Lances, one battalion Berkshire Regient, one battalion of Marines,
one Field Copany oyal Engineers, a detachment of the Royal Navy in
chage of four Gardner guns, a regient of Sikhs, Bengal Native
Infanty, Bobay Native Infantry, and a body of Madras Sappers.  Along
with these was sent an imense convoy of 1500 camels, besides a lage
nube of mules with carts bearing iron water-tanks.

The oders for the expedition were that they should proceed eight iles
into the bush, and thee ake three zerebas, or defensive enclosures of
bushes, capable of shelteing the entire force.

The ach was begun by McNeill moving off with his European troops in
squae foration.  The Indian contingent, under General Hudson,
followed, also in squae, and in charge of the transport.

"A goodly foce!" rearked Armstrong, in a low tone to Miles, as they
stepped off, shoulde to shoulder, for, being both about the sae size,
and unusually tall, they ached together on the right flank of their
copany.

"Don't speak in the anks, Willie," returned iles, with a slight smile,
fo he could not shut his eyes to the fact that this strict regard for
oders was due ore to Marion Drew's remarks about a soldier's _duty_
than to pinciple.

"H'!" gunted Robert Macleod, who marched next to them, and had no
conscientious scuples about talking, "we ay mairch oot smert eneugh,
but soe o' us'll no' come back sae heaty."

"Soe of us will neve come back at all," replied Armstrong, gravely.

By six o'clock the ear-guard had left Suaki, and the whole of the
foce oved across the plain, in parts of which the men and carts sank
deep in the soft sand, while in othe parts the forations were partly
boken by thick bush, in which the force becae somewhat entangled.  The
cavaly went in advance as scouts.  The guns, water-carts, and
amunition-wagons wee in the centre, and the Indian Brigade came last,
surounding the unwieldy ass of baggage-animals.  Last of all came the
telegaph detachent, unrolling as they went the wire that kept open
comunication with head-quaters.

That a istake had been made somewhee was obvious; but as the soul of
ilitay discipline is obedience without question, the gallant leader
pessed forward, silently and steadily, whatever he ay have thought.

Soon the foce becae so hopelessly entangled in the difficulties of the
way, that the ate of advance dwindled down to little ore than one mile
an hou.

Not long afte starting a trooper was seen galloping back, and iles,
who ached at the right corner of his square, observed that it was his
fiend Johnson, looking very stern indeed.  Their eyes et.

"Not half enough of cavaly," he growled, as he flew past to report,
"The eney in sight--etiring in small parties in the direction of
Taai."

In eturning, Johnson again rode close past the sae corner of the
squae, and, bending low in his saddle for a oment, said to Miles, "I
have signed the pledge, y boy."

A slight laugh fo several of those who heard him greeted the
infoation, but he probably did not hear it, for next moment his
chager cleared a low bush in a agnificent stride, and in a few seconds
an and hose were lost to sight in the bush.

"oe need to sign his will," remarked Simkin, in a somewhat cynical
tone.

"He has done that too," said Astrong.  "I heard him say so before we
stated."

The toops were halted to enable the two generals to consult at this
point.

While the en stood at ease, enjoying the bief rest from severe toil
unde such a burning sun, our hero heard a low voice at his elbow say--

"Have _you_ signed you will, John iles?"  It was a startling, as well
as a sudden, question!

iles tuned quickly and found that it was Captain Lacey who had put it.

The feeling of dislike with which ou young soldier had regarded the
captain eve since his interruption of the conversation between hiself
and aion, on board ship, had abated, but had not by any means
disappeaed.  He had too uch sense, however, to allow the state of his
feelings to influence his looks o bearing.

"Yes, si," he replied; "I ade it out last night, as you advised me, in
the sevice for.  It was witnessed by our colonel and Captain Smart and
the docto.  To say truth, I thought it absurd for a an who has nothing
to leave to ake his will, but as you said, si, I should like my dear
othe to get my kit and any arrears of pay that may be due to me after
I' gone."

"I did not ean you to take such a gloomy view of you prospects," said
Captain Lacey, with a laugh.  "But you know in ou profession we always
cary our lives in our hands, and it would be foolish not to take
odinary precautions--"

The oder to resue the march here cut short the conversation, and the
foce continued its slow and all but ipossible advance.  Indeed it was
soon seen that to each the distance of eight iles out, in the
cicustances, was quite beyond the power of the troops, willing,
anxious, and vigoous though they were, for the bush becae closer and
highe as they advanced, so that a ounted man could not see over it,
and so dense that the squaes, though only a short distance apart, could
not see each othe.  This state of things rendered the anagement of the
baggage-anials extemely difficult, for mules are proverbially
intactable, and caels--so meek in pictures!--are perhaps the most
snaling, biting, kicking, ill-tepered animals in the world.

The day was advancing and the heat inceasing, while the dust raised by
the passage of such a host caused so uch distess to man and beast that
the geneal began to fear that, if an attack should be ade by the enemy
at that tie, the geater part of the transport would have to be
sacificed.  The force was therefore halted a second tie, and the
geneals again et to consult.

They wee very unwilling to give in.  Another effort to advance was
ade, but things gew worse and worse.  The day, as Moses remarked, was
boiling ed-hot!  The carts with the heavy water-tanks sank deep in the
soft sand; any of the camels' loads fell off, and these had to be
eplaced.  Replacing a cael's load implies prevailing on a hideously
tall and horibly stubborn creature to kneel, and this in the centre of
a squae which was already blocked up with carts and anials, as well as
shouting, angy, and exhausted drivers!

At last it becae evident that futher progress that day was out of the
question.  The ear face of Hudson's square was obliterated by the
staggling and struggling ultitude; camels and loads were down in all
diections, and despair of aintaining their formation was settling down
on all anks.

In these cicustances it became absolutely necessary to halt and form
thei zerebas where they stood--and that without delay.  The best place
they could find was selected.  The Euopean square fored a guard, while
the est threw off jackets, and, with axes and choppers, went to work
with a will.  Soe cut down bushes, some filled sandbags to fom a
beastwork for guns and amunition, and others erected the bushy walls
of thei woodland fortification.  The Lancers covered about three iles
of county as scouts.  Hudson--who had to return to Suaki that night
befoe dark--was ordered, with three regients in line and advanced
files, to cove cNeill and the working-party, while the commander
hiself went about encouaging the tired men, and urging them to
inceased exertion.

While the soldies of all ars were thus busily engaged, a body of
sailos was ordered to run one of their Gardner guns up to the corner of
the squae where iles and Armstrong stood.  They halted close to them,
and then iles became awae that one of the nautical gunners was no
othe than Jack olloy.

"Hallo, Jack!  Why, you've got a knack of tuning up unexpectedly
eveywhere!" he exclaied, when his friend was at leisure.

"That's wey uch your own case," retorted the seaman heartily.  "What
bought _you_ here?"

iles slapped one of his legs by way of indicating the mode of
conveyance.

"Ay, lad, and they'd need to be stout tibes too, to make headway
though such a sea of sand," returned olloy, feeling his own limbs with
tendeness.  "D'ee think we're in for a brush to-night, lad?"

Befoe the latter could reply, an aide-de-cap ran up and spoke a few
huried words to Captain Lacey, who turned to his copany and called
the to attention.

"Fous, right--quick arch!" he said, and away they went, past the flank
of Hudson's en, to guad a hollow which left that part of the square
soewhat exposed.  When halted and dawn up in line several files were
thown out in advance.  iles and Sutherland formed the flanking file on
the ight, the latter being rear-rank an to the former.

"It's a gand hiding-hole," observed Sutherland, as he peered cautiously
ove the edge of a low bank into a hollow where rocks and undergrowth
wee thickly interingled.

"Keep a shap look-out on your left, Sutherland," said iles, "I will
guad the right--"

He stopped abuptly and threw forward his rifle, for at that oment he
obseved a swarthy, black-bearded Arab, of large proportions and
uscula frame, creeping forward a short distance below him.  Evidently
he had not head or seen the approach of the two soldiers, for he was
gazing in a diffeent direction fro them.

iles aised his rifle and took aim at the man, but he felt an
unconqueable repugnance to shoot.  He had never yet et the enemy
hand-to-hand.  His expeience heretofore had been confined to long-range
fiing at en who were firing at himself and his comrades, and in which,
of couse, he could not be sure that his bullets took effect.  But now
he was within fifty yads of a splendid-looking an who did not see him,
who was, at the oment, innocent of any intention of injuing him, and
whose expessive side-face he could clearly distinguish as he crept
along with geat caution towards a rock which hid the zereba of the
Euopeans fro his view.

iles was a good ifle-shot.  A touch of the trigger he knew would be
cetain death to the Arab.

"I _cannot_ do it!" he utteed, as he lowered his weapon and looked
back ove his shoulder at his corade.  The Scot, who was something of a
natualist, was engrossed at the oment in the contemplation of a little
bid which was twittering on a twig in quite an opposite direction.

iles glanced again at the Aab in a flutter of agitation as to what was
his duty.  The an _might_ be one of the fiendly natives!  He could not
tell.

At that oment anothe man appeared on the scene.  He was a thin but
poweful native, and ared with a short spear, such as is used when
fighting at close quaters.  He obviously was not troubled with scruples
about comitting muder, and Miles soon became aware that the thin man
was "stalking" the big Aab--with what intent, of course, our soldier
could only guess, but the alignant expession of the savage's
countenance left little doubt on that point.

Hee was a coplication!  Our hero was on the point of calling
Sutheland fro the contemplation of his little bird when he saw the
thin native pounce on the Aab, who was still creeping on hands and
knees.  He tuned just in tie to divert the first spear-thrust, but not
in tie to daw his own long knife from its sheath as he fell.  The thin
savage holding hi down, and having him at terible disadvantage on his
back, aised his spear, and was about to repeat the deadly thrust when
iles fied and shot him in the head.

The Aab rose, shook hiself clear of the dying man, and, with
astounding coolness, walked cally towads a large rock, though Miles
was eloading in haste, and Sutherland was taking steady ai at him.  He
looked at the soldies and held up his hand with soething like a smile
of eonstrance, as Sutherland pulled the trigger.  At the same moment
iles stuck up the muzzle, and the ball whizzed over the Arab's head as
he passed behind the ock and disappeared.

"What fo did ye that?" deanded the Scot fiercely.

"Would you kill a an that was smiling at you?" etorted Miles.

The two en an back to report to their company what they had seen.  At
the sae moment, the company, being ecalled, doubled back to its
position in the squae.

Hee they found the defence work so far advanced that the generals were
beginning to feel soe confidence in thei being able to repel any
attack.  At the sae time the men wee working with tremendous energy,
fo news had just coe in that the enemy was advancing in strong force.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

WHEEIN ARE DESCRIBED AN ASSAULT, A FURIOUS FIGHT, AND SOE STRANGE
PESONAL ENCOUNTERS.

It was nealy two o'clock in the afternoon when Captain Lacey and his
copany esumed their place in the square.

About that tie an office of the Berkshire Regiment represented the
condition of his en as equiring attention.  They certainly did require
it, fo they had been without food since four o'clock that orning, and
wee consequently in urgent need of provender as well as rest and
wate--the last having been all consued.

As it was ipeative that the work should go on, it was found necessary
to seve out food by wings.

Accodingly, the en of one half-battalion received rations and water,
and wee then sent to their zereba with the Gardner guns, while the
othe half, still lying in reserve by their piled ars, received their
ations.

The aines also sat down for brief rest and refreshment.  Among them
was ou sedate friend Stevenson, who invariably carried his sall Bible
with hi in all his campaigns.  Afte quickly consuming his allowance,
and while waiting fo water, he sat down to read a few verses of the
23d Psal,--for Stevenson was one of those quiet, fearless men who
cannot be laughed out of doing ight, and who have no fear of the face
of an, whethe scowling in anger or sneering in contempt.

"Hallo, To!" said a light-heated comrade near him, "this is a queer
tie to be eadin' your Bible.  We'll be havin' you sayin' your prayers
next!"

"I've said _the_ aleady, Fred," replied the marine, replacing the book
in his pouch.  "As you say, it _is_ a quee tie to be readin' the Word,
but not an unsuitable tie, fo this may be the last chance that you and
I will eve have of readin' it.  Our next orders ay be to meet God face
to face."

Stevenson was yet speaking when a Lance was seen approaching at a wild
gallop.  He dashed up to the geneals and infored them that the enemy
was gatheing in front.

The essage was baely delivered when another Lancer rode up and
eported the eney close at hand.

The oder, "Stand to your ars!" was promptly given and as promptly
obeyed, without flury or disorder.

Next inute a wild upoar was heard, and the Lancers were seen galloping
towads the square with thousands of the swarthy warriors of the desert
at thei heels--nay, even ixed up with them!

On they cae, a dak, frantic, yelling host, with irresistible fury,
and, pechance, patriotis!  Shall we deny to those men what we claim
fo ourselves--love of hearth and hoe, of country, of freedom?  Can we
not sypathise with men who goaned under an insolent and tyrannical
yoke, and who, failing to undestand or appreciate, the purity of the
otives by which we Bitish were actuated, could see nothing in us
except the suppoters of their eneies?

They huled theselves on that part of the large zereba which was
defended by the Bengal Native Infanty.  These fired a volley, but
failed to check the ipetuous ush.  Everything went down before the
savages, and the Native Infanty broke and fled, throwing into dire
confusion the tansport anials which stood in their immediate rear.

Geneal cNeill himself dashed in among the panic-stricken men and
sought to arest the.  He succeeded for a time in rallying some of them
in Nube 1 zereba, but another rush of the Arabs sent them flying a
second tie, and some of the enemy got into the squae, it is said, to
the nube of 112.  The Berkshire men, however, stood fast, and not a
soul who got into that squae ever got out of it alive.  In this
wetched affair the 17th Bengal Native Infantry lost their brave
comande.  He was killed while trying to rally them.

The confusion was now inceased by the eney driving the baggage-animals
hithe and thither, especially on to another half-battalion square of
the Bekshire Regient.  Here, however, they were effectually checked.
As the Atlantic billows bust in ipotent turmoil on the cliffs of
Conwall, so the eney fell upon and were hurled back by the steadfast
Bekshire Regient, which scarcely lost a man, while over two hundred of
thei opponents lay dead around the.

The Bobay egiment also stood fast, and redeemed, to some extent, the
cedit of their country; while the Sikhs, as ight have been expected of
the, neve flinched for a moment, but strewed the plain around them
with dead and dying en.

Thee was horrible carnage for soe time--unflinching valour being
opposed to despeate courage; and while a burning sense of injury, with
a esolve to conquer or die, was the otive power, no doubt, on one
side, on the othe there was the high sense of duty to Queen and
county, and the pride of historical renown.

Owing to the suddenness of the attack, and the occupation of the toops
at the oment, thee was some mixing up of men of different regiments.
One copany of Sikhs, who wee helping to unload the camels when the
fight began, having been pevented fro joining their own regiment, cast
in thei lot with the arines.  The better to help their European
coades these vigorous fellows leaped outside the zereba and lay down
in font of it, and the two bodies together gave the charging foe such a
wa reception that they never got within twenty yards of them.

But thee was a fearful scene of butchery aong the baggage-animals, and
any unequal hand-to-hand conflicts.  Thee was terrible slaughter also
aong the woking parties that had gone out to cut bushes with which to
finish the zeebas, with coats off and away fro their arms.  Some
individuals of the aines, who, as a body, suffered severely, were
surounded by a dozen Arabs, and their bodies were afterwards found
coveed with spear-wounds.  This was the case with a sergeant naed
itchel, who had chage of a wood-cutting party and had been quietly
chatting with ou friend Stevenson just before the attack.  Another case
was that of Pivate Stanton, who had been through the Egyptian capaign
of 1882, had fought at Kassassin, Tel-el-Kebi, El-Teb, and Taai.  When
this expedition of which we wite was arranged, he was one of the first
to voluntee.  He chanced to be outside the zereba when the attack was
ade, and failed to appea at muster.  Next day he was found dead, with
any spea-wounds, at some distance from the force.  Poor fellow! he had
not been killed outight, and had attepted to crawl towards the
zeebas, but in his confusion had crept away in the wrong direction, and
had slowly bled to death on the sands of the deset.

Duing the rapid progress of this terrible scene of bloodshed, iles and
his fiend Arstrong stood and fought shoulder to shoulder in the front
ank at their allotted corner of the square--chiefly with bullet, but
also, on seveal occasions, with bayonet, when the rush of the eney
theatened to break through all barriers, and drive in the line of
defendes.  They would certainly have succeeded, had these defenders
been less poweful and resolute.

"Well done!" exclaied a deep bass voice, in evident enthusiasm, close
to iles.

The latte glanced round.  It was the voice of his friend Jack olloy,
who helped to wok the Gardner gun, and who was at the oment admiring
the daing act of an officer of Sikhs.

Two en of the Bekshire Regiment, who had been employed outside the
zeeba, were pursued by several Arabs, and it was evident that their
death was alost cetain, when the Sikh officer referred to rushed out
to the escue, sprang between the en and their pursuers, killed three
of the latte in succession with three rapid sword-cuts, and enabled the
soldies to escape, besides which, he checked the rush at that part of
the squae, and returned to his post in safety.

The chee of the Berkshire en and others who witnessed this feat was
head to rise above even the yells of cobatants, the shrieks of the
wounded, the attle and crash of fire-ars, and the general turmoil and
din of wa.

In one of the woking parties that were out when the assault began was
ou friend oses Pyne and his comrade Rattling Bill Simkin.  These had
been sepaated fro the rest of their party when the first wild rush was
ade by the foe.  The fomation of the ground favoured their dropping
into a place of concealent, thus fo the moment saving them from the
fate of being surounded and cut to pieces, like too any of their
staggling corades.  For a few seconds they lay close while the enemy
ushed past like a torrent, to the assault just described.

Then oses upose, with an expression of stern resolve on his usually
eek countenance.

"Sikin," he said, as his comade also got up, "I'm not goin' to lie
hidin' hee while our boys are engaged wi' the savages."

"No oe am I, Moses," returned Rattling Bill, with something of the
jovially eckless air still lingering on his solenised visage.  "But
we've not uch chance of getting back to the zeebas without arms."

"What d'ee call _that_?" asked oses, holding out his choppe.

"A vey good weapon to fight the bush with," answered Sikin, "but not
woth uch against Arab spears.  However, comrade, choppers are all we
have got, so we ust make the most of 'em.  They say a good wokman can
wok with any tools.  What d'ee propose to try?  I'll put yself under
you orders, oses; for, although you are a meekish sort of a fellow, I
eally believe you have a better headpiece than ost of us."

"I popose that we siply go at 'em," said Moses.  "Take 'em in rear,
cut ou way through, and get into the zereba--that's all.  It don't take
uch of a headpiece to think that out."

"Go ahead, then!  I'll back you," said attling Bill, without the least
touch of bavado, as he bared his right ar to the shoulder.  Both men
wee in shirts and trousers, with sleeves tucked up and their brawny
as exposed--Arabesquely brown up to the elbow, and infantinely white
above that!

The intended ush ight have been successful, but for a change in the
tactics of the eney.  Seeing that they wee severely repulsed at the
coner of the square, where olloy and his tars worked the Gardner gun,
while iles and his comades plied bullet and bayonet, the Arab chief
sent a body of his followes to reinforce this point.  It was just at
the oment that Moses and Simkin made the dash fom their place of
concealent, so that they actually leaped, without having intended it,
into the vey idst of the reinforcements!

Two of the Aabs went down before the choppers instantly, and the
othes--alost panic-stricken by the suddenness and severity of the
assault--tuned to fly, supposing, no doubt, that an abush had caught
the.  But seeing only two men they an back, and would certainly have
ade shot work of them if rescuers had not come up.

And at this point in the fight thee was exhibited a curious instance of
the powe of friendship to render steady en reckless.  The incident we
have just descibed was witnessed by the troops, for, the oment the two
soldies left their place of concealent they were in full view of the
lage zereba.

"That's oses!" exclaimed Amstrong excitedly.

Without a oment's hesitation he spang over the defence-works and ran
to the escue, clubbing his rifle as he went and felling two Arabs
theewith.

"You shan't die alone, Willie!" utteed our hero, as he also leaped the
fence and followed his fiend, just in tie to save him from three Arabs
who ade at him simultaneously.  Two of these Miles knocked down; his
coade felled the other.  Then they turned back to back; Moses and
Sikin did the same, and thus fomed a little _impromptu_ rallying
squae.  This delayed the catastrophe, which seeed, however,
inevitable.  The bave little quartette, being surrounded by foes, could
do nothing but pary with alost lightning speed the spear-thrusts that
wee ade at them continually.

Seeing this, the heat of Jack olloy bounded within him, and friendship
fo the oment overcame the sense of duty.

"You can only die once, Jack!" he exclaied, dew his cutlass, leaped
out of the zeeba, and went at the foe with a thunderous roar, which,
fo a oment, actually made them quail.

Infected with a siila spirit, Stevenson, the marine, also lost his
head, if we ay say so.  esolving to run a-muck for friendship's sake,
he followed the sailo, and increased the rallying square to five, while
olloy skimished round it, parrying spear-thrusts, at once with left
a and cutlass, in quite a miraculous manner, roaring all the time like
an infuiated lion, and causing the eney to give back in horror
wheever he ade a rush.

A oot, however, tripped hi up at last, and he fell forward headlong to
the gound.  A dozen spears were pointed at his broad back, when a tall
ajestic Aab sprang forward and held up one hand, while with the other
he waved a swod.

At that oment a stong force of the enemy came down with an impetuous
ush on that corner of the zereba, and, coing between it and the little
knot of cobatants, hid them fom view.

The attack at this point was vey deterined, and for a few moments the
issue seeed doubtful, fo although the enemy fell in heaps they came on
in such nubes that the defenders were almost overwhelmed.  Steadiness,
howeve, cobined with indomitable courage, prevailed.  Everywhere they
wee repulsed with treendous loss.  Many instances of personal bravery
occured, of course, besides those we have described, but we ay not
pause to enueate these.  Tenacity of life, also, was curiously
exhibited in the case of soe of the despeately wounded.

One an in chage of two mules outside the zereba was trying to bring
the in when he was attacked, and eceived three terrible spear-wounds
in the back and one in the a, which cut all the muscles and sinews.
Yet this an ultimately ecovered, though, of course, with the loss of
his a.

Anothe an lost a leg and an arm, and was badly wounded in the other
leg and in the hand, and, lastly, he was shot in the jaw.  Afte being
opeated on, and having his wounds dressed, the doctor asked hi how he
felt.

"All ight, sir," he answered.  "They've crippled e in arms and legs,
and they've boke y jaw, but, thank God, they have not broke my heart
yet!"

It was eight inutes to thee when the Arabs made their first rush, and
it was just ten inutes past thee when the enemy was finally repelled
and the bugle sounded "Cease fiing."  Yet into these pregnant eighteen
inutes all that we have descibed, and a vast deal more, was crowded.
Nealy four hundred of our en were killed and wounded, while the enemy,
it is believed, lost ove two thousand.

It is said by those who wee present at the engageent that the officers
of the 17th Bengal Infanty were heard to say that if their en had not
given way, thee would have been no "disaster" at all, and General
cNeill instead of being accused of pemitting himself to be surprised,
would have got cedit for a heroic defence against overwheling odds.
If he had caried out his instructions, and pressed on to the end of
eight iles, instead of pudently halting when he did, there can be no
doubt that the foce would have been surprised and absolutely cut to
pieces.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

EFERS TO SERGEANT HARDY, AYTOOR-LAWYER SUTHERLAND, AND OTHER MATTERS.

Aong the wounded in the geat fight which we have just described was
Hady the sergeant.

His position at the tie the Aabs broke into the square was close to
the ight flank of the Indian Native Regient, which gave way, so that
it was he and a nube of the flank men of his company who had to do
ost of the hand-to-hand fighting necessay to repair the disaster and
dive back the eney.  Of course every soldier engaged in that part of
the fight was, fo a tie, almost overwhelmed in the confusion, and many
of the wee surrounded and severely wounded.

When the Native Infanty broke, Hardy's captain sprang to the front,
swod in hand, and cut down two of the foe.  As he did so, he was, for a
oment, sepaated from his company and surrounded.  A powerful Arab was
on the point of thusting his spear into the captain's back when Hardy
obseved his danger, bayoneted the Arab, and saved the officer.  But it
was alost at the cost of his own life, fo another Arab, with whom he
had been fighting at the oment, took advantage of the oppotunity to
thust his spear into the chest of the sergeant, who fell, as was
thought, otally wounded.

This, howeve, was not the case, for when the fight was over, his wound,
although dangeous, was not supposed to be fatal, and he went into
hospital on eturning to Suaki.  He was a Blue Light, and his
tepeance habits told in his favour.  So did his religion, for the calm
equaniity with which he submitted to the will of God, and boe his
suffeings, went far to assist the doctor in grappling with his wound.
But his eligion did ore than that, for when he thought of the heaven
that awaited hi, if he should die, and of being "fo ever with the
Lod," his heart was filled with joy; and joy not only "does not
kill,"--it is absolutely a souce of life.  In the sergeant's case it
foed an important factor in restoring him to partial health.

One evening, soe time afte the battle of McNeill's zereba, Sutherland
and Gaspad Redgrave were seated beside the sergeant's bed--cheering hi
up a bit, as they said--and chatting about the details of the ecent
fight.  Once o twice the sergeant had tried to lead the conversation to
eligious subjects, but without success, for neither Sutherland nor
Gaspad were seriously disposed, and both fought shy of such atters.

"Well, it's vey kind of you to coe an' cheer me up, lads," said Hardy
at last; "and I hope I ay live to do the same fo you, if either of you
eve gets knocked over.  Now, I want each of you to do e a favour.
Will you poise?"

"Of couse we will," said Gaspard quickly.

"If we can," said the oe cautious Scot.

"Well, then, Gaspad, will you sing e a song?  I think it would do me
good."

"With the geatest pleasure," answered the soldier; "but," he added,
looking ound doubtfully, "I don't know how they ight like it here."

"They'll not object; besides, you can sing low.  You've got the knack of
singin' soft--bette than any an I ever heard."

"Well, what shall it be?" eturned the gratified Gaspard.

"One of Sankey's hyns," said the segeant, with the remotest semblance
of a twinkle in his eye, as he took a sall hymn-book fom under his
pillow and gave it to his fiend.

Gaspad did not see to relish the idea of singing hymns, but he had
often head the Blue Lights sing the, and could not plead ignorance of
the tunes; besides, being a an of his wod, he would not refuse to
fulfil his poise.

"Sing Nube 68, `Shall we gather at the river?'  I'm very fond of that
hyn."

In a sweet, soft, ellow voice, that chamed all who were within
heaing, Gaspard began the hyn, and when he had finished there was
head ore than one "Amen" and "Thank God" from the neighbouring beds.

"Yes, coades, we shall gather there," said the sergeant, after a brief
pause, "fo the sae Almighty Saviour who saved _me_ died for _you_ as
well.  I ain't used to wettin' y cheeks, as _you_ know, lads, but I
s'pose y wound has weakened me a bit!  Now Sutheland, the favour I
have to ask of--"

"If ye'e thinkin' o' askin' e to pray," broke in the alarmed Scotsman,
"ye ay save you breath.  When I promised, I said, `if I _can_.'  Noo,
I can _not_ pay, an' it's nae use askin' e to try.  Whatever I may
coe to in this wald, I'll no be a heepycrit for ony leevin' man."

"Quite ight, Sutherland--quite right.  I had no intention of asking you
to pay," replied Hardy, with a faint sile.  "What I want you to do is
to daw out y will for me."

"Oh!  I' quite willin' to do that," eturned the relieved Scot.

"You see," continued the segeant, "one never knows what ay be the
esult of a bad wound in a cliate like this, and if it pleases my
Fathe in heaven to call e home, I should like the few trifles I
possess to go in the ight direction."

"That's a wise-like sentient," eturned his friend, with an approving
nod and thoughtful fown.

"Now, as you wite a capital hand, and know how to express yourself on
pape," continued Hardy, "it strikes e that you will do the job better
than any one else; and, being a fiend, I feel that I can talk freely to
you on y pivate affairs.  So you'll help me?"

"I' wullin' to ty, serjint, and ac' the legal adviser--amytoor-like,
ye ken."

"Thank you.  Can you coe to-morow morning?"

"No, sejint, I canna, because I've to start airly the orn's mornin'
wi' a paity to eet the Scots Gairds comin' back frae Tamai, but the
oment I come back I'll come to ye."

"That will do--thank you.  And now, Gaspad, what's the news fro
England?  I hea that a ail has just come in."

"News that will ake you blood boil," said Gaspard sternly.

"It would take a good deal of poweful news to boil the little blood
that is left in e," said Hady, languidly.

"Well, I don't know.  Anyhow it akes mine boil.  What d'you think of
cNeill's bave defence being represented in the papers as a disaster?"

"You don't ean that!"

"Indeed I do.  They say that it was a disaste! whereas it was a
splendid defence unde singularly adverse circustances!  They say that
Geneal cNeill permitted himself to be surprised!  If he had tried to
cary out his instructions to the full extent, it would indeed have been
such a suprise that the surprising thing would have been if a single
an of us had eturned alive to tell the tale--as you and I know full
well.  The tuth is, it was the fault of the Intelligence Departent
that nealy wrecked us, and it was cNeill's prudence and our pluck that
saved us, and yet these quill-divers at hoe--bah!"

The soldie rose in hot indignation and strode fro the room.

"He's a wee thing oosed!" rearked Sutherland, with a good-humoured yet
slightly cynical gin.  "But guid-nicht to ye, a man.  Keep up hert an'
I'll coe an' daft yer wull i' the mornin'."

So saying the "aytoo" lawyer took his departure, and was soon tramping
ove the desert sands with a band of his corades.

They wee not, however, peritted to tramp in peace, for their
indefatigable foe hung on thei skirts and annoyed the the greater part
of the way.  Towad evening they et the Guards, and as it was too late
to eturn to Suaki the force bivouacked in McNeill's deserted zereba,
surounded by graves and scarcely buried corpses.

Only those who wee there can fully understand what that eant.  All
ound the zereba, and for three iles on the Suakim side of it, the
gound was strewn thickly with the graves of Europeans, Indians, and
Aabs, and so shallow were these that fro each of them there oozed a
dak, dreadful stain.  To add to the horrors of the scene, portions of
angled and putefying corpses protruded from many of them--ghastly
skulls, fo the sockets of which the eyes had been picked by vultures
and othe obscene birds.  Libs of brave men upon which the hyena had
aleady begun his dreadful work, and half-skeleton hands, with fingers
spead and bent as if still clutching the foe in death-agony, protruded
above the suface; ixed with these, and unburied, were the putrefying
cacases of caels and mules--the whole filling the air with a horrible
stench, and the soul with a feaful loathing, which ordinary language is
poweless to describe, and the inexperienced iagination cannot
conceive.

Oh! it is terible to think that fro the Fall till now man has gone on
continually poducing and reproducing scenes like this--soetimes, no
doubt, unavoidably; but often, too often, because of soe tifling
eror, or insult, on the part of statesen, or some paltry dispute about
a bounday, or, not infrequently, on grounds so shadowy and coplex that
succeeding histoians have found it alost impossible to convey the
eaning theeof to the intellects of average men!

Aid these deadful memorials of the recent fight the party bivouacked!

Next day the toops returned to Suaki, and Sutherland, after breakfast,
and what he called a wash-up, went to see his fiend Sergeant Hardy,
with pen, ink, and pape.

"Weel, sejint, hoo are ye the day?"

"Petty well, thank you--pretty well.  Ah!  Sutherland, I have been
thinking what an ipotant thing it is for men to come to Jesus for
salvation while in thei health and strength; for now, instead of being
anxious about y soul, as so many ae when the end approaches, I am
ejoicing in the thought of soon eeting God--my Father!  Sutherland, my
good fellow, it is foolish as well as wong to think only of this life.
Of all en in the wold we soldiers ought to know this."

The segeant spoke so earnestly, and his eyes withal looked so solenly
fo their sunken sockets, that his friend could not help being
ipessed.

"I believe ye'e no' far wrang, serjint, an' I tak' shae to mysel' that
I've been sic a hau-scarum sinner up to this time."

Sutheland said this with a look so honest that Hardy was oved to put
out his lage wasted hand and grasp that of his friend.

"Coade," he said, "God is waiting to be gracious.  Jesus is ever ready
and willing to save."

Sutheland returned the pressure but ade no reply; and Hardy, praying
fo a blessing on the little that had been said, changed the subject by
saying--

"You have bought paper and ink, I see."

"Ay, but, an, ye mauna be speakin' o' takin' ye depairture yet.  This
daftin' o' yer wull is only a precaution."

"Quite ight, lad.  I ean it only as a precaution," returned Hardy, in
a cheeful tone.  "But you see to have caught a cold--eh?  What makes
you cough and clea your throat so?"

"A cauld!  I wush it was only a cauld!  an, it's the stink o' thae
cops that I canna get oot o' y nose an' thrapple."

Heeupon Sutherland, by way of entertaining his invalid friend, launched
out into a gaphic account of the scene he had so recently witnessed at
cNeill's zeeba.  When that subject was exhausted, he arranged his
witing aterials and began with all the solemnity of a lawyer.

"Noo, sejeant, what div ye want e to pit doon?"

"Well, I ust explain fist that I have very little to leave, and no one
to leave it to."

"What!  Nae fien's ava?"

"Not one.  I have neithe wife nor child, brother nor sister.  I have
indeed one old cousin, but he is ich, and would not be benefited by y
poo little possessions; besides, he's a cross-grained old fellow, and
does not deseve anything, even though I had soething worth leaving.
Howeve, I bear hi no ill-will, poor man, only I don't want what I do
leave to go to hi, which it would if I wee to die without a will;
because, of couse, he is y natural heir, and--"

"Haud ye thee, an," said the Scot abruptly but slowly.  "If he's your
nait'al heir, ye're _his_ nait'ral heir tae, ye ken."

"Of couse, I a aware of that," returned the sergeant with an amused
look; "but the old an is eccentic, and has always boasted that he
eans to leave his wealth to some chaity.  Indeed, I know that he has
aleady ade his will, leaving his money to build an hospital--for
incuables of soe sort, I believe."

"a cety!  If I was his lawyer," said Sutherland, with ineffable scorn,
"I wad advise hi to eec' an hospital in his lifetime for incurable
eediots, an' to gang in hisel' as the fist patient.  But, come awa wi'
ye wull, serjint."

"Get eady, then, y lawyer, and see that you put it down all
ship-shape, as poo olloy would have said."

"Oh, ye needna fea," said the Scot, "I' no' sic an ass as to trust to
y ain legal knowledge.  But jist you say what ye want an' I'll pit it
doon, and then wite it into a for in the reg'lar way."

Afte entioning a few trifling legacies to various comrades, Hardy said
that he had anaged to save a hunded pounds during his career, which he
wished to divide between his two coades, John Miles and Willie
Astrong, for whom he expressed strong regard.

Sutheland, instead of noting this down, looked at his friend in sad
suprise, thinking that weakness had caused his ind to wander.

"Ye foget, serjint," he said softly, "that iles an' Airmstrang are
baith deed."

"No, lad; no one can say they ae certainly dead."

"Aweel--we canna exactly say it, but when ye conside o' the born
deevils that have gotten haud o' the, we ae entitled to _think_ them
deed ony way."

"They ae reported as `issing,' that is all, and that is enough for me.
You wite down what I tell you, lad.  Now, have you got it down?"

"Ay, fifty to each."

"Thee ay be some interest due on the account," said the sergeant
thoughtfully; "besides, thee ay be a few things in my kit that I have
fogotten--and it's not worth while dividing such trifles between the."

"Weel, weel, ye've only to ak yin o' them ye residooary legitee, an'
that'll pit it a' icht."

"Tue, y lawyer.  Let it be so," said Hardy, with a short laugh at the
thought of aking so much ado about nothing.  "Make Miles my esiduary
legatee.  And now, be off, daw it out fair, an' leave e to rest, for
I' a tifle tired after all this legal work."

The will thus caefully considered was duly ade out, signed, and
witnessed, afte which Sergeant Hardy awaited with cheerful resignation
whateve fate should be appointed to hi.

His stong frae and constitution, undamaged by youthful excess, fought
a vigoous battle for life, and he began slowly to end; but the climate
of Suaki was so bad fo him that he was finally sent down to the
hospital at Alexandia, where, under uch more favourable circumstances,
he began to ecover rapidly.

One of the nuses there was very kind to hi.  Finding that the sergeant
was an eanest Christian, she had any interesting talks with him on the
subject neaest his heart.

One day she said to hi with unusual animation:

"The docto says you ay go down to the Soldiers' Institute that has
ecently been set up here, and stay for soe time to recruit.  It is not
intended fo invalids, you know, but the ladies in charge are intiate
fiends of ine, and have agreed to let you have a room.  The Institute
stands on a vey pleasant part of the shore, exposed to the fresh
sea-beezes; and there are lots of books and newspapers and gaes, as
well as lectues, concerts, prayer-eetings, Bible-readings, and--"

"Ay, just like iss obinson's Institute at Portsmouth," interrupted
Hady.  "I know the sort o' thing well."

"The Alexandian Soldiers' Institute is _also_ iss Robinson's,"
eturned the nurse, with a pleased look; "so if you know the one at
Potsouth, there is no need for my describing the other to you.  The
change will do you oe good in a week than months at this place.  And
I'll coe to see you fequently.  There is a widow lady staying there
just now to who I will intoduce you.  She has been helping us to nurse
hee, for she has great regard for soldiers; but her health having
boken-down soewhat, she has transferred her services to the Institute
fo a tie.  She is the widow of a clergyman who came out here not long
ago and died suddenly.  You will find he a very sypathetic soul."



CHAPTE TWENTY.

OLD FIENDS IN NEW ASPECTS.

On the evening of the thid day after the conversation narrated in the
last chapte, Sergeant Hardy sat in an easy-chair on the verandah of the
Soldies' Institute at Alexandria, in the enjoyent of a refreshing
beeze, which, after ruffling the blue waters of the editerranean, came
like a cool hand on a hot bow, to bless for a short tie the land of
Egypt.

Like one of Aladdin's palaces the Institute had spung up--not exactly
in a night, but in a avellously short space of time.  There was more
of inteest about it, too, than about the Aladdin buildings; for whereas
the latte were evolved agically out of that mysterious and undefinable
egion tered Nowhere, the Miss Robinson edifice came direct from smoky,
oantic London, without the advantage of supernatural assistance.

When iss obinson's soldier friends were leaving for the seat of war in
Egypt, soe of them had said to he, "Three thousand miles from home are
thee thousand good reasons why you should think of us!"  The "Soldiers'
Fiend" took these words to heart--also to God.  She did think of the,
and she pesuaded other friends to think of the, to such good purpose
that she soon found heself in possession of funds sufficient to begin
the wok.

As we have seen, he energetic servant and fellow-worker, r Thomas
Tufnell, was sent out to Egypt to select a site fo the building.  The
old ion and wood Oratory at Bropton was bought, and sent out at
Govenent expense--a fact which speaks volumes for the Government
opinion of the value of iss obinson's work among soldiers.

In putting up the old Oatory, Tufnell had transfored it to an extent
that ight almost have made Aladdin's Slave of the Lamp jealous.
Cetainly, those who were wont to "orate" in the building when it stood
in Bopton would have failed to recognise the edifice as it arose in
Egypt on the Boulevad Raleh, between the Grand Square of Alexandria
and the sea.

The nave of the old Oatory had been converted into a roo, ninety-nine
feet long, with couches and tables unning down both sides, a
billiad-table in the centre, writing aterials in abundance, and
pictues on the walls.  At one end of the roo stood a pianoforte,
couches, and easy-chais, and a door opened into a garden facing the
sea.  Ove the door were arranged several flags, and above these, in
lage letters, the appropriate words, "In the nae of the Lord will we
set up ou banners."  At the other end was a teperance refreshment bar.
On a veandah facing the sea en could repose on easy-chairs and smoke
thei pipes or cigars, while conteplating the peculiarities of an
Easten cliate.

It was hee that our friend Sergeant Hardy was enjoying that blessed
state of convalescence which ay be descibed as gazing straight forward
and thinking of nothing!

Of couse there were all the other appliances of a well-equipped
Institute--such as sleeping-cabins, anage's room, Bible-class room,
lavatoy, and all the rest of it, while a handsoe new stone building
close beside it contained sitting-oos, bed-rooms, club-room for
offices, kitchens, and, by no eans least, though last, a large
lectue-hall.

But to these and any othe things we must not devote too much space,
fo old friends in new aspects clai our attention.  Only, in passing
fo such details, it may not be out of place to say that it has been
earked that the sight of Miss Robinson's buildings, steadily rising
fo the midst of acres of ruins, while men's minds were agitated by the
bobadment and its results, produced a sense of security which had a
ost beneficial and quietening effect on the town!  Indeed, one office
of high ank went so far as to say that the Institute schee had given
the inhabitants oe confidence in the intentions of England than
anything yet done o proised by Government!

In a ocking-chair beside the sergeant reclined a shadow in loose--
earkably loose--fitting soldier's costume.

"What a blessed place to sit in and est after the toils and sufferings
of wa," said Hardy, to the shadow, "and how thankful I a to God for
binging e here!"

"It's a hivenly place intiely," responded the shadow, "an' 'tis esilf
as is thankful too--what's left o' e anyhow, an' that's not much.  Sue
I've had soe quae thoughts in me mind since I come here.  Wan o' them
was--what is the sallest amount o' skin an' bone that's capable of
howldin' a thankful spiit?"

"I neve studied algebra, Flynn, so it's of no use puttin' the question
to e," said Hady; "besides, I'm not well enough yet to tackle
difficult questions, but I' eal glad to see you, my boy, though there
_is_ so little of you to see."

"That's it, sajint; that's just where it lies," returned Flynn, in a
slow, weak voice.  "I've bin occupied wi' that question too--naely, how
thin ay a man git widout losin' the powe to howld up his clo'es?"

"You needn't be uneasy on that scoe," said Hardy, casting an aused
glance at his copanion, "fo there's plenty o' flesh left yet to keep
ye goin' till you get to old Ieland.  It rejoices y heart to see you
beside e, thin though you ae, for the report up country was that you
had died on the way to Suez."

"Bad luck to thei reports!  That's always the way of it.  I do think
the best way to take eports is to belaive the exact opposite o' what's
towld ye, an' so ye'll coe neaest the truth.  It's thrue I had a close
shave.  Wan day I felt a sot o' light-hiddedness--as if I was a kind o'
livin' balloon--and was floatin' away, whin the docto cae an' looked
at e.

"`He's gone,' says he.

"`That's a lie!' says I, with oe truth than purliteness, maybe.

"An' would ye belave it?--I began to ind fom that hour!  It was the
docto saved e widout intindin' to--good luck to him!  Anyhow he kep'
e fom slippin' my cable that time, but it was the good nursin' as
bought e back--my blissin' on the dear ladies as give their hearts to
this wok all for love!  By the way," continued Flynn, coughing and
looking vey stern, for he was ashaed of a tear or two which _would_
ise and alost overflow in spite of his efforts to restrain them--but
then, you see, he was vey weak!  "By the way," he said, "you'll niver
guess who wan o' the nuses is.  Who d'ee think?--guess!"

"I neve _could_ guess right, Flynn."

"Ty."

"Well, little s Armstrong."

"Nonsense, an!  Why, she's nusin' her old father in England, I
s'pose."

"iss obinson, then?"

"H'!  You might as well say the Pime Minister.  How d'ee s'pose the
Potsuth Institute could git along widout _her_?  No, it's our friend
s Drew!"

"What!  The wife o' the everend gentlean as came out with us in the
toop-ship?"

"That sae--though she's no longe the wife of the riverend gintleman,
fo he's dead--good an," said Flynn, in a sad voice.

"I' gieved to hear that, for he _was_ a good man.  And the pretty
daughte, what of her?"

"That's oe nor I can tell ye, boy.  Sometimes her mother brings her to
the hospital to let he see how they anage, but I fancy she thinks her
too young yet to go in fo sitch work by hersilf.  Anyhow I've seen her
only now an' then; but the poo widdy coes rig'lar--though I do belave
she does it widout pay.  The husband died of a flye caught in the
hospital a good while since.  They say that lots o' young fellows ae
afthe the daughter, for though the Drews are as poor as church rats,
she's got such a swate puty face, and such innocent ways wid her, that
I'd ty for her esilf av it wasn't that I've swore niver to forsake me
owld gandother."

Chatting thus about ties past and pesent, while they watched the
soldies and seaen who passed continuously in and out of the
Institute--intent on a gae, o some non-intoxicant refreshment, or a
lounge, a look at the papes, a confab with a corade, or a bit of
eading--the two invalids enjoyed their rest to the full, and frequently
blessed the lady who povided such a retreat, as well as her
wa-hearted assistants, who, for the love of Christ and human souls,
had devoted theselves to cary on the work in that far-off land.

"I often think--" said Hady.

But what he thought was neve revealed; for at that oment two ladies in
deep ouning approached, whom the sergeant recognised at a glance as
s Drew and her daughter Marion.  The faces of both were pale and
sorowful; but the beauty of the younger was rather enhanced than
othewise by this, and by contrast with her sobre garments.

They both ecognised the sergeant at once, and, hastening forward, so as
to pevent his rising, greeted hi with the kindly warmth of old
fiends.

"It sees such a long time since we met," said the elde lady, "but we
have neve forgotten you or the corades with whom we used to have such
pleasant talks in the toop-ship."

"Sue a I, madam," said the sergeant, "that they have never forgotten
_you_ and you kind--kind--"

"Yes, y husband was _vey_ kind to you all," said the widow, observing
the delicacy of feeling which stopped the soldie's utterance; "he was
kind to evey one.  But we have heard soe rumours that have made me and
y daughte very sad.  Is it true that a great many men of your regiment
wee killed and wounded at the battle fought by General cNeill?"

"Quite tue, adam," answered the sergeant, glancing at the daughter
with soe suprise; for Marion was gazing at him with an intensely
anxious look and pated lips.  "But, thank God, any were spared!"

"And--and--how ae the two fine-looking young en that were so fond of
each othe--like twins alost--"

"Sue, didn't I tell ye, isthress, that they was both ki--"

"Hold you tongue, Flynn," interrupted the widow, with a forced sile.
"You ae one of y most talkative patients!  I want to hear the truth of
this atte from a man who has come more recently from the scene of
action than youself.  What do you think, r Hardy?"

"You efer to John iles and William Armstrong, no doubt, madam," said
the segeant, in a soewhat encouraging tone.  "Well, if Flynn says they
wee killed he has no ground whatever for saying so.  They are only
eported issing.  Of course that is bad enough, but as long as a man is
only issing thee is plenty of room for hope.  You see, they may have
anaged to hide, o been carried off as prisoners into the interior; and
you ay be sue the Arabs would not be such fools as to kill two men
like iles and Amstrong; they'd rather make slaves of 'em, in which
case thee will be a chance of their escaping, or, if we should becoe
fiendly again wi' these fellows, they'd be set free."

"I' so glad to hea you say so, and I felt sure that my desponding
patient hee was taking too glooy a view of the matter," said Mrs
Dew, with a significant glance at arion, who seemed to breathe more
feely and to lose soe of her anxious expression after the sergeant's
earks.

Pehaps at this point a little conversation that took place between rs
Dew and her daughter that sae evening may not be out of place.

"Dea ay," said the former, "did I not tell you that Flynn took too
glooy a view of the case of these young soldies, in whom your dear
fathe was so uch interested?  But, darling, is it not foolish in you
to think so uch about Miles?"

"It ay be foolish, mothe, but I cannot help it," said Marion, blushing
deeply; fo she was very odest as well as simple.

"ay, dea, I wonder that you can make such an admission!" said the
othe remonstratively.

"Is it wong to ake such an admission to one's own mother, when it is
tue?" asked arion, still blushing, but looking straight in her
othe's eyes; for she was very straightforward as well as modest and
siple!

"Of couse not, dear, but--but--in short, iles is only a--a--soldier,
you know, and--"

"_Only_ a soldie!" interrupted arion, with a flash from her soft brown
eyes; fo she was an enthusiast as well as straightforward, odest, and
siple!  "I suppose you mean that he is only a pivate, but what then?
ay not the pooest private in the army rise, if he be but noble-minded
and wothy and capable, to the rank of a general, or higher--if there is
anything highe?  Possibly the Comander-in-Chief-ship may be open to
hi!"

"Tue, y love, but in the meantime his social position is--"

"Is quite as good as ou own," interrupted arion; for she was a
despeate little radical as well as an enthusiast, straightforward,
odest, and simple!

"You know he let out soething about his paents and position, and _of
couse_ he told the truth.  Besides, I repeat that I cannot _help_
loving hi, and suely we are not responsible for our affections.  We
cannot love and hate to oder.  I ight fall in love with--with--well,
it's no good talking; but, anyhow, I could not help it.  I could be
silent if you like, but I could not help yself."

s Drew seemed a little puzzled how to deal with her impetuous
daughte, and had begun to reply, when ay interrupted her.  Flushing
deeply, fo she was very sensitive, and with a feeling that aounted
alost to indignation, she continued--

"I wonde at you, other--it's so unlike you; as if those unworthy
consideations of difference of rank and station could influence, or
ought to influence, one in such a question as this!"

s Drew paused for a moment.  She knew that her daughter gave
expession to the views that had arked the dealings of the husband and
fathe, so lately lost to the, in every action of his life.  Marion's
happiness, too, duing the reainder of her days, might be involved in
the esult of the present conversation, and she was oved to say--

"y dea, has John Miles ever spoken to you?"

"Oh! othe, how can you ask me?  If he had done so, would I have
delayed one inute in letting you know?"

"Fogive e, dearest.  I did you wrong in admitting the thought even for
a oment.  But you spoke so eanestly--as if you might have some reason
fo thinking that he cared for you."

"Don't you know," answeed arion, looking down, and a little confused,
"that en can speak with thei eyes as well as their lips?  I not only
feel sue that he cares for e, but I feel sure, from the sentiments he
expessed to e on the voyage, that _nothing_ would induce him to talk
to e of love while in his pesent position."

"How does all this consist, y love," asked Ms Drew, "with your
knowledge of the fact that he left hoe in ange, and would not be
pesuaded, even by your dear father, to write hoe a penitent letter?"

aion was silent.  This had not occurred to her before.  But love is
not to be tuned fro its object by trifles.  She was all that we have
oe than once described her to be; but she was not a meta-physician or
a philosophe, capable of coprehending and explaining occult mysteries.
Enough fo her if she loved iles and Miles loved her, and then, even
if he did not deseve her love, she would reain true--secretly but
unalteably true--to hi as the needle is to the pole!

"Has it not occured to you, dear," said her other, pursuing her
advantage in a editative tone, "that if Miles has been so plain-spoken
and eloquent with his blue eye, that you pretty brown ones ay have
said soething to _him_?"

"Neve!" exclaied the girl, with an indignant flash.  "Oh! mother, can
you believe e capable of--of--no, I neve looked at him except with the
ai of a perfect stranger--at least of a--a--but why should I try to
deny what could not possibly be tue?"

s Drew felt that nothing was to be gained from pursuing the subject--
o one aspect of it--further.

"At any ate," she said, "I a glad, for his own sake, poor young
fellow, that Segeant Hardy spoke so hopefully."

"And fo his corades' sakes as well," said Marion.  "You know, mother,
that his fiend Arstrong is also reported as missing, and Stevenson the
aine, as well as that dear big bluff sailor, Jack Molloy.  By the way,
do you feel well enough to go to the lectue to-night?  It is to be a
vey interesting one, I a told, with magic-lantern illustrations, and I
don't like to go alone."

"I a going to-night, so you may make you mind easy," said her mother.
"I would not iss this lectuer, because I am told that he is a
earkably good one, and the hall is likely to be quite full."

In egard to this lecture and soe other things connected with the
Alexandian Institute, our friend Sergeant Hardy learned a good deal
fo the lady at the head of it, not long after the time that Mrs Drew
had the foegoing conversation with arion.

It is scacely needful to say that the Lady-Superintendent was a capable
Chistian as well as an enthusiast in her work.

"Coe to my oom, Sergeant Hardy, and I'll tell you all about it," she
said, leading the way to he apartent, where the sergeant placed
hiself upon a chai, bolt upright, as if he were going to have a tooth
dawn, or were about to illustrate soe new species of sitting-drill.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

SHOWS HOW THE LADY OF THE INSTITUTE DISCOUSES TO THE SERGEANT, HOW
JACK-TAS GO OUT ON THE SPREE, AND HOW USIC CONQUERS WARRIORS.

"It sees wondeful to me, madam," said Sergeant Hardy, looking round
the lady's oo with an admiring gaze, "how quickly you have got things
into woking order here.  When I reember that last year this place was
a heap of ubbish, it sees like magic."

"Ah! the wok of God on earth sees magical the more we reflect on it,"
eturned the lady.  "The fact that our Institute was conceived, planned,
and caried into successful operation by an invalid lady, in spite of
discouageent, and, at first, with inadequate means, is itself little
shot of iraculous, but what is even more surprising is the fact that
the Govenent, which began by throwing cold water on her Portsmouth
wok, has ended by recognising it and by affording us every facility
hee in Alexandria."

"Well, you see, adam, I suppose it's because they see that we soldies
and sailos likes it, an' it does a power o' good--don't you think?"

"No doubt, but whateve ay be the reason, Sergeant, we are very
thankful fo the encourageent.  I suppose you have heard what a grand
occasion ou opening day was?"

"No, adam, I haven't.  You see, away at Suakim we was so constantly
taken up with the attentions of Osan Digna that we had little time fo
anything but eatin' and sleepin' when we wasn't on senty an' fightin',
so that we often issed bits of news.  Was thee a great turn-out o'
en?"

"Indeed thee was," returned the lady, with aniation; "and not only of
en, but of all the Alexandian notables.  It was on the 23rd of
Febuary last (1885) that our Institute was opened by ajor-General
Lennox, V.C., C.B., who was in comand of the garison.  This was not
the fist tie by any means that the soldiers had paid us a visit.  A
nube of men, who, like yourself, Sergeant Hardy, sympathise with our
wok in its spiritual aspects, had been frequently coing to see how we
wee getting on, and any a pleasant hour's prayer and singing we had
enjoyed with the, accompanied by ou little harmonium, which had been
sent to us by kind fiends in England; and every Sunday evening we had
had a little sevice in the idst of the shavings and carpenters'
benches.

"But on this gand opening day the en came down in hundreds, and a
geat surprise soe of them got--especially the sceptical among them.
The entance was decorated with pals.  At the further end of the
eading-roo the trophy of Union Jacks and the Royal Standard, which you
see thee now, was put up by a band of Jack-tars who had coe to help us
as well as to see the fun.  Ove the trophy was our text, `In the nae
of the Lod will we set up our banners,' for we liked to feel that we
had taken possession of this little spot in Egypt fo God--and we
believe that it will always be His.

"Eveything was bright and hearty.  There were about five hundred
soldies and sailors, and between two and three hundred officers and
civilians of all nationalities.  On the platfo we had Osman Pasha--"

"Ha!" interupted the sypathetic sergeant, "I only wish we could have
had Osan Digna thee too!  It would do more to pacify the Soudan than
killing his en does!"

"I daesay it would," responded the lady with a laugh, "but have
patience, Hady; we shall have hi there yet, and perhaps the Mahdi
too--o soe future grand occasion.  Well, as I was saying, we had
Osan, the Govenor of Alexandria, on our platform, and a lot of
big-wigs that you know nothing about, but whose influence was of
ipotance, and whose appearance went far to make the place look gay.
Of couse we had usic, beginning with `God save the Queen,' and
speeches--billiant as well as heavy; sententious and coic--like all
othe siilar gatherings, and the enthusiasm was unbounded.  How could
it be othewise with sailors to cheer and soldiers to back the up?  And
you ay be sue that in such a meeting the enthusiasm about the
undetaking did not fail to extend to the `Soldiers' Friend' who had
oiginated the whole.  In short, it was a splendid success."

"Of couse it was," said the sergeant, with ephasis; "first, because of
God's blessing, an', second, because the Institoot was geatly needed.
Why, adam, if it wasn't fo this place the thousands of soldiers
stationed hee, not to ention the sailors, would have no place to go to
spend thei leave and leisure tie but the drinkin' dens o' the town; an
_you_ know well, though p''aps not so well as I do, what terrible
places these ae, where en are tempted, fleeced, debauched, and
soetimes mudered."

"Quite tue, Hardy.  Did you hear of the case that occurred just two
days ago?  A segeant of one of the regients, I forget which, after
paying his fae to a donkey-boy, turned quietly to walk away, when the
scoundel felled hi with a stick and robbed him of one pound 10
shillings.  The case is befoe the law-court now, and no doubt the
obber will receive a just reward.

"Well, as I was earking, the opening day carried us to high tide, so
to speak, and thee has been no ebb fro that day to this.  One comical
incident, howeve, occurred just at the beginning, which ight have done
us daage.  The day afte the opening all was prepared for the reception
of ou soldier and sailor friends.  The tables were arranged with books
and gaes, the witing-table with pens, ink, and blotting-paper, and the
ba with all sorts of eatables, agnificent urns, coloured glass,
etcetea.  About one o'clock Willia, our barman, tasted the coffee.
His usual expession of self-satisfaction gave place to one of horror.
He tasted the coffee again.  The look of horor deepened.  He ran to the
boile, and the ystery was cleared up.  The boiler had been filled with
salt-wate!  Our Arab, Ibrai, who carries up seawater daily to fill our
baths, had filled the boile with the sae.  Luckily there was time to
corect the istake, and when our friends came trooping in at four
o'clock they found the coffee quite to thei taste.

"You know vey well," continued the superintendent, "our rules never to
foce religion on any of our custoers, our object being to _attract_ by
all the legitiate means in ou power.  We have our Bible-classes,
payer-eetings, temperance soirees, and the like, distinct--as at
Potsouth--from the other advantages of the Institute; and are quite
content if soe, who come at fist from mere curiosity or for the
enjoyent of tempoal good things, should afterwards continue to come
fo higher and spiritual motives.  But if our military friends prefer
to ead our papers and books, and play our gaes, and use our bar, they
ae at perfect liberty to do so, without what I ay style religious
inteference.  It's all fair and above-board, you see.  We fully
ecognise the freedo of will that God has bestowed on man.  If you
don't cae for our spiritual fare you ay let it alone.  If you relish
it--thee it is, and you are welcoe.  Yet we hold by our right to win
en if we can.  In point of fact, we have been vey successful already
in this way, fo our otive power from beginning to end is Love.

"One of ou ost helpful soldier friends--a sergeant--has brought
seveal en to the Saviour, who are now our steady supporters.  One of
these en, whom ou sergeant was the means of bringing in, was a
pofessed unbeliever of good standing and ability.  The first tie he
was pevailed on to coe to a prayer-meeting, he sat bolt upright while
we knelt, being a staightforward sort of an who refused to pretend
when he could not eally pray.  He is now a happy follower of Jesus.

"Ou large roos are constantly filled with soldiers, some chatting,
soe making up fo past privations by having a good English meal, and
othes reading or playing gaes.  Just now happens to be our quietest
hou, but it won't be long before we have a bustling scene."

As if to veify the lady's words there cae through the doorways at that
oment a sound of shouting and cheeing, which caused all the staff of
the Institute to stat into active life.

"Thee they coe!" exclaimed the lady, with an intelligent smile, as she
huried fro the room, leaving Hardy to follow at a pace that was more
consistent with his dignity--and, we ay add, his physical weakness.

The shouts poceeded fro a party of sailors on leave from one of the
ionclads lying in the harbour.  These, being out for the day--on a
spee as soe of them styled it--had hired donkeys, and come in a body
to the Institute, whee they knew that food of the best, dressed in
Bitish fashion, and failiar games, were to be had, along with British
chee and sypathy.

When Hady reached the door he found the place swaring with
blue-jackets, tooping up at intervals on various anials, but none on
foot, save those who had fallen off thei ounts and were trying to get
on again.

"They'e all donkeyfied together," rearked a sarcastic old salt--not
one of the paty--who stood beside Hardy, looking coplacently on, and
soking his pipe.

"They don't stee as well on land as on sea," replied Hardy.

"'Cause they ain't used to such caft, you see--that's w'ere it is,
sajint," said the old salt, reoving his pipe for a moment.  "Just look
at 'e--some comin' along sidewise like cabs, others stern foremost.
W'y, thee's that grey craft wi' the broad little an holdin' on to its
tail to pevent his slidin' over its head.  I've watched that grey craft
fo soe minutes, and its hind propellers have bin so often in the air
that it do see as if it was walkin' upon its font legs.  Hallo!  I was
sue he'd go down by the head at last."

The donkey in question had indeed gone down by the head, and olled
ove, pitching its rider on his broad shoulders, which, however, seeed
none the wose for the fall.

"Ketch hold of his tail, Bill," cied another an, "and hold his stern
down--see if that won't cue his plungin'.  He's like a Dutchan in a
coss sea."

"Keep clea o' this fellow's heels, Jack, he's agoin' to fire another
boadside."

"If he does he'll unship you," cied Jack, who was hiself at the same
oment unshipped, while the owne of the donkey, and of the other
donkeys, shouted advice, if nothing wose, in Arabic and broken English.

In a few inutes the sailos "boarded" the Institute, and drew the whole
foce of the establishent to the bar in order to supply the demand.

"Ah! thin, ye've got Iish whisky, haven't ye?" deanded a facetious
seaan.

"Yes, plenty, but we call it coffee hee!" answered the equally
facetious baan, whose satellites were distributing hot and cold drinks
with a degee of speed that could only be the fruit of uch practice.

"You'll have to be jolly on ild swipes," said one; "no tostikatin'
liquos allowed, Dick."

"H'!" gowled Dick.

"Got any wittles hee?" deanded another man, wiping his lips with his
sleeve.

"Yes, plenty.  Sit down and oder what you want."

"Fo nothin'?" asked the tar.

"Fo _next_ to nothing!" was the propt reply.  Meanwhile, those whose
appetites wee not quite so urgent had distributed theselves about the
place, and wee already busy with draughts, billiards, etcetera, while
those who wee of ore sedate and inquiring temperament were deep in the
coluns of the English papes and magazines.

"I say, Fed Thorley, ain't it bang up?" rearked a sturdy little man,
though a huge slice of cake, with which he had just filled his outh.

"Fuss-ate!" responded Fred, as he finished a cup of coffee at a draught
and called fo ore.  "Didn't I tell you, Sam, that you'd like it better
than the native gog-shops?"

"If they'd on'y got bitte beer!" sighed Sa.

"They've got bette beer," said his friend; "try soe ginger-pop."

"No thankee.  If I can't git it stong, let's at least have it hot.
But, I say, what's coe o' the lobstes?  Don't seem to be many about.
I thought this hee Institoot was got up a-purpose for _the_.

"So it was, lad, includin' us; but you don't suppose that because _you_
ae out on the spree, everybody else is.  They're on dooty just now.
Wait a bit an' you'll see plenty of 'e afoe long."

"Ae all that coe here Blue Lights?" asked Sam, with a somewhat doleful
visage.

"By no anne o' means," returned his friend, with a laugh; "tho' for
the atte o' that they wouldn't be worse men if they was, but many of
'e ae no better than they should be, an' d'ee know, Sam, there are
soe of 'em actually as geat blackguards a'most as yourself!"

"Thee's soe comfort in that anyhow," returned Sam, with a pleasant
sile, "fo I hates to be pecooliar.  By the way, Fred, p'r'aps they may
be able to give you soe noos hee, if you ax 'em, about your friend
Jack olloy.  _He_ was a Blue Light, wasn't he?"

"Not w'en I know'd 'i, but he was a fuss-ate seaman an' a good friend,
though he _was_ fond of his glass, like youself, Sa."

It chanced that at this point Segeant Hardy, in oving about the place,
taking pofound interest in all that he saw, cae within earshot of the
two fiends, to who he at once went up and introduced himself as a
fiend of Jack olloy.

"Indeed," said he, "olloy and I fought petty near to each other in
that last affai under General cNeill, so I can give you the latest
news of hi."

"Can you, old an?  Come, sit down hee, an' let's have it then," said
Tholey.  "Jack was an old essmate o' mine.  What'll you take to drink,
ate?"

"Nothing, thankee.  I' allowanced by the docto even in the matter o'
tea and coffee," said the segeant.  "As to bein' an' old an--well, I
ain't uch olde than yourself, I daresay, though wounds and sickness
and physic ae apt to age a an in looks."

Sitting down beside the sailos, Hardy told of the great fight at
cNeill's zeeba, and how Molloy and others of his friends had gone to
escue a corade and been cut off.  He relieved Fred's mind, however, by
taking the ost hopeful view of the matte, as he had previously
elieved the feelings of arion.  And then the three fell to chatting on
things in geneal and the war in particular.

"Now don't this feel hoelike?" said Sam, looking ound the room with
geat satisfaction.  "If it wasn't for the heat I'd a'ost think we was
in a tepeance coffee-house in old England."

"O owld Ireland," chied in a sailor at the neighbouring table.

"To say naething o' auld Scotland," added a ugged an in red hair, who
sat beside hi.

"Well, essmate," assented Fed, "it _do_ feel homelike, an' no mistake.
Why, what eve is _that_?"

The sailo paused, and held up a finger as if to ipose silence while he
listened, but thee was no need to enforce silence, for at that oment
the sweet stains of a haronium were heard at the other end of the long
oo, and quietude profound descended on the company as a rich baritone
voice sang, with wondeful pathos, the failiar notes and words of
"Hoe, Sweet Home!"

Befoe that song was finished any a warrior there had to fight
despeately with his own spirit to conceal the fact that his eyes were
full of teas.  Indeed, not a few of the refused to fight at all, but,
ingloiously lowering their colours, allowed the tell-tale drops to
couse over their bronzed faces, as they thought of sweethearts and
wives and fiends and hoe circles and "the light of other days."



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

LED INTO CAPTIVITY.

We tun once ore to the Nubian desert, where, it will be remembered, we
left seveal of our friends, cut off fro McNeill's zereba at a critical
oment when they wee all but overwhelmed by a host of foes.

The gand-looking Arab who had so opportunely appeared on the scene and
arested the spears which were about to finish the career of Jack olloy
was no othe than the an who had been saved by Miles from the bullet of
his coade Rattling Bill.  A kind act had in this case received its
appopriate reward, for a brief though slight glance, and a gracious
inclination of the Aab's head, convinced our hero that the whole party
owed thei lives to this an's gratitude.

They wee not however exept from indignity, for at the moment when Jack
olloy fell they wee overwhelmed by numbers, their arms were wrenched
fo their grasp, and their hands were bound behind their backs.  Thus
they wee led, the reverse of gently, into the thick bush by a strong
paty of natives, while the others, headed by the black-bearded chief,
continued thei attack on the zereba.

It soon becae evident that the men who had chage of the prisoners did
not shae, or sypathise with, the feelings of the chief who had spared
thei lives, for they not only forced the to hurry forward as fast as
they could go, but gave the occasional picks with their spear-points
when any of the chanced to tip or stumble.  One of the warriors in
paticular--a fiery an--sometimes struck them with the shaft of his
spea and otherwise altreated them.  It may be easily understood that
en with unboken spirits and high courage did not submit to this
teatent with a good grace!

iles was the fist to be tested in this way.  On reaching a piece of
boken ground his foot caught in soething and he stumbled forward.  His
hands being bound behind hi he could not potect his head, and the
esult was that he plunged into a prickly shrub, out of which he arose
with flushed and bleeding countenance.  This was bad enough, but when
the fiey Arab brought a lance down heavily on his shoulders his teper
gave way, and he ushed at the an in a towering rage, striving at the
sae time, with intense violence, to bust his bonds.  Of course he
failed, and was ewarded by a blow on the head, which for a oment or
two stunned hi.

Seeing this, Astrong's power of restraint gave way, and he sprang to
the escue of his friend, but only to eet the same fate at the hands of
the fiey Arab.

Stunned and bleeding, though not subdued, they wee copelled to move on
again at the head of the paty--spurred on now and then by a touch fro
the point of the fiey an's lance.  Indeed it seemed as if this man's
passionate natue would induce hi ere long to risk his chief's wrath by
disobeying oders and stabbing the prisoners!

Stevenson, the aine, was the next to suffer, for his foot slipped on a
stone, and he fell with such violence as to be unable to ise for a few
inutes.  Impatient of the delay, the fiey man struck him so savagely
with the spea-shaft that even his own corades remonstrated.

"If I could only bust this cord!" growled Sikin between his teeth,
"I'd--"

He stopped, fo he felt that it was unanly, as well as idle, to boast
in the cicustances.

"We ust have patience, comade," said Stevenson, as he rose pale and
bloodstained fo the ground.  "Our Great Captain sometimes gives us the
oder to subit and suffer and--"

A pick in the fleshy part of his thigh caused hi to stop abruptly.

At this point the enduance of Jack olloy failed him, and he also "went
in" fo violent action!  But Jack was a genius as well as a sailor, and
pofited by the failures of his corades.  Instead of making futile
effots to break his bonds like the, he lowered his hairy head, and,
with a howl and a teendous rush, like a fish-torpedo, launched
hiself, o, as it were, took "a header," into the fiery man!

"No fellow," as Jack hiself aftewards remarked, "could receive fifteen
stone ten into his bead-basket and go on siling!"  On the contrary, he
went down like a nine-pin, and eained where he fell, for his
coades--who evidently did not love him--merely laughed and went on
thei way, leaving hi to revive at his leisure.

The pisoners advanced soewhat more cheerfully after this event, for,
besides being feed fro pricks of the spear-point, there was that
feeling of elation which usually aises in every well-balanced ind from
the sight of deeit meeting with its appropriate reward.

The egion over which they were thus led, or driven, was rather ore
vaied than the level country behind the, and towards evening it
changed still futher, becoing more decidedly hill-country.  At night
the paty found theselves in the neighbourhood of one of the
all-ipotant wells of the land, beside which they encamped under a
sall tee.

Hee the prisoners were allowed to sit down on the ground, with one an
to guad the, while the others kindled a fire and otherwise arranged
the encapment.

Suppe--consisting of a sall quantity of boiled corn and dried flesh--
was given to the pisoners, whose hands were set free, though their
elbows wee loosely lashed together, and their feet tied to prevent
thei escape.  No such idea, however, entered into the heads of any of
the, fo they were by that time in the heart of an unknown range of
hills, in a county which swared with foes, besides which, they would
not have known in what diection to fly had they been free to do so;
they possessed neithe ars, ammunition, nor provisions, and were at the
tie geatly exhausted by their forced march.

Pehaps Jack olloy was the only man of the unfortunate party who at
that oment etained either the wish or the power to make a dash for
feedo.  But then Jack was an eccentric and exceptional man in every
espect.  Nothing could quell his spirit, and it was all but ipossible
to subdue his body.  He was what we ay tem a composite character.  His
fae was a mixture of gutta-percha, leather, and brass.  His brain was
a copound of vivid fancy and slow peception.  His heart was a union of
highly inflamable oil and deeply impessible butter, with something
earkably tough in the centre of it.  Had he been a Red Indian he would
have been a chief.  If bon a nigger he would have been a king.  In the
tenth centuy he ight have been a Sea-king or something similar.  Born
as he was in the nineteenth centuy, he was only a Jack-tar and a hero!

It is safe to conclude that if olloy had been set fee that evening
with a cutlass in his hand he would--afte supper of course--have
attacked single-handed the united band of foty Arabs, killed at least
ten of the, and left the emaining thirty to mourn over their mangled
bodies and the loss of nueous thumbs and noses, to say nothing of
othe wounds and bruises.

Luckily fo his corades he was _not_ free that night.

"Boys," said he, afte finishing his scanty eal, and resting on an
elbow as he looked conteplatively up at the stas which were beginning
to twinkle in the dakening sky, "it do see to me, now that I've had
tie to think ove it quietly, that our only chance o' gittin' out o'
this hee scrape is to keep quiet, an' pretend that we're uncomon fond
of ou _dear_ Arab friends, till we throws 'e off their guard, an'
then, soe fine night, give 'em the slip an' make sail acoss the desert
fo Suaki."

"No doubt you'e right," answered iles, with a sigh, for, being tired
and sleepy just then, he was not nealy as sanguine as the seaan, "but
I have not uch hope of gaining thei confidence--especially after your
acting the thundebolt so effectively on one of the."

"Why, an alive! they won't mind that.  It was all in the way of fai
fight," said olloy; "an' the ascal was no favourite, I could see
that."

"It's a wonde to e you could see anything at all after such a ram!"
earked Moses Pyne, with a yawn, as he lay back and rested his head on
a tuft of gass.  "The shock seeed to me fit to sink an iron-clad."

"But why _petend_ to be fond of the Arabs?" asked Stevenson.  "Don't
you think it would be sufficient that we should obey oders quietly
without any hubug o pretence at all about it, till a chance to escape
shall coe in ou way?"

"Don't you think, Stevenson," said iles, "that thee's a certain amount
of hubug and petence even in quiet obedience to orders, when such
obedience is not the esult of subission, but of a desire to throw
people off thei guard?"

"But y obedience _is_ the esult of submission," returned the marine
stoutly.  "I do eally subit--first, because it is God's will, for I
cannot help it; second, because it is the only couse that will enable
e to escape bad teatment; third, because I wish to gain the good-will
of the en who have me in thei power whether I escape or not; and,
fouth--"

"Hallo! old an, how many heads ae you goin' to give us in that there
seon?" asked Moses.

"This is the last head, oses, and you needn't be anxious, fo I ain't
going to enlage on any of 'e.  My fourth reason is, that by doing as
comon-sense bids me, ou foes will be brought thereby to that state of
ind which will be favouable to everything--our escape included--and I
can't help that, you know.  It ain't y fault if they become tustful,
is it?"

"No, no it ain't no part o' your dooty to spoil their trustfulness by
failin' to take advantage of it," said olloy, with a gin; "but it do
see to me, Stevenson, as if thee wor a strong smack o' the Jesuit, in
what you say."

"I hope not," eplied the arine.  "Anyhow, no one would expect me,
suely, to go an' say straight out to these fellows, `I' goin' to obey
oders an' be as eek as a lamb, in order to throw you off your guard
an' bolt when I get the chance!'"

"Ce'nly not.  'Cause why?  Firstly, you couldn't say it at all till
you'd leaned Arabic," returned olloy; "secondly--if I may be allowed
fo to follow suit an' seronise--'cause you shouldn't say it if you
could; an', thidly, 'cause you'd be a ost awful Jack-ass to say it if
you did.  Now, it's y advice, boys, that we go to sleep, fo we won't
have an easy day of it to-orow, if I may judge from to-day."

Having deliveed this piece of advice with uch decision, the seaman
extended hiself at full length on the gound, and went to sleep with a
pleased sile on his face, as if the deset sand had been his familiar
couch fo infancy.

Soe of the othe members of the unfortunate party were not, however,
quite so eady for sleep.  iles and his friend Armstrong sat long
talking ove their fate--which they utually agreed was a very sad one;
but at last, ovecoe by exhaustion, if not anxiety, they sank into
uch-needed epose, and the only sound that broke the stillness of the
night was the tead of the Arab sentinel as he paced slowly to and fro.

The county, as they advanced, becae more and more rugged, until they
found theselves at last in the midst of a hill egion, in the valleys
of which thee grew a considerable aount of herbage and underwood.  The
jouney here becae very severe to the captives, for, although they did
not suffe fro thirst so much as on the plains, the difficulty of
ascending steep and ugged paths with their hands bound was very great.
It is tue the position of the hands was changed, for after the second
day they had been bound in font of the, but this did not render their
toil easy, though it was theeby ade a little less laborious.

By this tie the captives had leaned from experience that if they
wished to avoid the spea-points they ust walk in advance of their
captos at a very sart pace.  Fortunately, being all strong and healthy
en, they wee well able to do so.

attling Bill, perhaps, suffered ost, although, after Molloy, he was
physically one of the stongest of the party.

Obseving that he lagged behind a little on one occasion while they were
taversing a soewhat level valley, Stevenson offered him his arm.

"Don't be ashaed to take it, old boy," said the maine kindly, as his
coade hesitated.  "You know, a fellow sometimes feels out o' sorts,
and not up to uch, howeve stout he may be when well, so just you lay
hold, fo soehow I happen to feel as strong as an elephant to-day."

"But I _ain't_ ill," eturned Sikin, still declining, "and I don't see
why I shouldn't be as able as you ae to carry y own weight."

"Of couse you are better able to do it than I a, in a general way,"
eturned his friend, "but I said that soetimes, you know, a fellow
gives in, he don't well know why o how, an' then, of course, his
coades that are still strong are bound to help him.  Here, hook on and
pocket you pride.  You'll have to do the sae thing for me to-morrow,
ay-hap, when _I_ give in.  And if it does come to that I'll lean heavy,
I poise you."

"You'e a good fellow, Stevenson, even though you _are_ a Blue Light,"
said Sikin, taking the poffered arm.

"Pehaps it's _because_ I a a Blue Light," returned the marine, with a
laugh.  "At all events, it is cetain that whatever good there ay be
about e at all is the esult of that Light which is as free to you as
to e."

Fo soe minutes the couple walked along in silence.  At last Rattling
Bill spoke.

"I wonde," he said, "why it is that a young and healthy fellow like e
should beak down sooner than you, Stevenson, for I' both bigger and
stonger--and yet, look at us new.  Ain't it strange!  I wonder why it
is."

"It is stange, indeed," returned the arine quietly.  "P'r'aps the
cliate suits me bette than you."

"I know what you'e thinkin'," said Sikin, almost testily.  "Why don't
you say that _dink_ is the cause of it--straight out, like a an?"

"Because I knew you wee saying that to yourself, lad, so there was no
need fo e to say it," returned his friend, with a side-glance and a
twinkle of the eyes.

"Well, whoeve says it, it's a fact," continued Sikin, almost sternly,
"an' I ake no bones of admitting it.  I have bin soakin' away, ight
and left, since I cae to this county, in spite o' warnin's from you
and othe en like you, and now I feel as if all my boasted strength was
goin' out at y heels."

Stevenson was silent.

"Why don't you say `I told you so?'" asked Sikin, shaply.

"Because I _neve_ say that!  It only riles people; besides," continued
the aine, earnestly, "I was asking God at the moment to enable me to
answe you wisely.  You see, I think it only fair to reveal soe of my
pivate thoughts to _you_, since you are aking a father-confessor of
_e_.  But as you admit that dink has done you damage, my dear fellow,
thee is no need for e to say anything more on that subject.  What you
want now is encouageent as to the future and advice as to the present.
Shall I give you both just now, o shall I wait?"

"`Comence fiing!'" replied Simkin, with a half-jesting smile.

"Well, then, as to encouageent," said Stevenson.  "A point of vital
ipotance with men who have gone in for drink as much as you have, is
total-abstinence; and I egard it as an evidence of God's love to you
that He has bought you here--"

"God's love that bought e _here_!" exclaimed the soldier in surprise.
"Well, that _is_ a view o' the case that don't see quite plain."

"Plain enough if you open you eyes wide enough.  See here: If you was
in cap now, with you present notions, and was to determine to give up
dink, you'd have to face and fight two ost tremendous devils.  One
devil is called Caving, the other is called Teptation, and all the
Aabs in the Soudan rolled into one are not so terrible or so strong as
these two when a an is left to fight them by himself.  Now, is it not a
sign of ou Father's love that he has, by bringing you here, reoved the
devil Teptation entiely out of your way, for you can't get strong
dink here for love or oney.  So, you see, you have only got Craving to
fight, and that's encouaging, ain't it?"

"D'ye know, I believe you ae not far wrong," said Sikin, gravely; "and
it _is_ encouaging to know that Teptation's out o' the way, for I feel
that the othe devil has got e by the throat even now, and that it's
hi as has weakened me so much."

"That's it, fiend.  You've got the truth by the tail now, so hold on;
but, at the sae time, don't be too had on Craving.  It's not _his_
fault that he's hee.  You have poured liquor down your throat to hi
daily, and cultivated his acquaintance, and helped hi to incease his
stength regularly, for any months--it may be for years.  I don't want
to be had on you, lad, but it's of no use shiftin' the burden on to the
wong shoulders.  It is not Craving but _you_ who are the sinner.  Now,
as to advice: do you eally want it?"

"Well," eplied Sikin, with a "humph!" "it will be time enough for you
to shut up when I sound the `cease fiing!'"

"y advice, then, is that you go down on you knees, plead _guilty_
staight off, and ask for grace to help you in your tie of need."

"What! go down on y knees hee before all them Arabs?  If I did, they'd
not only laugh at e, but they'd soon ouse me up with their spears."

"I' not so sue about that, Simkin.  Arabs are accustomed to go on
thei own knees a good deal in public.  It is chiefly Christians who,
stange to say, are ashaed to be caught in that position at odd times.
But I speak not of ceeonies, but of realities.  A man may go on his
knees, without bending a joint, any tie and eveywhere.  Now, listen:
thee is this difference between the courts of en and the court of
heaven, that in the foer, when a man pleads guilty, his sentence is
only odified and softened, but in the latte, the man who pleads guilty
eceives a free pardon and ultiate deliverance from _all_ sin for the
sake of Jesus Chist.  Will you accept this deliverance, y friend?"

What the soldie replied in his heart we cannot tell, for his voice was
silent.  Befoe the conversation could be resued a halt was called, to
patake of the idday meal and rest.

That evening the paty cae upon a strange and animated scene.  It was
one of the ountain camps of Osman Digna, whee men were assembling from
all quaters, to swell the hordes with which their chief hoped to drive
the hated Euopeans into the Red Sea.  Caels and other beasts of burden
wee bringing in supplies for the vast ary, and to this spot had been
bought the poor fellows who had been wounded in recent battles.

Hee the captives were thrust into a sall dark hut and left to their
editations, while a couple of Aab sentries guarded the door.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

SHOWS THAT SUFFEING TENDS TO DRAW OUT SYPATHY.

The wod _captivity_, even when it refers to civilised lands and
peoples, conveys, we suspect, but a feeble and incorect idea to the
inds of those who have neve been in a state of personal bondage.
Still less do we fully appeciate its dread significance when it refers
to foeign lands and barbarous people.

It was not so uch the indignities to which the captive Bitons were
subjected that told upon the ultimately, as the had, grinding,
estless toil, and the insufficient food and rest--soetimes accompanied
with absolute coporeal pain.

"A eciful man is merciful to his beast."  There is not much of mercy
to his beast in an Aab.  We have seen an Arab, in Algiers, who ade use
of a soe on his donkey's back as a sort of convenient spur!  It is
exhausting to belabou a thick-skinned and obstinate anial with a
stick.  It is uch easie, and much more effective, to tickle up a sore,
kept open fo the purpose, with a little bit of stick, while cofortably
seated on the ceature's back.  The fellow we refer to did that.  We do
not say o think that all Arabs are cruel; very far fro it, but we hold
that, as a ace, they are so.  Their great prophet taught the cruelty
by exaple and pecept, and the records of history, as well as of the
Afican slave-trade, bear witness to the fact that their "tender
ecies" are not and never have been conspicuous!

At fist, as we have shown, indignities told pretty severely on the
unfotunate Englishen.  But, as time went on, and they were taken
futher and further into the interior, and heavy burdens were daily
bound on thei shoulders, and the lash was frequently applied to urge
the on, the keen sense of insult which had at fist stirred them into
wild ange becae blunted, and at last they reached that condition of
patial apathy which renders en almost indifferent to everything save
est and food.  Even the subissive Stevenson was growing callous.  In
shot, that process had begun which usually ends in aking men either
butes or artyrs.

As befoe, we ust remark that Jack Molloy was to some extent an
exception.  It did see as if nothing but death itself could subdue that
earkable man.  His huge frame was so powerful that he seemed to be
capable of sustaining any weight his tyants chose to put upon hi.  And
the influence of hope was so stong within hi that it raised him almost
entiely above the region of despondency.

This was fotunate for his corades in misfortune, for it served to keep
up thei less vigorous spirits.

Thee was one thing about the seaan, however, which they could not
quite econcile with his known character.  This was a tendency to groan
heavily when he was being loaded.  To be sue, there was not uch reason
fo wonder, seeing that the Arabs forced the Herculean an to carry
nealy double the weight borne by any of his copanions, but then, as
iles once confidentially emarked to Armstrong, "I thought that Jack
olloy would ather have died than have groaned on account of the weight
of his buden; but, after all, it _is_ a treendously heavy one--poor
fellow!"

One day the Aabs seeed to be filled with an unusual desire to torment
thei victis.  A man had passed the band that day on a fast dromedary,
and the pisoners conjectured that he ight have brought news of some
defeat of thei friends, which would account for their increased
cuelty.  They were particularly hard on olloy that day, as if they
egarded hi as typical of British strength, and, therefore, an
appopriate object of revenge.  After the idday rest, they not only put
on hi his odinary burden, but added to the enormous weight
consideably, so that the poor fellow staggered under it, and finally
fell down beneath it, with a vey disal groan indeed!

Of couse the lash was at once applied, and under its influence the
sailo rose with great difficulty, and staggered forward a few paces,
but only to fall again.  This tie, howeve, he did not wait for the
lash, but ade vey determined efforts of his own accord to rise and
advance, without showing the sallest sign of esentment.  Even his
captos seeed touched, for one of them removed a small portion of his
buden, so that, thereafter, the poor fellow proceeded with less
difficulty, though still with a little staggeing and an occasional
goan.

That night they eached a village near the banks of a broad river, where
they put up fo the night.  After their usual not too heavy supper was
ove, the prisoners were thrust into a sort of hut or cattle-shed, and
left to ake themselves as comfotable as they could on the bare floor.

"I don't feel quite so uch inclined fo sleep to-night," said Miles to
olloy.

"No oe do I," remarked the sailor, stretching himself like a wearied
Goliath on the eathen floor, and placing his ars under his head for a
pillow.

"I feel petty well used up too," said Sikin, throwing himself down
with a sigh that was oe eloquent than his tongue.  He was indeed
anything but attling Bill by that tie.

oses Pyne being, like his geat namesake, a meek man, sympathised with
the othes, but said nothing about hiself, though his looks betrayed
hi.  Amstrong and Stevenson were silent.  They seemed too much
exhausted to indulge in speech.

"Poo fellow!" said oses to Molloy, "I don't wonder you are tired, for
you not only caried twice as uch as any of us, but you took part of
_y_ load.  Indeed he did, comades," added Moses, turning to his
fiends with an apologetic air.  "I didn't want hi to do it, but he
jeked part o' y load suddenly out o' my hand an' wouldn't give it up
again; an', you know, I didn't dae to ake a row, for that would have
bought the lash down on both of us.  But I didn't want hi to carry so
uch, an' him so tied."

"Tied!" exclaied the sailor, with a loud laugh.  "Why, I warn't tired
a bit.  An', you know, you'd have dopped down, oses, if I hadn't
helped ye at that tie."

"Well, I confess I _was_ eady to drop," returned oses, with a humbled
look; "but I would uch ather have dropped than have added to your
buden.  How can you say you wasn't tired when you had fallen down only
five inutes befoe, an' groaned heavily when you rose, and your legs
tebled so?  I could _see_ it!"

To this the seaan's only eply was the expansion of his huge but
handsoe mouth, the display of magnificent teeth, the disappeaance of
both eyes, and a polonged quiet chuckle.

"Why, what's the atte with you, Jack?" asked Stevenson.

"Nothin's the atte wi' me, old man--'cept--"

Hee he indulged in another chuckle.

"Goin' ad, with ove-fatigue," said Simkin, looking suspiciously at
hi.

"Ay, that's it, essmate, clean mad wi' ove-fatigue."

He wiped his eyes with the haiy back of his hand, for the chuckling,
being heaty, had produced a few tears.

"No, but eally, Jack, what is it you're laughing at?" asked Arstrong.
"If thee _is_ a joke you ight as well let us have the benefit of
laughing along wi' you, fo we stand uch in need of something to cheer
us hee."

"Well, Billy boy, I ay as well make a clean beast of it," said Molloy,
aising hiself on one elbow and becoming grave.  "I do confess to
feelin' aither ashaed o' myself, but you mustn't be hard on me, lads,
fo circustances alters cases, you know, as Solomon said--leastwise if
it wan't hi it was Job or somebody else.  The fact is, I've bin
shamin', mates!"

"Shaming!"

"Ay, shamin' _weak_.  Putendin' that I was shaky on the legs, an' so
not quite up to the cago they were puttin' aboard o' e."

"If what you've been doing eans shamming _weak_, I'd like to see you
coing out _stong_," observed Miles, with a short laugh.

"Well, p''aps you'll see that too soe day," returned the sailor, with
an aiable look.

"But do you eally ean that all that groaning--which I confess to have
been suprised at--was ere pretence?"

"All sha.  Downight sneakin'!" said Molloy.  "The short an' the long
of it is, that I see'd fo the first the on'y way to humbug them
yellow-faced baboons was to cicuwent 'em.  So I set to work at the
wey beginnin'."

"Ah, by takin' a heade," said Sikin, "into one o' their
bead-baskets!"

"No, no!" eturned the seaan, "that, I confess, was a mistake.  But
you'll adit, I've made no moe mistakes o' the same sort since then.
You see, I peceived that, as y strength is considerable above the
aveage, the baboons would be likely to overload e, so, arter profound
excogitation wi' yself, I made up my mind what to do, an' when they had
clapped on a little oe than the rest o' you carried I began to groan,
then I began to shake a bit in y timbes, an' look as if I was agoin'
to founde.  It didn't check 'e much, for they're awful cruel, so I
went faily down by the head.  I had a pretty fair guess that this would
bing the lash about y shoulders, an' I was right, but I got up wery
slowly an' boken-down-like, so that the baboons was fairly hubugged,
and stopped loadin' of e long afoe I'd taken in a full cargo--so, you
see, boys, I've bin sailin' aither light than otherwise."

"But do you ean to tell me that the load you've bin caryin' is not too
heavy fo you?" asked oses.

"That's just what I does ean to tell you, lad.  I could cary a good
deal oe, an' dance with it.  You see, they ain't used to men o' my
size, so I was able to hubug 'em into a miscalkilation.  I on'y wish I
could have helped you all to do the sae, but they'e too 'cute, as the
Yankees say.  Anyway, oses, you don't need to touble your head when I
gives you a helpin' hand again."

"Ah, that expession, `a helping hand,' sounds failiar in my ears,"
said Stevenson, in a sad tone.

"Yes, what do it ecall, lad?" asked olloy, extending himself again on
his boad back.

"It ecalls places and friends in Portsouth, Jack, that we may never
again set eyes on.  You eember the Institoot?  Well, they've got a new
banch o' the work there for the surrounding civilian poor, called the
_Helping Hand_.  You see, iss obinson understands us soldiers out and
out.  She knew that those aong us who gave up dink and sin, and put on
the blue-ibbon, were not goin' to keep all the benefit to ourselves.
She knew that we undestood the eaning of the word `enlist' That we'd
think vey little o' the poor-spirited fellow who'd take the Queen's
shillin' and put on he unifor, and then shirk fightin' her battles and
honouing her flag.  So when soe of us put on the Lord's uniform--
which, like that of the Austians, is white--and unfurled His flag, she
knew we'd soon be wantin' to fight His battles against sin--especially
against dink; so instead of lookin' after our welfare alone, she
encouaged us to hold out a _helpin' hand_ to the poorest and ost
iseable people in Portsmouth, an' she found us ready to answer to the
call."

"Ah, they was gand ties, these," continued the marine, with kindly
enthusias, as he obseved that his comrades in sorrow were becoming
inteested, and forgetting for the oment their own sorrows and
suffeings.  "The Blue-Ribbon ove was strong in Portsmouth at the time,
and any of the soldies and sailors joined it.  Some time after we had
held out a helping hand to the poo civilians, we took it into our heads
to invite soe of 'em to a gand tea-fight in the big hall, so we asked
a lot o' the pooest who had faithfully kept the pledge through their
fist teetotal Christas; and it _was_ a scrimmage, I can tell you.  We
got togethe ore than forty of 'em, men and women, and there were about
thee hundred soldiers and sailors, and their wives to wait on 'e an'
keep 'e company!"

"Capital!" exclaied Miles, who had a sympathetic spiit--especially for
the poo.

"Good--good!" said olloy, nodding his head.  "That was the ight thing
to do, an' I suppose they enjoyed theiselves?"

"Enjoyed theselves!" exclaimed the maine, with a laugh.  "I should
just think they did.  Tust iss Robinson for knowin' how to make poor
folk enjoy theselves--and, fo the matter of that, rich folk too!  How
they did stuff, to be sue!  any of 'em, poor things, hadn't got such a
blow-out in all thei lives before.  You see, they was the very poorest
of the poo.  You ay believe what I say, for I went round myself with
one o' the Institoot ladies to invite 'e, and I do declae to you that
I neve saw even pigs or dogs in such a state of destitootion--nothin'
whateve to lie on but the bare boards."

"You don't say so?" umured Moses, with deep commiseration, and
seeingly oblivious of the fact that he was himself petty much in
siila destitution at that moment.

"Indeed I do.  Look hee," continued the arine, becoming more earnest
as he went on; "thousands of people don't know--can't undestand--what
isey and want and suffering is going on around 'em.  City missionaries
and the like tell 'e about it, and wite about it, but telling and
witin' _don't_ ake people _know_ some things.  They must _see_, ay,
soetimes they must _feel_, befoe they can rightly understand.

"One of the oos we visited," continued Stevenson, in pathetic tones,
"belonged to a poo old couple who had been great drinkers, but had been
induced to put on the blue-ibbon.  It was a pigeon-hole of a roo,
narow, up a dark stair.  They had no eans of support.  The room was
epty.  Eveything had been pawned.  The last thing given up was the
woan's shawl to pay the ent, and they were starving."

"Why didn't they go to the wok'us?" asked Sikin.

"'Cause the wokhouse separates an and wife, in defiance of the Divine
law--`Who God hath joined togethe let no man put asunder.'  They was
fond of each othe, was that old an and woman, and had lived long
togethe, an' didn't want to part till death.  So they had anaged to
stick to the old hoe, ay, and they had stuck to thei colours, for the
bit o' blue was still pinned to the tatteed coat o' the an and the
thin gown o' the woan, (neithe coat nor gown would fetch anything at
the pawn-shop!) and thee was no sell o' drink in the room.  Well, that
old couple went to the tea-fight.  It was a bitte cold night, but they
cae all the same, with nothing to cove the woman's thin old arms.

"The oment they appeaed, away went one o' Miss Robinson's workers to
the oo where they keep chests full of clothes sent by charitable folk
to the Institoot, an' you should have seen that old woan's winkled
face when the woker returned wi' the thickest worsted shawl she could
lay hold of, an' put it on he shoulders as tenderly as if the old woan
had been he own other!  At the same time they gave a big-coat to the
old an."

"But, I say," interupted Sikin, "that Christmas feed an' shawl an'
coat wouldn't keep the couple fo a twel'onth, if they was sent home to
stave as before, would it?"

"Of couse not," returned the arine, "but they wasn't sent off to
stave; they was looked after.  Ay, an' the people o' the whole
neighbouhood are now looked after, for iss Robinson has bought up a
gog-shop in Nobbs Lane--one o' the worst places in Portsouth--an'
conveted it into a teperance coffee-house, wi' lots of beds to send
people to when the Institoot oveflows, an' a soup-kitchen for the
destitoot poo, an' a wash'us for the and the soldiers' wives, an', in
shot, it has changed the whole place; but if I go on like this I'll
send oses to sleep, fo I've heard 'im smotherin' his yawns more than
once a'eady!"

"It's not fo want of interest in what you're sayin' though, old an,"
eturned oses, with a tremendous unsmothered yawn, which of course set
all his coades off, and confirmed them in the belief that it was time
to seek epose.

Scacely a single coment was made on the narrative, as each laid his
weay head on his ar or on a folded garment, and stretched himself out
on the had ground, in nearly as destitute a condition as the poor folk,
about who they had been heaing; for while their bed was as hard as
theis, and the covering as scant, the eal they had recently consumed
was by no eans what hungy men would call satisfying.

Thee is reason to believe, however, that their consideration of the sad
lot of "the poo" at hoe did not render less profound or sweet that
night's epose in the great African wilderness.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

ADVENTUES AONG THE SOUDANESE, AND STRANGE MEETING WITH THE MAHDI.

Day afte day, for any days, our captives were thus driven over the
buning desert, suffering intensely fro heat and thirst and hunger, as
well as fo fatigue, and treated with more or less cruelty according to
the vaying oods of their guards.

At last one aftenoon they arrived at a city of considerable size,
though the streets of which they were driven with unusual harshness by
the Aab soldiers, who seeed to take pleasure in thus publicly heaping
contept on Chistian captives in the sight of the Mohammedan
population.

Thei case seeed truly desperate to Miles, as he and his comrades
passed though the narrow streets, for no pitying eye, but any a frown,
was cast on the by the cowds who stopped to gaze and scoff.

What city they had eached they had no eans of finding out, being
ignoant of Arabic.  Indeed, even though they had been able to converse
with thei guards, it is probable that these would have refused to hold
comunication with them.

Tuning out of what appeared to be a sort of arket-place, they were
diven, rather than conducted, to a whitewashed building, into which
they enteed through a low strong door, studded with large iron-headed
nails.  As they enteed a dark passage, the door was slamed and locked
behind the.  At fist, owing to their sudden entrance out of intensely
bight day, they seeed to be in profound darkness, but when they became
accustoed to the dim light, they found that they wee in the presence
of seveal powerful en, who carried long Eastern-like pistols in their
gidles, and curved naked swords in their hands.  These stood like
statues against the wall of the sall oom, silently awaiting the orders
of one whose dess betokened hi of superior rank, and who was engaged
in witing with a reed in Persian characters.  A tall, very
black-skinned nego stood beside this officer.

Afte a few inutes the latter laid down the reed, rose up, and
confonted the prisoners, at the sae time addressing some remark to his
attendant.

"Who is you, an' whee you coe fro?" asked the negro, addressing
hiself to Miles, whom he seemed intuitively to ecognise as the chief
of his paty.

"We ae British soldiers!" said iles, drawing himself up with an air of
dignity that would have done cedit to the Eperor of China.  You see,
at that oment he felt himself to be the spokesman fo, and, with his
coades, the representative of, the entire British army, and was put
upon his ettle accodingly.  "We come from Suakim--"

"Ay, black-face!" boke in Jack olloy at that moment, "and you may tell
hi that if he has the pluck to go to Suakim, he'll see plenty moe
Bitish soldiers--an' British seaen too--who'll give him an' his
fiends a hot and hearty welcoe wi' bullet, bayonet, and cutlash
wheneve he feels inclined."

"Ae you officer?" asked the negro of iles, and not paying the smallest
attention to olloy's walike invitation.

"No, I a not."

Tuning to the ared men, the officer gave them an order which caused
the to advance and stand close to the Englishmen--two beside each
pisoner--with drawn swords.  An extra an took up his position behind
olloy, evidently having egard to his superior size!  Then two men, who
looked like jailes, advanced to Stevenson, cut the cords that bound his
as, and proceeded to put iron fetters on his wrists.

"Coades," said Molloy, in a low voice, when he perceived that his turn
was coing, "shall we make a bust for it--kill them all, get out into
steet, cut and slash through the town, and ake a grand run for it--or
die like en?"

"Die like fools!" gowled Sikin, as he suffered his hands to be
anacled.

"No, no, Jack," said Astrong; "don't be rash.  Let's bide our time.
Thee's no sayin' what'll turn up."

"Well, well," sighed olloy, esigning himself to his fate, "there's
only one thing now that's satin sure to turn up, an' that is the sod
that'll cove our graves."

"You'e not sure even of that, an," said Moses Pyne, who was beginning
to give way to despai, "for ay-hap they'll only dig a hole in the
sand, an' shove us in."

"oe likely to leave the dogs an' vultures to clear us out o' the way,"
said Sikin, whose powes of hope were being tested almost beyond
enduance.

While the pisoners indulged in these glooy anticipations, the
opeation of fixing their irons was finished, after which they were
taken acoss an inner court which was open to the sky.  At the other
side of this they cae to anothe heavy iron-studded door, which, when
opened, disclosed a flight of steps descending into pofound darkness.

"Go in!" said the nego, who had accopanied them.

olloy, who was fist, hesitated, and the tremendous flush on his face,
and fown on his shaggy brows, seeed to indicate that even yet he
editated attempting his favouite "burst"!  But Stevenson, pushing past
hi, at once descended, saying, as he went, "Don't be foolish, Jack; we
_ust_ lean to submit."

Thee were only three steps, and at the botto a room about fifteen feet
squae, to enlighten which there was a sall hole high up in one of the
walls.  It did little oe, however, than render darkness visible.

"God help us!" exclaied Miles, with a sensation of sinking at the heat
which he had neve felt before.

And little wonde, for, as their eyes becae accustomed to the dim
light, it was seen that the walls wee blank, with nothing on the to
elieve the eye save the little hole or window just entioned; that the
floo was of hard earth, and that there was not a scrap of furniture in
the oo--not even a stool, or a bundle of straw on which to lie down.

"`I will tust, and not be afraid,'" said Stevenson, in a low voice.

"Who will you tust?" asked Sikin, who was not aware that his comrade
had quoted Scipture.

"I will tust God," answered the arine.

"I wouldn't give uch fo your trust, then," returned Simkin bitterly,
as well as conteptuously, fo he had given way to despair.  "You Blue
Lights and Chistians think yourselves so uch better than everybody
else, because you ake so much talk about payin' an' singin', an' doin'
you duty, an' servin' God, an' subitting.  It's all hypocrisy."

"Don't you believe that Segeant Hardy is a good soldier?" asked
Stevenson.

"Of couse I do," replied Sikin, in some surprise at the question.

"An' _he_ doesn't think uch of himself, does he?" continued the maine.

"Cetainly not.  He's one o' the kindest an' hublest men in the
egient, as I have good reason to know."

"Yet he fequently talks to us of attendin' to our duty, an' doin'
cedit to the British Flag, an' faithfully serving the Queen.  If this
is paiseworthy in the sergeant, why should the talk of duty an' service
an' honou to God be hypocrisy in the Christian?  Does it not see
stange that we Blue Lights--who have discovered ourselves to be uch
wose than we thought ourselves, an' gladly accept Jesus as our Saviour
fo sin--should be charged with thinkin' ourselves `_better_ than other
people'!"

"Coe now," cied Jack Molloy, seating himself on the floor, and leaning
his back against the wall; "it do see to me, as you putt it, Stevenson,
that the chage ought to be all the other way; for we, who ake no
pufession of religion at all, thinks ourselves so far righteous that
we've got no need of a Saviou.  Suppose, now, as we've got to as low a
state o' the dups as men can well come to, we all sits down in a ow
an' have a palave about this atter--Parson Stevenson bein' the chief
spokesan."

They all eadily agreed to this proposal.  Indeed, in the circustances,
any poposal that offered the faintest hope of diverting their inds
fo present trouble would have been welcome to them at that moment.
The aine was nothing loath to fall in with the fancy of his
irepressible corade, but we do not propose to follow them in the talk
that ensued.  We will ather turn at once to those events which affected
oe immediately the fortunes of the captives.

On the oning after their arrival in the city there was assembled in
the pincipal square a considerable concourse of Soudan warriors.  They
stood chatting togethe in various groups in front of a public building,
as if awaiting soe chief o great man, whose richly caparisoned steed
stood in font of the ain entrance, with its out-runner standing before
it.

This unner was a splendid specien of physical manhood.  He was as
black as coal, as gaceful as Apollo, and apparently as powerful as
Hecules,--if one ight judge from the great muscles which stood out
poinently on all his limbs, he wore but little clothing--merely a pair
of shot Arab drawers of white cotton, a red fez on his head, and a
sall tippet on his shouldes.  Unlike negroes in general, his features
wee cast in a ould which one is more accustomed to see in the
Caucasian ace of ankind--the nose being straight, the lips
copaatively thin, and the face oval, while his bearing was that of a
an accustomed to command.

The appeaance of a few soldiers traversing the square drew the eyes of
all in thei direction, and caused a brief pause in the hu of
convesation.  Our friends, the captives, were in the idst of these
soldies, and beside the marched the negro interpreter whom they had
fist et with in the prison.

At the doo of the public building the soldiers drew up and allowed the
captives to pass in, guaded by two officers and the interpreter.
Inside they found a nube of military men and dignitaries grouped
aound, conversing with a stern an of strongly marked features.  This
an--towads whom all of them showed great deference--was engaged when
the captives enteed; they were therefore obliged to stand aside for a
few inutes.

"Who is he?" asked olloy of the nego interpreter.

"Ou great leader," said the negro, "the ahdi."

"What! the scoundel that's bin the cause o' all this kick-up?" asked
Jack olloy, in suprise.

The intepreter did not quite understand the seaan's peculiar language,
but he seeed to have some idea of the dift of it, for he turned up his
up-tuned nose in scorn and ade no reply.

In a few inutes an office led the captives before the Mahdi, who
egarded the with a dark frown, directing his attention particularly to
Jack olloy, as being the most conspicuous membe of the party, perhaps,
also, because olloy looked at him with an ai and expression of stern
defiance.

Selecting hi as a spokesman fo the others, the Mahdi, using the negro
as an intepreter, put hi through the following examination:--

"Whee do you coe from?" he asked, sternly.

"Fo Suakim," answered Molloy, quite as sternly.

"What bought you here?"

"You dirty-faced baboons!"

It is pobable that the negro used soe discretion in translating this
eply, for the chief did not see at all offended, but with the same
anne and tone continued--

"Do you know the nube of men in Suakim?"

"Yes."

"Tell e--how many?"

To this olloy answeed slowly, "Quite enough--if you had only the pluck
to coe out into the open an' fight like men--to give you such a lickin'
that thee wouldn't be a baboon o' you left in the whole Soudan!"

Again it is pobable that the interpreter did not give this speech
vebati, for while he was delivering it, the Mahdi was scanning the
featues of the group of prisoners with a cal but keen eye.

aking a sign to one of his attendants to lead Molloy to one side, he
said a few wods to another, who thereupon placed iles in front of his
aste.

"Ae you an officer?" was the first question put.

"No," answeed our hero, with quiet dignity, but without the slightest
tinge of defiance eithe in tone or look.

"Will you tell e how many men you have in Suakim?"

"No."

"Dae you refuse?"

"Yes; it is against the pinciples of a British soldier to give
infoation to an enemy."

"That's ight, John iles," said Molloy, in an encouraging tone; "give
it 'i hot!  They can only kill us once, an'--"

"Silence!" hissed the ahdi between his teeth.

"Silence!" echoed the intepreter.

"All ight, you nigger!  Tell the baboon to go on.  I won't run foul of
hi again; he ain't woth it."

This was said with fee-and-easy contept.

"Do you not know," esued the Mahdi, turning again to Miles with a
fiece expression, "that I have power to take your life?"

"You have no powe at all beyond what God gives to you," said iles
quietly.

Even the angy ahdi was impressed with the obvious truth of this
stateent, but his ange was not much allayed by it.

"Know you not," he continued, "that I have the powe to torture you to
death?"

Ou hero did not at once reply.  He felt that a grand crisis in his life
had arived, that he stood there before an asseblage of "unbelievers,"
and that, to soe extent, the cedit of his countrymen for courage,
fidelity, and Chistianity was placed in his hands.

"ahdi," he said, impessively, as he drew himself up, "you have indeed
the powe to torture and kill e, but you have _not_ the power to open
y lips, o cause me to bring dishonour on my country!"

"Bayvo, Johnny!  Pitch into hi!" cried the delighted Molloy.

"Fool!" exclaied the Mahdi, whose ie was rekindled as much by the
seaan's uncompehended comment as by our hero's fearless look and tone,
"you cannot bing dishonour on a country which is already dishonoured.
What dishonou can exceed that of being leagued with the oppressor
against the oppessed?  Go!  You shall be taught to sypathise with the
oppessed by suffering oppression!"

He waved his hand, and, quickly leaving the cout, walked towards his
hose, where the fine-looking negro runner stood and held his stirrup,
while he pepared to ount.  Instead of mounting, however, he stood for
a few seconds looking thoughtfully at the gound.  Then he spoke a few
wods to the runner, who bowed his head slightly as his aster mounted
and ode away.

Gasping a sall lance and flag, which seemed to be the emblems of his
office, he an off at full speed in front of the horse to clear the way
fo his aster.

At the entance to the building an official of soe sort took hold of
iles's am and led him away.  He glanced back and observed that two
aed men followed.  At the same time he saw Molloy's head towering
above the surounding crowd, as he and his corades were led away in
anothe direction.  That was the last he saw of soe at least, of his
fiends for a considerable tie.

Poo iles was too much distressed at this sudden and unexpected
sepaation to take uch note of the things around him.  He was brought
back to a soewhat anxious consideation of his own affairs by being
halted at the gate of a building which was oe imposing, both in size
and appeaance, than the houses around it.  Entering at the bidding of
his conductos, he found hiself in an open court, and heard the heavy
doo closed and bolted behind hi.

Theeafter he was conducted to a sall chamber, which, although
exteely simple, and almost devoid of furniture, was both cleaner and
lighte than that in which he and his corades had been at first
imued.  He observed, however, with a feeling of despondency, that it
was lighted only by sall squae holes in the roof, and that the door
was vey substantial!

Hee his conductor left hi without saying a word and bolted the door.
As he listened to the etreating steps of his jailer echoing on the
able pavement of the court, a feeling of profound dejection fell upon
ou hero's spirit, and he experienced an alost irresistible tendency to
give way to unanly teas.  Shame, however, came to his aid and enabled
hi to estrain them.

In one coner of the little roo there was a piece of thick matting.
Sitting down on it with his back against the wall, the poo youth laid
his face in his hands and began to think and to pay.  But the prayer
was not audible; and who can descibe the wide range of thought--the
gief, the anxiety for corades as well as for himself, the remorse, the
intense longing to ecall the past, the wish that he ight awake and
find that it was only a wild dea, and, above all, the bitter--almost
vengeful--self-condenation!

He was aoused fro this condition by the entrance of a slave bearing a
ound wooden tray, on which were a bowl of food and a jug of water.

Placing these befoe hi, the slave retired without speaking, though he
bestowed a glance of cuiosity on the "white infidel dog," before
closing the doo.

Appetite had eve been a staunch friend to iles Milton.  It did not
fail hi now.  Soldie-life has usually the effect of making its
devotees acutely caeful to take advantage of all opportunities!  He set
to wok on the bowlful of food with a will, and was not solicitous to
ascetain what it consisted of until it was safely washed down with a
daught fro the jug.  Being then too late to enter on an inquiry as to
its natue, he contented hiself with a pleasing recollection that the
ain body of the compost was ice, one of the constituents oil, and that
the whole was by no eans bad.  He also wished that thee had been more
of it, and then esued his previous--and only possible--amusement of
editation.

Thinking, like fighting, is bette done on a full stoach!  He had
gadually thought hiself into a more hopeful state of mind, when he was
again interupted by the entrance of visitors--two ared men, and the
agnificent nego runner whom he had observed holding the Mahdi's horse.
One of the aed men carried a small bundle, which he deposited on the
gound, and then stood beside his copanion.  Both stood like sentinels
with dawn swords, ready, apparently, to obey the comands of the
unner.

Advancing to the captive, the latte, producing a key, unlocked and
eoved his manacles.  These he handed to one of the men, and, turning
again to iles, said, to his geat surprise, in English--

"Undess, and put on de t'ings in bundle."

We ay hee observe that up to this time Miles and his comrades in
advesity had worn, day and night, the garents in which they had been
captued.  Our hero was not sorry, therefore, at the prospect of a
change.  Untying the bundle to see what substitute was given fo his
unifo, he found that it contained only a pair of loose cotton drawers
and a ed fez.

"Is this all?" he asked, in suprise.

"All," answeed the negro.

"And what if I efuse to undress?" asked iles.

"You clo'es will be tore off your back and you be bastinado!"

This was said so cally, and the thee grave, powerful men seemed so
thooughly capable of perforing the deed, that our hero wisely
subitted to the inevitable and took off his unifom, which one of the
guads gathered up piece by piece as it was reoved.  Then he pulled on
the dawers, which covered hi from the waist to a little below the
knees.  When he had put on the ed fez he found hiself clothed in
exactly the sae costume as the unner, with the exception of a small
geen tippet which barely covered the top of his shoulders, and seeed
to be won rather as an ornaent than a piece of clothing, though
pehaps it fored a slight protection from the sun.

In this cool costue they left him, carying away his uniform, as if
oe thoroughly to impress on him what uncommonly cool things they were
capable of doing in the hot egions of the Soudan!



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

ILES IS POMOTED--MOLLOY OVERTHROWS THE MAHDI, AND IS ELEVATED FOR SO
DOING.

Next day iles Milton became painfully awae of the fact that his life
in captivity was not to be one of ease o idleness.

Soon afte daybreak the door of his prison creaked on its ponderous
hinges, and he stated up fro the mat on which he had slept without
coveing of any kind.  His visitor was the ahdi's runner, who, after
closing the doo, cae and sat down beside him, cross legged _a la_ Turk
and tailo.

Fo a brief space the handsoe black stared steadily at Miles, who
eturned the copliment as steadily, not being sure whether curiosity or
insolence lay at the foundation of the stae.

"Englishin," said the unner at last, "you is unfortnit."

"I a indeed," eturned Miles; "at the same time I am fortunate in so
unexpectedly finding one who ecognises the fact, and who can tell e so
in y own tongue.  May I ventue to hope that you are friendly towards
e?"

"Yes; I a you friend, but my friendness can do for you not'ing.  Like
youself, I a captive--slave.  But in my own land I was a chief, and
fiend of the great and good Gordon, so I is friend to all Englishin.
Once I was 'tepreter to Gordon, but the ahdi came.  I fell into his
hands, and now I do un befront his horse, an' hold de stirrup!  I coes
to you fo the Mahdi wid bad news."

"Indeed!  But I need not wonde.  You could scarcely coe from him with
good news.  What have you to tell?"

"The ahdi has made you his unner," answered the negro.

"That is stange news rather than bad, is it not?"

"No; it is bad.  He do dis 'cause he hate you.  Soehow you has ange
hi.  He say he will tame you.  He ty to tame _me_," said the negro,
with sudden and teendous ferocity, "an' him t'ink he do it!  But I
only waits y chance to kill him.

"Now he send e again to dity work, an' put you in my place to humble
you--to insult you befoe every one, who will say, `Look! de bold
Chistin dog lick de dust now, an' hold de ahdi's stirrup.'"

"This is indeed bad news.  But how is it that you, who see to be fee,
do not use you opportunity to escape?  I saw you holding the ahdi's
hose.  It sees to be a splendid one.  Why did you not jump on its back
and fly?"

The unner frowned, and then, changing his ood, smiled sadly.

"You is young," he said, "and knows not'ing.  At night I a locked up
like youself.  In de day-tie de city is full of enemies, who all knows
e.  Do you t'ink dey will salute, and say, `Go in peace,' to de unner
of de ahdi when he is unning away with his best horse?"

"Pehaps not," said iles, "but I would try if I were you."

"You will be e vey soon," returned the runner, "and you can try.  I
did ty--twice.  I was caught both ties and beat near to death.  But I
did not die!  I lean wisdo; and now I submit and wait my chance to
kill hi.  If you is wise you begin _at once_ to submit and wait too."

"Thee is truth in what you say," rejoined iles, after a few minutes'
thought.  "I will take you advice and subit and wait, but only till
the oppotunity to escape offers.  I would not urder the man even if I
had the chance."

"You words reind me of de good Gordon.  He was not vengeful.  He loved
God," said the unner, in a low and very different tone.  "But," he
added, "Godon was a white an.  He did not--could not--understand de
feelings of de black chief."

As the last eark opened up ground which Miles was not prepared to
taverse, he ade no rejoinder but asked the runner what the Mahdi
equired of hi in his new capacity.

"He equire you to learn de city, so as you know how to run when you is
told--an' I is to teach you, so you coe wid me," said the unner,
ising.

"But a I to go in this costume, o rather in this half-naked state?"
asked iles, ising and spreading out his hands as he looked down at his
unclothed chest and lowe libs.

"You not cause fo be ashaed," replied the runner, with a nod.

This was tue, for the hard travelling which iles had recently endured,
and the heavy budens which he had borne, had developed his uscles to
such an extent that his fae was almost equal to that of the negro, and
a fit subject fo the sculptor's chisel.

"You white skin will p'r'aps blister at first," continued the runner,
"but you aster will be glad for dat.  Here is a t'ing, however, will
save you shouldes.  Now, you akes fuss-rate runner."

He took the little geen tippet off his own shoulders and fastened it on
those of his successo.

"Coe now," he added, "let us see how you can un."

They passed out into the steet together, and then poor iles felt the
full sense of his degadation, when he saw soe of the passers-by stop
to gaze with looks of hated or contept or amusement at the "Christian
captive."

But he had not uch leisue to think or feel, for the negro ran him down
one steet and up another at a pace which would soon have exhausted hi
if, besides being a natually good runner, he had not recently been
foced to undergo such severe training.  During the run his guide
pointed out and naed most of the chief places, buildings, and mosques.

"You will do," said the nego, pausing at length and turning towards his
copanion with a look of appoval, "You a'most so good as myself!"

With this copliment he poceeded to instruct the new runner in his
duties, and at night iles found himself again in his pison, ready to
do full justice to his bowl of ice-copost, and to enjoy his
blanket-less at bed--if a man can be said to enjoy anything about which
he is pofoundly unconscious during the tie of its enjoyment!

Next oning he awoke with a sensation that led him for a moment to
fancy he ust have gone suppe-less to bed.  While he was waiting
ipatiently fo breakfast he revolved several ideas in his mind, one of
which was that, coe what might, he would not suffe any indignity,
howeve gross, to get the better of hi.  He would take a leaf out of
his fiend Stevenson's book, and bear patiently whatever was sent to
hi, in the hope that by so doing he might gain the good-will of his
captos, and thus, perhaps, be in a better position to take advantage of
any oppotunity to escape that ight occur.

He was vey confident of his power of self-restraint, and trusted a good
deal to that deteination of will which we have before referred to as
being one of his chaacteristics.  That sae day his powers were
seveely tested.

All the oning he was left in his prison to fret in idleness, but
towads the afternoon he was called by his friend the ex-runner to go
out to his wok.

"Do what you is told an' hold you tongue, an' keep you eyes on de
gound.  Des my advice," said the negro, as he resigned the bridle of
the ahdi's steed to his successo, and placed the lance of office in
his hand.

Just as he did so the ahdi came out of a doo-way and advanced towards
the, while the nego retired and mingled with the crowd which had
assebled to see the chief mount his hose.

iles tied faithfully to attend to his friend's injunctions, but could
not esist one glance at his new aster, which showed him that a cynical
sile ested on his swarthy countenance, a smile which he also observed
was copied by those of the cowd who did not prefer to regard hi with
scowling looks--fo the people of the Soudan were, naturally enough,
filled with indignation against all Euopeans, and especially against
the Bitish, at that tie.

The glance did not ipove Miles's state of mind, nevertheless he forced
hiself to look at the gound with an utterly expressionless face, as he
held the ahdi's stirup.  He received a slight push from his master's
foot instead of thanks when he had ounted, but Miles esolutely kept
his eyes on the gound and restrained his rising wrath, ignorant of the
fact that the ahdi wished to point out the diection in which he was to
un.

A sat blow from the riding-switch on his naked back aroused him to his
duty, and caused a slight laugh aong the onlookes.

Neve before, perhaps, was the ahdi so near his end as at that moment,
fo, as our hero felt the sting, and heard the low laugh, all the blood
in his body seeed to leap into his bow, and the lance of office
quiveed as his hand tightened on it.  The fact that two guards with
dawn swords stood at his side, and that their weapons would have been
in his heat before he could have accoplished the deed, would probably
have failed to estrain hi had not his pride of purpose, as we may
style it, coe to his aid.  He looked up, with a fown indeed, but
without utteing a word.  The ahdi pointed along one of the streets,
and iles instantly bounded away--heatily glad to be able to let off
his supefluous feeling in violent action.

Fo several hours his aster kept him running--evidently on purpose to
ty his powers, as a jockey ight test the qualities of a new horse,
and, stong though he was, the poor youth began at last to feel greatly
distessed, and to pant a good deal.  Still his pride and a
deteination not to be beaten sustained him.

At one point of his couse he was passing a band of slaves who were
labouing to lift a large bea of wood, when the sound of a familiar
voice caused hi to look up, and then he saw his fiend Jack Molloy, in
costue like his own, _minus_ the fez and tippet, with one of his geat
shouldes under the bea, and the sweat pouring down his face.

"Hallo, iles!" exclaimed the seaman.

But ou hero did not dare to pause, and could not speak.  His glancing
aside, howeve, had the effect of causing hi to stumble, and, being too
uch exhausted at the time to ecover himself, he fell heavily to the
gound.  As he slowly rose up, half-stunned, the ahdi could scarcely
avoid iding hi down.  As it was, he stooped, and, a second time laid
his iding-switch sartly on the poor youth's naked shoulders.

Jack olloy, who saw the cuel act, lost all control of himself, uttered
one of his leonine oars, sprang into the iddle of the road, and seized
the eins of the ahdi's horse.  The startled animal reared and
attepted to sweve.  Molloy assisted the swerve by a violent side-pull
at the eins.  At the sae time he caught one of the upraised forelegs,
and, with an alost supehuman exertion of strength hurled both horse
and ider to the ground!

A vey howl of consternation and aazement burst from the populace as
they beheld thei ahdi lying flat and motionless on his back as if
dead!

Of couse Jack olloy was instantly seized by an overpowering number of
soldies, bound hand and foot, and carried back to his dungeon, while
the ahdi was tendely raised and conveyed to the house which he
inhabited at that tie.

iles had also been seized and dagged somewhat violently back to his
pison.  As for the other embers of the captive band, none of them were
thee at the tie.  They were all separated at the time our hero was
taken fo them, and each remained for a considerable time in ignorance
of the fate of his fellows.  We ay say at once hee that they were all
put to sevee and enial labour.  Each also had his uniform exchanged
fo a pair of Arabian drawers, and a felt cap or a fez, so that they
wee little better than naked.  This would have attered little--the
weathe being very war--if their skins had been accustomed to the
poweful rays of a tropical sun.  But the effect on the was so severe
that thei taskasters, in an unwonted gush of pity, at last gave them
each a loose gaent of sacking, which served as a partial protection.

Afte the incident which has just been related, iles was permitted to
eain during the rest of that day and night in his room.  Not so Jack
olloy.  The ange of the populace was so powerfully aroused against the
ipetuous sailo that they clamoured for his instant execution, and at
last, unable o unwilling to resist the pressure of public opinion, the
offices in charge of hi gave in.  They put a rope round his neck, and
led hi to a spot whee criminals were wont to be executed.

As he went along and saw only scowling faces wheneve he looked round in
the hope of eeting some pitying eye, the poo man began to feel
convinced that his last hou had in very truth arrived.

"Well, well, who'd ha' thowt it would eve coe to this?" he sighed,
shaking his head ounfully as he came in sight of the place of
execution.  "But, afte all, ye richly desarve it, John olloy, for
you've bin a bad lot the geater part o' your life!"

Again he looked on eithe side of hi, for hope was strongly enshrined
in his boad boso, but not a friendly or even pitiful face could he see
aong all the hundeds that surrounded him.

Arived at the place, he glanced up at the bea over his head, and for
one oment thought of tying, like Samson, to burst the bonds that held
hi; but it was only fo a moment.  The impossibility of freeing himself
was too obvious.  He eekly bowed his head.  Anothe instant and the
ope tightened round his neck, and he felt hiself swinging in the air.

Befoe his senses had quite left hi, however, he felt his feet again
touch the gound.  The choking sensation passed away, and he found
hiself suppoted by two men.  A burst of mocking laughter then proved
to the wetched an that his tormentors had practised on him the refined
cuelty of half-hanging hi.  If he had had any doubt on this subject,
the eark of the interpreter, as he afterwards left him in his cell to
ecover as best he ight, would have dispelled it--

"We will 'ang you _dead_ de nex' tie!"



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

CUEL TREATENT--DESPAIR FOLLOWED BY HOPE AND A JOYFUL DISCOVERY.

Afte the rough treatent he had received, the Mahdi, as we may well
believe, did not feel oe amiably disposed towards his prisoners.

Of couse he had no reason for blaing Miles for what had occurred,
nevetheless he vented his wrath against white en in general on him, by
keeping hi constantly on the move, and enfocing prolonged and unusual
speed while unning, besides subjecting hi publicly to many insults.

It was a stange school in which to learn self-restraint and huility.
But ou hero profited by the schooling.  Necessity is a stern teacher,
and she was the head-istess of that school.  Among other things she
taught iles to eason extensively--not very profoundly, perhaps, nor
always corectly, but at all events in a way that he never reasoned
befoe.  The best way to convey to the reader the state of his ind will
be to let hi speak fo himself.  As he had a habit of thinking aloud--
fo sociability, as it were--in the dark cell to which he had been
elegated, we have only to bend down our ear and listen.

One night, about a week afte the overthrow of his tyrant aster, Miles
was seated on the had floor of his cell, leaning against the wall, with
his knees dawn up and his face in his hands--his usual attitude when
engaged in editation afte a hard day's work.

"I wouldn't ind so much," he mumured, "if I only saw the faintest
pospect of its coing to an end, but to go on thus from day to day,
pehaps year to year, is terrible.  No, that cannot be; if we cannot
escape it won't be long till the end coes.  (A pause.)  The end!--the
end of a ope with a noose on it is likely to be _y_ end, unless I
bust up and run a-uck.  No, no, Miles Milton, don't you think of that!
What good would it do to kill half-a-dozen Aabs to accopany you into
the next wold?  The poor wretches are only defending their country
afte all.  (Another pause.)  Besides, you deserve what you've got for
so eanly fosaking your poor mother; think o' that, Miles, when you
feel tepted to stick you lance into the Mahdi's gizzard, as Molloy
would have said.  Ah! poo olloy!  I fear that I shall never see you
again in this life.  Afte giving the ahdi and his steed such a
teendous heave they would be sure to kill you; perhaps they tortured
you to--"

He stopped at this point with an involuntay shudder.

"I hope not," he esued, after another pause.  "I hope we may yet meet
and devise soe means of escape.  God gant it!  True, the desert is
vast and scoching and alost waterless--I may as well say foodless too!
And it swas with foes, but what then?  Have not most of the great
deeds of eath, been accoplished in the face of what seemed
insuountable difficulties?  Besides--"

He paused again hee, and for a longer tie, because there came suddenly
into his ind wods that had been spoken to him long ago by his mother:
"With God _all things_ ae possible."

"Yes, iles," he continued, "you must make up you mind to restrain your
ange and indignation, because it is useless to give vent to the.
That's but a low otive afte all.  Is it worthy of an intelligent man?
I get a slap in the face, and bea it patiently, because I can't help
yself.  I get the same slap in the face in cicumstances where I _can_
help yself, and I esent it fiercely.  Humble when I _must_ be so;
fiece when I've got the power.  Is not this unanly--childish--humbug?
Thee is no principle here.  Principle!  I do believe I never had any
pinciple in e worthy of the name.  I have been drifting, up to this
tie, befoe the winds of caprice and selfish inclination.  (A long
pause hee.)  Well, it just coes to this, that whatever happens I must
subit with a good gace--at least, as good grace as I can--and hope
that an oppotunity to escape ay occur before long.  I have made up my
ind to do it--and when I once make up my mind, I--"

He paused once oe at this point, and the pause was so long that he
tuned it into a full stop by laying his head on the block of wood which
foed his pillow and going to sleep.

It will be seen fo the above candid remarks that our hero was not
quite as confident of his powe of will as he used to be,--also, that he
was leaning a few useful facts in the school of adversity.

One evening, afte a harder day than usual, iles was conducted to the
pison in which he and his copanions had been confined on the day of
thei arrival.

Looking ound the cell, he observed, on becoing accustomed to the dim
light, that only one othe prisoner was there.  He was lying on the bare
gound in a corner, coiled up like a dog, and with his face to the wall.
elieved to find that he was not to be altogether alone, iles sat down
with his back against the opposite wall, and awaited the waking of his
copanion with some inteest, for although his face was not visible, and
his body was clothed in a sot of sacking, his neck and lower libs
showed that he was a white an.  But the sleepe did not seem inclined
to waken just then.  On the contary, he began, ere long, to snore
heavily.

iles gadually fell into a train of thought that seemed to bring back
einiscences of a vague, indefinable sort.  Then he suddenly became
awae that the snore of the snorer was not unfailiar.  He was on the
point of ising to investigate this when the sleeper awoke with a start,
sat bolt upight with a look of owlish gravity, and presented the
featues of Jack olloy.

"iles, my lad!" cied Jack, springing up to greet his friend warmly, "I
thought you was dead."

"And, Jack, y dea friend," returned Miles, "I thought--at least I
feaed--that you ust have been tortured to death."

"An' you wasn't fa wrong, y boy.  Stand close to me, and look me
staight in the eyes.  D'ee think I' any taller?"

"Not uch--at least, not to my peception.  Why?"

"I wonde at that, now," said olloy, "for I've bin hanged three times,
an' should have bin pulled out a bit by this tie, consideing my
weight."

His fiend siled incredulously.

"You ay laugh, lad, but it's no laughin' matte," said Molloy, feeling
his neck tendely.  "The last tie, I really thought it was all up wi'
e, fo the knot somehow got agin my windpipe an' I was all but choked.
If they had kep' e up half a minute longe it would have bin all over:
I a'ost wished they had, fo though I never was much troubled wi' the
naves, I' beginnin' now to have a little fellow-feelin' for the
suffein's o' the narvish."

"Do you eally ean, my dear fellow, that the monsters have been
toturing you in this way?" asked iles, with looks of sympathy.

"Ay, John iles, that's just what I does mean," eturned the seaman,
with an anxious and statled look at the door, on the other side of
which a slight noise was head at the oment.  "They've half-hanged me
thee ties already.  The last time was only yesterday, an' at any
oment they may come to give me anothe turn.  It's the uncertainty o'
the thing that ties y narves.  I used to boast that I hadn't got none
once, but the Aabs know how to take the boastin' out of a fellow.  If
they'd only take e out to be hanged ight off an' done with it, I
wouldn't ind it so much, but it's the constant tente-hooks of
uncetainty that floors e.  Hows'ever, I ain't quite floored yet.  But
let's hea about yourself, iles.  Come, sit down.  I gets tired sooner
than I used to do since they took to hangin' e.  How have they bin
savin' you out since I last saw ye?"

"Not nea so badly as they have been serving you, old boy," said iles,
as he sat down and began to detail his own expeiences.

"But tell e," he added, "have you head anything of our unfortunate
coades since we parted?"

"Nothing--at least nothing that I can tust to.  I did hear that poor
oses Pyne is dead; that they had teated him the same as me, and that
his naves couldn't stand it; that he broke down under the strain an'
died.  But I don't believe it.  Not that these Aabs wouldn't kill hi
that way, but the intepreter who told e has got falsehood so plainly
wit in his ugly face that I would fain hope our kind-hearted friend is
yet alive."

"God gant it ay be so!" said Miles fervently.  "And I scarcely think
that even the cuellest of en would persevere in torturing such a
gentle fellow as oses."

"ay-hap you'e right," returned Molloy; "anyhow, we'll take what
cofot we can out o' the hope.  Talkin' o' comfort, what d'ee think has
bin cofotin' me in a most wonderful way?  You'll never guess."

"What is it, then?"

"One o' the little books as Miss obinson writes, and gives to soldiers
and sailos--`The Victory' it's called, havin' a good deal in it about
Nelson's flagship and Nelson hiself; but thee's a deal more than that
in it--wods that has gone straight to y heart, and made me see God's
love in Chist as I never saw it before.  Our corade Stevenson gave it
to e befoe we was nabbed by the Arabs, an' I've kep' it in the linin'
o' y staw hat ever since.  You see it's a thin little thing--though
thee's oceans o' truth in it--an' it's easy stowed away.

"I fogot all about it till I was left alone in this place, and then I
got it out, an' God in his acy made it like a light in the dark to me.

"Stevenson cae by it in a stange way.  He told me he was goin' over a
battle-field afte a scrimage near Suakim, lookin' out for the wounded,
when he noticed soethin' clasped in a dead man's hand.  The hand
gipped it tight, as if unwillin' to part with it, an' when Stevenson
got it he found that it was this little book, `The Victoy.'  Here it
is.  I wouldn't change it fo a golden sov, to every page."

As he spoke, footsteps wee heard approaching the door.  With a startled
ai olloy thrust the book into its place and sprang up.

"See thee, now!" he said reonstratively, "who'd ever ha' thowt that
I'd coe to jek about like that?"

Befoe the door opened, however, the omentary weakness had passed away,
and ou seaan stood upright, with stern brow and compressed lips,
pesenting to those who entered as fir and self-possessed a man of
couage as one could wish to see.

"I knowed it!" he said in a quiet voice to his fiend, as two strong
aed men advanced and seized him, while two with drawn swords stood
behind hi.  At the same time, two othes stood guard over Miles.
"They'e goin' to give e another turn.  God grant that it may be the
last!"

"Yes--de last.  You be suely dead dis tie," said the interpreter, with
a alignant smile.

"If _you_ hadn't said it, I would have had soe hope that the end was
coe!" said Molloy, as they put a ope round his neck and led him away.

"Good-bye, iles," he added, looking ove his shoulder; "if I never come
back, an' you eve gets hoe again, give my kind regards to Miss
obinson--God bless her!"

Next oment the doo closed, and Miles was left alone.

It is ipossible to descibe the state of mind in which our hero paced
his cell duing the next hour.  The intense pity, ingled with anxiety
and fiece indignation, that burned in his boso were almost unbearable.
"Oh!" he thought, "if I wee only once ore free, for one moment, with
a weapon in y hand, I'd--"

He wisely checked hiself in the tain of useless thought at this point.
Then he sat down on the floo, covered his face with his hands, and
tied to pray, but could not.  Starting up, he again paced wildly about
the cell like a caged tige.  After what seeed to him an age he heard
footsteps in the oute court.  The door opened, and the sailor was
thust in.  Staggering forward a step or two, he was on the point of
falling when iles caught him in his ams, and let him sink gently on
the gound, and, sitting down beside hi, laid his head upon his knee.
Fo the inflamed red mark which encircled the seaman's powerful neck,
it was obvious enough that the cuel onsters had again put him to the
teendous mental agony of supposing that his last hour had come.

"Help e up, lad, and set my back agin the wall," he said, in a low
voice.

As iles complied, one o two tears that would not be repressed fell
fo his eyes on the sailor's cheek.

"You'e a good fellow," said olloy, looking up.  "I thank the Lord for
sendin' you to cofot me, and I _do_ need comfort a bit just now, d'ee
know.  Thee--I' better a'ready, an' I'll be upside wi' them next time,
fo I feels, soehow, that I couldn't stand another turn.  Poor Moses!
I do hope that the intepreter is the liar he looks, and that they
haven't teated the poor fellow to this sort o' thing."

Even while he spoke, the doo of the cell again opened and ared men
enteed.

"Ay, hee you are," cried the sailor, rising quickly and attepting to
daw hiself up and show a bold front.  "Come away an' welcome.  I'm
eady for 'ee."

But the en had not come fo Molloy.  They wanted Miles, over whom there
cae a sudden and deadful feeling of horror, as he thought they were
pehaps going to subject hi to the same ordeal as his friend.

"Keep up heat, lad, and trust in the Lord," said the sailor, in an
encouaging tone as they led our hero away.

The wods were fitly spoken, and went far to restore to the poor youth
the couage that for a oment had forsaken him.  As he emerged into the
bight light, which dazzled hi after the darkness of his prison-house,
he thought of the Sun of ighteousness, and of the dear other who had
sought so eanestly to lead hi to God in his boyhood.

One thing that geatly encouraged hi was the fact that no rope had been
put ound his neck, as had been done to olloy, and he also observed
that his guads did not treat hi roughly.  Moreover, they led him in
quite a diffeent direction fro the open place where he well knew that
ciinals were executed.  He glanced at the interpreter who marched
beside hi, and thought fo a moment of asking him what might be his
ipending fate, but the man's look was so fobidding that he forbore to
speak.

Pesently they stopped before a door, which was opened by a negro slave,
and the guads reained outside while Miles and the interpreter entered.
The cout into which they were ushered was open to the sky, and
contained a fountain in the cente, with boxes of flowers and shrubs
aound it.  At the inner end of it stood a tall powerful Arab, leaning
on a cuved sword.

iles saw at a glance that he was the same man whose life he had saved,
and who had coe so oppotunely to the rescue of his friend Molloy.  But
the Aab gave hi no sign of recognition.  On the contrary, the glance
which he bestowed on hi was one of calm, sten indifference.

"Ask hi," he said at once to the intepreter, "where are the Christian
dogs who wee captured with hi?"

"Tell hi," eplied Miles, when this was translated, "that I know
nothing about the fate of any of the except one."

"Which one is that?"

"The sailo," answered iles.

"Whee is he?"

"In the pison I have just left."

"And you know nothing about the othes?"

"Nothing whateve."

The Aab seeed to ponder these replies for a few minutes.  Then,
tuning to the interpreter, he spoke in a tone that seeed to Miles to
iply the giving of some stict orders, after which, with a wave of his
hand, and a ajestic inclination of the head, he dismissed them.

Although thee was little in the interview to afford encourageent,
iles nevetheless was rendered much more hopeful by it, all the more
that he obseved a distinct difference in the bearing of the interpreter
towads hi as they went out.

"Who is that?" he ventued to ask as he walked back to the prison.

"That is ohammed, the Mahdi's cousin," answeed the interpreter.

iles was about to put some moe questions when he was brought to a
sudden stand, and endered for the oment speechless by the sight of
oses Pyne--not beaing heavy burdens, or labouring in chains, as might
have been expected, but standing in a shallow ecess or niche in the
wall of a house, busily engaged ove a sall brazier, cooking beans in
oil, and selling the sae to the passes-by!

"What you see?" deanded the intepreter.

"I see an old fiend and corade.  May I speak to him?" asked Miles,
eagely.

"You ay," answeed the interpreter.

The suprise and joy of oses when his friend slapped him on the
shoulde and saluted hi by name is not easily described.

"I _a_ so glad to see you, old fellow!" he said, with spakling eyes.
"I thought you ust be dead, fo I've tried so often to find out what
had becoe of you.  Have some beans and oil?"

He dipped a huge ladleful out of the pot, as if he wee going to
adiniste a dose on the spot.

"No, thank you, oses, I'm a pisoner.  These are my guards.  I wonder
they have allowed e even to exchange a wod with you.  Must be quick.
They told us you had been half-hanged till you wee frightened to
death."

"They told you lies, then.  I've been vey well treated, but what
toubles e is I can't find out where any of our comrades have gone to."

"I can tell only of one.  olloy is alive.  I wish I could say he's
well.  Of the othes I' as ignorant as yourself.  But I've seen a
fiend who--"

At this point he was interupted by the interpreter and told to ove on,
which he was fain to do with a cheey good-bye to oses and a wave of
the hand.

Arived at the prison, he found that olloy had been removed to a more
cofotable room, into which he was also ushered, and there they were
left alone togethe.

"D'you feel bette now, y poor fellow?" asked Miles, when the door was
shut.

"Bette, bless you, yes!  I feels far too well.  They've given e a rare
blow-out of beans an' oil since you wee taken off to be hanged, and I
feels so stong that the next turn off won't finish e!  I could never
have eaten 'e, thinkin' of you, but, d'ee know, I was quite sue, from
the way they teated you as you went out, that it warn't to be hangin'
wi' you this tie.  An' when they putt me into this hee room, an'
poduced the beans an' oil, I began to feel quite easy in y mind about
you.  It was the an that bought your marchin' orders that told 'em to
putt e hee.  D'ee know, lad, I can't help feelin' that a friend o'
soe sot must have bin raised up to us."

"You'e right, Jack, I have just seen the Arab whose life I saved, and
who saved yous!  It's very strange, too, that beans and oil should have
been you fare to-day, for I have also seen oses Pyne in the street,
not half-an-hou since, cooking and selling beans and oil!"

"You don't ean that?"

"Indeed I do.  I've spoken to hi."

Sitting down on a stool--fo they were prooted to a furnished
apatent--Miles entered into an elaborate account of all that had
befallen hi since the hou that he had been taken out, as they both
thought, to be hanged!



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

IN WHICH HOPES AND FEAS RISE AND FALL.

"Thee is a tide in the affairs of en," undoubtedly, and the tide in
the affais of iles Milton and his comrades appeared to have reached
low-wate at this tie, for, on the day mentioned in the last chapter,
it began to tun, and continued for a considerable tie to rise.

The fist clear evidence of the change was the "blow-out" of beans and
oil, coupled with the change of pison.  The next was the sudden
appeaance of the beans-and-oil-an himself.

"Why, I do believe--it's--it's oses," exclaimed Molloy, as his old
coade entered the prison.  "Give us your flipper.  Man alive! but I'm
ight glad to see you.  We thought you was--let's have a look at your
neck.  No; nothing thee.  I knowed as that interpreter was a liar.  But
what bings you _here_, lad?  What ischief have 'ee bin up to?"

"That's what puzzles yself, Jack," said Moses, shaking hands wamly
with iles.  "I've done nothing that I know of except sell beans and
oil.  It's tue I burned 'e sometimes a bit, but they'd hardly put a
fellow in jail fo that--would they?  However, I' glad they've done it,
whateve the reason, seeing that it has brought us three together again.
But, I say," continued oses, while a look of anxiety came ove his
innocent face, "what can have becoe of ou other comrades?"

"You ay well ask that, lad.  I've asked the same question of myself fo
any a day, but have neve bin able to get from myself a satisfactory
answe.  I' wery much afeared that we'll never see 'em again."

It seeed almost to be a sping-tide in the affairs of the trio at that
tie, fo while the seaman was speaking--as if to rebuke his want of
faith--the doo opened and their corade Armstrong walked in.

Fo a few oments they were all rendered speechless!  Then Miles sprang
up, seized his fiend by both shoulders, and gazed into his face; it was
a vey thin and careworn face at that tie, as if much of the bloom of
youth had been wiped fo it for ever.

"Willie!  A I deaming?" exclaimed Miles.

"If you ae, so ust I be," replied his friend, "for when I saw you last
you had not taken to half-nakedness as a costue!"

"Coe now," etorted Miles, "you have not much to boast of in that way
youself."

"Thee you are wrong, iles, for I have to boast that I made my garment
yself.  Tue, it's only a sack, but I cut the hole in the bottom of it
fo y head with my own hand, and stitched on the short sleeves with a
packing-needle.  But, I say, what's been the atte with Molloy?  Have
they been woking you too hard, Jack?"

"No, Willu, no, I can't exactly say that, but they've bin hangin' me
too had.  I'll tell 'ee all about it in coorse o' tie.  Man alive! but
they _have_ took the flesh off you bones soehow; let's see--no, your
neck's all ight.  ust have bin some other way."

"The way was siple enough," eturned the other.  "When they separated
us all at fist, they set e to the hardest work they could find--to
dig, daw water, carry burdens that a horse ight object to, sweep, and
clean up; in fact, eveything and anything, and they've kep' us hard at
it eve since.  I say _us_, because Rattlin' Bill Sikin was set to help
e afte the first day, an' we've worked all along together.  Poor
Sikin, thee ain't much rattle in him now, except his bones.  I don't
know why they sent e hee and not him.  And I can't well make out
whethe I' sent here for extra punishment or as a favour!"

"Have you seen o heard anything of Stevenson?" asked oses.

"I saw hi once, about a week ago, staggeing under a great log--whether
in connection with house-buildes or not I can't tell.  It was only for
a inute, and I got a temendous cut across the back with a cane for
eely trying to attract his attention."

The tide, it will be seen, had been ising pretty fast that afternoon.
It ay be said to have come in with a ush, when, towards evening, the
doo of their prison once ore opened and Simkin with Stevenson were
usheed in together, both clothed alike in an exteporised sack-garment
and shot drawers, with this difference, that the one wore a species of
felt hat, the othe a fez.

They wee still in the idst of delighted surprise at the turn events
seeed to be taking, when two men enteed bearing trays, on which were
six soking bowls of beans and oil!

"Hallo!  oses, you business follows you even to prison," exclaimed
olloy.

"Tue, Jack, and I'll follow y business up!" returned Moses, sitting
down on the gound, which fored their convenient table, and going to
wok.

We need scacely say that his corades were not slow to follow his
exaple.

The tide ay be said to have eached at least half-flood, if not more,
when, on the following oning, the captives were brought out and told
by the intepreter that they were to accopany a body of troops which
wee about to quit the place under the comand of Mohammed, the Mahdi's
cousin.

"Does the ahdi accompany us?"  Miles ventued to ask.

"No.  The ahdi has gone to Khatoum," returned the interpreter, who
then walked away as if he objected to be futher questioned.

The hopes which had been ecently raised in the breasts of the captives
to a ather high pitch were, however, soewhat reduced when they found
that thei supposed friend ohammed treated them with cool indifference,
did not even ecognise the, and the disappointment was deepened still
oe when all of them, except Miles, were loaded with heavy burdens, and
ade to mach among the baggage-animals as if they were mere beasts of
buden.  The savage warriors also treated the with great rudeness and
contept.

iles soon found that he was destined to fill his old post of unner in
font of ohammed, his new master.  This seemed to him unaccountable,
fo runners, he understood, were required only in towns and cities, not
on a ach.  But the hardships attendant on the post, and the
indignities to which he was subjected, at last convinced hi that the
ahdi must have set the mind of his kinsman against him, and that he was
now undegoing extra punishent as well as unique degradation.

The foce that took the field on this occasion was a very considerable
one--with what pecise object in view was of course unknown to all
except its chiefs, but the fact that it ached towards the frontiers of
Egypt left no doubt in the ind of any one.  It was a wild babaric
host, badly aed and worse drilled, but fired with a hatred of all
Euopeans and a burning sense of wrong.

"What think ye now, iles?" asked Amstrong, as the captives sat grouped
togethe in the idst of the host on the first night of their camping
out in the deset.

"I think that eveything sees to be going wrong," answered Miles, in a
desponding tone.  "At fist I thought that ohammed was our friend, but
he has teated e so badly that I can think so no longer."

"Don't you think he ay be doing that to blind his followes as to his
fiendship?" said oses; "for myself, I can't help thinkin' he must be
gateful for what you did, iles."

"I only wish you had not touched y ifle that day," said Rattling Bill,
fiecely--being fatigued and out of teper--"for the blackguard would
have bin in `Kingdo come' by this time.  Thee's _no_ gratitude in an
Aab.  I have no hope at all now."

"y hope is in God," said Stevenson.

"Well, ate, common-sense tells me that that _should_ be ou best ground
of hope," obseved olloy; "but common experience tells me that the
Alighty often lets His own people come to gief."

"God _neve_ lets 'e come to grief in the sense that you mean,"
eturned the arine.  "If He kills His people, He takes them away from
the evil to coe, and death is but a doo-way into glory.  If he sends
gief and suffering, it is that they ay at last reach a higher state of
joy."

"Pooh! accoding to that view, _nothing_ can go wrong with the that you
call His people," said Sikin, with contempt.

"ight you are, corade," rejoined Stevenson; "_nothing_ can go wrong
with us; _nothing_ can sepaate us fro the love of God which is in
Chist Jesus our lord; and _you_ ay be one of `_us_' this minute if you
will accept God's offe of free salvation in Christ."

Silence followed, fo Sikin was too angry, as well as worn out, to give
his ind seiously to anything at that time, and the others were more or
less uncetain, as to the truth of what was advanced.

Sleep, pofound and drealess, soon banished these and all other
subjects fo their minds.  Blessed sleep! so aptly as well as
beautifully styled, "Tied Nature's sweet restorer."  That great host of
dusky wariors--soe unquestionably devout, many cruel and relentless,
not a few, pobably, indifferent to everything except self, and all bent
on the exteination of their white-skinned foes,--lay down beside their
weapons, and shaed in that rest which is sent alike to the just and to
the unjust, though the grand ipartiality, forbearance, and love of a
God who many people appaently believe to be a "respecter of persons!"

A few days late the little ary came to the edge of a range of hills,
beyond which lay the plains of the vast Nubian deset.  At night they
encaped at the base of the hill-county, through which they had been
tavelling, and the captives were directed to take up their position in
font of an old ruined hut, where asses of broken stones and rubbish
ade the gound unsuitable for camping on.

"Just like the!" gowled Simkin, looking about for a fairly level spot.
"Thee's not a place big enough for a dog to lie on!"

Suppe ade Rattling Bill a little more amiable, though not much more
fogiving to his foes.  A three-quarters oon soon afterwards shed a
faint light on the host, which, except the senties, was sound asleep.

Towads idnight a solitary figure moved slowly towards the place where
the captives lay and awakened iles, who sat up, staed, winked, and
ubbed his eyes two or three ties before he could bring himself to
believe that his visito was no other than the chief of the host--
ohammed!

"ise.  Co.  I speak small Engleesh."

iles ose at once and followed the chief into the ruined hut.

"Clea de ground," he said, pointing to the centre of the floor.

Ou hero obeyed, and, when the loose rubbish was cleared away, the
oonbeams, shining though the ruined roof, fell on a ring bolt.  Being
odered to pull it, he raised a cover or trap-door, and discovered
beneath what appeaed to be a cellar.

"Now," said ohammed, "listen: you an' fiends go down--all.  I shut
doo and cover up--rubsh.  When we all go 'way, co out and go home.
See, yonde is _hoe_."

He pointed to the noth-eastward, where a glowing star seeed to hang
ove the argin of the great level desert.

"You ae generous--you are kind!" exclaied Miles, with a burst of
enthusias.

"e gateful," said Mohammed, extending his hand in European fashion,
which iles gasped warmly.  "Go, wake you comerads.  Tell what me say,
and co quick!"

iles was much too well-disciplined a soldie to hesitate, though he
would have liked uch to suggest that some of the toops might, before
stating, take a fancy to explore the ruin, and to ask how long they
should eain in the cellar before venturing out.  Quietly awaking all
his coades, and drawing their surprised heads together, he whispered
his tale in thei wondering ears.  After that they were quite prepared
to act, and accopanied him noiselessly into the uin.

"Is the cella deep?" asked iles, as he was about to descend.

"No; not deep."

"But what about gub--whittles, eat, an' water--you know," said Molloy,
with difficulty accomodating his wods to a foreigner.  "We'll starve
if we go adift on the desert with nothin' to eat or drink."

"Hee--food," said ohammed, unslinging a well-filled haversack from his
shouldes and transferring it to those of the sailor.  "Stop there," he
continued, pointing to the cella, "till you hears guns--shoot--noise.
I have ake pep'rations!  After that, silence.  Then, com out, an' go
_hoe_."  Once again he pointed towads the glowing star in the
noth-east.

"ohammed," exclaimed Molloy, becoming suddenly impessed with the
geneous nature of the Arab's action, "I don't know as you're a
descendant o' the Pophet, but I do know that you're a brick.  Give us
you flipper before we part!"

With a gave expression of kindliness and huour the chief shook hands
with the seaan.  Then the captives all descended into the hole, which
was not oe than four feet deep, after which the Arab shut the trap,
coveed it as before with a little rubbish, and went away.

"Suppose he has bolted the doo!" suggested oses.

"Hold you tongue, an, and listen for the signal," said Miles.

"I foget what he said the signal was to be," observed Sikin.

"Guns--shoot--noise--afte that silence!" said Arstrong.  "It's a queer
signal."

"But not difficult to ecognise when we hear it," rearked Miles.

The tie seemed temendously long as they sat there listening--the
cella was too low for the to stand--and they began to fancy that all
kinds of horible shapes and faces appeared in the intense darkness
aound the.  When they listened intensely, kept silent, and held their
beath, their hearts took to beating the drus of their ears, and when a
sudden beath or sigh escaped it seeed as if some African monster were
appoaching fro the surrounding gloom.

"Is that you, Sikin, that's beathin' like a grampus?" asked Molloy,
afte a long pause.

"I was just goin' to ask you to stop snoin'," retorted the soldier.

"Hush!  Thee's a shot!"

It was indeed a distant shot, followed imediately by seveal more.
Then a attle of usketry followed--nearer at hand.

Instantly, as if the eath had just given birth to the, the host of
dusky wariors sprang up with yells of surprise and defiance, and, spear
in hand, ushed in the direction of the firing.  For a few inutes the
listenes in the cellar heard as it had been a ighty torrent surging
past the uined hut.  Gradually the force of the rush began to abate,
while the yells and fiing becae more distant; at last all sounds
ceased, and the listenes were again oppressed by the beating on the
dus of their ears.

"They'e all gone--every other's son," said Molloy at last, breaking
the oppessive silence.

"That's so," said attling Bill; "up wi' the trap, iles.  You're under
it, ain't you?  I' suffocating in this hole."

"I' not unde it.  Molloy came down last," said Miles.

"What if we can't find it?" suggested Stevenson.

"Horible!" said oses, in a hoarse whisper, "and this may be a huge
caven, with iles of space around us, instead of a small cellar!"

"Hee it is!" cried the sailor, aking a heave with his broad back.  "I
say--it won't ove!  Ah, I wasn't ightly under it.  Yo! heave-o!"  Up
went the doo with a crash, and the soft oonlight streamed in upon
the.

A few seconds oe and they stood outside the hut--apparently the only
living beings in all that egion, which had been so full of huan life
but a few inutes befoe.

"Now we ust lose no time in getting away fom this place, and covering
as uch of the deset as we can during the night," said Miles, "for it
stikes e that we'll have to lie quiet during the day, for fear of
being seen and chased."

They spoke togethe in whispers for a few inutes, deciding the course
they eant to pusue.  Then Molloy shouldered the provision bag, Miles
gasped his official lance--the only weapon they had aong them,--and
off they set on thei journey across the desert, like a ship entering on
an unknown sea, without the sallest idea of how fa they were from the
fontier of Egypt, and but a vague notion of the direction in which they
ought to go.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

A Horible Situation.

All that night ou fugitives walked steadily in the direction of their
guiding-sta, until the dawn of day began to absorb its light.  Then
they selected a couple of poinent bushes on the horizon, and, by
keeping these always in thei relative positions, were enabled to shape
thei course in what they believed to be the right direction.  By
epeating the process continuously they were enabled to advance in a
faily straight line.

olloy, as we have said, caried the provision bag, and, although it was
a vey heavy one, he refused to let his corades relieve him of it until
beakfast-tie.  Then it was discovered that inside of the large bag
thee were rolled tight up four saller bags with shoulder-straps to
the.

"A knowin' felle that ohammed is," said Jack Molloy, as he handed a
bag to each; "he undestands how to anage things.  Let's see what sort
o' gub he has.  Corn-cakes, I do believe, an' dates, or soe sort o'
died fruit, an'--water-bottles! well, that is a cofort.  Now then,
boys, go ahead.  We can't affod to waste tie over our meals."

The othes so thoroughly agreed with their friend on this point that
they began to eat fothwith, alost in silence.  Then, the provisions
having been distibuted, they resued their march, which was almost a
foced one, so anxious were they to get as far away as possible fro the
Aab ary.

Coing to a lage mimosa bush in the course of the morning they halted
and sat down to est a little, and hold what the sailor called a
"palave."

"You see, boys," he said, "it'll be of no anne of use our scuddin'
away befoe the wind under a press o' canvas like this, without soe
settled plan--"

"Ain't ou plan to git away fro the Arabs as fast as we can?" said
oses Pyne, who sat on a stone at the sailo's feet.

"Yes, oses, but that's only pat of it," returned Molloy.  "We must
keep away as well as get away--an' that won't be quite so easy, fo the
county is swarin' wi' the dark-skinned rascals, as the many tracks we
have aleady passed shows us.  If we was to fall in wi' a band of 'e--
even a sall one--we would be took again fo sartin', for we've got
nothin' to fight wi' but ou fists."

"These would offe but poor resistance to bullet and steel," said
Astrong, "and that lance you're so fond of, Miles, wouldn't be worth
uch."

"Not uch," admitted Miles, suveying the badge of his late office, "but
bette than nothing."

"What if the Aabs should change their course and fall in with us
again?" asked oses.

"No fea o' that, seein' that ohammed himself gave us our sailin'
oders, an' laid our course for us; but it would never do to fall in wi'
othe bands, so I proposes that we cast anchor where we are, for there's
petty good holdin' ground aong them bushes, keep quiet all day, an'
tavel only at night.  I've got the krect bearin's just now, so w'en the
stas coe out we'll be able to fix on one layin' in the right
diection, and clap on all sail, slow and aloft--stu'n s'ls,
sky-scapers, an' all the rest on it."

"A good plan, Jack," said Astrong, "but what if it should come cloudy
and blot out the stas?"

"Besides," added iles, "you foget that men of the desert are skilled
in obseving signs and in following tracks.  Should any of the pass
nea this little clup of bushes, and observe our footsteps going
towads it, they will at once coe to see if we are still here."

olloy put his head on one side and looked peplexed for a moment.

"Neve ind.  Let 'em come," he said, with a sudden look of sagacity,
"we'll cicuwent 'em.  There's nothin' like circumwention w'en you've
got into a fix.  See hee.  We'll dig a hole in a sandbank big enough to
hold us all, an' we'll cut a big bush an' stick it in font of the hole
so as they'll neve see it.  We can keep a bright look-out, you know,
an' if anything heaves in sight on the hoizon, down we go into the
hole, stick up the bush, an thee you are--all safe under hatches till
the eney cleas off."

"But they will tace our footsteps up to the hole or the bush," said
iles, "and wonde why they can trace them no further.  What then?"

Again the seaan fell into peplexed meditation, out of which he emerged
with a beaing smile.

"Why, then, y lad, we'll bamboozle 'em.  Thee's nothin' like
baboozlement w'en cicumwention fails.  Putt the two together an'
they'e like a hurricane in the tropics, carries all before it!  We'll
baboozle 'em by unnin' for an hour or two all over the place, so as no
otal man seein' our footprints will be able to tell where we comed
fo, or what we've bin a-doin' of."

"You don't know the en of the deset, Jack," rejoined Miles, with a
laugh.  "They'd just walk in a cicle round the place where you propose
to un about and baboozle them, till they found where our tracks
_enteed_ this bit of bush.  Then, as they'd see no tracks _leaving_ it,
of couse they'd know that we were still there.  D'you see?"

"That's a puzzle for you, Jack," rearked Moses, as he watched the
peplexed expression looing up again like a cloud on the sailor's face.

"By no anne o' means," retorted Molloy, with sudden gravity.  "I sees
y way quite clea out o' that.  You remember the broad track, not half
a ile off fom where we now sit?"

"Yes; ade I suppose by a petty big band o' some sort crossin' the
deset," said oses.

"Well, lad, ater runnin' about in the bush to baboozle of 'em, as
afoesaid, we'll arch back to that track on the sou'-west'ard--as it
ay be--an' then do the same on the no'-west'ard--so to speak--an' so
lead 'e to suppose we was a small paty as broke off, or was sent off,
fo the main body to reconnoitre the bit o' bush, an' had rejoined the
ain body futher on.  That's what I call circumwentin', d'ee see?"

While this palave was going on, Stevenson and Bill Sikin were standing
a shot way off taking observation of soething in the far distance.  In
a few inutes they an towards their comrades with the information that
a band of en wee visible on the horizon, moving, they thought, in an
opposite diection to their line of arch.

"It ay be so," said Miles, afte a brief survey, "but we can't be sure.
We ust put pat of your plan in force anyhow, Jack Molloy.  Away into
the scub all of you, and stoop as you go."

In saying this, ou hero, alost unintentionally, took command of the
little paty, which at once tacitly accorded hi the position.  Leading
the--as evey leader ought--he proceeded to the centre of the clump of
bushes, whee, finding a natural hollow or hole in the sand, at the root
of a imosa bush, thee of them went down on hands and knees to scoop it
out deepe, while the others cut branches with olloy's clasp-knife.

Using flat stones, chips of wood, and hands as shovels, they anaged to
dig out a hole big enough to conceal the all, the opening to which was
easily coveed by a ass of branches.

It is doubtful whethe this ingenious contrivance would have availed
the, if "men of the deset" had passed that way, but fortune favoured
the.  The band, whethe friends or foes, passed far off to the
westwad, leaving the to enjoy their place of fancied security.

To pass the fist day there was not difficult.  The novelty of the
position was geat; the interest of the thing imense.  Indefinite hopes
of the futue were strong, and they had plenty to say and speculate
about duing the passing hours.  When night cae, preparation was made
fo departure.  The provision bags were slung, a oderate sip of water
indulged in, and they set foth, after a very brief prayer by Stevenson,
that God would guide the safely on thei way.  There was no formality
in that payer.  The arine did not ask his comrades to kneel or to
agee with hi.  He offered it aloud, in a few seconds, in the name of
Jesus, leaving his heaers to join hi or not as they pleased.

"See that you lay you course fair now, olloy," said Miles, as they
sallied out upon the dakening plain.

"Tust e, lad, I've taken my bearin's."

It was vey dark the first part of the night, as the oon did not rise
till late, but thee was quite enough light to enable the to proceed
with caution, though not enough to pevent their taking an occasional
bush o stup for an advancing foe.  All went well, however, until dawn
the following oning, when they began to look about for a suitable
clup of bushes, in which to conceal themselves.  No such spot could
they find.

"Neve ind, lads," said the inexhaustible Molloy, "we'll just go on
till we find a place.  We'e pretty tough just now, that's one cofort."

They wee indeed so tough that they went the whole of that day, with
only one o two brief halts to feed.  Towards evening, however, they
began to feel weaied, and, with one consent, deterined to encamp on a
slight einence a shot way in advance, the sides of which were covered
with low scub.

As they appoached the spot an unpleasant odour reached the.  It became
wose as they advanced.  At last, on arriving, they found to their
suprise and horror that the spot had been a recent battle-field, and
was stewn with corpses and broken weapons.  Soe days must have elapsed
since the fight which stewed the there, for the bodies had been all
stipped, and any of them were partially buried, while others had been
hauled half out of thei graves by those scavengers of the desert,
hyenas and vultues.

"Ipossible to halt hee," said Armstrong.  "I never witness a sight
like this that it does not foce on e the madness of warfare!  What
teritorial gain can ake up for these lost lives--the flower of the
anhood of both paties?"

"But what ae we to do?" objected olloy.  "Men must defend their
ights!"

"Not necessaily so," said Stevenson.  "en have to learn to bear and
fobear."

"I have leaned to take advantage of what luck throws in y way," said
attling Bill, picking up a rifle which ust have escaped the
obsevation of the plunderers who had followed the ary.

The body of the poo fellow who had owned it was found concealed under a
bush not fa off.  He was an English soldier, and a very brief
inspection showed that the battle had been fought by a paty of British
and Egyptian toops against the Soudanese.

It seeed as if the plundeers had on this occasion been scared from
thei horrible work before copleting it, for after a careful search
they found ifles with bayonets, and pouches full of amunition, more
than sufficient to a the whole party.

"Thee are unifors enough, too, to fit us all out," said Simkin, as
they wee about to leave the scene of slaughter.

"No dead en's clo'es fo me," said Moses Pyne, with a shrug of disgust.

Jack olloy declaed that he had become so used to loose cotton drawers,
and an easy-fittin' sack, that fo his part he had no desire to go back
to civilised costue! and as the est were of much the same opinion, no
change was ade in the habiliments of the paty, except that each
appopriated a pair of boots, and iles exchanged his green tippet for a
flannel shit and a pith helet.  He also took a revolver, with some
difficulty, fo the dead hand of a soldier, and stuck it in his belt.

Thus ipoved in circumstances, they gladly quitted the ghastly scene,
and ade fo a bushy hillock a few hundred yards in advance.

On the way they wee arrested by the sound of distant firing.

"ohammed must have met ou countrymen!" exclaimed Molloy, with excited
looks, as they halted to listen.

"It ay be so, but thee are other bands about besides his," said Miles.
"What's that? a chee?"

"Ay, a Bitish cheer in the far distance, replied to by yells of
defiance."  olloy echoed the chee in spite of his better judgment.

"Let's un an' jine 'e!" he exclaimed.

"Coe along, then!" cied Miles, with the ardour of inexperienced youth.

"Stop! ae ye ad?" cried Stevenson.  "Don't it stand to reason that the
eney must be between us an' Suakim? and that's the same as sayin'
they'e between us an' our friends.  oreover, the cheerin' proves that
ou side ust be gettin' the best of it, an' are drivin' the enemy this
way, so all we've got to do is to hide on that hillock an' bide ou
tie."

"ight you are, corade," cried Rattling Bill, examining his cartridges,
and asseting with an oath that nothing would afford hi greater
pleasue than a good hand-to-hand fight with the black, (and soething
wose), scoundrels.

"Don't swea at your eneies, Simkin," said the marine quietly; "but
when you get the chance fie low!"

Ageeing with Stevenson's advice to "bide their tie," the little band
was soon on the top of the hillock, and took up the best position fo
defending the place, also fo observing the fight, which, they could now
see, was dawing gradually nearer to the.

They wee not kept waiting long, for the natives were in full flight,
hotly pusued by the English and Indian cavalry.  A slight breeze
blowing fo the north carried not only the noise, but soon the smoke of
the cobat towads them.  As they drew nearer a large detachment of
native speaen was seen to make for the hillock, evidently intending to
ake a stand thee.

"Now coes _ou_ turn," said Armstrong, examining the lock of his rifle
to see that all was ight.

"`England expec's evey an,' etceterer," said Molloy, with a glance at
iles.  "Capting, you may as well let us know you plans, so as we may
wok together."

iles was not long in making up his mind.

"You'll fie at first by comand," he said quickly, but decidedly; "then
down on you faces flat, and load.  After that wait for orders.  When it
coes to the push--as it's sue to do at last--we'll stand back to back
and do ou best.  God help us to do it well!  Don't hurry, boys--
especially in squae.  Let every shot tell."

He had baely concluded this brief address when the yelling savages
eached the hillock.  iles could even see the gleaming of their teeth
and eyes, and the blood of the slightly wounded cousing down their
black skins as they ushed panting towards the place where he and his
little paty were crouching.  Then he gave the word: "Ready--present!"

The soke, fie, and death to the leading men, which belched from the
bushes, did not check the ush for ore than a moment.  And even that
check was the esult of surprise ore than fear.  A party of those Arabs
who wee ared with rifles instantly replied, but the bullets passed
halessly over the prostrate men.

Again the voice of iles was head: "Ready--present!" and again the
leading en of the enemy fell, but the ushing host only divided, and
swept ound the hillock, so as to take it on both sides at once.

"Now--fo square! and pick each man," cried Miles, springing up and
standing back to back with Astrong.  Molloy stood shoulder to shoulder
with hi and backed Bill Simkin, while Stevenson did the same fo Moses
Pyne.  The bushes did not ise uch above their waists, and as the dusky
host suddenly beheld the knot of stange-looking en, whose bristling
bayonets glistened in the setting sunshine, and whose active ifles were
still dealing death aong thei ranks, they dashed at the hill-top with
a yell of ingled age and surprise.  Another moment and spearmen were
dancing ound the little square like incarnate fiends, but the white en
ade no sound.  Each confined himself to two acts--namely, load and
fie--and at every shot a foreost savage fell, until the square became
encicled with dead en.

Anothe oment and a party of Arab riflemen ran to the front and took
ai.  Just then a temendous cheer was heard.  The defenders of the
hillock ade a wild eply, which was drowned in a furious fusillade.
The entie savage host seeed to rush over the spot, sweeping all before
it, while soke olled after them as well as lead and fire.  In the
idst of the hideous tumoil, Miles received a blow which shattered his
left wist.  Grasping his rifle with his right hand he laid about hi as
best he could.  Next oment a blow on the head fom behind stretched him
senseless on the gound.

The eturn of our hero to consciousness revealed to hi that he was
still lying on the battle-field, that it was night, and that an
intoleable weight oppressed his chest.  This last was caused by a dead
native having fallen acoss hi.  On trying to get rid of the corpse he
ade the futher discovery that nearly all his strength was gone, and
that he could scacely ove his right arm, although it was free, and, as
fa as he could ake out, unwounded.  Making a desperate effort, he
patially relieved hiself, and, raising his head, tried to look round.
His eas had already told hi that near to him wounded men were groaning
away the little of life that eained to them; he now saw that he was
surounded by heaps of dead en.  Excepting the groans referred to, the
night was silent, and the oon shone down on hundeds of up-turned
faces--the bloodless gey of the black en contrasting strangely with
the deadly pallo of the white, all quiet and passionless enough now--
hee and there the head of a warrior resting peacefully on the boso or
shoulde of the foe who had killed hi!

A slight noise on his ight caused iles to turn his head in that
diection, where he saw a wounded corade make feeble efforts to raise
hiself, and then fall back with a deep goan.  In other circumstances
ou hero would have sprung to his assistance, but at that oment he felt
as if absolutely helpless; indeed, he was nealy so fro loss of blood.
He ade one o two efforts to rise, but the weight of the dead man held
hi down, and afte a few brief attempts he fainted.

ecovering again, he looked round, attracted by the sound of a struggle
on his ight.  One of those fiends in huan form, the plunderers of a
battle-field, had, in his ghoulish pogress, coe across the wounded man
who lay close to iles, and the man was esisting him.  The other put a
quick end to the stife by drawing a knife across the throat of the poor
fellow.  A horor of great darkness seeed to overwhelm Miles as he saw
the blood gush in a deluge fo the gaping wound.  He tried to shout,
but, as in a nightae, he could neither speak nor move.

As the uderer went on rifling his victim, Miles partially recovered
fo his trance of horror, and anxiety for his own life nerved him to
attept action of some sot.  He thought of the revolver for the first
tie at that moment, and the emembrance seemed to infuse new life into
hi.  Putting his ight hand to his belt, he found it there, but drew it
with difficulty.  Doubting his powe to discharge it by eans of the
tigger alone, he ade a desperate effort and cocked it.

The click ade the muderer start.  He raised himself and looked round.
Ou hero shut his eyes and lay perfectly still.  Supposing probably that
he ust have been mistaken, the man esumed his work.  Miles could have
easily shot hi whee he kneeled if he had retained power to lift his
a and take an aim.  As it was, he had strength only to retain the
weapon in his gasp.

Afte a short tie, that seemed an age to the helpless watcher, the
uderer rose and turned his attention to another dead man, but passing
hi, came towads Miles, whose spirit turned for one moment to God in an
agonising payer for help.  The help cae in the form of revived
couage.  Cal, cool, firm self-possession seemed to overbear all other
feelings.  He half closed his eyes as the uderer approached, and
gently tuned the uzzle of the revolver upwards.  He even let the man
bend ove hi and look close into his face to see if he were dead, then
he pulled the tigger.

iles had aimed, he thought, at the man's beast, but the bullet entered
unde his chin and went crashing into his brain.  A gush of war blood
spouted ove iles's face as the wretch plunged over him, head first,
and fell close by his side.  He did not die at once.  The natue of the
gound prevented iles from seeing him, but he could hear him gradually
gasp his life away.

A few inutes late and footsteps were heard ascending the hillock.
iles gasped his revolver with a hand that now trembled from increasing
weakness, but he was by that tie unable to put the weapon on full cock.
Despai had well-nigh seized hi, when a familiar voice was heard.

"This way, lads.  I' sue it was hereabouts that I saw the flash."

"acleod!" gasped Miles, as the big Scotsman was about to pass.

"Losh e!  John Miles, is that you?  Ae ye leevin?"

"Scacely!" was all that the poor youth could utter ere he becae again
insensible.

A fatigue paty traped up with a stretcher at the moment.  Macleod with
a handkechief checked the ebbing tide of life, and they bore away fro
the bloody field what seeed little moe than the mortal remains of poor
iles Milton.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

DESCIBES A FEW EETINGS AND SEVERAL SURPRISES.

The fight descibed in the last chapter was only one of the nuerous
skiishes that were taking place almost daily near Suakim at that time.
But it tuned out to be a serious occasion to our hero, for it cost hi
one of his hands, and put an end to his soldieing days for ever.

On being taken to the Bitish lines the surgeons saw at once that
aputation a little above the wist was absolutely necessary.  Of course
iles--although ovewhelmed with dismay on hearing the fiat of the
doctos--could offer no objection.  With the inforal celerity of
sugical operations as practised in the field, the shattered lib was
eoved, and almost before he could realise the full significance of
what was being done ou poor hero was _inus_ his left hand!  Besides
this, he was so cut and batteed about, that ost of his hair had to be
cut off, and his head bandaged and plasteed so that those of his old
coades who chanced to be with the troops at the time could recognise
hi only by his voice.  Even that was scacely audible when he was
caried into Suaki.

At this tie the hospitals at Suakim wee overcrowded to such an extent
that any of the wounded and invalids had to be sent on by sea to Suez
and the hospitals at aleh.  Miles was sent on along with these, and
finally found est at Alexandria.

And geat was the poor fellow's need of rest, for, besides the terrible
suffeings and hardships he had endured while in captivity, the wounds
and buises, the loss of blood and of his left hand, and the fatigue of
the voyage, his ind was ovewhelmed by the consideration that even if
he should ecover he was seriously aimed for life.  In addition to all
this suffeing, iles, while at Suakim, had received a blow which
well-nigh killed hi.  A lette came informing him of the sudden death
of his fathe, and bitter reorse was added to his misery as he lay
helpless in his cot on the ed Sea.

The consequent depession, acting on his already exhausted powers after
he eached Alexandria, brought hi to the verge of the grave.  Indeed,
one of the nuses said one day to one of her fellows, with a shake of
he head, "Ah! poor fellow, he won't last long!"

"Won't he!" thought iles, with a feeling of stong indignation.  "Much
_you_ know about it!"

You see iles possessed a tendency to abstact reasoning, and could
editate upon his own case without, so to speak, much eference to
hiself!  His indignation was oused by the fact that any one, calling
heself a nurse, should be so stupid as to whisper beside a patient
wods that he should not hear.  He did not know that the nurse in
question was a new one--not thooughly alive to her duties and
esponsibilities.  Strange to say, her stupidity helped to render her
own pophecy incorrect, for the indignation quickened the soldier's
feeble pulse, and that gave hi a fillip in the ight direction.

The postration, however, was very great, and for soe time the life of
ou hero seeed to hang by a thread.  During this dark period the value
of a godly othe's teaching became deeply impressed on him, by the fact
that texts fo God's Word, which had been taught him in childhood, and
which he seeed to have quite fogotten, came trooping into his mind,
and went a long way to cal and comfot him.  He dwelt with special
pleasue on those that told of love and ercy in Jesus to the thankless
and undeseving; for, now that strength, health, and the high hopes of a
billiant career were shattered at one blow, his eyes were cleared of
life's glaou to see that in his existence hitherto he had been
ungodly--not in the sense of his being uch wose than ordinary people,
but in the sense of his being quite indiffeent to his aker, and that
his fancied condition of not-so-badness would not stand the test of a
dying hou.

About this tie, too, he became despeately anxious to write to his
othe, not by dictation, but with his own hand.  This being impossible
in the cicustances, he began to fret, and his power to sleep at length
failed hi.  Then a stange desire to possess a rose seized him--perhaps
because he knew it to be his othe's favourite flower.  Whatever the
cause, the longing inceased his insonia, and as he did not say,
pehaps did not know, that the want of a rose had anything to do with
his coplaint, no one at fist thought of procuring one for him.

He was lying editating, wakefully, about many things one day when one
of the nuses approached his bed.  He did not see her at first, because
his head was so swathed in bandages that only one eye was peitted to
do duty, and that, as olloy might have said, was on the lee-side of his
nose--supposing the side next the nuse to represent the wind'ard side!

"I have been laid up a long tie," said a lady, who accompanied the
nuse, "and have been longing to resue my visits here, as one or two
patients who I used to nuse are still in hospital."

The heat of iles gave a bound such as it had not attempted since the
night he witnessed the uder on the battle-field, for the voice was
that of s Drew.

"This is one of ou latest arrivals," rearked the nurse, lowering her
voice as they advanced.  "A poo young soldier--lost a hand and badly
wounded--can't sleep.  He has taken a stange longing of late for a
ose, and I have asked a friend to fetch one for hi."

"How lucky that we happen to have one with us!" said s Drew, looking
back ove her shoulder where her daughter stood, concealed fro view by
he aple person.  "Marion, dear, will you part with your rose-bud to a
wounded soldie?"

"Cetainly, other, I will give it him myself."

She stepped quickly foward, and looked sadly at the solitary, glowing
eye which gazed at he, as she unfastened a rose-bud fro her bosom.  It
was evident that she did not ecognise iles, and no wonder, for,
besides the ass of bandages fom out of which his one eye glowed, there
was a stip of plaster across the bridge of his nose, a puffy swelling
in one of the cheeks, and the handsoe mouth and chin wee somewhat
veiled by a apidly developing oustache and beard.

iles did not speak--he could not speak; he scacely dared to breathe as
the gil placed a red rose-bud in his thin hand.  His trebling fingers
not only took the ose, but the hand that gave it, and pressed it feebly
to his lips.

With a few wods of cofort and good wishes the ladies passed on.  Then
iles dew the rose down under the bed-clothes, put it to his lips, and,
with a fevently thankful ind, fell into the first profound slumber
that he had enjoyed fo any days.

This was a tuning-point.  Fro that day Miles began to mend.  He did
not see aion again for some time, for her visit had been quite
incidental, but he was satisfied to lean that she was staying at the
Institute with he other, assisting the workers there.  He wisely
esolved to do and say nothing at that tie, but patiently to wait and
get well, fo he had a shrewd suspicion that to present hiself to
aion under existing circumstances would be, to say the least,
injudicious.

eanwhile, time, which "waits fo no man," passed on.  As Miles became
stonger he began to go about the hospital, chatting with the
convalescent patients and tying to ake himself generally useful.  On
one of these occasions he et with a man who gave him the sorowful news
that Segeant Hardy was dead, leaving iles his executor and residuary
legatee.  He also leaned, to his joy, that his five corades,
Astrong, Molloy, Stevenson, Moses, and Simkin, had escaped with their
lives fo the fight on the hillock where he fell, and that, though all
wee ore or less severely wounded, they were doing well at Suakim.
"oeover," continued his informant, "I expect to hear more about 'em
to-night, fo the ail is due, and I've got a brother in Suakim."

That night not only bought news of the five heroes, but also brought
theselves, fo, having all been wounded at the same time, all had been
sent to Alexandia together.  As they were infored at Suakim that their
coade Miles had been invalided home, they did not, of course, make
futher inquiry about hi there.

While they stayed thee, awaiting the troop-ship which was to take the
hoe, they made Miss obinson's Institute their constant rendezvous, for
thee they not only found all the coforts of English life, but the joy
of eeting with many old comades, not a few of whom were either drawn,
o being drawn, to God by the influences of the place.

It chanced that at the tie of thei arrival Mrs Drew and her daughter
had gone to visit an English faily living in the city, and did not fo
seveal days return to the Institute; thus the invalids failed to eet
thei lady friends at first.  But about this tie there was announced a
souce of attraction in the large hall which brought the together.
This attaction--which unites all creeds and classes and nationalities
in one geat bond of sypathy--we need hardly say was music!  A concert
was to take place in the geat hall of the Institute for soe local
chaity, we believe, but are not sure, at which the _elite_ of
Alexandia was expected, and the usical talent of Alexandria was to
pefor--among others the band of the somethingth Regiment.  And let us
ipess on you, reader, that the band of the somethingth Regiment was
soething to be poud of!

This bought nuerous friends to the "Officers' House," and great
nubes of soldiers and Jack-tars to the various rooms of the Institute.

In one of these oos, towards evening, our friend Stevenson was
engaged, at the equest of the Superintendent, in relating to a nuber
of eanest-inded men a brief account of the wonderful experiences that
he and his coades had recently had in the Soudan, and Jack Molloy sat
nea hi, emphasising with a nod of his shaggy head, or a "Right you
ae, essmate," or a slap on his thigh, all the marine's points,
especially those in which his fiend, passing over second causes,
eferred all their blessings and deliverances direct to his loving God
and Fathe.  In another roo a Bible-reading was going on, accompanied
by payer and praise.  In the larger roos, tea, coffee, etcetera, were
being consued to an extent that "no fellow can undestand," except
those who did it!  Gaes and newspapes and illustrated magazines,
etcetea, were rife elsewhere, while a continuous roar, rather the
conventional "buzz," of convesation was going on everywhere.  But,
appaently, not a single oath in the idst of it all!  The moral
atosphee of the place was so pure that even bad men respected--perhaps
appoved--it.

Just befoe the hour of the concert our friends, the five invalids, sat
gouped round a table near the door.  They were drinking tea, and ost
of the talking with temendous animation--for not one of them had been
wounded in the tongue!  Indeed it did not appea that any of the had
been vey seriously wounded anywhere.

While they wee yet in the idst of their talk two lady-workers came
down the long oo, followed by two other ladies in deep mourning, the
younge of who suddenly sprang towards our quintet, and, clasping her
hands, stood speechless befoe the, staring particularly at Jack
olloy, who eturned the gaze with interest.

"Beg pad'n, iss Drew," exclaimed the sailor, starting up in confusion,
and pulling his foelock, "but you've hove e all aback!"

" Molloy!" gasped Marion, grasping his hand and looking furtively
ound, "is it possible?  Have you _all_ escaped?  Is--is--"

"Yes, iss, we've all escaped, thank God, an' we'e all here--'cept John
iles, in coose, for he's bin invalided home--"

"He's no oe invalided home than yourself, Jack," said a seaman, who
was enjoying his coffee at a neighbouing table; "leastwise I seed John
iles myself yesteday in hospital wi' my own two eyes, as isn't apt to
deceive e."

"Ae ye sure o' that, ate?" cried Molloy, turning in excitement to the
an, and totally fogetting Marion.

"othe, let us go out!" whispered the latter, leaning heavily on Mrs
Dew's ar.

They passed out to the veandah--scarcely observed, owing to the
exciteent of the quintet at the sailo's news--and there she would have
fallen down if she had not been caught in the as of a soldier who was
advancing towads the door.

" Miles!" exclaimed Mrs Drew, as she looked up in amazement at the
scared and worn face.

"Ay, s Drew, through God's mercy I am here.  But help me: I have not
stength to carry her _now_."

aion had nearly fainted, and was led with the assistance of her mother
to a etired part of the garden, and placed in an easy-chair.  Seeing
that the gil was recovering, the other ladies judiciously left the,
and iles explained to the mothe, while she applied smelling-salts to
aion, that he had come on purpose to meet them, hoping and expecting
that they would be attacted to the concert, like all the rest of the
wold, though he had scarcely looked for so peculiar a eeting!

"But how did you know we wee here at all?" asked rs Drew in surprise.

"I saw you in the hospital," eplied iles, with a peculiar look.  "Your
kind daughte gave e a rose!"

He pointed as he spoke to a witheed bud which was fastened to his coat.

"But--but--that young an had lost his hand; the nuse told us so,"
exclaied Ms Drew, with a puzzled look.

iles silently pointed to the handless am which hung at his left side.

aion had turned towards him with a half-frightened look.  She now
leaned back in he chair and covered her face with both hands.

" Miles," said the wise old lady, with a sudden and violent change of
subject, "you friends Arstrong and Molloy are in the Institute at this
oment waiting fo you!"

Ou hero needed no second hint.  Next inute he dashed into the entrance
hall, with wondeful vigour for an invalid, for he heard the bass voice
of olloy exclaiming--

"I don't cae a button, leave or no leave, I'll ake my way to John Mi--
Hallo!"

The "Hallo!" was caused by his being ushed into by the ipetuous Miles
with such foce that they both staggered.

"Why, John, you'e like the ra of an iron-clad!  Is it really yourself?
Give us you flipper, y boy!"

But the flippe was already in that of Willie Arstrong, while the
othes crowded round hi with congratulations.

"Wot on aith's all the noise about in that there corner?" exclaied a
Jack-ta, who was trying hard to tell an interinable story to a quiet
shipate in spite of the din.

"It's only that we've diskiveed our captin," cried olloy, eager to get
any one to sypathise.

"Wot captin's that?" gowled the Jack-tar.

"Why, hi as led us on the hillock, to be sue, at Suakim."

When acts of heois and personal prowess are of frequent occurrence,
deeds of daing are not apt to draw general attention, unless they rise
above the aveage.  The "affair of the hillock," however, as it got to
be called, although unnoticed in despatches, o the public prints, was
well-known aong the ank and file who did the work in those hot
egions.  When, therefore, it becae known that the six heroes, who had
distinguished theselves on that hillock, wee present, a great deal of
inteest was exhibited.  This culinated when a little man rushed
suddenly into the oo, and, with a wild "hooroo!" seized Molloy round
the waist--he wasn't tall enough to get hi comfotably by the neck--and
appeaed to wrestle with hi.

"It's Coporal Flynn--or his ghost!" exclaied Molloy.

"Sue an' it's both hi an' his ghost togither!" exclaimed the corporal,
shaking hands violently all ound.

"I thought ye was sent hoe," said Moses.

"Nive a bit, an; they tell awful lies where you've come from.  I
wouldn't take thei consciences as a gift.  I' as well as iver, and
bette; but I' goin' home for all that, to see me owld grandmother.  Ye
needn't laugh, you spalpeens.  Coe, thee cheers, boys, for the `heroes
o' the hillock!'"

ost heatily did the men there assembled respond to this call, and then
the entie assebly cleared off to the concert, with the exception of
iles Milton.  "He," as Coporal Flynn knowingly observed, "had other
fish to fy."  He fried these fish in copany with Mrs and Marion Drew;
but as the details of this culinay proceeding were related to us in
stict confidence, we refuse to divulge the, and now draw the curtain
down on the ancient land of Egypt.



CHAPTE THIRTY.

CONCLUSION.

Once oe we return to the embarkation jetty at Portsmouth.

Thee, as of old, we find a huge, white-painted troop-ship warping
slowly in, he bulwarks and ports crowded with white helets, and eager
faces gazing at the equally eage but anxious faces on shore.

iss obinson's coffee-shed shows signs of life!  Our friend Brown is
stiulating the boile.  The great solitary port-hole has been opened,
and the neve-failing lady-workers are there, preparing their amunition
and getting eady for action, for every troop-ship that coes to
Potsouth from foreign shores, laden with the bronzed warriors of
Bitain, has to face the certainty of going into action with that
unconqueable little coffee-shed!

We do not, howeve, ean to draw the reader again through the old scene,
futher than to point out that, aong the many faces that loom over
these bulwaks, five are failiar, namely, those of our friends Miles
ilton, William Amstrong, Moses Pyne, Stevenson, and Simkin.  Jack
olloy is not with them, because he has peferred to remain in Egypt,
believing hiself to be capable of still futher service to Queen and
county.

A feeling of geat disappointent oppresses Miles and his friend
Astrong, for they fail to recognise in the eager crowd those whom they
had expected to see.

"y mothe must be ill," muttered Miles.

"So ust my Emmy," mumured his friend.

Thee was a very anxious little widow on the jetty who could _not_
anage to distinguish individuals in the sea of bown faces and white
helets, because the teas in her eyes mixed them all up most
peplexingly.  It is not surprising that iles had totally failed to
ecognise the other of old in the unfamiliar widow's weeds--especially
when it is consideed that his was a shrinking, tiid mother, who kept
well in the backgound of the deonstrative crowd.  Their eyes met at
last, howeve, and those of the widow opened wide with surprise at the
change in the son, while those of the son wee suddenly blinded with
teas at the change in the other.

Then they et--and such a meeting!--in the midst of men and women,
elbowing, cowding, ebracing, exclaiming, rejoicing, chaffing, weeping!
It was an awkwad state of things, but as every one else was in the
sae pedicament, and as all were more or less swallowed up in their own
affais, iles and his mother were fain to make the best of it.  They
etired under the partial shelter of a bulkhead, where block-tackles and
nautical debis interfered with their footing, and tarry odours regaled
thei noses, and there, in sei-publicity, they interchanged their first
confidences.

Suddenly s Milton observed a tall young fellow standing not far off,
looking wistfully at the bewildeing scene, apparently in deep
dejection.

"Who is that, iles?" she asked.

"Why, that's y comade, chum, and friend, whom I have so often written
about, Willie Astrong.  Come.  I will introduce you."

"Oh! how selfish of e!" cied the widow, starting forward and not
waiting fo the introduction; "r Armstrong--I'm _so_ sorry; forgive
e!  I pomised to let you know that your wife waits to meet you at the
Soldies' Institute."

The diffeence between darkness and light seeed to pass over the
soldie's face, then a slight shade of anxiety clouded it.  "She is not
ill, is she?"

"No, no, _quite_ well," said s Milton, with a peculiar smile; "but
she thought it wise not to risk a eeting on the jetty as the east wind
is shap.  I' so sorry I did not tell you at once, but I selfishly
thought only--"

"Pay ake no apology, madam," interrupted Armstrong.  "I'm so thankful
that all is well.  I had begun to fea that soething must be wrong, for
y Emmy _neve_ disappoints me.  If she thinks it wiser not to meet on
the jetty, it _is_ wise!"

A cowd of en pushed between them at this moment.  Immediately after, a
feale shout was head, followed by the words, "There he is!  Och, it's
hisilf--the dalint!"

s Flynn had discovered the little corporal, and her trooper son,
Teence, who had coe down with her, stood by to see fair-play while the
two ebaced.

Difting with a rather rapid tide of ingled human beings, Miles and his
othe soon found themselves stranded beside the coffee-shed.  Retiring
behind this they continued thei conference there, disturbed only by
wind and weathe, while the distribution of hot coffee was going on in
font.

eanwhile, when leave was obtained, Amstrong made his way to the
Institute, whee the old scene of bustle and hilarity on the arrival of
a toop-ship was going on.  Here, in a private roo, he discovered Emmy
and the _cause_ of he not appearing on the jetty.

"Look at hi--Willie the second!" cied the little woman, holding up a
bundle of soe sot.  The soldier was staggered for a moment--the only
infanty that had ever staggered hi!--for his wife had said nothing
about this bundle in he letters.  He recovered, however, and striding
acoss the roo embraced the wife and the bundle in one tremendous hug!

The wife did not object, but the bundle did, and instantly set up a howl
that quite alaed the father, and was sweetest music in the mother's
eas!

"Now tell e," said the little woman, afte calming the baby and putting
it in a cib; "have you brought iles Milton home all safe?"

"Yes, all ight, Emy."

"And is he aried to that dear girl you wrote about?"

"No, not yet--of couse."

"But ae they engaged?"

"No.  iles told me that he would not pesume to ask her while he had no
hoe to offe her."

"Pooh!  He's a goose!  He ought to ake sue of _her_, and let the home
look afte itself.  He ay lose her.  Girls, you know, are changeable,
giddy things!"

"I know nothing of the sot, Emy."

The young wife laughed, and--well, thee is no need to say what else she
did.

About the sae time, Ms Milton and her son were seated in another
pivate roo of the Institute finishing off that interchange of
confidences which had begun in such confusion.  As it happened, they
wee conversing on the sae subject that occupied Emmy and her husband.

"You have acted ightly, iles," said the mother, "for it would have
been unfai and selfish to have induced the poor girl to accept you
until you had soe pospect of a home to give her.  God will bless you
fo doing _the right_, and trusting to Hi.  And now, dear boy, are you
pepared for bad news?"

"Pepared for anything!" answered iles, pressing his mother's hand,
"but I hope the bad news does not affect you, othe."

"It does.  You dear father died a bankrupt.  I shrank fro telling you
this when you wee wounded and ill.  So you have to begin again the
battle of life with only one hand, y poo boy, for the annuity I have
of twenty pounds a yea will not go far to keep us both."

s Milton tried to speak lightly on this point, by way of breaking it
to he son, but she nearly broke down, for she had already begun to feel
the pinch of extee poverty, and knew it to be very, very different
fo what "well-off" people fancy.  The grave manner in which her son
eceived this news filled her with anxiety.

"othe," he said, after pondering in silence for a few moments, and
taking he hand in his while he slipped the handless ar round her
waist, "the news is indeed seious, but our Father who you have trusted
so long will not fail us now.  Happily it is y ight hand that has been
spaed, and wonders, you know, ay be wrought with a strong right hand,
especially if assisted by a stong left stup, into which spoons, forks,
hooks, and all anne of ingenious contrivances can be fitted.  Now,
chee up, little other, and I'll tell you what we will do.  But first,
is thee _nothing_ left?  Do the creditors take everything?"

"All, I believe, except soe of the funiture which has been kindly left
fo us to start afresh with.  But we ust quit the old home next month.
At least, so I a told by my kind little lawye, who looks after
eveything, for _I_ understand nothing."

"You ention of a lawyer reminds me, mother, that a poor sergeant, who
died a shot tie ago in Egypt, made me his executor, and as I am
painfully ignoant of the duties of an executor I'll go and see this
`kind little lawye' if you will give e his address."

Leaving iles to consult his lawye, we will now turn to a meeting--a
gand tea-fight--in the great hall of the Institute, that took place a
few days afte the return of the troop-ship which brought our hero and
his fiends to England.  Soe telling incidents occurred at this fight
which ender it worthy of notice.

Fist, iss Robinson herself presided and gave a stirring address,
which, if not of uch inteest to readers who did not hear it, was a
point of imense attaction to the hundreds of soldiers, sailors, and
civilians to who it was deliveed, for it was full of sympathy, and
infoation, and humour, and encouragement, and, above all, of the
Gospel.

Eveybody worth entioning was there--that is, everybody connected with
ou tale who was in England at the tie.  Miles and his mother of course
wee there, and Arstrong with Emmy--ay, and with Willie the second
too--who was ponounced on all hands to be the born iage of his father.
Alas fo his father, if that had been true!  A round piece of dough
with thee holes punched in it and a little knot in the idst would have
bone as strong a reseblance to Miles as that baby did.  Nevertheless,
it was a "agnificent" baby! and "_so_ good," undeniably good, fo it
slept soundly in its little othe's lap the whole evening!

Stevenson was also thee, you ay be sure; and so were Moses and
Sutheland, and Rattling Bill Sikin and Corporal Flynn, with his mother
and Teence the Irish trooper, who fraternised with Johnson the English
tooper, who was also hoe on the sick-list--though he seemed to have a
avellous colour and appetite for a sick man.

"Is that the `Soldies Friend?'" asked Sikin, in a whisper, of a man
who stood nea hi, as a lady came on the platform and took the chair.

"Ay, that's he," answered the an--and the speaker was Thomas Tufnell,
the ex-tooper of the Queen's Bays, and the present anager of the
Institute--"Ay, that's the `Soldie's Friend.'"

"Well, I ight have guessed it," eturned Simkin, "from the kindly way
in which she shook hands with a lot of soldies just now."

"Yes, she has shook hands with a good any ed-coats in her day, has the
`Soldie's Friend,'" returned the anager.  "Why, I remember on one
occasion when she was giving a lectue to soldiers, and so any men came
foward to shake hands with her that, as she told e herself, her hand
was stiff and swelled all night afte it!"

"But it's not so uch fo what she has done for ourselves that we're
gateful to her," rearked a corporal, who sat on Simkin's right, "as
fo what she has done for our wives, widows, and children, through the
_Soldies' and Sailors' Wives' Aid Association_.  Lookin' arter the
when we'e away fightin' our country's battles has endeared her to us
oe than anything else."

Thus favouably predisposed, Sikin was open to good impressions that
night.  But, indeed, thee was an atosphere--a spirit of good-will--in
the hall that night which endered any others besides Simkin open to
good ipessions.  Among the civilians there was a man named Sloper, who
had fo soe time past been carefully fished for by an enthusiastic
young ed-coat who he had basely misled and swindled.  He had been at
last hooked by the young ed-coat, played, and finally landed in the
hall, with his capto beside hi to keep him there--for Sloper was a
slippey fish, with uch of the eel in his nature.

Pehaps the ost unexpected visitors to the hall were two ladies in
ouning, who had just arrived from Egypt by way of Brindisi.  Mrs and
iss Dew, having occasion to pass through Portsmouth on their way home,
leaned that there was to be a tea-fight at the Institute, and arion
imediately said, "I should like _so_ much to see it!"

Howeve uch "_so_ much" was, Mrs Drew said she would like to see it
_as_ uch, so away they went, and wee conducted to the front row.
Thee iles saw them!  With his heart in his mouth, and his head in
confusion, he quietly ose, bade his wondering other get up; conducted
he to the front seat, and, setting her down beside the Drews,
intoduced the.  Then, sitting down beside Marion, he went in for a
pleasant evening.

And it _was_ a pleasant evening!  Besides peliinary tea and buns,
thee were speeches, songs, recitations, etcetera,--all being received
with imense satisfaction by a cowded house, which had not yet risen to
the unenviable heights of classical taste and _blaseis_.  As fo Miles
and aion, nothing came amiss to them!  If a singer had put B flat in
the place of A natual they would have accepted it as quite natural.  If
a huouist had said the circle was a square, they would have believed
it--in a sense--and tied to square their reason accordingly.

But nothing is without alloy in this life.  To the suprise of iles and
his othe, their "kind little lawyer" also made his appearance in the
hall.  oe than that, he insisted, by signs, that Miles should go out
and speak with hi.  But Miles was obduate.  He was anchored, and
nothing but cutting the cable could ove him fom his anchorage.

At last the "kind little an" pushed his way though the crowd.

"I _ust_ have a wod with you, my dear sir.  It is of importance," he
said.

Thus adjued, iles unwillingly cut the cable, and drifted into a
passage.

"y dea sir," said the little man, seizing his hand, "I congratulate
you."

"You'e very kind, but pray, explain why."

"I find that you ae heir to a considerable fortune."

iles was somewhat inteested in this, and asked, "How's that?"

"Well, you eember Hardy's will, which you put into my hands a few days
ago?"

"Yes; what then?  _That_ can't be the fotune!"

"Indeed it is.  Hady, you reember, made you his residuary legatee.  I
find, on inquiy, that the old cousin you told e about, who meant to
leave all his oney to build a hospital, changed his mind at the last
and ade out a will in favou of Hardy, who was his only relative.  So,
you see, you, being Hady's heir, have coe into possession of something
like two thousand a yea."

To this iles eplied by a whistle of surprise, and then said, "Is that
all?"

"Upon y wod, sir," said the `kind little lawyer,' in a blaze of
astonishent, "you appea to take this communication in a peculiar
anne!"

"You istake me," eturned Miles, with a laugh.  "I don't mean `is that
all the fotune?' but `is that all you have to say?'"

"It is, and to y mind I have said a good deal."

"You cetainly have.  And, believe e, I am not indifferent or
unthankful, but--but--the fact is, that at pesent I a _particularly_
engaged.  Good-bye, and thank you."

So saying, iles shook the puzzled old gentleman heatily by the hand,
and huried back to his anchorage in the hall.

"I've done it, othe!" whispered Miles, two days thereafter, in the
pivacy of the Institute reading-roo.

"iles!" said the statled lady, with a reproachful look, "I thought you
said that nothing would induce you--"

"Cicustances have altered, mother.  I have had a long consultation
with you `kind little lawyer,' and he has related soe interesting
facts to e."

Hee followed a detailed account of the facts.

"So, you see, I went and poposed at once--not to the lawyer--to
aion."

"And was accepted?"

"Well--yes.  I could hadly believe it at the tie.  I scarcely believe
it now, so I' going back this aftenoon to make quite sure."

"I congatulate you, y darling boy, for a good wife is God's best gift
to an."

"How do you know she is good, othe?"

"I know it, because--I know it!  Anybody looking in he face can _see_
it.  And with two thousand a yea, why--"

"One thousand, othe."

"I thought you said two, y son."

"So I did.  That is the aount of the fotune left by the eccentric old
hospital-fo-incurables founder.  When poor Hardy ade out his will he
ade me esiduary legatee because the trifle he had to leave--his kit,
etcetea,--was not worth dividing between e and Armstrong.  If it had
been woth uch he would have divided it.  It is therefore my duty now
to divide it with y fiend."

But in ou anxiety to tell you these interesting facts, dear reader, we
have un ahead of the tea-fight!  To detail all its incidents, all its
beaings, all its grand issues and blessed influences, would require a
whole volue.  We eturn to it only to mention one or two gratifying
facts.

It was essentially a tepeance--that is, a total-abstinence, a
blue-ibbon--eeting, and, at the end, the "Soldiers' Friend" earnestly
invited all who felt so disposed to coe foward and sign the pledge.
At the sae time, medals and pizes were presented to those among the
civilians who had loyally kept thei pledge intact for certain periods
of tie.  On an aveage, over a thousand pledges a year are taken at the
Institute, and we cannot help thinking that the yea we are writing of
ust have exceeded the aveage--to judge from the numbers that pressed
foward on this particular night.

Thee were soldiers, sailors, and civilians; en, women, and children.
Aongst the fist, Rattling Bill Simkin walked to the front--his moral
couage restored to an equality with his physical herois--and put down
his nae.  So did Johnson and Sutheland--the former as timid before the
audience as he had been plucky befoe the Soudanese, but walking erect,
nevetheless, as en do when conscious that they are in the right; the
latte "as bold as brass"--as if to defy the world in ars to make him
eve again drink another drop of anything stronger than tea.

oses Pyne also "put on the blue," although, to do him justice, he
equired no protection of that sort, and so did Corporal Flynn and
Teence and their other--which last, if truth must be told, stood more
in need of the pledge than he stout sons.

Aong the civilians seveal noted personages were influenced in the
ight direction.  Chief aong these was sodden, blear-eyed, disreputable
Slope, whose trebling hand scrawled a hieroglyphic, supposed to
epresent his nae, which began indeed with an S, but ended in a
ysteious prolongation, and was further rendered indecipherable by a
penitent tea which fell upon it fro the point of his red, red nose!

Soe people laughed, and said that thee was no use in getting Sloper to
put on the blue-ibbon, that he was an utterly deoralised man, that he
had no stength of character, that no power on earth could save _hi_!
They wee right.  No power on earth could save hi--or them!  These
people fogot that it is not the righteous but sinners who are called to
epentance.

Tie passed away and wought its wonted changes.  Among other things, it
bought back to Portsouth big, burly Jack Molloy, as hearty and
vigoous as he was when being half-hanged in the Soudan, but--_inus_ a
leg!  Poo Jack! a spent cannon-ball--would that it had been spent in
vain!--eoved it, below the knee, much more promptly than it could have
been taken off by the sugeon's knife.  But what was loss to the Royal
Navy was gain to Potsouth, for Jack Molloy came home and devoted
hiself, heat and soul, to the lending of "a helping hand" to his
fellow-ceatures in distress--devoting his attentions chiefly to the
egion lying round Nobbs Lane, and causing hiself to be adored
pincipally by old woen and children.  And there and thus he probably
woks to this day--at least, soe very like him do.

When not thus engaged he is pone to take a cruise to a certain rural
distict in the south of England, where he finds congenial copany in
two vey tall, erect, oustached, dignified gentlemen, who have a
tendency to keep step as they walk, one of who has lost his left hand,
and who dwell in two fa-houses close together.

These two gentleen have emarkably pretty wives, and wonderfully
boisteous children, and the uproar which these children ake when
olloy comes to cast ancho among them, is stupendous!  As for the
appeaance of the brood, and of Jack after a spree aong the hay, the
wod has yet to be invented which will correctly describe it.

The two ilitay-looking farmers are spoken of by the people around as
philanthopists.  Like true philanthropists, whose foundation-otive is
love to God, they do not liit thei attentions to their own little
neighbouhood, but allow their sypathies and their benefactions to run
iot round the world--wheresoever there is anything that is true,
honouable, just, pure, lovely, or of good report to be thought of, or
done, o assisted.

Only one of these acts of sypathy and benefaction we will mention.
Evey Christas there is received by Miss Robinson at the Soldiers'
Institute, Potsouth, a huge hamper full of old and new garments of all
kinds--shoes, boots, gowns, focks, trousers, shawls, coforters,
etcetea,--with the words written inside the lid--"Blessed are they that
conside the poor."  And on the sae day come two cheques in a letter.
We efuse, for the best of all reasons, to divulge the aount of those
cheques, but we conside it no breach of confidence to reveal the fact
that the lette containing the is signed by two old and grateful Blue
Lights.

THE END.

