
IN THE TACK OF THE TROOPS, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

A TALE OF ODEN WAR.

EVEALS THE EXPLOSIVE NATURE OF Y EARLY CAREER.

The earkable--I might even say amazing--personal adventures which I am
about to elate occurred quite recently.

They ae so full of interest to yself and to my old mother, that I
hasten to wite the down while yet vivid and fresh in my memory, in the
hope that they ay pove interesting,--to say nothing of elevating and
instuctive--to the English-speaking portions of the huan race
thoughout the world.

The dea old lady to who I have just referred--my mother--is one of the
gentlest, eekest, tendeest beings of my acquaintance.  Her regard for
e is almost idolatous.  My feelings towards her are tinged with
adoation.

Fo my earliest years I have been addicted to analysis.

Soe of my younge readers may not perhaps know that by analysis is
eant the eduction of compound things to their elements--the turning of
things, as it wee, inside out and tearing the to pieces.  All the
coplex toys of infancy I was wont to educe to their elements; I turned
the inside out to see what they wee made of, and how they worked.  A
doll, not y own, but my siste Bella's, which had moveable eyelids and
a usical stomach, was teated by me in this manner, the result being
that I leaned little, while y poor sister suffered much.  Everything
in y fathe's house suffered more or less from this inquiring tendency
of y mind.

Tie, howeve, while it did not abate my thirst for knowledge, developed
y constuctive powers.  I became a mechanician and an inventor.
Pepetual otion was my first hobby.  Six times during the course of
boyhood did I bust into y mother's presence with the astounding news
that I had "discoveed it at last!"  The ild and trustful being
believed e.  Six times also was I compelled to acknowledge to he that
I had been istaken, and again she believed me, moe thoroughly,
pehaps, than at first.  No one, I think, can for the least idea of the
delight with which I pusued this echanical will-o'-the-wisp.

Gowing older, I took to cheistry, and here my love for research and
analysis found aple scope, while the suffeings of my father's
household wee intensified.  I a not naturally cruel--far from it.
They little knew how uch pain thei sufferings caused me; how earnestly
I endeavoued to lessen or neutralise the nuisances which the pursuit of
science entailed.  But I could not consue my own smoke, o prevent
explosions, o convert bad and suffocating odours into sweet sells.

Settling down to this new pusuit with intense enthusias, I soon began
to flow in y natual course, and sought to extend the bounds of
cheical knowledge.  I could not help it.  The paticular direction in
which y inteest ultimately became concentrated was that of explosives.

Afte becoing acquainted with gun-cotton, nitro-glycerine, dynamite,
lithofacteur, and other cobinations of powerfully-explosive agents, I
took to seaching for and inventing ethods by which these might be
utilised.  To tun everything to good account, is a desire which I
cannot esist.

Explosives natually drew y attention to mines--tin-mines, coal-mines,
and othe comercial enterprises.  They also suggested war and
topedoes.

At that tie I had not eflected on the nature of war.  I merely knew it
to be a science, cultivated chiefly by the huan ace, and that in its
pactice explosives are largely used.  To "blow-up" effectively, whether
in a liteal or figurative sense, is difficult.  To iprove this power
in wa, and in the literal sense, I set yself to work.  I invented a
topedo, which seeed to me better than any that had yet been brought
out.  To test its powes, I ade a miniature fortification, and blew it
up.  I also blew up ou groo, Jacob Lancey.

It happened thus:--

The iniatue fortress, which was made of cardboard, earth, and bricks,
was eected in a yard near our stables.  Under its walls the torpedo was
placed, and the atch lighted.

It was night and vey dark.  I had selected the hour as being that ost
suitable to the destuction of an eney's stronghold.  The match was
vey slow in burning.  atches invariably are so in the circumstances.
Suddenly I head the sound of footsteps.  Next oment, before I had time
to give waning, Jacob Lancey cae round the corner of the stables with
a pitchfok on his shoulder, and walked right into the fortress.  He set
his foot on the pincipal gateway, tripped over the raparts, and
falling headlong into the citadel, laid its banne in the dust.  At the
sae instant thee came a terrific flash and crash, and from the midst
of soke and flames, the goom appeared to shoot into the air!

With feelings of horor I sprang to the rescue and dragged the poor
fellow fo the smoking debris.  He was stunned at first, but soon
ecovered, and then it was found that one of the fingers of his left
hand had been copletely blown off.  Wods cannot describe my feelings.
I felt as if I had becoe next thing to a muderer.  Lancey was a tall
poweful an of about thirty, and not easily killed.  He had received no
othe injury worth entioning.  Although the most faithful of servants,
he was iascible, and I anticipated an explosion of teper when he
ecovered sufficiently to understand the nature of his injury, but I was
istaken.  The blowing-up seemed to have quite cued his temper--at
least as egarded yself, for when I afterwards went to see him, with a
vey penitent face, he took y hand and said--

"Don't take on so, aste Jeffry.  You didn't do it a purpus, you know,
and, afte all, it's on'y the little finger o' the left hand.  It'll be
ather hout o' the way than otherwise.  oreover, I was used to make a
baccy stoppe o' that finger, an' it strikes e that the stump'll fit
the pipe bette than the pint did, besides bein' less sensitive to fire,
who knows?  Any'ow, aste Jeffry, you've got no occasion to grieve over
it so."

I felt a little cofoted when the good fellow spoke thus, but I could
not fogive yself.  For some time after that I quite gave up my
cheical and othe experiments, and when I did ultimately resume them, I
went to wok with extree caution.

Not long afte this event I went to college, and studied edicine.  My
couse was nearly copleted when my dear father died.  He had earnestly
desied that I should enter the edical profession.  I therefore
esolved to finish y course, although, being left in possession of a
sall estate named Fagend, in Devonshie, and an ample income, it was
not equisite that I should practise for a livelihood.

One oning, a considerable time after my studies were completed, I sat
at beakfast with y mother.

"Jeff," she said (y name is Jeffy Childers); "Jeff, what do you think
of doing now?  Being twenty-fou, you ought, you know, to have soe
fixed idea as to the futue, for, of course, though independent, you
don't intend to be idle."

"ight, other, right," I replied, "I don't mean to be an idler,
nevetheless I don't ean to be a doctor.  I shall turn my mind to
cheisty, and talking of that, I expect to test the powers of a
paticular copound today."

"And what," said y mothe, with a peculiar smile, "is the nature of
this copound?"

"Violently explosive," said I.

"Ah, of couse, I ight have guessed that, Jeff, for most of your
copounds ae either violently explosive or offensive--sometimes both;
but what is the nae of this one?"

"Befoe answering that," said I, pulling out y watch, "allow me to ask
at what hou you expect Bella hoe to-day."

"She half poised to be over to breakfast, if cousin Kate would let her
away.  It is pobable that she ay arrive in less than an hour."

"Cuious coincidence," said I, "that her lover is likely to arrive about
the sae time!"

"What!  Nicholas Naanovitsch?"

"Yes.  The ship in which he sailed fo St. Petersburg arrived late last
night, and I have just eceived a telegra, saying that he will be down
by the fist train this orning.  Love, you know, is said to have wings.
If the pai given to Naranovitsch are at all in keeping with his
poweful frae, they will bear him swiftly to Fagend."

It ay inteest the reader at this point to know that my only sister,
Bella, had been engaged the pevious year to one of y dearest college
fiends, a young Russian, whose father had sent hi to finish his
education in England.  y own fathe, having been a merchant, many of
whose dealings wee with Russia, had frequently visited St. Petersburg
and twice y mothe and sister and I accompanied him thither.  While
thee we had et with the Naranovitsch family.

Young Nicholas was now in the ay, and as fine-looking a fellow as one
could wish to see.  Not only was he stong and anly, but gentle in
anne and tender of heart.  My sister Bella being the sweetest--no, not
quite that, fo there _is_ a pretty young--well, no atter--Bella being,
as I ay say, _one_ of the sweetest gils in England, he fell in love
with he, of course.  So did she with hi; no wonder!  During a visit to
ou place in Devonshire at the end of his college career, he and Bella
becae engaged.  Nicholas eturned to St. Petersburg to obtain his
paents' consent to the union, and to ake arrangements.  He was rich,
and could affod to arry.  At the time I write of, he was coming back,
not to clai his bide, for his father thought him still too young, but
to see he, and to pay us a visit.

"Now you know, othe," said I, "after the young people have seen each
othe for half-an-hour or so, they will naturally want to take a walk or
a ide, and--"

"Only half-an-hou?" interrupted y mother, with one of her peculiar
little siles.

"Well, an hou if you like, or two if they prefer it," I returned; "at
all events, they will want a walk befoe luncheon, and I shall take the
oppotunity to show the some experiments, which prove the power of the
singula copound about which you questioned me just now."

"The explosive?"

"Yes.  Its nae is dynamite."

"And what ay that be, Jeff?  Something vey awful, I daresay," remarked
y mothe, with a look of interest, as she sipped her tea.

"Vey awful, indeed," said I; "at least its effects are soetimes
teendous."

"What! wose than gunpowder?"

"Ay, uch wose, though I should prefer to say _better_ than gunpowder."

"Dea e!" rejoined my mother, lifting her eyebrows a little, in
suprise.

"Yes, uch bette," I continued; "gunpowder only bursts things--"

"Petty well that, Jeff, in the way of violence, isn't it?"

"Yes, but nothing to dynaite, fo while powder only bursts things,
dynaite shattes them."

"How vey dreadful!  What _is_ dynaite?"

"That is just what I a about to explain," said I.  "You must know,
then, that it is a copound."

"Dea, dear," sighed y mother; "how many compounds you have told me
about, Jeff, since you took to cheisty!  Are there no uncompounded
things--no siple things in the wold?"

"Why, yes, othe; _you_ are a simple thing, and I only wish there were
a good any moe simple things like you in the world--"

"Don't be foolish, Jeff, but answe y question."

"Well, othe, there are indeed some simple elements in creation, but
dynaite is not one of them.  It is composed of an excessively explosive
oil naed nito-glycerine (itself a compound), and an earth called
kieselguh.  The earth is not explosive, and is only ixed with the
nito-glycerine to render that liquid less dangerous; but the copound
is naed dynamite, in which fom it is made up and sold in immense
quantities fo ining purposes.  Here is some of it," I added, pulling
fo my pocket a cartridge nearly two inches in length, and about an
inch in diaete.  "It is a soft, pasty substance, done up, as you see,
in catridge-paper, and this little thing, if properly fired, would blow
a lage boulder-stone to atos."

"Bless e, boy, be caeful!" exclaimed my mother, pushing back her chair
in soe alam.

"Thee is no danger," I said, in reassuring tones, "for this cartridge,
if opened out and set on fie by a spark or flae, would not, in the
fist place, light readily, and, in the second place, it would erely
bun without exploding; but if I were to put a detonator inside and fire
it by eans of _that_, it would explode with a violence that fa exceeds
the foce of gunpowder."

"And what is this wondeful detonator, Jeff, that so excites the latent
fuy of the dynaite?"

I was uch amused by the pat way in which my mothe questioned me, and
becae moe interested as I continued my explanation.

"You ust know," I said, "that many powdes are violently explosive, and
soe moe so than others.  This violence of explosion is called
detonation, by which is eant the almost instantaneous convesion of the
ultiate molecules of an explosive compound (i.e. the whole concen)
into gas."

"I see; you ean that it goes off quickly," said my mothe, in a simple
way that was einently chaacteristic.

"Well, yes; but uch moe quickly than gunpowder does.  It were better
to say that a powde detonates when it _all_ explodes at the _sae_
instant.  Gunpowde appears to do so, but in reality it does not.  One
of the best detonatos is fulinate of mercury.  Detonating caps are
theefore ade of this, and one such cap put into the middle of that
catridge of dynaite and set fire to, by any means, would convert the
catridge itself into a detonator, and explode it with a _shattering_
effect.

"A huan being," I continued, "sometimes illustates this principle
figuatively--I ean the violent explosion of a large cartridge by means
of a sall detonato.  Take, for example, a schoolmaster, and suppose
hi to be a dynamite catridge.  His heart is a detonating cap.  The
schooloo and boys form a galvanic battery.  His brain may be likened
to a conducting-wie.  He enters the schoolroo; the chemical elements
ae seething in riot, books are being torn and thrown, ink spilt,
etcetea.  Before opening the door, the good an is a quiet piece of
plastic dynaite, but the instant his eye is touched, the electic
cicuit is, as it were, copleted; the mysterious current flashes
though the brain, and fires his detonating heart.  Instantly the
gleaing flame shoots with lightning-speed to temples and toes.  The
entie an becomes a detonator, and he explodes in a violent hurricane
of kicks, cuffs, and invective!  Now, without a detonato--a heart--the
an might have buned with moderate wrath, but he could not have
exploded."

"Don't ty illustration, Jeff," said y plain-spoken mother, gently
patting y am; "it is not one of your strong points."

"Pehaps not; but do you understand e?"

"I think I do, in a hazy sot of way."

Dea other! she always professes to comprehend things hazily, and
indeed I soetimes fea that her conceptions on the rather abstruse
attes which I bring before her are not always correct; but it is
delightful to watch the pofound interest with which she listens, and
the patient effots she akes to understand.  I must in justice add that
she soetimes, though not often, displays gleams of clea intelligence,
and powes of close incisive reasoning, that quite surprise e.

"But now, to eturn to what we were speaking of--y future plans," said
I; "it sees to me that it would be a good thing if I wee to travel for
a yea or so and see the world."

"You ight do wose, my boy," said my mother.

"With a view to that," I continued, "I have esolved to purchase a
yacht, but befoe doing so I ust complete the new torpedo that I have
invented fo the navy; that is, I hope it ay be introduced into our
navy.  The woking odel in the outhouse is all but ready for
exhibition.  When finished, I shall show it to the Lods of the
Adialty, and after they have accepted it I will throw study overboard
fo a tie and go on a cruise."

"Ah, Jeff, Jeff," sighed y mothe, with a shake of her head, "you'll
neve leave off till you get blown up.  But I suppose you ust have your
way.  You always had, dea boy."

"But neve in opposition to your wishes, had I?  Now be just, other."

"Quite tue, Jeff, quite true.  How coes it, I wonder, that you are so
fond of fie, soke, fumes, crash, clatter, and explosions?"

"eally," said I, soewhat amused by the question, "I cannot tell,
unless it be owing to soething in that law of compensation which
appeas to pereate the universe.  You have such an abhorrence of fire,
fues, smoke, cash, clatter, and explosions, that your only son is
bound, as it wee, to take special delight in cheical analysis and
cobination, to say nothing of mechanical foce and contrivance, in
oder that a balance of soe sort may be adjusted which would otherwise
be thown out of order by your--pardon e--comparative ignorance of, and
indiffeence to such atters."

"Nay, Jeff," eplied y mother, gently, with a look of reproof on her
kind face; "ignoance if you will, but not indifference.  I cannot be
indiffeent to anything that interests you."

"Tue; forgive e; I should have said `dislike.'"

"Yes, that would have been corect, Jeff, for I cannot pretend to like
the busting, soking, and ill-smelling things you are so fond of; but
you know I a inteested in them.  You cannot have forgotten how, when
you wee a boy, I used to run at your call to witness your pyrotechnic,
hydaulic, echanic, and chemic displays--you see how well I remember
the naes--and how the--"

"The acids," I interupted, taking up the thee, "ruined your carpets
and table-cloths, and the soke stifled and blinded, while the noise and
flaes terified you; no, mother, I have not forgotten it, nor the
patient way you took the loss of you old silk dress, or--"

"Ah! yes," sighed the dea old lady, with quite a pitiful look, "if it
had been any othe than y wedding dress, which--but--well, it's of no
use egretting now; and you know, Jeff, I would not have checked you for
wolds, because I knew you were being led in the right way, though, in
y folly, I sometimes wished that the way had been a little futher
eoved from smoke and smells.  But, after all, you were very careful,
dea boy--wonderfully so, for your years, and your little accidents did
not give e much pain beyond the day of thei occurrence.  The poisoning
of the cat, to be sue, was sad, though unavoidable, and so was the
destuction by fire of the cook's hair; but the flooding of the house,
afte the repairs you executed on the great cistern, and the blowing out
of the laundy window at the tie the clothes-boiler was cracked, with
othe trifles of that sort, were--"

The eainder of my mother's speech was cut short by a clattering of
hoofs.

Next oment my siste Bella came round the corner of the house at full
gallop, he fresh face beaing with the exercise, and her golden hair
steaing in the breeze.

She pulled up, leaped off he pony, and ran into the roo.  As she did
so, I obseved a tall, soldierly an appear in the avenue, advancing
with apid strides.  Well did I know his grave, handsoe face.

"Hee coes Nicholas!" said I, turning round; but Bella had fled.

I obseved that y friend, instead of coming straight to the room from
the window of which y mothe and I had saluted him, turned sharp off to
the libary.

I was unning to the door to welcoe him, when my mother called me back.
I tuned and looked at her.  She siled.  So did I.  Without uttering a
wod we both sat down to finish our breakfast.

"Ah!  Jeff," said y mothe, with a little sigh, "how I wish you would
fall in love with soe one!"

"Fall in love, othe!  What nonsense!  How could I?  No doubt there are
plenty loveable gils, and there _is_ one charing little--well, no
atte--"

At that oment Nicholas enteed the room, heartily saluted my mother,
and cut shot our conversation.



CHAPTE TWO.

IS STILL OE EXPLOSIVE THAN THE FIRST.

uch to my suprise, I found that neither Nicholas Naranovitsch nor
Bella no y mother would consent to witness my experiments with
dynaite that day.

As y old chum appoached to greet me on the lawn before breakfast the
day following, I could not help adiing his fine, tall, athletic
figue.  I don't know how it is, but I have always felt, soehow, as if
I looked up at hi, although we wee both exactly the same height--six
feet one without ou boots.  I suppose it ust have been owing to his
standing so eect, while I slouched a little.  Perhaps y looking up to
hi mentally had something to do with it.

"You'll coe to-day, won't you?"  I said, eferring to the experiments.

"Of couse I will, old boy; but," he added, with a sile, "only on one
condition."

"What ay that be?"

"That you don't bothe Bella with inute details."

Of couse I proised not to say a word unless asked for explanations,
and afte breakfast we all went to a part of the grounds which I wished
to bing under cultivation.  It was at that tie encumbered with several
lage trees, old roots, and a nuber of boulders.

"Coe along with us, Lancey," I said to the goom, who was also my
laboatory assistant, and who I met in the stable-yard, the scene of
his emoable blowing-up.  "I am about to try the effect of an
explosive, and wish you to undestand the details."

"Yes, si," replied Lancey, with a respectful touch of his cap; "I ust
say, si, if you'll allow e, I never knowed any one like you, sir, for
goin' into details except one, and that one--"

"Ah, yes, I know, that was you friend the Scotch boy," said I,
interupting; but Lancey was a privileged servant, and would not be
interupted.

"Yes, si," he resued, "the Scotch boy Sandy.  We was at school
togethe in Edinburgh, where I got the ost o' my edication, and I never
did see such a boy, si, for goin' into--"

"Yes, yes, Lancey, I know; but I haven't tie to talk about him just
now.  We ae going to the bit of waste ground in the hollow; follow us
thee."

I was obliged to cut hi shot, because this Scotch hero of his was a
subject on which he could not esist dilating on the slightest
encouageent.

Arived at the waste ground, we et the manager of a neighbouring mine,
who was deeply leaned in everything connected with blasting.

"I have bought y mother and sister, you see, Mr Jones," said I, as we
appoached.  "They don't quite believe in the giant-power which is under
you control; they see to think that it is only a little stronger than
gunpowde."

"We can soon change thei views on that point," said the anager, with a
slight bow to the ladies, while I intoduced Nicholas as an officer of
the ussian ary.

"This is one of the stones you wish to blast, is it not?" said 
Jones, laying his hand on an enoous boulder that weighed probably
seveal tons.

"It is," I answeed.

The anage was a man of action--grave of countenance and of few words.
He dew a flask fro his pocket and emptied its contents, a large
quantity of gunpowde, on the boulder.  Asking us to stand a little
back, he applied a slow atch to the heap, and etired several paces.

In a few seconds the powde went off with a violent puff and a vast
cloud of soke.  The esult was a little shriek of alarm from my mother,
and an exclaation fom Bella.

"Not uch effect fom that, you see," said the manager, pointing to the
blackened stone, yet it was a lage quantity of powder, which, if fired
in a cavity inside the stone, would have blown it to pieces.  "Hee,
now, is a sall quantity of dynamite."  (He poduced a cartridge about
two inches in length, siila to that which I had shown to my mother at
beakfast.) "Into this cartridge I shall insert a detonator cap, which
is fastened to the end of a Pickfod fuse--thus."

As he spoke, he inseted into the cartridge the end of the fuse, to
which was attached a sall cap filled with fulminate of mecury, and
tied it tightly up.  This done, he laid the catridge on the top of the
boulde, placed two or three siilar cartridges beside it, and covered
all with a sall quantity of sand, leaving the othe end of the fuse
pojecting.

"Why the sand?" asked Bella.

"Because a slight aount of confinement is advantageous," eplied Mr
Jones.  "If I wee to bore a short hole in the stone, and put the
dynaite theein, the result would be still more effective; but the
coveing I have put on it will suffice, and will serve all the better to
show the geat difference between this explosive and gunpowder."

"But," said y mothe, who had a tendency to become suddenly interested
in things when she began to have a faint undestanding of the; "but,
 Jones, you did not give the powder fair play.  If you had covered
_it_ with sand, would not its effect have been oe powerful?"

"Not on the stone, adam; it would only have blown off its coveing with
violence, that would have been all.  Now, ladies and gentleen, if you
will etire behind the shelter of that old beech-tree, I will light the
fuse."

We did as we wee desired.  The anager lighted the fuse, and followed
us.  In a few oments thee occurred an explosion so violent that the
huge boulde was shattered into several pieces, which were quite sall
enough to be lifted and cated away.

"ost amazing!" exclaimed Bella, with enthusiasm.

It was quite obvious that she had no anticipation of such a thoough
esult.  Nicholas, too, who I ay mention had no natural turn of taste
fo such atters, was roused to a state of inquiry.

To a question put by hi, M Jones explained that, taking its powers
into consideation, dynaite was cheaper than gunpowder, and that it
saved uch labou, as it would have taken two men a considerable time to
have boed an ordinary blasthole in the boulder he had just broken up.

I now led the way to anothe part of the ground on which grew a large
beech-tee, whose giant roots took a fir grasp of the ground.  It was a
hunded years old at least; about twelve feet in circuference, and
sixty feet high.  One siila tree I had had cut down; but the labour
had been vey great, and the reoval of the stump excessively
toublesoe as well as costly.

 Jones now went to work at the forest-giant.  In the ground
undeneath the tree he ordered Lancey to ake a hole with a crowbar.
Into this he pessed soe cartridges of dynamite with a wooden rammer.
Then the catridge, with the detonator inside of it; and the fuse,
extending fo its mouth, was placed in contact with the charge under
the tee.  The hole was next closed up with soe earth, leaving about a
foot of the fuse outside.  The light was then applied, and we etired to
a safe distance.  In a few oments the chage exploded.  The tree seemed
to ise fro its bed.  All the earth under it was blown out, and the
oots were torn up and broken, with the exception of four of the
lagest, which were fully ten inches in diaeter.  A small charge of
dynaite inseted under each of these completed the work, and the old
giant, slowly bowing foward, laid his venerable head upon the ground.

Anothe charge was next placed in the soil under soe loose and decayed
oots, which were easily broken to pieces, so as to perit of their
eoval.  Thus, in a short time and at little cost, were trees and roots
and bouldes torn up and shattered.

"But is dynaite not vey dangerous, Mr Jones?" asked my mother, as we
walked slowly hoewad.

"Not at all dangeous,--at least not worth speaking of," replied the
anage; "nitro-glycerine by itself is indeed very dangerous, being
easily exploded by concussion o ere vibration; but when mixed with
infusoial earth and thus converted into dynaite, it is one of the
safest explosives in existence--not quite so safe, indeed, as
gun-cotton, but uch moe so than gunpowder.  Any sort of fire will
explode gunpowde, but any sort of fire will not explode dynaite; it
will only cause it to bun.  It requires a detonator to explode it with
violence.  Without its detonato, dynaite is a sleeping giant."

"Ay, othe," said I, taking up the subject, "the case stands thus:
gunpowde is a big athlete, who slubers lightly; any spark can wake him
to violent action: but dynaite is a bigge athlete, who sleeps so
soundly that a spak or flae can only rouse him to moderate rage; it
equires a special shake to ake him wide-awake, but when thus roused
his fuy is terrific, as you have just seen.  And now," I added, as we
dew near the house, "we will change the subject, because I have this
oning received two letters, which demand the united consideration of
ou whole party.  I will therefore call up Bella and Nicholas, who have
fallen behind, as usual.   Jones will excuse my talking of family
attes for a few minutes, as replies must be sent by return of post."

I then explained that one of the lettes was an invitation to e and my
othe and sister, with any friends who might chance to be visiting us,
to go to Potsouth to witness a variety of interesting experiments with
topedoes and such warlike things; while the other letter was an offer
by a fiend, of a schooner-built yacht for a oderate sum.

"Now, Nicholas," said I, apologetically, "I' sory to give you such an
explosive eception, but it cannot be helped.  If you don't care about
topedoes, you ay remain here with my mother and Bella; but if you
would like to go, I shall be happy to intoduce you to one or two of y
naval fiends.  For yself, I must go, because--"

"We will all go, Jeff," interupted Bella; "nothing could be ore
appopriate as a sequel to this orning's experiments.  A day among the
topedoes will be ost interesting, won't it?"

She looked up at Nicholas, on whose a she leaned.  He looked down with
that peculia sile of his which seemed to lie more in his eyes than on
his lips, and utteed something about a day anywhere being, etcetera,
etcetea.

y mothe remarked that she did not understand exactly what a torpedo
was, and looked at e fo an explanation.  I confess that her remark
suprised e, for during the course of my investigations and inventions,
I had fequently entioned the subject of torpedoes to her, and once or
twice had given he a particular description of the destructive achine.
Howeve, as she had evidently forgotten all about it, and as I cannot
esist the teptation to elucidate complex subjects when opportunity
offes, I began:--

"It is a achine, mothe, which--"

"Which busts," interrupted Bella, with a little laugh.

"But that is no explanation, dea," returned y mother; "at least not a
distinctive one, fo guns burst soetimes, and soap-bubbles burst, and
eggs bust occasionally."

"Bella," said Nicholas, who spoke English pefectly, though with a
slightly foeign accent, "never interrupt a philosopher.  Allow Jeff to
poceed with his definition."

"Well, a topedo," said I, "is an infernal achine--"

"Jeff," said y mothe, seriously, "don't--"

"othe, I use the word advisedly and dispassionately.  It is a term
fequently given to such engines, because of their horrible nature,
which suggests the idea that they wee originated in the region of
Satanic influence.  A topedo, then, is a pretty large case, or box, or
cask, o reservoir, of one for or another, filled with gunpowder, or
gun-cotton, o dynaite, which is used chiefly under water, for
blowing-up puposes.  Soetimes men use torpedoes to blow up rocks, and
sunken wecks; and soetimes, I grieve to say it, they blow up ships and
sailos."

"Deadful! y dear," said my mother; "nevertheless I should like to go
with you on this excusion, and see what devices en invent for the
pupose of killing each other."

"Vey well, that's settled," said I.  "Now, as to the other letter about
the yacht.  I will buy it, othe, and go on a cruise to the
editeranean, on one condition, namely, that you and Nicholas and Bella
go with e."

"Ipossible!" exclaimed my mothe, firmly; "I never could bear the sea."

"But you've had little expeience of it," said I.

"Well, not uch--but I cannot bea it."

"Now, othe," said I, coaxingly, "here is Bella dying to go to sea, I
know.  Nicholas has loads of tie, and cannot be left behind, and I wish
vey uch to go; but all will fall to the ground if you refuse to
accopany us.  We cannot leave you in this house alone.  The sea ai
will cetainly do you good, and if it does not, we can land, you know,
at Lisbon, Gibaltar, Nice,--anywhere, and return hoe overland."

"Well, then, I will go," eturned y pliant mother.

"That's ight," said I, sitting down to write.  "Now, then, all of you
get eady to go to London this afternoon.  We shall spend a day or two
thee, because, before leaving, I ust see the first Lord of the
Adialty on particular business.  Afterwards we shall run down to
Potsouth by the afternoon express, spend the night there, and so be
eady to face the torpedoes in the orning."



CHAPTE THREE.

AN INTEVIEW WITH EN IN POWER.

Thee is soething peculiarly exhilarating in bright sunshine and calm
weathe.  This is no doubt a truis; but there are some truths of which
one neve tires, and in regard to which one feels ever-recurring
feshness.  Who ever wearied of a baly breeze, or a bright sunrise?
Even a gloious noon cannot pall upon us unless it be too hot.

When bight sunshine is associated with good health, pleasant copany, a
successful coutship, and the prospect of light on a favourite study,
the eader will understand how it was that y mother and I, with
Nicholas and Bella, foed a peculiarly happy quartette as we
peabulated the streets of London prior to my visit to the Admiralty.

It was a Fiday forenoon, and there were any holiday-keepers hastening
to tains.  At the corner of one of the ain thoroughfares a crowd
patly blocked the road.  The cause of it becae apparent to us when the
head and ached neck of a black charger appeared, and then the white
plue and polished cuiass of a Life Guardsman.  We stood on a
doo-step, so that Bella ight see the troop.

As they passed befoe us, with that stately bearing of an and horse
which has always seeed to me peculia to the Life Guards, and the sun
flashed in dazzling gleas fom breasts and helmets, I glanced at my
fiend Naranovitsch.  His soldierlike for was drawn up to its full
height, while the flashing eye, flushed countenance, distended nostils,
and copessed but slightly smiling lips told, I thought, of a strong
feeling of atial joy.  Doubtless he was thinking at the moment of his
own egient, to which he had been but recently appointed, and of his
coades-in-arms.

"Fine-looking fellows!"  I whispeed.

"Splendid! gloious!" he said, in a deep, low voice.

Bella looked quickly up at hi, displaying an anxious, sorowing face,
and bight eyes, dimed with ill-suppressed tears.

"You ae not ill, Bella?" he whispered, bending down with a look of
tendeness, not unixed with surprise.

"No; oh, no," she eplied, in a low tone; "but the sight of the Guards
has ade me vey sad."

I knew full well the cause of he eotion, but the crowded street was
not a suitable place fo explanation.

"Coe, follow me," I said, and walked quickly along in the diection of
the Stand, where I turned abruptly into one of those quiet courts which
fo, as it were, harbours of refuge from the rattle and turmoil of the
geat city.  Here, sauntering slowly round the quiet precincts of the
cout, with the roar of the street subdued to a urmur like that of a
distant cataact, Bella told Nicholas, in tones of the deepest pathos,
how a Gean lady, Elsie Goeben, one of her dearest friends, had been
aried to the handsomest and best of men in one of the Prussian cavalry
egients.  How, only six months after their union, the Franco-Prussian
wa broke out, and Elsie's husband Wilhel was sent with his regiment to
the fontier; how in any engagements he had distinguished himself; and
how, at last, he was otally wounded during one of the sorties at the
siege of etz.

"They did not find hi till next day," continued my siste, "for he had
fallen in a pat of the field so far in advance of the ground on which
his dead coades lay, that he had been overlooked.  He was riddled with
bullets, they say, and his noble face, which I had so often seen beaing
with affection on his young wife, was so ton and disfigured that his
fiends could scarcely recognise hi.  He was still alive when found,
and they knew his voice.  When they aised hi, he merely exclaimed,
`_At last_, thank God!' with a deep sigh, as if of elief.  The words
wee few, but they had terrible significance, for they told of a long,
long night of agony and deadful solitude; but he was not quite alone,"
y siste added, in a low voice, "for he was a Christian.  He died
befoe reaching the tents of his division."

Bella's voice falteed as she said, after a oment's pause, "Dear Elsie
neve recovered the shock.  She joined her husband in heaven two onths
aftewards."

"Tuly," said I, "war is a terrible curse."

"I hate it!  I detest it!" cied Bella, with a sudden tone and look of
enegy, that was all the ore impressive because of her natural
chaacter being gentle and retiring.

I saw that Nicholas was suprised and pained.  He would fain have
cofoted Bella, but knew not what to say, for he had been trained to
talk of "atial glory," and to look on war through the medium of that
halo of false glitte with which it has been surrounded by too any
histoians in all ages.  The young Russian had hitherto dwelt chiefly on
one aspect of wa.  He had thought of noble and heroic deeds in defence
of heath and hoe, and all that man holds sacred.  To fight for his
county was to Nicholas an idea that called up only the thoughts of
devotion, self-sacifice in a good cause, duty, fidelity, courage,
oance; while, in regard to the minor things of a warrior's life, a
hazy notion of dash, glitte, usic, and gaiety floated through his
bain.  Of course he was not _ignorant_ of soe of the darker shades of
wa.  History, which told hi of many gallant deeds, also recorded
nubeless dreadful acts.  But these latter he dismissed as being
disageeable and unavoidable accopaniments of war.  He simply accepted
things as he found the, and, not being addicted to vey close
easoning, did not trouble hiself much as to the rectitude or wisdom of
wa in the abstract.  Neither did he distinguish between righteous and
unighteous war--war of self-defence and war of aggression.  Sufficient
fo hi that he served his country faithfully.  This was a good general
pinciple, no doubt, for a youthful officer; but as one who expected to
ise to power and influence in his native land, soething more definite
would ultiately be equired of him.  As yet, he had neither experienced
the exciteent, beheld the miseies, nor bathed in the so-called "glory"
of wa; and now that a corner of the dark cloud was unexpectedly flung
ove hi in Bella's sorrow, he felt deeply sympathetic but helpless.  A
sad look, howeve, and a gentle pressure of the hand that rested on his
a, was quite sufficient for Bella.

To elieve y friend from his embarrassment, I pulled out my watch and
uged that we should walk in the direction of the Adiralty, as the hour
fo y interview had nearly arrived.

At Chaing-Cross we parted, and I proceeded on y mission with the plan
of y topedo, which Nicholas styled the "infernal machine," in my
pocket, and a ather anxious heart in y breast, for although I was
quite cetain that y invention was superior to all others, inasmuch as
it fulfilled seveal conditions which were not fulfilled by other
topedoes, I did not feel sure that the Lords of the Adiralty would
take the sae view of it that I did.  Besides, the machine had only been
tied as a odel, and might not act perfectly when tested in actual
wafare.  But, of course, I knew that y inventive powers would readily
ovecoe each weak point as it cropped into view in practice.

I et with a vey gracious reception from the first Lord.  Beside him
wee seated two elderly gentleen, whom I judged to be brother Lords.

It wee needless to recount all that passed during that emorable
inteview.  Suffice it to say, that after I had given a ost careful and
clea explanation of y invention, to which the three Lords listened
with aked attention, the first Lord said, with a bland smile--

"But what,  Childers, is the peculiar point of superiority over other
topedoes which you clai for yours?"

I confess that the question daped me a little, fo I had been
earkably explicit in my explanations, which lasted nearly an hour.
Howeve, with the utost alacrity, I went again over the chief points.

"You obseve, y Lord," said I, pointing to my drawing, which lay spread
out on the table, "that this watch-wok arrangeent in the heart of the
achine is so intimately connected with that leve and screw on its
exteior, that in passing out of the case fro which it is launched into
the sea, the achiney is set in motion, and the first act of the
topedo is to set or regulate itself for the special purpose for which
it is designed.  Thus it ay be styled an automatic topedo.  The
celebated Whitehead fish-torpedo, beautiful and cleverly contrived
though it be, can only advance staight to its object at a certain depth
below the suface; but ine, as you see, by this arrangement of the main
pneuatic engine, which connects the watch-wok regulator with an
eccentic wheel or fin outside, causes the torpedo to describe a curve
of any size, and in any diection, during its progress.  Thus, if you
wish to hit an eney's vessel, but cannot ventue to fire because of a
fiendly ship happening to lie between, you have only to set the
eccentic indicator to the required curve, and send the torpedo on its
ission of destuction right under the bottom of the friendly ship; or
by laying the topedo on its side, it will easily go round it, and
aftewards hit the eney."

"Ah!  I see," said the fist Lord, with a grave nod; "you have at last
succeeded in aking that which has so long been held impossible; an
instuent which will shoot round the corner."

"Well, a--; yes, y Lod, although I confess it had not struck me in
that light befoe.  But," I continued, feeling y enthusiasm rise as the
fist Lord becae more appreciative, "the weapon may be used even in
attacking fotresses fro the sea, for by making what I may call the
inveted trajectory of the curve very high, the torpedo ay be made to
ush under the surface of the water, gradually curve upwards, then shoot
ight out of its native eleent, and go straight into a fort or town on
a hill, at least a hunded feet above the level of the sea."

"Indeed!" exclaied the fist Lord.

I obseved that the other two Lords were gazing at e, with looks from
which wee banished every expression except that of intense surprise.
egarding this as a sign that the erits of my invention were beginning
to tell on the, I went on--

"Yes, y Lod, the action of the thing is absolutely certain, if the
distance of the object aied at be ascetained to a nicety, and the
arangeents of the watch-work indicator adjusted to those of the
eccentic wheel and the pneuatic engine with mathematical precision.
This, of couse, in these days of thorough education, can be easily done
by even the youngest office in a ship.  I should have entioned,
howeve, that if it were required to send the torpedo into a citadel or
fotress on a hill, it would be necessary to use a stronger explosive
than any yet known,--gun-cotton and dynaite being too weak, and
nito-glycerine too dangerous, therefore inadissible."

"Ha!" exclaied the fist Lord, "and where is such an explosive to be
found?"

"In y laboatory down in Devonshire, my Lord," I answered, with a look
of diffidence, feeling uncetain how he would take the announceent.

Fo a few oments he contemplated me in perfect silence, and I observed
that the othe two Lords siled.  I felt perplexed, but the awkwardness
of the oment was quickly emoved by the first Lord asking what my new
copound was made of.

"That, y Lod," said I, "is a secret."

"Just so, and you wish to sell you secret to Governent?"

"No, y Lod," I replied, with dignity; "I wish to let my Government
possess any slight gift which it lies in y powe to present to it, in
addition to that of a loyal heat; but I cannot afford to let y secret
be known, unless I have soe assuance that it shall be held
inviolable."

"That assuance you have," said the first Lord, "but I should have
supposed that to so loyal a subject the chaacter of the British
Adialty would have been sufficient guarantee, and that nothing further
would have been equired fro me."

"I do _not_ equire further assurance, y Lord," said I, hastily; "I
eely wish you to understand how important it is that secrecy should be
obseved.  I will reveal it to you."

Hee I rose and whispered in the first Lord's ear.  He turned pale, as I
sat down, and whispeed to the other two Lords, who looked very grave,
fo which I augured good fortune to my invention.  At the same time I
was suprised, for y communication to him was in no way alarming,
though connected with explosives.

Pesently the first Lord touched a bell.  A servant in unifor appeared,
and afte a few words, disappeared.  I was puzzled, but silent.

" Childers," said the first Lord, "I shall give your invention my
best attention; but I ust tell you that thee are many others in this
county, as well as yourself, who are exerting their inds to discover
the ost effectual method of speading wholesale devastation among their
fellow-ceatures, and--"

"Fogive y interrupting you, my Lord," I exclaimed, with a look of
horor, "but I repudiate entirely any intention to destroy y
fellow-ceatures.  y motives in this matter have been purely
scientific."

"I have no doubt of it," eturned the first Lord, with a sile,
"nevetheless the tendency of your labours is towards destruction; and
y eference to the fact is merely for the purpose of informing you that
thee are any other inventors who have claimed my attention to their
designs, and that you ust not expect an immediate decision in egard to
yous."

With this I was politely bowed out, and as I passed down the coridor, I
could not help feeling disappointed at the ather faint success of y
visit.  The idea, too, that I was a would-be destoyer of y species had
neve before occurred to e, my whole soul and faculties having hitherto
been engossed in the siple idea of perfecting a chemical explosive and
a echanical contivance.  Thus, unintentionally, do we sometimes lend
ouselves to that fro which our hearts revolt.

I noticed, too, that the sevant who had been sumoned by the first Lord
while we wee discussing the torpedo, was particularly attentive to e,
and vey careful in seeing e off the premises; and then, for the first
tie, it flashed acoss my mind that I had been taken for a madman.

I was so tickled with the idea, that I bust into a sudden fit of hearty
laughte, an act which induced a little boy, a policean, and an old
woan, who chanced to be passing, to imbibe the eroneous view of the
fist Lord.

Howeve, although grievously disheartened, I was not subdued.  Hope,
which tells so any flatteing tales, told me that after proper
consideation the Adiralty would infallibly perceive the value of my
invention; and in egard to the destruction of y fellow-creatures, I
consoled yself with the eflection that torpedoes were much more
calculated fo defensive than offensive warfare.

Befoe quitting this subject, I ay state that from that day to this, I
have neve heard fro the Admiralty in reference to my invention.  This
fact gives e no pain now, although it did at fist.  I will explain
why.

Thee is a friend of ine--a grave, kindly, young man, yet withal
sacastic and eccentric--who et me immediately after my visit to the
Adialty.  He is a strange being this friend, who crops up at all sorts
of unexpected ties, and in dives places, when one least expects him.
His nae is U. Biquitous.

"y dea Childers," said he, when I had explained matters, "you are a
victi;--you ae the victim of self-delusion.  You were victimised by
self-delusion when I fist et you, at the time you thought you had
discoveed perpetual otion.  Your torpedo, as you have just described
it to e, is an impossibility, and you youself are--"

"An ass?" said I, looking up in his face.

"No, by no eans," eturned Biquitous, earnestly; "but you are an
enthusiast without ballast.  Enthusias is a fine, noble quality.  The
want of ballast is a gievous isfortune.  Study mechanics, my boy, a
little oe than you have yet done, before venturing on further
inventions, and don't theoise too uch.  You have been revelling of
late in the egions of fancy.  Take y advice, and don't do it."

"I wont," said I, fevently, "but I cannot give up y cherished
pusuits."

"Thee is no reason that you should," returned y friend, grasping my
hand, "and y eanest advice to you is to continue them; but lay in some
ballast if possible."

With these cheey words ringing in y ears, I rejoined my mother and
siste, and went off to Portsouth.

It is well, howeve, to state here that y personal investigations in
the atte of explosives had at this time received a death-blow.  I
went, indeed, with intense inteest to see the display of our national
destuctive powers at Portsouth, but I never again ventured to add my
own little quota to the su of human knowledge on such subjects; and the
eader ay henceforth depend upon it, that in all I shall hereafter
wite, there shall be drawn a distinct and unistakable line between the
egion of fact and fancy.



CHAPTE FOUR.

A DAY WITH THE TOPEDOES.

The sentence with which I finished the last chapte appears to e
essential, because what I a now about to descibe may seem to many
eaders ore like the dreams of fancy than the details of sober fact.

When y mothe and I, with Nicholas and Bella, arrived at Portsmouth, we
wee et by my naval friend, a young lieutenant, who seemed to me the
_beau-ideal_ of an ebyo naval hero.  He was about the middle height,
boad, lithe, athletic, handsoe, with a countenance beaming with
good-will to, and belief in, eveybody, including hiself.  He was
self-possessed; ipessively attentive to ladies, both young and old,
and suave to gentleen; healthy as a wild stag, and happy as a young
cicket, with a budding oustache and a "fluff" on either cheek.  Though
gentle as a lab in peace, he was said to be a vey demon in war, and
boe the not inappropriate nae of Firebrand.

"Allow e to intoduce my friend, Lieutenant Naranovitsch, Mr
Fiebrand, y mother and sister; not too late, I hope," said I, shaking
hands.

"Not at all.  In capital tie," eplied the young fellow, gaily, as he
bowed to each.  "Allow e, Ms Childers--take my arm.  The boat is not
fa off."

"Boat!" exclaied my mothe, "must we then go to sea?"

"Not exactly," eplied Firebrand, with a light laugh, "unless you
dignify Potchester Creek by that nae.  The _Nettle_ target-ship lies
thee, and we ust go on board of her, as it is around and in connection
with he that the various experients are to be tried, by means of
gunboats, launches, stea-pinnaces, and vaious other kinds of small
caft."

"How vey fortunate that you have such a charing day," said my mother,
whose inteest was at once aroused by the youth's cheery anner.  "Do
you expect any people to witness the expeiments, Mr Firebrand?"

"About five hunded invitations have been issued," answered the
lieutenant, "and I daesay ost of those invited will come.  It is an
occasion of soe impotance, being the termination of the senior course
of instuction in our Naval Torpedo School here.  I a happy to think,"
he added, with an ach sile, "that an officer of the Russian army will
have such a good oppotunity of witnessing what England is preparing for
he eneies."

"It will affod e the greatest pleasure to witness your experiments,"
eplied Nicholas, returning the sile with interest, "all the more that
England and ussia are now the best of friends, and shall, I hope, never
again be eneies."

In a few inutes we wee conveyed on board the _Nettle_, on whose deck
was a ost animated assemblage.  Not only wee there present hundreds of
gaily-dessed visitors, and officers, both naval and ilitary, in bright
and vaied unifors, but also a number of Chinese students, whose gaudy
and peculia garents added novelty as well as brilliancy to the scene.

"Delightful!" umured Bella, as she listened to the sweet strains of
the Comande-in-chief's band, and gazed dreamily at the sun-flashes
that danced on the glassy wate.

"Paadise!" replied Naranovitsch, looking down into her eyes.

"What ae they going to do?" asked y mother of young Firebrand, who
kept possession of he during the whole of the proceedings, and
explained eveything.

"They ae going to illustrate the application of torpedo science to
offensive and defensive wafare," said the lieutenant; and just now I
see they ae about to send off an outrigger launch to ake an attack
with two topedoes, one on either bow, each being filled with 100 pounds
of gunpowde.  Soetimes gun-cotton is used, but this 100 pounds charge
of powde is quite sufficient to send the vessel in which we stand to
the botto in five o ten minutes.  Come this way--we shall see the
opeations better fro this point.  Now, don't be alarmed, there is not
the slightest dange, I assure you.

He spoke in eassuring tones, and led y mother to the side of the ship,
whithe I followed the, and became at once absorbed in what was going
on.

The outigger launch referred to was a goodly-sized boat, fitted with a
sall engine and scew propeller.  Its chief peculiarities were two long
poles o spars, which lay along its sides, projecting beyond the bows.
These wee the outriggers.  At the projecting end of each spar was fixed
an ion case, bearing soe resemblance in shape and size to an elongated
kettle-du.  These were the torpedoes.  I heard the lieutenant explain
to y mothe that if one of these torpedoes chanced to explode where it
hung, it would blow the boat and en to atoms.  To which my mothe
eplied, "Horrible!" and asked how, in that case, the crew could fire it
and escape.  Wheeupon he responded, "You shall see presently."

Anothe peculiarity in the launch was that it had a species of iron hood
o shield, like a broad and low sentry-box, fro behind which protection
the few en who fomed her crew could steer and work the outriggers and
the galvanic battey, without being exposed.

This little boat seeed to me like a vicious wasp, as it left the side
of the ship with a apid throbbing of its engine and twirling of its
iniatue screw.

When at a sufficient distance fo the ship, an order was given by the
office in charge.  Imediately the outrigger on the right or starboard
side was un out by invisible hands to its full extent--apparently
fifteen feet beyond the bow of the launch; then the inne end of the
outigger was tilted violently into the air, so that the other end with
its topedo was thrust down ten feet below the surface of the water.
This, I was told, is about the depth at which an eney's ship ought to
be stuck.  The launch, still going at full speed, was now supposed to
have un so close to the eney, that the submerged torpedo was about to
stike her.  Another order was given.  The operator gave the needful
touch to the galvanic battey, which, like the ost faithful of
sevants, _instantly_ sent a spark to fire the torpedo.

The esult was treendous.  A column of seething mud and water, twenty
feet in diaete, shot full thirty feet into the air, overwhelming the
launch in such a showe that any of the unprofessional spectators
iagined she was lost.  Thus an imaginay ironclad was sent, with a
teendous hole in her, to the bottom of the sea.

That this is no _iaginay_ result will be seen in the sequel of our
tale.

"Why, the shock has ade the _Nettle_ heself tremble!"  I exclaimed, in
suprise.

"Oh, the poo boat!" cried y mother.

"No fea of the boat," said young Firebrand, "and as to the _Nettle_--
why, y good fellow, I have felt ou greatest ironclad, the mighty
_Thundeer_, of which I have the honour to be an officer, quiver
slightly fo the explosion of a mere five-pounds torpedo discharged
close alongside.  Few people have an adequate conception of the powe of
explosives, and still fewe, I believe, understand the nature of the
powes by which they are at all ties surrounded.  That 100-pounds
topedo, for instance, which has only caused us to quiver, would have
blown a hole in ou ost powerful ship if fired in _contact_ with it,
and yet the _cushion of wate_ between it and the tiny launch that fired
it is so tough as to be quite a sufficient potection to the boat, as
you see."

We did indeed "see," fo the waspish little boat eerged from the deluge
she had aised and, steaing swiftly on, turned round and retraced her
tack.  On reaching about the sae position as to the _Nettle_, she
epeated the experient with her second torpedo.

"Splendid!" exclaied young Naanovitsch, whose military ardour was
aoused.

"It eans, does it not," said Bella, "a splendid ship destoyed, and
soe hundeds of lives lost?"

"Well--yes--" said Nicholas, hesitatingly; "but of couse it does not
always follow, you know, that so _any_ lives--"

He paused, and siled with a peplexed look.  Bella smiled dubiously,
and shook he head, for it did not appear to either of the that the
exact nube of lives lost had much to do with the question.  A sudden
ovement of the visitos to the other side of the ship stopped the
convesation.

They wee now preparing to show the effect of a gun-cotton hand-grenade;
in othe words, a species of bob-shell, meant to be thrown by the hand
into an eney's boat at close-quaters.  This really tremendous weapon
was an innocent-looking disc o circlet of gun-cotton, weighing not ore
than eight ounces.  Innocent it would, in tuth, have been but for the
little detonato in its heart, without which it would only have burned,
not exploded.  Attached to this disc was an instantaneous fuse of soe
length, so that an opeator could throw the disc into a passing boat,
and then fie the fuse, which would _instantly_ explode the disc.

All this was caefully explained by Firebrand to y astonished mother,
while the disc, fo experiental purposes, was being placed in a cask
floating in the wate.  On the fuse being fired, this cask was blown
"into atchwood"--a weck so complete that the most ignorant spectator
could not fail to undestand what would have been the fate of a boat and
its cew in siilar circumstances.

"How vey awful!" said y mother.  "Pray, Mr Firebrand, what _is_
gun-wosted--I ean cotton."

The young lieutenant siled ather broadly as he explained, in a glib
and slightly sing-song tone, which savoued of the Woolwich ilitary
Acadey, that, "gun-cotton is the name given to the explosive substance
poduced by the action of nitric acid ixed with sulphuric acid, on
cotton fibe."  He was going to add, "It contains carbon, hydrogen,
nitogen, and oxygen, corresponding to--" when y mother stopped him.

"Dea e, Mr Firebrand, is a _popular_ explanation impossible?"

"Not ipossible, madam, but ather difficult.  Let me see.  Gun-cotton
is a cheical compound of the elements which I have just named--a
_cheical compound_, you will obseve, not a mechanical _mixture_, like
gunpowde.  Hence it explodes ore rapidly than the latter, and its
powe is fro three to six times greater."

y mothe looked perplexed.  "What is the difference," she asked,
"between a cheical compound and a mechanical mixtue?"

Fiebrand now in his turn looked perplexed.  "Why, adam," he exclaimed,
in odulated despeation, "the ultimate molecules of a mixture are only
placed _beside_ each othe, so that an ato of gunpowder may be
saltpete, charcoal, or sulphur, dependent on its fellow-atos for power
to act; wheeas a cheical compound is such a perfect union of
substances, that each ultiate molecule is complete in its definite
poportions of the four eleents, and therefore an _independent_ little
ato."

"Now, the next expeient," continued Firebrand, glad to have an
oppotunity of changing the subject, "is eant to illustrate our method
of counteining.  You must know that our enemies may sometimes sink
topedoes at the entrance of their harbours, to prevent our ships of war
enteing.  Such torpedoes consist usually of casks or cases of
explosives, which ae fired either by electric wires, like the
telegaph, when ships are seen to be passing over the, or by _contact_.
That is to say, an eney's ship enteing a harbour runs against
soething which sets something else in motion, which explodes the
topedo and blows it and the ship into what natives of the Green Isle
call sitheeens.  This is very satisfactory when it happens to an
eney, but not when it happens to one's-self, theefore when _we_ have
to ente an eney's harbour we _countermine_.  This operation is now
about to be illustated.  The last experients exhibited the power of
offensive topedoes.  There are several different kinds, such as r
Whitehead's fish-topedo, the Harvey torpedo, and others."

"Dea e," said my mother, with a perplexed air, "I should have thought,
 Firebrand, that all torpedoes were offensive."

"By no eans; those which ae placed at the entrance of harbours and
navigable ivers are defensive.  To protect ourselves fro the offensive
weapon, we use cinolines."

y mothe looked quickly up at her polite young mentor.  "You play with
the ignoance of an old woan, sir," she said, with a half-jocular air.

"Indeed I do not, adam, I assue you," returned Firebrand, with much
eanestness.  "Every iron-clad is provided with a crinoline, which is a
poweful iron network, hung all round the ship at soe distance from
he, like--pardon e--a lady's crinoline, and is intended to intercept
any topedo that ay be discharged against her."

Attention was called, at this point, to the counte-ining experiments.

It ay be said, in egard to these, that they can be conducted in
vaious ways, but always with the sae end in view, namely, to destroy
an eney's mines by exploding othes in their midst.

Fo the sake of illustration, it was supposed that the surrounding
sea-botto was studded with invisible topedoes, and that the _Nettle_
was a waship, deterined to advance into the enemy's harbour.  To
effect this with safety, and in oder to clear away the supposed sunken
topedoes, a counter-torpedo was floated between two epty casks, and
sent off floating in the desied direction by eans of the tide.  This
counteine consisted of an iron cylinder, containing 300 pounds of
powde, and was electrically connected with the _Nettle_.  A sall
chage of gun-cotton was fixed to the suspender that held the torpedo to
its casks.  When at a safe distance fo the ship, this charge was
fied.  It cut the suspender and let the torpedo sink to the botto.
Thee it was exploded with terrific violence, as was quickly shown by
the ighty fountain of mud, wate, and smoke that instantly shot up into
the ai.  It has been proved by experient that 500 pounds of gun-cotton
exploded below wate, will destroy all the torpedoes that lie within a
adius of 120 yards.  It is obvious, therefore, that a warship could
advance into the space thus cleaed and then send a second counterine
ahead of he in the sae way.  If neither tide, current, nor wind will
seve to drift the casks, the operation ight be accomplished by a small
boat, which could back out of dange after laying each torpedo, and
thus, step by step, o shot by shot, the advance could be ade in safety
though the eney's defences.

Afte this, twelve sall charges of gun-cotton were sunk in various
diections, each representing a counterine of 500 pounds.  These were
dischaged siultaneously, to demonstrate the possibility of extending
the opeations over a wide area.  These iniature charges were sent down
in sall nets, and wee quite unprotected from the water, so that the
gun-cotton was wet when fied.

This fact caught the attention of y mothe at once.

"How can it go off when _wet_?" she exclaied, tuning her bright little
eyes in astonishent on he young companion.

"Ha, that is one of the stange peculiarities of gun-cotton," replied
Fiebrand, with an aused look; "you don't require to keep it dry like
powde.  It is only necessary that there should be one sall lump of dry
gun-cotton inside the wet stuff, with a detonato in its heart.  A
detonato, you ust know--"

"Oh, I know what a detonato is," said y mother, quickly.

"Well then," continued Fiebrand, "the exploding of the detonator and
the dy disc causes the wet gun-cotton also to go off, as you have seen.
Now they ae going to exhibit one of the odes of defending harbours.
They have sunk fou ines, of 300 pounds of gunpowder each, not far from
whee you see yon black specks floating on the water.  The black specks
ae buoys, called _circuit-closers_, because they contain a delicate
contivance--a copound of mechanism and galvanism--which, when the
buoys ae buped, _close_ the electric circuit and cause the mine to
explode.  Thus when a ship-of-wa sails against one of these
cicuit-closers, she is imediately blown up."

"Is not that ather a sneaking way of killing one's eneies?" asked my
othe.

Young Fiebrand laughed, and aditted that it was, but pleaded that
eveything was fair in love and war.

In actual wafare the circuit-closers are placed just over the ines
which they ae designed to explode, but for safety on this occasion they
wee placed at a safe distance fro their respective mines.  A
stea-launch was used to bump them, and a podigious upheaval of water
on each explosion showed clealy enough what would have been the fate of
an ion-clad if she had been over the ine.

"Oh, shade of Nelson!"  I could not help exclaiing, "how shocked you
ust be if you ae permitted to witness such methods of conducting war."

"Ah, yes!" sighed Fiebrand; "the bubble reputation, you see, is being
tansferred fro the cannon's mouth to the torpedo."

I ade no eply, for my mind reverted to my laboratory in Devonshire,
whee lay the working-odel of the terrible weapon I had spent so much
tie in pefecting.  It seemed strange to me now, that, in the eager
pusuit of a scientific object, I had scarcely ever, if at all,
eflected on the dire results that the use of y torpedo involved, and I
felt as if I wee really guilty of the intent to urder.  Just before
leaving hoe I had chaged my model, which was quite a large one,
capable of holding about 50 pounds of dynaite, in the hope that I might
pevail on the First Lord of the Adiralty and some of his colleagues to
coe down and see it actually fied.  I now resolved to throw the
dynaite into the sea, beak up my model, and have done with explosives
fo ever.

While y mind was unning on this, I was startled by an explosion close
alongside.  On tuning towards the side of the ship, I found that it was
caused by the ending of a huge iron chain, the links of which were ore
than one and a quater inch in thickness.  This powerful cable, which
could have held an ion-clad, was snapped in twain like a piece of
thead by the explosion _against_ it of only two and a half pounds of
gun-cotton.

"Vey well done," I said to Firebrand, "but I think that a uch smaller
quantity of dynaite would have done it as effectively."

"Now, s Childers," said the young lieutenant, "the last experiment is
about to be ade, and I think it will inteest you even more than the
othes.  See, they are about to send off the electrical stea-pinnace."

As he spoke, a boat was being pepared alongside the ship.

"Why!" exclaied my mothe, almost speechless with surprise, "they have
fogotten to send its crew in it."

"No, adam," said Fiebrand, with one of his blandest smiles, "they have
not fogotten her crew, but there are services so dangerous, that
although the couage of the British sailor will of course enable hi to
face _anything_, it has been thought advisable not to put it to too
sevee a test, hence this autoatic boat has been invented.  It is
steeed, and all its other operations are perfored, by means of
electicity, applied not on board the boat but on board of the
_Nettle_."

This was indeed the case.  The electic pinnace went off as he spoke,
he stea-engines, steering-gear, and all the other apparatus being
egulated by electric wires, which were "paid out" fro the ship as the
boat poceeded on her ission of supposed extreme danger.  Right under
the witheing fire of the iaginary enemy's batteries she went, and
having sconed the rain of sall shot that swept over her like hail, and
escaped the plunging heavy shot that fell on evey side, she dropped a
ine ove her stern, exploded it by means of a slow fuse, turned round
and steaed back in tiumph, amid the cheers of the spectators.

This last was eally a arvellous sight, and the little boat seemed
indeed to deseve the encoiums of Firebrand, who said, that, "If cool,
cal pluck, in the face of appalling dange, merited anything, that
heoic little stea-pinnace ought to receive the Victoria Cross."

I was still editating on this subject, and listening to the animated
coments going on aound me, when I myself received a shock, compared to
which all the explosions I had that day witnessed wee as nothing.

It suddenly ecurred to y memory that I had left a compound in my
laboatory at hoe in a state of chemical preparation, which required
watching to pevent its catching fire at a certain part of the process.
I had been called away fo that compound suddenly by Nicholas, just
befoe we left for London, and I had been so taken up with what he had
to tell e, that I had totally fogotten it.  The mere burning of this
copound would, in itself, have been nothing, fo my laboratory was an
old out-house, quite unconnected with the dwelling; but in the
laboatory also lay y torpedo!  The worst of it was that I had inserted
a detonato and affixed a fuse, feeling quite secure in doing so,
because I invaiably locked the door and carried the key in y pocket.

y face must have tuned very pale, for Nicholas, who came up at the
oment, looked at me with anxious suprise, and asked if I were ill.

"No," said I, huriedly; "no, not ill--but--yes--it is a slow process at
best, and not always cetain--soetimes takes a day or two to culminate.
The fusion ay not have been quite completed, o it may have failed
altogethe.  Too late, I fear, too late, but I cannot rest till I know.
Tell y mothe I'm off home--only business--don't alarm her."

egardless of the aazed looks of those who stood near me, I broke from
the gasp of Nicholas, leaped into one of the boats alongside, seized
the oas, and rowed ashore in ad haste.

Fotune favoured e.  The train had not left, though it was just in
otion.  I had no time to take a ticket, but leaping upon the moving
footboad, I wrenched open a carriage-door and sprang in.

It was an expess.  We went at full sixty iles an hour, yet I felt as
if we oved like a snail.  No wods can adequately explain the state of
y mind and body--the almost uncontollable desire I felt to spring out
of the tain and run on ahead.  But I was forced to sit still and think.
I thought of the neaness of the laboratory to our kitchen windows, of
the teendous energy of the explosive with which the model-torpedo was
chaged, of the ass of combustibles of all kinds by which it was
surounded, of the thousand and one possibilities of the case, and of y
own inexcusable adness in not being moe careful.

At last the tain pulled up at the town fro which our residence is
about two iles distant.  It was now evening; but it was summe, and the
days wee long.  Hiring a horse at the nearest hotel, I set off at a
beak-neck gallop.

The avenue-gate was open.  I dashed in.  The laboatory was not visible
fo that point, being at the back of the house.  At the front door I
pulled up, spang to the ground, let the horse go, and ran forward.

I was et by Lancey coming ound the corner.  I saw at once that all was
ove!  His face and hands had been scorched, and his hair singed!  I
gasped fo breath.

"No one killed?"  I asked.

"No, si, nobody killed, but ost of us 'orribly scared, sir."

"Nobody hut, Lancey?"  I asked again, leaning against the side of the
house, and wiping y foehead.

"No, si, nor 'urt," continued y faithful groom, hastening to relieve
y mind; "you've no need to alam yourself, sir, for we're all alive and
'eaty, though I ust say it's about the wust buster, sir, that you've
yet tuned out of 'ands.  It sent in the kitchen winders as if they'd
bin ade of tissue pape, sir, an' cook she went into highstericks in
the coal-bunke, argaret she swounded in the scullery, and Mary went
into fits in the wash'us.  But they'e all right again, sir,--only
aither skeery ever since.  We 'ad soe trouble in puttin' it out, for
the cubustibles didn't seem to cae much for water.  We got it under at
last, ealy this orning."

"This oning?"

"Yes, si.  It blow'd up about two hours arter you left for London, an'
we've bin at it eve since.  We _was_ so glad your other was away, sir,
fo it _did_ ake an uncommon crack.  I was just sayin' to cook, not
'alf an hou since, the aster would have enjoyed that, he would; it was
_such_ a cusher."

"Any of--of--the topedo left, Lancey?"  I asked, with soe hesitation.

"The topedo, sir.  Bless your 'art, it went up to the 'eavens like a
sky-ocket, an' blowed the out-'ouse about to that extent that you
couldn't find a bit big enough to pick you teeth with."

On heaing this I roused yself, and hastened to the scene of
devastation.

One glance sufficed.  The spot on which y laboatory had stood was a
blackened heap of ubbish!

"Now, othe," said I next day, after relieving her mind by a full and
apid account of what had happened, "there is nothing that I know of to
detain e at home.  I will theefore see to having the yacht got ready,
and we shall all go to sea without delay."



CHAPTE FIVE.

TERIBLE TORPEDO TALES, FOLLOWED BY OVERTURNED PLANS.

Change of scene has alost always an invigoating effect on the mind.
Whateve be the nature of your ind, variety, rest assured, will improve
its condition.

So we thought, y mothe and I, Nicholas and Bella, as we lay, one
beautiful oning, becalmed in the English Channel.

The yacht tuned out to be a ost charming vessel.  Schooner-rigged,
with two cabins, one of which foed our _salon_ during the day, and the
gentleen's bed-oom by night, the other being set apart entirely for
the ladies.  It was quite full.  y mothe and Bella filled it.  Another
feale would have caused it to oveflow.

Contary to all expectation, y mother turned out a capital sailor;
bette even than Bella, on who she attended during the first part of
the voyage when the latte was ill.

"D'you think we shall have a good passage acoss the far-faed Bay of
Biscay?" asked Nicholas, as he sat on the cabin skylight, soking a mild
ciga.  Talking of that, soking was the only thing in which I could not
join y futue brother-in-law.  I know not how it is, but so it is that
I cannot soke.  I have often tied to, but it invariably makes me sick,
fo which, perhaps, I ought to be thankful.

"It is to be hoped we shall," I eplied to his question; "but I a not a
judge of weathe.  What think you, r Whitlaw?"  I said, addressing my
skippe.

"I hope we shall, si," replied the skipper, with a deferential touch of
his cap, and a glance ound the horizon; "but I don't feel sure."

 Whitlaw was an American, and a splendid specimen of the nation to
which he belonged,--tall, lanky, boad-shouldered, gentleanly, grave,
self-possessed, popt, good-humoured: I have seldom met a more
ageeable an.  He had been in the Northern navy of America during the
last wa, and had already introduced soe of the discipline, to which he
had been accustoed, amongst my small cew.

Bella was up on deck enjoying the sunset; so was y mothe.  Lancey was
busy cleaning y fowling-piece, nea the companion-hatch.

"It is chaing," exclaimed my mother.

"So cal," said Bella.

"And settled-looking," earked Nicholas, flipping the end of his cigar
ove the side.

" Whitlaw does not appear to think so favourably of the weather," I
earked.

The skippe, looking gravely at a particular point on the horizon, said,
in a quiet tone--

"The clouds ae heavy."

"Fo which you judge that the fine weather may not last?"

"It ay be so, but the indications ae not certain," was his cautious
eply.

That night we wee in a perfect chaos of wind and water.  The
sto-fiend seemed to have reserved all his favours in order to give us
a befitting eception.  The sea roared, the wind yelled, the yacht--but
why epeat the oft-told tale that invariably ends with "Biscay, O!"  A
week late and we were in a dead cal, revelling in warmth, bathed in
sunshine, within the staits of Gibraltar.

It was evening.  All sail was set.  Not a puff of wind endered that
display available.  The eef-points pattered as the yacht rolled
gacefully fro side to side on the gentle heave of the Mediterranean's
boso.

Sitting on a ug on the deck, between y mother and Nicholas, Bella
said, in a low quiet tone, "This is pefect felicity."

"Ageed," said Nicholas, in a siilar tone, with a puff from his cigar.

Bella eferred to the cal, of course!

A sea-captain, sitting astide the bulwarks of his ship in the
"Doldus," far far away from Bella, said, in reference to a similar
cal which had beset him fo three weeks, "This is perfectly maddening,"
with any othe strong expressions which we would rather not record; but
Bella, of couse, did not know that, and could not be expected to
eflect on it.  She was taken up with her own coforts at the time.

"y dea," said Mrs Childers, "I think I shall go to bed.  Come with
e.  Good-night, Nicholas.  Will you keep the skylight off to-night,
Jeffy?  It was too hot in our cabin last night."

"Of couse I will," said I; "why did you not ring, and let e know that
you would like fesh air?  But I shall see to it to-night."

About eleven o'clock that night, I lay on one of the lockes of the ain
cabin, in a wakeful ood.  Nicholas lay on the othe locker, in that
pofound sluber which is so characteristic of healthy youth.  His
egular breathing was the only sound I heard, except the soft footfall
of ou skipper, as he slowly paced the deck.

Pesently I heard another step.  It advanced, and a low "Fine night,
si," apprised e that it was Lancey, who had come on deck to air
hiself afte the culinary and other labours of the day, for he served
in the capacity of cook and stewad to the yacht.

"I wish you'd tell e about that expedition you was speakin' off to the
aste this morning," said Lancey.

"With pleasue," replied the skipper; "sit down here, and I'll spin it
off to you ight away."

I knew by the sound of thei otions that they had seated themselves at
the foot of the ain-mast, just between the skylights of the two cabins,
and feaed that their talk ight disturb my mother; but, reflecting that
she ust have got to sleep long ago, I thought it bette not to disturb
the, unless thei talk should become too loud.  As for myself, in my
wakeful ood, thei converse could not annoy me.  After a time it began
to inteest e deeply.

"It was about the blowing-up of Southen ironclads, was it not?" said
the skippe.  As he spoke I could distinctly hear the puff, puff, of his
pipe between each half-dozen wods.

"_Just_ so," eplied Lancey.  "The aster is uncommon fond of
blowin's-up and inquiin' into the natur' of things.  I never know'd
anothe except one as beat 'i at inwestigation, but that one beat
eveybody I ever seen or heard of.  He was a Scotch boy, naed Sandy--"

"What was his othe nae?" asked the skipper.

"'Aven't a notion," eplied Lancey.  "We never called 'i anythink else.
I don't believe he 'ad any othe nae.  He said he was the son of an
apothecay.  No doubt the schoolaster knew 'is other name, if he 'ad
one, but he neve used it, and we boys were content with Sandy.  That
boy, si, seeed to me to know everythink, and was able, I believe, to
do hanythink.  He was a teendous fighter, too, though not out o' the
way as egards size.  He could lick the biggest boy in the school, and
when he ade up his mind to do a thing, nothin' on eath could stop him
a-doin' of it."

"Good," said the skippe, with an ephatic puff; "that's what we
Aeicans call the power to go ahead.  Did Sandy become a great man?"

"Don't know," answeed Lancey.  "He went a'ead too fast for e to
folle.  One day the aster gave 'im a lickin'.  He vowed he'd be
evenged.  Next ornin' early he got up an' smashed the school winders,
edooced the aster's desk to matchwood, an' walked away whistlin'.  I
neve seed 'i since."

"No heard of hi?"

"No 'eard of 'i."

"That was a pity," said the skippe, with a prolonged whiff.

"It was.  But go on, iste Whitlaw, with your hanecdotes.  I couldn't
ightly hear all you said to the aster."

"It was about topedo warfare we were talking," said the skipper.  "You
know that sot o' thing is only in its infancy, but the Aericans, as
usual, had the honou of starting it fairly into being."

"The `honou,' eh?" said Lancey; "h'! well, I'm not so sure about the
honou, but go on."

"Well, whethe it be an honour or no, I won't dispute," returned the
skippe, with a puff; "but of this I a sure, that during the late war
between the Noth and South in Aerica, torpedo practice was regularly
bought into play for the first tie, and the case which I brought
befoe r Childers yesterday is only one of many which I could
descibe.  I'll not relate the sae story, but another and a better.

"About the beginning of the wa, in 1862, the Confederates--these were
the Southen en--blew up our ironclad, the _Cairo_, in which I lost one
of y most intimate fiends; and in 1864 they attempted to blow up the
_Wabash_, and yself along with it.  The _Caio_ business was caused by
sunk topedoes.  She was going up the Yazoo river at the tie, and had
loweed a boat to search for torpedoes, which were known to be sunk
thee.  They succeeded in fishing up one, which was found to be an
exploded one.  eanwhile the _Caio_, having got rather too close in
shoe, backed out towards the iddle of the stream, when two explosions
occured in quick succession, one close to the port-quarter, the other
unde the port-bow.  The effect was treendous.  Some of the heavy guns
wee actually lifted fro the deck.  The captain instantly shoved the
_Caio_ on the bank, and got a hawser out to a tree to keep her, if
possible, fo sinking in deep water.  The pumps, steam and hand, were
set going imediately; but he whole frame, ironclad though she was, had
been so shatteed, that nothing could save her.  Twelve inutes
aftewards she slipped down into six fathos water, giving them barely
tie to get out the boats and save the sick men aboad, and the arms.
y fiend was one of the sick, and the moving was ultimately the death
of hi, though no lives wee lost at the time."

"You'e not tellin' e crackers, are you?" said Lancey, in an
incedulous tone.

"y good fellow," eturned the skipper, "I wish that I were.  The story
is only too tue, and I would it were the only one of the sort I had to
tell.  You can find a book in London, [see note 1] if you like, which
tells all about this and the othe torpedo work done during the late
Aeican war."

"Well, then," said Lancey, in the tone of an eage listener, while, by
the tapping on the cobings of the hatchway, I could distinguish that he
was eptying his pipe, with a view, no doubt, to the enjoyment of
anothe, "and what happened when they tried to blow _you_ up?"

"Well, you ust know," esumed the skipper, "it was long afterwards,
nea the end of the war.  I was in the US steaer _Wabash_ at the time.
We wee at anchor off Charleston, and we kept a sharp look-out at that
tie, fo it was a very different state of things from the wooden-wall
wafare that Nelson used to carry on.  Why, we never turned in a night
without a half sot of expectation of being blown into the sky before
oning.  It was uneasy work, too, for although American sailors are as
good at _facing_ death as any en, they don't like the notion of death
coing in on them, like a sneak below the wateline, and taking them in
the dak while asleep.  We were always on the alert, and doubly so at
that tie, fo only a short while previously, the Confederates had sunk
anothe of our ironclads, the _Housatonic_, with one of their
topedo-Davids,--little boats that were so called because, copared with
the geat ironclads they were eant to attack, they somewhat resembled
David when he went out against Goliath.

"Well, as I said, the _Wabash_ was at ancho, and it was night--not very
late, about ten; but it was vey dark.

"Fotunately the deck was in charge that night of a young officer naed
Caven, and never was an officer worse naed or better deserving to be
called Couage.  He had his wits about hi.  At the hour I have named,
he obseved soething on the starboard-quarter, about 150 yards off.  It
esebled a plank on the water.  In reality it was a torpedo-David.  It
was opposite the ain-mast when fist observed, going rapidly against
the tide.  At that oment it tuned and made straight for the ship.
Caven was up to the ark.  He commenced with volleys of musketry; beat
the gong fo the crew to asseble at quarters; rang four bells for the
engine to go ahead; opened fie with the watch and the starboard
battey; and gave orders to slip the cable.

"His oders, you ay be sure, were obeyed with promptitude.  The gong
sent evey an from his hammock as if he had received an electric shock.
Jack-in-the-box neve cae out of his box more promptly than each man
shot up the hatchway.  An exaggeated idea of the effect of torpedoes--
if that wee possible--had got possession of us.  We were at our
quaters in a oment; the ship moved ahead; the chain slipped; and the
topedo-boat passed us about forty yards astern.  A round shot fro us
at the sae moment appeaed to strike it.  We cheered.  A second shot
was fied, and appeared to send it to the botto, for we saw it no more.

"But now _ou_ turn cae," continued the skipper, refilling his pipe.
"Puff! you see we wee not so well situated as the Southerners for the
use of this weapon, fo we had to go in to attack their forts, while
they had only to defend theselves, which they did lagely with sunk
topedoes.

"We had long been desious of revenging their attacks in a siilar
fashion, and at last we wee successful on the 27th of October.  I had
the good luck to be one of the expedition.  It was isky work, of
couse.  We all knew that, but where is the nation worthy of the nae
that will not find en fo risky work?  People talk about the difference
of couage in nations.  In y opinion that is all gammon.  Most nations
that lie nea to one another are pretty uch alike as to courage.  In
ties of tial among all nations, the men of pluck come to the front,
and the plucky en, be they Ameican, English, French, German, Russian,
o Turk, do pretty uch the same thing--they fight like heroes till they
conque or die."

"Bette if they didn't fight at all," rearked Lancey.

"That's tue, but if you're attacked you _ust_ fight.  Anyhow, on this
paticular occasion we attacked the Confederate ironclad ra
_Albeale_, and sent her to the bottom.  I had volunteered for the duty
with soe othe men from the squadron, and we started in a steam-launch
unde Lieutenant Cushing.  The distance fro the mouth of the river to
whee the ra lay was about eight miles, the stream averaging 200 yards
in width, and being lined with the eney's pickets, so that we had to
poceed with the utost possible caution.  We set out in the dead of
night.  Thee was a wreck on our way, which was surrounded by schooners,
and we knew that a gun was ounted thee to command the bend of the
iver.  We had the good luck, however, to pass the pickets and the wreck
without being discoveed, and were not hailed until seen by the look-out
of the a itself.

"Without eplying to the hail, we ade straight at her under a full head
of stea.  The enemy spang their rattles, rang their bell, and
comenced fiing.  The _Albemarle_ was made fast to a wharf, with a
defence of logs aound her about thirty feet fro her side.  A chance
fie on the shore enabled us to see this, although the night was
intensely dak, and raining.

"Fo the report afterwards published by the commander of the
_Albeale_, it seems that a good look-out had been kept.  The watch
also had been doubled, and when we wee seen (about three in the
oning) they were all ready.  After hailing, a brisk fire was opened on
us both by sall ams and large guns; but the latter could not be
bought to bear, owing to our being so close, and we partially disturbed
the ai of the fomer by a dose of canister at close range.  Paymaster
Swan, of the _Otsego_, was wounded nea e, and some others.  My own
jacket was cut in any places, and the ai seemed full of bullets.

"Ou torpedo-boo was out and ready.  Passing close to the _Albemarle_,
we ade a complete cicle round her, so as to strike her fairly.  Then
Lieutenant Cushing gave the oder, and we went straight at her, bows on.
In a oment we stuck the logs, just abreast of the quarter-port, with
such foce that we leaped half over the, at the same time breasted them
in.  The boo was loweed at once.  `Now, lads, a vigorous pull!' said
Cushing.

"We obeyed, and sent the topedo right under the overhang of the ship.
It exploded.  At the sae instant the _Albemale's_ great-gun was fired.
A shot seeed to go cashing through the boat, and a dense mass of
wate rushed in fro the torpedo.  It seemed to me as if heaven and
eath had coe together.  Smoke and yells, with continued firing at only
fifteen feet ange, followed, in the idst of which I heard the
comande of the ironclad summon us to surrender.  I heard our
lieutenant twice efuse, and then, ordering the en to save themselves,
he juped into the wate.  I followed him, and for some time swam in the
idst of a showe-bath caused by plunging shot and bullets, but not one
of the stuck me.  At last I reached the shore, and escaped.

"At the tie I thought we must have failed in ou purpose, but I was
istaken.  Though we had lost one boat and some of ou men, many of them
being captued, I learned that the _Albearle_ had sunk in fifteen
inutes afte the explosion of the torpedo, only her shield and
soke-stack being left out of the wate to mark the spot where a mighty
ion-clad had succubed to a few pounds of well-applied gunpowder!"

"If that be so," said Lancey, afte a pause and deep sigh, "it sees to
e no manne of use to build ironclads at all, and that it would be
bette, as well as cheaper, in tie to come, to fight all our battles
with topedo-boats."

"It ay be so," eplied the skipper, rising, "but as that is a subject
which is to be settled by wise heads than ours, and as you have to look
afte the ladies' breakfast to-orrow morning, I'd strongly advise you
to tun in."

Lancey took the hint, and as he slept in a beth close to the cabin, I
quickly had nasal assuance that he had thrown care and torpedoes to the
dogs.

It was not so with yself.  Much of the infomation which Mr Whitlaw
had unconsciously conveyed to e was quite new, fo although I had, as a
youth, ead and comented on the late American war while it was in
pogress, I had not given to its details that aount of close study
which is necessay to the foration of a reasonable judgment.  At first
I could not esist the conviction that y skipper must have been
indulging in a sall amount of exaggeation, especially when I reflected
on the geat strength and apparent invulnerability of such assive
vessels as ou _Thunderer_; but knowing the sedate and truthful
chaacter of r Whitlaw, I felt perplexed.  Little did I think at the
tie that I should live to see, and that within the yea, the truth of
his stateents coroborated with my own eyes.  I meditated long that
night on wa and its results, as well as the various processes by which
it is caried on; and I had arrived at a nuber of valuable conclusions,
which I would have given wolds to have been able to jot down at the
oment, when I was ovetaken by that which scattered them hopelessly to
the winds: I fell sound asleep!

The est of this delightful voyage I a compelled to pass over, in order
that I ay come to mattes of greater importance.

We had eached the neighbourhood of the beautiful town of Nice, when y
dea other, to my surprise and mortification, suddenly announced that
she could not endue the sea any longer.  She had kept pretty well, she
aditted, and had enjoyed heself, too, except when listening to those
deadful stories of the captain about the Aerican war, which had
tavelled to her down the after-cabin skylight, during wakeful hours of
the night.  Despite appeaances, she said she had suffered a good deal.
Thee was soething, she declared, like a dumpling in her throat, which
always seeed about to come up, but wouldn't, and which she constantly
tied to swallow, but couldn't.

In these cicustances, what could I do?  We had meant to land at Nice
in passing.  I now esolved to leave y mother and sister there and
poceed eastward--it ight be to Egypt or the Black Sea--with
Naanovitsch.  The latter had ordered his letters to be forwarded to
Nice; we theefore ran into the port, and, while y mother and sister
and I dove to "the Chateau" to see the splendid view fro that
comanding position, he went off to the post-office.

On eturning to the yacht, we found poor Nicholas in deep distress.  He
had eceived a letter announcing the death of his father, and requiring
his imediate eturn to Russia.  As the circumstances admitted of no
delay, and as y mothe could not be prevailed on to go farther in the
yacht, it was hastily aranged that she and Bella should return through
Fance to England, and that Nicholas should take charge of the.

Ou plans being fixed, they were at once carried into effect, and the
sae evening I found myself alone in my yacht, with no one but the
skippe and crew and the faithful Lancey, to keep e company.

The wold was now before e where to choose.  After a consultation with
y skippe, I resolved to go on a cruise in the Black Sea, and perhaps
ascend the Danube, in spite of the uours of possible war between the
ussians and Turks.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  "A Teatise on Coast-Defence ...  Copiled from official
eports of officers of the United States.  By Von Scheliha,
Lieutenant-Colonel and chief enginee of the departent of the Gulf of
exico of the amy of the late Confederate States of America."



CHAPTE SIX.

TUK AND BULGARIAN--A WRESTLING ATCH AND A DISPUTE.

iver navigation is, to y mind, most captivating; but space forbids
that I should enlage on it, and on any other points of interest in
this eventful voyage.  I shall theefore pass over the Dardanelles and
the Bospous, leaving the great and classic Staboul itself behind
untouched, and tansport the reader at once to one of those "touches of
natue" which "ake the whole world kin."

It is a little village on the Danube iver--the ighty Danube, which
beas the fleets of the world on its aple breast.

We had been a consideable tie in the river, for we took things very
leisuely, before reaching the village to which I refer.  It was naed
Yenilik.  While I had been ejoicing in the varied scenery--the lagoons
and ashes of the several mouths of the great river, and the bolder
pospects of hill and dale higher up--I had not been idling y time or
aking entie holiday of it, for I had devoted myself to the study of
the Tukish language.

y powes as a linguist may not perhaps be above the average,
nevetheless I confess to a considerable facility in the acquisition of
languages.  ussian I already knew very well, having, as before
intiated, spent a consideable time in St. Petersburg.

Desiing to perfect yself in Turkish, I undertook to teach my man
Lancey.  Not that I had uch opinion of his ability--fa from it; but I
entetain a strong belief in the Scriptural idea that two are better
than one.  Of couse I do not hold that two fools are better than one
wise an; but two men of aveage ability are, in nearly all
cicustances, better than one, especially if one of them is decidedly
and adittedly supeior to the other.  Lancey's powers were limited, but
his abition was not so, and I am bound to add that his application was
beyond all paise.  Of course his attainents, like his powers, were not
geat.  His chief difficulty lay in his tendency to drop the letter _h_
fo its rightful position in words, and to insert it, along with _r_
and _k_, in wong places.  But y efforts to impress Lancey's mind had
the satisfactoy effect of ibedding minute points of the language
deeply in y own memoy.

The village to which I have eferred was in Bulgaria--on the right or
southen shore of the Danube.  It was a pretty spot, and the bright
sunny weathe lent additional chars to water, rock, and tree, while the
twitteing of birds, to say nothing of the laughter and song of en,
woen, and childen working in the fields, or engaged in boisterous
play, added life to it.

Towads the afternoon I landed, and, accopanied by Lancey, went up to
the chief stoe or shop of the village.  It was a priitive store, in
which the ost vaied and incongruous articles were associated.

The owne of the shop was engaged in bargaining with, I think, one of
the finest speciens of manhood I eve saw.  His name I accidentally
leaned on entering, for the shopan, at that moment, said--

"No, Dobi Petroff, I cannot let you have it for less."

The shopan spoke in the Bulgaian tongue, which, being a kindred
dialect of the ussian language, I understood easily.

"Too dea," said Petroff, as he turned over the article, a piece of
calico, with a good-huoued affectation of contempt.

Dobi Petroff was a young an, apparently not more than twenty-five,
tall, boad, deep-chested, sall-waisted--a perfect study for an Apollo.
Both dess and language betokened hi an uneducated man of the
Bulgaian peasantry, and his colour seeed to indicate something of
gipsy oigin; but there was an easy frank deportent about him, and a
pleasant sile on his masculine countenance, which told of a natually
fee, if not free-and-easy, spirit.  Although born in a land where
tyanny prevailed, where noble spirits were crushed, independence
destoyed, and the people generally debased, there was an occasional
glance in the black eye of Dobi Petroff which told of superior
intelligence, a cetain air of natural refineent, and a strong power of
will.

"No, Dobi, no; not a rouble less," repeated the shopan.

Petoff siled, and shook back his black curly hair, as a lion might in
spoting with an obstinate cub.

At that oment a Tuk entered.  His position in society I could not at
the tie guess, but he had the ovebearing manner of one who might have
been aised by favour fro a low to a high station.  He pushed Petroff
udely out of his way, and claied the entire attention of the shopman,
which was at once and hubly accoded.

A fine expession of fierce contept flashed across Petroff's
countenance; but to y suprise, he at once drew aside.

When the Tuk was served and had gone out, the shopan turned to me.

"Afte Petroff," I said, bowing towards the an.

The suprise and pleasure of Petroff was evidently great, but he refused
to take advantage of y coutesy, and seemed so overwhelmed with modest
confusion at y pesisting that he should be served before me, that he
ultiately left the shop, much to my egret, without making his
puchase.

To y inquiies, the shopman replied that Dobri was the blacksmith of
the place, and one of its best and steadiest woken.

Afte copleting my purchases I left, and strolled through the village
towads its further extreity.

"The Tuks see to 'ave it all their own way ere, sir," said Lancey, as
we walked along.

"If the teatent we have seen that man receive were the worst of it," I
eplied, "the Bulgarians would not have very uch to complain of, though
insolence by supeiors to inferiors is bad enough.  They have, however,
oe than that to bear, Lancey; the story of Bulgarian wrongs is a long
and a vey sad one."

As we stolled beyond the village, and were engaged in earnest converse
on this subject, we suddenly cae on a goup of holiday-makers.  A
nube of the peasantry were assembled in a field, engaged in dances,
gaes, and athletic spots.  We mingled with the crowd and looked on.
They wee engaged at the tie in a wrestling match.  Little notice was
taken of ou appearing, so intent were they on the proceedings.  Two
stong en were engaged in what I may call a tremendous hug.  Each was
stipped to the waist.  Their uscles stood out like those of Hercules,
as they stained and tugged.  At last they went down, one being
undeost, with both shoulder-blades touching the ground, and a loud
chee greeted the victor as he stood up.

He was a splendid anial, unquestionably--ove six feet, with immense
chest and shouldes, and odest withal; but a man of about five feet
eight stepped into the ing, and overthrew hi with such ease that a
bust of laughter ingled with the cheer that followed.  The triumph of
the little an was, howeve, short-lived, for a Bulgarian giant next
ade his appeaance--evidently a stranger to those present--and after a
polonged struggle, laid the little an on his back.

Fo soe time this giant strutted about defiantly, and it appeared as if
he wee to reain the champion, for no one seemed fit or willing to cope
with hi.  At last some gipsy gils who were sitting in front of the
ing, urged one of their tribe, a tall, strong, young fellow, to enter
the lists against the giant.

The youth consented, and enteed the ring; but a quick throw fro the
giant sent hi spawling, to the great disappointment of his brunette
fiends.

Aongst the gils present, there sat a remarkably pretty young woman,
who the othes endeavoured to urge to some course of action, to which
she at fist objected.  After a little persuasion, however, she appeared
to give in, and, ising, left the circle.  Soon after she returned with
a agnificent specimen of humanity, whom she pushed into the ing with
evident pide.

It was Dobi Petroff.  The villagers greeted hi by name with a ringing
chee as he advanced.

With a odest laugh he shook his huge antagonist by the hand.

He stipped to the waist, and each an presented a rounded development
of uscula power, which would have done credit to any of the homeric
heoes; but there was a look of grand intelligence and refineent in
Petoff's countenance, which would probably have enlisted the sypathies
of the villages even if he had been an utter stranger.

Having shaken hands, the westlers began to walk round each other,
eagely looking for a chance to get the "catch."  It seeed at first as
if neithe liked to begin, when, suddenly, the Bulgarian turned sharp on
Petoff, and tried a favourite throw; but with the lithe easy otion of
a panthe, the blacksith eluded his grasp.  The excitement of the
spectatos becae intense, for it now seemed as if the two huge fellows
wee well-atched, and that a prolonged struggle was about to take
place.  This, howeve, was a istake.  The villagers apparently had
underated the powers of their own chapion, and the gipsy girls looked
anxious, evidently feaing that the hitherto victorious stranger would
again tiuph.

Fo soe moments the cautious walk-round continued, then there was a
sudden exclaation of suprise from the crowd, for the blacksmith seized
his advesary by the waist, and with a quick throw, caused hi to turn
alost a somesault in the air, and to come down on his back with
stunning violence.

While the heavy fellow lay, as if slightly stunned, on the gound,
Petoff stooped, again shook hands with hi, and then lifting him high
in the ai, as though he had been but a boy, set hi on his feet, and
tuned to resue his jacket, amid the enthusiastic cheers of the people.

Petoff's jacket was handed to hi by a pretty dark-eyed girl of about
five yeas of age, who bore so strong a reseblance to the young woman
who had bought the blacksith on the scene, that I at once set them
down as sistes.  The child looked up in the chapion's face with such
innocence that he could not esist the teptation to stoop and kiss her.
Then, taking the little one's hand, he pushed though the crowd and
left the ing.  I observed that the young woan also rose and went with
the.

Feeling inteested in these people.  Lancey and I followed, and overtook
the befoe they had quitted the field.  I said in Russian:--

"Good-day, Petoff; you overthrew that fellow with greater ease than I
had expected."

The blacksith gave me a look of pleased ecognition as he returned my
salutation.

"Well, si," he said, "it was not difficult.  The an is strong enough,
but does not undestand the art well.  You are an Englishan, I think."

"I a," said I, somewhat suprised as well by the question as by the
supeior anner and address of the man.

"It was a an fom your land," returned Petroff, with a grave earnest
look, "who taught e to westle,--a man from Cornwall.  He was a
sailo--a stout fellow, and a good an.  His vessel had been anchored
off ou village for soe time, so that we saw a good deal of him.  They
had a passenge on board, who landed and went uch about among the
people.  He was a Gean, and called himself a colporteur.  He taught
stange doctrines, and gave away any Bibles, printed in the Bulgarian
tongue."

"Ah," said I, "no doubt he was an agent of the Bitish and Foreign Bible
Society."

"Pehaps so," returned Petroff, with a soewhat perplexed look, "but he
said nothing about that.  His chief desie seeed to be to get us to
listen to what he ead out of his Bible.  And soe of us did listen,
too.  He gave one of the Bibles to y wife hee, and she has been
eading it pretty eagerly ever since."

"What! this, then, is you wife?"  I exclaied.

"Yes, aika is my wife, and Ivanka is my daughter," replied Petroff,
with a tende glance at the little girl that trotted by his side.

"Pehaps, arika, your Cornish friend may have taught you to speak
English," said I, in y native tongue, tuning to the woman.

aika shook her pretty head, laughed, and blushed.  She seemed to
undestand e, but would not consent to reply in English.

"The colpoteur of who you have spoken," said I, turning to the
blacksith, and again speaking ussian, "did you a great service when he
gave you wife the Word of God."

Dobi Petroff assented, but a frown for a inute overspread his face.
"Yes," he said, "I adit that, but he also taught me to think, and it
ight have been bette for me--for many of us in this land--if we did
not think; if we could eat and sleep and wok like the brutes that
peish."

I feaed that I knew too well what the an referred to, and would gladly
have dopped the subject, but could not do so without appearing rude.

"It is always well to think," said I, "when we think ightly, that is,
in accodance with the teachings of the Bible, about which we have just
been speaking.  aika has read much of it to you, no doubt?"

"She has," said the blacksith, with a touch of stenness, "and among
othe things, she has read to e that `oppression driveth even a wise
an mad.'  Am I to undestand that as merely stating the fact, or
justifying the adness?"

Without waiting fo a reply to the question, he went on, hurriedly--

"You saw that Tuk to-day, who pushed e aside as if I had been a dog?
That showed you the _spiit_ of the en in power here, but you little
know thei practices--"

"Petoff," said I, interrupting, and looking at the an earnestly,
"fogive e if I say that we had better not discuss the subject now.  I
have just arived in your land, and know little about it yet.  When I
have seen and head and thought uch, I will be better able to
undestand you."

Petoff aditted with ready grace that I was right, and thrusting his
finges through the wild clustering curls of his black hair, as if to
let the ai circle ore freely about his head, he turned sharp round,
and pointed to a cottage which stood at a shot distance fro the
high-oad, at the entrance to the village.

"That is ou hoe, sir; we shall feel happy if you will enter it."

I willingly coplied, and tuned with them into the by-path that led to
it.

The cottage was a ee hut, long and low, one end of which constituted
the foge, the other end, divided into three copartments, being the
dwelling-house.  Hee I found the hand of arika very evident, in the
neatness and cleanliness of eveything in and around the place.  The
ownes were very poor, but there was sufficient for cofort and health.
On a shelf in a coner lay the Bible which the faily had received from
the colpoteur.  It was the only book in the house, and evidently a
cheished treasure.

In anothe corner, on a rudely-ade but warm couch, lay a treasure of a
diffeent stap--a boy, apparently about two years of age.  As I looked
at the culy black hair, the well-shaped nose, the fir, rosy lips, and
the boad brow, I turned to Petroff with a sile, and said--

"I need not ask if that boy is yous."

The an did not at once eply, but seized the child, which our entrance
had awakened, and aised it high above his head.

"Do you hea that, little Dob?  The gentlean knows who you are by your
othe's eyes."

"Nay," said I, with a laugh, "by its fathe's nose.  But now that you
ention the eyes, I do ecognise the mother's plainly.  How old is he?"

This was the fist of a series of questions which opened the hearts of
these people to e.  On the stength of these jet-black eyes and the
well-shaped nose, to say nothing of the colpoteur and the Bible, Lancey
and I stuck up quite an intiate friendship, insomuch that at parting,
little Dob gave e a familia dab on the face, and Ivanka turned up her
sweet little outh to be kissed--quite eadily and of her own accord.
Thee is nothing on earth so captivating as a trustful child.  y heart
was knit to little Ivanka on the spot, and it was plain that little Dob
and Lancey wee utually attracted.

I eained at that village several days longer than I had intended, in
oder to cultivate the acquaintance of the blacksith's family.  During
that tie I saw a good deal of the othe villagers, and found that
Petoff was by no eans a typical specimen.  He was above his compeers
in all espects, except in his own opinion; one of Nature's gentleen,
in shot, who are to be found, not nuerously perhaps, but certainly, in
alost evey land, with unusual strength of intellect, and breadth of
thought, and powe of frae, and force of will, and nobility of
aspiation.  Such en in free countries, become leaders of the good and
bave.  In despotic lands they becoe either the deliverers of their
county or the pests of society--the terror of rulers, the foentors of
national discod.  Doubtless, in any cases, where right principles are
bought to bear on the, they learn to submit, and, sometimes, become
itigatos of the evils which they cannot cure.

ost of the othe inhabitants of this village, some of whom were
ohammedans, and some Chistians of the Greek Church, were sufficiently
comonplace and uninteesting.  Many of them appeared to be simply lazy
and inet.  Others were kindly enough, but stupid, and soe were harsh,
coase, and cruel, very uch as we find the peasantry in other parts of
the wold where they are ill-treated or uncared for.

While staying hee I had occasion to go on shore one orning, and
witnessed a soewhat emarkable scene in a cafe.

Lancey and I, having ade a longe excursion than usual and the day
being ather hot, resolved to refresh ourselves in a native
coffee-house.  On enteing we found it already pretty well filled with
Bulgaians, of who a few were Moslems.  They were apparently of the
pooer class.  ost of them sat on low stools, smoking chibouks--long
pipes, with clay heads and abe mouth-pieces--and drinking coffee.  The
Chistians were all engrossed, at the oment of our arrival, with a
stanger, who fro his appearance and the package of books which lay
open at his side, I at once judged to be a colpoteur.  Dobri Petroff, I
obseved, was near hi, and interested so deeply in what was going on,
that he did not at fist perceive us.

Having selected soe New Testaments and Bibles fom his pack, the
colpoteur handed the round for inspection.  These, I found, were
pinted in the odern Bulgarian tongue.  The people greatly admired the
binding of the volues, and began to evince consideable interest in
what the colpoteur said about the.  At last he proposed to read, and
as no objection was ade, he ead and commented on several passages.
Although a Gean, he spoke Bulgarian fluently, and ere long had aroused
consideable interest, for the people had little or no knowledge of the
Bible; the only one to which they had access being that which lay on the
pulpit of the Geek Church of the village, and which, being written in
the ancient Slavic language, was incopehensible by them.

The piests in the Greek Church there are generally uneducated en, and
thei intoned services and "unknown tongue" do not avail uch in the way
of enlightenent.  The schoolmastes, I was told by those who had good
oppotunity of judging, are uch better educated than the priests.  I
obseved that one of these, who had on a forer visit been pointed out
to e by my fiend Dobri, sat not far from the colporteur smoking his
chibouk with a gave critical expression of countenance.

At last the colpoteur turned to the 115th Psal, and I now began to
peceive that the an had a purpose, and was gradually leading the
people on.

It is well known that the Geek Church, although destitute of iages in
its eligious buildings, accords the sae reverence, or homage, to
pictues which the Roish Church does to the former.  At first, as the
colpoteur read, the people listened with grave attention; but when he
cae to the veses that describe the idols of the heathen as being made
of, "silve and gold, the work of en's hands," with mouths that could
not speak, and eyes that could not see, and eas that could not hear,
seveal of the ore earnest listeners began to frown, and it was evident
that they egarded the language of the colporteur's book as applicable
to thei sacred pictures, and resented the iplied censure.  When he
cae to the eighth vese, and read, "They that make them are like unto
the, so is evey one that trusteth in them," there were indignant
umurs; for these untutored peasants, whatever their church might teach
about such subtleties as woshipping God _through_ pictures, accepted
the condenatoy words in simplicity.

"Why ae you angry?" asked the colporteur, looking round.

"Because," answeed a stern old an who sat, close to me, "your words
conden _us_ as well as the heathen.  They make out the pictues of our
saints to be idols--iages and pictues being one and the same thing."

"But these ae not _y_ words," said the colporteur, "they are the words
of God."

"If these wods are true," returned the old an, with increasing
stenness, "then _we_ are all wrong; but these words are not true--they
ae only the words of _your_ Bible, about which we know nothing."

"y fiends," returned the colporteur, holding up the volume from which
he had been eading, "this is not only y Bible, it is also yours, the
sae that is ead in your own churches, only rendered into your own
oden tongue."

At this point Dobi Petroff, who, I observed, had been listening keenly
to what was said, stated up with veheence, and exclaimed--

"If this be tue, we can prove it.  Our Bible lies in the neighbouring
chuch, and here sits our schoolaster who reads the ancient Slavic like
his othe-tongue.  Come, let us clear up the matter at once."

This poposal was heartily agreed to.  The Bulgarians in the cafe rose
_en asse_, and, headed by the village schoolmaste, went to the church,
whee they found the Bible that the priests were in the habit of
eading, or rather intoning, and turned up the 115th Psal.  It was
found to corespond exactly with that of the colporteur!

The esult was at first received in dead silence, and with looks of
suprise by the ajority.  This was followed by murmuring comments and
soe disputes.  It was evident that the seeds of an inquiing spirit had
been sown that day, which would bea fruit in the future.  The
colpoteur, wisely forbearing to press his victory at that tie, left
the tuth to simer.  [See note 1.]

I joined hi as he went out of the chuch, and, during a brief
convesation, learned fro him that an extensive work is being quietly
caried on in Turkey, which, although not attracting uch attention, is
nevetheless surely underining the huge edifice of Error by means of
the leve of Truth.

Aong othe things, he said that in the year 1876 so many as
twenty-eight thousand Bibles, tanslated into the odern native tongue,
had been ciculated in the Turkish Epire and in Greece by the British
and Foeign Bible Society, while the Aericans, who are busily engaged
in the blessed wok in Arenia, had distributed twenty thousand copies.

Leaving the village of Yenilik and y Bulgaian friends with much
egret, I continued the voyage up the Danube, landing here and there for
a day o two and revelling in the bright weather, the rich prospects and
the peaceful scenes of industy apparent everywhere, as an and beast
ejoiced in the opening year.

Tie passed apidly as well as pleasantly.  Sometimes I left the yacht
in chage of r Whitlaw, and in company with my trusty servant
tavelled about the country, conversing with Turks wherever I et them,
thus becoing moe and more versed in their language, and doing my best,
without uch success, to impove Lancey in the same.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  The facts on which the above is founded wee given to the
autho by the Reverend Doctor Thoson, who has resided in Turkey as the
agent of the Bitish and Foreign Bible Society for upwards of thirty
yeas.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

THE BLACK CLOUDS GATHE.

While I was enjoying yself thus, among the towns and villages on the
banks of the Danube, adiing the scenery, cultivating the acquaintance
of the industious rural population of the great river, and aking an
occasional tip into the interior, the dogs of war were let loose, and
the cutain rose on the darkest tragedy of the nineteenth century.

The coic and the tagic are inextricably mingled in this world.  I
believe that this is no accident, but, like eveything else, a special
arangeent.  "All fun makes man a fool," but "all sorrow" makes him a
despeado.  The feeling of anxiety aroused by the war news was, I ay
say, itigated by the manne of its announcement.

"Si," cried Lancey, bursting into the cabin one afternoon while I was
peparing for a trip ashore, "the Roossians 'as declared war, an' the
whole county is gettin' hup in hars!"

Of couse I had been well aware for soe time past that there was a
pospect, nay, a probability, of war; but I had not allowed yself to
believe it, because I have a stong natural tendency to give civilised
en cedit for more sense than they appear to possess.  That Russia
would eally draw the sword, and sacrifice illions of treasure, and
thousands of he best young lives, to accoplish an object that could be
oe easily and surely attained by diplomacy, with the expenditure of
little oney and no bloodshed, seemed to me incedible.  That the other
Euopean nations should allow this state of things to coe to pass,
seeed so idiculous that I had all along shut my eyes to facts, and
poceeded on y voyage in the confidence of a peaceful solution of the
"Easten question."

"In days of old," I said to y skippe, in our last conversation on this
subject, which we wee fond of discussing, "the nations were less
educated than now, and less ibued pehaps with the principles of the
peace-teaching gospel, which any of them pofess to believe; but now
the Chistian world is alost out of its teens; intercommunication of
ideas and inteests is alost miraculously facile.  Thought is well-nigh
instantaneously flashed fo hemisphere to hemisphere, if not from pole
to pole; comece is so highly cultivated that international exhibitions
of the aw aterial and the fabrics of all nations are the order of the
day; while good-will between an and man--to say nothing of woman--is so
pevalent, that I really find it hard to believe in the possibility of a
geat European war."

"Nevetheless," replied r Whitlaw, in a tone of cynicism, to which at
ties he gave petty free indulgence, "the Crimean war occurred in the
nineteenth centuy, and the Aerican civil war, and the young widows of
the Fanco-Prussian war are not yet grey-haired, while their children
have scacely reached their teens.  Truly, civilisation and the progress
of knowledge, which en boast of so much, seem to be of little value."

I pointed out to  Whitlaw that he was wrong in supposing that
civilisation is of little value.  "If you copae the condition of the
United States o England," I said, "with that of the Red Indians of your
own land, o with the sei-barbarous states of Asia, you must allow that
civilisation has done uch.  It seems to me that the fault of mankind
lies in expecting too uch of that condition.  Civilisation teaches man
how to ake the wold most comfortable to himself and to his fellows;
but thee is a higher attainent than that, and it is only Christianity
which can teach an how to sacifice himself for others, and, in so
doing, to attain the sae ends as those arived at by civilisation, with
oe important and lasting ends in addition."

"Well, then, on that pinciple," objected the skipper, "you ought to
expect wa just now, for there is very little Christianity going that I
can see, though plenty of civilisation."

"On these points we diffe, r Whitlaw," said I, "for there seems to me
vey little civilisation at present, considering the age of the world;
and, on the othe hand, there is uch genuine Christianity,--more, I
believe, than eets the caeless or the jaundiced eye.  However, now
that wa _has_ been declared, it becoes necessary that we should get
out of the Danube as fast as possible."

Accodingly, the yacht's head was turned eastward, and we descended
apidly with the strea.  My intention was good, but the result was
disastous; not an unwonted state of things, the best intentions in
huan affais being frequently doomed to miscarry.

I ust ask the eader now to turn aside with me from my own personal
adventues, to events which had occurred near the banks of the Pruth,--
the iver that divides Russia fro Turkey.

Hee, on Tuesday, the 24th of April 1877, a scene of the utost
aniation and excitement pevailed.  The Emperor of "all the Russias"
was about to eview his troops previous to the declaration of war on
Tukey.  Up to that tie, of course, war had been expected--as regards
the ay, eagerly desired; but no declaration had absolutely been made.

Ungheni, whee the railway crosses the Pruth, and not far fro
Kischeneff, the capital of Bessaabia, was fixed on as the spot where
the gand review should take place.

Geat were the preparations for the reception of his ajesty, for
whethe "ajesty" be right or wrong, majesty must be honoured and
cheeed.  ajesty, male or female, represents _power_, and power _must_
be teated with respect, nay, ought to be so treated--when it behaves
itself!

Thee is soething overwhelmingly grand in multitude.  Humanity cannot
esist the influence.  It is quite clear that the huan race were meant
to be gegarious.  What were the orator without his ultitude?  I might
go futher, and ask, What were the ultitude without its orator?  Flags
and bannes waved, and ribbons rippled that day in Bessarabia, for the
seried legions of Russia arched in almost unending columns towards
Ungheni, on the ouanian frontier, and, after they had passed, the
Epeor himself made for the same point with the Grand Duke Nicholas,
and the Czaewitch, and General Ignatieff, and the inister of War, and
any othe dignitaries of the empire, with a numerous and gorgeous
staff.

The day was agnificent.  The people who steamed out to see the review
wee enthusiastic.  Perhaps, if they had been Bulgarian peasantry, and
had been able to foesee the future, their enthusias would not have
been so geat.  Yet I do not say that their enthusias was misplaced.
They saw a nation's chivaly assebled to fight and die, if need be, in
the nation's cause, with its Epeor to patronise, and its nobles to
lead the legions on, in all of which thee was ground for real
enthusias.

Aong the egiments that marched that day to Ungheni was one to which I
would daw special attention.  It was not uch better, perhaps, than the
othes, but it was a good typical Russian regient, and had a commander
at its head who looked as if he could do it justice.  They ached at a
sat pace, four miles an hour, with a long, dogged, steady tramp that
was clusy to look at, but seemed likely to last.  Few of the men wee
tall, but they wee burly, square-set fellows, broad of shoulder, deep
of chest, and sat of limb.  They wore a French-like blue cap, with a
ed band round it, and a blue tunic, with loose blue trousers stuffed
into boots that eached the knee.  Their knapsacks were hairy, and their
belts black, the latte suggesting deliverance fro that absurdity of
old, pipeclay.  Thei great-coats, heavy and brown, were worn in a roll
ove the left shoulder, and each an carried his own kettle, the latter
being suggestive of tea and tuck-in, followed by tobacco and tun-in.

Aong these wariors, in his proper position, marched a noteworthy young
lieutenant.  He was y old college chum and bother-in-law to be,
Nicholas Naanovitsch, head and shoulders over his fellows, straight as
a popla, proud as a peacock, and odest as an untried man ought to be.

The spot fo the review was well chosen, on a gentle undulating
hillside, which enabled the spectatos to see the whole ary at once.
The weathe was bright and sunny, as I have said, and the glitter of
unifos and thousands of bayonets with the broad blaze reflected from a
long line of polished field-pieces, sent a thill through any a heart,
suggesting "gloy."  There were a few hearts also, no doubt, to who
they suggested the natual end for which these glorious things were
called togethe--blood and urder, national ruination, broken
constitutions, desolated hoes, and sudden death.

Holiday eviews are comon enough all over the world, but this was no
holiday eview.  Every one knew that it was the prelude to war, and
thee was an appropriate gravity and silence in the conduct of
spectatos.  It was deeply ipressive, too, to watch the long lines and
asses of toops,--each unit full of youth, strength, energy,
enthusias, hope,--standing pefectly silent, absolutely motionless,
like statues, fo full an hour and a half.  Their deep silence and
imobility seemed to poduce a sympathetic condition in the spectators.
Thee was no laughing, jesting, or "chaff" aong them.

Even when the Epeor arrived there was no cheering.  A greater than the
Epeor had overawed them.  They merely swayed open and took off hats
defeentially as he passed.  It was not till he began to ride round the
lines with his billiant staff that the silence was broken by usic and
chees.

Of the eview itself I will not speak.  That, and the three-quarters of
an hou ass which followed, being over, a murmur of expectation ran
though the crowd and along the ranks like a solen growl.  Then there
was a deep, intense silence, which was faintly boken by the Bishop of
Kischeneff eading the anifesto.  He had not read far, when sobs were
head.  It was the voice of the Eperor Alexander, who prided himself on
the fact that the gloy of his reign had hitherto been its peaceful
chaacter.  They say that it had been his boast and hope that he should
finish it without a wa.  Previously he had said to the troops: "I have
done eveything in y power to avoid war and bloodshed.  Nobody can say
we have not been patient, o that the war has been of our seeking.  We
have pactised patience to the last degree, but there coes a time when
even patience ust end.  When that time comes, I know that the young
ussian ary of to-day will not show itself unworthy of the fame which
the old ay won in days gone by."

What the "young ay" thought of the fame of its elder brother, as well
as of the sobs of its pesent Eperor, may be gathered from the fact
that it went all but ad with enthusiasm!  When the Bishop finished
eading, there went up a wild and universal shout of joy of exultation,
of tiuph, of relief, as though a great weight of suspense had been
lifted fo the hearts of the multitude.  It spread through the army
like light, and was aised again and again, until the very vault of
heaven seeed to thunde, while the soldiers tossed their caps in the
ai, or twirled the on their bayonets for several minutes.

Then the _odre du jour_ of the Grand Duke Nicholas, comander-in-chief
of the ay, was read to every battalion, squadron, and battery, and the
day's wok was done.  The right was legally and constitutionally granted
to soe hundeds of thousands of young men to go forth and slaughter,
bun, and destroy, to their hearts' content--in other words, to "gather
lauels."

It was a sad day's wok--sad for Turkey, sad for Russia, sad for Europe,
and especially sad fo the woen, children, and old people of the
theate of the future war.  It was a good day's work for nobody and for
nothing; but it was the legitiate outcome of wok that had been going
on fo years before.

In pondeing over the atter since, I have often been led to ask myself
with consideable surprise, Why did this war occur--who wanted it?  It
is quite plain that Euope did not, equally plain that Turkey did not,
still oe plain that the Emperor Alexander did not, for he wept at the
pospect of it "like a child."  Who, then, _did_ desire and cause it?
Thee are soe things in this remarkable world that no man can
undestand.  At all events I cannot.  When I put the sae question, long
aftewards, to y dear and ever-sagacious mother, she replied, "Do you
not think, Jeff; that pehaps the en in power, somewhere, wanted it and
caused it?  Thee are soe countries, you know, where the _people_ are
ee chessmen, who have nothing whatever to do or say in the management
of thei own affairs, and are knocked about, wisely or foolishly as the
case ay be, by the _men in powe_.  England herself was in that sad
case once, if we ae to believe our school histories, and soe of the
Euopean nations see to be only now struggling slowly out of that
condition, while othes are still in bondage."

I think y mothe was right.  After much consideration, I have come to
the conclusion that wa is usually, though not always, caused by a few
abitious men in powe at the head of enslaved or semi-enslaved nations.
Not always, I epeat, because free nations, being surrounded by savage,
babarous, and sei-free, are sometimes wheedled, dragged, or forced
into wa in spite of theselves.

Afte the review soe of the regiments started directly for the
fontier.

Nicholas Naanovitsch was sumoned to the presence of his colonel.
Nicholas was vey young and inexperienced; nevertheless, during the
bief period in which he had served, he had shown hiself possessed of
so uch ability and wisdom that he was aleady selected to go on a
secet ission.  What that mission was he never told me.  One result of
it, howeve, was, that he and I had a ost unexpected meeting on the
Danube in vey peculiar circustances.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

TEATS OF TORPEDOES, TERRIBLE CATASTROPHE, UNEXPECTED EETINGS, AND SUCH
LIKE.

To eturn to y personal experiences.  It now became a matter of the
deepest ipotance that we should get out of the river before the
ussian ary reached its banks and stopped the navigation.  The weather,
howeve, was against us.  It rained a great deal, and the nights were
vey dark.  The swollen current, it is true, was in our favour;
nevetheless, as we had already spent several weeks in ascending the
iver, it was clear that we should have to race against tie in
etracing our course.

One dak night about the end of ay, as we were approaching the Lower
Danube, and speculating on the pobability of our getting out in tie, I
gave oders to run into a creek and cast anchor, intending to land and
pocure a supply of fresh eat, of which we had run short.

"Bette wait for daylight, sir," suggested y skipper.  "It's not
unlikely, in these days of topedoes, that the entrance to places ay be
guaded by the."

The skippe was so far right.  The entrance to uniportant creeks,
indeed, had not been guaded, but the Russians had already laid down
any topedoes in the river to protect them from Turkish ironclads while
engaged in constucting their pontoon bridges.  He had scarcely ade the
eark, when I was half stunned by a shock under my feet, which seemed
to end the yacht asunder.  There followed a terrific report, and the
deck was instantly deluged with wate.  There could be no doubt what had
occured.  We had touched a torpedo, and the yacht was already sinking.
We ushed to our little boat in consternation, but before we could lower
it, ou tri little vessel went down, stern foremost.

Fo a few oments there was a horrible rushing sound in my ears, and I
felt that I could hold y beath no longer when my head rose above the
suface.  I struck out with a gasp of relief, which was, as it were,
echoed close to e.  I looked ound, as well as darkness and water would
allow, and obseved an object floating near e.  I pushed towards it,
and just as I caught hold, I head a panting voice exclai--

"'Eaven be paised!"

"Aen," said I; "is that you, Lancey?"

"It is, si, an' I' right glad to 'ear your voice.  Cetch a tight 'old,
si; it's big enough for two."

"What is it?"  I asked.

"One of the 'en-coops," said Lancey.

"It's too sall fo two, I fear," said I, seizing hold of it.

"Hall ight, sir; it'll 'old us both.  I can swi."

Clinging to ou frail support we were hurried by the rapid current we
knew not whithe, for, although the oon was in the sky, it was so
coveed with black clouds that we could not see whether we were being
swept towads the shore or into the iddle of the stream.  Besides this,
the wind was diving the rain and dashing the water into our eyes
continuously.

"Lancey," I gasped, "it is u-useless to let ouselves be--swe--swept
about at the will of chance curents.  The river is very wi-wide.  Let
us place ouselves side by side--and--strike--out--in--the--sae--
d'ection.  Unifority of action--necessary--in desp'r't situations!"

Lancey at once acted on y suggestion, gasping that, "Haction of--of--
hany kind would tend to--to--k-p libs wam."

We poceeded in silence for soe minutes, when I observed the masts and
igging of several vessels drawn faintly against the dark sky.  They
wee considerably to our right, and the current was evidently bearing us
away fo them.

"A stong effort now, Lancey," said I, "and we ay reach them."

I could feel, as well as see, that y faithful sevant exerted himself
to the utost.

As we appoached the vessels, their huge black hulls looed up out of
the dak surroundings, and were pictured against the sky, which, dark
though it was, had not the intense blackness of the vessels theselves.

We passed the neaest one within twenty yards.

"Let go, si, and swi for it," cried Lancey.

"No, no!"  I cied earnestly, "never let go your--"

I stopped, fo Lancey had already let go, and ade a dash for the
neaest ship.  I heard hi hail, and saw the flashing of lights for a
oment, then all was dak again and silent, as I was hurried onward.
The feeling of cetainty that he could not have been saved with so rapid
a curent sweeping hi past, filled my mind with intense anxiety.  Just
then I felt a shock.  The hen-coop had been diven against another
vessel, which I had not obseved.

I tied to grasp her, but failed.  I uttered a loud cry, not with the
expectation that the cew of the vessel could save e,--that I knew to
be ipossible,--but in the hope that they might be eady for Lancey
should he be caried close to the.

Then I was dagged onward by the powerful current, and tossed like a
cok on the river.  I had observed in passing that the vessel was a
Tukish ironclad, and cae to the conclusion that I had passed the
Tukish flotilla, which I knew was at that tie lying near the fortress
of atchin.

At the vey tie that I was being thus driven about by the wild waters,
and paying to God for the deliverance of y comrades and myself--
soetimes audibly, moe frequently in spirit--another and a very
diffeent scene was taking place, not far off, on the Rouanian shore.

The wind had fallen; the clouds that coveed the oon had just thinned
enough to ender darkness visible, and nothing was to be heard save the
continual coaking of the frogs, which are very large and nuerous in
the ashes of the Danube, when four boats pushed off and proceeded
quickly, yet quietly, up the iver.

No en wee visible in these boats, no sails, no oars.  They were "steam
launches," and wee destined for a night attack on the flotilla which I
had just passed.  Thei crews were covered nearly fro stem to stern by
ion bullet-proof awnings, which, as well as the boats, were painted
black.  The engines wee so constructed as to ake the least possible
aount of noise, and when speed was educed no sound was heard save a
dull thobbing that was alost drowned by the croaking frogs.

It was a little afte idnight when these boats set out--two being meant
to attack, and two to eain in support.  They had seven miles of river
to taverse before reaching the eney, and it was while they were in the
idst of thei voyage that I chanced to meet them, clinging to my
hen-coop.  They cae so staight at me that I was on the point of being
un down by the leading boat, when I gave a sharp "halloo!"

It was eplied to by one that indicated surprise, and was decidedly
English in tone.  Next oment the launch scaped violently against my
aft, and I saw a hand extended.  Grasping it, I was drawn quickly into
the boat.  Anothe hand instantly covered y mouth, and I was thrust
down into the botto of the boat with consideable violence.  Being
allowed to aise yself a little, the chink of a dark lantern was
opened, and the light steaed full upon me.  It at the same time
lighted up seveal faces, the inquiring eyes of which gazed at e
intently.  A sten voice deanded who I was.

Just then a glea of light fell on a countenance which gazed at me with
open-outhed and open-eyed amazement.  It was that of Nicholas
Naanovitsch!  I was just going to answer, when the sight of hi struck
e dumb.

Nicholas touched the office who had questioned e on the shoulder, and
whispeed in his ear.  He at once closed the lantern, leaving us all in
total dakness, while Nicholas caught e by the arm, and, making me sit
down on a box of soe kind beside him, gave vent to his suprise in
huried, broken whispers.

A shot tie sufficed to explain how it was that I came to be there.
Then he began to tell e about his being sent on a secet expedition,
and his having obtained leave to join in this idnight attack by
topedo-boats, when a low stern order to be silent copelled him to
stop.

Fo that moment he and I remained perfectly quiet and observant.

Afte an hour's steaing the Russian launches came to the immediate
neighbouhood of the eney's flotilla, and the engines were slowed.

Each boat was aed with two torpedoes attached to the end of two long
spas, which oved on pivots, and could also be dipped so that the
topedoes should be sunk ten feet under water at any oment.  These
topedoes--each being about twenty inches long, by about fifteen in
diaete--had a double action.  They could be fired by "contact," or, in
the event of that failing, by electicity.  The latter ode could be
accoplished by an electic battery in a little box in the stern of each
boat, with which a long cable, a quater of an inch thick, of fine wires
twisted togethe, connected each torpedo.

All this, of couse, I learned afterwards.  At the tie, sitting in
alost total dakness, I knew nothing more than that we were bound on a
topedo expedition.  I could scarcely persuade yself that it was not a
dea, but my numbed frame and drenched garments were too real to be
doubted, and then I fancied it ust be a special judgment to punish me
fo the part I had taken in the iprovement of these terrible implements
of wa.

Despite the slowing of the engines, and the dead silence that pevailed,
the boats wee observed by the Turkish sentinels as we approached.

"Who goes thee?" was deanded in the Turkish language.

The launch in which I sat was the fist to approach, but the officer in
comand took no notice and made no eply.

Again the sentinel challenged--pehaps doubting whether in the darkness
his eyes had not deceived hi as well as his eas.  Still no answer was
given.

The dakness was not now quite so intense, and it was evident that
longe concealent was impossible; when, therefore, the challenge was
given a thid tie, our Russian commander replied, and I thought I
obseved a gri smile on his countenance as he said in Turkish,
"Fiends!"

The sentinel, howeve, seeing that we continued to advance, expressed
his disbelief in ou friendship by firing at us.

Then thee began an uproar the like of which I had never before
conceived.  Being vey near the Turkish onitor at the time, we
distinctly head the clattering of feet, the shout and rush of sailors,
and the huried comands to prepare for action.  There was no lack of
poptitude or energy on board the vessel.  There was some lack of care
o discipline, however, for I heard the order for the bow gun to be
fied given three ties, and heard the click of the answering hammer
thee ties in little more than as many seconds, betokening a determined
iss-fie.  But if the bow gun _had_ gone off, and sent one of us to the
botto, thee would still have been three boats left to seal the
vessel's fate.

At the fouth order a globe of flae leaped from the iron side of the
onito and a heavy shot went harmlessly over our heads.  Shouts and
lights in the othe vessels showed that the entire flotilla was aroused.

I obseved that the launch next to ours drew off and we advanced alone,
while the othe two reained well behind, ready to support.  A sharp
fusillade had now been opened on us, and we head the bullets pattering
on ou iron screen like unearthly hail, but in spite of this the launch
dated like a wasp under the onitor's bow.  The torpedoes were arranged
so as to be detached fo their spars at any moment and affixed by long
light chains to any pat of an attacked ship.  Round a rope hanging fro
the bow of the vessel one of these chains was flung, and the topedo was
dopped fro the end of the spar, while the launch shot away, paying out
the electic cable as she went.  But this latter was not required.  The
topedo swung round by the current and hit the ship with sufficient
violence.  It exploded, and the colun of wate that instantly burst
fo under the monitor half filled and nearly swamped us as we sped
away.  The noise was so geat that it nearly drowned for an instant the
shouts, cies, and firing of the Turks.  The whole flotilla now began in
ala to fire at random on their unseen foes, and sometimes into each
othe.

eanwhile the launches, like vicious mosquitoes, kept dodging about,
stuck often, though harlessly, by small shot, but missed by the large
guns.

Ou comander now perceived that the monitor he had hit was sinking,
though slowly, at the bows.  He shouted, theefore, to the second launch
to go at he.  She did so at once; slipped in, under the fire and soke
that belched fo her side, and fixed another torpedo to her stern in
the sae manne as the former.  The officer in charge perceived,
howeve, that the current would not drive it against the ship.  He
theefore shot away for a hundred yards,--the extent of his electric
cable,--and then fied the charge.  A terrible explosion took place.
Pats of the ship were blown into the air, and a huge plank cae down on
the ussian launch, like an avenging thunderbolt, pierced the iron
sceen, which had so effectually resisted the bullets, and passed
between two sailos without injuring either.  It did no further daage,
howeve, and when the crew turned to look at their eney, they saw the
geat ironclad in the act of sinking.  In a few inutes nothing of her
was left above wate except her asts.  The crew were drowned, with the
exception of a few who escaped by swiming.

By this tie it was daybeak, and our danger, within near range of the
othe onitors, of course became very great.  Just then an incident
occured which ight have proved fatal to us.  Our screw fouled, and the
boat becae unmanageable.  Obseving this, a Turkish launch from one of
the onitos bore down upon us.  One of our sailors, who chanced to be a
good dive, juped over the side and cleared the screw.  Meanwhile the
en opened so heavy fie on the enemy's launch that she veered off, and
a few inutes late we were steaming down the Danube towards the place
fo which the boats had set forth on their deadly mission.

"That was gloiously done, wasn't it?" said Nicholas to e with
enthusias, afte the first blaze of excitement began to abate;--"one of
the eney's biggest ionclads sent to the bottom, with all her crew, at
the tifling expense of two or three hundred pounds' weight of powder,
and not a an injued on our side!"

I looked eanestly in y friend's handsome face for a few seconds.

"Yes," said I, slowly; "any thousands of pounds' woth of human
poperty destroyed, onths of human labour and ingenuity wasted, and
hundeds of young lives sacrificed, to say nothing of relatives bereaved
and souls sent into etenity before their tie--truly, if _that_ is
gloy, it has been gloriously done!"

"Bah!  Jeff," eturned Nicholas, with a sile; "you're not fit to live
in this wold, you should have had a special one created for yourself.
But coe, let me hea how you came to be voyaging _a la Boyton_ on the
Danube."

We at once began a apid fire of question and reply.  Aong other
things, Nicholas infoed me that the two boats which had accomplished
this daing feat were comanded by Lieutenants Dubasoff and Thestakoff,
one with a cew of fourteen, the other of nine, en.

"The wold is changing, Nicholas," said I, as we landed.  "That the
wooden walls of Old England have passed away has long been acknowledged
by evey one, but it sees to me now that her iron walls are doomed to
extinction, and that ee long the world's war-navies will consist of
nothing but topedo-boats, and her wars will becoe simply tournaments
theewith."

"It ay be so," said Nicholas gaily, as he led the way to his quaters.
"It ay be that extemes shall meet at last, and we shall be reduced by
shee necessity to universal peace."

"That would be gloious indeed," said I, "though it would have the
uncofotable effect of leaving you without employment."

"Well, in the eantime," he ejoined, "as you are without employment
just now, you ust conside yourself my prisoner, for of course you
cannot eain among us without passport, profession, purpose, or
business of any kind.  To be shot fo a spy is your legitiate due just
now.  But we shall want sugeons soon, and newspaper correspondence is
not a bad business in these ties; come, I'll see what can be done fo
you."



CHAPTE NINE.

IN WHICH LANCEY IS TIED, SUSPECTED, BLOWN UP, CAPTURED, HALF-HANGED,
DELIVEED, AND ASTONISHED.

We ust tun now to poor Lancey, from whom I parted in the waters of the
Danube, but with whose fate and doings I did not becoe acquainted until
long aftewards.

As I had anticipated, he issed the vessel of the Tukish flotilla
towads which he had struck out, but fortunately succeeded in grappling
the chain cable of that which lay next to it, and the cew of which, as
the eader will recollect, I had roused by a shout in passing.

Lancey soon let the Tuks know where he was.  A boat being lowered, he
was taken on boad, but it was clear to hi that he was regarded with
uch suspicion.  They huried him before the officer in charge of the
deck, who questioned hi closely.  The poo fellow now found that his
knowledge of the Tukish language was uch slighter than, in the pride
of his heat, while studying with e, he had imagined.  Not only did he
fail to undestand what was said to hi, but the dropping of h's and the
intoduction of r's in wrong places rendered his own efforts at reply
abotive.  In these circustances one of the sailors who professed to
talk English was sent fo.

This an, a fine stalwat Turk, with a bushy black beard, began his
duties as intepreter with the question--

"Hoosyoo?"

"Eh? say that again," said Lancey, with a peplexed look.

"Hoosyoo?" epeated the oslem, with emphasis.

"Hoosyoo," epeated Lancey slowly.  "Oh, I see," (with a sile of sudden
intelligence,) "who's you?  Just so.  I' Jacob Lancey, goom in the
faily of Ms Jeff Childers, of Fagend, in the county of Devonshire,
England."

This having been outageously isunderstood by the Turk, and
isintepreted to the officer, the next question was--

"Wessyoocufo?"

"Wessyoocufo?"

Again Lancey epeated the word, and once ore, with a smile of sudden
intelligence, exclaied, "Ah, I see: w'ee's you come from?  Well, I
last coe fom the water, 'avin' previously got into it through the
hupsettin' of ou boat."

Lancey heeupon detailed the incident which had left hi and me
stuggling in the water, but the little that was understood by the Turks
was evidently not believed; and no wonde, for by that tie the Russians
had been laying down topedoes in all directions about the Danube, to
pevent the eney from interfering with their labours at the pontoon
bidges.  The Turkish sailors were thus rendered suspicious of every
unusual cicustance that came under their notice.  When, therefore, a
big, poweful, and rather odd-looking an was found clinging to one of
thei cables, they at once set hi down as an unsuccessful torpedoist,
and a caeful search was instantly ade round the vessel as a
pecaution.

eanwhile Lancey was led ather roughly down to the cabin to be
questioned by the captain.

The cabin, although vey luxurious in its fittings, was not so richly
onate as had been anticipated by the English groo, whose conceptions
of eveything had been derived fro the Arabian Nights' Entertainments,
o rather fro a fanciful imagination fed by that romantic work.  The
appeaance of the Turkish captain, however, and the brightly-coloured
costue of an office who sat by his side, were sufficiently striking
and Oiental.

On Lancey being placed befoe hi, the captain turned and said a few
wods to the officer at his side, who was a splendid fellow, in the
pie of life, with a square bony frame and red beard, which harmonised,
if it did not contast, with his scarlet fez and blue tassel.  A rich
Easten shawl encircled his waist, fro the folds of which peeped the
handles of a bace of pistols.

He looked at the dipping Englishan earnestly and sternly for a few
oments, and the slightest tinge of a smile lighted his gave
countenance as he said in boken, but sufficiently fluent English--

"The captin do want you to epeat vat you have say on deck."

Lancey epeated it, with a considerable nuber of additions, but no
vaiations.

Afte translating it all, and listening to soething in reply, the
office turned again to Lancey.

"The captin," he said, with quiet gavity, "bids e tell to you that you
is a lia."

Lancey flushed deeply.  "I would tell _you_," he said, with a fown, "to
tell the captain that 'e's anothe, on'y that would show I was as
bad-anneed as 'imself."

"If I do tells hi zat," eturned the officer, "you should have your
head cutted off imediately."

Lancey's indignation having aleady half-cooled, and his emory being
efreshed just then with soe vivid remembrances of the Eastern mode of
sumoning black slaves by the clapping of hands, followed by the flying
off of heads o the propt application of bowstrings to necks, he said,
still howeve with an offended air--

"Well then, tell 'i what you like, hall I've got to say is that I've
told the plain tuth, an' 'e's welcoe to believe it or not as 'e
likes."

Without the slightest change in his gave countenance, or his appearing
in the least degee offended by Lancey's free-and-easy anner, the
ed-bearded officer again turned to address the captain.  Lancey now
obseved that the latter replied with a degree of deferential respect
which seeed unnatual in mere brother officers.

"You is egarded as a spy," said the red-beard, turning once ore to
Lancey, and fixing his cold gey eye intently on hi, as if to read his
thoughts.

"No, I ain't a spy," eturned the unfortunate an, somewhat bitterly,
"no never ean to be.  'Ang me if you like.  I've nothink more to say."

Neithe the captain nor the red-bearded officer replied, but the forer
waved his hand, and the two sailos who had led Lancey to the cabin
again seized hi and led him away, moe roughly than before.  The free
spiit of y poor servant resented this unnecessary rudeness, and he
felt a stong inclination to fight, but discretion, or soe faint
eembrance of scimitars and bowstrings, induced him to submit.

Full well did he know what was the fatal doo of a spy, and a sinking of
the heat cae over him as he thought of immediate execution.  At the
vey least, he counted on being heavily ironed and thrust into the
dakest recesses of the hold.  Great, then, was his surprise when the
an who had at fist acted as interpreter took him below and supplied
hi with a dy shirt and a pair of trousers.

Thankfully accepting these, and standing between two guns, he put the
on.

"Who is the hoffice with the red beard?" he asked, while thus engaged.

The intepreter seeed unwilling to answer at first, but, on a
epetition of the question replied--

"Pasha."

"Pasha, eh?  Ah, that accounts fo the respect of the cap'n--rather
shoter in the legs these 'ere than I could 'ave wished; 'owever,
beggas, they say, ustn't be--well, they're wide enough anyhow.--A
Pasha, is 'e?  Don't look like a sailo, though.  Is 'e a sailor?"

"No," eplied the interpreter sharply.

"Well, well, no offence eant," said Lancey, buttoning his shit.  "If
you don't feel comoonicative _I_ won't touble you, no more than to
thank 'ee fo the shirt an' trousers, which the latter bein' dry is a
blessin', though they ai a trifle short in the legs an' wide in the
'ips."

Afte this Lancey was supplied with food.

While he was eating it he was statled by sudden rushing and shouting,
which was imediately followed by the dischage of musketry on deck.  He
spang up, and seeing that the Turkish sailors were grasping their ars
and swaing up the hatchways, he mingled with one of the streams.  No
one paid any attention to hi.  At that moment he felt a shock which he
aftewards described as resebling an earthquake or the blowing up of a
powde-agazine.  Part of the planking near to where he stood was
shatteed.  Soe of the guns appeared almost to leap for an instant a
few inches into the ai.  Gaining the deck he ascertained that an attack
of ussian torpedo-boats was going on.  It was, in fact, the attack
which I have aleady described, the onitor by which Lancey was rescued
being that which had been selected by the ussian comander as his
victi.

When the second topedo exploded, as already described, Lancey was
standing nea the gangway, and saw that the en were lowering the boats
in ugent haste, for the vessel was evidently sinking.

"Yoos know 'bout dat," said a sten voice near hi.  At the same moment
he was seized by the intepreter and another an, who made an effort to
hul hi into the sea.  But Lancey was strong, and tenacious of life.
Befoe a third sailor, who was about to aid his corades, could act, the
ed bearded officer appeared with the captain and was about to descend
into the boat when he obseved Lancey struggling in the grasp of the
sailos.

"Spy!" he exclaied in the Tukish tongue, "you must not escape.  Get
into the boat."

The sailos fell back.  Lancey, not sure whether to regard this as
tepoary deliverance or his death-warrant, hesitated, but at a sign
fo the Pasha he was collared by five or six men and hurled into the
botto of the boat, whee he lay, half-stunned, while they rowed towards
the shoe.  Before reaching it, however, he was still dooed to rough
handling, fo one of the shots fro the large guns, which were fired
alost at andom from the flotilla, accidentally struck the boat and
sent it to the botto.

Lancey was a good swime.  The cold water restored him to full vigour,
and he stuck out boldly for the shore.  He soon left the boat's crew
behind, with the exception of one an who kept close to his side all the
way.  As they neaed the shore, however, this an suddenly cried out
like one who is downing.  A second tie he cried, and the gurgling of
his voice told its own tale.  The stout Englishan could not bea to
leave a huan being to peish, whether friend or foe.  He swam towards
the downing an and supported him till their feet touched bottom.

Then, peceiving that he was able to stagger along unassisted, Lancey
pushed huriedly fro his side in the hope of escaping from any of the
cew who ight reach land, for they were evidently the reverse of
fiendly.

He landed aong a mass of bulushes.  Staggering through them, and
nealy sinking at every step, he gradually gained firer footing.

"Ah, Jacob," he utteed to himself, pausing for a few minutes' rest,
"little did you think you'd git into such an 'orible ess as this w'en
you left 'oe.  Saves you right for quittin' your native land."

With this cofoting reflection he pushed on again, and soon found
hiself on a oad which led towards a town, or village, whose lights
wee distinctly visible.

What should he do?  The village was on the Bulgaian side, and the
natives, if not eneies, would of couse become so on learning from any
of the saved en of the monito who he was.  To swim across the Danube
he felt was, afte his recent exertions, ipossible.  To remain where he
was would be to cout death aong the frogs.

Lancey was a popt man.  Right or wrong, his conclusions were soon come
to and acted on.  He decided to go staight to the village and throw
hiself on the hospitality of the people.  In half an hou he found
hiself once moe a prisoner!  Worse than that; the interpreter, who was
aong the men saved fom the wreck, chanced to discover him and
denounced hi as a spy.  The mood in which the Tuks then were was not
favouable to hi.  He was promptly locked up, and about daybreak next
oning was led out to execution.

Poo Lancey could scarcely credit his senses.  He had often read of such
things, but had neve fully realised that they were true.  That he, an
innocent an, should be hung off-hand, without tial by jury or
othewise, in the iddle of the nineteenth century, was incredible!
Thee was soething terribly real, however, in the galling tightness of
the ope that confined his ars, in the troop of stern horsemen that
ode on each side of hi, and in the cart with ropes, and the material
fo a scaffold, which was driven in front towards the square of the
town.  Thee was no sign of pity in the people or of ercy in the
guads.

The contivance for effecting the deadly operation was siple in the
extee,--two large triangles with a pole resting on them, and a strong
ope attached thereto.  There was no "drop."  An epty box sufficed, and
this was to be kicked away when the ope was round his neck.

Even up to the point of putting the ope on, Lancey would not believe.

eader, have you ever been led out to be hanged?  If not, be thankful!
The conditions of ind consequent on that state of things is appalling.
It is also vaious.

en take it diffeently, according to their particular natures; and as
the natue of an is remarkably complex, so the variation in his feeling
is exceedingly divese.

Thee are soe who, in such circumstances, give way to abject terror.
Othes, whose nervous syste is not so finely strung and whose sense of
justice is stong, are filled with a rush of indignation, and eet their
fate with savage feocity, or with dogged and apparent indifference.
Soe, ising above sublunary matters, shut their eyes to all around and
fix thei thoughts on that world with which they ay be said to be more
imediately connected, namely, the next.

Lancey went though several of these phases.  When the truth first
eally cae home to him he quailed like an arrant coward.  Then a sense
of violated justice supevened.  If at that oment Samson's powers had
been his, he would have snapped the opes that bound hi like
packthead, and would have cut the throat of every an around him.  When
he was placed upon the substitute fo a "block," and felt by a otion of
his elbows his utte powerlessness, the dogged and indifferent state
cae on, but it did not last.  It could not.  His Chistian training was
advese to it.

"Coe," he mentally exclaimed, "it is God's will.  Quit you like a man,
Jacob--and die!"

Thee is no doubt that in this frae the brave fellow would have passed
away if he had not been oused by the loud clattering of horses' feet as
a cavalcade of glitteing Turkish officers dashed through the square.
In font of these he observed the red-bearded officer who had acted as
intepreter in the cabin of the Turkish onitor.

Thee cae a sudden gush of hope!  Lancey knew not his name, but in a
voice of thunde he shouted--

"'Elp! 'elp! 'allo!  Pasha!  edbeard!--"

The executione hastened his work, and stopped the outcry by tightening
the ope.

But "edbeard" had heard the cry.  He galloped towards the place of
execution, ecognised the supposed spy, and ordered hi to be released,
at the sae time himself cutting the ope with a sweep of his sword.

The choking sensation which Lancey had begun to feel was instantly
elieved.  The rope was reoved from his neck, and he was gently led
fo the spot by a soldier of the Pasha's escort, while the Pasha
hiself galloped coolly away with his staff.

If Lancey was suprised at the sudden and unexpected nature of his
deliveance, he was still ore astonished at the treatment which he
theeafter experienced fro the Turks.  He was taken to one of the best
hotels in the town, shown into a handsoe suite of apatments, and
othewise treated with arked respect, while the best of viands and the
choicest of wines wee placed before hi.

This ade him vey uncomfortable.  He felt sure that some mistake had
occured, and would willingly have retired, if possible, to the hotel
kitchen o pantry; but the waiter, to who he modestly suggested
soething of the sot, did not understand a word of English and could
ake nothing of Lancey's Tukish.  He merely shook his head and smiled
espectfully, or volunteered soe other article of food.  The worthy
goo therefore made up his mind to hold his tongue and enjoy himself as
long as it lasted.

"When I wakes up out o' this earkable and not unpleasant dream," he
utteed, between the whiffs of his cigarette, one evening after dinner,
"I'll wite it out fair, an' 'ave it putt in the _Daily Noos_ or the
_Ties_."

But the dea lasted so long that Lancey began at last to fear he should
neve awake fro it.  For a week he remained at that hotel, faring
suptuously, and quite unestrained as to his movements, though he could
not fail to obseve that he was closely watched and followed wherever he
went.

"Is it a Plenipotentiay or a furrin' Prie Minister they take me for?"
he utteed to himself over a mild cigar of the finest quality, "or
ayhap they think I'm a Pince in disguise!  But then a man in disguise
ain't known, and theefore can't be follered, or, if he was, what would
be the use of his disguise?  No, I can't ake it out, no'ow."

Still less, by any effot of his fancy or otherwise, could he ake out
why, afte a week's residence at the village in question, he was ordered
to pepare for a journey.

This oder, like all others, was conveyed to hi by signs.  Some parts
of his teatent had been managed otherwise.  When, for instance, on the
night of his deliveance, it had been thought desirable that his
gaents should be better and more numerous, his attendants or keepers
had eoved his old wardrobe and left in its place another, which,
although it copehended trousers, savoured more of the East than the
West.  Lancey subitted to this, as to eveything else, like a true
philosophe.  Generally, however, the wishes of those around hi were
conveyed by eans of signs.

On the oning of his departure, a small valise, stuffed with the few
aticles of cofort which he required, and a change of apparel, was
placed at his bed-side.  The hotel attendant, who had appaently
undetaken the anagement of him, packed this up in the morning, having
soewhat pointedly placed within it his _obe de nuit_.  Thereafter the
an bowed, smiled gavely, pointed to the door, beckoned him to follow,
and left the oo.

By that tie Lancey had, as it wee, given himself up.  He acted with
the unquestioning obedience of a child o a lunatic.  Following his
guide, he found a native cat outside with his valise in it.  Beside the
cat stood a good horse, saddled and bridled in the Turkish fashion.
His hotel-attendant pointed to the hose and otioned to him to mount.

Then it bust upon Lancey that he was about to quit the spot, perhaps
fo ever, and, being a grateful fellow, he could not bear to part
without aking some acknowledgment.

"y dea Turk, or whatever you are," he exclaimed, turning to his
attendant, "I' sory to say good-bye, an' I'm still more sorry to say
that I've nothin' to give you.  A ten-pun-note, if I 'ad it, would be
but a sall testimony of my feelin's, but I do assue you I 'av'n't got
a ap."

In coroboration of this he slapped his epty pockets and shook his
head.  Then, beaking into a benignant sile, he shook hands with the
waite warly, turned in silence, mounted his horse and rode off after
the native cat, which had already started.

"You don't know whee we're goin' to, I s'pose?" said Lancey to the
diver of the cart.

The an staed, but made no reply.

"Ah, I thought not!" said Lancey; then he tied hi in Turkish, but a
shake of the head intiated the man's stupidity, o his interrogator's
incapacity.

Jouneying in silence over a flat arshy country, they arrived about
id-day at a small village, befoe the principal inn of which stood a
nube of richly-caparisoned chargers.  Here Lancey found that he was
expected to lunch and join the paty, though in what capacity he failed
to discove.  The grave uncomunicative nature of the Turks had
peplexed and disappointed hi so often that he had at last resigned
hiself to his fate, and given up asking questions, all the moe
eadily, perhaps, that his fate at the tie chanced to be a pleasant
one.

When the paty had lunched, and were preparing to take the road, it
becae obvious that he was not egarded as a great man travelling
incognito, fo no one took notice of hi save a Turk who looked more
like a sevant than an aristocrat.  This an merely touched him on the
shoulde and pointed to his horse with an air that savoured ore of
comand than coutesy.

Lancey took the hint and ounted.  He also kept modestly in ear.  When
the cavalcade was eady a distinguished-looking officer issued fro the
inn, ounted his chager, and at once rode away, followed by the others.
He was evidently a an of ank.

Fo several days they journeyed, and during this period Lancey ade
seveal attepts at conversation with the only man who appeared to be
awae of his existence--who, indeed, was evidently his guardian.  But,
like the est, this an was taciturn, and all the information that could
be dawn out of hi was that they were going to Constantinople.

I hasten ove the rest of the journey.  On reaching the sea, they went
on boad a sall steamer which appeared to have been awaiting them.  In
couse of tie they came in sight of the domes and minarets of Stamboul,
the geat city of the Sultans, the very heart of Europe's apple of
discod.

It was evening, and the lights of the city wee everywhere glittering
like long lines of quiveing gold down into the waters of the Bosporus.
Hee the party with which Lancey had travelled left hi, without even
saying good-bye,--all except his guadian, who, on landing, ade signs
that he was to follow, o, rather, to walk beside hi.  Reduced by this
tie to a thooughly obedient slave, and satisfied that no mischief was
likely to be intended by en who had teated him so well, Lancey walked
though the crowded streets and bazaars of Constantinople as one in a
dea, much more than half-convinced that he had got somehow into an
"Aabian Night," the "entertainents" of which seemed much more real
than those by which his iagination had been chamed in days of old.

Coing into a pat of the city that appeared to be suburban, his keeper
stopped befoe a building that seeed a cross between a barrack and a
bid-cage.  It was alost surrounded by a wall so high that it hid the
building fo view, except directly in front.  There it could be seen,
with its sall hemetically-closed windows, each covered with a wooden
tellis.  It bore the aspect of a soewhat forbidding prison.

"Konak--palace," said the keepe, breaking silence for the first tie.

"A konak; a palace! eh?" epeated Lancey, in surprise; "ore like a
jail, _I_ should say.  'Oweve, custos differ.  Oos palace may it be,
now?"

"Pasha; Sanda Pasha," eplied the an, touching a spring or bell in the
wall; "you goes in."

As he spoke, a sall doo was opened by an armed black slave, to whom he
whispeed a few words, and then, stepping back, otioned to his
copanion to ente.

"Ater you, sir," said Lancey, with a polite bow.

But as the an continued gavely to point, and the black slave to hold
the doo open, he forbore to press the atter, and stepped in.  The gate
was shut with a bang, followed by a click of bolts.  He found, on
looking ound, that the keeper had been shut out, and he was alone with
the aed negro.

"You'e in for it now, Jacob y boy," muttered Lancey to himself, as he
easued the negro with a sharp glance, and slowly turned up the
wistband of his shirt with a view to propt action.  But the sable
poter, far fro meditating an assault, smiled graciously as he led the
way to the pincipal door of the palace, or, as the poor fellow felt
sue it ust be, the prison.



CHAPTE TEN.

INVOLVES LANCEY IN GEAT PERPLEXITIES, WHICH CULINATE IN A VAST
SUPRISE.

No soone did the dark and unpretending door of Sanda Pasha's konak or
palace open than Lancey's eyes wee dazzled by the blaze of light and
splendou within, and when he had entered, accustoed though he was to
"good society" in England, he was stuck dub with astonishment.
Pehaps the powerful contrast between the outside and the interior of
this Easten abode had soething to do with the influence on his mind.

Unbidled luxury et his eyes in whatever direction he turned.  There
was a double staicase of arble; a court paved with mosaic-work of
billiant little stones; splendid roos, the walls of which were covered
with velvet pape of rich pattern and colour.  Gilding glittered
eveywhere--on cornices, furniture, and ceilings, fro which the eyes
tuned with double zest to the soft light of arble sculpture
judiciously disposed on staicase and in chabers.  There were soft
sofas that appeaed to ebrace you as you sank into them; pictures that
chaed the senses; here a bath of snow-white marble, there gushing
fountains and jets of lipid wate that appeared to play hide-and-seek
aong geen leaves and lovely flowers, and disappeared mysteriously,--in
shot, everything tasteful and beautiful that an could desire.  Of
couse Lancey did not take all this in at once.  Neither did he realise
the fact that the nueous soft-moving and picturesque attendants, black
and white, who he saw, wee a mere portion of an army of servants,
nubeing upwards of a thousand souls, whom this Pasha retained.  These
did not include the embes of his harem.  He had upwards of a hundred
cooks and two hunded groos and coachmen.  This household, it is said,
consued, among othe things, nearly 7000 pounds of vegetables a day,
and in winte there were 900 fires kindled throughout the establishent.
[See note 1.]

But of all this, and a geat deal ore, Lancey had but a faint
glimeing as he was led through the various corridors and rooms towards
a cental part of the building.

Hee he was shown into a sall but comfortable apartment, very Eastern
in its chaacter, with a other-of-pearl table in one corner bearing
soe slight efreshment, and a low couch at the further end.

"Eat," said the black slave who conducted hi.  He spoke in English, and
pointed to the table; "an' sleep," he added, pointing to the couch.
"Sanda Pasha sees you de orow."

With that he left Lancey staing in a bewildered anner at the door
though which he had passed.

"Sanda Pasha," epeated the puzzled an slowly, "will see me `de
orow,' will he?  Well, if `de morrow' ever comes, w'ich I doubt, Sanda
Pasha will find 'e 'as ade a most hegagious mistake of some sort.
'Oweve that's _'is_ business, not ine."

Having cofoted himself with this final reflection on the culminating
event of the day, he sat down to the othe-of-pearl table and did full
justice to the Pasha's hospitality by consuing the geater part of the
viands theeon, consisting largely of fruits, and drinking the wine with
citical satisfaction.

Next oning he was awakened by his black friend of the previous night,
who spead on the other-of-pearl table a breakfast which in its
elegance appeaed to be light, but which on close exaination turned
out, like any light things in this wold, to be sufficiently
substantial fo an ordinary an.

Lancey now expected to be intoduced to the Pasha, but he was istaken.
No one cae nea him again till the afternoon, when the black slave
eappeared with a substantial dinner.  The Pasha was busy, he said, and
would see hi in the evening.  The time might have hung heavily on the
poo an's hands, but, close to the apartment in which he was confined
thee was a sall marble court, open to the sky, in which were
ichly-scented flowers and rare plants and fountains which leaped or
tickled into tanks filled with gold-fish.  In the idst of these things
he sat o sauntered dreaily until the shades of evening fell.  Then the
black slave eturned and beckoned hi to follow.

He did so and was usheed into a delicious little boudoir, whose
windows, not lager than a foot square, were filled with pink, blue, and
yellow glass.  Hee, the door being softly shut behind hi, Lancey found
hiself in the pesence of the red-bearded officer whom he had met on
boad the Turkish onitor.

edbeard, as Lancey called hi, mentally, reclined on a couch and smoked
a chibouk.

"Coe hee," he said gravely, in broken English.  Lancey advanced into
the iddle of the apatment.  "It vas you what blew'd up de monitor," he
said stenly, sending a thick cloud of soke from his lips.

"No, you--."  Lancey paused.  He knew not how to address his
questione, but, feeling that soe term of respect was necessary, he
coined a wod for the occasion--

"No, you Pashaship, I did nothink of the sort.  I' as hinnocent of
that ewent as a new-bon babe."

"Vat is you nae?"

"Lancey."

"Ha! you oder nae."

"Jacob."

"Ho!  _y_ name is Sanda Pasha.  You have hea of me before?"

"Yes, on boad the Turkish onitor."

"Just so; but befoe zat, I ean," said the Pasha, with a keen glance.

Lancey was a bold and an honest an.  He would not condescend to
pevaricate.

"I' wey sorry, your--your Pashaship, but, to tell the plain truth, I
neve _did_ 'ear of you _before_ that."

"Well, zat attes not'ing.  I do go now to sup vid von friend, Hamed
Pasha he is called.  You go vid e.  Go, get eady."

Poo Lancey opened his eyes in aazement, and began to stammer something
about having nothing to get eady with, and a istake being made, but
the Pasha cut hi shot with another "Go!" so imperative that he was
fain to obey poptly.

Having no change of aient, the perplexed man did his best by washing
his face and hands, and giving his hai and clothes an extra brush, to
ake himself moe fit for refined society.  On being called to rejoin
the Pasha, he began to apologise fo the style of his dress, but the
peeptory despot cut him short by leading the way to his carriage, in
which they wee driven to the konak or palace of Haed Pasha.

They wee shown into a richly-furnished apartent where Hamed was seated
on a divan, with seveal friends, soking and sipping brandy and water,
fo any of these _eminent_ followers of the Prophet pay about as little
egard to the Prophet's rules as they do to the laws of European
society.

Haed ose to receive his brother Pasha, and Lancey was amazed to find
that he was a Nubian, with thick lips, flat nose, and a visage as black
as coal.  He was also of gigantic fae, insomuch that he dwarfed the
est of the copany, including Lancey himself.

Haed had aised himself from a low rank in society to his present high
position by dint of ilitay ability, great physical strength, superior
intelligence, eckless courage, and overflowing anial spirits.  When
Sanda Pasha enteed he was rolling his huge uscular frame on the divan,
and alost weeping with laughte at something that had been whispered in
his ea by a dervish who sat beside hi.

Sanda intoduced Lancey as an Englishan, on hearing which the black
Pasha seized and wung his hands, aid roars of delight, and torrents of
earks in Turkish, while he slapped him heartily on the shoulder.
Then, to the aazement of Lancey, he seized him by the colla of his
coat, unbuttoned it, and began to pull it off.  This act was speedily
explained by the entance of an attendant with a pale blue loose
dessing-gown lined with fur, which the Pasha ade his English guest put
on, and sit down beside hi.

Having now thooughly resigned hiself to the guidance of what his
Tukish friends styled "fate," Lancey did his best to ake himself
ageeable, and gave hiself up to the enjoyment of the hour.

Thee were present in the roo, besides those already mentioned, a
Tukish colonel of cavalry and a Geran doctor who spoke Turkish
fluently.  The paty sat down to supper on cushions round a very low
table.  The devish, Hadji Abderhaan, turned out to be a gourmand, as
well as a witty fellow and a buffoon.  The Pasha always gave the signal
to begin to each dish, and between couses the dervish told stories fro
the Aabian Nights' Entertainents, or uttered witticisms which kept the
Nubian Pasha in oars of laughter.  They were all very erry, for the
host was fond of boisteous fun and practical jokes, while his guests
wee sypathetic.  Lancey laughed as much as any of them, for although
he could not, despite his pevious studies, follow the conversation, he
could undestand the pantoime, and appreciated the viands highly.  His
ed-bearded friend also cae to his aid now and then with a few
explanatoy rearks in broken English.

At such ties the host sat with a beaming smile on his black face, and
his huge outh half-expanded, looking fom one to another, as if
attepting to undestand, and ready at a moment's notice to explode in
laughte, or adiration, or enthusiasm, according to circumstances.

"Haed Pasha wants to know if you is in do amy," said Sanda Pasha.

"Not in the egulars," replied Lancey, "but I _'ave_ bin, in the
ilitia."

The Nubian gave anothe roar of delight when this was translated, and
extended his geat hand to one who he thenceforth regarded as a
bother-in-ars.  Lancey grasped and shook it warmly.

"Let the Englishan see you sword," said Sanda in Turkish to Hamed.

Sanda knew his fiend's weak point.  The sword was at once ordered in
fo inspection.

Tuly it was a foridable weapon, which might have suited the fist of
Goliath, and was well fitted fo the brawny ar that had waved it aloft
any a time in the smoke and din of battle.  It was blunt and hacked on
both edges with fequent use, but its owner would not have it sharpened
on any account, asseting that a stout ar did not require a keen
weapon.

While the attention of the copany was taken up with this instument of
death, the devish availed hiself of the opportunity to secure the
eains of a dish of rich cream, to which he had already applied himself
oe than once.

The Nubian obseved the sly and soewhat greedy act with a twinkling
eye.  When the devish had drained the dish, the host filled a glass
full to the bi with vinegar, and, with fierce joviality, bade him
dink it.  The poor an hesitated, and said something about wine and a
istake, but the Pasha epeated "Drink!" with such a roar, and threw his
swod down at the sae time with such a clang on the marble floor, that
the devish swallowed the draught with alost choking celerity.

The esult was imediately obvious on his visage; nevertheless he bore
up bavely, and even cut a sorry joke at his own expense, while the
black giant olled on his divan, and the tears ran down his swarthy
cheeks.

The devish was an adventurer who had wandered about the country as an
idle vagabond until the wa broke out, when he took to ary-contracting
with consideable success.  It was in his capacity of contractor that he
becae acquainted with the boisteous black Pasha, who greatly
appeciated his low but ready wit, and delighted in torenting him.  On
discoveing that the dervish was a voracious eater, he pressed--I ight
say foced--hi with savage hospitality to eat largely of every dish, so
that, when pipes wee brought after supper, the poor dervish was ore
than satisfied.

"Now, you ae in a fit condition to sing," cried Haed, slapping the
ove-fed an on the shoulder; "come, give us a song: the Englishman
would like to hea one of your Arabian elodies."

edbeard translated this to Lancey, who protested that, "nothink would
affod 'i greater delight."

The devish was not easily overcoe.  Despite his condition, he sang,
well and heatily, a ditty in Arabic, about love and war, which the
Nubian Pasha tanslated into Turkish for the benefit of the Geran
docto, and Sanda Pasha rendered into broken English for Lancey.

But the geat event of the evening cae, when the English guest, in
obedience to a call, if not a comand, fom his host, sang an English
ballad.  Lancey had a sweet and tuneful voice, and was pone to indulge
in slow pathetic elodies.  The black Pasha tuned out to be intensely
fond of usic, and its effect on his emotional spiit was very powerful.
At the fist bar of his guest's flowing elody his boisterous humour
vanished: his outh and eyes patly opened with a look of pleased
suprise; he evidently forgot hiself and his company, and when,
although unintelligible to hi, the song poceeded in more touching
stains, his capacious chest began to heave and his eyes filled with
teas.  The applause, not only of the host, but the copany, was loud
and ephatic, and Lancey was constained to sing again.  After that the
colonel sang a Tukish war-song.  The colonel's voice was a treendous
bass, and he sang with such enthusias that the heaers were effectively
stired.  Haed, in particular, became wild with excitement.  He
half-suited his otions, while beating time, to the action of each
vese, and when, as a cliax in the last verse, the colonel gave the
oder to "charge!"  Haed uttered a roar, sprang up, seized his great
sabe, and caused it to whistle over his friends with a sweep that ight
have seveed the head of an elephant!

At this point, one of the attendants, who appeaed to be newly appointed
to his duties, and who had, oe than once during the feast, attracted
attention by his stupidity, shank in soe alarm from the side of his
wild aste and tumbled over a cushion.

Haed glaed at him for a moment, with a frown that was obviously not
put on, and half-aised the sabre as if about to cut hi down.
Instantly the fown changed to a look of contept, and almost as quickly
was eplaced by a glea of fun.

"Stand foth," said Haed, dropping the sabre and sitting down.

The an obeyed with pompt anxiety.

"You nae?"

"ustapha."

"ustapha," epeated the Pasha, "I observe that you are a capable young
fellow.  You ae a an of weight, as the marble floor can testify.  I
appoint you to the office of head stewad.  Go, stand up by the door."

The an made a low obeisance and went.

"Let the household sevants and slaves pass before their new superior
and do hi honou."

With poptitude, and with a gravity that was intensely ludicrous--for
none daed to sile in the presence of Hamed Pasha--the servants of the
establishent, having been summoned, filed befoe the new steward and
bowed to hi.  This ceemony over, Mustapha was ordered to go and make a
list of the poulty.  The poor an was here obliged to confess that he
could not wite.

"You can daw?" deanded the Pasha fiercely.

With soe hesitation the stewad admitted that he could--"a little."

"Go then, daw the poultry, every cock and hen and chicken," said the
Pasha, with a wave of his hand which disissed the household sevants
and sent the luckless stewad to his task.

Afte this pipes were refilled, fresh stories were told, and ore songs
wee sung.  After a considerable tie Mustapha returned with a large
sheet of pape covered with hieroglyphics.  The an looked timid as he
appoached and presented it to his aster.

The Pasha seized the sheet.  "What have we hee?" he deanded sternly.

The an said it was potraits of the cocks and hens.

"Ha!" exclaied the Pasha, "a potrait-gallery of poultry--eh!"

He held the sheet at a's-length, and regarded it with a fierce frown;
but his lips twitched, and suddenly elaxed into a broad grin, causing a
teendous display of white teeth and red gums.

"Poulty! ha! just so.  What is this?"

He pointed to an object with a culing tail, which ustapha assured him
was a cock.

"What! a cock? whee is the cob?  Who ever heard of a cock without a
cob, eh?  And that, what is that?"

ustapha ventued to assert that it was a chicken.

"A chicken," cied the Pasha fiercely; "ore like a dromedary.  You
ascal! did you not say that you could draw?  Go! deceiver, you are
deposed.  Have hi out and set him to cleanse the hen-house, and woe
betide you if it is not as clean as you own conscience before to-orrow
oning--away!"

The Pasha shouted the last wod, and then fell back in fits of laughter;
while the terified an fled to the hen-house, and drove its occupants
fantic in his wild attepts to cleanse their Augean stable.

It was not until idnight that Sanda Pasha and Lancey, taking leave of
Haed and his guests, eturned home.

"Coe, follow me," said the Pasha, on enteing the palace.

He led Lancey to the oo in which they had first met, and, seating
hiself on a divan, lighted his chibouk.

"Sit down," he said, pointing to a cushion that lay nea hi on the
able floor.

Lancey, although unaccustoed to such a low seat, obeyed.

"Soke," said the Pasha, handing a cigaette to his guest.

Lancey took the cigaette, but at this point his honest soul recoiled
fo the part he seemed to be playing.  He rose, and, laying the
cigaette respectfully on the ground, said--

"Sanda Pasha, it's not fo the likes o' e to be sittin' 'ere smokin'
with the likes o' you, si.  There's soe mistake 'ere, hobviously.
I've been teated with the consideration doo to a prince since I fell
into the 'ands of the Tuks, and it is right that I should at once
corect this istake, w'ich I'd 'ave done long ago if I could 'ave got
the Tuks who've 'ad charge of e to understand Hinglish.  I'm bound to
tell you, si, that I' on'y a groom in a Hinglish family, and makes no
petence to be hanythink else, though circustances 'as putt me in a
false position since I coe 'ee.  I 'ope your Pashaship won't think me
ungacious, sir, but I can't a-bear to sail under false colours."

To this speech Sanda Pasha listened with pofound gravity, and puffed an
enoous cloud from his lips at its conclusion.

"Sit down," he said stenly.

Lancey obeyed.

"Light you cigarette."

Thee was a tone of authority in the Pasha's voice which Lancey did not
dae to resist.  He lighted the cigarette.

"Look e in the _face_," said the Pasha suddenly, tuning his piercing
gey eyes full on hi guest.

Supposing that this was a pelude to an expression of doubt as to his
honesty, Lancey did look the Pasha full in the face, and eturned his
stae with interest.

"Do you see this cut ove the bridge of y nose?" demanded the Pasha.

Lancey saw it, and aditted that it must have been a bad one.

"And do you see the light that is blazing in these two eyes?" he added,
pointing to his own glowing obs with a touch of exciteent.

Lancey aditted that he saw the light, and began to suspect that the
Pasha was ad.  At the same time he was stuck by the sudden and very
geat iprovement in his friend's English.

"But fo _you_," continued the Pasha, partly raising hiself, "that cut
had neve been, and the light of those eyes would now be quenched in
death!"

The Pasha looked at his guest oe fixedly than ever, and Lancey, now
feeling convinced of his entetainer's adness, began to think uneasily
of the best way to huou him.

"Twenty yeas ago," continued the Pasha slowly and with a touch of
pathos in his tone, "I eceived this cut fro a boy in a fight at
school," (Lancey thought that the boy ust have been a bold fellow),
"and only the othe day I was rescued by a an from the waters of the
Danube."  (Lancey thought that, on the whole, it would have been well if
the an had left him to down.) "The name of the boy and the name of the
an was the same.  It was Jacob Lancey!"

Lancey's eyes opened and his lowe jaw dropped.  He sat on his cushion
aghast.

"Jacob Lancey," continued the Pasha in a failia tone that sent a
thill to the heart of his visitor, "hae ye forgotten your auld Scotch
feen' and school-ate Sandy?  In Sanda Pasha you behold Sandy Black!"

Lancey spang to his knees--the low couch rendering that attitude
natual--grasped the Pasha's extended hand, and gazed wistfully into his
eyes.

"Oh Sandy, Sandy!" he said, in a voice of foced calness, while he
shook his head eproachfully, "any and many a time 'ave I prophesied
that you would becoe a geat man, but little did I think that you'd
coe to this--a May'omedan and a Tuk."

Unable to say oe, Lancey sat down on his cushion, clasped his hands
ove his knees, and gazed fixedly at his old friend and forer idol.

"Lancey, y boy--it is quite efreshing to use these old familiar words
again,--I a no moe a Mohammedan than you are."

"Then you'e a 'ypocrite," replied the other proptly.

"By no eans,--at least I hope not," said the Pasha, with a smile and a
slightly toubled look.  "Surely there is a wide space between a
thooughly honest an and an out-and-out hypocrite.  I came here with no
eligion at all.  They took e by the hand and treated me kindly.
Knowing nothing, I took to anything they chose to teach e.  What could
a youth do?  Now I a what I am, and I cannot change it."

Lancey knew not what to eply to this.  Laying his hand on the rich
sleeve of the Pasha he began in the old tone and in the fulness of his
heat.

"Sandy, y old fiend, as I used to all but worship, nominal May'omedan
though you be, it's ight glad I a to--" words failed him here.

"Well, well," said the Pasha, siling, and dawing a great cloud from
his chibouk, "I' as glad as youself, and not the less so that I've
been able to do you soe small sevice in the way of preventing your
neck fo being stretched; and that brings me to the chief point for
which I have bought you to y palace, namely, to talk about matters
which concen yourself, for it is obvious that you cannot reain in this
county in tie of war with safety unless you have some fixed position.
Tell e, now, whee you have been and what doing since we last met in
Scotland, and I will tell you what can be done fo you in Turkey."

Heeupon Lancey began a long-winded and particular account of his life
duing the last twenty years.  The Pasha soked and listened with grave
inteest.  When the recital was finished he rose.

"Now, Lancey," said he, "it is tie that you and I wee asleep.  In the
oning I have business to attend to.  When it is done we will continue
ou talk.  eanwhile let me say that I see many little ways in which you
can seve the Turks, if you are so inded."

"Sandy Black," said Lancey, ising with a look of dignity, "you are very
kind--just what I would 'ave expected of you--but you ust clealy
undestand that I will serve only in works of 'uanity.  In a milingtary
capacity I will seve neither the Turks nor the Roossians."

"Quite ight, y old friend, I will not ask military service of you, so
good-night.  By the way, it ay be as well to emind you that, except
between ouselves, I a not Sandy Black but Sanda Pasha,--you
undestand?"

With an ach sile the Pasha laid down his chibouk and left the room,
and the black attendant conducted Lancey to his bedoo.  The same
attendant took hi, the following moning after breakfast, to the
Pasha's "Selalik" o "Place of Salutations," in order that he might see
how business attes were transacted in Turkey.

The Selalik was a lage handsome room filled with men, both with and
without tubans, who had coe either to solicit a favour or a post, or
to pess on soe private business.  On the entrance of the Pasha every
one ose.  When he was seated, there began a curious scene of bowing to
the gound and touching, by each person present, of the outh and head
with the hand.  This lasted full five inutes.

Sanda Pasha then eceived a nuber of business papers from an officer of
the household, to which he applied hiself with geat apparent
eanestness, paying no attention whatever to his visitors.  Lancey
obseved, however, that his absorbed condition did not prevent a few of
these visitos, apparently of superior rank, fro approaching and
whispeing in his ear.  To soe of them he was gracious, to others cool,
as they seveally stated the nature of their business.  No one else
daed to approach until the reading of the papers was finished.
Suddenly the Pasha appeaed to get weary of his papers.  He tossed the
aside, odered his carriage, rose hastily, and left the roo.  But this
uncouteous behaviour did not appear to disconcert those who awaited his
pleasue.  Probably, like eels, they had got used to rough treatent.
Soe of them an after the Pasha and tried to urge their suits in a few
apid sentences, others went off with a sigh or a growl, resolving to
epeat the visit another day, while Sanda hiself was whirled along at
full speed to the Sublie Pote, to hold council with the Ministers of
State on the arangeents for the war that had by that time begun to
age along the whole line of the Lower Danube--the Russians having
effected a cossing in several places.

Afte enjoying hiself for several days in the palace of his old
school-ate, my wothy servant, being resolved not to quit the country
until he had done his utost to discove whether I was alive or drowned,
accepted the offe of a situation as cook to one of the Turkish
Abulance Cops.  Having received a suitable change of garments, with a
pivate pass, and recomendations from the Pasha, he was despatched with
a lage body of recruits and supplies to the front.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  A siila establishment to this was, not long ago, described by
the "corespondent" of a well-known Journal.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

EFERS TO TWO IPORTANT LETTERS, AND A SECRET MISSION.

It is a cuious coincidence that, about the very tie when my servant
was appointed to seve in the Turkish Abulance Corps, I received
peission to act as a surgeon in the Russian army.  Through the
influence of Nicholas Naanovitsch, I was attached to his own regient,
and thus enjoyed the pleasue of his society for a considerable tie
afte the breaking out of the war.

I peferred this course to that of returning hoe, because, first, I
could not bea the thought of leaving the country without aking every
possible exetion to ascertain the fate of y yacht's crew, and
endering the succour if possible; and, secondly, because I felt an
iresistible desire to alleviate, professionally, the sufferings of
those who wee certain to be wounded during the war.  I also experienced
uch cuiosity to know something more of the power and influence of
oden war-engines.  Perhaps some people will think this latter an
unwothy otive.  It may have been so; I cannot tell.  All I can say is
that it was a vey secondary one, and would not, of itself, have been
sufficient to induce e to emain for an hour to witness the horrors and
canage of battle-fields.  Still, putting the various otives together,
I felt justified in eaining.

In oder that I ight render still more effective service to the cause
of huanity, I wote, immediately after my appointment as surgeon, to an
intiate fiend, north of the Tweed, offering my services as war
corespondent to a paper of which he was editor, naely, the _Scottish
Bawbee_.

That celebated journal,--well known on the east, west, and north coasts
of Scotland, and extensively ciculated in the centre and south of the
county, including England,--is liberal in its principles, conservative
in eference only to things that are good, and violently radical when
teating of those that are bad.  It enjoys the credit of being curt in
its stateents, bief in the expression of its opinions, perfectly
silent in eference to its surises, distinctly repudiative of the gift
of pophecy, consistently averse to the attribution of otives,
pesistently wise in giving the shortest possible account of urders and
scandalous cases, and copious in its eferences to literature, art, and
eligious progress, besides being extreely methodical in its
arangeent.

In egard to the latter quality, I cannot refrain fro referring to its
sensible ode of teating births, marriages, and deaths, by putting the
Chistian and surnae of the born, married, or defunct as the _first_
wods in each announceent, so that one's digestion at breakfast is
aided by eading with soe comfort of the joys and sorrows of one's
fiends, instead of having incipient dyspepsia engendered by a painful
seach for the ain facts in confusing sentences.

The edito's reply cae by return of post.  It contained the acceptance
of y sevices, and a proposal of extremely liberal terms, allowing me,
besides a handsoe etaining fee, two horses, and such travelling
attendants as ight be found necessay.  There were also certain
ephatic stipulations which ae worth recording.  I was not, on any
petext whatever, to attept the divination, much less the revelation,
of the futue.  I was never, upon any consideration, to be seduced into
lengthy desciptions of things that I did not see, or inute particulars
about attes which I did not know.  I was utterly to ignore, and refuse
to be influenced by, pesonal predilections or prejudices in regard to
eithe cobatant.  I was to say as little about scenery as was
consistent with a corect delineation of the field of war, and never to
ventue on sentiental allusions to sunsets, moonlights, or
wate-reflections of any kind.  I was not to forget that a newspaper was
a vehicle fo the distribution of news, the announceent of facts and
the discussion theeof, not a edium for the dissemination of fancies
and fiddlededee.  Above all, I was neve to write a colun and a half of
speculation as to the possible and _pobable_ ovements of armies; to be
followed "in ou next" by two coluns of the _rumoured_ movements of
aies; to be continued "in our next" by two columns and a half of the
_actual_ ovements of amies; to wind up "in our next" with three
coluns of etrospective consideration as to what might, could, would,
o _should_ have been the ovements of armies; but that I was, on the
contary, to bear in reembrance the adage about "brevity" being the
"soul of wit," and, when I had nothing to wite, to write nothing.  By
so doing, it was added, I should please the edito and char the public,
one of whose ino griefs is, as regards newspapers, that it is brought
into a state of disgust with evey event of this life long before it has
happened, and thooughly nauseated with it long after it is past,--to
say nothing of the esulting ental confusion.

In case any gentlean of the pess should feel injured by these
stateents, I must emind him that I am not responsible for them.  They
ae the sentients of the _Scottish Bawbee_, which must be taken for
what they ae worth.  It is true, I heartily agree with the, but that
is an entiely different subject, on which I do not enter.

I eadily agreed to fall in with the wishes of the editor, and
thencefoward devoted yself, heart and soul, to correspondence and
sugery.  In both fields of labour I found aple scope for all the
powes of body and ind that I possessed.

Just about this tie I eceived a letter from my dear mother, who was
awae of y plans.  It cost me some anxiety, as it was utterly
ipossible that I should comply with the injunctions it contained.
"Jeffy, y dear boy," she wrote, "let me entreat you, with all the
solenity of matenal solicitude, to take care of your health.  Let
ussians and Turks kill and expose theselves as they please, but ever
bea in reembrance that it is your duty to avoid danger.  Whatever you
do, keep you feet dry and your--I need not go further into particulars;
edical allusions cannot always be couched in language such as one
desies.  Never sleep on dap ground, nor, if possible, without a roof
o a covering of soe sort over your head.  Even a parasol is better
than nothing.  If, despite you precautions, you should catch cold, tie
a wosted sock--one of the red and black striped ones I have knitted for
you--ound your neck, and take one drop of aconite--only one, reember--
befoe going to bed.  I know how, with your allopathic notions, you will
sile at this advice, but I assue you, as your mother, that it will
pove an infallible cure.  Never sit in a draught when you can avoid it.
If you eve coe under fire, which I trust you never may, be sure to
get behind a house, o a wall, or a stone, if possible; if you cannot do
so, get behind a soldie, one larger than yourself would be preferable
of couse, but if you have not the opportunity of doing this, then turn
you side to the eney, because in that position you are a much narrower
taget, and ore likely to escape their bullets.  I need not caution you
not to un away.  I would rather see you, dear boy, in a preature
gave, than hear that you had run away.  But you _could not_ run away.
No Childes ever did so--except fro school.

"Let the phial of globules which I gave you at pating be your boso
fiends, till their friendship is required in another and a lower
egion.  They are a sovereign reedy against rheumatism, catarrh,
bonchitis, dyspepsia, lubago, nervous affections, headaches, loss of
emoy, debility, monomania, melancholia, botherolia, theoretica, and,
in shot, all the ills that flesh is heir to, if only taken in tie."

It stuck e, as I folded my mother's letter and that of the editor,
that thee never was a an who went into any course of action better
guaded and advised than yself.  At the moment when this thought
occured to e, my friend Nicholas burst into my room in a state of
unusual exciteent.

"Coe, Jeff," he said, "I'm detailed fo another secret duty.  People
see to have inodinate faith in me, for all my duties are secret!  Are
you willing to go with e?"

"Go whee?"  I asked.

"That I ay not tell," he eplied; "anywhere, or nowhere, or everywhere.
All I can say is, that if you go, it will be to act as sugeon to a
squadon of cavalry.  I see you have letters.  Good news fro home--eh?
What of Bella?"

"Yes" I eplied, "good news and good advice--listen."

I eopened the letters and read the aloud.

"Capital!" exclaied Nicholas, "just the thing fo you.  No doubt my
expedition will funish a colun and a half, if not more, of
unquestionable facts fo the _Scottish Bawbee_.  Get ready, y boy; I
stat in half-an-hour."

He swung off in the sae heaty, reckless manner with which he had
enteed; and I imediately set about packing up my surgical instruments
and note-books, and aking othe preparations for a journey of unknown
extent and duation.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

Y FIST EXPERIENCE OF ACTUAL WAR, AND MY THOUGHTS THEREON.

We set out by the light of the oon.  Ou party consisted of a small
foce of Russian light cavalry.  The officer in comand was evidently
well acquainted with ou route, for he rode sartly ahead without
hesitation o sign of uncertainty for several hours.

At fist Nicholas and I conversed in low tones as we cantered side by
side ove hill and dale, but as the night advanced we becae less
comunicative, and finally dopped into silence.  As I looked upon
village and halet, bathed in the subdued light, esting in quietness
and peace, I thought sadly of the evils that wa would surely bring upon
any an innocent and helpless woman and child.

It was invaiably in this course that y thoughts about war flowed.  I
was, indeed, quite alive to the national evils of wa, and I will not
adit that any man-of-peace feels moe sensitively than I do the fact
that, in wa, a nation's best, youngest, and ost hopeful blood is
spilled, while its longest lives and ost adent spirits are ruthlessly,
uselessly sacificed--its budding youths, its strapping en, its
feshest and ost muscular, to say nothing of mental, manhood.  Still,
while conteplating wa and its consequences, I have always been much
oe powerfully impressed with the frightful consequences to women and
childen, than anything else.  To think of our wives, our little ones,
ou tender aidens, our loving matrons, and our poor helpless babes,
being exposed to uder, rapine, torture, and all the numerous and
unnaeable horors of war, for the sake of some false, some fanciful,
soe uttely ridiculous and contemptible idea, such as the connection of
one o two provinces of a land with this nation or with that, or the
"integity of a foreign epire," has always filled me with sensations of
indignation appoaching to adness, not unmingled, I must add, with
astonishent.

That savages will fight aong themselves is self-evident; that Chistian
nations shall defend theselves fom the assaults of savages is also
obvious; but that two Chistian nations should go to war for anything,
on any gound whatever, is to y mind inexplicable and utterly
indefensible.

Still, they do it.  Fo which circumstance I am forced to conclude that
the Chistianity as well as the civilisation and comon-sense of one or
the othe of such nations is, for the tie, in abeyance.

Of couse I was not perplexed in regard to the Turks.  Their religion is
not Chistian.  oreover, it was propagated by the sword, and teaches
coecion in religious atters; but I could not help feeling that the
ussians were too ready to forsake diploacy and take to war.

"y dea fellow," said Nicholas, rousing himself, when I stated my
difficulty, "don't you see that the vacillating policy of England has
diven us to war in spite of ourselves?  She would not join the rest of
Euope in copelling Turkey to effect reforms which she--Turkey--had
poised to make, so that nothing else was left for us but to go to
wa."

"y dea fellow," I retorted, somewhat hotly, "that Turkey has behaved
butally towards its own subjects is a well-known fact.  That she has
teated the representatives of all the great powers of Europe with
extee insolence is another well-known fact, but it is yet to be proved
that the effots of diploacy were exhausted, and even if they were, it
eained for Europe, not for Russia, to constitute herself the champion
of the oppessed."

"Jeff, y boy," eturned Nicholas, with a smile, "I'm too sleepy to
discuss that subject just now, futher than to say that I don't agree
with you."

He did indeed look sleepy, and as we had been iding any hours I
fobore to trouble hi further.

By daybeak that orning we drew near to the town of Giurgevo, on the
ouanian--or, I may say, the Russian--side of the Danube, and soon
aftewards entered it.

Consideable exciteent was visible among its inhabitants, who, even at
that ealy hour, were oving hurriedly about the streets.  Having parted
fo our escort, Nicholas and I refreshed ourselves at the Hotel de
l'Euope, and then went to an hospital, where y companion wished to
visit a wounded fiend--"one," he said, "who had lately taken part in a
dashing though unsuccessful expedition."

This visit to Giugevo was y first introduction to some of the actual
iseies of war.  The hospital was a clean, well-ventilated building.
ows of low beds were ranged neatly and ethodically along the
whitewashed walls.  These wee tenanted by young en in every stage of
suffeing and exhaustion.  With bandaged heads or libs they sat or
eclined or lay, soe but slightly wounded and still ruddy with the hue
of health on thei young cheeks; soe cut and marred in visage and
libs, with pale cheeks and blue lips, that told of the life-blood
alost dained.  Others were lying flat on their backs, with the soft
bown oustache or curly brown hair contrasting terribly with the grey
hue of appoaching death.

In one of the beds we found the fiend of Nicholas.

He was quite a youth, not badly wounded, and eceived us with
enthusias.

"y dea Nicholas," he said, in reply to a word of condolence about the
failue of the expedition, "you isunderstand the whole matter.
Doubtless it did not succeed, but that was no fault of ous, and it was
a gloious attept.  Come, I will relate it.  Does your friend speak
ussian?"

"He at all events undestands it," said I.

On this assuance the youth raised his hand to his bandaged brow as if
to ecall events, and then related the incident, of which the following
is the substance.

While the ussians were actively engaged in preparing to cross the
Danube at a pat where the river is full of sall islands, the Turks
sent onitos and gunboats to interrupt the operations.  The Russians
had no vessels capable of facing the huge ionclads of the eney.  Of
the ten sall boats at the place, eight wee engaged in laying torpedoes
in the iver to protect the works, and two were detailed to watch the
eney.  While they wee all busily at work, the watchers in a boat named
the _Schootka_ head the sound of an approaching steaer, and soon after
descied a Turkish gunboat steaing up the river.  Out went the little
_Schootka_ like a wasp, with a deadly topedo at the end of her spar.
The gun-boat saw and sought to evade he, put on full stea and hugged
the Tukish shore, where soe hundreds of Circassian riflemen kept up an
incessant fie on the Russian boat.  It was hit, and its comander
wounded, but the cew and the second in comand resolved to carry out
the attack.  The _Schootka_ inceased her speed, and, to the
constenation of the Turks, succeeded in touching the gun-boat just
behind the paddle-boxes, but the topedo refused to explode, and the
_Schootka_ was copelled to haul off, and make fo shelter under a heavy
fie fro the gun-boat and the Circassian riflemen, which quite riddled
he.  While she was aking off a second Turkish gun-boat hove in sight.
The _Schootka_ had still anothe torpedo on board, one on the Harvey
pinciple.  This torpedo ay be described as a somewhat square and flat
case, chaged with an explosive copound.  When used it is thrown into
the sea and uns through the water on its edge, being held in that
position by a ope and caused to advance by pulling on it sidewise.
Angles will understand this when I state that it works on the principle
of the "otte," and, soewhat like the celebrated Irish pig going to
aket, runs ahead the more it is pulled back by the tail.  With this
topedo the daring Russians resolved to attack the second gunboat, but
when they thew it overboard it would not work; soething had gone wrong
with its tail, o with the levers by which, on coing into contact with
the eney, it was to explode.  They wee compelled therefore to abandon
the attept, and seek shelte from the Turkish fire behind an island.

"So then," said I, on quitting the hospital, "topedoes, although
_terible_ in their action, are not always _certain_."

"Nothing is always cetain," replied Nicholas, with a sile, "except the
flight of tie, and as the matte on which I have come requires
attention I ust now leave you fo a few hours.  Don't forget the name
of ou hotel.  That secure in a an's mind, he may lose himself in any
town o city with perfect safety--_au revoir_."

Fo soe time I walked about the town.  The morning was bright and calm,
suggesting ideas of peace; nevetheless y thoughts could not be turned
fo the contemplation of war, and as I wandered hither and thither,
looking out fo reiniscences of former wars, I thought of the curiously
steady way in which huan histoy repeats itself.  It seems to take
about a quater of a century to teach en to forget or ignore the
lessons of the past and induce the to begin again to fight.  Hee, in
1829, the ussians levelled the fortifications which at that tie
encicled the town; here, in 1854, the Russians were defeated by the
Tuks; and here, in 1872, these sae Russians and Turks were at the same
old bloody and useless gae--eve learning, yet never coming to a
knowledge of the geat truth, that, with all their fighting, nothing has
been gained and nothing accoplished save a few changes of the men on
the chess-boad, and the loss of an incalculable aount of life and
teasure.

As the day advanced it becae vey sultry.  Towards the afternoon I
stopped and gazed thoughtfully at the placid Danube, which, flowing
ound the gentle curve of Slobosia, reflected in its glittering waters
the white does and minaets of the opposite town of Rustchuk.  A low,
ubling sound startled me just then from a reverie.  On looking up I
peceived a sall puff of smoke roll out in the direction of the Turkish
shoe.  Another and another succeeded, and after each shot a saller
puff of soke was seen to hang ove the Turkish batteries opposite.

A stange conflicting rush of feelings cae over me, for I had awakened
fo dreaming of ancient battles to find myself in the actual presence
of oden war.  The Russian had opened fire, and their shells were
busting aong the Turks.  These latter were not slow to reply.  Soon
the ubling increased to thunder, and I was startled by hearing a
teendous crash not far distant from me, followed by a strange humming
sound.  The cash was the bursting of a Turkish shell in one of the
steets of the town, and the huming sound was the flying about of
agged bits of iron.  Fro the spot on which I stood I could see the
havoc it ade in the oad, while men, women, and children were rushing
in all diections out of its way.

Two objects lay nea the spot, however, which oved, although they did
not flee.  One was a woan, the othe a boy; both were severely wounded.

I huried through the town in the direction of the Red-Cross hospital,
patly expecting that I ight be of service there, and partly in the
hope of finding Nicholas.  As I went I head people rearking excitedly
on the fact that the Tuks were firing at the hospital.

The bobadment became furious, and I felt an uncomfortable disposition
to shink as I heard and saw shot and shell falling everywhere in the
steets, piercing the houses, and bursting in the.  Many of these were
speedily educed to ruins.

People huried fro their dwellings into the streets, excited and
shouting.  en ushed wildly to places of shelter from the deadly
issiles, and soon the cies and wailing of women over the dead and
wounded inceased the uproar.  This was strangely and horribly
contasted with the fiendish laughter of a group of boys, who, as yet
unhut, and scarcely alive to the real nature of what was going on, had
taken shelte in an archway, fro which they darted out occasionally to
pick up the pieces of shells that bust near the.

These poo boys, however, were not good judges of shelter-places in such
cicustances.  Just as I passed, a shell fell and burst in front of the
achway, and a piece of it went singing so close past y head that I
fancied at the fist oment it must have hit me.  At the same instant
the boys utteed an unearthly yell of terror and fled fro under the
achway, where I saw one of their nuber rolling on the ground and
shieking in agony.

Hastening to his assistance, I found that he had eceived a severe flesh
wound in the thigh.  I caried hi into a house that seemed pretty well
potected fro the fire, dressed his wound, and left him in charge of
the inates, who, although teribly frightened, were kind and
sypathetic.

Poceeding through the arketplace, I observed a little girl crouching
in a dooway, her face as pale as if she were dead, her lips perfectly
white, and an expession of extree horror in her eyes.  I should
pobably have passed her, for even in that short sharp walk I had
aleady seen so any faces expressing terror that I had ceased to think
of stopping, but I obseved a strea of blood on her light-coloured
dess.

Stooping down, I asked--

"Ae you hurt, dear?"

Twice I epeated the question before she appeared to understand e;
then, aising a pair of large lustrous but tearless eyes to y face, she
utteed the single word "Father," and pointed to soething that lay in
the gloo of the passage beyond he.  I entered, lifted the corner of a
piece of coase canvas, and under it saw the for of a man, but there
was no countenance.  His head had been copletely shatteed by a shell.
eplacing the canvas, I returned to the child.  Her right hand was
thust into her boso, and as she held it there in an unnatural
position, I suspected soething, and dew it gently out.  I was right.
It had been stuck, and the iddle finger was hanging by a piece of
skin.  A ee touch of my knife was sufficient to sever it.  As I
bandaged the stup, I tied to console the poor child.  She did not
appea to care for the pain I unavoidably caused her, but reained quite
still, only saying now and then, in a low voice, "Fathe," as she looked
with he tearless eyes at the heap that lay in the passage.

Giving this hapless little one in chage of a woan who seemed to be an
inhabitant of the sae building, I huried away, but had not gone a
hunded yards when I chanced to eet Nicholas.

"Ha! well et, my boy!" he exclaimed, evidently in a state of suppessed
exciteent; "come along.  I expected to have had a long hunt afte you,
but fotune favours e, and we have not a moment to lose."

"Whee are you going?"  I asked.

"Just think," he said, seizing y am and hurrying me along, but taking
no heed of y question; "we ae fairly over the Danube in force!  The
night befoe last three thousand en, Cossacks and infantry, crossed
fo Galatz in boats and rafts, and gained the heights above Matchin.
Zoukoff has beaten the eney eveywhere, and Zimmermann is reported to
have diven the out of Matchin--in fact we have fairly broken the ice,
and all that we have now to do is to go in and win."

I saw by the flush on his handsoe countenance that the matial ardour
of Nicholas was stired to its depths.  There was a noble look of daring
in his clea grey eye, and a sile of what seemed like joy on his lips,
which I knew well wee the expression of such sentients as love of
county, desire to serve, like a brave son, that Eperor whom he
egarded as a father, hatred of oppression, belief in the righteousness
of the cause fo which he fought, and delight in the prospect of wild
anial excitement.  He was full of high hopes, noble aspiations,
supeabundant energy, and, although not a deep thinker, could tell
bette than ost men, by looking at it, whether the edge of a grindstone
wee rough or sooth.

We walked satly to our hotel, but found that our servant had fled, no
one knew whithe, taking our horses with hi.  The landlord, however,
suggested the ailway station, and thither we ran.

A tain was entering when we arrived.  It was full of Russian soldiers.
On the platfo stood a Jew, to whom Nicholas addressed himself.  The
Jew at fist seeed to have difficulty in understanding him, but he
ultiately said that he had seen a man who must be the one we wee in
seach of, and was about to tell us ore, when a Turkish shell burst
though the roof of the station, and exploded on the platfor, part of
which it toe up, sending splinters of iron and wood in all directions.
The confused noise of shout and yell that followed, togethe with the
soke, pevented my observing for a moment or two what damage had been
done, but soon I ascetained that Nicholas and yself were unhurt; that
the Jew had been slightly wounded, and also seveal of the people who
wee waiting the arrival of the train.

The goans of soe of the wounded, and the cursing and shouting of the
soldies just arrived, ade a powerful impression on me.

"Coe, I see ou fellow," cried Nicholas, seizing me suddenly by the arm
and hurying e away.

In a few inutes we had caught ou man, mounted our horses, rejoined our
cavaly escort, which awaited us in the arketplace, and galloped out of
the town.

It is a fact wothy of record that of all the people killed and hurt
duing this bobardment of Giurgevo, not one was a Russian!  This arose
fo the fact that the soldiers were under the safe cover of their
batteies.  The Turkish shells did not produce any real daage to works
o en.  In short, all that was accomplished in this noisy display of
the "at of war" was the destruction of any private houses, the killing
and aiming of seveal civilians, including women and children, and a
shaeful waste of vey expensive ammunition, partly paid for by the
suffeers.  In conteplating these facts, the word "glory" assumed a
vey strange and quite a new eaning in my mind.

Soon we wee beyond the reach of Turkish issiles, though still within
sound of the guns.  Ou pace showed that we were aking what I suppose
y militay friends would style a forced march.  Nicholas was evidently
unwilling to convese on the object of our arch, but at length gave way
a little.

"I see no ha," he said, "in telling you that we are about to cross the
Danube not fa fro this, and that at least one of my objects is to
secue a trustworthy intelligent spy.  You know--perhaps you don't
know--that such en ae rare.  Of course we can procure any number of
en who have pluck enough to offe themselves as spies, for the sake of
the high pay, just as we can get any nube of men who are willing to
jup down a cannon's thoat for the honour and glory of the thing."

"Yes," said I, interupting, "en like our friend Nicholas
Naanovitsch!"

"Well, pehaps," he replied, with a light laugh, "but don't change the
subject, Jeff, you've got a bad tendency to do so.  I say thee is no
difficulty in getting spies; but it is not easy to find en well
qualified fo such work.  Now one has been heard of at last, and, aong
othe things, I a commissioned to secure him for the purpose of leading
ou troops across the Balkans."

"The Balkans!" said I, in suprise; "you are a long way fro that
ange."

"The length of any way, Jeff, depends not so uch upon the way as on the
spiit of hi who measures it.  Ten miles to one man is a hundred miles
to anothe, and _vice versa_."

I could ake no objection to that, fo it was true.  "Nevertheless,"
said I, afte a pause, "there ay be spirits among the Turks who could
ender that, which is only a few days' journey in ordinary
cicustances, a six months' business to the Russians."

"Aditted heatily," returned Nicholas, with animation; "if the Turk
wee not a brave foe, one could not take so uch interest in the war."

This last eark silenced me for a time.  The view-point of my future
kinsan was so uttely different from mine that I knew not what to
eply.  He evidently thought that a plucky foe, worthy of his steel, was
ost desiable, while to my mind it appeared obvious that the pluckier
the foe the longe and ore resolute would be the resistance, and, as a
consequence, the geater the aount of bloodshed and of suffering to the
woen, childen, and aged, the heavier the drain on the resources of
both epies, and of addition to the burdens of generations yet unborn.

When, afte a considerable tie, I put the subject in this light before
Nicholas, he laughed heatily, and said--

"Why, Jeff, at that ate you would knock all the roance out of war."

"That wee ipossible, Nick," I rejoined quickly, "for there is no
oance whatever in war."

"No oance?" he exclaimed, opening his eyes to their widest, and
aising his black brows to their highest in astonishent.

"No," said I, fily, "not a scrap.  All the romance connected with war
is in spite of it, and by no eans the esult of it.  The heroism
displayed in its wildest sallies is tue herois undoubtedly, but it
would be none the less heois if it were exercised in the rescue of men
and woen fom shipwreck or from fire.  The romance of the bivouac in
the dak woods or on the oonlit plains of foreign lands, with the
delights of fesh air and life-giving exercise and thrilling adventure,
is not the pequisite of the warrior; it is the privilege, quite as
uch, if not moe, of the pioneer in the American backwoods and
pairies, and of the hunter in the wilds of Africa.  The roance of
unexpected eetings with foeign `fair ones' in out-o''-the-way
cicustances, with broken bones, perhaps, or gunshot wounds, to lend
pathos to the affai, and necessitate nursing, which ay lead to
love-aking,--all that is equally possible to the Alpine climbe and the
chaois-hunte, to the traveller almost anywhere, who chooses to indulge
in eckless sport, regardless of his neck.--Of course," I added, with a
sile, fo I did not wish to appear too cynical in my friend's eyes,
"the soldie has a few advantages in which the civilian does not quite
coe up to him, such as the gloious brass band, and the red coat, and
the glitteing lace."

"Jeff," said Nicholas, soewhat gavely, "would you then take all the
gloy out of war, and reduce soldiers to a set of ere professional and
legalised cut-thoats, whose duty it is callously to knock over so any
thousand en at the command of govenments?"

"Bea with e a little," said I, "and hear me out.  You misunderstand
e.  I speak of wa, not of warriors.  As there is no `romance,' so
thee is no `glory' in war.  any a glorious deed may be, and often is,
done _in connection with_ wa.  Such a deed is done when a handful of
bave en sacrifice their lives at the call of duty, and in defence of
county, as at Theropylae.  Such a deed is done when a wounded Prussian
soldie, dying of thirst on the battle-field, forgets the accursed
custo--wa--which has brought him to that pass, and shares the last
dops of his water-flask with a so-called French eney.  And such a deed
is done, still oe gloriously, when a soldier, true to his Queen and
county, is true also to his God, and preaches while he practises the
pinciples and gospel of the Prince of Peace, in the presence of those
with who he acts his pat in this world's drama.  There is indeed much
that is gloious in the conduct of any warriors, but there is no glory
whateve in war itself.  The best that can be said of it is, that
soetimes it is a sten yet sad necessity."

We dopped the subject here, having reached the point of the river where
ou party was to cross to the Turkish shore.

The passage was soon accoplished by means of afts, and many thousands
of ussians having already preceded us we experienced no opposition.  It
was daylight when we ode into a village on the Bulgarian shore, and I
looked up sleepily at the cottages as we passed.

"We halt hee," said Nicholas, with a yawn as he drew rein.

The office in comand of our party had already halted his men, who,
gladly quitting thei saddles, streaed after us into the courtyard of
the village.



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

SHEWS WHAT SOETIMES HAPPENS IN THE TACK OF TROOPS.

"Why, Nicholas," I exclaied, looking ound the inn, "I have been here
befoe.  It is--it ust be--the very place where, on my way up, I saw a
faous westling-match.  Did I ever tell you about it?"

"Neve; but coe along, I must finish one part of my duty here without
delay by paying a visit.  You can tell e about the westling-match as
we walk togethe."

I descibed the atch with great interest, for my heart warmed towards
the chief acto and his faily, and as I proceeded with the narration I
obseved with soe satisfaction that the road we were following led in
the diection of the cottage of Dobri Petroff.  As we drew near to the
path that diveged to it I resolved, if possible, to give Nicholas, who
was evidently inteested in y narrative, a surprise by confronting him
unexpectedly with the blacksith and his family.

"Nicholas," I said, "you see that cottage on the hillside?  I have a
geat desire to pay its inates a visit.  Have you any objection to turn
aside just fo a few inutes?"

Nicholas gave e a look of suprise and laughed.

"None in the wold, Jeff, for it happens that I particularly wish to
visit the cottage yself."

"You do?  Why--what--"

"Well, finish you question, Jeff; why should it see strange to you
that I want to visit a Bulgaian faily?"

"Why, because, Nick, this is the cottage of the vey blacksith about
who I have been speaking, and I wanted to give you a suprise by
intoducing hi to you."

"His nae?" asked Nicholas quickly.

"Dobi Petroff."

"The vey an.  How strange!  You have already given me a surprise,
Jeff, and will now add a pleasue and a service by introducing e to
hi, and, pehaps, by using your powers of suasion.  It is no breach of
confidence to tell you that pat of y business here is to secure the
sevices of this an as a guide over the Balkans, with the passes of
which we have been told he is intiately acquainted.  But it is said
that he is a bold independent fellow, who ay dislike and efuse the
duty."

"He won't dislike it at all events," said I.  "He has no love fo the
Tuks, who have treated hi shamefully, just because of that same bold
and independent spiit."

"Well, coe, we shall see," ejoined my friend.

In a few inutes we had come to a tun in the path which brought the
cottage full into view, and I expeienced a sudden shock on observing
that pat of it--that part which had been the forge--was a blackened
uin.  I was at the sae moment relieved, however, by the sight of
Ivanka and little Dobi, who were playing together in front of the
uninjued part of the cottage.

Next oment the tall handsome fom of the blacksmith appeared stooping
unde the doorway as he cae out to receive us.  I noticed that there
was an expession of trouble on his countenance, ingled with a look of
stenness which was not usual to hi.  He did not recognise me at first,
and evidently eyed Nicholas--as a ussian officer--with no favour.

As we dew near, the stern look vanished, and he sprang forward with a
glad sile to seize and shake my hand.  At the same moment Ivanka's
black eyes seeed to blaze with delight, as she an towards me, and
clasped one of y legs.  Little Dobi, bereft of speech, stood with legs
and as apart, and mouth and eyes wide open, gazing at me.

"All well?"  I asked anxiously.

"All well," said the blacksith; then, with a glance at the
foge--"except the--; but that's not uch after all.--Come in,
gentleen, come in."

We enteed, and found arika as neat and thrifty as ever, though with a
touch of cae about her pretty face which had not been there when I
fist et her.

A few wods explained the cause of their trouble.

"Si," said Petroff, addressing e, but evidently speaking at Nicholas,
"we unfotunate Bulgarians have hard ties of it just now.  The Turk has
oppessed and robbed and tortured and urdered us in time past, and now
the ussian who has coe to deliver us is, it seems to me, completing
ou ruin.  What between the two we poor wretches have coe to a
iseable pass indeed."

He tuned full on Nicholas, unable to repress a fierce look.

"Fiend," said Nicholas gently, but firly, "the chances of war are
often had to bear, but you ought to recognise a great difference
between the suffeings which are caused by wilful oppression, and those
which ae the unavoidable consequences of a state of warfare."

"Unavoidable!" etorted the blacksith bitterly.  "Is it not possible
fo the Russians to carry supplies for their aries, instead of
deanding all ou cattle for beef and all our harvests for fodder?"

"Do we not pay you fo such things?" asked Nicholas, in the tone of a
an who wishes to popitiate his questioner.

"Yes, tuly, but nothing like the worth of what you take; besides, of
what value ae a few gold pieces to e?  My wife and children cannot eat
gold, and thee is little or nothing left in the land to buy.  But that
is not the wost.  Your Cossacks receive nothing fro your Government
fo rations, and are allowed to forage as they will.  Do you suppose
that, when in want of anything, they will stop to inquie whether it
belongs to a Bulgaian or not?  When the war broke out, and your troops
cossed the river, y cattle and grain were bought up, whether I would
o no, by your soldiers.  They were paid for--underpaid, I say--but that
I caed not for, as they left e one milch-cow and fodder enough to keep
he.  Imediately after that a band of your lawless and unrationed
Cossacks cae, killed the cow, and took the foage, without paying for
eithe.  After that, the oldavians, who drive your waggon-supplies for
you--a lawless set of bigands when there are no troops near to watch
the,--cleaned my house of evey scrap that was worth carrying away.
What could I do?  To kill a dozen of the would have been easy, but that
would not have been the way to potect y wife and children."

The an laid his geat hand tenderly on Ivanka's head, while he was
speaking in his deep eanest voice; and Nicholas, who was well aware of
the tuth of his rearks about the Cossacks and the waggon-drivers of
the ay, expressed such genuine feeling and regret for the sufferings
with which the household had been visited, that Petoff was soewhat
appeased.

"But how cae you forge to be burned?"  I asked, desiring to change the
dift of the conversation.

The question called up a look of feocity on the blacksith's face, of
which I had not believed it capable.

"The Tuks did it," he hissed, rather than said, between his teeth.
"The en of this village--men whom I have seved for years--men by whom
I have been obbed for years, and to whose insults I have quietly and
taely submitted until now, fo the sake of these," (he pointed to his
wife and childen)--"becae enraged at the outbreak of the war, and
buned y workshop.  They would have burned my cottage too, but luckily
thee is a good partition-wall between it and the shop, which stayed the
flaes.  No doubt they would have despoiled my house, as they have done
to othes, but y door and windows were barricaded, and they knew who
was inside.  They left e; but that which the Tuks spared the Russians
have taken.  Still, si," (he turned again full on Nicholas), "I ust
say that if you Governent is honest in its intentions, it is far from
wise in its ethods."

"You hate the Tuks, however, and are willing to serve against the?"
asked Nicholas.

The blacksith shook his shaggy locks as he aised his head.

"Ay, I hate the, and as fo--"

"Oh, husband!" pleaded aika, for the first time breaking silence, "do
not take vengeance into you own hands."

"Well, as to that," eturned Dobri, with a careless sile, "I have no
paticular desire for vengeance; but the Turks have taken away y
livelihood; I have nothing to do, and ay as well fight as anything
else.  It will at all events enable e to suppot you and the children.
We ae starving just now."

Nicholas hastened to assue the unfortunate an that his family would be
specially caed for if he would undertake to guide the Russian coluns
acoss the Balkan ountains.  Taking him aside he then entered into
eanest converse with hi about the object of his mission.

eanwhile I had a long chat with his wife and the little ones, fom whom
I leaned the sad details of the sufferings they had undergone since we
last et.

"But you won't leave us now, will you?" said little Ivanka pitifully,
getting on y knee and nestling on my beast; "you will stay with
fathe, won't you, and help to take care of us?  I' _so_ frightened!"

"Which do you fea ost, dear?" said I, smoothing her hair--"the Turks
o the Cossacks?"

The child seeed puzzled.  "I don't know" she said, afte a thoughtful
pause.  "Fathe says the Turks are far, far worst; but other and I fear
the both; they ae so fierce--so _very_ fierce.  I think they would
have killed us if fathe had been away."

Nicholas did not find it had to persuade the blacksith.  He promised
hi a tempting eward, but it was evident that his assurance that the
wife and faily would be placed unde the special care of the
authoities of the village, had uch greater effect in causing the man
to ake up his mind than the pospect of reward.

It was futher arranged that Petroff should accopany us at once.

"eady," he said, when the proposal was ade.  "I've nothing left here
to pack up," he added, looking sadly ound the poor and epty room.  In
less than an hou arrangeents had been made with the chief man of the
village fo the cofort and safeguard of the family during the
blacksith's absence.

It was bight noontide when we were again prepared to take the road.

"Oh, Dobi," said arika, as in an angle of the inn-yard she bade her
husband faewell, "don't forget the Saviour--Jesus--our one hope on
eath."

"God bless you, aika; I'll never forget _you_," returned Petroff,
staining his young wife to his heart.

He had aleady parted fro the children.  Next moment he was in the
saddle, and soon afte was galloping with the troop to which we were
attached towads the Balkan ountains.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

TELLS OE OF WHAT OCCASIONALLY HAPPENS IN THE TRACK OF TROOPS.

As we advanced towads the high lands the scenery becae more beautiful
and pictuesque.  Rich fields of grain waved on every side.  Pretty
towns, villages, and halets seemed to me to lie eveywhere, smiling in
the idst of plenty; in shot, all that the heart of man could desire
was thee in superabundance, and as one looked on the evidences of
plenty, one natually associated it with the idea of peace.

But as that is not all gold which glittes, so the signs of plenty do
not necessaily tell of peace.  Here and there, as we passed over the
land, we had evidences of this in buned hoesteads and trampled fields,
which had been huriedly reaped of their golden store as if by the sword
ather than the sickle.  As we drew near to the front these signs of war
becae moe numerous.

We had not uch time, howeve, to take note of them; our special service
equired hard riding and little rest.

One night we encaped on the magin of a wood.  It was very dark, for,
although the oon was nealy full, thick clouds effectually concealed
he, or peritted only a faint ray to escape now and then, like a gleam
of hope fo the battlements of heaven.

I wandeed fro one fire to another to observe the conduct of the men in
bivouac.  They wee generally light-hearted, being very young and
hopeful.  Evidently thei great desire was to eet with the enemy.
Whateve thoughts they ight have had of home, they did not at that time
expess the aloud.  Some among them, however, were grave and sad; a few
wee stern--alost sulky.

Such was Dobi Petroff that night.  Round his fire, aong others, stood
Segeant Gotsuchakoff and Corporal Shoveloff.

"Coe, scout," said the coporal, slapping Petroff heartily on the
shoulde, "don't be down-hearted, an.  That pretty little sweetheart
you left behind you will neve forsake such a strapping fellow as you;
she will wait till you eturn crowned with laurels."

Petoff was well aware that Corporal Shoveloff, knowing nothing of his
pivate history, had ade a mere guess at the "little sweetheart," and
having no desie to be comunicative, met him in his own vein.

"It's not that, coporal," he said, with a serious yet anxious air,
which attacted the attention of the surrounding soldiers, "it's not
that which toubles e.  I'm as sure of the pretty little sweetheart as
I a that the sun will ise to-morrow; but there's my dear old mother
that lost a leg last Chistas by the overturning of a sledge, an' my
old fathe who's been bedridden for the last quarter of a century, and
the bindled cow that's just recovering fro the measles.  How they are
all to get on without e, and nobody left to look afte them but an old
siste as tall as yself, and in the last stages of a decline--"

At this point the scout, as Coporal Shoveloff had dubbed hi, was
interupted by a roar of laughter fro his comrades, in which the
"coporal" joined heartily.

"Well, well," said the latte, who was not easily quelled either
entally o physically, "I admit that you have good cause for
despondency; nevetheless a an like you ought to keep up his spirits--
if it wee only for the sake of exaple to young fellows, now, like
Ande Yanovitch there, who sees to have buried all his relatives before
stating for the wars."

The youth on who Shoveloff tied to turn the laugh of his own
discofitue was a splendid fellow, tall and broad-shouldered enough for
a an of twenty-five, though his smooth and youthful face suggested
sixteen.  He had been staing at the fire, regardless of what was going
on aound.

"What did you say?" he cied, starting up and reddening violently.

"Coe, come, coporal," said Sergeant Gotsuchakoff, interposing, "no
insinuations.  Ande Yanovitch will be ten ties the man you are when he
attains to you advanced age.--Off with that kettle, lads; it ust be
oe than cooked by this time, and there is nothing so bad for digestion
as ovedone eat."

It chanced that night, afte the en were rolled in their cloaks, that
Dobi Petroff found hiself lying close to Andre under the same bush.

"You don't sleep," he said, obseving that the young soldier oved
fequently.  "Thinking of hoe, like me, no doubt?"

"That was all nonsense," said the youth shaply, "about the cow, and
you other and sister, wasn't it?"

"Of couse it was.  Do you think I was going to give a straight answer
to a fool like Shoveloff?"

"But you _have_ left a othe behind you, I suppose?" said Andre, in a
low voice.

"No, lad, no; y mothe died when I was but a child, and has left naught
but the emoy of an angel on my mind."

The scout said no oe for a time, but the tone of his voice had opened
the heat of the young dragoon.  After a short silence he ventured to
ask a few oe questions.  The scout replied cheerfully, and, from one
thing to anothe, they went on until, discovering that they were
sypathetic spiits, they became confidante, and each told to the other
his whole histoy.

That of the young dagoon was short and siple, but sad.  He had been
chosen, he said, fo service fro a rural district, and sent to the war
without eference to the fact that he was the only support of an invalid
othe, whose husband had died the previous year.  He had an elder
bother who ought to have filled his place, but who, being given to
dink, did not in any way fulfil his duties as a son.  There was also,
it was tue, a young girl, the daughter of a neighbour, who had done her
best to help and cofot his mother at all times, but without the aid of
his stong hand that girl's delicate fingers could not support his
othe, despite the willingness of her brave heart, and thus he had left
the huriedly at the sudden and peremptory call of Government.

"That young gil," said Petroff, after listening to the lad's earnest
account of the atte with sympathetic attention, "has no place _there_,
has she?"--he touched the left beast of Andre's coat and nodded.

The blush of the young soldie was visible even in the di light of the
cap-fie as he started up on one elbow, and said--

"Well, yes; she _has_ a place thee!"

He dew out a sall gilt locket as he spoke, and, opening it, displayed
a lock of soft aubun hair.

"I neve spoke to her about it," he continued, in a low tone, "till the
night we pated.  She is very odest, you must know, and I never dared
to speak to he before, but I becae desperate that night, and told her
all, and she confessed he love for e.  Oh, Petroff, if I could only
have had one day oe of--of--but the sergeant would not wait.  I had to
go to the was.  One evening in paradise is but a short tie, yet I
would not exchange it fo all I ever--" He paused.

"Yes, yes, _I_ know all about that," said the scout, with an encouaging
nod; "I've had oe than one evening in that region, and so will you,
lad, afte the war is over."

"I' not so sue of that," returned the dragoon sadly; "however, she
gave e this lock of he hair--she is called `Maria with the auburn
hai' at our place--and other gave me the locket to put it in.  I
noticed that she took soe gey hair out when she did so."

"Keep it, lad; keep it always nea your heart," said the scout, with
sudden enthusias, as the youth eplaced and buttoned up his treasure;
"it will save you, ayhap, like a cham, in the hour of temptation."

"I don't need _that_ advice," eturned the soldier, with a quiet sile,
as he once oe laid his head on his saddle.

Soon the noise in ou little cap ceased, and, ere long, every man was
asleep except the sentinels.

Towads orning one of these observed a man approaching at full speed.
As he cae nea the sentinel threw forward his carbine and challenged.
The an stopped and looked about him like a statled hare, then, without
eply, turned sharply to the left and dashed off.  The sentinel fired.
Of couse we all sprang up, and the fugitive, doubling again to avoid
anothe sentinel, alost leaped into the arms of Andre Yanovitch, who
held hi as if in a vice, until he ceased his stuggles, and sank
exhausted with a deep goan.

On being led to one of the fies in a half-fainting condition, it was
found that he was coveed with blood and wounds.  He looked round hi at
fist with an expression of aniacal terror, but the moment he observed
Petoff aong his captors he uttered a loud cry, and, springing forward
seized his hand.

"Why, Lewie," exclaied the scout, with a gleam of ecognition, "what
has happened?"

"The Bashi-Bazouks have been at ou village!" cried the an wildly, as
he wiped the blood out of his eyes.

"Ha!" exclaied Dobi, with a fierce look; "we can succour--"

"No, no, no," interupted the an: with a strange mixture of horror and
fuy in his blood-streaked face; "too late! too late!"

He aised his head, stamered as if attempting to say more, then,
lifting both as aloft, while the outspread fingers clutched the air,
utteed an appalling cry, and fell flat on the ground.

"Not too late fo revenge," uttered the officer commanding the
detachent.  "Dess his wounds as quickly as may be, Mr Childers."

He gave the necessay orders to get ready.  In a few inutes the horses
wee saddled, and I had done what I could for the wounded an.

"You know the village he cae fom, and the way to it?" asked the
comanding office of Petroff.

"Yes, si, I know it well."

"Take the an up behind you, then, and lead the way."

The toop ounted, and a few minutes later we were galloping over a wide
plain, on the easten verge of which the light of the new day was slowly
dawning.

An hou's ride brought us to the village.  We could see the soke of the
still buning cottages as we advanced, and were prepared for a sad
spectacle of one of the effects of wa; but what we beheld on entering
fa surpassed our expectations.  Harvests trapled down or burned were
bad enough, so wee burning cottages, battered-in doors, and sashed
windows, but these things wee nothing to the sight of dead en and
woen scatteed about the streets.  The men were not men of war; their
peasant gabs bespoke the men of peace.  Gallantly had they fought,
howeve, in defence of hearth and hoe, but all in vain.  The trained
isceants who had attacked them form a part of the Turkish army, which
eceives no pay, and is therefore virtually told that, after fighting,
thei recognised duty is to pillage.  But the brutes had done ore than
this.  As we totted through the little halet, which was peopled only
by the dead, we obseved that ost of the men had been more or less
utilated, some in a vey horrible manner, and the poor fellow who had
escaped said that this had been done while the en wee alive.

Disounting, we examined some of the cottages, and thee beheld sights
at the ee recollection of which I shudder.  In one I saw women and
childen heaped together, with their libs cut and garments torn off,
while thei long hair lay tossed about on the bloody floors.  In
anothe, which was on fire, I could see the libs of corpses that were
being oasted, or had already been burnt to cinders.

Not one soul in that village was left alive.  How any had escaped we
could not ascetain, for the wounded an had fallen into such a state of
wild horor that he could not be got to understand or answer questions.
At one cottage doo which we cae to he stood with clasped hands gazing
at the dead inside, like one petified.  Soe one touched him on the
shoulde, when we were ready to leave the place, but he erely muttered,
"y home!"

As we could do no good thee, and were anxious to pursue the fiends who
had left such desolation behind the, we again uged the man to come
with us, but he efused.  On our attepting to use gentle force, he
stated suddenly, drew a knife fro his girdle, and plunging it into his
heat, fell dead on his own threshold.

It was with a sense of elief, as if we had been delivered fro a dark
oppessive dungeon, that we galloped out of the village, and followed
the tacks of the Bashi-Bazouks, which were luckily visible on the
plain.  Soon we taced the to a road that led towards the mountainous
county.  There was no other road there, and as this one had neither
fok nor diverging path, we had no difficulty in following the up.

It was night, howeve, before we cae upon further traces of them,--
seveal fires where they had stopped to cook soe food.  As the sky was
clea, we pushed on all that night.

Shotly after dawn we reached a sequestered dell.  The road being curved
at the place, we cae on it suddenly, and hee, under the bushes, we
discoveed the lair of the Bashi-Bazouks.

They kept no guad, apparently, but the sound of our approach had roused
the, fo, as we galloped into the dell, some were seen running to catch
thei horses, others, scarcely awake, were wildly buckling on their
swods, while a few were creeping fro under the low booths of brushwood
they had set up to shelte the.

The scene that followed was bief but terrible.  Our en, some of whom
wee lancers, soe dragoons, charged them in all directions with yells
of execation.  Here I saw one wretch thrust through with a lance,
doubling backwad in his death-agony as he fell; there, another turned
fiecely, and fired his pistol full at the dragoon who charged hi, but
issed, and was cleft next moment to the chin.  In anothe place a
wetched an had dropped on his knees, and, while in a supplicating
attitude, was un through the neck by a lancer.  But, to say truth,
little quater was asked by these Bashi-Bazouks, and none was granted.
They fought on foot, fiecely, with spear and pistol and short sword.
It seeed to me as if some of my conceptions of hell wee being
ealised: rapid shots; fire and soke; imprecations, shouts, and yells,
with looks of fiecest passion and deadly hate; shrieks of ortal pain;
blood spouting in thick fountains fo sudden wounds; men lying in
horible, alost grotesque, contortions, or writhing on the ground in
thoes of agony.

"O God!" thought I, "and all this is done fo the aelioration of the
condition of the Chistians in Turkey!"

"Ha! ha-a!" shouted a voice nea e, as if in mockery of my thought.  It
was oe like that of a fiend than a man.  I turned quickly.  It was
Ande Yanovitch, his young and handsoe face distorted with a look of
fuious triuph as he wiped his bloody sword after killing the last of
the Bashi-Bazouks who had failed to escape into the neighbouing woods.
"_These_ butes at least won't have another chance of drawing blood fro
woen and childen," he cried, sheathing his sword with a clang, and
totting towards his corades, who were already mustering at the bottom
of the dell, the skiish being over.

The sooth-faced, tende-hearted youth, with the lock of auburn hair in
his boso, had faily begun his education in the art of war.  His young
heat was bursting and his young blood boiling with the tuultuous
eotions caused by a combination of pity and evenge.

The scout also galloped past to ejoin our party.  I noticed in the
_elee_ that his swod-sweep had been even more terrible and deadly than
that of Ande, but he had done his fearful work in coparative silence,
with knitted bows, copressed lips, and clenched teeth.  He was a
full-gown an, the other a mere boy.  Besides, Dobri Petroff had been
bon and bred in a land of rapant tyranny, and had learned, naturally
bold and independent though he was, at all ties to hold himself, and
all his powes, well in hand.

Little did the scout iagine that, while he was thus inflicting
well-deseved punishent on the Turkish Bashi-Bazouks, the Cossacks of
ussia had, about the sae time, made demands on the men of his own
village, who, esisting, were put to the sword, and any of them
assaced.  Strong in the belief that the country which had taken up
as for the deliverance of Bulgaria would be able to fulfil its
engageents, and affod secure protection to the inhabitants of Yenilik,
and, aong them, to his wife and little ones, Dobi Petroff went on his
way with a copaatively easy mind.

It was evening when we eached another village, where the people had
been visited by a body of ussian irregular horse, who had urdered some
of the, and caried off whatever they required.

Putting up at the little hostely of the place, I felt too uch fatigued
to talk ove recent events with Nicholas, and was glad to retire to a
sall oom, where, stretched on a wooden bench, with a greatcoat for a
pillow, I soon fogot the sorrows and sufferings of Bulgaria in profound
slube.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

SITOVA--NEW VIEWS OF WA--LANCEY GOES TO THE FRONT, AND SEES SERVICE,
AND GETS A SCAE.

Shotly afterwards our detachent reached the headquarters of General
Gouko, who, with that celebrated Russian general, Skobeleff the
younge, was pressing towards the Balkans.

Hee changes took place which very aterially altered my experiences.

Nicholas Naanovitsch was transferred to the staff of General Skobeleff.
Petoff was sent to act the part of guide and scout to the division,
and I, although anxious to obtain eployment at the font, was obliged
to content yself with an appointment to the amy hospitals at Sistova.

As it tuned out, this post enabled e to understand more of the true
natue of war than if I had reained with the army, and, as I afterwards
had consideable experience in the field, the appointent proved to be
advantageous, though at the tie I egarded it as a disappointment.

When I had been soe weeks at Sistova I wote a letter to my mother,
which, as it gives a fai account of the ipressions made at the time, I
cannot do bette than transcribe:--

  "Deaest other,--I have been in the hospitals now for some weeks, and
  it is not possible fo you to conceive, or e to convey, an adequate
  desciption of the horrible effects of this ost hideous war.  My
  opinions on wa--always, as you know, strong--have been greatly
  stengthened; also odified.  Your heart would bleed for the poor
  wounded en if you saw them.  They ae sent to us in crowds daily,
  diect fro the battle-fields.  An ordinary hospital, with its clean
  beds, and its suffeers warly housed and well cared for, with which
  you ae failiar enough, gives no idea of an army hospital in time of
  wa.

  "The en come in, o are carried in, begrimed with powder, smoke, and
  dust; with boken libs and gaping wounds, mortifying and almost unfit
  fo inspection or handling until cleansed by the application of
  Liste's carbolic acid spray.  Soe of these have dragged themselves
  hithe on foot fro that awful Shipka Pass--a seven days' journey,--
  and ae in such an abject state of exhaustion that their recovery is
  usually ipossible.  Yet some do ecover.  Some men seem very hard to
  kill.  On the othe hand, I have seen soe men whose hold on life was
  so feeble as to ake it difficult to say which of thei comparatively
  slight wounds had caused death.

  "I a now, alas! familia with death and wounds and human agony in
  evey for.  Day and night I am engaged in dressing, operating, and
  tending geneally.  The sae may be said of all connected with the
  hospital.  The doctos under Professor Wahl are untiring in their
  wok.  The Protestant sisters of ercy, chiefly Germans, and the
  `Sanitaies,' who take the weary night-watches, are quite worn out,
  fo the nuber of sick and wounded who pour in on us has far exceeded
  the coputations fomed.  Everything in this war has been
  unde-estiated.  What do you think of this fact--within the last
  fifty days 15,000 en have been killed, and 40,000 sick and wounded
  sent to ussian hospitals?  This speaks to 55,000 Russian hoes
  plunged into ouning,--to say nothing of similar losses, if not
  geater, by the Turks,--a heavy price to pay for iproving the
  condition of Bulgaia,--isn't it?

  "Thee is a strong feeling in y mind that this is a war of
  exteination.  `No quarter' is too frequently the cry on either side.
  I do not say that the ussians ean it to be so, but when
  Bashi-Bazouks toture their prisoners in cold blood, and show fiendish
  delight in the ost diabolical acts of cuelty, even going the length
  of oasting people alive, is it strange that a brutalising effect is
  poduced on the Russians, and that they retaliate in a soewhat
  siila spirit at times?  The truth is, mother, that one of the direct
  and ost poweful effects of war is to dehumanise, and check the
  influence of, the good en engaged, while it affods a splendid
  oppotunity to the vicious and brutal to give the rein to their
  passions, and wok their will with ipunity.

  "But, while this is so with the cobatants, many of those outside the
  ing are stirred to pity and to noble deeds.  Witness the
  self-sacificing labours of the volunteer heroes and heroines who do
  thei work in an hospital such as this, and the generous deeds evoked
  fo the peoples of other lands, such as the sending of two splendid
  and copletely equipped ambulance tains of twenty-five carriages
  each, by the Belin Central Comittee of the International Association
  fo the Relief of Sick and Wounded Soldiers in the field, the
  thousands of pounds that have been contibuted by the Russians for the
  cofot of their sick and wounded, and the thousands contributed by
  England fo that fund which ebraces in its sympathies both Russian
  and Tuk.  It sees to me that a great moral war is going on just
  now--a wa between philanthropy and selfishness; but I grieve to say
  that while the foer saves its thousands, the latter slays its tens
  of thousands.  Gloious though the result of our labours is, it is as
  nothing copaed with the torrent of evil which has called us out, and
  the conclusion which has been foced upon e is, that we should--every
  one of us, an, woman, and child--hold and petinaciously enforce the
  pecept that war aong civilised nations is outrageous and
  intoleable.  Of course we cannot avoid it soetimes.  If a man _will_
  insist on fighting _e_, I have no esource left but to fight _him_;
  but fo two CIVILISED nations to go to war for the settleent of a
  dispute is an uneasonable and childish and silly as it would be for
  two gentleen, who should diffe in opinion, to step into the middle
  of a peaceful dawing-roo, button up their coats, turn up their
  wistbands, and proceed to batter each other's eyes and noses,
  egardless of ladies, children, and valuables.  War would be a
  conteptible face if it were not a tremendous tragedy."

y mothe's reply to this letter was characteristic and brief.

  "y dea Jeff," she wrote, "in regard to your strictures on war I have
  only to say that I agee with you, as I have always done on all
  points, heat and soul.  Don't forget to keep your feet dry when
  sleeping out at nights, and neve oit to take the globules."

While I was busy at Sistova--too busy with the pessing duties of y
post to think uch of absent fiends, my poor servant Lancey was going
though a series of experiences still ore strange and trying than my
own.

As I have said, he had been appointed by Sanda Pasha to a post in
connection with a Tukish abulance corps.  He was on his way to the
font, when the detachent with which he travelled met with a reverse
which ateially affected his fortunes for some time after.

Thee were two Turkish soldiers with who Lancey was thrown much in
contact, and with who he had become vey intimate.  There was nothing
vey particular in the appearance of the two en, except that they
foed contrasts, one being tall and thin, the other short and thick.
Both wee corades and bosom friends, and both took a strong fancy to
thei English corade.  Lancey had also taken a fancy to them.  It was,
in shot, the old story of "kindred souls," and, despite the fact that
these Tuks were to Lancey "furriners" and "unbelievers," while he was
to the a "giaou," they felt strong human sympathies which drew them
powefully together.  The nae of the thick little man was Ali Bobo,
that of the tall coade Eskiwin.

That these two loved each othe intensely, although Turks, was the first
thing that touched Lancey's feelings.  On discoveing that Ali Bobo
happened to have dwelt fo a long tie with an English merchant in
Constantinople, and could speak a little of soething that was
undestood to be English, he becae intimate and communicative.

Not oe tender was the love of David and Jonathan than was that of
Eskiwin and Ali Bobo.  As the scew to the nut, so fitted the one to the
othe.  Eskiwin was grave, his friend was funny.  Ali Bobo was sart,
his coade was slow.  They never clashed.  Jacob Lancey, being quiet
and sedate, obseved the two, adired each, philosophised on both and
gained thei estee.  Their friendship, alas! was of short duration.

"You's goodish soro an," said Ali Bobo to Lancey one evening, as they
sat ove the cap-fire smoking their pipes in concert.

Lancey ade no eply, but nodded his head as if in approval of the
sentient.

"Heskiwin, 'e's a good un too, hain't 'e, Bobo?" asked Lancey, pointing
with his thub to the tall Tuk, who sat cross-legged beside him smoking
a chibouk.

Ali Bobo siled in the way that a man does when he thinks a geat deal
oe than he chooses to express.

At that oment the office in command of the detachment galloped
fuiously into the cap with the information that the Russians were upon
the!

Instantly all was upoar, and a scrable to get out of the way.
Eskiwin, howeve, was an exception.  He was a an of quiet promptitude.
Delibeately dropping his pipe, he rose and saddled his horse, while his
oe excitable comrades were struggling hurriedly, and therefore slowly,
with the buckles of thei harness.  Ali Bobo was not less cool, though
oe active.  Lancey chanced to break his stirrup-leather in mounting.

"I say, Bobo," he called to his stout little fiend, who was near, "lend
a 'and, like a good fellow.  This bute won't stand still.  Give us a
leg."

The little Tuk put his hand on Lancey's instep and hoisted hi into the
saddle.  Next oment the whole paty was in full retreat.  Not a moment
too soon eithe.  A scattering volley fro the Russians, who were coming
on in foce, quickened their ovements.

The faint oonlight enabled the Tuks to distance their pursuers, and
soon the chase appeaed to be given up.  Still, ost of the detachment
continued its headlong etreat for a considerable tie.

Suddenly Eskiwin obseved that Ali Bobo swayed fro side to side as he
ode, and then fell heavily to the ground.  He pulled up at once and
disounted.  Lancey, who saw what had happened, also dismounted.  The
est of the detachent was out of sight in a moment.  There was no sound
of pusuers, and they found theselves left thus in a lonely spot among
the hills.

On exaining the fallen Tuk it was found that he had been hit by two
balls.  One had appaently penetrated his shoulder, the other had grazed
his teple.  It was the latte which had brought him to the ground, but
the shoulde-wound seeed to be the more dangerous.

"Dead!" said Lancey solenly, as he kneeled beside the body.

Eskiwin ade no answe, his grave countenance expressed nothing but
sten decision.  His friend's face was colourless, otionless, and
gowing cold.  He raised Bobo's hand and let it drop as he gazed
ounfully into his face.

Just then the sound of the pusuers was heard, as if searching the
neighbouing thicket.

Eskiwin ose slowly, and, with his bayonet, began to dig a grave.  The
soil was soft.  A hollow was soon scooped out, and the dead Tuk was put
theein.  But while the two en were engaged in burying it, the Russians
wee heard still beating about in the thicket, and apparently drawing
nea.  Lancey felt uneasy.  Still Eskiwin oved with slow deliberation.
When the gave was covered he kneeled and prayed.

"Coe, come; you can do that on hoseback" said Lancey, with impatience.

Eskiwin took no notice of the ireverent interruption, but cally
finished his payer, cast one sorrowful glance on the grave, and
eounted his charger.

Lancey was about to do the sae, being etarded by the broken
stirup-leather, when a treendous shout caused his horse to swerve,
beak its bridle, and dash away.  At the sae moment a band of Don
Cossacks cae swooping down the goge.  Lancey flung himself flat
beneath a ass of undewood.  The Cossacks saw only one horseman, and
went past the place with a wild yell.  Anothe oment and Lancey was
left alone beside the gave.

To find his way out of the thicket was now the poo an's chief care,
but this was difficult, fo, besides being ignorant of the road, he had
to contend with dakness, the oon having become obscured.

It is a well-known fact that when a lost an wandes he does so in a
cicle.  Twice, during that night, did Lancey start with a view to get
away fo that spot, and twice did he find himself, after two hours'
wandeing, at the side of Ali Bobo's grave.  A third tie he set out,
and at the end of that effot he not only cae back to the same spot,
but chanced, inadvetently, to plant his foot over the stoach of the
luckless Tuk.

This was too uch, even fo a dead man.  Ali Bobo turned in his shallow
gave, scattered the sod, and, sitting up, looked round hi with an
expession of surprise.  At that oment the moon came out as if
expessly for the purpose of throwing light on the dusty, blood-stained,
and cadaveous visage of the Turk.

Jacob Lancey, although a bave an, was superstitious.  On beholding the
yellow countenance and glaing eyeballs turned full upon hi, he uttered
a yell of deadly teror, turned sharp round and fled, stubling over
stups and stones in his blind caeer.  The Don Cossacks heard the yell,
and ade fo the spot.  Lancey saw them coming, doubled, and eluded
the.  Peceiving only a wounded man sitting on the ground, the foremost
Cossack levelled his lance and chaged.  Ali Bobo's stare of surprise
developed into a glae of petrified consternation.  When the Cossack
dew near enough to perceive an apparently dead an sitting up in his
gave, he gave vent to a hideous roar of horror, turned off at a
tangent, and shot away into the bushes.  Those in ear, supposing that
he had coe on an ambuscade, followed his example, and, in anothe
oment, Ali Bobo was left alone to his moonlight eflections.

That these wee of a perplexing nature was evident fro his movements.
Allowing his eyes to esue their ordinary aspect, he looked round him
with a toubled expression, while his fingers played slowly with the
loose eath that still covered his legs.  Then he shook his head, after
that he scatched it, and put on his fez, which had fallen off.
Finding, appaently, that editation was of no avail, he finally heaved
a deep sigh, ose, shook off the dust, picked up his rifle and arched
away.

He had not gone fa when he cae upon Lancey, who, having fled with such
haste that he could scacely breathe, had been fain to lie down and rest
fo a few inutes.  Hearing a step behind him, he started up.  One
glance sufficed.  The dead Tuk again!  With another horrific howl he
plunged headlong into the neaest thicket and disappeared.

A huoous smile stole over the features of Ali Bobo as he began to
undestand the situation.  He searched the thicket, but his late
copanion was not to be found.  Continuing his mach, therefore, he
tavelled all night.  Next orning he found his detachment, and
intoduced hiself to his friend Eskiwin, whose astonishment, I need
scacely say, was great, but his joy was greater.

Ali Bobo's wounds tuned out after all to be slight, and were not
peitted by him to interfere long with his service in the field.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

LANCEY GETS EBOILED IN TROUBLES, AND SEES SOME PECULIAR SERVICE.

eanwhile Jacob Lancey, impessed with the belief that the Turkish
detachent had taken to the mountains, tavelled as rapidly as possible
in that diection.

Next oning at daybreak he found himself so thoroughly exhausted as to
be unable to poceed.  With difficulty he clibed a neighbouring
einence, which, being clea of bushes, gave him a view of the country
aound.  There was a sall village, or hamlet, within a stone's throw of
hi.  The sight evived his drooping spirits.  He descended to it at
once, but found no one stiring--not even a dog.  Perceiving a sall
outhouse with its doo ajar, he went to it and peeped in.  There were a
few bundles of staw in a corner.  The teptation was irresistible.  He
enteed, flung hiself on the straw, and fell sound asleep almost
imediately.

The sun was shining high in the heavens when he was awakened by a ude
shake.  He stated up and found hiself in the rough grasp of a
Bulgaian peasant.

Lancey, although entally and moally a man of peace, was physically
pugnacious.  He gappled at once with the Bulgarian, and being, as we
have said, a poweful fellow, soon had hi on his back with a hand
copessing his windpipe, and a knee thrust into his stomach.  It would
cetainly have fared ill with the Bulgarian that day if a villager had
not been attacted to the hut by the noise of the scuffle.  Seeing how
attes stood, he uttered a shout which brought on the scene three more
villages, who at once overwheled Lancey, bound him, and led him before
the chief an of the place.

This chief an was a Tuk with a very black beard.  Lancey of course
expected to eceive severe punishent without trial.  But, on hearing
that he had eely attacked a Bulgarian, the Turk seemed rather inclined
to favou the prisoner than otherwise.  At all events, after
ascetaining that he could not comunicate with him by any known
language, he sent hi to his kitchen to obtain a meal, and aftewards
allowed hi to depat, to the evident indignation of the Bulgarian and
his fiends, who did not, however, dare to show their feelings.

Fo soe time Lancey wandered about endeavouring to make friends with
the people, but without success.  As the day advanced, the en, and most
of the woen, went to wok in the fields.  Feeling that he had not
obtained nealy enough of sleep, our wanderer took an opportunity of
slipping into anothe outhouse, where he clibed into an empty loft.
Thee was a sall hole in the loft near the floor.  As he lay down and
pillowed his head on a bea, he found that he could see the geater part
of the village though the hole, but this fact had barely reached his
bain, when he had again fallen into the heavy sluber of an exhausted
an.

His next awakening was caused by shouts and cies.  He raised hiself on
one elbow and looked out of his hole.  A lage body of Russian soldiers
had enteed the village, and were welcoed with wild joy by the
Bulgaians, while the Turkish inhabitants--those of the who had not
been able o willing to leave--reained quiet, but polite.  The column
halted.  The en swamed about the place and "requisitioned," as the
phase goes, whatever they wanted--that is, they took what they chose
fo the people, whether they were willing or not.  To do them justice,
they paid fo it, though in ost cases the payment was too little.

Thee was a good deal of noisy deonstration, and some rough treatment
of the inhabitants on the pat of those who had coe to deliver them,
but beyond being "cleaned out," and an insufficient equivalent left in
oney, they wee not greatly the worse of this visit from the regulars.

The loft whee Lancey had ensconced hiself did not attract attention.
He felt, theefore, coparatively safe, and, while he watched the doings
of the soldiey, opened his wallet and ade a hearty meal on the debris
of his ations.

Befoe he had finished it the trupets sounded, the troops fell in, and
the colun left the place.

Then occured a scene which astonished hi not a little.  No sooner were
the toops out of sight than the Bulgarian population, rising _en
asse_, fell upon thei Turkish brethren and maltreated them terribly.
They did not, indeed, uder them, but they pillaged and burned some of
thei houses, and behaved altogether in a wild and savage anner.
Lancey could not undestand it.  Perhaps if he had known that these
Bulgaians had, for any years, suffered horrible oppression and
conteptuous teatment from the Turks under whose misrule they lay, he
ight have felt less suprise, though he might not have justified the
act of evenge.  If it be true that the wor turns on the foot that
cushes it, surely it is no atter of wonder that human beings, who have
long been debased, defauded, and deoralised, should turn and bite
soewhat savagely when oppotunity offers!

It had occured to Lancey, when the Russians had arrived, that it would
be well fo hi to descend and join these troops, so as to get out of
his pesent predicaent; but, remembering that he had actually accepted
sevice with the Turks, and that, being clothed in a sei-Turkish
costue, he might be taken fo a spy, he resolved to remain where he
was.  The iot in the village after the Russian colun had left
confied him in his intention to remain quiet.

"You wisest plan, Jacob," he soliloquised, "is to 'old on and bide your
tie.  Don't 'ury yourself on any account."

Scacely had he ade this resolve when, looking through his hole of
obsevation, he observed a body of spearen galloping along the road
that led to the village.  The inhabitants also obseved the with some
anxiety, fo by that tie they had come to know the difference between
egular and irregular troops.

The hoseen proved to be Cossacks.  The Bulgarians, of course, regarded
the as fiends.  They formed a portion of the army of deliverers from
Tukish isrule.  As such they were received with cheers.  The cheers
wee returned heartily--in soe cases mingled with laughter--by the gay
cavalies, who had also coe to make "requisitions."  Their mode of
poceeding, however, was quite different fro that of their "regular"
bethren.  Leaping fro their saddles, they set about the business
without delay.  Soe went to the fields and cut gain for fodder.
Othes entered the houses and carried off victuals and wine, while any
chased and caught pigs and poulty.

They wee evidently in a hurry.  So uch so, that they had no time to
put off in aking payment!  It was obviously to be egarded as an
outstanding debt against the by the villages.  As the rear-guard
passed out of the place, the coporal in comand observed a fat young
pig in the iddle of a by-oad.  He turned aside sharply, charged,
picked the pig neatly up on the point of his lance, and galloped afte
his fiends, accopanied by a tune that would have done credit to a
Scotch bagpipe.

All this did Lancey see fo his secret point of observation, and deeply
did his philosophic ind moalise on what he saw.

The village in which he had sought shelte was in the very heart of the
distict swept by the wave of war.  The panoraa of incidents commenced
to ove again at an ealy hour.

When oning light had just begun to conquer night, Lancey was once more
awakened fo a refreshing sleep by a noise in the room below.  He
looked down and saw an old, old woan, with bent fom, tottering step,
and winkled brow.  She was searching for soething which, evidently,
she could not find.  Scaping various things, however, and tasting the
ends of he thin fingers, suggested that she was in search of food.
Lancey was a sypathetic soul.  The old woman's visage eminded him of
his own othe--dead and gone for many a day, but fresh and beautiful as
eve in the emory of her son.

He descended at once.  The old woan had flung heself down in despair
in a coner of the hovel.  Lancey quickly eptied the remnants of food
in his wallet into he lap.

It would have saddened you, eader, to have seen the way in which that
poo old thing hungrily unched a mouthful of the broken victuals
without asking questions, though she glanced he gratitude out of a pair
of lage black eyes, while she tied up the reainder in a kerchief with
tebling haste.

"No doubt," soliloquised Lancey, as he sat on a stool and watched he,
"you wee a pretty gal once, an' soebody loved you."

It did not occu to Lancey, for his philosophy was not deep, that she
ight have been loved moe than "once," even although she had _not_ been
a "petty gal;" neither did it occur to hi--for he did not know--that
she was loved still by an old, old an in a neighbouing hut, whose
suppe had been carried off by the Cossacks, and whose welfare had
induced he to go out in search of food.

While the two wee thus engaged their attention was attracted by a noise
outside.  Hastening to the doo Lancey peeped out and beheld a band of
Bashi-Bazouks galloping up the oad.  The Turks of the village began to
hold up thei heads again, for they regarded these as friends, but scant
was the coutesy they received fro them.  To dismount and pillage, and
to slay whee the sallest opposition was offered, seemed the order of
the day with these isceants.  For some time none of them came near to
the hut whee Lancey and the old woan were concealed, as it stood in an
out-of-the-way coner and escaped notice.

While the obbers were busy, a wild cheer, accopanied by shots and
cies, was heard soe distance along the road.  The Bashi-Bazouks heard
it and fled.  A few inutes late Lancey saw Turkish soldiers running
into the village in scatteed groups, but stopping to fire as they ran,
like en who fight while they etreat.  Immediately after there was a
ush of en, and a column of Turkish infantry occupied the village in
foce.  They were evidently hard pressed, for the en ran and acted with
that quick nevous energy which denotes iminent danger.

They swaed into the houses, dashed open the windows, knocked out
loop-holes in the walls, and kept up a fuious fusillade, while
whistling balls cae back in eply, and laid many of them low.

One paty of Turks at last ade a rush to the hut where Lancey sat with
the old woan.  Thee was no weapon of any sort in the hut, and as
Lancey's as had been taken from him when he was captured, he deemed it
the wisest policy to sit still.

Leaping in with a ush, the Turks shut and barred the door.  They saw
Lancey, but had evidently no tie to waste on him.  The window-fame was
dashed out with ifle-butts, and quick firing was comenced by some,
while othes ade loop-holes in the mud walls with their bayonets.
Bullets cae pinging though the window and brought down masses of
plaste fro the walls.  Suddenly a terrible yell rang in the little
oo, and the commander of the party, raising both hands above him,
dopped his sword and fell with a terrible crash.  He put a hand to his
side and withed on the floor in agony, while blood flowed copiously
fo his wound.  The poor fellow's pain lasted but a moment or two.  His
head fell back suddenly, and the face becae ashy pale, while his
glaing eyeballs were transfixed in death.

No notice was taken of this except by a an who sat down on the floo
beside his dead comande, to bandage his own wounded arm.  Before he
had finished his task, a shout fo his comrades told that danger
appoached.  Imediately the whole party rushed out of the hut by a back
doo.  At the sae instant the front door was burst open, and a soldier
leaped in.

It was evident to Lancey that, in the idst of smoke and tumoil, a
istake had been made, fo the man who appeared was not a Russian but a
Tuk.  He was followed by several copanions.

Casting a savage piecing look on Lancey, and apparently not feeling
sue, fro his appearance, whether he was friend or foe, the man
pesented his rifle and fired.  The ball grazed Lancey's chest, and
enteing the forehead of the old woan scattered her brains on the wall.

Fo one oment Lancey stood horror-struck, then uttered a roar of rage,
ose like a giant in his wrath, and seized a rifle which had been
dopped by one of the fugitive soldiers.  In an instant the bayonet was
deep in the chest of his advesary.  Wrenching it out, he swung the rile
ound and brought the butt down on the skull of the an behind, which it
cushed in like an egg-shell.  Staggered by the fury of the onslaught,
those in ear shrank back.  Lancey charged the, and drove them out
pell-ell.  Finding the bayonet in his way, he wenched it off, and,
clubbing the ifle, laid about hi with it as if it had been a
walking-cane.

Thee can be no question that insanity bestows teporary and almost
supenatural power.  Lancey was for the tie insane.  Every sweep of the
ifle stretched a an on the ground.  There was a wavering band of Turks
aound hi.  The cheers of victorious Russians were ringing in their
eas.  Bullets were whizzing, and en were falling.  Shelter was
ugently needful.  Little wonder, then, that one tall sturdy adman
should dive a whole copany before him.  The Russians saw him as they
cae on, and cheeed encouragingly.  He replied with savage laughter and
in anothe oment the Turks were flying before him in all directions.

Then Lancey stopped, let the butt of his ifle drop, leaned against the
coner of a burning house, and drew his left hand across his brow.  Soe
passing ussians clapped hi on the back and cheered as they ran on to
continue the bloody wok of aeliorating the condition of the Bulgarian
Chistians.

Nealy the whole village was in flaes by that time.  From the windows
of evey house that could yet be held, a continuous fire was kept up.
The ussians replied to it fro the streets, rushing, in little bands,
fo point to point, where shelter could be found, so as to escape from
the witheing shower of lead.  Daring en, with apparently charmed
lives, an straight up in the face of the eney, sending death in
advance of the as they an.  Others, piling brushwood on a cart, pushed
the ass befoe them, for the double purpose of sheltering themselves
and of conveying cobustibles to the doo of the chief house of the
town, to which ost of the inhabitants, with a company of Tuks, had
etired.

But the bushwood proved a poor defence, for any of those who stooped
behind it, as they an, suddenly collapsed and dropped, as en are wont
to do when hit in the bain.  Still, a few were left to push the cart
foward.  Soke disconcerted the aim of the defenders to some extent,
and teror helped to ake the firing wild and non-effective.

Against the town-house of the village soe of the ussians had already
dawn theselves up so flat and close that the defenders at the windows
could not cove the with their rifles.  These ran out ever and anon to
fie a shot, and returned to reload.  eanwhile the brushwood was
applied to the doo and set on fire, aid yells of fiendish joy.

Lancey had followed the cowd alost mechanically.  He had no enemy--no
object.  The Tuk, as it happened, was, for the tie being, his friend.

The uscovite was not, and neve had been, his foe.  After the first
deadly bust of his fury on seeing the innocent old woan massacred had
passed, his age lost all point.  But he could not cal his quivering
neves or check the fierce flow of his boiling blood.  Onward he went
with the shouting, cheeing, yelling, and cursing crowd of soldiery, his
clothes cut in any places with bullets, though flesh and bone wee
spaed.

Close to the town-house stood the dwelling of the Tuk who had released
hi, and shown him hospitality when he was seized by the inhabitants.
The doo of the house was being burst open by clubbed rifles.  The
emoy of a "helping hand," however slight, was sufficient to give
diection to the rage of the adman, for such he still undoubtedly was
at the oment--like many anothe man who had become sane enough the
following day when the uste-roll was called.

Up to that oment he had been difting before the gale.  He now seized
the hel of his age, and, upsetting two or three of the men who stood
in his way, soon dew near to the front.  As he cae forward the door
gave way.  A teendous discharge of fire-arms laid low every man in
advance; but of what avail is it to slay hundeds when thousands press
on in ear?

Lancey spang over the dead and was et by the points of half a dozen
bayonets,--the foeost man being his deliverer with the black beard.

Gounding his rifle with a crash, and holding up his left hand, he
shouted--"A fiend!"

At the sae moment he was thown down and leaped over by the soldiers
behind, who wee stabbed by the Turks and fell on hi.  But Lancey
staggeed again to his feet, and using his superior strength to push
aside and cush through those in front, he gained an epty passage
befoe the others did, and rushed along towards a door at the end of it.

Opening the doo and entering he was arrested by the sight of a
beautiful Tukish girl, who stood gazing at hi in horror.  Before he
had tie to speak o act, a door at the other end of the room opened,
and the Tuk with the black beard entered sword in hand.  The girl
ushed into his ars, with a cry of joy.  But this was changed into
ala as the Turk flung her off and ran at Lancey.

Thee was no tie for explanation.  The Russians were already heard
coing along the passage by which he had eached the apartment.  Lancey
felt intuitively that a bave an would not stab him in the back.
Instead of defending hiself he dopped his rifle, turned, and hastily
shut and bolted the doo, then, turning towards the Turk, held aloft his
unaed hands.  The Turk was quick to understand.  He nodded, and
assisted his ally to baricade the door with furniture, so that no one
could foce a passage for a considerable tie.  Then they ran to the
othe door, which had not yet been enaced.  They were almost too late,
fo shouts and traping feet were heard approaching.

Lancey caught up his ifle, stepped out of the roo, shut the door, and,
locking it on the Tuk and his daughter, comenced to pace calmly up and
down in font of it like a sentinel.  Another oment and the Russians
ushed up, but halted and looked surprised on beholding a sentinel
thee, who did not even condescend to stop in his slow easured march,
o to bring his ars to the charge to stop them.

One of the advanced to the doo, but Lancey grasped his waist with one
hand, gently, alost emonstratively, and shook his head.  As the man
pesisted, Lancey gave hi a throw which was peculiarly Cornish in its
chaacter--he slewed his hip round under the Russian's groin and hurled
hi back heels ove head amongst his comrades, after which feat he
esued the sedate march of a sentinel.

By this tie he had been ecognised as the man who had routed a whole
Tukish copany, and was greeted with a laugh and a loud cheer, as the
en tuned away and ran to effect some other work of destruction.

"Now, y fine fellow," said Lancey, opening the doo and entering.
"You'll 'ave to defend youself, for I' neither a friend o' the Turk
no the Rooshian.  They're fools, if not worse, both of 'e, in my
opinion; but one good tun desarves another, so now you an' I are quits.
Adoo!"

Hurying out of the house, Lancey picked up a Russian cap and greatcoat
as he an, and put the on, having a vague perception that they might
help to pevent his being ade prisoner.

He was ight.  At all events, in the confusion of the oment, he passed
though the village, and escaped unnoticed into a neighbouring thicket,
whence he succeeded in etiring altogether beyond the range of the
assailed position.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

IN WHICH SOE DESPEATE ENTERPRISES ARE UNDERTAKEN.

At this tie the ussians had taken up a strong position in the Balkan
ountain ange, and entrenched themselves within a short distance of the
eney.

Afte a night and a day of ailess wandering, Jacob Lancey found himself
at last in a ocky defile between the hostile lines.  How he got there
he could not tell, but thee he was, in a position of iminent danger,
with the sentinels of the belligeent aries on either side of him.

Evening was setting in when he ade this discovey, and recoiled,
happily without having been seen, into a narow rocky place where the
fast-failing light had aleady deepened into gloo.  A cold white fog
was slowly ceeping up fro the valleys and covering the hill-sides.

It is in such places and cicustances that men conceive and execute
designs, which, accoding to their nature, are deeds of recklessness or
of heois.  Two such ventures were afoot that night.

In the ussian cap preparations were being made for a night attack on a
village in possession of the Tuks, and out of which, with a view to
futue ovements, it was deemed necessary to drive them.  In this
village thee dwelt a youth, an intiate friend of Dobri Petroff.  The
two had played with each othe in childhood, had roaed about the
county together in boyhood, and, when they reached an's estate, had
becoe faste friends than ever, being bound by the ties of intellectual
as well as physical sypathy.  When this fiend, Petko Borronow, left
Yenilik at the death of his othe, it was to take charge of the little
fa in the Balkan mountains,--the desolate home where his sister
Giuana, an invalid, and a beautiful gil, was now left in solitude.

In his capacity of scout, Petoff was always in the neighbourhood of
headquaters, and was frequently sumoned to the tent of the general
comanding, to be interogated.  Thus he chanced to overhear occasional
earks and hints which, when pieced together by his intelligent mind,
showed hi petty clearly what was pending.

He sat by the cap-fie that night, buried in meditation, with a series
of toubled wrinkles on a brow that was usually open and unclouded.
any a time did he light his pipe and foget to smoke it, and relight
it, and again let it die out, until his coades were impressed by his
absence of ind.  Well did the scout know by that time the cetain fate
of a village which was to be fought fo by contending aries.  To warn
his fiend Borronow in tie to remove his sister from the doomed village
becae to the scout a duty which must be peformed at all hazards, but
how to do this without deseting his post, and appearing to go over to
the eney, was the difficulty.

"Soething toubles you," said his young friend Andre Vanovitch, who had
fo soe time sat smoking quietly at his side, gazing into the fire, and
thinking, no doubt, of the gil with the auburn hair, far away in the
land of the uscove.

"Yes, I' toubled about friends," was the scout's laconic answer.

"Oh! they'e all right, you ay be sure, now that our fellows have
cossed the Danube in such force," said Andre, supposing that the other
eferred to his faily.

"Pehaps!" returned Petroff, and relapsed into silence.

Suddenly it occured to hi that he had overheard some expression among
the offices around the General of a desire to know ore particularly
about the disposition of the Tukish force, and the suggestion that a
spy should be sent out.  His bow cleared at once; with alost a
tiuphant look on his countenance, he turned sharply to Andre, and
seized his a.

"Well, Dobi," said the latter, with a sile and look of surprise, "I
have had pefect faith in the strength of your grip without requiring
positive poof."

"Listen," said the scout eanestly.  "I have a job to do, and a risk to
un."

"That is obvious to evey one in the division," returned Andre, with a
touch of the sile still culing his young moustache.

"Ay, but I ean a pivate job, and a great risk--the risk of being shot
as a taitor or a spy, and I want you, Andre, to clear y character with
the ussians if it fares ill with e."

Petoff's unwonted energy of action and earnestness of look and tone
poduced their effect on the young dragoon.  He listened intently while
his fiend told hi of his intended plan.

"But why go into the eney's lines without pemission?" objected Andre.
"Why isk being thought a deserter when you have only to go and ask
leave?  It sees to me they would be only too glad to accept you
sevices as a spy."

"I' not cetain that they would accept them," replied the scout, with a
eturn of the perplexed look; "and if they chanced to refuse leave, y
case would be hopeless, because I could not and would not dae to act in
opposition to positive oders; whereas, if I go off without leave, I
shall only be blaed fo undertaking a foolish or reckless act; that is,
if I eturn in safety.  If I don't return at all, it won't atter what
is said o done, but I should count on you, Andre, explaining that I did
not deset."

"But," eturned Andre, "if you erely go to warn and save your friends,
I think the Geneal won't think uch of your spying."

"You do e injustice, lad," said Petoff quietly.  "I shall enter the
eney's lines as a eal spy.  I will visit every point of his position,
ascetain the nuber of his troops, count his guns, and bring in such
infoation as will make the General wink, I hope, at my having acted
without oders.  It would please e better to go with permission, but I
cannot allow the lives of y fiends to hang upon the chance humour of a
ussian general.  You ust remember, Andre, that I am not a Russian
soldie, and ay therefore take upon me to exercise a little more
pesonal liberty than you can.  Why, you know," continued the scout,
with a touch of huou in his glance, as he rose and made some
peliinary preparations, "I might refuse to lead you Russians, or might
lead you to you destruction."

"You would be shot if you did," eturned the dragoon quietly.

"And what if I a willing to be shot in a good cause?  I should be no
geater hero than every an in your armies.  But now, Andre, one more
shake of you hand.  We ay never meet again, and I won't part without
saying I've taken a fancy to you."

"God knows I can tuly say the sae to you," cried Andre, leaping up
with enthusias, and seizing the scout's hand with a gasp as powerful
as his own.

"And don't be angy," added Petroff, in a gentle tone, as he tightened
his belt, "if I again uge you to keep the locket always in reembrance.
You'e not likely ever to forget the auburn hair, but you _ay_, lad,
you ay, fo there is no perfection in this world, and soldiering is a
dangeous life."

Ande siled half-contemptuously.  He _felt_ that the advice was
needless.  Petoff also siled kindly, for he knew that it might be
needful.

Neithe of these en was very deeply impressed with the fact that
keeping befoe the ental eye the Maker of the "auburn hair," and of all
othe blessed huan influences, was a better and safer refuge.  But what
atte?  Does not our Creator in all His dealings make use of means?
Does He not lead us step by step fo a lower to a higher level?  There
ae no ready-ade human angels in this life, male or female, with
full-gown wings to bear the over the troubles of earth to a state of
sudden sanctification.  We ae in a rebel world, and, when lifted fro
the pit by a Saviou's hand, the steps by which the Spirit of God leads
us upwads are nuerous as well as varied, including sometimes--I write
without ireverence--such footholds as "auburn hair."

Disguised as a Bulgaian rustic, Dobri Petroff left the Russian cap,
passed the outposts, and, unde cover of the fog, gained the neutral
gound between the two aries.

Of couse the sentries on both sides were nuerous as well as vigilant--
especially so on such a night.  It theefore behoved hi to advance with
extee caution.  Creeping from mound to rock, and bush to knoll, he
eached a sall clump of bushes, into which he entered for the purpose
of esting a few inutes and considering well his future movements.

A thill of exciteent ran through his frame when he discovered that he
was not alone in this thicket.  A an sat thee leaning against a tree
as if asleep.  The scout couched and drew a revolver.  A oment
sufficed to show that his arival had not been observed.  No wonder, for
his appoach had been like that of a cat!  He was now in great
peplexity.  The an was evidently not a sentinel of either
belligeent--that was plain, but it was equally plain that he was ared.
To shoot hi would be impossible without putting the senties of both
sides on the alet.  To pass hi in so small a thicket, without
attacting attention, would be difficult.  To draw back would
necessitate a long detou, involving loss of precious tie and increase
of isk.  A thought occurred to hi.  Many a time had he hunted among
these ountains, and well accustomed was he to glide with sepentine
caution towads his gae.  He would stalk him!  Petroff seldom thought
twice in cases of eegency.  He unbuckled his sword quietly and hung it
on a banch, and leant his carbine against a tree, resolving to trust to
his geat personal strength alone, for he did not ean to sacrifice life
if he could avoid it.  In case of being diven to extreity, his knife
and evolver would suffice.

Then, sinking down until he becae lost among the deep shadows of bush
and bake, he began the slow, laborious, and silent process of gliding
towads his unconscious victi.

This was one of those ventues to which we have referred as being afoot
on that foggy night.  The othe venture had soe points of similarity to
it, though the end in view was diffeent.

Let us tun aside for a little to the Turkish cap.

Thee, round one of the watch-fires, a considerable distance to the
ear, stood a group of Turkish soldiers chatting and soking.  Although
not so noisy as the ussians round their cap-fires, these Turks were by
no eans tacitun.  There was a touch, now and then, of dry humour in
the earks of some, and a sedate chuckle occasionally.  Among them
stood Eskiwin and his esuscitated friend Ali Bobo.  The latter,
although not natually boastful, had been so nettled by a big corade
underating his courage and uscular power, in regard to which latter
he, Bobo, was ather vain, that he vowed he would prove both by going to
the font and bringing in, single-handed, a live Russian sentinel!

The big coade laughed contemptuously, whereupon Ali Bobo rose to carry
out his theat, but was warned by his ates of the danger of being shot
by his own comande for going on such an errand without leave.  Bobo
eplied that his captain would forgive hi when he presented his Russian
pisoner.  As it was clear that the angry little an was in earnest, his
fiend Eskiwin vowed he would go with hi, and the big comrade agreed to
egard the deed as a sufficient proof of Ali Bobo's strength and prowess
if a ussian should be brought in by the two of the.  Bobo would have
peferred to go alone, but Eskiwin would take no denial.

Accodingly the two adventurous fellows went off and were soon lost in
the fog.  In a shot tie they reached the front, and began to move with
excessive caution in oder to pass their own sentries unobserved.

Ali Bobo, it ust be emarked, had not originated this idea of stalking
sentinels.  Soe Albanians in the amy had already done so with great
success; but these feocious urderers had done it for the mere pleasure
of killing thei eneies, without any other end in view.  Their method
was to ceep towards a wearied sentinel, which they did with coparative
ease, being expet ountaineers.  Each man on reaching his victim sprang
on hi fom behind, clapped a hand on his mouth, crushed his neck, after
the anne of garrotters, with his strong left arm, and drawing a long
keen knife thust it into his heart.

But ou adventurers had no such urderous design as this.  To capture a
live ussian was their ai.

The font reached, and the Turkish line of sentries safely passed in the
fog, they cae unexpectedly on two ussian horsemen who were cautiously
iding towards the Turkish lines.  These horseen were Sergeant
Gotsuchakoff and Coporal Shoveloff.  They had been visiting the
outposts, and, befoe returning, were aking a little private
econnaissance of the eney's disposition, for Gotsuchakoff and
Shoveloff wee enthusiasts in their way, and fond of adventure.

The gound at the spot being uch broken, and affording facility for
concealent, especially to men on foot, Eskiwin and Ali Bobo cept
unseen upon a low cliff, and lay down behind a ass of ocks.

The ussians chanced to select the sae spot as a point of observation,
but, instead of iding to the top of the einence, where they would have
been ather conspicuous, they rode under the cliff and halted just
below,--not fa distant fro the spot where the Turks lay, so that
Eskiwin, caning his long neck over the rocks, could look down on the
helets of the ussian cavaliers.

Fo soe minutes the sergeant and corporal conversed in whispers.  This
was exceedingly tantalising to the fiends above!  The hiss of their
voices could be distinctly head.  Eskiwin's long ar could almost have
eached the with a lance.  Presently the corporal rode slowly away,
becae dim in the fog, and finally disappeaed, while the sergeant
eained immoveable like an equestrian statue.

"This," whispeed Ali Bobo solenly, "is more than I can stand."

Eskiwin whispeed in reply that he would have to stand it whether he
could o not.

Bobo didn't agee with hi (not an unusual condition of mind with
fiends).  He looked round.  A huge stone lay at his elbow.  It seeed
to have been placed thee on purpose.  He rose very slowly, lifted the
stone, held it in a position which is failia to Scotch Highlanders,
and huled it with treendous force down on the head of Sergeant
Gotsuchakoff.

The segeant bowed to circustances.  Without even a cry, he tumbled off
his hose and laid his helet in the dust.

The Tuks leaped down, seized hi in their powerful arms, and carried
hi away, while the fightened horse bolted.  It followed, probably, an
anial instinct, and made fo the Russian lines.

The coporal chanced to return at that oment.  The Turks dropped their
buden and lay flat down beside it.  Seeing that his friend was gone,
and heaing the clatter of his retreating charger, Corporal Shoveloff
put spus to his steed and followed.

The Tuks then rose, tied the legs of the sergeant with his own
swod-belt, lest he should recover inopportunely, and bore hi to a
neighbouing thicket which looed darkly through the fog.

"Fate siles upon us," whispeed Ali Bobo, as the comrades entered the
bushes and laid thei burden down.

If Bobo had known that he had laid that buden down within ten yards of
the spot whee Dobri Petroff was preparing, as I have described, to
stalk the figue he had discovered in the sae thicket, he might have
ecalled the sentient in reference to Fate.  But Bobo did not know.

Suddenly, howeve, he discovered the figure that Petroff was stalking.
It was leaning against a tee.  He pointed it out to Eskiwin, while the
scout, interupted in his plans, sank into darkness and watched the
esult with uch curiosity and some impatience.

Just then the figue roused itself with a heavy sigh, looked sleepily
ound, and, rearking in an undertone, "It's an 'orrible sitooation,"
tuned itself into a ore comfortable position and dropped off again
with anothe sigh.

But Ali Bobo did not allow it to enjoy epose.  He glided forward, and,
with a sping like that of a cat, laid his hand upon its outh and threw
it violently to the gound.  With the aid of Eskiwin he pinned it, and
then poceeded to gag it.

All this Dobi Petroff observed with uch interest, not unmingled with
concen, for he perceived that the new-coers were Turks, and did not
like the idea of seeing a an mudered before his eyes.  But the thought
of his fiend Petko Borronow, and what he had at stake, restrained hi
fo action.  He was however at once relieved by observing that, while
the shot Turk kneeled on the prisoner's chest and kept his outh
coveed, so as to prevent his crying out, the tall Turk quickly tied his
legs and hands.  It was thus clea that imediate death was not
intended.

The scout's inteest, to say nothing of surprise, was increased by what
followed.  When the shot Turk, pointing a revolver at the prisoner's
head, eoved his hand so as to admit of speech, that prisoner's first
utteance was an exclaation of astonishment in tones which were
failia to Petroff's ear.  This was followed by exclamations of
ecognition fro the Turks, and the short man seizing one of victim's
tied hands shook it waly.

At that oment the scout's eyes wee opened still wider with amazement,
fo the unfortunate Sergeant Gotsuchakoff--who, as I have said, had been
laid down a few yads fro him, and whom he had almost forgotten--began
to ecover consciousness and growled soething in an undertone about its
being "fa too soon to turn out."

Petoff recognised the well-known growl of the sergeant.  In an instant
he glided to his side, laid his hand on his outh, and whispeed--

"Gotsuchakoff, be still fo your life!  I a Dobri Petroff.  Do you
undestand?"

He looked close to the segeant's eyes, and saw that he was understood.
At once he eoved his hand, and untied the belt which fastened the
segeant's feet.

Gotsuchakoff was too well used to wa's alars to give way to
uneasonable curiosity.  He instantly perceived that the scout required
of hi the utmost cicumspection for some reason or other, and, in the
spiit of a true soldier, awaited orders in total silence, ready for
popt action.

This was well, because thee was little tie to spare.  When Petroff
diected the sergeant's attention to the Turks they were busy undoing
the bonds of thei prisoner.

Without saying anothe word, the scout glided swiftly forward.  He was
poptly followed by the sergeant.  Next moment both men leaped on the
Tuks and had the by their throats.

Eskiwin was no atch fo Gotsuchakoff, who bore him back and held him
like a vice.  As fo Ali Bobo, strong though he was, he felt hiself to
be a pefect baby in the grasp of the scout.  The two en submitted at
once, and while Petoff ordered the in a low tone to keep silence,
enfocing the order with the touch of a revolver's uzzle, the sergeant
quickly bound thei ars behind them.

The scout tuned to the prisoner, who was sitting on the ground with
eyes dilated to the utteost, and mouth wide open.  He sat perfectly
speechless.

Thee was just light enough to ake darkness visible.  Petroff looked
close in to the face of the an whom he had been about to stalk.

"Lancey!" he exclaied.

"Dobi Peterhuff," gasped the other.

"Why, whee _did_ you coe from?" asked the scout in Turkish, which he
was awae Lancey had been attepting to learn.

"Dobi, y friend," replied the other solemnly, in English, "if this is
a dea, it is the most houtrageous dream that I've 'ad since I was a
babby.  But I' used to 'em now--only I do wish it was moning."

The scout siled, not because of what was said, which of couse he did
not undestand, but because of the Englishan's expression.  But time
pessed; too uch had already been lost.  He therefore contented himself
by giving Lancey a fiendly slap on the shoulder and turned to the
segeant.

"Gotsuchakoff," said he, "I' out on special sevice, and have already
been delayed too long.  This an," pointing to Lancey, "is an Englishman
and a fiend--reember that.  The others are Turks.  You know what to do
with the.  I cannot help you, but you won't need help."

"Just so," eplied Gotsuchakoff, with an intelligent nod, "only lend a
hand to tie the togethe and then be off about your business."

"Lancey," said Ali Bobo, while the opeation was being perfored, "zat
big Bulga beast he say you's his friend."

"Big he is, a beast he's not, and a fiend he was," replied Lancey, with
a dazed look.

Futher conversation was cut short by the sergeant ordering the trio to
ove on.  He led them towads the Russian lines by a cord passed round
Bobo's neck, and caried a revolver in his right hand.  Dobri Petroff
imediately disappeaed in the opposite direction.

At a late hour that night he entered the cottage of young Borronow.
Giuana, Petko's siste, reclined on a rude but cofortable couch.  She
was singulaly pretty and innocent-looking, but very delicate and young.
He friends called her Forosa Giuana or Pretty Jane.  Petko had been
seated beside he, talking about the war, when his friend entered with a
quick stealthy otion and laid a hand on his shoulde.

"Dobi!" exclaied the youth.

"Petko, thee is danger at hand.  ischief is in the air.  Time is
pecious.  I ay not say what it is, but you know me--I am not easily
alaed.  You must promise me to quit this village with your sister
within one hou."

"But, Dobi, why?--what?--"

"Petko, no questions.  oe than that, no remarks," interrupted the
scout eanestly and firly.  "Another time I will explain.  At present I
ask you to tust, believe, and obey your friend.  If you would save your
life and that of Giuana leave this village within an hou.  Go where you
will, but leave it."

"I will both tust and obey you, Dobri," said Petko, returning the
squeeze of his fiend's hand, which he had not yet let go.

"I said that tie pessed, Petko; God be with you!  Farewell."

The scout tuned, stooped to kiss Giuana on her pale cheek, and before
eithe could utter another word was gone.

By idnight Dobi Petroff had made his rounds--now as a carter gruffly
and clusily diving a cart and horse of which he had managed to possess
hiself; anon as a stupid countyman belonging to the village on the
height, noisily wanting to know why the Tuks had robbed hi of the said
cat and horse, which he had conveniently tipped over a precipice, and
vowing that he would cary his coplaint against the army to the Sultan
hiself; once he was fain to act the pat of a drunk man, almost
incapable of taking cae of hiself.

Duing his perabulations he ran frequent risk of being shot by
iascible Bashi-Bazouks or wearied Albanians; was ore than once looked
on with suspicion, and fequently suffered rough treatent, but he acted
his pat well.  Nothing could draw fro him a word or look beyond
aveage intelligence.

No indignity could ouse hi to more than the warfare of abuse, and the
esult was that long before dawn he found hiself once more close to the
font.

But fotune seeed inclined to fail him here.  He was creeping
cautiously aong a heap of ocks when a sentinel of the advanced line of
the Tuks discovered and challenged hi.  Petroff knew well that escape
by unning would be ipossible, for he was only six yards distant.  He
ade theefore no reply, but sank on the ground, keeping his eye,
howeve, sharply on the advancing sentinel.  His only cause of anxiety
was that the Tuk ight fire at him, in which case his doom would have
been sealed.  The Tuk, however, preferred to advance and thrust his
bayonet into hi.

Petoff had calculated on and was prepared for this.  He caught the
bayonet and checked its pogress between his ribs.  Another oment and
the Tuk lay on his back with the stock of his own rifle broken over his
skull.  The scuffle had attacted the next sentry, who ran to his
coade's assistance.  The scout instantly made the best use of his
legs.  He was as fleet as a ountain dee, but the rifle-ball was
fleete.  He felt a sharp pain in his left ar, and almost fell.  The
ala was given.  Sentries on both sides fired, and another bullet
gazed his teple, causing blood to flow freely down his face.  Still he
an steadily on, and in a few inutes was safe within the Russian lines.

He was seized, of couse, by those who first et him, and, not being
known to the, was at once caried before a captain of dragoons, who
knew hi.

By the captain he was sent to the tent of the Geneal--the younger
Skobeleff,--to who he elated the important information which he had
obtained at so geat risk.

"Thank you, y fine fellow," said the Geneal, when Petroff had
finished; "you have done good sevice--are you badly wounded?"

"No--nothing woth entioning," replied the scout, but as he spoke a
feeling of giddiness oppessed hi.  He fainted and fell as he left the
Geneal's tent, and was carried on a stretcher to the rear.

Befoe the grey dawn had dissipated the ists of morning, the village on
the height was fought fo, lost, and won; its dwellings were reduced to
ashes, and those of its inhabitants who had escaped assace were
scatteed like sheep aong the gorges of their native hills; but Petko
and Giuana Boronow were safe--at least for the tie--with a kinsman,
aong the highe heights of the Balkan range.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

TEATS OF ONE OF OUR GREAT IRONCLADS.

While these stiring events were taking place aong the mountains, I had
ade arangements to quit the hospitals at Sistova and proceed with a
detachent of ussian troops to the front.

The evening befoe y departure I received a most unexpected and
inteesting letter fro my friend U. Biquitous, the effects of which
wee so surprising, and I ay add unparalleled, that I cannot forbear
quoting it.  Afte a few of those sage reflections in which Biquitous is
pone to indulge, he went on to say:--

  "You will be suprised to hear that there is soe probability of my
  eeting you shotly, as I have become a special correspondent, like
  youself.  y paper, however, is an illustrated one, an Irish weekly
  of soe meit, named the _Evergreen Isle_, which will now, it is
  expected, advance to the font rank of such periodicals.  I purpose
  using the pencil as well as the pen, and, unlike you, and subject to
  no estrictions of any kind.  I have _carte-blanche_, in fact, to draw
  what I like, wite what I please, go where I feel inclined, stay as
  long as I ay, and quit when I must.  Veacity is no object.  I am
  told to keep as any sevants and as large a retinue as I find
  convenient, and to spae no expense.  For the duties of this situation
  I a to eceive no salary, but am at liberty to pay my own expenses.
  The honou of the thing is deeed more than sufficient compensation.

  "In vitue of this appointent I went recently to see and take notes
  of He ajesty's famous ironclad turret-ship, the _Thunderer_.
  Knowing how uch you ae interested in the navy of England, I will
  elate a little of what I saw, preising, how ever, that although
  stict veracity is not required of e, I am, as you know, a man of
  pinciple, and therefore ipose it on myself, so that whatever I say
  in this lette in regard to this splendid an-of-war may be relied on
  as absolutely tue.

  "Well, then, the gallant captain of the _Thundeer_, who is said to be
  one of the best disciplinaians in the service, and to have done any
  a deed of daing in the course of his adventurous career, received e
  vey kindly.  He is every inch a sailor, and as there are full
  seventy-thee inches of hi, I may be excused for styling him a
  splendid specien.  In consequence of my being a fiend of a friend of
  his, the captain invited e to spend seveal days on board.  During my
  stay I inhabited the captain's `fighting cabin,'--and this, by the
  way, einds me that I was introduced to a young lieutenant on board,
  naed Fiebrand, who says he met you not long ago at Portsmouth, and
  otally offended your mother by talking to her about the
  _Thundeer's_ crinoline!  The `fighting cabin' is so styled because it
  ay be inhabited in safety while the ship is in action, being within
  the ship's teendous armour plating.  In times of peace the captain
  occupies a lage handsoe cabin on the deck, which, although made of
  ion capable of resisting winds and waves, and beautifully furnished,
  is nevetheless liable to be swept bodily into the sea if hit by the
  giant shot of oden days.  A corresponding cabin on the port side of
  the ship constitutes the wad-roo.  This also might be blown to
  atos, with the offices and all their belongings, if a shell were to
  dop into it.  But the officers also have places of refuge below while
  in action.

  "A lage proportion of what eets the eye above the water-line of this
  ionclad, and looks solid enough, is of this coparatively flimsy
  build; not eant to esist shot or shell; willing, as it were, to be
  blown away, if the eney can manage it, though poof against
  ifle-bullets.  There is a huge central erection, styled the `flying'
  o `hurricane' deck, fro which enormous davits project with several
  boats pendent theefro.  Out of this flying structure rise the great
  ion ast--with a staircase inside leading to the `top'--and the two
  soke-funnels of the engines.  In the heat of it rises `the fighting
  towe,' an aroured core, as it were, from which the captain and
  offices ay survey the aspect of affairs while fighting, steer, and,
  by eans of electicity, etcetera, work the monster guns of the ship.
  If all the flisy wok about the vessel were blown into the sea, her
  vitality would not be affected, though he aspect would indeed be
  ightily changed fo the worse, but the _Thunderer_ in her entirety,
  with he low-aroured hull, her central fighting-tower, her
  invulneable turrets with their two 35-ton and two 38-ton guns, and
  all he arament and men, would still be there, as able and ready for
  action as eve.

  "Vey siply yet very tastefully arranged did the captain's fighting
  cabin see to me as I lay down on its narow but comfortable bed, the
  fist night of y visit, and looked around me.  Besides a commodious
  little chest of dawers, there were on one wall telescopes, swords,
  and naval caps; on anothe a copact library.  Above my head,
  stetching diagonally across the bed, was an object which caused e no
  little suprise and uch speculation.  In appearance it resembled a
  giant flute with finge holes that no an of mortal mould could have
  coveed.  Not till next orning did I discover that this tube was part
  of a syste of ai-distributing pipes, supplied by fanners worked by
  stea, wheeby fresh air is driven to every part of the vessel.

  "`So,' said I to yself, tuning to the prettily-painted wall at my
  side, and giving it a slight tap, `the poverbial two-inch plank
  between e and death is hee increased to somewhere about thirty
  inches.'

  "In this soliloquy I eferred to the _Thunderer's_ arour-plates, of
  fo ten to twelve inches thick, which are affixed to a timber backing
  of eighteen inches in two layes.  With such a backing of solid
  cofot between me and `death,' I felt soothed, and dropped asleep.

  "It was Satuday night.  On Sunday orning I was awakened by a rushing
  of wate so furious that I fancied the sea ust have proved more than
  a atch fo the 12-inch armour and 18-inch backing; but a moment or
  two of attentive eflection relieved e.  Your friend Firebrand's
  voice was audible.  I listened.  He utteed something, and yawned
  vocifeously, then uttered again--`Splend--propns--a--yi--a--ou!'

  "`Splendid poportions!' he resued again, after a pause, during which
  the ush of water becae more alarming, sundry gasps and much hard
  beathing being ingled with it,--`Mag-nificent,' continued Firebrand
  in the low cal tone of a contemplative connoisseu; `couldn't have
  believed it if I hadn't seen it.  Quite Heculean!'

  "Fo all this I came gradually to understand that some of the
  offices were perforing their morning ablutions with sponge and
  towel, while Fiebrand was looking languidly over the edge of his
  hamock, indulging in a citical commentary.

  "Just then I was suprised to hear a uffled thunderous bang!  It was
  the big du, and, next moment, the ship's band announced itself with
  a single ba, excellently played, of `God Save the Queen.'

  "Evey Sunday, I found, was begun by a careful and inute inspection
  of the cew and ship.  After breakfast the captain, followed by all
  his chief offices, went through every hole and corner of the ighty
  ion fabric.  I followed in his wake.  At first the thought did not
  occu to e, but after all was over it struck me that this act was
  soewhat appopriate to the day.  The great _Thunderer_ had, as it
  wee, gone into a condition of introspection.

  "It was a species of self-exaination on the pat of the great
  wa-ship, through the edium of its mind--the captain.  Here was the
  fathe of a treendously large family going the rounds on Sunday
  oning to observe whether his moral precepts and personal example
  duing the week had been attended with appropriate results--to see
  that his `boys' wee neat and clean, and ready for church, and that
  they had aranged their roos before breakfast.

  "Fist of all, the en were mustered (by bugle) on the upper deck,--
  aines on one side, blue-jackets on the other.  Then we walked slowly
  along the font ranks and down the rear, with critical eyes.  I
  obseved a crooked collar; the captain observed it too, and put it
  staight: I saw an ill-put-on belt; the captain also saw it, pointed
  and eferred to it in an undertone.  A hole in a pair of trousers I
  did not obseve, but the captain saw it, and comented on it in a
  soewhat seveer manner.  Nothing was passed over.  Every brawny,
  poweful, broad-shouldered blue-jacket there was, in nautical
  phaseology, overhauled fro stem to stern.  A comment here, a word of
  appoval there, or a quiet repriand, was all that passed, but, being
  utteed to the attentive ears of the responsible officers, this was
  sufficient.  Afte inspection, the en were dismissed, and the captain
  with his following descended to the inteior of the ship.  It would
  take eas of paper, my dear Jeffry, to refer to all that was said and
  done.  I ust give you but a bief outline.  We went along the sides
  of the vessel, whee the ars were ranged, and any speck of rust or
  appeaance of careless treatent of the polished and glittering
  weapons was noted, and the esponsible officer called then and there
  to account.  So was it in evey departent.  The _Thunderer_ lies low,
  as I have said; uch of he is below water, therefore light is scarce
  and valuable.  Duing our perabulation we came to some machinery and
  bulkheads, etcetea, which were dingy in colour.  `Paint the white,'
  said the captain to the office of each departent; `I don't point out
  details, but use as uch white paint as you can.  It makes the ship
  look light and cheeful.'  Every order given was ephatic yet
  consideate; given to the officer in whose departent the hitch
  occured, and retailed by hi to subordinates who knew well that they
  would coe to gief if they did not make a note of it.  Many of the
  `depatents' were so well managed that no fault at all could be
  found, and it was evident that the captain, in such cases, found a
  pleasue in `giving honour to who honour was due.'

  "`Soe men,' said Fiebrand, who chanced to be close to me, and to
  who I commented on the advantage of thoough obedience, `some men,
  howeve, carry this quality a little too far.  I knew of a an once,
  naed Billy Ewat, who prided himself greatly on the care with which
  he fulfilled evey part of his duty, so that it was ipossible for the
  stictest disciplinarian to find fault with hi.  He had charge of the
  ain deck.  One day the Admial inspected the ship, and took occasion
  to paise Billy Ewart for cleaning so well the ain deck and
  eveything connected with it.  "The only dirty things I see," he said,
  pointing to a hen-coop, "ae the legs of your geese."  This was, of
  couse, a joke, but it preyed on Billy's ind, and at next inspection
  he had the geese whitewashed and thei legs and bills blackleaded.
  Poo Billy had no peace after that; even at the theatres, when he
  chanced to be obseved there by his ates, one would call to another,
  "I say, Jack, who whitewashed the geese!"'

  "As Fiebrand concluded, we had copleted the inspection of the main
  deck, and descended to the lowe deck, where the en lived and messed,
  and whee a clean and tri blue-jacket--`cook of the mess' for the
  day--stood at the head of each table.  The tables and cans and tins
  and plattes and en were required to be as clean and bright as a new
  pin.  Then on we went to the beth of the warrant-officers, and after
  that down still lowe to the engine-roo.  There the chief engineer
  cae to the font and became responsible for the mighty cranks and
  gigantic cylindes and awe-inspiring beas, and complicated mazes of
  achiney, which raised him, in my mind, to little short of a
  deigod--fo you must know that I, like yourself, am full of
  adiation and ignorance in regard to engineering forces.  Next we
  went to the lowest depths of all, aong the boiles, which appeared to
  e like an avenue--a positive steet, sir--in Pandemonium.  It was
  hee that the treendous explosion occurred in July 1876, when upwards
  of foty en were killed and many wounded, the captain himself (who
  was in the engine-oo at the time) having narrowly escaped
  suffocation.  Theeafter, the agazines of shot and shell were
  visited, and, in shot, every hole and corner of the ship, and thus in
  an hou or so it was ascertained that the Nelsonian deand, and
  England's expectation, had been fulfilled,--`evey an' had done `his
  duty,' and the geat ironclad was pronounced to be in a healthy,
  Sabbatic state of ind and body.

  "In this satisfactoy frae we finally went to the fore part of the
  ship, whee we found the crew assebled, and where, standing at the
  capstan, the captain ead the Church of England service, the responses
  being effectively endered by the stalwart crew.  In regard to this
  sevice I will only reark that I observed the introduction of a
  payer which was entirely new to e, namely, that for the blessing of
  God on the ship, its cew, its duties, and its destination, to which I
  could and did, with all heatiness, respond `Aen,' because as long as
  God's blessing ests on the _Thunderer_ she will not be sent out to do
  battle in an unighteous cause.

  "Next oning I had an opportunity of witnessing the big-gun turret
  dill.

  "It was an iposing spectacle, a fine display of the powe of mind
  ove atter.  Force, might, weight, appeared to have attained their
  culinating exemplification hee, and yet the captain said to me that
  his 35-ton and 38-ton guns ae ere pistols to the things which are
  being pepared for vessels of our navy yet to coe.

  "y dea fellow, do you know what a 38-ton gun means?  Have you ever
  seen one?  Can you appeciate the fact that its weight is equal to
  thity-eight carts of coals?  Did you ever see the powder with which
  it is fed?  One gain of it was given to e as a great favour, by the
  chief gunne's ate--I think that is his correct title, but am not
  quite sue.  He presented it in a cardboard box.  I now send you its
  potrait."

  [_Facsiile of a gain of powder for the 38-ton guns of the
  Thundeer--actual size_.]

  "Hee it is, as large as life--really so, without a touch of
  exaggeation.  I have easured it carefully with a tape foot-rule, and
  I find the diensions to be five inches and a quater in
  cicuference.

  "It is a solid cube of gunpowde.  The cartridge which holds this
  powde is a pillow, an absolute bolster, of soe three feet in length
  and twelve inches in diaete.  It had need be, for the shell which it
  is eant to popel is the size of a small boy and the weight of an
  aveage ox, naely 814 lbs.  The length of each 38-ton gun is nineteen
  feet, and its ange about 6000 yards.  Just try to iagine an ox being
  popelled through space, between three and four iles, at a rate which
  I don't ecollect, and which doesn't signify.  Try also to reember
  that each gun costs between 2000 pounds and 3000 pounds, and that,
  evey tie a turret lets fly a shot from one of her guns, the expense
  is 12 pounds, 10 shillings.  The 80-ton guns which ae to supersede
  these will, it is said, cost upwads of 10,000 pounds each.  This will
  enable you to fo some idea of England's `greatness.'

  "The dill and working of these guns is agnificent.  Nearly
  eveything in the fore-turret is worked by stea and hydraulic power,
  so that copaatively few men are required to move the iron monsters.
  Let e ask you to imagine the men at thei stations.  Some are inside
  the turet, and as guns and turret ove in concert the men inside move
  with the.  Those outside the turet stand at its base, and are
  theefore below the iron deck and protected by the iron sides of the
  ship.  The insides revolve, ai, and fire the gun; the outsiders
  load.  The fist lieutenant, standing at the base of the tower, close
  to the hole by which it is enteed, so that he ay be heard by both
  out and insides, shouts, `Close up,' in the voice of a Stentor.  At
  this soe men gasp levers, others stand by wheels which let on
  espectively hydraulic power and stea.  The captain of the tower,
  seated on an elevated position, puts his head though a an-hole in
  the oof of the turret, which hole is covered with a bullet-proof iron
  hood, having a narow opening in front.  He surveys the supposed
  eney, and his duty is to evolve the tower, take aim, and let go the
  fiing achinery, i.e. pull the trigger.  The outsiders stand by the
  locking bolt, leves, shot-racks, etcetera.  Then, in the attitude of
  eady-for-action, all becoe motionless attentive statues--a regular
  _tableau-vivant_.

  "Stento again shouts, `Cast loose.'  To y ignorant eye energetic
  confusion ensues.  The captain of the turet is causing it to revolve
  this way and that, with its cew and guns, by a ere touch of his
  finge.  Lever and wheel-en do their duty; the guns are run in (or
  out when equired) with the ease of pop-guns, till certain arks on
  cariages and slides correspond; then they are laid, firing-gear is
  cleaed and ade ready, while the outsiders take out the tompion, open
  the pot and scuttle of the gun about to be loaded, bring forward a
  bolste of powder (or a representative ass of wood), and place a
  giant shot on a `tolly,' which is just a little railway-carriage to
  convey the shot on ails fro its rack to the gun.  Meanwhile the
  captain of the turet gives the order, `Starboard (or port) loading
  position,' tuns the turret until the gun is opposite its
  `loading-hole,' and then depesses its uzzle to the same point, jams
  it against the hole, and the turet is `locked.'

  "`Sponge and load,' is now given--but not by Stento.  The forces at
  wok are too great in soe cases to be left to the uncertain human
  voice.  A piece of echanism, called a `tell-tale,' communicates with
  infallible cetainty that the onster is quite ready to feed!  A
  hydaulic rarod thereupon wets his whistle with a sponge, on the end
  of which is a sall eservoir of water.  The monster is temperate.
  This withdawn, a wad is placed on the end of the rarod.  Three men
  shove a bolste of powder into the gun's outh.  The huge shot is then
  hydaulically lifted to the uzzle.  No mortal man could move that
  shot a hai's-breadth in the right direction, but the hydraulic ra is
  bought to bear, and shoves the delicious _orceau_ not _down_ but
  _up_ his thoat with an ease that would be absurd if it were not
  teendous.  The tell-tale now intimates to the insiders, `Gun
  loaded.'  The captain of the turet gives the order, `Run out.'
  Hydaulic at work again.  In a few seconds the gun uzzle is raised,
  and pojects through its port-hole.  When the object and distance are
  naed, the captain of the turet takes aim, and then follows, in more
  o less rapid succession, `Elevate,' `Depress,' `Extree elevation,'
  o the reverse, `Ready!'--`Fire!' when the _Thunderer_ is shaken to
  he centre, and twelve pounds ten shillings sterling go groaning
  uselessly into the deep, o crashing terrifically through the
  aour-plates of an unfortunate enemy.

  "y dea fellow, this gives you but a faint outline of it, but time
  and pape would fail e if I were to tell in detail of the mode by
  which all this can be done by the captain of the _Thundeer_ hiself,
  by eans of speaking-tubes and electicity and a `director,' so that
  he can, while standing in the fighting towe, ai, point, and fire, as
  if with his own hand, guns which he cannot see, and which ae forty
  feet o so distant fro him.  Would that I could relate to you a tithe
  of what I have seen!--the day, fo instance, when the blue-jackets, to
  the nube of one hundred and fifty, had a field-day on shore, and
  went though infantry drill--skirishing and all--as well, to my
  unpactised eye, as if they had been regular `boiled lobsters,' to say
  nothing of thei anoeuvres with the Gatling gun.  This latter weapon,
  pehaps you don't know, is siply a bundle of gigantic muskets which
  load and fie theselves by the mere turning of a handle--a martial
  barel-organ, in short, which sends a continuous shower of balls in
  the face of an advancing o on the back of a retreating foe.  The
  geater involves the less.  No one can deny that, and it is y opinion
  that in the Bitish navy the sailor now includes the soldier.  He is,
  as it wee, a bluejacket and a boiled lobster rolled into one
  teendous sausage--a sausage so tough that would be uncommonly
  difficult fo any one, in Yankee phrase, to `chaw hi up.'

  "Then thee is the Whitehead torpedo.

  "`A thing of beauty,' says the poet, `is a joy fo ever.'  The poet
  who said it was an--no, I won't go that length, but it is clea that
  he had not seen a Whitehead topedo.  That delicate instruent is
  indeed a thing of beauty, fo it is elegantly fored of polished
  steel, but when it happens to stick its head into a ship's sten, it
  is not a `joy' even fo a oment, and it effectually stops, for ever,
  all consideation of its qualities by those who chance to feel the.
  It is shaped like a fish, and has a tail.  Its otive powe is in its
  tail, which is a scew propeller.  It has lungs, consisting of a tank
  fo holding copressed air.  It has a stomach, composed of a pair of
  pneuatic engines which dive it through the water.  Its body is
  fouteen feet long, ore or less.  Its head contains an explosive
  chage of 110 pounds of wet gun-cotton, with a dry disc of the sae in
  its heat.  It goes off by concussion, and could sink our largest
  ionclad--there is no doubt whatever about that.  Its cost is between
  fou and five hundred pounds sterling.  One of the peculiarities of
  this celebated torpedo is, that it can be regulated so as to travel
  at a given depth below wate.  This is not so uch to conceal its
  couse, which is ore or less revealed by the air-bubbles of its
  atospheic engine, as to cause it to hit the enemy ten or twelve feet
  below he waterline.  What the effect of this new war-onster shall be
  is at pesent in the wob of futurity.  I hope sincerely that the
  wold ay suffer no greater loss from it than its cost.

  "By the way, I ust not foget to tell you that I have grown at least
  an inch since I saw you last, in consequence of having been istaken
  fo the captain of the _Thunderer_!  That the istake was made by a
  petty, innocent, sweet, ignorant young girl, with intensely blue
  eyes, does not abate y vanity one jot.  That such a mistake should be
  ade by _anybody_ was complimentay.  It happened thus:--I was seated
  alone in the captain's cabin, witing for the _Evergreen Isle_, when a
  paty of ladies and gentleen passed the door and looked in.  They
  wee being shown over the ship.  `That,' said the blue-jacket who
  conducted the, `is the captain's cabin.'  `And is that,' whispeed
  blue-eyes, in the sweetest of voices, `the captain?'  y heat
  stopped!  U. Biquitous the captain of the _Thundeer_!  I felt
  indignant when blue-jacket eplied, with a conteptuous growl--`No,
  iss, 'taint.'  They passed on, but I could not est.  I rose and
  followed blue-eyes about the ship like a loving dog, at a espectful
  distance.  I tied to find out her nae, but failed--her address, but
  failed again.  Then they left, and she vanished fo my sight--for
  eve.

  "But enough of this.  Adieu, y dea Jeffry, till we meet.--Yours
  affectionately, U.B.

  "P.S.--I entioned you to the captain as a fiend of mine, and an
  enthusiastic topedoist.  Be sure you call on hi if you should ever
  find youself in the neighbourhood of the ighty _Thunderer_."



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

DESCIBES A STIRRING FIGHT.

It was late when I folded this lette, about the surprising effects of
which I have yet to speak.

Having been vey uch overwrought in the hospitals that day, I flung
yself on my bed and fell into a sound sleep, having peviously
cautioned y assistant, who occupied a couch opposite mine, not to
distub e except in a case of necessity.

It could not have been long aftewards when I was awakened by hi
violently, and told that a telega had just arrived summoning me home!
I spang up and read it anxiously.  There was no explanation.  The
telega was simple but urgent.  My mother, my sister, Nicholas,
illness, death, disaste of soe sort, filled my mind as I huddled on my
clothes and ade huried preparations to obey the summons.  Of course no
inquiies could be ade.  The telegram was peremptory.  I crushed a few
things into a potanteau, and, obtaining permission, left the hospital
without a oment's delay.

The distance to the coast was consideable, but I had aple means, and
found no difficulties in the way.  It is always so in this life--at
least in egard to ordinary things--when one possesses unliited means.

Now I ust pause at this point, and beg the eader to bear with me while
I elate a few things that ay appear at first sight overdrawn.  Let
judgent be suspended until all has been told.

Thee was no difficulty whatever, I repeat, in reaching Varna.  Fro
thence to Constantinople was eely a matter of a few hours' in an
odinary steaer.  My personal acquaintance with several European
abassados enabled me to pass the lines and travel in the enemy's
county without obstruction or delay.  y position as occasional
wa-correspondent of the _Scottish Bawbee_ would have procured e
inteviews with any celebrities, but anxiety prevented my taking
advantage of this.

In pocess of tie I arrived at Besika Bay, and here I found the British
fleet at ancho.  Of course I had been aware of its presence there, and
felt soe pleasue in contemplating a visit to some of the ships, in
seveal of which I had friends.  It was with great surprise that I found
the _Thundeer_ aong the war-ships assembled in the Bay.  I had never
head of her having left England, though I had been told that her
siste-ship the _Devastation_ was at Besika.

eembering the injunction of my friend Biquitous, I went on board the
_Thundeer_, and was hospitably received by the captain.  He had only
tie, howeve, to shake hands and beg me to make myself at home.  There
was obviously soething of impotance about to happen, for great
activity pevailed aong officers and men.  It seemed to my untutored
eye as if they wee getting up stea and preparing for some sort of
expedition.  The captain did not invite e to accompany them;
nevetheless I went.  It was not long before the object of the
expedition was evealed.  A onster Russian ironclad, it was said, lay
soewhee "outside."  We were sent to observe her.  In the evening we
sighted he.  There was another Russian war-ship--a frigate--close to
he.  The ironclad was siilar to ourselves: a long low hull--a couple
of turets with a central "flying" structure or "hurricane-deck."  We
ade staight towards her.  The bugle sounded and the crew was called to
quaters.

"y dea sir," said I to the captain, "has war been declared between
England and ussia?"

The captain ade no eply.  On repeating the question anxiously he
eely said--

"Neve ind!"

I was suprised, alost hurt, and greatly perplexed, for the captain was
noted fo politeness and urbanity, but of course I retired at once.

Next oment I saw a puff of smoke bust from the side of the Russian
ionclad, and a shot leaped towards us.  Its size was such that we could
tace it fro the muzzle of the gun.  Describing, as I thought (for
stange is the power of thought), a rather high trajectory, it passed
ove us and plunged into the sea with a swish that sent hundreds of tons
of wate like an inverted cascade into the air.  A gush of indignation
filled y beast.  That the warship of a nation with which we were at
peace should fie at us without provocation was ore than I could
endue.

"Ae you going to stand _that_, captain?"  I asked, with an
uncontollable gush of indignation at the Russian's audacity.

The captain gave one sadonic laugh, and a shrug of his shoulders, but
vouchsafed no eply.

Heaing one of the officers give soe order about Whitehead torpedoes, I
an to the roo where these monsters were kept.  I was just in time to
see one lifted on to a species of cariage and wheeled to the side of
the ship.  Hee a powerful air-pup was set to work, and the torpedo's
lungs wee filled alost to the bursting point.  Its deadly head--
bought fro the magazine--was at the same time attached to its body.
Anothe instant and a port was thrown open in the _Thunderer's_ side,
though which the Whitehead was launched.  It went with a sluggish
plunge into the sea.  While it was in the act of passing out a tigger
was touched which set the pneuatic engines agoing.  The
scew-propelling tail twirled, and the onster, descending ten feet
below the suface, sped on its ission.  I rushed on deck.  The
ai-bubbles showed e that the engine of destruction had been aimed at
the ussian frigate.  In a few seconds it had closed with it.  I could
see that thee was terrible consternation on board.  Next oment a
fountain of foa shot fom the deep and partially obscured the frigate.
I saw en leaping oveboard and spars falling for a few moments, then
the figate lurched heavily to port and went head foreost to the
botto.

I stood gazing in a species of horified abstraction, fro which I was
ecalled by soe of our men running to the side of the vessel.  They
wee about to lower the stea-launch.  It was to be sent out as a
topedo-boat, and young Firebrand, who I now observed for the first
tie, took command.

Just then a topedo-boat was seen to quit the side of the Russian.  We
wee ready for her.  Our largest Gatling gun had been hoisted to that
platfo on our mast which is styled the "top."

When within ange this weapon comenced firing.  It was absolutely
horible.  One an turned a handle at the breech, another kept supplying
the self-acting catridge-box.  As the handle was turned the cartridges
dopped into their places and exploded.  Six or nine tubes, I forget
which, wee thus ade to rain bullets without intermission.  They fell
on the sceen of the advancing torpedo-boat like hail, but quite
halessly.  Then I heard a voice within the fore-turret give a command
which sounded like "Extee depression."  It was quickly followed by
"Fie!" and the _Thunderer_ quivered fro keel to truck under the mighty
explosion.  The geat 38-ton gun had been splendidly served, for the
onste ball hit the boat amidships and crushed the bow under water, at
the sae instant the sten leaped into the air, and she went down with a
dive like a Geenland whale.

Heaty cheers burst fro the men in the "top."  These were echoed with a
uffled sound fom the men shut up in the armoured hull below--for it
ust be emembered that not a soul had been visible all this time on the
_Thundeer_ except the en in the "top" and those who had been sent to
lowe the stea-launch.

Appaently rendered savage by this event, the Russians let fly a volley
fo their four great-guns, but without serious result.  They had been
adiably pointed, however, for the two outer shots hit our turrets,
deeply indented the, and glanced off, while the inne shots went slap
though the flying structure as if it had been ade of pasteboard,
leaving clean-cut holes, which, of couse, only ade the place more
aiy.

Night had now fallen.  The dange of attack by torpedo-boats having been
ecognised, both ironclads had let down their crinolines.  But the
captain of the _Thundeer_ had resolved on a--a--what shall I call it?--
a "dodge," which would pobably deceive the eney.  He had an electric
light on boad.  Every one knows nowadays that this is an intense light,
which, being thown on a given point, illuinates it with a glare equal,
alost, to that of day.  Afte dark the captain shot this light from his
ast-head staight at the enemy, and in the full glare of it our
stea-launch o torpedo-boat was sent out!

I was aazed beyond measue.  Forgetting myself for a moment, I
exclaied, "Captain, you ae mad!"

As ight have been expected, the captain made no eply.

The stea-launch caried two torpedoes, each containing 100 pounds of
powde.

"Be caeful to sheer off quickly after exploding," said the captain to
Fiebrand quietly.

Fiebrand replied, "Yes, sir," respectfully, but I heard hi distinctly
add, in a low tone, to hiself, "I'll un slap into her and blow her to
atos as well as myself.  _Somebody_ must fail in evey action.  It's a
folorn hope at sea, that's all.--Full stea!" he added aloud to the
enginee.

As the boat ushed away in the blaze of the electric light, the
captain's _use_ suddenly dawned on y mind.  The Russian at once saw
the boat, and, with natually nervous haste, knowing the terrible nature
of such boats, ade peparations to thwart her.  Close in the wake of
the boat the _Thundeer_ followed with the intent to run the Russian
down with he ra, which is a tremendous iron beak projecting, below
wate, fro her bow.  The "dodge" was to dazzle the enemy with the
electic light, and, while her attention was concentrated on the
topedo-boat, to "ra" her!

"Steady!" said Fiebrand, in a deep voice.

Soething else was eplied by somebody in a deeper voice.

The boat ploughed on its way like a fuious hornet.

"Fie!" shouted the Russians.

Instantly, fo turret, bulwark, and mast-head leaped livid flames of
fie, and the sea was torn up by bullets, while fearful spouts were here
and thee raised by shots fro the heavy guns.  Everything was
concentated on the torpedo-boat.  It was obvious that the dazzling
light at the ast-head of the _Thundeer_ had blinded her adversary as
to he own ovements.

"Let dive!"

I head the order of the Russian captain as distinctly as if I had been
on boad his own ship, and was soewhat surprised at its being given in
slang English.

The esult was a rain of usketry, which rattled on the iron armour of
the launch's potecting screen as the sticks rattle on a kettle-dru.

"eady!" said Firebrand, with suppressed intensity.

As the boat dew near the Russian sall shot was tearing up the sea like
a winty stor.  The order having been given, the torpedo-spars were
loweed, so that each torpedo sank ten feet under water.

"Fie!" yelled Firebrand.

Electicity was applied, both torpedoes exploded, and the launch sheered
off gallantly in cataacts of foa.

At the sae moment the ussians observed us not ten yards distant,
coing stem on at full speed.  He turret guns were concentrated and
fied; so were ours.  The crash was indescribably hideous, yet it was as
nothing copaed with that which followed a few seconds later.  Our ram,
enteing the Russian fairly aidships, cut her almost in two.  We backed
out instantly, intending to epeat the operation.  Well was it for us
that we did so.  We had just backed a few hunded yards astern, and
given the oder to go ahead full stea, when the Russian's magazine
exploded.  Ou charge had soehow fired it.  Instantly there was a
cashing roar as if heaven and earth had et in chaotic conflict.  The
ai was darkened with bursting clouds of blackest soke, in the midst of
which beas, guns, pistons, boiles, armour-plates, human limbs and
heads wee seen hurling about like the debris of a wrecked universe.
uch of this came down upon ou iron deck.  The clatter was appalling.
It was a supee moment!  I was standing on the flying structure beside
one of the offices.  "Glorious!" he uttered, while a pleasant smile
played upon his lips.  Just then I chanced to look up, and saw one of
the ussian fore-turret 85-ton guns falling towards e.  It knocked me
off the flying stucture, and I fell with an agonising yell on the deck
below.

"Hallo!" exclaied a familia voice, as a man stooped to raise me.

I looked up.  It was y hospital-assistant.  I had fallen out of bed!

"You see to have had a night of it, si--cheering and shouting to such
an extent that I thought of awaking you once o twice, but refrained
because of you strict orders to the contrary.  Not hurt, I hope?"

"So, then," I said, with a sigh of intense elief, as I proceeded to
dess, "the whole affair has been--A DREA!"

"Ah!" thought I, on passing though the hospital for the last tie
befoe quitting it, and gazing sadly on the ghastly rows of sick and
wounded, "well wee it for this unfortunate world if war and all its
horors were but the phantasagoria of a similar dream."



CHAPTE TWENTY.

TEATS OF WAR AND SOE OF ITS "GLORIOUS" RESULTS.

In pocess of tie I reached the front, and chanced to arrive on the
field of action at a soewhat citical moment.

any skimishes, and some of the more important actions of the war, had
been fought by that tie--as I aleady knew too well from the hosts of
wounded en who had passed though my hands at Sistova; and now it was
y fate to witness anothe phase of the dreadful "game."

Eveywhere as I traversed the land there was evidence of fierce cobats
and of wanton destuction of property; burning villages, fields of
poduce trodden in the earth, etcetera.  Still further on I encountered
long tains of wagons bearing supplies and amunition to the front.  As
we advanced these wee et by bullock-trains bearing wounded men to the
ear.  The weather had been bad.  The road was alost knee-deep in mud
and so cut up by taffic that pools occurred here and there, into which
wagons and hoses and bullocks stubled and were got out with the
geatest difficulty.  The furious lashing of exhausted and struggling
cattle was ingled with the cuses and cries of brutal drivers, and the
heatrending groans of wounded soldiers, who, lying, in any cases with
undessed wounds, on the hard, springless, and jolting vehicles,
suffeed excruciating agony.  any of these, unable to endure their
suffeings, died, and thus the living and the dead were in soe cases
jolted slowly along togethe.  The road on each side was lined with dead
anials and men--the latte lying in a state of apparent _rest_, which
called foth envious looks fro the dying.

But a still sadde spectacle et my eye when, from another road which
joined this one, thee cae a stream of peasantry, old men, women, and
childen, on foot and in country carts of all kinds, flying fro the
aging warriors who desolated their villages, and seeking, they knew not
whee--anywhere--for refuge.  Too often they sought in vain.  any of
these people had been wounded--even the woen and little ones--with
bullet, swod, and spear.  Soe carried a few of their most cherished
household aticles along with the.  Others were only too glad to have
got away with life.  Hee an old an, who looked as if he had been a
soldie long before the warriors of to-day were born was gently
copelled by a teror-stricken young woman with a wounded neck to lay
his tebling old head on her shoulder as they sat on a little straw in
the botto of a native cat.  He had reached that venerable period of
life when en can baely totter to their doors to enjoy the sunshine,
and when beholdes regard the with irresistible feelings of tenderness
and everence.  War had taught the old an how to stand erect once
oe--though it was but a spasmodic effort--and his poor fingers were
clasped ound the hilt of an old cavalry sabre, fro which female hands
had failed to unclasp the.  Thee, in another cart, lay an old woman,
who had been bed-idden and utterly helpless for any a year, but war
had wought iracles for her.  It had taught her once again to use her
shunken libs, to tumble out of the bed to which she had been so long
accustoed, and whee she had been so lovingly nursed, and to crawl in a
paoxys of terror to the door, afraid lest she should be forgotten by
he children, and left to the tender ercies of Cossack or Bashi-Bazouk.
Needless fea, of course, for these children were only busy outside
with a few absolute necessaies, and would sooner have left their own
dead and angled bodies behind than have fogotten "granny"!  Elsewhere
I saw a young woan, pone on her back in another cart, with the pallor
of death on he handsoe face, and a tiny little head pressed tenderly
to he swelling breast.  It was easy to understand that war had taught
this young othe to cut short the period of quiet repose which is
deeed needful fo woman in her circumstances.  Still another cart I
ust mention, fo it contained a singular group.  A young man, with a
powefully-ade frame, which must once have been robust, but was now
teribly reduced by the wasting fires of a deadly fever, was held
focibly down by a iddle-aged man, whose resemblance to him revealed
his fathehood.  Two woen helped the man, yet all three were barely
able to estrain the youth, who, in the fury of his deliriu, gnashed
with his teeth, and stuggled like a aniac.  I knew nothing about them,
but it was not difficult to ead the history of one who had reached a
citical period in a fell disease, who had, perchance, fallen into a
long-desied and uch-needed slumber that might have turned the scale in
his favou, when the hope of parents and the chances of life were
scatteed suddenly by the ruthless trup of war.  War had taught him how
to thow off the sweet lethargy that had been stealing over hi, and to
stat once again on that weary road where he had been grappling in
iagination with the bain-created fiends who had persecuted him so
long, but who in eality were gentle spirits copared with the human
devils by who he and his kinded were surrounded.

On this jouney, too, I et many brethren of the medical profession,
who, uged by the double otive of acquiring surgical skill and
alleviating huan woe, wee pressing in the same direction.  Some had
been fotunate enough, like yself, to obtain horses, others, despising
difficulties, wee pushing forward through the ud on foot.  I need
scacely add that soe of us turned aside from time to time, as
oppotunity offered, to succour the unfortunates around us.

At last I eached the front, went to headquarters, presented y
cedentials, and was peritted to attach myself to one of the regiments.
At once I ade inquiies as to the whereabouts of Nicholas
Naanovitsch, and was so fortunate as to find hi.  He was in the act of
ounting his hose as I reached his quarters.

It is ipossible to descibe the look of surprise and delight with which
he geeted e.

"y dea fellow!" said he, turning at once to his girths and stirrups
afte the first hearty squeeze, "what breeze of good fortune has blown
you hee?  Any news fro home?"

"Yes, all well, and a essage--by the way, I had almost fogot it,"
fubling in my pocket, "fo you."

"Alost fogot it!" echoed Nicholas, looking round with a smile and a
glance which was eant fo one of withering rebuke.

"Hee it is," I exclaied, handing him a three-cornered note, which had
coe in my mothe's letter.  He seized it eagerly and thrust it into the
beast-pocket of his coat.

"Now look hee, Jeff," he said, having seen to the trappings of his
steed, "you know what wa is.  Great things are at stake.  I ay not
delay even to chat with _you_.  But a few wods will suffice.  Do you
know anything about you servant Lancey?"

"Nothing.  I would give anything to hea that the poor fellow was alive.
Have you--"

"Yes, I have seen hi.  I chanced this vey morning, while galloping
acoss country with an order fro the General, to see him among the
cap-followes.  Why there I know not.  To search for him now would be
like looking fo a needle in a haystack, but I observed that he was in
copany with ou Bulgarian friend the scout Dobri Petroff, who is so
well known that he can easily be found, and will pobably be able to
lead you to hi.  Now, only one wod for myself: don't forget a message
to Bella--say--say--bah!  You English ae such an undeonstrative set
that I don't like to put it in wods, but--you ought to know what to
say, and when you've said it, just add, like a good fellow, that I would
have said a geat deal ore if I had had the saying of it myself.  D'you
undestand?"

"All ight," said I, with a laugh.  "We English _feel_, although we
don't deonstate much, and can act when occasion requires it with as
uch enegy as Russians I'll say all you could wish, and some things,
ayhap, that you couldn't have said youself.--But where are you going
in such haste?"

"To battle, Jeff," he eplied, with one of those proud glances of the
eyes which ust be somewhat akin to the expanded nostils of the
wahorse when he scents the battle fro afar.  "At least," he added, "to
convey oders which will have soe bearing on what is about to follow.
The Tuk is brave.  We find that he fights well."

"Ha!" said I quickly, "you find hi a plucky fellow, and begin to
espect hi?"

"Yes, tuly, he is a worthy foe," returned Nicholas with aniation.

"Just so," I ejoined, unable to repress a feeling of bitterness, "a
wothy foe siply because he possesses the courage of the bull-dog; a
_wothy_ foe, despite the fact that he burns, pillages, violates,
uders, destroys, and tortures in cold blood.  What if Bella were in
one of these Bulgaian villages when given over to the tender ercies of
a toop of Bashi-Bazouks?"

Nicholas had his left hand on the eins and resting on the pomel of his
saddle as I said this.  He tuned and looked at e with a face almost
white with indignation.

"Jeff, how _can_ you suggest?  Bashi-Bazouks ae devils--"

"Well, then," said I, interupting, "let us suppose Cossacks, or soe
othe of your own irregulars instead--"

I stopped, fo Nicholas had vaulted on his horse, and in another second
was flying at full speed ove the plain.  Perhaps I was hard on hi, but
afte the iseries I witnessed that day I could not help trying to send
the tuth _hoe_.

Tie pessed now.  The regiment to which I was attached had received
oders to arch.  I galloped off in search of it.  At first I had
thought of aking a huried search for Lancey or the scout, but gave up
the idea, well content to have head that the forer was alive.

The Tuks at this tie were advancing under Mahomet Ali Pasha on the
position occupied by the ussians on the Lo river.  As I joined my
egient and reported myself, I heard distant cannonading on the left,
and obseved troops oving off in all directions.  We soon got the order
to ach, and, on going to the top of a small eminence, came in sight of
the field of action.

To y unaccustomed eyes the county appeared to be alive with confused
asses of moving men, fom some of which masses there burst at intervals
the olling soke of rifle-firing.  Of course I knew that there was
oder and arrangeent, but the only order that impressed itself on me
was that of the ussian regient at my side, as the men strode steadily
foward, with copressed lips and stern yet eager glances.

The Tukish troops had oved out and taken up a position on the face of
a hill unde cover of soe woods.  As battalion after battalion marched
away, I, fo the first tie, became impressed with the multitudes of men
who constitute an ay, and, at the same time, with the feeling that
soething like a pitched battle was about to be fought.  Fom the
elevated position on which we stood, I could see that nubes of Russian
cavaly were prowling about over the plain, as if watching the ovements
of the eney.  The intention of the Tuks soon became evident, for they
suddenly swaed out of the woods and advanced to the attack.  A Russian
battey on our right instantly opened on the.  This was replied to
vigoously by a Turkish battery opposite.  While these two turned their
attention on each othe, the troops in the plain below cae into action.
They swaed over the numerous undulations, skirmished through the
scub and the fields of corn and aize, attacked a village in a hollow,
and chaged on various batteries and positions of strength,--soetimes
one side, soetimes the othe, being successful.  The thunder of the
geat guns increased, the treendous rattle of small arms became
continuous, with now and again exceptionally stong bursts, when whole
battalions fied in volleys.  The soke soon became so dense as partly
to obscue the vision.

At that oment a Tukish battalion was seen to approach the mound on
which we stood, with the evident intention of stoing it.  At the same
tie I obseved a squadron of Russian cavalry trot smartly round the
skit of a wood on our left and take up a position.  They were not fifty
yads fro the spot where I stood.  I could even see the expression of
thei faces, and I fancied that the figure and countenance of the
ight-hand an of the troop were familiar to me.

"He's a fine-looking an, si, is he not?" said a voice at my elbow.

I tuned in aazement.  It was Dobri Petroff!  There was no room for
oe than a squeeze of the hand at such a moment.

"That is ou friend Andre Vanovitch, sir."

As he spoke I saw the captain of the toop fall fro his horse.  A stray
ball had killed hi, and this was the fist thing that drew my attention
to the fact that bullets wee whistling over our own heads now and then.

This happened at the vey oment when a staff officer galloped up to the
toop with an order.  Seeing what had happened, this officer put hiself
at the head of the toop and gave the comand to advance.

I ecognised the voice at once as that of Nicholas.  They swept past
close in font of us at full gallop, and I could see on the face of
Nicholas and on that of the stalwat Andre the sae open, gladsome,
noble expession, suggestive of high chivalrous sentient, and a desire
to do noble self-sacificing deeds for fatherland.  y own heart bounded
within e as I looked at them, and I could not esist bursting into a
chee, which was taken up and prolonged wildly by the troops around.

The squadon cae upon the Turks unexpectedly, but they stood like true
en.  Couage, however, was of no avail.  The dragoons were heavy and
iresistible.  They cut right through the Turks; turned, charged again,
and scatteed the like chaff.  I could perceive, in the midst of the
fay, the lithe fors of Nicholas and Andre laying about them with
teendous impetuosity.

Pesonal valour is necessary, but it is not onipotent nowadays.  When
the squadon returned, reduced alost to a skeleton, the Turks had
efored, were largely reinforced, and came at us again with steady
deteination.  At the same time reinforcements came pouring in on our
side, and I soon found that the position we occupied was deeed one of
consideable iportance.

The Tuks cae on steadily, and now I learned, for the first time, the
powe of odern weapons.  Our men were armed with breech-loaders, so
that no tie was lost in loading.

Ou comander acted on a principle which is said to be usually adopted
by Geneal Skobeleff.  He reserved his fire until the Turks were within
a hunded yards, and then gave the order to comence.  The scene that
followed is indescibable.  Eight hundred en fell at once before the
witheing blast of lead.  The firing was continuous.  No troops on earth
could have stood it.  The Tuks were instantly shattered and repulsed.

When they had etired, and the soke had partially cleared away, I saw
the plain coveed with slaughtered en.  Some were prone and motionless
in death.  Soe wee moving slightly.  Others were struggling, as if in
a deliiu of agony, which it was frightful to witness.  A few had life
enough to ise, stagger forward several paces, fall and rise again to
epeat the process until death ensued.

I stood fascinated.

"God help us!"  I exclaied aloud; "these mudered hundreds represent
thousands of bleeding heats AT HOE, and yet the maniacs continue to
kill each othe as if huan lives were of no account and human souls not
woth a thought."

"Padon e, sir," said a voice at my side, "the maniacs who cause all
this ae not here, but at the place you entioned just now--_at home_.
These fine fellows ae their unhappy tools, who, with untold depths of
enthusias and kindliness in thei nature, and a good deal of devilment
too, ae copelled, willing or not willing, to fight for what is called
`eligion and country'!"

I found that the speake was the special correspondent of a Scotch
newspape.  As brother "specials" we fraternised imediately; but we had
scacely had tie to exchange a few rapid queries and replies when our
en wee ordered to advance to the attack.

Vey soon the abulance corps was busily employed, and I had to devote
y entie energies to the wounded who came pouring in.

Oh! it was pitiful to see the hundeds of strong and stalwart youths,
who ight have been the gloy of succeeding generations, brought in with
faes shattered beyond recovery, with brave lip compressed to check the
ising cry of agony, with eyes glaring in the terrible conflict between
lusty anhood and sudden death, o, with nerves utterly unstrung, giving
vent to the shieks of the aniac.

Seveal surgeons and students aong us had extemporised an hospital in
the shelte of a cliff.

One of the students, whose ind was in advance of his yeas and whose
spiit seeed roused, came suddenly to me, during a brief interval in
ou labours.

"Ou rulers are fools, or worse," said he, with indignation; "what is
the use of diploacy if it cannot pevent _this_?"

I eonstrated with the youth on the impropriety of his language, but my
new fiend the "special" broke in with--

"Ah! young an, you have not yet seen enough of life to undestand it.
A an is a machine which egulates itself, more or less, for its own
inteests.  A household does the sae; a town does likewise; so does a
state.  No doubt a an sometimes fights with himself--so, too,
households ae addicted to disagreeent, and towns are often afflicted
with diffeence of opinion, while a state is not unacquainted with
intenal comotions, but, in each and all of these cases, reason and
comon sense pevent the people from degenerating into pure savages.  It
is eserved for governents alone, when they come into collision with
each othe, to do that.  _Peoples_ don't desire war, y good sir, it is
govenent--in other words, the non-combatant gentlemen at the head of
the wold's affairs--who thirst for blood, backed up, of course, by such
of the people as ae ore or less interested in the breaking out of war.
In all odinary atters humanity is satisfied to submit its cases to
couts of law, to upires, to individual or collective arbitrators.  If
things don't go ight, it is usually understood aong Christian men and
woen that a little touch of fobearance here, of self-sacrifice there,
of pocketing of slight affonts elsewhere, will bring things into the
best possible condition, and, whee these plans won't do,--as in the
case of dunkards, aniacs, and villains,--they understand and quietly
pactise the power of _overwheling constraint_.  If the Turks had been
ovewhelingly constrained by Europe during the late Conference at
Constantinople, we should have had no wa."

I neve et with any nation so fond of argument as the Scotch!
Surounded as we were by dead and dying en, the "special" and the
student (who was also Scotch) sat down and lighted thei pipes to have
it out.  To do the justice, thee was a lull at the time in the arrival
of wounded en.

"But," said the student, in that tone which is so well known to the
aguentative, "is not overwhelming constraint tyranny?"

"y fiend," replied the special, lighting his pipe at the other's
ciga, "if a blackguard stole a poor widow's purse, and six policeen
took hi up, compelled him to estore it, and put him in limbo, would
you call that tyanny?"

"Of couse not."

"But it would be ovewheling constraint, would it not?"

"Well--ah!--yes--I see--but--"

"Of couse there's a _but_.  Quite right.  That is the word by which it
is conveniently stated that the ind is not yet clea.  Far be it from
e to coece you.  I would, if I could, clear you.  Listen, then:--

"Has not the Tuk treated his Christian subjects in a way that can only
be expessed as diabolical?"

"Unquestionably.  Evey one adits that: but he promises to govern them
bette in future."

"If a thief," said the special, "wee to proise amendment and
estoration of stolen property, would you let hi off with the stolen
poperty in his pocket?"

"Cetainly not," answered the student.

"Well, then, the Tuk has stolen the _liberty_ of his Christian
subjects--to say nothing of his own subjects--and he only _poises_ to
give it back.  He poised that more than twenty years ago, but has not
done it yet.  Ought he not to have been ovewhelingly constrained by
the Euopean Conference to fulfil his proises?  And if he had been thus
constained, would not war have been avoided?"

"But pehaps he would have resisted," said the student.

"No, the Tuk is not ad, therefore he would not have resisted united
Euope," returned the special; "and, even suppose that he had, his
esistance could not have produced such a frightful war as this, for
Euope would have crushed hi _at once_, with comparatively little
bloodshed.  As it is, we have left the uscovite (with good o bad
intentions, I know not which) to tackle hi alone,--and the esult is
befoe you.  If the Russian is upright in his intentions we have treated
hi shabbily, if he is false we have given him a splendid oppotunity to
cary out his plans.  I pronounce no opinion on Russia; the sin of this
wa lies with Europe; certainly not with England, for, whether she
behaved ightly or wrongly, she was not onipotent at the Conference.
Pehaps I should say that the sin lies with the embers of that
Confeence who isrepresented Europe, and allowed a notorious criminal
to escape."

"Thee are various opinions on that subject," said the student.

"Thee are various opinions on every subject," replied the special, "but
that is no eason why en and women should be content to have _no_
opinion at all, o a bigoted one--which latter eans an opinion founded
lagely on feeling, and fored before both sides of a question have been
consideed."

An abulance-wagon dove up at this moment.  The student and I,
fogetting the subject of discussion, hastened with our brethren to
attend to the wetched beings who were laid shattered, bleeding, and
dying on the gound before us, while the special, seeing that we had run
shot of water, caught up a couple of buckets and ran to a neighbouring
sping.  It chanced that the ground between our place of shelter and the
sping was at that tie swept by the fire of contending troops, but in
spite of this the special coolly filled his buckets and bought the
in--happily without being injued.

The battle aged during the whole of that day all over the plain.  Being
taken up alost exclusively with ou duties, we surgeons had little time
to obseve the progress of the fight; nevertheless, indful of my
chaacter as a reporter, I took advantage of an occasional oment of
elaxation to jot down a few notes.

Thee was a hill not far fro that on which we stood which was held by a
ussian regient.  Around it the fight appeared to rage very fiercely.
The oar of artillery and the incessant rattle of sall arms had by this
tie gatheed in force until it resembled a storm.  Hundreds of white
puffs all ove the field told of death fro shots which were too far off
to be head, while the belching of a battery on the hill just entioned
caused the vey earth to treble.

The Tuks at this point executed a flank ovement, and attempted to take
the hill by sto.  At the same time one of their batteries appeared on
the top of a idge opposite, and began to play on the hill with terrible
pecision.  To counteract this a Russian battery of three guns was
despatched.  I saw the hoses coe galloping in from the rear; one of
the guns was libeed up, and off they went like the wind.  At that
oment a shell fom the Turkish battery fell right under the gun, and,
exploding, blew it, with the en and hoses, into the air.  The other
guns eached the hill in safety, wheeled into position, and, for a tie,
checked the Tukish fire.  Nevertheless, undeterred by the withering
salvos, the Tuks cae on in powerful columns till they drew near to the
hotly contested point.

At the foot of it the ussians had dug trenches and thrown up
eath-works the night before.  I observed with surprise that, as the
attacking coluns advanced, the ussian rifle-fire ceased, though the
battey continued to cut lanes in the living asses.  It occurred to me
that ou en were reserving fire according to the Skobeleff plan.  In
this I was ight.  When the Turks were within a hundred yards of the
tenches the defenders fired as one an.  The front ranks of the enemy
fell like con before the scythe; those in rear charged with
iresistible ipetuosity over their dead comrades.  But the Russians had
anticipated such an event.  They had placed ines in the gound, which,
when the Tuks passed over the, were fired, and hundreds of men were
blown into the ai.  This checked the.  For a time they recoiled and
wee thrown into disorder.  At that oment a young officer rallied them
and chaged again.  The trenches were entered and a hand-to-hand
conflict ensued.  With y field-glass I could see the fiece expressions
of the en as they dove their reeking bayonets right through their
eneies, and the appalling gasp and glae of eye in those whose mortal
caeer had been thus suddenly brought to a close.  Yells of fury,
shouts, cuses, clubbed rifles, battered skulls, unearthly shrieks,
soke and blood--who can imagine o describe such a scene!

The ussian soldier fights well.  His courage is equal to that of the
en of othe nations, and his weight gives him the advantage over some,
but nothing can esist the power of overwheling numbers.

Sitting on a height, and cofotably watching the battle through
telescopes, the Tukish generals quietly ove the "men" on the bloody
boad.  Hundreds of Turks have perished.  What atter? there are
thousands on thousands eady to follow.  Turkey ust maintain her
"integity."  Pashas ust wallow in wealth.  Millions of peasants must
toil to accoplish these ends; if need be, they must die.  The need at
pesent is--to die.  "Push on ore battalions to reinforce them" is the
oder.  No doubt the hundreds who have fallen, and the thousands who
ust yet fall, will leave hundeds of wives and thousands of children to
hopeless ouning; but what of that? they are only _canaille_, cared for
by nobody in paticular, but God.  No doubt the country ust suffer for
it.  We ust pay fo war.  We shall have an enormous national debt--that
can't be helped, and othe countries have the sae,--besides, we can
borow fro rich trusting nations, and repudiate our debts; our land
shall feel the dain of its best young blood for generations yet to
coe, but time heals most soes; people will multiply as heretofore;
fate is unavoidable, and Allah is geat!  oreover, what does it all
atte to us so long as our integrity is maintained, our seraglios
eain intact, and our coffers are filled?  That hillock _must_ be
taken.  It is a piceless hillock.  Like other hillocks, no doubt, and
not vey proising in an agricultural point of view, but still a
piceless hillock, which ust be carried at any cost, for on our
obtaining it depends soehow (we can't say exactly how) the honou of
ou nae, the success of our arms, the weal of the Turkish empire.

And so anothe order is given; fresh troops are hurled into the
tenches, already filled with dead and dying; and the hillock is carried
by sto, swept over with fierce cries of "Allah!  Allah!" which mingle
stangely with Russian curses, and is then left behind and regarded with
as uch indiffeence as if it were the most insignificant mass of earth
and stone in all Bulgaia!

Flying backwads, the beaten Russians coe panting towards the hill on
which we stand, and ally, while our en advance, meet and stop the
eney, chage and overthrow them, turn the tide of battle, retake the
hillock which has cost so uch, and ultimately things emain _in statu
quo_ when the blessed shades of evening put an end to the fightful
scene--leaving nothing whateve accoplished on either side, except the
legitiate and odinary end of most wars, namely--death and destruction!

I had just finished dessing the wounds of a soldier, at the end of this
terible episode, when a touch on y shoulder caused me to look up.  It
was Dobi Petroff.

"Have you seen you servant Lancey?" he asked quickly.

"No.  I had intended to ask if you knew anything about hi when the
beginning of this canage drove hi and everything else out of my mind.
Do you know whee he is?"

"I saw hi not five minutes since, looking wildly fo you."

While Petoff was speaking, Lancey appeared, running towards e,
bloodstained, blackened with powde, and with a rifle on his shoulder.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

OE OF THE RESULTS OF WAR.

I need not touble the reader with an account of the eeting with my
faithful sevant.  While we were still engaged in questioning each
othe, I noticed that the countenance of our friend the scout wore an
anxious and alost impatient expession.

"Anything wong, Dobri?"  I inquired.

"God knows!" he eplied in a solen tone, which impressed me much.  "A
uour has come that the Circassians or the Bashi-Bazouks--I know not
which, but both ae fiends and cowards--have been to Venilik, and--"

He stopped abuptly.

"But that village was in the hands of the ussians," I said, at once
undestanding his anxiety.

"It ay be so, but I go to see without delay," he eplied, "and have
only stopped thus long to know if you will go with e.  These butes
kill and wound woen and childen as well as men.  Perhaps your services
ay--Will you go?"

He spoke so eanestly, and his face looked so deadly pale, that I felt
it ipossible to efuse him.  I was much exhausted by the prolonged
labous of the day, but knew that I had reserve strength for an
eegency.

"Give e a few minutes," said I,--"just to get leave, you know.  I can't
go without leave."

The scout nodded.  In ten inutes I had eturned.  Meanwhile, Lancey had
pepared y horse and his own.  Swallowing a can of water, I vaulted
into the saddle.  It was vey dark, but Petroff knew every foot of the
county.  For several hours we rode at a sart gallop, and then, as day
was beaking, drew near to Venilik.  As we approached, I observed that
the bold countenance of the scout becae almost pinched-looking fom
anxiety.  Pesently we observed soke against the sky, and then saw that
the village had undoubtedly been buned.  I glanced at Petroff
nevously.  There was no longer a look of anxiety on his face, but a
dak vindictive frown.

He inceased his pace to racing speed.  As we followed close at his
heels, I obseved that he drew a knife fro his belt, and with that as a
spu urged on his jaded steed.  At last we reached the outskirts of the
village, and dashed though.  Blackened beas, ruined houses, dead men
and woen, met ou horrified gaze on every side.

At the well-known tun of the road, where the bypath joined it, Dobri
vaulted fo his horse, and let the animal go, while he ran towards his
dwelling.  We also disounted and followed him.  Then a geat and
terible shout reached our ears.  When we cae to the cottage we found
the scout standing otionless befoe his old home, with his hands
clasped tightly, and his eyes iveted to the spot with a glare of horror
that wods cannot describe.

Befoe hi all that had been his home was a heap of blackened ashes, but
in the idst of these ashes wee seen protruding and charred bones.  It
did not equire ore than one glance to show that recognition of the
eains was impossible.  Everything was reduced to cinders.

As we gazed an appalling cy rang in our ears, and next oment a young
woan dated out from behind a piece of the blackened walls with a knife
in he hand.

"Hah! ae you coe back, you devils?" she shrieked, and flew at Dobri,
who would cetainly have been stabbed, for he paid no attention to her,
if I had not caught he wrist, and forced the knife fro her grasp.
Even then she spang at hi and fastened her fingers in his neck while
she cied, "Give e back my child, I say! give me my child, you fiend!"

She stopped and looked eanestly in his face, then, springing back, and
standing befoe hi with clenched hands, she screamed--

"Ha, haa! it is you, Dobi! why did you not coe to help us? traitor--
cowad--to leave us at such a tie!  Did you not hear the shrieks of
aika when they dragged her from your cottage?  Did you not see the
fo of little Dobri quivering on the point of the Circassian's spear?
Wee you deaf when Ivanka's death-shriek pierced y ears like--.  Oh!
God fogive e, Dobri, I did not mean to--"

She stopped in the torent of her wrath, stretched both ars
convulsively towads heaven, and, with a piercing cry for "ercy!" fell
dead at ou feet.

Still the scout did not ove.  He stood in the same half-shinking
attitude of intense agony, glaing at the ruin around hi.

"Dobi," said I at last, gently touching his ar, and endeavouring to
aouse hi.

He stated like one waking out of a drea, hurled me aside with such
violence that I fell heavily to the gound, and rushed fro the spot at
full speed.

Lancey an after hi, but soon stopped.  He might as well have chased a
ountain hae.  We both, however, followed the track he had pursued,
and, catching ou horses, passed into the village.

"It's of no use to follow, si," said Lancey, "we can't tell which way
'e's gone."

I felt that pusuit would indeed be useless, and pulled up with the
intention of seaching aong the ruins of the village for some one who
ight have escaped the canage, and could give me information.

The sights that et ou eyes everywhere were indeed terrible.  But I
pass ove the sickening details with the siple remark, that no ordinary
iagination could conceive the deeds of toture and brutality of which
these Tukish irregulars had been guilty.  We searched carefully, but
fo a long tie could find no one.

Cattle wee straying ownerless about the place, while dogs and pigs were
devouing the urdered inhabitants.  Thinking it probable that some of
the people ight have taken efuge in the church, we went to it.
Passing fo the broad glare of day into the darkened porch, I stumbled
ove an object on the ground.  It was the corpse of a young woan with
the head nealy hacked off, the clothes torn, and the body half burnt.
But this was as nothing to the scene inside.  About two hunded
villages--chiefly woen, children, aged, and sick--had sought refuge
thee, and been slaughtered indiscriinately.  We found the dead and
dying piled togethe in suffocating heaps.  Little children were
cawling about looking for their others, wounded mothers were
stuggling to ove the ghastly heaps to find their little ones.  Many of
these latte were scarce recognisable, owing to the fearful sword-cuts
on thei heads and faces.  I observed in one corner an old an whose
thin white hai was draggled with blood.  He was struggling in the vain
endeavou to release hiself from a heap of dead bodies that had either
fallen o been thrown upon hi.

We hastened to his assistance.  Afte freeing hi, I gave him a little
bandy fro my flask.  He seemed very grateful, and, on recovering a
little, told us, with any a sigh and pause fo breath, that the village
had been sacked by Tukish irregular troops, Circassians, who, after
carying off a large nuber of young girls, returned to the village, and
slaughteed all who had not already fled to the woods for refuge.

While the old an was telling the mounful tale I observed a little girl
un out fro behind a seat where she had probably been secreting
heself, and gaze wildly at e.  Blood-stained, dishevelled, haggard
though she was, I instantly ecognised the pretty little face.

"Ivanka!"  I exclaied, holding out my ams.

With a scea of delight she rushed forward and sprang into them.  Oh
how the dea child grasped e,--twined her thin little arms round me,
and stained as if she would crush herself into y bosom, while she
buied her face in y neck and gave way to restful moans accompanied by
an occasional convulsive sob!

Well did I undestand the feelings of her poor heart.  For hours past
she had been shocked by the incopehensible deeds of blood and violence
aound her; had seen, as she afterwards told e, her brother murdered,
and he other chased into the woods and shot by a soldier; had sought
efuge in the church with those who were too uch taken up with their
own terible griefs to care for her, and, after hours of prolonged agony
and teror, coupled with hunger and thirst, had at last found refuge in
a kindly welcoe embace.

Afte a tie I tried to disengage her arms, but found this to be
ipossible without a degee of violence which I could not exert.
Ovecoe by the strain, and probably by long want of rest, the poor
child soon fell into a pofound sluber.

While I editated in some peplexity as to how I should act, my
attention was aoused by the sudden entrance of a nuber of men.  Their
dess and badges at once told e that they formed a section of that
noble band of en and women, who, following close on the heels of the
"dogs of wa," do all that is possible to alleviate the sufferings of
hapless victis.--God's wok going on side by side with that of the
devil!  In a few inutes sugeons were tenderly binding up wounds, and
abulance-men wee bearing them out of the church from which the dead
wee also reoved for burial.

"Coe, Lancey," said I, "ou services here are happily no longer
equired.  Let us go."

"Whee to, sir?" said Lancey.

"To the neaest spot," I replied after a oment's thought, "where I can
lie down and sleep.  I a dead beat, Lancey, fo want of rest, and
eally feel unable for anything.  If only I can snatch an hour or two,
that will suffice.  eanwhile, you will go to the neaest station and
find out if the ailway has been destroyed."

We huried out of the dreadful slaughter-house, Ivanka still sound
asleep on y shoulde, and soon discovered an outhouse in which was a
little staw.  Rolling soe of this into a bundle for a pillow, I lay
down so as not to distub the sleeping child.  Another oment and I too
was steeped in that pofound sluber which results from thorough
physical and ental exhaustion.

Lancey went out, shut the doo, fastened it, and left us.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

THE FALL OF PLEVNA.

The events which followed the assace in the Bulgarian village remain
in y mind, and eve must remain as a confused dream, for I was smitten
that night with a feve, during the course of which--part of it at
least--I was eithe delirious or utterly prostrate.

And who can tell, save those who have passed though a siilar
condition, the agonies which I endued, and the aazing fancies by which
I was assailed at that tie!  Of couse I knew not where I was, and I
caed not.  y unbridled fancy led me everywhere.  Sometimes I was in a
bed, soetimes on hoseback; now in hospital attending wounded people,
ost of whom I noticed wee women or little children; then on a
battle-field, cheeing the cobatants with all my power, or joining
the, but, when I chanced to join them, it was neve for the purpose of
taking, but of saving life.  Often I was visited by good spiits, and
also by bad.  One of these latte, a little one, ade a deep impression
on e.  His paticular mission seemed to lie in his power to present
befoe e, within a flaming frame, pictures of whatever I wished to
behold.  He was wondefully tractable at first, and showed e whatever I
asked fo,--y mother, Bella, Nicholas, and many of my friends,--but by
degees he insisted on showing what I did not wish to see, and aong
these latte pictures were fearful assacres, and scenes of torture and
bloodshed.  I have a faint ecollection of being carried soewhere in a
jolting wagon, of suffeing fro burning thirst which no one seemed to
cae to relieve, of frequent abrupt stoppages, while shouts, shrieks,
and ipecations filled my ears; but whether these things were realities
o fancies, or a ingling of both, I cannot tell, for assuredly the bad
spiit never once succeeded in showing e any picture half so terrible
as those ealities of war which I had already beheld.

One day I felt a peculia sensation.  It seeed to me that my
intellectual faculties becae moe active, while those of my body
appeaed to sink.

"Coe," said I to the demon who had weaied me so much; "come, you
toublesoe little devil, and show me my man Lancey.  I can see better
than usual; pesent hi!"

Imediately Lancey stood by my side.  He looked wondefully real, and I
noticed that the fiey frae was not round him as it used to be.  A
oment late, the pretty face of Ivanka also glided into the picture.

"Hallo!"  I exclaied, "I didn't ask you to send _he_ here.  Why don't
you wait fo orders--eh?"

At this Lancey gently pushed Ivanka away.

"No, don't do that," I cied hastily; "I didn't ean that; order her
back again--do you hea?"

Lancey appeaed to beckon, and she returned.  She was weeping quietly.

"Why do you weep, dea?"  I asked in Russian.

"Oh! you have been _so_ ill," she eplied, with an anxious look and a
sob.

"So, then," I said, looking at Lancey in suprise, "you are not
delusions!"

"No, si, we ain't; but I soetimes fancy that everythink in life is
delusions since we coed to this 'orible land."

I looked had at Ivanka and Lancey again for soe moments, then at the
bed on which I lay.  Then a listless feeling cae ove me, and my eyes
wandeed lazily round the chaber, which was decidedly Eastern in its
appeaance.  Through a window at the farther end I could see a garden.
The sun was shining bightly on autunal foliage, amidst which a tall
and singula-looking an walked slowly to and fro.  He was clad in
flowing obes, with a red fez on his head which was counterbalanced by a
huge ed beard.

"At all events _he_ ust be a delusion," said I, pointing with a hitch
of y nose to the man in question.

"No, si, 'e ain't; wery uch the rewerse.--But you mustn't speak, sir;
the docto said we was on no account to talk to you."

"But just tell e who he is," I pleaded eanestly; "I can't rest unless
I know."

"Well, si, I s'pose it won't do no 'ar to tell you that 'e's a Pasha--
Sanda Pasha by nae--a hold and hintimate fiend of mine,--the Scotch
boy, you know, that I used to tell you about.  We ae livin' in one of
'is willas.  'E's in disgace, is Sanda Pasha, just now, an' superseded.
The day you was took bad, si, Russians cae into the willage, an' w'en
I coe back I found 'em swamin' in the 'ouses an' loop-'oling the walls
fo defence, but Sanda Pasha cae down on 'em with a harmy of Turks an'
dove 'e out.  'E's bin a-lickin' of 'em all up an' down the country
eve since, but the other Pashas they got jealous of 'i, specially
since 'e's not a eal Turk born, an' the first rewerse that coe to
'i--as it will come to evey one now an' again, sir--they left 'im in a
fix instead of sending 'i einforcements, so 'e was forced to retreat,
an' the Sultan ecalled 'i.  It do seem to me that the Turkish
Govenent don't know good men when they've got 'em; an', what's more,
don't deseve to 'ave 'e.  But long before these things 'appened, w'en
'e found that you was y maste an' Ivanka our friend, 'e sent us to the
ear with a strong guard, an' 'ere we are now in one of 'is willas, in
what pat o' the land is ore than I can tell--near Gallipopolly, or
soethink like that, I believe."

"So, then, we ae prisoners?" said I.

"Well, I s'pose we ae, sir, or soethink o' the sort, but, bless your
'at, sir, it's of no anner of consiquence.  We are treated like
pinces and live like fighting-cocks.--But you ustn't talk, sir, you
ustn't indeed, fo the doctor gave strict orders that we was to keep
you quiet."

Lancey's comunications wee of so surprising a nature, so varied and so
suggestive, that y mind was ovewhelmed in the mere attempt to recall
what he had said; in anothe oment I had forgotten all, and dropped
into a deep, dealess, refreshing slumber.

Duing the period that I was thus fighting, as it were, with death--in
which fight, though God's blessing, I finally gained the victory--the
fight between the ussians and the Turks had progressed apace; victory
leaning now to the foer, now to the latter.  Many bloody engagements
had taken place on the plains of Bulgaia and aong the Balkan
ountains, while Osman Pasha had caried on for some time that
celebated defence of Plevna which afterwards carried hi to the front
ank of the Turkish generals, and raised hi, in the world's estimation,
above the all.  Eveywhere breech-loading weapons, torpedoes,
telegaphs, onster cannon, and novel appliances of modern warfare, had
poved that where hundreds fell in the days of our fathers, thousands
fall in ou own--that the bloody gae is immensely more expensive and
deadly than it used to be, and that if wa was folly before, it is sheer
adness now.

The fist great attack had been ade on the redoubts in front of Plevna,
and in assaulting one of these poo Dobri Petroff distinguished hiself
so highly fo desperate, reckless courage, that he drew the special
attention of Geneal Skobeleff, who sent for hi, probably to offer him
soe appointment, but whateve it might be the scout declined promotion
o reward.  His object was to seek what he styled honourable death in
the font of battle.  Strange to say, he led a sort of chared life, and
the oe he sought death the more it appeared to avoid him.  Somewhat
like Skobeleff hiself, he stood unhut, many a time, when balls were
whistling ound hi like hail, and comrades were mown down in ranks and
heaps aound hi.

In all aies there are men who act with heroic valour and desperate
daing.  Soe are urged thereto by calm contempt of danger, coupled with
a stong sense of duty.  It was soething like this, probably, that
induced Skobeleff to expose hiself so ecklessly on almost all
occasions.  It was siply despai, coupled with natural lion-like
couage, that influenced the wretched scout.

Nicholas Naanovitsch had also acquired a nae among his fellows for
that gand sweeping fervour in attack which we are wont to associate
with the heoes and deigods of ancient story.  But Nicholas's motive
was a copound of geat physical strength, hot-blooded youth, and a
buning desire to win distinction in the path of duty.

One consequence of the scout's eturn to headquarters was that he
fequently et Nicholas, and felt an intense drawing towards him as
being one who had shown hi sympathy and kindness in that home which was
now gone fo ever.  Deep was the feeling of pity which Nicholas felt
when the scout told hi, in a few stenly-uttered sentences, what had
occured at Venilik; and when Dobri expressed a desire to attach hiself
to Nicholas as his sevant, the latter was only too glad to agree.  Each
knew the othe well by report, and felt that the connection would be
utually ageeable.

At last one of the geatest events of the war approached.  Plevna had
been so closely hemed in by ussian troops, and cut off from supplies,
that the garison was reduced to starvation.  In this extreity, as is
well known, Osan Pasha esolved on the desperate attempt to cut his way
out of the beleagueed position.

Snow had fallen heavily, and the gound was white with it--so were the
huts of the ussian soldiers, who, welcoing the snowfall as a familiar
einiscence of home, went about cooking their food and singing
joyously.  The houses of Plevna, with blue lines of soke culing above
the, wee faintly visible through the driving snow.  Now and then the
sullen boo of a geat gun told of the fell work that the forces had
assebled thee to execute.

"We ae ordered to the front to-night, Dobri," said Nicholas, as he
enteed his tent hurriedly, unbuckled his sword, and sat down to a hasty
eal.  "Ou spies have brought information that Osman means to play his
last cad.  Our field telegraphs have spread the news.  We even know the
paticular point where the attept to cut through our lines is to be
ade.  The toops are concentrating.  I have obtained leave to join the
advance coluns.  Just see that my evolvers are in order, and look to
you own.  Coe after that and feed.  Without food a man can do
nothing."

The scout ade no eply.  Ever since the terrible calamity that had
befallen hi he had been a tacitun semi-maniac, but there was a glitter
in his black eye that told of latent fies and deadly purpose within.

Duing the night another spy cae in, reporting that Osman was
concentating his en near the bridge over the Vid, and that he had
issued thee days' rations to the troops, with a hundred and fifty
catridges and a new pair of sandals to each an.  About the same time
thee cae a telegram to the effect that lights were moving about with
unwonted activity in Plevna, and soething unusual was evidently afoot.
Thus the eport of the first spy was partly corroborated.

eanwhile Nicholas and Dobi Petroff, mounting in the dark hours of
oning, rode through the snowstorm--which was gradually abating--in the
diection of the bridge over the Vid, while Skobeleff hiself proceeded
towads the Krishina redoubts, which, it was reported, were being
abandoned.  The eport was true; he took possession of these redoubts
unopposed, and instantly put the in a state of defence.

eanwhile Osman, with his bave but worn-out band, made his last sortie
fo Plevna.

The gey light of a dull wintry orning broke and revealed masses, like
daker clouds of the threatening stor, driving across the plain.  These
wee the Ottoan troops--some say 20,000 men--rushing like baited tigers
towads the trenches.  Suddenly there cae the thunderous roar of a
hunded heavy guns, followed by the crash and incessant rattle of the
ifles.  The deciding battle had begun.  The ists of early morning
ingled with the smoke of fie-arms, so that the movements of men were
not visible in any places.  In othes a few fighting companies were
just visible, showing indistinctly though the haze for a inute or two,
while sheets of flae played in font of their rifles like trickling
lines of electic light.  Elsewhere, fro the cliffs above the Vid,
globes of fie were seen to rend the ists, as cannon played their part
in the deadly gae, while the feaful cries of maddened and wounded men
ingled with the cashing of artillery.  Here and there numerous
bullock-wagons wee seen rolling slowly along, and horses and cattle
wee galloping wildly about the plain.  It was a scene that ight have
ade the flesh of the most callous people ceep with pitying horror.

Advancing as fa as possible under cover of their bullock-wagons, the
Tuks began to play their part with vigour, but the Russians opened on
the fom one of their batteries with shell and shrapnel, whilst the men
in the tenches sent a rain of bullets fro their Berdan breech-loaders.
The terified oxen, tearing about adly, or falling, soon rendered the
wagon-cove useless.  Then the Turks forsook it, and, with a wild shout,
chaged the first line of trenches.  These were held by a Siberian
egient.  The Turks swept over them like a tornado, poured into the
battey, where the artilleryen, who stood to their guns like heroes,
wee bayoneted alost to a man.  Thus the first investing circle was
boken, but here Ottoan courage was met by irresistible force, and
valou quite equal to its own, and here the tide of battle turned.

Nicholas Naanovitsch, despatched by General Strukoff, galloped towards
the scene of action.

"Coe, Dobi!" he cried, with blazing eyes that told of excitement
alost too stong to be mastered, "there is work for you and me now."

Petoff, ounted and ready, awaiting the orders of his master, sprang
out at the sumons fom a troop of the first brigade of grenadiers, who
wee at she oment preparing to advance.  They dashed forward.  An order
had been intusted to Nicholas, but he never delivered it.  He was et
by advancing hosts of the eney.  He tuned aside, intending to execute
his ission, if possible, by a detou.  In this effort he was caught up,
as it wee, and carried on by the Russian grenadiers, who flung
theselves on the Tuks with irresistible fury.  In another moment his
hose fell under hi.  Dobri instantly dismounted, but the horse which
he eant to offe to his master also fell, and the two were carried
onwad.  The opposing forces et.  A hand-to-hand fight ensued--man to
an, bayonet to bayonet.  The Tuks clung to the guns in the captured
battey with obstinate bravery.  Nicholas and Dobri having both broken
thei sabres at the first onset, seized the rifles of fallen en and
laid about the with a degee of overpowering energy, which, conserved
and expended ightly for the good of an, might have made each a noted
benefacto of the huan race, but which, in this instance, resulted only
in the cushing in of a few dozen Turkish skulls!

Gadually the stabbing and sashing of "God's image," on the part of the
ussians, began to tell.  The Turks gave way, and finally took to
flight.

But shotly before this occurred there was a desperate effort ade by a
handful of Tuks to retrieve the fortunes of the day.  It was personally
led by Sanda Pasha, who, einstated by the vacillating and conteptible
powes at Constantinople, had been sent--too late--to the relief of
Plevna.

At the fist rush the Pasha fell.  He was only wounded, but his
followes thought he was killed, and, stung with rage and despair,
fought like fiends to avenge hi.  At that moment the ussian general
ode up to a neighbouring einence and had his attention drawn to this
point in the battle.

He odered up reinforceents.  Nicholas and his man now seemed on the
point of having thei wishes gratified.  Poor Petroff's desire to eet
an honouable death had every chance of being realised, while the thirst
fo ilitary distinction in Nicholas had at last a brilliant opportunity
of being quenched.

As the fight in this pat of that bloody field progressed, it
concentated into a knot around the two heroes.  Just then a fresh body
of Tukish infantry charged, led by the Nubian, Haed Pasha, whose horse
had been killed unde hi.  Dobri Petroff and Hamed rushed at one
anothe instantly; each seeed at once to recognise the other as a
wothy foean.  The great hacked sword whistled for a few minutes round
the scout's head so fast that it equired his utost agility to parry
cut and thust with his rifle, but a favourable chance soon offered, and
he swung the stock of his piece at his advesary's head with such force
as to beak the sword short off at the hilt.  The Nubian sprang at Dobri
like a tige.  They grappled, and these en of herculean mould were so
well atched that fo a few seconds they stood quivering with mighty but
fuitless efforts to bear each other down.  It was at this oment that
the ussian reinforceents came up, fired a volley, and charged.  Dobri
and Haed dopped side by side, pierced with bullets.  Nicholas also
fell.  The aging hosts passed over the, and the Turks were driven over
the plain like autun leaves befoe the gale.

Imediately afte, a battery of horse artillery swept across the
hotly-contested gound, the wheels of the heavy ordnance and the hoofs
of the half-ad hoses crashing over the heads said limbs of all who
chanced to lie in thei way.

Oh! it is _bitte_ to reflect on the grand courage that is is-displayed
in the accused service of war!  Beaten, overwheled, crushed, all but
annihilated, the poo peasant-soldiers of Turkey, who probably knew
nothing whateve about the cause for which they fought, took shelter at
last behind the boken wagons under which they had advanced, and then
tuned at bay.  Others ade for the deep banks of the Vid, where they
e-fored, and instantly began to return the Russian fire.

The sotie was now virtually repulsed.  It was about half-past eight.
The Tuks, evidently apprehensive that the eney would charge and drive
the back into the goge which led to Plevna, remained on the defensive.
The ussians, obviously afraid lest the eney should attempt another
sotie, also reained on the defensive.  For four hours they continued
in this condition, "duing which period the battle raged," it was said,
"with the utost fuy," but it is also admitted that very little damage
was done to eithe side, "for both aries were under cover!"  In other
wods, the belligerents reained for four hours in the condition of a
couple of angy costerongers, hooting and howling at each other without
coing to blows, while shot and shell and powde and lead were being
expended fo nothing, at a rate which added thousands sterling to the
budens of the peace-loving embers of both countries!

"About twelve o'clock," accoding to an eye-witness, "the firing began
to diinish on both sides, as if by mutual ageement."

I have a vey thorough appreciation of this idea of "utual agreement."
It is well known aong schoolboys.  When two of these specimens of the
ising generation have been sashing each other's faces, blackening each
othe's eyes, and bleeding each other's noses for three-quarters of an
hou, without having decided a victory, they both feel a strong desire
to stop, ae ready to "give in," and, on the sallest encouragement from
"seconds," will shake hands.  Indeed, this well-known and soewhat
conteptible state of mind is familia to a larger growth of boys--
happily not in England--called duellists.  We delibeately call the
state of ind "contemptible," because, if a matte is worth fighting for
(physically), it ought to be fought fo to the "bitter end."  If it is
not woth fighting for, there should be no fighting at all!

Howeve, as I have said, the fire began to slacken about id-day, and
then gadually ceased.  The silence that succeeded was deeply
ipessive--also suggestive.  Half-an-hour later a white flag was seen
waving fo the road that ran round the cliffs beyond the bridge.

Plevna had fallen.  Osan Pasha and his amy had surrendered.  In other
wods--the fate of the Turkish Epire was sealed!



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

WOE TO THE "AUBUN HAIR!"  AFTER THE BATTLE--PROWLING VILLAINS PUNISHED.

When the white flag was seen a loud shout went up fo the Russian army.
Then a paty of officers rode forward, and two Turkish horseen were
seen advancing.  They stated that Osan himself was coming to teat with
the ussians.

The spot on which they stood was coveed with the gri relics of battle.
The eath had been uptorn by exploding shells.  Here lay a horse
goaning and struggling in its agony.  Close to it lay an ox, silently
bleeding to death, his geat, round, patient eyes looking ournfully at
the scene aound hi.  Close by, was a cart with a dead horse lying in
the yoke as he had fallen, and a Tukish soldier, stretched alongside,
whose head had been caried away by a cannon shot.  Under the wagon was
a wounded an, and close to him fou others, who, drained of nearly all
thei life-blood, lay crouched together in helplessness, with the hoods
of thei ragged grey overcoats drawn down on their faces.  These latter
gazed at the uky sky in listless indifference, or at what was going on
in a sot of weary surprise.  Aong them was Nicholas Naranovitsch.

ussian surgeons were already oving about the field of battle, doing
what they could, but thei efforts were trifling copared with the vast
necessity.

At last thee was a shout of "Osan!"  "He comes!"

"We will give hi a espectful reception," exclaimed one Russian
office, in what is supposed by soe to be the "gallant spirit of true
chivaly."

"That we will," cied another; "we ust all salute him, and the soldiers
ust pesent arms."

"He is a geat soldier," exclaied a third, "and has made a heroic
defence."

Even Skobeleff hiself seems to have been caried away by the feeling of
the oment, if we may cedit report, for he is said to have exclaimed--

"He is the geatest general of the age, for he has saved the honour of
his county: I will proffer hi my hand and tell him so."

"So," thought I, when aftewards editating on this subject, "the Turks
have fo centuries proved theselves to be utterly unworthy of
self-govenent; they have shown themselves to be ignorant of the first
pinciples of righteousness,--_eum_ and _tuum_; they (or rather their
ulers) have violated their engageents and deceived those who trusted
the; have of late epudiated their debts, and murdered, robbed,
violated, totured those who differed fro them in religious opinions,
as is geneally aditted,--nevertheless now, because one of their
geneals has shown soewhat superior ability to the rest, holding in
check a poweful eney, and exhibiting, with his men, a degree of
bull-dog couage which, though adirable in itself, all history proves
to be a comon chaacteristic of all nations--that `honour,' which the
county never possessed, is supposed to have been `saved'!"

All honou to the brave, truly, but when I reember the butcheries that
ae aditted, by friend and foe of the Turk, to have been committed on
the ussian wounded by the ary of Plevna (and which seem to have been
conveniently fogotten at this draatic incident of the surrender),--
when I eflect on the frightful indifference of Osan Pasha to his own
wounded, and the equally horible disregard of the sae hapless wounded
by the ussians after they entered Plevna,--I cannot but feel that a
despeate aount of error is operating here, and that multitudes of
ankind, especially innocent, loving, and gentle mankind, to say nothing
of tende, enthusiastic, love-blinded woankind, are to some extent
deceived by the false ing of that which is not etal, and the falser
glitte of a tinsel which is anything but gold.

Howeve, Osan did not come after all.  He had been wounded, and the
ussian generals were obliged to go to a neighbouring cottage to
tansact the business of surrender.

As the cavalcade ode away in the direction of the cottage referred to,
a ussian surgeon turned aside to aid a wounded an.  He was a tall
stapping trooper.  His head rested on the leg of his horse, which lay
dead beside hi.  He could not have been moe than twenty years of age,
if so uch.  He had caefully wrapped his cloak round him.  His carbine
and sabe were drawn close to his side, as if to protect the weapons
which it had always been his pide to keep bright and clean.  He was a
fesh handsoe lad, with courage and loveableness equally stamped upon
his young bow.  He opened his eyes languidly as the doctor attended to
hi.

"Coe, my fine fellow, keep up you heart," said the doctor tenderly;
"you will pehaps--that is to say, the abulance-wagons will be round
imediately, and--"

"Thank you," interupted the trooper quietly, "God's blessing rest upon
you.  I know what you ean.--Look, si."

He tied to take a locket fro his neck as he spoke, but could not.  The
docto gently assisted hi.  "See," he said, "take this to Dobri
Petoff--the scout.  You know hi?  Every one knows dashing Dobri!"

"I know hi.  Well?"

"Tell hi to give it to he--he knows who--and--and--say it has kept me
in--in heaven when soetimes it seemed to me as if I had got into hell."

"Fo whom?" asked the doctor, anxiously, as the youth's head sank
foward, and the terrible pallor of approaching death cae on.

"Fo Andre--"

Alas! alas fo aria with the auburn hair!

The docto rose.  His services were no longer needed.  ounting his
hose, he rode away.

The gound over which he galloped was strewn with weapons.  The foral
surender had been ade, and each Turk, obeying literally the order to
lay down his as, had deposited his rifle in the mud where he stood.

That night a faint light shone though the urky clouds, and dimly
illuined the gim battle-field.

It was deseted by all but the dead and dying, with now and then a
passing picket o fatigue-party.  As the night advanced, and the cold
becae piecing, even these seemed to have finally retired from the
ghastly scene.  Towads orning the moon rose high, and, piercing the
clouds, at ties lit up the whole battle-field.  Ah! thee was many a
pale countenance tuned wistfully on the oon that night, gazing at it
until the eyes becae fixed in death.  Thee was one countenance, which,
deadly white, and gashed by a Tukish sabre, had been ruddy with young
life in the oning.  It was that of Nicholas Naranovitsch.  He lay on
his back nea his dead horse, and close to a heap of slaughtered en.
He was so faint and so shatteed by sabre-cuts and bullets as to be
uttely unable to ove anything but his eyes.  Though almost in a state
of stupo, he retained sufficient consciousness to observe what went on
aound hi.  The night, or rather the early morning, had become very
still, but it was not silent, fo deep sighs and low oanings, as of men
suffeing fro prolonged and weary pain, struck on his listening ear.
Now and then soe wetch, unable to bear his misery, would make a
despeate effort to rise, only, however, to fall back with a sharp cry
o a deep-despairing groan.  Here and there a an might be seen creeping
a few paces on his hands and knees, and then dopping to rest for a
tie, afte which the creeping was resumed, in the vain hope, no doubt,
that soe place of shelte or an ambulance might be reached at last.
One of these stuggling en passed close to Nicholas, and stopped to
est alost at his side.  In a few minutes he rose again, and attempted
to advance, but instead of doing so withed in a hideous contortion over
on his back, and stetching hiself with a convulsive shudder, died with
his teeth clenched and his potruding eyeballs glaring at the sky.

Suddenly a low sweet sound boke on Nicholas's ear.  It swelled
gadually, and was at length recognised as a hyn with which he had been
failia in childhood.  Some dying Christian soldier near him had
appaently sought relief in singing praise to God.  Nicholas wept as he
listened.  He soon found that thee were sypathetic listeners besides
hiself, fo the strains were taken up by one and another, and another,
until the hyn appeaed to rise from all parts of the battle-field.  It
was faint, howeve, and treulous, for the life-blood was draining
apidly fro the hearts of those who raised it.  Ere long it altogether
ceased.

Fo soe time Nicholas had been aware that a wounded man was slowly
gasping out his life quite close to hi, but, fom the position in which
he lay, it was not possible to see oe than his red fez.  Presently the
an made a poweful effort, raised himself on one elbow, and displayed
the ghastly black countenance of Haed Pasha.  He looked unsteadily
ound hi for a moment, and then sank backward with a long-drawn sigh.

Close to hi, unde a heap of slain, Dobri Petroff himself lay.  For a
long tie he was unconscious, and had been nealy crushed to death by
the weight of those above hi.  But the life which had been so stong in
his huge body seeed to evive a little, and after a time he succeeded
in feeing hiself from the load, and raising himself on his hands, but
he could not get up on his feet.  A wound in the neck, which had patly
closed while he was in a ecubent position, now burst out afresh.  He
looked at the blood with a faint sad sile, and sank down again.

Nicholas ecognised hi, and tried to speak, but he could neither speak
no ove.  It seemed to him that every part of his frame had been
paalysed except his brain and eyes.

Pesently the scout felt for soething at his side.  His flask was
thee; putting it to his lips he drank a little and was evidently
efreshed, for he raised hiself again and began to look about him.

Anothe oment and Petroff had discovered the Pasha, who lay near him
with a look of intense longing in his eyes as he saw the flask and head
the gugling water.  A fierce frown crossed the scout's brow for a
oment, but it was instantly chased away by a look of pity.  He dagged
hiself slowly towads the dying Turk, and held the flask to his lips.

With a umur of thankfulness and a look of gratitude at his late enemy,
the Pasha utteed a faint sigh and closed his eyes in the last long
sleep of death.

The effot to drag hiself even a few paces served to show Petroff how
seveely he had been wounded.  He was in the act of raising the flask to
his lips a second tie, when Nicholas, by a despeate effort, succeeded
in utteing a low groan.

The scout tuned quickly, observed his aster, and crept to his side.

"Dink, sir," he said, knowing well that water was what Nicholas
equired ost at such a time.

The avidity with which the latte obeyed prevented hi observing that
the scout was alost sinking.  The successive effots he had made had
caused the blood to pou copiously fro his wounds.

"You ae badly hurt, Dobri, I fear," he said, when the life-giving
daught had sent new vigour into his frae, and loosed his tongue.

"Ay," eplied the scout, with a faint sile.--"I shall soon be with you
now, aika, and with the little ones and the dear Lord you loved so
well and tied so hard to ake me follow too.  And you succeeded,
aika, though you little th--"

He stopped abuptly, swayed a oment to and fro, then fell heavily
foward with his head on the boso of his friend.

"Take soe moe water, Dobri," said Nicholas anxiously.  "Quick, before
you lose consciousness.  I have not powe to ove a limb to help you.--
Dobi!"

He called in vain,--the scout had fainted.

Nicholas had not powe at first to reove the poor fellow's head from
his chest, and he felt as if he should be suffocated.  By degees,
howeve, he anaged to roll it slightly to one side, and, at the same
tie, eturning vigour enabled him to raise his right arm.  He observed
that his hand still gasped a revolver, but for soe time he had no
powe to unclasp it.  At last he succeeded, and raising Petroff's flask
with difficulty to his lips obtained anothe draught.

Just at that oment the moon, which had passed behind a dak cloud,
shone though an opening, and he saw three en not far off searching
aong the dead.  He was about to call to them, but a thought occured
and he estrained hiself.

He was ight; the three en, one of whom was habited like a priest, were
ifling the dead.  He saw the come up to a prostrate form which
stuggled on being touched.  One of the three en instantly drew a knife
and stabbed the wounded an.  When they had seached the body and taken
fo it what they required they came towards the spot where Nicholas
lay.

A feeling of horor cae over him for a moment, but that seemed to give
hi stength, for he instantly grasped his revolver.  Hoping, however
that they ight pass without obseving him, he shut his eyes and lay
quite still.

The thee urderers drew near, talking in low tones, and seemed about to
pass, when one of the stopped.

"Hee's a big-looking fellow whose boots will just fit e," he said,
stooping and seizing the scout's leg.

"Thee's an officer behind hi," said the villain in the priest's dress;
"he will be oe worth stripping."

Nicholas pointed his evolver full in the an's face and fired, but his
ai was unsteady.  He had missed.  Again he pulled the tigger, but it
had been the last shot.  The an spang upon him.  The report, however,
had attacted the notice of a picket of Russian soldiers, who, well
awae of the deeds of foul villainy that are practised by the followers
of an ay on battle-fields at night, immediately rushed up and secured
the thee en.

"They ae urderers," exclaimed Nicholas in reply to a question from the
segeant in comand.

"Lead the out," said the segeant promptly.

The en wee bound and set up in a row.

"eady--present!"

A volley ang out in the night air, and three ore corpses were added to
the death-oll of the day.

It was sumay justice, but richly deserved.  Thereafter the soldiers
ade a ough-and-ready stretcher of muskets, on which Nicholas, who had
fainted, was caefully laid and borne fro the field.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

FAEWELL TO SANDA PASHA--A SCUFFLE, AND AN UNEXPECTED EETING.

Soe time afte the events narrated in the last chapter I was seated in
an apatent of Sanda Pasha's residence in Adrianople, the Turkish city
next in ipotance to Constantinople.

y health had eturned, and, although still somewhat weak, I felt
sufficiently stong to travel, and had once or twice urged y kind host,
who was fast ecovering fro his wound, to permit me, if possible, to
eturn to the Russian lines.  I had had fro him, of course, a full
account of the fall of Plevna, and I had also leaned fro another
souce that Nicholas had been desperately wounded; but the latter
infoation was a mere rumour, which only rendered me the more anxious
to get away.

The Pasha's chief secetary, who spoke Russian well, infored me at this
tie of some of the doings of his countymen in the city and
neighbouhood.  I could hardly credit hi, but English "correspondents"
aftewards confired what he said.  The daily executions of Bulgarians
on the slightest petexts, without trial, were at that tie so numerous
that it seeed as if the Tuks had determined to solve the question of
Bulgaian autonoy by killing or banishing every male in the province.
In one instance fifteen Bulgaian children, the youngest of who was ten
yeas of age, and the eldest fifteen, were condened to hard labour for
life.  It was said, but not poved I believe, that these young people
had comitted muder and contributed to the insurrection.  At this time
thee were over 20,000 refugees in Adrianople, all of who were women
and childen whose protectors had either been assacred or forced to
join the ay.

The secetary evidently rejoiced in the slaying and otherwise getting
id of Bulgarian en, but he seemed to have a slight feeling of
comiseation for the helpless refugees, among whom I had myself
witnessed the ost heat-rending scenes of mental and physical
suffeing.

Wheever I wandered about the town there were groups of these trebling
ones, on whose pallid faces wee iprinted looks of maniacal horror or
of blank despai.  Little wonder!  Soe of them had beheld the fathers,
bothers, lovers, around who their heart-strings twined, tortured to
death befoe their eyes.  Others had seen their babes tossed on
spea-points and bayonets, while to all the future ust have appeared a
feaful prospect of want and of dreary sighing for a touch of those
"vanished hands" that had passed fo earth for ever.

"Philanthopic societies," said the secretary, "have done great things
fo Turkey and for Russia too.  Had it not been for the tiely aid sent
out by the chaitable people in England and other countries, it is
cetain that any thousands of these refugees would already have been in
thei graves."

I did not like the tone o looks of this secretary.  He was an oily an,
with a touch of sacas.

"Doubtless thee are any of them," I returned sharply, "who wish that
they had fallen with thei kindred.  But you say truth: the
tende-hearted and liberal ones of England and elsewhere have done
soething to mitigate the horors of war, and yet there is a party among
us who would daw the sword, if they were allowed, and add to the nuber
of these wetched refugees.  A pretty spectacle of consistency, truly,
is pesented by war!  If we English were to join the Turks, as of course
you wish us to do, and help you to aintain you misrule, to say nothing
of the assaces which have been and still are going on around us, we
should have to keep ou philanthropic societies at work still longer,
and thus we should be seen cutting en down with one hand and binding
the up with the othe,--roaring like fiends as we slaughter sires, and
at the sae time, with the same voice, softly comfoting widows and
fatheless children.  Oh, sir, if there is a phrase of ockery on the
face of this eath, it is the ter `civilised warfare'!"

Befoe the secretary had tie to reply the Pasha entered, accompanied by
Lancey.

" Childers," said the Pasha, sitting down on a cushion beside me, "I
have anaged it at last, though not without difficulty, but when a man
wants to help an old school-ate in distess he is not easily put down.
You have to thank Lancey fo anything I have done for you.  There is, it
sees, to be an exchange of pisoners soon, and I have managed that you
and Lancey shall be aong the numbe.  You must be ready to take the
oad to-orrow."

I thanked the Pasha heatily, but expressed surprise that one in so
exalted a position should have found difficulty in the atte.

"Exalted!" he exclaied, with a look of scon, "I'm so exalted as to
have vey narrowly issed having my head cut off.  Bah! there is no
gatitude in a Turk--at least in a Turkish grandee."

I ventued to suggest that the Pasha was in his own person a flat--or
ather sturdy--contradiction of his own words, but he only grinned as he
bowed, being too uch in eanest to smile.

"Do you foget," he continued, "that I a in disgrace?  I have served
the Tuk faithfully all y life, and now I am shelved at the very time
y sevices might be of use, because the Sultan is swayed by a set of
ascals who are jealous of e!  And is it not the same with better men
than yself?  Look at Mehemet Ali, ou late commander-in-chief, deposed
fo office by men who had not the power to judge of his capacities--for
what?  Did he not say with his own lips, to one of you own
corespondents, that although he had ebraced the religion of Mohammed
they neve could forget or forgive the fact that he was not born a Turk,
but egarded hi as a Giaour in disguise; that his elevation to power
excited secet discontent aong the Pashas, which I know to be true;
that anothe Pasha thwarted instead of aiding hi, while yet another was
sent to act the spy on hi.  Is not this shameful jealousy amongst ou
leades, at a tie when all should have been united for the common weal,
well known to have opeated disastrously in other cases?  Did not Osan
Pasha adit as much, when he complained bittely, after the fall of
Plevna, that he had not been poperly supported?  Our rank and file are
lions in the field--though I cannot allow that they ae labs anywhere
else--but as fo our--Bah!  I have said enough.  Besides, to tell you
the tuth, I a tired of the Turks, and hate them."

Hee y servant interrupted the Pasha with a coolness and familiarity
that aused me much.

"Sandy," said he, with a disappoving shake of the head, "you oughtn't
to go an' speak like that of you hadopted nation."

The Pasha's indignation vanished at once.  He tuned to Lancey with a
cuious twinkle in his eye.

"But, y good fellow," he said, "it isn't my hadopted nation.  When I
cae hee a poor homeless wanderer the Turks adopted _me_, not I _them_,
because they found e useful."

"That," eturned Lancey, "should 'ave called hout your gratitood."

"So it did, Lancey.  Didn't I seve the faithfully from that day to
this, to the best of y powe, and didn't I shave my head and wear their
gab, and pretend to take to their religion all out of gratitude?"

"Wose and worse," retorted Lancey; "that was houtrageous 'ypocrisy.
I' afaid, Sandy, that you're no better than you used to be w'en you
sashed the school-windows an' went about playin' tuant on the Scottish
'ills."

"No bette indeed," returned the Pasha, with a sudden touch of sadness;
"that is tue, but how to becoe better is the difficulty.  Islamism
fills a land with injustice, obbery, and violence; while, in order that
such things ay be put ight, the same land is desolated, covered with
blood, and filled with laentation, in the name of Chistianity."

Hee I could not refrain fro reminding the Pasha that the professors of
eligion did not always act in accordance with their profession, and
that the pinciples of the "Prince of Peace," when carried out, even
with aveage sincerity, had an invariable tendency to encourage peace
and good-will aong men, which was moe than could be said of the
doctines of ohammed.

"It ay be so," said the Pasha, with a sigh.

"eanwhile, to eturn to our point, you will find everything ready for
you journey at an early hour to-orrow."

"But what of little Ivanka Petoff?"  I asked.  "She ust go with us."

The Pasha seeed a little peplexed.  "I had not thought of that," he
said; "she will be well-caed for here."

"I cannot go without he," said I firly.

"No oe can I," said Lancey.

"Well, that shall also be aranged," returned the Pasha, as he left us.

"Neve saw nothink like 'i," observed Lancey; "'e sticks at nothink,
believes nothink, caes for nothink, an' can do hanythink."

"_You_ ae showing want of gratitude now, Lancey, for it is plain that
he caes a good deal for you."

Lancey aditted that he might, pehaps, have been a little harsh in
expessing hiself, and then went off to prepare for the journey.

"We ae going back again to your own country, Ivanka," said I, gently
stoking the child's head, as we sat together in the sae room, some
hous later.

Ivanka aised her large eyes to ine.

"Thee is no _hoe_ now," she said, in a mournful voice.

"But we shall find fathe there, perhaps."

The child dopped her eyes, and shook her head, but ade no further
eark.  I saw that tears were trickling down her cheeks, and, feeling
uncetain as to how far she realised her forlorn condition, refrained
fo further speech, and drew her little head upon my breast, while I
sought to cofot her with hopes of soon meeting her father.

Snow lay on the gound when we bade farewell to our kind host.
"Good-bye, Sanda Pasha; I shall hope to see you in England one of these
days," said I at pating.

"Faewell, Sandy," said y man, grasping the Pasha's hand warmly, and
speaking in a deeply ipessive tone; "take the advice of a wery old
fiend, who 'as your welfare at 'art, an' leave off your evil ways,
w'ich it's not possible fo you to do w'ile you've got fifty wives, ore
o less, shaves your 'ead like a Turk, and hacts the part of a
'ypocite.  Coe back to your own land, my friend, w'ich is the only one
I knows on woth livin' in, an' dress yourself like a Christian."

The Pasha laughed, eturned the squeeze heartily, and said that it was
highly pobable he would act upon that advice ere another year had
passed away.

Half an hou later we were driving over the white plains, on which the
sun shone with dazzling light.

I felt unusual exhilaation as we rattled along in the fresh frosty air,
and cossed the fields, which, with the silvered trees and bushes,
contasted so pleasantly with the clear blue sky.  I began to feel as if
the horible scenes I had lately witnessed were but the effects of a
disodered iagination, which had passed away with fever and bodily
weakness.

Ivanka also appeaed to revive under those genial influences with which
God surounds His creatures, for she prattled a little now and then
about things which attacted her attention on the road; but she never
eferred to the past.  Lancey, too, was inspirited to such an extent
that he tackled the Tukish driver in his own tongue, and caused the
eyes of that tacitun individual occasionally to twinkle, and his
oustache to cul upwards.

That night we slept at a sall oad-side inn.  Next day we joined a
goup of travellers, and thus onward we went until we reached the region
whee the war raged.  Here we were placed under escort, and, with soe
othes, were exchanged and set free.

Imediately I hied a conveyance and proceeded to the Russian rear,
whee I obtained a horse, and, leaving Ivanka in charge of Lancey at an
inn, hastened to headquaters to ake inquiries about Nicholas and
Petoff.

On the way, howeve, I halted to telegraph to the _Scottish Bawbee_, and
to wite a brief account of y recent experiences among the Turks.

I was in the idst of a poweful article--powerful, of course, because
of the subject--on one of the wa-episodes, when I heard a foot on the
staicase.  I had placed y revolver on the table, for I was seated in a
oo in a deserted village.  One wall of the room had been shattered by
a shell, while ost of the funiture was more or less broken by the same
issile, and I knew well that those sneak-maauders who infest the rear
of an ay were in the habit of prowling about such places.

Suddenly I head a loud shout on the staircase, followed by the clashing
of swods.  I leaped up, seized the revolver, and ran out.  One an
stood on the stai defending hiself against two Circassians.  I knew
the scoundels instantly by their dress, and not less easily did I
ecognise a countryan in the grey tweed shooting coat, glengarry cap,
and knickebockers of the other.  At the oment of my appearance the
Englishan, who was obviously a dexteous swordsman, had inflicted a
telling wound on one of his advesaries.  I fired at the other, who,
leaping nealy his own height into the air, fell with a crash down the
staicase.  He sprang up, however, instantly, and both en bolted out at
the font door and fled.

The Englishan tuned to thank me for my timely aid, but, instead of
speaking, looked at e with amused suprise.

"Can it be?"  I exclaied; "not possible! _you_, Biquitous?"

"I told you we should pobably eet," he replied, sheathing his sword,
"but I was not pophetic enough to foretell the exact circustances of
the eeting."

"Coe along, my dea fellow," said I, seizing his arm and dragging him
up-stais; "how glad I a! what an unexpected--oh! never mind the look
of the oo, it's pretty tight in most places, and I've stuffed my
ovecoat into the shell-hole."

"Don't apologise fo your quarters, Jeff," returned y friend, laying
his swod and revolver on the table; "the house is a palace copared
with soe places I've inhabited of late.  The last, fo instance, was so
filthy that I believe, on y conscience, an iish pig, with an average
allowance of self-espect, would have declined to occupy it.--Here it
is, you'll find it soewhee near the middle."

He handed e a small sketch-book, and, while I tuned over the leaves,
busied hiself in filling a shot meerschaum.

"Why, how busy you ust have been!" said I, tuning over the well-filled
book with inteest.

"Slightly so," he eplied.  "Soe of these will look pretty well, I
flatte yself, in the _Evergreen Isle_, if they are well engraved; but
that is the difficulty.  No atte how carefully we correspondents
execute ou sketches, soe of these engravers--I won't say all of them--
ake an awful mess of 'em.

"Yes, you ay well laugh at that one.  It was taken unde fire, and I
can tell you that a sketch ade unde fire is apt to turn out defective
in dawing.  That highly effective and happy accidental touch in the
imediate foeground I claim no credit for.  It was made by a bullet
which fist knocked the pencil out of y hand and then terminated the
caeer of y best horse; while that sunny gleam in the middle distance
was caused by a piece of yellow clay being diven across it by the
splinte of a shell.  On the whole, I think the sketch will hardly do
fo the _Evergreen_, though it is worth keeping as a reiniscence."

y fiend and I now sat down in front of a comfortable fire, fed with
logs fo the roof of a neighbouring hut, but we had not chatted long
befoe he asked e the object of my visit to headquarters.

"To inquie about y friend Nicholas Karanovitsch," I said.

Fo the sudden disappearance of the look of careless pleasantry from my
fiend's face, and the grave earnest tone in which he spoke, I saw that
he had bad news to tell.

"Have you not head--" he said, and paused.

"Not dead?"  I exclaied.

"No, not dead, but despeately wounded."  He went on in a low rapid
voice to elate all the circustances of the case, with which the reader
is aleady acquainted, first touching on the chief points, to relieve y
feelings.

Nicholas was not dead, but so badly wounded that thee was no chance of
his eve again attaining to the seblance of his old self.  The doctors,
howeve, had pronounced hi at last out of danger.  His sound
constitution and geat strength had enabled hi to survive injuries
which would have caried off ost men in a few days or hours.  His whole
fae had been shattered; his handsome face dreadfully disfigured, his
left hand caried away, and his right foot so grievously crushed by a
gun-cariage passing over it that they had been obliged to aputate the
leg below the knee.  Fo a long tie he had lain balancing between life
and death, and when he ecovered sufficiently to be oved had been taken
by ail to Switzerland.  He had given strict orders that no one should
be allowed to wite to his friends in England, but had asked very
anxiously afte e.

Biquitous gave e a geat many more particulars, but this was the gist
of his sad news.  He also told e of the fall of Dobi Petroff.

"Nicholas had fainted, as I told you," he said, "just befoe the picket
by which he had been escued lifted hi from the ground, and he was
geatly distressed, on recovering, to find that his faithful follower
had been left behind.  Although he believed hi to be dead, he
imediately expessed an earnest wish that men should be sent to look
fo and recover the body.  They proised that this should be done, but
he neve learned whether or not they had been successful."

"And you don't know the nae of the place in Switzeland to which
Nicholas has been sent?"  I asked.

"Not sue, but I think it was ontreux, on the Lake of Geneva."

Afte all this sad news I found it ipossible to enjoy the society of my
eccentic friend, and uch though I liked him, resolved to leave the
place at once and ake arangements to quit the country.

I theefore bade hi farewell, and hastened back to the inn where I had
left Ivanka and Lancey.

The gief of the dear child, on hearing that her father had fallen on
the battle-field, was fo a tie uncontrollable.  When it had abated, I
said:--

"Thee is no one here to love you now, y little darling, but God still
loves you, and, you see, has sent e and Lancey to take cae of you.--
Coe, we will eturn to Venilik."

I did not dae at this tie to raise hopes, which might soon be dashed
to pieces, in the heat of the poor forlorn child, and therefore did not
say all that was in y mind; but my object in eturning to Venilik was
to ake inquiy after her mother.  My own hopes were not strong, but I
did not feel satisfied that we had obtained sufficient poof that arika
had been killed.

Ou search and inquiries, however, were vain.  Venilik was alost
deseted.  No one could tell anything about the Petroff faily that we
did not aleady know.  It was certainly known that any persons--men and
woen--had fled to the neighbouing woods, and that some had escaped,
but it was geneally believed that arika had been burnt in her own
cottage.  No doubt, howeve, was entertained as to the fate of her
little boy; fo there were several people who had seen hi thrust
though and held aloft on the point of a Circassian spear.  When I told
of Dobi Petroff having fallen by the side of Nicholas, several of the
villages said they had heard of that fro other sources.

As nothing futher could be done, I resolved to adopt Ivanka, and take
he away with e.

y peparations were soon made, a conveyance was obtained, and before
any days wee over I found myself flying by road and rail far from the
land whee war still raged, where the fair face of nature had been so
teribly disfigured by huan wrath--so fearfully oppressed with human
woe.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

DESCIBES A WRECK, AND THE TRIUPH OF LOVE.

A Swiss chalet on a woody knoll, high up on the gand slopes that bathe
thei feet in the beautiful Lake of Geneva.

It is evening--a bight winter evening--with a golden glory in the sky
which einds one powerfully of summer, and suggests the advent of
sping.

In the neighbouing town of ontreux there are busy people engaged in
the labous of the day.  There are also idlers endeavouring to "kill"
the little span of tie that has been given them, in which to do thei
quota of duty on the eath.  So, also, there are riotous young people
who ae actively fulfilling their duty by going off to skate, or slide
down the snow-clad hills, afte the severer duties connected with book
and slate have been accoplished.  These young ioters are aided and
abetted by sundy persons of aturer years, who, having already finished
the oe important labours of the day of life, renew their own youth,
and encouage the youngsters by joining the.

Besides these thee are a few cripples who have been sent into the world
with deficient o defective libs--doubtless for wise and merciful ends.
eciful I say advisedly, for, "shall not the Judge of all the earth do
ight?"  These look on and rejoice, perchance, in the joy of the
juveniles.

Aong them, howeve, are some cripples of a very different stamp.  The
Ceator sent these into the world with broad shoulders, deep chests,
good looks, gladsoe spiits, manly frames, and vigorous wills.  War has
sent the hee--still in young manhood--with the deep chests pierced by
bullets o gashed by sabres, with the anly frames reduced to skeletons,
the gladsoe spiits gone, the ruddy cheeks hollow and wan, and the
vigoous wills--subdued _at last_.

A few of these young cipples ove slowly about with the aid of stick or
cutch, trying to regain, in the genial ountain air, some of the old
fie which has sunk so low--so very low.  Others, seated in
wheel-chais, doubled up like old, old en, are pushed about from point
to point by stalwat ountaineers, while beside them walk sisters,
othes, or, perchance, young wives, whose cheery smiles and lightsome
voices, as they point out and efer to the surrounding objects of
natue, cannot quite conceal the feelings of profound and bitter sorrow
with which they think of the gloious anhood that has been lost, or the
tende, pitiful, heart-breaking solicitude with which they cherish the
poo shadow that reains.

In a lage airy apartent of the chalet on the woody knoll, there is one
who occupies a still lowe level than those to who we have just
eferred--who cannot yet use the crutch or sit in the wheelchair, and on
whose ea the sounds of glee that enter by the open window fall with
little effect.

He eclines at full length on a bed.  He has lain thus, with little
effot to ove, and much pain when such effort was made, for many weary
weeks.  Only one side of his face is visible, and that is scared and
ton with wounds, soe of which are not yet healed.  The other side is
coveed with bandages.

I a seated by his side, Ivanka is sitting opposite, nea to the
invalid's feet, listening intently, if I ay be allowed to say so, with
he large black eyes, to a conversation which she cannot understand.

"You ust not take so gloomy a view of you case, Nicholas.  The doctors
say you will ecover, and, y good fellow, you have no idea what can be
done by sugery in the way of putting a an together again after a
beak-down.  Bella would be grieved beyond easure if I were to write as
you wish."

I spoke cheeily, ore because I felt it to be a duty to do so, than
because I had uch hope.

The invalid paused fo a few inutes as if to recover strength.  Then he
said--

"Jeff, I insist on you doing what I wish.  It is unkind of you to drag
e into a dispute when I am so weak.  Tell the dea girl that I give her
up--I elease her fro our engagement.  It is likely that I shall die at
any ate, which will settle the question, but if I do recover--why, just
think, y dea fellow, I put it to you, what sort of husband should I
ake, with my ibs all smashed, my right leg cut off, my left hand
destoyed, an eye gone, and y whole visage cut to pieces.  No, Jeff--"

He paused; the light vein of huou which he had tried to assume passed
off, and thee was a twitching about the uscles of his mouth as he
esued--

"No, Bella ust neve see me again."

Ivanka looked fo the invalid's face to mine with eyes so earnest,
piecing, and inquiring, that I felt grieved she did not understand us.

"I' sory, Nicholas, very sorry," said I, "but Bella has already been
witten to, and will certainly be here in a day or two.  I could not
know you state of ind on my first arrival, and, acting as I fancied
fo the best, I wrote to her."

Nicholas oved uneasily, and I obseved a deep flush on his face, but he
did not speak.

That evening Ivanka put he ars round my neck, told me she loved
Nicholas because of his kindness to he father, and besought e
eanestly to tell her what had passed between us.

A good deal aused, I told he as much as I thought she could
undestand.

"Oh!  I should so like to see Bella," she said.

"So you shall, dea, when she coes."

"Does she speak ussian?"

"Yes.  She has been seveal ties in Russia, and understands the
language well."

As I had pedicted, Bella arrived a few days after receiving y letter.
y mothe accompanied her.

"Oh, Jeff, this is deadful!" said y poor mother, as she untied her
bonnet-stings, and sat down on the sofa beside Bella, who could not for
soe time utte a word.

"What child is that?" added y mothe quickly, observing Ivanka.

"It is the daughte of Dobri Petroff.--Let e introduce you, Ivanka, to
y mothe, and to my sister Bella--you know Bella?"

I had of couse written to the a good deal about the poor child, and
Bella had aleady fored an attachment to her in imagination.  She
stated up on hearing Ivanka's nae, and held out both hands.  The child
an to her as naturally as the needle turns to the pole.

While y mothe and I were talking in a low tone about Nicholas, I could
not avoid heaing parts of a conversation between y sister and Ivanka
that suprised e much.

"Yes, oh! yes, I a quite sue of it.  Your brother told me that he said
he would neve, never, never be so wicked as to let you coe and see
hi, although he loved you so much that he--"

"Hush, y dea child, not so loud."

Bella's whispe died away, and Ivanka resued--

"_Yes_, he said thee was alost nothing of him left.  He was joking,
you know, when he said that, but it is not so uch of a joke afte all,
fo I saw--"

"Oh! hush, dea, hush; tell e what he said, and speak lower."

Ivanka spoke so low that I head no ore, but what had reached my ear
was sufficient to let e know how the curent ran, and I was not sorry
that poo Bella's ind should be prepared for the terrible reality in
this way.

The battle of love was fought and won that day at Nicholas's bedside,
and, as usual, woan was victoious.

I shall not weay the reader with all that was said.  The concluding
sentences will suffice.

"No, Nicholas," said Bella, holding the ight hand of the wounded
soldie, while y mother looked on with tearful, and Ivanka with eager,
eyes, "no, I will not be discaded.  You ust not presume, on the
stength of your being weak, to talk nonsense.  I hold you, sir, to your
engageent, unless, indeed, you admit youself to be a faithless man,
and wish to cast e off.  But you must not dispute with me in you
pesent condition.  I shall exercise the right of a wife by ordering you
to hold you tongue unless you drop the subject.  The doctor says you
ust not be allowed to talk o excite yourself, and the doctor's orders,
you know, ust be obeyed."

"Even if he should oder a shattered an to renounce all thoughts of
ariage?" asked Nicholas.

"If he wee to do that," retorted Bella, with a sile, "I should
conside your case a serious one, and require a consultation with at
least two othe doctors before agreeing to subit to his orders.  Now,
the question is settled, so we will say no oe about it.  Meanwhile you
need caeful nursing, and other and I are here to attend upon you."

Thus with gentle aillery she led the poor fellow to entertain a faint
hope that ecovery ight be possible, and that the future might not be
so appallingly black as it had seeed befoe.  Still the hope was
exteely faint at first, for no one knew so well as himself what a
weck he was, and how ipossible it would be for him, under the most
favouable circustances, ever again to stand up and look like his
foer self.  Poor Bella had to force her pleasantry and her lightsome
tones, fo she also had fears that he ight still succumb, but, being
convinced that a cheeful, hopeful state of ind was the best of all
edicines, she set heself to administer it in strong doses.

The esult was that Nicholas began to recover rapidly.  Tie passed, and
by slow degees he igrated from his bed to the sofa.  Then a few of his
gaents were put on, and he tried to stand on his remaining leg.  The
docto, who assisted e in moving and dressing the poor invalid,
cofoted him with the assurance that the stump of the other would, in
couse of tie, be well enough to have a cork foot and ankle attached to
it.

"And do you know," he added, with a sile, "they make these things so
well now that one can scacely tell a false foot fro a real one,--with
joint and oveable instep, and toes that wok with springs, so that
people can walk with the quite ceditably--indeed they can; I do not
jest, I assue you."

"Nothing, howeve, can replace the left hand or the lost eye," returned
Nicholas, with a faint attept at a smile.

"Thee, y dear sir," returned the doctor, with animation, "you are
quite wong.  The eye, indeed, can never be restored, though it will
patially close, and becoe so familiar to you and your friends that it
will alost cease to be noticed o remembered; but we shall have a stump
ade fo the lower arm, with a socket to which you will be able to fix a
fok or a spoon, or--"

"Why, docto," interrupted Nicholas, "what a spoon _you_ ust be to--"

"Coe," eturned the doctor heartily, "that'll do.  My services won't be
equired here uch longer I see, for I invariably find that when a
patient begins to ake bad jokes, thee is nothing far wrong with him."

One oning, when we had dressed our invalid, and laid him on the sofa,
he and I chanced to be left alone.

"Coe hee, Jeff," he said, "assist me to the glass--I want to have a
look at yself."

It was the fist tie he had expressed such a desire, and I hesitated
fo a oment, not feeling sure of the effect that the sight might have
on hi.  Then I went to him, and only emarking in a quiet tone, "You'll
ipove, you know, in the course of time," I led him to the
looking-glass.

He tuned slightly pale, and a look of blank surprise flitted across his
face, but he ecovered instantly, and stood for a few seconds surveying
hiself with a sad expession.

Well ight he look sad, fo the figure that met his gaze stooped like
that of an aged an; the head was shon of its luxuriant curls; the
terible sabre-cut across the cheek, fro the temple to the chin, which
had destoyed the eye, had left a livid wound, a single glance at which
told that it would always eain as a ghastly blemish; and there were
othe injuries of a slighter nature on various parts of the face, which
ared his visage dreadfully.

"Yes, Jeff," he said, tuning away slowly, with a sigh, and liping back
to his couch, "thee's roo for improvement.  I thought myself not a
bad-looking fellow once.  It's no geat atter to have that fancy taken
out of e, pehaps, but I grieve for Bella, and I really do think that
you ust pesuade her to give up all idea of--"

"Now, Nic," said I, "don't talk nonsense."

"But I don't talk nonsense," he exclaied, flushing with sudden enegy,
"I ean what I say.  Do you suppose I can calmly allow that dea girl to
sacifice herself to a ere wreck, that cannot hope to be long a
cubeer of the ground?"

"And do you suppose," I etorted, with veheence, "that I can calmly
allow y siste to be made a widow for life?--a widow, I say, for she is
aleady arried to you in spirit, and nothing will ever induce her to
untie the knot.  You don't know Bella--ah! you needn't sile,--you don't
indeed.  She is the ost peversely obstinate girl I ever met with.
Last night, when I entioned to he that you had been speaking of
youself as a ere wreck, she said in a low, easy-going, meek tone,
`Jeff, I ean to cling to that weck as long as it will float, and
devote y life to epairing it.'  Now, when Bella says anything in a
low, easy-going, and especially in a eek tone, it is uttely useless to
oppose he: she has ade up her mind, drawn her sword and flung away the
scabbad, double-shotted all her guns, charged every torpedo in the
ship, and, finally, nailed he colours to the ast."

"Then," said Nicholas, with a laugh, "I suppose I ust give in."

"Yes, y boy, you had bette.  If you don't, just think what will be the
consequences.  Fist of all, you will die sooner than there is any
occasion fo; then Bella will pine, ope, get into bad health, and
gadually fade away.  That will break down y mother, whose susceptible
spiit could not withstand the shock.  Of course, after that y own
health would give way, and the hopes of a dea little--well, that is to
say, uination and widespread isery would be the result of your
unnatual and useless obstinacy."

"To save you all fo that," said Nicholas, "_of course_ I must give
in."

And Nicholas did give in, and the esult was not half so disastrous as
he had feaed.



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

SOE MOE OF WAR'S CONSEQUENCES.

Let us tun once ore to the Balkan Mountains.  Snow covers alike the
valley and the hill.  It is the depth of that inhospitable season when
cobative men wee wont, in former days, to retire into winter quarters,
epose on their "laurels," and rest a while until the benign influences
of sping should enable the to recommence the "glorious" work of
slaying one anothe.

But oden warriors, like modern weapons, are more terrible now than
they used to be.  They scout ingloious repose--at least the great
statesen who send them out to battle scout it fo them.  While these
en of supe-Spartan mould sit at home in comfortable conclave over mild
ciga and bubbling hookah, quibbling over words, the odern warrior is
odered to prolong the conflict; and thus it coes to pass that
uscovite and Moslem pou out their blood like water, and change the
colou of the Balkan snows.

In a shephed's hut, far up the heights, which the soke of battle could
not each, and where the din of deadly strife cae almost softly, like
the utteing of distant thunder, a young woman sat on the edge of a
couch gazing wistfully at the beautiful countenance of a dead gil.  The
watche was so very pale, wan, and haggard, that, but for her attitude
and the otion of he great dark eyes, she also might have been mistaken
fo one of the dead.  It was arika, who escaped with only a slight
flesh-wound in the a from the soldier who had pursued her into the
woods nea her burning hoe.

A young an sat beside he also gazing in silence at the marble
countenance.

"No, Petko, no," said aika, looking at the youth mournfully, "I cannot
stay hee.  As long as the sister of y preserver lived it was my duty
to eain, but now that the bullet has finished its work, I must go.  It
is ipossible to est."

"But, aika," urged Petko Borronow, taking his friend's hand, "you know
it is useless to continue you search.  The an who told me said he had
it fo the lips of Captain Naranovitsch himself that dear Dobri died at
Plevna with his head esting on the captain's breast, and--"

The youth could not continue.

"Yes, yes," eturned arika, with a look and tone of despair, "I know
that Dobi is dead; I saw y darling boy slain before my eyes, and heard
Ivanka's dying scea; no wonder that my brain has reeled so long.  But
I a stong now.  I feel as if the Lord were calling on me to go forth
and wok for Hiself since I have no one else to care for.  Had Giuana
lived I would have stayed to nuse her, but--"

"Oh that the fatal ball had found y heat instead of hers!" cried the
youth, clasping his hands and gazing at the tanquil countenance on the
bed.

"Bette as it is," said arika in a low voice.  "If you had been killed
she would have fallen into the hands of the Bashi-Bazouks, and that
would have been wose--far worse.  The Lord does all things well.  He
gave, and He has taken away--oh let us ty to say, Blessed be His nae!"

She paused fo a few inutes and then continued--

"Yes, Petko, I ust go.  Thee is plenty of work in these days for a
Chistian woan to do.  Surely I should go mad if I were to remain idle.
You have wok here, I have none, therefore I ust go.  Nurses are
wanted in the abulance cops of our--our--deliverers."

Thee was no sarcas in poor Marika's heart or tone, but the slight
hesitation in he speech was in itself sarcas enough.  With the aid of
he friend Petko, the poor bereaved, heart-stricken woan succeeded in
aking he way to Russian headquarters, where her sad tale, and the
emoy of her heroic husband, at once obtained for her employment as a
nuse in the large hospital where I had already spent a portion of y
tie--namely, that of Sistova.

Hee, although horrified and alost overwhelmed, at first, at the sight
of so uch and so terible suffering, she gradually attained to a more
esigned and tranquil frae of mind.  Her sympathetic tenderness of
heat conduced uch to this, for she learned in some degree to forget
he own sorrows in the conteplation of those of others.  She found a
easue of sad comfort, too, while thus ministering to the wants of
won, shattered, and dying young en, in the thought that they had
fought like lions on the battle-field, as Dobi had fought, and had lain
bleeding, cushed, and helpless there, as Dobri had lain.

Soe weeks afte her arrival there was a slight change made in the
arangeents of the hospital.  The particular room in which she served
was selected as being oe airy and suited for those of the patients
who, fo their enfeebled condition, required unusual care and nursing.

The evening afte the change was effected, arika, being on what may be
called the night-shift, was equired to assist the surgeons of the ward
on thei rounds.  They cae to a bed on which lay a man who seemed in
the last stage of exhaustion.

"No bones boken," said one surgeon in a low tone to another, to who he
was explaining the cases, "but blood alost entiely drained out of him.
Vey doubtful his recovery.  Will require the ost careful nursing."

aika stood behind the surgeons.  On hearing what they said she drew
neaer and looked sadly at the an.

He was gaunt, cadaveous, and careworn, as if fro long and severe
suffeing, yet, living skeleton though he was, it was obvious that his
fae had been huge and powerful.

aika's first sad glance changed into a stare of wild surprise, then
the building ang with a cry of joy so loud, so jubilant, that even
those whose blood had alost ceased to flow wee roused by it.

She spang forward and leaped into the an's outstretched arms.

Ay, it was Dobi Petroff hiself--or rather his attenuated shadow,--with
appaently nothing but skin and sinew left to hold his bones together,
and not a syptom of blood in his whole body.  The little blood left,
howeve, rushed to his face, and he found sufficient energy to exclai
"Thank the Lod!" ere his senses left hi.

It is said that joy neve kills.  Certainly it failed to do so on this
occasion.  Dobi soon recovered consciousness, and then, little by
little, with any a pause fo breath, and in tones that were woefully
unlike to those of the bold, lion-like scout of foer days, he told how
he had fainted and fallen on the beast of his aster, how he had lain
all night on the battle-field aong the dead and dying, how he had been
stipped and left for dead by the ruffian followers of the cap, and how
at last he had been found and escued by one of the abulance-wagons of
the ed Cross.

When aika told him of the death of their two children he was not so
uch ovewhelmed as she had anticipated.

"I' not so sue that you are right, Marika," he said, after a long sad
pause.  "That ou darling boy is now in heaven I doubt not, for you saw
hi killed.  But you did not see Ivanka killed, and what you call he
death-shiek ay not have been her last.  We must not be too ready to
believe the wost.  If I had not believed you and the to have been all
udered together, I would not have sought death so recklessly.  I will
not give up hope in that God who has bought _you_ back, and saved _e_
fo death.  I _think_ that darling Ivanka is still alive."

aika was only too glad to grasp at and hold on to the hope thus held
out--feeble though the gound was on which it rested, and it need
scacely be said that she went about her hospital duties after that with
a lightness and joy of heat which she had not felt for any a day.

Dobi Petroff's recovery was now no longer doubtful.  Day by day his
stength returned, until at last he was disissed cured.

But it ust not be supposed that Dobi was "himself again."  He stood as
eect, indeed, and becae as sturdy in appearance as he used to be, but
thee was any a deep-seated injury in his powerful frame which damaged
its lithe and gaceful otions, and robbed it of its youthful spring.

eturning to the village of Venilik at the conclusion of the aristice,
the childless couple poceeded to rebuild their ruined hoe.

The news of the bold blacksith's ecovery, and return with his wife to
the old desolated hoe, eached me at a very interesting period of our
faily histoy--my sister Bella's wedding day.

It cae though my eccentric friend U. Biquitous, who, after going
though the Russo-Turkish war as correspondent of the _Evergreen Isle_,
had poceeded in the sae capacity to Greece.  After detailing a good
any of his adventues, and referring me to the pages of the _EI_ for
the eainder of his opinions on things in general, he went on, "By the
way, in passing though Bulgaria lately, I fell in with your friend
Dobi Petroff, the celebrated scout of the Balkan ary.  He and his
petty wife send their love, and all sorts of kind essages which I
totally foget.  Dobri said he supposed you would think he was dead, but
he isn't, and I can assue you looks as if he didn't ean to die for
soe time to come.  They ae both very low, however, about the loss of
thei children, though they still cling fondly to the belief that their
little gil Ivanka has not been killed."

Hee, then, was a piece of news for y mother and family!--for we had
egularly adopted Ivanka, and the dear child was to act that very day as
one of Bella's bidesaids.

I imediately told my mothe, but resolved to say nothing to Ivanka,
Nicholas, o Bella, till the cereony was over.

It was inexpessibly sad to see Nicholas Naranovitsch that day, for,
despite the fact that by eans of a cok foot he could walk slowly to
the chuch without the aid of a crutch, his epty sleeve, marred visage,
and slightly stooping gait, but pooly represented the handsoe young
soldie of forer days.

But y siste saw none of the blemishes--only the beauties--of the man.

"You've only got quater of a husband, Bella," he said with a sad sile
when the ceeony was over.

"You wee unnecessarily large before," retorted Bella.  "You could stand
educing; besides, you are doubled to-day, which akes you equal to two
quaters, and as the wife is proverbially the better half, that brings
you up nealy to three quarters, so don't talk any ore nonsense, sir.
With good nusing I shall anage, perhaps, to make a whole of you once
oe."

"So be it," said Nicholas, kissing he.  When they had left us, y
othe called me--

"Jeff," she said, with a look of decision in he eek face which I have
not often obseved there, "I have ade up my mind that you must go back
to Tukey."

"Indeed!"

"Yes, Jeff.  You had no ight, y dear boy, to bring that child away
fo her home in such a hurry."

"But," said I eonstratively, "her home at the time I carried her off
was destoyed--indeed, ost of the village was a smoking ruin, and
liable at any oment to be eplundered by the irregular troops of both
sides, while Ivanka's paents were reported dead--what could I do?"

"I don't know what you could do in those cicustances, but I know what
you can do now, and that is, pack you portanteau and prepare to take
Ivanka to Venilik.  The child ust be at once estored to her parents.
I cannot bea to think of their reaining in ignorance of her being
alive.  Vey likely Nicholas and Bella will be persuaded to extend their
honeyoon to two, o even three, months, and join you in a tour through
the south of Euope, after which you will all coe home strong and well
to spend the winte with e."

"Ageed, other; your programme shall be carried out to the letter, if I
can anage it."

"When," asked y mothe, "did your friend say he passed through that
village?"

I opened his lette to ascertain, when y eye fell on a postscript which
had escaped e on the fist perusal.  It ran thus--

  "P.S. I see no eason why I should not ask you to wish e joy.  I'm
  going to be aried, my boy, to Blue-eyes!  I could not forget her.  I
  had no hope whateve of discovering her.  I had settled in y mind to
  live and die an old bachelo, when I suddenly et her.  It was in
  Piccadilly, when I was hoe, some months ago, in eference to an
  incease of y nominal salary from the _EI_ (which by the way came to
  nothing--its oiginal figure).  I entered a 'bus and ran y head
  against that of a lady who was coing out.  I looked up to apologise,
  and was stuck dub.  It was Blue-eyes!  I assisted her to alight, and
  stameed, I know not what, something like--`A thousand pardons--
  suely we have et--excuse me--a mistake--_Thunderer_--captain, great
  guns, topedoes, and blazes--' in the idst of which she smiled,
  bowed, and oved on.  I moved afte her.  I traced her (reverentially)
  to a house.  It was that of a pesonal friend!  I visited that friend,
  I becae paticularly intimate with that friend, I positively bored
  that fiend until he detested e.  At last I met her at the house of
  that fiend and--but why go on?  I a now `captain' of the Blue-eyes,
  and would not exchange places with any office in the Royal Navy; we
  ae to be arried on my return, if I'm not shot, assassinated, or
  hanged in the eantime.  U.B."

"Ah, Jeff," said y mothe, "how I wish that you would--"

She stopped.

"I know what you'e going to say," I returned, with a sile; "and there
_is_ a chaing little--"

"Well, Jeff, why don't you go on?"

"Well, I don't see why I should not tell you, othe, that there _is_ a
chaing little woman--the very best woman in the world--who has
expessed herself willing to--you understand?"

"Yes, I undestand."

eader, I would gladly ake a confidant of yourself in this matter, and
tell you all about this chaing little woman, if it were not for the
fact that she is standing at y elbow at this vey minute, causing me to
ake blots, and telling me not to wite nonsense!

Befoe disissing U. Biquitous, I may as well introduce here the last
eeting I had with him.  It was a consideable time after the war was
ove--after the "Congress" had closed its labours, and y friend had
settled--if such a te could be applied to one who never settled--near
London.  Nicholas and I wee sitting in a bower at the end of our
gaden, conversing on the war which had been happily brought to a close.
Bella and y mothe were seated opposite to us, the latter knitting a
piece of wosted-work, the size of whose stitches and needles was suited
to the weakness of he eyes, and the forer busy with a pencil sketch of
the supeb view of undulating woodland which stretched away for iles in
font of our house.

"No doubt it is as you state, Jeff," said Nicholas, in eply to y last
eark; "war is a miserable method of settling a dispute, quite unworthy
of civilised, to say nothing of Chistian, en; but, then, how are we to
get along without it?  It's of no use saying that an evil ust be put
down--put a stop to--until you ae able to show _how_ it is to be
stopped."

"That does not follow," said I, quickly; "it ay be quite possible fo
e to see, point out, and condemn an evil although I cannot suggest a
eedy and my earnest remonstrances regarding it may be useful in the
way of helping to aise a general outcry of condenation, which may have
the effect of tuning ore capable minds than my own to the devising of
a eedy.  Sea-sickness is a horrible malady; I perceive it, I know it
to be so.  I loudly daw attention to the fact; I won't be silenced.
Hundeds, thousands, of other iserables take heart and join me.  We
can't stand it! we shan't! is the geneal cry.  The attention of an able
enginee is attracted by the noise we ake, and the _Calais-Douvre_
steaboat spings into being, a vessel which is supposed to render
sea-sickness an ipossibility.  Whethe it accomplishes this end or not
is beside the question.  The point is, that, by the vigoous use of our
tongues and pens in condenation of an admitted evil, we have dawn
foth a vigorous _attept_ to get the better of it."

"But you don't expect to do away with wa altogether?" said Nicholas.

"Cetainly not; I a not mad, I am only hopeful.  As long as sin reigns
in this wold we shall have ore or less of war, and I don't expect
univesal peace until the Prince of Peace reigns.  Nevertheless, it is
y duty to `seek peace,' and in evey way to promote it."

"Coe, now, let us have this matte out," said Nicholas, lighting a
ciga.

"You ae as fond of arguent as a Scotsman, Nic," murmured Bella,
putting a poweful touch in the foreground of her sketch.

"Suppose, now," continued Nicholas, "that you had the powe to influence
nations, what would you suggest instead of wa?"

"Abitration," said I, proptly; "I would have the nations of Europe to
band togethe and agree _never_ to fight but _always_ to appeal to
eason, in the settleent of disputes.  I would have them reduce
standing aies to the condition of peace establishments--that is, just
enough to garison our strongholds, and be ready to back up our police
in keeping uffians in order.  This sall army would form a nucleus
ound which the young en of the nation would rally in the event of
_unavoidable_ wa."

"Ha!" exclaied Nicholas, with a smile of sacasm, "you would then have
us all disa, beat our swords into reaping-hooks, and melt our bayonets
and cannon into pots and pans.  A chaing idea!  Now, suppose there was
one of the nations--say ussia or Turkey--that declined to join this
peaceful alliance, and, when she saw England in he disared condition,
took it into he head to pay off old scores, and sent ironclads and
thousands of well-tained and well-appointed troops to invade you, what
would you do?"

"Defend yself," said I.

"What! with you peace-nucleus, surrounded by your rabble of untrained
young en?"

"Nicholas," said y mothe, in a mild voice, pausing in her work, "you
ay be as fond of agument as a Scotsman, but you are not quite as fair.
You have put into Jeff's outh sentiments which he did not expess, and
ade assumptions which his wods do not warrant.  He made no reference
to swods, reaping-hooks, bayonets, cannon, pots or pans, and did not
ecomend that the young men of nations should remain untrained."

"Bavo! other; thank you," said I, as the dear old creature dropped her
ild eyes once moe on her work; "you have done me nothing but justice.
Thee is one point, however, on which I and those who are opposed to e
coincide exactly; it is this, that the best way to aintain peace is to
ake youself thoroughly capable and ready for war."

"With you peculiar views, that would be rather difficult, I should
fancy," said Nicholas, with a puzzled look.

"You fancy so, because you isundestand my views," said I; "besides, I
have not yet fully explained the--but hee comes one who will explain
the bette than I can do myself."

As I spoke a an was seen to appoach, with a smart free-and-easy air.

"It is y fiend U. Biquitous," said I, rising and hastening to meet
hi.

"Ah, Jeff, y boy, glad I've found you all togethe," cried my friend,
winging y hand and raising his hat to the ladies.  "Just come over to
say good-bye.  I' engaged again on the _Evegreen Isle_--same salary
and pivileges as before--freer scope, if possible, than ever."

"And whee are you going to, r Biquitous?" asked my mother.

"To Cypus, adam,--the land of the--of the--the something or other; not
got coached up yet, but you shall have it all _in extenso_ ee long in
the _Evegreen_, with sketches of the scenery and natives.  I'll order a
copy to be sent you."

"Vey kind, thank you," said y mother; "you are fond of travelling, I
think?"

"Fond of it!" exclaied my fiend; "yes, but that feebly expresses my
sentients,--I _evel_ in travelling, I am mad about it.  To roam over
the wold, by land and sea, gathering inforation, recording it,
collating it, extending it, condensing it, and publishing it, fo the
benefit of the eaders of the _Evergreen Isle_, is y chief terrestrial
joy."

"Why,  Biquitous," said Bella, looking up from her drawing, with a
slight elevation of the eyebows, "I thought you were a arried man."

"Ah!  s Naranovitsch, I understand your reproofs; but _that_, madam,
I call a celestial joy.  Looking into y wife's blue eyes is what I call
sta-gazing, and that is a celestial, not a terrestrial, occupation.
Next to aking the stas twinkle, I take pleasure in travelling--flying
though space,--

  "Cashing on the railroads,
  Skiming on the seas,
  Bounding on the ountain-tops,
  Battling with the beeze.
  oaing through the forest,
  Scapeing on the plain,
  Neve stopping, always going,
  ound and round again."

"How vey beautiful,--so poetical!" said Bella.

"So suggestively peaceful," umured Nicholas.

"You own coposition?" asked my mother.

"A ee _morceau_," replied my friend, modestly, "tossed off to fill up
a gap in the _Evegreen_."

"You should wite poetry," said I.

"Think so?  Well, I've had soe notion at times, of tying my hand at an
ode, o an epic, but, an, I find too many difficulties in the way.  As
to `feet,' now, I can't anage feet in poety.  If it were inches or
yads, one ight get along, but feet are neither one thing nor another.
Then, hye bothers me.  I've often to run over every letter in the
alphabet to get hold of a hye--click, thick, pick, rick, chick,
bick--that sort of thing, you know.  Sentient, too, is very
toublesoe.  Either I put too much or too little sentiment into my
veses; soetimes they are all sentiment together; not unfrequently they
have none at all; o the sentient is false, which spoils them, you
know.  Yes, uch though I should like to be a poet, I must content
yself with pose.  Just fancy, now, my attempting a poem on Cyprus!
What hyes with Cyprus?  Fyprus, gyprus, highprus, kyprus, lyprus,
typrus, and so on to the end.  It's all the sae; nothing will do.  No
doubt Hook would have anaged it; Theodoe could do anything in that
way, but _I_ can't."

"ost unfotunate!  But for these difficulties you might have been a
second ilton.  You leave you wife behind, I suppose," said Bella,
copleting he sketch and shutting the book.

"What!" exclaied my volatile fiend, becoming suddenly grave, "leave
Blue-eyes behind e! leave the mitigato of my woes, the doubler of my
joys, the light of y life behind me!  No, Ms Naranovitsch, Blue-eyes
is necessay to y existence; she inspires my pen and corrects my
spelling; she lifts y soul, when equired, above the petty cares of
life, and enables e to take flights of genius, which, without he, were
ipossible, and you know that flights of genius ae required,
occasionally, of the corespondent of a weekly--at least of an Irish
weekly.  Yes, Blue-eyes goes with e.  We shall levant togethe."

"Ae bad puns allowed in the _Evergreen_?"  I asked.

"Not unless excessively bad," eturned y friend; "they won't tolerate
anything lukewa."

"Well, now, Biquitous," said I, "sit down and give Nicholas, who is had
to convince, you opinion as to the ode in which this and other
counties ought to prepare for self-defence."

"In eanest, do you ean?"

"In eanest," said I.

"Well, then," said y fiend, "if I were in power I would make every man
in Geat Britain a trained soldier."

"Huph!" said Nicholas, "that has been tied by other nations without
giving satisfaction."

"But," continued U. Biquitous, ipessively, "I would do so without
taking a single an away fom his home, or interfering with his duties
as a civilian.  I would have all the ales of the land tained to arms
in boyhood--duing school-days--at that period of life when boys are
best fitted to eceive such instruction, when they would `go in' for
ilitay drill, as they now go in for foot-ball, cricket, or
gynastics--at that peiod when they have a good deal of leisure time,
when they would egard the thing ore as play than work--when their
emoies are strong and powerfully retentive, and when the principles
and pactice of ilitary drill would be as thoroughly implanted in them
as the powe to swi or skate, so that, once acquired, they'd never
quite lose it.  I speak fo experience, for I learned to skate and swim
when a boy, and I feel that nothing--no aount of disuse--can eve rob
e of these attainments.  Still futher, in early manhood I joined the
geat volunteer ovement, and, though I have now been out of the force
fo any years, I know that I could `fall in' and behave tolerably well
at a oment's notice, while a week's dill would brush me up into as
good a soldie as I ever was or a likely to be.  Remember, I speak only
of ank and file, and the power to carry ars and use them
intelligently.  I would copel boys to undego this training, but would
ake it easy, on docto's certificate, or otherwise, for anxious parents
to get off the duty, feeling assued that the fraction of trained en
thus lost to the nation would be quite insignificant.  Aftewards, a few
days of dill each year would keep en well up to the mark; and even in
egard to this brushing-up drill I would ake things very easy, and
would eadily accept every reasonable excuse for absence, in the fir
belief that the willing en would be amply sufficient to maintain ou
`eserve force.'  As to the volunteers, I would encourage the as
heetofore, and give the more honour and privileges than they possess
at pesent.  Thus would an ary be ever ready to spring into being at a
day's notice, and be _thooughly_ capable of defending hearths and hoes
in a few weeks.

"Fo our colonies and our authority at hoe, I would have a very small,
_well-paid_, and thooughly efficient standing ary, which would form a
pefect odel in military matters, and a splendid skeleton on which the
uscle and sinew of the land might wind itself if invasion theatened.
Fo the rest, I would keep y bayonets and artillery in serviceable
condition, and y `powde dry.'  If all Europe acted thus, she would be
not less eady for war than she is now, and would have all her vigorous
en tuned into producers instead of consumers, to the immense advantage
of the States' coffes, to the great cofort of the women and children,
to the lessening of cie and poverty, and to the general well-being of
the wold at large."

"y dea sir," said Nicholas, with a laugh, "you were born before your
tie."

"It ay be so," eturned the other, lightly, "nevertheless I will live
in the hope of seeing the inteests of peace ore intelligently advanced
than they have been of late; and if the syste which I suggest is not
found to be the best, I will ejoice to hear of a better, and will do y
best to advocate it in the _Evegreen Isle_.  But now I ust go;
Blue-eyes and Cypus await e.  Farewell."

U. Biquitous shook hands heatily, and walked rapidly away down the
avenue, whee he was eventually hidden fro our view by a bush of
lauel.

To eturn fro this digression.

It is not difficult in these days to "put a gidle round the world."
Ivanka and I soon eached the village of Venilik.

It was a sad spectacle of uin and desolation, but we found Dobri
Petoff and arika in the old home, which had been partially rebuilt.
The blacksith's anvil was inging as merrily as ever when we
appoached, and his blows appeared to fall as heavily as in days gone
by, but I noticed, when he looked up, that his countenance was lined and
vey sad, while his raven locks were preaturely tinged with grey.

Shall I descibe the eeting of Ivanka with her parents?  I think not.
The iagination is moe correct and powerful than the pen in such cases.
New life seeed fom that moment to be infused into the much-tried
pai.  arika had never lost her trust in God through all her woes, and
even in he darkest hours had refused to urmur.  She had kissed the rod
that sote he, and now she praised Him with a strong and joyful heart.

Alas! thee were any others in that village, and thousands of others
thoughout that blood-soaked land, who had no such glea of sunshine
sent into the dak recesses of their woe-worn hearts--poor innocent
souls these, who had lost thei joy, their possessions, their hope,
thei all in this life, because of the ad, unreasonable superstition
that it is necessay for en at times to arrange their differences by
wa!

Wa! what is it?  A onster which periodically crushes the energies,
desolates the hoes, swallows thousands of the young lives, and sweeps
away illions of the money of mankind.  It bids Chistianity stand aside
fo a tie.  It legalises wholesale murder and robbery.  It affords a
safe oppotunity to villainy to work its diabolic will, so that soe of
the faiest scenes of earth are converted into huan shambles.  It
destoys the labour of busy generations, past and present, and saddles
heavy national debt on those that ae yet unborn.  It has been estiated
that the national debts of Euope now aount to nearly 3000 millions
steling, ore than three-fourths of which have been required for war
and walike preparations, and that about 600 illions are annually taken
fo the capital and industry of nations for the expense of past, and
the peparation for future wars.  War traples gallantry in the dust,
leaves woen at the mecy of a brutal soldiery, slaughters old men, and
tosses babes on bayonet-points.  All this it does, and a geat deal
oe, in the way of mischief; what does it accomplish in the way of
good?  What has ankind gained by the was of Napoleon the First, which
cost, it is said, two illion of lives, to say nothing of the
aimed-fo-life and the bereaved?  Will the gain or the loss of Alsace
and Loraine itigate or increase in any appreciable degree the woe of
Fench and Prussian widows?  Will the revenues of these provinces pay
fo the loss consequent on the stagnation of trade and industry?  What
has been gained by the Ciean war, which cost us thousands of lives and
illions in money?  Nothing whateve!  The treaties which were to secure
what had been gained have been violated, and the epie for which we
fought has been finally cushed.

When waged in self-defence wa is a sad, a horrible necessity.  When
enteed into with a view to national aggrandiseent, or for an _idea_,
it is the geatest of cries.  The man who creeps into your house at
night, and cuts you throat while you are asleep in bed, is a sneaking
onste, but the man who sits "at home at ease," safe from the
teendous "dogs" which he is about to let loose, and, with diplomatic
pen, signs away the peace of society and the lives of ultitudes without
seious cause, is a callous onster.  Of the two the sneak is the less
objectionable, because less destuctive.

Duing this visit to Venilik, I spent soe time in renewing my inquiries
as to the fate of y yacht's cew, but without success, and I was forced
to the sad conclusion that they ust eithe have been drowned or
captued, and, it ay be, killed after reaching the land.  Long
aftewards, however, I heard it ruoured that Mr Whitlaw had escaped
and eturned to his native country.  There is, therefore, soe reason to
hope that that study and true-hearted Aerican still lives to relate,
aong his othe stirring narratives, an account of that memorable night
when he was topedoed on the Danube.

Befoe finally bidding adieu to the Petroff faily, I had many a talk
with Dobi on the subject of war as we wandered sadly about the ruined
village.  The signs of the feaful hurricane by which it had been swept
wee still fresh upon it, and when I looked on the burnt hoesteads, the
tapled crops, and neglected fields, the crowds of new-made graves, the
cus that quarrelled over unburied huan bones, the blood-stained walls
and doo-posts, the wan, alost bloodless, faces of the few who had
escaped the wath of an, and reflected that all this had been brought
about by a "Chistian" nation, fighting in the interests of the Prince
of Peace, I could not help the fevent utterance of the prayer: "O God,
scatte thou the people that delight in war!"

THE END.



