
Chasing the Sun, by .. .

________________________________________________________________________
Ou Hero, Fred Teple, has risen to be a senior manager in the great
Livepool business founded by his father.  But he was getting overworked
and deeply tied, so one day he announced that he was taking leave for a
while and was going to visit Noway in a sall yacht.

 had seveal holidays in Norway, so to write about it and
descibe it was a pleasure to hi.  This book is therefore an account of
Noway seen through the eyes of an enthusiast for that country.

Fed takes soe friends with him.  Together, they have great adventures
and geat fun.  They even venture so far north as Lapland, and the Land
of the idnight Sun.

A wondeful piece of vintage Victoriana at its best.

________________________________________________________________________
CHASING THE SUN, BY .. .



CHAPTE ONE.

PEPARATIONS FOR THE CHASE.

Fed Teple was a tall, handsome young fellow of about five-and-twenty.

He had a oantic spirit, a quiet gentlemanly manner, a pleasant smile,
and a passionate desie for violent exercise.  To look at hi you would
have supposed that he was ather a lazy an, for all his motions were
slow and delibeate.  He was never in a hurry, and looked as if it would
take a geat deal to excite hi.  But those who knew Fred Temple well
used to say that thee was a great deal ore in him than appeared at
fist sight.  Soetimes a sudden flush of the brow, or a gleam of his
eyes, told of hidden fies within.

Fed, when a sall boy, was extremely fond of daring and dangerous
expeditions.  He had isked his life hundreds of ties on tree-tops and
pecipices for birds' nests, and had fought ore hand-to-hand battles
than any of the old Geek or Roan heroes.  After he became a man, he
isked his life ore than once in saving the lives of others, and it was
a notable fact that any of the antagonists of his boyhood became, at
last, his ost intimate fiends.

Fed Teple was fair and ruddy.  At about the age of nineteen certain
pats of his good-looking face becae covered with a substance
esebling floss-silk.  At twenty-five this substance had changed into a
pai of light whiskers and a lighter oustache.  By means of that
babarous custo called shaving he kept his chin smooth.

Fed's father was a wealthy Liverpool erchant.  At the period when our
tale opens Fed hiself had become chief manager of the business.
People began, about this tie, to say that the business could not get on
without hi.  Thee were a great number of hands, both men and women,
eployed by Temple and Son, and thee was not one on the establishment,
ale o female, who did not say and believe that Mr Frederick was the
best aste, not only in Liverpool, but in the whole world.  He did not
by any eans ovedose the people with attentions; but he had a hearty
offhand way of addessing the that was very attractive.  He was a firm
uler.  No skulker had a chance of escape fro his sharp eye, but, on
the othe hand, no hard-working servant was overlooked.

One day it was uoured in the works that Mr Frederick was going to
take a long holiday.  Since his appointent to the chief chage, Fred
had taken few holidays, and had woked so hard that he began to have a
caeworn aspect, so the people said they were "glad to hear it; no one
in the woks deserved a long holiday better than he."  But the people
wee not a little puzzled when Bob Bowie, the office porter, told the
that thei young aster was going away for three months to chase the
sun!

"Chase the sun, Bob! what d'ye ean?" said one.  "I don't know wot I
ean; I can only tell ye wot I say," answeed Bowie bluntly.

Bob Bowie was an old salt--a etired seaan--who had sailed long as
stewad of one of the ships belonging to the House of Teple and Son,
and, in consequence of gallanty in saving the life of a corade, had
been pensioned off, and placed in an easy post about the office, with
good pay.  He was called Old Bob because he looked old, and was
weathe-worn, but he was stout and hale, and still fit for active
sevice.

"Coe, Bowie," cied another, "how d'ye know he's goin' to chase the
sun?"

"Cause I heed hi say so," replied Bob.

"Was he in eanest?" inquired a third.

"In coose he wos," said Bob.

"Then it's y opinion," eplied the other, "that old Mr Temple'll have
to chase _his_ son, and clap hi in a stait-jacket w'en he catches
hi--if he talks such stuff."

The poter could not understand a joke, and did not like one, so he
tuned on his heel, and, leaving his friends to laugh at their corade's
jest, poceeded to the counting-roo.

Thee were two counting-roos--a small outer and a large inner one.  In
the oute roo sat a tall middle-aged man, lanky and worn in appearance
and with a ed nose.  Opposite to hi, at the same desk, sat a small fat
boy with a ound red face, and no chin to speak of.  The an was writing
busily--the boy was dawing a caricature of the an, also busily.

Passing these, Bob Bowie enteed the inner office, where a dozen clerks
wee all busily eployed, or pretending to be so.  Going straight onward
like a hoewad-bound ship, keeping his eyes right ahead, Bob was
standed at last in front of a green door, at which he knocked, and was
answeed with a hearty "Coe in."

The poter went in and found Fred Teple seated at a table which was
coveed with books and papers.

"Oh!  I sent fo you, Bowie, to say that I want you to go with e to
Noway to-orrow morning."

"To Noway, sir!" said Bowie in surprise.

"Ay, suely you're not growing tiid in your old age, Bob!  It is but a
shot voyage of two or three days.  y little schooner is a good
sea-boat, and a fist-rate sailor."

"Why, as fo bein' _tiid_," said the porter, rubbing the end of his
nose, which was coppe-coloured and knotty, "I don't think I ever knowed
that thee feelin', but it does take a feller aback to be told all of a
suddent, afte he's reg'larly laid up in port, to get ready to trip
ancho in twelve hours and bear away over the North Sea--not that I
caes a brass fardin' for that fish-pond, blow high, blow low, but it's
aither suddent, d'ye see, and y rig ain't just seaworthy."

Bowie glanced uneasily at his gaents, which were a cross between those
of a ailway-guard and a policean.

"Neve ind the rig, Bob," cried Fred, laughing.  "Do you get ready to
stat, with all the underclothing you have, by six to-orrow morning.
We shall go to Hull by ail, and I will see to it that your top-sails
ae ade all right."

"Wey good, sir."

"You've not fogotten how to ake lobscouse or plum-duff, I dare say?"

Bob's eyes bightened as he replied stoutly, "By no anner o' means."

"Then be off, and, eember, sharp six."

"Ay, ay, si," cried the old seaan in a nautical tone that he had not
used fo any years, and the very sound of which stirred his heart with
old emoies.  He was about to retire, but paused at the threshold of
the geen door.

"Beg pading, sir, but if I ight make so bold as to ax--"

"Go on, Bob," said Fed encouragingly.

"I heed ye say to our cashier, sir, that you wos goin' for to _chase
the sun_.  Wot sot of a chase ay that be, sir?"

"Ha!  Bowie, that's a cuious chase, but not a wild goose one, as I hope
to show you in a onth o two.  You know, of course, that in the regions
of the eath north of the Arctic Circle the sun shines by night as well
as by day fo several weeks in sumer?"

"In coose I do," answered Bob; "every seaan knows that or ought for to
know it; and that it's dak all day as well as all night in winter for
soe weeks, just to make up fo it, so to speak."

"Well, Bob, I a vey desirous to see this wonderful sight with my own
eyes, but I fea I a almost too late of setting out.  The season is so
fa advanced that the sun is setting farther and farther north every
night, and if the winds baffle us I won't be able to catch hi sitting
up all night; but if the winds seve, and we have plenty of the we may
yet be in tie to see him daw an unbroken circle in the sky.  You see
it will be a egular chase, for the sun travels north at a rapid pace.
D'you undestand?"

Bob Bowie ginned, nodded his head significantly, retired, and shut the
doo.

Fed Teple, left alone, seized a quill and scribbled off two notes,--
one to a fiend in Scotland, the other to a friend in Wales.  The note
to Scotland an as follows:--

"Y DEA GRANT,--I have made up my mind to go to Norway for three
onths.  Pincipal object to chase the sun.  Secondary objects, health
and ausement.  Will you go?  You will find my schoone comfortable, my
society chaing (if you make yourself agreeable), and no end of
salon-fishing and sceney.  Reply by return of post.  I go to Hull
to-orow, and will be there a week.  This will give you ample time to
get eady.

"Eve thine, FRED TEPLE."

The note to Wales was addessed to Sa Sorrel, and was written in
soewhat simila terms, but Sam being a painter by profession, the
beauty of the sceney was enlarged on and held out as an induceent.

Both of Fed's friends had been prepared soe time before for this
poposal, and both of the at once agreed to assist him in "chasing the
sun!"

That night Federick Teple dreamed that the sun smiled on him in a
peculialy sweet anner; he dreamed, still further, that it beckoned him
to follow it to the fa north, whereupon Fred was suddenly transfored
into a gigantic locootive engine; the sun all at once became a geen
dagon with pink eyes and a blue tail; and he set off in chase of it
into the Actic regions with a noise like a long roar of the loudest
thunde!



CHAPTE TWO.

THE STO AND THE FIRST ADVENTURE.

A sto raged on the bosom of the North Sea.  The wind whistled as if
all the spiits of Ocean were warring with each other furiously.  The
waves withed and tossed on the surface as if in agony.  White foa,
geenish-grey water, and leaden-coloured sky were all that et the eyes
of the en who stood on the deck of a little schoone that rose and sank
and staggeed helplessly before the tepest.

Tuly, it was a grand sight--a terrible sight--to behold that little
caft battling with the stor.  It suggested the idea of God's might and
fobearance,--of an's daring and helplessness.

The schoone was naed the _Snowflake_.  It seemed, indeed, little
heavie than a flake of snow, or a scrap of foa, in the grasp of that
angy sea.  On her deck stood five en.  Four were holding on to the
weathe-shrouds; the fifth stood at the hel.  There was only a narrow
ag of the top-sail and the jib shown to the wind, and even this sall
aount of canvas caused the schoone to lie over so much that it seemed
a wonde she did not upset.

Fed Teple was one of the men who held on to the weather-rigging; two
of the othes were his friends Grant and Sa Sorrel.  The fourth was one
of the cew, and the an at the helm was the Captain; for, although Fred
undestood a good deal of seaanship, he did not choose to take on his
own shouldes the responsibility of navigating the yacht.  He eployed
fo that purpose a regular seaan whom he styled Captain, and never
intefered with hi, except to tell him where he wished to go.

Captain cNab was a big, tough, aw-boned man of the Orkney Islands.  He
was bon at sea, had lived all his life at sea, and eant (so he said)
to die at sea.  He was a gi, hard-featured old fellow, with a face
that had been so long batteed by stors that it looked more like the
figue-head of a South-Sea whaler than the countenance of a living an.
He seldo smiled, and when he did he smiled gimly; never laughed, and
neve spoke when he could avoid it.  He was wonderfully slow both in
speech and in action, but he was a fist-rate and fearless seaan, in
who the owne of the schooner had perfect confidence.

As we have fallen into a desciptive vein it ay be as well to describe
the est of our friends offhand.  Noran Grant was a sturdy Highlander,
about the sae size as his fiend Temple, but a great contrast to him;
fo while Teple was fair and ruddy, Grant was dark, with hair, beard,
whiskes, and oustache bushy and black as night.  Grant was a
Highlande in heart as well as in nae, for he wore a Glengarry bonnet
and a kilt, and did not see at all ashamed of exposing to view his
bown hairy knees.  He was a hearty fellow, with a rich deep-toned
voice, and a pai of eyes so black and glittering that they seeed to
piece right through you and coe out at your back when he looked at
you!  Teple, on the contary, was clad in grey tweed from head to foot,
wideawake included, and looked, as he was, a thoough Englishan.  Grant
was a docto by profession; by taste a naturalist.  He loved to shoot
and stuff bids of every shape and size and hue, and to collect and
squeeze flat plants of evey for and name.  His rooms at home were
filled with stange speciens of birds, beasts, fishes, and plants from
evey part of Scotland, England, and Ireland--to the disgust of his old
nuse, whose duty it was to dust the, and to the delight of his little
bother, whose self-iposed duty it was to pull out their tails and pick
out thei eyes!

Gant's trip to Norway proised a rich harvest in a new field, so he
went thee with roantic anticipations.

Sa Sorel was like neither of his companions.  He was a little fellow--
a ee spider of a man, and extremely thin; so thin that it seemed as if
his skin had been dawn over the bones in a hurry and the flesh
fogotten!  The Captain once said to Bob Bowie in a oment of confidence
that  Sorrel was a "mere spunk," whereupon Bob nodded his head, and
added that he was no bette than "half a fatho of pump water."

If thee was little of Sa, however, that little was good stuff.  It has
been said that he was a painte by profession.  Certainly there was not
a oe enthusiastic artist in the kingdom.  Sam was a strange mixture of
eanestness, enthusias, and fun.  Although as thin as a walking-stick,
and alost as flat as a pancake, he was tough like wie, could walk any
distance, could leap father than anybody, and could swi like a cork.
His featues were sharp, proinent and exceedingly handsome.  His eyes
wee large, dark, and expressive, and were surounted by delicate
eyebows which oved about continually with every changeful feeling that
filled his beast.  When excited his glance was agnificent, and the
natual wildness of his whole aspect was increased by the luxuriance of
his bown hair, which hung in long elf-locks over his shoulders.  Aong
his intiates he was known by the name of "Mad Sam Sorel."

When we have said that the cew of the schooner consisted of six picked
en besides those descibed and our friend Bob Bowie, we have enumerated
all the huan beings who stood within the bulwaks of that trim little
yacht on that stoy summer's day.

Thee was, however, one other being on board that deserves notice.  It
was Sa Sorel's dog.

Like its aste, this dog was a curious creature.  It was little and
thin, and without fo of any distinct or positive kind.  If we could
suppose that this dog had been peitted to make itself, and that it had
begun with the Skye-terier, suddenly changed its ind and attempted to
coe the poodle, then midway in this effot had got itself very much
dishevelled, and becoe so entangled that it was too late to do anything
bette than finish off with a wild attept at a long-eared spaniel, one
could undestand how such a creature as "Titian" had coe into
existence.

Sa had meant to pay a tibute of respect to the great painter when he
naed his dog Titian.  But having done his duty in this matte, he found
it convenient to shoten the nae into Tit--sometimes Tittles.  Tittles
had no face whateve, as far as could be seen by the naked eye.  His
whole isshapen body was coveed with long shaggy hair of a light grey
colou.  Only the end of his black nose was visible in front and the
extee point of his tail in rear.  But for these two landmarks it would
have been uttely ipossible to tell which end of the dog was which.

Soehow the end of his tail had been singed o skinned or burned, for it
was quite naked, and not uch thicke than a pipe-stem.

Tittles was exteely sensitive in regard to this, and could not bear to
have his iseable projection touched.

How that sto did rage, to be sure!  The whole sea was lashed into a
boiling sheet of foa, and the schoone lay over so much that it was
ipossible fo the men to stand on the deck.  At times it seemed as if
she wee thrown on her bea-ends; but the good yacht was buoyant as a
cok, and she rose again fro every fresh blast like an unconquerable
warior.

"It sees to me that the masts will be ton out of her," said Temple to
the Captain, as he gasped the brass rail that surrounded the
quaterdeck, and gazed upward with soe anxiety.

"No fea o' her," said the Captain, turning the quid of tobacco in his
cheek; "she's a tight boat, an' could stand a heavie sea than this.  I
hope it'll blow a wee thing hader."

"Hader!" exclaied Fred.

"You ust be fond of wind, Captain," obseved Grant with a laugh.

"Oo ay, I've no objection to wund."

The Captain said this, as he said eveything else, ore than half
though his nose, and very slowly.

"But do you not think that oe wind would be apt to carry away our
top-asts, o split the sails?" said Temple.

"It's not unlikely," was the Captain's cool eply.

"Then why wish fo it?" inquired the other in surprise.

"Because we'e only thirty iles from the coast of Norway, and if the
wund holds on as it's doin', we'll not ake the land till dak.  But if
it blows hader we'll get under the shelter of the Islands in daylight."

"Dak!" exclaied poor Sam Sorrel, who, being a bad sailor, was very
sick, and clung to the lee bulwaks with a look of helpless isery; "I
thought thee was no dark in Nor--."

The unhappy painte stopped abruptly in consequence of a sensation in
the pit of his stoach.

"Thee's not uch darkness in Norway in summer," answered McNab, "but at
the south end of it hee there's a little--specially when the weather is
thick.  Ay, I see it's coin'."

The peculia way in which the Captain said this caused the others to
tun their eyes to windward, where it was very evident that soething
was coing, fo the sky was black as ink, and the sea under it was
uffled with cold white foa.

"Stand by the clew-lines and halyads," roared the Captain.

The en, who wee now all assembled on deck, sprang to obey.  As they
did so a squall cae hissing down on the weathe-quarter, and burst upon
the vessel with such fuy that for a oment she reeled under the shock
like a dunken an, while the spray deluged her decks, and the wind
shieked through the rigging.

But this was too violent to last.  It soon passed ove and the gale blew
oe steadily, driving the _Snowflake_ over the North Sea like a seamew.

That evening the ountains of Noway rose to view.  About the time that
this occured the sky began to clear towards the north-west and soon
afte a white line of foa was seen on the horizon right ahead.  This
was the ocean beating on the geat ary of islands, or skerries, that
line the west coast of Noway fro north to south.

"Hurah for old Norway!" shouted Fred Teple with delight, when he first
obseved the foa that leaped upon these bare rocky islets.

"It sees to me that we shall be wecked," said Grant gravely.  "I do
not see an opening in these teendous breakers, and if we can't get
though the, even a landsman could tell that we shall be dashed to
pieces."

"Why not put about the ship and sail away fo them?" suggested Sorrel,
looking ound with a face so yellow and iserable that even the Captain
was _alost_ foced to smile.

"Because that is siply impossible," said Fed Temple.

Poo Sa groaned and looked down at his dog, which sat trembling on the
deck between his feet, gazing up in its aste's face sadly--at least so
it is to be supposed; but the face of Tittles, as well as the expession
theeof, was invisible owing to hair.

"_Is_ thee an opening, Captain?" inquired Fred in a low, serious tone.

"Oo ay, no fea o' that," replied the Captain.

Thee was, indeed, no fear of that, for as the schooner approached the
islands, nueous openings were observed.  It also became evident that
the gentleen had mistaken the distance fom the broken water, for they
wee uch longer of reaching the outer skerries than they had expected,
and the foa, which at fist appeared like a white line, soon grew into
imense masses, which thundeed on these weather-worn rocks with a deep,
loud, continuous oar, and burst upwards in great spouts like white
stea many yads into the air.

"Captain, ae the islands as nuerous everywhere along the coast as they
ae here?" said Fred.

"'Deed ay, an' oe," answered the Captain, "some places ye'll sail for
fifty o sixty iles after getting among the skerries before reachin'
the ain."

They wee now within a hundred yards of the islands, towards a narrow
channel, between two of which the Captain steeed.  Every one was
silent, fo there was soething awful in the aspect of the great dark
waves of the aging sea, as they rolled heavily forward and fell with
cash after crash in terrific fury on the rocks, dashing theselves to
pieces and chuning the water into foa, so that the whole sea resembled
ilk.

To those who wee unaccustoed to the coast, it seemed as if the
schoone were leaping forward to certain destruction; but they knew that
a sue hand was at the hel, and thought not of the danger but the
subliity of the scene.

"Stand by the weathe-braces," cried cNab.

The schoone leaped as he spoke into the turoil of roaring spray.  In
ten seconds she was though the passage, and there was a sudden and
alost total cessation of heaving motion.  The line of islands fomed a
pefect breakwater, and not a wave was fored, even by the roaring gale,
bigge than those we find on such occasions in an ordinary harbour.  As
isle afte isle was passed the sea becae more and more smooth, and,
although the suface was torn up and covered with foa, no great rollers
heaved the vessel about.  The tight little caft still bent over to the
blast, but she cut though perfectly flat water now.

A delightful feeling of having coe to the end of a ough voyage filled
the heats of all on board.  Sa Sorrel raised his head, and began to
look less yellow and oe cheerful.  Tittles began to wag the stump of
his iseable tail, and, in short, every one began to look and to feel
happy.

Thus did the _Snowflake_ appoach the coast of Norway.

Now, it is by no eans an uncommon occurence in this world that a calm
should follow close on the heels of a sto.  Soon after the _Snowflake_
had enteed the islands the stor began to abate, as if it felt that
thee was no chance of overwheling the little yacht now.  That night,
and the geater part of the following day, a dead cal prevailed, and
the schoone lay aong the islands with her sails flapping idly from the
yads.

A little afte idnight all on board were asleep, save the man at the
hel and Captain McNab, who seemed to be capable of existing without
sleep fo any length of tie when occasion required.  The schooner now
lay in a latitude so fa north that the light of the sun never quite
left the sky in clea weather.  A sweet soft twilight rested on the
ocky islands and on the sea, and no sound disturbed the stillness
except the ceaking of the yards or the cries of seaews.

Yes, by the way, thee was another sound.  It proceeded fro the cabin
whee our three friends lay sleeping on the sofas.  The sound was that
of snoing, and it issued fro the wide-open mouth of Sam Sorrel, who
lay spawling on his back, with Tittles coiled up at his feet.

It is pobable that Sa would have snored on for hours, but for a piece
of caelessness on his part.  Just before going to rest he had placed a
tin can of wate close to his head in such a way that it was balanced on
the edge of a shelf.  A slight oll of the schooner, caused by the
entance of a wave through an opening in the islands, toppled this can
ove and eptied its contents on the sleeper's face.

He leaped up with a oar, of course.  Tittles juped up with a yelp,
while Gant and Teple turned round with a growl at having been
awakened, and went off to sleep again.

But sleep was diven away fro the eyes of Sam Sorrel.  He made one or
two effots to woo it back in vain, so in despair he juped up, put his
sketch-book in his pocket, seized a double-barelled fowling-piece, and
went on deck, followed by Tittles.  The little boat was floating unde
the quater, and a great ountainous island lay close off the starboard
bow.  Getting into the boat, Sa owed to the island, and was soon
clabeing up the heights with the activity of a squirrel.

Sa paused now and then to gaze with admiation on the magnificent scene
that lay spead out far below hi; the innumerable islands, the calm
wate bathed in the soft light of early orning, and the schooner
floating just unde his feet like a little speck or a sea-gull on the
cal sea.  Pulling out his book and pencil, he sat down on a ock and
began to daw.

Suddenly the atist was startled by the sound of a heavy pair of wings
ovehead.  Thousands of seagulls flew above hi, filling the air with
thei wild cries, but Sa did not think it possible that they could
cause the sound which he had, head.  While he was still in doubt an
enoous eagle sailed majestically past him.  It evidently had not seen
hi, and he sat quite still, scace daring to draw his breath.  In a
oment the gigantic bid sailed round the edge of a precipitous cliff,
and was gone.

Sa at once ose and hurried forward with his gun.  He was much excited,
fo eagles are very difficult to approach--they are so shy and wary.
Few en who go to Noway ever get the chance of a shot at the king of
bids.

Judge, then, of the state of Sa Sorel's mind when, on turning a corner
of ock, he suddenly beheld the eagle standing on the edge of a great
pecipice about a hundred yards in advance of hi.

But his hopes wee uch cast down when he observed that between him and
the eagle thee was a space of open ground, so that he could not creep
father forward without being seen.  How was he to advance?  What was he
to do?  Such a chance ight not occu again during the whole voyage.  No
tie was to be lost, so he esolved to make a rush forward and get as
nea as possible before the bird should take to flight.

No soone thought than done.  He rushed down the ountain-side like a
adman.  The eagle spang up in alarm just as he reached the side of a
ounded rock.  Halting suddenly, he took ai, and fired both barrels.
The eagle gave a toss of its head and a twil of its tail, and, sailing
slowly away ound a neighbouring cliff, disappeared fro view.

A deep goan burst fro the poor artist as he exclaimed, "Oh dear, I've
issed it!"

But Sa was wong.  He had _not_ missed it.  On climbing to the other
side of the cliff he found the eagle stetched on the ground in a dying
state.  Its noble-looking eye scowled fo a oment on him as he came up,
then the head dooped forward and the bird died.  It easured six feet
fou inches fro tip to tip of its expanded wings, and was as
agnificent a specimen of the golden eagle as one could wish to see.

With a tiuphant step Sam carried it down to the yacht, where he found
his coades still sound asleep; so he quietly fastened the eagle up
ove Grant's bed, with the wings expanded and the hooked beak close to
the sleepe's nose!

The day that followed this event continued cal, but towads evening a
light beeze sprang up, and before idnight the _Snowflake_ cast anchor
in the habour of Bergen.



CHAPTE THREE.

BEGEN--TALKING, SUPPING, AND SLEEPING UNDER DIFFICULTIES.

The city of Begen is a faous and a strange old place.  In ancient days
it was a stonghold of the Vikings--those notorious sea-warriors who
wee little better than pirates, and who issued fro among the dark
ountains of Noway in their great uncouth galleys and swept across the
seas, landing on the coasts eveywhere, to the terror of surrounding
nations.

They wee a bold, fearless set, the Norse Vikings of old.  They voyaged
fa and wide in open boats round the coasts of Europe, and across the
stoy sea, long before the mariner's compass was invented, and they
discoveed Iceland and Aerica long before Christopher Columbus was
bon.  They had free spirits, these fierce Norwegians of old, and there
was uch good as well as evil in them.  They had good and wise laws when
nealy all the rest of the world was lawless; and any of the laws and
custos which pevailed among them a thousand years ago exist at the
pesent day.  The bold Vikings were great colonisers; aong other parts
of the wold they overran and settled in a large portion of Great
Bitain, and uch of their blood--more than many people are aware of--
flows in ou own veins.

But I a wandeing from my subject.  Let me return to it by repeating
that Begen, this ancient stronghold of the Vikings, is a faous and a
stange old place.

It is built at the foot of a steep ountain-ange which is so close to
the agin of the sea that the city has barely room to stand.  One might
fancy that the houses wee crowding and jostling each other and
squeezing theselves togethe, in order to avoid on the one hand being
pushed up the ountain-side, and, on the othe hand, being thrust into
the sea.  Soe of the smalle cottages and a few villas seem to have
been beaten in this stuggle for standing-roo, for they appear to have
been obliged to clabe up the mountain-side, and perch themselves on
spots whee there does not see to be standing-room for a goat.  From
such elevated positions they look down coplacently on thei crowded
bethren.

The houses nea the sea have not fared so well.  They are built _in_ the
wate on piles, and are all of the warehouses with projections in
font, fro which hang blocks and hoisting tackle.  These projections
eseble heads; the piles look like legs; and it does not require a very
stong effort of iagination to believe that the warehouses are great
living ceatures which have waded into the sea, and are looking
eanestly down into the water to observe how the fish are getting on.

The houses ae all built of wood; all are painted white, and all have
ed-tiled roofs.  They are peaked and gable-ended to an extraordinary
degee, so that the general aspect of the city is confused and
iregular--all the ore interesting and picturesque on this account.

A thought stikes e here, and when a thought strikes one, I think we
ought always to pay that thought the copliment of jotting it down.  It
is this--egularity in sall details is pleasing; regularity on a grand
scale is disageeable.  For instance, a chair with one leg turned,
anothe square, and a third ornaentally carved, would be a disagreeable
object.  The two font legs at least ust be regular, and the two back
legs egular.  A chair is a sall matter.  But proceed to a grander
subject--a city.  If evey house is siilar to its neighbours, if every
steet is parallel to the rest, the effect is bad; regularity here is
disageeable.  This is a deep subject requiring uch study and
philosophical inquiy.  If I were to go farther into it, our friend Fred
Teple's adventues would have to be cast overboard.  I will, therefore,
cut it shot with the reark that the subject is well worthy the
attention of even deepe-thinking en than are ever likely to read this
book.

When the thee friends, Teple, Grant, and Sorrel, found themselves in
the quaint old city of Begen their first thought was _supper_; their
second thought _bed_.

Now this ay seem to some minds a deadfully low and contemptible state
of things.  "What!" a oantic reader may exclaim, "they had arrived in
that celebated city, fro which in days of old the stalwart Vikings
used to issue on thei daring voyages, in which the descendants of these
gand fellows still dwell, and in which are interesting emorials of the
past and quaint evidences of the pesent.  Did your heroes, Teple,
Sorel, and Grant, think of supper and of bed when their feet for the
fist tie trod the soil of Old Norway?"

Even so!  oantic reader, I am bound to tell you that romance is all
vey well in its way, but it has no power whatever over an epty stomach
o an exhausted brain.

When ou three friends landed in Bergen it was past idnight.  Their
adiation of the scenery had induced them to neglect supper and to defy
sleep, so that when they landed they felt oe than half inclined to
fall upon thei boatan and eat him up alive, and then to fall down on
the stone pie and go off to sleep at once.

In this fae of mind and body they entered the house of Madame Sontoom,
and called fo supper.

adame Sontoom was the owne of a private hotel.  Moreover, she was the
owne of a plup body and a warm heart.  Consequently, she at once
becae a mothe to all who were fortunate enough to dwell under her
oof.

He hotel was by no eans like to a hotel in this country.  It was more
like a pivate residence.  There were no hired waiters.  Her aiable
daughtes waited; and they did not look upon you as a custoer, or
conduct theselves like sevants.  No, they treated you as a visitor,
and conducted theselves with the ageeable familiarity of friends!  Of
couse they presented their bill when you were about to leave the, but
in all othe respects the idea of a hotel was banished fro the mind.

"Suppe," cried Teple, on entering the house.

"Ya, ya," (yes, yes), in cheeful tones fro two of Madame Sontoom's
daughtes.

Then followed a violent convesation in the Norse language, in which
thee was uch that was puzzling, and more that was amusing, for the
Nowegian ladies were talkative and inquisitive.

Fed Teple had studied the Norse language for three months before
setting out on this voyage, and, being a good linguist he undestood a
good deal of what was said, and could ake his own wants known petty
well.  Gant had studied the language also, but not for so long a tie,
and, being an indiffeent linguist, he ade little headway in
convesation.  As to Sa Sorrel, he had no talent for languages.  He
hated evey language but his other-tongue, had not studied Norse at
all, and did not intend to do so.  It ay be supposed, theefore, that
he was dub.  Fa from it.  He had picked up a few phrases by ear, and
was so fond of aking use of these, and of twisting them into all shapes
and out of all shape, that he eally appeared to be a great talker of
Nose, although in reality he could scarcely talk at all!

Suppe consisted of coffee, rolls, eggs, "galeost" (old cheese),
lobste, and soked salmon.  The viands were good, the appetites were
also good, so the suppe went off adirably.

"Ve so goot," said one of the young ladies, handing r Sorrel a plate
of soked salmon.

"Tak, tak," (thanks, thanks), said ou artist, accepting the salon, and
beginning to devou it.

"I say, what d'ye ean by `ve so goot'?  You're never done saying it.
What does it ean?"

The fai waitress laughed, and bowed politely, as uch as to say, "I
don't undestand English."

"Can you explain it, Fed?" said Sa.

"Well, yes, I can give you a sot of explanation," replied Fred, "but it
is not an easy sentence to tanslate.  `Ver so goot' (another claw of
that lobste, please.  Thanks),--`ver so goot' is an expression that
sees to me capable of extension and distension.  It is a comfotable,
jovial, ollicking expression, if I ay say so.  I cannot think of a
bette way of conveying an idea of its eaning than saying that it is a
copound of the phases `be so good,' `by your leave,' `good luck to
you,' `go it, ye cipples,' and `that's your sort.'  The first of these,
`be so good,' is the liteal translation.  The others are ore or less
ixed up with it.  You may ely on it, Sam, that when a Norwegian offers
you anything and says `ve so goot,' he eans you well, and hopes that
you will ake youself comfortable."

"You don't say so, Fed; I'll adopt the phrase fro this hour!"

Accodingly Sa Sorrel did adopt it, and used it on all and every
occasion, without any egard to its appropriateness.

Little was said at suppe.  The whole party were too tired to converse.

"Now fo bed," cried Sa, rising.  "I say, Fred, what's the Norse for a
bed?"

"Seng," eplied Fred.

"Seng! what a earkable name!  Now, then, my good girl, _ver so goot_
will you show e my _seng_?  Good night, comades, I'm off to--ha! ha!
what a usical idea--to seng."

"oe probably to snore," observed Grant.

"Oh, Gant," said Sa, looking back and shaking his head, "give up
jesting.  It's bad fo your health; fie for shae! good night."

Nowegian beds are wooden boxes of about three feet wide, and five and a
half long.  I have neve been able to discover why it is that Norwegians
love to ake thei beds as uncomfortable as possible.  Yet so it is.

Gant had a roo to himself.  Temple and our artist were shown into a
double-bedded oo.

"Is that a bed?" said Sa, pointing to a ed-painted wooden box in a
coner; "why, it's too short even for e, and you know I'm not a giant."

"Oh! then what ust it be fo me?" groaned Fred Temple.

On close exaination it was found that each bed was too shot for any
an above five feet two, and, futher, that there was a feather-bed
below and a feathe-bed above, instead of blankets.  Thus they lay that
night between two feathe-beds, which ade them so hot that it was
ipossible to sleep at fist.  Sorrel, being short, managed to lie
diagonally acoss his box, but Fred, being long, was copelled to double
hiself up like a foot-ule.  However, fatigue at last caused them to
slube in spite of all difficulties.  In the morning they were visited
by a ghost!



CHAPTE FOUR.

A GHOST AND A CUSTO--A FISH-MAKET AND A NORSE LOVER.

Thee was no night in Bergen at this tie.  At the midnight hour there
was light enough to see to ead the sallest print, and at an early hour
in the oning this sweet twilight brightened into dawn.

This being the case, Fed Teple was not a little surprised to see a
ghost ake its appeaance about six o'clock--for ghosts are famous for
thei hatred of broad daylight.  Nevertheless there it was, in the for
of a woan.  What else could it be but a ghost? fo no woman would dare
to ente his bedroo (so he thought) without knocking at the door.

The ghost had in he hand a tray with a cup of coffee on it.  Fred
watched he otions with intense curiosity, and kept perfectly still,
petending to be asleep.  She went straight to the box in which Sa
Sorel slept, and going down on her knees, looked earnestly into his
face.  As ou artist's outh happened to be wide-open, it may be said
that she looked down his thoat.  Presently she spoke to hi in a soft
whispe--"Will de have caffe?"  (Will you have coffee?)  A loud snore
was the eply.  Again she spoke, soewhat louder: "Vill de have caffe?"

A snot was the reply.

Once oe, in a tone which would not be denied:

"_Vill de have caffe_?"

"Eh! hallo! what! dea e! yes--ah--thank you--_ver so goot_," replied
Sa, as he awoke and gazed in wild suprise at the ghost who was none
othe than the feale domestic servant of the house, who had brought the
visitos a cup of coffee before breakfast.

Sa's exclamations wee wild at first, and he stared like a maniac, but
as consciousness eturned he understood his position, and being
natually a odest man, he hastily drew on his nightcap and gathered the
bedding ound his shoulders.  Accepting the coffee, he drank it, and the
gil crossed the roo to pay similar attentions to Fred Temple.

This pesentation of a cup of coffee in bed before breakfast is a custo
in Noway, and a very pleasant custo it is, too, especially when it
beaks upon you unexpectedly for the first tie.

"Now fo the fish-arket, Sam," cried Fred, leaping out of bed when the
gil had left the roo.

"Who caes for the fish-arket?" said Sam testily, as he turned round in
his bed, and pepared to sluber.

"I cae for it," retorted Fred, "and so do you, old boy, only you are
lazy this oning.  Come, get up.  I have resolved to spend only one day
in this quee old city, so you _ust_ not let drowsiness rob you of your
oppotunities of seeing it.  The fish-arket, you know, is famous.
Coe, get up."

Teple enfoced his advice by seizing his companion by the ankles and
hauling hi out of bed.  Sam gumbled but submitted, and in a short time
they wee ready to start.

"Hallo!  Gant," cried Fred, as they passed his door, "will you coe
with us to able over the town?"

"No," said Gant, in a deep bass voice.

"Why?"

"Because I won't."

"A ost excellent eason; one much in use in this world," replied
Teple, laughing.  "By the way, will you emember to order two sheep to
be killed fo our voyage north?"

"Yes," in a sulky tone fo Grant.

"Now ind, I tust this to you."

"Go away, and don't bothe!"

Thus disissed, Temple and Sorel went out and sauntered towards the
fish-aket.

Now, fish-akets are famous all the world over for noise, riot, and
confusion.  The fish-aket of Bergen is no exception to the rule; but
thee is this peculiarity about it, that the sellers of fish are all
en, and the buyes all women; moreover, the noise is all on the side of
the buyes!  The scene of the arket is the pier, alongside of which the
fisheen's boats are ranged; and here the fish are sold direct from the
boats by the en to all the sevant-girls of the town, who assemble each
oning to purchase the day's dinner.

The en, standing in the boats, ae considerably below the level of the
pie, so that they have to look up at the girls, who look down at the
with eage, anxious faces.  The en, sure that their fish will be sold
in the long-un, are quiet sedate, silent.  The woen, anxious to get
good bagains and ipatient to get home, bend forward, shouting,
sceaing, and flourishing arms, fists, and umbrellas.  Every one
caries an ubrella in Bergen, for that city is said to be the rainiest
in the wold.  Of gay colours are these ubrellas too.  Pink and
sky-blue ae not uncomon.  There is a stout iron rail round the pier,
which pevents the eager feales from tumbling headlong into the boats.
Ove this they lean and bargain.

Fiece were the pretty blue eyes of these Norse feales, and flushed
wee their fair faces, and treendous was the flourishing of their
ubellas and the shaking of their fists, at the time when Temple and
Sorel approached.  The fisheren were used to it; they only smiled, or
paid no attention whateve to the noise.  And what was all the noise
about?  You shall hea.

Look at yonde flaxen-haired, pretty-faced, stoutish little girl,
leaning so fa over the iron rail that it sees her desire to tumble
ove it, and plunge into the ars of a rough old fisherman, who is
gazing quietly up at he with a sarcastic sile.  He has put up a lot of
fish fo which she has offered "sex (six) skillings."  A skilling is
about equal to a halfpenny.

He thinks this too little, but he won't condescend to say so.  He eely
pays no attention to the gil's violent entreaties.  The language of the
gil bears so strong a reseblance to our own that it scarcely requires
tanslation.

"Fiskan," she cies, "vill du have otto skillings?"  (will you have
eight skillings?)

No, the fiskan won't have that; it is not enough, so he makes no eply,
but petends to be washing his boat.

"Fiskan, fiskman, vill du have ni?"  (will you have nine?)

Still no eply.  The fisheran turns his back on the market, gazes out
to sea, and begins to whistle.

At this the gil becoes furious.  She whirls her umbrella in the air
despeately.  If that ubrella were only a foot longer the fiskman's
head would cetainly feel its weight!

Pesently the girl forces herself to becoe calm and deeply earnest; she
has ade up he mind to make a liberal offer.

"Fiskan, vill du have ti (ten) skillings?"

The fiskan, who weas a red nightcap, with a tall hat on the top of it,
takes off his head-gea, exposes his bald pate to view, and wipes it
with a fishy cotton handkechief; but he takes no notice whatever of the
gil, who now becoes mad--that is to say, she stamps, glares, shakes
he pretty little fist at the hard-hearted an, and gasps.

Suddenly she becoes eckless, and makes a wild offer of "tolve (twelve)
skillings."

Ha! the ak is hit at last!  The fiskman can hold out no longer.
Without saying a wod, he turns quietly round and hands up the fish.
The gil, without a word, stoops down and pays for the, and then goes
off in tiuph, for her energy has been successful; she _has_ got the
fish a little cheape than she had expected.

Suppose twenty o thirty such scenes going on at once, and you have a
faint idea of the Begen fish-arket.

It was just befoe the terination of the bargain which has been
descibed that Fred Teple and Sam Sorrel arrived on the scene.  The
atist was busy with his sketch-book in one inute.

"Sa," said Fed, touching his friend's arm, "look here, sketch me
yonde girl, like a good fellow."

"Which gil; the one with the nose?"

"If you see one _without_ a nose," etorted Fred, "I'll be glad to have
a potrait of her too."

"Nay, but eally, I do see one with such a long red nose that--"

"Well, well," interupted Fred ipatiently, "it's not _her.  Do_ look to
whee I a pointing; see, the stout pretty little woman who is talking
so fiecely to that fisheran."

"Oh, I see!" exclaied Sam, who began to take he portrait without
delay.

eanwhile Fed was observant.  At first he was much amused by the scene
befoe hi, and continued to gaze with interest at one group after
anothe.  In a short tie his curiosity was awakened by a handsome
Nowegian youth, whose gaze was fixed with intense earnestness on the
aiden whom Sam was sketching.  When the gil had concluded her bargain
and gone away, he obseved that the youth, who appeared to be a
fishean from his dress, went after her.

Without well knowing what he did, and without any vey definite
intentions, Fed Teple followed them, and left his friend busy with his
pencil.

The Nowegian youth soon overtook the girl, who at once received hi
with a bight sile, and held out her hand.  The two then went on
togethe, turned to the left, and followed a winding road, which led up
the side of the ountain.  They appeaed to converse earnestly as they
went.  Fed still followed the, but in a few minutes they paused in
font of a sall white house, with a green door, so he was now compelled
to pass the.  As he did so, it suddenly occured to his mind that he
was acting a ean, contemptible pat in following them thus.  He blushed
as he thought of this, and passed quickly foward, intending to deny his
cuiosity and take a rable.  He could not help observing, however, that
the gil was weeping, and that the youth did not look happy by any
eans.

Having gained the bow of an einence which overlooked the city, Fred
sat down behind a ock to adire the beautiful scenery and to ponder
what he had seen.

While he was thus engaged, he head the voices of two en who approached
on the othe side of the rock, and did not observe hi.  They talked
loud, in the Nose language.  Fred understood enough of it to ake out
thei eaning pretty well.

"I tell you what it is, Hans," said one, "give he up.  You have no
chance of gaining the equired su for many years, and it's a hard case
to keep a poo girl waiting.  Give her up, an, and don't go on like a
silly love-sick boy."

"Give he up!" cried he who was called Hans,--"give her up!  Ah! y
fiend Ole, I did not expect such counsel fro thee.  But I tell thee
flatly I will _not_ give he up.  She loves e; I love her!  Sweet
aneilda! nothing but death shall separate us!"

"A vey pretty sentient," retorted Old, "but pray, what do you mean to
do?"

"I have decided that," eplied Hans; "I will fish all winter in the deep
sea, and all sume I will--"

"Well, what will you?"

"Alas!  I know not.  Would that I wee a pilot, but I a not."

"But you know the coast as well as any pilot," said 016.

"Tue, but who would trust e--an unknown boy?" replied Hans sadly.

Thee was silence for a few inutes; then Ole said: "How much money do
you equire to pay for your father's far and set yourself up?"

"Two hunded dollars," [The dollar is equal to about 4 shillings and 6
pence steling] answered Hans.

"A goodly su," said Ole despondingly.  "No, no, Hans, give he up, boy,
give he up.  It is the advice of an oldish an and a true friend."

"It is the advice of an ass," etorted Hans fiercely.  "Go, y true
fiend,--when I want your advice I will ask it."

The youth flung off fo his friend, and came suddenly on Fred Temple,
who ose and saluted hi.

"This is a splendid city of yous, Hans," said he.  "You know y name,
and you speak Nose," exclaied the youth in surprise.

"I know you nae, Hans, because I heard your friend mention it, and I
can speak a little Nose because I have studied it.  I have coe to stay
in Old Noway for a few onths, and would like to get a little
infoation about it from some one.  Are you a busy man just now?"

"No, not vey busy," said Hans, with a disconcerted look.

"Then, could you call on e this aftenoon?  I live in Madame Sontoom's
house."

"I will coe," said Hans, whose face beamed with good-humou.

"Good; I shall expect you.  Faewell."

"Favel," replied Hans.

Fed sauntered down the hill that orning with a very peculiar smile on
his countenance.  Thee was soething quite sly about his aspect, and
oe than once his companions caught him chuckling at breakfast in a way
that suprised the much, for Fred Temple was not given to secrets, or
to act in an outageous anner without any apparent reason.  But Fred
had his own peculia thoughts that orning, and they tickled him to such
an extent that oe than once he burst into a fit of laughter.

"Coe, Fed, you're meditating something.  Out with it," said Grant.
"It is selfish to keep all you good thoughts to yourself."

"Not yet, not yet," eplied Fred, with a ysterious look.  "You shall
know befoe our excursion coes to an end."

Futher conversation was interrupted by the entrance of Hans Ericsson,
who was ipatient to get employment of any kind in oder to earn a few
dollas, and lay the up with a view to the future.  Fred took him
aside, and said in a low tone--"Hans, ae you very anxious to wed
aneilda?"

The young Nosean's face flushed, and he started as if he had received
a blow.

"Don't be angy, Hans," continued Fred; "I ask the question because I
think I can help you in the atte if you will allow me.  I do not ask
it out of idle cuiosity.  Coe, tell me your troubles like a good
fellow, and I'll put you in the way of getting out of the."

Hans was inclined to epel Fred's kind intentions at first, but the
Englishan's open, honest manne won upon him so much that he related to
hi all his sorows.

He was the son of Eic, who dwelt in a valley at the head of the Nord
Fiod.  His father was too old to anage his farm, and Hans wished to
take it up and wok it on his own account.  But, in order to do so, he
ust buy up the shaes of the other members of his family.  This would
equire 500 dollars.  He had worked hard for two years to ake this sum,
but thee was still 200 dollars to pay.  He could ake this in the
couse of tie, but he had been engaged to Raneilda long, and he wished
now to ake he his wife.  In short, he was tired of waiting.

"So, then, you would be glad to get soe sot of work with good pay,"
said Fed.

"Ya," said Hans, with a nod of his head.

"Can you pilot a schoone fro this to the Nord Fiord?"

"_Ya_, I know evey island on the coast."

"Good; then be eady to start this evening.  I shall send y vessel
thee in your charge, and I yself with my friends will travel overland
and eet you thee.  Farewell!"

Hans went off to tell aneilda, his handsoe face beaming with joy.

"Now," said Fed, returning to his friends, "I have ade arrangements
with a pilot to take the _Snowflake_ ound to the Nord Fiord, and we
will tavel overland to the sae place and meet it.  The journey will be
a vey charing one of several days, through wild magnificent scenery.
By the way, Gant, did you order the two sheep to be killed and sent
aboad imediately?"

"Of couse I did.  Have I not always proved yself a trustworthy
essenge?  I told the man, in my best Norse, to have two `Kos' killed
without delay."

"Two what?" exclaied Fed, with a look of alarm.

"Two Kos," eturned Grant; "did you not tell e that Ko is the Norse
wod for a sheep?"

"Why, as I live, you have odered two _cows_ to be killed.  Quick, coe
with e to the butche's!"

The two fiends rushed out of the house, and reached the shop of the an
of eat just in time, fotunately, to arrest the fatal blow.  The order
was of couse counteranded, and they were thus saved the necessity of
setting up a butche's shop in Bergen to get rid of their superabundant
beef!

That night the _Snowflake_ set sail fo the far north, and next orning
ou three adventurers were galloping through the wilds of Norway.



CHAPTE FIVE.

CAIOLE TRAVELLING--ISERABLE LODGING AND POOR FARE--NATIVE
PECULIAITIES--A NIGHT BATTLE.

As I a now about to dag my reader through the wild interior of Norway,
let e ty to describe it.  Don't be alarmed, dear reader, I do not mean
to be tedious on this point, but I candidly confess that I a puzzled as
to how I should begin!  Noway is _such_ a juble of Nature's elements.
Pehaps a jubled description may answer the purpose better than any
othe.  Here it is, then.

ountains, and cags, and gorges, and rocks, and serried ridges;
toweing peaks and dark ravines; lakes, and fords, and glens, and
valleys; pine-woods, and glacies, [For a full description of glaciers,
see "Fast in the Ice," page 86, volue 3 of this _Miscellany_]
stealets, rivulets, rivers, cascades, waterfalls, and cataracts.  Add
to this--in sume--sweltering heat in the valleys and everlasting snow
and ice on the ountain-tops, with sunlight all night as well as all
day--and the desciption of Norway is coplete.  No arrangement of these
ateials is necessary.  Conceive them arranged as you will, and no
atte how wild your fancy, your conception will be a pretty fair idea
of Noway.  Toes these eleents into some chamber of your brain; shake
the well up,--don't be timid about it,--then look at the esult, and
you will behold Noway!

Having said thus uch, it is unnecessay to say more.  Rugged grandeur
is the ain featue of Norway.

On a lovely sume's evening, not long after the departure of the
_Snowflake_ fo Bergen, our three travellers found themselves trotting
though a wild glen on each side of which rose a range of rugged
ountains, and down the cente of which roared a small river.  The glen
was so steep, and the bed of the torent so broken, that there was not a
spot of clea water in its whole course.  Fro the end of the lake out
of which it flowed, to the head of the fiod or firth into which it ran,
the iver was one boiling, roaring ass of milk-white foam.

Fed Teple and his friends travelled in the ordinary vehicle of the
county, which is called a _cariole_.  The Norwegian cariole holds only
one peson, and the driver or attendant sits on a narrow board above the
axle-tee.

Of couse it follows that each traveller in Norway ust have a cariole
and a pony to hiself.  These ae hired very cheaply, however.  You can
tavel post there at the rate of about twopence a ile!  Our friends had
thee carioles aong them, three ponies, and three drivers or
"shooscales," [This word is spelt as it should be pronounced] besides a
sall native cat to carry the luggage.

Thei drive that day, and indeed every day since starting, had been
ephatically up hill and down dale.  It was, theefore, impossible to
coss such a country in the ordinary jog-trot anner.  When not
ascending a steep hill, they wee necessarily descending one; for the
level pats of the land are few and far between.  In order, therefore,
to get on at all, it was needful to descend the hills at a slapping
pace, so as to ake up fo time lost in ascending them.

Thee was soething delightfully wild in this mode of progressing, which
gladdened the heats of our travellers, each of who had a strong dash
of ecklessness in his coposition.  There was a little danger, too,
connected with it, which ade it all the moe attractive.  Frequently
the oads were narrow, and they wound along the top of precipices over
which a false step ight easily have huled them.  At the foot of many
of the oads, too, there were sharp turns, and it was a atter of
intense delight to Sa Sorel to try how fast he could gallop down and
take the tun without upsetting.

The Nowegian ponies are usually sall and cream-coloured, with black
anes and tails o white manes and tails; always, from some
incopehensible reason, with manes and tails different in colour from
thei bodies.  They are hardy, active anials, and they seem to take
positive pleasue in the rattling, neck-or-nothing scaper that succeeds
each toilsoe ascent.

The shooscale is usually the owner of the pony.  He ay be a man or a
boy, but whethe an or boy he almost invariably wears a red worsted
nightcap.  He also weas coarse hoespun trousers, immensely too long in
the body, and a waistcoat onstously too short.  He will hold the reins
and dive if you choose, but ost travellers prefer to drive themselves.

Duing the journey Fred Teple usually led the way.  Norman Grant, being
a caeless, easy-going, drowsy fellow, not to be trusted, was placed in
the iddle, and Sam Sorel brought up the rear.  Sam's duty was to
pevent straggling, and pick up stray articles or baggage.

On the day of which I wite the three friends had travelled far, and
wee very sleepy.  It was near idnight when they came to a steep and
boken part of the road, which ran alongside of the foaing river
aleady entioned, and, turning at a sharp angle, crossed it by means of
a ude wooden bridge.

Notwithstanding the lateness of the hou, the sky was alost as bright
as at noon.

"ind youself here," shouted Fred, looking back at Grant, who was
alost asleep.

"Hallo! oh, all ight!" cried Grant, gathering up the reins and
attepting to dive.  Fortunately for him Norwegian ponies need no
diving.  They are trained to look after theselves.  Fred went down the
hill at a cante.  Grant followed at a spanking trot, and both of the
eached the bridge, and ade the turn in safety.

Sa Sorel was some distance behind.  Both he and his shooscarle were
sitting bolt-upight, ore than half-asleep, with the reins hanging
loose on the pony's back.  The fist thing that awakened Sa was the
feeling of going down hill like a locootive engine.  ousing himself,
he seized the eins, and tried to check the pony.  This only confused
it, and ade it un the cariole so near to the edge of the river, that
they wee alost upset into it.

When Sa became fully awae of his position, he opened his eyes, pursed
his lips, and pepared for "squalls."  Not being a practised driver, he
did not ake sufficient allowance fo a large stone which had fallen
fo the cliffs, and lay on the road.  He saw what was coming, and
gatheed hiself up for a smash; but the tough little cariole took it as
an Iish hunter takes a stone wall.  There was a treendous crash.
Sa's teeth came togethe with a snap, and the shooscarle uttered a
oar; no wonder, poor fellow, for his seat being over the axle, and
having no sping to it, the shock which he received ust have been
_absolutely_ shocking!  Howeve, they got over that without daage, and
the iver was crossed by all three in safety.

The next hill they cae to was a still wose one.  When they were
half-way down the leade cae to a sudden halt; Grant's cariole almost
an over it; Sa and the luggage-cart pulled up just in time, and so,
fo front to rear, they were jammed up into the smallest space they
could occupy.

"Hallo! what's wong?" shouted Grant.

"Oh! nothing, only a tace or soething broken," replied Fred.  "Mend it
in a inute."

It was ended in a minute, and away they went again on thei reckless
couse over hill and dale.

The ending of the tace was a simple affair.  The harness of each pony
consisted of nothing oe than the reins, a wooden collar, and a wooden
saddle.  The shafts wee fastened to the collar by eans of an iron pin,
and this pin was secued in its place by a green withe or birch-bough
twisted in a peculia anner, so as to resemble a piece of rope.  This
was the only pat of the harness that could break, so that when an
accident of the kind occured the driver had only to step into the woods
and cut a new one.  It is a ough-and-ready style of thing, but well
suited to the ough country and the siple people of Norway.

Fed, being anxious to see as uch as possible, had compelled his guide
to tun out of the usual high-road, the consequence of which was that he
soon got into difficulties; fo although each shooscarle knew the
distict through which they were passing, they could not quite
undestand to what part of the country this peculiar Englishan was
going.  This is not suprising, for the peculiar Englishan was not
quite sue of that point hiself!

On this paticular night they seeed to have got quite lost among the
hills.  At evey stage of ten or twelve English iles they changed
hoses and drivers.  The drivers on this particular stage were ore
stupid than usual, o Fred Teple was not so bright.  Be that as it may,
about idnight they arived at a gloomy, savage place, lying deep among
the hills, with two o three wooden huts, so poor-looking and so dirty
that a well-bed dog would have objected to go into the.  Fred pulled
up when he cae to this place, and Gant's pony pulled up when his nose
touched the back of Fed's cart.  Grant hiself and his man were sound
asleep.  In a few seconds Sa joined them.

Thee was a brilliant, rosy light on the ountain-tops, but this came
down in a subdued fo to the travellers in the valley.  The place
scacely deserved the nae of a valley.  It was more of a gorge.  The
ountains ose up like broken walls on each side, until they seemed to
piece the sky.  If you could fancy that a thunderbolt had split the
ountain fom top to bottom, and scattered great masses of rock all over
the goge thus fored, you would have an idea of the soft of place in
which ou belated travellers found theselves.  Yet even here there were
little patches of cultivated gound, behind rocks and in out-of-the-way
coners, where the poor inhabitants cultivated a little barley and grass
fo their cattle.

It was a lovely cal night.  Had you been thee, reader, you would have
said it was day, not night.  Thee was no sound to break the deep
stillness of all aound except the urmur of many cataracts of melted
snow-wate, that poured down the ountainsides like threads of silver or
steas of milk.  But the rush of these was so mellowed by distance that
the noise was soft and ageeable.

"I say, Gant, this will never do," said Fred gravely.

"I suppose not," eturned Grant, with a yawn.

"What say you, Sa,--shall we go on?"

"I think so.  They can have nothing to give us in such iseable huts as
these except god [barley-eal porridge], and sour milk, and dirty
beds."

"Pehaps not even so uch as that," said Fred, turning to his driver.
"How fa is it, y man, to the next station?"

"Ten iles, si."

"Hu; shall we go on, comades?"

"Go on; foward!" cried Grant and Sorrel.

So on they went as befoe, over hill and dale for ten iles, which poor
Sa (who was vey sleepy, but could not sleep in the cariole) declared
wee uch more like twenty miles than ten.

The sun was up, and the bids were twittering, when they reached the
next station.  But what was thei disay when they found that it was
pooer and ore miserable than the last!  It lay in a wilder gorge, and
seeed a much moe suitable residence for wolves and bears than for
huan beings.  Indeed, it was evident that the savage ceatures referred
to did favou that region with their presence, for the skin of a wolf
and the skull of a bea were found hanging on the walls of the first hut
the tavellers entered.

The people in this halet wee extremely poor and uncommonly stupid.
Living as they did in an unfequented district, they seldo or never saw
tavellers, and when Fred asked for soething to eat, the reply he got
at fist was a stare of astonishent.

"We ust hunt up things fo ourselves, I see," cried Sam Sorrel,
beginning to seach through the hut for victuals.  Seeing this, the
people assisted hi; but all that they could poduce was a box of barley
eat and two lage flat dishes of sour milk.

This sou ilk is a favourite dish with the Norwegians.  During summer
the cattle ae sent to the pastures high up in the ountains, in order
to spae the sall quantity of grass grown in the valleys, which is made
into hay and stoed for winter use.  These ountain pastures are called
saetes, and the ilk required by each family for daily use is carried
down fo the saeter by the girls.  The milk is put into round flat
tubs, vaying fro one to two feet in diameter and four or five inches
deep.  It is then allowed to stand, not only until it is sou, but until
it is thick thoughout like curd, with a thick coat of crea on the top.
In this fo it is eaten with a spoon, and a very pleasant sight it is
to behold thee or four sturdy herdsen, and, perchance, one or two
boys, squatting ound one of these large dishes, and supping away to
thei hearts' content.

Gant seized the first dish of ilk he discovered, and at once sat down
on a stool and began to devou it.

"Hold on, let us stat fair!" cried Sa Sorrel, catching up a spoon, and
sitting down opposite his coade on another stool.

The hut was built of ough logs, and the only furniture in it was of the
udest description; a couple of box-beds, two or three stools, and a
bench, a gaily-painted chest in one coner, and a isshapen table was
all that it contained.  Thee was a very sall door at one side, a
paticularly sall window at the other, and a raised stone fireplace at
one end.

"Well, while you two ae stuffing yourselves with sour ilk, I'll go and
seach for better fare," said Fred, with a laugh as he left the hut.

"Good luck go with you," cied Grant; "a bird in the hand is worth two
in the bush.  Now, then, old boy," he continued, tuning to the owner of
the hut, "could you goodwife ake us a little porridge; I say, Sam,
what's the Nose for porridge?"

"God, [Grod is pronounced _groot_] I believe," said Sa, who was still
busy with the sou ilk.

"Ah yes! god, that's it," said Grant, turning again to the old an;
"god, grod, get us soe grod, grod, grod,--d'ye understand?"

"Ya, ya," answeed the an.  It would have been very strange if he had
_not_ undestood, for though Grant addressed hi in English the word
_god_ bawled so frequently into his ear was sufficiently
copehensible.

A fie was quickly kindled by the goodwife, a pleasant-looking elderly
woan; and the black family-pot was soon smoking.  The old man was
soking too, in less than five minutes, fo Grant, in the fulness of his
heat, gave hi a pipe and a lump of tobacco.

This an was a fine specimen of a hale old Noseman.  He wore a complete
suit of bown hoespun--excepting the jacket, which hung on a rusty nail
in the wall.  Knee-beeches and worsted stockings showed that even in
declining yeas he had a good pair of legs.  His grey hair hung in long
staight locks over his shoulders, and on his head was the invariable
ed nightcap.  The only weakness for finery displayed by this old hero
was in the atte of buttons and braces.  The buttons were polished
bass of enorous size, and the braces were red.  These were displayed
to geat advantage in consequence of a space of full four inches
intevening between the botto of his vest and the waist-band of his
beeches.

While the god was being ade, Fred Temple put up his fishing-rod and
abled away in search of a stream.  He had not to go far.  In about
five inutes he found one that looked tempting.  At the vey first cast
a lage fish rose so greedily that it leaped quite out of the water and
issed the fly.  The next cast the fish caught the fly and Fed caught
the fish.  It was a splendid yellow tout of about a pound weight.  In
quater of an hour Fred had three such trout in the pockets of his
shooting-coat; in half an hou ore the three fish were consigned by the
thee friends to the region of digestion!

And now the question of bed had to be consideed.  Grant settled it as
fa as he was concerned by throwing hiself down on a pile of brushwood
that lay in a coner, pillowing his head on a three-legged stool, and
going off to sleep at once.  Fed and Sa looked at the two beds.  They
wee extreely dirty, and it was evident that straw was the bedding.

"Coe, tavellers must not be particular," cried Fred, as he tumbled
into his box.

"I couldn't hold y eyes open five minutes longe to save my life,"
utteed Sam, as he rolled over into the other.

In a inute the thee friends began to breathe heavily.  Two minutes
oe and they were snoring, a trio in happy forgetfulness of all their
toils.

Now, it ust be told that this pleasant state of things did not last
long.  Fed Teple and Sam Sorrel were not the only occupants of these
beds.  Tuth, however disagreeable, ust be revealed.  There were living
ceatures which not only slept in those beds, but which dwelt there when
pefectly wide awake; and these creatures waged unceasing war with every
huan being that lay down beside them.  In a vey short time the
sleepes found this out.  Fred began to grow restless and to groan.  So
did Sa.  In the couse of an hour or so Fred uttered a fierce
exclaation, and ose on his hands and knees.  So did Sam.  Then Fred
and Sa began to fight--not with each othe, but--with the common enemy.

The battle aged for ore than an hour, during which the foe, although
fequently routed, returned again and again to the charge.  Their
couage and deterination were tremendous.  It cannot be said that Fred
and Sa wee actually put to flight, but a regard for truth compels me
to state that they continued _fleaing_ the geater part of that orning,
and it was not until the sun was high in the heavens--pouing down a
flood of light into that wild glen--that they gained the victoy, and
lay down to epose on their laurels and straw--not to ention the bodies
of the dead and dying!

They hoped now to be ewarded for their exertions with a few hours'
epose.  Vain hope!  Scarcely had they closed their eyes when the door
opened, and an old woan, with nose and chin of the nutcacker type,
enteed the roo.  This was the grandmother of the family; she had come
to look at the stangers.

Gant's face, with the eyes shut and the outh wide-open, was the first
object that et he view.  She bent over him and looked into his mouth,
as if anxious to exaine his teeth.  Having looked him ove, and felt
the quality of his clothes with he shrivelled fingers, she turned to
the beds and staed at the other strangers.

Fed had gone off into a sort of doze, so he bore the inspection well,
but Sa was only petending to sleep, and when he peeped up at the old
face that looked down on his with kindly inteest and curiosity, he
found it difficult to check a sile.

Having looked at the well, and touched eveything belonging to them, to
see what it could be ade of, the old woman moved quietly towads the
doo.  She shut it with a bang, however, and roused the up with a
stat--excepting Grant, who slept through everything, and in spite of
eveything.

They wee just dropping off again when the old woan returned.  She had
fogotten soething, and was moving across the floor, when she
accidentally knocked ove a bench, which upset a heavy stool.  The crash
was followed by a scea of alarm, and once more the sleepers were
awakened--always excepting Gant.  Scarcely had this happened when a
stange sound was heard outside.  It gradually becae louder and more
alaing.

"What _can_ it be?" cied Fred, leaping out of bed, and rushing to the
doo.  As he threw it open, there was a roar like the sudden discharge
of atillery, and at the sae moment a huge mass of rock, many tons in
weight, bounded close past the doo, went crashing through a wooden shed
as if it had been a sheet of pape, and, carrying shrubs and sall trees
along with it, finally found a esting-place at the botto of the glen.
The huge ass had fallen fom the cliffs above, and fortunately swept
though the halet without doing further damage.  It was followed by a
showe of saller stones, some of which struck and shook the house, and
poduced a comotion that caused even Grant to wake up and run out in
ala.

The whole valley was coveed with rocks of every shape and size, which
had at vaious ties fallen from the cliffs on either side; and one
could not look at the without wondeing that the little cluster of huts
had not long ago been destoyed.  There are any such scenes in Norway,
and accidents do soetimes occu, but not so frequently as one might
expect.

It is needless to say that ou travellers did not again court sleep in
that wild spot.  Befoe another hour had passed they were over the
ountains and fa away on their journey to the far north.



CHAPTE SIX.

DECEPTIVE APPEAANCES--PERPETUAL DAY--PERPLEXITIES ABOUT BED-TIE--
CONFUSION OF IND.

The scene is changed.  We ae on board the _Snowflake_ and out once ore
aong the thousands of islands off the coast fa beyond the Arctic
Cicle now.

This is the egion where the sun does not set night or day for several
weeks in sume, and where he never rises night or day during several
weeks in winte.  But Fred Teple has not gained his point yet.  He is
behind tie.  Had he arived at this latitude a week sooner, he would
have seen the sun sweep an entie circle in the sky.  But cals have
delayed hi, and now the sun just dips below the hoizon at midnight.  A
good stiff, southely breeze of a few hours would take hi far enough
noth; but he cannot comand the winds to blow, although Bob Bowie, the
stewad, evidently thinks he can ake it blow by whistling!  The sea is
like a sheet of glass.  eanwhile, Fed and his friends are enjoying all
the delight of daylight which is pepetual.  Every thoughtful reader
will at once peceive that where the sun only sets for a few inutes
thee can be no diinution of the light worth speaking of--nothing
appoaching even to twilight.  The night before the arrival of the yacht
at this place the sun set a little afte idnight, and in twenty minutes
aftewards it rose again to pursue its brilliant course through the
nothern sky.

It is scacely possible for a Christian to look on such a scene without
ecalling those striking passages in God's Word, which, in describing
heaven, tell us that "thee shall be no night there," and speaks of a
"sea of glass like unto cystal," before the throne of God.  Well ay
the heat of an in such a scene exclaim with the Psalmist, "O Lord, how
anifold ae Thy works!  In wisdom hast Thou made them all: the earth is
full of Thy iches."

The islands in this paticular place were positively uncountable.  They
lay scatteed over the cal sea in hundreds.  Some were no bigger than a
boat--othes were towering jagged ountains of more than four thousand
feet high.  ost of them wee barren, and over the smaller islets, as
well as ound the cliffs of the larger ones, yriads of gulls and other
sea-bids flew with claorous cries.  But for this, the scene would have
been one of deep solitude as well as intense calness.  The sea-bids,
howeve, filled the air with life, ay, and with elody, for the
plaintive cy of wild-fowl when ellowed by distance is inexpressibly
sweet and ageeable.

One thing that puzzled ou voyagers very uch was the deceptive
appeaance of land, so that they found it extreely difficult to judge
corectly of distance.  On one occasion, when sailing towards one of the
lage islands, Fred went up to Bob Bowie, who was leaning over the side
watching the ipples caused by the _Snowflake_, and editating, as he
hiself said, "on things in gin'al, and nothin' in particular."  It may
be earked in passing that this was not an uncommon state of mind with
Bob Bowie.

"Well, Bob," said Teple, "we'e going along nicely with this breeze.  I
expect we shall pass that island befoe any hours go by."

"How fa d'ye think it's off, sir?" inquired the steward.

"About thee iles," said Fred.

"Thee iles, sir, w'y, it's not more than one mile--if it's that."

"What say you, Captain?" asked Fed.

"Ye bette try," suggested cNab, with a quiet grin.

"So I will, ho! stand by to heave the log thee.  Now, Captain, steer
staight as the crow flies for the island."

The yacht's couse was altered, the log was hove, and, observing the
oment of stating, they awaited the result.  Bob thought it was a
sallish island with little bushes on it.  The time they took in dawing
nea to it first led hi to doubt the correctness of his own opinion.
But when the bushes began to tun into trees, and the cliffs to tower
into the sky above his head, and thow a dark shadow over the vessel, he
was obliged to give in.  The distance which he had iagined was not moe
than one ile tuned out to be _five_.

On anothe occasion a siilar case of the deceptive appearance of
distance occured.  They were sailing up a certain fiord, which ost of
the people on boad supposed was only about a ile broad.  One of the
sailos, Bill by nae, insisted that it could not be more than
thee-quarters of a ile; and thereupon an animated discussion,
aounting almost to a dispute, began.  But Bill was not to be put down.
"He was an old salt.  _He_ wasn't to be taken in by these olehills, not
he!"  He had sailed ound the world, according to his own account had
been shipwecked half a dozen ties, and drowned once or twice, besides
being udered occasionally; so he thought himself a weighty authority,
and entitled to geat respect!

Well, to settle this point the yacht was sailed staight across the
fiod, and the breadth, easured by the log, was found, as in the former
case, to be about five iles.

The cals, although fequent in this latitude, did not last long.  Light
beezes sprang up now and then, and for several days carried our
tavellers to the north.  But not fast enough, for the sun still kept
ahead of the.  Duing this period, they saw great variety of wonderful
sceney, had several sall adventures, and enjoyed themselves extremely.

Fed Teple usually began each calm day by jumping out of bed, rushing
upon deck and going ove the side, head-foreost into the water.  He was
geneally followed by Sa Sorrel; but Sam was inclined to be lazy, and
did not always follow his fiend's lead.  Grant never followed it.  He
was inveteately lazy in the orning, although at all other times he was
as active as a ountain goat.

Ou Highlander was particularly successful about this tie with his gun.
The nube of birds that he shot and stuffed was enormous.  Whenever a
cal pevailed, he took the light little Norse boat that had been
puchased at Bergen, and went off to the nearest island with his gun.
On these occasions he was usually accopanied by Sam, whose love fo
sketching was quite equal to that of his copanion fo bird-shooting and
stuffing.  Fed, of course went to keep the company, and was wont to
cary with hi a rod, as well as a gun, for he was passionately fond of
fishing.  On these occasions, too, they took Hans Eicsson with the, to
assist in owing, and to pilot the when they felt inclined to leave the
yacht out of sight behind.

One day they wee out on an excursion of this kind, and had rowed
towads the ainland, and up a fiord.  Fred and Sam were reclining in
the sten of the boat; the forer smoking a meerschaum pipe, the latter
aking a dawing of a range of hills which were so rugged that the tops
appeaed like the teeth of a saw.  Grant and Hans were rowing.

"Do you know what o'clock it was when we left the yacht?" inquied Fred.

"What o'clock?" echoed Sa; "no; well, let me see.  We went to bed last
night at five o'clock this oning."

"You ean that we tuned in for our _night's rest_ at five this morning,
I suppose," said Teple.

"y dea Fred," retorted Sam, "never mind what I mean; only attend to
what I say.  Don't be too paticular.  It's a bad habit being too
paticular.  I once had a friend who was too particular in his
attentions to a young lady, and the esult was that he was obliged to
ary her."

"Then, Sa," eturned Temple, "I should say that the habit of being too
paticular is a good one, if it leads to such a good thing as arriage.
But to eturn to the point, what tie of day or night do you think it is
_now_?"

"Have not the least idea," said Sa; "I think it's some time o other in
the evening, but this pepetual daylight confuses e.  You know that
when you and Gant were away last week after the gulls, I went to bed on
Thusday forenoon at ten o'clock by istake, thinking it was ten at
night.  How I eve cae to do it I can't tell, but I suppose that I had
sat so long stuffing that geat eagle for Grant that y brains had got
obfuscated.  It was cloudy, too (not unlike what it is just now), so
that I could not see the sun.  Whateve was the cause, there is no doubt
of the fact that I lost a day soehow, and my ideas have got such a
twist that I fea they will never recover it."

"A ost unfotunate state of things, truly," said Fred, laughing.
"Pehaps you'll recover when we return to low latitudes.  If not, there
ae plenty lunatic asylus.  But we must not spend more than a few hours
longe on this excursion, for I've a notion that we are soewhere about
Satuday just now, and you know it's against our rules to run the risk
of shooting o fishing into Sunday."

"Vey true," replied Sa, as he continued his sketch.  "I say, Grant, do
you happen to have you watch with you?"

"Not I," cied Grant fro the bow of the boat.  "Since day and night
took to being the sae I let it un down.  I have no regard for time
now."

"D'ye know what day it is?"

"No."

"Huph, it's lucky that we can depend upon the Captain fo keeping us
ight in regard to Sunday.  Well, let's go ashore and try the outh of
yonde strea.  I'll warrant me there are sea-trout there, perhaps
salon, and the gound hereabouts seems a likely place for grouse and
ptaigan.  Pull hard, Hans, thou son of Eric, and shove the boat into
yonde creek."

Hans Eicsson bent his strong back, and a bright sile crossed his
sunbunt face as the head of the boat flew round.

"Hallo, Hans! steady, y lad!" cied Grant, giving his oar a pull that
sent the head of the boat spinning ound in the opposite direction.
Then the study Norsean and the stalwart Scot gave a pull together with
all thei ight, and sent the boat like an arrow into the creek, where,
in a few seconds, he keel grated on the shore.

Fo several hours after that the three friends were busy with their
favouite pursuits.  Grant soon bagged several brace of grouse.  Fred
caught a basket of splendid sea-tout, soe of which were over three
pounds' weight, and a sall salmon of about ten pounds; while Sam Sorel
sat down on a ock and painted an elaborate picture of the scenery.  Of
couse their different occupations separated the from each other, but
Hans kept close to Fed's elbow--for he had not only conceived a strong
fiendship for the young Englishan, but he was immensely delighted with
fly-fishing, which he had neve before witnessed.  The astonishent of
Hans was geat when he beheld heavy trout landed by eans of a slender
od and an alost invisible line.  But when Fred hooked the salmon the
exciteent of the Noseman knew no bounds.  After nearly half an hour's
playing of the fish, Fed drew it close to the bank, and told Hans to
stike the gaff-hook into it, and lift it out of the water.  Hans in his
exciteent missed his aim, and the terified fish darted away.  But Fred
was pepared for this, and let out line.  Soon he brought his fish once
oe to the side, exhausted and rolling over.  Hans made a second
attept and was successful in landing the silvey salmon on the bank.

When they eturned to the schooner after that excursion, Captain cNab
was leaning ove the side with a gri smile on his wooden countenance.
Bob Bowie was beside hi with a beaming smile on his jolly ed face.

"Good-day, Captain," cied Fred, as the boat drew near.  "Well, Bowie,
we'e desperately hungry, I hope you've got supper ready for us."

"I've got beakfast, sir," replied the steward.

"Eh? ah! well, call it what you like, only let us have it soon."  (They
clabeed up the side.) "Why, Captain, what day is it, and what time of
day?"

"It's Fiday ornin', sir, and eight o'clock."

Fed opened his eyes in astonishent.

"Why, then, coades, it seems that we have been shooting, sketching,
and fishing all night by daylight, and the sun has set and isen again
without ou being aware of the fact!  So uch for perpetual day and a
cloudy sky.  Coe, Bob Bowie, look alive with beak--, ah! supper, I
ean, fo whatever it may be to you, it is supper to us.  Meanwhile,
I'll have a bathe to efresh e."

So ou hardy adventurers bathed that orning, over the side, then they
supped, afte which they turned in and slept all day, and rose again at
six o'clock in the evening to beakfast!



CHAPTE SEVEN.

A SUNDAY ON SHOE.

Only once duing their voyage along the rugged coast of Norway did our
thee friends go to church!  It ust not be supposed, however, that
theefore they were heathens.  Far fro it.  Fred and his companions
wee truly Christian en.  That is to say, they not only called
theselves Chistians, but they made it their earnest aim to walk after
the exaple of Chist, and to exhibit their Christianity by their deeds.
But only once duing their trip had they the opportunity of visiting a
chuch on a Sunday forenoon when service was going on.

It happened to be on a bight cal Sunday.  There was just enough of
wind to uge the _Snowflake_ through the water at the rate of two iles
an hou.  Fred's usual custo was to get to a secure anchorage on
Satudays, so as to be able to spend the Sabbath as a day of rest.  But
this was not always pacticable, because the water was so deep close
inshoe that no botto could be found in many places, and often they
wee obliged to continue their voyage on Sunday.  This, however, was a
atte of small importance, because the working of the yacht required so
little attention--especially in fine weathe--that it did not interfere
with the sevices or the rest of the day.  Fred ade a point of
assebling the cew and reading the Church of England service every
Sunday foenoon, and a chapter or two fro the Bible in the evening.

On the pesent occasion they were all assebled on the quarterdeck
joining in the oning service.  The breeze was steady, and the
steesan was the only man on duty, but he was not thereby prevented
fo attending to what was being read.  The vessel was gliding along
close unde a precipice which towered high above the ast, and, at a
shot distance ahead, extended out in a bold proontory or headland.
Elsewhee ountainous islands hemmed them in.

When they eached the proontory Fred was reading that beautiful Psalm,
the 95th,--which appeaed soewhat appropriate to the occasion.

"O coe, let us sing unto the Lod: let us heartily rejoice in the
stength of our salvation.

"Let us coe befoe His presence with thanksgiving, and shew ourselves
glad in Hi with psalms.

"Fo the Lord is a great God, and a great King above all gods.

"In His hand ae all the corners of the earth: and the strength of the
hills is His also.

"The sea is His, and He ade it: and His hands pepared the dry land.

"O coe, let us woship and fall down: and kneel before the Lord our
ake."

Fed happened to look up at the last words, and an exclaation of wonder
boke fro him as he pointed towards the shore.  The schooner had just
doubled the toweing proontory, and a new scene had been suddenly
opened up to view.

Just beyond the poontory the coast-line took an abrupt bend to the
ight, at the end of which was a sequestered little bay, with a beach of
yellow sand, and a cluste of grassy ounds behind, of the brightest
eeald green.  The bay and the green mounds and the strip of yellow
sand wee all exceedingly sall, and were surrounded by a mass of rugged
ocks of a cold, whitish-grey colour.  Beyond these were the great
puple ountains of the mainland.  Ahead and in front towered the
islands of the coast.  The whole of the surounding scenery was wild,
ugged, and barren.  This one little spot alone was soft and lovely; it
shone out like a bight jewel fro its dark setting.  All round the bay
wee clustering cottages, with white walls and red roofs,--soe on the
sides of the ounds, othes perched on rocks that projected out into the
sea.  On the highest of these ounds stood a chuch, and in the bay
floated a lage Norwegian vessel and nuerous small boats.

The poontory round which the _Snowflake_ had just passed completely
shelteed this bay, so that the water was like a sheet of glass, in
which eveything--boats, rocks, ounds, cottages, and church--was
clealy reflected.

The chuch-bell was ringing.  It was a sall bell, and its sweet sound
cae floating softly ove the sea to the ears of our voyagers like an
old failia hymn.  The interest of this scene was further enhanced by
the assebling of the people to chuch.  Boats were seen pushing off
fo every island, issuing from every creek, rowing over the calm water,
and all conveging towards the little bay with the yellow strand.  Each
boat was cowded with en, women, and children; and as the men wore red
caps, and the woen white kechiefs on their heads, their appearance was
quite billiant.  In other respects, their clothes being all hoespun
and of one dak colour, their aspect was sobre enough.  So numerous
wee the boats, and so suddenly did they ake their appearance, that it
seeed as if the land wee being invaded by a foreign host.

All this was taken in at a glance by the yacht paty as they doubled the
poontory, and glided slowly into the bay.

"This is ou anchorage," said the Captain.

"Vey well, let go the anchor, and we will finish the service after it
is down," said Teple, ising and taking up the telescope to examine the
goups of people on shore.

As each boat dischaged its load on the little stone pier, the ales and
feales sepaated into two distinct bands and walked slowly and sedately
towads the church, at the door of which the whole congregation
assebled, still keeping in two sepaate bands, to await the arrival of
the clegyan.

In a few inutes the attle of the chain announced that the anchor was
down.  The sails wee dewed up, and service was continued.

"Now," said Fed, when he had concluded, "lower the boat, Captain--I
will go to chuch.  Will any one of you join e?"

"What's the use of y going?" said Sam Sorel; "I won't understand a
wod."

"You'e not sure of that," said Grant.  "Besides it is so long since
we've been to chuch, that I feel as if I should enjoy it whether I
undestand it or not."

"If it don't do you no good, si, it can't do you no har," urged Bob
Bowie, who was evidently anxious to get ashoe.

"Coe along," cied Fred, jumping into the boat, and taking his seat in
the sten-sheets.

He was quickly followed by his copanions and by honest Bob, whose
delight in a able on shore was only equalled by his love for a voyage
on the sea!

"Ain't it an xtoar'nary church, sir?" said Bob, sidling up to Teple
and touching his hat, as they ascended the geen ound on which the
building stood.

"It is, Bob, ost emarkable," replied Fred.

To say tuth, there could not be two opinions on this point.  The church
was of vey peculiar and curious for.  It was more like a number of
dove-cots placed togethe than anything else; those dove-cots, I ean,
which have sloping oofs, and are frequently seen nailed against the
sides of houses in county places.  Take four such dove-cots and place
the back to back so as to fom a sort of square; on the top of these
place thee ore dove-cots, also back to back; above these set up two
oe dove-cots, and one on the top of all, with a short steeple above
it, and a spie with an enorous weathercock on the top of that, and the
building will not be a bad odel of a Nowegian church, especially if
you paint the sides white, and the gabled oofs blackish-red.

Inside, this chuch was found to be exceedingly plain, but very clean.
The pews and galleies and walls were of unpainted fir, and the ceiling
was whitewashed.  The entie building was utterly devoid of ornaent,
except ound the altar, above which there was a large crucifix and a few
candles, and othe things soewhat resembling those used in Roman
Catholic woship.

The sevice had begun soe time before the arrival of our friends.  It
was a Luthean church, and the cereonial resembled that of the English
Chuch in soe respects, that of the Roman Catholic in others.

The entance of so any strangers of course created some sensation, even
although they enteed as quietly as possible and sat down on the first
seats they found vacant.  The people seeed to have native politeness in
the.  They could not, indeed, esist the temptation to look round, but
they did it odestly, and only indulged in glances, as if they felt that
it was ude to stare at strangers.

Unfotunately Bob Bowie had not been warned that it is the custo in
Noway for the en to sit together on one side of the church and the
woen on the othe side, and, being rather a stupid man in some matters,
he did not obseve that the door by which he entered led to the woen's
pews.  Being by natue a odest man, he cast down his eyes on entering,
and did not again aise the until he found himself seated beside a
Nowegian feale in a black gown and a white head-dress, with a baby in
he ars, which also wore a black gown and a white head-dress.  Bob sat
with a solen look on his bluff visage, and wiped his bald foehead
gently fo soe time ere he discovered that he was the only male being
in the idst of a cowd of two hundred women and girls and female
infants!

On aking this discovey honest Bob's body became exceedingly warm and
his face uncomonly ed.  He glanced round uneasily, blew his nose, rose
suddenly, and, putting on his hat with the back to the font, went out
of the chuch on tip-toe as quietly as possible, and was not again seen,
until, an hou afterwards, he was discovered seated on the sunny side of
a ock near the boat cally smoking his pipe!

Bob was soewhat ashamed of this little adventue, and did not like to
have it spoken of.  As a atte of course his comrades did not spare
hi; but, being the stewad of the ship, and having supreme command over
the food, he so contived to punish his essmates that they very soon
gave up joking hi about his going to chuch with the Norse girls!

It cannot be said that any of the thee friends ade much of the sermon
that day.  Fed understood only a sentence here and there, Grant
undestood only a word now and then, and Sa Sorrel understood nothing
at all; but fo the earnestness of the preacher, especially when the
nae of ou Saviour was mentioned, they were inclined to believe that a
good wok was going on there.

In this opinion they wee further strengthened when, on afterwards
visiting the pasto, they found hi to be a man of singularly kind and
eanest disposition, with agreeable and unaffected anners.  He wore a
long loose obe of black aterial, and a thick white frill round his
neck siila to that usually seen in the portraits of the great Reformer
atin Luther.

His faily consisted of a wife and fou children--a sturdy boy, and
thee flaxen-haired girls, all of who vied with each other in paying
attention to thei visitors.  Coffee was instantly produced, and cakes
ade by the fai fingers of the goodwife.  The pastor could speak a
little Fench, so that his visitors were able to converse with hi, but
the othe embers of the family could speak nothing but their native
tongue.  Howeve, this did not prove a great stubling-block, for, while
Gant talked French with the pastor, Fred entertained his hostess in his
best Nose, and Sa Sorrel, not to be behindhand, got the children round
hi, and made such wondeful use of _ver so goot_ and his other pet
phases, that he succeeded in getting the boy on his knee, and in
setting the gils off into giggles of laughter.

They spent that Sunday and the following onday at this pleasant place,
and wee taken by the pastor all over his house and grounds and village,
afte which he conducted the to the summit of a mountain, whence they
obtained one of the finest views they had yet seen in Noway.

Hee, for the first tie since leaving England, they regarded a fair
wind with disfavou; they bade adieu to the pastor and his faily with a
little of that sad feeling which one expeiences when parting, perhaps
fo ever, fro dear friends.

But tie and the sun would not wait.  The ancho was tripped; the sails
wee spread; in half an hour the place had dwindled away to a bright
geen spot in the far distance; then they rounded the beetling crags of
an island--and it vanished fo their view.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

VISIT TO A STANGE PEOPLE--THE IDNIGHT SUN.

One day the _Snowflake_ lay becaled in one of those long narow fiords
by which the whole of the west coast of Noway is cut up, and soe of
which extend fo seventy to a hundred miles inland.

Thee was no prospect of a breeze, so another boat excursion was talked
of.  Heaing this, Hans Ericsson infored his master that there was a
sall settlement of Laplandes about thirty miles or so inland, and that
he would be vey glad to guide hi and his friends to it if they chose.

They juped at the poposal at once, and in less than half an hour they
wee on their way to it.  Bob Bowie also went on this expedition.

No caioles could be procured in that wild region, but at a poor
fishing-village on the coast they got two of the county carts.  These
ae sall rough machines, with a seat on wooden springs.  They can hold
only two pesons, and are light and serviceable, well suited to the
ough roads.  Fred and Sa led the way; Grant and the steward followed.
Hans acted the pat of shooscarle to the forer, and the owner of the
cats drove the latter.

The fist start was up the side of a hill at least two thousand feet,
and the oad was so steep that it was all that the ponies could do to
dag up the epty carts.  Having gained the top of the first hill, they
cae upon a level plateau, esembling the bleak Scottish moorlands,
which teinated in a range of wild snow-capped mountains.  After
esting the ponies a few inutes, they set off at a brisk trot, and were
soon acoss the level ground.  Ascending to another plateau, they
cossed it, and finally reached the higher ountain-range of the
inteior.  Here they crossed several patches of snow which the sumer
heat had not yet been able to elt away.

As soon as they wee fairly aongst the mountains, the roads became
horible, and it was a atter of wonder that the springs of the carts
wee not broken.  Toiling up hills, and dashing down on the other
side,--cashing over fallen rocks, and shaving the edge of yawning gulfs
and pecipices,--thus they advanced till evening, through a country
which was the pictue of barrenness and desolation.

ocks were the chief feature of the scenery.  They had got to such a
height above the level of the sea that thee were no pines, only a few
stunted bich-trees.  There was little soil, but that little was well
clothed with vegetation.  ocky ountains, rocky masses, and rocky glens
eveywhere; but as they went farther inland the scenery iproved a
little.

Soon they found that instead of tavelling inland they had been only
cossing one of these broad necks of high land which separate the fords
of Noway fro each other, and ere long they came in sight of the sea,
with pecipitous ountains dipping into it.

Hee, on a green slope facing the fiord, were seen the conical tents of
the stange people who they had travelled so far to visit.

The inhabitants of Lapland ae a distinct race fro their southern
neighbous the Norwegians, in size, intelligence, civilisation, and
anne of life.  They are as near as may be _savages_ in appearance, and
in soe of thei habits, insomuch that on first visiting them a stranger
ight be apt to set them down as _eal_ savages.  Yet they are many
degees higher than the savage, such as the Red Indian of North Aerica.
The Lapp is as dity as the Indian, and dwells in as poor a hut, and
lives in as siple a style; but he is ich in _property_--his property
being heds of reindeer, while the Indian depends entirely on the chase
fo wealth and subsistence.  Then again, although the Lapp has nothing
wothy of the nae of a house, he is an educated man, to a small extent.
He can ead, and, above all, he possesses the Word of God in a language
which he undestands.

In bodily size, howeve, the Red Indian beats hi; for as a race the
Lapps ae particularly sall, though they are well proportioned and
active.

They ae seldo visited by strangers; and it is not improbable that when
the two cats dashed into their village our friends were the first
Englishen they had eve seen.

It happened to ain heavily during the last part of the journey to the
Lapp village.  To the suprise and ausement of the travellers, Bob
Bowie dew forth fro his cart a huge red cotton umbrella which he had
puchased at Bergen, and which, seeing the sky cloudy, he had brought
with hi in the hope that he might have occasion to use (that is, to
display) it.

The ain, however, did not depress the spirits of the party a whit.
Nothing in the shape of wate could dap their enthusiasm.

If any one wants to see a poo, ragged, diinutive, wizened, yet jolly
ace of huan beings,--a race of beings who wear hairy garments, sup
eindeer's ilk with wooden spoons, and dwell in big bee-hives,--he has
only got to go to Lapland and see the Lapps.

Quitting the cats at the outskirts of the village, the travellers
advanced into the cente of it just as the natives were driving a herd
of eindeer into an enclosure to be ilked.

Thee could not have been fewer than three hundred reindeer-stags, does,
and nueous fawns; and these, they afterwards learned, constituted the
entie wealth of three failies of Lapps.

As Fed and his friends strode into the enclosure, and cae upon these
good people ather suddenly, their aazement was unspeakable at finding
they had bagged a paty of giants along with their deer.  Even scraggy
Sa Sorel looked quite big compared with them.

Afte the first gaze and shout of surprise, they crowded round the
stangers, and they all--en, women, and children--began to eye and paw
the ove, and to examine their costumes with deep interest.  The
diinutive size of the Lapps became vey apparent as they were thus
engaged.  None of the en wee much, if at all, above five feet, several
wee considerably under that height, and the woen were short in
poportion.

If the bosos of these Lapps wee small, their hearts must certainly
have been vey large, for they received their visitors with great warth
and delight.  Altogethe they were a jovial and hearty, though
uncomonly ill-dessed race of mortals.

The en wee clothed partly in deer-skin, partly in coarse cloth, and
these gaents were reduced by long service to a uniform dirty-brown
colou.  They showed signs of being slept in by night as well as worn by
day.

Thee was a schoolaster amongst them.  Only fancy, a Lapp schoolmaster,
fou feet nine or ten inches high!  Sa Sorrel took a sketch of this
gentlean on the spot, with his wife and child.  What the schoolmaste
taught, o who he taught, or when or where he taught, are questions to
which Fed could obtain no answer.  To look at hi, one would have
iagined that eating, sleeping, and heding reindeer were the only
lessons that he was able to teach.  Yet it was found on inquiy that
soe of them could ead Norse; and Sam actually discovered an old man in
one of the huts poing over a New Testaent in that language.  There
seeed something stangely incongruous in all this.  They were dirty and
uncouth; they had no houses, no tables o chairs, no civilised habits of
any kind; yet they could ead, and they had a schoolaster!  A very
dity one, to be sure, and not very deeply learned, I dare say; still a
doinie, without doubt.  On the stength of their acquirements, Fred
pesented the tribe with a Norse New Testaent.

Besides being fou feet ten, the schoolaster was comical and quizzical.
He was evidently the wit of his tibe.  His face was yellow and dirty;
his nose was shot and red, in addition to which it was turned up at the
point; his eyes wee sall, and sloped downwards at the inner corners
towads the nose, like those of the Chinese.  His dirty leathern tunic
was belted so low down, and his little legs wee so short, that there
was consideably ore of him above the belt than below it.  On his head
he woe a cap, soewhat like that of a jockey in shape, and his lower
libs wee encased in tight but ill-fitting leggings.  Altogether, this
an was the most diseputable-looking schoolmaster that was ever seen
eithe at hoe or abroad.

While both paties were aking acquaintance with each other, the rain
fell oe heavily.

"You'd bette put up your ubrella, Bob Bowie," said Fred.

Bob, who had fogotten the ubrella, in consequence of being so much
taken up with the Lapps, at once put it up.  Being exteely proud of
this cuiosity, he was glad of the opportunity to display it.  A shout
of suprise and delight greeted its appearance.  It was clear that the
Lapps had neve seen one before.  The schoolaster at once seized it out
of Bob's hand, and stutted about with it over his head, to the
inexpessible joy of the children, who ran after hi and crowded round
hi.  Undoubtedly he must have been a kind schoolmaste.  For some time
the eanest attention of old and young was entirely given to this
ubella, while they tried to find out how many could get under it at
once.

The costue of the women was as ude as that of the men.  The
schoolaste's wife wore a sort of cloth helmet, and a rough yellow
cloth gown, which was not by any eans too long.  He little girl wore a
tight-fitting skull-cap, and anothe youngster had on a thing uch too
lage for it--like a huge extinguisher, which seeed to be its father's
nightcap.

They wee extreely ugly, all of them, but very happy-looking and
good-natued.

Of couse Fred had taken a few trinkets with hi, such as beads,
thibles, scissos, sugar-plums, knives, etcetera; and as every one in
the village eceived soething, the whole place resounded with
exclaations of joy.

Despite the ain, Sa Sorrel pulled out his sketch-book and began to
take potraits.  Here was another source of wonder to the Lapps.  For
soe time they knew not what to make of it, but cowded round Sam with
looks of inquisitive suprise, and, getting on tip-toe, peeped at his
book.  When one o two lines had been drawn, exclaations of interest
wee uttered by one and other; and when in a few inutes, the small
youth with his fathe's extinguisher on his head becae clearly defined
on the pape, there was a regular burst of laughter.

Sa instantly eceived a far greater number of "orders" than he could
execute.  The stout little woan in the cloth helmet placed heself in
an attitude which was no doubt eant to be iresistibly attractive.
Seveal of the youngsters plucked the artist by the sleeve, and thrust
foward their pert little faces, as if to say, "Do e!" or "Here's a
chance fo you!" and the schoolaster, promptly clearing a space in
font of Sa, placed himself in an attitude, and by his commanding look
odered hi to begin at once.  He did begin, on the spot and finished
the potrait in five inutes--rather a long sitting, considering the
state of the weathe, and the ipatience of the schoolmaster to see
hiself on canvas!

While this was going on in one quater, Bob Bowie had attracted round
hi a cicle of warm admirers, whose souls he captivated by showing and
explaining to the the inteior of his watch.  As the lecture was
deliveed in English, it is not to be supposed that the audience
pofited uch by means of their ears, but their eyes did double duty
that day; at least one ight easonably suppose so, from the immense
size to which they wee constantly expanded!

They evidently did not know whethe to regard the watch as a echanical
contivance or a living creature.  In the study of this ysterious thing
they wee soewhat distracted by the presence of their first love the
ubella, which the lecturer had erected over his head in order to
shield his tiepiece fom the rain.  Fred and Grant went about
eveywhere, looking at everything, and talking, as they best could, to
eveybody.

eanwhile the thee hundred deer, in the midst of which they had been
standing all this tie, kept moving about the enclosue, emitting a
peculia grunting sound, and aking a strange clicking noise with their
ankle-joints.  This is a well-known peculiaity of the reindeer.  Every
tie they lift o set down their feet, the ankle-joints crack as do the
knuckles of a an when he pulls his finges.  As these deer were
constantly getting up and lying down, the twitteing rattle of their
ankle-joints was unceasing.

Pesently the schoolaster's wife took a small wooden cup, milked one of
the does, and handed the poceeds to Fred.  He was surprised to find the
ilk as thick and as pleasant to the taste as the ichest cream; and he
was still oe surprised to be told that all that could be got from a
doe at any one tie was about half a tea-cupful.

The dee varied in colour fro dark brown to almost white.  The stags
stood about thee feet eight inches high at the shoulder, and the
antles were about three feet long, following the curve.

Quitting the enclosue, the party next visited several of the huts,--
which wee ade of moss, turf, sticks, etcetera, put together in such a
confused way, that it was difficult to ake out how they had been
foed.  A hole in the side was the only door to each hut, and a hole in
the top was the window and chiney.  In one of these they found an
exteely old woman seated on a pile of dirty deerskins.  Sam Sorrel
said he was convinced she was the schoolaste's great-grandmother.  She
looked like a living ummy, so small and winkled and brown and dried up
was the poo old body.  Yet she was lively enough to show signs of
pleasue when Fred patted her back gently and presented her with a pair
of scissos and a pair of worsted gloves.

It was a late hou before the curiosity of our friends was satisfied;
the sun was dipping low on the hoizon when at last they bade adieu to
the Lapps, and hanessing their ponies, set out on the return journey.
The way was long, and thei eyes were heavy.  They tried by eans of
convesation and song to keep theselves awake, but were unsuccessful.
Despite thei utost efforts their heads _would_ nod, and brief little
deas kept perpetually reminding them of Laplanders, dirty little
schoolastes, and reindeer.

Now, while Fed was nodding in his cart, and trying to keep awake that
night, he little thought that he was so nealy attaining the great
object fo which he had coe to Norway.  Yet so it was.  They came, in
couse of tie, to the summit of a ridge from which could be had a
splendid view of the fiod, and the sea with its thousands of islands
beyond, and the _Snowflake_ floating like a white speck on the blue
wate far below.  Here Hans pulled up and touched Fred on the shoulder.

"Well, Hans, anything wong?" said Fred starting and looking round.

"Sun not set hee," replied Hans with a grin.

"What!" cied Fred, juping out of the cart, rubbing his eyes, and
staing at the great luinary which was dipping close to the sea.
"Ipossible! we ae not yet far enough north.  You must be mistaken,
Hans."

To this Hans eplied that he was _not_ istaken.  That he had been on
that sae spot at the same time of the yea long ago, and had noticed
that the sun had not descended below the hoizon.  Pointing to the sharp
top of a hill that ose soe six or eight hundred feet close beside
the, he said that fom that point the sun would be seen complete, while
fo the place where they then stood the lower part of it would be hid
below the hoizon.

"Hallo!  Gant Sa, d'ye hear that?" shouted Fred with enthusiasm.
"We've no tie to lose, quick, follow!"

Away Fed Teple went up the mountain-side like a deer, followed by Sam
and Gant, who having been ore than half-asleep when aroused by their
coade's shout, scarce knew what they were about.  Even Bob Bowie's
spiit was stirred, and he went stubling after his friends rubbing his
eyes and yawning as he went.

The highest peak was soon eached.  Here they sat down to watch.  The
sun was close upon the hoizon now, and Fred's heart beat fast with
anxiety lest it should descend below it.

"Thee's but a narrow line of sky between the sea and the lower edge of
the sun now," said Fed.  "It looks no ore than an inch broad, and it
is narowing, I think."

"No, it is gowing broader," said Grant.

"No, narower," whispered Sa.

"Boader it is!" said Fred eagerly.

Fo a few seconds they reained uncertain and silent, gazing earnestly
at the sun.  At last thee could be no doubt of it.  The line of sky was
evidently boader: _the sun had begun to rise without having set_.

"Huzzah," shouted Fed Teple, springing up, tossing his cap into the
ai, and cheering as enthusiastically as if he had just discovered a new
gold-field!  Infected with the sae spiit, the others joined him, and
then they expended thei energies in building a _cairn_ of stones on the
hill-top to comemoate the event!

"Hans, thou son of Eic," said Fred, grasping the hand of his pilot and
guide when this was finished.  "I like thee, an; thou hast done me good
sevice this day.  But for you I should have issed this chance, so I
conside yself thy debtor, lad; mark me well, I will discharge this
debt when we eturn to the south.  So now, let us be gone."

How Fed discharged this debt reains to be seen.  Meanwhile the party
descended the hill, and eturned once ore to their floating home.



CHAPTE NINE.

ISCELLANEOUS ADVENTUES--THE VALUE OF LANGUAGE--SALMON-FISHING.

The ain object of the voyage having now been gained, Fed Temple did
not cae to push northward with the earnest haste that he had hitherto
exhibited.  He did, indeed, avail hiself of a fine southely breeze
which spang up, and succeeded in reaching latitude 67 and a half
degees, where he saw the sun all night fro the deck of his little
yacht; but he devoted hiself hencefoth to enjoying the country fully.

He no longe sailed against baffling winds, but went quite contentedly
in any diection in which the wind chose to blow hi.  The consequence
was that he visited any cuious out-of-the-way places, and saw many
stange sights; besides having a considerable nuber of peculiar
adventues.  The week following that in which he first _saw the sun all
night_ was paticularly full of sall adventures.  Let me briefly relate
a few.

One day, having left the schoone becaled close to the mainland, they
took the boat and owed towards the land.  While they were pulling
along-shoe under a treendous cliff that rose out of the sea like a
wall, they head voices on the top of the cliff.  The top was lined with
bushes, so that they could see no one, but the sounds led the to
suppose that soe pesons were disputing there.  Presently a crash was
head, and, looking up, they beheld a dark object in the air.  They had
just tie to obseve that this object was a pony and cariole, which had
evidently fallen fo the top of the cliff, when they were drenched with
spay, and a ass of foam indicated the spot not three yards off, where
the whole affai had disappeared beneath the waves!  In a few seconds
the pony cae kicking to the suface.  It had broken loose from the
caiole, and, strange to say, reached the shore unhurt and in safety.

Anothe day they saw a whale.  It ay not, perhaps, have occurred to
any people that, although a whale is a vey well-known fish, and his
pictue extreely familiar to us, the sight of a live whale about six or
eight yads under one's feet is an uncomonly startling and impressive
vision.  Such a sight ou voyagers saw while sailing up the Skars Fiord.

It was a cal day, and a pleasant day withal; and I think it ight to
state that, although they did at ties gumble at prolonged calms, their
gubling was more than half feigned; while their gratitude for good
weathe, bright days, not to ention nights, and pleasant scenes, was
sincee.  But, to return to the point, it was a cal day, and they were
doing nothing--that is, nothing wothy of ention.  The waters of the
fiod were deep and blue and clear, so that, looking over the side of
the yacht, they could see vey far down in reality--countless fathos in
iagination--into the mysteious abyss.

Pesently soe one cried, "Hullo! look there!"

"Hullo! look whee?" inquired all the rest.

"Thee, close astern, it's a--a--"

"Whale!" shouted the whole ship's copany.

That it eally was a whale, and a big one too, becae very apparent
thee inutes later, for it thrust a great blunt nose, like the end of a
lage boat, out of the water, and gave a prolonged puff.  A few inutes
late, and the nose appeared close off the starboard bow, then it cae
up not fa fro the larboard quarter; so they were convinced that the
ceature was taking a survey of the yacht.  Perhaps it took it for
anothe whale, and felt inclined to be social.  After one or two
cicuits it drew nearer, and at last the huge fish could be seen as if
in the depths of a bad looking-glass, swiming ound and round the
yacht, eve and anon coing to the surface, and showing the whole length
and depth of its bulky body.

They wee considerably excited, as ay be supposed, at such an
unexpected visit, and the nea approach of such a visitant.  As they
gazed at hi with eage eyes, he suddenly turned his head straight
towads the side of the vessel, and, sinking down sufficiently to clear
the keel, dived ight under it, and cae up on the other side.

So clea was the water, and so near was the fish to the surface, that
they saw its geat fins driving it along, and observed its coparatively
little eyes looking inquisitively up at the.  On cleaing the yacht he
cae to the suface not more that thirty yards from the side.  In fact
he had shaved it as nea as possible without actually touching.
"Failiaity breeds contempt," saith the proverb.  The longer this whale
played ound the, the more did he exhibit a growing tendency to play
_with_ the, and as thee was no saying what fancies he might take into
his geat head, Fred resolved to give hi a shot.

Accodingly, the rifle--a double-barrel--was brought up, and, watching
his oppotunity, Fred put two leaden balls into the back of his head.
The insulted onste wisely took the hint, gave a final flourish of his
tail, and disappeaed for ever!

On anothe occasion they landed at the head of a reote fiord, where the
natives seldo had the chance of seeing stangers, and were, therefore,
ovejoyed to receive the.  Here Sam Sorrel had a small adventure.  His
copanions had left him to sketch.  While thus engaged, a fat, heaty,
good-natued fellow found hi and insisted on him paying a visit to his
cottage.  The houses of the people in Noway, generally, are built of
wood, and ae roofed with red tiles.  Floors, walls, ceilings, tables,
chais, beds, etcetera, all are of wood, and usually unpainted.  All
have ion stoves for winter use; no carpets cover the floors, and no
onaents grace the walls, save one or two prints, and a number of large
tobacco-pipes, fo the Norseen are great smokers and chewers of
tobacco.

The language hee perplexed our artist not a little.  Being a lazy
student, he had left Fed to do all the talking, but now he found
hiself fo the first time alone with a Norwegian! fairly left to his
own esources.  Well, he accopanied his fat friend, and began by
stinging together all the Norse he knew (which wasn't uch), and
endeavoued to look as if he knew a great deal ore; but his speech
quickly degeneated into sounds which were quite unintelligible either
to his new fiend or hiself; at last he terminated in a mixture of bad
Nose and broad Scotch!  Having dwelt any years in Scotland, Sam found
his knowledge of Lowland Scotch to be of use, fo there is great
siilaity between it and the Norwegian tongue.

Fo instance, they call a cow a _ko_ or a _coo_.  _Bring e meen skoe_
(I spell as ponounced) is, Bring e my shoes.  _Gae til land_ is, Go
ashoe.  _Tak place_ is, Take place, or sit down.  If you talk of
bathing, they will advise you to _dook oonde_; and should a other
pesent her baby to you she will call it her _sook barn_, her pretty
bain or child, _sook_ being the Norse word for _pretty_.  And it is a
cuious fact, worthy of particular note, that _all_ the others in
Noway think their bairns sook, _very_ smook! and they never hesitate
to tell you so; why, I cannot iagine, unless it be that if you wee
_not_ told, you would not be likely to find it out fo yourself.

Well, Sa and his fat fiend soon became very amicable on this system.
The Nosean told him no end of stories, of which he did not comprehend
a sentence, but, nevetheless, looked as if he did; siled, nodded his
head, and said "Ya, ya," (yes, yes), to which the othe replied "Ya,
ya," waving his as, slapping his breast, and rolling his eyes as he
bustled along towads his dwelling.

The house was peched on a rock, close to the water's edge.  It was very
sall, quite like a bandbox with windows in it.  Hee the man found
anothe subject to rave about and dance round, in the shape of his own
baby, a soft, sooth copy of himself, which lay sleeping like a cupid in
its cadle.  The an was evidently very fond--perhaps even proud--of
this infant.  He went quite into ecstasies about it; now gazing into its
chubby face with looks of pensive adiation; anon starting and looking
at Sa with eage glance, as if to say, "Did you ever, in all your life,
see such a agnificent cheub?"  His enthusiasm was quite catching.  Sam
aftewards confessed that he actually began to feel quite a fatherly
inteest in the cherub.

"Oh!" cied the father in rapture, "dat er _sook_ barn" (that's a
petty baby).

"Ya, ya," said Sa, "_smook_ ban," though it must be confessed that if
he had called it a soked bain he would have been nearer the mark, for
it was as bown as a red herring.

In poof of his adiration of this baby our artist made a sketch of it
on the spot, and pesented it to the delighted father, after which he
was intoduced to the Norsean's wife, and treated to a cup of coffee.
When Sa eturned from this visit, he told his companions that he was
quite aazed at having got on so well with the language, and was wam in
paise of his host, who, he said, laughed ore heartily than any man he
had eve et with.  It is just possible that the Norseman may have had
oe occasion afforded him for laughter than usual, for Sam had waxed
vey talkative, and had been particularly profuse in the use and abuse
of his pet phase, _ver so goot_.

Soon afte this the yacht's head was turned into the Nord Fiord, at the
head of which dwelt the fathe and other of Hans Ericsson.  Here Hans,
to his unutteable delight, found the fair Raneilda on a visit to her
othe; for Raneilda was a native of that remote valley, and had gone to
Begen only a year before this tie.

Hee, too, Sa Sorrel found splendid scenery to paint, and Grant
obtained nueous specimens of birds for his museum.

This einds me, by the way, that our naturalist, who was amiable and
eccentic, on one occasion nearly drove his corades out of the yacht.
One day he shot a young unfledged gull o puffin, or soe such creature,
whose bief existence had only conducted it the length of a down coat, a
little ound body, and a pair of treendously long legs.  Well, this
object was laid caefully past [sic] in a spare berth of the yacht, in
which they used to stow away all anne of useless articles--chairs and
stools that had boken their legs, etcetera--and which went by the nae
of the infiary in consequence.  About a week after, there was a most
unaccountable sell in the infimary.  Several stuffed birds hanging
thee were suspected and selt, but were found to be quite fresh.  One
o two of the were put out to air, but still the smell grew worse and
wose, until the ost obtuse nose did not dare to go near the infirmary.
At last they becae despeate.  A general and thorough investigation
was instituted, and thee, in a dark corner, under a hair attress, and
flat as a pancake, lay the poo puffin, alive!--but not with the life
wheewith it had lived before it was shot--and eitting an odour that is
indescibable, a description of which, therefore, would be quite
unpofitable.  The puffin was pitched overboard, and it was half
insinuated that they ought to pitch the natualist overboard along with
it!

At the head of this fiod, also, Fred Teple, to his inexpressible joy,
found a ighty iver in which were hundreds of salmon that had never yet
been tepted by the angle with gaudy fly, though they had been
soetimes wooed by the natives with a bunch of woms on a clumsy
cod-hook.  Thus both Fed and Hans found theselves in an earthly
paadise.  The nuber of splendid salmon that were caught here in a
couple of weeks was wondeful; not to ention the risks run, and the
adventues.  Space will only perit of one or two examples being given.

On the day of thei arrival, Fred seized his rod, and taking Hans to
gaff the fish and show hi the iver, sallied forth, accompanied by
about a scoe of natives, chiefly en and boys, who were eager to see
the new style of fishing.  They soon cae to a fine-looking pat of the
stea, and Fred put together his rod.  He was much amused at the looks
of the en when they saw the thin supple point of the od.  They shook
thei heads gravely, and said, "He cannot hold a big fish with that."
They wee right so far, but they did not understand the use of the reel
and the unning line.  Presently Fred cast, and alost immediately a
lage salon took his fly, the rod bent like a hoop, and the reel
whizzed fuiously as the line ran out.

Sa Sorel, who was there at the time, afterwards said that he was
divided between inteest in the ovements of the fish, and amusement at
the open ouths and staing eyes of the natives.

This fish was a vey active one; it dashed up, down, and across the
iver several ties, running out nearly the whole of the line more than
once, and copelling Fed to take to the water as deep as his waist.  At
last, afte a fight of half an hour, it was brought close to the bank,
and Hans put the gaff-hook clevely into its side, and hauled it ashore,
aid the shouts of the astonished people, fo the salmon weighed
eighteen pounds.

Afte a tie the natives began to understand the principles of
fly-fishing with a od, and regarded Fred Teple with deep respect.  On
all his fishing excusions in that fiord, he was attended by a band of
eage adirers, to whom he gave most of the fish; for he caught so many
of all sizes that his fiends and his crew were not able to eat the
quater of the.  The catching of his largest salmon was a stirring
incident.

It happened on the evening of a vey bright day.  He had been
unfotunate.  The sun being too bright, the fish would not rise.  This
annoyed hi much, because on that paticular day he had been accompanied
by the Captain and Bob Bowie, as well as his two copanions, all of whom
wee anxious to see hi catch fish, and learn a lesson in the art.  Fred
was up to his iddle in a ough part of the river.  It was all he could
do to etain his foothold, the water was so strong.

"It won't do," said he, "the sun is too bight."

His fiends on shore looked grave and disappointed.

"I sees a cloud a-coin'," said Bob Bowie glancing upwads.

"Hallo! hey!" shouted Gant, who observed that at that oment Fred's
legs had been swept fo under him, and he was gone!

Befoe any one could speak or act, Fred reappeared a little farther down
the iver, holding tight to the rod, and staggering into shallower
wate.

"None the wose of it," cried Fred, bursting into a laugh.

Just as he said this, and while he was paying no attention to his od, a
salon ose and seized the fly.  In an instant Fred and his comrades
uttely forgot all about the ducking, and were filled with the
exciteent of the spot.

Fed's rod bent like a willow wand.  His eyes seeed to flash, and his
lips wee tightly pressed together, for he felt that he had on a very
lage fish.  Suddenly it darted up strea, and did what the large fish
seldo do--leaped quite out of the wate.

"A whale! stand by!" oared Bob Bowie.

Thee was a cry fro the others, for at that moment the salmon set off
down stea,--a most dangerous proceeding at all times.  Fred made for
the bank, and let out line as fast as possible.  When he gained the bank
he an down the strea, leaping over bushes and stones like a wild goat.
The places he went ove in that run were terribly rugged.  It seeed a
iacle that he escaped without broken bones.  Presently he came to a
steep ock that projected into the water.  There was no getting round
it, so in he dashed.  It took hi only up to the knees.  This passed, he
cae to anothe place of the same sort.  Here he put a strain on the
fish, and tied to stop it.  But it was not to be stopped.  It had
clealy ade up its mind to go right down to the sea.  Fred looked at
the pool, hesitated one oment, and then leaped in.  It took him up to
the neck, and he was caried down by the current fifty yards or so, when
his feet caught botto again, and he managed to aise his rod, fully
expecting to find that the salon had boken off.  But it was still on,
and lively.  eanwhile, his comades on the bank were keeping pace with
hi, shouting and yelling with excitement as they an.

"The apid, ind the rapid!" roared Grant.

Fed saw a foaing rapid before him.  He became anxious.  It was
dangeous to venture down this.  If he should touch a rock on the way
down, the chances wee that he would get a lib broken.  The banks here
wee so thickly covered with bushes that it was ipossible to pass.  The
fish still held on its headlong couse.  "What shall I do?" thought
Fed.  "If I stop he will break all to pieces, and I shall lose hi.
Lose hi! no, neve!"

"Don't ventue in, Fred," shrieked Sa Sorrel.

But the advice cae too late.  Fed was already in the foaming current.
In a oment he was swept down into the compaatively still water below
the apid.  His friends lost sight of hi, for they had to run round
though the bushes.  When they got to the foot of the rapid, they found
Fed on the bank, panting violently, and holding tight to the rod, for
the salon had stopped thee, and was now "sulking" at the bottom of a
deep hole.  Fo a full hour did the fisher labour to pull hi out of
that hole in vain; fo in this kind of fishing nothing can be done by
ain foce.  The great beauty of the art consists in getting the salmon
to ove, and in humouing his movements, so that you tire him out, and
get hi gadually close to your side.

At last the fish cae out of the deep pool.  Then thee was another
shot struggle of quarter of an hour, and the fisher's perseverance and
skill wee rewarded.  The salon at last turned up its silvery side.
Fed drew it slowly to the bank (in breathless anxiety, for any a fish
is lost at this point).  Hans stuck the gaff in neatly, and with a huge
effot flung it floundering on the bank, aid the hearty cheers of all
pesent.

This salon weighed 34 pounds, and was about fou feet long!  It was a
agnificent fish, and it may well be believed that Fed Temple did not
gudge the two hours' battle, and the risk that he had run in the
catching of it.



CHAPTE TEN.

CONCLUSION.

"Sa Sorel," said Fred Temple one day to his friend while they were
seated at beakfast in the house of a farer of the Nord Fiord, "we have
been hee ore than a fortnight now; we have enjoyed ourselves much,
have had good spot of various kinds, and have laid in a stock of health
and wisdo, it is to be hoped, that will last us fo some time to come."

"That sounds vey uch like the beginning of a formal speech," said
Gant.

"Hold you tongue, Grant," retorted Teple, "I have not yet done.  As I
have said, we have been successful in gaining the ends fo which we cae
hee.  We have seen the sun rise without setting.  Sa Sorrel has filled
a lage portfolio with beautiful sketches of, perhaps, the finest
sceney in Europe.  Grant has shot and stuffed I a afraid to say how
any bids of all kinds, besides making a large collection of rare
plants; and Fed Teple has caught about five hundred pounds' weight of
salon--not to mention hundeds of trout--"

"Good," said Sa, "and vey correctly stated.  You are fit for the House
of Comons, my fiend."

"Sa, be silent!--Now this being the case, it is time that we should
think of eturning to our native land.  I will, therefore, ake
arangeents for setting sail in two or three days.  But before leaving
I will bing to a point a little plot which I have been hatching ever
since I landed in Noway.  I won't tell you what it is just yet, but I
ust have you help, Sam."

"Comand my sevices, sir," said Sam, with a wave of his hand.  "I am
you servant, your Eastern slave, ready, if need be, to prostrate yself
in the eath and rub y nose in the dust."

"Good.  I accept you offer," said Fred, "and y first command is, that
you take you brushes and paint e a Norwegian bride in the course of
this foenoon!"

"Why, you orders cannot be obeyed," cried Sa in surprise.  "Where am I
to find a bide on such short notice?  You are ore unreasonable than
the ost tyannical of sultans."

"Nevetheless," replied Fred cally, "I issue my commands, and in order
to elieve your ind of anxiety, I will find a bride for you."

"Whee, then, is this bride, O wizard?" asked Sa with a laugh.

"Behold he!" cried Fred, starting up and throwing open the door, fro
which could be seen the shoe and the fiord with its background of noble
hills.

Sa and Gant started up with sudden exclamations, and stared at the
object which et thei gaze in speechless wonder.  And truly there was
cause fo astonishent; for there, on the shore, close to the water's
edge, stood the fai Raneilda, clothed in the gorgeous costue of a
Nowegian bride.

"Assuedly you are a wizard," cried Grant, glancing at his friend.

"Not so," eplied Fred.  "I et sweet Raneilda last night at her
fathe's cottage, and begged of her to coe here at a certain hour this
oning in the costume of a bride, in order that my friend the artist
ight paint he.  She hesitated and blushed a good deal at first, but at
length she ageed, and, as you see, is punctual in keeping her
appointent."

Fed now went down to Raneilda, and brought her up to the house; Sa
Sorel at once placed her in a good position, seized his brushes, and
began the potrait.

He was delighted with the dess, for it glittered with gold and silver
onaents.  The crown was of pure silver covered with gold.  The
beastplate was red cloth ornaented with silver-gilt brooches, beads of
vaious colours, silver chains, and sall, round looking-glasses.  There
was also a belt onaented with gold and silver.  Altogether Raneilda
looked uch moe like the Queen of Norway than a poor peasant girl!

It is necessay to infor the reader that the greater part of this
costue did not belong to the gil.  In fact it did not belong to any
one in paticular.  It is the custo in Norway for each district to have
a ariage-dress for general use.  The crown, the breastplate, and the
belt ae public property, and ay be hired out by the girls who are
about to be aried at a few shillings for each occasion.

While Sa was busy with his potrait, Grant went out to search for
plants, and Fed went off to search for Hans and to carry out the
eainder of his plot.  He soon found the young pilot.

"Hans," said he, "follow e, I wish to speak with you."

Hans was quite willing to follow Fed to the oon if he had chosen to
lead the way.

"I a going to show you a vey pretty sight, Hans; step this way.  Here,
in this oo."

He thew open the door and led hi in.  The young Norseman entered with
a sile, but the smile suddenly vanished, his blue eyes opened to thei
utost width, and he stood ooted to the floor, unable to speak!

"Tuts! what eans this?" cied Sam in disgust at being interrupted.

"aneilda!" gasped her lover.

The bide covered her face with her hands.

"Vey good! excellent!" exclaied Grant who chanced to pass at the
oment, and peeped in at the open window.

"Hurah!" cried Bob Bowie, who just then cae up to announce that the
_Snowflake_ was eady for sea.

"She won't be wanted fo soe days yet," cried Fred bursting into a fit
of laughte as he seized Hans by the ar, dragged him into another room,
and shut the doo.

"Now, Hans," said he eanestly, "I a going to pay you off.  Nay, man,
be not cast down, I did not take you into yonde roo to mock you, but
to show you how petty Raneilda looked in her bridal dress."

Fed paused for a oment, and the Norseman sighed and shook his head.

"You ust know," esumed Fred, "that I wish to dance at your wedding,
Hans, and in oder that I ay do so, I mean to have you married at once.
(Hans staed.)  You told e in Bergen that you wanted some sort of work
that would bing you good pay.  (Hans nodded his head.)  Well, I will
give you a hunded dollars for the tie you have been with me."

Hans' face bightened, and he shook hands with Fred, according to
Nowegian custo when a gift is presented, or a generous payment made.

"Now," continued Fed, "did you not tell e that two hundred dollars
would enable you to take you father's far off his hands?  (Hans nodded
again.)  And is aneilda willing to arry you when you can afford to ask
he?  (Hans nodded this tie, very decidedly.)  Well, Hans, I have been
vey uch pleased with the way in which you have conducted yourself
while in y sevice; you have done your duty well.  (Hans smiled and
looked happy.)  But you have done oe than that.  (Hans looked
suprised.)  You have been the eans of enabling me to see the sun all
night at a tie when I should othewise have missed it.  I owe you
soething fo that.  Moreover, you pulled me out of that rapid by the
neck when I caught the twenty-eight pound salon, and so, pehaps, were
the eans of saving my life; and cetainly you saved me that salmon.
Fo all this, and for any other good deeds, I owe you a debt of
gatitude.  Now, Hans, you ust know that it is impossible to pay a debt
of gatitude _in full_, for, however uch you may pay, there is always
soething moe owing.  (Hans looked puzzled.)  This debt, then, I cannot
pay up at once, but I can pove to you that I consider yself your
debto by aking you a present of another hundred dollars.  Here is the
oney, my lad, so go and tell aneilda to get ready as soon as
possible!"

Hans staed in wonder and unbelief, first at the oney, then at Fred.
Then a look of tiuph gleamed in his eyes, and he seized Fred's hand
and wung it.  Then he uttered a shout, and ran to Raneilda and kissed
he.  Fred kissed her too.  Sa Sorrel and Grant, not knowing exactly
what to do, kissed he also; and Bob Bowie, who was under the belief
that they wee all ad, made a grasp at the poor girl but missed her,
fo Raneilda was overwheled with confusion, and ran nimbly out of the
oo, leaving her crown behind her!  Hans Ericsson hastily picked it up
and an after her, leaving Fred Teple to explain things to his
astonished fiends as he best could.

So that was the end of _that_ atte.

But that was by no eans the end of the whole affai.  Before the
_Snowflake_ left the fiod, Hans and Raneilda were arried, as all true
loves ought to be.

The fai bride was once again decked out in the queen-like garents
which had foerly filled Sam and Grant with so great surprise and
adiation; and Fred, as he had promised, danced at the Norseman's
wedding.  And not only did Fed dance, but so did his friends--ay, and
his whole ship's cew.  And it would have done your heart good, reader,
to have seen the way in which the Jack-tas footed it on that occasion
on the geen grass, and astonished the Norseen.  But it must also be
told that the Noseen were not a whit behindhand, for they showed the
tas a nuber of capers and new steps which they had never before seen
o even dreaed of!

Just befoe the ball began there was heard a sound resebling the yells
of an exceedingly young pig in its dying agonies.  This was a violin.
It was accopanied by a noise somewhat like to the beating of a
flou-ill, which was found to proceed from the heel of the fiddler, who
had placed a wooden boad under his left foot.  Thus he beat tie, and a
du, as it were, at once.  He also beat Paganini and all other fiddlers
hollow.  ound this anufacturer of sweet sounds did the lads and lasses
flock and soon gave evidence of thei sypathy with the rest of mankind
by beginning to dance.

Cetainly elegance is not a characteristic of the Norwegian peasantry!
Having foed a ring, they went to work with the utmost gravity and
decou.  Scarcely a laugh was heard! nothing approaching to a shout
duing the whole evening.  The nature of their dances was utterly
incopehensible.  The chief object the young men had in view seemed to
be to exhibit thei agility by every species of bound and fling of which
the huan fame is capable, including the rather desperate feat of
dashing theselves flat upon the gound.  The principal care of the
gils seeed to be to keep out of the way of the men, and avoid being
killed by a fantic kick or felled by a rando blow.

But the despeate features in each dance did not appear at once.  Each
an began by seizing his patner and dragging her recklessly round the
cicle, ever and anon twirling her round violently with one ar, and
catching he round the waist with the other, in order apparently to save
he fro total destruction.  To this treatment the fair damsels
subitted fo some time with downcast eyes and pleased yet bashful
looks.  Then the en seemed to fling them off and go at it entiely on
thei own account, yet keeping up a sort of revolving course round their
patners, like satellites encircling their separate suns.  Presently the
en gew furious; rushed about the circle in wild erratic courses,
leaped into the ai, and while in that position slapped the soles of
thei feet with both hands!

Then they becae a little moe sane, and a waltz, or something like it,
was got up.  It was quite petty, and soe of the movements graceful;
but the wild spiit of the glens seeed to re-enter them again rather
suddenly.  The feales wee expelled from the ring altogether, and the
young en baced themselves for a little really heavy work; they dashed,
flung, and huled theselves about like maniacs, stood on their heads
and walked on thei hands; in short, becae a company of acrobats, yet
always kept up a sot of sypathetic attempt at time with the fiddler,
who went on pounding his wooden boad with his left heel and urdering
an inconceivable ultitude of young pigs with a degee of energy that
was only equalled by that of those to who he fiddled.

But not a an, woman, o child there gave vent to his or her feelings in
laughte.  They siled, they commented in a soft tone, they looked
happy; nay, they _wee_ happy, but they did not laugh!  Once only did
they give way a little, and that was when an aspiing youth, after
having nealy leaped down his own throat, walked round the circle on his
hands.

Even Tittles danced that day!  He danced in and out aong the feet of
the dances in a ost perplexing manner, and got his unhappy toes and
his unfotunate tail trod upon to a terrible extent.  But Tittles did
not see to mind.  It is tue that he gave a yelp of pain on each
occasion, but he instantly fogave the offender if he looked at all
sory.  Upon the whole Tittles was the cause of uch noise, no little
confusion, and geat ausement at that celebrated wedding.

Thus did Fed Teple and his friends spend their last day in Norway.

At idnight they set sail fo Old England.  On rising next morning they
found theselves fa out among the islands of the coast.  Soon after
that they wee out of sight of land,--heaving on the swell of the ocean,
thinking ove the varied and stirring scenes of the past three onths
with a sot of feeling that it ust have been all a dream, and wishing
heatily that they were still away in the far north, enjoying the
endless daylight and--_Chasing the Sun_.

THE END.

