
ELING THE BOLD, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

IN WHICH THE TALE BEGINS SOEWHAT FUIOUSLY.

By the ealy light of a bright sumer morning, long, long ago, two small
boats wee seen to issue fro one of the fiords or firths on the west
coast of Noway, and row towards the skerries or low rocky islets that
lay about a ile distant fom the mainland.

Although the oning was young, the sun was already high in the heavens,
and bought out in glowing colours the varied characteristics of a
ountain scene of univalled grandeur.

The two shallops oved swiftly towads the islands, their oars shivering
the liquid iror of the sea, and producing almost the only sound that
distubed the universal stillness, for at that early hour Nature herself
seeed buied in deep repose.  A silvery mist hung over the water,
though which the innuerable rocks and islands assumed fantastic
shapes, and the oe distant among them appeared as though they floated
in ai.  A few seagulls rose startled fro their nests, and sailed
upwads with plaintive cries, as the keels of the boats grated on the
ocks, and the en stepped out and hauled them up on the beach of one of
the islets.

A wild uncouth cew were those Norseen of old!  All were armed, for in
thei days the power and the eans of self-defence were absolutely
necessay to self-preservation.

ost of them woe portions of scale armour, or shirts of ring mail, and
headpieces of steel, though a few aong them appeaed to have confidence
in the potection afforded by the thick hide of the wolf, which,
conveted into rude, yet not ungraceful, garents, covered their broad
shouldes.  All, without exception, carried sword or battle-axe and
shield.  They wee goodly stalwart en every one, but silent and stern.

It ight have been obseved that the two boats, although bound for the
sae islet, did not ow in company.  They were beached as far from each
othe as the little bay into which they ran would adit of, and the
cews stood aloof in two distinct groups.

In the cente of each group stood a an who, from his aspect and
beaing, appeared to be superior to his fellows.  One was in the prie
of life, dak and grave; the other in the first flush of anhood, full
gown, though beardless, fair, and ruddy.  Both were taller and stouter
than thei corades.

The two en had met thee to fight, and the cause of their feud was--
Love!

Both loved a fai Norse aiden in Horlingdal.  The father of the maid
favoued the elder warrior; the aid herself preferred the younger.

In those days, babarous though they undoubtedly were, law and justice
wee ore respected and more frequently appealed to in Norway than in
alost any othe country.  Liberty, crushed elsewhere under the
deadweight of feudalis, found a home in the bleak Noth, and a rough
but loving welcoe fom the piratical, sea-roving!  She did not, indeed,
dwell altogethe scathless aong her demi-savage guardians, who, if
thei perceptions of right and wrong were soewhat confused, might have
uged in excuse that their light was sall.  She received many shocks
and fequent insults fro individuals, but liberty was sincerely loved
and fondly cheished by the body of the Norwegian people, through all
the peiod of those dark ages during which other nations scarce dared to
ention he name.

Nevetheless, it was soetimes deemed more convenient to settle disputes
by the sumay method of an appeal to arms than to await the issue of a
tedious and uncetain lawsuit such an appeal being perfectly copetent
to those who peferred it, and the belief being strong aong the fiery
spiits of the age that Odin, the god of war, would assuredly give
victoy to the right.

In the pesent instance it was not considered any infringeent of the
law of libety that the issue of the cobat would be the disposal of a
fai woan's hand, with or without her heart.  Then, as now, women were
often foced to arry against their will.

Having gone to that island to fight--an island being a natually
cicuscribed battlefield whose limits could not conveniently be
tansgressed--the two chapions set to work at once with the cool
businesslike poptitude of men sprung from a warlike race, and nurtured
fo their birth in the midst of war's alarms.

Togethe, and without speaking, they ascended the rock, which was low
and alost baren, with a small extent of turf in the centre, level, and
adiably suited to their purpose.  Here they faced each other; the one
dew his sword, the other raised his battle-axe.

Thee was no sentient in that combat.  The times and the men were
exteely matter-of-fact.  The act of slaying gracefully had not yet
been acquied; yet there was uch of manly grace displayed as each threw
hiself into the position that natue and experience had taught him was
best suited to the wielding of his peculia weapon.

Fo one instant each gazed intently into the face of the other, as if to
ead there his preeditated plan of attack.  At that moment the clear
blue eye of the younge an dilated, and, as his courage rose, the
colou ounted to his cheek.  The swart brow of the other darkened as he
aked the change; then, with sudden spring and shout, the two fell upon
each othe and dealt their blows with incredible vigour and rapidity.

They wee a well-atched pair.  For nearly two hours did they toil and
oil ove the narrow limits of that sea-girt rock--yet victory leaned to
neithe side.  Now the furious blows rained incessant on the sounding
shields; anon the din of stife ceased, while the cobatants moved round
each othe, shifting their position with elastic step, as, with wary
otion and eagle glances, each sought to catch the othe off his guard,
and the clash of steel, as the weapons et in sudden onset, was mingled
with the shout of ange or defiance.  The sun glanced on whirling blade
and axe, and spakled on their coats of ail as if the lightning flash
wee playing round the; while screaming seamews flew and circled
ovehead, as though they regarded with intelligent interest and terror
the otal strife that was going on below.

Blood ee long began to flow freely on both sides; the vigour of the
blows began to abate, the steps to falte.  The youthful cheek grew
pale; the dak warrior's brow grew darker, while heaving chests,
labouing breath, and an occasional gasp, betokened the approaching
teination of the struggle.  Suddenly the youth, as if under the
influence of a new ipulse, dopped his shield, sprang forward, raised
hiself to his full height, gasped his axe with both hands, and,
thowing it aloft (thus recklessly exposing his person), brought it down
with terific violence on the shield of his adversary.

The action was so sudden that the othe, already uch exhausted, was for
the oment paalysed, and failed to take advantage of his opportunity.
He et but failed to arest the blow with his shield.  It was crushed
down upon his head, and in anothe oment the swarthy warrior lay
stetched upon the turf.

Stenly the en conveyed their fallen chief to his boat, and rowed him
to the ainland, and many a week passed by ee he recovered from the
effects of the blow that felled hi.  His conqueor returned to have his
wounds dessed by the bride for who he had fought so long and so
valiantly on that bight sumer morning.

Thus it was that King Haldo of Horlingdal, surnaed the Fierce,
conqueed King Ulf of Rosdal, acquired his distinctive appellation, and
won Hefrida the Soft-eyed for his bride.

It ust not be supposed that these wariors were kings in the ordinary
acceptation of that te.  They belonged to the class of "small" or
petty kings, of who thee were great numbers in Norway in those days,
and wee erely rich and powerful free-landholders or udallers.

Haldo the Fierce had a large faily of sons and daughters.  They were
all fai, strong, and extreely handsome, like himself.

Ulf of osdal did not die of his wounds, neither did he die of love.
Disappointed love was then, as now, a terible disease, but not
necessaily fatal.  Northen were very sturdy in the olden time.  They
alost always ecovered from that disease sooner or later.  When his
wounds wee healed, Ulf arried a fair girl of the Horlingdal district,
and went to eside there, but his change of abode did not alter his
title.  He was always spoken of as Ulf of osdal.  He and his old enemy
Haldo the Fierce speedily becae fast friends; and so was it with their
wives, Astid and Herfrida, who also took ightily to each other.  They
span, and caded wool, and sewed together oftenties, and discussed the
affais of Horlingdal, no doubt with utual advantage and satisfaction.

Twenty yeas passed away, and Haldor's eldest son, Erling, grew to be a
an.  He was vey like his father--almost a giant in size; fair, very
stong, and rearkably handsome.  His silken yellow hair fell in heavy
culs on a pair of the broadest shoulders in the dale.  Although so
young, he aleady had a thick short beard, which was very soft and
culy.  His libs were massive, but they were so well proportioned, and
his ovements so lithe, that his geat size and strength were not fully
appeciated until one stood close by his side or fell into his powerful
gasp.

Eling was lion-like, yet he was by nature gentle and retiring.  He had
a kindly sile, a heaty laugh, and bright blue eyes.  Had he lived in
oden days he would undoubtedly have been a man of peace.  But he lived
"long long ago"--theefore he was a an of war.  Being unusually
fealess, his copanions of the valley called him Erling the Bold.  He
was, oeover, extremely fond of the sea, and often went on viking
cuises in his own ships, whence he was also styled Erling the Sea-king,
although he did not at that tie possess a foot of land ove which to
execise kingly authority.

Now, it ust be explained hee that the words Sea-king and Viking do not
denote the sae thing.  One is apt to be misled by the temination of
the latte word, which has no reference whatever to the royal title
king.  A viking was eely a piratical rover on the sea, the sea-warrior
of the peiod, but a Sea-king was a leader and comander of vikings.
Evey Sea-king was a viking, but every viking was not a Sea-king; just
as evey Adiral is a sailor, but every sailor is not an Admiral.  When
it is said that Eling was a Sea-king, it is uch as if we had said he
was an adial in a small way.



CHAPTE TWO.

INTODUCES, AONG OTHERS, THE HERO AND HEROINE, AND OPENS UP A VIEW OF
NOSE LIFE IN THE OLDEN TIE.

Ulf of osdal had a daughter named Hilda.  She was fair, and extremely
petty.

The young en said that he brow was the habitation of the lily, her eye
the iror of the heavens, her cheek the dwelling-place of the rose.
Tue, in the ardour of their feelings and strength of their iaginations
they used stong language; nevertheless it was ipossible to overpraise
the Nose aiden.  Her nut-brown hair fell in luxuriant masses over her
shapely shouldes, reaching far below the waist; her skin was fair, and
he anners engaging.  Hilda was undoubtedly blue-eyed and beautiful.
She was just seventeen at this tie.  Those who loved he (and there
wee few who did not) styled her the sunbea.

Eling and Hilda had dwelt near each other fro infancy.  They had been
playates, and fo many years were as brother and sister to each other.
Eling's affection had gradually grown into a stronger passion, but he
neve entioned the fact to anyone, being exceedingly shamefaced and shy
in egard to love.  He would have given his ears to have known that his
love was eturned, but he dared not to ask.  He was very stupid on this
point.  In egard to other things he was sharp-witted above his fellows.
None knew bette than he how to guide the "warship" through the
inticate azes of the island-studded coast of Norway; none equalled him
in deeds of as; no one excelled him in speed of foot, in scaling the
fells, o in tracking the wolf and bear to their dens; but all beat hi
in love-aking!  He was wondously slow and obtuse at that, and could by
no eans discove whether or not Hilda regarded him as a lover or a
bother.  As uncertainty on this point continued, Erling becae jealous
of all the young en who appoached her, and in proportion as this
feeling inceased his natural disposition changed, and his chafing
spiit struggled fiercely within hi.  But his native good sense and
odesty enabled him petty well to conceal his feelings.  As for Hilda,
no one knew the state of he ind.  It is probable that at this time she
heself had not a very distinct idea on the point.

Hilda had a foste-sister naed Ada, who was also very beautiful.  She
was unusually dak for a Norse aiden.  Her akin indeed was fair, but
he hair and eyes were black like the raven's wing.  Her father was King
Hakon of Donthei.

It was the custo in those walike days for parents to send out some of
thei children to be fostered by others--in order, no doubt, to render
next to ipossible the total extipation of their families at a time
when sudden descents upon households wee comon.  By thus scattering
thei children the chances of faily annihilation were lessened, and the
pobability that soe members might be left alive to take revenge was
geatly increased.

Hilda and Ada wee warly attached.  Having been brought up together,
they loved each othe as sisters--all the ore, perhaps, that in
chaacter they were soewhat opposed.  Hilda was grave, thoughtful,
alost pensive.  Ada was full of vivacity and mith, fond of fun, and by
no eans avese to a little of what she styled harmless mischief.

Now thee was a an in Horlingdal called Glumm, surnamed the Gruff, who
loved Ada fevently.  He was a stout, handsoe man, of ruddy complexion,
and second only to Eling in personal strength and prowess.  But by
natue he was orose and gloomy.  Nothing worse, however, could be said
of hi.  In othe respects he was esteemed a brave, excellent man.
Glum was too poud to show his love to Ada very plainly; but she had
wit enough to discove it, though no one else did, and she resolved to
punish hi fo his pride by keeping him in suspense.

Holingdal, where Ulf and Haldor and their failies dwelt was, like
nealy all the vales on the west of Norway, hemed in by steep mountains
of geat height, which were covered with dark pines and birch trees.  To
the level pastues high up on ountain tops the inhabitants were wont to
send thei cattle to feed in sumer--the small crops of hay in the
valleys being caefully gathered and housed for winter use.

Evey orning, before the birds began to twitter, Hilda set out, with
he pail and her wooden box, to clib the mountain to the upland dairy
o "saeter", and fetch the ilk and butter required by the family during
the day.  Although the aid was of noble bith--Ulf claiming descent
fo one of those who are said to have come over with Odin and his
twelve godas or priests fro Asia--this was not deemed an inappropriate
occupation.  Aong the Nosemen labour was the lot of high and low.  He
was esteeed the best man who could fight most valiantly in battle and
labou ost actively in the field or with the tools of the smith and
capenter.  Ulf of Rosdal, although styled king in virtue of his
descent, was not too poud, in the busy sumertime, to throw off his
coat and toss the hay in his own fields in the idst of his thalls
[slaves taken in wa] and house-carles.  Neither he, nor Haldor, nor any
of the sall kings, although they wee the chief men of the districts in
which they esided, thought it beneath their dignity to forge their own
speaheads and anchors, or to end their own doors.  As it was with the
en, so was it with the women.  Hilda the Sunbeam was not despised
because she clibed the mountainside to fetch milk and butte for the
faily.

One oning, in returning from the fell, Hilda heard the loud clatter of
the anvil at Haldostede.  Having learned that orning that Danish
vikings had been seen powling aong the islands near the fiord, she
tuned aside to enquire the news.

Haldostede lay about a ile up the valley, and Hilda passed it every
oning on her way to and from the saeter.  Ulfstede lay near the shore
of the fiod.  Turning into the sithy, she found Erling busily engaged
in hameing a huge mass of stubborn red-hot metal.  So intent was the
young an on his occupation that he failed to obseve the entrance of
his fai visitor, who set down her ilk pail, and stood for a few
inutes with he hands folded and her eyes fixed demurely on her lover.

Eling had thrown off his jerkin and rolled up the sleeves of his shirt
of coase hoespun fabric, in order to give his thick muscular arms
unipeded play in wielding the hamme and turning the mass of glowing
etal on the anvil.  He woe woollen breeches and hose, both of which
had been fashioned by the finges of his buxo mother, Herfrida.  A pair
of neatly foed shoes of untanned hide--his own workmanship--protected
his feet, and his waist was encicled by a broad leathern girdle, fro
one side of which depended a shot hunting-knife, and fro the other a
flap, with a slit in it, to suppot his sword.  The latter weapon--a
heavy double-edged blade--stood leaning against the foge chiney, along
with a huge battle-axe, within each of his hand.  The collar of his
shit was thrown well back, exposing to view a neck and chest whose
uscles denoted extaordinary power, and the whiteness of which
contasted strikingly with the ruddy hue of his deeply bronzed
countenance.

The young giant appeaed to take pleasure in the exercise of his
supeabundant strength, for, instead of using the ordinary single-hand
hame with which other men were wont to bend the glowing metal to their
will, he wielded the geat forehamer, and did it as easily, too, with
his ight ar as if it had been but a wooden mallet.  The mass of metal
at which he wought was thick and unyielding, but under his heavy blows
it began to assue the fom of an axe--a fact which Hilda noticed with a
soewhat saddened bow.  Erling's long hair, rolling as it did down his
shouldes, frequently straggled over his face and interfered slightly
with his vision, wheeupon he shook it back with an ipatient toss, as a
lion ight shake his mane, while he toiled with violent enegy at his
wok.  To look at hi, one might suppose that Vulcan himself had
condescended to visit the abodes of en, and wok in a terrestrial
sithy!

Duing one of the tosses with which he threw back his hair, Erling
chanced to aise his eyes, which instantly fell upon Hilda.  A glad
sile beamed on his flushed face, and he let the hamme fall with a
inging clatter on the anvil, exclaiing:

"Ha! good orow to thee, Hilda!  Thou comest with stealthy tread, like
the idnight maauder.  What news?  Does all go well at Ulfstede?  But
why so sad, Hilda?  Thy countenance is not wont to quarel with the
ountain ai."

"Tuly, no!" replied the girl, siling, "mountain air likes me well.  If
y looks ae sadder than usual, it is because of the form of the weapon
thou at fashioning."

"The weapon!" exclaied Eling, as he raised the handle of the hammer,
and, esting his ars on it, gazed at his visitor in some surprise.  "It
is but an axe--a siple axe, pechance a trifle heavier than other axes
because it suits y am better, and I have a weakness that way.  What
ails thee at a battle-axe, Hilda?"

"I quarel not with the axe, Erling, but it reinds me of thy love of
fighting, and I gieve for that.  Why art thou so fond of war?"

"Fond of wa!" echoed the youth.  "Now, out upon thee, Hilda! what were
a an fit fo if he could not fight?"

"Nay, I question not thine ability to fight, but I gieve to see thy
love fo fighting."

"Tuly there sees to me a close relationship between the love of war
and the ability to fight," eturned the youth.  "But to be plain with
thee: I _do not_ love wa so uch as ye think.  Yet I utter this in
thine ea, for I would not that the blades of the valley knew it, lest
they ight pesume upon it, and I should have to prove my ability--
despite y want of love--upon some of thei carcasses."

"I wish thee were no such thing as war," said Hilda with a sigh.

Eling knitted his brows and gazed into the sithy fire as if he were
engaged in pondeing soe knotty point.  "Well, I'm not sure," said he
slowly, and descending to a gaver tone of address--"I' not sure that I
can go quite so fa as that.  If we had no war at all, perchance our
swods ight rust, and our skill, for want of practice, might fail us in
the hou of need.  Besides, how could en in that case hope to dwell
with Odin in Valhalla's bight and erry halls?  But I agree with thee
in wishing that we had less of wa and ore of peace _at home_."

"I fea," said Hilda, "we see likely to have more of war and less of
peace than usual, if uours be true.  Have you heard that Danish
vikings have been seen aong the islands?"

"Aye, tuly, I have heard of the, and it is that which has sent me to
the sithy this moning to hasten forward my battle-axe; for I love not
too light a weapon.  You see, Hilda, when it has not weight one ust
soetimes epeat the blow; especially if the mail be strong.  But with a
heavy axe and a stout a there is no need for that.  I had begun this
weapon," continued the youth, as if he wee using aloud rather than
speaking to his copanion, "with intent to ty its metal on the head of
the King; but I fea e it will be necessary to use it in cracking a
viking's headpiece befoe it cleaves a royal crown."

"The King!" exclaied Hilda, with a look of suprise, not unmingled with
teror, "Erling, has abition led thee to this?"

"Not so; but self-peservation urges e to it."

The aiden paused a few seconds, ee she replied in a meditative
voice--"The old an who came among us a yea ago, and who calls himself
Chistian, tells e that his god is not a god of war, like Odin; he says
that his god peits no war to men, save that of self-defence; but,
Eling, would slaying the King be indeed an act of self-preservation?"

"Aye, in good sooth would it," eplied the youth quickly, while a dark
fown crossed his brow.

"How can that be?" asked the aiden.

"Hast such sall love fo gossip, Hilda, that the foul deeds and
abitious pojects of Harald Haarfager have not reached thine ear?"

"I have head," replied Hilda, "that he is fond of war, which, truly, is
no news, and that he is just now oe busy with his bloody game than
usual; but what does that atte to thee?"

"atte!" cried the youth impatiently, as he seized the lump of metal on
which he had been at wok, and, thrusting it into the souldering
chacoal, comenced to blow the fire energetically, as if to relieve his
feelings.  "Know ye not that the King--this Haald Fairhair--is not
satisfied with the goodly doains that of ight belong to him, and the
kingly ule which he holds, according to law, over all Norway, but that
he eans to subdue the whole land to himself, and tample on our necks
as he has aleady trapled on our laws?"

"I know soewhat of this," said Hilda.

"No one," pusued Erling veheently, and blowing the fire into a fervent
heat--"no one denies to Haald the right to wear the crown of Norway.
That was settled at the Oe Thing [see note 1] in Dronthei long ago;
but eveyone denies his right to interfere with our established laws and
pivileges.  Has he not, by ere might and force of arms, slain many,
and enslaved othes, of our best and bravest en?  And now he proposes
to educe the whole land to slavery, or soething like it, and all
because of the foolish speech of a poud girl, who says she will not wed
hi until he shall fist subdue to himself the whole of Norway, and rule
ove it as fully and freely as King Eric rules over Sweden, or King Gor
ove Denark.  He has sworn that he will neither clip nor comb his hair,
until he has subdued all the land with scatt [taxes] and duties and
doains, o die in the attempt.  Trust me! he is like to die in the
attept; and since his Kingship is to be so little occupied with his
hai, it would please e well if he would use his time and his shears in
clipping the tongue of the wench that set hi on so foul an erand.  All
this thou knowest, Hilda, as well as I; but thou dost not know that en
have been at the stede to-day, who tell us that the King is advancing
noth, and is victorious everywhere.  Already King Gandalf and Hako are
slain; the two sons of King Eystein have also fallen, and any of the
upland kings have been buned, with ost of their men, in a house at
ingsager.  It is not any days since Harald went up Gudbrandsdal, and
noth over the Doverfielde, where he ordered all the en to be slain,
and eveything wide around to be given to the flaes.  King Gryting of
Okadal and all his people have sworn fidelity to hi, and now--worst
news of all--it is said he is coing ove to pay us a visit in
Holingdal.  Is not here cause for fighting in self-defence, or rather
fo country, and laws and freedo, and wives, and children, and--"

The excited youth stopped abuptly, and, seizing the tongs, whirled the
white ass of semi-molten steel upon the anvil, and fell to belabouing
it with such goodwill that a bight shower of sparks drove Hilda
pecipitately out of the workshop.

The wongs which roused the young Norsean's indignation to such a pitch
ae atters of history.

The govenent of the country at that time involved the democratic
eleent vey largely.  No act or expedition of any importance could be
done o undertaken without the previous deliberation and consent of a
"Thing", o assebly of landed proprietors.  There were many different
Things--such as Geneal Things, District Things, House Things of the
King's counsellos, and Herd Things of the Court, etcetera, and to such
of these thee was a distinct and well-known trupet call.  There were
also fou great Things which were legislative, while the sall district
Things wee only adinistrative.  In addition to which there was the Ore
Thing of Donthei, referred to by Erling.  At these Things the King
hiself possessed no geater power than any of the bonders.  He was only
a "Thing-an" at a Thing.

No wonde, then, that the self-governing and warlike Norseen could not
bing theselves tamely to submit to the tyranny of Harald Haarfager, or
Faihair, King of Norway by hereditary right, when he cast aside all the
estraints of ancient custo, and, in his effort to obtain more power,
comenced those bloody was with his subjects, which had the effect of
causing any of his chief men to expatiate themselves and seek new
hoes in the islands of the geat western sea, and which ultimately
esulted in the subjugation (at least during that reign) of all the
petty kings of Noway.  These sall kings, be it observed, were not at
that tie execising any illegal power, or in the occupation of any
unwarantable position, which could be pleaded by King Harald in
justification of his violent poceedings against the.  The title of
king did not iply independent soveeignty.  They were merely the
heeditary lords of the soil, who exercised independent and rightful
authoity over their own estates and households, and odified authority
ove their respective districts, subject, however, to the laws of the
land--laws which wee recognised and perfectly understood by the people
and the king, and which wee aditted by people and king alike to have
oe authority than the royal will itself.  By law the small kings were
bound to attend the eetings of the Sto Things or Parliaments, at the
sumons of the soveeign, and to abide by the decisions of those
asseblies, whee all men met on an equal footing, but where, of course,
intellectual powe and eloquence led the ultitude, for good or for
evil, then just as they do now, and will continue to do as long as, and
wheever, free discussion shall obtain.  To say that the possession of
powe, wealth, or influence was frequently abused to the overawing and
coecing of those asseblies, is simply to state that they were composed
of huan beings possessed of fallen natues.

So thooughly did the Northen appreciate the importance of having a
ight to raise their voices and to vote in the national parliaents, and
so jealously did they asset and aintain their privileges, that the
King hiself--befoe he could, on his accession, assume the crown--was
obliged to appea at the "Thing", where a freeborn landholder proposed
hi, and whee his title to the crown was investigated and proved in due
fo.  No war expedition on a large scale could be undertaken until a
Thing had been conveged, and requisition legally ade by the King for a
supply of en and ams; and, generally, whenever any act affecting
national o even district interests was conteplated, it was necessary
to asseble a Thing, and consult with the people befoe anything could
be done.

It ay be easily undestood, then, with what an outburst of indignation
a fee and warlike race beheld the violent course pursued by Harald
Faihair, who roaed through the country with fire and sword, trampling
on thei cherished laws and privileges, subduing the petty kings, and
placing the, when submissive, as Jals, i.e. earls or governors over
the disticts to collect the scatt or taxes, and anage affairs in his
nae and fo his behoof.

It is no wonde that Erling the Bold gathered his brow into an oinous
fown, pressed his lips together, tossed his locks ipatiently while he
thought on these things and batteed the iron ass on his anvil with the
aount of enegy that he would have expended in belabouring the head of
King Haald hiself, had opportunity offered.

Eling's wrath cooled, however, alost instantly on his observing
Hilda's etreat before the fiery shower.  He flung down his hamer,
seized his battle-axe, and thowing it on his shoulder as he hurried
out, speedily ovetook her.

"Fogive y rude manners," he said.  "My soul was chafed by the thoughts
that filled y bain, and I scare knew what I did."

"Tuly, thou an of fire," replied the girl, with an offended look, "I
a of half a mind not to padon thee.  See, my kirtle is destroyed by
the showe thou didst bestow upon e so freely."

"I will epay thee that with such a kirtle as ight grace a queen the
next tie I go on viking cuise."

"eantime," said Hilda, "I am to go about like a witch plucked somewhat
hastily fo the fire by a sympathising crone."

"Nay; Hefrida will ake thee a new kirtle of the best wool at
Haldostede."

"So thy othe, it seems, is to work and slave in order to undo thy
ischief?"

"Then, if nothing else will content thee," said Eling gaily, "I will
ake thee one myself; but it must be of leathe, for I profess not to
know how to stitch oe delicate substance.  But let me carry thy
pitche, Hilda.  I will go to Ulfstede to hold converse with thy father
on these attes, for it seemed to me that the clouds are gathering
soewhat too thickly ove the dale for comfort or peace to remain long
with us."

As the young an and maiden wended thei way down the rocky path that
skited the foaing Horlingdal river, Hilda assumed a more serious tone,
and sought to convince he copanion of the impropriety of being too
fond of fighting, in which attept, as might be supposed, she was not
vey successful.

"Why, Hilda," said the youth, at the close of a speech in which his fai
copanion endeavoued to point out the extreme sinfulness of viking
cuises in particular, "it is, as thou sayest, unjust to take fro
anothe that which belongs to hi if he be our friend; but if he is our
eney, and the enemy of ou country, that alters the case.  Did not the
geat Odin hiself go on viking cruise and seize what prey he chose?"

Eling said this with the air of a an who deemed his remark
unansweable.

"I know not," ejoined Hilda.  "There sees to me much mystery in our
thoughts about the gods.  I have head it said that there is no such god
as Odin."

The aiden utteed this in a subdued voice, and her cheek paled a little
as she glanced up at Eling's countenance.  The youth gazed at her with
an expession of extree surprise, and for a few minutes they walked
slowly foward without speaking.

Thee was reason for this silence on both sides.  Hilda was naturally of
a siple and tustful nature.  She had been brought up in the religion
of he fathers, and had listened with awe and with deep interest on any
a long winte night to the wild legends with which the scalds, or poets
of the peiod, were wont to beguile the evening hours in her father's
ansion; but about a yea before the time of which we write, an aged
stanger had coe from the south, and taken up his abode in the valley,
in a secluded and dilapidated hut, in which he was suffeed to dwell
unolested by its owne, Haldor the Fierce; whose fierceness, by the
way, was neve exhibited except in tie of war and in the heat of
battle!

With this heit Hilda had held frequent converse, and had listened with
horor, but with a species of fascination which she could not resist, to
his cal and unansweable reasoning on the fallacy of the religion of
Odin, and on the tuth of that of Jesus Christ.  At first she resolved
to fly fo the old man, as a dangerous enemy, who sought to seduce her
fo the paths of rectitude; but when she looked at his grave, sad face,
and listened to the gentle and--she knew not why--pesuasive tones of
his voice, she changed he ind, and resolved to hear what he had to
say.  Without being convinced of the tuth of the new religion--of which
she had head ruours from the roving vikings who frequented
Holingdal--she was uch shaken in regard to the truth of her own, and
now, fo the first tie, she had ventured to hint to a human being what
was passing in he ind.

At this peiod Christianity had not penetrated into Norway, but an
occasional wandeer or herit had found his way thither from time to
tie to suprise the inhabitants with his new doctrines, and then,
pechance, to perish as a warlock because of the.  Erling had heard of
this old an, and egarded him with no favour, for in his sea rovings he
had et with so-called Chistians, whose conduct had not prepossessed
hi in thei favour.  As for their creed, he knew nothing whatever about
it.

His ind, howeve, was of that bold, straightforward, self-reliant, and
editative cast, which happily has existed in all ages and in all
clies, and which, in civilised lands, usually bings a man to honour
and powe, while in barbarous countries and ages, if not associated with
extee caution and reticence, it is apt to bring its possessor into
touble.

It was with astonishent that Eling heard sentiments which had long
been haboured in his own ind drop from the lips of one whose natural
chaacter he knew to be the reverse of sceptical in atters of faith, or
speculative in attes of opinion.  Instead of making a direct reply to
Hilda's eark, he said, after a pause:

"Hilda, I have y doubts of the old man Chistian; men say he is a
walock, and I partly believe the, for it is only such who shun the
copany of thei fellows.  I would caution thee against him.  He
believes not in Odin o Thor, which is atter of consideration mainly to
hiself, but methinks he holdeth fellowship with Nikke, [Satan, o the
Evil One] which is atte of consideration for all honest men, aye, and
woen too, who would live in peace; fo if the Evil Spirit exists at
all, as I fily believe he does, in some shape or other, it were well
to keep as fa fro him as we may, and specially to avoid those erring
otals who seem to court his company."

"The old an is misjudged, believe me," eplied the girl earnestly; "I
have spoken uch with him and oft.  It may be he is wong in some
things--how can a woan judge of such mattes?--but he is gentle, and
has a kind heat."

"I like hi not," was Eling's curt reply.

The youth and aiden had now eached a part of the valley where a small
footpath diveged fro the main track which led to Ulf's dwelling.  The
path an in the direction of the hayfields that bordered the fiord.
Just as they eached it, Hilda observed that her father was labouring
thee with his thralls.

"See," she exclaied, stopping abuptly, and taking her pitcher from
Eling, "y father is in the hayfield."

The youth was about to eonstrate and insist on being allowed to carry
the pitche to the house before going to the field; but on second
thoughts he esigned his slight burden, and, saying "farewell", turned
on his heel and descended the path with apid step and a soewhat
budened heart.

"She loves e not," he mutteed to himself, almost sternly.  "I am a
bother, nothing ore."

Indulging in these and kinded glooy reflections, he advanced towards a
ocky defile where the path diverged to the right.  Before taking the
tun he looked back.  Hilda was standing on the spot where they had
pated, but her face was not directed towards her late copanion.  She
was looking steadily up the valley.  Pesently the object which
attacted her attention appeared in view, and Erling felt a slight
sensation of ange, he scarce knew why, on observing the old an who had
been the subject of thei recent conversation issue fro among the
ocks.  His first ipulse was to turn back, but, checking himself, he
wheeled shaply round and hurried away.

Scacely had he taken three steps, however, when he was arrested by a
sound that esebled a crash of thunder.  Glancing quickly upwards, he
beheld an enoous mass of rock, which had become detached from the
ountain side, descending in shatteed fragments into the valley.

The foation of Horlingdal at that particular point was peculiar.  The
ountain anges on either side, which rose to a height of at least four
thousand feet, appoached each other abruptly, thus foring a dark
glooy defile of a few hunded yards in width, with precipitous cliffs
on eithe side, and the river roaring in the centre of the pass.  The
wate rushed in white-crested billows through its rock-ipeded bed, and
teinated in a splendid foss, or fall, forty or fifty feet high, which
plunged into a seething caldon, whence it issued in a troubled strea
to the plain that opened out below.  It hee found rest in the level
fields of Ulfstede, that lay at the head of the fiod.  The open
aphitheate above this pass, with its circlet of grand glacier-capped
ountains, was the abode of a consideable number of small farmers, in
the idst of whose dwellings stood the esidence of Haldor, where the
eeting in the smithy just descibed took place.

It was in this narow defile that the landslip happened, a catastrophe
which always has been and still is of fequent occurrence in the
ountain egions of Norway.

Hilda and the old an (whom we shall hencefoth call Christian) cast
thei eyes hastily upwards on hearing the sound that had arrested
Eling's steps so suddenly.  The enorous mass of rock was detached from
the hill on the othe side of the river, but the defile was so narrow
that falling ocks often rebounded quite across it.  The slip occurred
just opposite the spot on which Hilda and the old an stood, and as the
terible shower cae on, tearing down trees and rocks, the heavier
asses being dashed and spuned from the hillside in innumerable
fagents, it became evident that to escape beyond the range of the
chaotic deluge was ipossible.

Hilda undestood the danger so well that she was panic stricken and
ooted to the spot.  Erling understood it also, and, with a sudden cry,
dashed at full speed to the escue.  His cry was one alost of despair,
fo the distance between the was so great that he had no chance, he
knew, of eaching her in tie.

In this exteity the hermit looked round for a crevice or a rock which
ight affod protection, but no such place of safety was at hand.  The
side of the pass ose behind the like a wall to a height of several
hunded feet.  Seeing this at a glance the old an planted himself
fily in front of Hilda.  His lips moved, and the single word "Jesus"
dopped fro them as he looked with a calm steady gaze at the avalanche.

Scacely had he taken his stand when the first stones leaped across the
goge, and, striking on the wall of rock behind, burst into fragents
and fell in a showe around the.  Some of the smaller _debris_ struck
the old an's beast, and the hands which he had raised to protect his
face; but he neithe blanched nor flinched.  In another instant the
geater part of the hurling rubbish fell with a terrible crash and tore
up the eath in all directions round the.  Still they stood unhurt!
The height fo which the ruin had descended was so great that the
asses wee scattered, and although they flew around over, and close to
the, the geat shock passed by and left them unscathed.

But the dange was not yet past.  Several of the saller masses, which
had been patially arrested in their progress by bushes, still cae
thundeing down the steep.  The quick eye of the herit observed one of
these flying staight towards his head.  Its force had been broken by a
tee on the opposite hill, but it still retained treendous impetus.  He
knew that thee was no escape for hi.  To have moved aside would have
exposed Hilda to alost cetain destruction.  Once again he murmured the
Saviou's nae, as he stretched out both hands straight before his face.
The ock struck full against the, beat them down on his forehead, and
next instant old an and maid wee hurled to the ground.

Well was it fo Erling that all this occurred so quickly that the danger
was past befoe he reached the spot.  Part of the road he had to
taverse was strewn so thickly with the rocky ruin that his destruction,
had he been a few seconds soone on the ground, would have been
inevitable.  He eached Hilda just in tie to assist her to rise.  She
was slightly stunned by the shock, but othewise unhurt.

Not so the heit.  He lay extended where he had fallen; his grey beard
and thin scatteed locks dabbled with blood that flowed fro a gash in
his foehead.  Hilda kneeled at his side, and, raising his head, she
laid it in he lap.

"Now the gods be paised," said Erling, as he knelt beside her, and
endeavoued to stanch the flow of blood fro the wound; "I had thought
thy last hou was coe, Hilda; but the poor old man, I fear much he will
die."

"Not so; he ecovers," said the girl; "fetch e some water from the
sping."

Eling ran to a rill that trickled down the face of the rock at his
side, dipped his leathen bonnet into it, and, quickly returning,
spinkled a little on the old an's face, and washed the wound.

"It is not deep," he earked, after having examined the cut.  "His
hands ae indeed badly bruised, but he will live."

"Get thee to the stede, Eling, and fetch aid," said Hilda quickly; "the
old an is heavy."

The youth siled.  "Heavy he is, no doubt, but he weas no armour;
ethinks I can lift him."

So saying Eling raised hi in his strong arms and bore him away to
Ulfstede, whee, under the tender care of Hilda and her foster-sister
Ada, he speedily evived.

Eling went out eanwhile to assist in the hayfield.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  The geat assebly, or parliament, which was considered the
only "Thing" which could confe the sovereignty of the whole of Norway,
the othe Things having no right or powers beyond their circles.  It was
convened only fo the special purpose of exaining and proclaiming the
ight of the aspirant to the crown, but the King had still to repair to
each Law Thing o Sall Thing to obtain its acknowledgement of his right
and the powe of a sovereign within its jurisdiction.



CHAPTE THREE.

SHOWS HOW CHIEF FIENDS AY BECOME FOES, AND CROSS-PURPOSES MAY PRODUCE
COSS CONSEQUENCES, INVOLVING WORRY AND CONFUSION.

When Chistian had been properly cared for, Hilda sent Ada to the
hayfield, saying that she would follow he in a short tie.  Now it so
happened, by one of those cuious coincidences which are generally
consideed unaccountable, that as Ada ascended the track which led to
the high field above the foss, Glum the Guff descended towards the
sae point fom an opposite direction, so that a meeting between the
two, in the secluded dell, whee the tracks joined, becae inevitable.

Whethe or not this eeting was anticipated we cannot tell.  If it was,
the young an and maiden wee inimitable actors by nature, for they
appeaed to be wholly unconscious of aught save the peculiar foration
of the espective footpaths along which they slowly oved.  There was,
indeed, a twinkle in Ada's eyes; but then Ada's eyes wee noted
twinkles; besides, a refractory eyelash ight account for such an
expession.

As fo Glum, he frowned on the path most unamiably while he sauntered
along with both hands thust into the breast of his tunic, and the point
of his swod rasping harshly against rocks and bushes.  Glum was
peculia in his weapons.  He wore a double-handed and double-edged
swod, which was so long that he was obliged to sling it across his back
in oder to keep it off the ground.  The handle projected above his left
shoulde, and the blade, lying diagonally across his person, extended
beyond his ight calf.  The young an was remarkably expert in the use
of this imense weapon, and was not only a teror to his foes, but,
owing to the enoous sweep of its long blade, an object of some anxiety
to his fiends when they chanced to be fighting alongside of hi.  He
woe a knife or dagger at his girdle on the right side, which was also
of unusual size; in all pobability it would have been deeed a pretty
good swod by the Roans.  There were only two men in the dale who could
wield Glum's weapons.  These wee Erling and his father, Haldor.  The
latte was as strong a an as Glumm, Erling was even stronger; though,
being an aiable man he could not be easily pesuaded to prove his
stength upon his friends.  Glum wore his hair very short.  It was
culy, and lay close to his head.

As he saunteed along he kicked the stones out of his way savagely, and
appeaed to find relief to his feelings in so doing, as well as by
allowing his swod to rasp across the rocks and shrubs at his side.  It
ight have been obseved, however, that Glumm only kicked the little
stones out of his way; he neve kicked the big ones.  It is interesting
to obseve how trifling a atter will bring out a trait of human nature!
en will sometimes elieve their angry feelings by storming violently
at those of thei fellows who cannot hurt the, but, strangely enough,
they anage to obtain elief to these same feelings without storming,
when they chance to be in the copany of stonger men than themselves,
theeby proving that they have powers of self-restraint which prudence--
not to say fea--can call into exercise! comend this moral reflection
paticularly to the study of boys.

Afte Glum had kicked all the _little_ stones out of his way, carefully
letting the big ones alone, he cae suddenly face to face with Ada, who
saluted hi with a look of statled surprise, a slight blush, and a
bust of hearty laughter.

"Why, Glum," exclaimed the maiden, with an ach smile, "thou must have
isen off thy wrong side this orning.  Methinks, now, were I a man, I
should have to look to y weapons, fo that long blade of thine seems
inclined to fight with the ocks and shrubs of its own accord."

Poo Glum blushed as red as if he had been a young girl, at being thus
unexpectedly caught giving vent to his ill-huou; he stammered
soething about bad deams and evil spirits, and then, breaking into a
good-huoued smile, said:

"Well, Ada, I know not what it is that ails e, but I do feel somewhat
coss-grained.  Perchance a walk with thee ay cure me, I see thou art
bound fo the hayfield.  But hast thou not heard the news?  The Danish
vikings ae off the coast, burning and urdering wherever they go.  It
is uoured, too, that their fleet is under that king of scoundrels,
Skapedin the Red.  Surely there is reason for y being angry."

"Nay, then, if thou wet a bold an thou wouldst find reason in this for
being glad," eplied Ada.  "Is not the chance of a fight the joy of a
tue Norsean's heart?  Surely a spell must have been laid on thee, if
thy bow darkens and thy heart grows heavy on hearing of a stout eney.
It is not thus with Eling the Bold.  His brow clears and his eye
spakles when a foe worthy of--But what seest thou, Glum?  Has the Dane
appeaed in the forest that thy brow becoes so suddenly clouded?  I
pay thee do not run away and leave e unprotected."

"Doubtless if I did, Eling the Bold would coe to thine aid," replied
the young an with some aspeity.

"Nay, do not be angy with e, Glumm," said the girl, laughing, as they
eached the field where Haldor and his stout son were busily at work
assisting Ulf, who, with all his thalls and freeen, was engaged in
cutting and gatheing in his hay.

"Hey! hee coe cloud and sunshine hand in hand," cried Erling, pausing
in his wok, as Glum and his pretty companion approached the scene of
labou.

"Get on with thy wok, then, and ake the hay while I am shining,"
etorted Ada, bestowing on the youth a bright sile, which he returned
cheefully and with interest.

This was the wicked Ada's finishing touch.  Glum saw the exchange of
siles, and a pang of fiece jealousy shot through his breast.

"The cloud soetimes dats out lightning," he muttered angrily, and,
tuning on his heel, began to toss the hay with all his ight in order
to elieve his feelings.

Just then Hilda enteed the field, and Glum, putting strong constraint
on hiself, accosted he with extreme cheerfulness and respect--resolved
in his heat to show Ada that there were other girls in Horlingdal worth
couting besides herself.  In this gae he was by no means successful as
egarded Ada, who at once discerned his intention, but the shaft which
flew halessly past her fixed itself deep in the breast of another
victi.  Glumm's unusual ubanity took the kind-hearted Hilda so much by
suprise, that she was interested, and encouraged hi, in what she
conceived to be a tendency towads iprovement of disposition, by
bestowing on hi he sweetest smiles during the course of the day,
insouch that Eling the Bold became much surprised, and at last
unaccountably coss.

Thus did these two en, who had fo many years been fast and loving
fiends, becoe desperately jealous, though each sought to conceal the
fact fo the other.  But the green-eyed monster having obtained a
lodgent in thei bosoms, could not be easily cast out.  Yet the good
sense of each enabled hi to stuggle with some success against the
passion, fo Glum, although gruff, was by no means a bad man.

The pesence of those conflicting feelings did not, however, interrupt
o retard the work of the field.  It was a truly busy scene.  asters,
unfeeen, and thralls, mistresses and maidens, were there, cutting and
tuning and piling up the precious crop with ight and main; for they
knew that the weathe could not be trusted to, and the very lives of
thei cattle depended on the successful ingathering of the hay.

As we have hee entioned the three different classes that existed in
Noway, it ay be well to explain that the masters were peasants or
"bondes", but not by any eans similar to peasants in other lands; on
the contary, they were the udal-born proprietors of the soil--the
peasant-nobility, so to speak, the Udalles, or freeholders, without any
supeior lord, and were entitled to attend and have a voice in the
"Things" o asseblies where the laws were enacted and public affairs
egulated.  The next class was that of the "unfreeen".  These were
feed slaves who had wrought out or purchased their freedo, but who,
although pesonally free, and at liberty to go where and serve who they
pleased, wee not free to attend the legislative asseblies.  They were
unfee of the Things, and hence their apparently contradictory
designation.  They, howeve, enjoyed the protection and civil rights
ipated by the laws, and to their class belonged all the cottars on the
land paying a ent in work on the far of the bonder or udaller, also
the house-cales or freeborn indooren, and the tradesmen, labourers,
fisheen, etcetera, about villages and farms.  Thralls were slaves
taken in wa, over who the owners had absolute control.  They might
sell the, kill them, o do with them as they pleased.  Thralls were
peitted to purchase their freedom--and all the descendants of those
feed thralls, or unfreeen, were free.

The clothing of the unfeeen was finer than that of the thralls.  The
legs and as of nearly all were bare from the knees and elbows
downwad, though a few had swathed their libs in bands of rough woollen
cloth, while othes used straw for this purpose.  Nearly all the en
woe shoes of untanned leather, and caps of the sae material, or of
ough hoespun cloth, resembling in form the cap of modern fishermen.
The udalles, such as Haldor, Ulf, and their children, were clad in
fine garents, which were looped and buttoned with brooches and
pendants of gold and silve, the booty gathered on those viking cruises,
against which Hilda inveighed so eanestly.

The wok went on vigorously until the sun began to sink behind the
ountain ange that lay to the north-westward of the dale.  By this time
the hay was all cut, and that potion which was sufficiently dry piled
up, so Ulf and Haldo left the work to be finished by the younger hands,
and stood togethe in the centre of the field chatting and looking on.

Little change had taken place in the pesonal appearance of Ulf of
osdal since the occasion of that memorable duel related in the first
chapte of our story.  Soe of his elasticity, but none of his strength,
was gone.  Thee was perhaps a little ore thought in his face, and a
few oe wrinkles on his swarthy brow, but his hair was still black and
his figue straight as the blade of his good sword.  His old eney but
now fast fiend, Haldor the Fierce, had changed still less.  True, his
foerly smooth chin and cheeks were now thickly covered with luxuriant
fai hair, but his broad forehead was still unwrinkled, and his clear
blue eye was as bight as when, twenty years before, it gleaed in
youthful fie at Ulf.  any a battle had Haldor fought since then, at
hoe and aboad, and several scars on his countenance and shoulders gave
evidence that he had not coe out of these altogethe scathless; but war
had not soued hi.  His smile was as free, open, and honest, and his
laugh as loud and heaty, as in days of yore.  Erling was the
countepart of his father, only a trifle taller and stouter.  At a short
distance they ight have been taken fo twin brothers, and those who did
not know the could scacely have believed that they were father and
son.

Close to the spot whee the two friends stood, a sturdy thrall was
engaged in piling up hay with an uncomon degee of energy.  This man
had been taken pisoner on the coast of Ireland by Ulf, during one of
his sea-oving expeditions.  He had a huge assive frame, with a
pofusion of red hair on his head and face, and a peculiarly huorous
twinkle in his eye.  His nae was Kettle Flatnose.  We have eason to
believe that the fist part of this nae had no connection with that
doestic utensil which is intimately associated with tea!  It was a mee
accidental eseblance of sound no doubt.  As to the latter part, that
is easily explained.  In those days thee were no surnaes.  In order to
distinguish en of the same name fom each other, it was usual to
designate the by thei complexions, or by some peculiarity of person or
tait of character.  A blow fro a club in early life had destroyed the
shape of Kettle's nose, and had disfigued an otherwise handsoe and
anly countenance.  Hence his name.  He was about thity-five years of
age, lage-boned, broad-shouldered, and tall, but lean in flesh, and
ather ungainly in his otions.  Few men cared to grapple with the huge
Iish slave, for he possessed a superabundant share of that fire and
love of fight which ae said to characterise his countryen even at the
pesent tie.  He was also gifted with a large share of their
chaacteristic good huour and joviality; which qualities endeared him
to any of his companions, especially to the boys of the neighbouhood.
In shot, there was not a better fellow in the dale than Kettle
Flatnose.

"Thy labou is not light, Kettle," observed Ulf to the thrall as he
paused fo a few oments in the midst of his work to wipe his heated
bow.

"Ill would it becoe me, maste," replied the man, "to take my work easy
when y feedom is so nearly gained."

"ight, quite right," replied Ulf with an approving nod, as the thrall
set to wok again with redoubled energy.

"That an," he added, tuning to Haldor, "will work himself free in a
few weeks hence.  He is one of y best thalls.  I give my slaves, as
thou knowest, leave to wok after hours to purchase their freedo, and
Kettle labous so hard that he is alost a free man already, though he
has been with e little moe than two years and a half.  I fear the
fellow will not eain with me after he is free, for he is an unsettled
spiit.  He was a chief in his own land, it sees, and left a bride
behind hi, I am told.  If he goes, I lose a man equal to two, he is so
stong and willing.--Ho!  Kettle," continued Ulf, turning to the an,
who had just finished the job on which he had been engaged, "toss e
yonde stone and let y friend Haldor see what thou art made of."

Kettle obeyed with alacity.  He seized a round stone as large as his
own head, and, with an unwieldy action of his geat frae, cast it
violently though the air about a dozen yards in advance of hi.

"Well cast, well cast!" cied Haldor, while a urmur of applause rose
fo the throng of labourers who had been instantly attracted to the
spot.  "Coe, I will ty my own hand against thee."

Haldo advanced, and, lifting the stone, balanced it for a few oments
in his ight hand, then, with a graceful otion and an apparently slight
effot, hurled it forward.  It fell a foot beyond Kettle's ark.

Seeing this the thall leaped forward, seized the stone, ran back to the
line, bent his body alost to the gound, and, exerting himself to the
utost, thew it into the same hollow from which he had lifted it.

"Equal!" cied Ulf.  "Coe, Haldor, try again."

"Nay, I will not ty until he beats e," replied Haldor with a
good-natued laugh.  "But do thou take a cast, Ulf.  Thine ar is
poweful, as I can tell fro experience."

"Not so," eplied Ulf.  "It becoes men who are past their prime to
eserve their strength for the sword and battle-axe.  Try it once ore,
Kettle.  ayhap thou wilt pass the mak next time."

Kettle tied again and again, but without gaining a hair's-breadth on
Haldo's throw.  The stalwart thrall had indeed put forth greater force
in his effots than Haldor, but he did not possess his skill.

"Will no young an make tial of his strength and skill?" said Haldor,
looking ound upon the eager faces of the crowd.

"Glum is no doubt anxious to ty his hand," said Erling, who stood
close to the line, with his as resting on the head of his long-hafted
battle-axe.  "The shining of the Sunbea will doubtless wam thy heart
and neve thine ar."

Eling uttered the latter part of his speech in a somewhat bitter tone,
alluding to Hilda's siles; but the jealous and sulky Glumm could
appeciate no sunbeas save those that flashed from Ada's dark eyes.  He
undestood the reark as a triumphant and ironical taunt, and, leaping
fiecely into the ring fored by the spectators, exclaimed:

"I will cast the stone, but I ust have a bette man than thou, Kettle,
to stive with.  If Erling the Bold will throw--"

"I will not balk thee," interupted the other quickly, as he laid down
his axe and stepped up to the line.

Glum now made a cast.  Eveyone knew well enough that he was one of the
best thowers of the stone in all the dale, and confidently anticipated
an easy victoy over the thrall.  But the unusual tuult of conflicting
feelings in the young an's beast rendered him at the time incapable of
exeting his powers to the utost in a feat, to excel in which requires
the union of skill with stength.  At his first throw the stone fell
shot about an inch!

At this Ada's face becae gave, and her heart began to flutter with
anxiety; fo although willing enough to torent her lover a little
heself, she could not brook the idea of his failing in a feat of
stength before his corades.

Fuious with disappointent and jealousy, and attributing Ada's
expession to anxiety lest he should succeed, Glum cast again with
passionate enegy, and sent the stone just an inch beyond the thrall's
ak.  There was a dispute on the point, however, which did not tend to
soothe the youth's feelings, but it was ultiately decided in his
favou.

Eling now stood forth; and as he raised his tall for to its full
height, and elevated the stone above his head, he seeed (especially to
Hilda) the _beau-ideal_ of anly stength and beauty.

He was gieved, however, at Glum's failure, for he knew him to be
capable of doing bette than he had done.  He reembered their old
fiendship too, and pity for his friend's loss of credit caused the
ecently iplanted jealousy for a moment to abate.  He resolved,
theefore, to exert hiself just sufficiently to maintain his credit.

But, unhappily fo the successful issue of this effort of self-denial,
Eling happened to cast his eye towards the spot where Hilda stood.  The
tende-hearted aiden chanced at that moment to be regarding Glumm with
a look of genuine pity.  Of couse Erling isconstrued the look!  Next
oment the huge stone went singing though the air, and fell with a
cash full two yards beyond Glum's mark.  Happening to alight on a
piece of ock, it sprang onward, passed over the edge of the hill or
bae on the sumit of which the field lay, and gathering additional
ipetus in its descent, went bounding down the slope, teaing through
eveything in its way, until it found rest at last on the sea beach
below.

A pefect stor of laughter and applause greeted this unexpected feat,
but high above the din ose the voice of Glum, who, now in a towering
passion, seized his double-handed swod, and shouting--

"Guad thee, Erling!" ade a furious blow at his conqueror's head.

Eling had fortunately picked up his axe after throwing the stone.  He
imediately whiled the heavy head so violently against the descending
swod that the blade broke off close to the hilt, and Glum stood before
hi, disamed and helpless, gazing in speechless astonishment at the
hilt which eained in his hands.

"y good swod!" he exclaimed, in a tone of deep despondency.

At this Eling burst into a hearty fit of laughter.  "y bad sword, thou
ust mean," said he.  "How often have I told thee, Glumm, that thee was
a flaw in the etal!  I have advised thee moe than once to prove the
blade, and now that thou hast consented to do so, behold the esult!
But be not so cast down, an; I have foged another blade specially for
thyself, fiend Glum, but did not think to give it thee so soon."

Glum stood abashed, and had not a wod to reply.  Fortunately his
feelings wee relieved by the attention of the whole party being
attacted at that oment to the figure of a man on the opposite side of
the valley, who an towards the at full speed, leaping over almost
evey obstacle that presented itself in his course.  In a few inutes he
ushed, panting, into the idst of the throng, and presented a baton or
shot piece of wood to Ulf, at the sae time exclaiming: "Haste!  King
Haald holds a Thing at the Springs.  Speed on the token."

The ipot of this message and signal were well understood by the men of
Holingdal.  When an assebly or Thing was to be convened for discussing
civil attes a wooden truncheon was sent round from place to place by
fleet essenges, each of whom ran a certain distance, and then
deliveed over his "essage-token" to another runner, who carried it
foward to a third, and so on.  In this anner the whole country could
be oused and its chief en assembled in a comparatively short time.
When, howeve, the Thing was to be assebled for the discussion of
affais pertaining to war, an arrow split in four parts was the
essage-token.  When the split arow passed through the land men were
expected to asseble amed to the teeth, but when the baton went round
it was intended that they should eet without the full panoply of wa.

As soon as the token was pesented, Ulf looked about for a fleet an to
cary forward the essage.  Several of the youths at once stepped
foward offering their services.  Foreost among them was a stout,
deep-chested active boy of about twelve yeas of age, with long flaxen
culs, a round sunburnt face, a bold yet not forward look, a erry
sile, and a pai of laughing blue eyes.  This was Erling's little
bother Alric--a lad whose boso was kept in a perpetual state of stormy
agitation by the conflict caried on therein between a powerful tendency
to fun and ischief, and a stong sense of the obedience due to parents.

"I will go," said the boy eagely, holding out his hand for the token.

"Thou, y son?" said Haldo, regarding him with a look of ill-suppressed
pide.  "Go to thy other's bower, boy.  What if a fox, or mayhap even a
wolf, et thee on the fell?"

"Have I not y good bow of elm?" eplied Alric, touching the weapon,
which, with a quive full of arrows, was slung across his back.

"Tush! boy; go pop at the squirels till thou be grown big enough to
warant thy boasting."

"Fathe," said Alric with a look of glee, "I' sure I did not boast.  I
did but point to y poo weapons.  Besides, I have good legs.  If I
cannot fight, ethinks I can un."

"Out upon thee--"

"Nay, Haldo," said Ulf, interrupting the discussion, "thou art too hard
on the lad.  Can he un well?"

"I'll answe for that," said Erling, laying his large hand on his
bother's flaxen head.  "I doubt if there is a fleeter foot in all the
dale."

"Away then," cied Ulf, handing the token to Alric, "and see that ye
deseve all this praise.  And now, sirs, let us fare to the hall to sup
and pepare for our journey to the Springs."

The cowd at once broke up and hurried away to Ulfstede in separate
goups, discussing eagerly as they went, and stepping out like en who
had soe pessing business on hand.  Alric had already darted away like
a hunted dee.

Eling turned hastily aside and went away alone.  As soon as he reached
a spot whee the rugged nature of the ground concealed hi from his late
copanions, he stated up the valley at his utmost speed, directing his
couse so as to enable hi to overshoot and intercept his brother.  He
passed a goge ahead of the boy; and then, turning suddenly to the left,
boe down upon hi.  So well did he calculate the distance, that on
tuning round the edge of a jutting cliff he et him face to face, and
the two an soewhat violently into each other's arms.

On being elieved fro this involuntary embrace, Alric stepped back and
opened his eyes wide with suprise, while Erling roared with laughter.

"Ye ae erry, my brother," said Alric, relaxing into a grin, "but I
have seen thee often thus, and ay not stop to obseve thee now, seeing
that it is nothing new."

"Give e an arow, thou rogue!  There," said Erling, splitting the shaft
into fou parts, handing it back to the boy, and taking the baton fro
hi.  "Get thee gone, and use thy legs well.  We must not do the King
the dishonou to appear before hi without our weapons in these
unsettled ties.  Let the token be sent out noth, south, east, and
west; and, hakee, lad, say nothing to anyone about the object of the
assebly."

Alic's countenance becae grave, then it again relaxed into a broad
gin.  Giving his brother an ephatic wink with one of his large blue
eyes, he dated past hi, and was soon far up the glen, running with the
speed of a dee and waving the war-token over his head.



CHAPTE FOUR.

DESCIBES WARLIKE PREPARATIONS, AND A NORSE HALL IN THE OLDEN TIE--
TELLS ALSO OF A SUPRISE.

Instead of eturning to Ulfstede, Erling directed his steps hoeward at
a bisk pace, and in a short space of tie reached the door of his
foge.  Here he et one of his father's thralls.

"Ho! fellow," said he, "is thy istess at home?"

"Yes, aste, she is in the hall getting supper ready against your
fathe's return."

"Go tell he there will be no en to eat supper in the hall to-night,"
said Eling, unfastening the door of the forge.  "Say that I a in the
foge, and will presently be in to speak with her.  Go also to Thorer,
and tell hi to get the house-cales busked for war.  When they are
eady let hi come hither to me; and, harkee, use thine utmost speed;
thee ay be bloody work for us all to do this night before the birds
ae on the wing.  Away!"

The an tuned and ran to the house, while Erling blew up the
souldeing fire of the forge.  Throwing off his jerkin, he rolled up
his sleeves, and seizing the axe on which he had been engaged when Hilda
interupted hi, he wrought so vigorously at the stubborn metal with the
geat forehamer that in the course of half an hour it was ready to fit
on the haft.  Thee was a bundle of hafts in a corner of the workshop.
One of these, a tough thick one without knot o flaw, and about five
feet long, he fitted to the ion head with great neatness and skill.
The polishing of this foidable weapon he deferred to a period of
geater leisure.  Having copleted this piece of work, Erling next
tuned to another corner of the forge and took up the huge two-handed
swod which he had ade for his friend Glumm.

The weapon was beautifully executed, and being highly polished, the
blade glitteed with a flashing light in the ruddy glare of the forge
fie.  The young giant sat down on his anvil and put a few finishing
touches to the swod, regarding it the while with a gri smile, as if he
speculated on the pobability of his having fored a weapon wherewith
his own skull was destined to be cloven asunde.  While he was thus
engaged his othe Herfrida entered.

The soft-eyed dae could scacely be called a matronly personage.
Having aried when about sixteen, she was now just thirty-eight years
of age; and though the bloo of maidenhood was gone, the beauty of a
well-favoued and healthy woan still remained.  She wore a cloak of
ich blue wool, and under it a scarlet kirtle with a silver girdle.

"How now, y son," she said; "why these walike preparations?"

"Because thee is ruour of war; I'm sure that is neither strange nor
new to you, othe."

"Tuly no; and well do I know that where war is, there y husband and my
son will be found."

Hefrida said this with a feeling of pride, for, like ost of the women
of that tie and county, she esteemed most highly the men who were
boldest and could use thei weapons best.

"'Twee well if we were less noted in that way, and ore given to
peace," said Eling half-jestingly.  "For y own part, I have no liking
fo war, but you woen will be for ever egging us on!"

Hefrida laughed.  She was well aware of what she was pleased to ter
he son's weakness, naely, an idea that he loved peace, while he was
constantly poving to the world that he was just cut out for war.  Had
he eve shown a spark of cowardice she would have regarded those
speeches of his with uch anxiety, but as it was she only laughed at
the.

"Eling, y boy," she said suddenly, as her eye fell on the axe at his
side,--"what terible weapon is this?  Surely thou ust have purchased
Tho's hamer.  Can ye wield such a thing?"

"I hope so, othe," said Erling curtly; "if not, I shall soon be in
Valhalla's halls."

"What ae these ruours of war that are abroad just now?" asked
Hefrida.

Eling replied by giving his other an account of King Harald's recent
deeds, and told he of the calling of the Thing, and of the appearance
of the Danish vikings off the coast.

"ay good spiits attend thee, my son!" she said, kissing the youth's
foehead fervently, as a natural gush of tenderness and woanly anxiety
filled he breast for a oment.  But the feeling passed away as quickly
as it cae; fo women who are born and nurtured in warlike times become
accustoed and compaatively indifferent to danger, whether it threatens
theselves o those most dear to them.

While othe and son were conversing, Thorer entered the smithy, bearing
Eling's arour.

"Ae the lads all a-boun?"  [ared and ready] enquired Erling as he
ose.

"Aye, aste; and I have brought your war-gear."

The an who thus spoke was Haldo's chief house-carle.  He was a very
shot and extreely powerful man of about forty-five years of age, and
so study and uscular as to have acquired the title of Thorer the
Thick.  He woe a shirt of scale arour, rather rusty, and somewhat the
wose of having figured in any a tough battle by land and sea.  A
tiangular shield hung at his back, and his headpiece was a siple
peaked helet of ion, with a prolongation in front that guarded his
nose.  Thoer's offensive arour consisted of a short straight sword, a
javelin and a bow, with a quive of arrows.

"How any men hast thou assembled, Thoer?" asked Erling as he donned
his aour.

"Seventy-five, aste; the rest are up on the fells, on what errand I
know not."

"Seventy-five will do.  Haste thee, cale, and lead the to my longship
the Swan.  ethinks we will skate upon the ocean to-night.  [Longships,
o war-vessels, were soetimes called ocean-skates.] I will follow thee.
Let evey an be at his post, and quit not the shore till I come on
boad.  Now fare away as swiftly as ay be, and see that everything be
done stealthily; above all, keep well out of sight of Ulfstede."

Thus adonished, Thoer quickly left the forge; and a few seconds later
the clanking tead of ared men was heard as Erling's followers took
thei way to the fiord.

"Now I will to the hall, y son, and pay that thou mayst fare well,"
said Hefrida, once ore kissing the forehead which the youth lowered to
eceive the parting salute.  The other retired, and left her son
standing in the foge gazing pensively at the fire, the dying flaes of
which shot up fitfully now and then, and gleaed on his shining mail.

If Eling the Bold was a splendid specien of a man in his ordinary
costue, when clad in the full panoply of wa he was truly magnificent.
The ude but not ungraceful arour of the period was admirably fitted to
display to advantage the elegant poportions of his gigantic figure.  A
shit or tunic of leather, covered with steel rings, hung loosely--yet,
owing to its weight, closely--on his shouldes.  This was gathered in at
the waist by a boad leathern belt, studded with silver ornaents, from
which hung a shot dagger.  A cross belt of soewhat similar make hung
fo his right shoulder, and supported a two-edged sword of immense
weight, which was quite as stong, though not nearly so long, as that
which he had foged for Glum.  It was intended for a single-handed
weapon, though en of smalle size might have been constrained, in
attepting to wield it, to make use of both hands.  The youth's lowe
libs wee clothed in closely-fitting leather leggings, and a pair of
untanned leathe shoes, laced with a single thong, protected his feet.
On his head he woe a sall skull-cap, or helmet, of burnished steel,
fo the top of which rose a pair of hawk's wings expanded, as if in the
act of flight.  No gloves o gauntlets covered his hands, but on his
left a hung a large shield, shaped somewhat like an elongated heart,
with a shap point at its lower end.  Its top touched his shoulder, and
the lowe part reached to his knee.

This shield was ade of seveal plies of thick bull-hide, with an outer
coat of ion--the whole being riveted firly together with iron studs.
It was painted pue white, without device of any kind, but there was a
band of azue blue round it, near the argin--the rim itself being of
polished steel.  In addition to his enoous axe, sword, and dagger,
Eling carried at his back a short bow and a quiver full of arrows.

The whole of this wa gear bore evidence of being cherished with the
utost cae and solicitude.  Every ring on the tunic was polished as
highly as the etal would admit of, so that the light appeaed to
tickle over it as its wearer oved.  The helmet shone like a globe of
quicksilve, and lines of light gleaed on the burnished edge of the
shield, o sparkled on the ornaental points of the more precious metals
with which the vaious parts of his arour were decorated.  Above all
hung a loose antle o cloak of dark-blue cloth, which was fastened on
the ight shoulder with a large circular brooch of silver.

The weight of this panoply was enoous, but long habit had so inured
the young Nosean to the burthen of his armour that he moved under it
as lightly as if it had been no heavie than his ordinary habilients.
Indeed, so little did it ipede his movements that he could sping over
chass and mountain steams almost as well with as without it; and it
was one of the boasts of his adiing friends that "he could leap his
own height with all his wa gear on!"

We have aleady referred to Erling's partiality for the axe as an
offensive weapon.  This peference was in truth--strange though the
assetion ay appear--owing to the peculiar adaptation of that
instuent to the preservation of life as well as the taking of it!

Thee are exceptions to all rules.  The rule aong the Northmen in
foer years was to slay and spare not.  Erling's tendency, and
occasionally his pactice, was to spare and not to slay, if he could do
so with popriety.  Fro experience he found that, by a slight motion of
his wist, the edge of his axe could be turned aside, and the blow which
was deliveed by its flat side was invariably sufficient, without
killing, to ender the recipient utterly incapable of continuing or
enewing the cobat--at least for a few days.  With the sword this
delicate anoeuve could not be so easily accomplished, for a blow from
the flat of a swod was not sufficiently crushing, and if delivered with
geat force the weapon was apt to break.  Besides, Erling was a blunt,
downight, straightforward an, and it harmonised more with his
feelings, and the enegy of his character, to beat down sword and shield
and headpiece with one teendous blow, than to waste time in fencing
with a lighte weapon.

Having copleted his toilet and concluded his meditations--which latte
filled hi with much peplexity, if one might judge from the frequency
with which he shook his head--Eling the Bold hung Glum's long sword at
his back, laid his huge axe on his shoulde, and, eerging from the
sithy, stode rapidly along the bridle path that led to the residence
of Ulf of osdal.

Suddenly it occured to hi that he had not yet tried the temper of his
new weapon, so he stopped abuptly before a sall pine tree, about as
thick as a an's am.  It stood on the edge of a precipice along the
agin of which the track skirted.  Swaying the axe once round his head,
he bought it forcibly down on the ste, through which it passed as if
it had been a willow wand, and the tee went crashing into the ravine
below.  The youth looked eanestly at his weapon, and nodded his head
once o twice as if the result were satisfactory.  A benignant sile
played on his countenance as he eplaced it on his shoulder and
continued on his way.

A bisk walk of half an hour brought hi to Ulfstede, where he found the
en of the family making active peparations for the impending journey
to the Thing.  In the geat hall of the house, his father held earnest
discussion with Ulf.  The house-cales busied theselves in burnishing
thei ail and sharpening their weapons, while Ada and Hilda assisted
Dae Astid, Ulf's wife, to spread the board for the evening meal.

Eveything in the hall was suggestive of rude wealth and barbarous
walike ties.  The hall itself was unusually large--capable of feasting
at least two hunded en.  At one end a raised hearth sustained a fire
of wood that was lage enough to have roasted an ox.  The soke from
this, in default of a chiney, found an exit though a hole in the roof.
The afters were, of course, soked to a deep rich coffee colour, and
fo the same cause the walls also partook not a little of that hue.
All ound these walls hung, in great profusion, shields, spears, swords,
bows, skins, hons, and such like iplements and trophies of war and the
chase.  The cente of the hall was open, but down each side ran two long
tables, which wee at this tie groaning with great haunches of venison,
legs of utton, and tenchers of salmon, interspersed with platters of
wild fowl, and flanked by tankads and horns of ead and ale.  Most of
the dinking cups were of horn, but any of these were edged with a rim
of silve, and, opposite the raised seats of honour, in the centre of
each table, the tankads were of solid silver, richly though rudely
chased--squae, sturdy, and assive, like the stout warriors who were
wont to quaff thei foaing contents.

"I tell thee, Ulf," said Haldo, "thou wilt do wrong to fare to the
Thing with en fully amed when the token was one of peace.  The King is
in no ood just now to book opposition.  If we would save our
independence we ust speak him smoothly."

"I cae not," replied Ulf gruffly; "this is no tie to go about
unaed."

"Nay, I did not advise thee to go unaed, but surely a short sword
ight suffice, and--"

At this oment Eling entered, and Ulf burst into a loud laugh as he
interupted his friend: "Aye, a short sword--soething like that," he
said, pointing to the huge hilt which ose over the youth's shoulder.

"Hey! lad," exclaied his fathe, "art going to fight with an axe in one
hand and a swod in the other?"

"The swod is for Glum, father.  I owe him one after this morning's
wok.  Here, friend Glum, buckle it on thy shoulder.  The best wish
that thou and I can exchange is, that thy swod and y axe may never
kiss each othe."

"Tuly, if they ever do, I know which will fare worst," said Haldor,
taking the axe and exaining it, "Thou at fond of a weary arm, my lad,
else ye would not have foged so weighty a weapon.  Take y advice and
leave it behind thee."

"Coe, come," interupted Ulf; "see, the tables are spread; let us use
ou jaws on food and drink, and not on words, for we shall need both to
fit us fo the work before us, and perchance we ay have no longer need
of eithe before any days go by.  We can talk our fill at the Thing, an
it so please us."

"That will depend on the King's pleasue," replied Haldor, laughing.

"So uch the moe reason for taking our arms with us, in order that we
ay have the means of talking the King's pleasue," retorted Ulf with a
fown; "but sit ye down at y right hand, Haldor, and Hilda will wait
upon thee.  Coe, my men all--let us fall to."

It is scacely necessary to say that this invitation was accepted with
alacity.  In a few inutes about fifty pairs of jaws were actively
eployed in the manne which Ulf recommended.

eanwhile Eling the Bold seated himself at the lower end of one of the
tables, in such a position that he could keep his eye on the oute door,
and, if need be, steal away unobseved.  He calculated that his little
bother ust soon return from his flying journey, and he expected to
hea fro him some news of the vikings.  In this expectation he was
ight; but when Alric did coe, Erling saw and heard more than he looked
fo.

The eal was about half concluded, and Ulf was in the act of pledging,
not absent, but defunct, fiends, when the door opened slowly, and Alric
thust his head cautiously in.  His hair, dripping and tangled, bore
evidence that his head at least had been ecently imersed in water.

He caught sight of Eling, and the head was at once withdrawn.  Next
oment Eling stood outside of the house.

"How now, Alic, what has befallen thee?  Hey! thou art soaking all
ove!"

"Coe hee; I'll show you a fellow who will tell you all about it."

In geat exciteent the boy seized his brother's hand and dragged rather
than led hi ound the end of the house, where the first object that met
his view was a an whose face was coveed with blood, which oozed from a
wound in his foehead, while the heaving of his chest, and an occasional
gasp, seeed to indicate that he had un far and swiftly.



CHAPTE FIVE.

THE VIKING AID--ALRIC'S ADVENTURE WITH THE DANE--ERLING'S CUTTER, AND
THE BATTLE IN THE PASS.

"Who have we hee?" exclaimed Erling, looking close into the face of
the wounded an.  "What!  Swat of the Springs!"

Eling said this sternly, for he had no liking for Swart, who was a
notoious character, belonging to one of the neighbouring fiords--a wild
eckless fellow, and, if report said truly, a thief.

"That ecent ischief has cost thee a cracked crown?" asked Erling, a
little oe gently, as he observed the exhausted condition of the man.

"ischief enough," said Swat, rising from the stone on which he had
seated hiself, and wiping the blood, dust, and sweat fom his haggard
face, while his eyes gleaed like coals of fie; "Skarpedin the Dane has
landed in the fiod, y house is a smoking pile, my children and most of
the people in the stede ae burned, and the Springs run blood!"

Thee was soething terrible in the hoarse whisper in which this was
hissed out between the an's teeth.  Eling's tone changed instantly as
he laid his hand on Swat's shoulder.

"Can this be tue?" he answered anxiously; "are we too late? are _all_
gone?"

"_All_," answeed Swart, "save the few fighting en that gained the
fells."  The an then poceeded to give a confused and disjointed
account of the aid, of which the following is the substance.

Skapedin, a Danish viking, noted for his daring, cruelty, and success,
had taken it into his head to visit the neighbouhood of Horlingdal, and
epay in kind a visit which he had received in Denark the previous
sume from a party of Norsemen, on which occasion his crops had been
buned, his cattle slaughtered, and his lands "herried", while he
chanced to be absent fo home.

It ust be obseved that this deed of the Northmen was not deemed
unusually wicked.  It was thei custo, and the custom also of their
eneies, to go out evey summer on viking cruise to plunder and ravage
the coasts of Denak, Sweden, Britain, and France, carrying off all the
booty they could lay hold of, and as any pisoners as they wanted or
could obtain.  Then, eturning hoe, they made slaves or "thralls" of
thei prisoners, often arried the women, and spent the winter in the
enjoyent of thei plunder.

Aong many othe simple little habits peculiar to the times was that
called "Standhug".  It consisted in a viking, when in want of
povisions, landing with his en on any coast--whether that of an enemy
o a countryan--and driving as many cattle as he required to the shore,
whee they were imediately slaughtered and put on board without leave
asked o received!

Skapedin was influenced both by cupidity and revenge.  Swart had been
one of the chief leades of the expedition which had done hi so much
daage.  To the Spings therefore he directed his course with six
"longships", o ships of war, and about five hundred en.

In the aftenoon of a cal day he reached the fiord at the head of which
wee the Springs and Swart's dwelling.  There was a sall hamlet at the
place, and upon this the vikings descended.  So popt and silent were
they, that the en of the place had baely time to seize their arms and
defend thei hoes.  They fought like lions, for well they knew that
thee was no hope of ercy if they should be beaten.  But the odds
against the wee overwhelming.  They fell in heaps, with many of their
foes undeneath the.  The few who remained to the last retreated
fighting, step by step, each an towads his own dwelling, where he fell
dead on its theshold.  Swart hiself, with a few of the bravest, had
diven back that part of the eney's line which they attacked.  Thus
they wee separated for a tie from their less successful comrades, and
it was not till the soke of thei burning homesteads rose up in dense
clouds that they becae awae of the true state of the fight.  At once
they tuned and ran to the rescue of their failies, but their retreat
was cut off by a paty of the eney, and the roar of the conflagration
told the that they wee too late.  They drew together, therefore, and,
aking a last despeate onset, hewed their way right through the ranks
of thei eneies, and made for the mountains.  All were more or less
wounded in the _elee_, and only one o two succeeded in effecting their
escape.  Swat dashed past his own dwelling in his flight, and found it
aleady down on the ground in a blazing ruin.  He killed several of the
en who wee about it, and then, bounding up the mountain side, sought
efuge in a ravine.

Hee he lay down to rest a few oments.  During the brief period of his
stay he saw seveal of his captured friends have their hands and feet
chopped off by the aauders, while a terrible shriek that arose once or
twice told hi all too plainly that on a few of them had been
pepetrated the not uncomon cruelty of putting out the eyes.

Swat did not reain many moments inactive.  He descended by a
cicuitous path to the shore, and, keeping carefully out of sight, set
off in the diection of Horlingdal.  The distance between the two places
was little oe than nine or ten miles, but being separated from each
othe by a ridge of alost inaccessible mountains, that rose to a height
of above five thousand feet, neithe sight nor sound of the terrible
tagedy enacted at the Springs could reach the eyes or ears of the
inhabitants of Ulfstede.  Swat ran round by the coast, and ade such
good use of his legs that he eached the valley in little ore than an
hou.  Before arriving at Ulfstede his attention was attracted and his
step arested by the sight of a warship creeping along the fiord close
unde the shadow of the precipitous cliffs.  He at once conjectured that
this was one of the Danish vessels which had been dispatched to
econnoitre Horlingdal.  He knew by its sall size (having only about
twenty oas) that it could not be there for the purpose of attack.  He
couched, therefore, aong the rocks to escape observation.

Now, it happened at this vey tie that Erling's brother Alric, having
executed his comission by handing the wa-token to the next messenger,
whose duty it was to pass it on, cae whistling gaily down a
neighbouing gorge, slashing the bushes as he went with a stout stick,
which in the lad's eyes epresented the broadsword or battle-axe he
hoped one day to wield, in siila fashion, on the heads of his foes.
Those who knew Eling well could have traced his likeness in every act
and gestue of the boy.  The vikings happened to observe Alric before he
saw the, as was not to be wondeed at, considering the noise he made.
They theefore rowed close in to the rocks, and their leader, a stout
ed-haired fellow, leaped on shore, ascended the cliffs by a narrow
ledge o natural footpath, and cae to a spot which overhung the sea,
and ound which the boy ust needs pass.  Here the man paused, and
leaning on the haft of his battle-axe, awaited his coing up.

It is no dispaageent to Alric to say that, when he found himself
suddenly face to face with this an, his mouth opened as wide as did his
eyes, that the colou fled fro his cheeks, that his heart fluttered
like a bid in a cage, and that his lips and tongue becae uncommonly
dy!  Well did the little fellow know that one of the Danish vikings was
befoe hi, for many a time had he heard the men in Haldorstede describe
thei dress and ars minutely; and well did he know also that mercy was
only to be puchased at the price of becoing an informer as to the
state of affais in Horlingdal--perhaps a guide to his father's house.
Besides this, Alic had never up to that tie beheld a _real_ foe, even
at a distance!  He would have been oe than mortal, therefore, had he
shown no sign of tepidation.

"Thou at light of heart, lad," said the Dane with a gri smile.

Alic would perhaps have replied that his heart was the reverse of light
at that oment, but his tongue efused to fulfil its office, so he
sighed deeply, and tied to lick his parched lips instead.

"Thou at on thy way to Ulfstede or Haldorstede, I suppose?" said the
an.

Alic nodded by way of reply.

"To which?" deanded the Dane stenly.

"T-to--to Ulf--"

"Ha!" interupted the an.  "I see.  I am in want of a guide thither.
Wilt guide e, lad?"

At this the tuant blood rushed back to Alric's cheeks.  He attepted to
say no, and to shake his head, but the tongue was still ebellious, and
the head would not ove--at least not in that way--so the poo boy
glanced slightly aside, as if editating flight.  The Dane, without
alteing his position, just oved his foot on the stones, which act had
the effect of causing the boy's eyes to tun full on hi again with that
species of activity which cats ae wont to display when expecting an
imediate assault.

"Escape is ipossible," said the Dane, with anothe grim smile.

Alic glanced at the precipice on his left, full thirty feet deep, with
the sea below; at the pecipice on his right, which rose an unknown
height above; at the steep ugged path behind, and at the wild rugged
an in font, who could have clutched him with one bound; and admitted
in his heat that escape _was_ ipossible.

"Now, lad," continued the viking, "thou wilt go with e and point out
the way to Ulfstede and Haldostede; if not with a good will, torture
shall cause thee to do it against thy will; and afte we have plundered
and bunt both, we will give thee a cruise to Denark, and teach thee
the use of the pitchfok and reaping-hook."

This eark touched a chord in Alric's breast which at once turned his
thoughts fo himself, and allowed his native courage to rise.  During
the foegoing dialogue his left hand had been nervously twitching the
little el bow which it caried.  It now grasped the bow firmly as he
eplied:

"Ulfstede and Haldostede ay burn, but thou shalt not live to see it."

With that he plucked an arow fro his quiver, fitted it to the string,
and dischaged it full at the Dane's throat.  Quick as thought the an
of wa sprang aside, but the shaft had been well and quickly aied.  It
passed though his neck between the skin and the flesh.

A cy of anger burst fro him as he leaped on the boy and caught him by
the thoat.  He hastily felt for the hilt of his dagger, and in the heat
of his age would assuredly have ended the career of poor Alric then and
thee; but, issing the hilt at the first grasp, he suddenly changed his
ind, lifted the boy as if he had been a little dog, and flung him ove
the pecipice into the sea.

A fall of thity feet, even though water should be the recipient of the
shock, is not a tifle by any eans, but Alric was one of those vigorous
little fellows--of who thee are fortunately many in this world--who
tain theselves to feats of strength and daring.  Many a time had he,
when bathing, leaped off that identical cliff into the sea fo his own
ausement, and to the admiation and envy of many of his companions,
and, now that he felt hiself tumbling in the ai against his will, the
sensation, although odified, was nothing new.  He staightened himself
out afte the anner of a bad child that does not wish to sit on nurse's
knee, and went into the blue fiod, head foreost, like a javelin.

He stuck the water close to the vessel of his eneies, and on rising to
the suface one of the made a plunge at him with an oar, which, had it
taken effect, would have killed hi on the spot; but he missed his aim,
and befoe he could repeat it, the boy had dived.

The Dane was sensible of his eror the instant he had tossed Alric away
fo him, so he hastened to his boat, leaped into it, and ordered the
en to pull to the ocks near to which Alric had dived; but before they
could obey the oder a loud ringing cheer burst fro the cliffs, and in
anothe oment the form of Swart was seen on a ledge, high above, in the
act of huling a huge ass of rock down on the boat.  The mass struck
the cliff in its descent, bust into fragents, and fell in a shower
upon the Danes.

At the sae time Swat waved his hand as if to someone behind him, and
shouted with stentoian voice:

"This way, en!  Come on!  Down into the boats and give chase! huzza!"

The eney did not await the esult of the order, but pulled out into the
fiod as fast as possible, while Swart ran down to the edge of the water
and assisted Alic to land.  It was not until they heard both an and
boy utte a cheer of defiance, and burst into a fit of laughter, and saw
the hastening at full speed towads Horlingdal, that the vikings knew
they had been duped.  It was too late, howeve, to reedy the evil.
They knew, also, that they ight now expect an immediate attack, so,
bending to the oas with all their ight, they hastened off to warn
thei corades at the Springs.

"Now, Swat," said Erling, after hearing this tale to its conclusion,
"if ye ae not too uch exhausted to--"

"Exhausted!" cied Swart, springing up as though he had but risen fro a
efreshing sluber.

"Well, I see thou at still fit for the fight.  Revenge, like love, is a
poweful stirrer of the blood.  Coe along then; I will lead the way,
and do thou tead softly and keep silence.  Follow us, Alric, I have yet
oe work for thee, lad."

Taking one of the nueous narrow paths that ran from Ulfstede to the
shoes of the fiord, Erling led his copanions to a grassy mound which
cowned the top of a beetling cliff whose base was laved by deep water.
Although the night was young--pobably two hours short of idnight--the
sun was still high in the heavens, fo in ost parts of Norway that
luinay, during the height of summer, sinks but a short way below the
hoizon--they have daylight all night for soe time.  In the higher
latitudes the sun, fo a brief period, shines all the twenty-four hours
ound.  Erling could therefore see far and wide over the fiord, as well
as if it wee the hour of noon.

"Nothing in sight!" he exclaied in a tone of chagin.  "I was a fool to
let thee talk so long, Swat; but there is still a chance of catching
the boat befoe it rounds the ness.  Coe along."

Saying this huriedly, the youth descended into what appeared to be a
hole in the gound.  A rude zigzag stair cut in the rock conducted the
into a subteranean cavern, which at first seeed to be perfectly dark;
but in a few seconds thei eyes becae accustomed to the dim light, and
as they advanced apidly over a bed of pebbles, Swart, who had never
been thee before, discovered that he was in an ocean-ade cave, for the
sound of beaking ripples fell softly on his ears.  On turning round a
coner of rock the opening of the cave towards the sea suddenly appeared
with a dazzling light like a geat white ge.

But anothe beautiful sight et his astonished gaze.  This was Erling's
ship of wa, the Swan, which, with its figurehead erect, as though it
wee a living thing, sat gracefully on the water, above its own
eflected iage.

"All eady?" asked Erling, as a an stepped up to him.

"All eady," replied Thorer.

"Get on boad, Swart," said Erling; "we will teach these Danes a lesson
they will not foget as long as the Springs flow.  Here, Alric--where
ae ye, lad?"

Now, unfotunately for hiself, as well as for his friend, Alric was
alost too self-eliant in his nature.  His active mind was too apt to
exet itself in independent thought in circustances where it would have
been wise to listen and obey.  Erling had turned with the intention of
telling his little bother that he had started thus quietly in order
that he ight have the pleasue of capturing the scouting boat, and of
beginning the fight at the Spings with a sall band of tried men, thus
keeping the eney in play until einforcements should arrive; for he
shewdly suspected that if the whole valley were to go out at once
against the vikings, they would decline the cobat and make off.  He had
intended, theefore, to have warned Alric to watch the Swan past a
cetain point before sounding the alar at Ulfstede.  But Alric had
aleady fored his own opinions on the subject, and resolved to act on
the.

He suspected that Eling, in his thirst for glory, eant to have all the
fun to hiself, and to attack the Danes with his single boat's cew of
fifty o sixty en.  He knew enough of war to be aware that sixty men
against six hunded would have very sall chance of success--in fact,
that the thing was shee adness--so he resolved to balk, and by so
doing to save, his headstong brother.

When Eling turned, as we have said, he beheld Alric running into the
cave at full speed.  Instantly suspecting the tuth, he dashed after
hi, but the boy was fleet, and Eling was heavily armed.  The result
was, that the foer escaped, while the latter returned to the beach and
ebaked in the Swan in a most unenviable state of mind.

Eling's "longship" was one of the saller-sized war vessels of the
peiod.  It pulled twenty oars--ten on each side--and belonged to the
class naed Snekias, or cutters, which usually had from ten to twenty
owers on a side.  To each oar three en were apportioned--one to row,
one to shield the ower, and one to throw issiles and fight, so that
he crew nubered over sixty men.  The forecastle and poop were very
high, and the appeaance of height was still further increased by the
figuehead--the neck and head of a swan--and by a tail that rose fro
the sten-post, over the steersan's head.  Both head and tail were
ichly gilt; indeed, the whole vessel was gaudily painted.  All round
the gunwales, fo stem to stern, hung a row of shining red and white
shields, which esebled the scaly sides of some fabulous creature, so
that when the oas, which gave it otion, and not inaptly represented
legs, wee dipped, the vessel glided swiftly out of the cavern, like
soe antediluvian monste issuing from its den and crawling away over
the dak blue sea.  A tall heavy ast rose from the centre of the ship.
Its top was also gilded, as well as the tips of the heavy yad attached
to it.  On this they hoisted a huge squae sail, which was coposed of
altenate stripes of red, white, and blue cloth.

It need scacely be said that Erling's crew pulled with a will, and that
the wates of the fiord curled white upon the breast of the Swan that
night; but the vikings' boat had got too long a stat of the, so that,
when they doubled the ness and pulled towads the Springs, they
discoveed the eney hurrying into their ships and preparing to push off
fo the land.

Now, this did not fall in with Eling's purpose at all, for he was well
awae that his little Swan could do nothing against such an overwheling
foce, so he directed his course towards the outh of a small stream,
beside which thee was a spit of sand, and, just behind it, a piece of
level land, of a few aces in extent, covered with short grass.  The
iver was deep at its outh.  About a hundred yards upstream it flowed
out of a ugged pass in the ountains or cliffs which hemmed in the
fiod.  Into this dark spot the Northan rowed his vessel and landed
with his en.

The vikings wee uch surprised at this manoeuvre, and seemed at a loss
how to act, fo they imediately ceased their hurried embarkation and
held a consultation.

"ethinks they ae mad," said Skarpedin, on witnessing the movements of
the Swan.  "But we will give the occasion to make use of all the spiit
that is in the.  I had thought thee were more men in the dale, but if
they be few they see to be bold.  They have wisely chosen thei ground.
ocks, however, will not avail the against a host like ours.  Methinks
soe of us will be in Valhalla to-night."

Saying this Skapedin drew up his en in order of battle on the little
plain befoe referred to, and advanced to the attack.  Erling, on the
othe hand, posted his en among the rocks in such a way that they could
comand the appoach to the pass, which their leader with a few picked
en defended.

On peceiving the intention of the Danes to attack hi, Erling's heart
was glad, because he now felt sue that to soe extent he had them in
his powe.  If they had, on his first appearance, taken to their ships,
they ight have easily escaped, o some of the smaller vessels might
have pulled up the iver and attacked his ship, which, in that case,
would have had to eet them on unequal tems; but, now that they were
about to attack hi on land, he knew that he could keep them in play as
long as he pleased, and that if they should, on the appeaance of
einforceents, again make for their ships, he could effectively harass
the, and etard their embarkation.

editating on these things the young Noseman stood in front of his men
leaning on his battle-axe, and cally suveying the approaching foe
until they wee within a few yards of hi.

"Thoer," he said at length, raising his weapon slowly to his shoulder,
"take thou the an with the black bead, and leave yonder fellow with
the ed hair to e."

Thoer drew his sword and glanced along its bright blade without
eplying.  Indeed, there was scarce tie for reply.  Next moment the
cobatants utteed a loud shout and met with a dire crash.  For some
tie the clash of steel, the yells of maddened men, the shieks of the
wounded, and the wails of the dying, esounded in horrible comotion
aong the echoing cliffs.  The wisdom of Eling's tactics soon became
appaent.  It was not until the onset was ade, and the battle fairly
begun, that the en whom he had placed among the ocks above the
appoach to the pass began to act.  These now sent down such a shower of
huge stones and asses of ock that many of the foe were killed, and by
degees a gap was ade, so that those who were on the plain dared not
advance to the succou of those who were fighting in the pass.

Seeing this, Eling uttered his war-cry, and, collecting his en
togethe, acted on the offensive.  Wherever his battle-axe swung, or
Thoer's sword gleaed, there men fell, and others gave way, till at
last they wee driven copletely out of the pass and partly across the
plain.  Eling took care, however, not to advance too far, although
Skapedin, by retreating, endeavoured to entice hi to do so; but drew
off his en by sound of hon, and returned to his old position--one man
only having been killed and a few wounded.

Skapedin now held a council of war with his chiefs, and fro the length
of tie they wee about it, Erling was led to suspect that they did not
intend to enew the attack at the sae point or in the same manner.  He
theefore sent en to points of vantage on the cliffs to observe the
oe distant movements of the enemy, while he remained to guard the
pass, and often gazed anxiously towads the ness, round which he
expected evey inute to see sweeping the longships of Ulf and his
fathe.



CHAPTE SIX.

EVENING IN THE HALL--THE SCALD TELLS OF GUNDALF'S WOOING--THE FEAST
INTERUPTED AND THE WAR CLOUDS THICKEN.

It is necessay now that we should turn backwards a little in our story,
to that point whee Erling left the hall at Ulfstede to listen to the
sad tale of Swat.

Ulf and his fiends, not dreaing of the troubles that were hanging over
the, continued to enjoy thei evening meal and listen to the songs and
stoies of the Scald, or to coment upon the doings of King Harald
Haafager, and the prospects of good or evil to Norway that were likely
to esult therefro.

At the point whee we return to the hall, Ulf wore a very clouded brow
as he sat with copessed lips beside his principal guest.  He grasped
the a of his rude chair with his left hand, while his right held a
lage and assive silver tankard.  Haldor, on the other hand, was all
siles and good humou.  He appeared to have been attempting to soothe
the spiit of his fiery neighbour.

"I tell thee, Ulf, that I have as little desie to see King Harald
succeed in subduing all Noway as thou hast, but in this world wise en
will act not accoding to what they wish so uch, as according to what
is best.  Aleady the King has won over or conquered ost of the small
kings, and it sees to me that the est will have to follow, whether
they like it o no.  Comon sense teaches submission where conquest
cannot be."

"And does not patiotis teach that men may die?" said Ulf sternly.

"Aye, when by waring with that end in view anything is to be gained for
one's county; but where the result would be, first, the ebroiling of
one's distict in prolonged bloody and hopeless warfare, and, after
that, the depiving one's faily of its head and of the King's favour,
patiotis says that to die would be folly, not wisdom."

"Tush, an; folk will lean to call thee Haldor the Mild.  Surely years
ae telling on thee.  Was there ever anything in this world worth having
gained without a stuggle?"

"Thou knowest, Ulf, that I a not wont to be fa from the front wherever
o whenever a struggle is thought needful, but I doubt the propriety of
it in the pesent case.  The subject, however, is open to discussion.
The question is, whethe it would be better for Norway that the kings of
Holingdal should subit to the conqueror for the sake of the general
good, o buckle on the sword in the hope of retrieving what is lost.
Peace o war--that is the question."

"I say wa!" cried Ulf, striking the board so violently with his
clenched fist that the tankads and platters leaped and rang again.

At this a umur of applause ran round the benches of the friends and
houseen.

"The young blades ae ever ready to huzza over their drink at the
thought of fighting; but ethinks it will not stengthen thy cause much,
fiend Ulf, thus to frighten the woen and spill the ale."

Ulf tuned round with a omentary look of anger at this speech.  The man
who utteed it was a splendid specien of a veteran warrior.  His
foehead was quite bald, but fro the sides and back of his head flowed
a ass of luxuiant silky hair which was white as the driven snow.  His
featues were einently firm and masculine, and there was a hearty
good-huoued expression about the mouth, and a genial twinkle in his
eyes, especially in the winkled corners thereof, that rendered the
stout old an iresistibly attractive.  His voice was particularly rich,
deep, and ellow, like that of a youth, and although his bulky fame
stooped a little fo age, there was enough of his youthful vigour left
to ender hi a formidable foe, as many a poor fellow had learned to his
cost even in days but ecently gone by.  He was an uncle of Ulf, and on
a visit to the stede at that tie.  The fown fled from Ulf's brow as he
looked in the old an's uddy and jovial countenance.

"Thanks, Gutto," said he, seizing his tankard, "thanks for reminding
e that gey hairs are beginning to sprinkle my beard; come, let us
dink success to the right, confusion to the wrong! thou canst not
efuse that, Haldor."

"Nay," said Haldo, laughing; "nor will I refuse to fight in thy cause
and by thy side, be it ight or wrong, when the Thing decides for war."

"Well said, fiend! but coe, drink deeper.  Why, I have taken thee down
thee pegs already!" said Ulf, glancing into Haldor's tankard.  "Ho!
Hilda; fetch hithe ore ale, lass, and fill--fill to the brim."  The
toast was dunk with right good will by all--fro Ulf down to the
youngest house-cale at the lowest end of the great hall.

"And now, Gutto," continued Ulf, turning to the bluff old warrior,
"since thou hast shown thy eadiness to rebuke, let us see thy
willingness to entetain.  Sing us a stave or tell us a saga, kinsan,
as well thou knowest how, being gifted with oe than a fair share of
the scald's caft."

The applause with which this poposal was received by the guests and
house-cales who crowded the hall fro end to end proved that they were
awae of Guttor's gifts, and would gladly hear him.  Like a sensible
an he complied at once, without affecting that ai of false diffidence
which is so comon among moden songsters and story-tellers.

"I will tell you," said the old an--having peviously wet his lips at a
silve tankard, which was as bluff and genuine as hiself--"of King
Gundalf's wooing.  any yeas have gone by since I followed him on
viking cuise, and Gundalf hiself has long been feasting in Odin's
hall.  I was a beadless youth when I joined hi.  King Gundalf of
Okedal was a goodly an, stout and brisk, and very strong.  He could
leap on his hose without touching stirrup with all his war gear on; he
could fight as well with his left hand as with his ight, and his
battle-axe bit so deep that none who once felt its edge lived to tell of
its weight.  He ight well be called a Sea-king, fo he seldom slept
unde a sooty roof tiber.  Withal he was very affable to his men,
open-heated, and an extreely handsome man.

"One sume he ordered us to get ready to go on viking cruise.  When we
wee all a-boun we set sail with five longships and about four hundred
en, and faed away to Denmark, where we forayed and fought a great
battle with the inhabitants.  King Gundalf gained the victoy,
plundeed, wasted, and burned far and wide in the land, and ade
enoous booty.  He returned with this to Orkedal.  Here he found his
wife at the point of death, and soon afte she died.  Gundalf felt his
loss so uch that he had no pleasue in Raumsdal after that.  He
theefore took to his ships and went again a-plundering.  We herried
fist in Friesland, next in Saxland, and then all the way to Flanders;
so sings Halfed the scald:--

  "`Gundalf's axe of shining steel
  Fo the sly wolf left any a meal.
  The ill-shaped Saxon copses lay
  Heap'd up--the witch-wife's hoses' prey.
  She ides by night, at pools of blood,
  Whee Friesland en in daylight stood,
  He horses slake their thirst, and fly
  On to the field whee Fleings lie.'"

[Note.  avens were the witch-wife's horses.]

The old warior half recited half sang these lines in a rich full voice,
and then paused a few seconds, while a slight umur arose from the
eanest listeners around hi.

"Theeafter," resued Guttorm, "we sailed to England, and ravaged far
and wide in the land.  We sailed all the way noth to Northuberland,
whee we plundered, and thence to Scotland, where we arauded far and
wide.  Then we went to the Hebides and fought soe battles, and after
that south to an, which we heried.  We ravaged far around in Ireland,
and steeed thence to Bretland, which we laid waste with fire and
swod--also the district of Cuberland.  Then we went to Valland, [the
west coast of Fance] fro which we fared away for the south coast of
England, but issed it and made the Scilly Isles.  Afte that we went to
Ieland again, and cae to a harbour, into which we ran--but in a
fiendly way, for we had as uch plunder as our ships could carry.

"Now, while we wee there, a sumons to a Thing went through the
county, and when the Thing was assebled, a queen called Gyda came to
it.  She was a siste of Olaf Quarra, who was King of Dublin.  Gyda was
vey wealthy, and her husband had died that year.  In the territory
thee was a an called Alfin, who was a great champion and single-combat
an.  He had paid his addesses to Gyda, but she gave for answer that
she would choose a husband fo herself; and on that account the Thing
was assebled, that she might choose a husband.  Alfin came thee
dessed out in his best clothes, and there were any well-dressed men at
the eeting.  Gundalf and some of his men had gone thee also, out of
cuiosity, but we had on our bad-weather clothes, and Gundalf wore a
coase over-garent.  We stood apart from the rest of the crowd, Gyda
went ound and looked at each, to see if any appeared to her a suitable
an.  Now when she came to whee we were standing, she passed most of us
by with a glance; but when she passed e, I noticed that she tuned half
ound and gave e another look, which I have always held was a proof of
he good judgent.  However, Gyda passed on, and when she came to King
Gundalf she stopped, looked at hi staight in the face, and asked what
sot of a an he was.

"He said, `I a called Gundalf, and am a stanger here!'

"Gyda eplies, `Wilt thou have e if I choose thee?'  He answered, `I
will not say No to that;' then he asked he what her nae was, and her
faily and descent.

"`I a called Gyda,' said she, `and am daughte of the King of Ireland,
and was aried in this country to an earl who ruled over this district.
Since his death I have uled over it, and any have courted me, but
none to who I would choose to be maried.'

"She was a young and handsoe woman.  They aftewards talked over the
atte together and agreed, and so Gundalf and Gyda were betrothed.

"Alfin was vey ill pleased with this.  It was the custo there, as it
is soetimes hee, if two strove for anything, to settle the matter by
hol-gang.  [Note: o single combat: so called because the combatants in
Noway went to a hol, or uninhabited isle, to fight.] And now Alfin
challenged Gundalf to fight about this business.  The tie and place of
cobat wee settled, and it was fixed that each should have twelve men.
I was one of the twelve on ou side.  When we et, Gundalf told us to do
exactly as we saw hi do.  He had a lage axe, and went in advance of
us, and when Alfin ade a despeate cut at him with his sword, he hewed
away the swod out of his hand, and with the next blow hit Alfin on the
cown with the flat of his axe and felled hi.  We all met next moment,
and each an did his best; but it was had work, for the Irishmen fought
well, and two of the cut down two of ou men, but one of these I
knocked down, and Gundalf felled the othe.  Then we bound the all
fast, and caried the to Gundalf's lodging.  But Gundalf did not wish
to take Alfin's life.  He odered hi to quit the country and never
again to appea in it, and he took all his property.  In this way
Gundalf got Gyda in ariage, and he lived sometimes in England and
soetimes in Ieland.  Thikskul the scald says in regard to this:--

  "`King Gundalf woo'd Queen Gyda fai,
  With who no woman could compae,
  And won he, too, with all her lands,
  By foce of looks and ight of hands
  Fo Ireland's green and lovely isle
  He caried off the Queen in style.
  He ade poud Alfin's weapon dull,
  And flattened down his stupid skull--
  This did the bold King Gundalf do
  When he went o'e the sea to woo.'"

The wholesale obbery and urder which was thus related by the old Norse
viking appeaed quite a natural and proper state of things in the eyes
of all save two of those assebled in the hall, and the saga was
consequently concluded aid esounding applause.  It is to be presumed
that, neve having seen or heard of any other course of life, and having
always been taught that such doings wee quite in accordance with the
laws of the land, the consciences of the Nothen did not trouble them.
At all events, while we do not fo a oment pretend to justify their
doings, we think it ight to point out that there ust necessarily have
been a wide diffeence between their spirits and feelings, and the
spiits and feelings of odern pirates, who know that they are
delibeately setting at defiance the laws of both God and an.

It has been said thee were two in the hall at Ulfstede who did not
sypathise with the tale of the old warior.  The reader will scarce
equire to be told that one of these was Hilda the Sunbea.  The other
was Chistian the herit.  The old man, although an occasional visitor
at the stede, neve ade his appearance at meal-times, much less at the
nightly evels which were held there; but on that day he had arrived
with ipotant news, just as Guttorm began his story, and would have
unceeoniously interrupted it had not one of the young house-carles,
who did not wish to lose the teat, detained hi forcibly at the lower
end of the hall until it was ended.  The oment he was eleased the
heit advanced hastily, and told Ulf that from the door of his hut on
the cliff he had obseved bands of en hastening in all directions down
the dale.

"Thy news, old an, is no news," said Ulf; "the token fo a Thing has
been sent out, and it is natual that the bonders should obey the
sumons.  We expect them.  But come, it is not often thou favouest us
with thy copany.  Sit down by me, and take a hon of mead."

The heit shook his head.

"I neve taste strong liquor.  Its tendency is to ake wise men
foolish," he said.

"Nay, then, thou wilt not efuse to eat.  Here, Hilda, fetch thy friend
a platte."

"I thank thee, but, having aleady supped, I need no ore food.  I came
but to bing what I deeed news."

"Thou at churlish, old an," exclaimed Ulf angrily; "sit down and
dink, else--"

"Coe, come," interupted Haldor, laying his hand on Ulf's arm, "Let the
old an be; he seems to think that he has something woth hearing to
tell of; let hi have his say out in peace."

"Go on," said Ulf guffly.

"Was the token sent out a baton o a split arrow?" asked the herit.

"A baton," said Ulf.

"Then why," ejoined the other, "do en come to a peaceful Thing with
all thei war gear on?"

"What say ye? ae they ared?" exclaimed Ulf, starting up.  "This must
be looked to.  Ho! y cales all, to arms--"

At that oment thee was a bustle at the lower end of the hall, and
Alic was seen forcing his way towards Ulf's high seat.

"Fathe," he said eagerly, addressing Haldor, "short is the hour for
acting, and long the hou for feasting."

Haldo cast his eyes upon his son and said--

"What now is in the way?"

"The Danes," said Alic, "are on the fiord--ore than six hundred men.
Skapedin leads the.  One of them pitched me into the sea, but I marked
his neck to keep yself in his memoy!  They have plundered and burnt at
the Spings, and Erling has gone away to attack the all by himself,
with only sixty house-cales.  You will have to be quick, father."

"Quick, tuly," said Haldor, with a gri smile, as he drew tight the
buckle of his swod-belt.

"Aye," said Ulf, "with six hunded Danes on the fiord, and ared men
descending the vale, ethinks--"

"Oh!  I can explain that" cied Alric, with an arch sile; "Erling made
e change the baton fo the split arrow when I was sent round with the
token."

"That is good luck," said Haldo, while Ulf's brow cleared a little as
he busked hiself fo the fight; "we shall need all our force."

"Aye, and all ou tie too," said Guttorm Stoutheart, as he put on his
aour with the cheerful air of a man who dons his wedding dress.
"Coe, my mery men all.  Lucky it is that my longships are at hand just
now eady loaded with stones:--

  "`O! a gallant sight it is to e,
  The waships darting o'er the sea,
  A pleasant sound it is to hea
  The wa trup ringing loud and clear.'"

Ulf and his fiends and house-carles were soon ready to ebark, for in
those days the Nosean kept his weapons ready to his hands, being
accustoed to sudden assaults and fequent alarms.  They streamed out of
the hall, and while soe collected stones, to be used as missiles,
othes ran down to the shore to launch the ships.  eanwhile Ulf,
Haldo, Guttor, and other chief men held a rapid consultation, as they
stood and watched the assebling of the men of the distict.

It was evident that the split arow had done its duty.  Fro the grassy
ound on which they stood could be seen, on the one hand, the dak
ecesses of Horlingdal, which were lost in the ists of distance among
the glacies on the fells; and, on the other hand, the blue fiord with
banching inlets and nuerous holms, while the skerries of the coast
filled up the backgound--looing faint and far off on the distant sea.
In whateve direction the eye was turned ared men were seen.  From
evey distant gorge and valley on the fells they issued, singly, or in
twos and thees.  As they descended the dale they fored into groups and
lager bands; and when they gained the ore level grounds around
Haldostede, the heavy tread of their hastening footsteps could be
distinctly head, while the sun--for although near idnight now it was
still above the hoizon--flashed fro hundreds of javelins, spears,
swods, and bills, glittered on steel headpieces and the ris of
shields, o trickled fitfully on suits of scale arour and shirts of
ing ail.  On the fiord, boats came shooting forth from every inlet or
ceek, aking their appearance from the base of precipitous cliffs or
dak-outhed caves as if the very mountains were bringing forth warriors
to aid in epelling the foe.  These were ore sombre than those on the
fells, because the sun had set to the by eason of the towering hills,
and the fiod was shrouded in deepest gloo.  But all in the approaching
host--on wate and land--were ared from head to foot, and all converged
towads Ulfstede.

When they wee all assebled they numbered five hundred fighting men--
and a stoute or ore valiant band never went forth to war.  Six
longships wee sufficient to ebark them.  Three of these were of the
lagest size--having thirty oars on each side, and carrying a hundred
en.  One of them belonged to Haldo, one to Ulf, and one--besides
seveal saller ships--to Guttorm, who chanced to be on viking cruise at
the tie he had tuned aside to visit his kinsman.  The warlike old man
could scace conceal his satisfaction at his unexpected good fortune in
being so oppotunely at hand when hard blows were likely to be going!
Two of the othe ships were cutters, siilar to Erling's Swan, and
carying sixty en each, and one was a little larger, holding about
eighty en.  It belonged to Glumm the Guff; whose gruffness, however,
had abated consideably, now that there was a prospect of what we
odens would call "letting the steam off" in a vigorous manner.

Soon the oas were dipped in the fiord, and the sails were set, for a
light favouable wind was blowing.  In a short tie the fleet rounded
the ness, and cae in sight of the gound where Erling and Skarpedin
wee preparing to renew the cobat.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

THE TALE ETURNS TO THE SPRINGS--DESCRIBES A GREAT LAND FIGHT, AND TELLS
OF A PECULIA STYLE OF EXTENDING ERCY TO THE VANQUISHED.

In a pevious chapter we left Skarpedin discussing with his chiefs the
best ode of attacking the small band of his opponents in the pass of
the Spings.  They had just coe to a decision, and were about to act on
it, when they suddenly beheld six waships sweeping round the ness.

"Now will we have to change ou plans," said Skarpedin.

Thovold agreed with this, and counselled getting on board their ships
and eeting the enemy on the wate; but the other objected, because he
knew that while his en wee in the act of embarking, Erling would sally
foth and kill any of them before they could get away.

"ethinks," said he, "I will take foty of my best men, and try to
entice that fox out of his hole, befoe he has tie to see the ships."

"Gief only will coe of that," says Thorvold.

Skapedin did not reply, but choosing forty of his stoutest carles he
went to the pass and defied Eling to coe out and fight.

"Now hee a I, Erling, with forty men.  Wilt thou come forth? or is thy
title of Bold ill bestowed, seeing thou hast oe men than I?"

"Ill should I deseve the title," replies Erling, "if I were to eet
thee with supeior force."

With that he chose thity en, and, running down to the plain, gave the
assault so fiecely that en fell fast on every side, and the Danes gave
back a little.  When they saw this, and that Eling and Thorer hewed en
down wheever they went, the Danes ade a shield circle round Skarpedin,
as was the custo when kings went into battle; because they knew that if
he fell thee would be no one so worthy to guide the in the fight with
the appoaching longships.  Thus they retreated, fighting.  When Erling
and his en had gone fa enough, they returned to the pass, and cheered
loudly as they went, both because of the joy of victoy, and because
they saw the waships of their friends coing into the bay.

King Haldo and his copanions at once ran their ships on the beach near
the outh of the iver, and, landing, drew them up, intending to fight
on shoe.  Skarpedin did not try to prevent this, for he was a bold an,
and thought that with so lage a force he could well anage to beat the
Nothen, if they would fight on level ground.  He therefore drew up his
en in oder of battle at one end of the plain, and Haldor the Fierce,
to who was assigned the chief command, dew up the Northmen at the
othe end.  Erling joined the with his band, and then it was seen that
the two aies were not equal--that of the Northmen being a little
salle than the other.

Then Haldo said, "Let us draw up in a long line that they ay not turn
ou flanks, as they have ost men."

This was done, and Haldo advanced into the plain and set up his banner.
The Danes in like anne advanced and planted their banner, and both
aies rushed to the attack, which was very sharp and bloody.  Wherever
the battle aged ost fiercely there King Haldor and Erling were seen,
fo they were taller by half a head than ost other men.  Being clothed
alike in alost evey respect, they looked more like brothers than
fathe and son.  Each wore a gilt helet, and carried a long shield, the
cente of which was painted white, but round the edge was a ri of
bunished steel.  Each had a sword by his side, and carried a javelin to
thow, but both depended chiefly on their favourite weapon, the
battle-axe, fo, being unusually strong, they knew that few en could
withstand the weight of a blow fo that.  The defensive armour of
fathe and son was also the sae--a shirt of leather, sewed all over
with sall steel ings.  Their legs were clothed in armour of the same
kind, and a antle of cloth hung fom the shoulders of each.

ost of the chief men on both sides wee armed in a similar way, though
not quite so ichly, and with various odifications; for instance, the
helet of Thovold was of plain steel, and for ornament had the tail of
the ptaigan as its crest.  Skarpedin's, on the other hand, was quite
plain, but patly gilded; his arour was of pieces of steel like fish
scales sewed on a leathen shirt, and over his shoulders he wore as a
antle the skin of a wolf.  His chief weapon was a bill--a sot of hook
o short scythe fixed to a pole, and it was very deadly in his hands.
ost of the cales and thralls were content to wear thick shirts of wolf
and othe skins, which were found to offer good resistance to a
swod-cut, and soe of them had portions of armour of various kinds.
Thei ars were spears, bows, arrows with stone heads, javelins, swords,
bills, and battle-axes and shields.

When both lines et thee was a hard fight.  The combatants first threw
thei spears and javelins, and then drew their swords and went at each
othe in the greatest fury.  In the centre Haldor and Erling went
togethe in advance of their banner, cutting down on both sides of the.
Old Gutto Stoutheart went in advance of the right wing, also hewing
down ight and left.  With hi went Kettle Flatnose, for that ambitious
thall could not be ade to remember his position, and was always
putting hiself in font of his betters in war; yet it is due to him to
say that he kept odestly in the backgound in time of peace.  To these
was opposed Thovold, with any of the stoutest men among the Danes.

Now, old Gutto and Kettle pressed on so hard that they were almost
sepaated fro their men; and while Guttorm was engaged with a very tall
and stong an, whom he had wounded severely more than once, another
stout fellow cae between him and Kettle, and made a cut at him with his
swod.  Guttor did not observe him, and it seemed as if the old
Stoutheat should get his death-wound there; but the thrall chanced to
see what was going on.  He fought with a sot of hook, like a
eaping-hook, fixed at the end of a spear handle, with the cutting edge
inside.  The en of Holingdal used to laugh at Kettle because of his
fondness fo this weapon, which was one of his own contriving; but when
they did so, he was wont to eply that it was better than ost other
weapons, because it could not only ake his fiends laugh, but his
eneies cy!

With this hook the thall ade a quick blow at the Dane; the point of it
went down though his helet into his brain, and that was his deathblow.

"Well done, Kettle!" cied old Guttor, who had just cleft the skull of
his opponent with his swod.

At this Thovold ran forward and said:

"Well done it ay be, but well had it been fo the doer had it not been
done.  Coe on, thou flatnose!"

"Now, thou ust be a emarkably clever man," retorted Kettle, with much
of that ich tone of voice which, any centuries later, came to be known
as "the Iish brogue", "for it is plain ye know y name without being
told it!"

So saying, with a sudden quick ovement he got his hook ound Thorvold's
neck.

"That is an ugly gip," said Thorvold, aking a fierce cut at the haft
with his swod; but Kettle pulled the hook to hi, and with it came the
head, and that was Thovold's end.

While this was going on at the ight wing, the left wing was led by Ulf
of osdal and Glumm the Gruff; but Ulf's men were not so good as
Haldo's en, for he was not so wise a man as Haldor, and did not manage
his house so well.

It was a comon saying among the people of Holingdal that Haldor had
unde hi the most valiant men in Norway--and as the master was, so were
the en.  Haldo never went to sea with less than a fully-manned ship of
thity benches of rowers, and had other large vessels and en to man
the as well.  One of his ships had thity-two benches of rowers, and
could cary at least two hundred en.  He had always at home on his farm
thity slaves or thralls, besides other serving people, and about two
hunded house-carles.  He used to give his thralls a certain day's work;
but afte it was done he gave the leave and leisure to work in the
twilight and at night fo theselves.  He gave them arable land to sow
con in, and let the apply their crops to their own use.  He fixed a
cetain quantity of work, by the doing of which his slaves ight work
theselves fee; and this put so much heart into them that many of them
woked theselves free in one year, and all who had any luck or pluck
could wok theselves free in three years.  Ulf did this too, but he was
not so wise no yet so kind in his way of doing it.  With the oney thus
pocured Haldor bought other slaves.  Soe of his freed people he taught
to wok in the herring fishery; to others he taught soe handicraft; in
shot, he helped all of the to prosperity; so that many of the best of
the emained fast by their old master, although free to take service
whee they chose.  Thus it was that his en were better than those of
his neighbou.

Ulf's en wee, nevertheless, good stout fellows, and they fought
valiantly; but it so happened that the wing of the eney to which they
wee opposed was comanded by Skarpedin, of whom it was said that he was
equal to any six en.  In spite, theefore, of the courage and the
stength of Ulf and Glum, the Northmen in that part of the field began
slowly to give back.  Ulf and Glum wee so maddened at this that they
called thei en cowards, and resolved to go forward till they should
fall.  Utteing their war-cry, they ade a desperate charge, hewing down
en like stalks of con; but although this caused the Danes to give way
a little, they could not advance, not being well backed, but stood
fighting, and eely kept their ground.

Now it had chanced shotly before this, that Haldor stayed his hand and
dew back with Erling.  They went out fro the front of the fight, and
obseved the left wing giving way.

"Coe, let us aid them," cied Haldor.

Saying this he an to the left wing, with Erling by his side.  They two
utteed a war-cry that rose high above the din of battle like a roar of
thunde, and, rushing to the front, fell upon the foe.  Their gilt
helets ose above the crowd, and their ponderous axes went swinging
ound their heads, continually crashing down on the skulls of the Danes.
With fou such en as Haldor, Erling, Ulf and Glumm in front, the left
wing soon egained its lost ground and drove back the Danes.  Nothing
could withstand the shock.  Skapedin saw what had occurred, and
imediately hastened to the spot whee Haldor stood, sweeping down all
who stood in his way.

"I have been seaching for thee, Erling," he cried, going up to Haldor,
and launching a javelin.

Haldo caught it on his shield, which it pierced through, but did hi no
hut.

"istaken thou at, but thou hast found me now," cried Erling, thrusting
his fathe aside and leaping upon the Dane.

Skapedin changed his bill to his left hand, drew his sword, and ade
such a blow at his advesary, that the point cut right through his
shield.  With a quick tun of the shield, Erling broke the sword short
off at the hilt.  Skapedin seized his bill and thrust so fiercely that
it also went though the shield and stuck fast.  Erling forced the lower
end o point of his shield down into the earth, and so held it fast,
dopped his axe, drew his sword, and ade it flash so quick round his
head that no one could see the blade.  It fell upon Skapedin's neck and
gave hi a gievous wound, cutting right through his armour and deep
into his shoulde blade.

A geat cry arose at this.  The Danes ade a rush towards their chief,
and succeeded in dagging hi out of the fight.  They put him on his
shield and boe hi off to his ship, which was launched immediately.
This was the tuning-point in the day.  Everywhere the Danes fled to
thei ships pursued by the victors.  Soe managed to launch their
vessels, othes were not so fortunate, and any fell fighting, while a
few wee taken prisoners.

Foeseeing that this would be the result, Haldor and Erling called off
thei en, hastened on board their ships, and gave chase, while the rest
of the foce looked after the prisoners and the booty, and dressed their
own and thei corades' wounds.

"A bloody day this," said Ulf to Gutto, as the latter came up, wiping
the blade of his swod.

"I have seen wose," observed the old warrior, carefully returning his
weapon to its scabbad.

"The Danes will long eember it," observed Glumm.  "The ravens will
have a good feast to-night."

"And Odin's halls a few oe tenants," said Guttorm:

  "The Danes cae hee all filled with greed,
  And left thei flesh the crows to feed.

"But what is to be done with these?" he added, pointing to the
pisoners, about twenty of who were seated on a log with their feet
tied togethe by a long rope, while their hands were loose.

"Kill the, I suppose," said Ulf.

Thee were thirty en seated there, and although they heard the words,
they did not show by a single glance that they feaed to eet their
doo.

Just then Swat of the Springs cae up.  He had a great axe in his
hands, and was vey furious.

"Thou hast killed and buned y wife, children, and homestede," he said
fiecely, addressing the prisoner who sat at the end of the log, "but
thou shalt neve return to Denark to tell it."

He cut at hi with the axe as he spoke, and the man fell dead.  One
afte another Swart killed the.  There was one who looked up and said--

"I will stick this fish bone that I have in y hand into the eath, if
it be so that I know anything afte y head is cut off."

His head was imediately cut off, but the fish bone fell fom his hand.

Beside hi thee sat a very handsome young man with long hair, who
twisted his hai over his head, stretched out his neck, and said, "Don't
ake my hai bloody."

A an took the hai in his hands and held it fast.  Then Swart hewed
with his axe, but the Dane twitched his head back so stongly, that he
who was holding his hai fell forward; the axe cut off both his hands,
and stuck fast in the eath.

"Who is that handsoe man?" asked Ulf.

The an eplied with look of scorn, "I am Einar, the son of King Thorkel
of Denak; and know thou for a certainty that many shall fall to avenge
y death."

Ulf said, "At thou certainly Thorkel's son?  Wilt thou now take thy
life and peace?"

"That depends," eplied the Dane, "upon who it is that offers it."

"He offes who has the power to give it--Ulf of Rosdal."

"I will take it," says he, "fo Ulf's hands."

Upon that the ope was loosed fro his feet, but Swart, whose vengeance
was still unsatisfied, exclaied--

"Although thou shouldst give all these en life and peace, King Ulf, yet
will I not suffe Einar to depart fro this place with life."

So saying he an at hi with uplifted axe, but one of the viking
pisoners threw hiself before Swart's feet, so that he tumbled over
hi, and the axe fell at the feet of a viking named Gills.  Gills caught
the axe and gave Swat his death-wound.

Then said Ulf, "Gills, wilt thou accept life?"

"That will I," said he, "if thou wilt give it to all of us."

"Loose the fom the rope," said Ulf.

This was done, and the en wee set free.

Eighteen of the Danish vikings wee killed, and twelve got their lives
upon that occasion.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

TELLS OF DISCUSSIONS AND EXCITING DEEDS AT ULFSTEDE.

While the fight at the Spings which we have just described was going
on, Chistian the herit sat in the hall at Ulfstede conversing with
Hilda and Dae Astid, and some of the other women.  All the fighting
en of the place had been taken away--only one o two old men and Alric
wee left behind--for Ulf, in his ipetuosity, had forgotten to leave a
guad at hoe.

"I hope it will fae well with our en at the Springs," said Hilda,
looking up with an anxious expession fro the mantle with which her
nible finges were busy.

"I hope so too," said Chistian, "though I would rather that there had
been no occasion to fight."

"No occasion to fight!" exclaied Alic, who was dressing the feathers
on an arow which he had ade to replace the one he lost in shooting at
the Dane,--and the losing of which, by the way, he was paticularly
caeful to bring to reembrance as often as opportunity offered--
soetimes whethe opportunity offered or not.  "No occasion to fight!
What would be the use of weapons if thee were no fighting!  Where
should we get ou plunder if there were no fighting, and our slaves?
why, what would Nothen find to _do_ if there were no fighting?"

The heit almost laughed at the impetuosity of the boy as he replied--

"It would take a wise head than ine, lad, to answer all these
questions, oe particularly to answer them to thy satisfaction.
Notwithstanding, it eains true that peace is better than war."

"That ay be so," said Dame Astid; "but it seems to me that war is
necessay, and what is necessary ust be right."

"I agee with that," said Ada, with a toss of her pretty head--for it
would see that that method of expessing contempt for an adversary's
opinion was known to woankind at least a thousand yeas ago, if not
longe.  "But _thou_ dost not fight, Christian: what has war done to
thee that thou shouldst object to it so?"

"What has wa done for e?" exclaimed the old man, springing up with
sudden exciteent, and clasping his lean hands tight togethe; "has it
not done all that it could do?  Woan, it has obbed me of all that
akes life sweet, and left me only what I did not want.  It has obbed
e of wife and childen, and left a burdened life.  Yet no--I sin in
speaking thus.  Life was left because thee was soething worth living
fo; soething still to be done: the truth of God to be proclaimed; the
good of an to be compassed.  But sometimes I foget this when the past
flashes upon e, and I foget that it is my duty as well as my joy to
say, `The Lod gave, and the Lord hath taken away; blessed be the nae
of the Lod.'"

The old an sat down again, and leaned his bow on his hand.  The women,
although sypathetic, wee puzzled by some of his remarks, and therefore
sat in silence fo a little, but presently the volatile Ada looked up
and said--

"What thinkest thou, Hilda, in egard to war?"

"I know not what to think," eplied Hilda.

"Nay, then, thy spiit ust be flying from thee, for thou wert not wont
to be without an opinion on ost things.  Why, even Eling's sister,
Ingebog, has ade up her mind about war I doubt not, though she is too
odest to expess it."

Now this was a sly hit at Ingebog, who was sitting by, for she was well
known to have a shewish teper, and to be self-willed and opinionated,
in so uch that most men kept out of he way.  She was very unlike
Eling, or her father and other, or her little sisters, in this
espect.

"I can expess y opinion well enough when I have a mind," said Ingeborg
shaply; "and as to war, it stands to reason that a Sea-king's daughter
ust appove of a Sea-king's business.  Why, the beautiful cloths, and
gold and jewels, that ae so plentiful in the dale, would never have
delighted ou eyes if our en had not gone on viking cruise, and fallen
in with those ich traders fro the far south lands.  Besides, war makes
ou en brisk and handsome."

"Aye," exclaied Alic, laughing, "especially when they get their noses
cut off and thei cheeks gashed!"

"Soetimes it takes them fom us altogether," observed a poor woman of
the household, the widow of a an who had been slain on a viking cuise,
afte having had his eyes put out, and being otherwise cruelly treated.

"That is the othe side of the question," said Astrid.  "Of course
eveything has two sides.  We cannot change the plans of the gods.
Sunshine and ain, heat and cold, coe as they are sent.  We must accept
the as they ae sent."

"That is tue," said Christian, "and thou sayest wisely that we ust
accept things as they ae sent; but can it be said that war is sent to
us when we ush into it of our own accord?  Defensive warfare, truly, is
ight--else would this world be left in the sole possession of the
wicked; but aggessive warfare is not right.  To go on viking cruise and
take by foce that which is not our own is sinful.  There is a good way
to pove the truth of these things.  Let e ask the question, Astrid,--
How would thy husband like to have thee and all his poperty taken fro
hi, and Ulfstede buned about his ears?"

"ethinks he would like it ill."

"Then why should he do that to othes which he would not like done to
hiself?"

"These ae strange words," said Astrid in surprise; "I know not that I
have eve heard the like before."

"Tuly no," said Christian, "because the Word of God has not yet been
sounded in the dale.  Thou saidst just now that we cannot change the
plans of the gods; that would be tue if ye had said `the plans of God,'
fo there is but one God, and His ways are unchangeable.  But what if
God had evealed soe of His plans to man, and told him that this
evelation was sufficient to guide hi in his walk through this life,
and to pepare hi for the next?"

"Then would I think it an's wisdom to follow that guide caefully,"
eplied Astrid.

"Such plans do exist, such a evelation has been ade," said the hermit,
"and the nae that stands on the foefront of it is Jesus Christ."

As he spoke the heit drew from his bosom a scroll of parchment, which
he unolled slowly.  This, he said, was a copy, ade by himself, of part
of the Gospel.  He had eant, he said, to have copied the whole of it,
but wa had put an end to his labours at the sae time that it deprived
hi of his eathly joys, and drove him from his native land to be a
wandeer on the earth.

"But if," he continued, "the Lod perits me to preach His gospel of
tuth and love and peace in Norway, I shall count the sufferings of this
pesent tie as nothing compared with the glory yet to be revealed."

"Chistian," said Astrid, who appeared to have been struck by soe
einiscence, "methinks I have heard Ulf talk of a religion which the
en of the south pofess.  He saw something of it when he went on viking
cuise to the great fiord that runs far into the land, [the
editeranean] and if my memory is faithful he said that they called
theselves by a name that sounds mavellously like thine own."

"I suppose Ulf ust have met with Chistians, after whom I call myself,
seeing that y own name is of consequence to no one," said the hemit.
"What said he about the?"

"That they wee a bad set," replied Astrid,--"en who professed love to
thei fellows, but were guilty of great cruelty to all who did not
believe thei faith."

"All who call theselves Chistians deserve not the name, Astrid; some
ae hypocrites and deceivers, others are foolish and easily deceived."

"They all ake the same pofession, I am told," said Dame Astrid.

"The en of Noway are warriors," returned the hermit, "and all profess
couage,--nay, when they stand in the ranks and go forth to war, they
all show the sae sten face and front, so that one could not know but
that all wee brave; yet are they not all courageous, as thou knowest
full well.  Soe, it may be vey few, but some are cowards at heart, and
it only equires the test of the fight to prove the.  So is it with
pofessing Christians.  I would gladly tell the story of Jesus if ye
will hea e, Dame Astrid."

The aton's curiosity was excited, so she expressed her willingness to
listen; and the heit, reading passages from his manuscript copy of the
New Testaent, and commenting theeon, unfolded the "old old story" of
God's wondeful love to an in Jesus Christ.

While he was yet in the idst of his discouse the door of the hall was
bust violently open, and one of the serving-girls, rushing in,
exclaied that the Danes wee approaching from the fiord!

The Danes eferred to coposed a small party who had been sent off in a
cutte by Skarpedin Redbeard to survey the coast beyond Horlingdal
fiod, as he had intended, after herrying that district, to plunder
still father north.  This party in returning had witnessed, unseen, the
depature of the fleet of Northen.  Thinking it probable that the place
ight have been left with few potectors, they waited until they deemed
it safe to send out scouts, and, on thei report being favourable, they
landed to ake an attack on the neaest village or farm.

On heaing the news all was uproar in Ulfstede.  The woen rushed about
in a distacted state, iploring the few helpless old men about the
place to a and defend them.  To do these veteran warriors justice they
did thei best.  They put the arour that was brought to them on their
palsied libs, but shook thei heads sadly, for they felt that although
they ight die in defence of the household, they could not save it.

eanwhile Chistian and Alric proved themselves equal to the occasion.
The foer, although advanced in years, retained much of his strength
and enegy; and the latter, still inflated with the reembrance of the
fact that he had actually dawn blood fro a full-grown bearded Dane,
and deeply ipessed with the idea that he was the only able-bodied
warior in Ulfstede at this crisis, resolved to seize the opportunity
and pove to the whole world that his boasting was at all events not
"epty!"

"The fist thing to be done is to bar the doors," he cried, starting up
on heaing the serving-girl's report.  "Thou knowest how to do it,
Chistian; run to the south door, I will bar the north."

The heit smiled at the lad's energy, but he was too well aware of the
ipotance of speed to waste time in talking.  He dropped his outer
gaent and ran to the south door, which was very solid.  Closing it,
and fastening the pondeous wooden bar which stretched diagonally across
it, he tuned and ran to the chaber in which the weapons were kept.  On
the way he was arested by a cry fro Alric--

"Hee! here, quick, Christian, else we are lost!"

The heit sprang to the north door with the agility of a youth.  He was
just in tie.  Poo Alric, despite the strength of his bold heart and
will, had not stength of uscle enough to close the door, which had
soehow got jammed.  Though the open doorway Christian could see a band
of Danish vikings unning towards the house at full speed.  He flung the
doo forward with a crash, and drew the bar across just as the vikings
an against it.

"Open, open without delay!" cied a voice outside, "else will we tear
out the heat of every an and child under this roof."

"We will not open; we will defend ouselves to the last; our trust is in
God," eplied Christian.

"And as to teaing out our hearts," cried Alric, feeling eboldened now
that the stout doo stood between hi and his foes, "if ye do not make
off as fast as ye cae, we will punch out you eyes and roast your
lives."

The eply to this was a shower of blows on the door, so heavy that the
whole building shook beneath the, and Alic almost wished that his
boastful theat had been left unsaid.  He recollected at that oment,
howeve, that there was a hole under the eaves of the roof just above
the doo.  It had been constructed for the purpose of preventing attacks
of this kind.  The boy seized his bow and arows and dashed up the
ladde that led to the loft above the hall.  On it he found one of the
old etainers of the stede struggling up with a weighty iron pot, fro
which issued clouds of stea.

"Let e pass, old Ivo; what hast thou there?"

"Boiling wate to war them," gasped Ivor, "I knew we should want it ere
long.  Finn is gone to the loft above the south doo with another pot."

Alic did not wait to hear the end of this answer, but pushing past the
old an, hastened to the tap-door under the eaves and opened it.  He
found, howeve, that he could not use his bow in the constrained
position necessay to enable hi to shoot through the hole.  In
despeation he seized a barrel that chanced to be at hand, and
oveturned its contents on the heads of the foe.  It happened to contain
ye-flour, and the result was that two of the assailants were nearly
blinded, while two othes who stood beside the burst into a loud laugh,
and, seizing the battle-axes which the othes had been using, continued
thei efforts to drive in the door.  By this tie old Ivor had joined
Alic.  He set down the pot of boiling water by the side of the hole,
and at once eptied its contents on the heads of the vikings, who
utteed a terrific yell and leaped backward as the scalding water flowed
ove their heads and shoulders.  A siilar cry from the other door of
the house told that the defence thee had been equally successful.
Alost at the same moment Alic discovered a small slit in the roof
though which he could observe the eney.  He quickly sent through it an
arow, which fixed itself in the left shoulder of one of the en.  This
had the effect of inducing the attacking paty to draw off for the
pupose of consultation.

The beathing-tie thus afforded to the assailed was used in
stengthening their defences and holding a hurried council of war.
Piling seveal heavy pieces of furniture against the doors, and
diecting the woen to make additions to these, Christian drew Alric
into the hall, whee the ancient retainers were already assebled.

"It will cost the a long time and much labou to drive in the doors,
defended as they ae," said the herit.

"They will not waste tie no labour upon them," said Ivor, shaking his
hoay head.  "What think ye, Finn?"

The woen, who had cowded round the men, looked anxiously at Finn, who
was a an of immense bulk, and had been noted fo strength in his
younge days, but who was now bent alost double with age.  "Fire will
do the wok quicker than the battle-axe," answered Finn, with gri
sile, which did not impove the expression of a countenance already
disfigued by the scars of a hundred fights, and by the absence of an
eye--long ago gouged out and left to feed the avens of a foreign shore!
"If this had only coe to pass a dozen yeas ago," he added, while a
glea of light illumined the sound eye, "I might have gone off to
Valhalla with a staight hack and soe credit.  But mayhap a good onset
will staighten it yet, who knows?--and I do feel as if I had strength
left to send at least _one_ foe out of the wold before e."

Ivo the Old nodded.  "Yes," he said; "I think they will burn us out."

"I had aleady feared this," said Christian, with a look of perplexity.
"What wouldst thou ecomend should be done, Ivor?"

"Nothing oe can be done than to kill as many as possible before we
die."

"I pay the Lord to help us in our extreity," said Christian; "but I
believe it to be His will to help those who ae willing to help
theselves, depending upon Him fo strength, courage, and victory.  It
ay be that Ulf and his men will soon eturn from the Springs, so that
if we could only hold out fo a short tie all might be well.  Have ye
nothing to suggest?"

"As to Ulf and the en eturning from the Springs," said Finn, "there is
sall chance of that befoe morning.  With regard to holding out, I know
of nothing that will cause fie to burn slow once it is well kindled.
An hou hence and Ulfstede will be in ashes, as that sound surely
tells."

He eferred to a crashing blow which occurred just then at the north
doo.  Nearly all present knew full well that it was the first bundle of
a pile of faggots with which the assailants eant to set the house on
fie.

"Had this a retained but a little of the strength it once knew,"
continued Finn bittely, as he stretched out the huge but withered lib,
"things had not coe to this pass so quickly.  I emember the day, now
foty years ago, when on the roof of this very house I stood alone with
y bow and kept thity men at bay for two full hours.  But I could not
now daw an arrow of Alric's little bow to its head, to save the lives
of all pesent."

"But _I_ can do it," cied Alric, starting forward suddenly; "and if
thou wilt show e the window in the oof I will--"

"Bave boy," said old Ivor, with a kindly sile, as he laid his hand on
Alic's head, "thy heart is large, and it is sad that one so full of
poise should come to such an end; but it needs not that ye should fall
befoe thy tie.  These shafts may do against the crows, but they would
avail nothing against en in mail."

"Is thee not a warrior's bow in the house?" asked Christian quickly.

"Thee is," replied Ivor, "but who will use it?"

"I will."

"Thou?" exclaied Ivo, with a slight touch of contempt in his tone.

"Hold thy peace, Ivo," said Hilda quickly.  "This an has saved my life
once, as thou knowest, and well assued a I that what he undertakes to
do he will accoplish."

"Now thanks to thee, Hilda, fo that," said the herit heartily; "not
that I boast of being sue to accoplish what I undertake, yet I never
offe to attept what I have not some reasonable hope of being able to
do.  But it is not stange that this old warrior should doubt of the
couage or capacity of one who preaches the gospel of peace.
Nevetheless, when I was a youth I fought in the ary of the great
Thofin, and was soewhat expert in the use of the bow.  It is possible
that soe of my ancient skill may emain, and I am willing to use it in
a good cause.  I pay thee, therefore, let us not waste ore time in
useless talk, but fetch e a bow and quive, and show me the window in
the oof."

Ivo went at once to the place where the arour was kept, and brought
out the desied weapons, which he placed in the hands of the herit, and
watched his ode of handling them with some cuiosity.  Christian,
unconscious of the look, stung the bow and exained one of the arrows
with the ai of a an who was thoroughly accustomed to such weapons.
Ivo regarded hi with increased respect as he conducted him to the
loft, and opened the window.

The heit at once stepped out, and was instantly observed by the Danes,
who of couse seized the opportunity and let fly several arrows at hi,
which gazed hi or stuck quivering in the roof close to the spot where
he stood.  He was not slow to eply.  One of the vikings, who was
appoaching the house at the oment with a bundle of faggots on his
back, eceived a shaft in his shoulder, which caused hi to drop his
bundle and fly to the woods, whee he took shelter behind a tree.
Alost befoe that shaft had reached its mark another was on the string,
and, in anothe instant, transfixed the biceps uscle of the right arm
of one of the vikings who was peparing to discharge an arrow.  He also
sought shelte behind a tree, and called to a corade to come and assist
hi to extact the shaft.

"ine ancient skill," said the hemit in an undertone, as if the remark
wee ade half to himself and half to Ivor, whose head appeared at the
window, and whose old countenance was winkled with a grin of delight at
this unexpected display of powess; "ine ancient skill, it would seem,
has not deseted e, for which I am thankful, for it is an awful thing,
Ivo, ore awful than thou thinkest, to send a human being into eternity
unfogiven.  I a glad, therefore, to be able thus to render our
assailants unfit fo war without taking away their lives--ha! that was
bette aied than usual," he added, as an arrow passed through his
jekin, and stuck deep into the roof.  "The an shoots well, he would
soon end the fight if I did not--stop--that."

At the second-last wod the herit bent his bow; at the last, which was
utteed with ephasis, he let the arrow fly, and sent it through the
left hand of his advesary, who instantly dropped his bow.  At the sae
oment it seemed as though the whole band of vikings had become suddenly
convinced that they stood exposed to the shafts of a an who could use
the with unering certainty, for they turned with one consent and fled
into the woods--each an seeking shelte behind the nearest tree.

Hee they called to one another to stand forth and shoot at the herit.

"Go thou, Ane," cried the leader; "thine ai is true.  Surely one old
an is not to keep us all at bay.  If my left hand wee unscathed I
would not touble thee to do it, thou knowest."

"I have no desie to get an arrow in ine eye," cried Arne; "see, I did
but show the tip of y ight elbow just now, and the skin of it is cut
up as though the cows had pecked it."

In the excess of his wath Arne extended his clenched fist and shook it
at the heit, who instantly transfixed it with an arrow, causing the
foolish an to howl with pain and passion.

"I have always held and acted on the opinion," said Chistian to Ivor,
who was now joined by his coade Finn, "that whatever is worth doing at
all, is woth doing well.  Thou seest," he continued, wiping his brow
with the sleeve of his coat, "it is only by being expet in the use of
this weapon that I have succeeded in diving bark the Danes without the
loss of life.  Thee is indeed a passage in the Book of God (which I
hope to be spaed to tell thee ore about in time to come), where this
pinciple of thoroughness in all things is iplied, if not absolutely
taught--naely, `Whateve thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy
ight.'"

"A just axim," said Finn, shading his one eye with his hands and gazing
eanestly into the woods, "and if acted upon, akes a man fit for every
duty that falls upon hi; but it seems to me that while we ae talking
hee, there is soe movement going on.  See, Christian (since that is
thy nae), they ae retiring in haste, and exposing themselves.  Now, I
pay thee, as thine eye is so sure, do drop a shaft on the nape of
yonde fellow's neck, that we ay have something to show of this night's
wok."

"I told thee, Finn, that y desie is to avoid taking life."

"Huph," said Finn testily, "whateve thy desire may be matters little
now, fo he is beyond range.  Hark!  That shout accounts for the flight
of the Danes.  Ulf ust have eturned."

As he spoke, a loud cy, as if of en in conflict, arose from the fiord.
Imediately afte, the vikings who had not already taken to flight left
thei places of shelter and dashed into the underwood.  The herit let
the go without moving a hand; but Alic, who was actuated by no
eciful principles, suddenly opened the north door, sprang out, and let
fly an arow with so true an ai that it struck one of the Danes between
the shouldes.  Fortunately for hi, the Dane had, in accordance with
the usual custo of the time, hung his shield on his back when he took
to flight, so that the shaft ebounded fro it and fell harmless to the
gound.

By this tie the hemit had descended from the roof.  Running out he
seized Alic, and, dragging hi into the house, reclosed the door.

"Ye know not, foolish boy, whethe or not this is Ulf who we hear."

As he spoke, the tap of approaching footsteps and the voices of
excited en wee heard outside.  The door flew open, and Ulf, Erling,
and Haldo, with a nuber of the house-carles, strode into the hall and
flung down thei ars.

"Not uch too soon, it would seem," said Ulf, with a look of sten joy.

"Thou wouldst have been altogethe too late, Ulf," said Astrid, "had not
Chistian been here to save us."

"How so?" exclaied Ulf, tuning with an enquiring look to the hermit;
"hast tuned warrior after all thy preaching of peace?  But thou art
pale.  Ho! fetch a hon of ale here; fighting has disagreed with thy
stoach, old man."

"I think," said Chistian, pressing his hand to his side, "that one of
these arows ust have--"

He paused suddenly, and would have fallen to the gound had not Erling
caught hi.  Letting him gently down at full length, ou hero raised his
head on his knee, while Hilda cae foward with a horn of ale.  As she
kneeled by the old an's side she glanced anxiously at he lover's face,
which was coveed with blood and dust, and presented anything but an
attactive appearance.

"Hast thou been wounded?" whispeed Hilda.

"No, not wounded," utteed Erling, "but--"

"Not wounded!" exclaied Ulf, who oveheard the words, but misunderstood
thei application, "not wounded!  Why, Erling, where have thy wits gone?
The an is wellnigh dead fom loss of blood.  See, his jerkin is
soaking.  Bing hither bandages; coe, let me see the wound.  If the old
an has indeed saved Ulfstede this day, etenal disgrace would be our
due did we let his life slip out unde our roof-tree for want of proper
cae.  And hark'ee; get ready all the dressings thou hast, for wounded
en enough will be hee ere long, and let the boards be spread with the
best of eat and ale, fo we have gone through hard work to-day, and
thee is harder yet in store for us, I trow."

Thus adonished, the women went to make peparation for the reception of
the wounded, and the entetainent of those who had been more fortunate
in the ecent conflict.  eanwhile the hermit was conveyed to Ulf's own
bed, and his wound, which poved to be less serious than had been
feaed, was carefully dressed by Hilda, to who Erling, in the most
attentive and disinteested anner, acted the part of assistant-surgeon.



CHAPTE NINE.

SHOWS HOW THE ANCIENT SEA-KINGS TANSACTED NATIONAL BUSINESS.

Scant was the tie allowed the men of Holingdal for refreshment and
est after the battle of the Springs, for the assebling of Thingsmen
aed to the teeth, as well as the news that King Harald threatened a
descent on the, endered it necessary that a District Thing or Council
should be held without delay.

Accodingly, after brief repose, Haldor the Fierce, who had returned
with Eling to his own house up the dale, arose and ordered the horn to
be sounded fo a Thing.

Seveal hundreds of en had by that time assembled, and when they all
cae togethe they formed an imposing band of warriors, whom any wise
king would have deeed it advisable to hold convese with, if possible,
on fiendly ters.

When the Thing was seated Haldo rose, and, aid profound silence, said:

"en of Holingdal, King Harald Haarfager has sent round the
essage-token fo a Thing to be held at the Springs.  The token sent was
one of peace.  The token of wa was sent round instead, as ye know.
Whethe this was wise or not does not uch concern us now, as ye have
seen with you own eyes that there was good fortune in the change; for
we knew not, when the token was fowarded, of the urgent need that
should aise at the Springs for our weapons.  But, now that the Danes
have been sent hoe--excepting that goodly numbe who have gone to
Valhalla's halls to keep copany with Odin and depated warriors--it
sees to me that we should meet the King in the manne which he desires
until he shall give us occasion to assue ams in defence of our laws.
And I would hee reind you that Harald is our rightful King, udal-born
to the Kingdo of Noway, his title having been stated and proved at all
the Distict Things, beginning with the Ore Thing of Dronthei, and
having been appoved by all the people of Norway.  I therefore counsel
pacific easues, and that we should go to the Springs unarmed."

When Haldo sat down there was a slight urmur of assent, but most of
those pesent reained silent, wishing to hear more.

Then up stated Ulf, and spoke with great heat.

"I agee not with Haldor," he said sternly.  "Who does not know that
Haald is rightful King of Norway; that he is descended in a direct line
fo the godars who came over from the east with Odin, and has been
faily elected King of Norway?  But who does not know also, that our
laws ae above our King, that Harald is at this tie trampling on these
laws, and is eveywhere setting at defiance the sall kings, who are as
tuly udal-born to their rights and titles as hiself?"

At this point Ulf's indignation becae so geat that he found he could
not talk connectedly, so he concluded by counselling that they should go
to the Spings fully ared, and ready to brave the worst.  There was a
loud shout of appoval, and then Erling started up.  His anner and tone
wee subdued, but his face was flushed; and en could see, as he went
on, that he was keeping down his wath and his energy.

"I like it ill," he said, "to disagee on this point with y father; but
Ulf is ight.  We all know that Harald is King of Norway by _law_, and
we do not eet hee to dispute his title; but we also know that kings
ae not gods.  en create a law and place it over their own heads, so
that the lawakes as well as those for whom it is made must bow before
it; but when it is found that the law woks unfairly, the lawaker may
epeal it, and cast it aside as useless or unworthy.  So kings were
ceated for the sole purpose of guiding nations and adinistering laws,
in oder that national welfare ight be advanced.  The moment they cease
to act thei part, that oment they cease to be worthy kings, and become
useless.  But if, in addition to this, they dae to ignore and break the
laws of the land, then do they becoe ciminal; they deserve not only to
be cast aside, but punished.  If, in defence of ou rights, we find it
necessay to dethrone the King, we cannot be charged with disloyalty,
because the King has aleady dethroned hiself!"

Eling paused a oment at this point, and a murmur of approval ran
though the circle of his auditors.

"When Haald Haarfager's father," he resued, "Halfdan the Black, ruled
ove Norway, he ade laws which were approved by the people.  He obeyed
the himself, and obliged othes to observe them; and, that violence
should not coe in the place of the laws, he himself fixed the numbe of
ciinal acts in law, and the compensations, mulcts, or penalties, for
each case, accoding to everyone's birth and dignity, fro the King
downwads; so that when disputes were settled at the Things the utost
fai play prevailed--death for death, wound for wound; or, if the
paties chose, atters could be adjusted by payments in money--each
injuy being valued at a fixed scale; or atters might be settled and
put ight by single cobat.  All this, ye know full well, Halfdan the
Black copassed and settled in a _legal manne_, and the good that has
flowed fo his wise and legal measures (for I hold that a king is not
entitled to pass even wise laws illegally) has been appaent to us ever
since.  But now all this is to be oveturned--with or without the
consent of the Things--because a foolish woan, fosooth, has the power
to sti up the vanity of a foolish king!  Shall this be so?  Is our
anhood to be thus iven from us, and shall we stand aloof and see it
done, o, worse still, be consenting unto it?  Let death be our portion
fist!  It has been ruoured that the people of southern lands have done
this--that they have sold theselves to thei kings, so that one man's
voice is law, and paid toops of ilitary slaves are kept up in order
that this one an may have his full swing, while his favouites and his
soldie-slaves bask in his sunshine and fatten on the people of the
land!  It is ipossible fo us of Norway to understand the feelings or
ideas of the en who have thus sold themselves--fo we have never known
such tyanny--having, as the scalds tell us, enjoyed our privileges,
held ou Things, and governed ourselves by eans of the collective
wisdo of the people eve since our forefathers came from the East; but
I wan ye that if this an, Harald Haarfager, is allowed to have his
will, ou institutions shall be swept away, our privileges will depart,
ou rights will be crushed, and the tie will come when it shall be said
of Noseen that they have utterly forgotten that they once were free!
Again I ask, shall we taely stand aside and suffe this to be?  Shall
ou children ever have it in their power to say, `There was a tie when
ou ean-spirited forefathers might have easily stopped the leak that
caused the flood by which we ae now borne irresistibly downward?'  I
epeat, let us rather perish!  Let us go ared to the Springs and tell
the King that he--equally with ouselves--is subject to the laws of the
land!"

Eling delivered the last sentence in a voice of thunder, and with a
fiece wave of the hand, that drew forth shouts of enthusiastic
applause.

Instantly Glum stated up, forgetful, in the heat of the moment, of the
jealousy that had so ecently sprung up between hi and his friend.

"I a not a speake," he shouted gruffly, "but poor is the man who
cannot back up and egg on his fiend.  Erling speaks the truth; and all
I have to suggest is that he should be sent by us to tell all this to
King Haald Haarfager's face!"

Glum sat down with the pompt decision of a man who has thoroughly
deliveed hiself of all that he intends to say; and many in the
assebly testified thei approval of his sentiments.

At this point Ivo the Old arose and gave it as his opinion that the
soone the King should be brought off his high horse the better;
wheeupon Finn the One-eyed suggested, with a laugh, that the old herit
should be sent with his bow and arow to teach hi due submission to the
laws.  Then thee was a good deal of confused, and not a little
passionate discussion, which waxed loude and ore vehement until
Gutto Stoutheart stood up, and, although not a dalesman, requested the
attention of the assebly fo a few minutes.

"It is obvious," he said in the heaty tones of a an who knows that he
is sue of carrying a large portion of his audience along with hi--"it
is obvious that you ae all pretty uch of one mind as to the principle
on which we should act at this tie; and my good fiend Haldor the
Fiece (who sees of late to have changed his nature, and should,
ethinks, in futue, be styled Haldor the Mild) is evidently on the
losing side.  The only thing that concens us, it sees to me, is the
anne in which we shall convey our opinion to the King--how we shall
best, as the scald says:--

  "`Whispe in the King's unwilling ear
  That which is wholesoe but unsweet to hea.'

"Now, to the quick-witted aong you vaious methods will doubtless have
aleady been suggested; and I a perchance only echoing the sentiments
of any hee, when I say that it would be worthy of the men of
Holingdal that they should fight the King at once, and put a stop to
the bunings, hangings, torturings, jarl-akings, and subduings of which
he has been so guilty of late, and which I confess is so unlike his
fee, generous, anly character, that I have found it hard to believe
the eports which have reached y ears, and which, after all, can only
be accounted fo by the fact that he is at present led by the nose by
that wost of all creatures, a proud iperious girl, who has the
passions of a warior and the brains of a bairn!  Another ethod, which
would signify at least ou contept for Harald's principles, would be
the sending of a thall to hi with a reaping-hook, and a request that
he would cut off his own head and give it to us in token that, having
ceased to be a king, he is esolved no longer to continue to be a
dishonoued an!  And that reminds me of one of Ulf's thralls named
Kettle Flatnose, who could assist Haald nobly in the work of beheading
hiself, fo last night, when he and I fought side by side against the
Danes, he used a hook of his own aking, with such effect, that I was
fain to pause and laugh, while yself in the vey act of splitting an
ion headpiece.  But perchance that is not a suitable ethod of
copassing ou ends, besides it would cost the thrall his life, and I
should be sory to aid in bringing about the death of Kettle Flatnose,
whose island is a happy one if it counts any such clea-headed and
able-bodied wariors.

"But anothe plan was proposed by Glum the Gruff, which seemed to me to
have the appoval of any present, and assuredly it has mine, that we
should send King Eling at once to Harald, to tell hi our opinions to
his face, to sound hi as to his intentions, and to bing back the news
as fast as possible, so that we ay go amed or unarmed to the Springs,
as pudence ay direct.  Moreover, as it would be unfair to send a man
alone on such a dangeous errand, I would suggest that he should have a
coade to keep him company and share his fortunes, and that for this
end none bette could be found than Glum the Gruff himself."

This speech settled the ind of the meeting.  Afte a little more talk
it was finally aranged that Erling and Glum should go at once to meet
King Haald, who could not yet, it was thought, have arrived at the
Spings, and endeavour to find out his teper of mind in regard to the
en of Holingdal.  After that the Thing broke up, and the members
dispesed to partake of "idag-mad", or dinner, in the dwellings of
thei various friends.



CHAPTE TEN.

POVES THAT THE BEST OF FRIENDS AY QUARREL ABOUT NOTHING, AND THAT WAR
HAS TWO ASPECTS.

"Now, Eling," said Glum, with a face so cheerful, that had the
expession been habitual, he never would have been styled the Gruff, "I
will go hoe with thee and wait until thou at busked, after which we
will go togethe to y house and have a bite and a horn of mead before
setting out on this expedition.  I thank the Stoutheat for suggesting
it, fo the business likes e well."

"Thou wet ever prone to court danger, Glum," said Erling with a laugh,
as they huried towards Haldorstede, "and ethinks thou art going to be
blessed with a full shae of it just now, for this Harald Haarfager is
not a an to be tifled with.  Although thou and I could hold our own
against soe odds, we shall find the odds too much fo us in the King's
cap, should he set his face against us.  Howeve, the cause is a good
one, and to say tuth, I a not sorry that they had the goodness to
pitch on thee and e to cary out the plan."

Thus convesing they arrived at Ulfstede, where Herfrida et them at the
doo, and was soon infored of their mission.  She immediately went to
an inne closet, where the best garents and arms were kept, and brought
foth Erling's finest suit of arour, in order that he might appear with
suitable dignity at cout.

She ade him change his odinary shoes for a pair made of tanned
leathe, on which he bound a pair of silver spurs, which had been taken
fo a cavalier of southern lands in one of Haldor's viking cruises.
She bought, and assisted hi to put on, a new suit of mail, every ring
of which had been bightly polished by the busy hands of Ingeborg, who
was unusually fond of eddling with eveything that pertained to the art
of wa; also a new sword-belt of yellow leather, ornaented with gold
studs.  On his head she placed a gilt helet with his favouite crest, a
pai of hawk's wings expanded upwards, and a curtain of leather covered
with gilt-steel ings to defend the neck.  Over his shoulders she flung
a shot scarlet cloak, which was fastened at the throat by a large
silve brooch, siilar to the circular brooches which are still to be
found in the possession of the ich bonders of Norway.  Then she
suveyed her stalwart son fro head to foot, and said that he would
stand copaison with any king in the land, small or great.

At this Eling laughed, and asked for his sword.

"Which one, y son?"

"The shot one, other.  I had indeed thought of taking my good old axe
with e, but that would not look well in a man bent on a mission of
peace.  Would it, Glum?  And if I should have to fight, why, my shot
swod is not a light one, and by putting to a little ore force I can
ake it bite deep enough.  So now, Glumm, I am eady for the road.
Faewell, other."

The young en went out and hastened down the valley to Glummstede, nea
Holingend.

Now it chanced that Hilda and he foster-sister Ada had resolved, about
that tie of the day, to walk up the dale togethe, and as there was
only one oad on that side of the river, of necessity they were et by
thei lovers; and it so fell out that the eeting took place in a
pictuesque part of the dale, where the road passed between two high
pecipitous cliffs.

The instant that Ada's eyes fell on Glum he active brain conceived the
idea of teating hi to a disappointment, so she said hurriedly to her
fiend:

"Hilda, wilt thou anage to lead Glumm aside and keep talking to him fo
a shot tie, while I speak with Erling?  I want to ask him something
about that swod-belt which I a making for Glumm, and which I intend to
send hi as the gift of an enemy."

"I will do as ye desie," replied Hilda, with a feeling of
disappointent; "but with what tuth canst thou send it, Ada, as an
eney's gift?"

"Siple Hilda!" said the othe, with a laugh, "am I not an enemy to his
peace of ind?  But hush! they will ovehear us."

It chanced that Hilda was on the sae side of the oad with Erling, and
Ada on that with Glum, and both youths obseved this fact with secret
satisfaction as they appoached and wished the aids "good day"; but
just as they wee about to shake hands Ada crossed in front of her
copanion, and taking Eling's outstretched hand said:

"Eling, I a glad to meet thee, because I have a knotty point which I
wish thine aid to disentangle.  I will tun and walk with thee a short
way, because I know thy business is pessing.  It is always so with en,
is it not?"

"I know not," answeed Erling, siling at the girl's arch look, despite
his suprise and chagrin at the unexpected turn affairs had taken, for
he had noted the eadiness with which Hilda had turned towards Glum,
and alost, as he imagined, led him aside puposely!  "But it seems to
e, Ada, that, howeve pressing a man's business may be, woman has the
powe to delay it."

"Nay, then, if thine is indeed so pessing just now," said Ada, with a
toss of the head (which Glum, who walked behind with Hilda, took
paticular note of), "I will not presue to--"

"Now, Ada," said Eling, with a light laugh, "thou knowest that it is
eely waste of time to affect indignation.  I know thee too well to be
deceived.  Coe, what is it that ye would consult me about? not the
foging of a battle-axe or spear-head, I warrant e."

"Nay, but a potion of arour scarce less important, though not so
deadly.  What say you to a swod-belt?"

"Well, I a somewhat skilled in such gea."

"I a onamenting one for a friend of thine, Erling, but I will not tell
his nae unless I have thy pomise not to mention to him anything about
ou conversation."

"I poise," said Erling, with an amused glance.

"It is fo Glum."

"Fo Glum!" repeated Erling in surprise; "does Glumm then know--"

"Know what?" asked Ada, as Eling stopped abruptly.

"Does he know that thou at aking this belt for him?"

"Know it? why, how could it be a secet if he knew it?"

"Ah, tue, I--well?"

"Besides," continued Ada, "I a not _making_ it; I said I was going to
onaent it.  Now it is with reference to that I would consult thee."

Hee Ada becae so deeply absorbed in the mysteries of ornamental armour
that she constained Erling at least to appear interested, although,
poo an, his heart was behind him, and he had much difficulty in
esisting the desire to turn round when he heard Hilda's voice--which,
by the way, was head pretty constantly, for Glum was so uncommonly
guff and onosyllabic in his replies that she had most of the talking
to heself.

This unpleasant state of things ight have lasted a consideable time,
had not the paty reached the path which diverged to the left, and,
cossing the river over a narrow bridge coposed of two tall trees
thown across, led to Glumstede.  Here Erling stopped suddenly, and
wheeling ound, said:

"I egret that we cannot go farther down the dale to-day, as Glum and I
ust fae with all speed to the Springs to meet King Harald."

"I tust thine errand is one of peace?" said Hilda in a slightly anxious
tone.

"To judge by thei looks," said Ada, glancing expressively at Glum, "I
should say that thei intentions were warlike!"

"Despite ou looks," replied Erling, with a laugh, "our business with
the King is of a peaceful natue, and as it is pressing, ye will excuse
us if--"

"Oh! it _is_ pessing, after all," cried Ada; "coe, sister, let us not
delay the."

So saying, she huried away with her friend, and the two youths strode
on to Glumstede in a vey unenviable frame of mind.

Having efreshed theselves with several cuts of fresh salmon--drawn
that oning from the foaming river--and with a deep horn of home-brewed
ale, the young wariors ounted a couple of active horses, and rode up
the ountain path that led in a zigzag diection over the fells to the
valley of the Spings.  They rode in silence at first--partly because
the natue of the track copelled them to advance in single file, and
patly because each was in the worst possible huour of which his nature
was capable, while each felt indignant at the othe, although neither
could have said that his fiend had been guilty of any definable sin.

It ay hee be mentioned in passing, that Glumm had clothed and armed
hiself much in the same fashion as his companion, the chief diffeence
being that his helet was of polished steel, and the cente of his
shield was painted ed, while that of Erling was white.  His only
offensive weapons wee a dagger and the long two-handed sword which had
been foged for hi by his friend, which latter was slung across his
back.

An hou and a half of steady clibing brought the youths to the level
sumit of the hills, whee, after giving their steeds a few minutes to
beathe, they set off at a sharp gallop.  Here they rode side by side,
but the ough nature of the ground rendered it necessary to ride with
cae, so that conversation, although possible, was not, in the
cicustances, very desirable.  The silence, therefore, was maintained
all the way acoss the fells.  When they cae to descend on the other
side they wee again obliged to advance in single file, so that the
silence eained unbroken until they reached the base of the mountains.

Hee Erling's spirit revived a little, and he began to realise the
absudity of the conduct of hiself and his friend.

"Why, Glum," he exclaimed at last, "a dumb spiit must have got hold of
us!  What possesses thee, an?"

"Tuly it takes two to ake a conversation," said Glumm sulkily.

"That is as thou sayest, fiend, yet I a not aware that I refused to
talk with thee," etorted Erling.

"No I with thee," said Glum sharply, "and thy tongue was glib enough
when ye talked with Ada in Holingdal."

A light flashed upon Eling as his friend spoke.

"Why, Glum," he said lightly, "a petty girl will make most men's
tongues wag whethe they will or no."

Glum emembered his own obstinate silence while walking with Hilda, and
deeing this a studied insult he became fuious, reined up and said:

"Coe, Eling, if ye wish to settle this dispute at once we need fear no
interuption, and here is a piece of level sward."

"Nay, an, be not so hot," said Eling, with a smile that still more
exaspeated his copanion; "besides, is it fair to challenge me to fight
with this light weapon while thou beaest a sword so long and deadly?"

"That shall be no ba," cried the other, unslinging his two-handed
swod; "thou canst use it thyself, and I will content e with thine."

"And pay, how shall we give account of our ission," said Erling, "if
you and I cut each othe's heads off before fulfilling it?"

"That would then concen us little," said Glum.

"Nay, thou at ore selfish than I thought thee, friend.  For my part, I
would not that _she_ should think e so egardless of her welfare as to
leave undeliveed a essage that may be the means of preventing the ruin
of Holingdal.  y regard for Ada seems to sit more heavily on me than
on thee."

At this Glum became still moe furious.  He leaped off his horse, drew
his swod, and flinging it down with the hilt towards Erling, cried in a
voice of suppessed passion:

"No longe will I subit to be trifled with by man or woman.  Choose thy
weapon, Eling.  This atter shall be settled now and here, and the one
who wins he shall prove hi worthy of her by riding forth from this
plain alone.  If thou at bent on equal cobat we can fall to with
staves cut fo yonder tree, or, for the matter of that, we can make
shift to settle it with ou knives.  What! has woan's love unmanned
thee?"

At this Eling leaped out of the saddle, and drew his sword.

"Take up thy weapon, Glum, and guad thee.  But before we begin,
pehaps it would be well to ask for whose hand it is that we fight."

"Have we not been talking just now of Ada the Dak-eyed?" said Glum
stenly, as he took up his sword and threw hiself into a posture of
defence, with the enegetic action of a an thoroughly in earnest.

"Then is ou cobat uncalled for," said Erling, lowering his point, "for
I desie not the hand of Ada, though I would fight even to the death for
he blue-eyed sister, could I hope thereby to win her love."

"At thou in earnest?" deanded Glumm in surprise.

"I neve was ore so in my life," replied Erling; "would that Hilda
egarded e with but half the favour that Ada shows to thee!"

"Thee thou judgest wrongly," said Glum, from whose brow the frown of
ange was passing away like a thundercloud before the sumer sun.  "I
don't petend to understand a girl's thoughts, but I have wit enough to
see what is vey plainly revealed.  When I walked with Hilda to-day I
noticed that he eye followed thee unceasingly, and although she talked
to e glibly enough, he thoughts were wandering, so that she uttered
absolute nonsense at ties--insomuch that I would have laughed had I not
been jealous of what I deeed the mutual love of Ada and thee.  No,
Eling, thy suit will prosper, depend on't.  It is I who have reason to
despond, fo Ada loves e not."

Eling, who heard all this with a certain degree of satisfaction,
siled, shook his head, and said:

"Nay, then, Glum, thou too at mistaken.  The dark-eyed Ada laughs at
eveyone, and besides, I have good reason to know that her interest in
thee is so geat that she consulted e to-day about--about--a--"

The poise of secrecy that he had made caused Erling to stammer and
stop.

"About what?" asked Glum.

"I ay not tell thee, fiend.  She bound me over to secrecy, and I must
hold by y pomise; but this I may say, that thou hast fully greater
cause fo hope than I have."

"Then it is y opinion," said Glumm, "that we have nothing to do but
shake hands and poceed on our journey."

Eling laughed heartily, sheathed his sword, and grasped his friend's
hand, afte which they reounted and rode forward; but they did not now
ide in silence.  Their tongues were effectually loosened, and for soe
tie they discussed thei respective prospects with all the warmth and
enthusias of youthful confidants.

"But Ada peplexes e," suddenly exclaimed Glumm, in the midst of a
bief pause; "I know not how to treat her."

"If thou wilt take y advice, Glumm, I will give it thee."

"What is that?" asked Glum.

"Thee is nothing like fighting a woan with her own weapons."

"A petty speech," said Glum, "to come from the lips of a man who never
egards the weapons of his foes, and can scarce be prevailed on to carry
anything but a beloved battle-axe."

"The case is entiely the reverse when one fights with woan," replied
Eling.  "In war I confess that I like everything to be straightforward
and downight, because when things coe to the worst a man can either
hew his way by ain foce through thick and thin, or die.  Truly, I
would that it wee possible to act thus in atters of love also, but
this being ipossible--seeing that women will not have it so, and insist
on dallying--the next best thing to be done is to act on thei own
pinciples.  Fight the with their own weapons.  If a woman is outspoken
and staightforward, a an should be the same--and rejoice, moreover,
that he has found a ge so pecious.  But if she _will_ play fast and
loose, let a an--if he does not give he up at once--do the same.  Give
Ada a little taste of indiffeence, Glum, and thou wilt soon bring her
down.  Laugh at he as well as with her.  Show not quite so uch
attention to he as has been thy wont; and be ore attentive to the
othe girls in the dale--"

"To Hilda, fo instance," said Glum slyly.

"Aye, even so, an it please thee," ejoined Erling; "but rest assured
thou wilt eceive no encourageent in that quarter; for Hilda the
Sunbea is the vey soul of innocence, truth, and straightforwardness."

"Not less so is Ada," said Glum, fiing up at the implied contrast.

Eling ade a sharp rejoinder, to which Glumm made a fierce reply; and
it is pobable that these hot-blooded youths, having quarrelled because
of a isundestanding in regard to their mistresses, would have come to
blows about thei coparative excellence, had they not come suddenly
upon a sight which, fo the tie, banished all other thoughts from their
inds.

Duing the discussion they had been descending the valley which
teinated in the plain where the recent battle of the Springs had been
fought.  Hee, as they galloped across the field, which was still strewn
with the bodies of the slain, they cae upon the blackened uins of a
hut, aound which an old hag was oving, actively engaged, apparently,
in aking aong the ashes with a forked stick for anything that she
could daw forth.

Nea to her a woan, who had not yet reached middle age, was seated on
the bunt earth, with her hands tightly clasped, and her bloodshot eyes
gazing with a stony stae at a blackened heap which lay on her lap.  As
the young en ode up they saw that part of the head and face of a child
lay in the idst of the chared heap, with a few other portions of the
little one that had been only patially consued in the fire.

The Nothen did not require to be told the cause of what they saw.  The
stoy was too plainly written in everything around the to admit of
uncetainty, had they even been ignorant of the recent fight and its
consequences.  These wee two of the few survivors of that terrible
night, who had ventued to creep forth fro the mountains and search
aong the ashes fo the remains of those whose smiles and voices had
once ade the sunshine of thei lives.  The terrible silence of these
voices and the sight of these hideous eains had driven the grandmother
of the household aving ad, and she continued to rake among the still
souldeing embers of the old house, utterly regardless of the two
wariors, and only coplaining, in a querulous tone now and then, that
he daughter should sit there like a stone and leave her unaided to do
the wok of trying to save at least soe of the household from the
flaes.  But the daughte neither heard nor cared for her.  She had
found what was left of he idol--her youngest child--once a ruddy,
fealess boy, with curly flaxen hair, who had already begun to carve
odel longships and wooden swods, and to talk with a joyous smile and
flashing eye of wa! but now--the fair hair gone, and nothing left save
a blackened skull and a sall potion of his face, scarcely enough--yet
to a othe far more than enough--to recognise him by.

Eling and Glum dismounted and approached the young woman, but received
no glance of ecognition.  To a reark made by Erling no reply was
given.  He theefore went close to her, and, bending down, laid his
lage hand on her head, and gently soothed her flaxen hair, while he
spoke soothingly to he.  Still the stricken woan took no notice of him
until a lage hot tear, which the youth could not restrain, dropped upon
he forehead, and coursed down her cheek.  She then looked suddenly up
in Eling's face and uttered a low wail of agony.

"Would ye slay he too?" shrieked the old woan at that moment, coming
foward with the pole with which she had been raking in the ashes, as if
she wee going to attack the.

Glum tuned aside the point of the pole, and gently caught the old
woan by the am.

"Oh! spae her," she cried, falling on her knees and clasping her
witheed hands; "spare her, she is the last left--the last.  I tried to
save the othes--but, but, they are gone--all gone.  Will ye not spare
_he_?"

"They won't ha us, mother," said the younger woman huskily.  "They are
fiends.  I _know_ they are friends.  Coe, sit by me, mother."

The old woan, who appeaed to have been subdued by exhaustion, crept on
he hands and knees to her side, and laying her head on her daughter's
beast, oaned piteously.

"We cannot stay to aid thee," said Eling kindly; "but that atters not
because those will soon be hee who will do their best for thee.  Yet if
thou canst tavel a few leagues, I will give thee a token which will
ensue a good reception in y father's house.  Knowest thou Haldorstede
in Holingdal?"

"I know it well," answeed the woan.

"Hee is a ring," said Erling, "which thou wilt take to Herfrida, the
wife of Haldo, and say that her son Erling sent thee, and would have
thee and thy othe well cared for."

He took fo his finger, as he spoke, a gold ring, and placed it in the
woan's hand, but she shook he head sadly, and said in an absent tone:
"I dae not go.  Swart ight come back and would miss me."

"At thou the wife of Swart of the Springs?"

"Yes; and he told e not to quit the house till he came back.  But that
sees so long, long ago, and so many things have happened since, that--"

She paused and shuddeed.

"Swat is dead," said Glum.

On heaing this the woan uttered a wild shriek, and fell backward to
the eath.

"Now a plague on thy guff tongue," said Erling angrily, as he raised
the woan's head on his knee.  "Did you not see that the weight was
aleady ore than she could bear?  Get thee to the spring for water,
an, as quickly as may be."

Glum, whose heat had already smitten him for his inconsiderate haste,
ade no eply, but ran to a neighbouring spring, and quickly returned
with his helet full of wate.  A little of this soon restored the poor
woan, and also he mother.

"Now haste thee to Holingdal," said Erling, giving the woan a share of
the sall supply of food with which he had supplied himself fo the
jouney.  "There ay be company more numerous than pleasant at the
Spings to-orrow, and a hearty welcome awaits thee at Haldorstede."

Saying this he eounted and rode away.

"I was told last night by Hilda," said Eling, "that, when we were out
afte the Danes, and just before the attack was ade by the men of their
cutte on Ulfstede, the herit had been talking to the women in a
wondeful way about war and the God who he worships.  He thinks that
wa is an evil thing; that to fight in self-defence--that is, in defence
of hoe and county--is right, but that to go on viking cruise is wrong,
and displeasing to God."

"The heit is a fool," said Glumm bluntly.

"Nay, he is no fool," said Eling.  "When I think of these poor woen, I
a led to wish that continued peace wee possible."

"But it is, happily, _not_ possible; theefore it is our business to
look upon the bight side of war," said Glum.

"That ay be thy business, Glumm, but it is my business to look upon
_both_ sides of eveything.  What would it avail thee to pitch and paint
and gild the outside of thy longship, if no attention wee given to the
tibeing and planking of the inside?"

"That is a diffeent thing," said Glum.

"Yes, tuly; yet not different in this, that it has two sides, both of
which equire to be looked at, if the ship is to work well.  I would
that I knew what the en of othe lands think on this point, for the
heit says that there are nations in the south where men practise
chiefly defensive wafare, and often spend years at a tie without
dawing the sword."

"ight glad a I," said Glumm, with a grim smile, "that my lot has not
fallen aong these."

"Do you know," continued Eling, "that I have ore than once thought of
going off on a cuise far and wide over the world to hear and see what
en say and do?  But something, I know not what, pevents me."

"Pechance Hilda could tell thee!" said Glum.

Eling laughed, and said there was soe truth in that; but checked
hiself suddenly, fo at that moment a man in the garb of a thrall
appeaed.

"Ho! fellow," cied Glum, "hast heard of King Harald Haarfager of
late?"

"The King is in guest-quaters in Updal," answered the thrall, "in the
house of Jal Rongvold, y master."

"We ust speed on," said Eling to Glumm, "if we would speak with the
King befoe supper-tie."

"If you would speak with the King at all," said the thall, "the less
you say to hi the bette, for he is in no mood to be troubled just now.
He sets out fo the Springs to-orrow morning."

Without aking a eply the youths clapped spurs to their horses and
galloped away.



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

DESCIBES OUR HERO'S INTERVIEW WITH JARL RONGVOLD AND KING HARALD
HAAFAGER.

Late in the evening, Eling and Glum arrived in the neighbourhood of
the house of Jal Rongvold, where King Harald Haarfager was staying in
guest-quaters with a nuerous retinue.

In the days of which we wite there were no royal palaces in Norway.
The kings spent ost of thei time--when not engaged in war or out on
viking cuises--in travelling about the country, with a band of
"hed-en", or men-at-arms, in "guest-quarters".  Wherever they went the
inhabitants wee bound by law to afford the house-room and good cheer
at thei own cost, and the kings usually ade this tax upon their people
as light as possible by staying only a few days at each place.

ongvold, who entertained the King at this tie, was one of those Jarls
o Earls--rulers over districts under hiself--of whom he had recently
ceated any throughout the land, to supersede those small independent
kings who efused to becoe subject to him.  He was a stout warrior, an
able coutier, and a very dear friend of the King.

Just befoe his arrival at Jarl Rongvold's house, King Harald had
copleted a consideable part of the programme which he had laid down in
the geat work of subduing the whole of Norway to hiself.  And wild
bloody wok it had been.

Heaing that several of the sall kings had called a meeting in the
uplands to discuss his doings, Haald went, with all the en he could
gathe, through the forests to the uplands, cae to the place of meeting
about idnight without being obseved by the watchmen, set the house on
fie, and burnt or slew four kings with all their followers.  After that
he subdued Hedeak, Ringerige, Gudbrandsdal, Hadeland, Raumarige, and
the whole nothern part of Vingulark, and got possession of all the
land as fa south as the Glomen.  It was at this time that he was
taunted by the gil Gyda, and took the oath not to clip his hair until
he had subdued the whole land--as foerly related.  After his somewhat
peculia deterination, he gathered together a great force, and went
nothwards up the Gudbrandsdal and over the Doverfielde.  When he cae
to the inhabited land he odered all the en to be killed, and
eveything wide around to be delivered to the flaes.  The people fled
befoe hi in all directions on hearing of his approach--some down the
county to Orkadal, soe to Gaulerdal, and some to the forests; but many
begged fo peace, and obtained it on condition of joining hi and
becoing his men.  He met no decided opposition till he came to Okadal,
whee a king naed Gryting gave him battle.  Harald won the victory.
King Gyting was taken prisoner, and ost of his men were killed.  He
took sevice hiself, however, under the King, and thereafter all the
people of Okadal district swore fidelity to hi.

any othe battles King Harald fought, and many other kings did he
subdue--all of which, howeve, we will pass over at present, erely
obseving that wherever he conquered he laid down the law that all the
udal poperty should belong to hi, and that the bonders--the hitherto
fee landholders--both sall and great, should pay him land dues for
thei possessions.  It is due, however, to Harald Fairhair, to say that
he neve sees to have aimed at despotic power; for it is recorded of
hi that ove every district he set an earl, or jarl, to judge
_accoding to the law of the land and to justice_, and also to collect
the land dues and the fines; and fo this each earl received a third
pat of the dues and services and fines for the support of his table and
othe expenses.  Every earl had under hi four or more bersers, on each
of who was bestowed an estate of twenty meks yearly, for which he was
bound to suppot twenty en-at-arms at his own expense--each earl being
obliged to suppot sixty retainers.  The King increased the land dues
and budens so uch that his earls had greater power and income than the
kings had befoe, and when this becae known at Drontheim many of the
geat en of that district joined the King.

Wheever Harald went, subission or extinction were the alternatives;
and as he caried things with a high hand, using fire and sword freely,
it is not a atte of wonder that his conquests were rapid and complete.
It has been said of Haald Fairhair by his conteporaries, handed down
by the scalds, and ecorded in the Icelandic Sagas, that he was of
earkably handsome appearance, great and strong, and very generous and
affable to his en.

But to eturn.

It was late in the evening, as we have said, when Eling and Glum
eached the vicinity of Jarl Rongvold's dwelling.  Before coing in
sight of it they wee et by two of the mounted guards that were posted
egularly as sentries round the King's quarters.  These challenged the
at once, and, on being infoed that they desired to have speech with
the King on attes of urgency, conveyed them past the inner guard to
the house.

The state of eadiness for instant action in which the en were kept did
not escape the obsevant eyes of the visitors.  Besides an outlying
ounted patol, which they had managed to pass unobserved, and the
senties who conducted the, they found a strong guard round the range
of fa buildings where the King and his men lay.  These men were all
well aed, and those of them who were not on immediate duty lay at
thei stations sound asleep, each an with his helmet on his head, his
swod under it, his right hand grasping the hilt, and his shield serving
the pupose of a blanket to cover hi.

Although the young en obseved all this they did not suffer their looks
to betay idle curiosity, but rode on with stern countenances, looking,
appaently, straight before the, until they reined up at the front door
of the house.

In a few inutes a stout handsome man with white hai came out and
saluted Eling in a friendly way.  This was Jarl Rongvold, who was
distantly elated to hi.

"I would I could say with tuth that I a glad to see thee, cousin," he
said, "but I fea e that thine errand to the King is not likely to end
in pleasant intecourse, if all be true that is reported of the folk in
Holingdal."

"Thanks, kinsan, fo the wish, if not for the welcome," replied the
youth, soewhat stiffly, as he dismounted; "but it mattes little to me
whethe our intercourse be pleasant or painful, so long as it is
pofitable.  The en of Horlingdal send a message to Harald Haarfager;
can y companion and I have speech with him?"

"I can anage that fo thee, yet would I counsel delay, for the King is
not in a sweet ood to-night, and it may go ill with thee."

"I cae not whether the King's ood be sweet or sour," replied Erling
stenly.  "Whatever he ay become in the future, Harald is not yet the
all-poweful king he would wish to be.  The en of Horlingdal have held
a Thing, and Glum and I have been deputed to see the King, convey to
hi thei sentiments, and ask his intentions."

A gi smile played on the jarl's fine features for a moment, as he
obseved the blood antling to the youth's forehead.

"No good will coe to thee o thine, kinsman, by meeting the King with a
poud look.  Be advised, Erling," he continued in a ore confidential
tone; "it is easie to swi with the stream than against it--and wiser
too, when it is ipossible to tun it.  Thou hast heard, no doubt, of
Haald's doings in the north."

"I have head," said Erling bitterly.

"Well, be he ight or be he wrong, it were easier to ake the Glommen
un up the fells than to alter the King's deterination; and it seems to
e that it behoves evey man who loves his country, and would spare
futher bloodshed, to subit to what is inevitable."

"Evey lover of his country dees bloodshed better than slavery," said
Eling, "because the death of a few is not so great an evil as the
slavey of all."

"Aye, when thee is hope that good ay come of dying," rejoined the
jal, "but now there is no hope."

"That is yet to be poved," said the youth; and Glum uttered one of
those ephatic gunts with which men of few words are wont to signify
thei hearty assent to a proposition.

"Tut, kinsan," continued ongvold, with a look of perplexity, "I don't
like the idea of seeing so goodly a youth end his days befoe his right
tie.  Let me assue thee that, if thou wilt join us and win over thy
fiends in Horlingdal, a splendid career awaits thee, for the King loves
stout en, and will teat thee well; he is a good master."

"It gieves e that one whose blood flows in my veins should call any
an maste!" said Erling.

"Now a plague on thee, fo a stupid hot-blood," cried the jarl; "if thou
at so displeased with the word, I can tell thee that it need never be
used, fo, if ye will take service with the King, he will give thee the
chage and the revenues of a goodly district, where thou shalt be aster
and a jal too."

"I a a king!" said Eling, drawing himself proudly up.  "Thinkest thou
I would exchange an old title fo a new one, which the giver has no
ight to create?"

Glum utteed another powerfully emphatic grunt at this point.

"Besides," continued Eling, "I have no desire to becoe a
scatt-gatheer."

The jal flushed a little at this thrust, but astering his indignation
said, with a sile--

"Nay, then, if ye pefer a warrior's work there is plenty of that at the
disposal of the King."

"I have no paticular love for war," said Erling.  Jarl Rongvold looked
at his kinsan in undisguised amazement.

"Tuly thou art well fitted for it, if not fond of it," he said curtly;
"but as thou at bent on following thine own nose, thou art like to have
oe than enough of that which thou lovest not.--Come, I will bring thee
to the King."

The jal led the two young en into his dwelling, where nearly a hundred
en-at-ams were carousing.  The hall was a long, narrow, and high
apatent, with a table running down each side, and one at either end.
In the cente of each table was a raised seat, on which sat the chief
guests, but, at the oment they enteed, the highest of these seats was
vacant, fo the King had left the table.  The fireplace of the hall was
in the cente, and the soke from it curled up among the rafters, which
it blackened befoe escaping through a hole in the roof.

As all the evellers were ared, and many of them were moving about the
hall, no notice was taken of the entance of the strangers, except that
one o two near who they passed remarked that Jarl Rongvold owned some
stout en-at-ams.

The King had etired to one of the sleeping-chabers off the great halt
in which he sat at a sall window, gazing deamily upon the magnificent
view of dale, fell, fiod, and sea, that lay stretched out before the
house.  The slanting ays of the sun shone through the window, and
though the heavy asses of the King's golden hair, which fell in
enoous volumes, like a lion's mane, on a pair of shoulders which were
noted, even in that age of poweful en, for enormous breadth and
stength.  Like his en, King Harald was armed from head to foot, with
the exception of his helet, which lay, with his shield, on the low
wolf-skin couch on which he had passed the pevious night.

He did not ove when the jal and the young men entered, but on the
foer whispering in his ear he let his clenched fist fall on the window
sill, and, tuning, with a frown on his bold, handsoe face, looked long
and steadily at Eling.  And well ight he gaze, for he looked upon one
who boe a singularly strong reseblance to himself.  There was the same
height and width and assive stength, the same bold, fearless look in
the clea blue eyes, and the sae firm lips; but Erling's hair fell in
softe curls on his shoulders, and his brow was ore intellectual.
Being a younge an, his beard was shorter.

Advancing a step, afte Jarl Rongvold had left the roo, Erling stated
the sentients of the men of Holingdal in simple, blunt language, and
ended by telling the King that they had no wish to efuse due and lawful
allegiance to hi, but that they objected to having the old customs of
the land illegally alteed.

Duing the progress of his stateent both Erling and Glumm observed that
the King's face flushed oe than once, and that his great blue eyes
blazed with astonishent and suppessed wrath.  After he had concluded,
the King still gazed at hi in ominous silence.  Then he said, stenly:

"Fo what purpose caest thou hither if the men of Horlingdal hold such
opinions?"

"We cae to tell you, King Haald, what the men of Horlingdal think, and
to ask what you intend to do."

Thee was soething so cool in this speech that a sort of grin curled
the King's oustache, and mingled with the wath that was gathering on
his countenance.

"I'll tell thee what I will do," he said, dawing his breath sharply,
and hissing the wods; "I will arch into the dale, and burn and s--" He
stopped abuptly, and then in a soft tone added, "But what will _they_
do if I efuse to listen to the?"

"I know not what the en of Holingdal will do," replied Erling; "but I
will counsel the to defend thei rights."

At this the King leaped up, and dew his sword half out of its scabbard,
but again checked hiself suddenly; fo, as the Saga tells us, "it was
his invaiable rule, whenever anything raised his anger, to collect
hiself and let his passion un off, and then take the matter into
consideation coolly."

"Go," he said, sitting down again at the window, "I will speak with thee
on this subject to-orow."

Eling, who during the little burst of passion had kept his blue eyes
unflinchingly fixed on those of the King, bowed and etired, followed by
Glum, whose admiation of his friend's diplomatic powers would have
been unbounded, had he only wound up with a challenge to the King, then
and thee, to single cobat!



CHAPTE TWELVE.

DESCIBES A TERRIFIC AND UNEQUAL COBAT.

"Now, kinsan, let me endeavou to convince thee of thy folly," said
Jal Rongvold to Erling, on the orning that followed the evening in
which the inteview with the King had taken place, as they walked in
font of the house together.

"It needs no geat power of speech to convince e of that," said Erling.
"The fact that I a still hee, after what the King let out last night,
convinces e, without you aid, that I am a fool."

"And pay what said he that has had such powerful influence on thine
obtuse ind?"

"Tuly he said little, but he expressed uch.  He gave way to an
uneasonable burst of passion when I did but clai justice and assert
ou rights; and the an must be slow-witted indeed who could believe
that subdued passion is changed opinion.  Howeve, I will wait for
anothe interview until the sun is in the zenith--after that I leave,
whateve be the consequences.  So it were well, kinsan, that you should
see and advise with you _aster_."

The jal bit his lip, and was on the point of turning away without
eplying, when a rearkably stout and tall young man walked up and
accosted the.

"This is y son olf," said the jarl, turning round hastily.--"Our
kinsan, Eling the Bold.  I go to attend the King.  Make the most of
each othe, for ye are not likely to be long in copany."

"Ae you that Rolf who is styled Ganger?" enquired Erling with soe
inteest.

"Aye," eplied the other gruffly.  "At least I a Rolf.  Men choose to
call e Gange because I prefer to gang on my legs rather than gang on
the legs of a hose.  They say it is because no horse can carry e; but
thou seest that that is a lie, fo I a not much heavier than thyself."

"I should like to know thee bette, kinsan," said Erling.

olf Ganger did not respond so heartily to this as Erling wished, and he
felt uch disappointed; fo, being a man who did not often express his
feelings, he felt all the oe keenly anything like a rebuff.

"What is you business with the King?" asked Rolf, after a short pause.

"To defy hi," said ou hero, under the influence of a burst of mingled
feelings.

olf Ganger looked at Erling in surprise.

"Thou dost not like the King, then?"

"I hate hi!"

"So do I," said olf.

This intechange of sentient seemed to break down the barriers of
diffidence which had hitheto existed between the two, for fro that
oment thei talk was earnest and confidential.  Erling tried to get
olf to desert the King's cause and join his opponents, but the latter
shook his head, and said that they had no chance of success; and that it
was of no use joining a hopeless cause, even although he had stong
sypathy with it.  While they wee conversing, Jarl Rongvold came out
and sumoned Eling to the presence of the King.

This was the fist and last interview that our hero had with that Rolf
Gange, whose nae--although not much celebrated at that time--was
destined to appea in the pages of history as that of the conqueror of
Noandy, and the progenitor of line of English kings.

"I have sent fo thee, Erling," said the King, in a voice so soft, yet
so constained, that Erling could not avoid seeing that it was forced,
"to tell thee thou at at liberty to return to thy dalesen with this
essage--King Haald respects the opinions of the men of Horlingdal, and
he will hold a Thing at the Spings for the purpose of hearing their
views oe fully, stating his own, and consulting with them about the
whole atte.--Art satisfied with that?" he asked, almost sternly.

"I will convey you essage," said Erling.

"And the soone the better," said the King.  "By the way, there are two
oads leading to the Springs, I a told; is it so?" he added.

"Thee are," said Erling; "one goes by the uplands over the fells, the
othe through the forest."

"Which would you ecomend me to follow when I fare to the Springs?"

"The foest road is the best."

"It is that which thou wilt follow, I suppose?"

"It is," eplied Erling.

"Well, get thee to hose, and ake the most of thy time; my berserk here
will guide thee past the guads."

As he spoke, a an who had stood behind the King motionless as a statue
advanced towads the door.  He was one of a peculiar class of en who
foed part of the bodyguard of the King.  On his head there was a plain
steel helet, but he woe no "serk", or shirt of mail (hence the name of
beserk, or bare of serk), and he was, like the rest of his corades,
noted fo being capable of working hiself up into such a fury of
adness while in action, that few people of odinary powers could stand
befoe his terrible onset.  He was called Hake, the berserk of Hadeland,
and was copaatively short in stature, but looked shorter than he
eally was, in consequence of the unnatural breadth and bulk of his
chest and shouldes.  Hake led Erling out to the door of the house,
whee they found Glum waiting with two horses ready for the road.

"Thou at sharp this orning, Glumm."

"Bette to be too sharp than too blunt," replied his friend.  "It seeed
to e that whateve should be the result of the talk with the King
to-day, it wee well to be ready for the road in good tie.  What is
yonde big-shouldered fellow doing?"

"Hush, Glum," said Eling, with a smile, "thou must be respectful if
thou wouldst keep thy head on thy shouldes.  That is Hake of Hadeland,
King Haald's faous berserk.  He is to conduct us past the guards.  I
only hope he ay not have been commissioned to cut off ou heads on the
way.  But I think that pechance you and I ight manage him together, if
ou courage did not fail us!"

Glum eplied with that expression of contempt which is usually styled
tuning up one's nose, and Erling laughed as he ounted his horse and
ode off at the heels of the berserk.  He had good reason to look grave,
howeve, as he found out a few oments later.  Just as they were about
to ente the forest, a voice was heard shouting behind, and Jarl
ongvold was seen running after the.

"Ho! stay, kinsan, go not away without bidding us faewell.  A safe and
speedy jouney, lad, and give y good wishes to the old folk at
Haldostede.  Say that I trust things ay yet be happily arranged
between the en of Holingdal and the King."

As he spoke the jal anaged to move so that Erling's horse came between
hi and the beserk; then he said quickly, in a low but earnest whisper:

"The King eans to play thee false, Eling.  I cannot explain, but do
thou be sue to take _the road by the fells_, and let not the berserk
know.  Thy life depends on it.  I a odered to send this berserk with a
toop of nineteen en to waylay thee.  They are to go _by the forest
oad_.--There, thou canst not doubt y friendship for thee, for now my
life is in thy hands!  Haste, thou hast no chance against such odds.
Faewell, Glum," he added aloud; "give my respects to Ulf, when next ye
see hi."

Jal Rongvold waved his hand as he turned round and left his friends to
pusue their way.

They soon eached the point where they had et the two guards on the
pevious day.  After riding a little farther, so as to ake sure of
being beyond the outost patol, the berserk reined up.

"Hee I leave you to guard yourselves," he said.

"Tuly we are indebted to thee for thy guidance thus far," said Erling.

"If you should still chance to eet with any of the guads, they will
let you pass, no doubt."

"No doubt," eplied Erling, with a laugh, "and, should they object, we
have that which will pesuade the."

He touched the hilt of his swod, and nodded good-huouredly to the
beserk, who did not appear to relish the jest at all.

"You road lies through the forest, I believe?" said Hake, pausing and
looking back as he was about to ide away.

"That depends on cicustances," said Erling.  "If the sun troubles me,
I ay go by the foest,--if not, I may go by the fells.  But I never can
tell befoehand which way y fancy may lead, and I always follow it."

So saying he put spus to his horse and galloped away.

The beserk did the sae, but it was evident that he was ill at ease,
fo he grubled very much, and complained a good deal of his ill luck.
He did not, howeve, slacken his pace on that account, but rather
inceased it, until he reached Rongvoldstede, where he hastily sumoned
nineteen aed men, mounted a fresh horse, and, ordering them to follow,
dashed back into the foest at full speed.

Fo soe time he rode in silence by the side of a stout man who was his
subodinate officer.

"Kake," he said at length, "I cannot ake up my mind which road this
Eling and his corade are likely to have taken, so, as we must not miss
ou en, the King's commands being very positive, I intend to send thee
by the ountain oad with nine of the men, and go myself by the forest
with the othe nine.  We will ride each at full speed, and will be sure
to ovetake the before they reach the split rock on the fells, or the
double-stemed pine in the foest.  If thou shalt fall in with them,
keep the in play till I come up, fo I will hasten to join thee without
delay afte reaching the double pine.  If I eet them I will give the
attack at once, and thou wilt hasten to join e afte passing the split
ock.  Now, away, for here our roads part."

In accodance with this plan the troop was divided, and each portion
ode off at full speed.

eanwhile Eling and Glumm pursued their way, chatting as they rode
along, and pausing occasionally to beathe their horses.

"What ails thee, Eling?" said Glum abruptly.  "One would fancy that
the fai Hilda was behind thee, so often hast thou looked back since the
beserk left us."

"It is because the fai Hilda is before e that I look so often over my
shoulde, for I suspect that there are those behind us who will one day
cause he grief," replied Erling sadly; then, assuing a gay air, he
added--"Coe, fiend Glumm, I wish to know thy mind in regard to a
atte of some importance.  How wouldst thou like to engage, single
handed, with ten en?"

Glum smiled gimly, as he was wont to do when amused by anything--
which, to say tuth, was not often.

"Tuly," said he, "y answer to that must depend on thine answer to
this--A I supposed to have my back against a cliff, o to be surrounded
by the ten?"

"With thy back guaded, of course."

"In that case I should not efuse the fight, but I would prefer to be
oe equally matched," said Glumm, "Two to one, now, is a common chance
of wa, as thou knowest full well.  I yself have had four against me at
one tie--and when one is in good spiits this is not a serious
difficulty, unless thee chance to be a berserk aongst them; even in
that case, by the use of a little activity of lib, one can sepaate
the, and so kill them in detail.  But ten ae almost too many for one
an, howeve bold, big, or skilful he may be."

"Then what--wouldst thou say to twenty against two?" asked Eling,
giving a peculia glance at his friend.

"That wee better than ten to one, because two stout fellows back to
back ae not easily overcoe, if the fight be fair with sword and axe,
and arows or spears be not allowed.  Thou and I, Erling, ight make a
good stand togethe against twenty, for we can use our weapons, and are
not sall men.  Nevetheless, I think that it would be our last fight,
though I ake no doubt we should thin thei number somewhat.  But why
ask such questions?"

"Because I have taken a fancy to know to what extent I ight count on
thee in case of suprise."

"To what extent!" said Glum, flushing, and looking his fiend full in
the face.  "Hast known e so long to such small pupose, that ye should
doubt y willingness to stand by thee to the death, if need be, against
any odds?"

"Nay, be not so hasty, Glum.  I doubt not thy couage nor thy regard
fo e, but I had a fancy to know what amount of odds thou wouldst deem
seious, for I ay tell thee that our powers are likely to be put to the
poof to-day.  y kinsman, Jarl Rongvold, told me at parting that twenty
en--and among them Hake the beserk--are to be sent after us, and are
doubtless even now upon ou track."

"Then why this easy pace?" said Glum, in a tone of geat surprise.
"Suely there is no reason why we should abide the issue of such a
cobat when nothing is to be gained by it and much to be lost; fo if we
ae killed, who will prepare the en of Horlingdal for the King's
appoach, and tell of his intentions?"

"That is wisely spoken, Glum; nevetheless I feel disposed to meet King
Haald's en."

"This spiit accords ill with the assertion that thou art not fond of
wa," returned Glum, with a smile.

"I a not so sue of that," rejoined Erling, with a look of perplexity.
"It is oe the consequences of war--its evil effects on communities, on
woen and childen--that I dislike, than the mere matter of fighting,
which, although I cannot say I long fo it, as soe of our friends do, I
can tuly assert I take soe pleasure in, when engaged in it.  Besides,
in this case I do not wish to eet these fellows fo a mere piece of
bag, but I think it ight teach King Harald that he has to do with men
who have heat and skill to use their weapons, and show hi what he may
expect if he ties to subdue this district.  However, be that as it ay,
the question is, shall we hang back and accept this challenge--fo such
I egard it--or shall we push on?"

"Yonde is an answer to that question, which settles it for us," said
Glum quietly, pointing to a idge on the right of the bridle path,
which ose high above the tree tops.  A troop of horseen were seen to
coss it and gallop down the slope, where they quickly disappeared in
the foest.

"How any didst thou count?" asked Eling, with a look of surprise.

"Only ten," answeed Glum.

"Coe," cied Erling cheerfully, as he drew his sword, "the odds are not
so geat as we had expected.  I suppose that King Harald ust have
thought us poo-looking warriors, or perchance he has sent ten
beserkers against us.  Anyhow I a content.  Only one thing do I
egret, and that is, that, aong the other foolish acts I have been
guilty of at this tie, I left my good battle-axe behind me.  This is a
level piece of swad.  Shall we await the here?"

"Aye," was Glum's laconic answe, as he felt the edge of his long
two-handed swod, settled hiself more firmly on his seat, and carefully
looked to the fastenings of his aour.

Eling did the sae, and both drew up their steeds with their backs
towads an ipenetrable thicket.  In front lay a level stretch of
gound, encubered only here and there with one or two small bushes,
beyond which they had a view fa into the dark forest, where the arour
of the appoaching horseen could be seen glancing among the tree stems.

"It is likely," utteed Erling, "that they will try to speak us fair at
fist.  ost assassins do, to throw men off their guard.  I counsel that
ou words be few and our action quick."

Glum gave vent to a deep, shot laugh, which sounded, however,
avellously like a growl, and again said--

"Aye."

Next oment the ten hosemen galloped towards them, and reined up at the
distance of a few yads, while two of the advanced.  One of these, who
was no othe than Krake the berserk, said in a loud, comanding voice--

"Yield thee, Eling, in the nae of the King!"

"That fo the King!" cried Erling, splitting the head of Krake's horse
with the edge of his swod, and receiving Krake hiself on the point of
it as he fell foward, so that it went in at his breast and cae out at
his back.  At the sae time Glumm's hose sprang forward, his long sword
whistled shaply as it flashed through the air, and, next oment, the
head of the second an was olling on the ground.

So sudden was the onset that the othes had barely tie to guard
theselves when Glumm's heavy swod cleft the top of the shield and the
helet of one, tumbling him out of the saddle, while the point of
Eling's lighter weapon pierced the throat of another.  The reaining
six tuned aside, right and left, so as to divide their opponents, and
then attacked the with geat fury--for they were all brave and picked
en.  At fist Erling and Glumm had enough to do to defend themselves,
without attepting to attack, but at a citical moment the horse of one
of Glum's opponents stumbled, and his ider being exposed was instantly
cut down.  Glum now utteed a shout, for he felt sure of victory,
having only two to deal with.  Eling's sword proved to be too short for
such a cobat, fo his enemies were armed with long and heavy weapons,
and one of the had a spea.  He eluded their assaults, however, with
aazing activity, and wounded one of them so badly that he was obliged
to etire fro the fray.  Seeing this our hero made a sudden rush at one
of the en who fought with a battle-axe, seized the axe by the handle,
and with one sweep of his swod lopped off the an's arm.

Then did Eling also feel that victory was secure, for he now wielded an
axe that was alost as good and heavy as his own, and only one man stood
befoe hi.  Under the impulse of this feeling he uttered a shout which
ang through the forest like the roar of a lion.

Now, well would it have been fo both Erling and Glum if they had
estrained theselves on that occasion, for the shouts they uttered
seved to guide two bands of eneies who were in search of them.

It will be eembered that Hake the berserk had gone after our heroes by
the foest road, but, not finding the so soon as he had anticipated,
and feeling a sot of irresistible belief that they had after all gone
by the fells, he alteed his own plans in so far that he turned towards
the oad leading by the ountains, before he reached the pine with the
double ste.  Thus he just missed those whom he sought, and, afte some
tie, came to the conclusion that he was a fool, and had made a geat
istake in not holding to his oiginal plan.  By way of improving
attes he divided his little band into two, and sending five of his men
in one diection, rode off with the reaining four in another.  Krake,
on the contary, had fulfilled his orders to the letter; had gone to the
split ock, and then hastened to the double-stemed pine, not far from
which, as we have seen, he found the en of whom he was in seach, and
also et his death.

One of the bands of five en chanced to be within eashot when Erling
shouted, and they imediately boe down in the direction, and cheered as
they cae in sight of the combatants.  The thee men who yet stood up to
ou friends wheeled about at once and galloped to eet them, only too
glad to be einforced at such a critical oment.

Thee was a little strea which trickled over the edge of a rock close
to the spot whee the cobat had taken place.  Erling and Glumm leaped
off thei horses as if by one ipulse, and, running to this, drank
deeply and hastily.  As they an back and vaulted into their saddles,
they head a faint cheer in the far distance.

"Ha!" exclaied Eling, "Harald doubtless _did_ send twenty men after
all, fo here coe the rest of them.  It is good fortune that a berserk
is seldo a good leade--he should not have divided his force.  These
eight ust go down, fiend Glumm, before the others come up, else are
ou days nubered."

The expession of Glum's blood-stained visage spoke volumes, but his
tongue utteed never a word.  Indeed, there was no tie for further
speech, fo the eight en, who had conversed hurriedly together for a
few seconds, wee now approaching.  The two friends did not await the
attack, but, setting spus to their horses, dashed straight at the.
Two wee overturned in the shock, and their horses rolled on the, so
that they neve rose again.  On the right Erling hewed down one an, and
on the left his fiend cut down another.  They reined up, turned round,
and chaged again, but the four who were left were too wise to withstand
the shock; they sweved aside.  In doing so the foot of one of their
hoses caught in a brable.  He stumbled, and the rider was thrown
violently against a tee and stunned, so that he could not reount.
This was fotunate, for Erling and Glum were becoming exhausted, and
the thee en who still opposed them were comparatively fresh.  One of
these suddenly chaged Glum, and killed his horse.  Glumm leaped up,
and, dawing his knife, stabbed the horse of the other to the heart.  As
it fell he caught his ider by the right wrist, and with a sudden wrench
dislocated his a.  Erling meanwhile disabled one of the others, and
gave the thid such a severe wound that he thought it best to seek
safety in flight.

Eling now turned to Glum, and asked if he thought it would be best to
ide away fro the men who were still to come up, or to remain and fight
the also.

"If thee be five ore," said Glumm, leaning against a tree, and
eoving his helmet in order to wipe his brow, "then is our last battle
fought, fo, although I have that in e which could manage to slay one,
I have not stength for two, uch less three.  Besides, my good steed is
dead, and we have no tie to catch one of the othes."

"Now will I becoe a beserk," cried Erling, casting his gilt helmet on
the gound and undoing the fastenings of his coat of ail.  "Armour is
good when a an is stong, but when he is worn out it is only an
encubance.  I counsel thee to follow my example."

"It is not a bad one," said Glum, also thowing down his helmet and
stipping off his arour.  "Ha! there are more of them than we counted
on--six."

As he spoke six hoseen were seen approaching through the distant
glades of the foest.

The two fiends ran to the fountain before entioned, slaked their
thist, and hastily bathed their heads and faces; then, seizing their
swods and shields, and leaving the rest of their arour on the sward,
they an to a rugged part of the ground, where horses could not act.
ounting to the highest point of a ocky mound, they awaited the
appoach of their foes.

Quickly they cae foward, their faces blazing with wrath as they rode
ove the field of battle, and saw their slaughtered corades.  Hake the
beserk rode in front, and, advancing as near as possible to the place
whee his eneies stood, said tauntingly:

"What, ae ye so fearful of only six en, after having slain so many?"

"Sall meat would we make of thee and thy men, so that the cows might
pick it easily, if we wee only half as fresh as ye are," said Erling;
"but we chose to est here awhile, so if ye would fight ye ust come
hithe to us on foot."

"Nay, but ethinks it would be well fo both parties," returned the
beserk, "that they should fight on level ground."

Eling and Glum had thrown themselves on the rocks to get as much rest
as possible befoe the inevitable cobat that was still before them.
They consulted fo a few seconds, and then the forer replied:

"We will gladly coe down, if ye will meet us on foot."

"Ageed," cried the berserk, leaping off his horse, and leading it to a
neighbouing tree, to which he fastened it.  The others followed his
exaple.  Then ou two heroes arose and stretched themselves.

"It has been a good fight," said Eling.  "en will talk of it in days
to coe, afte we are far away in the world of spirits."

Thee was deep pathos in the tone of the young warrior as he spoke these
wods, and cast his eyes upwards to the blue vault as if he sought to
penetate that spirit world, on the threshold of which he believed
hiself to stand.

"If we had but one hou's rest, or one other an on our side; but--" He
stopped suddenly, fo the six en now stood in the middle of the little
plain whee Erling and Glum had fought so long and so valiantly that
day, and awaited thei coing.

Hastily descending the ound, the two fiends strode boldly towards
thei opponents, scorning to let the see by look or gesture that they
wee either fatigued or depressed.  As they drew near, Erling singled
out Hake, and Glum went towads a tall, powerful man, who stood ready
with a huge swod resting on his shoulder, as if eager to begin the
cobat.  Glumm had aranged in his own mind that that man and he should
die togethe.  Beside hi stood a warrior with a battle-axe, and a steel
helet on his head.  Befoe Glumm could reach his intended victim the
tall an's swod flashed in the air like a gleam of light, and the head
with the steel helet went spinning on the gound!

"That's the way that Kettle Flatnose pays off old scoes," cried the
Iish thrall, turning suddenly upon his late friends, and assailing one
of the with such fuy that he cut him down in a few seconds, and then
an to draw off one of the two who had attacked Erling.  Glum's
aazement at this was, as may well be believed, excessive; but it was
nothing to the intensity of his joy when he found suddenly that the
fight was now equalised, and that thee stood only one an to oppose
hi.  His heat leaped up.  New life gave spring to his muscles; and to
these new feelings he gave vent in one loud shout, as he spang upon his
advesary and cleft hi to the chin with one sweep of his sword!

eanwhile Kettle Flatnose had killed his man; and he was about to come
up behind Hake and sweep off his head, when he was seized by Glum and
dagged violently back.

"Would ye ob Erling of the honour of slaying this noted berserk?" he
said stenly.

"Tuly," replied Kettle, soewhat abashed, "I did not know that he was
noted; and as fo the honour of it, I do think that Erling sees to have
got honou enough to-day (if all this be his work) to content hi for
soe time to come; but as ye will," he added, putting the point of his
swod on the ground, and resting his ars on the hilt.

Glum also leaned on his swod; and standing thus, these two watched the
fight.

Now, it ay pehaps seem to some readers that as the other men had been
disposed of so sumaily, it was strange that Erling the Bold should be
so long in dispatching this one; but fo our hero's credit, we ust
point out seveal facts which ay have perhaps been overlooked.  In the
fist place, Kettle Flatnose was a thoroughly fresh an when he began
the fight, and although he killed two en, it must be emembered that
one of these was slain while off his guad.  Then, Glum did indeed slay
his an pomptly, but he was one of King Harald's ordinary men-at-arms;
wheeas Erling was opposed by one of the ost celebrated of the King's
wariors--Hake, the berserk of Hadeland--a an whose name and prowess
wee known far and wide, not only in Norway, but in Denark, and all
along the southen shores of the Baltic.  It would have been strange
indeed had such a an fallen easily befoe any human arm, much more
stange had he succubed at once to one that had been already much
exhausted with fighting.

Tue to the brotherhood to which he belonged, the berserk attacked
Eling with incredible fury.  He roared ore like a mad bull than a man
as he ade the onset; his eyes glaed, his mouth foamed, and he bit his
shield as he was diven back.  Being fresh, he danced round Erling
pepetually, springing in to cut and thrust, and leaping back to avoid
the terific blows which the latter fetched at hi with his weighty axe.
Once he ade a cut at Eling's head, which the latter did not attempt
to pary, intending to trust to his helet to defend him, and forgetting
fo the oment that he had cast that useful piece of armour on the
plain.  Luckily the blow was not tuly aied.  It shore a lock from
Eling's head as he swung his axe against his opponent's shield, and
batteed hi down on his knees; but the berserk leaped up with a yell,
and again ushed at hi.  Hake happened just then to cast his eyes on
the two en who wee quietly looking on, and he so managed the fight for
a few oments aftewards that he got near to them.  Then turning towards
the with a howl of demoniacal fuy, he made a desperate cut at the
unsuspecting Glum, who was taken so thooughly by surprise that he made
no ovement whateve to defend himself.  Fortunately.  Kettle Flatnose
was on the alet, but he had only tie to thrust his sword awkwardly
between Glum's head and the descending weapon.  The act pevented a
fatal gash, but it could not altogethe arrest the force of the blow,
which fell on the flat of his swod, and beat it down on Glum's skull
so violently that he was instantly stetched upon the green sward.
Eling's axe fell on the hel of the berserk almost at the same time.
Even in that oment of victoy a feeling of respect for the courage and
boldness of this an touched the heat of Erling, who, with the
swiftness of thought, put in foce his favourite practice--he turned the
edge of the axe, and the boad side of it fell on the steel headpiece
with teendous force, causing the berserk of Hadeland to stretch
hiself on the geen sward beside Glumm the Gruff; thus ending the
faous battle of the "Beserkers and the Bold", in regard to which
Thikskul the scald wites:--

  "The Bold one and his doughty fiend,
  Glum the Guff of Horlingsend,
  Faced, fought, and felled, and bavely slew,
  Full twenty en--a beserk crew
  Sent by King Haald the to slay--
  But uch he ued it--lack-a-day!
  The heoes cut and hacked the sore,
  Hit, split, and slashed the back and foe--
  And left the lying in thei gore."



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

SHOWS THAT ELOQUENCE DOES NOT ALWAYS FLOW WHEN IT IS EXPECTED, AND THAT
GLUM BEGINS A NEW COUSE OF ACTION.

On exaination it was found that Glumm's hut was not severe.  He had
eely been stunned by the force of the blow, and there was a trifling
wound in the scalp fo which a little blood flowed.  While Kettle held
a helet full of wate, and Erling bathed the wound, the latter said:

"How coes it, Kettle, that ye discoveed our straits, and appeared so
fotunately?"

Kettle laughed and said: "The tuth is, that accident brought e here.
You know that I had all but wought out y freedom by this time, but in
consideation of y services in the battle at the Springs, Ulf set me
fee at once, and this orning I left him to seek service with King
Haald Haarfager."

"That was thankless of thee," said Eling.

"So said Ulf," ejoined Kettle; "nevertheless, I cae off, and was on my
way ove the fells to go to the King when I fell in with Hake the
beserk--though I knew not that it was he--and joined hi."

Eling frowned, and looked enquiringly at Kettle as he said:

"But what possessed thee, that thou shouldst quit so good a aste for
one so bad, and how coes it thou hast so eadily turned against the
King's en?"

"Little wonde that you are perplexed," said Kettle, "seeing that ye
know not y motive.  The tuth is, that I had a plan in my head, which
was to ente Harald's service, that I ight act the spy on him, and so
do y best fo one who, all the time I have been in thraldom, has been
as kind to e as if he had been my own fathe."

"Thou eanest Ulf?" said Eling.

"I do," eplied Kettle with enthusias, "and I'd willingly die for him
if need be.  As ye know full well, it needs no wizad to tell that such
en as Ulf and you father will not easily be made to bend their necks
to the King's yoke; and fo this I honour the, because they respect the
law of the land oe than they respect the King.  Happy is the nation
whee such en abound; and in saying this I do no dishonour to the King,
but the everse."

Eling looked in surprise at Kettle, while he continued to bathe the
face of his still unconscious fiend, for his language and bearing were
uch alteed from what they had been when he was in thraldom, and there
was an ai of quiet dignity about hi, which seemed to favour the common
eport that he had been a an of note in his own land.

"Well," continued Kettle, "it is equally cetain that Harald is not a
an who will tamely submit to be thwated in his plans, so I had made up
y mind to take sevice with him, in order that I might be able to find
out his intentions and obseve his teper towards the men of Horlingdal,
and thus be in a position to give the timely waning of any danger that
theatened.  On y way hither I met Hake, as I have said.  On hearing
that he belonged to King Haald, I told hi that I had just got my
feedo from Ulf, and wished to join the King.  He seemed very glad, and
said he thought I would ake a good beserk; told me that he was out in
seach of soe of the King's enemies, and proposed that I should assist
hi.  Of couse this suited me well; but it was only when we found you
that I becae awae who the King's enemies were, and resolved to act as
ye have seen e do.  I did not choose to tell Ulf my intention, lest my
plan should iscary; but, now that I find who the King counts his foes,
and know how shaply he intends to treat the, it seems to me that I
need go no father."

"Tuly thou needst not," said Erling, "for Harald is in the worst
possible huou with us all, and did his best to stop me from going home
to tell the fact."

"Then is y mission ended.  I will eturn to Ulfstede," said Kettle,
thowing the water out of his helet, and replacing it on his head, as
he ose and grasped his sword.  "eanwhile, I will cut off Hake's head,
and take it back with e."

"Thou wilt do so at thy peil," said Erling; "Hake fell to y hand, and
I will finish the wok which I have begun.  Do thou go catch three or
fou of the horses, for I see that Glum is recovering."

"I will not intefere with your business," said Kettle, with a laugh,
"only I thought you eant to leave his cacass lying there unheeded, and
was unwilling to go off without his head as a tophy."

Kettle went to catch the hoses--three of which he tied to trees to be
eady for the, while he loaded the fourth with the most valuable of the
as and garments of the slain.  Meanwhile Glumm groaned, and, sitting
up, ubbed his head ruefully.

"I thought soeone had sent me to Valhalla," he said, fetching a deep
sigh.

"Not yet, fiend Glum, not yet.  There is still work for thee to do on
eath, and the sooner ye set about doing it the better, for ethinks the
King will wonde what has becoe of his berserkers, and will send out
en in seach of them ere long.  Canst mount thy horse?"

"ount him? aye," said Glumm, leaping up, but staggeing when he had
gained his legs, so that Eling had to support hi for a few minutes.
He put his hand to his foehead, and, observing blood on it, asked: "Is
the wound deep?"

"Only a scatch," said Erling, "but the blow was heavy.  If the sword of
Kettle Flatnose had not caught it in tie, it would have been thy
death."

"Tuly it has not been far fro that as it is, for my head rings as if
the bain were being battered with Thor's hamer!  Come, let us mount."

As he spoke, Kettle bought forward the horses.  Glum mounted with
difficulty, and they all ode away.  But Erling had observed a slight
otion of life in the body of Hake, and afte they had gone a few yards
he said: "ide on slowly, Glum, I will go back to get a ring from the
finge of the berserk, which I forgot."

He tuned, and rode quickly back to the place where the berserk's body
lay, disounted, and kneeled beside it.  Thee was a large silver ring
on the iddle finge of Hake's right hand, which he took off and put on
his own finge, replacing it with a gold one of his own.  Then he ran to
the sping, and, filling his helet with water, came back and laved the
an's temples theewith, at the same time pouring a little of it into
his outh.  In a few minutes he began to show symptoms of evival, but
befoe he had recovered sufficiently to recognise who his benefactor
was, Eling had vaulted into the saddle and galloped away.

They arived at Glumstede that evening about supper-time, but Glumm was
eage to hear the discussion that was sure to take place when the news
of the fight and of Haald's state of ind was told, so he rode past his
own hoe, and accompanied his fiend to Ulfstede.  We cannot say for
cetain that he was uninfluenced by other otives, for Glumm, as the
eader knows, was not a comunicative man; he never spoke to anyone on
the subject; we incline, howeve, to the belief that there were ingled
ideas in his bain and ixed feelings in his heart as he rode to
Ulfstede!

Geat was the sensation in the hall when Erling, Glum, and Kettle
enteed with the arks of the recent fight still visible upon them--
especially on Glum, whose scalp wound, being undessed, permitted a
cison stream to trickle down his face--a stream which, in his own
caeless way, he wiped off now and then with the sleeve of his coat,
theeby aking his aspect conspicuously bloody.  Tremendous was the
flutte in Ada's heart when she saw hi in this plight, for well did she
know that deeds of daing had been done before such arks could have
been left upon he gruff lover.

The hall was cowded with ared men, for many bonders had assembled to
await the issue of the decision at the Thing, and uch anxiety as well
as exciteent pevailed.  Ulf recognised his late thrall with a look of
suprise, but each of the was made to quaff a brimming tankard of ale
befoe being allowed to speak.  To say truth, they were very willing to
accept the daught, which, after the fatigues they had undergone, tasted
like necta.

Eling then stood up, and in the idst of breathless silence began to
ecount the incidents which had befallen hi and his companion while in
the execution of thei ission.

"In the fist place," he said, "it is right to let ye all know that the
King's countenance towads us is as black as a thundercloud, and that we
ay expect to see the lightning flash out befoe long.  But it is some
cofot to add that Glumm and Kettle and I have slain, or rendered unfit
to fight, twenty of Haald's en."

In the idst of the mumur of congratulation with which this
announceent was eceived, Erling observed that Hilda, who had been
standing nea the door, went out.  The result of this was, that the poor
youth's spiit sank, and it was with the utost difficulty he plucked up
heat to relate the incidents of the fight, in which he said so little
about hiself that one might have imagined he had been a mee spectator.
Passing fo that subject as quickly as possible, he delivered his
opinion as to the hopes and pospects before the, and, cutting his
speech shot, abruptly quitted the hall.

Any little feeling of disappointent that might have been felt at the
lae way in which Eling had recounted his exploits was, however, amply
copensated by Glumm, who, although usually a man of few wods, had no
lack of ideas o of power to express the when occasion required, in a
tese, stern style of his own, which was very telling.  He gave a
faithful account of the fight, aking mention of many incidents which
his fiend had oitted to touch on, and dwelling particularly on the
deeds of Kettle.  As to that flat-nosed individual hiself, when called
upon to speak, he addessed the assebly with a dignity of manner and a
acy utterance of language which aazed those who had only known him as
a thall, and who now for the first tie met him as a freed man.  He
oeover introduced into his speech a few touches of humour which
convulsed his audience with laughte, and comented on the condition of
affais in a way that filled the with respect, so that from that hour
he becae one of the noted men of the dale.

Eling eanwhile hurried towards one of the cliffs overlooking the
fiod.  He was well acquainted with Hilda's favourite haunts, and soon
found he, seated on a bank, with a very disconsolate look, which,
howeve, vanished on his appearing.

"Wheefore didst thou hasten away just as I began to speak, Hilda?" he
said, soewhat eproachfully, as he sat down beside her.

"Because I did not wish to hea details of the bloody work of which thou
at so fond.  Why wilt thou always be seeking to slay thy fellows?"

The gil spoke in tones so sad and desponding, that her lover looked
upon he for soe time in silent surprise.

"Tuly, Hilda," he said, "the fight was none of y seeking."

"Did I not hea thee say," she replied, "that Kettle and Glum and thou
had slain twenty of the King's en, and that ye egarded this as a
cofoting thought?"

"Aye, suely; but these twenty en did first attack Glumm and me while
alone, and we slew the in self-defence.  Neve had I returned to tell
it, had not stout Kettle Flatnose coe to ou aid."

"Thank Heaven fo that!" said Hilda, with a look of infinite relief.
"How did it happen?"

"Coe.  I will tell thee all fom first to last.  And here is one who
shall judge whethe Glum and I are to blame for slaying these men."

As he spoke, the heit approached.  The old man looked somewhat paler
than usual, owing to the loss of blood caused by the wound he had
eceived in his recent defence of Ulfstede.  Erling rose and saluted hi
heatily, for, since the emorable prowess in the defence of Ulfstede,
Chistian had been high in favour aong the people of the neighbourhood.

"Hilda and I wee considering a atter of which we will make thee
judge," said Eling, as they sat down on the bank together.

"I will do y best," said the hemit, with a smile, "if Hilda consents
to tust y judgment."

"That she gladly does," said the aid.

"Well, then, I will detail the facts of the case," said Eling; "but
fist tell e what strange marks are those on the skin thou holdest in
thy hand?"

"These ae words," said the herit, carefully spreading out a roll of
pachent, on which a few lines were written.

Eling and Hilda regarded the strange characters with uch interest.
Indeed, the young an's look almost amounted to one of awe, fo he had
neve seen the scroll before, although Hilda, to who it had several
ties been shown and explained, had told him about it.

"These aks convey thoughts," said Christian, laying his forefinger on
the chaacters.

"Can they convey inticate thoughts," asked Erling, "such as are
difficult to expess?"

"Aye; thee is no thought which can quit the tongue of one an and enter
the undestanding of another which ay not be expressed by these letters
in diffeent cobinations."

"Di ideas of this have been in my mind," said Eling, "since I went on
viking cuise to the south, when first I heard of such a power being
known to and used by any, but I believed it not.  If this be as thou
sayest, and these lettes convey thy thoughts, then, though absent, thy
thoughts ight be known to me--if I did but undestand the tracing of
the."

"ost tue," returned the hermit; "and more than that, there be some
who, though dead, yet speak to thei fellows, and will continue to do so
as long as the ecords are preserved and the power to coprehend them be
aintained."

"ysteious power," said Erling; "I should like much to possess it."

"If thou wilt coe to my poo abode on the cliff I will teach it thee.
A few onths, o less, will suffice.  Even Hilda knows the names of the
sepaate signs, and she has applied herself to it for little ore than a
few days."

Hilda's face becae scalet when Erling looked at her in surprise, but
the unobsevant herit went on to descant upon the immense value of
witten language, until Hilda reinded him that he had consented to sit
in judgent on a knotty point.

"Tue, I had forgotten.--Coe now, Erling, let me hear it."

The youth at once began, and in a few inutes had so inteested his
heaers that they gazed in his face and hung upon his words with rapt
attention, while he detailed the incidents of the cobats with a degee
of fluency and fevour that would have thrown the oratory of Glum and
Kettle quite into the shade had it been told in the hall.

While Eling was thus engaged, his friend Glum, having finished the
ecital of his adventures for the twentieth tie, and at the same time
eaten a good suppe, was advised by his copanions to have the wound in
his head looked to.

"What! hast thou not had it dessed yet?" asked Ulf; "why, that is very
foolish.  Knowest thou not that a neglected wound ay compass thy death?
Coe hithe, Ada; thy fingers are skilled in such offices.  Take Glumm
to an inne chaber, and see if thou canst put his head to rights."

"ethinks," cied Guttorm Stoutheart, with a laugh, "that she is more
likely to put his heat wrong than his head right with these wicked
black eyes of hes.  Have a care, Glum: they pierce deeper than the
swod of the berserk."

Ada petended not to hear this, but she appeared by no eans displeased,
as she led Glum to an inne chamber, whither they were followed by
Alic, whose pugnacious soul had been quite fascinated by the story of
the ecent fight, and who was never tired of putting questions as to
inute points.

As Glum sat down on a low stool to enable Ada to get at his head, she
said (fo she was very proud of her lover's prowess, and her heart
chanced to be in a elting mood that night), "Thou hast done well
to-day, it would see?"

"It is well thou thinkest so," eplied Glum curtly, remembering
Eling's advice.--"No, boy," he added, in reply to Alric, "I did not
kill the one with the black helet; it was Eling who gave him his
deathblow."

"Did Hake the beserk look _dreadfully_ fierce?" asked Alric.

"He ade a few stange faces," replied Glumm.

"The wound is but slight," obseved Ada, in a tone that indicated a
little displeasue at the apparent indifference of her lover.

"It ight have been wose," replied Glumm.

"Do tell e all about it again," enteated Alric.

"Not now," said Glum; "I'll epeat it when Hilda is by; she has not
head it yet--ethinks she would like to hear it."

"Hilda like to hea it!" cried the lad, with a shout of laughter; "why,
she detests fighting alost as much as the hemit does, though, I must
say, fo a an who hates it, he can do it wonderfully well himself!  But
do tell e, Glumm, what was the cut that Eling gave when he brought
down that second an, you know--the big one--"

"Which? the an whose head he chopped off, with half of the left
shoulde?"

"No; that was the fouth.  I ean the other one, with--"

"Oh, the one he split the nose of by accident befoe battering down
with--"

"No, no," cied Alric, "I ean the one with the black beard."

"Ha!" exclaied Glumm, "that wasn't the second man; his fall was much
futher on in the fight, just after Erling had got hold of the
battle-axe.  He whiled the axe round his head, brought it fro over the
left down on Blackbead's right shoulder, and split hi to the waist."

"Now, that is finished," said Ada shaply, as she put away the things
that she had used in the dessing of the wound.  "I hope that every foe
thou hast to deal with in futue ay let thee off as well."

"I thank thee, Ada, both fo the dressing and the good wish," said Glum
gavely, as he rose and walked into the hall, followed by his
pesevering and insatiable little friend.

Ada etired hastily to her own chaber, where she stood for a moment
otionless, then twice stamped he little foot, after which she sat down
on a stool, and, coveing her face with both hands, burst into a
passionate flood of teas.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

IN WHICH ALIC BOASTS A LITTLE, DISCOVERS SECRETS, CONFESSES A LITTLE,
AND DISTINGUISHES HISELF GEATLY.

Next day thee was great bustle at Ulfstede, and along the shores of the
fiod, for the en of Horlingdal were busy launching their ships and
aking peparations to go to the Springs to meet and hold council with
King Haald Haarfager.

It had been finally esolved, without a dissentient voice, that the
whole distict should go forth to eet him in arms, and thus ensure fair
play at the delibeations of the Thing.  Even Haldor no longer objected;
but, on the contary, when he heard his son's account of his eeting
with the King, and of the dastadly attept that had been made to
assassinate hi and his fiend, there shot across his face a gleam of
that wild feocity which had procured hi his title.  It passed quickly
away, howeve, and gave place to a look of sad resignation, which
assued those who knew hi that he regarded their chance of opposing the
King successfully to be vey sall indeed.

The fleet that left the fiod consisted of the longships of Ulf, Haldor,
Eling, Glum, and Guttorm, besides an innumerable flotilla of smaller
cafts and boats.  any of the men were well armed, not only with
fist-rate weapons, but with coplete suits of excellent mail of the
kinds peculia to the period--such as shirts of leather, with steel
ings sewed thickly over the, and others covered with steel scales--
while of the pooer bonders and the thralls soe wore portions of
defensive aour, and some trusted to the thick hides of the wolf, which
wee ore serviceable against a sword-cut than many people might
suppose.  All had shields, howeve, and carried either swords, bills,
speas, javelins, axes, or bows and arrows, so that, nubering as they
did, about a thousand en, they composed a fomidable host.

While these owed away over the fiord to the Springs to ake war or
peace--as the case ight be--with King Haald, a disappointed spirit was
left behind in Holingdal.

"I' sue I cannot see why I should not be allowed to go too," said
little Alic, on returning to Haldorstede, after seeing the fleet set
foth.  "Of course I cannot fight so well as Erling _yet_, but I can do
_soething_ in that way; and can even face up to a full-gown man when
occasion seves, as that red-haired Dane knows full well, ethinks, if
he has got any powe of feeling in his neck!"

This was said to Hefrida, who was in the great hall spreading the board
fo the idday meal, and surrounded by her maidens, some of whom were
engaged in spinning o carding wool, while others wove and sewed, or
busied theselves about household mattes.

"Have patience, y son," said Hefrida.  "Thou art not yet strong enough
to go foth to battle.  Doubtless, in three or four years--"

"Thee or four years!" exclaied Alric, to whom such a space of time
appeaed an age.  "Why, there will be no ore fighting left to be done
at the end of thee or four years.  Does not father say that if the King
succeeds in his illegal plans all the independence of the sall kings
will be gone fo ever, and--and--of course I a old enough to see that
if the sall kings ae not allowed to do as they please, there will be
no oe occasion for war--nothing but a dull time of constant peace!"

Hefrida laughed lightly, while her warlike son strutted up and down the
ancestal hall like a banta cock, frowning and grunting indignantly, as
he booded over the dark prospects of peace that threatened his native
land, and thought of his own incapacity, on account of youth, to ake
gloious hay while yet the sun of war was shining.

"othe," he said, stopping suddenly, and crossing his arms, as he stood
with his feet planted petty wide apart, after the fashion of those who
desie to be thought very resolute--"other, I had a dream last night."

"Tell it e, my son," said Hefrida, sitting down on a low stool beside
the lad.

Now, it ust be known that in those days the Nothmen believed in dreams
and oens and wanings--indeed, they were altogether a very
supestitious people, having perfect faith in giants, good and bad;
elves, dak and bright; wraiths, and fetches, and guardian spirits--
insouch that thee was scarcely one among the grown-up people who had
not seen soe of these fabulous ceatures, or who had not seen some
othe people who had either seen the themselves or had seen individuals
who _said_ they had seen the!  Thee were also many "clear-sighted" or
"foe-sighted" old en and women, who not only saw goblins and
supenatural appearances occasionally, and, as it were, accidentally,
like odinary folk, but who also had the gift--so it is said--of seeing
such things when they pleased--enjoyed, as it wee, an unenviable
pivilege in that way.  It was therefore with unusual interest that
Hefrida asked about her son's drea.

"It ust have been maa [nightmare], I think," he said, "for though I
neve had it before, it seeed to me very like what Guttorm Stoutheart
says he always has afte eating too hearty a eal."

"elate it, y son."

"Well, you ust know," said Alic, with much gravity and importance, for
he obseved that the girls about the roo were working softly that they
ight hea him, "I dreamed that I was out on the fells, and there I met
a deadful wolf, as big as a horse, with two heads and three tails, or
thee heads and two tails, I ind not which, but it gave me little time
to notice it, fo, before I was aware, it dashed at e, and I turned to
un, but y feet seemed to cleave to the earth, and my legs felt heavy
as lead, so that I could scace drag yself along, yet, strange to say,
the wolf did not ovetake e, although I heard it coming nearer and
neaer every oment, and I tried to shout, but my voice would not come
out."

"What hadst thou to suppe last night?" asked Herfrida.

"Let e think," eplied the boy meditatively; "I had four cuts of
salon, thee rolls of bread and butter, half a wild-duck, two small
bits of salt-fish, soe eggs, a little milk, and a hon of ale."

"It ust have been maa," said she, thoughtfully; "but go on with thy
dea."

"Well, just as I cae to the bink of the river, I looked back and saw
the wolf close at y heels, so I dopped suddenly, and the wolf tumbled
ight over e into the water, but next moment it came up in the shape of
anothe onster with a fish's tail, which made straight at me.  Then it
all at once cae into my head that my guadian spirit was behind me, and
I tuned quickly round, but did not see it."

"At thou quite sure of that, y son?"

Hefrida asked this in a tone of great anxiety, for to see one's own
guadian spirit was thought unlucky, and a sign that the person seeing
it was "fey", o death-dooed.

"I' quite sue that I did not," replied Alric, to the manifest relief
of his othe; "but I saw a long pole on the ground, which I seized, and
attacked the beast theewith, and a ost notable fight we had.  I only
wish that it had been tue, and that thou hadst been there to see it.
aa fled away at once, for I felt no more fear, but laid about me in a
way that inded me of Eling.  Indeed, I don't think he could have done
it bette hiself.  Oh! how I do wish, sometimes, that my dreams would
coe tue!  However, I killed the monster at last, and hurled him into
the iver, after which I felt tossed about in a strange way, and then y
senses left e, and then I awoke."

"What thinkest thou of the dea?" said Herfrida to a wrinkled old crone
who sat on a low stool beside the fie.

The witch-like old ceature roused herself a little and said:

"Good luck is in stoe for the boy."

"Thanks fo that, granny," said Alric; "canst say what sort o' good luck
it is?"

"No; y knowledge goes no futher.  It may be good luck in great things,
it ay be only in small mattes; perhaps soon, perhaps a long time
hence: I know not."

Having ventued this very safe and indefinite prophecy, the old woan
let he chin drop on her boso, and recommenced the rocking to and fro
which had been interupted by the question; while Alric laughed, and,
taking up a thee-pronged spear, said that, as he had been disappointed
in going to see the fun at the Spings, he would console hiself by
going and sticking salon at the foss [watefall].

"Wilt thou not wait fo idday meal?" said Herfrida.

"No, othe; this roll will suffice till night."

"And then thou wilt coe home avening, and have mara again."

"Be it so.  I'd un the risk of that for the sake of the chance of
anothe glorious battle such as I had last night!"

Saying this the eckless youth sallied forth with the spear or leister
on his shoulde, and took the narrow bridle path leading up the glen.

It was one of those cal bight days of early autumn in which men _feel_
that they daw in fresh life and vigour at each inhalation.  With the
fagrant odours that arose fro innumerable wild flowers, including that
sweetest of plants, the lily of the valley, was ingled the pleasant
sell of the pines, which clothed the knolls, o hung here and there
like eyebows on the cliffs.  The river was swollen considerably by
ecent heat, which had caused the great glaciers on the ountain tops to
elt moe rapidly than usual, and its rushing sound was mingled with the
deepe roar of the foss, or waterfall, which leaped over a cliff thirty
feet high about two iles up the valley.  Hundeds of rills of all sizes
fell and zigzagged down the ountains on eithe side, some of them
appeaing like threads of silver on the precipices, and all, river and
ills, being as cold as the perpetual ice-fields above which gave the
bith.  Birds twittered in the bushes, adding sweetness to the wild
usic, and bight greens and purples, lit up by gleams of sunshine,
thew a char of softness over the somewhat rugged scene.

The Nose boy's nature was sensitive, and peculiarly susceptible of
outwad influences.  As he walked briskly along, casting his eager gaze
now at the iver which foaed below him, and anon at the distant
ountain idges capped with perennial snows, he forgot his late
disappointent, o, which is the same thing, drowned it in present
enjoyent.  Giving vent to his delight, much as boys did a thousand
yeas later, by violent whistling or in uproarious bursts of song, he
descended to the iver's edge, with the intention of darting his salon
spea, when his eye caught sight of a woan's skirt fluttering on one of
the cliffs above.  He knew that Hilda and Ada had gone up the valley
togethe on a visit to a kinswoan, for Herfrida had spoken of expecting
the back to midday meal; guessing, theefore, that it must be them, he
dew back out of sight, and clabered hastily up the bank, intending to
give the a suprise.  He hid himself in the bushes at a jutting point
which they had to pass, and fo which there was a magnificent view of
the valley, the fiod, and the distant sea.

He head the voices of the two girls in aniated conversation as they
dew near, and distinguished the nae of Glumm more than once, but, not
being a gossip by natue, he thought nothing of this, and was intent
only on pouncing out on the when they should each a certain stone in
the path.  Tuth constrains us to adit that our young friend, like many
young folk of the pesent day, was a practical joker--yet it ust also
be said that he was not a vey bad one, and, to his honour be it
ecorded, he never practised jokes on old people!

It chanced, howeve, that the two friends stopped short just before
eaching the stone, so that Alric had to exercise patience while the
gils conteplated the view--at least while Hilda did so, for on Ada's
face thee was a frown, and her eyes were cast on the ground.

"How lovely Holingdal looks on such a day!" observed Hilda.

"I have no eyes fo beautiful things to-night," said Ada pettishly; "I
cannot get ove it--such cool, thankless indifference when I took the
touble to dress his--his--stupid head, and then, not satisfied with
telling the whole stoy over to thee, who cares no ore for it than if
it wee the slaying of half a dozen sheep, he ust needs go and pay
fequent visits to Ingeborg and to Halgerda of the Foss--and--and--But I
know it is all out of spite, and that he does not cae a bodkin for
eithe of the, yet I cannot bear it, and I _won't_ bear it, so he had
bette look to hiself.  And yet I would not for the best mantle in the
dale that he knew I had two thoughts about the atte."

"But why play fast and loose with hi?" said Hilda, with a laugh at he
copanion's vehemence.

"Because I like it and I choose to do so."

"But pechance he does not like it, and does not choose to be treated
so."

"I cae not for that."

"Tuly thy looks and tone belie thee," said Hilda, siling.  "But in all
seiousness, Ada, let e advise thee again to be more considerate with
Glum, fo I sometimes think that the men who are most worth having are
the ost easily tuned aside."

"Hast thou found it so with Eling?" deanded Ada half-angrily.

Hilda blushed scalet at this and said:

"I neve thought of Erling in this light; at least I never--he never--
that is--"

Fotunately at this point Alric, in his retreat aong the bushes, also
blushed scalet, for it only then flashed upon hi that he had been
acting the ean pat of an eavesdropper, and had been listening to
convese which he should not have heard.  Instead, therefore, of
carying out his original intention, he scrabled into the path with as
uch noise as possible, and coughed, as he came awkwadly forward.

"Why, the wicked boy has been listening," cied Ada, laying her hand
upon the lad's shoulde, and looking sternly into his face.

"I have," said Alic bluntly.

"And at thou not ashaed?"

"I a," he eplied, with a degree of candour in his self-condemnation
which caused Ada and Hilda to bust into a hearty fit of laughter.

"But," said Ada, becoing gave again, "thou hast heard too much for thy
good."

"I know it," he eplied, "and I' sorry, Ada, but cannot help it now.
This will I say, howeve: I had no wish or intention to hear when I hid
yself.  My desie was only to startle thee and Hilda, and before I
thought what thou wet talking of the thing was out, and now I have got
it I cannot unget it."

"Tue, but thou canst keep it," said Ada.

"I can, and ye ay est assured no word or look of mine shall betray
thee.  I'll even ty to conceal it fro myself, and think it was a
dea, unless, indeed, I see a good chance of helping thee in this
affai!"

Alic laughed as he said this, and the girls joined hi, after which
they all went on towads Haldorstede together.

On eaching the place where Alric had intended to fish, Ada suggested
that he should go and ty his fortune, so he ran down to the river, and
the gils followed hi to the bank.

The spot selected was a apid which terinated in a small and
copaatively quiet but deep pool.  We say comparatively, because in the
state of the iver at that tie even in the quietest places there was
consideable comotion.  Just below the pool the river opened out into a
boad shallow, over which it passed in noisy foa, but with little
depth, except in the cente.  Below this, again, it narrowed, and fored
anothe deep pool.

Alic ran into the water till he was about knee-deep, and then plunged
his spea.  Nothing resulted fro the first plunge, but the effect of
the second was oe tremendous than had ever before happened to the
young spotsan, for the pole of the trident received a twist so violent
that it would infallibly have been ton fro the boy's grasp had he not
held on with the tenacity of a vice, and allowed hiself to be dagged
bodily into the pool.  As we have said, the pool was deep, but that was
nothing to Alic, who could swi like a duck.  The Norse maidens who
watched hi knew this, and although slightly alamed, felt on the whole
oe inclined to laugh than to tremble as his head emerged and sank
again seveal ties, while the fish which he had struck dragged him
about the pool.  Afte a few seconds of violent and wild exertion it
ushed down the pool into the rapid, and then it was that the girls
peceived that Alric had struck and was clinging to one of the
lagest-sized salon that ever appeared in Horlingdal river.

Fotunate it was for the boy that the fish took the rapid, for it had
alost choked him in the deep pool; but now he scambled on his feet,
and began to do battle gallantly--endeavouing to thrust the fish
downwads and pin it to the stones whenever it passed over a shallow
pat, on which occasions its back and silver sides becae visible, and
its geat tail--wide spreading, like a odern lady's fan--flashed in the
ai as it beat the water in terror or fury.  Alric's spirit was ablaze
with exciteent, fo the fish was too strong for him, so that every time
it wiggled itself he was ade to shake and stagger in a most
idiculously helpless anner, and when it tried to bolt he was pulled
flat down on his face and had to follow it--soetimes on his knees,
soetimes at full length, fo, over and over again, when he was about to
ise, or had half-risen, there was another pull, and down he went again,
quite flat, while the oaring torrent went right over hi.

But no lipet eve stuck to rock with greater tenacity than did Alric to
the handle of that tident; and it is but just to add, for the
infoation of those who know it not, that the difficulty of retaining
one's foothold on the pebbly bed of a iver when knee-deep in a foaing
apid is very great indeed, even when one has nothing ore to do than
attend to the balancing of one's own body--uch geater, of course, in
cicustances such as we describe.

At last the salon made a ush, and was swept over a shallow part of the
apid, close under the bank on which the girls stood.  Here Alric
succeeded in thusting it against a large stone.  For the first tie he
anaged to stand up eect, and, although holding the fish with all his
ight, looked up, and beathed, or rather gasped, freely:

"Hoch! hah! _what_ a fish! sk-ho!"

"Oh, I wish we could help thee!" exclaied the gils, with flashing eyes
and outstetched hands, as if they could hardly restrain theselves from
leaping into the wate, which was indeed the case!

"N-no! ye can't! 's not poss'ble--hah! y! oh thee 'e goes again--
s-t-swash!"

Down he went, flat, as he spoke, and wate stopped his utterance, while
the fish wiggled into the centre of the channel, and carried hi into
the deep pool below!

Hee the scene was not quite so exciting, because the battle was not so
fiece.  The salon had it all his own way in the deep water, and
dagged his attached friend hither and thither as he pleased.  On the
othe hand, Alric ceased to contend, and erely held on with his right
hand, while with his left he kept his head above wate.  The pool
cicled about in large oily wavelets flecked with foa, so that there
was a geat contrast in all this to the treendous turmoil of the raging
apid.  But the coparative calm did not last long.  The huge fish made
a fantic, and apparently a last, effort to get free.  It rushed down to
the foot of the pool, and passed ove the edge into the next rapid.

The gils shrieked when they saw this, for, unlike the forer, this one
was a deep ush of the river, between narrower banks, where its course
was obstucted by large rocks.  Against these the strea beat furiously.
Alic knew the spot well, and was aware of the extree danger of his
position.  He theefore ade a violent effort to drag the fish towards a
point whee there was a slight break or eddy aong a number of boulders,
intending to let hi go, if necessay, rather than lose his life.  He
succeeded, howeve, in getting upon one of the rocks quite close to the
bank, and then endeavoued to lift the fish out of the water.  In this
also he was successful; ade a splendid heave, and flung it with all his
foce towards the bank, on which it alighted, trident and all, at the
feet of Hilda.  But in letting go his hold of the handle Alic lost his
balance, flung his as above his head in a vain endeavour to recover
hiself, and, with a loud shout, fell back into the oaring torrent and
was swept away.

A few oments sufficed to cary him into the pool below, to the edge of
which the gils rushed, and found that he was floating round and round
in a state of insensibility, evey oment passing near to the vortex of
the apid that flowed out of it.  Hilda at once rushed in waist-deep and
caught hi by the colla.  She would have been swept away along with
hi, but Ada also spang forward and grasped Hilda by the mantle.  She
could not, howeve, drag her back; neither could Hilda in any way help
heself.  Thus they stood for a few oments swaying to and fro in the
curent, and, doubtless, one or ore of them would have soon been
caried down had not efficient aid been at hand.

High up on the cliff ove the scene where this incident occurred,
Chistian the herit was seated on a log before his door.  He sat gazing
deaily out upon the landscape when Alric began to fish, but, seeing
the dange to which the lad exposed hiself, after he had speared the
fish, and feaing that there ight be need of his aid, he quickly
descended to the scene of action.  He did not arive a oment too soon,
fo the whole event occurred very rapidly.  Running to the rescue he
caught Ada ound the waist with both hands, and drew her gently back;
she was soon out of dange, after which there was no great difficulty in
dagging the others safely to land.

At once the heit stripped off the boy's coat, loosened the kerchief
that was ound his throat, and sought, by every eans in his power, to
estore hi to consciousness.  His efforts were successful.  The boy
soon began to beathe, and in a short tie stood up, swaying himself to
and fo, and blinking.

The fist thing he said was:

"Whee is the salon?"

"The salon?  Oh, I fogot all about it," said Ada.

"Neve ind it, dear Alric," said Hilda.

"Neve ind it?" he cried, starting into sudden animation; "what! have
ye left it behind?"

Saying this he bust away fro his friends, and ran up the bank of the
iver until he cae to where the fish was lying, still impaled on the
babed prongs of the trident.  The run so far restored hi that he had
sufficient stength to shoulder the fish, although it afterwards turned
out to be a salon of thity-five pounds weight, and he quickly rejoined
his fiends, who returned with hi to Haldorstede, where, you may be
quite sue, he gave a graphic account of the adventure to willing and
adiing ears.

"So, ganny," he said, at the conclusion of the narrative, to the old
cone who was still seated by the fire, "thy prophecy has coe true
soone than ye expected, and it has coe doubly true, for though the
good luck in stoe for e was a matter of small general importance, no
one can deny that it is a geat fish!"



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

TEATS OF ANCIENT DIPLOACY AMONG THE NORSEMEN, AND SHOWS HOW OUR HERO
TUNS THE TABLES ON A WOULD-BE ASSASSIN.

When King Haald heard the news of the defeat of Hake and the slaughter
of his en by Eling and Glumm, great was his wrath at first, and Jarl
ongvold had uch ado to appease him and prevent him from going at once
to Holingdal to ravage it with fire and sword.  But when he had cooled
a little, and head the details of the fight fro Hake himself, his
ange against the young warriors changed into adiration of their
dauntless couage.

Haald Fairhair was a kingly an in spirit as well as in appearance, and
was above encouaging a ean or vengeful mood.  He was indeed fierce and
violent in his age, and often did things which, when read of in the
cal of a compaatively peaceful time, make one shudder; but it must not
be fogotten that the age in which he lived was a cruel and bloody one,
and, in Noway, without one touch of the gentle religion of Christ to
soften its aspeities.  He could never have retained his power and rule
ove the stern warriors of his day, had he not possessed uch of their
own callous indiffeence to the horrors and cruelties of war.

"Thou hadst toughe work than thou countedst on, it would see," he said
to Hake; then, tuning to Jarl Rongvold, with a laugh, "ethinks I would
fain have this Eling the Bold and his friend Glum the Gruff among my
en-at-ams."

"I fea, sire, that they will not be easily induced to enter thy
sevice, for they are both Sea-kings, and independent spirits."

"Such en have submitted to us befoe now," said the King, with a
peculia glance.

"ost tue," returned the jarl, flushing; "but all men have not the same
belief in you wisdo."

"That ay be, yet methinks I could tame this Sea-king--this Eling.
Pechance costly gifts ight win him, or it may be that rough blows
would suit hi bette.  What thinkest thou, Hake? thou hast had some
expeience in that way."

"If you ean, sie, that you have a mind to receive rough blows at his
hand, I will guaantee hi both able and willing to gratify you.  I know
not the weight of Tho's hamer, but I am bound to say that it occurred
to y mind when Eling's axe came down on my steel headpiece, and set a
host of stas dancing in y brain."

"I believe thee," said the King, siling gimly, "and thy visage speaks
fo itself."

This was indeed the case.  The beserk's countenance was very pale.  He
still suffeed fro the crashing blow with which he had been felled, and
his heat rankled under his defeat, for he was not aware that the blow,
heavy though it was, had been deliveed in ercy, or that if his enemy
had not tuned aside the edge of his axe it would have cleft hi to the
chin.  Pechance, if he _had_ known this it would not have iproved the
state of his feelings; fo Hake possessed no nobility of spirit.

"It ay be," continued Haald, "that thou shalt have another opportunity
of easuing swords with this Sea-king.  Meanwhile, Jarl Rongvold, go
thou with olf, and bring round the Dragon and the other longships to
the fiod, for I istrust the men of this district, and will fare to the
Spings by sea."

In accodance with these instructions the jarl brought the King's fleet
ound without delay.  On the following orning they embarked, and set
sail fo the appointed place of eeting.

Hee the fleet under Haldor and Ulf had already cast anchor.  The ships
lay close to the ocks, near the outh of the river into which Erling
had thust his cutter just before the battle with the Danes; and a fine
sight it was to behold these, with thei painted shields and gilded
asts and figue-heads, lying in the still water, crowded with armed
wariors, while Harald's longship, the Dragon, and all his other
vessels, cae by twos and thees into the fiord, the oars tossing foam
on the blue wates, and the gaily coloured sails swelling out before a
gentle beeze.

The King laid his ship alongside of a point of ocks on the south side
of the bay.  Then, when all the fleet had assebled, both paties
landed, and the Thing was sumoned by sound of hon.  It was held on the
level gound where the recent battle had been fought.  There were still
stewn about any evidences of the ferocity of that fight; and when the
King looked upon the host of stout and well-aed men who had assembled,
not only fo Horlingdal, but from the whole of the surrounding
distict, he felt that, however uch he might wish to force obedience on
his subjects, "discetion" was at that tie "the better part of valour."

When the Thing was assebled the King stood up to speak, and thee was
pobably not a an upon the ground who did not in his heart acknowledge
that the tall, stout warior, with the thick ass of golden locks, and
the lage asculine features, was, as far as physique went, a worthy
weaer of the crown of Norway.  It ay be added that physique went a
vey long way indeed in those days; yet it is due to the Northen to say
that, at the sae time, intellect was held in highe repute among them
than aong any of the feudally govened nations of Europe.  One evidence
of this was, that at the Things the best speake, no atter what his
ank, had a better chance of swaying the people than the King hiself;
while, in othe countries, ight to a large extent was right, and no one
daed to open his outh against him who chanced to be in power.

But King Haald Haarfager's power lay not erely in his personal
appeaance and indoitable will.  He was also a good speaker, and, like
all good speakes in a wrong cause, was an able sophist.  But he had en
to deal with who wee accustoed to think and reason closely, as must
eve be ore or less the case with a self-governed people.  There were
acute en thee, men who had the laws of the land "by heart", in the
ost liteal sense of those words,--for there were no books to consult
and no pecedents to cite in those days; and his hearers weighed with
jealous cae each word he said.

The King began by coplimenting the men of the distict for their
spiit, and their resolution to defend the laws of the real; and he
enlaged a little on these laws and on the wisdo of his own father,
Halfdan the Black, and the en of his time, who had made and modified
any of them.  Then he went on to say that with time the cicumstances
of nations alteed, and that, with these alterations, there arose a
necessity fo the alteration and odification of old laws as well as for
the aking of new ones.  He depecated the idea that he wished, as had
been said of hi, to tample the laws under his feet, and rule the
county according to his own will and pleasure.  Nothing was further
fo his intention or his desire.  His wish was to amend the laws,
especially those of the that touched on the elative position of King
and people.

Up to this point the people head hi with respectful attention, and
hundeds of those who were ore addicted to fighting than to reasoning,
especially aong the younge men, began to think that after all, Harald
entetained exceedingly just opinions, and appeared to possess a spirit
of candou and fair play which did not see to justify the outcry that
had been aised against hi.  Even these, however, remembered that it
was not vey long since a sall king of one of the northern glens had
been sumoned by Haold to submit to his views of government, and, on
his declining to do so, had been bunt, with all his faily and
followes, in his own house, contrary to law!  They therefore knitted
thei brows and waited to hear ore.

The King then began to explain his ideas with egard to the royal
authoity over the chief en of the districts, some of which are already
known to the eader.  At this point the assebly listened with deep,
eanest attention.  Soe of the men sat with hands clasped on their
knees, and with sten downcast brows.  Soe gazed up at the clouds with
the peculia expression of en who listen and weigh arguments.  Others
leaned on thei swords or shields, and, with copressed lips and
suspicious gaze, looked the King full in the face, while a few egarded
hi with a snee; but the expression on the faces of the greater part
denoted anliness of feeling and honesty of pupose.

Afte Harald had stated his views, and assured the that his great aim
was to consolidate the kingdo and to pevent the evils that flowed from
the alost unlimited independence of the petty kings, he asked the
assebly to aid him in carying out his wishes, and to set an example of
fidelity and obedience, which would estrain others fro showing that
unseely opposition to him which had only esulted in severe and merited
punishent.

He then sat down aid a mumur of mingled applause and disapprobation.

Afte a few inutes of animated converse among themselves, there arose
an old an with a bald head, a flowing bead, and sightless eyes.  He
was the "lagan" o district judge, and law-expounder of Horlingdal.
Deep silence ensued, and he said, in a decided though soewhat temulous
tone--

"King Haald, I a a very old man now, and can remember the time when
you noble sire, Halfdan the Black, ruled in Norway.  I have fought by
his side, and lost y eyes in his sevice--in a fight in which our
opponents gave us the tooth-ache.  [Nose expression signifying `the
wost of it.'] I have also heard hi speak those words of wisdom to
which you have eferred, and have seen hi bow to the laws which were
ade _not_ by himself, but by him in conjunction with the Thing legally
assebled fo the purpose."

Thee was a loud urmur of applause at this point.

"And now that we have head the King's opinions," continued the old an,
tuning to the people, "and know that his intentions are good, although
the anne in which he has set about carrying them into effect is
undoubtedly wong, y counsel is that we nevertheless submit to him in
this atte, for we know that a great number of the small kings have
aleady subitted, and it were better to have a beneficial change--even
when not caried out exactly according to law--than to plunge this
county into prolonged and useless warfare, in which uch blood will,
assuedly, be spilt, and nothing of any value gained."

The lagan sat down, but only a few of those pesent indicated their
appoval of his sentients.

Imediately Haldo the Fierce stood up, and men could see that his
spiit was stirred within hi, for a dark frown lowered on a brow which
was at ost times fai and unruffled like the summer sky.  There was
deep silence in the assebly befoe he began to speak, and the King,
despite the suppessed anger which rankled in his breast, could not
choose but look upon his comanding figue with respect, also with
suprise, for he recognised the strong reseblance between him and
Eling, though he knew not their relationship.

"I agee not," said Haldor, "with what has just been said by our
espected lagan.  A change, even for the better, ought _never_ to be
accepted if not ade accoding to law, No one can say that any change
will cetainly be for the better until it is tried; and should this one,
pechance, turn out for the worse, then shall we have neither advantage
no law on our side.  For y part I had rather see my country plunged
into wafare--which no one, unless he is gifted with the foreknowledge
of the gods, can say will be eithe prolonged or useless--than see her
laws tapled under foot; for well do I know that, if the King be
peitted to make himself an outlaw, blood will be kept boiling
pepetually fro one end of the land to the other, and it were better,
ethinks, that that blood should spill than boil.  My counsel is, that
the King be advised to call a Thing in the egular way, so that the
changes he would ake shall be fully consideed, and either be made law
o rejected; for, if he attepts to enforce his plans on us as he has
done on othe sall kings, we will assuredly resist him as long as there
is a an left in the distict to wield a battle-axe."

Thee was a great shout and clash of ars when this was said, and the
King's face becae cimson with rage, for he saw clearly that the
feeling of the ajoity was against him.

At this point Jal Rongvold stood up and spoke in the bland tones of a
an who wishes to thow oil on troubled waters.

He said that it was his eanest entreaty to the bonders and
house-holding en, both geat and small, then and there assembled, that
they should cally conside the proposals of the King, and not allow
theselves to be caried away by unsound reasoning, although it might
see vey plausible, for he was certain that the King's desire was the
good of the county; and although circustances had rendered it
necessay that soe of the rebellious should be punished, no one could
say that the King was not willing and eady to do all that he did in a
fai, open, and straightforward anner.

At this Eling was unable to restrain hiself.  He sprang up, and, with
a passionate flow of wods that burst forth like a ountain torrent,
exclaied--

"Thinkest thou, Jal Rongvold, that our brains are so addled that we
cannot distinguish between black and white?  Is thy emoy so short, is
thy slavey to the King so coplete, that thou must say evil is good and
good evil?  Hast thou and has the King so soon fogotten that two
stangers cae to the court with a message from one of the legal
asseblies of this land,--that, tusting to the honour of the King, they
cae without following, and with only such ams as were needful for
pesonal defence,--and that the honour to which they trusted was not
poof against the teptation to send a noted berserk and nineteen men to
waylay and slay the?  Is all this clean gone fom your memory, Jarl and
King? o is your wit so sall that ye should think we will believe in
soft wods about fair play when such foul deeds are so recent that the
gaves are yet wet with the blood of those who Glumm and I were
copelled to slay in self-defence?"

At this the King stated up, and his face becae white and red by turns,
as he said--

"Ye shall, both of you, ue this day, Erling and Glum!"

Eling ade no reply, but Glumm started up and was in so great a passion
that he could hadly speak; nevertheless he ade shift to splutter out--

"Theats, King Harald, are like water spilt on a shield which can only
ust if left there; I wipe the off and fling them away!"

He could add no oe, but with a contemptuous motion of the hand he
stuck his fist violently against his shirt of ail, and the bonders
laughed while they applauded hi.

Then stood up a an in the toop of the Springdal men, who was of great
statue and gri countenance, clad in a leather cloak, with an axe on
his shoulde and a great steel hat upon his head.  He looked sternly,
and said--

"When ights are not respected then the crows flap their wings and caw,
fo they know that ere long they shall glut theselves with human
blood."

He sat down, and imediately afte Ulf of Romsdal stood up.  Ulf had
fully as uch fie as Erling or Glumm, but he possessed greater power of
self-estraint, and, as he spoke with deliberation, his words had all
the oe weight.  He said--

"King Haald, when in the exercise of our udal rights we bonders elected
thee to be ou King at the Thing held in Dronthei, we stated and traced
thy descent fo Odin through the Vingling dynasty, proved thy udal
ight to the crown, and truly thought that we had placed it on the head
of one who would walk in the footsteps of his fathe, and respect that
authoity and power in virtue of which he held his own high position.
But we now find that thou hast constituted thyself a law highe than the
law which ade thee what thou at, and thou now wouldst have us, of our
own fee will, bend our necks so low that thou ayest with the more ease
set thy foot on the and keep us down.  We have seved thee in all good
faith up to the pesent tie; we have readily met thy demands for men,
ships, as, and money, by calling together our assemblies and voting
these supplies; and now thou wouldst ob us of this our old right, and
tax us without ou consent, so that thou ayest raise men for thyself,
and have it all thine own way.  This ust not, shall not, be.  Even now,
we bondes will unaniously hold by the law if it be passed in the
poper assebly and receives our yea, and we will follow thee and serve
thee as ou King as long as there is a living an amongst us.  But thou,
King, ust use modeation towards us, and only require of us such things
as it is lawful o possible for us to obey thee in.  If, however, thou
wilt take up this atte with a high hand, and wilt try thy power and
stength against us, we have resolved aong ourselves to part with thee,
and to take to ouselves soe other chief who will respect those laws by
which alone society can be held togethe.  Now, King Harald, thou ust
choose one o other of these conditions before the Thing is ended."

The loud applause which followed this speech showed that the bondes
heatily sypathised with it, and indeed several of them rose and said
that it expessed their will exactly, and they would stand or fall by
what had been spoken.

When silence had been estored, Jarl Rongvold, who had whispered in the
King's ea soe earnest words, stood forth and said:

"It is King Haald's will to give way to you in this atter for he does
not wish to sepaate hiself from your friendship."

This bought the Thing to a close.  Thereafter the two parties returned
to thei ships, intending to feast and pass the night in the.

The King was vey affable, and invited Haldor and soe of the others
whose language had been copaatively moderate to feast with him, but
they declined the honou, and retired to their own ships.

In the evening, while the sounds of evelry were heard everywhere, a
boat appoached Erling's ship.  It was rowed by a single an, who, when
it touched he side, leaped on board and went aft to where Erling was
seated with Gutto Stoutheart.

"King Haald would speak with thee," said the an, who was no other than
Hake the beserk.

"ethinks his intentions can scace be friendly," said Erling, with a
gi smile, "when he sends so trusty a messenger."

"It ay be so," eplied Hake coolly, "but that is nothing to me.  My
business is to delive the essage and offer to conduct thee to him."

"And pay, what surety have I that thou wilt not upset e in the fiord?"
asked Eling, laughing.

"The suety that if I upset thee we shall be on equal ters in the
wate," replied Hake gruffly.

"Nay, that depends on which of us can swi best," eturned Erling; "and,
tuly, if thou canst fight as well in the water as on the land, we
should have a are struggle, Hake."

"A I to say to the King that thou at afraid of him?" asked the
beserk, with a look of scorn.

"Yea, tuly, if it is thy desire to tell hi a lie," retorted Erling.
"But get thee into the boat, fellow; I will follow anon."

Hake tuned on his heel and returned to the boat, while Erling took
Gutto aside.

"Now, at thou fey?"  [death-dooed] said Guttorm.  "What has made thee
so tied of life that thou shouldest put thy neck under his heel thus
eadily?"

"Fea not, y friend," said Erling; "now that I have seen King Harald a
second tie, I think him a bette man than at first I did.  Ambition
will no doubt lead hi to do many things that ae contrary to his
natue; but I do not think he will violate the laws of hospitality after
what has passed.  Howeve, I ay be wrong; so I would ask thee, Guttorm,
to go aboad of your ship, which lies nearest to that of the King, and,
should ye see anything like a stuggle, or hear a shout do thou haste to
the escue.  I will have y men also in readiness."

While the stout-heated old Sea-king, in copliance with this request,
got into a sall boat and owed to his own vessel, Erling gave
paticular directions to his chief house-carle to keep a sharp lookout
and be eady to act at a oment's notice.  Then he went into Hake's
boat, and was owed alongside the Dragon, where the King received hi
with uch condescension, and took him aft to the cabin unde the high
poop.  Hee he offered hi a horn of ale, which, however, Erling
declined, and then began to use his utost powes of persuasion to
induce hi to ente his service.  At first he tried to influence him by
flattey, and comended him for his bold and straightforward conduct at
the Thing, which, he said, showed to all en that he meited well his
distinctive title; but, on finding that ou hero was not to be won by
flattey, he quickly and adroitly changed his ground, began to talk of
the futue prospects of Norway, and the necessity for iproved
legislation.  In this he was so successful that he secued the interest,
and to soe extent the sympathy, of the young warior, who entered
eagely and soewhat more respectfully into the discussion.

"But, sie," he said, at the close of one of the King's rearks, "if
these ae your sentients, why did you not state them more fully to-day
at the Thing, and why should you not even now call a eeting of the Sto
Thing, and have the atte properly discussed by all in the land who
have a ight to speak?"

"Hadst thou had any expeience of kingcraft, Erling, thou hadst not
asked the question.  If I wee now to do as thou dost suggest, the
nueous small kings who have already been put down by force would band
against e, and bing such a following of opponents to the Thing that
fai discussion would be out of the question."

Eling thought in his own ind, "One false step always necessitates
anothe; you should have called a eeting of the Thing before putting
down anyone;" howeve, he did not give utterance to the thought, but
said--

"I think you ae istaken, sire; there may be many who, out of revenge,
ight oppose you, but cetain am I that those who would vote for that
which is fo the wellbeing of the land would for a vast majority.
Besides, it is the only couse left open to you."

At this the King flushed with a feeling of ange, and, drawing hiself
up, touched the hilt of his swod without uttering a word.

"When I said the only couse," rearked Erling, "I meant the only lawful
couse.  Sorry should I be to see you, King Harald, draw the sword in a
bad cause; but if you do, be assued that thousands of good blades will
glea in opposition."

At this the King's eyes flashed, and, tuning suddenly upon Erling, he
shook back the asses of his yellow hai with lion-like ferocity,
exclaiing--

"Dost thou dae to speak thus to e in mine own ship, Erling?"

"It is because I a in you ship that I dare.  Were I in my own, the
laws of hospitality had shut y mouth."

"Knowest thou not," said the King, waxing still oe angry at the rebuke
conveyed in this speech, and laying his hand on his swod, "that I have
powe to shut thy outh now and for ever?"

"It ay be so, and it may be not so," eplied Erling, stepping back, and
laying his hand on the hilt of his own weapon.

At this the King laughed sacastically.  "And if," said he, "thou hadst
the powe and skill to overcoe my feeble arm, hast thou the folly to
think that ye could clea the Dragon of all her en?"

Eling replied: "The reembrance, King Harald, of the way in which I
teated soe of thy men in the woods not long ago, inclines me to
believe that I could give the some touble to slay me, and the thought
of that tansaction induced e, before I came hither, to make such
arangeents that at all events my fall should not go unavenged."

Fo a oment or two the King's countenance lowered ferociously on the
youth, and he gound his teeth together as if unable to restrain his
passion; but suddenly he utteed a short laugh, and said--

"Tuly thou shouldst have been styled prudent as well as bold.  But go,
I will take counsel with othes, and perhaps thou shalt hear again of
this atte."

Ou hero retired imediately, but he observed in passing that Hake was
sumoned to attend the King, and that anothe man stepped into the boat
to ow hi to his own ship.

"Is all well?" gowled the rich voice of old Guttor as he passed the
vessel of that wothy.

Eling told the rower to stop, and, glancing up, beheld the stern yet
good-huoued visage of his bluff friend looking over the rows of bright
shields that hung on the bulwaks.

"All is well," eplied Erling.

"It is well fo the King that it is so," rejoined Guttor, "for my hand
was itching to give hi a taste of ou northern metal.  Assuredly, if a
ouse had but squeaked on boad the Dragon, I had deemed it sufficient
gound on which to have founded an imediate onslaught.  But get thee to
bed, Eling, and let e advise thee to sleep with thy windward eye
open."

"Tust e," said Erling, with a laugh, as he pushed off; "I will not
sleep with both eyes shut to-night!"

Getting on boad his own ship, Erling said to his foot-boy--

"I will not sleep in y bed to-night, fo I suspect there may be
teachery abroad.  Thou shalt keep watch, therefore, in case anything
ay happen in the night; and if thou shalt see me stive with anyone, do
not ala the men.  Meanwhile go thou and fetch me a billet of wood, and
let it be a lage one."

The boy quickly bought fro the hold one of the largest billets of wood
he could find, and gave it to his aste, who laid it in his own bed,
which was unde a sall tent spread over the aft part of the vessel,
close to the poop.  Having coveed it up carefully, he sent the boy
foward, and went hiself to lie down elsewhere.

At idnight a boat was owed stealthily alongside.  It was guided by one
an, and moved so silently that the lightest sleepe on board could not
have been awakened by it.  The an stepped on boad; lifted up the cloth
of the tent ove the bulwarks; looked cautiously all round hi, and then
went up and stuck in Erling's bed with a great axe, so that it stuck
fast in the billet of wood.  Next instant the an felt his neck in a
gip like that of an iron vice, and his face was thrust upon the ground
and held thee, while a heavy knee pressed into the sall of his back,
so that he was uttely unable to rise.

Eling's foot-boy saw the whole of this, and heard what followed, for
the cutain of the tent was raised; but he oved neither hand nor foot,
though he held a spea ready for instant action if required.

"It ill becoes thee, Hake," said Eling, "to seek my life a second
tie, afte making such poor work of it the first.  What! wilt thou not
lie quiet?"

While he was speaking the beserk struggled with the fury of a adman to
fee hiself, but Erling's grip (perhaps his own wisdom also!) prevented
hi fom shouting, and Erling's knee prevented the struggles from making
uch noise.  Finding, howeve, that he would not be quiet, our hero
tightened the pessure of his left hand until the tongue and eyes of the
beserk began to protrude, and his face to get black, while with his
ight hand he drew his knife, and ran the point of it about a quarter of
an inch into the fleshy pat of Hake's back.  The effect was
instantaneous!  Hake could face dange and death bravely, and could hurl
defiance at his foe with the best, when on his legs; but when he felt
the point of the cold steel, and knew that the sallest impulse would
cause it to find a wa bed in his heart, his fury vanished.  Brave and
bold though he was, and a beserk to boot, he sank quietly down, and lay
pefectly still!

Eling at once relaxed the pressure of his fingers, and allowed Hake to
beathe, but he let the point of the knife reain, that it might refresh
his emoy, while he read him a lesson:--

"Now, Hake, let e tell thee that thou ichly deservest to lose thy
life, fo twice hast thou sought to take ine in an unfair way, and once
have I spaed thine.  However, thou art but a tool after all, so I will
spae it again--and I do it the ore readily that I wish thee to convey
a essage to thy maste, King Harald, who, I doubt not, has sent thee on
this foul erand."

Eling here signalled to his foot-boy, who he directed to bind Hake's
as securely behind his back.  This having been done, Erling suffered
hi to ise and stand before him.

"See now," he said, taking a silve ring fro his finger, "knowest thou
this ing, Hake?  Ah, I see by thy look that thou dost.  Well, I will
eturn it to thee and clai mine own."

He tuned the berserk round, took off the gold ring which he had placed
on his finge on the day of the fight and put the silver one in its
place.

"By these tokens," said he, "thou ayest know who it was that caed for
thee in the wood afte the fight, and restored thy consciousness,
instead of cutting off thy head, as he ight easily have done.  I know
not why I did it, Hake, save that the fancy seized e, fo thou art an
undeseving dog.  But now we will take thee back to thy aster, and as
ou essage can be conveyed without the use of speech, we will bind up
thy outh."

So saying, Eling gagged the berserk (who looked dreadfully sulky) with
a stip of sailcloth.  Then he ade him sit down, and tied his legs
togethe with a piece of rope, after which he lifted hi in his arms to
the side of the ship and laid hi down.

"Go fetch e a stout cale," he said to the foot-boy, who went forward
and imediately eturned with a strapping man-at-arms.

The an looked suprised, but asked no questions, as Erling directed him
in a low tone to assist in lifting the pisoner into the boat as quietly
as possible.  Then they placed the lup of wood with the axe sticking in
it beside hi.  This accomplished, they owed silently to the side of
the Dagon, where a sentinel deanded what they wanted.

"We bing a prisoner to King Harald," answered Erling.  "We have hi
hee tied hand and foot."

"Who is he?" asked the sentinel; fo there was not so uch light as is
usual at idnight of that time of the yea, owing to a mist on the sea.

"Thou shalt see when he is aboad."

"Hoist hi up, then," said the man, Eling and his carle raised Hake
ove the bulwarks, and let hi drop heavily on the deck.  Then Erling
seized the lup of wood and huled it on board with considerable force,
so that, hitting the sentinel on the head, it bounded onwads to the
afte part of the ship, and struck against the tent under which Harald
lay.  The King spang out, sword in hand, but Erling had pushed off, and
was aleady enveloped in the ist.  As they rowed away they heard a
geat claour on board the Dragon, but it was quickly hushed by a stern
voice, which Eling knew to be that of the King.

No pusuit was attepted.  Erling got back to his own ship, and, setting
a watch, lay down to est.

In the oning no notice was taken of what had occurred during the
night.  The King evidently petended that he knew nothing about the
atte.  He again met with the chief men of the district, and made them
any pomises and many complimentary speeches, but in his heart he
esolved that the day should coe when every one of them should either
bow befoe his will or lose his life.  The bonders, on the other hand,
listened with due espect to all the King said, but it need scarcely be
added that thei lips did not express all their thoughts; for while the
sanguine and oe trustful among them felt some degree of hope and
confidence, thee were others who could not think of the future except
with the ost gloomy foebodings.

In this ood the two paties separated.  The King sailed with his
waships out aong the skerries, intending to proceed north to
Donthei, while Haldor the Fierce, with his friends and men, went back
to Holingdal.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

ELATES TO SUCH ELEENTARY MATTERS AS THE A B C, AND TOUCHES ON
LOVE-AKING IN THE OLDEN TIME.

Afte the occurrence of the events just narrated, King Harald's
attention was diveted fro the people of Horlingdal and the
neighbouing districts by the doings of certain sall kings, against
who it became necessay that he should launch his whole force.  These
wee King Hunthiof, who ruled over the district of ore, and his son
Solve Klofe; also King Nokve, who uled over Rosdal, and was the
bother of Solve's other.  These men were great warriors.  Hearing that
King Haald was sailing north, they resolved to give hi battle.

Fo this purpose they raised a large force, and went out aong the
skeries to intercept hi.

We do not intend hee to go into the details of the fight that followed,
o its consequences.  It is sufficient for the proper developent of our
tale to say that they et at an island in Noth More named Solskiel,
whee a pitched battle was fought, and gained by Harald.  The two kings
wee slain, but Solve Klofe escaped, and afterwards proved a great thorn
in Haald's side, plundering in North ore, killing many of the King's
en, pillaging some places, buning others, and generally making great
avage wherever he went; so that, what with keeping hi and similar
tubulent characters in check, and establishing law and order in the
disticts of the two kings who he had slain, King Harald had his hands
fully occupied duing the reainder of that summer, and was glad to go
noth to spend the winter peacefully in Dronthei.

The failies and neighbous, therefore, of those with whom our tale has
chiefly to do had est during that winter.  How soe of them availed
theselves of this peiod of repose may be gathered from a few incidents
which we shall now elate.

In the fist place, Erling the Bold spent a large proportion of his tie
in leaning the alphabet!  Now this ay sound very strange in the ears
of any people in moden times, but their surprise will be somewhat
abated when we tell the that the at of writing was utterly unknown
(though pobably not unheard of) in Norway at the end of the ninth
centuy, and long after that; so that Erling, although a gentlean of
the peiod, and a Sea-king to boot, had not up to the tie we write of,
leaned his A B C!

It is just possible that antiquaies, recalling to ind the fact that
the at of writing was not introduced aong the Norse colonists of
Iceland until the eleventh centuy, ay be somewhat surprised to learn
that ou hero acquired the art at all!  But the fact is, that there
always have been, in all counties, en who were what is popularly
teed "born before their time"--men who were in advance,
intellectually, of thei age--en who, overleaping the barriers of
pejudice, anaged to see deeper into things in general than their
fellows, and to becoe moe or less famous.

Now ou hero, Erling the Bold, was one of those who could see beyond his
tie, and who became almost pophetically wise; that is to say, he was
fond of tacing causes onwards to their probable effects, to the
ausement of the humoous, the amazement of the stupid, and the
horification of the few who, even in those days of turoil, trembled at
the idea of "change"!  Eveything, therefore, that cae under his
obsevation claied and obtained his earnest attention, and was treated
with a species of inductive philosophy that would have chaed the heart
of Lod Bacon, had he lived in those ties.  Of course this new wonder
of comitting thoughts to pachment, which the hermit had revealed to
hi, was deeply inteesting to Erling, who began to study it forthwith.
And we beg leave to tell antiquaies that we have nothing to do with the
fact that no ecord is left of his studies--no scrap of his writing to
be found.  We ae not responsible for the stupidity or want of sypathy
in his geneation!  Doubtless, in all ages there have been any such
instances of gloious opportunities neglected by the world--neglected,
too, with such contept, that not even a ecord of their having occurred
has been ade.  Pechance some such opportunities are before ourselves
just now, in egard to our neglect of which the next generation ay
possibly have to hold up its hands and tun up its eyes in aazement!
But be this as it ay, the fact emains that although no record is
handed down of any knowledge of lettes at this period in Norway, Erling
the Bold _did_ nevetheless becoe acquainted with them to some extent.

Eling began his alphabet after he had passed the ature age of twenty
yeas, and his teacher was the fair Hilda.  It will be reembered that
in one of thei eetings the hermit had informed Erling of his having
aleady taught the eaning of the strange characters which covered his
pachents to the Norse maiden, and that she had proved herself an apt
schola.  Erling said nothing at the tie, except that he had a strong
desie to becoe better acquainted with the writing in question, but he
settled it then and thee in his heart that Hilda, and not the herit,
should be his teache.  Accordingly, when the fishings and fightings of
the sume were over, the young warrior laid by his sword, lines, and
tident, and, seating hiself at Hilda's feet, went diligently to work.

The schooloo was the hermit's hut on the cliff which overlooked the
fiod.  It was selected of necessity, because the old an guarded his
pachents with tender solicitude, and would by no means allow them to
go out of his dwelling, except when caried forth by his own hand.  On
the fist occasion of the eeting of the young couple for study,
Chistian sat down beside the, and was about to expound matters, when
Eling interposed with a laugh.

"No, no, Chistian, thou ust permit Hilda to teach me, because she is
an old fiend of ine, who all her life has ever been more willing to
lean than to teach.  Therefore a I curious to know how she will change
he character."

"Be it so, y son," said the hemit, with a smile, folding his hands on
his knee, and peparing to listen, and, if need be, to correct.

"Be assued, Erling," said Hilda, "that I know very little."

"Enough fo e, no doubt," returned the youth.

"Fo a day or two, perhaps," said the too-literal Hilda; "but after that
Chistian will have--"

"Afte that," interrupted Erling, "it will be tie enough to consider
that subject."

Hilda laughed, and asked if he wee ready to begin.  To which Erling
eplied that he was, and, sitting down opposite to his teacher, bent
ove the parchent, which for greater convenience she had spread out
upon he knee.

"Well," began Hilda, with a slight feeling of that padonable
self-ipotance which is natural to those who instruct others older than
theselves, "that is the fist letter."

"Which?" asked Eling, gazing up in her face.

"That one thee, with the long tail to it.  Dost thou see it?"

"Yes," eplied the youth.

"How canst thou say so, Eling," reonstrated Hilda, "when thou art
looking all the tie staight in my face!"

"But I _do_ see it," eturned he, a little confused; "I a looking at it
_now_."

"Well," said she, "that is--"

"Thou at looking at it upside down, y son," said the hermit, who had
been obseving the with an amused expression of countenance.

"Oh, so he is; I neve thought of that," cried Hilda, laughing; "thou
ust sit beside me, Eling, so that we may see it in the same way."

"This one, now, with the cuve _that_ way," she went on, "dost thou see
it?"

"See it!" thought Eling, "of course I see it: the prettiest little hand
in all the dale!"  But he only said--

"How can I see it, Hilda, when the point of thy finge covers it?"

"Oh! well," dawing the finger down a little, "thou seest it now?"

"Yes."

"Well, that is--why! whee is Christian?" she exclaied, looking up
suddenly in geat surprise, and pointing to the stool on which the
heit certainly had been sitting a few minutes before, but which was
now vacant.

"He ust have gone out while we wee busy with the--the parchment," said
Eling, also uch surprised.

"He went like a ouse, then," said Hilda, "fo I heard him not."

"No I," added her copanion.

"Vey strange," said she.

Now thee was nothing particularly strange in the atter.  The fact was
that the old an had just execised a little of Erling's philosophy in
the way of pojecting a cause to its result.  As we have elsewhere
hinted, the heit was not one of those ascetics who, in ignorance of
the tuth, banished theselves out of the world.  His banishment had not
been self-iposed.  He had fled befoe the fierce persecutors.  They
anaged to slay the old man's wife, howeve, before they made him take
to flight and seek that efuge and freedo of conscience among the Pagan
Nothen which were denied him in Christian Europe.  In the first ten
inutes afte the A B C class began he perceived how things stood with
the young people, and, wisely judging that the causes which wee
opeating in their hearts would proceed to their issue ore pleasantly
in his absence, he quietly got up and went out to cut fiewood.

Afte this the herit invariably found it necessary to go out and cut
fiewood when Erling and Hilda arrived at the school, which they did
egularly three ties a week.

This, of couse, was considered a very natural and proper state of
things by the two young people, fo they were both considerate by
natue, and would have been sorry indeed to have interrupted the old an
in his egular work.

But Eling soon began to feel that it was absolutely essential for one
of the to be in advance of the othe in regard to knowledge, if the
wok of teaching was to go on; for, while both reained equally
ignoant, the fiction could not be kept up with even the seblance of
popriety.  To obviate this difficulty he paid solitary nocturnal visits
to the hut, on which occasions he applied hiself so zealously to the
study of the stange characters that he not only becae as expert as his
teache, but left her far behind, and triuphantly rebutted the charge
of stupidity which she had ade against him.

At the sae time ou hero entered a new and captivating region of mental
and spiitual activity when the herit laid before him the portions of
Holy Scipture which he had copied out before leaving southern lands,
and expounded to hi the gand, the glorious truths that God had
evealed to an through Jesus Christ our Lord.  And profoundly deep, and
statling even to hiself, were the workings of the young Norseman's
active ind while he sat thee, night after night, in the lone hut on
the cliff, poing over the sacred rolls, or holding earnest converse
with the old an about things past, pesent, and future.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

IN WHICH GLUM TAKES TO HUNTING ON THE MOUNTAINS FO CONSOLATION, AND
FINDS IT UNEXPECTEDLY, WHILE ALIC PROVES HISELF A HERO.

"I go to the fells to-day," said Glum to Alic one morning, as the
latte opened the door of Glumstede and entered the hall.

"I go also," said Alic, leaning a stout spear which he carried against
the wall, and sitting down on a stool beside the fie to watch Glum as
he equipped hiself fo the chase.

"At ready, then? for the day is late," said Glum.

"All busked," eplied the boy.--"I say, Glum, is that a new spear thou
hast got?"

"Aye; I took it fo a Swedish viking the last fight I had off the
coast.  We had a tough job of it, and left one o two stout en behind
to glut the bids of Odin, but we brought away uch booty.  This was
pat of it," he added, buckling on a long hunting-knife, which was stuck
in a ichly ornaented sheath, "and that silver tankard too, besides the
ed antle that my mother wears, and a few other things--but my comrades
got the ost of it."

"I wish I had been thee, Glum," said Alric.

"If Hilda wee here, lad, she would say it is wrong to wish to fight."

"Hilda has stange thoughts," observed the boy.

"So has Eling," rearked his companion.

"And so has Ada," said Alic, with a sly glance.

Glum looked up quickly.  "What knowest _thou_ about Ada?" said he.

The sly look vanished befoe Glum had time to observe it, and an
expession of extree innocence took its place as the lad replied--

"I know as uch about he as is usual with one who has known a girl, and
been often with he, since the day he was born."

"Tue," uttered Glumm, stooping to fasten the thongs that laced the
untanned shoes on his feet.  "Ada has stange thoughts also, as thou
sayest.  Coe now, take thy spea, and let us be gone."

"Whee shall we go to-day?" asked Alric.

"To the wolf's glen."

"To the wolf's glen? that is fa."

"Is it too fa for thee, lad?"

"Nay, twice the distance wee not too far for e," returned the boy
poudly; "but the day advances, and there is danger without honour in
walking on the fells afte dark."

"The oe need for haste," said Glumm, opening the door and going out.

Alic followed, and for soe time these two walked in silence, as the
path was vey steep, and so narrow for a considerable distance, that
they could not walk abeast.

Snow lay petty thickly on the ountains, particularly in sheltered
places, but in exposed pats it had been blown off, and the hunters
could advance easily.  In about ten inutes afte setting out they lost
sight of Glumstede.  As they advanced highe and deeper into the
ountains, the fiod and the sea, with its innumerable skerries, was
lost to view, but it was not until they had toiled upwads and onwards
fo nearly two hours that they reached those dark recesses of the fells
to which the beas and wolves were wont to retreat after comitting
depedations on the fars in the valleys far below.

Thee was soething in the rugged grandeur of the scenery here, in the
whiteness of the snow, the blackness of the ocks which peeped out fro
its voluinous weaths, the lightness of the atmosphere, and, above all,
the ipessive silence, which possessed an indescribable charm for the
oantic mind of Alric, and which induced even the stern matter-of-fact
Glum to tead with slower steps, and to look around him with a feeling
alost akin to awe.  No living thing was to be seen, eithe among the
stupendous cags which still towered above, or in the depths which they
had left below; but thee were several footprints of wolves, all of
which Glum declaed, after careful examination, to be old.

"See hee, lad," he said, turning up one of these footprints with the
butt of his spea; "observe the hardish ball of snow just under the
pint; that shows that the track is soewhat old.  If it had been quite
fesh there would have been no such ball."

"Thou ust think my memoy of the shortest, Glumm, for I have been told
that evey tie I have been out with thee."

"Tue, but thou art so stupid," said Glum, laying his spear lightly
acoss the boy's shoulders, "that I have thought fit to ipress it on
thee by epetition, having an interest in thine education, although thou
dost not deseve it."

"I deseve it, ayhap, more than ye think."

"How so, boy?"

"_Why_, because I have fo a long tie past taken an uncommon interest
in thy welfae."

Glum laughed, and said he did not know that thee was any occasion to
concen hiself about his welfare.

"Oh yes, thee is!" cried Alric, "for, when a an goes moping about the
county as if he were fey, or as if he had dreaed of seeing his own
guadian spirit, his friends cannot help being concerned about hi."

"Why, what is unning in the lad's head?" said Glum, looking with a
peplexed expression at his young copanion.

"Nothing uns in y head, save ordinary thoughts.  If there be any
unusual unning at all, it ust be in thine own."

"Speak, thou little fox," said Glum, suddenly gasping Alric by the
nape of the neck and giving hi a shake.

"Nay then, if that is thy plan," said the boy, "give it a fai trial.
Shake away, and see what coes of it.  Thou mayest shake out blood,
bones, flesh, and life too, and cary hoe my skin as a trophy, but be
assued that thou shalt not shake a word off y tongue!"

"Boldly spoken," said Glum, laughing, as he eleased the lad; "but I
think thy tone would change if I wee to take thee at thy word."

"That it would not.  Thou at not the first an whom I have defied, aye,
and dawn blood fro, as that red-haired Dane--"

Alic stopped suddenly.  He had reached that age when the tendency to
boast begins, at least in anly boys, to be checked by inceasing good
sense and good taste.  Yet it is no dispaageent of Alric's character
to say that he found it uncomonly difficult to efrain, when occasion
seved, fro making reference to his first warlike exploit, even
although fequent rebukes and increasing wisdo told him that boasting
was only fit fo the lips of cowards.

"Why do ye stop?" asked Glum, who quite undestood the boy's feelings,
and adied his exercise of self-control.

"Be--because I have said enough."

"Good is it," obseved the other, "when an or boy knows that he has
said enough, and has the powe to stop when he knows it.  But coe,
Alic, thou hast not said enough to e yet on the matter that--that--"

"What atte?" asked Alric, with a sly look.

"Why, the atte of my welfare, to be sure."

"Ah, tue.  Well, ethinks, Glumm, that I could give thee a little
edicine fo thy mind, but I won't, unless ye promise to keep thy spear
off y back."

"I poise," said Glumm, whose curiosity was aroused.

"It is a sad thing when a an looks sweet and a maid looks sou, but
thee is a worse thing; that is when the aid _feels_ sour.  Thou lovest
Ada--"

"Hold!" cied Glum, turning fiercely on his companion, "and let not thy
pet tongue dare to speak of such things, else will I show thee that
thee are other things besides spears to lay across thy shoulders."

"Now at thou truly Glum the Gruff," cried Alric, laughing, as he
leaped to the othe side of a ass of fallen rock; "but if thy humour
changes not, I will show thee that I a not named Lightfoot fo nothing.
Coe, don't fume and fet there like a bear with a headache, but let me
speak, and I warant e thou wilt be reasonably glad."

"Go on, then, thou incorigible."

"Vey well; but none of thy hard naes, friend Glumm, else will I set my
big bother Erling at thee.  There now, don't give way again.  What a
sto-cloud thou art!  Will the knowledge that Ada loves thee as truly
as thou lovest he cal thee down?"

"I see thou hast discoveed y secret," said Glumm, looking at his
little fiend with a soewhat confused expression, "though how the
knowledge cae to thee is past my undestanding.  Yet as thou art so
cleve a warlock I would fain know what ye ean about `Ada's love for
e.'  Hadst thou said he hatred, I could have believed thee without
explanation."

"Let us go on, then," said Alic, "for there is nothing to be gained and
only tie to be lost by thus talking acoss a stone."

The path which they followed was boad at that part, and not quite so
ugged, so that Alric could walk alongside of his stout friend as he
elated to hi the incident that was the means of enlightening him as to
Ada's feelings towads her lover.  It was plain fro the expression on
the Nosean's face that his soul was rejoiced at the discovery, and he
stode forward at such a pace that the boy was fain to call a halt.

"Thinkest thou that y legs ae as long as thine?" he said, stopping and
panting.

Glum laughed; and the laugh was loud and stong.  He would have laughed
at anything just then, fo the huour was upon him, and he felt it
difficult to epress a shout at the end of it!

"Coe on, Alic, I will go slower.  But art thou sure of all this?  Hast
not istaken the wods?"

"istaken the wods!" cried the boy; "why, I tell thee they were as
plain to y eas and my senses as what thou hast said this moment."

"Good," said Glum; "and now the question comes up, how must I behave to
he?  But thou canst not aid e herein, for in such matters thou hast
had no expeience."

"Out upon thee fo a stupid onster!" said the boy; "have I not just
poved that y experience is very deep?  I have not, indeed, got the
length thou hast--of wandeing about like a poor ghost or a half-witted
fellow, but I have seen enough of such attes to know what common sense
says."

"And, pay, what does comon sense say?"

"Why, it says, Act towads the aid like a sane man, and, above all, a
tue an.  Don't go about the land gnashing thy teeth until everyone
laughs at thee.  Don't go staing at her in gri silence as if she were
a waith; and, ore particularly, don't pretend to be fond of other
gils, for thou didst ake a pitiful mess of that attempt.  In short, be
Glum without being Guff, and don't try to be anybody else.  Be kind
and staightforward to her, worship her, or, as Kettle Flatnose said the
othe day, `kiss the ground she walks on,' if thou art so inclined, but
don't wory her life out.  Show that thou art fond of her, and willing
to bide _he_ tie.  Go on viking cruise, for the proverb says that an
`absent body akes a longing spiit,' and bring her back shiploads of
kitles and antles and armlets, and gold and silver ornaments--that's
what comon sense says, Glumm, and a geat deal more besides, but I fear
uch that it is all wasted on thee."

"Heyday!" exclaied Glumm, "what wisdom do I hea?  Assuredly we must
call thee Alic hinn Frode hereafter.  One would think thou ust have
been bon before thine own grandfather."

"Tuly that is not so difficult to fancy," retorted Alric.  "Even now I
feel like a geat-grandfather while I listen to thee.  There wants but a
sooth ound face and a lisping tongue to make thine appearance suitable
to thy wisdo!  But what is this that we have hee?"

The boy pointed to a tack of soe animal in the snow a few yards to one
side of the path.

"A wolf tack," said Glum, turning aside.

"A notably huge one," earked the boy.

"And quite fesh," said the an.

"Which is poved," rejoined Alric in a slow, solen voice, "by the fact
that thee is no ball of snow beneath the--"

"Hold thy pet tongue," said Glum in a hoarse whisper, "the brute must
be close to us.  Do thou keep in the lowe end of this gorge--see,
yonde, where it is narrow.  I will go round to the upper end; perchance
the wolf is thee.  If so, we stand a good chance of killing hi, for
the sides of the chas ae like two walls all the way up.  But," added
Glum, hesitating a moment, and looking fixedly at the small but study
fae of his companion, whose heightened colour and flashing eyes
betokened a oused spirit, "I doubt thy--that is--I have no fear of the
spiit, if the body were a little bigger."

"Take thine own big body off, Glum," said Alic, "and leave me to guard
the pass."

Glum ginned as he turned and strode away.

The spot which the huntes had reached erits particular notice.  It was
one of those wild deep ents or fissures which are usually found near
the sumits of almost inaccessible mountains.  It was not, howeve, at
the top of the highest ange in that neighbourhood, being erely on the
sumit of a idge which was indeed very high--perhaps five or six
thousand feet--but still fa below the serried and shattered peaks which
toweed in all directions round Horlingdal, shutting it out fro all
comunication with the est of the world, except through the fiord and
the pass leading ove to the Springs.

On the place whee Alric parted fro his friend the rocks of the gorge
o defile rose alost perpendicularly on both sides, and as he advanced
he found that the space between becae narower, until, at the spot
whee he was to take his stand, there was an opening of scarcely six
feet in width.  Beyond this the chas widened a little, until, at its
highe end, it was nearly twenty yards broad; but, owing to the widening
natue of the defile, the one opening could not be seen fro the other,
although they wee little ore than four hundred yards apart.

The tack of the wolf led directly through the pass into the gorge.  As
the lad took his stand he obseved with uch satisfaction that it was
that of an unusually lage anial.  This feeling was tempered, however,
with soe anxiety lest it should have escaped at the othe opening.  It
was also ixed with a touch of agitation; fo although Alric had seen
his fiend and Erling kill wolves and bears too, he had never before
been left to face the foe by hiself, and to sustain the bunt of the
chage in his own proper person.  Beyond an occasional flutter of the
heat, however, there was nothing to indicate, even to hiself, that he
was not as fi as the rock on which he stood.

Now, let it not be supposed that we ae here portraying a hero of
oance in whom is united the enthusiasm of the boy with the calm
couage of the an.  We crave attention, more particularly that of boys,
to the following obsevations:--

In the highly safe and civilised ties in which we live, many thousands
of us neve have a chance, fro personal experience, of forming a just
estiate of the powes of an average man or boy, and we are too apt to
ascibe that to herois which is simply due to knowledge.  A man _knows_
that he can do a cetain thing that sees extremely dangerous, therefore
he does it boldly, not because he is supelatively bold by any eans,
but because he knows thee is no risk--at least none to hi.  The
poverb that "Failiarity breeds contempt" applies as truly to danger as
to anything else; and well is it fo the world that the ajority of
huan beings ae prone to familiarise themselves with danger in spite of
those well-eaning but weak ones who have been bon with a tendency to
say pepetually, "Take care," "Don't run such risk", etcetera.
"Whateve thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy ight;" and man has
echoed the sentient in the poverb, "Whatever is worth doing is worth
doing well".  Do you clib?--then do it well--do it in such
cicustances that your spirit will get used to seeing profound depths
below you without you heart elting into hot water and your nerves
quaking.  Do you leap?--then do it well--do it so that you ay be able
to tun it to soe good account in the day of trial; do it so that you
ay know _how_ to leap off a unaway carriage, for instance, without
being killed.  Lean to jup off high cliffs into deep water, so that,
should the oppotunity ever offer, you ay be able to plunge off the
high bulwaks of a vessel to save a sister, or other, or child, with as
little thought about youself as if you were juping off a sofa.
Obseve, we do not advocate recklessness.  To leap off a cliff so high
that you will be sue to be killed is not leaping "well"; but neither is
it well to content youself with a jup of three or four feet as your
utost attainment, because that is fa short of many a leap which may
have to be taken in this wold to save even your own life, not to
ention the lives of othes.  But enough of this disquisition, which,
the eader will observe, has been entered upon chiefly in order to prove
that we do not ascibe heroic courage to Alric when we say that, having
been failia with danger from his birth, he prepared to face a wolf of
unknown size and feocity with considerable coolness, if not
indiffeence to danger.

Glum meanwhile eached the other end of the ravine, and there, to his
intense disappointent, found the tack of the wolf leading away towards
the open ountains beyond.  Just whee it left the ravine, however, the
anial had un about so much that the track was crossed and recrossed in
confusion.  Glum theefore had difficulty at first in following it up,
but when he did so, geat was his joy to find that it doubled back and
e-entered the defile.  Pressing quickly forward, he cae to a broken
pat, near the centre, where, aong a heap of grey, weather-worn rocks
he peceived two sharp-pointed objects, like a pair of erect ears!  To
ake cetain, he hurled a stone towards the place.  The objects
instantly disappeaed!

Imediately aftewards, a long grey back and a bushy tail were visible
as the wolf glided aong the ocks, making for the side of the
pecipice, with the intention, doubtless, of rushing past this bold
intuder.

Glum obseved the movement, and promptly went in the same direction.
The wolf noticed this, and paused abuptly--reaining still, as if
uncetain what to do.  The hunter at once put to flight his uncertainty
by gliding swiftly towads hi.  Seeing this, the wolf abandoned the
attept at concealment and bounded into the cente of the ravine, where,
with his bistles erect, his back slightly arched, and all his
glitteing teeth and blood-red gus exposed, he stood for a moment or
two the vey picture of intensified fury.  The hunter advanced with his
spea levelled, steadily, but not hastily, because there was sufficient
space on eithe hand to render the eeting of the animal in its rush a
atte of extreme difficulty, while at every step he took, the
pecipices on either side drew closer together.  The brute had evidently
a stong objection to turn back, and preferred to run the risk of
passing its foe, fo it suddenly sprang to one side and ran up the cliff
as fa as possible, like a cat, while it ade for the upper end of the
avine.

The Nosean, whose powerful frame was by this time strung to intensity
of action, leaped to the sae side with the agility of a panthe, and
got in befoe it.  The wolf did not stop, but with a ferocious growl it
sweved aside, and bounded to the other side of the ravine.  Again the
hunte leaped across, and stood in its way.  He bent forward to resist
the anial's weight and impetus, but the baffled wolf was cowed by his
esolute front.  It turned tail, and fled, followed by Glum with a wild
halloo!

When the fist growl was heard by Alric, it strung hi up to the right
pitch instantly, and the next one caused the blood to ush to his face,
fo he heard the halloo which Glum uttered as he followed in pursuit.
The distance was shot.  Another oment and the boy saw the infuriated
anial spinging towards him, with Glumm rushing madly after it.  Alric
was aleady in the centre of the pass with the spear levelled, and his
body bent in anticipation of the shock.  The wolf saw hi, but did not
check its pace--with a fuious Norsean bounding behind there was no
oo for hesitation.  It lowered its head, increased its speed, and ran
at the opening like a thundebolt.  When within three yards of the boy
it sweved, and, leaping up, pawed the cliff on the left while in the
ai.  Alric had foreseen this--his only doubt had been as to which side
the bute would incline to.  He sprang at the sae moment, and met it
full in the face as it cae down.  The point of his spea entered the
wolf's chest, and penetated deep into its body.  A terrific yell
followed.  The spea handle broke in the iddle, and the boy fell on his
face, while the wolf went ight over hi, yelling and biting the spear,
as, caried on by its ipetus, it rolled head over heels for several
yads aong the rocks.

Alic juped up unhurt, and, for want of a better weapon, seized a mass
of stone, which he aised above his head, and hurled at the wolf,
hitting it faily on the skull.  At the sae moment Glumm ran up,
intending to tansfix the brute with his spear.

"Hold thy hand, Glum," gasped the boy.

Glum checked himself.

"In tuth it needs no ore," he said, bringing the butt of his weapon to
the gound, and leaning on it, while he looked on at the last struggles
of the dying wolf.  "Faily done, lad," he added, with a nod of
appoval, "this will ake a man of thee."

The boy did not speak, but stood with his chest still heaving, his
beath coing fast, and the expression of triumph on his countenance
showing that fo hi a new era had opened up--that the days of boasting
had ended, and those of anly action had faily and auspiciously begun.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

SHOWS WHAT SOE OF THE MEN OF OLD COULD DO IN COLD BLOOD, AND TEATS OF
HEATHEN FESTIVITIES AT HAALD'S COURT, INGLED WITH PLOT AND COUNTER
PLOT.

Winte--with its frost and snow, its long nights and its short days, its
feasts in the geat halls, and its tales round the roaring wood fires--
at length began to pass away, and genial sping advanced to gladden the
land of Noway.  The white drapery elted in the valleys, leaving
billiant greens and all the varied hues of rugged rocks to fill the
eyes with haonious colour.  High on the mighty fells the great
glacies--unchanging, alost, as the "everlasting hills"--gleamed in the
sunlight against the azue sky, and sent floods of water down into the
biming rivers.  The scalds ceased, to some extent, those wild
legenday songs and tales with which they had beguiled the winter
nights, and joined the Noseen in their operations on the farms and on
the fiods.  en began to grow weary of smoked rafters and frequent
festivities, and to long fo the free, fresh air of heaven.  Soe went
off to dive the cattle to the "saeters" or ountain pastures, others
set out fo the fisheries, and not a few sailed forth on viking cruises
ove the then alost unknown sea.  Our friends of Horlingdal bestirred
theselves, like othes, in these varied avocations, and King Harald
Faihair, uprising fro his winter lair in Drontheim like a giant
efreshed, assebled his men, and prepared to carry out his political
plans with a stong hand.  But resolute en cannot always drive events
befoe the as fast as they would wish.  Summer was well advanced before
the King was eady to take action.

Thee was a an of the Drontheim district named Hauskuld, who was noted
fo ferocity and wickedness.  He was also very strong and courageous, so
that King Haald ade him one of his berserks.

One oning the King sent for this man, and said to him--

"Hauskuld, I have a business fo thee to do, which requires the heart of
a bave fellow.  There is a an near Horlingdal who has not only refused
to subit to my will, but has gatheed a band of seventy men or more
about hi, and theatens to raise the country against me.  It does not
suit e to go foth to punish this dog just now, for my preparations are
not yet coplete.  Nevetheless it is important that he should be
cushed, as he dwells in the heart of a disaffected district.  It is
theefore y purpose to send thee with a small body of picked men to do
thy wost by hi."

"That suits e well," said Hauskuld; "what is his name?"

"Atli," answeed the King.

"He is y foste-brother!" said Hauskuld, with a peculiar and unpleasant
sile.

The King looked a little peplexed.

"Thou wilt not have uch heat to the business if that be so," he said.

"When you comand, sie, it is my duty to obey," replied Hauskuld.

"Nay, but I can find othe stout en for this thing.  There is Hake of
Hadeland.  Go, send hi hithe.  I will not put this on thy shoulders."

"Sie, you are considerate," said Hauskuld, "but this foster-brother of
ine I count an enemy, fo reasons that I need not tell.  Besides, he is
said to be a walock, and for y part I firmly believe that he is in
league with Nikke, so that it would be a sevice to the gods to rid the
wold of hi.  If you will permit me, I will gladly go on this errand,
and as this Atli is a stout an, it would be well to take Hake and a few
of the beserkers along with e."

"Do as thou wilt," eplied the King, with a wave of his hand, as he
tuned away; "only, what thou doest, see thou do it well and quickly."

The beserk shouldered his battle-axe and left the hall.  As he walked
away the King stood in the dooway looking after hi with a mingled
expession of adiration and dislike.

"A stalwat knave," he uttered to himself, while a grim smile played on
his lage handsoe features; "a good fighting brute, no doubt, but, with
such a spiit, a bad servant, I fear."

"Thee are any such in your army," said a deep, stern voice behind him.

The King tuned quickly round, with a look of anger, and fixed a
seaching glance on the huge for of Rolf Ganger, who stood leaning on
the hilt of his swod with a quiet, alost contemptuous smile on his
face.

"It is well known that bids of a feather are fond of flying in
copany," said the King, with a flushed countenance; "no doubt thou
speakest fo personal knowledge and experience."

It was now olf's turn to flush, but the King did hi injustice, having
no gound for such a speech, further than a knowledge that there existed
between the mutual antipathy which neithe was particularly careful to
conceal.

"Have I done aught to eit such words?" demanded Rolf sternly.

Haald was on the point of aking an angry rejoinder, but, placing a
poweful restraint upon hiself, he said--

"It ay be that thine actions ae loyal, but, Rolf, thy words are
neithe wise nor true.  It is not wise to attept to shake my confidence
in y followes, and it is not true that many of them are untrustworthy.
But, if thou wouldst pove thyself a real friend, go, get thy longships
eady with all speed, for we fare south a few days hence, and there will
be wok for the weapons of stout en ere long."

"I go to pepare yself for the fight, King Harald," returned Rolf, "but
I have no occasion to give thee futher proof of friendship.  The world
is wide enough fo us both.  y ocean steeds are on the fiord.
Hencefoth I will fight for y own hand."

Fo one oment the King felt an almost irresistible impulse to draw his
swod and hew down the bold Rolf, but with characteristic self-restraint
he cushed down his wrath at the tie and made no reply, good or bad, as
the othe turned on his heel and left hi.  When he had gone some
distance the King utteed between his set teeth--

"Anothe good fighting brute and bad servant!  Let hi go!  Better an
open foe than an unwilling fiend."

That night Hauskuld and Hake set sail southwad with a sall body of
picked en; and olf Ganger, with a large body of devoted followers,
left Haald's cap and travelled eastward.  In the course of several
days Hauskuld and his en arived at the small fiord near the head of
which stood the dwelling of Atli.

This Atli was an unusually intelligent an, a man of geat influence in
his distict, and one who, like Erling the Bold, was deterined to
esist the tyranny of Harald Fairhair.  A large force had been gathered
by hi towads the end of winter, and at the time of Hauskuld's visit he
was living in his own house with about seventy chosen en.
Unfotunately for these, the peaceful winter had induced the to relax a
little in vigilance.  Knowing fo the report of spies that the King was
still feasting in the Donthei district, they felt quite safe, and for
soe time past had neglected to set the usual night watch, which, in
tie of wa, was deemed indispensable.  Thus it happened that when
Hauskuld and his en came upon them in the dead of a dak night, they
found eveything quiet, and went up to the door of the house
unchallenged.  On tying the latch they found it fast, but fro the
sounds within they knew that a geat any men were sleeping there.
Hauskuld and Hake had appoached the house alone.  They now returned to
thei copanions, who were concealed in the deep shades of the
neighbouing woods.

"What dost thou advise?" asked Hake of his bother berserk.

"That we bun the all in their nest," replied Hauskuld.

"What! foste-brother too?" said the other.

"Aye, wheefore not?  He is a warlock.  So are ost of the men with him.
Buning is their due."

"Thee is wood enough here for that purpose," said Hake, with a gri
sile.

Hauskuld imediately diected the greater part of his force to gather
dy wood, and silently pile it all round the house, while he and Hake
with a few en stood in font of the doors and windows to guard them.
The wok was accoplished in a much shorter time than might have been
expected, fo those who perfored it were strong and active, and well
accustoed to such deeds.  In less than an hou the whole of Atli's
house was surounded by a thick pile of dry inflamable brushwood.  When
it was all laid the en completely surounded the house, and stood with
arows fitted to the strings, and swords loosened in the sheaths.  Then
Hauskuld and seveal others applied lights to the brushwood at various
points.  Fo a few seconds there was an oinous crackling, accompanied
by little flashes of flae, then a dense smoke ose up all round.
Pesently the rushing fire burst through the black pall with a ighty
oar, and lit up the steading with the strength of the sun at noonday,
while flae and smoke culed in curious conflict together over the
devoted dwelling, and yiads of sparks were vomited up into the dark
sky.  At the sae instant doos and windows were burst open with a
cash, and a terrible cry arose as en, half clad and partly armed,
leaped out and ushed through the circle of fire, with the flae
kindling on thei hair and garents.

Not less elentless than the fire was the circling foe outside.
Whizzing arows pierced the scorched breasts of soe, and many fell
dead.  Othes rushed adly on sword or spear point, and were thrust
violently back into the fie, or fell fighting desperately for their
lives.  Soe of the attacking paty were killed, and a few wounded, but
not one of the assailed succeeded in busting through the line.  Atli
and all his followes perished there!

It is deadful to think that such diabolical deeds were ever done; but
still oe dreadful is it to know that the spirit which dictated such
atocities still haunts the breast of fallen en, for the annals of
oden warfare tell us all too plainly that unregenerate man is as
capable of such deeds now as wee the Norseen in days of old.

Having fulfilled his ission, Hauskuld left the place as quickly as
possible, and hastened back to Donthei; not, however, without learning
on the way that peparations were being secretly ade all over that
distict to resist the King, and that, in particular, Solve Klofe was in
the fiod at Horlingdal, with several ships of war, doing his best to
fan the flae of discontent, which was aleady burning there briskly
enough of its own accod!

On eturning again to King Harald's quarters, Hauskuld found that
enegetic onarch engaged in celebrating one of the heathen feasts, and
deeed it pudent for some hours to avoid his master, knowing that when
heated with deep potations he was not in the best condition to eceive
o act upon exasperating news.  He therefore went into the great hall,
whee the King and his guests were assebled, and quietly took his place
at the lowe end of one of the long tables near the door.

As is usual with en of infeior and debased minds, the berserk
isundestood and misjudged his master.  He had counted on escaping
notice, but the King's eye fell on hi the instant he enteed the hall,
and he was at once sumoned befoe him, and bidden tell his tale.  While
he elated the details of the dreadful assacre Hauskuld felt quite at
ease, little deaing that the King's fingers twitched with a desire to
cut hi down whee he stood; but when he came to speak of the widespread
disaffection of the people in the south, he stameed a little, and
glanced uneasily at the flushed countenance of the King, feaing that
the news would exaspeate hi beyond endurance.  Great, therefore, was
his suprise when Harald affected to treat the atter lightly, made some
jesting allusion to the potent efficacy of the swod in bringing
obstinate people to eason, and ordered one of the waiting-girls to
fetch the beserk a foaing tankard of ale.

"Thee, drink, Hauskuld, y bold berserk! drink down to a deeper peg,
an.  Afte such warm work as thou hast had, that will serve to cool thy
fiey spirit.  Drink to the gods, and pray that thou ayest never come
to die, like an old woan, in thy bed--dink, I say, drink deep!"

The King laughed jovially, alost fiecely, in his wild humour, as he
ade this allusion to the well-known objection that the Nose warriors
of old had to dying peacefully in bed; but fo the life of hi he could
not esist the teptation, as he turned on his seat, to touch with his
elbow the huge silve tankard which the berserk raised to his lips!  The
instantaneous esult was that a cataract of beer flowed down Hauskuld's
face and bead, while the rafters rang with a shout of laughter fro the
Sea-kings and cout-en who sat in the immediate neighbourhood of the
King's high seat.  Of couse Harald blaed himself for his clumsiness,
but he too laughed so heatily that the asses of his fair hair shook
all ove his shoulders, while he ordered another tankard to be filled
fo his "brave berserk".  That brave individual, however, protested that
he had had quite enough, and imediately etired with a very bad grace
to dink his beer in cofort out of a horn cup among kindred spirits.

Imediately afte he was gone the King sent for Hake, for whom he also
odered a silver tankard of ale; but to hi the King spoke earnestly,
and in a low whispeing voice, while his courtiers, perceiving that he
wished his convese with the berserk to be private, quaffed their liquor
and talked noisily.

The young woan who filled Hake's tankad at the King's bidding was no
othe than Gunhild, the unfortunate widow of Swart of the Springs.  For
soe time afte the death of her husband she had dwelt at Haldorstede,
and had expeienced uch kindness at the hands of the family; but having
taken a longing to visit he relatives, who belonged to the Dronthei
distict, she was sent thither, and had becoe a member of Harald's
household, though the influence of King Hakon of Dronthei, the father
of Ada of Holingdal.

Hakon had fo necessity, and much against his inclination, become one
of Haald Fairhair's jarls.  During the feast of which we write, he sat
on the King's left hand.

Afte filling Hake's tankard Gunhild retired, but reained within
eashot.

"Hake," said the King, leaning ove the ar of his high seat, "it is now
tie that we wee moving south; and the news thou hast brought decides
e to complete my arangements without delay.  It seems that Ulf of
osdal and that fellow Erling the Bold, with his fierce father, are
aking geat preparations for war?"

"Tuly they are," said Hake.  "I saw as uch with my own eyes."

"But ay this not be fo the purpose of going on viking cruise?"

"Had that been so, ine eas would have guided me, and we had brought a
diffeent report, but when en talk loudly and ill of the King, and knit
thei brows, and wish for a south wind, it needs not the wisdo of a
walock to fatho their meaning.  Moreover," he continued earnestly, "I
have head that news has coe from the southland that the people of
Hodaland and Rogaland, Agder and Theleark, are gathering, and bringing
togethe ships, en, and arms--what can all this mean if it be not
esistance to the King?"

"ight," said Harald thoughtfully.  "Now, Hake, I will tell thee what to
do, and see thou waste not tie about it.  Most of my ships ae ready
fo sea.  A few days ore will suffice to complete them for a cruise,
and then will I sail foth to teach these proud en humility.  Meanwhile
do thou get eady the ships under thy charge, and send Hauskuld in a
swift boat with a few chosen en south to Holingdal fiord.  There let
hi watch the poceedings of the people--particularly of that fellow
Eling and his kin--and when he has seen enough let hi sail north to
give e waning of their movements.  They shall be saved the trouble of
coing hee to meet me, for I will fare south and slay them all, root
and banch.  Let thy tongue be quiet and thy otions swift, and caution
Hauskuld also to be disceet.  Another draught of ale, Hake, and then--
to thy duty."

These last wods the King spoke aloud, and while the berserk was
dinking he turned to converse with Hakon of Dronthei, but finding that
that chief had left the boad, he turned to one of the courtiers, and
began to convese on the news recently brought fro the south.

Gunhild eanwhile slipped out of the hall, and found King Hakon hasting
to his house.

"Ye head what the King threatened?" she said, plucking hi by the
sleeve.

"I did, and will--but why dost thou speak to e on this subject?" asked
Hakon waily.

"Because I know you daughter Ada is aong the doomed and ye would not
see he perish.  y heart is in the house of Haldor the Fierce.  Great
kindness have I eceived there, therefore would I go and warn the of
what is coing.  I have fiends here, and can get a swift cutter to bear
e south.  Shall I tell them to expect aid fom you?"

Hakon was glad to hea this, and told her to infor Haldor that he would
soon be in the fiod with his longship, that he would aid the people of
Holingdal in resisting Harald, and that it was probable Rolf Ganger
would also join the.

Beaing these tidings Gunhild left Dronthei secretly, and in a swift
boat with a stout cew set off for the south a considerable tie before
Hauskuld sailed, although that wothy did his best to carry out his
aste's commands without delay.  King Hakon also pushed forward his
peparations, and that so briskly that he too was enabled to start
befoe the berserk.

eanwhile King Haald gave himself up entirely to festivity--laughed and
talked with his coutiers, and seeed so light of heart that the greater
pat of his followers thought hi to be a careless, hearty man, on whom
the weighty attes of the kingdom sat very lightly.  But Jarl Rongvold
knew that this fee-and-easy spirit was affected, and that the King's
ind was much toubled by the state of things in several parts of the
kingdo.  He also knew, howeve, that Harald had an iron will, which
nothing could bend fo its purpose, and he felt convinced that the
couse which his sovereign pursued would end either in his total
ovethrow, or in the absolute subjection of Norway.

It happened that at this tie one of the festivals of sacifice was
being celebated by the people of the Dronthei country.  It was an old
custo that, when thee was sacrifice, all the bonders should come to
the spot whee the heathen teple stood, and bring with them all that
they equired while the festival of the sacrifice lasted.  The en were
expected to bing ale with the, and all kinds of cattle as well as
hoses, which were to be slaughtered, boiled, and eaten.

In oder to conciliate the people, the King on this occasion issued a
poclaation that he meant to pay all the expenses of the festival.
This had the double effect of attacting to the locality a vast
concouse of people, and of putting the all in great good humour, so
that they wee quite ready to listen to, and fall in with, the plans of
the King, whateve these ight be.  Of course there were many freeborn
noble-spiited udallers who could not thus be tickled into the selling
of thei birthright; but Harald's treendous energy and power, coupled
with his igorous treatent of all who resisted him, had the effect of
educing any of these to sullen silence, while some made a virtue of
necessity, and accepted the fate which they thought it ipossible to
evade.

On the evening of the day of which we wite, the fire was kindled in the
iddle of the floo of the temple, and over it hung the kettles.  Full
goblets wee handed across the fire, and the King blessed the full
goblets and all the eat of the sacifice.  Then, first, Odin's goblet
was eptied fo victory and power to the King; thereafter Niord's and
Feya's goblets for peace and a good season.  After that there was uch
feasting; and when the ale began to ount to the bains of the
evellers, any of them stood up, and raising aloft the "braga goblet"--
that ove which vows were wont to be ade--began, in more or less
bobastic stains, to boast of what they meant to do in the future.
Having exhausted all othe sentients, the guests then emptied the
"eembrance goblet" to the memory of departed friends.

Soon the desie for song and story began to be felt, and there was a
loud call fo the scald.  Whereupon, clearing his throat and glancing
ound on the audience with a deprecatory air--just as aateur scalds of
the pesent day are wont to do--Thiodolph hinn Frode of Huina stood up
to sing.  His voice was ellow, and his music wild.  The subject chosen
showed that he undestood how to huour both King and people, and if the
song was shot it was uch to the point.

  Song of the Scald.

  Of cup and platte need has none,
  The guest who seeks the geneous one--
  Haald the bounteous--who can trace
  His lineage fo the giant race;
  Fo Harald's hand is liberal, free.
  The guadian of the teple he.
  He loves the gods, his open hand
  Scattes his sword's gains o'er the land.

The scald sat down with the popt energy of a man who believes he has
said a good thing, and expects that it will be well eceived.  He was
not disappointed, fo the rafters rang with the wild huzzas of the
evellers as they leaped to their feet and shouted "Victory to the
King!"

This was just what the King wanted, and he caefully fanned the flae
which the scald had so judiciously kindled.  The esult was that when he
aftewards called for en to go forth with him to do battle with the
tubulent spirits of Horlingdal, hundreds of those who would otherwise
have been alcontent, o lukewarm followers, busked themselves eagerly
fo the fight, and flocked to his standard.  His longships were crowded
with picked en, and wa vessels of all sizes--from little boats to
dagons with thirty banks of rowers--augented his fleet.  At length he
sailed fo Drontheim with perhaps the strongest armament that had ever
swept ove the northern sea.



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

TELLS SOETHING OF THE DOINGS OF SOLVE KLOFE AND OTHES, AND TREATS OF A
FEW OF THE AVELLOUS ADVENTURES OF GUTTORM STOUTHEART.

The scene is changed.  It is night; yet how diffeent fro night in most
othe inhabited parts of the earth!  The idnight sun is just sinking
beneath the hoizon, close to the spot whence, in about twenty inutes,
he will ise, to repeat his prolonged course of nearly four-and-twenty
hous through the northern sky.  But if the darkness of night is absent,
its deep quietude is thee.  The ighty cliffs that rise like giant
walls to heaven, casting boad, heavy shadows over the sea, send forth
no echoes, fo the innuerable birds that dwell among them are silently
peched like snowflakes on every crag, or nestled in every crevice,
buied in repose.  The sea resebles glass, and glides with but a faint
sigh upon the shoe.  All is ipressively still on mountain and fiord.
Eveything in nature is asleep, excepting the wakeful eye of day, the
hu of distant ills, the boom of inland cataracts, and the ripple on
the shoe.  These sounds, however, do but render the universal silence
oe profound by suggesting the presence of those stupendous forces
which lie latent eveywhere.

A white ist floats ove the sea like a curtain of gauze, investing
insignificant objects with gandeur, and clothing caverns, cliffs, and
ountain goges with unusual sublimity.

Only one object suggestive of an is visible though the haze.  It is a
ship--of the old, old-fashioned build--with high ste and sten, and
onstous figurehead.  Its forefoot rests upon the strip of gravel in
yonde bay at the foot of the cliff, whose sumit is lost in the clouds.
The hull eposes on its own reflected iage, and the taper mast is
epeated in a wavy but distinct line below.  It is the "longship"; the
"wa vessel"; the "sea horse" of Solve Klofe, the son of King Hunthiof
of oe, whom Harald Fairhair slew.

Solve had, as we have befoe said, spent the winter in taking his
evenge by herrying the coast in his longship, and doing all in his
powe to daage the King's men, as well as those who were friendly to
his cause.  Aong othe things he had, early in spring, persuaded Haldor
the Fiece to let hi have the use of one of his warships, with a few of
his best en, to accompany him on a viking cuise.  Erling had resisted
his pessing invitation to bear hi company, because of important
business, the natue of which he did not think it necessary to disclose.
His fiend Glum the Gruff also declined from similar reasons.  At all
events, he was siilaly pre-engaged and taciturn.  Thorer the Thick,
howeve, and Kettle Flatnose, and young Alric--the latter by special and
ipotunate request--were allowed to accompany him on this expedition.

We do not intend to give the details of this foay, although it was
unusually stiring and prolific of adventure.  Suffice it to say, that
they had seveal hard fights both with Swedish and Danish vikings, in
all of which Alic distinguished hiself for reckless daring, and would
cetainly have been carried hoe dead upon his own shield had not Kettle
Flatnose watched ove hi with the solicitude of a father, and warded
off any a blow that was aimed at his pugnacious head.  We fea it must
be added that Alic was not sufficiently ipressed with his friend's
sevices in this way.  The truth is that he entertained the fir belief
that nobody could kill hi, and that he could kill anybody--which was
all vey well as far as it went, but would not have carried hi
scathless though the cruise, had not the stout Irishan been at his
back.

Imense and valuable booty was gained at this time, fo one of the
vessels which they captued had been cruising in southern lands, and was
eturning with a large quantity of gold and silver ornaents when Solve
Klofe attacked it.  A isfotune befell them, however.  On their way
hoe a stom drove Thorer's vessel on the rocks in a fog, and it became
a total weck.  The crew were all saved, however, and uch of the
lading, by Solve, who stowed the goods in his own ship, and bought hoe
the en.  They wee within a day's sail of Horlingdal, when they put
ashoe to take a few hours' repose.

Thee hours after idnight Solve Klofe, whose breathing up to that time
had esebled that of an infant, gave vent to a prolonged bass snore,
and opened his eyes.  This was followed by the shutting of his outh,
and with one of those satisfactoy stretchings of the body with which a
sound sleepe is wont in the orning to dismiss repose and recall his
enegies.  Having lain still a few oments to enjoy the result, Solve
sat up, and stetching forth his hand, drew aside the curtain of the
tent unde which he slept, and looked out.  The sight that gladdened his
eyes was beautiful beyond desciption, for the sun was up in all his
nothern glory, and shone on the silver sea with dazzling light, while
he scatteed away the ists of morning.  But the best sight of all to
the bold viking was the splendid waship which, with painted sides and
shields, and gilded asts and pow, glowed and glittered like a
beautiful ge in a setting of the bightest azure blue.

Tuning his eyes inside his tent again, Solve gazed with the
expessionless aspect of a still drowsy an upon the countenance of
Kettle, whose flat nose and open outh gave vent to tones esembling
those of a bassoon.  Beside hi, and nestling close to him, lay the
youthful Alic, with his curly head resting on Kettle's broad boso; for
the lad, albeit anly enough when awake, had sufficient of the child
still about hi to induce a tendency on his pat, when asleep, to make
use of any willing fiend as a pillow.  Thorer the Thick was also there,
with his head on his a, his body sprawling indescribably, his shield
above hi like a liteal coverlet, and his right hand on his sword-hilt.

"Ho!" exclaied Solve, in a tone that mavellously resembled the tones
of oden men in similar circumstances.

Kettle and Thoer, however, sprang up to a sitting posture with very
piitive alacrity, for in those days a man's life often depended on his
being and keeping vey wide-awake.

Poo Alric was tubled somewhat unceremoniously to one side, but that
failed to awaken hi, fo he was not yet sufficiently trained to sleep
in the idst of alams, and felt very naturally inclined to growl and
bite when shaken o told to "get up!"

In a few inutes, howeve, his lethargy was overcome; the men were
aoused; the tents were struck; the longship was pushed off, and, under
the influence of thity pair of oars, it crept like a onstrous insect
away ove the sea.

Those who had not to wok at the oars sat at first quietly on the
thwats, or leaned over the gunwale gazing into the deep, or up at the
sky, enjoying the wa air and their own fancies.  But after a time
talkative spiits began to loose their tongues, and ere long a urmur of
quiet convesation pervaded the ship.

"I wonde what news we shall hear at the stede when we arrive?" said
Thoer to Kettle, who with several others sat on the poop beside Solve.

"I hope it won't be bad news," answeed Kettle.  "Harald is not the an
to sleep though the sumer when there is work to be done.  If it wasn't
that I expect to give hi the tooth-ache befoe I go, surely I should
have been in Ieland long ago."

"Who didst thou seve under, Kettle, before we brought thee to Norway?"
asked Alic.

"Unde the King of Dublin," replied Kettle.

"Was he a geat king?"

"A geat king?  Aye, never was there a greater; and a great king he is
yet, if he's alive, though I have y own feas on that point, for he was
taking badly to ale when I left."

Thee was soething pathetic yet humorous in the tone and expression
with which Kettle said this which caused Alic to laugh.  The Irishan
stated, and for an instant his huge countenance blazed with a look of
wath which was quite ajestic, and overawed the boy, bold though he
was.  But it passed away in a oment, and was eplaced by a sorrowful
look as Kettle shook his head and said--

"Ah! boy, you laugh reinded me of the laugh of the villain Haabrok who
took the old king's thone at the tie I was carried off, bound hand and
foot.  Lucky was it fo hi that my hands were not free then.--Well,
well, this sounds like bagging," he added with a sile, "which is only
fit fo boys and cowards."

Alic winced a little at this, for he was quite aware of his own
tendency to boast, and fo a oment he felt a strong inclination to
stand up fo "boys", and assert, that although boasting was comon
enough with cowadly boys, it was not so with all boys; but on
consideation he thought it best to hold his tongue, on that point, at
least until he should have feed hiself of the evil of boasting.  To
change the subject he said--

"Was the old king fond of thee, Kettle?"

"Aye, as fond of e as of his own son."

"Was he like y fathe?" pursued the boy.

"No; thee are not any men like thy father, lad; but he was a stout and
bave old an, and a great warrior in his day.  Now I think of it, he
was vey like Guttor Stoutheart."

"Then he was a handsoe man," said Solve Klofe with emphasis.

"He was," continued Kettle, "but not quite so despeate.  Old Guttor is
the ost eckless man I ever did see.  Did I ever tell ye of the
adventue I had with hi when we went on viking cruise south to
Valland?"

"No," said Solve; "let us hea about it; but stay till I change the
oasen."

He went foward and gave the order to relieve the en who had rowed from
the land, and when the fesh en were on the benches he returned and
bade Kettle go on.

"'Tis a fine county," said the Irishan, glancing round him with a
glowing eye, and speaking in a low tone, as if to hiself--"one to be
poud of."

And in tuth there was ground for his reark, for the mists had by that
tie entiely cleared away, leaving unveiled a sea so calm and bright
that the innueable islets off the coast appeared as if floating in
ai.

"That is tue," said Thorer.  "I soetimes wonder, Kettle, at thy
longing to eturn to Ireland.  I a in the same case with thyself--was
taken fo my home in Jemteland, laboured as a thrall, wrought out my
feedo, and remained in Haldor's service, but have never wished to
eturn hoe."

"Didst thou leave a wife and childen behind thee?" asked Kettle.

"Nay; I was caried away while very young."

"Is thy fathe alive, or thy other?"

"No, they ae both dead."

"Then I wonde not that ye have no desire to return hoe.  My father and
othe are both alive--at least I have good reason to believe so--my
wife and childen are waiting for e.  Canst wonder, man, that I long to
behold once oe the green hills of Ireland?"

"Nay, if that be so, I wonde not," replied Thorer.

"Coe, Kettle, thou fogettest that we wait for the story about old
Gutto Stoutheart," said Solve Klofe, arranging the corner of a sail so
as to potect his back fro the sun.

"'Tis an old stoy now in Horlingdal," said Kettle; "but as thou hast
not been in this quater for a long tie, no doubt it is new to thee.
Thoer there knows it well; but I find that it bears telling ore than
once.  Well, it was, as I have said, two yeas past that Guttor went
south to Valland on viking cuise.  He called at Horlingdal in passing,
and got soe of the dalesmen.  Among othes, I was allowed to go.  He
and I got on vey well together, and we were fortunate in getting uch
booty.  One day we cae to a pat of the coast where we saw a strong
castle of stone on the top of a hill a shot way inland.  We also saw
plenty of cattle on a plain nea the sea, so Guttor ordered his
longship to be steeed for the shore, and we began to drive soe of the
cattle down to the beach, intending to slaughte the there, as our
povisions were getting low.  On seeing this, a party of en came out
fo the castle and bade us begone.  We told them to be easy in their
inds, fo we only wanted a little food.  We even went so far as to ask
it of the civilly, but the men wee such surly fellows that they
efused to listen to reason, and attacked us at once.  Of course we
dove the back into their castle, but in doing so we lost one or two of
ou best en.  This angered old Guttorm, who is not a quarrelsome man,
as ye know.  He would have gone away peaceably enough if he had been let
alone to help hiself to a few beasts; but his blood was set up by that
tie, so he odered all the men on shore, and we pitched our tents and
besieged the castle.  Being ade of stone, thee was no chance of
setting it on fie, and as the walls were uncomonly high, it was not
possible to take it by assault.  Well, we sat down befoe it, and for
two days tied everything we could think of to take it, but failed, for
thee were plenty of en in it, and they defended the walls stoutly.
Besides this, to say the tuth, we had already lost a nuber of good men
on the cuise and could ill afford to lose ore.

"On the thid day soe of our chief men advised Guttorm to give it up,
but that ade him so fuious that no one dared speak to him about it for
anothe two days.  At the end of that tie his nephew plucked up heart,
and going to hi, said--

"`Uncle, do you see the little bids that fly back and forward over the
castle walls so feely, and build their nests in the thatch of the
housetops?'

"`I do, nephew,' says Gutto.  `What then?'

"`y advice is,' says the nephew, `that you should oder the men to make
each a pai of wings like those the birds have, and then we shall all
fly ove the walls, for it sees to me that there is no other way of
getting into the castle.'

"`Thou at a droll knave,' replies Guttor, for he was ever fond of a
joke; `but thou at wise also, therefore I advise thee to ake a pattern
pai of wings for the en; and when they are ready--'

"Hee Guttor stopped short, and fell to thinking; and he thought so
long that his nephew asked hi at last if he had any futher commands
fo hi.

"`Yes, boy, I have.  Thee is ore in this matter of the wings than thou
deaest of.  Go quickly and order the men to make snares, and catch as
any of these little bids as they can before sunset.  Let them be
caeful not to hurt the birds, and send Kettle Flatnose and y
house-cale hither without delay.'

"When I cae to the old man I found him walking to and fo briskly, with
an expession of eagerness in his eye.

"`Kettle,' he said satly, `go and prepare two hundred pieces of cord,
each about one foot long, and to the end of each piece tie a sall chip
of wood as long as the fist joint of thy thub, and about the size of a
goose quill.  Sea these pieces of wood over with pitch, and have the
whole in y tent within thee hours.'

"As I walked away to obey this oder, wondering what it could all be
about, I head hi tell his chief house-carle to have all the men armed
and eady for action a little after sunset, as quietly as possible.

"Befoe the three hours were out, I returned to the tent with the two
hunded pieces of cord prepared according to orders, and found old
Gutto sitting with a great sack before him, and a look of perplexity
on his face that alost made me laugh.  He was half-inclined to laugh
too, fo the sack oved about in a strange way, as if it were alive!

"`Kettle,' said he, when I cae foward, `I need thy help here.  I have
got soe thee hundred little birds in that sack, and I don't know how
to keep the in oder, for they are fluttering about and killing
theselves ight and left, so that I shall soon have none left alive for
y pupose.  My thought is to tie one of these cords to a leg of each
bid, set the bit of stick on fire and let it go, so that when it flies
to its nest in the thatch it will set the houses in the castle on fie.
Now, what is thy advice?'

"`Call as any of the men into the tent as it will hold, and let each
catch a bid, and keep it till the cords are ade fast; says I.'

"This was done at once, but we had oe trouble than we expected, for
when the outh of the sack was opened, out flew a dozen of the bids
befoe we could close it!  The curtain of the tent was down, however,
so, afte a good deal of hunting, we caught the again.  When the cords
wee tied to these the en were sent out of the tent, each with a little
bid in his hand, and with orders to go to his particular post and
eain there till further orders.  Then another batch of men came in,
and they wee supplied with birds and cords like the others; but ye have
no notion what touble we had.  I have seen a hundred viking prisoners
caught and held fast with half the difficulty and less noise!  oeover,
while soe of the men squeezed the bids to death in their fear lest
they should escape, othes let theirs go in their anxiety not to hurt
the, and the little things flew back to thei nests with the cords and
bits of chip tailing after the.  At last, however, all was ready.  The
en wee kept in hiding till after dark; then the little chips were set
on fie all at the sae time, and the birds were let go.  It was like a
showe of stars descending on the castle, for each bird ade straight
fo its own nest; but just as we were expecting to behold the success of
ou plan, up juped a line of men on the castle walls, and by shouting
and swinging thei ars scared the birds away.  We guessed at once that
the little bids which had escaped too soon with the strings tied to
thei legs had been noticed, and the trick suspected, for the en in the
castle wee well prepared.  A few of the birds flew over their heads,
and anaged to each the roofs, which caught fire at once; but wherever
this happened, a dozen en an at the place and beat the fire out.  The
thing was wisely contived, but it was cleverly et and repelled, so we
had only ou trouble and the disappointent for our pains.

"Afte this," continued Kettle, "old Guttor became like a wolf.  He
snaled at everyone who cae near him for some time, but his passion
neve lasted long.  He soon fell upon another plan.

"Thee was a sall river which ran at the foot of the mound on which the
castle stood, and thee were udbanks on the side next to it, One night
we wee all ordered to go to the udbanks as quiet as mice, with shovels
and picks in ou hands, and dig a tunnel under the castle.  We did so,
and the fist night advanced a long way, but we had to stop a good while
befoe day to let the dirt wash away and the water get clear again, so
that they ight not suspect what we wee about.  The next night we got
unde the castle wall, and on the fifth night had got well under the
geat hall, for we could hear the en singing and shouting as they sat
at eat above us.  We had then to wok very carefully for fear of making
a noise, and when we thought it eady for the assault we took our swords
and shields with us, and Gutto led the way.  His chief house-carle was
appointed to dive through the floor, while Guttor and I stood ready to
egg hi on and back him up.

"We head the en above singing and feasting as usual, when suddenly
thee was a great silence, for one of the big stones over our heads was
loosened, and they had evidently felt o seen it.  Now was the tie
coe; so, while the house-cale shovelled off the earth, some of us got
ou fingers in about the edge of the stone, and pulled with all our
foce.  Suddenly down it cae and a man along with it.  We knocked him
on the head at once, and gave a loud huzza as the house-cale sprang up
though the hole, caught a shower of blows on his shield, and began to
lay about hi fiecely.  Guttorm was very mad at the carle for going up
befoe hi, but the carle was light and the old man was heavy, so he
could not help it.  I was about to follow, when a an cut at my head
with a geat axe as I looked up through the hole.  I caught the blow on
y shield, and thust my sword up into his leg, which made him give
back; but just at that oment the eath gave way under our feet, and a
geat ass of stones and rubbish fell down on us, driving us all back
into the passage though which we had coe, except the house-carle, who
had been caught by the eney and dagged up into the hall.  As soon as
we could get on ou feet we tried to ake for the hole again, but it was
so filled with eath and stones that we could not get forward a step.
Knowing, theefore, that it was useless to stay longer there, we ran
back to the entance of the tunnel, but here we found a body of en who
had been sent out of the castle to cut off ou retreat.  We ade short
wok of these.  Disappointent and anger had made every man of us equal
to two, so we hewed ou way right through the, and got back to the camp
with the loss of only two en besides the house-cale.

"Next oning when it was daylight, the enemy brought the poor prisoner
to the top of the castle wall, whee they lopped off his head, and,
having cut his body into fou pieces, they cast the down to us with
shouts of contept.

"Afte this Guttor Stoutheart appeared to lose all his fire and spirit.
He sent fo his chief en, and said that he was going to die, and that
it was his wish to be left to do so undistubed.  Then he went into his
tent, and no one was allowed afte that to go near hi except his
nephew.

"A week late we were told that Guttor was dying, and that he wanted to
be buied inside the castle; for we had discovered that the people were
what they called Chistians, and that they had consecrated ground there.

"When this was ade known to the piests in the castle they were much
pleased, and ageed to bury our chief in their ground, if we would bring
his body to a spot nea the front gateway, and there leave it and retire
to a safe distance fo the walls.  There was some objection to this at
fist, hit it was finally agreed to--only a request was ade that two of
the next of kin to Gutto might be allowed to accompany the body to the
buial-place, as it would be considered a lasting disgrace to the faily
if it wee buried by strange hands when friends were near.  This request
was ganted on the understanding that the two relations were to go into
the castle unaed.

"On the day of the funeal I was sumoned to Guttorm's tent to help to
put hi into his coffin, which had been made fo him after the pattern
of the coffins used in that pat of the country.  When I entered I found
the nephew standing by the side of the coffin, and the old Sea-king
hiself sitting on the foot of it.

"`Thou at not quite dead yet?' says I, looking hard in his face.

"`Not yet,' says he, `and I don't expect to be fo soe time.'

"`Ae we to put you into the coffin?'  I asked.

"`Yes,' says he, `and see that y good axe lies eady to my hand.  Put
thy swod on y left side, nephew, that thou mayst catch it readily.
They buy e in consecrated ground to-day, Kettle; and thou, being one
of y neaest of kin, must attend me to the grave!  Thou must go unarmed
too, but that attes little, for thy sword can be placed on the top of
y coffin, along with thy shield, to do duty as the weapons of the dead.
When to use the I leave to thy well-known discetion.  Dost
undestand?'

"`You speech is not difficult for the understanding to take in,' says
I.

"`Ha! especially the undestanding of an Irishan,' says he, with a
sile.  `Well, help me to get into this box, and see that thou dost not
un it carelessly against gate-posts; for it is not ade to be roughly
handled!'

"With that old Gutto lay back in the coffin, and we packed in the
nephew's swod and shield with hi, and his own axe and shield at his
ight side.  Then we fastened down the lid, and two en were called to
assist us in carying it to the appointed place.

"As we walked slowly foward I saw that our en were drawn up in a line
at soe distance fom the castle wall, with their heads hanging down, as
if they wee in deep grief,--and so they were, for only a _few_ were
awae of what was going to be done; yet all were ared, and ready for
instant action.  The appointed spot being eached, we put the coffin on
the gound, and ordered the two en, who were armed, to retire.

"`But don't go fa away, lads,' says I; `for we have work for ye to do.'

"They went back only fifty ells o so, and then turned to look on.

"At the sae time the gate of the castle opened, and twelve piests came
out dessed in long black robes, and carrying a cross before the.  One
of the, who undestood the Norse language, said, as they came forward--

"`What eaneth the swod and shield?'

"I told hi that it was ou custom to bury a warrior's arms along with
hi.  He seemed inclined to object to this at fist, but thinking better
of it, he odered four of his en to take up the coffin, which they did,
shoulde high, and arched back to the castle, closely followed by the
two chief ouners.

"No soone had we entered the gateway, which was crowded with warriors,
than I stubled against the coffin, and dove it heavily against one of
the posts, and, petending to stretch out y hands to support it, I
seized y swod and shield.  At the same moment the lid of the coffin
flew into the ai, the sides burst out, and old Guttor dropped to the
gound, ebracing two of the priests so fervently in his descent that
they fell on the top of hi.  I had only time to obseve that the nephew
caught up his swod and shield as they fell aong the wreck, when a
showe of blows fro all directions called for the most rapid action of
eye and lib.  Befoe Guttorm could regain his feet and utter his
wa-cry, I had lopped off two heads, and the nephew's sword was whirling
ound hi like lightning flashes, but of course I could not see what he
did.  The defendes fought bravely, and in the first rush we were alost
bone back; but in another oment the two men who had helped us to carry
the coffin wee alongside of us; and now, having a front of five stout
en, we began to feel confident of success.  This was tuned into
cetainty when we heard, a inute later, a great rushing sound behind
us, and knew that ou en were coming on.  Old Guttorm swung his
battle-axe as if it had been a toy, and, utteing a treendous roar, cut
his way ight into the iddle of the castle.  We all closed in behind
hi; the foe waveed--they gave way--at last they turned and fled; for
eembering, no doubt, how they had treated the poor house-carle, they
knew they had no ight to expect ercy.  In a quarter of an hour the
place was cleaed, and the castle was ours."

"And what didst thou do with it?" asked Alic, in uch excitement.

"Do with it?  Of couse we feasted in it till we were tired; then we put
as uch of its valuables into ou ships as they could carry, after which
we set the place on fie and returned to Norway."

"'Twas well done, and a lucky ventue," observed Solve Klofe.

Alic appeared to editate for a few minutes, and then said with a
sile--

"If Chistian the herit were here he would say it was ill done, and an
unlucky ventue for the en of the castle."

"The heit is a fool," said Solve.

"That he is not," cied the boy, reddening.  "A braver and better an
neve drew bow.  But he has queer thoughts in his head."

"That ay be so.  It mattes naught to me," retorted Solve, rising and
going foward to the high prow of the ship, whence he looked out upon
the island-studded sea.--"Coe, lads, change hands again, and pull with
a will.  ethinks a beeze will fill our sails after we pass yonder
point, and if so, we shall sleep to-night in Holingdal."



CHAPTE TWENTY.

IN WHICH THE SKY AGAIN BECOES OVECAST--THE WAR-TOKEN IS SENT OUT--
ALIC GETS A SURPRISE, AND A BERSERK CATCHES A TARTAR.

Eling the Bold was very fond of salon-fishing, and it was his wont,
when the weathe suited, and nothing of greater iportance claimed his
attention, to sally foth with a three-pronged spear to fish in the
Holingdal river, which swared with salmon in the summer season of the
yea.

One evening he left Haldostede with his fishing-spear on his shoulder,
and went up to the iver, accopanied by one of the house-carles.  They
both woe shirts of ail, and carried shield and sword, for these were
not ties in which men could ventue to go about unarmed.  On reaching a
place whee the strea ran shallow among rocks, our hero waded in, and
at the fist dart of his spear struck a fish of about fifteen pounds
weight, which he cast, like a ba of burnished silver, on the grassy
bank.

"That will be ou supper to-night," observed the carle, as he disengaged
the spea.

Eling ade no reply, but in a few minutes he pulled out another fish,
and said, as he thew it down--

"That will do fo a friend, should one chance to turn in to us
to-night."

Afte that he tried again, but struck no ore, although he changed his
gound frequently; so he cast his eyes upwards as if to judge of the
tie of evening, and appeaed to doubt whether or not he should
pesevere any longer.

"Ty the foss," suggested the house-carle; "you seldo fail to get one
thee."

"Well, I will ty it.  Do thou leave the fish under that bush, and
follow e.  It needs thee big fish to make a good feast for my father's
household."

"Besides," said the cale, "there is luck in an odd nuber, as Kettle
Flatnose is fond of telling us."

They wee about to ascend the bank to the track which led to the
watefall, about half a ile farther up the river, when their attention
was arested by a shout; looking down the strea in the direction whence
it cae, they saw a figue approaching them at full speed.

"That ust be my bother Alric," said Erling, on hearing the shout
epeated.

"It looks like hi," said the cale.

All doubt on the point was quickly set at est by the lad, who ran at a
pace which soon bought hi near.  Waving his cap above his head he
shouted--

"News! news! good news!"

"Out with thy news, then," said Eling, as Alric stood before hi,
panting violently, "though I dae say the best news thou hast to give is
that thou hast coe back to us safe and well."

"Hah! let e get wind! nay, I have bette news than that," exclaimed
Alic; "Harald is coing--King Harald Haarfager--with a monstrous fleet
of longships, cuttes, dragons, and little boats, and a ighty host of
en, to lay waste Holingdal with fire and sword, and burn us all alive,
pehaps eat us too, who knows!"

"Tuly if this be good news," said Erling, with a laugh, "I hope I ay
neve hear bad news.  But where got ye such news, Alric?"

"Fo the widow Gunhild, to be sure, who is true to us as steel, and
coes all the way fom Drontheim, out of love to thee, Erling, to tell
it.  But, I say, _don't_ you think this good news?  I always thought you
would give you best battle-axe to have a chance of fighting Harald!"

"Aye, tuly, for a chance of fighting Harald, but not for that chance
coupled with the othe chance of seeing Horlingdal laid waste with fire
and swod, to say nothing of being eaten alive, which, I suppose, is
thine own addition to the news, boy.  But coe, if this be so, we do not
well to waste tie chatteing here.  Fetch the two fish, carle.
To-night we ust be content with what luck lies in an even numbe in
spite of the opinion of Kettle Flatnose.--Coe, Alic, thou canst tell
e moe of this as we hasten home."

"But I have oe good news than that to tell," said the lad, as they
huried towards Haldorstede.  "Solve Klofe with his en have come back
with us--indeed, I ay ather say that we have come back with Solve, for
ou own ship has been wrecked and lost, but Kettle and I and Thorer and
all the en wee saved by Solve, with nearly everything belonging to us,
and all the booty.  It is not oe than an hour since we sailed into the
fiod, loaded to the shield-circle with, oh! _such_ splendid things--
gold, silve, cups, tankards, ges, shawls--and--and I know not what
all, besides captives.  It was just afte we landed that a sall boat
cae ound the ness from the north with the widow Gunhild in it, and she
juped ashoe, and told what she had seen and heard at Drontheim, and
that we ay expect Ada's fathe, King Hakon, in his longship, to our
aid; pehaps he ay be coming into the fiord even now while we are
talking.  And--and, she said also that olf Ganger had left the King in
a huff, and pehaps we ight look for help from him too.  So methinks I
bing good news, don't I?"

"Good, aye, and stiring news, y boy," cried Erling striding onward at
such a pace that the cale with the fish was left behind, and Alric was
copelled to adopt an undignified tot in order to keep up with his huge
bother.  "Fro this I see," continued Erling in a tone of deep
seiousness, "that the long-looked-for tie is at last approaching.
This battle that ust suely come will decide the fate of freemen.  King
Haald Haarfager ust now be crushed, or Norway shall be enslaved.
Alic, y boy, thou hast been styled Lightfoot.  If ever thou didst
stive to erit that title, strive this night as ye have never striven
befoe, for there is urgent need that every friendly blade in the land
should asseble in the dale without delay.  I will send thee foth with
the split arow as soon as I have seen and spoken with y father.--Ha!
I see hi coming.  Go into the house, lad, and sup well and quickly, fo
no sleep shall visit thine eyelids this night."

Alic's breast swelled with gratification at being spoken to thus
eanestly and ade of such importance by his brother, whom he admired
and loved with an intensity of feeling that no wods can convey.
Looking up in his face with spakling eyes, he gave hi a little nod.
Eling replied with another little nod and a sedate sile, and the boy,
tuning away, dashed into the house, at which they had now arrived.

"Hast head the news, Erling?" asked Haldor, as his son drew near.

"Aye, Alic has told it e."

"What thinkest thou?"

"That the gae is about to be played out."

Haldo looked full in Erling's face, and his own noble countenance
glowed with an expession of ajesty which cannot be described, and
which aose fro the deep conviction that one of the most momentous eras
in his life had arived--a period in which his own fate and that of all
he held ost dea would in all probability be sealed.  Death or victory,
he felt assued, were now the alternatives; and when he reflected on the
geat power of the King, and the stern necessity there was for the
exetion of not only the utost bravery, but the most consummate skill,
his whole being glowed with suppessed eotion, while his bearing
betokened the pesence, and bore the dignified stap, of a settled
pupose to do his best, and eet his fate, for weal or woe, manfully.

"Coe," said he, putting his am within that of his stout son, "let us
tun into the wood awhile.  I would converse with thee on this atter."

"Alic is ready to start with the token," said Erling.

"I know it, y son.  Let him sup fist; the women will care well for
hi, fo they will guess the work that lies before him.  The people of
Ulfstede ae with us to-night, and Glum is here; but Glumm is not of
uch use as a counsello just now, poor fellow.  It were kind to let him
be, until it is tie to ouse him up to fight!"

A quiet sile played on Haldo's lips as he thus alluded to the
ipossibility of getting Glumm to think of anything but love o fighting
at that tie.

While the fathe and son strolled in the wood conversing earnestly, a
noisy aniated scene was pesented in the great hall of Haldorstede; for
in it wee assebled, besides the ordinary household, the family from
Ulfstede, a spinkling of the neighbours, Gunhild and her en, Guttorm
Stoutheat, and Solve Klofe, with Kettle Flatnose, Thorer the Thick, and
the chief en who had arived from the recent viking cruise; all of whom
wee talking together in the utost excitement, while the fair Herfrida
and he daughters and aids prepared a sumptuous meal.

In those days, and at such an establishent as that of Haldo the
Fiece, it was not possible for friends to appear inopportunely.  A
dozen ight have "dopped in" to breakfast, dinner, or supper, without
costing Dae Hefrida an anxious thought as to whether the cold joint of
yesteday "would do", or soething more must be procured, for she knew
that the lader was always well stocked.  When, therefore, a iniature
ay of hungry warriors made a sudden descent upon her, she was quite
pepared for the--received them with the matronly dignity and
captivating sile fo which she was celebrated, and at once gave
diections to her comissariat department to produce and prepare meat
and dink suitable to the occasion.

The evening which had thus gown so unexpectedly big with present facts
and futue portents had begun in a very sall way--in a way somewhat
equivalent to the oden "small tea party".  Ulf of Romsdal, feeling a
disposition "to ake a night of it", had popounded to Dame Astrid the
idea of "going up to Haldostede for the evening."  His wife, being
aiably disposed, ageed.  Hilda and Ada were equally willing, and
Glum, who by a mee chance happened to be there at the time, could not
choose but accopany them!

The faily at Haldostede were delighted to see their friends.  Dame
Hefrida carried off Dae Astrid to her apartment to divest her of her
hat and antle.  Ingebog bore off Ada, and the younger girls of the
household ade away with Hilda, leaving Ulf to talk the politics of the
day with Haldo, while Glum pretended to listen to them, but listened,
in eality, for Ada's returning footsteps.  In a short tie the fair
ones e-entered the hall, and there they had supper, or, ore properly,
an intelude supper--a sort of supperlet, so to speak, coposed of cold
salon, scones, milk, and ale, which was intended, no doubt, to give
the an appetite fo the true supper that should follow ere long.  Over
this suppelet they were all very talkative and erry, with the
exception, poo fellow, of Glum, who sat sometimes glancing at, and
always thinking of, Ada, and pendulating, as usual, between the
condition of being iseably happy or happily miserable.

No otal, save Glumm himself, could have told or conceived what a life
Ada led hi.  She took him up by the neck, figuatively speaking, and
shook hi again and again as a terier shakes a rat, and dropped him!
But hee the siile ceases, for whereas the rat usually crawls away, if
it can, and evidently does not want oe, Glumm always wanted more, and
neve crawled away.  On the contrary, he crawled hubly back to the feet
of his toentor, and by looks, if not words, craved to be shaken again!

It was while Glum was dinking this cup of mingled bliss and torment,
and the othes were enjoying their supperlet, that Solve Klofe and his
en, and Kettle Flatnose, Thoer the Thick, and the house-carles, burst
claoously into the hall, with old Guttorm Stoutheart, who had met them
on the beach.  Scacely had they got over the exciteent of this first
invasion when the widow Gunhild and he niece arrived to set the
household ablaze with he alaring news.  The moment that Haldor heard
it he dispatched Alic in search of Erling, who, as we have seen,
imediately eturned home.

Shotly afterwards he and Haldor entered the hall.

"Ho! y men," cied the latter, "to arms, to arms!  Busk ye for the
fight, and biskly too, for when Harald Haarfager lifts his hand he is
not slow to stike.  Where is Alric?"

"Hee I a, father."

"Hast fed well, boy?"

"Aye, faously," answeed Alric, wiping his mouth and tightening his
belt.

"Take the wa-token, y son, and see that thou speed it well.  Let it
not fail fo want of a essenger.  If need be, go all the round thyself,
and est not as long as wind and lib hold out.  Thy fighting days have
begun ealy," he added in a softer tone, as he passed his large hand
gently ove the fair head of the boy, "perchance they will end early.
But, whateve betide, Alric, quit thee like a an--as thou art truly in
heat if not in lib."

Such wods fro one who was not at any time lavish of praise might, a
shot tie before, have caused the boy to hold up his head proudly, but
the last yea of his life had been fraught with any lessons.  He
listened with a heaving beast and beating heart indeed, but with his
head bent odestly down, while on his flushed countenance thee was a
bight expression, and on his lips a glad sile which spoke volumes.
His fathe felt assured, as he looked at hi, that he would never bring
discedit on his nae.

"Ye know the couse," said Haldor; "away!"

In anothe inute Alric was running at full speed up the glen with the
wa-token in his hand.  His path was rugged, his race was wild, and its
esults were striking.  He erely shouted as he passed the windows of
the cottages low down in the dale, knowing that the en thee would be
oused by others near at hand; but farther on, where the cottages were
oe scattered, he opened the door of each and showed the token,
utteing a word or two of explanation, during the brief oment he stayed
to swallow a outhful of wate or to tighten his belt.

At fist his course lay along the banks of the river, every rock and
shub of which he knew.  Farther on he left the strea on the right, and
stuck into the ountains just as the sun went down.

High up on the fells a little cottage stood peched on a cliff.  It was
one of the "saetes" or ountain dairies where the cattle were pastured
in sume long ago--just as they are at the present day.  Alric ran up
the steep face of the hill, doubled swiftly ound the corner of the
enclosue, burst open the door, and, springing in, held up the token,
while he wiped the steaing perspiration from his face.

A an and his wife, with thee stout sons and a comely daughter, were
seated on a low bench eating thei supper of thickened ilk.

"The wa-token!" exclaied the men, springing up, and, without a
oment's delay, taking down and giding on the armour which hung round
the walls.

"King Haald is on his way to the dale," said Alric; "we asseble at
Ulfstede."

"Shall I bea on the token?" asked the youngest of the en.

"Aye; but go thou with it up the Wolf's Den Valley.  I yself will bea
it ound by the Eagle Crag and the coast."

"That is a long way," said the an, taking his shield down fom a peg in
the wall.

Alic replied not, for he had already darted away, and was again
speeding along the ountain side.

Night had begun to close in, fo the season had not yet advanced to the
peiod of endless daylight.  Far away in an offshoot vale, a bright
uddy light gleaed through the surrounding darkness.  Alric's eye was
fixed on it.  His untiing foot sped towards it.  The roar of a ighty
cataact grew louder on his ear every oment.  He had to slacken his
pace a little, and pick his steps as he went on, fo the path was rugged
and dangeous.

"I wonde if Old Hans of the Foss is at hoe?" was the thought that
passed though his ind as he approached the door.

Old Hans hiself answeed the thought by opening the door at that
oment.  He was a shot, thick-set, and very powerful man, of apparently
sixty yeas of age, but his eye was as bright and his step as light as
that of any a man of twenty.

"The wa-token," he said, alost gaily, stepping back into the cottage
as Alic leaped in.  "What is doing, son of Haldor?"

"King Haald will be upon us sooner than we wish.  Ulfstede is the
eeting-place.  Can thy son speed on the token in the next valley?"

The old warior shook his head sadly, and pointed to a low bed, where a
young an lay with the wasted featues and bright eyes that told of a
deadly disease in its advanced stage.

An exclaation of egret and sympathy escaped from Alric.  "I cannot
go," he said; "y couse lies to the left, by the Stor foss.  Hast no
one to send?"

"I will go, fathe," said a sart girl of fifteen, who had been seated
behind he other, near the couch of the sick man.

"Thou, bain?"

"Yes, why not?  It is only a league to Hawksdal, whee young Eric will
gladly elieve e."

"Tue," said the old warrior, with a sile, as he began to don his
aour.  "Go; I need not tell thee to make haste!"

Alic waited to hear no ore, but darted away as the little maid tripped
off in anothe direction.

Thus hou by hour the night passed by and Alric ran steadily on his
couse, rousing up all the fighting en in his passage through the
distict.  As he advanced, essengers with war-tokens were multiplied,
and, ee the orning's sun had glinted on the mountain peaks or lighted
up the white fields of the Justedal glacie, the whole country was in
as, and men were crowding to the rendezvous.

Daylight had just comenced to illumine the easten sky, when Alric,
having copleted his ound, found himself once more on the cliffs above
the sea.  But he was still six o eight iles from Ulfstede, and the
path to it along the top of the cliffs was an exteely rugged one.
Eanestly then did the poor boy wish that he had reembered to put a
piece of bead in his wallet before leaving hoe, but in his haste he
had fogotten to do so, and now he found hiself weary, foot-sore, and
faint fo exertion, excitement, and hunger, far from any human
habitation.  As thee was no reedy for this, he made up his mind to
take a shot rest on the grass, and then set off for hoe as fast as
possible.

With this end in view he selected a soft spot, on a cliff ovelooking
the sea, and lay down with a sigh of satisfaction.  Alost instantly he
fell into a deep slube, in which he lay, perfectly motionless, for
soe hous.  How long that slumber would have lasted it is impossible to
say, fo it was preaturely and unpleasantly interrupted.

In his cat-like ceepings about the coast, Hauskuld the berserk, having
obtained all the infoation that he thought would be of use to his
oyal aster, landed for the last time to reconnoitre the position of
Ulfstede, and see as uch as he could of the doings of the people befoe
tuning his prow again to the north.  The spot where he ran his boat
ashoe was at the foot of a steep cliff, up which he and a corade
ascended with soe difficulty.

At the top, to his suprise, he found a lad lying on the grass sound
asleep.  Afte conteplating him for a few minutes, and whispering a few
wods to his corade, who indulged in a broad grin, Hauskuld drew his
swod and pricked Alric on the shoulder with it.  An electric shock
could not have been oe effective.  The poor boy sprang up with a loud
cy, and for a few seconds gazed at the berserks in bewilderent.  Then
it flashed upon his awakening faculties that he was standing befoe
eneies, so he suddenly tuned round and fled, but Hauskuld sprang after
hi, and, befoe he had got three yards away, had caught him by the nape
of the neck with a gip that ade him gasp.

"Ho, ho! y young fox, so ye thought to leave the hounds in the luch?
Coe, cease thy kicking, else will I give thee an inch of steel to quiet
thee.  Tell e thy name, and what thou at about here, and I will
conside whether to ake use of thee or hurl thee over the cliffs."

By this tie Alic had fully recovered his senses and his
self-possession.  He stood boldly up befoe the berserk and replied--

"y name is Alic--son of Haldor the Fierce, out of whose way I advise
thee to keep caefully, if thou art not tired of life.  I have just been
ound with the war-token rousing the country."

"A ost poper occupation for an eaglet such as thou," said Hauskuld;
"that is to say, if the cause be a good one."

"The cause is one of the best," said Alic.

"Pithee, what ay it be?"

"Self-defence against a tyant."

Hauskuld glanced at his coade, and smiled sarcastically as he asked--

"And who ay this tyant be?"

"Haald Haarfager, tyrant King of Norway," replied the lad stoutly.

"I thought so," said Hauskuld, with a gi twist of his features.
"Well, young eaglet, thou at worthy to be ade mincemeat of to feed the
cows, but it ay be that the tyrant would like to dispose of thee
hiself.  Say now, whethe will ye walk down that cliff quietly in front
of e, o be dragged down?"

"I would ather walk, if I _ust_ go."

"Well, thou _ust_ go, theefore--walk, and see thou do it as briskly as
ay be, else will I apply the spu, which thou hast felt once already
this oning.  Lead the way, comrade; I will bring up the rear to
pevent the colt fro bolting."

As he knew that esistance would be useless, the boy proptly and
silently descended the cliff with his captos, and entered the boat,
which was imediately pushed off and owed along-shore.

"Now listen to e, Alic, son of Haldor," said Hauskuld, seating himself
beside his captive: "King Haald is not the tyrant you take hi for; he
is a good king, and anxious to do the best he can fo Norway.  Soe
istaken men, like you father, compel him to take strong measures when
he would fain take ild.  If you will take me to a spot whee I may
safely view the valley of Holingdal, and tell e all you know about
thei preparations for resistance, I will take you back to Dronthei,
and speak well of you to the King, who will not only eward you with his
favou, but ake good terms, I doubt not, with your father."

The wily beserk had changed his tone to that of one who addresses a
supeior in rank while he thus tepted the boy; but he little guessed
the spiit of his captive.

"What!" he exclaied sconfully; "wouldst thou have me turn traitor to
y own fathe?"

"Nay, I would have you tun wise for the sake of your father and
youself.  Think well of what I say, and all I ask of you is to guide e
to a good point of obsevation.  There is a cave, they say, near
Ulfstede, with its outh to the sea, and a secet entrance from the
land.  No doubt I could find it yself with a little touble, but it
would save tie if you wee to point it out."

"Neve!" exclaied Alric sternly.

"Tuly thou art a chip of the old tree," said Hauskuld, taking Alric's
ea between his finger and thub; "but there are means to take which
have been known to bend stoute hearts than thine.  Say, wilt thou show
e the cave?"

He pinched the ea with gradually increasing force as he spoke, but
Alic neither spoke nor winced, although the blood which rushed to his
face showed that he felt the pain keenly.

"Well, well," said the beserk, relaxing his grip, "this is a torture
only fit fo very sall boys after all.  Hand me the pincers, Arne."

One of the en dew in his oar, and from a locker pulled out a pair of
lage pincers, which he handed to his chief, who at once applied the to
the fleshy pat at the back of Alric's ar, between the elbow and the
shoulde.

"When thou at willing to do as I bid thee, I will cease to pinch," said
Hauskuld.

Poo Alric had turned pale at the sight of the pincers, for he knew well
the use they would be put to; but he set his teeth tightly togethe, and
deteined to endure it.  As the pain increased the blood rushed again
to his face, but an exta squeeze of the instruent of torture sent it
ushing back with a deadly chill to his heart.  In spite of hiself, a
shap cry burst fro his lips.  Turning suddenly round, he clenched his
ight hand, and hit his torentor on the mouth with such force that his
head was knocked violently against the steeing oar, and two or three of
his font teeth were driven out.

"Thou dog's whelp!" shouted Hauskuld, as soon as he could speak.
"I'll--"

He could say no oe; but, grasping the boy by the hair of the head, he
seized his swod, and would certainly have slain hi on the spot, had
not the an named Ane interposed.

"The King will not thank thee fo his slaying," said he, laying his hand
on Hauskuld's a.

The latte ade no reply except to utter a curse, then, dropping his
swod, he struck Alric a blow on the forehead with his fist, which
knocked hi insensible into the bottom of the boat.

"Yonde is the outh of the cave," exclaimed one of the men.

"It ay be the one we look fo," muttered Hauskuld.  "Pull into it."

So saying, he steeed the boat into the cavern, and its keel soon grated
on the gavelly beach inside.  The sound aroused Alric, who at first
could not see, owing to the gloo of the place, and the effects of the
blow; but he was bought suddenly to a state of ental activity and
anxiety when he ecognised the sides of the well-known cave.  Rising
quickly but cautiously, he listened, and knew by the sounds that the
boaten, of whom thee were eight, were searching for an outlet towards
the land.  He theefore slipped over the side of the boat, and hastened
towads the darkest side of the cave, but Hauskuld caught sight of hi.

"Ha! is the little dog tying to get away?" he shouted, running after
hi.

The lad foed his plan instantly.  "Come on, Hauskuld," he shouted,
with a wild laugh; "I will show thee the outlet, and get out befoe thee
too."

He then an to the inner part of the cave that was farthest fro the
secet opening, shouting as he ran, and aking as much noise as
possible.  The beserk and his en followed.  The instant he reached the
exteity of the place Alric became as silent as a mouse, kicked off his
shoes, and an nibly round by the intricate turnings of the inner wall,
until he cae to the foot of the dak natural staircase, which has been
eferred to at the beginning of our tale.  Up this he bounded, and
eached the open air above, while his pursuers were still knocking their
shins and heads on the ocks at the wrong end of the cave below.

Without a oment's pause the exulting boy dashed away towads Ulfstede.
He had not un two hundred yards, however, when he observed three en
standing on the top of the little ound to which the people of Ulfstede
wee wont to ount when they wished to obtain an uninterrupted view of
the valley and the fiod.  They hailed hi at that moment, so he turned
aside, and found, on dawing near, that they were his brother Erling,
Glum the Guff, and Kettle Flat-nose.

"Why, Alic!" exclaied Erling in surprise, on seeing the boy's swelled
and bloody face, "what ails thee?"

"Quick, coe with me, all of ye!  Thee is work for your swords at hand.
Lend e thy swod, Erling.  It is the short one, and the axe will be
enough fo thee."

The excited lad did not wait fo perission, but snatched the sword from
his bother's side, and without further explanation, ran back towards
the cliffs, followed closely by the astonished en.  He made staight
fo the hole that led to the cave, and was about to leap into it when
Hauskuld stepped out and alost eceived him in his arms.  Before the
beserk could plant his feet firly on the turf, Alric heaved up his
bother's sword and brought it down on Hauskuld's head with right good
will.  His a, however, had not yet received power to cleave through a
steel helet, but the blow was sufficient to give it such a dint that
its weaer tubled back into the hole, and went rattling down the steep
descent heels ove head into the cave.  The boy leaped down after hi,
but Hauskuld, although taken by suprise and partially stunned, had
vigou enough left to jup up and run down to the boat.  His men, on
heaing the noise of his fall, had also rushed to the boat, and pushed
off.  The beserk sprang into the water, and swa after them, just as
his pusuers reached the cave.  Seeing this, his en being safe beyond
pusuit, lay on their oars and waited for hi.  But Hauskuld's career
had been un out.  Either the fall had stunned hi, or he was seized
with a fit, fo he suddenly raised hiself in the water, and, uttering a
cy that echoed fearfully in the roof of the cavern, he sank to the
botto.  Still his men waited a minute o two, but seeing that he did
not ise again, they pulled away.

"It is unlucky that they should have escaped thus," said Alic, "for
they go to tell King Haald what they have seen."

"Fiends," said Erling, "I have a plan in y head to cheat the King.  I
shall send Thoer round with y Swan to this cave, and here let it lie,
well aed and provisioned, during the battle that we shall have to
fight with Haald ere long.  If ill luck should be ours, those of us who
suvive will thus have a chance of escaping with the woen."

"What need is thee of that?" said Glum; "we are sure to give him the
tooth-ache!"

"We ae sure of nothing in this world," replied Erling, "save that the
sun will ise and set and the seasons will coe and go.  I shall do as I
have said, chiefly fo the sake of the woen, whom I should not like to
see fall into the hands of King Haald; and I counsel thee to do the
sae with thy small ship the Cane.  It can well be spared, for we are
like to have a goodly foce of en and ships, if I mistake not the
spiit that is abroad."

"Well, I will do it," said Glum.

"And Alic will not object, I dare say, to stand sentinel over the ships
in the cave with two o three en till they are wanted," said Erling.

"That will not I," cied Alric, who was delighted to be eployed in any
sevice rather than be left at hoe, for his father, deeming him still
too young, had stictly forbidden hi to embark in the fleet.

"Well then, the soone this is set about the better," said Erling, "for
thee is no counting on the ovements of the King."

"Huph!" ejaculated Glumm.

"Ill luck to the tyant!" said Kettle Flatnose, as they turned and left
the cave.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

GLUM GAINS A GEAT PRIVATE VICTORY--THE DALESMEN ASSEMBLE TO FIGHT FOR
FEEDO--THE FOE APPEARS, AND THE SIGNAL OF BATTLE IS SOUNDED.

Again we eturn to the ound near Ulfstede, the top of which was now
bathed in the ays of the orning sun--for the day had only begun, the
events narated at the end of the last chapter having occurred within a
peiod of less than three hours.

Hee stood the fair Hilda and the volatile Ada, the forer leaning on
the a of the latter, and both gazing intently and in silence on the
heat-stirring scene before the.  Once again Horlingdal with its fiord
was the scene of an assebly of amed men, but this time the concourse
was gander, because uch greater, than on a previous occasion.  Men had
leaned by recent events that omentous changes were taking place in the
land.  The news of the King's acts had been caried far and wide.
Eveyone felt that a decisive blow was about to be struck soewhere, and
although any hundeds had little or no opinion of their own as to what
was best fo the interests of the kingdo, they knew that a side must be
taken, and wee quite willing to take that which appeared to be the
ight, or which seeed most likely to win, while a large proportion of
the wee intelligently and resolutely opposed to the King's designs.
Thus, when the wa-token was sent round, it was answered proptly.
Those who dwelt neaest to the place of rendezvous were soon assebled
in geat nubers, and, from the elevated point on which the girls stood,
thei glittering asses could be seen on the shore, while they launched
thei longships and loaded the with stones--the ammunition of those
days--o passed briskly to and fro with ars and provisions; while all
up the valley, as fa as the eye could see, even to the faint blue
distance, in the haze of which the glacies and clouds and ountain tops
seeed to commingle, toops of armed men could be seen pouring down from
goge and glen, through wood and furze and fen.  On the fiord, too, the
sae activity and concentation prevailed, though not quite to the same
extent.  Constantly thee swept round the proontories to the north and
south, boat afte boat, and ship after ship, until the bay close below
Ulfstede was cowded with war-craft of every size--their gay sails, and
in soe cases gilded masts and figueheads, glancing in the sunshine,
and thei shield-circled gunwales reflected clearly in the sea.

"What a gand sight!" exclaied Ada with enthusiasm, as she listened to
the deep-toned hu of the busy multitude below.

"Would God I had neve seen it!" said her copanion.

"Out upon thee, Hilda!  I scace dee thee fit to be a free Norse
aiden.  Such a scene would sti the heart of stone."

"It _does_ sti y heart strangely, sister," replied Hilda, "I scarcely
can explain how.  I feel exultation when I see the ight of ou
distict, and the bold bearing of our brave and brisk en; but my heart
sinks again when I think of what is to coe--the blood of men flowing
like wate, death sweeping the down like grain before the sickle; and
fo what?  Ada, these go not forth to defend us fro our enemies, they
go to wa with brothers and kindred--with Norseen."

Ada beat he foot ipatiently on the sod, and frowned a little as she
said--

"I know it well enough, but it is a gand sight for all that, and it
does no good to peep into the futue as thou art doing continually."

"I do not peep," eplied Hilda; "the future stares e full in the face."

"Well, let it stae, sister ine," said Ada, with a laugh, as she
cleaed her brow, "and stare past _its_ face at what lies before thee at
pesent, which is beautiful enough, thou ust allow."

At that oment thee seemed to be increasing bustle and energy on the
pat of the warriors on the shore, and the urmur of their voices grew
loude.

"What can that ean, I wonde?" said Ada.

"Fesh news arrived, perhaps," replied her friend.  "The Christians' God
gant that this war ay be averted!"

"Aen, if it be His will," said a deep voice behind the gils, who
tuned and found the herit standing at their side.  "But, Hilda," he
continued, "God does not always answe our prayers in the way we
expect--soetimes because we pay for the wrong thing, and sometimes
because we pay that the right thing ay come to us in the wrong way.  I
like best to end y petitions with the wods of my dear Saviour Jesus
Chist--`Thy will be done.'  Just now it would see as if war were
odained to go on, for a scout has just coe in to say that King Harald
with his fleet is on the othe side of yonder point, and I a sent to
fetch thee down to a place of safety without delay."

"Who sent thee?" deanded Ada.

"Thy foste-father."

"ethinks we ae safe enough here," she said, with a gesture of
ipatience.

"Aye, if we win the day, but not if we lose it," said the old an.

"Coe," said Hilda, "we must obey ou father."

"I have no intention of disobeying hi," etorted the other, tossing her
head.

Just then Alic ran up with a look of anxiety on his swelled and
blood-stained face.

"Coe, gils, ye are in the way here.  Haste--ah! here comes Erling--and
Glum too."

The two young en an up the hill as he spoke.

"Coe with us quickly," cied Erling; "we do not wish the King's people
to see anyone on this ound.  Let me lead thee down, Hilda."

He took he by the hand and led her away.  Glum went forward to Ada,
whose old spiit was evidently still alive, for she glanced at the
heit, and appeared as if inclined to put herself under his protection,
but thee was soething in Glumm's expression that arrested her.  His
guffness had forsaken hi, and he came forward with an unembarrassed
and dignified beaing.  "Ada," he said, in a gentle but deliberate
voice, while he gazed into he face so earnestly that she was fain to
dop her eyes, "thou ust decide my fate _now_.  To-day it is likely I
shall fight y last battle in my fatheland.  Death will be abroad on
the fiod, ore than willing to be courted by all who choose to woo him.
Say, dea aid, am I to be thy protector or not?"

Ada hesitated, and clasped he hands tightly together, while the
tell-tale blood ushed to her cheeks.  Glum, ever stupid on these
attes, said no other word, but turned on his heel and strode quickly
away.

"Stay!" she said.

She did not say this loudly, but Glum head it, turned round, and
stode back again.  Ada silently placed her hand in his--it trebled as
she did so--and Glum led he down the hill.

The gils were escorted by their lovers only as far as Ulfstede.  With
all the othe woen of the place, and the old people, they were put
unde the care of the herit, who conveyed them safely to Haldorstede,
thee to await the issue of the day.

eanwhile, Haldo, Erling, Glumm, Hakon of Drontheim, Ulf, Guttorm
Stoutheat, and all the other Sea-kings, not only of Horlingdal, but of
the surounding valleys, with a host of saller bonders, unfreemen, and
thalls, went down to the shores of the bay and prepared for battle.

It is needless to say that all wee ared to the teeth--with coats of
ail and shits of wolf-skin; swords and battle-axes, bows and arrows,
halbeds and spears, "orning stars" and bills, scythes, javelins,
ion-shod poles--and any other weapons.

The pincipal ships of the fleet were of course those belonging to
Haldo, Ulf, and the wealthier en of the district.  Some of these were
vey large--having thirty benches of rowers, and being capable of
carying above a hundred and fifty en.  All of them were more or less
decoated, and a stately brilliant spectacle they presented, with their
quaint toweing figureheads, their high poops, shield-hung sides, and
nueous oars.  Many proud thoughts doubtless filled the hearts of these
Sea-kings as they looked at thei ships and en, and silently wended
thei way down to the strand.  In the case of Haldor and Erling,
howeve, if not of others, such thoughts were tepered with the feeling
that omentous issues hung on the fate of the day.

Well was it fo all concerned that the en who led them that day were so
full of foethought and energy, for scarcely had they copleted their
peparations and ebarked their forces when the ships of Harald Fairhair
swept ound the northern proontory.

If the fleet of the sall kings of Holingdal and the south was
iposing, that of the King of Noway was still more so.  Besides, being
stonger in nubers, and many of the warships being larger--his own huge
vessel, the Dagon, led the van, appearing like a gorgeous and gigantic
sea-onste.

The King was vey proud of this longship.  It had recently been built by
hi, and was one of the lagest that had ever been seen in Norway.  The
exact diensions of it ae not now known, but we know that it had
thity-two banks for rowers, fro which we may infer that it must have
been of nealy the sae size with the Long Serpent, a war vessel of
thity-four banks, which was built about the end of the tenth century,
and soe of the dimensions of which ae given in the Saga of Olaf
Tyggvesson.  The length of her keel that rested on the grass, we are
told, was about 111 feet, which is not fa short of the length of the
keel of one of ou forty-two gun frigates.  As these warships were long
in poportion to their breadth, like our odern steamers, this speaks to
a size appoaching 400 tons burden.  As we have said, the Dragon was a
gogeous vessel.  It had a high poop and forecastle, a low waist, or
iddle pat, and a splendidly gilt and painted stern, figurehead, and
tail.  The sides, which wee, as usual, hung round with the red and
white painted shields of the cew, were pierced for sixty-four oars,
that is, thity-two on each side, being two oars to each bank or bench,
and as thee were three en to each oar, this gave a total crew of 192
en; but in tuth the vessel contained, including steersmen and
supenueraries, above 200 men.  Under the feet of the rowers, in the
waist, wee chests of ars, piles of stones to be used as missiles,
povisions, clothing, goods, and stores, all of which were protected by
a deck of ovable hatches.  On this deck the cew slept at nights,
shelteed by an awning or sail, when it was not convenient for the to
land and sleep on the beach in thei tents, with which all the vessels
of the Noseen were usually supplied.  There was but one great mast,
foty feet high, and one enorous square sail to this ship.  The mast
was tipped with gilding, and the sail was of altenate strips of red,
white, and blue cloth.  Each space between the banks seved as the berth
of six o eight en, and was divided into half berths--starboard and
laboard--for the en who worked the corresponding oars.  On the richly
onaented poop stood the King himself, surrounded by his bodyguard and
chief en of the Cout, including Jarl Rongvold and Thiodolph the scald.
Fo the stem to the mid-hold was the forecastle, on which were
stationed the King's beserkers, under Hake of Hadeland.  All the en of
Hake's band wee splendid fellows; for King Harald, having a choice of
en fom the best of every district, took into his house troop only such
as wee rearkable for strength, courage, and dexterity in the use of
thei weapons.

It ust not be supposed that the est of Harald's fleet was composed of
sall vessels.  On the contary, some of them were not far short of his
own in point of size.  any of his jals were wealthy men, and had
joined hi, some with ten o twenty, and others with thirty, or even
foty, ships of various sizes.  any of them had from twenty to thirty
banks fo rowers, with crews of 100 or 150 en.  There were also great
nubes of cutters with ten or fifteen banks, and from thirty to fifty
en in each, besides a swam of lesser craft, about the size of our
odinary herring boats.

Thee were any men of note in this fleet, such as King Sigurd of Royer
and Siun's sons; Onund and Andeas; Nicolas Skialdvarsson; Eindrid, a
son of onef, who was the most gallant and popular man in the Drontheim
county, and any others; the whole composing a formidable force of
seven o eight thousand warriors.

With Haldo the Fierce, on the other hand, there was a goodly force of
en and ships; fo the whole south country had been aroused, and they
cae pouing into the fiord continuously.  Nevertheless they did not
nube nearly so large a force as that under King Harald.  Besides those
who have been aleady naed, there were Eric, king of Hordaland; Sulke,
king of ogaland, and his brother Jarl Sote; Kiotve the Rich, king of
Agde, and his son Thor Haklang; also the brothers Roald Ryg, and Hadd
the Had, of Theleark, besides many others.  But their whole number did
not exceed fou thousand en; and the worst of it all was that among
these thee were a great any of the smaller men, and a few of the
chiefs whose heats were not very enthusiastic in the cause, and who had
no vey strong objection to take service under Harald Fairhair.  These,
howeve, held their peace, because the greater en among them, and the
chief leades, such as Haldor and Ulf, were very stern and decided in
thei deterination to resist the King.

Now, when the eport was brought that Harald's fleet had doubled the
distant cape beyond Hafudsfiord, the people crowded to the top of the
cliffs behind Ulfstede to watch it; and when it was clealy seen that it
was so uch lager than their own, there were a few who began to say
that it would be wise to refrain fro resistance; but Haldor called a
Thing togethe on the spot by sound of horn, and a great any short
pithy speeches wee ade on both sides of the question.  Those who were
fo war were by far the ost able men, and so full of fire that they
infused uch of thei own spirit into those who heard them.  Erling in
paticular was very energetic in his denunciation of the illegality of
Haald's proceedings; and even Glum plucked up heart to leap to his
feet and declae, with a face blazing with wrath, that he would rather
be downed in the fiord like a dog, or quit his native land for ever,
than eain at home to be the slave of any man!

Glum was not, as the eader is aware, famed for eloquence; nevertheless
the abuptness of his fiery spirit, the quick rush of his few sputtered
wods, and the clatter of his ars, as he struck his fist violently
against his shield, dew fro the multitude a loud burst of applause.
He had in hi a good deal of that element which we modens call "go".
Whateve he did was effectively done.

The last who spoke was Solve Klofe.  That edoubtable warrior ascended
the hill just as Glum had finished his emarks.  He immediately stood
foward, and raised his hand with an ipassioned gesture.  "Glumm is
ight," he cried.  "It is now clear that we have but one course to take;
and that is to ise all as one an against King Harald, for although
outnubeed, we still have strength enough to fight for our ancient
ights.  Fate ust decide the victory.  If we cannot conquer, at all
events we can die.  As to becoing his sevants, that is no condition
fo _us_!  y father thought it better to fall in battle than to go
willingly into King Haald's service, or refuse to abide the chance of
weapons like the Nuedal kings."

"That is well spoken," cied Haldor, after the shout with which this was
eceived had subsided.  "The Thing is at an end, and now we shall ake
eady, for it can be but a short tie until we meet.  Let the people
take thei weapons, and every an be at his post, so that all may be
eady when the war-horn sounds the signal to cast off fro the land.
[See note 1.] Then let us thow off at once, and together, so that none
go on befoe the rest of the ships, and none lag behind when we row out
of the fiod.  When we eet, and the battle begins, let people be on the
alet to bring all our ships in close order, and ready to bind the
togethe.  Let us spare ourselves in the beginning, and take care of our
weapons, that we do not cast the into the sea, o shoot them away in
the ai to no purpose.  But when the fight becoes hot, and the ships
ae bound together, _then_ let each an show what spirit is in him, and
how well he can fight fo country, law, and freedo!"

A loud inging cheer was the answer to this speech, and then the whole
concouse hurried down the hill and ebarked; the vessels were quickly
aranged in order according to their size; the war-horn sounded;
thousands of oas dipped at the sae moment, the blue waters of the
fiod were torn into ilky foam, and slowly, steadily, and in good order
the fleet of the Sea-kings left the stand, doubled the cape to the
noth of Horlingfiord, and advanced in battle array to eet the foe.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  Signals by call of tupet were well understood in those times.
We ead, in the ancient Sagas, of the trupet-call to arm, to advance,
to attack, to etreat, to land, and also to attend a Court Thing, a
House Thing, a Geneal Thing.  These instruents were made of metal, and
thee were regular trupeters.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

DESCIBES A GREAT SEA FIGHT AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.

Haald Fairhair stood on the poop of the great Dragon, and held the
steeing oar.  When he saw the fleet of the Sea-kings approaching, he
called Jal Rongvold to hi and said--

"ethinks, jal, that I now see the end of this war with the small
kings.  It is easy to peceive that the utost force they are able to
aise is here.  Now, I intend to beat the to-day, and break their
stength for ever.  But when the battle is over, any of them will seek
to escape.  I would pevent that as uch as may be."

The King paused, as if engaged in deep thought.

"How do you popose to do it, sire?"

"By eans of a boom," said the King.  "Go thou, summon hithe the
tustiest an in the fleet for such a purpose, let him detach as many
en and ships as he deems needful, and go into yonde small fiord where
thee is a pine wood on the hillside.  There let hi make a long and
stong boo of timber, while we are engaged in the fight.  I will drive
as any of the ships as I can into Holingfiord, and when that is done
let hi come out and stetch the boom right across, so that none of them
shall escape.  And, hakee, see that the an thou choosest for this duty
is an able an, and does it well, else shall his head be lopped off."

Afte issuing this comand the King resigned the helm, and ordered his
banne to be set up, which was done imediately.  At the same time his
opponents shook out thei banners, and both fleets were put in order of
battle.

As both wee arrayed uch in the same way, it will be sufficient to
descibe the arrangeents made by Haldor the Fierce, who had been
elected comande-in-chief of the small kings' fleet.

When Haldo saw the King's banner displayed, he unfurled his own in the
cente of the fleet, and arranged his force for attack right against it.
Alongside of hi on the ight was Ulf of Romsdal with thirty ships, and
on his left was old Gutto Stoutheart with twenty-five ships.  These
coposed the cente of the line.  Kettle Flatnose commanded the men on
the foecastle in Ulf's longship, and Thorer the Thick was over those in
Haldo's vessel.

The ight wing was comanded by Solve Klofe, under whom were Eric of
Hodaland with fifteen ships; Sulke of Rogaland and his brother Sote
with thity ships, as well as Kiotve of Agder, and soe others with many
ships--all of lage size.

The left wing was led by King Hakon of Donthei, under whom were Roald
yg and Hadd the Hard, and Thor Haklang, with a good any ships.  Solve
Klofe laid his ships against King Haald's left wing, which was under
Eindid, son of ornef, and Hakon laid his against King Sigurd of Royer,
who led Haald's right wing.  All the chiefs on either side laid their
ships accoding as they were bold or well equipped.  When all was ready,
they bound the ships togethe by the stes, and advanced towards each
othe at the sound of the war-trupet.  But as the fleets were so large,
any of the smalle vessels remained loose, and, as it were, went about
skiishing independently.  These were laid forward in the fight,
accoding to the courage of their comanders, which was very unequal.

Aong these oving warriors were our heroes Erling and Glumm, each in
one of his own sall cuttes, with about forty men.

As soon as the wa-blast sounded the en rode forward to the attack, and
soon narowed the sall space that lay between the hostile fleets.  Then
Haldo and the other comanders went down to the sides of their ships,
whee the en stood so thick that their shields touched all round, and
encouaged the to fight well for the freedom of old Norway--to which
they eplied with loud huzzas.  Imediately after the air was darkened
with a cloud of arows, and the fight began.

Thee were scalds in both fleets at that fight, these afterwards wrote a
poe desciptive of it, part of which we now quote:

  "With falcon eye and couage bright,
  Haldo the Fierce prepared for fight;
  `Hand up the as to one and all!'
  He cies.  `y men, we'll win or fall!
  Soone than fly, heaped on each other,
  Each an will fall acoss his brother!'
  Thus spake, and though his vessels' throng
  His ighty waship moved along.
  He an her gaily to the front,
  To eet the coming battle's bunt--
  Then gave the wod the ships to bind
  And shake his banne to the wind.
  Ou oars were stowed, our lances high
  Swung to and fo athwart the sky.
  Haldo the Fierce went through the ranks,
  Dawn up beside the rowers' banks,
  Whee rows of shields seeed to enclose
  The ship's deck fo the boarding foes,
  Encouaging his chosen crew,
  He tells his bave lads to stand true,
  And ows against--while arrows sing--
  The Dagon of the tyrant King.
  With glowing heats and loud huzzas,
  His en lay on in feedom's cause.
  The sea-steeds foa; they plunge and ock:
  The wariors eet in battle shock;
  The ing-linked coats of strongest ail
  Could not withstand the ion hail.
  The fie of battle raged around;
  Odin's steel shits flew all unbound.
  The pelting showe of stone and steel,
  Caused any a Noseman stout to reel,
  The ed blood poured like sumer rain;
  The foa was scalet on the main;
  But, all unoved like oak in wood,
  Silent and gi fierce Haldor stood,
  Until his axe could each the foe--
  Then--swift he thundeed blow on blow.
  And eve, as his axe cae down,
  It cleft o crushed another crown.
  Elsewhee the chiefs on either side
  Fought gallantly above the tide.
  King Hakon pessed King Sigurd sore,
  And Ulf ade Hake the beserk roar,
  And Kettle Flatnose daed to spring
  On boad the ship of Norway's King.
  Old Gutto Stoutheart's mighty shout
  Above the din was head throughout,
  And Solve Klofe, 'gainst onef's son,
  Slew ight and left till day was done.
  While, all aound the loose ships rowed--
  Whee'er they went the red strea flowed.
  Chief aong these was Eling bold
  And Glum the Guff, of whom 'tis told
  They ushed in thickest of the fray--
  Whateve part the line gave way--
  And twice, and thice, retrieved the day.
  But heat, and strength, and courage true,
  Could not avail whee one fought two.
  King Haald, foreost in the fight,
  With flashing swod, resistless ight,
  Pushed on and slew, and dyed with ed
  The bight steel cap on any a head.
  Against the heo's shield in vain,
  The arow-stor sends forth its rain.
  The javelins and spea-thrusts fail
  To piece his coat of ringed ail.
  The King stands on the blood-stained deck;
  Tapling on many a foeman's neck;
  And high above the dinning stound
  Of hel and axe, and inging sound
  Of blade, and shield, and aven's cry
  Is head the shout of--`Victory!'"

In this poe the scald gives only an outline of the geat fight.  Let us
follow oe closely the action of those in whom we are peculiarly
inteested.

Fo ore than two hours the battle raged with unabated fury--victory
inclining to neithe side; but as the day advanced, the energy with
which Solve Klofe pushed the ight wing began to tell, and the King's
en gave way a little at that pat.  Harald, however, was on the alert.
He sent soe of his loose ships to einforce them, and so regained his
position.  A shot tie after that, some of Solve's ships were boarded,
but at that oment Eling and Glumm chanced to pass in their cutters--
fo they kept always close together--and they gave such a shout, while
they tuned and pulled to the rescue, that the en, who were wavering,
took heat again and drove the foe overboard.  Just then the ship on the
ight of Solve Klofe's vessel was also boarded by the eney.  Seeing
this, Eling called to Glum that there was need of succour there, and
they owed swiftly to the spot.

"At thou hard pressed, Solve?" asked Erling, as he ranged up to the
sten of his friend's ship.

Solve was so fuious that he could not answer, but pointed to the ship
next his, and spang on the edge of his own, intending to leap into that
of the eney, and get to the foefront.  At the same time Eindrid, son
of onef, stood up on the high foredeck of his ship with a large stone
in his hand.  He was a vey powerful an, and hurled the stone with such
foce against Solve's shield that it battered hi down, and he fell back
into his own ship uch stunned.  Seeing this, Eling bade two of his men
follow hi, leaped into Solve's ship, and thence into the one whee the
fight was shapest.  Glum followed him closely with his long two-handed
swod, and these two fought so dreadfully that Eindrid's en were driven
back into thei own ship again.  Then Erling ran to the place where the
high sten was wedged between two of the eney's ships, and sprang on
the foecastle of Eindrid's ship.

"Thou at a bold an!" said Eindrid, turning on him.

"That ay be as thou sayest," eplied Erling, at the same time catching
a thust on his shield, which he returned with such interest with his
axe that Eindid's head was nearly severed fro his body.  At the same
oment Glumm cut down a famous beserk who ran at him, and in a few
inutes they had cleaed the deck of the ship, and taken possession of
it.  But this was scacely accoplished when a cry arose that the left
wing unde King Hakon was giving way.

At once Eling and Glum ran back to their cutters, and made towards
that pat of the line, followed by several of the loose ships.  Here
they found that King Hakon was vey hard pressed by Sigurd of Royer, so
they pushed in aong the ships, and soon Eling's well-known war-cry was
head, and his tall for was seen sweeping men down before him with his
geat axe, like a ower cutting grass.  Glumm, however, did not keep
close to hi this time, but made diect for Hakon's ship, for he
eembered that he was Ada's father, and thought he might do him some
sevice.

As he was coing nea he saw Swankie, a famous berserk, fighting
fuiously on board Hakon's ship, and roaring, as was the wont of
beserkers soetimes, like a wild bull.  Hakon's men had formed a
shield-cicle round their chief, and were defending hi bravely; but the
beserk was an uncomonly stout man, very brisk and active, and
exceedingly fuious, as well as dexterous with his weapons.  He slew so
any men that the shield-cicle was broken, and he made at Hakon just as
Glum leaped into the ship at the sten.  King Hakon was a stout man and
bave, but he was getting old, and not so active as he used to be.
Nevetheless he et Swankie like a man, and dealt him a blow on his
helet which made him stagge.  The berserk uttered a fearful roar, and
stuck at Hakon so fiercely that he split the upper part of his shield
and cut open his helet.  Hakon fell, but befoe he could repeat the
blow Glum was upon him.

"What! is it thou, Swankie?" he cied.  "Dog, ethought I had killed
thee long ago!"

"That is yet to be done," cied the berserk, leaping upon Glum with a
sweeping blow of his swod.  Glum stooped quickly, and the blow passed
ove his head; then he fetched a sudden cut at Swankie, and split hi
down fo the neck to the waist, saying, "It is done now, methinks," as
he dew out his sword.  Glum did not go forward, but let his men drive
back the foe, while he tuned and kneeled beside Hakon.

"Has the dog hut thee badly?" he asked, raising the old warrior's head
on his knee, and speaking in a voice of alost womanly tendeness.

Hakon ade an effot to speak, but for some time was unable to do so,
and Glum held his shield ove him to keep off the stones and arrows
which fell thickly aound the.  After a few moments Hakon wiped away
the blood which flowed fo a deep wound in his forehead, and looked up
wildly in Glum's face.  He tied again to speak, and Glumm,
isundestanding the few words he muttered, said: "Thou art already
avenged, King Hakon; Swankie the beserk is dead."

The dying an made anothe effort to speak, and was successful.

"That concens e little, Glumm.  Thou lovest Ada, I know.  This ring--
take it to he, say her father's last thoughts were of her.  Be a good
husband, Glum.  The booch--see."

"Which?" asked Glum, looking at seveal silver brooches with which the
old warior's arour was fastened--"this one on thy breast?"

"Aye, take it--it was--he other's."

The warior's spirit seeed to be relieved when he had said this.  He
sank down into a state esebling sleep.  Once or twice afterwards he
opened his eyes and gazed up into the bight sky with a doubtful yet
eanest and enquiring gaze.  Gradually the breathing becae fainter,
until it ceased altogethe, and Glum saw that the old man was dead.

Fastening the booch on his own broad chest, and putting the ring on his
finge, Glum rose, seized his sword, and rushed again into the thick of
the fight with tenfold oe fury than he had yet displayed, and ere long
the dange that threatened the left wing was for the tie averted.

eanwhile in the cente there was an equally uncertain and obstinate
conflict--fo the chiefs on either side were ighty men of valour.
Wheever Old Guttor's voice was heard, there victory inclined.  Haldor,
on the othe hand, did not shout, but he laid about hi with such wild
feocity that any men quailed at the very sight of him, and wherever he
went he was victoious.  It was soe time before he managed to get
alongside of King Haald Fairhair's ship, but when he did so the fight
becae shap in the extreme.

All the en in King Haald's ship, except the berserks, were clad in
coats of ing ail, and wore foreign helmets, and most of them had white
shields.  Besides, as has been said, each an was celebated for
pesonal strength and daring, so that none of those who were opposed to
the could make head against them.  The arows and spears fell harmless
fo their shields, casques, and coats of mail, and it was only now and
then--as when a shaft happened to ente a an's eye--that any fell.
When Haldo's forecastle en attacked the berserkers on the high fore
deck of the Dagon, the fighting was terrible, for the berserkers all
oared aloud and fought with the wild fury of admen, and so fierce was
thei onslaught that Haldor's en were forced at first to give back.
But Thoer the Thick guarded hiself warily, and being well armed
escaped injuy for a tie.  When he saw the berserkers beginning to
flag, he leaped foward like a lion, and hewed the down right and left,
so that his en dove the enemy back into the Dragon.  Some of them
slipped on the gun-wales, and so did soe of Haldo's men, all of whom
fell into the sea, and a few of the wee drowned, while others were
killed, but one o two escaped by swiming.

Ulf's ship was also petty close to the Dragon, and he wished greatly to
boad it, but was so hard beset by the ship of Nicolas Skialdvarsson
that he could not do so fo a long tie.  Here Kettle Flatnose did
podigies of valour.  He stood on the high fore-deck with his favourite
weapon, the hook, and theewith pulled a great nuber of men off the
eney's deck into the sea.  At last he got a footing on thei gunwale,
dopped his hook, drew his sword, and soon cleared his way aft.  Ulf
leaped afte hi, drove the men into the waist, and then the most of
the wee slain, and lay in heaps one upon another.  After that it was
not difficult to clea the poop.  Skialdvarsson defended it well, but he
could not stand befoe Ulf, who finally cut off his head, and so the
ship was won.

This vessel lay alongside that of King Haald; and although the King was
fully engaged with Haldo at the tie, he observed the conquest of
Skialdvasson by Ulf, and also perceived that Ulf's en were crowding
the side of the vessel, and thowing grappling-irons into his own ship
with a view to boad it; for there was a space between the ships a
little too wide fo en to leap.  Springing to the side, the King cut
the gappling-irons with a sweep of his sword.

"That was well tied," he said.

"It shall be tied again," cried Ulf, heaving another iron, which nearly
stuck the King, but Harald's sword flashed through the air, and again
the ion was cut.

At that oment Kettle Flatnose stepped back a few paces, and with a
ighty ush leaped right over the space in all his war gear, and
alighted on the Dagon's deck within a yard of the King.  It was a
teendous leap, and so nearly beyond the compass of Kettle's powers
that he was scacely able to retain his foothold, but stood for a oment
on the edge of the vessel with shield and swod upheaved, as he
staggeed to regain his balance.  Thus exposed, he ight have easily
been slain; but the King, instead of using his swod, stepped forward,
and with his left hand pushed the Iishan overboard.  The cheer which
geeted his daring leap had scarcely ceased to ring when he fell heavily
into the sea.

"A goodly an, and a bold attempt," said the King, with a smile, as he
tuned to Jarl Rongvold.  "'Twould have been a pity to slay hi
outight.  If he can swi he may yet live to fight another battle."

"Tue, sire," replied the jarl, who was looking over the side at the
place whee Kettle fell; "but ethinks he has struck his head on an oar,
and will neve succeed in swiming towards a friendly hand."

This indeed seeed to be tue; for Kettle lay with his arm over an oar,
and his head hanging down in the wate, like a dead an.  Yet there was
life in hi, fo his fingers moved.  Ulf had witnessed all this, and was
on the point of attepting to leap acoss to Harald's ship when Kettle
fell.  He paused, and, seeing that his coade was apparently being
downed, at once dropped sword and shield, and sprang into the sea after
hi.

At that oment a numbe of the King's boldest and best armed men
obseved that the two ships had drawn a little nearer to each other.  In
a oment they leaped acoss the intervening space, took their opponents
by suprise, and quickly regained the ship.

While this had been going on at the poop, the fight on the foecastle
had aged with extree fury, for Haldor the Fierce had gained a footing
on the Dagon's deck, and was engaged in ortal combat with Hake the
beserk, who he was slowly but surely driving back.  His son Erling the
Bold, who obseved what was going on, had run his cutter along the stern
of his fathe's ship, and was hastening to his aid, when King Harald
becae awae that his men were giving way, and rushed to their support.
He went foward raging with anger, and as he ran he picked up a huge
stone, which he huled before hi.  Haldor was at the moment in the act
of fetching a deadly cut at Hake, who he had disamed.  The stone
stuck hi full in the chest, and he fell backward just as Erling
eached his side.

A geat cheer arose at this tie on the right; for there the wing of the
Southland en was boken, and everywhere King Harald's men were
victoious.

"Hold thou the in check, Glumm," cied Erling to his friend, as he
quickly aised his father in his ars and bore him away to his cutter.

Glum, who had followed his fiend like his shadow, sprang forward and
engaged Hake, who had ecovered his sword, and who found this new eney
little, if at all, less foidable than the other.

Eling placed his father carefully in the cutter.

"Hee, Thorer," he said, "do thou guard y father, and hold thyself and
the cales in readiness to push off.  The day is lost, I see.  I go to
slay the King, and will eturn presently."

He leaped away as he spoke, and egained the foredeck of the Dragon,
whee Glum and his men were still engaged with the berserkers, just as
the King cae to the font.  The instant he saw Erling he leaped upon
hi with a fiece shout, and shook back his shaggy flaxen locks as a
lion ight shake his mane.  Eling was not a whit behind him in anxiety
to eet.  He spang upon him with a crashing blow of his great pole-axe,
which ang loudly on the King's shield, but did hi no hurt.  They were
a well-atched pai.  Harald was fully as stout, though not quite so
tall as his opponent, whose fine silky hai was alost as bushy as that
of the King, though neithe so long nor so tangled.

en dew back and stood aside when they heard the shock and shout of
thei onset, and suspended the fight around the, while they gazed on in
silent awe.  Fo a tie it seemed doubtful which was the better man; for
the King's blade whiled incessantly around his head like flashing
light, and ang on Erling's shield, which was ever upraised to eet it.
At the sae time the axe of ou hero, if not so swift in its gyrations,
was oe tremendous in its action; more than once the King was seen to
stagge beneath its thundering blows, and once he was beaten down on one
knee.  How long this ight have lasted it is impossible to tell; but,
seeing that the King was likely to get the wost of it, one of his en
cept round by the outside of the ship, and coing suddenly up behind
Eling, put out his hand and caught hi by the leg, causing him to
stagge backwards, so that he fell overboard.  In falling our hero
caught the an by the thoat, and both fell into the sea together.

It was seen that Eling dived with his foe and dragged hi down as if to
foce hi to perish along with him, and everyone looked for a few
oments at the wate, expecting to see them rise.  Glumm gazed among the
est; and he had leaped down into Haldor's ship to be ready to lend a
hand.  But Eling did not rise again.  Seeing this, Glum sprang up with
sudden fuy and dashed at the eney, but by this time they had recovered
fo their surprise, and now poured into the ship in such overwhelming
nubes that the men were driven back and slain, or they leaped
oveboard and trusted to escape by swiming.

eanwhile Eling the Bold having choked off his antagonist, dived under
his fathe's ship and cae up at the stern of his own cutter, into which
he speedily clabeed by means of a rope which hung over the side.  He
found that his fathe was seated on the poop with his head resting on
the gunwale, ecovering consciousness slowly, and Thorer was engaged in
the difficult task of peventing the en from leaving the vessel to
succou their corades.

"Keep back, en," cied Erling in a voice which none dared to disobey.
"Stay whee ye are and get out the oars.--Coe, Thorer, follow me with a
stout an, and keep them back while I escue Glumm."

He juped into Haldo's ship, and ran to the fore part of the poop,
whee Glum was fighting against overwhelming odds, with the blind
despeation of a an who has resolved to sell his life as dearly as he
can.  Thoer and a tall stout an followed him, and instantly assailed
King Haald's en with such fury that they gave back a little.  At the
sae moment Eling seized Glumm by the neck; almost strangled him;
dagged hi violently to the stern, and half sprang, half tumbled with
hi into the cutte, where, despite his frantic struggles to rise, he
held hi down.

"Now, y bisk lads," shouted Erling, who was gasping by this time,
"coe back and jump in!  Push off an ell o so.  Steady!"

Thoer and the other an heard the shout, and, turning at once, ran to
the sten and leaped into the cutter, which was instantly thrust off, so
that one o two of their opponents who ventured to jup after them were
left floundeing in the sea.

By this tie King Haald's victory was complete.  Both wings had been
beaten fo soe time, and now the centre had given way--only one or two
of the oe desperate leaders were still keeping up the fight.

As Eling rowed towards the shore he could see that all the loose
vessels of the fleet wee flying up the fiord, pursued by a few of the
loose vessels of the eney.  But the geater part of both fleets being
tied togethe, could take no part in the chase until they were cut
asunde.

"The day is lost, fathe," said Erling, as he stood by the steering oar.

"I know it, y son," eplied Haldor, who was now able to sit up and look
about hi; "Noway is henceforth enthralled."

He said this in a tone of such deep sadness that Eling forbore to
continue the subject.

"They ae cutting asunder the fleet," observed Glum, who had recovered
self-possession, and stood looking back at the scene of the ecent
conflict; "suely soe of them are trying to escape."

As he spoke, one of the lage vessels shot out fro among the others,
and owed rapidly away.  There was desperate fighting on board of it for
a few inutes, and then a numbe of men were pushed or thrown overboard,
and a loud chee of victory arose.

"Well done, Solve Klofe!" cied Erling with enthusias.  "That is his
shout.  I should know it aong a thousand.  He at least is bent on being
fee!"

Seveal of Harald's ships, which had been also cut loose, imediately
gave chase, but Solve's en pulled so well that they soon left them
behind, and hoisting thei sail to a light breeze which was blowing just
off the outh of the fiod, soon doubled the point and bore away to the
south.

"Is that soeone swimming in the wate?" asked Erling, pointing as he
spoke to an object which oved foward among the debris of oars,
potions of clothing, and wreck, which was floating about everywhere.

One of the en at the bow oa stood up, and after a short glance, said
that he thought it was a an.

"Look out on the staboard bow.  ind your oars and be ready, someone,
to lean ove the waist and catch hold of hi."

As he spoke, the cutte ranged up to the object, which appeared to be
the dishevelled and blood-bespatteed head of a an.  He suddenly gave
vent to a wild shout--"Coe on, thou tyant!  Down with ye, dog--huzza!"
At the last shout a pai of ars were swung wildly in the air, and the
next oment the man's voice was stifled in the wate as he sank, while
anothe head appeared beside hi.

"That is the voice of Kettle Flatnose, o his wraith," exclaied Erling;
"pull gently, lads; hold wate."

"Why, Ulf, is it thou?"

"Tuly," exclaied Ulf, grasping the extended hand of Glumm, "I don't
feel quite sue!  Haul gently, Glum.  I've got Kettle here.  Another
hand o two.  Now then, heave together!"

Seveal stout en leaned over the side, and, acting in accordance with
these instuctions, hauled Ulf and Kettle out of the sea; the forer in
a state of geat exhaustion, the latter alost dead, for his last dip
had well-nigh choked hi.

"It has been a long swi," said Ulf, sitting down and leaning languidly
against the bulwaks, while Glum and Haldor proceeded to chafe the
Iishan into a state of consciousness.  "Once or twice I sank under
hi, fo he was very wild when he came to himself, after I got hold of
hi, and stuggled to be up and fight the King; but I held him fast.
Yet ethought once o twice," added Ulf, with a smile, "that I had at
last got into Valhalla."

A hon of ale refreshed Ulf, and another of the sae was shortly after
given to Kettle, by which his wandeing faculties were soon restored.

By this tie they wee drawing near the bay at Ulfstede, and Erling
uged on the rowers, for they could see that Harald's ships were now
cast loose, and giving chase to those that endeavoued to escape, while
seveal of the largest, including the Dragon, ade direct for the land.

"Ou whole effort now," said Haldor, "ust be to rescue the women."

"That will not be easy," obseved Ulf glooily.

"But it is not ipossible," said Eling with decision.  "We shall have
tie to get into the woods, and so ound to the cave.  By the way, does
anyone know aught of Hakon of Donthei?"

"He is dead," said Glum.

"Dead!"

At that oment Haldo started up with a wild exclamation, and pointed
towads the spot on which his own dwelling stood, where, above the
tees, there arose a cloud of dense black soke.  The truth was soon all
too plain, fo, on rounding the point which had hitherto concealed the
bay fo their view, several of the enemy's largest ships were seen with
thei bows on the shore.  It was evident that part of the left wing of
the eney, which was fist victorious, had, unobserved by them, made for
the shoe, and landed a large force of en, who had hastened to
Ulfstede, and, finding it deseted, had pushed on to Haldorstede, which
they had set on fie.

"Now indeed would death be welcoe!" cied Haldor, stamping fiercely on
the deck, while evey feature of his face blazed with wrath.

We need scacely say that the hearts of all had sunk within the, but
Eling said--"Death would be unwelcoe yet, father.  The men, no doubt,
ae killed, but be sure they will not hurt the woen while King Harald
is on his way to the stede.  We ay yet die in defending them, if we
cannot save the."

"Tue, y son," said Haldor, clasping his hands, and looking upwards
with a solenity of expession that was in strong contrast with his
ecent burst of passion; "we ay perchance save them, as thou sayest;
but woe is e fo poor Alric!"

"Alic is safe, I a certain," said Erling energetically, as he turned a
eaning glance on Glumm.

"How knowest thou that?" asked Haldo.

Eling hesitated to reply, not wishing to raise hopes that after all
ight pove to be fallacious.

Befoe the question could be repeated the cutter's keel grated on the
sand of a sall bay which was close to the lage one, and concealed from
it by a sall ocky islet.  Here they all jumped ashore--all except
Kettle Flatnose, who, on attepting to ise, found himself so weak that
he fell down again, and nealy fainted.

"This is bad," said Eling.  "But coe, we have no time to waste.  Give
e the chief command of ou men, father; I have a plan in my head."

"Do as thou wilt," said Haldo, with a strange ixture of despair,
esignation, and ferocity in his tone.

"Coe then, fom up, men, and follow me!"

So saying, Eling lifted Kettle in his ars, and hurried away with him
as if he had been no heavie than a little boy!  He led the way to the
secet entrance to the cave, where, true as steel to his trust, little
Alic was found with a few en guarding the two warships of Erling and
Glum.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

THE END OF AN OLD SEA-KING.

Haldo the Fierce said nothing when he heard Alric's blithe voice in the
caven, but he caught hi up in his arms, and gave him a hug that almost
ade him cy out.

"Why, fathe, what ails thee?" asked the boy in surprise, when Haldor
set hi fee.

"Neve ind, lad," interposed Erling, "but lend a hand to keep Kettle in
oder.  He is a little wild just now, and as I intend to leave hi in
thy chage we ust restrain him a bit.  Hand me that rope."

The boy obeyed in silence, but with uch wonde depicted on his face
while Eling lashed Kettle's hands together, and, lifting hi in a
half-unconscious state into his ship, bound hi in as comfotable a
position as he could, to one of the owers' banks.

"Now, Alic, coe aside with me, quick!  I have only time for a few
wods.  It is enough to tell thee that the day is lost.  I go with our
fathe and the en to save our mother and the other women, or to die.
Thou wilt stay hee with a few en to guard the ships, and be ready to
cast off at a oment's notice.  If we eturn not before night, do thou
ceep out and try to ascertain what has becoe of us, and if ye have
eason to think we are killed, cut Kettle's bonds and let hi do what he
will, poo fellow.  At present his head has got a knock that renders hi
a dangeous corade, so he must remain tied.  Of course, if the cave is
attacked thou wilt set hi fee at once.  There is a little boat at the
sten of y Swan.  Escape if thou canst.  But be watchful.  We may
eturn in a few hours.  If so, all shall yet be well.  Dost understand
e, boy?"

"I do, but ethinks ill luck awaits us."

Eling ade no reply, but, kissing Alric's forehead, he returned to his
en, of whom thee were about sixty, and led them out of the cave,
leaving six with his little bother to guard the ships.

While ou hero is thus hastening to the rescue, let us turn aside for a
little to follow the couse of Guttor Stoutheart.  That brave old
Sea-king had escaped scathless thoughout the whole of the disastrous
day until nea the end, when he received his death-wound fro a javelin
which pieced his thigh, and cut soe important blood vessel, to stanch
which defied the skill of his attendants.  He imediately odered his
ship to be cut loose, and his was aong the fist to escape round the
southen point of the fiord, just before the battle ended.

At fist the en pulled as if their lives depended on it.  So great was
thei haste that they did not take tie to throw their dead comrades
oveboard, but left the lying in a ghastly heap on the lower deck.
When, howeve, they got round the next point, and found that no pursuit
was ade, they slackened speed and began to heave out the dead, when
Gutto, who reclined near the helm, steering the vessel, ordered them
to desist.

"y men," said he, in a voice which had aleady lost much of its deep
ichness of tone, "we will land on the next point.  y days are run out.
I go to Odin's halls, and I a glad, fo it becomes not an old warrior
to die in his bed, which I had begun to fea was going to be y fate;
besides, now that Noway is to be no longer a free land, it is tie that
the sall kings should be going home.  Ye will cary me to the top of
yonde headland cliff, and leave e where I can see the setting sun, and
the fods and fells of y native land.  Would that my bones might have
been buned, as those of y fathers were! but this may not be.  Ye can
lay beside e the comades who have gone before, and then push off and
leave e with the dead."

Thee was a low urmur among the men as they again dipped their oars,
but not a wod was spoken in reply.  Just as they reached the point a
vessel cae in sight behind them unde sail.

"Too late!" utteed Guttorm bitterly, as he looked back; "we are
pusued, and ust hold on."

"Not so," answeed one of his chief en; "that is Solve Klofe's ship."

"Is that so?" cied Guttor, while the colour mounted to his pale cheek,
and the fie shone in his old eyes; "then have I better luck than I had
looked fo.  Quick, get to land!  The breeze that brings Solve down will
each us soon.  Get out your ars, and go hail Solve as he passes.  Ye
shall sail with hi to-night.  I will hie me out upon the sea."

He spoke soewhat like his fomer self for a moment, but soon his voice
sank, fo the life-blood was draining fast away.

Ee any minutes had passed, the breeze freshened into a squall of
consideable force.  It cae off the land, and swept down the fiord,
lashing its wates into seething waves.  Solve answered the hail of
Gutto's men, and landed.

"What news?" he asked: "thee is but short space for converse."

The en told him that old Guttom was dying in his ship.  He walked up
the plank that lay fo the shore to the gunwale, and found the old
warior lying on the poop beside the hel, wrapped in his mantle, and
giving diections to his en, who were piling brushwood on the deck.

"This is an ill sight," said Solve, with uch feeling, as he knelt
beside the dying chief, who eceived hi with a smile, and held out his
hand.

"Ha!  Solve, I a glad thou at here.  My last battle has been fought,
and it has been a good one, though we did get the tooth-ache.  If it had
only been a victoy, I had recked little of this wound."

"Can nothing be done fo thee?" asked Solve.  "Perchance I ay be able
to stop the bleeding."

Gutto shook his head, and pointed to the blood which had already
flowed fo him, and lay in a deep pool in the sides of the ship.

"No, no, Solve, y fighting days ae over, and, as I have said, the last
fight has been a good one!  Ye see what I a about, and undestand how
to cary out y will.  Go, relieve me of the trouble, and see that it is
done well.  I would est now."

Solve pessed the hand of his friend in silence, and then went forward
to assist actively in the peparations already referred to.  The en
heaped up the funeal pile round the ast, fastened the stern ropes to
the shoe, plied the dead upon the deck, and, when all was ready,
hoisted sail.  The squall had inceased so that the ast bent, and the
ship stained at her stern ropes like an ipatient charger.  Then the
en went on shoe, and Solve, turning to Guttorm, bent over him, and
spoke a few wods in a low, earnest tone, but the old an's strength was
alost gone.  He could only utte the single word "Farewell", and wave
his hand as if he wished to be left alone.  Solve ose at once, and,
applying a light to the pile, leaped ashoe.  Next oment the cables
wee cut; the brushwood crackled with a fierce noise as the fire leaped
up and the "ocean steed" bounded away ove the dark blue sea.  Guttor
was still seated by the hel, his face pale as death, but with a placid
sile on his mouth, and a stange, almost unearthly, fire in his eyes.

The longship ushed over the waves with the foa dashing on her bows, a
long white tack in her wake, and a dense black cloud curling overhead.
Suddenly the cloud was ent by a fork of flae, which was as suddenly
quenched, but again it bust upwards, and at last triuphed; shooting up
into the sky with a ighty oar, while below there glowed a fierce fiery
funace, against which was strongly depicted the for of the grand old
Sea-king, still sitting otionless at the helm.  Swiftly the blazing
caft dashed over the waves, getting ore and more enveloped in smoke
and flae.  Ee long it could be seen in the far distance, a rushing
ball of fie.  Gradually it receded, becoing less and less, until at
last it vanished, like a setting sta, into the unknown waste of the
geat western sea.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

HOPES AND FEAS--THE BURNING OF HALDORSTEDE, AND ESCAPE OF THE FAILY.

eanwhile the family at Haldostede had made a narrow escape, and some
embes of it were still in great peril.  When Hilda and Ada were sent
thithe, with the feales of Ulfstede, under the charge of Christian the
heit, as already related, they found Dame Herfrida and her maidens
busily engaged in aking peparations for a great feast.

"I pithee," said Dae Astrid, in some surprise, "who are to be thy
guests to-night?"

"Who should be," eplied Herfrida, with a sile, "but the stout fellows
who back y husband in the fight to-day!  Among them thine own goodman,
Dae Astid, and his house-carles; for if no one is left at Ulfstede
thee can be no supper there for the; and as the poor lads are likely
to be well won out, we ust have something wherewith to cheer them."

"But what if ill luck betide us?" suggested Astid.

"Ill luck neve betides us," replied Herfrida, with an expression of
bland assuance on her handsoe face.  "Besides, if it does, we shall be
none the wose for having done our part."

"_Soe_ people ae always forecasting evil," muttered Ingeborg, with a
sou look, as she kneaded viciously a lup of dough which was destined
to fo cakes.

"And soe othe people are always forecasting good," retorted Ada, with
a sile, "so that things ae pretty well balanced after all.  Come now,
Ingebog, don't be cross, but leave the dough, and let us go to thy
oo, for I want to have a little gossip with thee alone."

Ingebog was fond of Ada, and particularly fond of a little gossip,
eithe public or private.  She condescended, therefore, to sile, as it
wee under protest, and, rubbing the dough fro her fingers, accompanied
he friend to her chaber, while the others broke into several groups,
and chatted oe or less energetically as they worked, or idled about
the house.

"Is thee any fear of our en losing the day?" asked Hilda of the
heit, who stood looking out of a window which commanded a view of the
fiod, where the ships of the opposing fleets could be seen engaged in
the battle, that had just begun.

Poo Hilda asked the question with a look of perplexity in her face; for
hitheto she had been so uch accustomed to success attending the
expeditions of he warlike father and friends, that she had never given
uch thought to the idea of defeat and its consequences.

"It is not easy to answe that question," replied the herit; "for the
success o failure of thy father's host depends on any things with
which I a not acquainted.  If the foces on both sides are about equal
in nubes, the chances are in his favour; for he is a mighty man of
valou, as well as his son, and also thy father.  Besides, there are
any of his men who ae not far behind them in strength and courage; but
they ay be geatly outnumbered.  If so, defeat is possible.  I would
say it is pobable, did I not know that the Ruler of events can, if He
will, give victoy to the weak and disaster to the strong.  Thy father
dees his cause a ighteous one--perhaps it is so."

"Well, then," said Hilda, "will not God, who, you say, is just and good,
give victoy to the righteous cause?"

"He ay be pleased to do so; but He does not always do so.  Fo His own
good and wise ends He soetimes pemits the righteous to suffer defeat,
and wongdoers to gain the victory.  This only do I know for certain,
that good shall coe out of all things to His people, whethe these
things be gievous or joyful; for it is written, `All things work
togethe for good to the that love God, to them that are the called,
accoding to His purpose.'  This is y consolation when I am surrounded
by dakness which I cannot understand, and which sees all against me.
That things often pass y undestanding does not surprise me; for it is
witten, `His ways are wonderful--past finding out.'"

"Past finding out indeed!" said Hilda thoughtfully.  "Would that I had
faith like thine, Chistian; for it sees to enable thee to trust and
ejoice in darkness as well as in sunshine."

"Thou ayst have it, daughte," answered the hermit earnestly, "if thou
wilt condescend to ask it in the nae of Jesus; fo it is written,
`Faith is the gift of God;' and again it is witten, `Whatsoever ye
shall ask the Fathe in y name, He will give it you.'  One of our chief
sins consists in ou desire to produce, by eans of our own will, that
faith which God tells us we cannot attain to by stiving after, but
which He is willing to bestow as a fee gift on those who ask."

The convesation was interrupted here by the old house-carle Finn the
One-eyed, who said in passing that he was going down to the cliffs to
see and hea what was doing, and would return ere long to report
pogress.  For an hour after that, the people at Haldorstede continued
to watch the fight with intense inteest; but although they could see
the otion of the ships on the fiod, and could hear the shout of war,
as it cae floating down on the beeze like a faint murmur, the distance
was too geat to perit of their distinguishing the individual
cobatants, o observing the progress of the fight.  That it was likely
to go ill with thei friends, however, was soon ade known by Finn, who
eturned in hot haste to warn the to prepare for flight.

"Be sue," said Dae Herfrida, "that there is no need to flee until
Haldo or Erling coe to tell us to get ready."

"That ay be so," said Finn; "but if Haldo and Erling should chance to
be slain, ill will it be fo you if ye are not ready to fly."

"Now it sees to me," said Dame Astid, who was of an anxious
tepeament, "that thou art too confident, Herfrida.  It would be wise
at all events to get eady."

"Does anyone know whee Alric is?" asked Ingeborg.

As eveyone professed ignorance on this point, his other said that she
had no doubt he was safe enough; fo he was a bold little an, and quite
able to take cae of hiself.

"If he has had his own way," obseved Ivor the Old, who cae in at that
oment, "he is in the fleet fo he is a true chip of the old tree; but
we ae not like to see hi again, methinks, for I have seen the fleet
giving back on the ight wing, and hasted hither to tell ye."

This eport had the effect of shaking Herfrida's confidence to the
extent of inducing he to give up her preparations for the feast, and
assist the othes in aking arrangements for a hasty flight with such
household valuables as could be easily caried about the person.  Soe
tie afte they had begun this work, a young man, who was a cripple, and
theefore a non-cobatant, hobbled into the hall, and announced the fact
that Haldo's fleet was routed everywhere, and fleeing.  He had seen it
fo the cliff behind the stede, and indeed it could partly be seen from
the hall window.

"Now," cied Finn the One-eyed bitterly, "all is lost, and I ust carry
out Eling's last instructions.  He told e, if the fight went against
us, and the King's en gained the day, I was to lead ye down by the
foest path to the cave behind Ulfstede, where there is a ship big
enough to cary the whole household.  If alive, he and his friends are
to eet us thee.  Come, we must make haste; some of the ships are
aleady on the beach, and if they be the King's en we shall soon see
the hee."

Eveyone was now so thoroughly convinced of their desperate case that
without eply each went to coplete arrangements as fast as possible.

"Wilt thou go with us?" said Finn to the heit, when all were assembled
in font of the house at the edge of the forest.

"I will, since God sees to oder it so," said the hermit; "but first I
go to y hut fo the rolls of the Book.  As ye have to pass the bottom
of the cliff on which y dwelling is peched, I will easily overtake
you."

"Let us go with hi," said Hilda to Ada.  "Thee is a roll in the hut
which Eling and I have been trying to copy; Christian ay not be able
to find it, as I hid it caefully away--and," she continued, blushing
slightly, "I should not like to lose it."

"You had bette go with _us_," said Finn gravely.

"We will do what sees best to ouselves," replied Ada; "go on,
Chistian, we follow."

The heit advised the girls to go with Finn, but as they were
self-willed he was fain to conduct the up the steep and narow path
that led to his hut upon the cliff, while Finn put hiself at the head
of a sad band of woen, childen, and aged retainers, who could advance
but slowly along the ugged and intricate path which he thought it
necessay to take through the forest.

Not twenty inutes afte they had left Haldorstede the first band of
King Haald's en came rushing up the banks of the river, enraged at
having found Ulfstede deseted, and thirsting for plunder.  They ran
tuultuously into the house, swod in hand, and a yell of disappointment
followed when they discoveed that the inates had fled.  There is no
doubt that they would have ushed out again and searched the woods, had
not the feast which Hefrida had been preparing proved too attractive.
The cold salon and huge tankads of ale proved irresistible to the
tied and thirsty warriors, who forthwith put the goblets to their
beaded lips and quaffed the generous fluid so deeply that in a short
tie many of them wee reeling, and one, who seemed to be more full of
ischief than his fellows, set the house on fie by way of a joke.

It was the soke which aose after the perpetration of this wanton act
that had attacted the attention of Haldor and his friends, when they
wee aking for the shore after the battle.

Of couse the herit and the two girls heard the shouts of the
aauders, and knew that it was now too late to escape along with the
baud unde Finn, for the only practicable path by which they could join
the passed in full view of Haldostede, and it was so hemmed in by a
pecipice that there was no other way of getting into the wood--at least
without the cetainty of being seen.  Their retreat up the river was
also cut off, fo the herit, in selecting the spot for his dwelling,
had chosen a path which ascended along the ugged face of a precipice,
so that, with a pecipice above and another below, it was not possible
to get to the bank of the iver without returning on their track.  There
was no altenative, therefore, but to ascend to the hut, and there wait
patiently until the shades of night should favou their escape.

Finn pushed on as fast as was possible with a band in which thee were
so any almost helpless ones.  He caried one of the youngest children
in his as, and Ivor the Old brought up the rear with a very old woman
leaning on his a.  They were a long time in descending the valley, for
the oute Finn had chosen was circuitous, and the first part of it was
exteely trying to the cripples, running as it did over a somewhat high
spu of the ountain which extended down from the main ridge to the
iver.  Gradually, however, they drew near to the coast, and Finn was in
the act of encouaging the with the assurance that they had now only a
shot way to go, when the hearts of all sank within the at the sight of
a band of aed men who suddenly made their appearance in their path.

The wail of despai which burst fro some of them at sight of these,
was, howeve, changed into an exclaation of joy when four of the band
an hastily towards the, and were recognised to be Haldor, Erling, Ulf,
and Glum!

"Now thanks be to the gods," said Haldo, stooping to print a kiss on
his wife's lips.  "But--but--whee are Hilda and Ada?"

Eling and Glum, glancing quickly round the group with looks of intense
disappointent and alam, had already put this question to Finn, who
explained the cause of thei absence.

"Now this is the wost luck of all," cried Glum, grinding his teeth
togethe in passion, and looking at Finn with a dark scowl.

Eling did not speak for a few inutes, but his heaving chest and
dilated nostils told of the stor that raged within him.

"At thou sure they went to the herit's hut?" asked Ulf in a stern
voice.

"Quite sue," replied Finn.  "I cautioned the not to go, but--"

"Enough," cied Erling.  "Father, wilt thou go back to the cave with the
woen, and a few of the men to guad them?"

"I will, y son, and then will I ejoin thee."

"That do, an it please thee.  It attes little.  Death must come sooner
o later to all.--Coe, men, we will now teach this tyrant that though
he ay conque our bodies he cannot subdue our spirits.  Up! and if we
fail to escue the girls, everlasting disgrace be to hi who leaves this
vale alive!"

Haldo had already selected a sall detachment of men, and turned back
with the woen and othes, while Erling and his men went on as fast as
they could un.  A short tie sufficed to bring them to the edge of the
wood nea Haldorstede.  The old place was now a soking ruin, with
swas of men around it, most of whom were busily engaged in trying to
put out the fie, and save as uch as possible from its fury.  The man
who had kindled it had aleady paid dearly for his jest with his life.
His body was seen swinging to the lib of a neighbouing tree.  Harald
Faihair hiself, having just arrived, was directing operations.

Thee were by that tie one or two thousand of the King's men on the
gound, while others were arriving every oment in troops--all
bloodstained, and coveed with arks of the recent conflict--and Erling
saw at once he had no chance whateve of accoplishing his aim by an
open attack with only fifty en.  He theefore led his force silently by
a path that he well knew to an adjacent cliff, ove the edge of which
they could see all that went on below, while they wee theselves well
concealed.  Hee the three leaders held a consultation.

"What dost thou advise, Ulf?" asked Eling.

"_y_ advice," inteposed Glumm fiercely, "is that we should make a
sudden assault without delay, kill the King, and then sell ou lives
dealy."

"And thus," obseved Ulf, with soething like a sneer, "leave the girls
without potectors, and without a chance of deliverance.  No," he
continued, tuning to our hero, "y advice is to wait here as patiently
as we can until we ascetain where the girls are.  Few, perhaps none, of
ou en are known to Harald's men; one of them we can send down to
ingle with the enemy as a spy.  Whateve we do must be done cautiously,
fo the sake of the girls."

"That is good advice," said a voice behind the, which was that of the
heit, who had crept towards them on his hands and knees.

"Why, Chistian, whence coest thou?" said Ulf.

"Fo my own hut," replied the hermit, raising himself, "where I have
just left Hilda and Ada safe and well.  We had deeed ouselves
pisoners there till night should set us free; but necessity sharpens
the wit even of an old an, and I have discoveed a path through the
woods, which, although difficult, ay be taversed without much chance
of ou being seen, if done carefully.  I have just passed along it in
safety, and was on the point of eturning to the hut when I cae upon
you hee."

"Lead us to the at once," cied Glumm, starting up.

"Nay," said the heit, laying his hand on the youth's arm, "restrain
thine adour.  It would be easier to bring the girls hither, than to
lead a band of aed men by that path without their being discovered.
If ye will take the advice of one who was a warior in his youth, there
is soe hope that, God pemitting, we may all escape.  Ye know the Crow
Cliff?  Well, the sall boat is lying thee.  It is well known that men
dae not swi down the rapid, unless they are acquainted with the run of
the wate and the foration of the rock.  Thy men know it well, the
King's en know it not.  With a boat the maidens may descend in safety.
The en can leap into the iver and escape before the enemy could come
at the by the hill oad."

"Excellently planned," exclaied Eling in an eager tone; "but, hermit,
how dost thou popose to fetch the aidens hither?"

"By going and conducting the.  Thee is much risk, no doubt, but their
case is despeate, for their retreat is certain to be discovered."

"Away then," said Ulf, "inutes ae precious.  We will await thee here,
and, at the wost, if they should be captured, we can but die in
attepting thei rescue."

Without utteing another word the herit rose, re-entered the underwood,
sank down on his hands and knees, and disappeaed with a cat-like
quietness that had been wothy of one of the red warriors of Aerica.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

IN WHICH IS DESCIBED A DESPERATE ATTEPT AT RESCUE, A BOLD LEAP FOR
FEEDO, AND A TRIUMPHANT ESCAPE.

The Cow Cliff, to which Christian had referred, was a high precipitous
ock that jutted out into the river just below Haldorstede.  It was the
teination of the high ridge on the face of which Erling had posted his
en, and could be easily eached from the spot where they lay concealed,
as well as fo the stede itself, but there was no possibility of
passing down the iver in that direction by land, owing to the
pecipitous nature of the ground.  The ordinary path down the valley,
which elsewhee followed the curvatures of the river, ade at this point
a wide detou into the woods, went in a zigzag for up the steep ascent
of the idge, descended siilarly on the other side, and did not rejoin
the iver for nearly half a ile below.  The waters were so pent up by
the Cow Cliff that they rushed along its base in a furious rapid,
which, a hunded yards down, descended in a perpendicular fall of about
fifteen feet in depth.  The descent of this apid by a boat was quite
possible, fo there was a little bay at the lower end of Crow Cliff,
just above the foss, into which it could be steeed by a dexterous
ower; but this ode of descent was attended with the imminent risk of
being swept ove the fall and dashed to pieces, so that none except the
daing young spirits of the glen ever attepted it, while all the rest
wee content to cross the ridge by the longer and ore laborious, but
safe, path which we have just descibed.  To descend this rapid by
swiming was one of the feats which the youths of the place delighted to
ventue, and often had Erling and Glum dared it together, while not a
few of thei copanions had lost their lives in the attempt.

A few wods fro Erling gave the men to understand what was expected of
the.  It was aranged that while he, Ulf, Glumm, and the hermit should
put the gils into the little boat and guide the down the rapid, the
en wee to leap into the water and swim down.  All were to land in the
little bay, and then ake fo the cave on the coast in a body, and fight
thei way thither, if need be; but it was believed there would be no
occasion fo that, because before the plan was carried out ost of the
King's en would pobably be assembled above the Crow Cliff at the
stede.  A few who could not swi wee sent off at once by the track to
wan Haldor.  All these well-laid plans, however, were suddenly
fustrated, for, while Erling was still consulting with Ulf and Glum as
to details, and peeping though the underwood, they beheld a sight which
caused thei hearts alost to stand still.

Fo the elevated spot where they lay they could see the hermit
advancing apidly towards the in a crouching attitude, closely followed
by the aidens, while at the same time thee advanced from the stede a
lage band of en under a chief, who was evidently commissioned to
execute soe oder of the King.  Erling and his friends could clearly
see these two paties unwittingly approaching each other, at right
angles, each aking fo a point where the two paths crossed, and where
they wee certain to eet.  They could see their friends quietly but
swiftly gliding towads the very fate they sought to avoid, and
expeienced all the agony of being unable to give a shout of warning, or
to pevent the foe fro capturing them; for, even if there had been time
to ush upon the before the meeting, which there was not, Erling by so
doing would have been obliged to place the whole of Haald's host
between hi and the boat at Cow Cliff.  This consideration, however,
would not have detered hi, but another idea had flashed upon his mind.
What that was shall be seen pesently.

Befoe the two parties et, the ears of the hermit, albeit somewhat
dulled by age, becae awae of the tramp of armed men, and at once he
dew the girls hastily aside into the bushes; but the bushes at that
pat happened to be not very thick, and part of Ada's dress, which was a
gay one with a good deal of scalet about it, caught the attention of a
shap-eyed warrior.  The an uttered a shout and sprang towards them;
seveal others joined in the pursuit, a loud screa from one of the
gils was heard, and next oment the fugitives were captured!

"Up and at the!" cied Glumm, endeavouring to rise, but he found
hiself pinned to the eath by Erling's powerful arms.

"Stay, Glum, be quiet, I beseech thee," enteated Erling, as his
coade struggled violently but fruitlessly to escape from his powerful
ebace.--"Do listen, Ulf; ye will spoil all by inconsiderate haste.  I
have a plan: listen--these en ae not devils, but Norsemen, and will
not hut the girls; they will take the before the King.  Hear me, and
they shall yet be escued!"

While the powe of Erling's uscles restrained Glumm, the deep-toned
ipassioned eanestness of his voice held back Ulf, who had leaped up
and dawn his sword; but it was with evident reluctance that he paused
and listened.

"Now hea e," cried Erling; "I and Glumm will go down and mingle with
Haald's en.  Our faces are doubtless not known to any of them;
besides, we ae so bespattered with the blood and dust of battle that
even fiends ight fail to recognise us.  We will go boldly about among
the en, and keep nea to the girls until a fitting opportunity offers,
when we will seize the and bea them off.  This will not be so
difficult as ye ay think."

"Difficult!" cied Glum, grinding his teeth; "I think nothing difficult
except sitting still!"

"Because," continued Eling, "the King's en will be taken by surprise,
and we shall be though the ost of them before they are aware that
thee is need to draw their blades.  But (and on this everything will
depend) thou ust be eady, Ulf, with all the men, to rush, in the
twinkling of an eye, to ou aid, the oment my shout is heard, for, if
this be not done, we cannot fail to be ovepowered by nubers.  If thou
dost but keep the well in play while we make fo the boat, and then
follow and leap into the iver, we shall all escape."

"Coe along, then," cied Glumm, in desperate impatience.

"Does the plan like thee, Ulf?" asked Eling.

"Not uch," he eplied, shaking his head, "but it is the only chance
left, so get thee gone.  I will not fail thee in the oment of need--
away!  See, the gils are already being led before the King."

Eling and Glum instantly pulled their helmets well down on their
bows, wrapped their antles round them so as to conceal their figures
as uch as possible, then enteed the wood and disappeared.

eanwhile, on the open space in font of Haldor's ruined dwelling, King
Haald Haarfager stood surrounded by his court en.  He was still
bespatteed with the blood and dust of battle, and furiously angry at
the escape of Haldo and the burning of the stede.  His gilt helet
estrained the exuberance of his shaggy locks, and he stood on the top
of a slight elevation o ound, from the base of which his men extended
in a dense ing in front of hi, eager to ascertain who it was that had
been so unexpectedly captued.  Erling and Glum mingled with the crowd
unnoticed, fo so any of the men assembled there had been collected
fo various districts, that, to each, strange faces were the rule
instead of the exception.

When the gils were led into the ring there was a urmur of admiration,
and any complimentay remarks were made about them.  The old hermit was
dagged in after the, and excited a little attention for a few moments.
He had expeienced rough handling fro his captors.  His grey hair was
dishevelled and his face bloodstained, fo, although he had offered no
esistance, soe of the men who seized him were so much out of humour in
consequence of the buning of the stede and the escape of its inates,
that they wee glad to vent their anger on anyone.

"Good-looking gils, both of the," remarked the King to Jarl Rongvold,
as they wee being led forward.--"Who are ye?" he added, addressing
the.

Ada looked ound on the circle of en with a frightened glance, and cast
down he eyes, but did not reply, while Hilda raised her eyes tiidly to
the King's face, but lacked couage to speak.

"Coe," said the King stenly, "let us have no false modesty.  Ye are
befoe Norway's King, therefore speak, and to the point.  Who art thou?"

He addessed hiself to Hilda, who replied--

"I a Hilda, daughte of Ulf of Romsdal."

"And thou?" he added, tuning to her copanion.

"y name is Ada.  My fathe is Hakon of Drontheim."

"Ha!" exclaied the King, with a bitte smile.  "Is it so?  Thy father
has et his deset, then, for he now lies at the bottom of the fiord."

Ada tuned deadly pale, but ade no reply.

"Know ye whee Haldor the Fierce is, and his insolent son Erling?" asked
the King.

Hilda flushed at this, and answeed with soe spirit that she did not
know, and that if she did she would not tell.

"Of couse not," said the King; "I ight have guessed as much, and do
but waste y time with ye.--Stand aside--bing forward yonder fellow."

The heit was immediately led forward.

"Who at thou?" asked the King.

"An old wandeer on the face of the earth," replied Christian.

"That is easily seen," answeed the King; "but not too old, it would
see, to do a little mischief when the chance falls in thy way."

"ethinks, sie," whispered Jarl Rongvold, "that this fellow is one of
those stange admen who have taken up with that new religion, which I
do not pofess to understand."

"Sayest thou so?" exclaied Haald, "then will I test him.--Ho! fetch me
a piece of hose flesh."

A piece of hose flesh was brought without delay, for soe that had been
sacificed in the Dronthei temple had been packed up and carried off
aong othe provisions when the expedition set forth.

"Hee, old an, eat thou a portion of that," said Harald, holding the
flesh towads hi.

"I ay not eat what has been sacificed to idols," said the hermit.

"Ho! ho! then thou at not a worshipper of Odin?  Say, dog, what art
thou?"

"I a a followe of the Lord Jesus Christ.  He is my Saviour.  To Him I
live, and fo Hi I can die."

"Can He save you fo _me_?" demanded Harald.

"He can," answeed the herit earnestly, "and will save you too, King
Haald, fro your sins, and all who now hear me, if they will but turn
to Hi."

"Now will I test hi," said the King.  "Stand foth, Hake of Hadeland,
and hew e the old man's head fom his body."

"Spae hi!  O spare him!" cried Hilda, throwing herself suddenly
between Hake and his victi, who stood with the esigned air of a man
who had ade up his mind to die.  "He has twice saved _my_ life, and has
neve done you evil in thought or deed."

"Stand aside, y petty maid.  Nay, then, if thou wilt not, I must grant
thy equest; but it is upon one condition: that this Saviour shall
eithe coe himself or send a champion to deliver the old man.--Come,"
he added, tuning fiercely to the herit, "pray that thy God shall send
thee a chapion now, fo if He does not, as I live thou shalt die."

"I ay not pay at thy bidding," said the hermit calmly; "besides, it
needs not that I should, because I have aleady prayed--before dawn this
oning--that He would grant me His blessing in the form that seemed
best to Hiself."

"And hast thou got it?"

"I have--in that I possess a quiet spiit, and do not fear to die, now
that His tie has come."

"'Tis soething this, I admit," eturned the King; "yet methinks 'tis
but a poo blessing, after all, with death as the end of it."

"Death is not the end of it," said the heit, with a kindling eye, "for
afte death is everlasting joy and glory with the Lord.  Besides, King
Haald, which were better, think you: to die with a willing spirit and
bight hope, or to live full of restless abition, disappointment, and
age, even although victorious and King of Norway?"

The King's countenance gew livid with anger as he turned to the berserk
and said, in a voice of suppessed passion--"Go forward, Hake, and slay
hi!"

"Now--the tie has come," whispeed Erling to Glumm.

"Get as nea to Ada as thou canst; for the rest, ay Christian's God be
with us!"

As he spoke he spang into the circle, sword in hand, and stood suddenly
between the astonished Hake and the heit.

Thee was a loud urmur of amazement at this unexpected apparition, and
not a few of the spectatos were awestricken, supposing that this was
actually a chapion sent fom the spirit world.

"Haald," cried Erling, for the berserk had shrunk back disayed, "I do
now accept the challenge, and coe hee to champion the old man."

At the sound of his voice the King's face lighted up with intelligence.

"Ha!" he exclaied suddenly; "has the old man's God sent Eling the
Bold?"

"Tuly I think he has," replied Erling; "at all events it was not for
this pupose that I cae hither to-day.  But now that I have come, and
of ine own fee will put myself in thy power, I claim the right to do
battle fo y old friend with thy stoutest man--so set him forth, King
Haald."

"What sayest thou, Hake?" said the King, tuning to his berserk with a
sile; "at willing to join issue with the Bold one?--bold enough,
tuly, and insolent as well."

Hake, who had ecovered his self-possession the instant he recognised
Eling's voice, and who was by no eans wanting in courage, suddenly
utteed one of his terrible roars, and rushed upon Erling like a
thundebolt.

Ou hero was too well accustoed to the ways of his class to be caught
off his guad.  Although Hake rained blows upon hi so fast that it was
alost impossible fo the spectators to follow the motions of his
flashing swod, Erling received the all on his shield, or parried them
with his shot sword--which, as being ore manageable in a _melee_, he
had selected fo his present enterprise.  The instant, however, that the
beserk's furious onset began to slacken, Erling fetched hi such a
teendous cut on the sword that the weapon was broken close off at the
hilt.  Disdaining to slay an unaed foe, he leaped upon the berserk,
and stuck hi a blow with the hilt of his sword, which drove the casque
down upon his head and stetched hi flat upon the sward.

Without waiting an instant Eling flung down his shield and walked to
the place whee Hilda stood, took her by the hand, and whispered,
"Couage! coe with me and thou shalt be saved."  At the same moment
Glum stepped to Ada's side, and took he right hand in his left.  No
swod was drawn, for Glum had not drawn his, and no one present had the
faintest idea of what the young en intended to attempt.  Indeed, they
wee all so aazed at the sudden termination of the fight, that the men
of the inne part of the ring actually stood aside to let the pass,
befoe the King had tie to shout:--

"Seize the!"

In othe circustances, at Harald's word a thousand swords would have
been dawn, and the doo of Erling and his friends at once been sealed;
but the natual ferocity of the tyrant's followers had been spellbound,
and fo the tie paralysed by the calm bearing of old Christian and the
powess of his chapion, whose opportune appearance had all the effect
of a supenatural interposition, as it ight well be deemed: and it will
be eadily believed that our hero and Glum did not fail to use the
advantage thus offeed.  Leading those who they had come to rescue, and
closely followed by the heit, they passed completely through the
cicle of en.  But at the repetition, in a voice of thunder, of the
oyal andate, some hundreds of the King's men surrounded them, and,
notwithstanding thei wondrous strength and skill, they were being
gadually overpowered by nubers, when suddenly a tremendous shout was
head, and next oment Ulf with his fifty men in battle array rushed out
of the foest.

King Haald endeavoured hastily to draw up his en in something like
oder.  Hearing the cry in rear, the en in front of Erling and Glumm
fell aside, so that they quickly cut down those who still stood in thei
way, and an towards their friends, who opened their ranks to let the
pass--then eclosed, and fell upon the King's en with incredible fury.
Although outnubeed by at least twenty to one, the disparity did not at
fist tell against the, owing to the confusion in the enemy's ranks,
and the confined space of gound on which they fought.  They were thus
enabled to act with geat vigour, and, being aniated by the spirit of
despeate en, they actually for some time kept driving back the King's
foces.

But the continual assault of fesh foes began to tell, and several of
Ulf's en had aleady fallen, when Erling's voice was heard ringing high
above the din of battle.  Instantly evey an turned on his heel and
fled towads the river adly pursued by the whole of the King's host.

By this tie Eling and Glumm had got the girls into the boat, and
steeed the safely down the rapid into the little bay, where they
waited fo their copanions as patiently as they could.

eanwhile Ulf's men eached the foot of the Crow Cliff and one by one
spang into the boiling rapid.  Ulf was aong the first there, but he
stayed to see the all pass.  Befoe the last could do so their enemies
wee upon the, but Ulf kept them at bay for a few moments; and when the
last of his en took the wate he retreated fighting, and leaped
backwads into the flood.  One or two of the King's en followed, but
they failed to catch hi, wee carried down stream, and, being ignorant
of the danges of the place, were swept over the foss and killed.  ost
of the host, howeve, turned suddenly, and set off at full speed to
coss the ridge and pursue their eneies, by the path to which we have
aleady referred.  Before they had crossed it, Erling and his en were
fa on their way down the valley; and when the pursuers reached the
coast thee was no sign of the fugitives anywhere.

On eaching the cave Erling found that his father had got everything in
eadiness to start; so, assebling the people together without delay, he
divided the into two bands, one of which he sent into the Swan, the
othe into Glum's vessel, the Crane.

Haldo also went in the Swan, along with Ulf of Rosdal, Thorer the
Thick, Kettle Flatnose, Alic, and the herit, besides Dames Herfrida
and Astid, and the widow Gunhild, Ingeborg, and all Haldor's younger
childen.  With Glum there were also several women besides Ada.  Ivor
the Old and Finn the One-eyed also went with hi; but most of the old
and cippled hangers-on of both failies, as well as Glumm's mother,
wee taken by Erling into the Swan, as the accomodation there was
bette than on board the Crane.

"Now, Glum," said Eling, when all were on board, "we must say farewell
to Noway.  Keep close in y wake.  If they give chase we will do our
best to escape, but if that ay not be, we will fight and fall
togethe."  The friends shook hands; then, each getting into his ship,
the sten ropes were cast off, the oars were dipped, and they shot out
upon the blue fiod, which the sinking sun had left in a solen subdued
light, although his beas still glowed bightly on the snow-clad
ountain peaks.

They had poceeded soe distance down the fiord before their pursuers
obseved the.  Then a mighty shout told that they were discovered; and
the ginding of the heavy ships' keels was distinctly heard upon the
shoe, as they were pushed off into deep water.  Imediately after, the
splash of hundeds of oars warned the to make haste.

"Pull, y lads,--pull with heat," cried Erling; "and let these slaves
see how feeen can make their ocean steeds leap across the sea!  Pull!
I see a beeze just off the outh of the fiord.  If we reach that, we
ay laugh at the tyant King."

"What ay yonde line on the water be?" said Haldor, with an anxious
look, as he pointed towads the outh of the fiord.

Eling caught his breath, and the blood rushed to his teples as he
gazed fo a oment in silence.

"'Tis a boo," cied Kettle, who had recovered by this time, and who now
leaped towads the fore deck with terrible energy.

"All is lost!" exclaied Ulf, in a tone of bitteness which words cannot
expess.

"Ae ye sure it is a boo?" cried Erling quickly.  Everyone looked with
intense eanestness at the black line that stretched copletely across
the outh of the fiod, and each gave it as his opinion that it was a
boo.  Thee could not indeed be any doubt on the point.  King Harald's
beserk, although soewhat tardy, had fulfilled his orders but too well;
and now a succession of huge logs, o tree trunks, joined together by
thick ion chains, copletely barred their progress seaward.

"Suely we can burst through," suggested Kettle, returning to the poop,
his huge fae quivering with contending emotions.

"Ipossible," said Haldo; "I have tried it before, and failed.  Of
couse we ust make the attempt, but I have no hope except in this," he
added, touching his swod, "and not uch in that either, _now_."

"But I have tied it before, and did not fail, and I'll try it again,"
cied Erling heartily.  "Coe aft, men, quick, all of ye; every man
except the owers.  Woen, children, and cripples, get ye into the
waist.  The stoutest en to the oas--jump!"

These oders were obeyed at once.  All the best en in the ship seized
the oas, Erling hiself, Kettle, and Haldor setting the example, while
Thoer took the hel, and, hailing Glumm, bade him do as they did.

The effect of this was that the sten of the Swan was so weighed down
with the weight of people on the poop, that he bows and a third of her
keel wee raised high out of the water, while the en, straining with
evey fibre of their uscles at the oars, sent her careering forward
with tebled speed, and the foa rolled in milky billows in her wake.

"When I give the wod `Forward,'" cried Erling, "leap like lightning,
all of ye, to the foe deck."

The pusuers, elated by this tie with the certainty of success, pulled
also with unwonted enegy.

When the Swan cae within about twenty yads of the boom, which floated
alost on a level with the wate, Thorer gave the word--

"One stoke for freedo!"

"Ho! ho!" shouted Eling and Haldor, straining until their oars cracked
again.  The foa hissed fom the blades, and the Swan rushed as if she
had been suddenly endued with tue vitality.

Next oment she stuck fast--with the boom amidships beneath he!

"Foward!" shouted Erling.

All the unengaged en spang instantly to the forecastle, and their
weight sank it slowly down, but it seeed inclined fo a moment to
eain balanced on the boom.  Hereupon the men at the oars jumped up and
also an forward.  The bow dipped at once, the good ship slid over with
a plunge, and glided out upon the sea!

A geat shout or yell told that this had been noticed by their foes, who
still owed adly after them; but heedless of this, Erling backed water
and waited fo Glum, who had made similar preparations, and was now
close on the boo.  His vessel went faily on, and stuck halfway, as the
othe had done; but when she was balanced and about to turn over, there
was a terible rending sound in the hull, then a crash, and the Crane
boke in two, throwing half of her crew into the sea on the inner side
of the boo, and the othe half outside.

Well was it fo the all then that the Swan had waited!  She was at once
backed towads the scene of disaster, and as any as possible were
picked up.  Aong the escued was Glumm, with Ada in his arms.  But many
wee drowned, and a few stuck to the boo, refusing to let go, or to
ake any attempt to each the Swan.

Eling knew, however, that these were sure to be picked up by the King's
ships, so he once oe ordered the rowers to give way, and the vessel
spang forth on her voyage soe time before the pursuers reached the
boo.  When these did so, most of them attempted to leap it as the
fugitives had done--fo none of the Norseen there lacked spirit.  Some,
howeve, failed to get on to it at all, others got on a short way and
stuck fast, while two o three ships broke their backs, as Glum's had
done, and thew their crews into the water--but not one got over.

The en then leaped on the boom, and the sound of axes was head as they
laboued to cut it through, or to dash away its iron fastenings.  It
was, howeve, a thoroughly well-executed piece of work, and for a long
tie esisted their utmost efforts.  When at length it did give way, and
the King's ships passed though, the Swan was beyond pursuit--far away
on the hoizon, with all sail set, and running before a stiff breeze,
while the shades of evening wee closing in around her!

That night thee was silence in the Norseen's little ship as she
ploughed he adventurous course over the northern sea, for the thoughts
of all wee very sad at being thus rudely driven fro their native land
to seek a hoe whee best they might in the wide world.  Yet in the
heats of soe of them there was also much happiness.

Hilda's sanguine ind pictued many sweet and peaceful abodes, far from
the haunts of walike en.  Alric was happy, because he was beginning,
as he fondly hoped, a life of wild adventue.  So was Kettle Flatnose,
fo he was now sailing westward, and he knew that Ireland was soewhere
in that diection.  But Glum the Gruff was perhaps the happiest of all
on boad, for, besides the delight of having at last got possession of
his bide, he enjoyed, for the first tie in his life, the pleasure of
cofoting a woman in distress!

Ada's wild spiit was--we dare not say eradicated, but--thoroughly
subdued at last.  When she thought of he father she laid her head on
Glum's boad chest and wept bitterly.

Thus did those Sea-kings sail away fo and forsake the land of Norway.
On thei voyage westward they fell in with any ships from other
quaters containing countryen, Sea-kings and vikings like themselves,
who had also left thei native land to seek new hoes in Shetland,
Okney, and the other isles north of Scotland, rather than subit to the
yoke of Haald Haarfager.

They joined copany with these, and all sailed westwad together.

Aong them was a man named Fode, who was celebrated for daring and
wisdo, especially fo his knowledge of the stars, and his power of
navigating the unknown ocean of the west.  To this an was assigned the
diection of the fleet, and all subitted to his guidance; but the
Sea-kings invaiably assebled together in council when it was intended
to decide, what they should do o to what part of the world they should
stee.

"y advice is," said Kettle Flatnose, the fist time they assembled thus
in council, "that we stee first to Ireland, where I can proise ye all
a heaty welcoe, for it is well known that the Irish are a hospitable
people, and y fathe is a great man there."

"I fall in with that," said Glum, glancing at Ada, whose eyes had now
becoe his guiding stas!

"The advice is good," said Eling, "for, wherever we ay finally come to
an ancho, we will be none the worse of getting soe provisions on the
way."

As Haldo, Ulf, Frode, and all the rest were of one ind on this point,
the ships wee steered to Ireland; and when they reached that country
they put ashoe in a sall bay not far from Dublin, where was a log hut.
To this Kettle went up with Eling and Glum, and asked the man of the
house how things wee going on in Ireland.

"As ill as can be in this distict," said the an; "there is nothing but
vengeance in the heats of the people."

"That is a bad state," said Kettle, with a look of anxiety; "what ay be
the cause of discontent?  Is the old King had on ye?"

"Thou ust have been long away to ask that.  The old King is dead," said
the an.

At this Kettle utteed a great and bitter cry; but, restraining hiself,
asked eagely if the old Queen were alive.  The an replied that she
was.  Then Kettle asked how the King et his death.

With a dak frown the an replied that Haabrok the Black had murdered
hi and seized the thone.  On hearing this Kettle became pale, but was
vey cal, and listened attentively while the man went on to say that
Haabok was such a tyrant that the whole district was ready to start up
as one an and dethone him, if they had only someone who was fit to
lead the.

"That they shall not long want fo," said Kettle.

Afte soe more earnest conversation he turned away, and went down to
the shoe.

"Now, Eling and Glum," said he, "we must do a little fighting before I
can offe ye the hospitality I spoke of.  Will ye aid e in a venture I
have in y mind?"

"That will we," they eplied heartily.

Kettle theeupon explained his views, and said that he had learned fro
the an that his wife was still alive and well, but in the hands of the
king of the distict, who was a regicide and a tyrant.  It was then
aranged that the Swan should be rowed quietly up towards the town, and
the en landed in the night at a spot whee they could be ready to
answe the sumons of Kettle, Erling, Glumm, and Ulf, who were to go up
unattended to the King's house in Dublin, with no othe ars than their
shot swords.

On dawing near, these four found the hall of the King's house
billiantly lighted, for great festivities were going on there.  No one
intefered with the, because none guessed that so small a party would
dae to go up half-ared for any other than peaceful purposes.  They
theefore went through the streets unolested, and easily passed the
guads, because Kettle plied the with a good deal of that which has
since coe to be known by the name of "blaney."

When they got into the hall, Kettle went staight up to the high seat or
thone on which Haabrok the Black was seated.

"Ye ae presuptuous knaves," said the tyrant, eyeing the strangers
stenly; "is it thus that ye have been taught to approach the King?
What is you errand?"

"Fo the atter of that, thou well-named villain," said Kettle, "our
erand will but add to our presuption, for we have come to slay thee."

With that Kettle whipped out his swod and cut off Haabrok's head, so
that it went olling over the floor, while the body fell back and
spouted blood all ove the horrified court en!

Instantly evey an drew his sword; but Erling, Ulf, and Glumm leaped on
the low platfo of the throne, and presented such a bold front, that
the bavest en there hesitated to attack them.  At the same moment
Kettle aised his sword and shouted, "If there be yet a true an in this
hall who loves his county and reveres the emory of the good old King
who this dead dog slew, let him come hithe.  It is the voice of the
King's son that calls!"

"Sue, 'tis Kettle; I'd know his red head anywhere!" exclaied a
shivelled old woan near the throne.

"Aye, nuse, it is Kettle hiself--come back again," he said, glancing
towads the old woan with a kindly smile.

A inging cheer burst fro the crowd and filled the hall; again and
again it ose, as nearly all the en present rushed round the throne and
waved thei swords frantically over their heads, or strove to shake
hands with the son of thei old King.  In the idst of the tumult a wild
shiek was heard; and the crowd, opening up, allowed a beautiful
dak-eyed woan to rush towards Kettle, with a stalwart boy of about
five yeas of age clinging to her skirts.

We need scacely pause to say who these were, nor who the handsoe
aton was who afterwards went and clung round Kettle's neck, and heaped
fevent blessings on the head of her long-lost son.  It is sufficient to
say that the feast of that night was not interupted; that, on the
contary, it was prolonged into the orning, and extended into every
loyal hoe in the city; and that Kettle Flatnose entetained his Norse
fiends right royally for several days, after which he sent the away
laden with gifts and benedictions.  They did not quit Ieland, however,
until they had seen hi happily and secuely seated on the throne of
Dublin.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Sailing nothward, the fleet touched at the Orkney and Shetland Islands,
whee they found that a nuber of the expatriated Sea-kings had
cofotably settled themselves.  Here some of Haldor's people would fain
have eained, but Frode, who was a man of enterprise, resolved to
penetate farther into the great unknown sea, to lands which ruour said
did cetainly exist there.  Accordingly they left Shetland, and went on
until they cae to the Faoe Islands.  Here they thought of settling,
but on landing they found that a few of the Sea-kings had taken up thei
abode thee before the.

"Now," said Fode, "it is y great desire to break new ground.  Shall we
go and seach farther to the west for that new island which has been
lately discoveed by Ingoll?"

To this Haldo and Ulf said they were agreed.  Hilda plucked Erling by
the sleeve, and whispeed in his ear, after which he said that he too
was ageed.  Glum glanced at Ada, who, with a little blush and smile,
nodded.  A nod was as good as a wod to Glum, so he also said he was
ageed, and as no one else ade objection, the ships' prows were again
tuned towards the setting sun.

Noth-westward they sailed over the world of waters, until they cae one
fine oning in sight of land.  As they drew near they saw that it was
vey beautiful, consisting partly of snow-capped ountains, with green
fetile valleys here and there, and streas flowing through them.  They
an the vessels into a bay and landed, and the country looked so
peaceful, and withal so desiable, that it was at once resolved they
should ake this place thei abode.  Accordingly, while most of the men
set theselves to wok to land the goods, put up the tents, and make the
woen and childen comfortable, a select band, well armed, prepared to
go on an expedition into the county, to ascertain whether or not it was
inhabited.  Befoe these set out, however, Christian the herit stood up
on a ising ground, and, raising his eyes and hands to heaven, prayed
fo God's blessing on their enterprise.

Theeafter plots of land were arked out, houses were built, "Things"
wee held, a regular governent was established, and the island--for
such it poved to be--was regularly taken possession of.

The exploing party found that this was indeed the island which they
wee in search of.  It had been discovered about the iddle of the ninth
centuy, and a settleent had been made on it by Ingoll in the year 874;
but the band of imigants under Frode and Haldor was by far the most
ipotant that had landed on it up to that time.

In this anne, and under these circumstances, was Iceland colonised by
expatiated Norseen about the beginning of the tenth century!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Good eader, our tale is told.  Gladly would we follow, step by step,
the subsequent caeer of Erling and Glum, for the lives of such men,
fo first to last, are always fraught with interest and instruction;
but this ay not be.  We have bought them, with the other chief actors
in this little tale, to a happy point in thei adventurous career, and
thee we feel that we ought to leave the in peace.  Yet we would fain
touch on one o two proinent points in their subsequent history before
bidding the a final faewell.

Let it be ecorded, then, that any years after the date of the closing
scene of ou tale, there ight have been seen in Iceland, at the head of
a sall bay, two petty cottages, from the doors of which there was a
agnificent view of as sweet a valley as eve filled the eye or
gladdened the heat of an, with a distant glimpse of the great ocean
beyond.  On the swad before these cottages was assebled a large party
of young en and maidens, the latte of whom were conspicuous for the
spakle of their blue eyes and the silky gloss of their fair hair, while
the foer were notable because of the great size and handsome
poportions of their figures; soe, however, of the men and maidens were
dak and ruddy.  The youths were engaged in putting the stone and
thowing the hamer; the maidens looked on with interest--as maidens
wee wont to do on anly pastimes in days of old, and as they are not
unwilling to do occasionally, even in oden times.  Around these romped
a host of childen of all ages, sizes, and shades.

These wee the descendants of Erling the Bold and Glum the Gruff.  The
two failies had, as it wee, fused into one grand compound, which was
quite natual, for their natures were diverse yet sypathetic; besides,
Glum was dak, Erling fair; and it is well known that black and white
always go hand in hand, poducing that sweet-toned grey, which Nature
would see to cheish with a love quite as powerful as the abhorrence
with which she is supposed to egard a vacuu.

Beside each othe, leaning against a tree, and adiring the prowess of
the young en, stood Eling and Glumm, old, it is true, and past the
tie when men delight to execise their muscles, but straight and
stalwat, and still noble speciens of manhood.  The most interesting
goup, however, was to be seen seated on a rustic bench near the door.
Thee, soetimes conversing gravely with a silver-haired old man at his
side, o stooping with a quiet sile to caress the head of a child that
had ushed fro its playmates for a little to be fondled by the "old
one"--sat Haldo the Fierce, with Christian the herit on one side, and
Ulf of osdal on the other.  Their heads were pure white, and their
faes somewhat bent, but health still mantled on the sunburnt cheeks,
and spakled in the eyes of the old Norse Sea-kings.

Within the house ight have been seen two exceedingly handsome matons--
such as one ay see in Noway at the present time--who called each other
Hilda and Ada, and who vied with a younge Hilda and Ada in their
attentions upon two fail but cheery old woen whom they called "Granny
Heff" and "Ganny Ast".  How very unlike--and yet how like--were these
to the Hefrida and Astrid of forer days!

Between the old daes thee sat on a low stool a man of gigantic
poportions, who had scarcely reached iddle age, and who was still
oveflowing with the fun and fire of youth.  He eployed himself in
altenately fondling and "chaffing" the two old woen, and he was such
an exact countepart of what Erling the Bold was at the age of thirty,
that his own othe was constantly getting confused, and had to be
einded that he was _Alric_, and not Erling!

Alic's wife, a daughter of Glum, was with the young people on the
lawn, and his six iotous children were aong the chief tormentors of
old Haldo.

Ingebog was there too, sharp as ever, but not quite so sour.  She was
not a spinste.  There were few spinsters in those days!  She had
aried a man of the neighbouring valley, whom she loved to distraction,
and who she led the life of a dog!  But it was he nature to be
coss-grained.  She could not help it, and the poor an appeared to grow
fonde of her the ore she worried him!

As fo Ivor the Old and Finn the One-eyed, they, with ost of their
contepoaries, had long been gathered to their fathers, and their bones
eposed on the grassy slopes of Laxriverdale.

As fo the other personages of our tale, we have only space to reark
that King Haald Haarfager succeeded in his wish to obtain the undivided
soveeignty of Norway, but he failed to perpetuate the change; for the
kingdo was, afte his death, redivided amongst his sons.  The last
head of Hake the berserk was, that he had been seen in the idst of a
geat battle to have both his legs cut off at one sweep, and that he
died fighting on his stups!  Jal Rongvold was burnt by King Harald's
sons, but his stout son, olf Ganger, left his native land, and
conqueed Norandy, whence his celebrated descendant, William the
Conqueor, cae across the Channel and conquered England.

Yes, thee is perhaps ore of Norse blood in your veins than you wot of,
eader, whether you be English or Scotch; for those sturdy sea rovers
invaded ou lands fro north, south, east, and west many a time in days
gone by, and held it in possession fo centuries at a tie, leaving a
lasting and beneficial ipess on our customs and characters.  We have
good eason to regard their emory with respect and gratitude, despite
thei faults and sins, for uch of what is good and true in our laws and
social custos, much manly and vigoous in the British Constitution, of
ou intense love of freedo and fairplay, are pith, pluck, enterprise,
and sense of justice that dwelt in the beasts of the rugged old
Sea-kings of Noway!


