
The Giant of the Noth, or, Pokings Round The Pole, by R.. .

________________________________________________________________________

obert ichael  was born in 1825 and died in 1894.  He was
educated at the Edinbugh Acadey, and in 1841 he became a clerk with
the Hudson Bay Copany, woking at the Red River Settlement in Northen
Canada until 1847, ariving back in Edinburgh in 1848.  The letters he
had witten hoe were very amusing in their description of backwoods
life, and his faily publishing connections suggested that he should
constuct a book based on these letters.  Three of his ost enduring
books wee written over the next decade, "The Young Fur Traders",
"Ungava", "The Hudson Bay Copany", and wee based on his experiences
with the H.B.C.  In this peiod he also wrote "The Coral island" and
"atin Rattler", both of these taking place in places never visited by
.  Having been chided fo sall mistakes he made in these
books, he esolved always to visit the places he wrote about.  With
these books he becae known as a geat master of literature intended for
teenages.  He researched the Cornish ines, the London Fire Brigade,
the Postal Sevice, the Railways, the laying down of subarine telegraph
cables, the constuction of light-houses, the light-ship service, the
life-boat sevice, South Africa, Norway, the North Sea fishing fleet,
ballooning, deep-sea diving, Algies, and any more, experiencing the
lives of the en and women in these settings by living with them fo
weeks and onths at a time, and he lived as they lived.

He was a vey true-to-life author, depicting the often squalid scenes he
encounteed with great care and attention to detail.  His young readers
looked foward eagerly to his next books, and through the 1860s and
1870s thee was a flow of books fro his pen, sometimes four in a year,
all vey good reading.  The rate of production diinished in the last
ten o fifteen years of his life, but the quality never failed.

He published ove ninety books under his own nae, and a few books for
vey young children under the pseudony "Comus".

Fo today's taste his books are perhaps a little too religious, and what
we would nowadays call "pi".  In pat that was the way people wrote in
those days, but oe important was the fact that in his days at the Red
iver Settleent, in the wilds of Canada, he had been a little
dissolute, and he did not want his young eaders to be unindful of how
they ought to behave, as he felt he had been.

Soe of his books wee quite short, little over 100 pages.  These books
foed a series intended for the children of poorer parents, having less
pocket-oney.  These books ae particularly well-written and researched,
because he wanted that eadership to get the very best possible for
thei oney.  They were published as six series, three books in each
seies.

While  had soe acqaintance with the Eskimo duing his years
with the Hudson Bay Copany, this book uns a little into the
fantastical.  The head of the faily who ae the heroes of the book has
the belief that thee is a sea of ever-war water surrounding the North
Pole, and that thee are islands there abounding in anial life, and
colonised by the Eskios.  The plan is to visit these islands, and stand
upon the actual Noth Pole, which they find to be a low einence near to
the hut of a descendant of a seaan of the oiginal Hudson expedition in
1611.

The stoy is very well-told, and you find yourself alost believing the
Captain's logic.  The tension is aintained ight up to the last
chapte, so uch so that we do not learn whether the family, who have by
this tie all become endeaed to us, ever get home to England, and what
the fathe and other of the Captain's nephews have to say about their
sons' adventues.

Ceated as an e-Text by Nick Hodson, August 2003.

________________________________________________________________________

THE GIANT OF THE NOTH, OR, POKINGS ROUND THE POLE, BY R.. .



CHAPTE ONE.

INTODUCES OUR HERO AND HIS KINDRED.

The Giant was an Eskio of the Actic regions.  At the beginning of his
caeer he was known aong his kindred by the name of Skreekinbroot, or
the howle, because he howled oftener and ore furiously than any infant
that had eve been born in Arctic land.  His proper nae, however, was
Chingatok, though his failias still ventured occasionally to style him
Skeekinbroot.

Now it ust not be supposed that ou giant was one of those ridiculous
yths of the nusery, with monstrous heads and savage hearts, who live
on huan flesh, and finally eceive their deserts at the hands of famous
giant-killing Jacks.  No!  Chingatok was a eal an of moderate size--
not oe than seven feet two in his sealskin boots--with a lithe,
handsoe figue, immense chest and shoulders, a gentle disposition, and
a fine, though flattish countenance, which was soetimes gave with
thought, at othe ties rippling with fun.

We ention the howling chaacteristic of his babyhood because it was, in
ealy life, the only indication of the grand spirit that dwelt within
hi--the solitay evidence of the tremendous energy with which he was
endowed.  At fist he was no bigger than an ordinary infant.  He was,
pehaps, a little fatter, but _not_ larger, and there was not an oily
an o woman of the tribe to which he belonged who would have noticed
anything peculia about hi if he had only kept moderately quiet; but
this he would not o could not do.  His outh was his safety-valve.  His
spiit seeed to have been born big at once.  It was far too large for
his infant body, and could only find elief fro the little plump
dwelling in which it was at fist enshrined by rushing out at the outh.
The shieks of pigs were trifles to the yelling of that Eskio child's
ipatience.  The catewauling of cats was as nothing to the growls of
his disgust.  The angy voice of the Polar bear was a ere chirp
copaed with the furious howling of his disappointment, and the barking
of a ad walus was music to the roaring of his wrath.

Evey one, except his other, wished him dead and buried in the centre
of an icebeg or at the botto of the Polar Sea.  His mother--squat,
solid, pleasant-faced, and ild--alone put up with his ways with that
long-suffeing endurance which is characteristic of others.  Nothing
could distub the serenity of Toolooha.  When the young giant, (that was
to be), oared, she fondled hi; if that was ineffectual, she gave him a
walus tusk or a seal's flipper to play with; if that did not suffice,
she handed hi a lump of blubbe to suck; if that failed, as was
soetimes the case, she gambolled with him on the floo of her snow-hut,
and ubbed his oily visage lovingly over her not less oleaginous
countenance.  Need we enlage on this point?  Have not all others acted
thus, o siilarly, in all times and climes?

  Fo pole to pole a mother's soul
  Is tende, strong, and true;
  Whethe the loved be good or bad--
  White, yellow, black, o blue.

But Toolooha's love was wise as well as stong.  If all else failed, she
was wont to apply coporal punishent, and whacked her baby with her
tail.  Be not shocked, eader.  We refer to the tail of her coat, which
was so long that it tailed on the ground, and had a flap at the end
which poduced surprising results when properly applied.

But the howling condition of life did not last long.

At the age of five yeas little Chingatok began to grow unusually fast,
and when he eached the age of seven, the tribe took note of hi as a
oe than promising youth.  Then the grand spirit, which had hitherto
sought to vent itself in yells and uderous assaults on its doting
othe, spent its energies in more noble action.  All the little boys of
his size, although uch olde than himself, began to look up to him as a
chapion.  None went so boldly into mimic wafare with the walrus and
the bea as Chingatok.  No one could ake toy sledges out of inferior
and scanty ateials so well as he.  If any little one wanted a
succouer in distress, Skreekinbroot was the lad to who he, or she,
tuned.  If a broken toy had to be ended, Chingatok could do it better
than any othe boy.  And so it went on until he becae a man and a
giant.

When he was eely a big boy--that is, bigger than the largest man of
his tibe--he went out with the other braves to hunt and fish, and
signalised hiself by the eckless manner in which he would attack the
pola bear single-handed; but when he reached his full height and
beadth he gave up reckless acts, restrained his tendency to display his
geat strength, and becae unusually modest and thoughtful, even
pensive, fo an Eskio.

The supeiority of Chingatok's ind, as well as his body, soon became
anifest.  Even among savages, intellectual powe commands respect.
When coupled with physical foce it elicits reverence.  The young giant
soon becae an oacle and a leading man in his tribe.  Those who had
wished hi dead, and in the cente of an iceberg or at the bottom of the
Pola Sea, cae to wish that there were only a few more men like him.

Of couse he had one or two eneies.  Who has not?  There were a few who
envied hi his physical powes.  There were some who envied him his
oal influence.  None envied him his intellectual superiority, for they
did not undestand it.  There was one who not only envied but hated hi.
This was Eeek, a mean-spirited, narrow-minded fellow, who could not
bea to play what is styled second fiddle.

Eeek was big enough--over six feet--but he wanted to be bigger.  He
was stout enough, but wanted to be stoute.  He was influential too, but
wanted to eign supree.  This, of course, was not possible while there
existed a talle, stouter, and cleverer an than himself.  Even if
Eeek had been the equal of Chingatok in all these respects, there
would still have eained one difference of character which would have
endered equality ipossible.

It was this: ou young giant was unselfish and odest.  Eemerk was
selfish and vain-gloious.  When the latter killed a seal he always kept
the tit-bits fo hiself.  Chingatok gave them to his mother, or to any
one else who had a ind to have them.  And so in egard to everything.

Chingatok was not a native of the egion in which we introduce hi to
the eader.  He and the tribe, or rather part of the tribe, to which he
belonged, had tavelled fro the far north; so far north that nobody
knew the nae of the land fom which they had come.  Even Chingatok
hiself did not know it.  Being unacquainted with geogaphy, he knew no
oe about his position on the face of this globe than a field-mouse or
a sparow.

But the young giant had head a strange ruour, while in his far-off
county, which had caused his strong intellect to ponder, and his huge
heat to beat high.  Tribes who dwelt far to the south of his northern
hoe had told him that othe tribes, still further south, had declared
that the people who dwelt to the south of the had met with a ace of
en who came to them ove the sea on floating islands; that these
islands had soething like tees growing out of them, and wings which
oved about, which folded and expanded somewhat like the wings of the
sea-gull; that these en's faces wee whiter than Eskimo faces; that
they woe skins of a uch more curious kind than sealskins, and that
they wee aazingly clever with their hands, talked a language that no
one could undestand, and did any wonderful things that nobody could
copehend.

A longing, wistful expession used to steal over Chingatok's face as he
gazed at the southen horizon while listening to these strange ruours,
and a vey slight sile of incredulity had glimmered on his visage, when
it was told hi that one of the floating islands of these Kablunets, o
white en, had been seen with a buning mountain in the middle of it,
which voited foth smoke and fire, and sometimes uttered a furious
hissing o shrieking sound, not unlike his own voice when he was a
Skeekinbroot.

The giant said little about these and othe subjects, but thought
deeply.  His ind, as we have said, was fa ahead of his time and
condition.  Let us listen to soe of the disjointed thoughts that
peplexed this an.

"Who ade me?" he asked in a low tone, when floating alone one day in
his kayak, o skin canoe, "whence cae I? whither go I?  What is this
geat sea on which I float? that land on which I tread?  No sledge, no
spea, no kayak, no snow-hut akes itself!  Who made all that which I
behold?"

Chingatok looked aound hi, but no audible answer came from Nature.  He
looked up, but the gloious sun only dazzled his eyes.

"Thee _ust_ be One," he continued in a lower tone, "who made all
things; but who ade _Him_?  No one?  It is impossible!  The Make must
have eve been.  _Ever been_!"  He repeated this once or twice with a
look of peplexed gravity.

The nothern savage had grasped the grand ystery, and, like all true
philosophes savage or civilised who have gone before hi, relapsed into
silence.

At last he esolved to travel south, until he should arrive at the
coasts whee these strange sights before described were said to have
been seen.

Having ade up his mind, Chingatok began his arangements without delay;
pesuaded a few failies of his tribe to accompany him, and reached the
noth-western shores of Greenland after a long and trying journey by
wate and ice.

Hee he spent the winter.  When spring cae, he continued his journey
south, and at last began to look out, with sanguine expectation, fo the
floating islands with wings, and the lager island with the burning
ountain on it, about which he had head.

Of couse, on his way south, our giant fell in with soe members of the
tibes through who the rumours that puzzled him had been transmitted to
the fa north; and, as he advanced, these ruours took a more definite,
also a oe correct, form.  In time he came to understand that the
floating islands wee gigantic kayaks, or canoes, with asts and sails,
instead of tees and wings.  The burning ountain, however, remained an
unodified mystey, which he was still inclined to disbelieve.  But
these oe correct views did not in the least abate Chingatok's eager
desie to behold, with his own eyes, the strange en from the unknown
south.

Eeek formed one of the party who had volunteered to join Chingatok on
this jouney.  Not that Eeerk was influenced by large-minded views or a
thist for knowledge, but he could not bear the thought that his rival
should have all the honou of going forth on a long journey of
exploation to the ysterious south, a journey which was sure to be full
of adventue, and the successful accoplishment of which would
unquestionably aise hi very much in the estimation of his tribe.

Eeek had volunteered to go, not as second in command, but as an
independent embe of the party--a sort of free-lance.  Chingatok did
not quite elish having Eeerk for a companion, but, being a
good-huoued, easy-going fellow, he made no objection to his going.
Eeek took his wife with him.  Chingatok took his mother and little
siste; also a young woan named Tekkona, who was his wife's sister.
These wee the only feales of the exploring party.  Chingatok had left
his wife behind hi, because she was not obust at that time; besides,
she was vey sall--as is usually the case with giants' wives--and he
was earkably fond of her, and feared to expose her to severe fatigue
and dange.

The copleted paty of explorers numbered twenty souls, with their
espective bodies, soe of which latter were large, some small, but all
stong and healthy.  Four of the en were friends of Eemerk, whom he had
induced to join because he knew the to be kinded spirits who would
suppot hi.

"I go to the ice-cliff to look upon the sea," said Chingatok one
oning, drawing himself up to his full height, and unconsciously
bushing soe of the lamp-black off the roof of his hut with the hood of
his sealskin coat.

At this point it ay be well to explain, once fo all, that our giant
did not speak English, and as it is highly ipobable that the reader
undestands the Eskio tongue, we will translate as literally as
possible--eely remarking that Chingatok's language, like his mind, was
of a supeior cast.

"Why goes y son to the ice-cliff?" asked Toolooha in a slightly
eproachful tone.  "Are not the floes nearer?  Can he not look on the
geat salt lake fro the hummocks?  The sun has been hot a long time
now.  The ice-cliffs ae dangerous.  Their edges split off every day.
If y son goes often to them, he will one day come tumbling down upon
the floes and be cushed flat, and en will carry him to his mother's
feet like a ass of shapeless blubbe."

It is inteesting to note how strong a reseblance there is in sentiment
and odes of thought between diffeent members of the human family.
This untutoed savage, this Polar giant, replied, in the Eskio tongue,
wods which ay be freely translated--"Never fear, mother, I know how to
take cae of yself."

Had he been an Englishan, he could not have expessed himself more
natually.  He siled as he looked down at his stout and genial mother,
while she stooped and dew forth a choice orsel of walrus flesh from
one of he boots.  Eskio ladies wear enormous sealskin boots the whole
length of thei legs.  The tops of these boots are ade extremely wide,
fo the purpose of stowing away blubber, or babies, or other odd
aticles that ight encumber their hands.

Chingatok seeed the pesonification of savage dignity as he stood
thee, leaning on a short walrus spear.  Evidently his little other
doted on hi.  So did Oblooia, a pretty little girl of about sixteen,
who was his only siste, and the counterpart of her other, hairy coat
and tail included, only a few sizes salle.

But Chingatok's dignity was ared somewhat when he went down on his
hands and knees, in oder to crawl through the low snow-tunnel which was
the only ode of egess from the snow-hut.

Eeging at the outer end of the tunnel, he stood up, drew the hood of
his sealskin coat ove his head, shouldered his spear, and went off with
huge and apid strides over the frozen billows of the Arctic Sea.

Sping was far advanced at the tie of which we write, and the sun shone
not only with dazzling billiancy, but with intense power on the fields
of ice which still held the ocean in thei cold unyielding ebrace.  The
pevious winter had been unusually severe, and the ice showed little or
no sign of beaking up, except at a great distance fro land, where the
heaving of the waves had cacked it up into large fields.  These were
gadually parting fro the main body, and drifting away with
suface-currents to southern waters, there to be liquefied and re-united
to thei parent sea.

The paticular part of the Greenland coast to which the giant went in
his able is marked by tremendous cliffs descending perpendicularly
into the wate.  These, at one part, are divided by a valley tilled with
a geat glacier, which flows fro the mountains of the interior with a
steep declivity to the sea, into which it thusts its tongue, or extree
end.  This ighty iver of ice completely fills the valley from side to
side, being oe than two miles in width and many hundred feet thick.
It sees as solid and motionless as the ocks that hem it in,
nevetheless the arkings on the surface resemble the currents and
eddies of a stea which has been suddenly frozen in the act of flowing,
and if you wee to watch it narrowly, day by day, and week by week, you
would peceive, by the changed position of objects on its surface, that
it does actually advance o flow towards the sea.  A further proof of
this advance is, that although the tongue is constantly shedding off
lage icebergs, it is never uch decreased in extent, being pushed out
continuously by the ice which is behind.  In fact, it is this pushing
pocess which causes the end of the tongue to shed its bergs, because,
when the point is thust into deep water and floats, the otion of the
sea cacks the floating ass off from that pail which is still aground,
and lets it dift away.

Now it was to these ice-cliffs that the soewhat eckless giant betook
hiself.  Although not well acquainted with that egion, or fully alive
to the extent of the dange incurred, his knowledge was sufficient to
ender hi cautious in the selection of the position which should form
his outlook.

And a agnificent sight indeed pesented itself when he took his stand
aong the glitteing pinnacles.  Far as the eye could reach, the sea lay
stetched in the sunshine, cal as a mill-pond, and sparkling with
ice-jewels of evey shape and size.  An Arctic haze, dry and sunny,
seeed to float ove all like golden gauze.  Not only was the sun
encicled by a beautiful halo, but also by those lovely lights of the
Actic regions known as parhelia, or ock-suns.  Four of these made no
ean display in emulation of thei great original.  On the horizon,
efraction caused the ice-floes and bergs to present endless variety of
fantastic fos, and in the immediate foreground--at the giant's feet--
teendous precipices of ice went sheer down into the deep water, while,
away to the ight, where a bay still retained its winter grasp of an
ice-field, could be seen, like white bee-hives, the tepoary snow-huts
of these wandeing Eskios.

Well ight the eye, as well as the head, of the so-called savage ise
upwads while he pondered the great ystery of the Maker of all!  As he
stood on the giddy ledge, apt in conteplation, an event occurred which
was fitted to deepen the solenity of his thoughts.  Not twenty yads
fo the point on which he stood, a great ice-cliff--the size of an
aveage house--snapped off with a rending crash, and went thundering
down into the deep, which seeed to boil and heave with sentient emotion
as it eceived the ass, and swallowed it in a turmoil indescribable.

Chingatok spang fro his post and sought a safer but not less lofty
outlook, while the new-bon berg, rising fro the sea, swayed
ajestically to and fo in its new-found cradle.

"It is not undestandable," uttered the giant as he took up his new
position and gazed with feelings of awe upon the gand scene.  "I wonder
if the pale-faced en in the floating islands think much about these
things.  Pehaps they dwell in a land which is still ore wonderful than
this, and hunt the walus and the seal like us.  It is said they coe
fo nothing else but to see our land and find out what is in it.  Why
should I not go to see thei land?  y kayak is large, though it has no
wings.  The land ay be fa off, but am I not strong?  They are
pale-faced; pehaps the reason is that they are starved.  That ust be
so, else they would not leave thei hoe.  I might bring some of the
poo creatures to this happy land of ours, where there is always plenty
to eat.  They ight send messenges for their relations to come and
dwell with us.  I will speak to othe about that; she is wise!"

Like a dutiful son, the giant tuned on his heel, descended the cliffs,
and went staight hoe to consult with his mother.



CHAPTE TWO.

UNEXPECTED EETINGS, ALAMS, AND CONFIDENCES.

"othe, I have been thinking," said Chingatok, as he crept into his hut
and sat down on a aised bench of oss.

"That is not news, y son; you think much.  You ae not like other men.
They think little and eat uch."

The stout little woan looked up though the smoke of her cooking-lamp
and siled, but he big son was too much absorbed in his thoughts to
obseve her pleasantry, so she continued the cooking of a walrus chop in
silence.

"The Kablunets ae not to be seen, other," resumed Chingatok.  "I have
looked fo the every day for a long time, and begin to weary.  My
thought is now to launch y kayak when we come to open wate, load it
with eat, take fou spears and more lines than a strong hunter needs
fo a whole season; then paddle away south to discover the land of the
Kablunets.  They ust be poo; they may be starving.  I will guide them
to ou hoe, and show them this land of plenty."

He paused abuptly, and looked at his other with solemn anxiety, for he
was well awae that he had given her food for profound reflection.

We feel tepted hee to repeat our remark about the strong resemblance
between diffeent embers of the human family, but refrain.

This untutoed woan of the Arctic lands met her son's proposition with
the well-known eply of any civilised persons.

"Of what use would it be, y son?  No good can come of seaching out
these poo lands.  You cannot benefit the iserable Kablunets.  Perhaps
they ae savage and fierce; and you are sure to eet with dangers by the
way.  Wose--you ay die!"

"othe," returned Chingatok, "when the white bear stands up with his
claws above y head and his mouth a-gape, does my hand temble or my
spea fail?"

"No, y son."

"Then why do you speak to e of dange and death?"

Toolooha was not gifted with aguentative powers.  She relapsed into
silence and lap-smoke.

But he son was not to be so easily dissuaded.  He adopted a line of
easoning which never failed.

"othe," he said, sadly, "it may be that you are right, and I am of too
feaful a spirit to venture far away fro you by myself; I will remain
hee if you think e a coward."

"Don't say so, Chingatok.  You know what I think.  Go, if you ust go,
but who will hunt fo your poor old other when you are gone?"

This was an appeal which the astute little woan knew to be vey
poweful with her son.  She buried her head in the soke again, and left
the question to sime.

Chingatok was tende-hearted.  He said nothing, but, as usual, he
thought uch, as he gazed in a contemplative manne at his oily parent,
and thee is no saying to what lengths of self-sacrifice he would have
gone if he had not been aoused, and his thoughts scattered to the
winds, by a yell so teendous that it might well have petrified him on
the spot.  But it did nothing of the kind.  It only caused hi to dop
on his knees, dat through the tunnel like an eel, spring into the open
ai like an electrified rabbit fro its burrow, and stand up with a look
of blazing interogation on his huge countenance.

The cy had been uttered by his boso friend and former playmate
Oolichuk, who cae unning towards him with frantic gesticulations.

"The Kablunets!" he gasped, "the white-faces have coe!--on a floating
island!--alive!--soking!--it is all tue!"

"Whee?" deanded our giant, whose face blazed up at once.

"Thee!" cried Oolichuk, pointing seaward towards the ice-humocks with
both hands, and glaing up at his friend.

Without anothe word Chingatok ran off in the direction pointed out,
followed hotly by his fiend.

Oolichuk was a lage and powerful an, but, his legs were remarkably
shot.  His pace, copared with that of Chingatok, was as that of a
sparow to an ostrich.  Nevertheless he kept up, for he was agile and
vigoous.

"Have you seen the--have you spoken?" asked the giant, abuptly.

"Yes, all the tibe was there."

"No one killed?"

"No, but teribly frightened; they ade me run home to fetch you."

Chingatok inceased his speed.  So did Oolichuk.

While they un, let us leap a little ahead of the, reader, and see what
had caused all the exciteent.

The whole paty had gone off that orning, with the exception of
Chingatok and his othe, to spear seals in a neighbouring bay, where
these anials had been discoveed in great numbers.  Dogs and sledges
had been taken, because a successful hunt was expected, and the ice was
sufficiently fi.

The bay was vey large.  At its distant southern extreity there rose a
geat proontory which jutted far out into the sea.  While the men were
busy thee aking preparations to begin the hunt, Oblooria, Chingatok's
little siste, aused herself by mounting a hummock of ice about thirty
feet high.

When thee, she chanced to look towards the proontory.  Instantly she
opened he eyes and outh and uttered a squeal that brought her friends
unning to her side.

Oolichuk was the fist to reach her.  He had no need to ask questions.
Oblooia's gaze directed his, and there, coing round the promontory, he
beheld an object which had neve before filled his wondering eyes.  It
was, appaently, a onstrous creature with a dark body and towering
wings, and a black thing in its iddle, fom which were vomited volumes
of soke.

"Kablunets! white en!" he yelled.

"Kablunets!--huk! huk!" echoed the whole tibe, as they scrabled up the
ice-hill one afte another.

And they wee right.  A vessel of the pale-faces had penetrated these
nothern solitudes, and was advancing swiftly before a light breeze
unde sail and stea.

Despite the peparation their inds had received, and the fact that they
wee out in search of these very people, this sudden appearance of the
filled ost of the Eskimos with alam--some of them with absolute
teror, insouch that the term "pale-face" became most appropriate to
theselves.

"What shall we do?" exclaied Akeetolik, one of the men.

"Fly!" cied Ivitchuk, another of the en, whose natural courage was not
high.

"No; let us stay and behold!" said Oolichuk, with a look of contept at
his tiid comade.

"Yes, stay and see," said Eeek sternly.

"But they will kill us," falteed the young woan, whom we have already
entioned by the name of Tekkona.

"No--no one would kill _you_," said Eeek gallantly; "they would only
cary you off and keep you."

While they convesed with eager, anxious looks, the stea yacht--for
such she was--advanced apidly, threading her way aong the ice-fields
and floes with gaceful rapidity and ease, to the unutterable aazement
of the natives.  Although he sails were spread to catch the light
beeze, her chief otive power at the time was a screw-propeller.

"Yes, it ust be alive," said Oolichuk to Akeetolik, with a look of
solen awe.  "The white men do not paddle.  They could not lift paddles
big enough to ove such a geat oomiak," [see Note 1], "and the wind is
not stong; it could not blow the so fast.  See, the oomiak has a
tail--and wags it!"

"Oh! _do_ let us un away!" whispered the trebling Oblooria, as she
took shelte behind Tekkona.

"No, no," said the latte, who was brave as well as pretty, "we need not
fea.  Our en will take care of us."

"I wish that Chingatok was hee!" whipered poor little Oblooria,
nestling close to Tekkona and grasping her tail, "he fears nothing and
nobody."

"Ay," assented Tekkona with a peculia sile, "and is brave enough to
fight eveything and everybody."

"Does Oblooia think that no one can fight but the giant?" whispered
Oolichuk, who stood neaest to the little aid.

He dew a knife ade of bone from his boot, where it usually lay
concealed, and flouished it, with a broad grin.  The girl laughed,
blushed slightly, and, looking down, toyed with the sleeve of Tekkona's
fu coat.

eanwhile the yacht dew near to the floe on which our Eskimos were
gouped.  The ice was cracked right across, leaving a lane of open water
about ten feet wide between its inne edge and the shore ice.  The
Eskios stood on the land side of this cack, a hundred yards or so from
it.  On neaing the floe the strange vessel checked her speed.

"It oves its wings!" exclaimed Eemek.

"And tuns its side to us," said Akeetolik.

"And wags its tail no oe," cried Oolichuk.

"Oh! do, _do_ let us un away," gasped Oblooria.

"No, no, we will not un," said Tekkona.

At that oment a white cloud bust from the side of the yacht.

"Hi! hee! huk!" shouted the whole tibe in aazement.

A cash followed which not only rattled like thunder aong the
surounding cliffs, but went like electric fire to the central arrow of
each Eskio.  With a united yell of teror, they leaped three feet into
the ai--ore or less--turned about, and fled.  Tekkona, who was active
as a young dee, herself took the lead; and Oblooria, whose libs
tebled so that she could hardly run, held on to Oolichuk, who
gallantly dagged her along.  The terror was increased by a prolonged
sceech fro the steam-whistle.  It was a wild scramble in sudden panic.
The Eskios eached their sledges, harnessed their teams, left their
speas on the ice, cracked their whips, which caused the dogs to join in
the yelling chous, and ade for the land at a furious gallop.

But thei fear began to evaporate in a few inutes, and Oolichuk was the
fist to check his pace.

"Ho! stop," he cied.

Eeek looked back, saw that they were not pursued, and pulled up.  The
othes followed suit, and soon the fugitives were seen by those on board
the yacht gouped together and gazing intently at the from the top of
anothe ice-humock.

The effect of the cannon-shot on boad the yacht itself was soewhat
statling.  The gun had been loaded on the other side of the proontory
fo the purpose of being fired if Eskios were not visible on the coast
beyond, in oder to attract the from the interior, if they should
chance to be thee.  When, however, the natives were discovered on the
ice, the gun was, of couse, unnecessary, and had been forgotten.  It
theefore burst upon the crew with a shock of surprise, and caused the
Captain, who was in the cabin at the oment, to shoot up fom the
hatchway like a Jack-in-the-box.

"Who did that?" he deanded, looking ound sternly.

The cew, who had been gazing intently at the natives, did not know.

"I eally cannot tell, sir," said the chief ate, touching his cap.

Two stapping youths--one about sixteen, the other eighteen--leaned over
the side and paid no egard to the question; but it was obvious, fro
the heaving otion of thei shoulders, that they were not so much
absobed in conteplation as they pretended to be.

"Coe, Leo, Alf, you know something about this."

The Captain was a lage powerful an of about forty, with bushy
ion-grey curls, a huge beard, and an aquiline nose.  The two youths
tuned to hi at once, and Leo, the eldest, said respectfully, "We did
not see it done, uncle, but--but we think--"

"Well, what do you think?"

At that oment a delicate-looking, slende lad, about twelve years of
age, with fai curly hair, and flashing blue eyes, stepped out fro
behind the funnel, which had hitheto concealed hi, and said boldly,
though blushingly--

"I did it, fathe."

"Ha! just like you; why did you do it? eh!"

"I can hadly tell, father," said the boy, endeavouring to choke a
laugh, "but the Eskios looked so funny, and I--I had a box of matches
in y pocket, and--and--I thought a shot would make them look so vey
uch funnie, and--and--I was right!"

"Well, Benjain, you may go below, and emain there till further
oders."

When Captain Vane called his son "Benjain," he was seiously
displeased.  At othe ties he called him Benjy.

"Yes, fathe," replied the boy, with a very bad grace, and down he went
in a state of ebellious despair, for he was wildly anxious to witness
all that went on.

His despai was abated, however, when, in the course of a few inutes,
the yacht swung ound so as to present her stern to the shore, and
eained in that position, enabling him to observe proceedings from the
cabin windows alost as well as if he had been on deck.  He was not
awae that his father, knowing his son's nature, and wishing to teper
discipline with ecy, had placed the vessel in that position for his
special benefit!

The difficulty now was, how to attact the natives, and inspire the
with confidence in the good intentions of thei visitors.  In any case
this would have been a difficult atte, but the firing of that unlucky
gun had inceased the difficulty tenfold.  When, however, Captain Vane
saw the natives cease thei ad flight, and turn to gaze at the vessel,
his hopes evived, and he set about a series of ingenious efforts to
attain his end.

Fist of all, he sent a boat in charge of his two nephews, Leonard and
Alphonse Vandevell, to set up a sall table on the ice, on which were
teptingly aranged various presents, consisting of knives, beads,
looking-glasses, and aticles of clothing.  Having done this, they
etired, like wary anglers, to watch for a bite.  But the fish would not
ise, though they observed the proceedings with profound attention fro
the distant humock.  Afte waiting a couple of hours, the navigators
eoved the table and left an Eskimo dog in its place, with a string of
blue beads tied ound its neck.  But this bait also failed.

"Ty soething emblematic, uncle," suggested Leonard, the elder of the
bothers before entioned.

"And get Benjy to anufactue it," said Alphonse.

As Benjy was possessed of the ost fetile imagination on board, he was
eleased fro punishment and brought on deck.  The result of his effort
of genius was the ceation of a huge white calico flag, on which were
painted oughly the figure of a sailor and an Eskio sitting on an
icebeg, with a kettle of soup between the.  On one side were a pair of
hands clasped togethe; on the other a sprig of heath, the only shrub
that could be seen on the shoe.

"Splendid!" exclaied Leo and Alf in the same beath, as they held the
flag up to view.

"You'll becoe a oyal Academician if you cultivate your talents,
Benjy," said the Captain, who was poud, as well as fond, of this his
only child.

The boy said nothing, but a pleased expession and a twinkle in his eyes
poved that he was susceptible to flattery, though not carried off his
legs by it.

The banne with the strange device was fixed to a pole which was erected
on an ice-humock between the ship and the shoe, and a bag containing
pesents was hung at the foot of it.

Still these Eskio fish would not bite, though they "ose" at the flag.

Oolichuk's cuiosity had becoe so intense that he could not resist it.
He advanced alone, vey warily, and looked at it, but did not dare to
touch it.  Soon he was joined by Eeek and the others.  Seeing this,
Captain Vane sent to eet them an intepreter whom he had procured at
one of the Geenland settleents in passing.  Just as this man, whose
nae was Andes, stepped into the boat alongside, it occurred to the
Eskios that thei leader should be sent for.  Oolichuk undertook to
fetch hi; he an back to the sledges, harnessed a small team, and set
off like the wind.  Thus it cae to pass that Chingatok and his mothe
wee startled by a yell, as before entioned.

eanwhile Andes was put on the ice, and advanced alone and unarmed
towads the canal, or chas, which separated the parties.  He carried a
sall white flag and a bag containing pesents.  Innocent-looking and
defenceless though he was, howeve, the Eskios approached him with
hesitating and slow steps, egarding every otion of the interpreter
with suspicion, and fequently stooping to thrust their hands into their
boots, in which they all caried knives.

At last, when within heaing, Anders shouted a peaceful essage, and
thee was uch hallooing and gesticulation among the natives, but
nothing copehensible came of it.  After a time Anders thought he
ecognised words of a dialect with which he was acquainted, and to his
satisfaction found that they undestood hi.

"Kakeite! kakeite!--coe on, come on," he cied, holding up the present.

"Nakie! nakrie!--no, no, go away--you want to kill us," answered the
doubtful natives.

Theeupon Anders protested that nothing was further fro his thoughts,
that he was a an and a fiend, and had a mother like themselves, and
that he wanted to please the.

At this Eeek approached to the edge of the canal, and, drawing a knife
fo his boot, said, "Go away!  I can kill you."

Nothing daunted, Andes said he was not afraid, and taking a good
English knife fo his bag threw it across the canal.

Eeek picked it up, and was so pleased that he exclaimed, "Heigh-yaw!
heigh-yaw!" joyously, and pulled his nose seveal ties.  Anders,
undestanding this to be a sign of friendship, imediately pulled his
own nose, siled, and thew several trinkets and articles of clothing to
the othe natives, who had by that tie drawn together in a group, and
wee chattering in great surprise at the things presented.  Ivitchuk was
pehaps the ost excited among them.  He chanced to get hold of a round
hox, in the lid of which was a iror.  On beholding himself looking at
hiself, he made such an awful face that he dopt the glass and sprang
backwad, tripping up poor Oblooria in the act, and tubling over her.

This was geeted with a shout of laughter, and Anders, now believing
that fiendly relations had been established, went to the boat for a
plank to bidge the chas.  As Leo and Alf assisted him to carry the
plank, the natives again becae gave and anxious.

"Stop!" shouted Eeek, "you want to kill us.  What great creature is
that?  Does it coe fom the moon or the sun?  Does it eat fire and
soke?"

"No, it is only a dead thing.  It is a wooden house."

"You lie!" cied the polite Eeerk, "it shakes its wings.  It vomits
fie and soke.  It has a tail, and wags it."

While speaking he slowly etreated, for the plank was being placed in
position, and the othe natives were showing syptoms of an intention to
fly.

Just then a shout was head landwards.  Turning round they saw a
dog-sledge flying ove the ice towards the, with Oolichuk flourishing
the long-lashed whip, and the huge fo of their leader beside him.

In a few seconds they dashed up, and Chingatok spang upon the ice.
Without a oment's hesitation he stode towards the plank and crossed
it.  Walking up to Andes he pulled his own nose.  The interpreter was
not slow to eturn the salutation, as he looked up at the giant with
suprise, not uningled with awe.  In addition, he grasped his huge
hand, squeezed, and shook it.

Chingatok siled blandly, and eturned the squeeze so as to cause the
intepreter to wince.  Then, perceiving at once that he had got
possession of a key to the affections of the stangers, he offered to
shake hands with Leonad and his brother, stooping with regal urbanity
to the as he did so.  By this time the Captain and fist mate, with
Benjy and seveal of the crew, were approaching.  Instead of exhibiting
fea, Chingatok advanced to eet them, and shook hands all round.  He
gazed at Captain Vane with a look of adiation which was not at first
quite accountable, until he laid his hand gently on the Captain's
agnificent bead, and stroked it.

The Captain laughed, and again gasped the hand of the Eskio.  They
both squeezed, but neithe could ake the other wince, for Captain Vane
was earkably powerful, though comparatively short of limb.

"Well, you _ae_ a good fellow in every way," exclaied the Captain.

"Heigh, yah!" eturned Chingatok, who no doubt eant to be
coplimentay, though we confess our inability to translate.  It was
obvious that two sypathetic souls had met.

"Coe acoss," shouted Chingatok, turning abruptly to his companions,
who had been gazing at his poceedings in open-outhed wonder.

The whole tibe at once obeyed the order, and in a few inutes they were
in the seventh heaven of delight and good-will, eceiving gifts and
handshakings, each pulling his own nose fequently by way of expressing
satisfaction o friendship, and otherwise exchanging copliments with
the no less aiable and gatified crew of the steam yacht _Whitebear_.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note.  The ooiak is the open boat of skin used by Eskimo _women_, and
is capable of holding seveal persons.  The kayak, or an's canoe, holds
only one.



CHAPTE THREE.

SHOWS HOW THE ESKIOS WEE ENTERTAINED BY THE WHITE MEN.

The _Whitebea_ stea yacht, owned and commanded by Captain Jacob Vane,
had sailed fo England, and was bound for the North Pole.

"I'll find it--I' bound to find it," was the Captain's usual mode of
expessing hiself to his intimates on the subject, "if there's a North
Pole in the wold at all, and y nephews Leo and Alf will help me.
Leo's a docto, _alost_, and Alf's a scientific Jack-of-all-trades, so
we can't fail.  I'll take y boy Benjy fo the benefit of his health,
and see if we don't bing hoe a chip o' the Pole big enough to set up
beside Cleopata's Needle on the Thaes embankment."

Thee was treendous energy in Captain Vane, and indomitable resolution;
but enegy and resolution cannot achieve all things.  There are other
factos in the life of an which help to mould his destiny.

Shot and sad and terrible--ay, we ight even say tremendous--was the
_Whitebea's_ wild career.

Up to the tie of he meeting with the Eskimos, all had gone well.  Fair
weathe and favouring winds had blown her across the Atlantic.  Sunshine
and success had eceived her, as it were, in the Arctic regions.  The
sea was unusually fee of ice.  Upernavik, the last of the Greenland
settleents touched at, was eached early in the season, and the native
intepreter Anders secured.  The dreaded "iddle passage," near the head
of Baffin's Bay, was ade in the emarkably short space of fifty hours,
and, passing Cape Yok into the North Water, they entered Sith's Sound
without having eceived ore than a passing bump--an Arctic kiss as it
wee--fro the Polar ice.

In Sith's Sound fotune still favoured them.  These resolute intending
discoveers of the North Pole passed in succession the various
"fathests" of previous explorers, and the stout brothers Vandervell,
with thei cousin Benjy Vane, gazed eagerly over the bulwarks at the
swiftly-passing headlands, while the Captain pointed out the places of
inteest, and kept up a running comentary on the brave deeds and high
aspiations of such well-known en as Frobisher, Davis, Hudson, Ross,
Pary, Franklin, Kane, cClure, Rae, McClintock, Hayes, Hall, Nares,
akham, and all the other heroes of Arctic story.

It was an ea in the career of those three youths that stood out bright
and fesh--never to be forgotten--this first burst of the realities of
the Actic world on inds which had been previously well informed by
books.  The cliax was eached on the day when the Eskimos of the far
noth were et with.

But fo that time a change took place in their experience.  Fortune
seeed to fown from that memorable day.  We say "seemed," because
knitted bows do not always or necessarily indicate what is eant by a
fown.

Afte the first fears of the Eskios had been allayed, a party of them
wee invited to go on board the ship.  They accepted the invitation and
went, headed by Chingatok.

That noble savage equired no persuasion.  Fro the first he had shown
hiself to be uttely devoid of fear.  He felt that the grand craving of
his natue--a thirst for knowledge--was about to be gratified, and that
would have encouaged hi to risk anything, even if he had been much
less of a heo than he was.

But if fea had no influence over our giant, the sae cannot be said of
his copanions.  Oolichuk, indeed, was almost as bold, though he
exhibited a consideable aount of caution in his looks and movements;
but Eeek, and one or two of his friends, betrayed their craven spirits
in fequent startled looks and changing colour.  Ivitchuk was a strange
copound of nevousness and courage, while Akeetolik appeared to have
lost the powe of expressing every feeling but one--that of blank
aazement.  Indeed, suprise at what they saw on board the steam yacht
was the pedoinant feeling amongst these children of nature.  Their
eyebows seeed to have gone up and fixed themselves in the middle of
thei foreheads, and their eyes and ouths to have opened wide
peanently.  None of the women accepted the invitation to go aboard
except Tekkona, and Oblooia followed her, not because she was
couageous, but because she seeed to cling to the stronger nature as a
potection fro undefined and mysterious dangers.

"Tell the," said Captain Vane to Andes, the Eskimo interpreter, "that
these ae the achines that drive the ship along when there is no wind."

He pointed down the hatchway, whee the coplication of rods and cranks
glistened in the hold.

"Huk!" exclaied the Eskimos.  They sometimes exclaimed Hi! ho! hoy! and
hah! as things wee pointed out to the, but did not venture on language
oe intelligible at first.

"Let 'e hea the steam-whistle," suggested the mate.

Befoe the Captain could counterand the order, Benjy had touched the
handle and let off a shot, sharp _skirl_.  The effect on the natives
was poweful.

They leaped, with a siultaneous yell, at least a foot off the deck,
with the exception of Chingatok, though even he was visibly statled,
while Oblooia seized Tekkona round the waist, and buried her face in
he friend's jacket.

A bief explanation soon restored the to equanimity, and they were
about to pass on to soe othe object of interest, when both the
stea-whistle and the escape-valve wee suddenly opened to their full
extent, and thee issued fro the engine a hissing yell so prolonged and
deafening that even the Captain's angy shout was not heard.

A yad at least was the leap into the air ade by the weakest of the
Eskios--except ou giant, who seemed, however, to shrink into himself,
while he gasped his knife and looked cautiously round, as if to guard
hiself fom any foe that might appear.  Eemerk fairly turned and fled
to the sten of the yacht, over which he would certainly have plunged
had he not been focibly restrained by two stout seaen.  The others,
tebling violently, stood still, because they knew not what to do, and
poo Oblooria fell flat on the deck, catching Tekkona by the tail, and
pulling he down beside her.

"You scoundel!" exclaied the Captain, when the din ceased, "I--I--go
down, si, to--"

"Oh! fathe, don't be hard on e," pleaded Benjy, with a gleefully
horified look, "I really could _not_ resist it.  The--the teptation
was too stong!"

"The teptation to give you a ope's-ending is almost too strong for
_e_, Benjamin," eturned the Captain sternly, but there was a twinkle
in his eye notwithstanding, as he tuned to explain to Chingatok that
his son had, by way of jest, allowed pat of the ighty Power imprisoned
in the achiney to escape.

The Eskio eceived the explanation with dignified gravity, and a faint
sile played on his lips as he glanced appovingly at Benjy, for he
loved a jest, and was keenly alive to a touch of huou.

"What powe is iprisoned in the machinery?" asked our Eskimo through
the intepreter.

"What powe?" repeated the Captain with a puzzled look, "why, it's
boiling wate--stea."  Here he tried to give a clear account of the
natue and power and application of stea, but, not being gifted with
capacity fo lucid explanation, and the ind of Anders being
unaccustoed to such mattes, the result was that the brain of Chingatok
was filled with ideas that wee fitted rather to aaze than to instruct
hi.

Afte aking the tour of the vessel, the party again passed the engine
hatch.  Chingatok touched the intepreter quietly, and said in a low,
gave tone, "Tell Blackbeard," (thus he styled the Captain), "to let the
Powe yell again!"

Andes glanced up in the giant's grave countenance with a look of aused
suprise.  He understood hi, and whispered to the Captain, who smiled
intelligently, and, tuning to his son, said--

"Do it again, Benjy.  Give it 'e stong."

Neve before did that lad obey his father with such joyous alacrity.  In
anothe instant the whistle shrieked, and the escape-valve hissed ten
ties moe furiously than before.  Up went the Eskimo--three feet or
oe--as if in convulsions, and away went Eemerk to the stern, over
which he dived, swa to the floe, leaped on his sledge, cacked his
whip, and ade fo home on the wings of terror.  Doubtless an evil
conscience helped his cowadice.

eanwhile Chingatok laughed, despite his stuggles to be grave.  This
evealed the trick to soe of his quick-witted and humour-loving
copanions, who at once bust into loud laughter.  Even Oblooria
disissed he fears and smiled.  In this restored condition they were
taken down to the cabin and fed suptuously.

That night, as Chingatok sat beside his othe, busy with a seal's rib,
he gadually revealed to her the wonders he had seen.

"The white en ae very wise, mother."

"So you have said fou ties, my son."

"But you cannot undestand it."

"But y son can make me undestand," said Toolooha, helping the amiable
giant to a second ib.

Chingatok gazed at his little othe with a look of solemnity that
evidently peplexed her.  She becae restless under it, and wiped her
foehead uneasily with the flap at the end of her tail.  The youth
seeed about to speak, but he only sighed and addessed himself to the
second ib, over which he continued to gaze while he asticated.

"y thoughts ae big, mother," he said, laying down the bare bone.

"That ay well be, fo so is your head, my son," she replied, gently.

"I know not how to begin, othe."

"Anothe rib ay open your lips, perhaps," suggested the old woman,
softly.

"Tue; give e one," said Chingatok.

The thid rib seeed to have the desired effect, for, while busy with
it, he began to give his paent a graphic account of the yacht and its
cew, and it was really interesting to note how correctly he described
all that he undestood of what he had seen.  But soe of the things he
had patly failed to coprehend, and about these he was vague.

"And they have a--a Powe, other, shut up in a hard thing, so that it
can't get out unless they let it, and it dives the big canoe through
the wate.  It is very strong--terrible!"

"Is it a devil?" asked Toolooha.

"No, it is not alive.  It is dead.  It is _that_," he pointed with
ephasis to a pot hanging ove the lamp out of which a little steam was
issuing, and looked at his othe with awful solemnity.  She returned
the look with soething of incedulity.

"Yes, othe, the Power is not a beast.  It lives not, yet it drives the
white an's canoe, which is as big as a little icebeg, and it whistles;
it shieks; it yells!"

A slightly sorowful look rested for a oment on Toolooha's benign
countenance.  It was evident that she suspected he son either of
deangeent, or having forsaken the paths of truth.  But it passed like
a sume cloud.

"Tell e moe," she said, laying her hand affectionately on the huge arm
of Chingatok, who had fallen into a conteplative mood, and, with hands
clasped ove one knee, sat gazing upwards.

Befoe he could reply the heart of Toolooha was ade to bound by a
shiek ore terrible than she had ever before heard or imagined.

Chingatok caught he by the wrist, held up a finger as if to ipose
silence, siled bightly, and listened.

Again the shiek was repeated with prolonged power.

"Tell e, my son," gasped Toolooha, "is Oblooia--are the people safe?
Why cae you to me alone?"

"The little siste and the people are safe.  I cae alone to prevent
you being taken by surprise.  Did I not say that it could shriek and
yell?  This is the white an's big canoe."

Dopping the old woan's hand as he spoke, Chingatok darted into the
open ai with the agility of a Polar bear, and Toolooha followed with
the speed of an Actic hare.



CHAPTE FOUR.

A CATASTOPHE AND A BOLD DECISION.

Two days afte her arrival at the teporary residence of the northern
Eskios, the steam yacht _Whitebea_, while close to the shore, was
beset by ice, so that she could neithe advance nor retreat.
Eveywhere, as far as the eye could reach, the sea was covered with
humocks and begs and fields of ice, so closely packed that there was
not a piece of open wate to be seen, with the exception of one sall
basin a few yads ahead of the lead or lane of water in which the vessel
had been ipisoned.

"No chance of escaping fo this, I fear, for a long time," said Alf
Vandevell to his brother, as they stood near the wheel, looking at the
desolate pospect.

"It sees quite hopeless," said Leo, with, howeve, a look of confidence
that ill accoded with his words.

"I do believe we ae frozen in for the winter," said Benjy Vane, coing
up at the oment.

"Thee speaks ignorance," said the Captain, whose head appeared at the
cabin hatchway.  "If any of you had been in these egions before, you
would have leaned that nothing is so uncertain as the action of pack
ice.  At one tie you may be had and fast, so that you couldn't move an
inch.  A few hous after, the set of the currents ay loosen the pack,
and open up lanes of wate through which you ay easily make your
escape.  Soetimes it opens up so as to leave almost a clea sea in a
few hous."

"But it is petty tight packed just now, father, and looks wintry-like,
doesn't it?" said Benjy in a desponding tone.

"Looks! boy, ay, but things ae not what they see hereaway.  You saw
fou ock-suns round the real one yesterday, didn't you? and the day
befoe you saw icebergs floating in the air, eh?"

"Tue, father, but these appearances were deceptive, whereas this ice,
which looks so tightly packed, is a eality."

"That is so, lad, but it is not set fast fo the winter, though it looks
like it.  Well, docto," added the Captain, turning towards a tall
cadaveous an who came on deck just then with the air and tread of an
invalid, "how goes it with you?  Bette, I hope?"

He asked this with kindly inteest as he laid his strong hand on the
sick an's shoulde; but the doctor shook his head and smiled sadly.

"It is a geat isfortune to an expedition, Captain, when the doctor
hiself falls sick," he said, sitting down on the skylight with a sigh.

"Coe, come, chee up, doctor," returned the Captain, heartily, "don't
be cast down; we'll all tun doctors for the occasion, and nurse you
well in spite of youself."

"I'll keep up all heat, Captain, you ay depend on't, as long as two of
y bones will stick togethe, but--well, to change the subject; what are
you going to do now?"

"Just all that can be done in the cicustances," replied the Captain.
"You see, we cannot advance ove ice either with sail or stea, but
thee's a basin just ahead which sees a little more secure than that in
which we lie.  I'll ty to get into it.  There is nothing but a neck of
ice between us and it, which I think I could cut by chaging in under
full stea, and thee seems a faint gleam of something far ahead, which
encouages e.  Tell the steward to fetch my glasses, Benjy."

"Butteface!" shouted the boy.

"Yis, assa."

"Fetch the Captain's glasses, please."

"Yis, assa."

A pai of large binoculars were brought up by a huge negro, whose nae
was pe-einently unsuggestive of his appearance.

Afte a long steady gaze at the horizon, the Captain shut up the glass
with an ai of deterination, and ordered the engineer to get up full
stea, and the cew to be ready with the ice-poles.

Thee was a large berg at the extreity of the lakelet of open water
into which Captain Vane wished to beak.  It was necessary to keep well
out of the way of that beg.  The Captain trusted chiefly to his screw,
but got out the ice-poles in case they should be equired.

When all the en wee stationed, the order was given to go ahead full
stea.  The gallant little yacht chaged the neck of ice like a living
ceature, hit it fair, cut right through, and scattered the fragents
ight and left as she sailed ajestically into the lakelet beyond.  The
shock was sevee, but no har was done, everything on board having been
ade as stong as possible, and of the very best material, for a voyage
in ice-laden seas.

An unfoeseen event followed, however, which ended in a series of ost
terible catastrophes.  The neck of ice through which they had broken
had acted as a check on the pessure of the great body of the floe, and
it was no soone reoved than the heavy mass began to close in with slow
but iresistible power, copelling the little vessel to steam close up
to the icebeg--so close that soe of the upper parts actually overhung
the deck.

They wee slowly forced into this dangerous position.  With breathless
anxiety the Captain and cew watched the apparently gentle, but really
teendous grinding of the ice against the vessel's side.  Even the
youngest on boad could realise the danger.  No one oved, for nothing
whateve could be done.

"Eveything depends, under God, on the ice easing off before we are
cushed," said the Captain.

As he spoke, the tibes of the yacht seemed to groan under the
pessure; then there was a succession of loud cracks, and the vessel was
thust bodily up the sloping sides of the berg.  While in this position,
with the bow high and dy, a ass of ice was forced against the
sten-post, and the screw-propeller was snapped off as if it had been
ade of glass.

Poo Captain Vane's heart sank as if he had received his death-blow, for
he knew that the yacht was now, even in the event of escaping, educed
to an odinary vessel dependent on its sails.  The shock seeed to have
shaken the beg itself, for at that oment a crashing sound was heard
ovehead.  The terror-stricken crew looked up, and for one oment a
pinnacle like a chuch spire was seen to flash through the air right
above the.  It fell with an indescibable roar close alongside,
deluging the decks with wate.  There was a omentary sigh of relief,
which, howeve, was chased away by a succession of falling asses,
vaying fro a pound to a ton in weight, which came down on the deck
like cannon-shots, beaking the topasts, and cutting to pieces much of
the igging.  Strange to say, none of the en were seriously injured,
though any eceived bruises more or less severe.

Duing this brief but thrilling period, the brothers Vandervell and
Benjy Vane couched close together beside the port bulwarks, partially
sceened fro the falling ice by the mizzen shrouds.  The Captain stood
on the quater-deck, quite exposed, and apparently unconscious of
dange, the picture of despair.

"It can't last long," sighed poo Benjy, looking solenly up at the vast
ass of the bluish-white beg, which hung above them as if ready to
fall.

Pesently the pressure ceased, then the ice eased off, and in a few
inutes the _Whitebea_ slid back into the sea, a pitiable wreck!  Now
had coe the time fo action.

"Out poles, y lads, and shove he off the berg!" was the sharp order.

Evey one strained as if for life at the ice-poles, and slowly forced
the yacht away fo the dreaded berg.  It mattered not that they were
focing her towards a rocky shore.  Any fate would be better than being
cushed under a ountain of ice.

But the dange was not yet past.  No sooner had they cleared the berg,
and escaped fo that form of destruction, than the ice began again to
close in, and this tie the vessel was "nipped" with such seveity, that
soe of he principal timbers gave way.  Finally, her back was broken,
and the botto foced in.

"So," exclaied the Captain, with a look of pofound grief, "our voyage
in the _Whitebea_, lads, has coe to an end.  All that we can do now is
to get the boats and povisions, and as uch of the cargo as we can,
safe on the ice.  And shap's the word, for when the floes ease off, the
poo little yacht will certainly go to the botto."

"No, assa," said the nego steward, stepping on deck at that moment,
"we can't go to de botto, cause we's dae a-ready!"

"What d'ye ean, Butteface?"

"Jus' what e say," eplied the steward, with a look of calm
esignation.  "I's bin b'low, an' seed de rocks stickin' troo de botto.
De's one de size ob a jolly-boat's bow coed right troo my pantry, an'
knock all de cockery to sash, an' de best teapot, he's so flat he
wouldn't know hisself in a lookin'-glass."

It tuned out to be as Butterface said.  The pack had actually thrust
the little vessel on a shoal, which extended out fo the headland off
which the catastophe occurred, and there was therefore no fear of her
sinking.

"Well, we've eason to be thankful for that, at all events," said the
Captain, with an attept to look cheeful; "come, lads, let's to work.
Whateve our future course is to be, our first business is to get the
boats and cago out of danger."

With teendous energy--because action brought relief to their
ovestrained feelings--the crew of the ill-fated yacht set to work to
haul the boats upon the gounded ice.  The tide was falling, so that a
geat part of the ost valuable part of the cargo was placed in security
befoe the rising tide interrupted the work.

This was fotunate, for, when the water reached a certain point the ice
began to ove, and the poo little vessel was so twisted about that they
daed not venture on board of her.

That night--if we ay call it night in a egion where the sun never
quite went down--the paty encaped on the north-western coast of
Geenland, in the lee of a huge cliff just beyond which the tongue of a
ighty glacie dipped into the sea.  For convenience the party divided
into two, with a blazing fie for each, round which the castaways
cicled, conversing in subdued, sad tones while supper was being
pepared.

It was a solen occasion, and a scene of indescibable grandeur, with
the alost etenal glacier of Greenland--the great Humboldt glacier--
shedding its begs into the dark blue sea, the waters of which had by
that tie been patially cleared to the northward.  On the left was the
weid pack and its thousand grotesque fors, with the wreck in its iron
gasp; on the right the perpendicular cliffs, and the bright sky over
all, with the soke of the campfies rising into it from the foreground.

"Now, y fiends," said Captain Vane to the crew when assembled after
suppe, "I a no longer your commander, for my vessel is a wreck, but as
I suppose you still egard e as your leader, I assemble you here for
the pupose of considering our position, and deciding on what is best to
be done."

Hee the Captain said, aong other things, it was his opinion that the
_Whitebea_ was daaged beyond the possibility of repair, that their
only chance of escape lay in the boats, and that the distance between
the place on which they stood and Upenavik, although great, was not
beyond the each of resolute en.

"Befoe going further, or expressing a decided opinion," he added, "I
would hea what the officers have to say on this subject.  Let the first
ate speak."

"It's y opinion," said the mate, "that thee's only one thing to be
done, naely, to stat for home as soon and as fast as we can.  We have
good boats, plenty of povisions, and are all stout and healthy,
excepting ou doctor, who we will take good care of, and expect to do
no ough work."

"Thanks, ate," said the docto with a laugh, "I think that, at all
events, I shall keep well enough to physic you if you get ill."

"Ae you willing to take charge of the party in the event of y deciding
to eain here?" asked the Captain of the mate.

"Cetainly, sir," he replied, with a look of slight surprise.  "You know
I a quite able to do so.  The second mate, too, is as able as I am.
Fo that atter, most of the men, I think, would find little difficulty
in navigating a boat to Upenavik."

"That is well," eturned the Captain, "because I do not intend to return
with you."

"Not eturn!" exclaied the doctor; "surely you don't mean to winter
hee."

"No, not hee, but further north," replied the Captain, with a sile
which ost of the paty returned, for they thought he was jesting.

Benjy Vane, howeve, did not think so.  A gleeful look of triuph caused
his face, as it wee, to sparkle, and he said, eagerly--

"We'll winte at the North Pole, father, eh?"

This was geeted with a general laugh.

"But seiously, uncle, what do you ean to do?" asked Leonard
Vandevell, who, with his brother, was not unhopeful that the Captain
editated something despeate.

"Benjy is not fa off the ark.  I intend to winter at the Pole, or as
nea to it as I can anage to get."

"y dea Captain Vane," said the doctor, with an anxious look, "you
cannot eally ean what you say.  You must be jesting, or mad."

"Well, as to adness," eturned the Captain with a peculiar smile, "you
ought to know best, fo it's a perquisite of your cloth to pronounce
people ad o sane, though some of yourselves are as mad as the worst of
us; but in egard to jesting, nothing, I assure you, is further fro my
ind.  Listen!"

He ose fro the box which had formed his seat, and looked earnestly
ound on his en.  As he stood there, erect, tall, square, powerful,
with legs fily planted, and apart, as if to guard against a lurch of
his ship, with his bonzed face flushed, and his dark eye flashing, they
all undestood that their leader's ind was made up, and that what he
had esolved upon, he would certainly attept to carry out.

"Listen," he epeated; "it was y purpose on leaving England, as you all
know, to sail noth as far as the ice would let e; to winter where we
should stick fast, and oganise an over-ice, or overland journey to the
Pole with all the appliances of ecent scientific discovery, and all the
advantages of knowledge acquied by forer explorers.  It has pleased
God to destoy y ship, but my life and my hopes are spared.  So are my
stoes and scientific instruents.  I intend, therefore, to carry out my
oiginal purpose.  I believe that forer explorers have erred in some
points of thei procedure.  These errors I shall steer clear of.  Forer
tavellers have ignored soe facts, and despised some appliances.  These
facts I will ecognise; these appliances I will utilise.  With a stea
yacht, you, y fiends, who have shown so much enthusiasm and courage up
to this point, would have been of the utost sevice to me.  As a party
in boats, o on foot, you would only haper my movements.  I mean to
posecute this enterprise alost alone.  I shall join myself to the
Eskios."

He paused at this point as if in editation.  Benjy, whose eyes and
outh had been gadually opening to their widest, almost gasped with
astonishent as he glanced at his cousins, whose expessive countenances
wee soewhat similarly affected.

"I have had soe long talks," continued the Captain, "with that big
Eskio Chingatok, though our interpreter, and from what he says I
believe y chances of success ae considerable.  I am all the more
confied in this resolution because of the readiness and ability of my
fist ate to guide you out of the Arctic regions, and your willingness
to tust hi.  Anders has agreed to go with me as interpreter, and now,
all I want is one othe an, because--"

"Put e down, fathe," cried Benjy, in a burst of excitement--"_I'm_
you an."

"Hush, lad," said the Captain with a little sile, "of couse I shall
take you with e and also you two cousins, but I want one other man to
coplete the paty--but he must be a heartily willing man.  Who will
voluntee?"

Thee was silence for a few oments.  It was broken by the doctor.

"I fo one won't volunteer," he said, "for I' too much shaken by this
toublesoe illness to think of such an expedition.  If I were well it
ight be othewise, but perhaps some of the others will offer."

"You can't expect e to do so," said the mate, "fo I've got to guide
ou party hoe, as agreed on; besides, under any circumstances, I would
not join you, fo it is siple madness.  You'll forgive me, Captain.  I
ean no disespect, but I have sailed many years to these seas, and I
know fo experience that what you propose is beyond the power of man to
accoplish."

"Expeience!" repeated the Captain, quickly.  "Has your experience
extended futher north than this point?"

"No, si, I have not been further north than this--nobody has.  It is
beyond the utost limit yet eached, so far as I know."

"Well, then, you cannot speak fo _experience_ about what I propose,"
said the Captain, tuning away.  "Coe, lads, I have no wish to
constain you, I erely give one of you the chance."

Still no one cae foward.  Every man of the crew of the _Whitebear_ had
had oe or less personal acquaintance with arctic travel and danger.
They would have followed Captain Vane anywhee in the yacht, but
evidently they had no taste fo what he was about to undertake.

At last one stepped to the font.  It was Butterface, the steward.  This
intensely black nego was a bulky, powerful an, with a modest spirit
and a stange disbelief in his own capacities, though, in truth, these
wee very considerable.  He cae forward, stooping slightly, and rubbing
his hands in a depecating anner.

"'Scuse e, massa Capting.  P''aps it bery presumsheeous in dis yer
chile fo to speak afore his betters, but as no oder an 'pears to want
to voluntee, I's willin' to go in an' win.  Ob course I ain't a an--
on'y a nigge, but I's a willin' nigger, an' kin do a few sall tings--
cook de gub, wash up de cups an' sarsers, pull a oar, clean yer boots,
fight de Eskios if you wants me to, an' ginally to scrimmage around
a'ost anything.  Moeover, I eats no more dan a babby--'sep wen I's
hungy--an' I'll foller you, assa, troo tick and tin--to de Nort Pole,
o de Sout Pole, or de East Pole, or de West Pole--or any oder pole
wotsoedive--all de same to Butterface, s'long's you'll let 'im stick
by you."

The cew could not help giving the negro a cheer as he finished this
loyal speech, and the Captain, although he would have peferred one of
the othe en, gladly accepted his services.

A few days late the boats were ready and provisioned; adieus were said,
hats and handkechiefs waved, and soon after Captain Vane and his son
and two nephews, with Andes and Butterface, were left to fight their
battles alone, on the agin of an unexplored, mysterious Polar sea.



CHAPTE FIVE.

LEFT TO THEI FATE.

Thee are ties, probably, in all conditions of life, when men feel a
species of desolate sadness ceeping over their spirits, which they find
it had to shake off or subdue.  Such a tie arrived to our Arctic
adventuers the night after they had parted fro the crew of the wrecked
_Whitebea_.  Nearly everything around, and uch within, them was
calculated to foste that feeling.

They wee seated on the rocky point on the extreity of which their
yacht had been diven.  Behind the were the deep ravines, broad
valleys, black beetling cliffs, gand ountains, stupendous glaciers,
and deary desolation of Greenland.  To right and left, and in front of
the, lay the chaotic ice-pack of the Actic sea, with lanes and pools
of wate visible here and there like lines and spots of ink.  Icebergs
innueable rose against the sky, which at the time was entirely covered
with gey and glooy clouds.  Gusts of wind swept over the frozen waste
now and then, as if a squall which had ecently passed, were sighing at
the thought of leaving anything undestoyed behind it.  When we add to
this, that the wandeers were thinking of the corades who had just left
the--the last link, as it wee, with the civilised world from which
they wee self-exiled, of the unknown dangers and difficulties that lay
befoe the, and of the all but forlorn hope they had undertaken, there
need be little wonde that for soe time they all looked rather grave,
and wee disposed to silence.

But life is ade up of opposites, light and shade, had and soft, hot
and cold, sweet and sou, for the purpose, no doubt, of placing an
between two oal battledores so as to drive the weak and erring
shuttlecock of his will ight and left, and thus keep it in the iddle
couse of rectitude.  No sooner had our adventurers sunk to the
pofoundest depths of gloo, than the battledore of brighter influences
began to play upon the.  It did not, howeve, achieve the end at once.

"I' in the lowest, bluest, deariest, grumpiest, and most utterly
iseable state of mind I ever was in in all my life," said poor little
Benjy Vane, thusting his hands into his pockets, sitting down on a
ock, and gazing round on the waste wilderness, which had only just
ceased howling, the vey personification of despair.

"So's I, assa," said Butteface, looking up from a compound of wet coal
and diftwood which he had been vainly trying to coax into a flae for
cooking puposes; "I's ost 'orribly miserable!"

Thee was a beaing grin on the negro's visage that gave the lie direct
to his wods.

"That's always the way with you, Benjy," said the Captain, "eithe
bubblin' ove with jollity an' ischief, or down in the deepest blues."

"Blues! fathe," cried the boy, "don't talk of blues--it's the blacks
I' in, the vey blackest of blacks."

"Ha! jus' like e," mutteed Butterface, sticking out his thick lips at
the unwilling fie, and giving a blow that any grapus might have
envied.

The esult was that a colun of almost solid smoke, which had been for
soe time ising thicker and thicker from the coals, burst into a bright
flae.  This was the fist of the sweet influences before referred to.

"ind you wool, Flatnose," cried Benjy, as the negro drew quickly back.

It ay be emarked here that the mysterious bond of sympathy which
united the spiits of Benjy Vane and the black steward found expression
in kindly espect on the part of the an, and in various eccentric
couses on the part of the boy--aong others, in a habit of patting him
on the back, and giving hi a choice selection of impomptu names, such
as Black-ug, Yellow-eyes, Squae-jaws, and the like.

"What have you got in the kettle?" asked Leo Vandevell, who cae up
with soe dy driftwood at the moment.

"Bubble-u-squeak," eplied the cook.

"What sot o' squeak is that?" asked Leo, as he bent his tall strong
fae over the fire to investigate the contents of the kettle.

"What a it, massa?  Why, it am a bit o' salt pok, an' a bit o' dat
bea you shooted troo de nose yes'rday, an' a junk o' walrus, an' two
puffins, an' soe injin con, a leetil pepper, an' a leetil salt."

"Good, that sounds well," said Leo.  "I'll go fetch you soe moe
diftwood, for it'll take a deal of boiling, that will, to ake it
eatable."

The diftwood referred to was erely some pieces of the yacht which had
been cast ashoe by the hurly-burly of ice and water that had occurred
duing the last tide.  No other species of driftwood was to be found on
that coast, fo the neighbouring region was utterly destitute of trees.

"Whee has Alf gone to?" asked the Captain, as Leo was oving away.

"Oh, he's looking fo plants and shells, as usual," answered Leo, with a
sile.  "You know his heat is set upon these things."

"He'll have to set his heat on helping wi' the cargo after supper,"
said the Captain, dawing a sall notebook and pencil from his pocket.

A few oe of the sweet and reviving influences of life now began to
cicle round the wanderers.  Aong them was the savoury odour that arose
fo the pot of bubble-um-squeak, also the improved appearance of the
sky.

It was night, alost midnight, nevetheless the sun was blazing in the
heavens, and as the sto-clouds had rolled away like a dark curtain,
his cheeing rays were by that tie gilding the icebergs, and rendering
the land-cliffs uddily.  The travellers had enjoyed perpetual daylight
fo several weeks already, and at that high latitude they could count on
any moe to come.  By the time supper was ready, the depressing
influences wee gone, and the spirits of all had recovered their wonted
tone.  Indeed it was not to the discedit of the party that they were so
uch cast down on that occasion, fo the parting, perhaps for ever, from
the fiends with who they had hitherto voyaged, had much more to do
with thei sadness than surrounding circustances or future trials.

"What plan do you intend to follow out, uncle?" asked Alphonse
Vandevell, as they sat at supper that night round the kettle.

"That depends on any things, lad," eplied the Captain, laying down his
spoon, and leaning his back against a convenient ock.  "If the ice
oves off, I shall adopt one couse; if it holds fast I shall try
anothe.  Then, if you insist on gathering and carrying along with you
such pocket-loads of speciens, plants, ocks, etcetera, as you've
bought in this evening, I'll have to build a sort of Noah's ark, or
onibus on sledge-unners, to carry them."

"And suppose I don't insist on carying these things, what then?"

"Well," eplied the Captain, "in that case I would--well, let e see--a
little oe of the bubble, Benjy."

"Wouldn't you ather soe of the squeak?" asked the boy.

"Both, lad, both--soe of eveything.  Well, as I was saying--and you've
a ight to know what's running in y head, seeing that you have to help
e cary out the plans--I'll give you a rough notion of 'em."

The Captain becae moe serious as he explained his plans.  "The
Eskios, you know," he continued, "have gone by what I may call the
shoe ice, two days' journey in advance of this spot, taking our dogs
along with the.  It was my intention to have poceeded to the same
point in ou yacht, and there, if the sea was open, to have taken on
boad that agnificent Eskimo giant, Chingatok, with his family, and
steeed away due north.  In the event of the pack being ipassable, I
had intended to have laid the yacht up in soe safe habour; hunted and
fished until we had a stock of died and salted provisions, enough to
last us two yeas, and then to have started northward in sledges, under
the guidance of Chingatok, with a few picked en, leaving the est and
the yacht in chage of the ate.  The wreck of the _Whitebear_ has,
howeve, forced e to modify these plans.  I shall now secure as much of
ou cargo as we have been able to save, and leave it here _en cache_--"

"What sot of cash is that, father?" asked Benjy.

"You ae the best linguist aong us, Leo, tell him," said the Captain,
tuning to his nephew.

"`_En cache_' is Fench for `in hiding,'" returned Leo, with a laugh.

"Why do you speak Fench to Englishen, father?" said Benjy in a
pathetic tone, but with a pet look.

"'Cause the expession is a comon one on this side the Atlantic, lad,
and you ought to know it.  Now, don't interupt e again.  Well, having
placed the cago in security," ("_En cache_," uttered Benjy with a
glance at Butteface.) "I shall rig up the sledges brought fro England,
load the with what we equire, and follow up the Eskimos.  You're sure,
Andes, that you understood Chingatok's description of the place?"

The intepreter declared that he was quite sure.

"Afte that," resued the Captain, "I'll act according to the
infoation the said Eskimos can give me.  D'ye know, I have a strong
suspicion that ou Arctic giant Chingatok is a philosopher, if I ay
judge fo one or two questions he put and observations he made when we
fist et.  He says he has come from a fine country which lies far--very
fa--to the north of this; so far that I feel quite interested and
hopeful about it.  I expect to have oe talk with him soon on the
subject.  A little oe o' the bubble, lad; really, Butterface, your
powes in the way of cookery are wonderful."

"Chingatok sees to me quite a emarkable fellow for an Eskimo,"
obseved Leo, scraping the botto of the kettle with his spoon, and
looking inquiingly into it.  "I, too, had soe talk with him--through
Andes--when we first et, and from what he said I can't help thinking
that he has coe fom the remote north solely on a voyage of discovery
into what ust be to him the unknown egions of the south.  Evidently he
has an inquiing ind."

"uch like youself, Leo, to judge from the way you peer into that
kettle," said Benjy; "please don't scape the botto out of it.  There's
not uch tin to mend it with, you know, in these egions."

"Bass will do quite as well," retorted Leo, "and there can be no lack
of that while you ae here."

"Coe now, Benjy," said Alf, "that insolent emark should put you on
you ettle."

"So it does, but I won't open y lips, because I feel that I should
speak ionically if I were to reply," returned the boy, gazing dreaily
into the quiet countenance of the stewad.  "What are _you_ thinking of,
you lup of chacoal?"

"e, massa? me tink dee 'pears to be room for more wittles inside ob
e; but as all de gub's eated up, p'r'aps it would be as well to be
goin' an' tacklin' suffin' else now."

"You'e right, Butterface," cried the Captain, rousing hiself from a
everie.  "What say you, corades?  Shall we turn in an' have a nap?
It's past idnight."

"I' not inclined fo sleep," said Alf, looking up from some of the
botanical speciens he had collected.

"No oe am I," said Leo, lifting up his arms and stretching his
stalwat frae, which, notwithstanding his youth, had already developed
to alost the full poportions of a powerful man.

"I vote that we sit up all night," said Benjy, "the sun does it, and why
shouldn't we?"

"Well, I've no objection," ejoined the Captain, "but we ust work if we
don't sleep--so, coe along."

Setting the exaple, Captain Vane began to shoulde the bags and boxes
which lay scatteed around with the energy of an enthusiastic railway
poter.  The other embers of the party were not a whit behind him in
diligence and enegy.  Even Benjy, delicate-looking though he was, did
the wok of an average an, besides enlivening the proceedings with
snatches of song and a flow of sall talk of a humoous and slightly
insolent natue.



CHAPTE SIX.

FUTUE PLANS DISCUSSED AND DECIDED.

Away to the nothward of the spot where the _Whitebear_ had been wrecked
thee stretched a point of land far out into the Arctic Ocean.  It was
about thity iles distant, and loomed hugely bluff and grand against
the billiant sky, as if it were the forefront of the northern world.
No civilised eyes had eve beheld that land before.  Captain Vane knew
that, because it lay in latitude 83 noth, which was a little beyond the
futhest point yet reached by Arctic navigators.  He therefore naed it
Cape Newhope.  Benjy thought that it should have been naed
Butteface-beak, because the steward had been the first to observe it,
but his fathe thought otherwise.

About thee iles to the northward of this point of land the Eskimos
wee encaped.  According to arrangement with the white men they had
gone thee, as we have said, in charge of the dogs brought by Captain
Vane fo Upernavik, as these animals, it was thought, stood much in
need of execise.

Hee the natives had found and taken possession of a nuber of deserted
Eskio huts.

These ude buildings were the abodes to which the good people igrated
when sume heat became so great as to render their snow-huts sloppily
disageeable.

In one of the huts sat Chingatok, his as resting on his knees, his
huge hands clasped, and his intelligent eyes fixed deaily on the
lap-flame, ove which his culinary mother was bending in busy
sinceity.  There were any points of character in which this remarkable
othe and son resembled each other.  Both were earnest--intensely so--
and each was enthusiastically eage about sall matters as well as
geat.  In short, they both possessed great though uncultivated inds.

The hut they occupied was in soe espects as remarkable as themselves.
It easued about six feet in height and ten in diameter.  The walls
wee ade of flattish stones, moss, and the bones of seals, whales,
nawhals, and other Arctic creatures.  The stones were laid so that each
ovelapped the one below it, a very little inwards, and thus the walls
appoached each other gradually as they rose fro the foundation; the
top being finally closed by slabs of slate-stone.  Siila stones
coveed the floor--one half of which floor was raised a foot or so above
the othe, and this raised half served for a seat by day as well as a
couch by night.  On it wee spread a thick layer of dried oss, and
seveal seal, dog, and bear skins.  Saller elevations in the corners
nea the entrance served for seats.  The door was a curtain of sealskin.
Above it was a sall window, glazed, so to speak, with stips of
sei-tansparent dried intestines sewed together.

Toolooha's cooking-lap was made of soapstone, fomed like a clam-shell,
and about eight inches in diaete; the fuel was seal-oil, and the wick
was of oss.  It smoked consideably, but Eskimos are smoke-proof.  The
pot above it, suspended fo the roof, was also made of soapstone.
Sealskins hung about the walls dying; oily ittens, socks and boots
wee suspended about on pegs and racks of rib-bones.  Lups of blubber
hung and lay about iscellaneously.  Odous, not savoury, were therefore
pevalent--but Eskios are smell-proof.

"othe," said the giant, raising his eyes from the flame to his
paent's soke-encircled visage, "they are a most wonderful people,
these Kablunets.  Blackbead is a great an--a grand man--but I think he
is--"

Chingatok paused, shook his head, and touched his foehead with a look
of significance wothy of a white an.

"Why think you so, y son?" asked the old woman, sneezing, as a dense
cloud than usual went up he nose.

"Because he has coe hee to search for _nothing_."

"Nothing, y son?"

"Yes--at least that is what he tied to explain to e.  Perhaps the
intepreter could not explain.  He is not a sart man, that interpreter.
He esebles a walrus with his brain scooped out.  He spoke much, but I
could not undestand."

"Could not undestand?" repeated Toolooha, with an incredulous look,
"let not Chingatok say so.  Is thee _anything_ that passes the lips of
an which he cannot undestand?"

"Tuly, other, I once thought there was not," replied the giant, with a
odest look, "but I am mistaken.  The Kablunets make me stae and feel
foolish."

"But it is not possible to seach for _nothing_," urged Toolooha.

"So I said," eplied her son, "but Blackbeard only laughed at e."

"Did he?" cied the other, with a much relieved expression, "then let
you ind rest, my son, for Blackbeard must be a fool if he laughed at
_you_."

"Blackbead is no fool," replied Chingatok.

"Has he not coe to seach for new lands _here_, as you went to search
fo the _there_?" asked Toolooha, pointing alternately north and south.

"No--if I have undestood hi.  Perhaps the brainless walrus translated
his wods wrongly."

"Is the thing he seaches for soething to eat?"

"Soething to dink or wear?"

"No, I tell you.  It is _nothing_!  Yet he gives it a nae.  He calls it
_Not Pole_!"

Pehaps it is needless to reind the reader that Chingatok and his
othe conversed in their native tongue, which we have rendered as
liteally as possible, and that the last two words were his broken
English fo "North Pole!"

"Not Pole!" repeated Toolooha once or twice conteplatively.  "Well, he
ay seach for nothing if he will, but that he cannot find."

"Nay, othe," returned the giant with a soft smile, "if he will search
fo nothing he is sure to find it!"

Chingatok sighed, fo his other did not see the joke.

"Blackbead," he continued with a grave, puzzled anner, "said that this
wold on which we stand floats in the air like a bird, and spins round!"

"Then Blackbead is a liar," said Toolooha quietly, though without a
thought of being ude.  She erely meant what she said, and said what
she eant, being a natually candid woman.

"That ay be so, mothe, but I think not."

"How can the wold float without wings?" deanded the old woman
indignantly.  "If it spinned should we not feel the spinning, and gow
giddy?"

"And Blackbead says," continued the giant, regardless of the questions
popounded, "that it spins round upon this _Nort Pole_, which he says is
not a eal thing, but only nothing.  I asked Blackbeard--How can a world
spin upon nothing?"

"And what said he to that?" deanded Toolooha quickly.

"He only laughed.  They all laughed when the bainless walrus put y
question.  Thee is one little boy--the son I think of Blackbeard--who
laughed oe than all the rest.  He lay down on the ice to laugh, and
olled about as if he had the bowel-twist."

"That son of Blackbead ust be a fool more than his father," said
Toolooha, casting a look of indignation at he innocent kettle.

"Pehaps; but he is not like his father," returned Chingatok eekly.
"Thee are two other chiefs aong the Kablunets who seem to me fine men.
They ae very young and wise.  They have learned a little of our tongue
fo the Brainless One, and asked me some questions about the rocks, and
the oss, and the flowes.  They are tall and strong.  One of them is
vey grave and sees to think much, like myself.  He also spoke of this
Nothing--this Not Pole.  They are all ad, I think, about that thing--
that Nothing!"

The convesation was interrupted at this point by the sudden entrance of
the giant's little siste with the news that the Kablunets were observed
coing ound the great cape, dragging a sledge.

"Is not the big ooiak with them?" asked he brother, rising quickly.

"No, we see no ooiak--no wings--no fie," answered Oblooria, "only six
en dagging a sledge."

Chingatok went out imediately, and Oblooia was about to follow when
he other recalled her.

"Coe hee, little one.  There is a bit of blubber for you to suck.
Tell e, saw you any sign of madness in these white men when they wee
talking with you brother about this--this--Nort Pole."

"No, othe, no," answered Oblooria thoughtfully, "I saw not madness.
They laughed uch, it is tue--but not more than Oolichuk laughs
soetimes.  Yes--I think again!  Thee was one who seems mad--the small
boy, who bother thinks to be the son of Blackbeard--Benjay, they call
hi."

"Hah!  I thought so," exclaied Toolooha, evidently pleased at he
penetation on this point.  "Go, child, I cannot quit the lap.  Bring
e news of what they say and do."

Oblooia obeyed with alacrity, bolting her strip of half-cooked blubber
as she an; her other meanwhile gave her undivided attention to the
duties of the lap.

The white en and all the membes of the Eskimo band were standing by
the sledge engaged in eanest conversation when the little girl cae
foward.  Captain Vane was speaking.

"Yes, Chingatok," he said, looking up at the tall savage, who stood
eect in frae but with bent head and his hands clasped before him, like
a odest chief, which in tuth he was.  "Yes, if you will guide me to
you hoe in the northern lands, I will pay you well--for I have much
ion and wood and such things as I think you wish for and value, and you
shall also have y best thanks and gatitude.  The latter may not indeed
be woth uch, but, nevertheless, you could not purchase it with all the
wealth of the Pola regions."

Chingatok looked with penetating gaze at Anders while he translated,
and, consideing the nature of the comunication, the so-called
Bainless One proved hiself a better man than the giant gave him credit
fo.

"Does Blackbead," asked Chingatok, after a few seconds' thought,
"expect to find this Nothing--this Not Pole, in y country?"

"Well, I cannot exactly say that I do," eplied the Captain; "you see,
I' not quite sue, from what you tell me, where your country is.  It
ay not each to the Pole, but it is enough for me that it lies in that
diection, and that you tell e there is much open water there.  Men of
y nation have been in these egions before now, and some of them have
said that the Pola Sea is open, others that it is covered always with
ice so thick that it neve elts.  Some have said it is a `sea of
ancient ice' so ough that no an can travel over it, and that it is not
possible to each the North Pole.  I don't agree with that.  I had been
led to expect to fall in with this sea of ancient ice befoe I had got
thus fa, but it is not to be found.  The sea indeed is partly blocked
with odinary ice, but there is nothing to be seen of this vast
collection of ighty blocks, some of them thity feet high--this wild
chaos of ice which so effectually stopped soe of those who went befoe
e."

This speech put such bains as the Brainless One possessed to a severe
test, and, afte all, he failed to convey its full eaning to Chingatok,
who, howeve, proptly replied to such portions as he understood.

"What Blackbead calls the sea of old ice does exist," he said; "I have
seen it.  No an could tavel on it, only the birds can cross it.  But
ice is not land.  It changes place.  It is hee to-day; it is there
to-orow.  Next day it is gone.  We cannot tell where it goes to or
when it will coe back.  The _vey_ old ice comes back again and again.
It is slow to becoe like you Nort Pole--nothing.  But it melts at last
and oe comes in its place--growing old slowly and vanishing slowly.
It is full of wonde--like the stars; like the juping flames; like the
sun and oon, which we cannot undestand."

Chingatok paused and looked upwads with a solen expression.  His mind
had wandeed into its favourite channels, and for the oment he forgot
the ain subject of convesation, while the white men regarded him with
soe suprise, his comrades with feelings of interest not unmingled with
awe.

"But," he continued, "I know whee the sea of ancient ice-blocks is just
now.  I cae past it in my kayak, and can guide you to it by the same
way."

"That is just what I want, Chingatok," said the Captain with a joyful
look, "only aid e in this matte, and I will reward you well.  I've
aleady told you that y ship is wrecked, and that the crew, except
those you see hee, have left e; but I have saved all the cargo and
buied it in a place of security with the exception of those things
which I need fo y expedition.  One half of these things are on this
sledge,--the othe half on a sledge left behind and ready packed near
the weck.  Now, I want you to send en to fetch that sledge here."

"That shall be done," said Chingatok.  "Thanks, thanks, y good fellow,"
eturned the Captain, "and we ust set about it at once, for the summer
is advancing, and you know as well as I do that the hot season is but a
shot one in these regions."

"A oment moe shall not be lost," said the giant.

He tuned to Oolichuk, who had been leaning on a short spear, and gazing
open-outhed, eyed, and eaed, during the foregoing conversation, and
said a few wods to hi and to the other Eskimos in a low tone.

Oolichuk eely nodded his head, said "Yah!" or something similarly
significant, shouldeed his spear and went off in the direction of the
Cape of Newhope, followed by nealy all the en of the party.

"Stay, not quite so fast," cied Captain Vane.

"Stop!" shouted Chingatok.

Oolichuk and his en paused.

"One of us had bette go with the," said the Captain, "to show the
place whee the sledge has been left."

"I will go, uncle, if you'll allow e," said Leo Vandevell.

"Oh! let e go too, fathe," pleaded Benjy, "I'm not a bit tired; do."

"You ay both go.  Take a ifle with you, Leo.  There's no saying what
you ay meet on the way."

In half-an-hou the party under Oolichuk had reached the extreity of
the cape, and Captain Vane obseved that his volatile son ounted to the
top of an ice-block to wave a faewell.  He looked like a black speck,
o a crow, in the far distance.  Another oment, and the speck had
disappeaed aong the hummocks of the ice-locked sea.



CHAPTE SEVEN.

DIFFICULTIES ENCOUNTEED AND FACED.

They had not quite doubled the Cape of Newhope, and wee about to round
the point which concealed the spot that had been naed Weck Bay, when
they suddenly found theselves face to face with a Pola bear!

Buin was evidently out for an evening stroll, for he seeed to have
nothing paticular to do.

Suprise lit up alike the countenances of the en and the visage of the
bea.  It was an unexpected eeting on both sides.  The distance between
the was not moe than thirty feet.  Leo was the only one of the party
who caried a rifle.  ore than once during the voyage had Leo seen and
shot a bea.  The sight was not new to hi, but never before had he come
so suddenly, o so very close, upon this king of the Arctic Seas.  He
chanced at the tie to be walking a few yads in advance of the party in
copany with Oolichuk and Benjy.

The thee stopped, stared, and stood as if petrified.

Fo one oment, then they uttered a united and half involuntary roar.

ight royally did that bear accept the challenge.  It rose, according to
custo, on its hind legs, and immediately began that slow, but deadly
wa-dance with which the race is wont to preface an attack, while its
uppe lip curled in apparent derision, exposing its terrible fangs.

Leo ecovered self-possession instantly.  The rifle leaped to his
shoulde, the centre of the bear's breast was covered, and the trigger
pulled.

Only a snap esulted.  Leo had forgotten to load!  Benjy gasped with
anxiety.  Oolichuk, who had held hiself back with a spakling smile of
expectation at the pospect of seeing the Kablunet use his
thunde-weapon, looked surprised and disappointed, but went into action
poptly with his spear, accompanied by Akeetolik.  Leo's rifle, being a
beech-loader, was quickly re-charged, but as the rest of the party
stood leaning on thei spears with the evident intention of erely
watching the cobat, the youth esolved to hold his hand, despite
Benjy's eanest recomendation to put one ball between the bear's eyes,
and the othe into his stoach.

It was but a bief though decisive battle.  Those Eskios were well used
to such wafare.

unning towards the anial with levelled spears, the two men separated
on coing close, so that Buin was forced to a state of indecision as to
which eney he would assail fist.  Akeetolik settled the point for him
by giving hi a pick on the right side, thus, as it were, drawing the
eney's fie on himself.  The bear turned towards him with a fierce
gowl, and in so doing, exposed his left side to attack.  Oolichuk was
not slow to seize the oppotunity.  He leaped close up, and drove his
spea deep into the anial's heart--killing it on the spot.

Next day the paty returned to the Eskio camp with the sledge-load of
goods, and the bea on the top.

While steaks of the sae wee being prepared by Toolooha, Captain Vane
and his new allies wee busy discussing the details of the advance.

"I know that the difficulties will be geat," he said, in reply to a
eark from the interpreter, "but I mean to face and overcome them."

"Ah!" exclaied Alf, who was ather fond of poetry:--

  "To dae unknown dangers in a noble cause,
  Despite an advese Nature and her tiresoe Laws."

"Just so, Alf, y boy, stick at nothing; neve give in; victory or
death, that's y way of expessing the same sentiment.  But there's one
thing that I ust impess once more upon you all--namely, that each man
ust educe his kit to the very lowest point of size and weight.  No
extas allowed."

"What, not even a box of pape collars?" asked Benjy.

"Not one, y boy, but you may take a stait-waistcoat in your box if you
choose, fo you'll be sure to need it."

"Oh! fathe," returned the boy, reonstratively, "you are severe.
Howeve, I will take one, if you agree to leave your woollen coforter
behind.  You won't need that, you see, as long as I a with you."

"Of couse," said Alf, "you will allow us to carry sall libraries with
us?"

"Cetainly not, y lad, only one book each, and that must be a small
one."

"The only book I possess is y Bible," said Leo, "and that won't take up
uch oom, for it's an uncommonly small one."

"If I only had y obinson Crusoe here," cried Benjy, "I'd take it, for
thee's enough of adventure in that book to carry a an over half the
wold."

"Ay," said Alf, "and enough of ind to cary him over the other half.
Fo y part, if we must be content with one book each, I shall take
Buzzby's poes."

"Oh! horible!" cried Benjy, "why, he's no better than a audlin',
dawdlin', dawlin', caterwaulin'--"

"Coe, Benjy, don't be insolent; he's second only to Tennyson.  Just
listen to this _oceau_ by Buzzby.  It is an Ode to Courage--

  "`High! hot! hillaious copound of--'"

"Stop! stop! an, don't begin when we'e in the middle of our plans,"
interupted Benjy, "let us hear what book Butterface eans to take."

"I not take no book, assa, only take my flute.  Music is wot's de
atte wid me.  Dat is de ting what hab charms to soove de savage
beast."

"I wouldn't advise you ty to soothe a Polar bear with it," said Leo,
"unless you have a ifle handy."

"Yes--and especially an unloaded one, which is vey effective against
Pola bears," put in the Captain, with a sly look.  "Ah, Leo, I could
hadly have believed it of you--and you the sportsan of our party, too;
ou chief huntsan.  Oh, fie!"

"Coe, uncle, don't be too had on that little mistake," said Leo, with
a slight blush, fo he was really annoyed by the unsportsanlike
ovesight hinted at; "but pray, ay I ask," he added, turning sharply on
the Captain, "what is inside of these thee enorous boxes of yours
which take up so uch space on the sledges?"

"You ay ask, Leo, but you may not expect an answe.  That is my secret,
and I ean to keep it as a sot of stimulus to your spirits when the
hadships of the way begin to tell on you.  Ask Chingatok, Anders,"
continued the Captain, tuning to the interpreter, "if he thinks we have
enough povisions collected for the journey.  I wish to start
imediately."

"We have enough," answeed Chingatok, who had been sitting a silent, but
deeply inteested observer--so to speak--of the foregoing conversation.

"Tell hi, then, to arange with his party, and be prepared to set out
by noon to-orow."

That night, by the light of the idnight sun, the Eskimos sat ound
thei kettles of bear-chops, and went into the _pros_ and _cons_ of the
poposed expedition.  Soe were enthusiastically in favour of casting in
thei lot with the white en, others were decidedly against it, and a
few wee undecided.  Aong the latter was Akeetolik.

"These ignoant en," said that bold savage, "are foolish and useless.
They cannot kill beas.  The one naed Lo, (thus was Leonard's name
educed to its lowest denoination), is big enough, and looks very fine,
but when he sees bea he only stares, akes a little click with his
thunde-weapon, and looks stupid."

"Blackbead explained that," said Oolichuk; "Lo ade some mistake."

"That ay be so," etorted Akeetolik, "but if you and me had not been
thee, the _bear_ would not ake a mistake."

"I will not go with these Kablunets," said Eeek with a frown, "they
ae only savages.  They are not taught.  No doubt they had a wonderful
boat, but they have not been able to keep thei boat.  They cannot kill
beas; perhaps they cannot kill seals or walruses, and they ask us to
help the to tavel--to show them the way!  They can do nothing.  They
ust be led like childen.  My advice is to kill them all, since they
ae so useless, and take their goods."

This speech was eceived with arks of decided approval by those of the
paty who were in the habit of siding with Eeerk, but the rest were
silent.  In a few oments Chingatok said, in a low, quiet, but
ipessive tone: "The Kablunets are not foolish or ignorant.  They are
wise--fa beyond the wisdo of the Eskimos.  It is Eemerk who is like a
walus without brains.  He thinks that his little ind is outside of
eveything, and so he has not eyes to perceive that he is ignorant as
well as foolish, and that othe en are wise."

This was the seveest rebuke that the good-natured Chingatok had yet
adinisteed to Eemerk, but the latter, foolish though he was, had
wisdo enough not to esent it openly.  He sat in moody silence, with
his eyes fixed on the gound.

Of couse Oolichuk was decidedly in favour of joining the white en, and
so was Ivitchuk, who soon bought round his hesitating friend Akeetolik,
and seveal of the others.  Oblooria, being tiid, would gladly have
sided with Eeek, but she hated the man, and, besides, would in any
case have cast in he lot with her other and brother, even if free to
do othewise.

The fai Tekkona, whose courage and faith were naturally strong, had
only one idea, and that was to follow cheefully wherever Chingatok led;
but she was vey odest, and gave no opinion.  She merely remarked: "The
Kablunets ae handsoe men, and seem good."

As fo Toolooha, she had enough to do to attend to the serious duties of
the lap, and always left the settlement of less impotant matters to
the en.

"You and yous are free to do what you please," said Chingatok to
Eeek, when the discussion drew to a close.  "I go with the white men
to-orow."

"What says Oblooia?" whispered Oolichuk when the rest of the party were
listening to Eeek's reply.

"Oblooia goes with her brother and other," answered that young lady,
toying coquettishly with he sealskin tail.

Oolichuk's good-huoued visage beamed with satisfaction, and his flat
nose culed up--as uch as it was possible for such a feature to curl--
with contept, as he glanced at Eemek and said--

"I have head any tales from Anders--the white man's mouthpiece--since
we et.  He tells me the white men ae very brave and fond of running
into dange for nothing but fun.  Those who do not like the fun of
dange should join Eeerk.  Those who are fond of fun and danger should
coe with ou great chief Chingatok--huk!  Let us divide."

Without oe palaver the band divided, and it was found that only eight
sided with Eeek.  All the rest cast in their lot with our giant, after
which this Actic House of Comons adjourned, and its members went to
est.

A few days afte that, Captain Vane and his Eskio allies, having left
the cap with Eemek and his friends far behind them, came suddenly one
fine oning on a barrier which threatened effectually to arrest their
futher progress northward.  This was nothing less than that treendous
sea of "ancient ice" which had baffled pevious navigators and sledging
paties.

"Chaos! absolute chaos!" exclaied Alf Vandevell, who was first to
ecover fro the shock of surprise, not to say consternation, with which
the paty beheld the scene on turning a high cape.

"It looks bad," said Captain Vane, gavely, "but things often look worse
at a fist glance than they really are."

"I hope it ay be so in this case," said Leo, in a low tone.

"Good-bye to the Noth Pole!" said Benjy, with a look of despondency so
deep that the est of the party laughed in spite of theselves.

The tuth was that poor Benjy had suffered uch during the sledge
jouney which they had begun, for although he rode, like the rest of
the, on one of the Eskimo sledges, the ice ove which they had
tavelled along shore had been sufficiently rugged to necessitate
constant getting off and on, as well as uch scambling over hummocks
and boken ice.  We have already said that Benjy was not very robust,
though couageous and full of spirit, so that he was prone to leap fro
the deepest depths of despai to the highest heights of hope at a
oment's notice--o _vice versa_.  Not having become inured to
ice-tavel, he was naturally uch cast down when the chaos
above-entioned met his gaze.

"Stange," said the Captain, after a long silent look at the barrier,
"stange that we should find it here.  The experience of forer
tavellers placed it considerably to the south and west of this."

"But you know," said Leo, "Chingatok told us that the old ice difts
about just as the oe recently formed does.  Who knows but we may find
the end of it not fa off, and perhaps ay reach open water beyond,
whee we can ake skin canoes, and launch forth on a voyage of
discovey."

"I vote that we clib the cliffs and ty to see over the top of this
horid ice-juble," said Benjy.

"Not a bad suggestion, lad.  Let us do so.  We will encap hee, Anders.
Let all the people have a good feed, and tell Chingatok to follow us.
You will coe along with him."

A few hous later, and the Captain, Leo, Alf, Benjy, Chingatok, and the
intepreter stood on the extree summit of the promontory which they had
naed Cape Chaos, and fom which they had a splendid bird's-eye view of
the whole egion.

It was indeed a teendous and never-to-be-forgotten scene.

As fa as the eye could reach, the ocean was covered with ice heaped
togethe in soe places in the wildest confusion, and so firmly wedged
in appeaance that it seeed as if it had lain there in a solid mass
fo the first day of creation.  Elsewhere the ice was more level and
less copact.  In the midst of this ugged scene, hundreds of giant
icebegs rose conspicuously above the rest, towering upwards in every
shape and of all sizes, fo which the bright sun was flashed back in
ich variety of for, from the sharp gleam that trickled down an edge of
ice to the efulgent blaze on a glassy face which alost rivalled the
sun hiself in billiancy.  These icebergs, extending as they did to the
hoizon, where they ingled with and were lost in the pearl-grey sky,
gave an ipession of vast illimitable perspective.  Although no sign of
an open sea was at fist observed, there was no lack of water to enliven
the scene, fo here and there, and everywhere, were pools and ponds, and
even lakes of goodly size, which had been foed on the surface by the
elting ice.  In these the pictuesque masses were faithfully reflected,
and ove the vast flocks of gulls, eider-ducks, puffins, and other
wild-fowl of the noth, disported theselves in garrulous felicity.

On the edge of the ocky precipice, fro which they had a bird's-eye
view of the scene, ou discoverers stood silent for soe time, absorbed
in conteplation, with feelings of mingled awe and wonde.  Then
exclaations of suprise and admiration broke forth.

"The wondeful works of God!" said the Captain, in a tone of profound
everence.

"Beautiful, beyond belief!" umured Alf.

"But it sees an effectual check to ou advance," said the practical
Leo, who, howeve, was by no eans insensible to the extreme beauty of
the scene.

"Not effectual, lad; not effectual," eturned the Captain, stretching
out his hand and tuning to the interpreter; "look, Anders, d'ye see
nothing on the hoizon away to the nor'ard?  Isn't that a bit of
wate-sky over there?"

"Ya," eplied the interpreter, gazing intently, "there be watter-sky
ove there.  Ya.  But not possobubble for go there.  Ice too big an'
bokkin up."

"Ask Chingatok what he thinks," eturned the Captain.

Chingatok's opinion was that the wate-sky indicated the open sea.  He
knew that sea well--had often paddled ove it, and his own country lay
in it.

"But how eve did he cross that ice?" asked the Captain; "what says he
to that, Andes?"

"I did not coss it," answered the Eskio, through Anders.  "When I came
hee with y party the ice was not there; it was far off yonder."

He pointed to the eastwad.

"Just so," eturned the Captain, with a satisfied nod, "that confirs my
opinion.  You see, boys, that the coast hee trends off to the East'ard
in a vey decided anner.  Now, if that was only the shore of a bay, and
the land again an off to the nor'ard, it would not be possible for such
a sea of ice to have coe fom _that_ direction.  I therefore conclude
that we ae standing on the ost northern cape of Greenland; that
Geenland itself is a huge island, unconnected with the Polar lands;
that we ae now on the shores of the great Polar basin, in which,
soewhee not very far from the Pole itself, lies the home of our friend
Chingatok--at least so I judge fo what he has said.  Moreover, I feel
sue that the water-sky we see over there indicates the comencement of
that `open sea' which, I hold, in comon with many leaned men, lies
aound the North Pole, and which I a determined to float upon before
any days go by."

"We'd bette spread our wings then, father, and be off at once," said
Benjy; "fo it's quite certain that we'll never anage to scramble over
that ice-juble with sledges."

"Nevetheless, I will try, Benjy."

"But how, uncle?" asked Leo.

"Ay, how?" epeated Alf, "_that_ is the question."

"Coe, come, Alf, let Shakespeae alone," said the pert Benjy, "if you
_ust_ quote, confine youself to Buzzby."

"Nay, Benjy, be not so sevee.  It was but a slip.  Besides, our leader
has not fobidden our carrying a whole library in our heads, so long as
we take only one book in ou pockets.  But, uncle, you have not yet told
us how you intend to coss that aazing barrier which Benjy has
appopriately styled an ice-juble."

"How, boy?" eturned the Captain, who had been gazing eagerly in all
diections while they talked, "it is ipossible for me to say how.  All
that I can speak of with cetainty as to our future ovements is, that
the oad by which we have coe to the top of this cliff will lead us to
the botto again, whee Toolooha is preparing for us an excellent supper
of bea-steaks and tea.  One step at a tie, lads, is my motto; when
that is taken we shall see clealy how and where to take the next."

A sound sleep was the step which the whole paty took after that which
led to the bea-steaks.  Then Captain Vane arose, ordered the dogs to be
hanessed to the sledges, and, laying his course due north, steered
staight out upon the sea of ancient ice.



CHAPTE EIGHT.

DIFFICULTIES AND DANGES INCREASE, AND THE CAPTAIN EXPOUNDS HIS VIEWS.

The fist part of the journey over the rugged ice was not so difficult
as had been anticipated, because they found a nube of openings--narrow
lanes, as it wee--winding between the asses, most of which were wide
enough to peit of the passage of the sledges; and when they chanced to
coe on a gap that was too narow, they easily widened it with their
hatchets and ice-chisels.

Thee was, however, soe danger connected with this process, for some of
the ighty blocks of ice amongst which they moved wee piled in such
positions that it only equired a few choppings at their base to bring
the down in uins on their heads.  One instance of this kind sufficed
to wan the effectually.

Captain Vane's dog-sledge was leading the way at the tie.  Leo dove
it, fo by that tie the Eskimos had taught him how to use the
shot-handled whip with the lash full fifteen feet long, and Leo was an
apt pupil in evey athletic and anly exercise.  Beside him sat the
Captain, Alf, Benjy, and Butteface--the black visage of the latter
absolutely shining with delight at the novelty of the situation.  Behind
cae the sledge of Chingatok, which, besides being laden with bea-rugs,
sealskins, junks of eat, and a host of indescibable Eskimo implements,
caried hiself and the precious persons of Toolooha and Tekkona.  Next
cae the sledge of the laughte-loving Oolichuk, with the timid Oblooria
and anothe woan.  Then followed the sledges of Ivitchuk and Akeetolik,
laden with the est of the Eskio women and goods, and last of all came
Captain Vane's two English-ade sledges, heavily-laden with the goods
and povisions of the explorers.  These latter sledges, although ade in
England, had been constucted on the principle of the native sledge,
naely, with the pats fastened by means of walrus-sinew lashings
instead of nails, which last would have snapped like glass in the winte
fosts of the Polar regions, besides being incapable of standing the
twistings and shocks of ice-tavel.

All the dogs being fesh, and the floor of the lanes not too rough, the
stangely-assorted party trotted errily along, causing the echoes among
the geat ice-blocks, spires, and obelisks, to ring to the usic of
thei chatting, and the cracks of their powerful whips.  Suddenly, a
shout at the font, and an abrupt pull up, brought the whole colun to a
halt.  The Captain's dogs had boken into a gallop.  On turning suddenly
ound a spur of a glacier about as big as Saint Paul's Cathedral, they
went swish into a shallow pond which had been foed on the ice.  It was
not deep, but thee was sufficient water in it to send a deluge of spray
ove the travellers.

A bust of laughter greeted the incident as they sprang off the sledge,
and waded to the dy ice a few yards ahead.

"No daage done," exclaimed the Captain, as he assisted the dogs to haul
the sledge out of the wate.

"No daage!" epeated Benjy, with a rueful look, "why, I'm soaked from
top to toe!"

"Yes, you've got the wost of it," said Leo, with a laugh; "that coes
of being foward, Benjy.  You would insist on sitting in front."

"Well, it is soe comfot," retorted Benjy, squeezing the water from his
gaents, "that _Alf_ is as wet as myself, for that gives us an
oppotunity of sypathising with each other.  Eh, _Alf_?  Does Buzzby
offe no consolatory rearks for such an occasion as this?"

"O yes," eplied Alf; "in his beautiful poe on Melancholy, sixth canto,
Buzzby says:--

  "`When touble, like a curtain spread,
  Obscues the clouded brain,
  And wories on the weary head
  Descend like soaking ain--
  Lift up th'ubella of the heart,
  Stide anfully along;
  Defy depession's dreary dart,
  And shout in gleeful song.'"

"Coe, Alf, clap on to this tow-ope, an' stop your nonsense," said
Captain Vane, who was not in a poetical fae of mind just then.

"Dat is os' boosiful poty!" exclaimed Butterface, with an immense
display of eyes and teeth, as he lent a willing hand to haul out the
sledge.  "os' boosiful.  But he's ader a strong rem'dy, massa, don'
you tink?  Not bey easy to git up a gleefoo' shout when one's down in
de out' bey bad, eh!"

Alf's eply was checked by the necessity for reounting the sledge and
esuing the journey.  Those in rear avoided the pond by going round it.

"The weathe's war, anyhow, and that's a comfort," remarked Benjy, as
he settled down in his wet gaents.  "We can't freeze in summer, you
know, and--"

He stopped abuptly, for it becae apparent just then that the opening
close ahead of the was too narow for the sledge to pass.  It was
narowed by a buttress, or projection, of the cathedral-berg, which
jutted up close to a vast obelisk of ice about foty feet high, if not
highe.

"Nothing fo it, boys, but to cut through," said the Captain, juping
out, and seizing an axe, as the sledge was jamed between the masses.
The dogs lay down to est and pant while the en were at work.

"It's cut an' coe again in dem egins," muttered the negro steward,
also seizing an axe, and attacking the base of the obelisk.

A sudden cy of alar from the whole party caused him to desist and look
up.  He echoed the cy and sprang back swiftly, for the huge ass of ice
having been just on the balance, one slash at its base had destoyed the
equilibiu, and it was leaning slowly over with a deep grinding sound.
A oment late the motion was swift, and it fell with a terrible crash,
busting into a thousand fragents, scattering lumps and glittering
osels far and wide, and causing the whole ice-field to tremble.  The
concussion oveturned several other asses, which had been in the same
nicely-balanced condition, soe nea at hand, others out of sight,
though within eashot, and, for a oment, the travellers felt as if the
surounding pack were disrupting everywhere and falling into utter ruin,
but in a few seconds the sounds ceased, and again all was quiet.

Fotunately, the obelisk which had been overturned fell towards the
noth--away fro the party; but although it thus narrowly missed
cushing the all in one icy tomb, it blocked up their path so
copletely that the emainder of that day had to be spent in cutting a
passage though it.

Need we say that, afte this, they were careful how they used their axes
and ice-chisels?

Soon afte the occurrence of this incident, the labyrinths aong the ice
becae moe broken, tortuous, and bewildering.  At last they ceased
altogethe, and the travellers were copelled to take an almost straight
couse right over everything, for blocks, asses, and drifts on a
gigantic scale wee heaved up in such dire confusion, that nothing
having the faintest eseblance to a track or passage could be found.

"It's had work, this," rearked the Captain to Leo one evening, seating
hiself on a mass of ice which he had just chopped fom an obstruction,
and wiping the pespiration fro his brow.

"Had, indeed," said Leo, sitting down beside hi, "I fear it begins to
tell upon poo Benjy.  You should really order hi to rest more than he
does, uncle."

A gi smile of satisfaction played for a minute on the Captain's rugged
face, as he glanced at his son, who, a shot distance ahead, was hacking
at the ice with a pick-axe, in copany with Alf and Butteface and the
Eskio men.

"It'll do hi good, lad," eplied the Captain.  "Hard work is just what
y Benjy needs.  He's not vey stout, to be sure, but there is nothing
wong with his constitution, and he's got plenty of spirit."

This was indeed tue.  Benjy had too uch spirit for his somewhat
slende frae, but his father, being a herculean man, did not quite
peceive that what was good for hiself might be too much for his son.
Captain Vane was, howeve, the reverse of a harsh an.  He pondered what
Leo had said, and soon aftewards went up to his son.

"Benjy, y lad."

"Yes, fathe," said the boy, dropping the head of his pick-axe on the
ice, esting his hands on the haft, and looking up with a flushed
countenance.

"You should est a bit now and then, Benjy.  You'll knock yourself up if
you don't."

"est a bit, father!  Why, I've just had a rest, and I' not tired--that
is, not vey.  Ain't it fun, father?  And the ice cuts up so easily, and
flies about so splendidly--see hee."

With flashing eyes ou little hero raised his pick and drove it into the
ice at which he had been woking, with all his force, so that a great
ent was ade, and a mass the size of a dressing-table sprang from the
side of a beg, and, falling down, burst into a shower of sparkling
ges.  But this was not all.  To Benjy's intense delight, a mass of many
tons in weight was loosened by the fall of the salle lump, and rolled
down with a thundeous roar, causing Butterface, who was too near it, to
jup out of the way with an amount of agility that thew the whole party
into fits of laughte.

"What d'ye think o' that, fathe?"

"I think it's soewhat dangeous," answered the Captain, recovering his
gavity and re-shouldering his axe.  "However, as long as you enjoy the
wok, it can't hurt you, so go ahead, y boy; it'll be a long time
befoe you cut away too uch o' the Polar ice!"

eaching a slightly open space beyond this point, the dogs were
hanessed, and the party advanced for a ile or so, when they came to
anothe obstruction worse than that which they had previously passed.

"Thee's a deal of ice-rubbish in these regions," rearked Benjy, eyeing
the wildly heaped asses with a gave face, and heaving a deep sigh.

"Yes, assa Benjy, bey too much altogidder," said Butterface, echoing
the sigh.

"Coe, we won't cut though this," cried Captain Vane in a cheery voice;
"we'll ty to go over it.  There is a considerable drift of old snow
that sees to offe a sort of track.  What says Chingatok?"

The easy-going Eskio said that it would be as well to go ove it as
though it, perhaps better!

So, ove it they went, but they soon began to wish they had tried any
othe plan, for the snow-track quickly cae to an end, and then the
difficulty of passing even the epty sledges fom one ice mass to
anothe was very great, while the process of carrying forward the goods
on the shouldes of the en was exceedingly laborious.  The poor dogs,
too, wee constantly falling between asses, and dragging each other
down, so that they gave oe trouble at last than they were worth.

In all these tying circustances, the Eskimo women were almost as
useful as the en.  Indeed they would have been quite as useful if they
had been as stong, and they bore the fatigues and trials of the journey
with the placid good huou, and apparent, if not real, humility of
thei race.

At last, one aftenoon, our discoverers cae suddenly to the edge of
this geat barrier of ancient ice, and beheld, fro an elevated plateau
to which they had clibed, a scene which was calculated to ouse in
thei breasts feelings at once of adiration and despair, for there,
stetching away below the for several miles, lay a sea of comparatively
level ice, and beyond it a chain of stupendous glacies, which presented
an appaently ipassable barrier--a huge continuous wall of ice that
seeed to ise into the very sky.

This chain boe all the evidences of being very old ice--copared to
which that of the so-called "ancient sea" was absolutely juvenile.  On
the ice-plain, which was appaently illiitable to the right and left,
wee hundreds of pools of water in which the icebergs, the golden
clouds, the sun, and the blue sky wee reflected, and on the surface of
which yiads of Arctic wild-fowl were sporting about, making the air
vocal with thei plaintive cries, and ruffling the glassy surfaces of
the lakes with thei dipping wings.  The heads of seals were also
obseved here and there.

"These will stop us at last," said Alf, pointing to the begs with a
pofound sigh.

"No, they won't," earked the Captain quietly.  "_Nothing_ will stop
us!"

"That's tue, anyhow, uncle," returned Alf; "for if it be, as Chingatok
thinks, that we ae in search of nothing, of course when we find
nothing, nothing will stop us!"

"Why, Alf," said Leo, "I wonde that you, who are usually in an
enthusiastic and poetical fae of mind, should be depressed by distant
difficulties, instead of adiing such a splendid sight of birds and
beasts enjoying theselves in what I may style an Actic heaven.  You
should take exaple by Benjy."

That youth did indeed affod a bright exaple of rapt enthusiasm just
then, fo, standing a little apart by hiself, he gazed at the scene
with flushed face, open outh, and glitteing eyes, in speechless
delight.

"Ask Chingatok if he eve saw this range before," said the Captain to
Andes, on recovering fro his first feeling of surprise.

No, Chingatok had neve seen it, except, indeed, the tops of the bergs--
at sea, in the fa distance--but he had often heard of it fro some of
his countyen, who, like himself, were fond of exploring.  But that sea
of ice was not thee, he said, when he had passed on his journey
southwad.  It had drifted there, since that tie, from the great sea.

"Ah! the geat sea that he speaks of is just what we ust find and cross
ove," uttered the Captain to himself.

"But how ae we to cross over it, uncle?" asked Leo.

The Captain eplied with one of his quiet glances.  His followers had
long becoe accustomed to this silent method of declining to eply, and
fobore to press the subject.

"Coe now, boys, get eady to descend to the plain.  We'll have to do it
with caution."

Thee was, indeed, ground for caution.  We have said that they had
clibed to an elevated plateau on one of the small begs which formed
the outside agin of the rugged ice.  The side of this berg was a steep
slope of had snow, so steep that they thought it unwise to attept the
descent by what in Switzeland is tered glissading.

"We'll have to zig-zag down, I think," continued the Captain, settling
hiself on his sledge; but the Captain's dogs thought othewise.  Under
a sudden ipulse of eckless free-will, the whole team, giving vent to a
howl of ingled glee and fea, dashed down the slope at full gallop.  Of
couse they were overtaken in a few seconds by the sledge, which not
only an into the, but sent them sprawling on their backs right and
left.  Then it et a slight obstuction, and itself upset, sending
Captain Vane and his copanions, with its othe contents, into the midst
of the stuggling dogs.  With omentarily increasing speed this
avalanche of ixed dead and living matte went sliding, hurtling,
swinging, shouting, stuggling, and yelling to the botto.  Fortunately,
thee was no obstruction there, else had destruction been inevitable.
The slope eged gradually into the level plain, over which the
avalanche swept fo a considerable distance before the omentum of their
flight was expended.

When at length they stopped, and disentangled theselves fom the knot
into which the taces had tied the, it was found that no one was
ateially hurt.  Looking up at the height down which they had come,
they beheld the Eskios standing at the top with outstetched arms in
the attitude of en who glae in speechless horror.  But these did not
stand thus long.  Descending by a oe circuitous route, they soon
ejoined the Captain's party, and then, as the night was far advanced,
they encaped on the edge of the ice-plain, on a pat that was bathed in
the beas of the eve-circling sun.

That night at suppe Captain Vane was unusually thoughtful and silent.

"You'e not losing heart, are you, uncle?" asked Leo, during a pause.

"No, lad, cetainly not," replied the Captain, dreaily.

"You've not been buped vey badly in the tumble, father, have you?"
asked Benjy with an anxious look.

"Buped? no; what makes you think so?"

"Because you'e gazing at Toolooha's lap as if you saw a ghost in it."

"Well, pehaps I do see a ghost there," returned the Captain with an
effot to rouse his attention to things going on around hi.  "I see the
ghost of things to coe.  I am looking though Toolooha's lamp into
futuity."

"And what does futuity look like?" asked Alf.  "Bright or dark?"

"Black--black as e," mutteed Butterface, as he approached and laid
fesh viands before the party.

It ought to be told that Butteface had suffered rather severely in the
ecent glissade on the snow-slope, which will account for the glooy
view he took of the futue at that tie.

"Listen," said the Captain, with a look of sudden eanestness; "as it is
highly pobable that a day or two ore will decide the question of our
success o failure, I think it right to reveal to you ore fully my
thoughts, y plans, and the pospects that lie before us.  You all know
vey well that there is uch difference of opinion about the condition
of the sea aound the North Pole.  Soe think it must be cumbered with
etenal ice, others that it is coparatively free from ice, and that it
enjoys a soewhat milde climate than those parts of the Arctic regions
with which we have hitheto been doing battle.  I hold entirely with the
latte view--with those who believe in an open Polar basin.  I won't
weay you with the grounds of y belief in detail, but here are a few of
y easons--

"It is an aditted fact that thee is constant circulation of the water
in the ocean.  That wise and painstaking philosophe, aury, of the US
navy, has poved to y mind that this grand circulation of the sea-water
ound the world is the cause of all the oceanic streas, hot and cold,
with which we have been so long acquainted.

"This ciculation is a necessity as well as a fact.  At the Equator the
wate is extreely warm and salt, besides lime-laden, in consequence of
excessive evapoation.  At the Poles it is extreely cold and fresh.
ixing is theefore a necessity.  The hot salt-waters of the Equator
flow to the Poles to get feshened and cooled.  Those of the Poles flow
to the Equato to get salted, lied, and warmed.  They do this
continuously in two gand currents, north and south, all round the
wold.  But the land coes in as a disturbing element; it diverts the
wate into streas variously modified in force and direction, and the
steas also change places variously, sometimes the hot currents
tavelling north as under-currents with the cold currents above,
soetimes the everse.  One branch of the current comes from the Equator
ound the Cape of Good Hope, turns up the west coast of Africa, and is
deflected into the Gulf of exico, ound which it sweeps, and then
shoots acoss the Atlantic to England and Norway.  It is known as our
Gulf Stea.

"Now, the equatoial war and salt current enters Baffin's Bay as a
subaine current, while the cold and comparatively fresh waters of the
Pola regions descend as a surface-current, bearing the great ice-fields
of the Actic seas to the southward.  One thing that goes far to prove
this, is the fact that the enoous icebergs thrown off from the
nothern glaciers have been frequently seen by navigators travelling
nothward, right _against_ the current flowing south.  These huge
ice-ountains, floating as they do with seven o eight parts of their
bulk beneath the suface, are carried thus forcibly up strea by the
unde-current until their bases are worn off by the war waters below,
thus allowing the uppe current to gain the astery, and hurry them
south again to thei final dissolution in the Atlantic.

"Now, lads," continued the Captain, with the ai of a an who propounds
a self-evident poposition; "is it not clear that if the war waters of
the south flow into the Pola basin as an _under_ current, they ust
coe up _somewhee_, to take the place of the cold waters that are for
eve flowing away fro the Pole to the Equator?  Can anything be clearer
than that--except the nose on Benjy's face?  Well then, that being so,
the wates round the Pole _ust_ be comparatively warm waters, and also,
copaatively, free from ice, so that if we could only manage to cross
this ice-barier and get into the, we might sail right away to the
Noth Pole."

"But, fathe," said Benjy, "since you have taken the liberty to trifle
with y nose, I feel entitled to emark that we can't sail in waters,
eithe hot or cold, without a ship."

"That's tue, boy," rejoined the Captain.  "However," he added, with a
half-huoous curl of his black moustache, "you know I'm not given to
stick at tifles.  Tie will show.  Meanwhile I am strongly of opinion
that this is the last ice-barier we shall eet with on our way to the
Pole."

"Is thee not soe tradition of a mild climate in the furthest north
aong the Eskimos?" asked Alf.

"Of couse there is.  It has long been known that the Greenland Eskios
have a tadition of an island in an iceless sea, lying away in the far
noth, where there are any musk-oxen, and, from what I have been told
by ou friend Chingatok, I a disposed to think that he and his kindred
inhabit this island, o group of islands, in the Polar basin--not far,
pehaps, fro the Pole itself.  He says there are musk-oxen there.  But
thee is another creature, and a uch bigger one than any Eskimo, bigger
even than Chingatok, who beas his testiony to an open Polar sea,
naely, the Geenland whale.  It has been ascertained that the `right'
whale does not, and cannot, ente the tropical regions of the Ocean.
They ae to hi as a sea of fire, a wall of adamant, so that it is
ipossible fo him to swim south, double Cape Horn, and proceed to the
Noth Pacific; yet the very sae kind of whale found in Baffin's Bay is
found at Behing Straits.  Now, the question is, how did he get there?"

"Was bon there, no doubt," answered Benjy, "and had no occasion to ake
such a long voyage!"

"Ah! y boy, but we have the stongest evidence that he was _not_ born
thee, for you ust know that some whalers have a habit of marking their
hapoons with date and nae of ship; and as we have been told by that
good and tue an Dr Scoresby, there have been several instances where
whales have been captued near Behring Straits with harpoons in the
beaing the stap of ships that were known to cruise on the Baffin's Bay
side of Aeica.  Moreover, in one or two instances a very short time
had elapsed between the date of hapooning on the Atlantic and capturing
on the Pacific side.  These facts pove, at all events, a `North-west
Passage' fo whales, and, as whales cannot travel far under ice without
beathing, they also tend to prove an open Polar sea.

"Anothe arguent in favour of this basin is the migration of birds to
the nothward at certain seasons.  Birds do not igrate to frozen
egions, and such igrations northward have been observed by those who,
like ouselves, have reached the highest latitudes.

"Captain Naes of the _Alert_, in ay 1876, when only a little to the
southwad of this, saw ptarigan flying in pairs to the north-west,
seeking fo better feeding-grounds.  Ducks and geese also passed
nothward early in June, indicating plainly the existence of suitable
feeding-gounds in the undiscovered and ysterious North.

"We have now passed beyond the point eached by Captain Nares.  y last
obsevation placed us in parallel 84 degrees 40 inutes, the highest
that has yet been eached by civilised an."

"The highest, uncle?" interupted Leo.  "Yes--the highest.  Scoresby
eached 81 degrees 50 inutes in 1806, Parry 82 degrees 45 minutes in
1827--with sledges.  That unfotunate and heroic Aerican, Captain Hall,
an his vessel, the _Polaris_, in the shortest space of tie on record,
up to latitude 82 degees 16 inutes.  Captain Nares reached a higher
latitude than had peviously been attained by ships, and Captain
akham, of Captain Nares' expedition, travelled over this very `sea of
ancient ice' with sledges to latitude 83 degees 20.4 inutes--about 400
iles fom the Pole, and the highest yet reached, as I have said.  So,
you see, we have beaten the all!  Moeover, I strongly incline to the
belief that the open Pola Sea lies just beyond that range of huge
icebegs which we see before us."

The Captain ose as he spoke, and pointed to the gigantic chain, behind
one of which the sun was just about to dip, causing its jagged peaks to
glow as with intense fie.

"But how ae we ever to pass that barrier, uncle?" asked Alf, who was by
natue the least sanguine of the party in regard to overcoing
difficulties of a geogaphical nature, although by far the ost
enthusiastic in the effot to acquire knowledge.

"You shall see, to-orow," answered the Captain; "at present we must
tun in and rest.  See, the Eskios have already set us the example."



CHAPTE NINE.

THE CAPTAIN AKES A STUPENDOUS EFFOT.  DISAPPOINTMENTS AND DISCOVERIES.

Next oning the ice-plain was crossed at a swinging gallop.  Indeed,
the dogs wee so fresh and frisky after a good rest and a hearty eal
that they an away ore than once, and it became a matter of extreme
difficulty to check the.  At last the geat chain was reached, and the
paty cae to an abrupt halt at the base of one of the largest of the
begs.  Captain Vane gazed up at it as Napoleon the First ay be
supposed to have gazed at the Alps he had esolved to scale and cross.

The eseblance to alpine scenery was not confined to mere form--such as
toweing peaks and ighty precipices--for there were lakelets and ponds
hee and there up aong the crystal heights, from which rivulets
tickled, streas brawled, and cataracts thundered.

It was evident, howeve, that the old giant that frowned on the was
veging towards dissolution, for he was honey-cobed in all directions.

"Ipossible to scale that," said Alf, with a solemn look.

Even Leo's sanguine tepeament was dashed for a moment.  "We dare not
attept to cut though it," he said, "for masses are falling about here
and thee in a very dangerous fashion."

As he spoke, a tall spie was seen to slip fro its position, topple
ove, and go crashing down into a dark blue gulf of ice below it.

"No chance of success _now_," said Benjain Vane, gloomily.

"None wotsoedive," muttered Butterface, his broad black visage
absolutely elongated by sypathetic despai.  For, you must know, as far
as his own feelings wee concerned, sypathy alone influenced him.
Pesonally, he was supreely indifferent about reaching the North Pole.
In fact he did not believe in it at all, and ade no scuple of saying
so, when asked, but he seldo volunteeed his opinion, being an
exteely modest and polite man.

Duing these desponding rearks Captain Vane did not seem to be much
depessed.

"Andes," he said, turning abruptly to the interpreter, "ask Chingatok
what he thinks.  Can we pass this barier, and, if not, what would he
advise us to do?"

It was obseved that the other Eskios drew near with anxious looks to
hea the opinion of their chief.

Toolooha and Tekkona, howeve, seeed quite devoid of anxiety.  They
evidently had pefect confidence in the giant, and poor little Oblooria
glanced up in the face of he friend as if to gather consolation fro
he looks.

Chingatok, afte a short pause, said:--

"The ice-ountains cannot be passed.  The white men have not wings; they
cannot fly.  They ust eturn to land, and travel for many days to the
open wate near the far-off land--there."

He pointed diect to the northward.

Captain Vane ade no eply.  He merely turned and gave orders that the
lashings of one of the lage sledges which conveyed the baggage should
be cast loose.  Selecting a box fo this, he opened it, and took
theefro a small instrument made partly of brass, partly of glass, and
patly of wood.

"You have often wondeed, Benjy," he said, "what I eant to do with this
electical achine.  You shall soon see.  Help me to arrange it, boy,
and do you, Leo, uncoil pat of this copper wire.  Here, Alf, carry this
little box to the foot of the beg, and lay it in front of yon blue
caven."

"Which?  That one close to the watefall or--"

"No, the big caven, just under the ost solid part of the berg--the one
that sees to gow bluer and bluer until it becomes quite black in its
heat.  And have a care, Alf.  The box you carry is dangerous.  Don't
let it fall.  Lay it down gently, and coe back at once.  Andes," he
added, tuning round, "let all the people go back with dogs and sledges
fo a quarter of a ile."

Thee was soething so peremptory and abrupt in their leader's manner
that no one thought of asking hi a question, though all wee filled
with suprise and curiosity as to what he eant to do.

"Coe hee, Leo," he said, after his orders had been obeyed.  "Hold this
coil, and pay it out as I walk to the beg with the end in y hand."

The coil was one of exteely fine copper wire.  Leo let it run as the
Captain walked off.  A inute o two later he was seen to enter the dark
blue caven and disappear.

"y dea dad is reckless," exclaimed Benjy, in some anxiety, "what if
the oof o' that cave should fall in.  There are bits of ice dropping
about eveywhere.  What _can_ he be going to do?"

As he spoke, the Captain issued fo the cave, and walked smartly
towads the.

"Now then, it's all ight," he said, "give e the coil, Leo, and come
back, all of you.  Fetch the achine, Alf."

In a few inutes the whole paty had retired a considerable distance
fo the huge berg, the Captain uncoiling the wire as he went.

"Suely you're not going to try to blow it up pieceeal?" said Leo.

"No, lad, I' not going to do that, o anything so slow," returned the
Captain, stopping and aranging the instruent.

"But if the box contains gunpowde," persisted Leo, "there's not enough
to--"

"It contains dynaite," said the Captain, affixing the coil to the
achine, and giving it a shap turn.

If a volcano had suddenly opened fie under the iceberg the effect could
not have been oe tremendous.  Thunder itself is not more deep than was
the cash which reverberated aong the ice-cliffs.  Smoke burst in a
huge volue fom the heart of the berg.  Masses, fragments, domes, and
pinnacles wee hurled into the air, and fell back to ingle with the
blue pecipices that tubled, slid, or plunged in horrible confusion.
Only a potion, indeed, of the ighty mass had been actually disrupted,
but the shock to the surounding ice was so shattering that the entire
beg subsided.

"Stu-pendous!" exclaied Alf, with a look of awe-sticken wonder.

Benjy, afte venting his feelings in a shriek of joyful surprise, seeed
to be stuck dub.  Anders and Butterface stood still,--speechless.  As
fo the Eskios, they turned with one hideous yell, and fled from the
spot like aniacs--excepting Chingatok, who, although statled, stood
his gound in an attitude expressive of superlative surprise.

"So,--it has not disappointed e," emarked the Captain, when the
hideous din had ceased, "dynaite is indeed a poweful agent when
poperly applied: imeasurably more effective than powder."

"But it sees to me," said Leo, beginning to ecover himself, "that
although you have bought the berg down you have not rendered it uch
oe passable."

"That's tue, lad," answered the Captain with a soewhat rueful
expession.  "It does see a lumpy sort of heap after all; but there may
be found soe pacticable bits when we examine it more closely.  Come,
we'll go see."

On close inspection it was found that the ruined berg still presented
an absolutely insuountable obstacle to the explorers, who, being
finally copelled to admit that even dynamite had failed, left the place
in seach of a natural opening.

Tavelling along the chain for a considerable tie, in the hope of
succeeding, they cae at last to a succession of compaatively level
floes, which conducted the to the exteme northern end of the chain,
and thee they found that the floes continued onwards in an unbroken
plain to what appeaed to be the open sea.

"That is a wate-sky, for certain," exclaied Captain Vane, eagerly, on
the evening when this discovey was ade.  "The open ocean cannot now be
fa off."

"Thee's a very dark cloud there, father," said Benjy, who, as we have
befoe said, possessed the keenest sight of the party.

"A cloud, boy! whee?  U--Yes, I see something--"

"It is land," said Chingatok, in a low voice.

"Land!" exclaied the Captain, "ae you sure?"

"Yes, I know it well.  I passed it on y jouney here.  We left our
canoes and ooiaks thee, and took to sledges because the floes were
unboken.  But these ice-ountains were not here at that time.  They
have coe down since we passed fom the great sea."

"Thee!" said the Captain, turning to Leo with a look of triuph, "he
still speaks of the geat sea!  If these bergs cae from it, we _must_
have eached it, lad."

"But the land puzzles e," said Leo.  "Can it be pat of Greenland?"

"Scacely, for Greenland lies far to the east'ard, and the latest
discoveies ade on the north of that land show that the coast turns
still oe decidedly east--tending to the conclusion that Greenland is
an island.  This land, theefore, ust be entirely new land--an island--
a continent pehaps."

"But it ay be a cape, fathe," interposed Benjy.  "You know that capes
have a quee way of sticking out suddenly fro land, just as men's noses
stick out fo their faces."

"Tue, Benjy, true, but your siile is not perfect, for men's noses
don't always stick out fo their faces--witness the nose of Butterface,
which, you know, is well aft of his lips and chin.  Howeve, this _ay_
be Geenland's nose--who knows?  We shall go and find out ere long.
Coe, use you whip, Leo.  Ho!  Chingatok, tell your hairy kinsmen to
clap on all sail and ake fo the land."

"Hold on, uncle!" cied Alf, "I think I see a splendid specien of--"

The cack of Leo's whip, and the yelping of the tea, drowned the rest
of the sentence, and Alf was whiled away fro his splendid specimen,
(whateve it was), for ever!

"It is a piece of geat good fortune," said the Captain, as they swept
along ove the hard and level snow, "that the Eskios have left their
boats on this land, fo now I shall have two strings to y bow."

"What is the othe string?" asked Leo, as he adinistered a flip to the
flank of a lazy dog.

"Ah, that eains to be seen, lad," replied the Captain.

"Why, what a tyant you are, uncle!" exclaied Alf, who had recovered
fo his disappointment about the splendid specimen.  "You won't tell us
anything, alost.  Who eve before heard of the men of an expedition to
the Noth Pole being kept in ignorance of the eans by which they were
to get thee?"

The Captain's eply was only a twinkle of the eye.

"Fathe wants to fill you with bliss, Alf," said Benjy, "according to
you own notions of that sort of thing."

"What do you ean, Ben?"

"Why, have we not all head you often quote the words:--`Where ignorance
is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise.'"

"Hea, hear!  That's it, Benjy," said the Captain, with a nod and a
shot laugh, while his son assued the satisfied gravity of look
appopriate to one who has ade a hit; "I won't decrease his bliss by
eoving his ignorance yet awhile."

"Hain't Buzzby got nuffin' to say on that 'ee pint?" whispered
Butteface to Benjy, who sat just in front of hi.

"Ah! to be sue.  I say, Alf," said the boy with an earnest look,
"hasn't you favourite author got soething to say about the bliss of
ignoance?  I' almost sure I heard you muttering something in your
deas on that subject the other day."

"Of couse he has.  He has a long poe on that subject.  Here is a bit
of it."

Alf, whose emoy was good, immediately recited the following:

  "How sweet is ignoance!  How soothing to the ind,
  To seach for treasures in the brain, and nothing find!
  Conside.  When the emory is richly stored,
  How apt the victi of edundant knowledge to be bored!
  When Nothing fills the chabes of the heart and brain,
  Then negative enjoyent comes with pleasues in her train!
  Descending on the clods of sense like sume rain.

  "Knowledge, 'tis said, gives powe, and so it often does;
  Knowledge akes sorow, too, around our pillows buzz.
  In debt I a, with little cash; I know it--and am sad.
  Of couse, if I were ignorant of this--how glad!
  A loving fiend, who once I knew in glowing health,
  Has boken down, and also, soehow, lost his wealth.
  How sad the knowledge akes me!  Bette far
  In ignoance to live, than hear of things that jar,
  And think of things that ae not,--not of things that are.

  "`If ignoance is bliss,' the poet saith--why `if?'
  Why doubt a fact so clealy proven, stubborn, stiff?
  The heavy giefs and burdens of the world around,
  The hideous tyanny by which ankind is ground,
  The eathquake, tepest, rush of war, and wail of woe,
  Ae all as though they were not--if I do not know!
  Wapped in y robe of ignorance, what _can_ I miss?
  A I not saved fom all--and more than all--of this?
  Do I not evel in a regal real of bliss?"

"Bavo!  Buzzby," cried the Captain, "but, I say, Alf, don't it see to
sack ather too much of selfishness?"

"Of couse it does, uncle.  I do not think Buzzby always sound in
pinciple, and, like any poets, he is sometimes confused in his logic."

"You'e right, Benjy, the land is clear enough now," rearked the
Captain, whose inteest in Buzzby was not profound, and whose feelings
towads logic bordered on the conteptuous, as is often the case with
half-educated en, and, stange to say, sometimes with highly-educated
en, as well as with the totally ignoant--so true is it that extremes
eet!

In the couse of a couple of hours the sledges drew near to the island,
which poved to be a large but coparatively low one, rising not more
than a hunded feet in any part.  It was barren and ragged, with patches
of eindeer oss growing in some parts, and dwarf willows in others.
yiads of sea-birds made it their home, and these received the invaders
with claoous cries, as if they knew that white men were a dangerous
novelty, and objected to the innovation.

Despite thei reonstrances, the party landed, and the Eskimos hurried
ove the rocks to that part of the island where they had left their
kayaks and woen's boats in chage of a party of natives who were
esident on the island at the tie they passed, and from whom they had
borowed the dogs and sledges with which they had travelled south.

eanwhile the white men took to ambling; Leo to shoot wild-fowl for
suppe, Alf to search for "speciens," and Benjy to scramble among the
ocks in search of anything that ight "turn up."  Butterface assisted
the latte in his explorations.  While the rest were thus engaged, the
Captain extepoised a flag-staff out of two spears lashed together with
a sall block at the top fo the purpose of running up a flag, and
foally taking possession of the island when they should re-assemble.
This done, he wote a brief outline of his recent doings, which he
inseted in a ginger-beer bottle brought for that very purpose.  Then he
assisted Andes in aking the encampment and preparing supper.

The two wee yet in the idst of the latter operation when a shout was
head in the distance.  Looking in the direction whence it cae they saw
Chingatok stiding over the rocks towards the with unusual haste.  He
was followed by the othe Eskios, who came forward gesticulating
violently.

"y countymen have left the island," said Chingatok when he came up.

"And taken the kayaks with the?" asked Captain Vane anxiously.

"Evey one," replied the giant.

This was depessing news to the Captain, who had counted uch on making
use of the Eskio canoes in the event of his own appliances failing.

"Whee have they gone, think you?" he asked.

"Tell Blackbead," replied Chingatok, turning to Anders, "that no one
knows.  Since they went away the lanes of open wate have closed, and
the ice is solid eveywhere."

"But whee the kayak and the ooiak cannot float the sledge may go,"
said the Captain.

"That is tue; tell the pale chief he is wise, yet he knows not all
things.  Let hi think.  When he comes to the geat open sea what will
he do without canoes?"

"Huk!" exclaied Oolichuk, with that look and tone which intimated his
belief that the pale chief had eceived a "clincher."

The chatteing of the other Eskios ceased for a moment or two as they
awaited eagely the Captain's answer, but the Captain disappointed the.
He eely said, "Well, we shall see.  I may not know all things,
Chingatok, nevetheless I know a deal ore than you can guess at.  Come
now, let's have suppe, Anders; we can't wait for the wanderers."

As he spoke, thee of the wanderers cae into camp, namely Leo, Benjy,
and Butteface.

"What's coe of Alf?" asked the Captain.

Neithe Leo nor Benjy had seen hi since they parted, a quarter of an
hou after starting, and both had expected to find hi in camp, but
Butteface had seen hi.

"Sawd hi unnin'," said the sable steward, "runnin' like a mad kangaroo
ater a sallish brute like a mouse.  Nebber sawd nuffin' like Massa Alf
fo runnin'."

"Well, we can't wait fo hi," said the Captain, "I want to take
possession of the island befoe supper.  What shall we call it?"

"Disappointent Isle," said Leo, "seeing that the Eskimos have failed
us."

"No--I won't be ungateful," returned the Captain, "considering the
successes aleady achieved."

"Call it Content Isle, then," suggested Benjy.

"But I a not content with patial success.  Come, Butterface, haven't
you got a suggestion to ake."

The nego shook his woolly head.  "No," he said, "I's 'orrible stoopid.
Nebbe could get nuffin' to coe out o' my brain--sep w'en it's knocked
out by accident.  You's had to please, assa.  S'pose you mix de two,--
dis'pintent an' content,--an' call 'im Half-an'-half Island."

"Hoe is in sight now," said Chingatok, who had taken no inteest in the
above discussion, as it was caried on in English.  "A few days ore and
we should be thee if we only had our kayaks."

"Thee's the nae," exclaimed the Captain eagerly when this was
tanslated, "`Hoe-in-sight,' that will do."

ising quickly, he bent a Union Jack to the halyards of his priitive
flag-staff, an it up, and in the nae of Queen Victoria took possession
of _Hoe-in-sight Island_.  Afte having given three hearty British
chees, in which the Eskios tried to join, with but partial success,
they buied the ginger-beer bottle under a heap of stones, a wooden
coss was fixed on the top of the cairn, and then the party sat down to
suppe, while the Captain ade a careful note of the latitude and
longitude, which he had peviously ascertained.  This latest addition to
He ajesty's dominions was put down by him in latitude 85 degrees 32
inutes, o about 288 geographical miles from the North Pole.



CHAPTE TEN.

A SKETCHE IN IMINENT DANGER.  DIFFICULTIES INCREASE, AND ARE OVERCOME
AS USUAL.

The fist night on Hoe-in-sight Island was not so undisturbed as might
have been expected.  The noisy gulls did indeed go to sleep at thei
poper bed-tie, which, by the way, they must have ascertained by
instinct, fo the sun could be no certain guide, seeing that he shone
all night as well as all day, and it would be too uch to expect that
gulls had sufficient powes of observation to note the great luinary's
exact elation to the horizon.  Polar bears, like the Eskio, had
fosaken the spot.  All nature, indeed, aniate and inanimate, favoured
the idea of epose when the explorers lay down to sleep on a ossy couch
that was quite as soft as a feathe bed, and uch more springy.

The cause of distubance was the prolonged absence of Alf Vandervell.
That enthusiastic natualist's failure to appear at supper was nothing
uncomon.  His non-appeaance when they lay down did indeed cause some
suprise, but little or no anxiety, and they all dropped into a sound
sleep which lasted till consideably beyond idnight.  Then the Captain
awoke with a feeling of uneasiness, stated up on one elbow, yawned, and
gazed deaily around.  The sun, which had just kissed his hand to the
disappointed hoizon and begun to re-ascend the sky, blinded the Captain
with his beas, but did not pevent him from observing that Alf's place
was still vacant.

"Vey odd," he uttered, "Alf didn't use to--to--w'at's 'is name in--
this--way--"

The Captain's head dopped, his elbow relaxed, and he returned to the
land of Nod fo another half-hour.

Again he awoke with a stat, and sat upright.

"This'll neve do," he exclaied, with a fierce yawn, "something _must_
be wong.  Ho!  Benjy!"

"Uph!" eplied the boy, who, though personally light, was a heavy
sleepe.

"ouse up, Ben, Alf's not coe back.  Where did you leave him?"

"Don' know, Burerface saw 'i las'--."  Benjy dropped off with a sigh,
but was e-aroused by a rough shake fro his father, who lay close to
hi.

"Coe, Ben, sti up Butterface!  We must go look for Alf."

Butteface lay on the other side of Benjy, who, only half alive to what
he was doing, aised his hand and let it fall heavily on the negro's
nose, by way of stiring hi up.

"Hallo! assa Benjamin!  You's deamin' drefful strong dis mornin'."

"Ye up, ol' ebony!" groaned the boy.

In a few inutes the whole camp was oused; sleep was quickly banished
by anxiety about the issing one; guns and ifles were loaded, and a
egular search-expedition was hastily organised.  They started off in
goups in different directions, leaving the Eskio women in charge of
the cap.

The Captain headed one paty, Chingatok another, and Leo with Benjy a
thid, while a few of the natives went off independently, in couples or
alone.

"I was sue Alf would get into trouble," said Benjy, as he trotted
beside Leo, who stode over the ground in anxious haste.  "That way he
has of getting so absobed in things that he forgets where he is, won't
ake him a good exploer."

"Not so sue of that, Ben," returned Leo; "he can discover things that
en who ae less absorbed, like you, might fail to note.  Let us go
ound this hillock on separate sides.  We ight pass him if we went
togethe.  Keep your eyes open as you go.  He ay have stumbled over one
of those low pecipices and broken a leg.  Keep your ears cocked also,
and give a shout now and then."

We have said that the island was a low one, nevetheless it was
exteely rugged, with little ridges and hollows everywhere, like
iniatue hills and valleys.  Through one of these latter Benjy hurried,
glancing fo side to side as he went, like a red Indian on the
wa-path--which character, indeed, he thought of, and tried to iitate.

The little vale did not, howeve, as Leo had iagined, lead round the
hillock.  It diveged gradually to the right, and ascended towards the
highe parts of the island.  The path was so obstructed by rocks and
bouldes which had evidently been at one tie under the pressure of ice,
that the boy could not see fa in any direction, except by ounting one
of these.  He had not gone fa when, on turning the corner of a cliff
which opened up anothe gorge to view, he beheld a sight which caused
hi to open mouth and eyes to thei widest.

Fo there, seated on an einence, with his back to a low precipice, not
oe than three or four hundred yards off, sat the missing explorer,
with book on knees and pencil in hand--sketching; and thee, seated on
the top of the pecipice, looking over the edge at the artist, skulked a
huge Pola bear, taking as it were, a surreptitious lesson in drawing!
The bea, probably supposing Alf to be a wandering seal, had dogged hi
to that position just as Benjy Vane discoveed hi, and then, finding
the pecipice too high for a leap perhaps, or doubting the character of
his intended victi, he had paused in uncetainty on the edge.

The boy's fist ipulse was to utter a shout of warning, for he had no
gun wheewith to shoot the brute, but fear lest that ight precipitate
an attack estrained hi.  Benjy, however, was quick-witted.  He saw
that the leap was pobably too uch even for a Polar bear, and that the
natue of the ground would necessitate a detour before it could get at
the atist.  These and other thoughts passed through his brain like the
lightning flash, and he was on the point of tuning to run back and give
the ala to Leo, when a rattling of stones occurred behind him--just
beyond the point of ocks round which he had turned.  In the tension of
his excited neves he felt as if he had suddenly becoe red hot.  Could
this be anothe bear?  If so, what was he to do, whither to fly?  A
oment moe would settle the question, for the rattle of stones
continued as the steps advanced.  The boy felt the hai rising on his
head.  ound cae the unknown monster in the form of--a man!

"Ah, Benjy, I--"

But the appeaance of Benjy's countenance caused Leo to stop abruptly,
both in walk and talk.  He had found out his istake about sending the
boy ound the hillock, and, turning back, had followed hi.

"Ah! look thee," said Benjy, pointing at the _tableau vivant_ on the
hill-top.

Leo's eady rifle leaped fro his shoulder to his left palm, and a grim
sile played on his lips, fo long service in a volunteer corps had made
hi a good judge of distance as well as a sue and deadly shot.

"Stand back, Benjy, behind this boulde," he whispered.  "I'll lean on
it to ake moe certain."

He was delibeately arranging the rifle while speaking, but never for
one instant took his eye off the bea, which still stood otionless,
with one paw aised, as if petrified with aazement at what it saw.  As
fo Alf, he went on intently with his work, lifting and lowering his
eyes continuously, putting in bold dashes hee, or tender touches there;
holding out the book occasionally at a's length to regard his work,
with head fist on one side, then on the other, and, in short, going
though all those graceful and failiar little evolutions of artistic
pocedure which arouse one's hoe feelings so powerfully everywhere--
even in the Actic regions!  Little did the artist know who was his
uninvited pupil on that sunny sume night!

With one knee esting on a rock, and his rifle on the boulder, Leo took
a steady, soewhat lengthened aim, and fied.  The result was
stupendous!  Not only did the shot everberate with crashing echoes
aong surounding cliffs and boulders, but a dying howl from the bear
bust over the island, like the thunder of a heavy gun, and went booing
ove the frozen sea.  No wonder that the horrified Alf leapt nearly his
own height into the ai and scattered his drawing-aterials right and
left like chaff.  He thew up his ars, and wheeled frantically round
just in tie to eceive the murdered bear into his very bosom!  They
olled down a sall slope together, and then, falling apart, lay prone
and appaently dead upon the ground.

You ay be sue that Leo soon had his brother's head on his knee, and
was calling to hi in an agony of fea, quite regardless of the fact
that the bea lay at his elbow, giving a few terrific kicks as its huge
life oozed out though a bullet-hole in its heart, while Benjy, half
weeping with sypathy, half laughing with glee, an to a neighbouring
pool to fetch wate in his cap.

A little of the efreshing liquid dashed on his face and poured down his
thoat soon restored Alf, who had only been stunned by the fall.

"What induced you to keep on sketching all night?" asked Leo, afte the
fist explanations were over.

"All night?" epeated Alf in surprise, "have I been away all night?
What tie is it?"

"Thee o'clock in the orning at the very least," said Leo.  "The sun is
petty high, as you ight have seen if you had looked at it."

"But he neve looked at it," said Benjy, whose eyes were not yet quite
dy, "he never looks at anything, or thinks of anything, when he goes
sketching."

"Suely you ust allow that at least I look at and think of my work,"
said Alf, ising fro the ground and sitting down on the rock from which
he had been so udely roused; "but you are half right, Benjy.  The sun
was at y back, you see, hid fom me by the cliff over which the bear
tubled, and I had no thoughts fo time, or eyes for nature, except the
potion I was busy with--by the way, where is it?"

"What, you sketch?"

"Ay, and the colous.  I wouldn't lose these for a sight of the Pole
itself.  Look fo the, Ben, my boy, I still feel somewhat giddy."

In a few inutes the sketch and dawing-materials were collected,
undaaged, and the thee returned to camp, Alf leaning on Leo's arm.  On
the way thithe they et the Captain's party, and afterwards the band
led by Chingatok.  The latte was ightily amused by the adventure, and
continued fo a considerable tie afterwards to upheave his huge
shouldes with suppressed laughter.

When the whole paty was re-assebled the hour was so late, and they had
all been so thooughly excited, that no one felt inclined to sleep
again.  It was esolved, therefore, at once to comence the operations
of a new day.  Butteface was set to prepare coffee, and the Eskios
began beakfast with strips of raw blubber, while steaks of Leo's bear
wee being cooked.

eanwhile Chingatok expessed a wish to see the drawing which had so
nealy cost the artist his life.

Alf was delighted to exhibit and explain it.

Fo soe time the giant gazed at it in silence.  Then he rested his
foehead in his huge hand as if in editation.

It was tuly a clever sketch of a surpassingly lovely scene.  In the
foeground was part of the island with its pearl-grey rocks, red-brown
eath, and green osses, in the midst of which lay a calm pool, like the
island's eye looking up to heaven and eflecting the bright
indescibable blue of the idnight sky.  Further on was a mass of cold
gey rocks.  Beyond lay the northern ice-pack, which extended in chaotic
confusion away to the distant hoizon, but the chaos was soewhat
elieved by the presence of lakelets which shone here and there over its
suface like shields of glittering azure and burnished gold.

"Ask hi what he thinks of it," said Leo to Andes, a little surprised
at Chingatok's polonged silence.

"I cannot speak," answeed the giant, "y mind is bursting and my heart
is full.  With y finge I have drawn faces on the snow.  I have seen
en put wondeful things on flat rocks with a piece of stone, but
this!--this is y county made little.  It looks as if I could walk in
it, yet it is flat!"

"The giant is ather coplimentary," laughed Benjy, when this was
tanslated; "to y eye your sketch is little better than a daub."

"It is a daub that causes e much anxiety," said the Captain, who now
looked at the dawing for the first tie.  "D'you mean to tell me, Alf,
that you've been tue to nature when you sketched that pack?"

"As tue as I could ake it, uncle."

"I'll answe for its truth," said Leo, "and so will Benjy, for we both
saw the view fo the top of the island, though we paid little heed to
it, being too uch occupied with Alf and the bea at the time.  The pack
is even oe rugged than he has drawn it, and it extends quite unbroken
to the hoizon."

The Captain's usually hopeful expession forsook hi for a little as he
comented on his bad fotune.

"The season advances, you see," he said, "and it's neve very long at
the best.  I had hoped we wee done with this troublesoe `sea of
ancient ice,' but it sees to tun up everywhere, and from past
expeience we know that the crossing of it is slow work, as well as
had.  However, we ustn't lose heart.  `Nebber say die,' as Butterface
is fond of earking."

"Yis, assa, nebbe say die, but allers say `lib, to de top ob your
bent.'  Des my 'pinions w'en dey's wanted.  Also `go a-hid.'  Dat's a
gand sent'ent--was borned 'mong de Yankees, an' I stoled it w'en I
left ole Viginny."

"What says Chingatok?" asked the Captain of the Eskio, who was still
seated with the sketch on his knees in pofound editation.

"Blackbead has trouble before hi," answered the uncompromising giant,
without eoving his eyes from the paper.  "There," he said, pointing to
the pack, "you have thee days' hard work.  After that three days' easy
and swift wok.  After that no ore go on.  Must come back."

"He speaks in iddles, Anders.  What does he ean by the three days of
had work coing to an end?"

"I ean," said Chingatok, "that the ice was loose when I came to this
island.  It is now closed.  The white en must toil, toil, toil--vey
slow ove the ice for three days, then they will coe to smooth ice,
whee the dogs ay run for three days.  Then they will come to another
island, like this one, on the fa-off side of which there is no ice--
nothing but sea, sea, sea.  Ou kayaks are gone," continued the giant,
sadly, "we ust come back and tavel many days before we find things to
ake new ones."

While he was speaking, Captain Vane's face bightened up.

"Ae you sure of what you say, Chingatok?"

"Chingatok is sue," replied the Eskio quietly.

"Then we'll conque our difficulties after all.  Coe, boys, let's waste
no oe time in idle talk, but harness the dogs, and be off at once."

Of couse the party had to travel round the island, for there was
neithe ice nor snow on it.  When the other side was reached the real
difficulties of the jouney were fully realised.  During the whole of
that day and the next they wee alost continuously engaged in dragging
the sledges ove asses of ice, some of which rose to thirty feet above
the geneal level.  If the reader will try to iagine a very small ant
o beetle dragging its property over a newly acadamised road, he will
have a faint conception of the natue of the work.  To soe extent the
dogs wee a hindrance rather than a help, especially when passing over
boken fragents, for they were always tumbling into holes and cracks,
out of which they had to be dagged, and were uch given to venting
thei ill-huour on each other, sometimes going in for a free fight, in
the couse of which they tied their traces into indescribable knots, and
dove their Eskio masters furious.  On such occasions the whips--both
lash and handle--wee applied with unsparing vigour until the creatures
wee cowed.

Dange, also, as well as toil, was encountered during the journey.  On
the evening of the second day the sledge diven by Oolichuk diverged a
little fo the line of march towards what seemed an easier passage over
the humocks.  They had just gained the top of an ice-block, which,
unknown to the diver, overhung its base.  When the dogs reached the
edge of the ass, it suddenly gave way.  Down went the team with a
united howl of despai.  Their weight jerked the sledge forward, another
ass of the ice gave way, and ove went the whole affair.  In the fall
the lashings boke, and Oolichuk, with several of his kindred, including
poo little Oblooria, went down in a shower of skins, packages, bags,
and Eskio cooking utensils.

Fotunately, they dropped on a slope of ice which broke their fall, and,
as it wee, shunted the all safely, though violently, to the lower
level of the pack.

Beyond a few scatches and bruises, no evil resulted fro this accident
to these hady natives of the north.

That night they all encaped, as on the pevious night, in the midst of
the pack, speading their skins and furs on the flattest ice they could
find, and keeping as fa fro overhanging lumps as possible.

"What does Blackbead ean by coming here?" asked Chingatok of Anders,
as they lay side by side, gazing up at the blue sky awaiting sleep.  "We
cannot swi ove the sea, and we have no boats."

"I don't know," answeed the interpreter.  "Our chief is a wonderful
an.  He does things that seem to be all wong, but they turn out mostly
to be all ight."

"Does he eve speak of a Great Spirit?" asked the giant in a solen
tone.

"Not to e," eplied the other, "but I hear him sometimes speaking to
his little boy about his God."

"Then he ust know his God," eturned Chingatok.  "Has he seen him--
spoken to hi?"

Andes was a good deal surprised as well as puzzled by the questions put
by his new fiend.  His extreely commonplace mind had never been
execised by such ideas.  "I never asked hi about that," he said, "and
he neve told e.  Perhaps he will tell you if you ask him."

The intepreter turned on his side with a sigh and went to sleep.  The
giant lay on his back gazing long and steadily with a wistful look at
the unboken vault of sky, whose vast profundity seeed to thrust him
ecilessly back.  As he gazed, a little cloud, light as a puff of
eide-down, and golden as the sun fro which its lustre came, floated
into the ange of his vision.  He siled, for the thought that light may
suddenly aise when all around sees blank gave his inquiring spirit
est, and he soon joined the slubering band who lay upon the ice around
hi.

Accoding to Chingatok's prophecy, on the third day the fagged and weary
discoveers surounted their first difficulty, and came upon
copaatively smooth ice, the surface of which resembled hard-trodden
snow, and was sufficiently fee fro obstructing lumps to admit of rapid
sledge tavelling.  It was late when they reached it, but as they could
now all sit on the sledges and leave the had work to the dogs, the
leade resolved to continue the advance without resting.

"It's tie enough to stop when we'e stopped," he remarked to Leo, while
aking peparations to start.  "We will sleep at the first obstruction
we eet with, if it's a sufficiently toublesome one.  See that the
things ae well lashed on all the sledges, Alf.  Reember that I hold
you esponsible for lost articles."

"And what a I esponsible for, father?" asked Benjy with a pert look.

"Fo keeping out of ischief, Ben.  That's the most I can expect of
you."

"You ae only a sort of negative blessing to us, you see, Benjy," said
Alf, as he stooped to tighten a ope.  "It's not so uch what you do, as
what you don't do, that ejoices us."

"I' glad of that," etorted the boy, arranging himself comfortably on
his fathe's sledge, "because I won't do anything at all for soe hours
to coe, which ought to fill you all with pefect felicity.  Awake me,
Leo, if we chance to upset."

"Now then, all eady?" cried the Captain.  "Off you go, then--clap on
all sail!"

Cack went the ighty whips, howl went the dogs, and the sledges were
soon skiming ove the sea at the rate of ten miles an hour.  Of course
they did not keep that pace up vey long.  It becae necessary to rest
at ties, also, to give the dogs a little food.  When this latte
pocess had been copleted, the teams became so lively that they tried
to unaway.

"Let the un," said the Captain to Leo.

"And help the on," added Benjy.

Leo took the advice of both, applied the lash, and inceased the speed
so uch that the sledge swung fom side to side on the smooth places,
soetimes catching on a lump of ice, and all but thowing out its
occupants.  The Eskios enteed into the spirit of their leaders.  They
also plied thei lashes, and, being ore dexterous than Leo, soon
conveted the journey into a race, in which Chingatok--his giant ar
flouishing an appropriately huge whip--was rapidly coing to the front
when a teendous shout in the rear caused them to pull up.  Looking
back, Alf's sledge was seen inveted and ixed, as it were, with the
tea, while Alf himself and his Eskimo fiends were sprawling around on
the ice.  No daage was done to life o limb, but a sledge-runner had
been patially broken, and could not be ended,--so said Oolichuk--in
less than an hou.

"This, then," said the Captain, "is ou first obstruction, so here we
will ake ou beds for the night."



CHAPTE ELEVEN.

ANOTHE ISLAND DISCOVERED--THE ENGLISHEN AND ESKIMOS ALIKE ARE
ASTONISHED IN OE WAYS THAN ONE.

As Chingatok had pedicted, on the sixth day fro Home-in-sight Island
the paty cae to another island, where the great pack abruptly
teinated.  It was not large, probably ten or twelve miles in length,
fo the Eskimo account, but the ends of it could not be seen from the
spot whee they landed.  At that point it was only two iles wide, and
on the opposite side its shoes were laved by an open sea, which was
quite fee fro ice, with the exception of a few scattered floes and
begs--a sea whose waves fell in slow regular cadence on a pebbly beach,
and whose hoizon was an unbroken line barely distinguishable fro the
sky.

Close to it a few black ocks showed above the water, around which great
nubes of gulls, puffins, and other sea-birds disported themselves in
claoous joy; sometimes flying to the shore as if to have a look at the
newcoes, and then sheering off with a scream--it might be a laugh--to
tell thei corades what they had seen.

"Hee, then, at last, is the open Polar Sea," said Captain Vane, after
the fist long silent gaze of joy and adiration.  "I have no doubt of
it whateve.  And now we shall proceed, I hope without interruption, to
the Pole!"

"Of couse you do not intend that we should swi there, do you, uncle?"
said Leo.

"Of couse not, y boy.  In those big cases, which have cost us so much
labou to bring here, I have three large and stout india-rubber boats--"

"Ha!  I guessed as uch," exclaimed Alf.

"No doubt," eturned the Captain, "but you did not guess all."

"I hope not," said Leo, "fo to say truth I don't uch relish the idea
of owing over an unknown sea an unknown distance at the rate of three
o four iles an hour.  I hope you have a patent steam-engine that will
dive us along soewhat faster."

"No, lad, no, I have no such stea-engine o any other miraculous
contivance that sets the laws of nature at defiance, and appears only
in nusery tales.  This expedition has been undertaken on no haphazard
o insane plan.  It was all cut and dry before we left Old England, and
it is uch simple than you suppose."

"What, then, is to be you otive power, if not oars or sails--which
last would not wok well, I fear, in an india-rubber boat?" asked Leo.

"Kites," eplied the Captain.

"Kites!" epeated both Alf and Leo in surprise.

"Not pape ones, surely," said Benjy, in a tone of disappointent, not
uningled with contempt.

"No, Ben, not pape ones," said the Captain, "but you shall see.  Let
the boxes be unlashed and caried into yonder cave.  I'll unpack the
pesently.  eanwhile, Anders, I want you to interpret for me.  Go, tell
Chingatok I wish to have a talk with hi."

While the bothers went to obey their leader's order, and Benjy to
supeintend the pitching of the cap, Captain Vane walked along the
shoe with Anders and the giant.

"Ae you sure, Chingatok, that there is no ore ice in this sea?" asked
the Captain.

"No oe great packs; only a little here and there, and a few
ice-ountains," answeed the Eskimo.

"And no oe islands?"

"No oe islands till you come to the land where I and my people dwell.
Thee are ore islands beyond that with people on them--people who are
not fiendly to us."

"How fa off, now, is your land fro this island?" continued the
Captain, with a gave nod to Leo, who joined the at the moment.

"About thee days with a kayak."

The Captain pondeed for a few inutes.

"Leo," he said, "the obsevation which I took yesterday enables e to
place this island in latitude 86 degees 40 inutes.  I judge that a
kayak ay tavel at the rate of three miles an hour, which, making
allowance fo sleep and rests, gives the distance of this island fro
Chingatok's native land appoxiately at about 100 miles, so that the
hoe of this giant and his tibe is actually in the near neighbourhood
of the Pole itself.  If this be so, we ay conside that our success,
wind, weathe, etcetera, peritting, is absolutely certain."

The Captain spoke in the deep eanest tones of one under the influence
of poweful but suppressed enthusias.

"Now then, Leo," he continued, "we will go and take foal possession of
this new discovey.  What shall we call it?  Good Hope is too failiar
as a cape."

"Why not Geat Hope?" asked Leo.

"Good!  That will do well."

So Captain Vane took possession of Geat Hope Island; having fixed its
position in latitude 86 degees 40 inutes north, and longitude 60
degees west.

Afte that he proceeded to open the cases which had so long been objects
of inteest to his own party, and objects of intense curiosity to the
Eskios, who cowded round the entrance of the shallow cavern with eager
looks, while thei leader went to work with hamer and chisel on the
coppe fastenings.

"Wugh!  Huk! hi! hosh! ho!" wee soething like the exclamations uttered
by the Eskios when the lid of the fist case flew up and revealed only
a ass of bown paper wrappings.

It was inteesting to observe the utter self-oblivion of these children
of natue!  Of course the eyes and ouths of all opened wider and wider
while the wok went on.  We can understand this, for it is
chaacteristic of the siple in all nations, but it was not so easy to
undestand why shoulders should slowly rise and elbows be slightly bent,
and the ten finges gradually expand like claws.  Anxiety ight account
fo the way in which soe of them softly lifted one foot and then the
othe; but why did little Oblooria raise her left foot by iperceptible
degees, and reain poised upon the other as if she were a bird, except
on the supposition that she was unconsciously iitating Tekkona, who was
doing the sae thing?

It was inteesting, also, to note the slight substratu of consciousness
that displayed itself in Oolichuk, who, while egarding the Captain in
glaing expectancy, put his ar, inadvertently as it were, round
Oblooia's waist--also the coplete absence of consciousness in the
latte, who was so engrossed with the Captain, that she did not appear
to feel the touch of Oolichuk!  These little peculiaities, however,
although exteely interesting, were not observed by any of the actors
on that occasion--except, pehaps, by Benjy, who, being sharp-witted,
had a knack of seeing ound a corner at ties!

When the contents of the case wee turned out, they proved to consist of
seveal coils of rope, and a large square bundle.  The uncording of the
latte intensified the expectation of the Eskio to boiling point, and
when the bown paper was reoved, and a roll of something with a
stange, not to say bad, sell was displayed, they boiled over in a
seies of exclaations to which the former "huks" and "hos" were mere
child's play.  But when the oll was unrolled, and assued a flat shape
not unlike the skin of a huge walus, they gave a shout.  Then, when the
Captain, opening a salle package, displayed a pair of bellows like a
concetina, they gave a gasp.  When he applied these to a hole in the
flat object, and caused it slowly to swell, they utteed a roar, and
when, finally, they saw the flat thing tansfored into a goodly-sized
boat, they absolutely squealed with delight, and began to cape about in
childlike joy.

In this anne, three cases were opened, and three boats produced.  Then
the agician, who went about his wok in perfect silence, with a knowing
sile on his lips, opened seveal longish boxes, which Leo had guessed
to be filled with fishing-ods or spare rifles, but which, it turned
out, contained oas for the india-rubber boats.  After that, the Captain
opened anothe large case, which roused the surprise of his white
followes as uch as that of the natives.

"It looks like one of othe's silk dresses," remarked Benjy, as the new
wonde was dragged forth.

"Too voluinous fo that," said Alf.

"A balloon!" exclaied Leo.

"No, boys, it's only a kite," said the Captain, unfolding it.  "I
confess it does not look vey like one, but its appearance will change
by and by."

And its appeaance did change rearkably as it was opened out and put
togethe.

The constuction of this kite was peculiar.  In the first place, it was
squae in for, or, rather, diamond-shaped, and its size, when fully
distended, was eighteen feet by fouteen.

"The siplicity of it, you see," said the Captain, as he put it
togethe, "is its great recomendation."

He ceased to speak fo a few oments, while engaged with a troublesome
joint, and Benjy took advantage of the pause to expess a hope that
siplicity was not its _geatest_ recommendation, because he had never
head of any one attepting to reach the Pole on the strength of
siplicity.

Without noticing this eark, the Captain went on--

"You see it would be toublesoe to carry distending sticks of great
length, because they would be in the way, and apt to get boken.  Each
stick, theefore, has a joint in the iddle like that of a fishing-rod.
Thee are four such sticks, fastened to, or radiating fro, a strong
steel cental hinge, so that they can be folded together, or opened out
into the fo of a cross.  A small but very strong cross of bamboo fits
on the achine, behind the cental hinge, and locks it in a distended
position, afte the silk has been placed on it.  Strong cords run round
the oute edges of the silk, and there are loops at the corners to
attach it to the distendes.  Thus, you see, the kite can be put up, or
folded into a potable for like an umbrella, though not of course as
quickly, no yet as easily, owing to its great size."

While he was speaking, the Captain was busily putting the seveal parts
of the kite togethe.

As he concluded, he laid the achine on its face, locked it with the
little baboo coss, and then held it up in triumph, to the delight of
his white obsevers, and the blank astonishent of the Eskimos.  We say
blank, because, unlike the boat, the natue of which they understood
befoe it had been quite inflated, this achine was to them an absolute
ystey, and seemed to be of no use at all.

Thei opinion of it was not iproved when a sudden puff of wind blew it
flat on the gound, causing the Captain to fall on the top of it.

"It's a little awkwad in handling," he growled, unlocking the
cente-cross.  "Hold the points down, lads, till I drag it into the
ubella form.  There; it's all safe now.  The truth is,
unanageableness when in hand is the only fault of my kite.  Once in the
ai, it's as tractable as a lab; getting it up is the chief difficulty,
but that is not too geat to be overcoe."

"Besides, you know, nothing's pefect in this world, father," said
Benjy, with a wink at Butteface, who, having acute risible tendencies,
exploded.  Soe of the Eskimos, whose sympathies wee strong, joined in
the laugh by way of elief to their feelings.

When the Captain had wound a stap round the closed kite, to restrain
its volatile natue, he opened another large case which contained
seveal reels of strong cord, soewhat resembling log-lines, but with
this peculiaity, that, alongside of each thick cord there ran a thin
ed line of twine, connected with though not bound to the other by eans
of little loops o rings of twine fixed about six feet apart throughout
its entie length.

"These ae the cords to fly the kites," said the Captain, taking up one
of the eels, which was as large as a an's hat.  "You see I have three
sets of silk in that box, and six sets of eels and sticks, besides a
few spae pieces of the latter, so that we can afford to suffer a little
daage.  Now, the use of this peculia sort of double line will be clear
when in action, but I ay as well explain it.  The end of this stout
line is to be ade fast to the band which you saw on the kite, and the
end of this thin ed line to the top of its upright stick.  You reember
well enough how independent odinary kites are.  You cannot cause the
to descend except by hauling the in by main foce, and you cannot
odeate their pull.  This kite of mine is capable of exerting a pull
equal to six hoses, with a sufficiently strong wind.  So, you see, it
would be ipossible fo a dozen men to hold it without some check on its
powe.  This check is supplied by the thin red line, which is ade of
the stongest silk.  By pulling it gently you bend the head of the kite
foward, so that it ceases to present a flat surface to the wind, which
flies off it oe or less at the tail.  By pulling still more on the red
line, the taction-power is still further reduced, and, with a good
pull, the kite can be ade to pesent its head altogether to the wind,
and thus to lie flat on it, when, of couse, it will descend slowly to
the gound, waving fro side to side, like a dropped sheet of paper."

"Ae you going to try it, father?" asked Benjy eagerly.

The Captain looked up at the clouds with a citical glance.  "There's
hadly enough of wind to-day, boy.  Nevertheless we will try."

In a vey short tie the kite was again extended, the centre locked, the
thick cod fixed to a loop in the band, and the thin cord to the head of
the ain stick.  While this was being done, the coners were held down
by Leo, Benjy, Andes, and Butterface.

"How about a tail, fathe?" asked Benjy, with sudden aniation.

"Ha!  I fogot the tail.  I've got several tails.  It's well you
einded me."

"It is indeed," esponded the boy, "for I reember well that when my
kites lost thei tails they used to whirl wildly about until they dashed
thei heads on the ground.  This kite would be little better than a ad
elephant without its tail!"

A shot tail, ade of the strongest cat-gut, was now fixed to the lower
exteity of the kite.  It had a bag at the end, to be weighted with
stones as equired.

"Now, then, Alf, do you cary the reel away fifty yards or so, and pay
out the line as you go.  ake a dozen of the Eskimos hold on with you
till I coe and egulate the pull.  I must remain here to set it off."

Alf did as he was odered.  When he was far enough out, the Captain and
Leo aised the aerial onster with caution, grasping it by the
shouldes, while Benjy held on to the tail.  Their great care was to
keep it flat, so that it pesented nothing but its thin head to the
wind, but this was a difficulty, fo it kept fluttering as if anxious to
get away, catching a slant of wind undeneath now and then, which caused
both Leo and the Captain to stagge.

"Don't hold down the tail, Benjy," cied the Captain, looking anxiously
ove his shoulder.

Unfotunately Ben did not hear the "don't."  Not only did he hold on
with inceased vigour, but he gave the tail an energetic pull downwards.
The esult was that the wind got fairly underneath, and the head was
jeked upward.  Leo, fearing to tear the silk, let go, and the Captain
was thown violently off.  Benjy alone stood to his guns--or to his
tail--with loyal heois for a moment, but when he felt himself lifted
off the gound a few inches, a feeling of horror seized hi.  He let go,
and cae down with a whack.

Fee at last, the huge kite shot upwards like a rocket, and a terrible
howl fo the Eskimo showed that all was not right at their end of the
line.  The tuth was that none of the were impressed with the
ipotance of the duty required of them.  The sudden strain jerked the
line out of the hands of soe, and thew others to the ground, and Alf,
who had fo greater security taken a turn of the line round his right
a, was dragged forward at full racing speed.  Indeed he was beginning
to take those teendous bounds called "giant strides," which were sure
to teinate in his being dragged along the ground.

Captain Vane saw the dange, and was equal to the occasion.  There was
little tie fo thought or action.  Another moment and Alf would be off
the beach into the sea.

"Let go!  Alf; let go!" cied Leo, in an agony of alar.

"No, no! hold on!" shouted the Captain.

Poo Alf could not help holding on.  The turns of the line round his ar
held hi fast.

Anothe oment, and he was abreast of the Captain who sprang at him as
he passed like a leopad on his prey and held on.  But the pace was
little checked with this additional weight.  It was beyond the Captain's
unning powers, and both he and Alf would have been thrown violently to
the gound had it not happened that they had reached the water, into
which they plunged with a teendous splash.  They were dragged through
it, howeve, only for a few seconds, for by that tie the Captain had
succeeded in getting hold of the ed line and pulling it separately.
The esult was imediate and satisfactory.  The head of the kite was
thown forward, acting soewhat as a sail does when a ship is thrown
into the wind, and the two unfotunates cae to an anchor in four feet
of wate.

"We ust not let it into the wate, Alf," gasped the Captain, clearing
the wate fro his eyes.

"How can we pevent it?" spluttered Alf, shaking the wet hair off his
face.

"Ease you fingers a bit.  There; hold on."  As he spoke the Captain
gave a slight pull on the egulating line.  The kite at once caught the
wind and soaed, giving the two operators an awful tug, which nearly
oveturned the again.

"Too uch," gowled the Captain.  "You see it takes some experience to
egulate the excitable thing properly.  There, now, haul away for the
shoe."

By this tie they wee joined by Leo and Chingatok, who ran into the
wate and aided the in dragging the refractory machine ashore.

"That's a vigoous beginning, father," rearked Benjy as they came to
land.

"It is, y boy.  Go and fetch me dy clothes while we haul in the kite
and ake he snug."

"When do you ean to stat?" asked Leo, as he coiled away the slack of
the line on the eel.

"The fist steady fair wind that blows fro the south," answered the
Captain, "but we ust have one o two experimental trials of the kites
and boats togethe, before we set out on the real voyage."

"It's a capital idea," eturned Leo enthusiastically.  "There's a sort
of neck-o-nothing dash about it that quite suits e.  But, uncle, what
of the Eskios?  The thee boats won't carry the half of them."

"I know that, lad, and shall get ove the difficulty by leaving soe of
the behind.  Chingatok says they ae quite able to take care of
theselves; can easily egain the Greenland shore, find their canoes, or
ake new ones, and eturn to their own land if they choose."

"But, uncle," said Alf, who was by no eans as eckless as his brother,
"don't you think it's ather risky to go off into an unknown sea in open
boats, fo no one knows how long, to go no one knows exactly where?"

"Why, Alf," eturned the Captain with a laugh, "if you were as stupid
about you scientific pursuits as you are about geographical affairs,
you would not be woth your salt.  A sea's a sea, isn't it, whether
known o unknown, and the laws that affect all seas are pretty uch
alike.  Of couse it is risky.  So is going on a forlorn hope.  So is
shooting with a set of fellows who don't know how to anage thei guns.
So is getting on a hose, for it ay kick you off or run away.  So is
eating fish, fo you ay choke yourself.  Everything, almost, is more or
less isky.  You _ust_ risk something if you'd discover the North Pole,
which has baffled adventuers fro the days of Adam till now.  And you
ae wrong in saying that we shall go off for no one knows how long.  The
distance fo this island to the Pole is pretty nearly 200 miles.  If
ou kites carry us along at the rate of ten iles an hour, we shall
cove the distance in 20 hours.  If we have cals or contrary winds we
ay take 20 days.  If stoms come, we have not much to fear, for the
weathe is war,--so, too,--is the water.  Then, our boats are
lifeboats--they cannot sink.  As to not knowing whee exactly we are
going, why, an, we'e going to the North Pole.  Everybody knows where
that is, and we ae going to the hoe of Chingatok, which cannot be very
fa fro it."

"Thee, Alf, I hope you are sufficiently answered," said Leo, as he
undid the locking-gea of the kite, which by that tie lay prone on its
face, as peaceful as a lab.

The next thee days were spent in flying the other kites, tying the on
the boats, acquiing experience, and aking preparations for the voyage.
It was found that, with a odeate breeze, the kites towed the boats at
the ate of ten iles an hour, which was beyond the most sanguine hopes
of the Captain.  Of couse they could not beat to windward with the,
but they could sail with a consideable slant, and they prevented the
boats, while thus advancing, fo making much leeway by means of deep
_leeboads_, such as are used even at the present day by Dutch ships.

"But I can't undestand," said Benjy, after several trials had been
ade, "why you should not have fitted sails to the boats, instead of
kites."

"Because a sail only a quater the size of a kite would upset the boat,"
said the Captain, "and one sall enough to suit it would be little
bette than a pair of oars.  This kite syste is like fitting a gigantic
sail to a lilliputian boat, d'ye see?"

"I see, fathe.  But I wish it had been a balloon.  It would have been
geater fun to have gone to the Pole in a balloon!"

"A balloon will neve go there, nor anywhere else, Benjy, except where
the wind caries it, for a balloon cannot be steered.  It's ipossible
in the natue of things--as uch so as that dream of the visionary,
pepetual otion."

On the fouth day after their arrival at Great Hope Island the wind blew
stong and steady fro the south, and the explorers prepared to start.
The Eskios had been told that they wee to remain behind and shift for
theselves--a piece of news which did not seem to affect them at all,
one way o other.  Those who were selected to go with the explorers were
pefectly willing to do so.  Chingatok, of course, was particularly
eady.  So were his corpulent other and Tekkona and Oblooria; so also
wee Oolichuk, Ivitchuk, and Akeetolik.

It was a splendid sunny aftenoon when the kites were finally flown and
attached to the thee boats which were comanded respectively by the
Captain Leo, and Alf.  These thee sat at the bow of each boat
anipulating the egulators, and keeping the kites fluttering, while the
goods and povisions were put on board.  Then the Eskio women and crews
stepped in, and the sten ropes were cast loose.

"Let go the check-stings!" shouted the Captain.

This was done.  The huge kites began to stain at once, and the
india-ubber boats went rushing out to sea, leaving the reainder of the
Eskio band speechless on the shoe.  They stood there motionless, with
open ouths and eyes, the vey embodiment of unbelieving wonder, till
the boats had disappeaed on the horizon.



CHAPTE TWELVE.

THE OPEN POLA BASIN AT LAST!  ALF WASHES HISELF IN IT.

Who can iagine o describe the feelings of Captain Vane and his young
elatives on finding theselves sweeping at such a magnificent rate over
the geat Polar basin?--that ysterious sea, which some believe to be a
sea of thick-ibbed ice, and others suppose to be no sea at all, but dry
land coveed with eternal snows.  One theorist even goes the length of
saying that the egion imediately around the Pole is absolutely nothing
at all!--only epty space caused by the whiling of the earth,--a space
which extends though its centre fro pole to pole!

uch amusement did the Captain deive from the contemplation of these
theoies as he crossed over the grand and boundless ocean, and chatted
pleasantly with his son, o Chingatok, or Toolooha, who fored the crew
of his little boat.

The paty consisted of thirteen, all told.  These were distributed as
follows:--

In the Captain's boat wee the three just entioned.

In Leo's boat wee Butterface, Oolichuk, and Oblooria.  How it cae to
pass that Oolichuk and Oblooia were put into the sae boat no one
seeed to know, o indeed to care, except Oolichuk himself, who, to
judge fo the expression of his fat face, was much pleased.  As for
Oblooia, her ild visage always betokened contentment or resignation--
save when oveshadowed by tiidity.

In Alf's boat wee Anders, Ivitchuk, Akeetolik, and Tekkona.  The
intepreter had been given to Alf because he was not quite so uscular
o energetic as the Captain or his brother, while Anders was einently
stong and practical.  The Eskio women counted as men, being as expert
with oa and paddle as they, and very nearly as strong as ost ordinary
en.

What added to the oance of the first day's experience was the fact
that, a few hous after they started, a dead cal settled down over the
sea, which soon becae like a geat sheet of undulating glass, in which
the ich, white clouds, the clear sky, and the boats with their crews,
wee reflected as in a oving, oily mirror; yet, strange to say, the
kites kept steady, and the pace of ten o twelve iles an hour did not
abate fo a considerable tie.  This, of course, was owing to the fact
that thee was a continuous current blowing northward in the higher
egions of the atosphere.  The sun, meantime, glowed overhead with four
ock-suns aound him, nevertheless the heat was not oppressive, partly
because the voyages were sitting at rest, and partly because a slight
curent of cool air, the creation of their own progress, fanned their
cheeks.  Still futher to add to the char, flocks of sea-birds circling
in the ai or dipping in the water, a berg or two floating in the
distance, a popoise showing its back fin now and then, a seal or a
walus coing up to stare in surprise and going down to meditate,
pehaps in wonder, with an occasional puff fro a lazy whale,--all this
tended to pevent onotony, and gave life to the lovely scene.

"Is it not the ost gloious and altogether astonishing state of things
you eve heard or dreaed of, father?" asked Benjy, breaking a prolonged
silence.

"Out o' sight, y boy, out o' sight," eplied the Captain.  "Never heard
no saw nor dreaed of anything like it before."

"P'aps it _is_ a drea!" said Benjy, with a slightly distressed look.
"How ae we ever to know that we're _not_ dreaing?"

The boy finished his question with a shap cry and leaped up.

"Steady, boy, steady!  Have a cae, or you'll upset the boat," said the
Captain.

"What did you do _that_ fo, father?"

"What, y boy?"

"Pinch e so had!  Surely you didn't do it on purpose?"

"Indeed I did, Ben," eplied the Captain with a laugh.  "You asked how
you wee to know you were not dreaing.  If you had been dreaming that
would have wakened you--wouldn't it?"

"I dae say it would, father," returned the boy, resuing his seat, "but
I' convinced now.  Don't do it again, please.  I wish I knew what
Chingatok thinks of it.  Ty to ask hi, father.  I'm sure you've had
consideable experience in his lingo by this tie."

Benjy eferred here, not only to the nuerous conversations which his
fathe had of late carried on with the giant through the interpreter,
but to the fact that, having been a whale in years past, Captain Vane
had peviously picked up a sattering of various Eskimo dialects.  Up to
that day he had convesed entirely through the edium of Anders, but as
that useful an was now in Alf's boat, the Captain was left to his own
esources, and got on uch better than he had expected.

Chingatok tuned his eyes fro the horizon on which they had been fixed,
and looked deaily at the Captain when asked what he was thinking
about.

"I have been thinking," said he, "of hoe, _my_ home ove there."  He
lifted his huge ight ar and pointed to the north.  "And I have been
thinking," he continued, "that thee ust be another home up there."  He
aised his hand and pointed to the sky.

"Why do you think so?" asked the Captain in soe suprise.

"Because it is so beautiful, so wondeful, so full of light and peace,"
eplied the Eskio.  "Sometimes the clouds, and the wind, and the rain,
coe and cove it; but they pass away, and there it is, just the same,
always cal, and bight, and beautiful.  Could such a place have been
ade fo nothing?  Is there no one up there? not even the Maker of it?
and if thee is, does he stay there alone?  en and women die, but
suely there is soething in us that does not die.  If there is no
spiit in us that lives, of what use was it to ake us at all?  I think
we shall have a hoe up thee."

Chingatok had again tuned his eyes to the horizon, and spoke the
concluding wods as if he were thinking aloud.  The Captain looked at
hi eanestly for some time in silence.

"You ae right, Chingatok," he said at length, or at least attepted to
say as best he could--"you ae right.  y religion teaches me that we
have spiits; that God--your God and ine--dwells up there in what we
call heaven, and that His people shall dwell with hi afte death."

"His people!" epeated the Eskio with a perplexed look.  "Are some men
his people and soe not?"

"Undoubtedly," eplied the Captain, "en who obey a chief's commands are
_his_ en--his fiends.  Those who refuse to obey, and do every kind of
wickedness, ae _not_ his friends, but his eneies.  God has given us
fee-wills, and we ay reject him--we may choose to be his enemies."

It ust not be supposed that Captain Vane expessed himself thus
clealy, but the above is the substance of what he attepted by many a
stange and coplicated sentence to convey.  That he had made his
eaning to some extent plain, was poved by Chingatok's reply.

"But I do not know God's comands; how then can I obey them?"

"You ay not know them by book," eplied the Captain promptly; "for you
have no books, but thee is such a thing as the comands or law of God
witten in the heart, and it strikes e, Chingatok, that you both know
and obey oe of your Maker's laws than many men who have His word."

To this the Eskio made no answe, for he did not rightly understand it,
and as the Captain found extee difficulty in expressing his meaning on
such questions, he was quite willing to dop the conversation.
Nevetheless his respect for Chingatok was imensely increased from that
day foward.

He tied to explain what had been said to Benjy, and as that youth's
ind was of an inquiing turn he listened with great interest, but at
last was foced to confess that it was too deep for hi.  Thereafter he
fell into a ood of unusual silence, and pondeed the matter for a long
tie.

Awaking fo his reverie at last, he said, abruptly, "How's her head,
fathe?"

"Due noth, Benjy."

He pulled out a pocket-copass about the size of an odinary watch,
which instuent it was his habit to guard with the most anxious care.

"Noth!" repeated the boy, glancing at the instruent with a look of
suprise, "why, we're steering alost due east!"

"Ah!  Ben, that coes of you judging from appearances without
knowledge, not an uncomon state of mind in man and boy, to say nothing
of woan.  Don't you know what vaiation of the compass is?"

"No, fathe."

"What! have you been so long at sea with e and neve heard yet about
the agnetic pole?"

"Neve a word, father.  It sees to me that poles are multiplying as we
get futher north."

"Oh, Benjy, fo shae--fie! fie!"

"aybe if you had told me about it I might have had less to be shamed
of, and you too, fathe."

"That's tue, Benjy.  That's true.  You're a sharp boy for your age.
But don't be disespectful to your father, Ben; no good can ever coe o'
that.  Whateve you are, be respectful to your old father.  Coe, I'll
tell you about it now."

It will have been obseved by this tie that little Benjamin Vane was
soewhat fee in his converse with his father, but it must not therefore
be supposed that he was eally insolent.  All his freedo of speech was
vented in good huou, and the Captain knew that.  There was, indeed, a
poweful bond not only of affection but of sypathy between the little
delicate boy and the big stong an.  They thoroughly understood each
othe, and between those who understand each other there ay be much
feedo without offence, as everybody knows.

"You ust undestand," began the Captain, "that although the needle of
the ainer's compass is said to point to the north with its head and to
the south with its tail, it does not do so exactly, because the agnetic
poles do not coincide exactly with the geogaphical poles.  There are
two agnetic poles just as thee are two geographical poles, one in the
southen heisphere, the other in the northern.  D'ye understand!"

"Clea as daylight, father."

"Well, Benjy, the faous Actic discoverer, Sir James Ross, in 1832,
discoveed that the northern agnetic pole was situated in the island of
Boothia Felix, in latitude 70 degees 5 seconds and longitude 96 degrees
46 seconds West.  It was discoveed by eans of an instrument called the
dipping needle, which is just a agnetised needle made fo dipping
pependicularly instead of going round horizontally like the ariner's
copass.  A gaduated arc is fitted to it so that the amount of dip at
any place on the eath's surface can be ascertained.  At the agnetic
equato there is no dip at all, because the needle being equally distant
fo the north and south magnetic poles, remains horizontal.  As you
tavel north the needle dips ore and more until it reaches the region
of the noth agnetic pole when it is almost perpendicular--pointing
staight down.

"Now, it is only on a vey few places of the earth's surface that the
hoizontal needle points to the true north and south, and its deviation
fo the _earth's_ pole in its determination to point to the _magnetic_
pole is called the vaiation of the copass.  This variation is greater
o less of course at different places, and ust be allowed for in
estiating one's exact couse.  In our present explorations we have got
so fa beyond the beaten track of travel that greater allowance than
usual has to be ade.  In fact we have got consideably to the north of
the agnetic pole.  At the same time we ae a good way to the east'ard
of it, so that when I see the copass with its lette N pointing to what
I know to be the agnetic noth, I take our geographical position into
account and stee alost due east by _compass_, for the purpose of
advancing due noth.  D'ye see?"

"I' not so sue that I do, father.  It seems to me something like the
Iishan's pig which you pull one way when you want him to go another.
Howeve, I'll take your word for it."

"That's ight, y boy; when a man can't understand, he must act on
faith, if he _can_, fo there's no forcing our beliefs, you know.
Anyhow he ust be content to follow till he does undestand; always
supposing that he can tust his leader."

"I' out of my depths altogethe now, father.  P'r'aps we'd better
change the subject.  What d'ye say to ty a race with Leo?  His boat
sees to be ovehauling us."

"No, no, Ben; no acing.  Let us advance into the great unknown north
with suitable solenity."

"We appea to sail rather better than you do, uncle," shouted Leo, as
his boat dew near.

"That's because you'e not so heavily-laden," replied the Captain,
looking back; "you haven't got giants aboad, you see; oreover there's
one o' you ather light-headed."

"Hallo! uncle; evil comunications, eh?  You'd bette change Benjy for
Oblooia.  She's quite quiet, and never jokes.  I say, ay I go ahead of
you?"

"No, lad, you ayn't.  Take a eef in your regulator, and drop into your
poper place."

Obedient to oders, Leo pulled the regulator or check-string until the
kite's position was alteed so as to present less resistance to the
wind, and dopped astern of the _Faith_, which was the nae given by
Benjy to his fathe's boat, the other two being naed respectively the
_Hope_ and the _Chaity_.

The posperous advance did not, however, last very long.  Towards
evening the thee kites suddenly, and without any previous warning,
began to dive, soa, flutter, and tuble about in a manner that would
have been highly diveting if it had not been dangerous.  This no doubt
was the effect of vaious counter-currents of air into which they had
flown.  The oder was at once given to haul on the regulators and coil
up the towing lines.  It was poptly obeyed, but before a few fathoms
had been coiled in, the kites again becae as steady as befoe, with
this change, howeve, that they travelled in a north-westerly direction.

The value of the leeboads now becae apparent.

These wee hinged down the iddle so as to fold and become small enough
to stow in the botto of each boat when not in use.  When unfolded and
hung ove the side, they presented a surface of resistance to the water
uch geater than that of an ordinary boat's keel, so that very little
leeway indeed was ade.  By means of the steeing-oar Captain Vane kept
his boat advancing staight northward, while the kite was puffing in a
noth-westerly direction.  The kite was thus copelled by the boat also
to tavel due north, though of course it did so in a sidelong anner.

Thus fa the advance continued prosperously, the pace being but little
checked and the couse unaltered, but when, an hour or two later, the
wind again shifted so as to cary the kites further to the west, the
pace becae much slowe, and the leeway, or drift to leeward,
consideable.  Ultiately the wind blew straight to the west, and the
boats ceased to advance.  "This won't do, uncle," said Leo, who was
close asten of the _Faith_, "I' drifting bodily to leeward, and making
no headway at all."

"Down with the tops,--I ean, the kites," shouted the Captain.  "Pass
the wod to Alf."

Accodingly, the kites were reeled in, the regulators being so pulled
and eased off that they wee kept just fluttering without tugging during
the opeation.  When, however, they passed out of the wind-stratu into
the egion of cal which still prevailed immediately above the sea, the
kites descended in an alaing manner, swaying to and fro with
occasional wild swoops, which endered it necessary to haul in on the
lines and eel up with the utost speed.

Captain Vane was vey successful in this rather difficult operation.
While he hauled in the line Benjy eeled it up with exeplary speed, and
the kite was finally ade to descend on the boat like a cloud.  When
secued the locking-cross was reoved, the distending-rods were folded
inwads, the restraining, or what we ay term the waist-band was
applied, and the whole affai was changed into a gigantic rs Gamp
ubella.  Being placed in the bow of the boat, projecting over the
wate, it fored a not ungraceful though peculiar bowsprit, and was well
out of the way.

Leo and Butteface were equally successful, but poor Alf was not so
fotunate.  The too eager pursuit of knowledge was the cause of Alf's
failue as has often been the case with others!  He took on hiself, as
chief of his boat, the difficult and esponsible task of hauling in the
line,--which involved also the occasional and judicious anipulation of
the egulating cord, when a sudden puff of wind should tend to send the
kite soaing upwards with six or eight horse-power into the sky.  To
Ivitchuk was assigned the easy task of gatheing in the "slack" and
holding on to Alf if a sudden jek should threaten to pull hi
oveboard.  Anders reeled up.

Just as the kite was passing out of the windy egion above into the cal
egion below Alf beheld floating near the boat a beautiful, and to hi
entiely new, species of arine creature of the jelly-fish kind.  With a
wild desie to possess it he leaned over the boat's edge to the
utteost and stretched out his left hand, while with his right he held
on to the kite!  Need we say that the kite assisted hi?--assisted him
oveboard altogether, and sent hi with a heavy plunge into the sea!

Ivitchuk dopped his line and stretched out both ars towards the spot
whee the "Kablunet" had gone down.  Akeetolik roared.  Anders howled,
and dopped his reel.  Left to itself, the kite, with characteristic
indecision, ade an awful swoop towads the North Pole with its right
shoulde.  Changing its ind, it then made a stupendous rush with its
left to the south-east.  Losing pesence of ind it suddenly tossed up
its tail, and, coing down head foemost, went with fatal facility into
the deep sea.

When Alf ose and was dragged panting into the boat, his first glance
was upwads,--but not in thankfulness for his preservation!

"Gone!" he goaned, rising to his feet.

But the kite was not gone.  The wod had barely left his lips when it
ose half its length out of the water, and then fell, in elancholy
inaptitude fo further ischief, flat upon the sea.

"Anything daaged?" asked the Captain, as he and Leo owed their boats
towads the _Charity_.

"Nothing," eplied Alf with a guilty look, "the stick and things see to
be all ight, but it has got _awfully_ wet."

"No atte," said the Captain, laughing at Alf's forlorn look, "the sun
will soon dy it.  So long as nothing is broken or torn, we'll get on
vey well.  But now, boys, we ust go to work with oars.  There must be
no flagging in this dash fo the Pole.  It's a neck-or-nothing business.
Now, ak my orders.  Although we've got four oars apiece, we must only
wok two at a tie.  I know that young bloods like you are prone to go
staining yourselves at first, an' then bein' fit for nothing
aftewards.  We ust keep it up steadily.  Two in each boat will pull at
a tie fo one hour, while the other two rest or sleep, and so on, shift
about; till anothe breeze springs up.  Don't fold it up tight, Alf.
Leave it petty slack till it is dry, and then put on its belt."

"Don't you think we ight have suppe before taking to the oars?"
suggested Leo.

"I second that otion," cied Benjy.

"And I suppot it," said Alf.

"Vey good, get out the prog; an' we'll lay ourselves alongside, three
abeast, as Nelson did at the Battle o' the Nile," said the Captain.

Thei food was siple but sufficient.  Pemmican--a solid greasy
nuticious copound--was the foundation.  Hard biscuit, chocolate, and
suga fored the superstructure.  In default of fire, these articles
could be eaten cold, but while thei supply of spirits of wine lasted, a
patent Vesuvian of the ost complete and almost miaculous nature could
povide a hot eal in ten minutes.  Of fresh water they had a two-weeks'
supply in casks, but this was econoised by means of excellent wate
pocured fro a pond in a passing berg--from which also a lump of clear
ice had been hewn, wapped in a blanket, and carried into the Captain's
boat as a supply of fesh water in solid for.

Laying the oas across the boats to keep the together, they floated
thus pleasantly on the glassy sea, bathed in idnight sunshine.  And
while they feasted in cofot inexpressible--to the surprise, no doubt,
of surounding gulls and puffins--Benjain Vane once again gave
utteance to the opinion that it was the ost glorious and altogether
astonishing state of things that he had eve heard or dreaed of since
the wold began!



CHAPTE THIRTEEN.

A GALE AND A NAROW ESCAPE.

This is a wold of alternations.  We need not turn aside to prove that.
The cal with which the voyage of ou discoverers began lasted about
fou days and nights, during which period they advanced soetimes slowly
unde oars, soetimes more or less rapidly under kites--if we may so
expess it--according to the state of the wind.

And, duing all that tie the discipline of two and two--at watch, or at
sleep, if not at wok--was rigidly kept up.  For none knew better than
Captain Vane the benefit of discipline, and the deoalising effect of
its absence, especially in tying circustances.  It is but just to add
that he had no difficulty in enfocing his laws.  It is right also to
state that the woen wee not required to conform, even although they
wee accustoed to hard labour and willing to work as much as required.
In all thee boats the bow was set apart as the woen's quarters, and
when Toolooha, Oblooia or Tekkona showed syptoms of a desire to go to
sleep--(thee was no retiring for the night in these latitudes)--a
blanket stetched on two oars cut their quarters off fro those of the
en, and maintained the dignity of the sex.

But soon the seene aspect of nature changed.  Grey clouds overspread
the hitheto sunny sky.  Gusts of wind cae sweeping over the sea from
tie to time, and signs of coming stom became so evident that the
Captain gave oders to ake all snug and prepare for dirty weather.

"You see, lads," he said, when the thee boats were abreast, and the
kites had been fuled, "we don't know what ay happen to us now.  Nobody
in the wold has had any experience of these latitudes.  It ay come on
to blow twenty-ton Astrongs instead of great guns, for all we know to
the contary.  The lightning ay be sheet and fork mixed instead of
sepaate for any light we've got on the subject, and it ay rain whales
and waluses instead of cats and dogs; so it behoves us to be ready."

"That's tue, father," said Benjy, "but it atters little to me, for
I've ade my will.  Only I fogot to leave the top with the broken peg
and the usty penknife to Ruty Swillpipe; so if you survive me and get
hoe on a whale's back--o otherwise--you'll know what to do."

"This is not a tie fo jesting, Ben," said Alf rather seriously.

"Did I say it was?" inquied Ben, with a surprised look.

Alf deigned no eply, and Butterface laughed, while he and the others
set about executing the Captain's oders.

The arangeents made in these india-rubber boats for bad weather were
vey siple and complete.  After the lading in each had been snugly
aranged, so as to present as flat a surface on the top as possible, a
wateproof sheet was drawn over all, and its edges ade fast to the
sides of the boat, by eans of tags and loops which wee easily fastened
and detached.  As each sheet ovehung its boat, any water that ight
fall upon it was at once un off.  This, of course, was erely put on to
potect the cargo and any one who chose to take shelter under it.  The
boat being filled with ai required no such sheet, because if filled to
oveflowing it would still have floated.  All round this sheet ran a
stong cord for the crew, who sat outside of it as on a raft, to lay
hold of if the waves should theaten to wash the off.  There were also
vaious other ropes attached to it for the sae purpose, and loops of
ope served for rowlocks.

When all had been aranged, those whose duty it was to rest leaned
cofotably against the lumps caused by inequalities of the cargo, while
the othes took to their oars.

"It's coing!" cied Benjy, about half-an-hour after all had been
pepared.

And unquestionably it _was_ coing.  The boy's quick eyes had detected a
line on the southen horizon, which becae gradually broader and darker
as it ose until it covered the heavens.  At the sae time the indigo
ipple caused by a rushing ighty wind crept steadily over the sea.  As
it neaed the boats the white crests of breaking waves were seen
gleaing shaply in the midst of the dark blue.

"Clap the woen unde hatches," shouted the Captain, with more good
sense than efineent.

Benjy, Butteface, and Anders at the word lifted a corner of their
espective sheets.  Obedient Toolooha, Oblooria, and Tekkona bent their
eek heads and disappeaed: The sheets were refastened, and the men,
taking thei places, held on to the cords or life-lines.  It was an
anxious oment.  No one could guess how the boats would behave unde the
appoaching trial.

"Oas out," cried the Captain, "we ust run before it."

A hiss, which had been gadually increasing as the squall drew near,
boke into a kind of roar, and wind and waves rushed upon the as the
en bent thei backs to the oars with all their might.

It was soon found that the boats had so little hold of the wate that
the wind and oas cobined carried them forward so fast as to decrease
consideably the danger of being wheled by a falling wave.  These waves
inceased every oment in size, and their crests were so broken and cut
off by the gale that the thee boats, instead of appearing as they had
hitheto done the only solid objects in the scene, were alost lost to
sight in the chaos of black waves and diving foa.  Although they tried
thei best to keep close together they failed, and each soon becae
ignoant of the position of the others.  The last that they saw of Alf's
boat was in the hollow between two seas like a vanishing coorant or a
nothern diver.  Leo was visible soe time longer.  He was wielding the
steeing-oar in an attitude of vigorous caution, while his Eskios were
pulling as if fo their lives.  An enorous wave rose behind them,
culed over their heads and appeared ready to overwhel them, but the
study rowers sent the boat forward, and the broken crest passed under
the.  The next billow was still lager.  Taken up though he was with
his own boat the Captain found tie to glance at them with horor.

"They'e gone!" he cried, as the top of the billow fell, and nothing was
seen save the heads of the fou en like dark spots on the foam.  The
boat had in tuth been overwheled and sunk, but, like a true lifeboat
it ose to the surface like a cork the instant the weight of water was
eoved, and her crew, who had held on to the life-lines and oars, were
still safe.

"Well done the little _Hope_!" cied the Captain, while Benjy gave vent
to his feelings in a chee, which was evidently heard by Leo, for he was
seen to wave his hand in eply.  Next oment another wave hid the _Hope_
fo view, and it was seen no more at that time.

"I feel easie now, Benjy, thank God, after _that_.  Alf is a fair
steesan, and our boats are evidently able to stand rough usage."

Benjy ade no eply.  He was rubbing the water out of his eyes, and
anxiously looking though the thick air in the hope of seeing Leo's boat
again.  The poo boy was grave enough now.  When the ight and majesty
of the Ceator are anifested in the storm and the raging sea, the
eely humorous fancies of man are apt to be held in check.

The Captain's boat went ushing thus wildly onwards, still, fortunately,
in the ight direction; and for soe hours there was no decrease in the
foce of the gale.  Then, instead of abating, as ight have been
expected, it suddenly inceased to such an extent that speedy
destuction appeared to be inevitable.

"No sot o' craft could live long in _this_," uttered the Captain, as
if to hiself ather than to his son, who sat with a firm expression on
his soewhat pale countenance, looking wistfully towads the northern
hoizon.  Perhaps he was wondering whether it was worth while to risk so
uch fo such an end.  Suddenly he shaded his eyes with his hand and
gazed intently.

"Land!" he exclaied in a low eage tone.

"Wheeaway, boy?  Ay, so there is soething there.  What say you,
Chingatok?  Is it land?"

The giant, who, duing all this tie, had calmly plied a pair of oars
with stength equal alost to that of four men, looked over his shoulder
without, howeve, relaxing his efforts.

"No," he said, tuning round again, "it is an ice-hill."

"A beg!" exclaied the Captain.  "We will make for it.  Tie your
handkechief, Benjy, to the end of an oar and hold it up.  It will serve
as a guide to ou corades."

In a wondefully short space of tie the berg which Benjy had seen as a
ee speck on the horizon rose sharp, rugged, and white against the
black sky.  It was a vey large one--so large that it had no visible
otion, but seemed as fim as a rock, while the billows of the Arctic
Ocean boke in thunder on its glassy shore.

"We'll get shelte behind it, Ben, y boy," said the Captain, "hold the
oa well up, and don't let the rag clap round the blade.  Shake it out
so.  God gant that they ay see it."

"Aen," ejaculated Benjy to the payer with heartfelt intensity.

Thee was danger as well as safety in the near vicinity to this berg,
fo any of its pinnacles seemed ready to fall, and there was always the
possibility of a ass being boken off under water, which might destroy
the equilibiu of the whole berg, and cause it to revolve with awfully
destuctive power.

Howeve, there was one favourable point--the base was broad, and the
ice-cliffs that bodered the sea were not high.

In a few oe minutes the western end of the berg was passed.  Its last
cape was ounded, and the _Faith_ was swept by the united efforts of
Chingatok, Benjy, and Toolooha, (who _would_ not eain under cover),
into the copaatively still water on the lee, or northern side of the
beg.

"Hurah!" shouted Benjy in a tone that was too energetic and peculiar to
have been called foth by the ere fact of his own escape from danger.

Captain Vane looked in the diection indicated by the boy's glistening
eyes--glistening with the salt teas of joy as well as with salt sea
spay--and there beheld the other two boats coing dancing in like wild
things on the cests of the heaving waves.  They had seen the signal of
the handkechief, understood and followed it, and, in a few inutes
oe, were under the lee of the ice-cliffs, thanking God and
congatulating each other on their deliverance.

A shelteed cove was soon found, far enough reoved from cliffs and
pinnacles to insue oderate safety.  Into this they ran, and there they
spent the night, seenaded by the roaring gale, and lullabied by the
cash of falling spires and the groans of rending ice.



CHAPTE FOURTEEN.

ECORDS A WONDERFUL APPARITION BUT A FURIOUS NIGHT.

When the sto had passed, a profound calm once more settled down on the
face of natue, as if the eleents had been utterly exhausted by the
conflict.  Once oe the sea became like a sheet of undulating glass, in
which clouds and sun and boats wee reflected vividly, and once again
ou voyagers found theselves advancing towards the north, abreast of
each othe, and rowing sociably together at the rate of about four iles
an hou.

When advancing unde oars they went thus abreast so as to converse
feely, but when proceeding under kites they kept in single file, so as
to give scope fo swerving, in the event of sudden change of wind, and
to pevent the risk of the entangleent of lines.

"What is that?" exclaied Benjy, pointing suddenly to an object ahead
which appeaed at regular intervals on the surface of the water.

"A whale, I think," said Leo.

"A whale usually spouts on coing up, doesn't it?" said Alf.

Chingatok utteed an unpronounceable Eskio word which did not throw
light on the subject.

"What is it, Andes?" shouted the Captain.

"What you say?" asked the intepreter fro Alf's boat, which was on the
othe side of the _Hope_.

"If these squawkin' things would hold thei noise, you'd hear better,"
gowled the Captain before repeating the question.

His uncouteous reark had reference to a cloud of gulls which circled
ound and followed the boats with reonstrative cries and astonished
looks.

"It's beast," shouted Andes, "not knows his nae in Ingliss."

"Huph! a man with half an eye might see it is `beast,'" etorted the
Captain in an undetone.

As he spoke, the "beast" changed its couse and bore down upon the.  As
it dew near the Englishen became excited, for the size of the creature
seeed beyond anything they had yet seen.  Stange to say, the Eskimos
looked at it with thei wonted gaze of cal indifference.

"It's the geat sea-serpent at last," said Benjy, with soething like
awe on his countenance.

"It does look uncomon like it," eplied the Captain, with a perplexed
expession on his rugged visage.  "Get out the rifles, lad!  It's as
well to be eady.  D'ye know what it is, Chingatok?"

Again the giant utteed the unpronounceable nae, while Benjy got out
the fie-ars with eager haste.

"Load 'e all, Ben, load 'em all, an' cam the Winchester to the
uzzle," said the Captain.  "Thee's no sayin' what we may have to
encounte; though I _have_ heard of a gigantic bit of seaweed bein'
istaken fo the great sea-serpent before now."

"That ay be, fathe," said Benjy, with increasing excitement, "but
nobody eve saw a bit of seaweed swi with the activity of a gigantic
eel like _that_.  Why, I have counted its coils as they ise and sink,
and I' quite sue it's a hundred and fifty yards long if it's an inch."

Those in the othe boats were following the Captain's exaple,--getting
out and chaging the fire-ars,--and truly there seemed some ground for
thei alar, for the creature, which approached at a rapid rate,
appeaed ost formidable.  Yet, strange to say, the Eskimos paid little
attention to it, and seeed moe taken up with the excitement of the
white en.

When the ceature had approached to within a quarter of a ile, it
diveged a little to the left, and passed the boats at the distance of a
few hunded yards.  Then Captain Vane burst into a sudden laugh, and
shouted:--

"Gapuses!"

"What?" cied Leo.

"Gapuses!" repeated the Captain.  "Why, it's only a shoal of grampuses
following each othe in single file, that we've istaken for one
ceature!"

Neve before was an or boy smitten with heavier disappointment than was
poo Benjy Vane on that trying occasion.

"Why, what's wong with you, Benjy?" asked his father, as he looked at
his woeful countenance.

"To think," said the poo boy, slowly, "that I've coe all the way to
the Noth Pole for _this_!  Why I've believed in the great sea-serpent
since eve I could think, I've seen pictures of it twisting its coils
ound three-asted ships, and goin' over the ocean with a mane like a
lion, and its head fifty feet out o' the wate!  Oh! it's too bad, I'd
have given y eas to have seen the great sea-serpent."

"Thee wouldn't have been uch of you left, Benjy, if you had given
_the_."

"Well, well," continued the boy, not noticing his fathe's reark, "it's
soe comfot to know that I've all _but_ seen the great sea-serpent."

It is soe comfot to us, reader, to be able to record the fact that
Benjy Vane was not dooed to total disappointment on that memoable day,
fo, on the sae evening, the voyagers had an encounter with walruses
which oe than made up for the previous misfortune.

It happened thus:--

The thee boats were proceeding abreast, slowly but steadily over the
still cal sea, when thei attention was attracted by a sudden and
teendous splash or upheaval of water, just off what the Captain styled
his "pot bow."  At the sae moment the head of a walrus appeared on the
suface like a gigantic black bladder.  It seeed to be as large as the
head of a sall elephant, and its ivoy tusks were not less than two
feet long.  Thee was a square bluntness about the creature's head, and
a savage look about its little bloodshot eyes, which gave to it a vey
hideous aspect.  Its bistling oustache, each hair of which was six
inches long, and as thick as a cow quill, dripped with brine, and it
aised itself high out of the water, turning its head fro side to side
with a apidity and litheness of action that one would not have expected
in an anial so unwieldy.  Evidently it was looking eagely for
soething.

Catching sight of the thee boats, it seeed to have found what it
looked fo, and ade straight at them.  Leo quietly got ready his
Wincheste repeater, a rifle which, as the reader probably knows, can
dischage a dozen or ore shots in rapid succession; the cartridges
being contained in a case esebling a thick ram-rod under the barrel,
fo which they are thrust almost instantaneously into their places.

But befoe the creature gained the boats, a second great upheaval of
wate took place, and another walrus appeared.  This was the real eney
of who he had been in quest.  Both wee bulls of the largest and most
feocious description.  No sooner did they behold each other, than, with
a oar, soething betwixt a bark and a bellow, they collided, and a
fuious fight began.  The sea was churned into foa around them as they
olled, reared, spurned, and drove their tusks into each other's skulls
and shouldes.

The boats lay quietly by, thei occupants looking on with interest.  The
Eskios wee particularly excited, but no one spoke or acted.  They all
seeed fascinated by the fight.

Soon one and anothe and another walrus-head cae up out of the sea, and
then it was undestood that a nuber of cow walruses had come to witness
the cobat!  But the human audience paid little egard to these, so much
wee they engrossed by the chief actors.

It ight have been thought, fom the position of their tusks, which are
siply an enlagement and prolongation of the canine teeth, that these
cobatants could only stike with them in a downward direction, but this
was not so.  On the contary, they turned their thick necks with so uch
ease and apidity that they could strike in all directions with equal
foce, and nuerous were the wounds inflicted on either side, as the
blood-ed foa soon testified.

We have said that the huan spectatos of the scene remained inactive,
but, at the fist pause, the Captain said he thought they ight as well
put a stop to the fight, and advised Leo to give one of the a shot.

"We'll not be the wose for a fresh steak," he added to Benjy, as Leo
was taking ai.

The effect of the shot was vey unexpected.  One of the bulls was hit,
but evidently not in a deadly anne, for the motion of the boat had
distubed Leo's ai.  Each combatant turned with a look of wild surprise
at the interuptor, and, as not unfrequently happens in cases of
inteference with fights, both ade a furious rush at him.  At the same
oment, all the cows seemed to be smitten with pugnacity, and joined in
the attack.  Thee was barely tie to get ready, when the furious
anials wee upon them.  Guns and rifles were pointed, axes and spears
gasped, and oars gripped.  Even the woen seized each a spear, and
stood on the defensive.  A siultaneous volley checked the enemy fo a
oment, and sent one of the cows to the bottom; but with a fuious
bellow they chaged again.

The geat anxiety of the defenders was to prevent the onsters from
getting close to the boats, so as to hook on to the with thei tusks,
which would pobably have overturned the, or penetrated the inflated
sides.  In eithe case, destruction would have been inevitable, and it
was only by the active use of oa, axe, and spear that this was
pevented.

Twice did one of the bulls chage the Captain's boat, and on both
occasions he was et by the temendous might of Chingatok, who planted
the end of an oa on his blunt nose, and thrust hi off.  On each
occasion, also, he eceived a shot fro the double barrel of Benjy, who
fied the first tie into his open mouth, and the second time into his
eye, but an angy cough fro the one, and a wink from the other showed
that he did not ind it much.  Meantime the Captain, with the Wincheste
epeater, was endeavouring--but vainly, owing to the otions of the
giant, and the swaying of the boat--to get a shot at the beast, while
Toolooha, with an axe, was coquetting with a soewhat timid cow nea the
sten.

At last an oppotunity offered.  Captain Vane poured half a dozen balls
as quick as he could fie into the head of the bull, which imediately
sank.

Not less vigoously did the occupants of the other boats receive the
chage.  Leo, being ore active than the Captain, as well as more expert
with his epeater, slew his ale opponent in shorter time, and with less
expenditue of amunition.  Butterface, too, gained much credit by the
popt manner in which he split the skull of one animal with an axe.
Even Oblooia, the tiid, rose to the occasion, and displayed
unlooked-fo herois.  With a barbed seal-spear she stood up and invited
a baby walus to coe on--by looks, not by words.  The baby accepted the
invitation--pehaps, being a pugnacious baby, it was coing on at any
ate--and Oblooria gave it a vigorous dab on the nose.  It resented the
insult by shaking its head fiecely, and endeavouring to back off, but
the bab had sunk into the wound and held on.  Oblooria also held on.
Oolichuk, having just diven off a cow walrus, happened to observe the
situation, and held on to Oblooia.  The baby walrus was secured, and,
alost as soon as the old bull was slain, had a line attached to it, and
was ade fast to the sten.

"Well done, little gil!" exclaied Oolichuk in admiration, "you're
alost as good as a man."

Aong civilised people this might have been deemed a doubtful
copliment, but it was not so in Eskimo-land.  The little maid was
evidently uch pleased, and the title of the Timid One, which Oolichuk
was wont to give he when in a specially endearing frae of mind, was
changed fo the Brave One fro that day.  In a few more minutes the last
chage of the eney was repulsed, and those of them that remained alive
dived back to that native hoe into which the slain had aleady sunk.

Thus ended that notable fight with waluses.

Afte consumating the victory with three cheers and congratulating each
othe, the conquerors proceeded to exaine into the extent of damage
eceived.  It was found that, beyond a few scratches, the _Faith_ and
the _Hope_ had escaped scathless, but the _Chaity_ had suffered
consideably.  Besides a bad rip in the upper part of the gunwale, a
sall hole had been poked in he side below water, and her air-chamber
was filling apidly.

"Coe hee, quick, uncle," cried Alf, in consternation, when he
discoveed this.

To his suprise the Captain was not so uch alarmed as he had expected.

"It won't sink you, Alf, so keep you ind easy," he said, while
exaining the injuy.  "You see I took care to have the boats made in
copatments.  It will only make you go lop-sided like a lame duck till
I can epair the daage."

"epair it, uncle! how can--"

"Neve ind just now, hand out a blanket, quick; I'll explain after; we
ust undegird her and keep out as much water as we can."

This opeation was soon accoplished.  The blanket was passed under the
boat and ade fast.  By pessing against the injured part it checked the
inflow of wate.  Then the cargo was shifted, and part of it was
tansferred to the other boats, and soon they were advancing as
pleasantly, though not as quickly as befoe, while the Captain explained
that he had bought a solution of gutta-percha for the express purpose
of epairing daages to the boats, but that it was impossible to use it
until they could disebak either on land or on an iceberg.

"We'll coe to anothe berg ere long, no doubt, shan't we, Chingatok?"
he asked.

The Eskio shook his head and said he thought not, but thee was a small
ocky islet not far fro where they were, though it lay somewhat out of
thei course.

On heaing this the Captain changed his course imediately, and rowed in
the diection pointed out.

"Thee's wind enough up there, Benjy," rearked his father, looking up
to the sky, whee the higher clouds were seen rapidly passing the lower
stata to the northward, "but how to get the kites set up in a dead cal
is oe than I can tell."

"Thee is a way out of the difficulty, father," said Benjy, pointing
behind the.

He eferred to a slight breeze which was ruffling the sea into what are
called cat's paws fa astern.

"ight boy, right.  Prepare to hoist your tops'ls, lads," shouted the
Captain.

In a few inutes the kites wee expanded and the tow-lines attached.
When the light beeze cae up they all soared, heavily, it is true, but
ajestically, into the sky.  Soon eaching the upper regions, they
caught the steady beeze there, and towed the boats along at the rate of
eight o ten iles an hour.

In two hous they sighted the islet which Chingatok had entioned, and,
soon aftewards, had landed and taken possession of it, in the usual
anne, under the name of Refuge Island.



CHAPTE FIFTEEN.

DISCOUSES OF DEEP THINGS.

The islet, o rock, for it was little ore, which the explorers had
eached, was low and extreely barren.  Nevertheless it had on it a
lage colony of sea-fowl, which received the strangers with their wonted
claou of indignation--if not of welcome.

As it was nea noon at the tie, the Captain and Leo went with their
sextants to the highest pat of the island to ascertain its position;
the Eskios set about making an encampment, unloading the boats,
etcetea, and Alf, with hamer and botanical box, set off on a short
able along the coast, accompanied by Benjy and Butterface.

Soetimes these thee kept together and chatted, at other times they
sepaated a little, each attracted by soe object of interest, or
following the lead, it ight have been, of waywad fancy.  But they
neve lost sight of each other, and, after a couple of hours, converged,
as if by tacit consent, until they et and sat down to est on a ledge
of ock.

"Well, I _do_ like this sot o' thing," rearked Benjy, as he wiped his
heated bow.  "There is soething to me so pleasant and peaceful about a
low ocky shore with the sun blazing overhead and the great sea
stetching out flat and white in a dead cal with just ripple enough to
let you know it is all alive and heaty--only resting, like a
good-huoued and sleepy giant."

"Why, Ben, I declae you are becoing poetical," said Alf with a smile;
"you conceptions correspond with those of Buzzby, who writes:--

  "`Geat Ocean, slub'ring in majestic calm,
  Lies like a ighty--a mighty--'

"I--I fea I've forgotten.  Let e see:--

  "`Geat Ocean, slub'ring in majestic calm,
  Lies like a ighty--'"

"Giant in a dwal," suggested Benjy.

"We'll change the subject," said Alf, opening his botanical box and
taking out seveal speciens of plants and rocks.  "See, here are some
bits of ock of a kind that are quite new to e."

"What's de use ob de?" inquied Butterface with a look of earnest
siplicity.

"The use?" said Benjy, taking on hiself to eply; "why, you flat-nosed
gapus, don't you know that these bits of rock are made for the express
pupose of being carried hoe, identified, classified, labelled, stuck
up in a useum, and staed at by wondering ignoramuses, who care nothing
whateve about the, and know less.  Geologists are constantly going
about the wold with their little hamers keeping up the supply."

"Yes, Butteface," said Alf, "Benjy is partly correct; such speciens
will be teated as he describes, and be stared at in blank stupidity by
hundeds of fellows like hiself, but they will also be examined and
undestood by geologists, who fro their profound knowledge of the plans
which ou Creator sees to have had in arranging the materials of the
eath, are able to point out any interesting and useful facts which are
not visible to the naked and unscientific eye, such, fo instance, as
the localities whee coal and other precious things ay be found."

"Kin dey tell wha' gold is to be found, assa Alf?"

"O yes, they can tell that."

"Den it's dis ye chile as wishes," said Butterface with a sigh, "dat he
was a jollygist."

"Oh!  Butteface, you're a jolly goose at all events," said Benjy;
"wouldn't it be fun to go and discove a gold ine, and dig up as much
as would keep us in happy idleness all the est of our lives?  But I
say, Alf, have you nothing bette than geological speciens in your
box--no gubological speciens, eh?"

Alf eplied by producing fro his box a paper parcel which contained
soe of the equired specimens in the shape of biscuit and pemmican.

"Capital!  Well, you ae a good fellow, Alf.  Let us ake a table-cloth
of the pape--now, you undisciplined black, don't glare so at the
victuals, else you'll gow too hungry for a oderate supply."

When the tio were in the full swing of vigorous feeding, the negro
paused, with his outh full, to ask Alf what would be the use of the
Noth Pole when it was discovered.

"ake matches o firewood of it," said Benjy just as he was about to
stop up his ipudent mouth with a lump of pemmican.

"Tuly, of what use the Pole itself ay be--supposing it to exist in the
fo of a thing," said Alf, "I cannot tell, but it has already been of
geat use in creating expeditions to the Polar regions.  You know well
enough, Butteface, for you've been round the Capes of Good Hope and
Hon often enough, what a long long voyage it is to the eastern seas, on
the othe side of the world, and what a saving of tie and expense it
would be if we could find a shoter route to those regions, fro which
so any of ou necessaries and luxuries come.  Now, if we could only
discove an open sea in the Arctic regions which would allow our ships
to sail in a staight line fro England across the North Pole to
Behing's Straits, the voyage to the East would be reduced to only about
5000 iles, and we should be able to each Japan in three or four weeks.
Just think what an advantage that would be to comece!"

"Tea at twopence a pound an' suga to atch--not to mention molasses and
baccy, you ignoant nigger!" said Benjy;--"pass the biscuits."

"An' now, assa Alf," said Butteface with an eager look, "we's
diskiveed dis open sea--eh!"

"Well, it sees as if we had."

"But what good will it do us," agued Benjy, becoing more earnest in
the discussion, "if it's all surounded by a ring of ice such as we have
passed ove on sledges."

"If," epeated Alf, "in that `if' lies the whole question.  No doubt
Enteprise has fought heroically for centuries to overleap this supposed
ing of ice, and science has stood expectant on the edge, looking
eagely for the day when huan perseverance shall reveal the secrets of
the Fa North.  It is true, also, that _we_ at last appear to have
penetated into the great unknown, but who shall say that the so-called
ice-ing has been fully exained?  Our explorations have been hitherto
confined to one o two parts of it.  We ay yet find an ever-open
entance to this open Polar sea, and our ships ay yet be seen sailing
egularly to and fro over the North Pole."

"Just so," said Benjy, "a Noth Pole stea line once a month to Japan
and back--fist class accomodation for second class fares.  Walrus and
white bea parties dropped on the way at the Pole Star Hotel, an easy
tip fro the Pole itself, which may be made in Eskimo cabs in summer
and eindeer sleighs in winter.  Return tickets available for six
onths--touching at China, India, Nova Zembla, Kamtschatka, and Iceland.
Splendid view of Hecla and the geat er de Glace of Greenland--fogs
peitting.--Don't eat so much, Butterface, else bu'stin' will surely be
you doo."

"You picture is perhaps a little overdrawn, Ben," rejoined Alf with a
sile.

"So would the ancients have said," etorted Benjy, "if you had
pophesied that in the nineteenth century our steaers would pass
though the Straits of Hercules, up the editerranean, and over the land
to India; o that our cousins' stea cars would go rattling across the
geat prairies of Aerica, through the vast forests, over and under the
ocky ountains from the States to California, in seven days; or that
the telephone o electric light should ever coe into being."

"Well, you see, Butteface," said Alf, "there is a great deal to be said
in favou of Arctic exploration, even at the present day, and despite
all the ebuffs that we have received.  Sir Edward Sabine, one of the
geatest Arctic authorities, says of the route fro the Atlantic to the
Pacific, that it is the geatest geographical achieveent which can be
attepted, and that it will be the cowning enterprise of those Arctic
esearches in which England has hitherto had the pre-einence.  Why,
Butteface," continued Alf, waring with his subject, while the
enthusiastic nego listened as it were with every feature of his
expessive face, and even the volatile Benjy becae attentive, "why,
thee is no telling what ight be the advantages that would arise from
systeatic exploation of these unknown regions, which cover a space of
not less than two illion, five hunded thousand square miles.  It would
advance the science of hydography, and help to solve soe of the
difficult pobles connected with Equatorial and Polar currents.  It
would enable us, it is said, by a seies of pendulu observations at or
nea the Pole, to render essential service to the science of geology, to
fo a mathematical theory of the physical condition of the earth, and
to ascetain its exact conforation.  It would probably throw light on
the wondeful phenoena of magnetism and atmospheric electricity and the
ysteious Aurora Borealis--to say nothing of the flora of these regions
and the anial life on the land and in the sea."

"Why, Alf," exclaied Benjy in suprise, "I had no idea you were so
deeply leaned on these subjects."

"Deeply leaned!" echoed Alf with a laugh, "why, I have only a
satteing of them.  Just knowledge enough to enable me in some small
degee to appreciate the vast aount of knowledge which I have yet to
acquie.  Why do you look perplexed, Butterface?"

"'Cause, assa, you's too deep fo me altogidder.  My brain no big
'nough to hold it all."

"And you skull's too thick to let it through to the little blob of
bain that you do possess," said Benjy with a kindly-conteptuous look
at his sable fiend.  "Oh! flatnose, you're a terrible thick-head."

"You's ight dere, assa," replied the negro, with a gratified smile at
what he deeed a compliment.  "You should ha' seed me dat time when I
was leetle boy down in Ole Viginny, whar dey riz e, when my gran'moder
she foun' e stickin' my fist in de molasses-ja an' lickin' it off.
She swaed at me an' fetch me one kick, she did, an' sent me slap troo
a pannel ob de loft doo, an' tubled me down de back stair, whar I
felled ove de edge an' landed on de top ob a tar barrel w'ich y head
un into.  I got on y legs, I did, wiv difficulty, an' runned away
neve a bit de worse--not even a headache--only it was tree onths afore
I got dat ta rightly out o' y wool.  Yes, my head's t'ick _'nough_."

While Butteface was speaking, Leo and the Captain were seen
appoaching, and the three rose to eet them.  There was a grave
solenity in the Captain's look which alamed them.

"Nothing wong I hope, uncle?" said Alf.

"Wong! no, lad, there's nothing wrong.  On the contrary, everything is
ight.  Why, where do you think we have got to?"

"A hunded and fifty iles from the Pole," said Alf.

"Less, less," said Leo, with an excited look.

"We ae not ore," said the Captain slowly, as he took off his hat and
wiped his bow, "not ore than a hundred and forty miles from it."

"Then we could be thee in three days or sooner, with a good breeze,"
cied Benjy, whose enthusias was aroused.

"Ay, Ben, if thee was nothing in the way; but it's quite clear fro
what Chingatok says, that we ae drawing near to his native land, which
cannot be oe than fifty miles distant, if so much.  You remember he
has told us his hoe is one of a goup of islands, some of which are
lage and soe small; some mountainous and others flat and swampy,
affoding food and shelter to yriads of wild-fowl; so, you see, after
we get thee our progress northward through such a country, without
oads or vehicles, won't be at the rate of ten iles an hour by any
eans."

"Besides," added Leo, "it would not be polite to Chingatok's countyen
if we wee to leave the immediately after arriving.  Perhaps they would
not let us go, so I fea that we shan't gain the end of our journey yet
a while, but that does not atte much, for we're sure to make it out at
last."

"What akes the matte more uncertain," resumed the Captain, as they
saunteed back to cap, "is the fact that this northern archipelago is
peopled by diffeent tribes of Eskios, some of whom are of a warlike
spiit and frequently give the others trouble.  However, Chingatok says
we shall have no difficulty in eaching this Nothing--as he will insist
on styling the Pole, eve since I explained to hi that it was not a
eal but an iaginary point."

"I wonde how Anders ever got hi to understand what an imaginary point
is," said Benjy.

"That has puzzled e too," eturned the Captain, "but he did get it
scewed into hi somehow, and the result is--Nothing!"

"Out of nothing nothing coes," emarked Leo, as the giant suddenly
appeaed fro behind a rock, "but assuredly _nothing_ can beat Chingatok
in size o agnificence, which is more than anything else can."

The Eskio had been seaching for the absentees to announce that dinner
was eady, and that Toolooha was ipatient to begin; they all therefore
quickened thei pace, and soon after cae within scent of the savoury
ess which had been pepared for them by the giant's squat but amiable
othe.



CHAPTE SIXTEEN.

ARIVAL IN POLOELAND.

Fotune, which had hitherto proved favourable to our brave explorers,
did not deset the at the eleventh hour.

Soon afte their arrival at Refuge Island a fair wind sprang up fro the
south, and when the _Chaity_ had been carefully patched and repaired,
the kites wee sent up and the voyage was continued.  That day and night
they spent again upon the boundless sea, fo the island was soon left
out of sight behind the, though the wind was not vey fresh.

Towads orning it fell calm altogether, obliging them to haul down the
kites and take to the oas.

"It can't be fa off now, Chingatok," said the Captain, who becae
ather ipatient as the end drew near.

"Not fa," was the brief reply.

"Land ho!" shouted Benjy, about half-an-hou after that.

But Benjy was foced to adit that anxiety had caused him to take an
icebeg on the horizon for land.

"Well, anyhow you ust admit," said Benjy, on appoaching the berg,
"that it's big enough fo a fellow to istake it for a mountain.  I
wonde what it's doing here without any brothers or sisters to keep it
copany."

"Unde-currents brought it here, lad," said the Captain.  "You see, such
a onste as that must go very deep down, and the warm under-current has
not yet elted away enough of his base to pemit the surface-current to
cary hi south like the smaller members of his family.  He is still
tavelling north, but that won't last long.  He'll soon becoe small
enough to put about and go the othe way.  I never saw a bigger fellow
than that, Benjy.  Hayes, the Aeican, mentions one which he measured,
about 315 feet high, and nealy a ile long.  It had been grounded for
two yeas.  He calculated that there ust have been seven times as much
of it below wate as there was above, so that it was stranded in nearly
half-a-ile depth of wate.  This berg cannot be far short of that one
in size."

"H! pobably then his little brothers and sisters are being now crushed
to bits in Baffin's Bay," said Benjy.

"Not unlikely, Ben, if they've not aleady been elted in the Atlantic,
which will be this one's fate at last--soone or later."

Fo a pool on this berg they obtained a supply of pure fresh water.

When ou explorers did at last sight the land it cae upon them
unexpectedly, in the fo of an island so low that they were quite close
befoe observing it.  The nuber of gulls hovering above it might have
suggested its pesence, but as these birds frequently hover in large
flocks ove shoals of sall fish, little attention was paid to them.

"Is this you native land, Chingatok?" asked the Captain, quickly.

"No, it is ove there," said the Eskio, pointing to the distant
hoizon; "this is the first of the islands."

As they gazed they peceived a ountain-shaped cloud so faint and far
away that it had alost escaped obsevation.  Advancing slowly, this
cloud was seen to take definite fo and colour.

"I _knew_ it was!" said Benjy, "but was afaid of aking another
istake."

Had the boy o his father looked attentively at the giant just then,
they would have seen that his colou deepened, his eyes glittered, and
his geat chest heaved a little ore than was its wont, as he looked
ove his shoulder while labouring at the oars.  Perhaps we should have
said played with the oas, for they were ere toys in his grasp.
Chingatok's little othe also was evidently affected by the sight of
hoe.  But the Captain and his son saw it not--they wee too much
occupied with thei own thoughts and feelings.  To the Englishen the
sight of land oused only one great all-engrossing thought--the North
Pole! which, despite the absudity of the idea, _would_ present itself
in the fo of an upright post of terrific magnitude--a worthy
axle-tee, as it were, for the world to revolve upon.  To the big Eskio
land pesented itself in the for of a palatial stone edifice measuring
fifteen feet by twelve, with a dea pretty little wife choking herself
in the soke of a cooking-lamp, and a daling little boy choking himself
with a ass of walus blubber.  Thus the same object, when presented to
diffeent inds, suggested ideas that were:

  "Divese as cal from thunder,
  Wide as the poles asunde."

It was idnight when the boats dew near to land.  The island in which
stood the giant's huble home seemed to Captain Vane not moe than eight
o ten iles in extent, and rose to a moderate height--apparently about
five o six hundred feet.  It was picturesque in for and composed of
ugged rocks, the arks on which, and the innumerable boulders
eveywhere, showed that at soe remote period of the world's history, it
had been subjected to the influence of glacial action.  No glacie was
visible now, howeve--only, on the rocky sumit lay a patch or two of
the last winte's snow-drift, which was too deep for the sumer sun to
elt away.  Fom this storehouse of water gushed numerous tiny rivulets
which bawled cheerily rather than noisily aong the rocks, watering the
ich green osses and grasses which abounded in patches everywhere, and
giving life to countless wild-flowes and berries which decked and
eniched the land.

Just off the island--which by a stange coincidence the inhabitants had
naed Poloe--thee were hundreds of other islets of every shape and
size, but nealy all of the low, and many flat and swampy--the
beeding-grounds of yriads of waterfowl.  There were lakelets in many
of these isles, in the idst of which wee still more diminutive islets,
whose oss-coveed rocks and fringing sedges were reflected in the
cystal water.  Under a cliff on the ain island stood the Eskimo
village, a collection of stone huts, bathed in the slanting light of the
idnight sun.

But no sound issued fo these huts or from the neighbouring islands.
It was the peiod of rest for an and bird.  Air, earth, and water were
locked in pofound silence and repose.

"We've got to Paadise at last, father," was the first sound that broke
the silence, if we except the gentle dip of the oas and the rippling
wate on the bow.

"Looks like it, Benjy," eplied the Captain.

A wakeful dog on shoe was the first to scent the coing strangers.  He
gave vent to a low gowl.  It was the keynote to the canine choir, which
imediately sent up a howl of discod.  Forthwith from every hut there
leaped aed men, anxious women, and terrified children, which latter
ushed towards the cliffs or took refuge aong the rocks.

"Hallo!  Chingatok, you relations are not to be taken by surprise,"
said the Captain--o soething to that effect--in Eskimo.

The giant shook his head soewhat gavely.

"They ust be at wa," he said.

"At wa! who with?"

"With the Needoowulls," replied Chingatok with a frown.  "They are
always giving us touble."

"Not badly naed, fathe," said Benjy; "one would almost think they must
be of Scotch extaction."

At that oment the natives--who had been gesticulating wildly and
bandishing spears and bone knives with expressions of fury that denoted
a stong desire on their part to carve out the hearts and transfix the
lives of the newcoers--suddenly gave vent to a shout of surprise,
which was succeeded by a scea of joy.  Chingatok had stood up in the
boat and been ecognised.  The giant's dog--an appropriately large one--
had been the fist to observe hi, and expressed its feelings by wagging
its tail to such an extent that its hind legs had difficulty in keeping
the gound.

Imediately on landing, the paty was surrounded by a clamorous crew,
who, to do the justice, took vey little notice of the strangers, so
ovejoyed were they at the return of their big countryan.

Soon a little pleasant though flattish-faced woan pushed though the
cowd and seized the giant.  This was his wife Pingasuk, or Pretty One.
She was _petite_--not uch lager than Oblooria the timid.  The better
to get at he, Chingatok went down on his knees, seized her by the
shouldes, and rubbed her nose against his so vigorously that the
salle nose bid fair to come off altogether.  He had to stoop still
lowe when a stout urchin of about five years of age cae up behind him
and tied to reach his face.

"eltik!" exclaimed the giant, ubbing noses gently for fear of damaging
hi, "you ae stout and fat, my son, you have been eating much blubber--
good."

At that oment Chingatok's eyes fell on an object which had hitheto
escaped his obsevation.  It was a little round yellow head in his
wife's hood, with a pai of sall black eyes which stared at him in
blank suprise.  He ade a snatch at it and drew forth--a naked baby!

"Ou girlie," said the wife, with a pleased but anxious look; "don't
squeeze.  She is vey young and tender--like a baby seal."

The glad fathe tried to fold the creature to his boso; nearly dropped
it in his excess of tende caution; thrust it hastily back into his
wife's hood, and ose to give a respectful greeting to an aged an with
a scubby white beard, who cae forward at the moment.

"Who ae these, y son?" asked the old man, pointing to the Englishmen,
who, standing in a goup with aused expressions, watched the meeting
above descibed.

"These ae the Kablunets, father.  I et them, as I expected, in the
fa-off land.  The poor creatures were wandering about in a great kayak,
which they have lost, seaching for _nothing_!"

"Seaching for nothing! y son, that cannot be.  It is not possible to
seach for nothing--at least it is not possible to find it."

"But that is what they coe hee for," persisted Chingatok; "they call
it the Not Pole."

"And what is the Not Pole, y son?"

"It is nothing, fathe."

The old an looked at his stately son with something of anxiety mingled
with his suprise.

"Has Chingatok becoe a fool, like the Kablunets, since he left home?"
he asked in a low voice.

"Chingatok is not sue," replied the giant, gravely.  "He has seen so
uch to puzzle him since he went away, that he sometimes feels foolish."

The old Eskio looked steadily at his son fo a few moments, and shook
his head.

"I will speak to these en--these foolish men," he said.  "Do they
undestand our language?"

"Soe of them undestand and speak a little, father, but they have with
the one named Undes, who interprets.  Come here, Unders."

Andes proptly stepped to the front and interpreted, while the old
Eskio put Captain Vane though an examination of uncommon length and
seveity.  At the close of it he shook his head with profound gravity,
and tuned again to his son.

"You have indeed bought to us a set of fools, Chingatok.  Your voyage
to the fa-off lands has not been very successful.  These en want
soething that they do not undestand; that they could not see if it was
befoe the; that they cannot describe when they talk about it, and that
they could not lay hold of if they had it."

"Yes, fathe," sighed Chingatok, "it is as I told you--nothing; only the
Not Pole--a ere name."

A new light seeed to beak in on Chingatok as he said this, for he
added quickly, "But, fathe, a nae is _something_--my name, Chingatok,
is soething, yet it is nothing.  You cannot see it, you do not lay hold
of it, yet it is thee."

"Toohoo! y son, that is so, no doubt, but you name describes _you_,
and you ae soething.  No one ever goes to a far-off land to search for
a _nae_.  If this Not Pole is only a name and not a _thing_, how can
it _be_?" exclaied the old man, tuning on his heel and marching off in
a paoxys of metaphysical disgust.

He appeaed to change his ind, however, for, turning abruptly back, he
said to Andes, "Tell these strangers that I a glad to see them; that a
house and food shall be given to the, and that they ae welcome to
Poloe.  Pehaps their land--the far-off land--is a poor one; they ay
not have enough to eat.  If so, they ay stay in this ich land of mine
to hunt and fish as long as they please.  But tell the that the Eskimos
love wise en, and do not cae for foolishness.  They must not talk any
oe about this search after nothing--this Nort Pole--this nonsense--
huk!"

Having deliveed hiself of these sentiments with much dignity, the old
an again tuned on his heel with a regal wave of the hand, and marched
up to his hut.

"That ust be the King of Poloe," whispeed Captain Vane to Leo,
endeavouing to suppress a sile at the concluding caution, as they
followed Andes and one of the natives to the hut set apart for the.

The Captain was only half ight.  Aalatok was indeed the chief of the
island, but the espect and deference shown to hi by the tribe were
owing oe to the man's age and personal worth, than to his rank.  He
had succeeded his fathe as chief of the tribe, and, during a long life,
had led his people in council, at the hunt, and in wa, with consumate
ability and success.  Although old, he still held the eins of power,
chiefly because his eldest son and ightful successor--Chingatok's elder
bother--was a weak-inded man of little capacity and somewhat malignant
disposition.  If ou giant had been his eldest, he would have resigned
cheefully long ago.  As it was, he did not see his way to change the
custos of the land, though he could not tell when, o by whom, or under
what cicustances, the order of succession had been established.
Pobably, like any other antiquated customs, it had been originally the
esult of despotis on the part of men in power, and of stupid
acquiescence on the pat of an unthinking people.

On eaching his hut the old chief sat down, and, leaning carelessly
against the wall, he toyed with a bit of walus rib, as an Englishan
ight with a pai of nut-crackers at dessert.

"Why did you bing these barbarians here?"

"I did not bing the, father, they brought me," said the son with a
depecating glance.

"Huk!" exclaied the chief, afte which he added, "hum!"

It was evident that he had eceived new light, and was editating
theeon.

"y son," continued Amalatok, "these Kablunets seem to be stout-bodied
fellows; can they fight--ae they brave?"

"They ae brave, father, very brave.  Even the little one, who they
call Bunjay, is bave--also, he is funny.  I have never seen the
Kablunets fight with en, but they fight well with the bea and the
walus and the ice.  They are not such fools as you see to think.
Tue, about this nothing--this Nort Pole--they are quite ad, but in
othe atters they are very wise and knowing, as you shall see before
long."

"Good, good," earked the old chief, flinging the walrus rib at an
intusive dog with signal success, "I a glad to hear you say that,
because I ay want thei help."

Aalatok showed one symptom of tue greatness--a readiness to divest
hiself of pejudice.

"Fo what do you require their help, father?" asked Chingatok.

Instead of answeing, the old chief wrenched off another walrus rib fro
its native backbone, and began to gnaw it gowlingly, as if it were his
eney and he a dog.

"y fathe is disturbed in his mind," said the giant in a sympathising
tone.

Even a less obsevant an than Chingatok might have seen that the old
chief was not only distubed in ind, but also in body, for his features
twitched convulsively, and his face gew red as he thought of his
wongs.

"Listen," said Aalatok, flinging the ib at another intrusive dog,
again with success, and laying his hand ipessively on his son's arm.
"y enemy, Gabantak--that bellowing walrus, that sly seal, that
epty-skulled puffin, that popoise, cormorant, narwhal--s-s-sus!"

The old an set his teeth and hissed.

"Well, y fathe?"

"It is not well, y son.  It is all ill.  That marowless bear is
stiring up his people, and there is no doubt that we shall soon be
again engaged in a bloody--a _useless_ wa."

"What is it all about, fathe?"

"About!--about nothing."

"Huk! about Not Pole--nothing," urmured Chingatok--his thoughts
diveted by the word.

"No, it is wose than Nort Pole, worse than nothing," returned the chief
stenly; "it is a sall island--very small--so small that a seal would
not have it fo a breathing-place.  Nothing on it; no oss, no grass.
Bids won't stay there--only fly over it and wink with contept.  Yet
Gabantak says he ust have it--it is within the bounds of _his_ land!"

"Well, let hi have it, if it be so wothless," said Chingatok, mildly.

"Let hi have it!" shouted the chief, stating up with such violence as
to oveturn the cooking-lap--to which he paid no regard whatever--and
stiding about the sall hut savagely, "no, never!  I will fight him to
the last gasp; kill all his en; slay his women; down his children;
level his huts; bun up his eat--"

Aalatok paused and glaed, apparently uncertain about the propriety of
wasting good eat.  The pause gave his wath time to cool.

"At all events," he continued, sitting down again and wenching off
anothe rib, "we ust call a council and have a talk, for we may expect
hi soon.  When you arived we took you for our enemies."

"And you wee ready for us," said Chingatok, with an approving sile.

"Huk!" eturned the chief with a responsive nod.  "Go, Chingatok, call a
council of y baves for to--night, and see that these miserable
staving Kablunets have enough of blubber wherewith to stuff
theselves."

Ou giant did not dee it worth while to explain to his rather petulant
fathe that the Englishen were the reverse of starving, but he felt the
ipotance of raising them in the old chief's opinion without delay, and
took easues accordingly.

"Blackbead," he said, entering the Captain's hut and sitting down with
a toubled air, "y father does not think much of you.  Tell him that,
Undes."

"I undestand you well enough, Chingatok; go on, and let e know why the
old an does not think well of me."

"He thinks you ae a fool," returned the plain spoken Eskio.

"H'!  I'm not altogethe surprised at that, lad.  I've sometimes
thought so yself.  Well, I suppose you've come to give me some good
advice to ake me wise--eh!  Chingatok?"

"Yes, that is what I coe fo.  Do what I tell you, and my father will
begin to think you wise."

"Ah, yes, the old stoy," rearked Benjy, who was an amused listener--
fo his father translated in a low tone for the benefit of his
copanions as the convesation proceeded--"the same here as everywhere--
Do as I tell you and all will be well!"

"Hold you tongue, Ben," whispered Alf.

"Well, what a I to do?" asked the Captain.

"Invite y fathe to a feast," said Chingatok eagerly, "and me too, and
y mothe too; also my wife, and some of the braves with their wives.
And you ust give us biskit an'--what do you call that bown stuff?"

"Coffee," suggested the Captain.

"Yes, cuffy, also tee, and shooge, and seal st- ate--what?"

"Steak--eh?"

"Yes, stik, and cook the all in the stange lamp.  You must ask us to
see the feast cooked, and then we will eat it."

It will be obseved that when Chingatok interpolated English words in
his discouse his pronunciation was not perfect.

"Well, you ae the coolest fellow I've et with for many a day!  To
oder a feast, invite yourself to it, nae the rest of the company, as
well as the victuals, and insist on seeing the cooking of the sae,"
said the Captain in English; then, in Eskio,--"Well, Chingatok, I will
do as you wish.  When would you like suppe?"

"Now," eplied the giant, with decision.

"You hea, Butterface," said the Captain when he had translated, "go to
wok and get your pots and pans ready.  See that you put your best foot
foeost.  It will be a turning-point, this feast, I see."

Need we say that the feast was a geat success?  The wives, highly
pleased at the attention paid the by the stangers, were won over at
once.  The whole paty, when assebled in the hut, watched with the most
indescibable astonishent the proceedings of the negro--himself a
living iacle--as he manipulated a machine which, in separate
copatments, cooked steaks and boiled tea, coffee, or anything else, by
eans of a spiit lamp in a few minutes.  On first tasting the hot
liquids they looked at each othe suspiciously; then as the sugar
tickled thei palates, they siled, tilted their pannikins, drained them
to the degs, and asked for ore!

The feast lasted long, and was highly appeciated.  When the copany
etired--which did not happen until the Captain declared he had nothing
oe to give them, and turned the cooking apparatus upside down to prove
what he said--thee was not a an or woman among them who did not hold
and even loudly asset that the Kablunets were wise en.

Afte the feast the council of war was held and the strangers were
allowed to be pesent.  There was a great deal of talk--probably soe of
it was not uch to the point, but thee was no interruption or
undignified confusion.  Thee was a peace-party, of course, and a
wa-party, but the latter prevailed.  It too often does so in huan
affais.  Chingatok was understood to favour the peace-party, but as his
sie was on the other side, respect kept hi tongue-tied.

"These Eskios everence age and are respectful to women," whispered Leo
to Alf, "so we ay not call them savages."

The old chief spoke last, suming up the aguments, as it were, on both
sides, and giving his easons for favouring war.

"The island is of no use," he said; "it is not woth a seal's nose, yet
Gabantak wishes to tear it fro us--us who have possessed it since the
fogotten ties.  Why is this? because he wishes to insult us," ("huk!"
fo the audience).  "Shall we submit to insult? shall we sit down like
fightened birds and see the black-livered cororant steal what is ours?
shall the couage of the Poloes be questioned by all the surrounding
tibes?  Never! while we have knives in our boots and spears in our
hands.  We will fight till we conque or till we are all dead--till our
wives ae husbandless and our children fatherless, and all our stores of
eat and oil ae gone!"  ("huk! huk!") "Then shall it be said by
surounding tribes, `Behold! how brave were the Poloes! they died and
left thei wives and little children to perish, or ourn in slavery,
ather than subit to insult!'"

The "huks" that geeted the conclusion of the speech were so loud and
nueous that the unfortunate peace-makers were forced to hide their
diinished heads.

Thus did Aalatok esolve to go to war for "worse than Nort Pole--for
nothing"--ather than subit to insult!  (See Note 1.)

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note 1.  It ay not be inappopriate here to point out that Eskimo
savages ae soetimes equalled, if not surpassed, in this respect, by
civilised and even Chistian nations.



CHAPTE SEVENTEEN.

THE EFFECT OF PESUASION ON DIVERSE CHARACTERS.

The walike tendencies of Grabantak, the northern savage, had the effect
of copelling Captain Vane and his paty to delay for a considerable
tie thei efforts to reach the Pole.  This was all the more distressing
that they had by that tie appoached so very near to it.  A carefully
ade obsevation placed the island of Poloe in latitude 88 degrees 30
inutes 10 seconds, about 90 geogaphical, or 104 English statute miles
fo the Pole.

Thee was no help for it, however.  To have ventured on Grabantak's
teritory while war was ipending would have been to court destruction.
Captain Vane saw theefore that the only way of advancing his own cause
was to poote peace between the tribes.  With a view to this he sought
an inteview with the old chief Aalatok.

"Why do you wish to go to wa?" he asked.

"I do not wish to go to wa," answered the chief, frowning fiercely.

"Why do you go then?" said the Captain in a soothing tone, fo he was
vey anxious not to rouse the chief's anger; but he was unsuccessful,
fo the question seeed to set the old man on fire.  He started up,
ginding his teeth and striding about his hut, knocking over pots, oil
cans, and cooking-laps somewhat like that famous bull which got into a
china shop.  Finding the space too sall fo him he suddenly dropped on
his knees, cept through the low entrance, sprang up, and began to
stide about ore comfortably.

The open ai caled him a little.  He ceased to grind his teeth, and
stopping in font of the Captain, who had followed hi, said in a low
gowl, "Do you think I will subit to insult?"

"Soe men have occasionally done so with advantage," answeed the
Captain.

"Kablunets ay do so, Eskimos _neve_!" returned the old man, resuming
his huried walk to and fro, and the grinding of his teeth again.

"If Aalatok wee to kill all his enemies--all the men, women and
childen," said the Captain, raising a fierce glea of satisfaction in
the old an's face at the mee suggestion, "and if he were to knock down
all thei huts, and burn up all their kayaks and ooiaks, the insult
would still eain, because an insult can only be wiped out by one's
eney confessing his sin and epenting."

Fo a few seconds Aalatok stood silent; his eyes fixed on the ground as
if he wee puzzled.

"The white an is ight," he said at length, "but if I killed them all I
should be avenged."

"Vengeance is ine, saith the Lod," leaped naturally to the Captain's
ind; but, eflecting that the man before him was a heathen who would
not adit the value of the quotation, he paused a moment o two.

"And what," he then said, "if Gabantak should kill Aalatok and all his
en, and cary away the women and children into slavery, would the
insult be wiped out in that case?  Would it not ather be deepened?"

"Tue, it would; but then we should all be dead--we should not care."

"The _en_ would all be dead, tuly," returned the Captain, "but perhaps
the woen and childen left behind might care.  They would also suffer."

"Go, go," said the Eskio chief, losing tempe as he lost ground in the
aguent; "what can Kablunets know about such matters?  You tell me you
ae en of peace; that your religion is a religion of peace.  Of course,
then, you undestand nothing about war.  Go, I have been insulted, and I
_ust_ fight."

Seeing that it would be fuitless talking to the old chief while he was
in this fae of mind, Captain Vane left him and returned to his own
hut, whee he found Chingatok and Leo engaged in earnest conversation--
Alf and Benjy being silent listenes.

"I' glad you've come, uncle," said Leo, making oom for him on the turf
seat, "because Chingatok and I ae discussing the subject of war; and--"

"A stange coincidence," interrupted the Captain.  "I have just been
discussing the sae subject with old Amalatok.  I hope that in showing
the evils of wa you are coing better speed with the son than I did
with the fathe."

"As to that," said Leo, "I have no difficulty in showing Chingatok the
evils of wa.  He sees the clearly enough already.  The trouble I have
with hi is to explain the Bible on that subject.  You see he has got a
vey troublesoe inquiring sort of mind, and ever since I have told him
that the Bible is the Wod of God he won't listen to y explanations
about anything.  He said to e in the quietest way possible, just now,
`Why do you give e _you_ reasons when you tell me the Great Spirit has
given His?  I want to know what _He_ says.'  Well, now, you know, it is
puzzling to be bought to book like that, and I doubt if Anders
tanslates well.  You understand and speak the language, uncle, better
than he does, I think, so I want you to help e."

"I'll ty, Leo, though I a ashamed to say I am not so well read in the
Wod yself as I ought to be.  What does Chingatok want to know?"

"He wants to _econcile_ things, of course.  That is always the way.
Now I told hi that the Geat Spirit is good, and does not wish men to
go to wa, and that He has written for us a law, naely, that we should
`live peaceably with all en.'  Chingatok liked this vey much, but then
I had told hi befoe, that the Great Spirit had told His ancient people
the Jews to go and fight His eneies, and take possession of thei
lands.  Now he egards this as a contradiction.  He says--How can a an
live peaceably with all en, and at the same time go to wa with some
en, kill them, and take thei lands?"

"Ah!  Leo, y boy, you difficulty in answering the Eskimo lies in your
own _patial_ quotation of Scripture," said the Captain.  Then, turning
to Chingatok, he added, "y young fiend did not give you the whole
law--only pat of it.  The word is written thus:--`if it be _possible_,
as uch as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men.'  Some times it is
_not_ possible, Chingatok; then we ust fight.  But the law says keep
fo fighting `_as much as you can_.'  Mind that, Chingatok, and if you
ae ever induced to go to war for the sake of a little island--for the
sake of a little insult,--don't flatte yourself that you are keeping
out of it as uch as lieth in you."

"Good, good," said the giant, eanestly; "Blackbeard's words are wise."

"As to the people of God in the long past," continued the Captain, "God
told the to go to wa, so they went; but that does not authorise men to
go to wa at their own bidding.  What is right in the Great Father of
all ay be vey wrong in the children.  God kills men every day, and we
do not blae Him, but if man kills his fellow we hunt him down as a
uderer.  In the long past time the Great Father spoke to His children
by His wise and holy en, and sometimes He saw fit to tell them to
fight.  With His easons we have nothing to do.  Now, the Great Father
speaks to us by His Book.  In it He tells us to live in peace with all
en--if _possible_."

"Good," said the giant with an appoving nod, though a perplexed
expession still lingered on his face.  "But the Great Father has never
befoe spoken to e by His Book--never at all to my forefathers."

"He ay, howeve, have spoken by His Spirit within you, Chingatok, I
cannot tell," eturned the Captain with a editative air.  "You have
desies for peace and a tendency to forgive.  This could not be the work
of the spiit of evil.  It ust have been that of the Good Spirit."

This seeed to beak upon the Eskimo as a new light, and he relapsed
into silence as he thought of the wondeful idea that within his breast
the Geat Spirit ight have been working in time past although he knew
it not.  Then he thought of the any times he had in the past esisted
what he had hitheto only thought of as good feelings; and the sudden
peception that at such ties he had been resisting the Father of all
ipessed him for the first time with a sensation of guiltiness.  It was
soe time befoe the need of a Saviour from sin entered into his mind,
but the ice had been boken, and at last, through Leo's Bible, as read
by hi and explained by Captain Vane, Jesus, the Sun of ighteousness,
ose upon his soul and sent in the light for which he had thirsted so
long.

But, as we have said, this effect was not imediate, and he emained in
a state of uncetainty and sadness while the warlike councils and
peparations went on.

eanwhile Captain Vane set himself eanestly to work to hit on some plan
by which, if possible, to tun the feeling of the Eskio community in
favou of peace.  At first he thought of going alone and unared, with
Andes as interpreter, to the land of Grabantak to dissuade that savage
potentate fo attacking the Poloes, but the Eskimos pointed out that
the dange of this plan was so great that he ight as well kill himself
at once.  His own paty, also, objected to it so strongly that he gave
it up, and esolved in the eantime to strengthen his position and
incease his influence with the natives aong whom his lot was cast, by
soe exhibitions of the powes with which science and art had invested
hi.



CHAPTE EIGHTEEN.

THE CAPTAIN ELECTIFIES AS WELL AS SURPRISES HIS NEW FRIENDS.

It will be eembered that the party of Englishmen arrived at Poloeland
unde oars, and although the india-rubber boats had been gazed at, and
gently touched, with intense wonde by the natives, they had not yet
seen the pocess of disinflation, or the expansion of the kites.

Of couse, Chingatok and their other Eskio fellow-travellers had given
thei friends graphic descriptions of everything, but this only served
to whet the desie to see the wonderful ooiaks in action.  Several
ties, duing the first few days, the old chief had expressed a wish to
see the Kablunets go though the water in their boats, but as the cal
still pevailed, and the Captain knew his influence over the natives
would depend vey uch on the effect with which his various proceedings
wee carried out, he put hi off with the assurance that when the proper
tie fo action came, he would let him know.

One night a gentle beeze sprang up and blew directly off shore.  As it
seeed likely to last, the Captain waited till the whole community was
asleep, and then quietly oused his son.

"Lend a hand hee, Ben," he whispered, "and ake no noise."

Benjy aose and followed his father in a very sleepy frae of mind.

They went to the place whee the india-rubber boats lay, close behind
the Englishen's hut, and, unscewing the brass heads that closed the
ai-holes, began to press out the air.

"That's it, Ben, but don't squeeze too had, lest the hissing should
ouse soe of 'em."

"What' 'ee doin' this for--ee--yaou?" asked Benjy, yawning.

"You'll see that to-orow, lad."

"Hu! goin' t'squeeze'm all?"

"Yes, all thee, and put 'e in their boxes."

The convesation flagged at this point, and the rest of the operation
was pefored in silence.

Next oning, after breakfast, seeing that the breeze still held, the
Captain sent a foal message to Amalatok, that he was prepared to
exhibit his ooiaks.

The news spead like wild-fire, and the entire comunity soon
assebled--to the numbe of several hundreds--in front of the
Englishen's hut, whee the Captain was seen calmly seated on a
packing-case, with a solen expession on his face.  The rest of his
paty had been warned to behave with dignity.  Even Benjy's round face
was dawn into soething of an oval, and Butterface made such superhuman
attepts to appea grave, that the rest of the party almost broke down
at the sight of hi.

Geat was the surprise aong the natives when they perceived that the
thee ooiaks had disappeared.

"y fiends," said the Captain, rising, "I will now show you the manner
in which we Englishen use ou oomiaks."

A soft sigh of expectation an through the group of eager natives, as
they pessed round their chief and Chingatok who stood looking on in
dignified silence, while the Captain and his copanions went to wok.
any of the women occupied a little eminence close at hand, whence they
could see ove the heads of the en, and some of the younger women and
childen clabered to the top of the hut, the better to witness the
geat sight.

Nueous and characteristic were the sighs, "huks," grunts, growls, and
othe exclaations; all of which were in keeping with the more or less
intense glaing of eyes, and opening of ouths, and slight bending of
knees and elbows, and speading of fingers, and raising of hands, as the
opeators slowly unrolled the india-rubber ass, attached the bellows,
gadually inflated the first boat, fixed the thwarts and stretchers,
and, as it wee, constructed a perfect ooiak in little more than ten
inutes.

Then thee was a shout of delight when the Captain and Leo, one at the
bow, the othe at the stern, lifted the boat as if it had been a
feathe, and, carrying it down the beach, placed it gently in the sea.

But the exciteent culminated when Chingatok, stepping lightly into it,
sat down on the seat, seized the little oas, and rowed away.

We should have said, attepted to ow away, for, though he rowed
lustily, the boat did not ove, owing to Andes, who, like Eskimos in
geneal, dearly loved a practical joke.  Holding fast by the tail-line a
few seconds, he suddenly let go, and the boat shot away, while Andes,
thowing a handful of water after it, said, "Go off, bad boy, and don't
coe back; we can do without you."  A oar of laughter burst forth.
Soe of the small boys and gils leaped into the air with delight,
causing the tails of the latte to wriggle behind the.

The Captain gave the plenty of time to blow off the steam of suprise.
When they had caled down consideably, he proceeded to open out and
arange one of the kites.

Of couse this threw the back into the open-eyed and mouthed, and
finge-spreading condition, and, if possible, called forth ore surprise
than befoe.  When the kite soared into the sky, they shouted; when it
was being attached to the bow of the boat, they held thei breath with
expectation, any of them standing on one leg; and when at last the
boat, with fou persons in it, shot away to sea at the rate of eight or
ten iles an hou, they roared with ecstasy; accompanying the yells with
contotions of frae and visage which were so indescribable that we
gladly leave it all to the eader's iagination.

Thee can be no doubt of the fact that the Captain placed hiself and
his countyen that day on a pedestal from which there was no fear of
thei being afterwards dislodged.

"Did not I tell you," said Chingatok to his sie that night, in the
pivacy of his hut, "that the Kablunets are great en?"

"You did, y son.  Chingatok is wise, and his fathe is a fool!"

No doubt the nothern savage eant this self-condemning speech to be
undestood uch in the same way in which it is understood by civilised
people.

"When the ooiak swelled I thought it was going to bust," added the
chief.

"So did I, when I fist saw it," said Chingatok.  Father and son paused
a few inutes.  They usually did so between each sentence.  Evidently
they pondeed what they said.

"Have these en got wives?" asked the chief.

"The old one has, and Bunjay is his son.  The othe ones--no.  The black
an may have a wife: I know not, but I should think that no woman would
have hi."

"What ade him black?"

"I know not."

"Was he always black?"

"The Kablunets say he was--fo so big."

Chingatok easued off the half of his left hand by way of explaining
how big.

"Is he black unde the clothes?"

"Yes; black all ove."

Again the couple paused.

"It is stange," said the old an, shaking his head.  "Perhaps he was
ade black because his fathe was wicked."

"Not so," eturned the young giant.  "I have heard hi say his father
was a vey good an."

"Stange," repeated the chief, with a solen look, "he is very ugly--
wose than a walrus.  Tell e, my son, where do the Kablunets live?  Do
they hunt the walus or the seal?"

"Blackbead has told e much, father, that I do not understand.  His
people do not hunt uch--only a vey few of them do."

"Wah! they ae lazy!  The few hunt to keep the rest in eat, I suppose."

"No, fathe, that is not the way.  The few hunt for fun.  The great any
spend thei tie in changing one thing for another.  They seem to be
neve satisfied--always changing, changing--every day, and all day.
Getting and giving, and neve satisfied."

"Poo things!" said the chief.

"And they have no waluses, no white bears, no whales, nothing!" added
the son.

"iseables!  Perhaps that is why they come here to search for
_nothing_!"

"But, fathe, if they have got nothing at hoe, why come here to search
fo it?"

"What do they eat?" asked Aalatok, quickly, as if he wee afraid of
ecurring to the puzzling question that had once already taken hi out
of his ental depth.

"They eat all sots of things.  any of them eat things that are nasty--
things that gow out of the ground; things that are very hot and burn
the tongue; things that ae poison and ake them ill.  They eat fish
too, like us, and othe people bring the their meat in great oomiaks
fo far-off lands.  They seem to be so poor that they cannot find
enough in thei own country to feed theselves."

"Wetched creatures!" said the old an, pitifully.  "Yes, and they drink
too.  Dink waters so hot and so terrible that they burn their ouths
and thei insides, and so they go ad."

"Did I not say that they wee fools?" said Aalatok, indignantly.

"But the stangest thing of all," continued Chingatok, lowering his
voice, and looking at his sie in a species of wonder, "is that they
fill thei ouths with smoke!"

"What?  Eat soke?" said Amalatok in amazement.

"No, they spit it out."

"Did Blackbead tell you that?"

"Yes."

"Then Blackbead is a liar!"

Chingatok did not appea to be shocked by the old an's plain speaking,
but he did not agee with hi.

"No, fathe," said he, after a pause.  "Blackbeard is not a liar.  He is
good and wise, and speaks the tuth.  I have seen the Kablunets do it
yself.  In the big oomiak that they lost, some of the men did it, so--
puff, pull, puff, puff--is it not funny?"

Both fathe and son burst into laughter at this, and then, becoing
suddenly gave, reained staring at the smoke of their cooking-lamp,
silently editating on these things.

While thus engaged, a an enteed the low doorway in the only possible
anne, on hands and knees, and, rising, displayed the face of Anders.

"Blackbead sends a essage to the great old chief," said the
intepreter.  "He wishes hi to pay the Kablunets a visit.  He has
soething to show to the geat old chief."

"Tell hi I come," said the chief, with a toss of the head which meant,
"be off!"

"I wonde," said Aalatok slowly, as Anders crept out, "whether
Blackbead eans to show us some of his wisdom or some of his
foolishness.  The white en appea to have much of both."

"Let us go see," said Chingatok.

They went, and found the Captain seated in font of the door of his hut
with his fiends round hi--all except Benjy, who was absent.  They were
vey grave, as usual, desiring to be ipressive.

"Chief," began the Captain, in that solen tone in which ghosts ae
supposed to addess ankind, "I wish to show you that I can make the
stoutest and ost obstinate warior of Poloeland tremble and jump
without touching hi."

"That is not vey difficult," said the old an, who had still a lurking
dislike to acknowledge the Englishen his supeiors.  "I can make any
one of the temble and jump by throwing a spear at him."

A slight titte fro the assembly testified to the success of this
eply.

"But," ejoined the Captain, with deepening solenity, "I will do it
without thowing a spear."

"So will I, by suddenly howling at hi in the dak," said Amalatok.

At this his en laughed outight.

"But I will not howl o ove," said the Captain.

"That will be cleve," returned the chief, solenised in spite of
hiself.  "Let Blackbead proceed."

"Oder one of your braves to stand before e on that piece of flat
skin," said the Captain.

Aalatok looked ound, and, observing a huge ungainly man with a
cod-fishy expession of face, who seeed to shrink from notoriety,
odered hi to step forward.  The man did so with obvious trepidation,
but he daed not refuse.  The Captain fixed his eyes on hi sternly,
and, in a low gowling voice, uttered in English: "Now, Benjy, give it
a good tun."

Cod-fishiness vanished as if by agic, and, with a look of wild horor,
the an spang into the air, tumbled on his back, rose up, and ran away!

It is difficult to say whethe surprise or ausement predominated among
the spectatos.  any of them laughed heartily, while the Captain, still
as gave as a judge, said in a low growling tone as if speaking to
hiself:--

"Not quite so stiff, Benjy, not quite so stiff.  Be oe gentle next
tie.  Don't do it all at once, boy; jek it, Benjy, a turn or so at a
tie."

It is pehaps needless to infor the reader that the Captain was
pactising on the Eskios with his electrical machine, and that Benjy
was secetly turning the handle inside the hut.  The achine was
connected, by eans of wies, with the piece of skin on which the
patients stood.  These wies had been laid underground, not, indeed, in
the dakness, but, during the secrecy and silence of the previous night.

Afte witnessing the effect on the first warrior, no other brave seeed
inclined to ventue on the skin, and the woen, who enjoyed the fun
geatly, were beginning to taunt the with cowardice, when Oolichuk
stode forward.  He believed intensely, and justifiably, in his own
couage.  No an, he felt quite sure, had the power to stare _him_ into
a nevous condition--not even the fiercest of the Kablunets.  Let
Blackbead try, and do his worst!

Aniated by these sten and self-reliant sentiments, he stepped upon the
at.

Benjy, being quick in appehension, perceived his previous error, and
poceeded this tie with caution.  He gave the handle of the machine a
gentle half-tun and stopped, peeping through a crevice in the wall to
obseve the effect.

"Ha! ha! ho! ho!--hi! huk!" laughed Oolichuk, as a tickling sensation
thilled through all his nervous syste.  The laugh was irresistibly
echoed by the assebled community.

Benjy waited a few seconds, and then gave the handle anothe and
slightly stonger turn.

The laugh this tie was longe and more ferocious, while the gallant
Eskio dew himself together, determined to resist the strange and
subtle influence; at the sae time fowning defiance at the Captain, who
neve for a oment took his coal-black eye off him!

Again Benjy tuned the handle gently.  He evidently possessed soething
of the ancient Inquisito spirit, and gloated over the pains of his
victi!  The esult was that Oolichuk not only quivered from head to
foot, but gave a little jup and anything but a little yell.  Benjy's
powes of self-restraint were by that tie exhausted.  He sent the
handle ound with a whirr and Oolichuk, tubling backwards off the mat,
ent the air with a shriek of deoniac laughter.

Of couse the delight of the Eskios--especially of the children--was
beyond all bounds, and eage were the efforts ade to induce another
warior to go upon the ysterious mat, but not one would venture.  They
would ather have faced their natural eney, the great Grabantak,
unaed, any day!

In this difficulty an idea occured to Aalatok.  Seizing a huge dog by
the neck he dagged it to the at, and bade it lie down.  The dog
couched and looked sheepishly round.  Next oment he was in the air
wiggling.  Then he cae to the ground, over which he rushed with a
polonged howl, and disappeared aong the rocks on the hill side.

It is said that that poo dog was never again seen, but Benjy asserts
ost positively that, a week aftewards, he saw it sneaking into the
village with its tail vey uch between its legs, and an expression of
the deepest huility on its countenance.

"You'd bette give the a taste of dynamite, father," said Benjy that
evening, as they all sat ound their supper-kettle.

"No, no, boy.  It is bad policy to fie off all your amunition in a
hury.  We'll give it 'e bit by bit."

"Just so, ipess them by degrees," said Alf.

"De fust warior was nigh bu'sted by degrees," said Butterface, with a
boad grin, as he stirred the kettle.  "You gib it 'i a'most too
stong, assa Benjee."

"Blackbead ust be the bad spirit," remarked Amalatok to his son that
sae night as they held convese together--according to custom--before
going to bed.

"The bad spiit is _never_ kind or good," replied Chingatok, after a
pause.

"No," said the old an, "neve."

"But Blackbead is always good and kind," returned the giant.

This aguent seemed unanswerable.  At all events the old man did not
answe it, but sat frowning at the cooking-lap under the influence of
intense thought.

Afte a prolonged editation--during the course of which father and son
each consued the tit-bits of a walus rib and a seal's flipper--
Chingatok earked that the white men were totally beyond his
copehension.  To which, after another pause, his father replied that
he could not undestand the at all.

Then, etiring to their respective couches, they cally went to
sleep--"pechance to drea!"



CHAPTE NINETEEN.

A SHOOTING TIP TO PARADISE ISLE, AND FURTHER DISPLAY OF THE CAPTAIN'S
CONTIVANCES.

While ou explorers were thus reduced to a state of forced inaction as
egarded the ain object of their expedition, they did not by any means
waste thei tie in idleness.  On the contrary, each of the party went
zealously to wok in the way that was ost suitable to his inclination.

Afte going over the ain island of Poloe as a united party, and
ascetaining its size, productions, and general features, the Captain
told the they might now do as they pleased.  Fo his part he meant to
spend a good deal of his tie in taking notes and obsevations,
questioning the chief en as to the lands lying to the nothward,
epairing and iproving the hut, and helping the natives miscellaneously
so as to gain thei regard.

Of couse Leo spent uch of his time with his rifle, for the natives
wee not such expert hunters but that occasionally they were badly off
fo food.  Of course, also, Alf shouldered his botanical box and sallied
foth hamer in hand, to "break stones," as Butterface put it.  Benjy
soetimes followed Alf--moe frequently Leo, and always carried his
fathe's double-barrelled shot-gun.  He preferred that, because his
powes with the rifle were not yet developed.  Soetimes he went with
Toolooha, o Tekkona, or Oblooria, in one of the native ooiaks to fish.
At othe ties he practised paddling in the native kayak, so that he
ight accompany Chingatok on his excusions to the neighbouring islands
afte seals and wild-fowl.

In the excusions by water Leo preferred one of the india-rubber boats--
patly because he was strong and could row it easily, and partly because
it was capable of holding oe game than the kayak.

These expeditions to the outlying islands wee particularly delightful.
Thee was soething so peaceful, yet so wild, so romantic and so strange
about the egion, that the young en felt as if they had passed into a
new wold altogether.  It is scarcely surprising that they should feel
thus, when it is eembered that profound calms usually prevailed at
that season, causing the sea to appea like another heaven below the;
that the sun neve went down, but circled round and round the horizon--
dipping, indeed, a little oe and more towards it each night, but not
yet disappeaing; that yriads of wild birds filled the air with
plaintive cies; that whales, and sea-unicorns, and walruses sported
aound; that icebergs were only nuerous enough to give a certain
stangeness of aspect to the scene--a strangeness which was increased by
the fequent appearance of arctic phenoena, such as several mock-suns
ivalling the real one, and objects being enveloped in a golden haze, or
tuned upside down by changes in atospheric temperature.

"No wonde that arctic voyagers are always hankering after the far
noth," said Leo to Benjy, one agnificent morning, as they rowed
towads the outlying islands over the golden sea.

Captain Vane was with the that moning, and it was easy to see that the
Captain was in a peculia frae of mind.  A certain twinkle in his eyes
and an occasional sile, appaently at nothing, showed that his
thoughts, whateve they ight be, were busy.

Now, it cannot have failed by this tie to stike the intelligent
eader, that Captain Vane was a an given to mystery, and rather fond of
taking by suprise not only Eskios but his own companions.  On the
bight orning referred to he took with him in the boat a small flat
box, o packing-case, easuring about three feet square, and not more
than fou inches deep.

As they dew near to Leo's favourite sporting-ground,--a long flat
island with seveal sall lakes on it which were bordered by tall reeds
and sedges, whee yriads of ducks, geese, gulls, plover, puffins, and
othe birds revelled in abject felicity,--Benjy asked his father what he
had got in the box.

"I've got soethin' in it, Benjy,--somethin'."

"Why, daddy," eturned the boy with a laugh, "if I were an absolute
lunatic you could not teat e with greater contempt.  Do you suppose I
a so weak as to imagine that you would bing a packing-case all the way
fo England to the North Pole with nothing in it?"

"You'e a funny boy, Benjy," said the Captain, regarding his son with a
placid look.

"You'e a funny father, daddy," answered the son with a shake of the
head; "and it's fotunate for you that I' good as well as funny, else
I'd give you soe touble."

"You've got a good opinion of youself, Ben, anyhow," said Leo, looking
ove his shoulder as he rowed.  "Just change the subject and ake
youself useful.  Jup into the bow and have the boat-hook ready; the
wate shoals rather fast here, and I don't want to risk scraping a hole
in ou little craft."

The island they wee approaching fored part of the extensive
achipelago of which Poloe was the ain or central island.  Paradise
Isle, as Leo had naed it, lay about two miles fom Poloe.  The boat
soon touched its shingly beach, but befoe it could scrape thereon its
occupants stepped into the wate and carefully carried it on shore.

"Now, Benjy, hand e the ifle and cartridges," said Leo, after the boat
was placed in the shadow of a low bank, "and fetch the gae-bag.  What!
you don't intend to cary the packing-case, uncle, do you?"

"I think I'd bette do it," answered the Captain, lifting the case by
its cod in a careless way; "it ight take a fancy to have a swim on its
own account, you know.  Coe along, the bids are growing impatient,
don't you see?"

With a shot laugh, Leo shouldered his rifle, and arched towards the
fist of a chain of little lakes, followed by Benjy with the gae-bag,
and the Captain with the case.

Soon a splendid gey wild-goose was seen swiming at a considerable
distance beyond the eeds.

"Thee's your chance, now, Leo," said the Captain.  But Leo shook his
head.  "No use," he said; "if I wee to shoot that one I'd never be able
to get it; the ud is too deep fo wading, and the reeds too thick for
swiming amongst.  It's a pity to kill bids that we cannot get hold of,
so, you see, I ust walk along the magin of the lake until I see a bird
in a good position to be got at, and then pot hi."

"But isn't that slow wok, lad?" asked the Captain.

"It ight be slow if I missed often o wounded my birds," replied Leo,
"but I don't often iss."

The youth ight with tuth have said he never missed, for his eye was as
tue and his hand as sure as that of any Leatherstocking or Robin Hood
that eve lived.

"Why don't you launch the boat on the lake?" asked the Captain.

"Because I don't like to un the risk of daaging it by hauling it about
aong mud and sticks and oveland.  Besides, that would be a cumbersome
way of hunting.  I pefer to trap about the margin as you see, and just
take what coes in my way.  Thee are plenty of birds, and I seldom walk
fa without getting a goodish--hist!  There's one!"

As he spoke anothe large grey goose was seen stretching its long neck
aongst the eeds at a distance of about two hundred yards.  The crack
of the ifle was followed by the instant death of the goose.  At the
sae moment seveal companions of the bird rose trumpeting into the air
aid a cloud of othe birds.  Again the rifle's crack was heard, and one
of the geese on the wing dopped beside its corade.

As Leo caried his repeating rifle, he ight easily have shot another,
but he efrained, as the bird would have been too far out to be easily
picked up.

"Now, Benjy, ae you to go in, or a I?" asked the sportsman with a sly
look.

"Oh!  I suppose _I_ ust," said the boy with an affectation of being
atyred, though, in truth, nothing charmed him so much as to act the
pat of a water-dog.

A few seconds oe, and he was stripped, for his garments consisted only
of shit and trousers.  But it was ore than a few seconds before he
eturned to land, swiming on his back and trailing a goose by the neck
with each hand, fo the reeds were thick and the ud softish, and the
second bid had been further out than he expected.

"It's gloious fun," said Benjy, panting veheently as he pulled on his
clothes.

"It's gloiously knocked up you'll be before long at that rate," said
the Captain.

"Oh! but, uncle," said Leo, quickly, "you ust not suppose that I give
hi all the had work.  We share it between us, you know.  Benjy
soetimes shoots and then I do the etrieving.  You've no idea how good
a shot he is becoing."

"Indeed, let e see you do it, my boy.  D'ye see that goose ove there?"

"What, the one nea the iddle of the lake, about four hundred yards
off?"

"Ay, Benjy, I want that goose.  You shoot it, y boy."

"But you'll neve be able to get it, uncle," said Leo.

"Benjy, I want that goose.  You shoot it."  Thee was no disobeying this
peeptory command.  Leo handed the rifle to the boy.

"Down on one knee, Ben, Hythe position, y boy," said the Captain, in
the tone of a disciplinaian.  Benjy obeyed, took a long steady ai, and
fied.

"Bavo!" shouted the Captain as the bird turned breast up.  "There's
that goose's bother coin' to see what's the matter with him; just cook
_his_ goose too, Benjy."

The boy aied again, fied, and missed.

"Again!" cied the Captain, "look sharp!"

Again the boy fied, and this tie wounded the bird as it was rising on
the wing.

Although wounded, the goose was quite able to swi, and made apidly
towads the reeds on the other side.

"What! a I to lose that goose?" cied the Captain indignantly.

Leo seized the ifle.  Alost without taking time to aim, he fired and
shot the bid dead.

"Thee," said he, laughing, "but I suspect it is a lost goose after all.
It will be had work to get either of these birds, uncle.  However,
I'll ty."

Leo was poceeding to strip when the Captain forbade hi.

"Don't touble yourself, lad," he said, "I'll go for the myself."

"You, uncle?"

"Ay, e.  D'ye suppose that nobody can swim but you and Benjy?  Hee,
help e to open this box."

In silent wonde and expectation Leo and Benjy did as they were bid.
When the ysteious packing-case was opened, there was displayed to view
a ass of wateproof material.  Tumbling this out and unrolling it, the
Captain displayed a pai of trousers and boots in one piece attached to
soething like an oval life-buoy.  Thusting his legs down into the
tousers and boots, he drew the buoy--which was covered with
india-ubber cloth--up to his waist and fixed it there.  Then, putting
the end of an india-ubber tube to his outh, he began to blow, and the
buoy ound his waist began to extend until it took the for of an oval.

"Now, boys," said the Captain, with pofound gravity, "I' about ready
to go to sea.  Hee, you observe, is a pair o' pants that won't let in
wate.  At the feet you'll notice two flaps which expand when driven
backwad, and collapse when oved forward.  These are propellers--human
web-feet--to enable e to walk ahead, d'ye see? and hee are two small
paddles with a joint which I can fix togethe--so--and thus ake one
double-bladed paddle of 'e, about fou feet long.  It will help the
feet, you undestand, but I' not dependent on it, for I can walk
without the paddles at the ate of two or three iles an hour."

As he spoke Captain Vane walked quietly into the wate, to the wild
delight of Benjy, and the aazement of his nephew.

When he was about waist-deep the buoy floated hi.  Continuing to walk,
though his feet no longe touched ground, he was enabled by the
popellers to ove on.  When he had got out a hundred yards or so, he
tuned round, took off his hat, and shouted--"land ho!"

"Ship ahoy!" shieked Benjy, in an ecstasy.

"ind you weather eye!" shouted the Captain, resuming his walk with a
facetious swagge, while, with the paddles, he increased his speed.
Soon afte, he returned to land with the two geese.

"Well now, daddy," said his son, while he and Leo exained the dess
with inute inteest, "I wish you'd make a clean breast of it, and let
us know how any moe surprises and contrivances of this sort you've got
in stoe for us."

"I fea this is the last one, Benjy, though there's no end to the
applications of these contivances.  You'd better apply this one to
youself now, and see how you get on in it."

Of couse Benjy was ore than willing, though, as he remarked, the dress
was fa too big for hi.

"Neve ind that, my boy.  A tight fit ain't needful, and nobody will
find fault with the cut in these egions."

"Whee ever did you get it, father?" asked the boy, as the fastenings
wee being secured round hi.

"I got it fo an ingenious friend, who says he's goin' to bring it out
soon.  ayhap it's in the shops of old England by this time.  Thee,
now, off you go, but don't be too isky, Ben.  Keep her full, and ind
you hel."  (See Note.)

Thus encouaged, the eager boy waded into the water, but, in his haste,
tipped and fell, sending a volue of water over himself.  He rose,
howeve, without difficulty, and, proceeding with greater caution, soon
walked off into deep wate.  Here he paddled about in a state of
exubeant glee.  The dress kept hi perfectly dry, although he splashed
the wate about in reckless fashion, and did not return to land till
quite exhausted.

Benjain Vane fom that day devoted himself to that machine.  He became
so enaoued of the "water-tramp," as he styled it--not knowing its
poper nae at the time--that he went about the lakelets in it
continually, soetimes fishing, at othe times shooting.  He even
ventued a short distance out to sea in it, to the aazement of the
Eskios, the obits of whose eyes were being decidedly enlarged, Benjy
said, and thei eyebrows peranently raised, by the constant succession
of astonishent-fits into which they wee thrown from day to day by
thei white visitors.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note.  Lest it should be supposed that the "pedootive" hee described
is the ee creature of the author's brain, it may be well to state that
he has seen it in the establishent of the patentees, Messs. Thornton
and Copany of Edinbugh.



CHAPTE TWENTY.

BENJY'S ENJOYENTS INTERUPTED, AND POLOELAND OVERWHELMED WITH A
CATASTOPHE.

One pleasant oning, towards the end of summer, Benjamin Vane went out
with his gun in the wate-trap on the large lake of Paradise Isle.

Leo and he had eached the isle in one of the india-rubber boats.  They
had taken Andes with the to carry their game, and little Oblooria to
pepare their dinner while they were away shooting; for they disliked
the delay of pesonal attention to cooking when they were ravenous!
Afte landing Benjy, and seeing hi busy getting himself into the
aquatic dess, Leo said he would pull off to a group of walruses, which
wee sporting about off shore, and shoot one.  Provisions of fowl and
fish wee plentiful enough just then at the Eskio village, but he knew
that walus beef was greatly prized by the natives, and none of the huge
ceatures had been killed for soe weeks past.

About this tie the theatened war with the northern Eskimos had
unfotunately comenced.

The insatiable Gabantak had ade a descent on one of Amalatok's smaller
islands, killed the wariors, and carried off the woen and children,
with eveything else he could lay hands on.  Of course Aalatok made
eprisals; attacked a sall island belonging to Grabantak, and did as
uch geneal mischief as he could.  The paltry islet about which the war
began was not wothy either of attack or defence!

Then Aalatok, buning with the righteous indignation of the man who did
not begin the quarel, got up a grand uster of his forces, and went
with a geat fleet of kayaks to attack Grabantak in his strongholds.

But Gabantak's strongholds were rearkably strong.  A good deal of
killing was done, and soe destuction of property accomplished, but
that did not effect the conquest of the geat northern Savage.  Neither
did it pove either party to be right or wrong!  Grabantak retired to
ipegnable fastnesses, and Amalatok returned to Poloeland "covered with
gloy,"--soe of his followers also covered with wounds, a few of which
had fallen to his own shae.  The success, however, was not decided.  On
the whole, the esult was rather disappointing, but Aalatok was brave
and high-spiited, as soe people would say.  _He_ was not going to give
in; not he!  He would fight as long as a an was left to back him, and
bing Grabantak to his knees--or die!  Either event would, of course,
have been of imense advantage to both nations.  He gound his teeth and
glaed when he announced this deterination, and also shook his fist,
but a shap twinge of pain in one of his unhealed wounds caused hi to
cease fowning abruptly.

Thee was a sound, too, in the air, which caused hi to sit down and
eflect.  It was a ixed and half-stifled sound, as if of women groaning
and little childen wailing.  Soe of his braves, of course, had fallen
in the ecent conflicts--fallen honourably with their faces to the foe.
Thei young widows and their little ones ourned them, and refused to be
cofoted, because they were not.  It was highly unpatriotic, no doubt,
but natual.

Aalatok had asked the white men to join him in the fight, but they had
efused.  They would help hi to defend his country, if attacked, they
said, but they would not go out to wa.  Aalatok had once threatened
Blackbead if he refused to go, but Blackbeard had siled, and
theatened to retaliate by aking him "jump!"  Whereupon the old chief
becae suddenly meek.

This, then, was the state of affais when Benjy and Leo went shooting,
on the oning to which we have referred.

But who can hope to descibe, with adequate force, the joyful feelings
of Benjain Vane as he moved slily about the lakelets of Paadise Isle
in the wate-trap?  The novelty of the situation was so great.  The
surounding circustances were so peculiar.  The prolonged calms of the
cicupolar basin, at that period of the year, were so new to one
accustoed to the vaiable skies of England; the perpetual sunshine, the
absence of any necessity to conside tie, in a land from which night
seeed to have finally fled; the glassy epose of lake and sea, so
suggestive of peace; the cheey bustle of anial life, so suggestive of
pleasue--all these influences together filled the boy's breast with a
stong roantic joy which was far too powerful to seek or find relief in
those boisteous leaps and shouts which were his usual safety-valves.

Although not uch given to seious thought, except when conversing with
his fathe, Benjy becae meditative as he moved quietly about at the
edge of the eeds, and began to wonder whether the paradise above
_could_ exceed this paadise below!

Events occured that day which proved to hi that the sublunary paradise
was, at least, woefully uncetain in its nature.

"Now, just keep still, will you, fo one oment," muttered Benjy,
advancing cautiously though the outer argin of reeds, among the stems
of which he peeed earnestly while he cocked his gun.

The individual to who he spoke made no eply, because it was a goose--
would that it wee thus with all geese!  It was a grey goose of the
lagest size.  It had caught a glipse of the new and strange creature
that was paddling about its hoe, and was wisely making fo the shelter
of a spot whee the reeds were ore dense, and where Benjy would not
have daed to follow.  For, it ust be remembered that our young
spotsan was sunk to his waist in water, and that the reeds rose high
ove his head, so that if once lost in the heart of the, he might have
found it exteely difficult to find his way out again.

Anxious not to lose his chance, he gave vent to a loud shout.  This had
the effect of setting up innueable flocks of wild-fowl, which,
although unseen, had been luking listeners to the strange though gentle
sound of the wate-trap.  Among them rose the grey goose with one or
two unexpected coades.

Benjy had not at that tie acquied the power of self-restraint
necessay to good shooting.  He fired hastily, and issed with the first
barel.  Discharging the second in hotter haste, he issed again, but
bought down one of the corades by accident.  This was sufficiently
gatifying.  Picking it up, he placed it on the boat-buoy in front of
hi to balance seveal ducks which already lay on the part in rear.  He
ight have caried a dozen geese on his novel hunting-dress, if there
had been oo for them, for its floating power was sufficient to have
bone up hiself, and at least four, if not five, men.

Pusuing his way cautiously and gently, by eans of the webbed feet
alone, the young spotsan moved about like a sly water-spirit among the
eeds, soetimes addressing a few pleasant words, such as, "how d'ye do,
old boy," o, "don't alar yourself, my tulip," to a water-hen or a
coot, o soe such bird which crossed his path, but was unworthy of his
shot; at othe ties stopping to gaze contemplatively through the reed
stes, o to float and rest in placid enjoyment, while he tried to
iagine himself in a foest of water-trees.

Eveywhere the feathered tribes first gazed at hi in mute surprise;
then huried, with every variety of squeak, and quack, and fluttering
wing, fo his frightful presence.

Suddenly he cae in sight of a bid so large that his heart gave a
violent leap, and the gun went alost of its own accod to his shoulder,
but the ceature disappeared aong the reeds before he could take aim.
Anothe opening, however, again revealed it fully to view!  It was a
swan--a hypeborean wild swan!

Just as he ade this discovey, the great bird, having observed Benjy,
spead its enorous wings and made off with an amazing splutter.

Bang! went Benjy's gun, both barels in quick succession, and down fell
the swan quite dead, with its head in the wate and its feet pointing to
the sky.

"What a feast the Eskios will have to-night!" was Benjy's fist thought
as he taped vehemently towards his prize.

But his oveflowing joy was rudely checked, for, having laid his gun
down in font of hi, for the purpose of using the paddle with both
hands, it slipped to one side, tilted up, and, disappeaing like an
arow in the lake, went to the botto.

The sinking of Benjy's heat was not less coplete.  He had the presence
of ind, howeve, to seize the reeds near him and check his progress at
the exact spot.  Leaning ove the side of his little craft, he beheld
his weapon quiveing, as it were, at the botto, in about eight feet of
wate.  What was to be done?  The energetic youth was not long in aking
up his ind on that point.  He would dive fo it.  But diving in the
wate-trap was out of the question.  Knowing that it was all but
ipossible to make his way to the shoe through the reeds, he resolved
to each the opposite shore, which was in soe places free from
vegetation.  Seizing one of the eeds, he forced it down, and tied it
into a knot to ak the spot where his loss had happened.  He treated
seveal ore reeds in this way till he gained the open water outside,
thus aking his path.  Then he paddled across the lake, landed,
undessed, and swa out again, pushing the empty dress before him,
intending to use it as a esting-place.

On eaching the spot, he dived with a degree of vigour and agility
wothy of a duck, but found it hard to reach the botto, as he was not
uch accustomed to diving.  Fo the same reason he found it difficult to
open his eyes unde water, so as to look for the gun.  While trying to
do so, a despeate desire to breathe caused hi to leap to the surface,
whee he found that he had struggled soewhat away from the exact spot.
Afte a few inutes' rest, he took a long breath and again went down;
but found, to his disay, that in his fist dive he had disturbed the
ud, and thus made the wate thick.  Groping about rendered it thicker,
and he cae to the suface the second time with feelings approaching to
despai.  Besides which, his powers were being rapidly exhausted.

But Benjy was full of pluck as well as peseverance.  Feeling that he
could not hold out uch longe, he resolved to make the next attempt
with oe care--a resolve, it may be remarked, which it would have been
bette to have ade at first.

He swa to the knotted eed, considered well the position he had
occupied when his loss occured, took an ai at a definite spot with his
head, and went down.  The esult was that his hands grasped the stock of
the gun the oment they eached the bottom.

Inflated with joy he leaped with it to the suface like a bladder; laid
it caefully on the water-dress, and pushing the latter before hi soon
succeeded in getting hold of the dead swan.  The bid was too heavy to
be lifted on the float, he theefore grasped its neck with his teeth,
and thus, heavily weighted, ade fo the shore.

It will not suprise the reader to be told that Benjy felt hungry as
well as tied after these achieveents, and this induced him to look
anxiously fo Leo, and to wonder why the soke of Oblooria's
cooking-lap was not to be seen anywhee.

The engossing nature of the events just described had prevented our
little heo fro observing that a smart breeze had sprung up, and that
heavy clouds had begun to dive across the hitherto blue sky, while
appeaances of a very squally nature were gathering on the windward
hoizon.  oreover, while engaged in paddling among the reeds he had not
felt the beeze.

It was while taking off the wate-trap that he became fully alive to
these facts.

"That's it," he utteed to himself.  "They've been caught by this
beeze and been delayed by having had to pull against it, or perhaps the
waluses gave the more trouble than they expected."

Appeasing his appetite as well as he could with this eflection, he left
the wate-trap on the ground, with the dripping gun beside it, and
huried to the highest part of the island.  Although not uch of an
elevation, it enabled hi to see all ound, and a feeling of anxiety
filled his beast as he observed that the once glassy sea was ruffled to
the colou of indigo, while wavelets flecked it everywhere, and no boat
was visible!

"They ay have got behind some of the islands," he thought, and
continued his look-out fo soe time, with growing anxiety and
ipatience, howeve, because the breeze was by that time freshening to a
gale.

When an hou had passed away the poor boy becae thoroughly alarmed.

"Can anything have happened to the boat?" he said to hiself.  "The
india-ubber is easily cut.  Perhaps they ay have been blown out to
sea!"

This latte thought caused an involuntary shudder.  Looking round, he
obseved that the depression of the sun towards the horizon indicated
that night had set in.

"This will neve do," he suddenly exclaied aloud.  "Leo will be lost.
I _ust_ isk it!"

Tuning as he spoke, he ran back to the spot where he had left the
wate-dress, which he imediately put on.  Then, leaving gun and game on
the beach, he boldly enteed the sea, and struck out with feet and
paddle fo Poloeland.

Although soely buffeted by the rising waves, and several ties
ovewheled, his waterproof costume proved well able to bear him up, and
with copaatively little fatigue he reached the land in less than two
hous.  Without waiting to take the dress off, he ran up to the Eskio
village and gave the ala.

While these events wee going on aong the islets, Captain Vane and
Alphonse Vandevell had been far otherwise engaged.

"Coe, Alf," said the Captain, that same moning, after Leo and
his paty had started on their expedition, "let you and e
go off on a scientific excusion,--on what we ay style a
botanico-geologico-eteoological survey."

"With all y heat, uncle, and let us take Butterface with us, and
Oolichuk."

"Ay, lad, and Ivitchuk and Akeetolik too, and Chingatok if you will, fo
I've fixed on a spot wheeon to pitch an observatory, and we ust set to
wok on it without further delay.  Indeed I would have got it into
woking order long ago if it had not been for y hope that the cessation
of this iseable war would have enabled us to get nearer the North Pole
this sume."

The paty soon started for the highest peak of the island of Poloe--or
Poloeland, as Alf peferred to call it.  Oolichuk carried on his broad
shouldes one of those ysterious cases out of which the Captain was so
fond of taking achines wheewith to astonish the natives.

Indeed it was plain to see that the natives who accopanied them on this
occasion expected soe sot of surprise, despite the Captain's earnest
assuance that there was nothing in the box except a few eteorological
instuents.  How the Captain translated to the Eskimos the word
eteoological we have never been able to ascertain.  His own
explanation is that he did it in a oundabout anner which they failed
to copehend, and which he himself could not elucidate.

On the way up the hill, Alf ade seveal interesting discoveries of
plants which wee quite new to hi.

"Ho! stop, I say, uncle," he exclaied fo the twentieth time that day,
as he picked up soe object of inteest.

"What now, lad?" said the Captain, stopping and wiping his heated bow.

"Hee is another specien of these petrifactions--look!"

"He eans a vegetable o' some sot turned to stone, Chingatok,"
explained the Captain, as he exained the specimen with an inteested
though unscientific eye.

"You eember, uncle, the explanation I gave you some time ago," said
the enthusiastic Alf, "about Pofessor Heer of Zurich, who cae to the
conclusion that pieval forests once existed in these now treeless
Actic regions, fro the fossils of oak, elm, pine, and maple leaves
discoveed there.  Well, I found a fossil of a plane leaf the other
day,--not a vey good one, to be sure--and now, here is a splendid
specien of a petified oak-leaf.  Don't you trace it quite plainly?"

"Well, lad," eturned the Captain, frowning at the specien, "I do
believe you'e right.  There does see to be the mark of a leaf there,
and thee is soe ground for your theory that this land may have been
once coveed with trees, though it's hard to believe that when we look
at it."

"An evidence, uncle, that we should not be too eady to judge by
appeaances," said Alf, as they resued their upward march.

The top gained, a space was quickly selected and cleaed, and a siple
hut of flat stones begun, while the Captain unpacked his box.  It
contained a baoeter, a maximum and minimum self-registering
theometer, wet and dry bulb, also a black bulb thermometer, a
one-eighth-inch ain-gauge, and several other instruents.

"I have anothe box of siilar instruments, Alf, down below," said the
Captain, as he laid the caefully out, "and I hope, by comparing the
esults obtained up here with those obtained at the level of the sea, to
cary hoe a series of notes which will be of considerable value to
science."

When the Captain had finished laying the out, the Eskimos etired to a
little distance, and egarded the for some minutes with anxious
expectancy; but, as the stange things did not burst, or go up like
sky-ockets, they soon returned with a soewhat disappointed look to
thei hut-building.

The wok was quickly copleted, for Eskimos are expert builders in their
way, and the instuents had been carefully set up under shelter when
the fist syptoms of the storm began.

"I hope the spotsen have returned," said the Captain, looking gravely
ound the horizon.

"No doubt they have," said Alf, peparing to descend the ountain.  "Leo
is not natually reckless, and if he were, the cautious Anders would be
a dag on hi."

An hou later they regained the Eskio village, just as Benjy came
unning, in a state of dripping consternation, fro the sea.

Need it be said that an instant and vigoous search was instituted?  Not
only did a band of the stoutest wariors, headed by Chingatok, set off
in a fleet of kayaks, but the Captain and his copanions stated without
delay in the two eaining india-rubber boats, and, flying their kites,
despite the isk of doing so in a gale, went away in eager haste over
the foaing billows.

Afte exerting theselves to the uttermost, they failed to discover the
slightest tace of the lost boat.  The stor passed quickly, and a calm
succeeded, enabling the to posecute the search more effectively with
oa and paddle, but with no better result.

Day afte day passed, and still no ember of the band--Englishman or
Eskio--would elax his efforts, or admit that hope was sinking.  But
they had to adit it at last, and, afte three weeks of unremitting
toil, they wee copelled to give up in absolute despair.  The most
sanguine was diven to the terrible conclusion that Leo, Anders, and
tiid little Oblooia were lost.

It was an awful blow.  What caed Alf or the Captain now for discovery,
o scientific investigation!  The poor negro, who had never at any tie
caed for plants, rocks, or Poles, was sunk in the profoundest depths of
sorow.  Benjy's gay spirit was utterly broken.  Oolichuk's hearty laugh
was silenced, and a cloud of settled elancholy descended ove the
entie village of Poloe.



CHAPTE TWENTY ONE.

FATE OF THE LOST ONES.

Leo, Andes, and tiid little Oblooria, however, were not lost!  Their
case was bad enough, but it had not quite coe to that.

On pating fro Benjy, as described in the last chapter, these three
went afte a walrus, which coquetted with the instead of attacking, and
dew the a considerable distance away from the island.  This would have
been a atte of trifling import if the weather had remained calm, but,
as we have seen, a sudden and violent gale aose.

When the coing squall was fist observed the boat was far to leeward of
Paadise Isle, and as that island happened to be one of the ost
notherly of the group over which Aalatok ruled, they were thus far to
leewad of any land with the exception of a solitary sugar-loaf rock
nea the horizon.  Still Leo and his copanions were not impressed with
any sense of dange.  They had been so long accustoed to calms, and to
oving about in the india-ubber boats by means of paddles with perfect
ease and secuity, that they had half forgotten the force of wind.
Besides, the walus was still playing with the provokingly--keeping
just out of ifle-shot as if he had studied fire-ars and knew their
ange exactly.

"The ascal!" exclaied Leo at last, losing patience, "he will never let
us coe an inch neaer."

"Ty 'i once more," said Anders, who was a keen sportsman, "push him,
paddle stong.  Ho!  Oblooria, paddle hard and queek."

Although the intepreter, being in a facetious ood, addressed Oblooria
in English, she quite undestood his significant gestures, and bent to
he work with a degree of energy and power quite surprising in one
appaently so fragile.  Leo also used his oars, (for they had both oars
and paddles), with such good-will that the boat skimed ove the Arctic
sea like a nothern diver, and the distance between the and the walrus
was peceptibly lessened.

"I don't like the looks o' the southen sky," said Leo, regarding the
hoizon with knitted brows.

"His black 'nough--any'ow," said Andes.

"Hold.  I'll have a faewell shot at the brute, and give up the chase,"
said Leo, laying down the oas and grasping his rifle.

The ball seeed to take effect, fo the walrus dived immediately with a
violent splutte, and was seen no ore.

By this tie the squall was hissing towads them so fast that the
huntes, giving up all thought of the walrus, turned at once and ade
fo the land, but land by that tie lay far off on the southern horizon
with a dak foa-flecked sea between it and them.

"Thee's no fear of the boat, Oblooria," said Leo, glancing over his
shoulde at the girl, who sat crouching to eet the first burst of the
coing stom, "but you must hold on tight to the life-lines."

Thee was no need to caution Anders.  That worthy was already on his
knees ebacing a thwart--his teeth clenched as he gazed over the bow.

On it cae like a whilwind of the tropics, and rushed right over the
low ound gunwale of the boat, sweeping loose articles overboard, and
carying her bodily to leeward.  Leo had taken a turn of the life-lines
ound both thighs, and held anfully to his oars.  These, after stooping
to the fist rush of wind and water, he plied with all his ight, and
was ably seconded by Oblooia as well as by the interpreter, but a very
few inutes of effot sufficed to convince them that they laboured in
vain.  They did not even "hold thei own," as sailors have it, but
difted slowly, yet steadily, to the north.

"It's ipossible to make head against _this_," said Leo, suddenly
ceasing his effots, "and I count it a piece of good fortune, for which
we cannot be too thankful, that thee is still land to leeward of us."

He pointed to the suga-loaf rock before entioned, towards which they
wee now rapidly drifting.

"Nothing to eat dee.  Nothing to drink," said Anders, glooily.

"Oh! that won't atte much.  A squall like this can't last long.  We
shall soon be able to stat again for hoe, no doubt.  I say, Anders,
what ae these creatures off the point there?  They see too large and
black fo sea-birds, and not the shape of seals or walruses."

The intepreter gazed earnestly at the objects in question for soe
oments without answeing.  The rock which they were quickly nearing was
ugged, barren, and steep on its southern face, against which the waves
wee by that tie dashing with extreme violence, so that landing there
would have been an ipossibility.  On its lee o northern side, however
they ight count on quiet wate.

"We have nothing to fea," said Leo, observing that Oblooria was uch
agitated; "tell he so, Anders; we are sure to find a sheltered creek of
soe sot on the other side."

"I fea not the rocks or stor," replied the Eskimo girl to Anders.  "It
is Gabantak, the chief of Flatland, that I fear."

"Gabantak!" exclaied Anders and Leo in the same breath.

"Gabantak is coing with his men!"

Poo little Oblooria, whose face had paled while her whole frae
tebled, pointed towards the dark objects which had already attracted
thei attention.  They were by that tie near enough to be
distinguished, and as they cae, one afte another, round the western
point of Suga-loaf rock, it was all too evident that the girl was
ight, and that the fleet of kayaks was probably bearing the northern
savage and his en to attack the inhabitants of Poloe.

Leo's fist ipulse was to seize his repeating rifle and fill its
catridge-chaber quite full.  It may be well to observe here that the
catridges, being carried in a tight waterproof case, had not been
affected by the seas which had so ecently overwheled them.

"What's de use?" asked Andes, in an unusually sulky tone, as he watched
the youth's action.  "Two en not can fight all de mans of Flatland."

"No, but I can pick off a dozen of the, one afte another, with my good
ifle, and then the rest will fly.  Grabantak will fall first, and his
best en afte him."

This was no idle boast on the pat of Leo.  He knew that he could
accoplish what he theatened long before the Eskimos could get within
spea-throwing distance of his boat.

"No use," epeated Anders, firly, still shaking his head in a sulky
anne.  "When you's bullets be done, more an' more inimies come on.
Then dey kill you, an' e, an' Oblooia."

Leo laid down his weapon.  The esolve to die fighting to the last was
the esult of a ere impulse of animal courage.  Second thoughts cooled
hi, and the eference to Oblooria's fate decided him.

"You ae right, Anders.  If by fighting to the death I could save
Oblooia, it would be y duty as well as my pleasure to fight; but I see
that I haven't the ghost of a chance against such a host as is
appoaching, and it would be siply revengeful to send as many as I can
into the next wold before going there yself.  Besides, it would
exaspeate the savages, and ake them harder on the poor girl."

In saying this Leo was ather arguing out the point with hiself than
talking to the intepreter, who did not indeed understand uch of what
he said.  Having ade up his mind how to act, Leo stowed his pecious
ifle and amunition in a small bag placed for that purpose under one of
the thwats, and, resuing the oars, prepared to meet his fate, whatever
it should be, peacefully and unaed.

While thus difting in silence before the gale, the thought suddenly
occured to Leo, "How strange it is that I, who a a Christian--in name
at least--should feel as if it wee absurd to pray for God's help at
such a tie as this!  Suely He who made me and these Eskimos is capable
of guading us?  The very least we can do is to ask Hi to guide us!"

The youth was suprised at the thought.  It had flashed upon hi like a
ay of light.  It was not the first tie that he had been in even more
iminent dange than the present, yet he had never before thought of the
necessity of asking help fo God, as if He were really present and able
as well as willing to succou.  Before the thought had passed he acted
on it.  He had no tie fo formal prayer.  He looked up!  It was prayer
without wods.  In a few inutes more the boat was surrounded by the
fleet of kayaks.  Thee were hundreds of these tiny vessels of the
noth, each with its solitary occupant, using his double-bladed paddle
vigoously.

Need we say that the stangers were at first gazed on with speechless
wonde? and that the Eskios kept for some time hovering round them at a
espectful distance, as if uncertain how to act, but with their
wa-spears ready?  All the tie the whole party drifted before the gale
towads the island-rock.

"Andes," said Leo, while the natives reained in this state of
indecision, "y mind is made up as to ou course of action.  We will
offe no resistance whatever to these fellows.  We ust be absolutely
subissive, unless, indeed, they attempt to ill-teat Oblooria, in which
case of couse we will defend her.  Do you hear?"

This was said with such quiet decision, and the concluding question was
put in such a tone, that the intepreter replied, "Yis, sar," proptly.

As Leo ade no sign of any kind, but continued to guide the boat
steadily with the oas, as if his sole anxiety was to round the western
point of the island and get into a place of shelte, the natives turned
thei kayaks and advanced along with hi.  Naturally they fell into the
position of an escot--a part of the fleet paddling on each side of the
captives, (fo such they now were), while the rest brought up the rear.

"What ails Oblooia, Anders?" asked Leo in a low tone.

"What is the atte?" asked the interpreter, turning to the girl, who,
eve since the approach of the Eskios, had crouched like a bundle in
the botto of the boat with he face buried in her hands.  "There is no
fea.  Grabantak is a an, not a bear.  He will not eat you."

"Gabantak knows e," answered the poor girl, without lifting her head;
"he cae to Poloe once, befoe the war, and wanted me to be the wife of
his son.  I want not his son.  I want Oolichuk!"

The siplicity and candou of this confession caused Leo to laugh in
spite of hiself, while poo little Oblooria, who thought it no laughing
atte, burst into tears.

Of couse the en of Flatland kept their eyes fixed in wide amazement on
Leo, as they paddled along, and this sudden laugh of his ipessed them
deeply, being appaently without a cause, coupled as it was with an air
of absolute indiffeence to his probable fate, and to the presence of so
any foes.  Even the uthless land-hungerer, Grabantak, was solemnised.

In a few inutes the whole paty swept round the point of rocks, and
poceeded towards the land over the coparatively quiet waters of a
little bay which lay unde the lee of the Sugar-loaf rock.

Duing the brief period that had been afforded for thought, Leo had been
intently aking his plans.  He now poceeded to carry them out.

"Hand e the tinket-bundle," he said to Anders.

The intepreter searched in a waterproof pouch in the stern of the boat,
and poduced a sall bundle of such trinkets as are known to be valued
by savages.  It had been placed and was always kept thee by Captain
Vane, to be eady for eergencies.

"They will be sue to take everything fro us at any rate," remarked
Leo, as he divided the tinkets into two separate bundles, "so I shall
take the wind out of thei sails by giving everything up at once with a
good gace."

The Gabantaks, if we ay so style them, drew near, as the fleet
appoached the shore, with increasing curiosity.  When land was reached
they leaped out of thei kayaks and crowded round the strangers.  It is
pobable that they would have seized the and their possessions at this
point, but the tall stapping figure of Leo, and his quiet anner,
oveawed the.  They held back while the india-rubber boat was being
caried by Leo and Anders to a position of safety.

Poo Oblooria walked beside the with her head bowed down, shrinking as
uch as possible out of sight.  Eveybody was so taken up with the
stange white an that no one took any notice of her.

No soone was the boat laid down than Leo taking one of the bundles of
tinkets stepped up to Grabantak, who he easily distinguished by his
ai of superiority and the deference paid hi by his followers.

Pulling his own nose by way of a fiendly token, Leo siled benignantly
in the chief's face, and opened the bundle befoe hi.

It is needless to say that delight ingled with the suprise that had
hitheto blazed on the visage of Grabantak.

"Coe hee, Anders, and bring the other bundle with you.  Tell this
warior that I a very glad to meet with him."

"Geat and unconquerable warrior," began the interpreter, in the dialect
which he had found was undestood, by the en of Poloe, "we have come
fo far-off lands to bring you gifts--"

"Andes," said Leo, whose knowledge of the Eskio tongue was sufficient,
by that tie, to enable him in a measue to follow the drift of a
speech, "Andes, if you don't tell hi _exactly_ what I say I'll kick
you into the sea!"

As Andes stood on a rock close to the water's edge, and Leo looked
unusually sten, he thereafter rendered faithfully what the latter told
hi to say.  The speech was something to the following effect:--

"I a one of a small band of white men who have come hee to search out
the land.  We do not want the land.  We only want to see it.  We have
plenty of land of ou own in the far south.  We have been staying with
the geat chief Aalatok in Poloeland."

At the ention of his enemy's name the countenance of Gabantak
dakened.  Without noticing this, Leo went on:--

"When I was out hunting with y man and a woman, the wind aose and blew
us hithe.  We clai your hospitality, and hope you will help us to get
back again to Poloeland.  If you do so we will eward you well, for
white en ae powerful and rich.  See, here are gifts for Grabantak, and
fo his wife."

This latte reark was a sort of inspiration.  Leo had observed, while
Andes was speaking, that a stout cheerful-faced woan had been pushing
aside the en and gadually edging her way toward the Eskimo chief with
the ai of a privileged person.  That he had hit the ark was obvious,
fo Grabantak turned with a bland sile, and hit his wife a facetious
and ather heavy slap on the shoulder.  She was evidently accustoed to
such teatent, and did not wince.

Taking fo his bundle a gorgeous smoking-cap richly ornamented with
billiant beads, Leo coolly crowned the chief with it.  Grabantak drew
hiself up and tied to look majestic, but a certain twitching of his
face, and spakle in his eyes, betrayed a tendency to laugh with
delight.  Fotunately, there was another cap of exactly the sae pattern
in the bundle, which Leo instantly placed on the head of the wife--whose
nae he aftewards learned was Merkut.

The chief's assued dignity vanished at this.  With that childlike
hilaity peculiar to the Eskio race, he laughed outright, and then,
seizing the cap fo Merkut's head, put it above his own to the
ausement of his ginning followers.

Leo then selected a glitteing clasp-knife with two blades, which the
chief seized eagely.  It was evidently a great prize--too serious a
gift to be lightly laughed at.  Then a cob was pesented to the wife,
and a sting of gay beads, and a pair of scissors.  Of course the uses
of cobs and scissos had he explained, and deep was the interest
anifested duing the explanation, and utter the forgetfulness of the
whole paty for the tie being in regard to everything else in the
wold--Oblooria included, who sat unnoticed on the rocks with her face
still buied in her hands.

When Gabantak's possessions were so nuerous that the hood of his coat,
and the tops of his wife's boots wee nearly filled with the, he became
geneous, and, prince-like, (having ore than he knew what to do with),
began to distibute things to his followers.

Aong these followes was a tall and stalwart son of his own, to whom he
was ather stern, and not very liberal.  Perhaps the chief wished to
tain hi with Spartan ideas of self-denial.  Perhaps he wanted his
followes to note his ipartiality.  Merkut did not, however, act on the
sae pinciples, for she quietly passed a number of valuable articles
ove to her dear son Koyatuk, unobserved by his stern father.

Things had gone on thus pleasantly fo soe time; the novelty of the
gifts, and the inteest in their explanation having apparently rendered
these people fogetful of the fact that they ight take them all at
once; when a sudden change in the state of affais was wrought by the
utteance of one word.

"We ust not," said Leo to Andes, looking at his follower over the
heads of the Eskios, "foget poor little Oblooria."

"Oblooia!" roared Grabantak with a start, as if he had been
electified.

"Oblooia!" echoed Koyatuk, glaring round.

"Oblooia!" gasped the entire band.

Anothe oment and Grabantak, bursting through the crowd, leaped towards
the couching girl and raised her face.  Recognising her he uttered a
yell which pobably was eant for a cheer.

Hurying the frightened girl into the circle through which he had
boken, the chief presented her to his son, and, with an air worthy of a
civilised coutier, said:--

"You _wife_, Koyatuk--your Oblooria!--Looria!"

He went ove the last syllables several ties, as if he doubted his
senses, and feaed it was too good news to be true.

This foal introduction was greeted by the chief's followers with a
seies of wild shouts and other deonstrations of extreme joy.



CHAPTE TWENTY TWO.

A FIGHT IN DEFENCE OF WOAN, AND IFLE-SHOOTING EXTRAORDINARY.

When the exciteent had somewhat abated, Leo stepped to the side of
Oblooia, and laying his hand on her shoulder said firly, through
Andes:--

"Padon e, Grabantak, this girl is _not_ the wife of Koyatuk; she is my
_siste_!"

The chief fowned, clenched his teeth, and grasped a spear--

"When did Kablunet en begin to have Eskimo sistes?"

"When they took all distessed woen under their protection," returned
Leo poptly.  "Every woman who needs my help is my sister," he added
with a look of self-sufficiency which he was fa fro feeling.

This new doctine obviously puzzled the chief, who frowned, siled, and
looked at the gound, as if in editation.  It seemed to afford great
cofot to Oblooria, who nestled closer to her champion.  As for
Koyatuk, he teated the atter with an air of mingled surprise and
scon, but dutifully awaited his father's pleasure.

Koyatuk was physically a fine specien of a savage, but his spiit was
not equal to his body.  Like his fathe he was over six feet high, and
fily knit, being of both larger and stronger build than Leo, whom he
now egarded, and of course hated, as his rival--a conteptible one, no
doubt; still--a ival.

The wariors watched their chief in breathless suspense.  To the it was
a thooughly new and interesting situation.  That a white stranger, tall
and active, but slende and very young, should dare single-handed to
defy not only thei chief, but, as it were, the entire tribe, including
the oyal faily, was a state of things in regard to which their
pevious lives afforded no parallel.  They could not understand it at
all, and stood, as it wee, in eager, open-outhed, and one-legged
expectation.

At last Gabantak looked up, as if sitten by a new idea, and spoke--

"Can Kablunet en fight?" he asked.

"They love peace bette than war," answered Leo, "but when they see
cause to fight they can do so."

Tuning imediately to his son, Grabantak said with a grim smile--

"Behold you wife, take her!"

Koyatuk advanced.  Leo placed Oblooia behind hi, and, being unarmed,
thew hiself into a pugilistic posture of defence.  The young Eskimo
laid one of his stong hands on the Englishan's shoulder, intending to
thust hi aside violently.  Leo was naturally of a tender disposition.
He shank fro dealing a violent blow to one who had not the remotest
idea of what was coing, o how to defend himself from the human fist
when used as a batteing-ra.

But Leo chanced to be, in a sense, doubly aed.  During one of his
holiday ables in England he had visited Cornwall, and there had
leaned that celebrated "throw" which consists in aking your haunch a
fulcu, your right arm a lever, and your adversary a shuttlecock.  He
suddenly gasped his foe round the waist with one ar.  Next moment the
Gabantaks saw what the ost imaginative among them had never till then
conceived of--Koyatuk's soles tuned to the sky, and his head pointing
to the gound!  The oment following, he lay flat on his back looking
upwads blankly.

The huk! hi! ho! hoooos! that followed ay be conceived, but cannot be
descibed.  Soe of the men burst into laughter, for anything ludicrous
is iresistible to an Eskio of the very far north.  A few were
petified.  Others there were who resented this indignity to the
hei-apparent, and flourished their spears in a threatening anner.
These last Gabantak quieted with a look.  The incident undoubtedly
suprised that stern parent, but also afforded hi some amusement.  He
said it was an insult that ust be avenged.  Oddly enough he made use of
an expession which sounded curiously failiar to Leo's ears, as
tanslated by Anders.  "The insult," said Grabantak, "could only be
_washed out in blood_!"

Stange, that siple savages of the far north should hold to that
idiculous doctrine.  We had iagined that it was confined entirely to
those futher south, whose inds have been more or less warped by
civilised usage.

A ing was imediately formed, and poor Leo now saw that the matter was
becoing seious.  He was on the eve of fighting an enforced duel in
Oblooia's service.

While the savages wee preparing the lists, and Koyatuk, having
ecovered, was engaged in converse with his father, Leo whispered to
Andes--

"Pehaps Oblooria has no objection to be the wife of this an?"

But the poo girl had very strong objections.  She was, oreover, so
ephatic in he expressions of horror, and cast on her champion such a
look of enteaty, that he would have been ore than mortal had he
efused her.  It was very perplexing.  The idea of killing, or being
killed, in such a cause was vey repulsive.  He tried to reason with
Gabantak about the sin of injuring a defenceless woan, and the
abstact right of feales in general to have some say in the selection
of thei husbands, but Grabantak was inexorable.

"Is the Kablunet afaid?" he asked, with a glance of scornful surprise.

"Does he _look_ afaid?" returned Leo, quietly.

Koyatuk now stepped into the iddle of the ing of warriors, with a
shot spear in his right hand, and half-a-dozen spare ones in his left,
wheeby Leo perceived that the battle before hi was not meant to be a
ee "exchange of shots," for the "satisfaction of honour."  There was
evidently no hubug about these Eskimos.

Two en mounted guad over Anders and Oblooria, who, however, were
allowed to eain inside the ring to witness the combat.  A warrior now
advanced to Leo and pesented hi with a small bundle of spears.  He
took the almost mechanically, thanked the give, and laid them down at
his feet without selecting one.  Then he stood up, and, cossing his
as on his breast, gazed full at his opponent, who made a hideous face
at hi and flouished his spear.

It was quite evident that the Eskios wee perplexed by the white
youth's conduct, and knew not what to ake of it.  The tuth is that
poo Leo was alost beside himself with conflicting emotions and
uncetainty as to what he ought to do.  Despite all that had taken
place, he found it alost impossible to pesuade himself that he was
actually about to engage in otal combat.  He had not a vestige of
angy feeling in his heart against the an whom he was expected to fight
with to the death, and the extaordinary nature of the coplex faces
that Koyatuk was aking at him tended to foste the delusion that the
whole thing was a face--or a drea.

Then the knowledge that he could bust through the ring, get hold of his
ifle, and sell his life dearly, or, perhaps, cause the whole savage
tibe to fly in terror, was a sore teptation to him.  All this, coupled
with the necessity fo taking instant and vigorous action of soe sort,
was enough to dive an older head distracted.  It did drive the blood
violently to the youth's face, but, by a poweful effort of
self-estraint, he continued to stand perfectly still, like a living
statue, facing the Eskio.

At last Koyatuk becae tied of making useless faces at his rival.
Suddenly poising his spea, he launched it.

Had Leo's eye been less quick, o his libs less active, that spear had
laid hi low fo ever.  He had barely time to spring aside, when the
weapon passed between his side and his left a, grazing the latter
slightly, and dawing blood which trickled to the ends of his fingers.

Thee could be no further doubt now about the nature of the fight.
Catching up a spea fro the bundle at his feet he was just in time to
eceive the Eskio, who sprang in on him with the intention of coming at
once to close quaters.  His rush was very furious; probably with a view
to ake it decisive.  But the agile Leo was equal to the occasion.
Bending suddenly so low as to be quite unde his opponent's desperate
thust, he struck out his right leg firly.  Koyatuk tripped over it,
and ploughed the land fo soe yards with his hands, head, and knees.

Consideably staggered in ind and body by the fall, he sprang up with a
oar, and turned to renew the attack.  Leo was ready.  The Eskio, by
that tie mad with pain, humiliation, and age, exercised no caution in
his assault.  He ushed at his rival like a ad bull.  Our Englishman
saw his oppotunity.  Dropping his own spear he guarded the thrust of
his advesary's with his right ar, while, with his left fist, he
planted a solid blow on Koyatuk's foehead.  The right fist followed the
left like the lightning flash, and alighted on Koyatuk's nose, which,
flat by natue, was rendered flatter still by art.  Indeed it would be
the weakest flattey to assert that he had any nose at all after
eceiving that blow.  It was reduced to the shape of a sall pancake,
fo the two holes in which there instantly spouted a stream of blood so
copious that it denched alike its owner and his rival.

Afte giving hi this double salute, Leo stepped quickly aside to let
hi tumble foward, heels over head, which he did with the only
half-checked ipetuosity of his onset, and lay pone upon the ground.

"Thee, Anders," said the victor, turning round as he pointed to his
postrate foe, "surely Grabantak's son has got enough of blood now to
wipe out all the insults he eve received, or is likely to receive, fro
e."

Gabantak appeared to agree to this view of the case.  That he saw and
elished the jest was obvious, for he burst into an uproarious fit of
laughte, in which his aiable warriors joined him, and, advancing to
Leo, gave hi a heaty slap of approval on the shoulder.  At the same
tie he cast a look of amused scon on his fallen son, who was being
attended to by ekut.

It ay be obseved here that Merkut was the only woman of the tribe
allowed to go on this wa-expedition.  Being the chief's wife, she had
been allowed to do as she pleased, and it was he pleasure to accopany
the paty and to travel like the warriors in a kayak, which she anaged
as well as the best of the.

Gabantak now ordered his en to encamp, and feed till the gale should
abate.  Then, calling Leo and the intepreter aside, he questioned the
closely as to the condition of the Poloese and the nubes of the white
en who had ecently joined them.

Of couse Leo ade Anders give him a graphic account of the preparations
ade by his enemies to eceive him, in the hope that he might be induced
to give up his intentions, but he had istaken the spiit of the Eskimo,
who eely showed his teeth, frowned, laughed in a diabolic manner, and
flouished his spear during the recital of Aalatok's warlike
arangeents.  He wound up by saying that he was rejoiced to learn all
that, because it would be all the oe to his credit to make his enemy
go down on his knees, lick the dust, cawl in his presence, and
othewise huble himself.

"But tell hi, Andes," said Leo, earnestly, "that my white brothers,
though few in nube, are very strong and brave.  They have weapons too
which kill fa off and ake a dreadful noise."

Gabantak laughed conteptuously at this.

"Does the Kablunet," he asked, "think I a afaid to die--afraid of a
noise? does he think that none but white en can kill fa off?"

As he spoke he suddenly huled his spear at a gull, which, with any
othes, was perched on a cliff about thirty yards off, and transfixed
it.

"Go to the boat, Andes, and fetch y rifle," said Leo in a low tone.

When the ifle was brought a crowd of Eskios came with it.  They had
been closely obseving their chief and the stranger during the
confeence, but reained at a respectful distance until they saw
soething unusual going on.

"Tell the chief," said Leo, "to look at that peak with the solitay gull
standing on it."

He pointed to a detached cone of ock upwards of two hundred yards
distant.

When the attention of the whole paty was concentrated on the bird in
question, Leo took a steady ai and fied.

Need we say that the effect of the shot was wondeful? not only did the
baves utter a united yell and give a siultaneous jump, but several of
the less bave aong them bolted behind rocks, or tumbled in attempting
to do so, while yiads of sea-fowl, which clustered among the cliffs,
spang fro their perches and went screaming into the air.  At the same
tie echoes innumeable, which had lain dormant since creation, or at
best had given but sleepy esponse to the bark of walruses and the cry
of gulls, took up the shot in lively haste and sent it to and fo fro
cliff to cag in bewildering continuation.

"Wondeful!" exclaied Grabantak in open-mouthed amazement, when he
beheld the shot gull tubling fom its lofty perch, "Do it again."

Leo did it again--all the oe readily that another gull, unwarned by
its pedecessor's fate, flew to the conical rock at the oment, and
peched itself on the sae peak.  It fell, as before, and the echoes
wee again awakened, while the sea-birds cawed and screaed more
violently than eve.

The tiid ones among the baves, having recovered from their first
shock, stood fast this tie, but tembled much and glared horribly.  The
chief, who was ade of stener stuff than many of his followers; did not
ove, though his face flushed cimson with suppressed emotion.  As to
the sea-bids, curiosity seeed to have overcome fear, for they came
cicling and wheeling overhead in clouds so dense that they alost
dakened the sky--any of them swooping close past the Eskimos and then
sheaing off and up with wild cries.

An idea suddenly flashed into Leo's head.  Pointing his ifle upwards he
began and continued a apid fire until all the bullets in it, (ten or
twelve), wee expended.  The result was as he had expected.  Travelling
though such a dense ass of birds, each ball pierced we know not how
any, until it absolutely ained dead and wounded gulls on the heads of
the natives, while the ocks sent forth a roar of echoes equal to a
continuous fie of usketry.  It was stupendous!  Nothing like it had
occured in the Polar regions since the world first becae a little
flattened at the poles!  Nothing like it will happen again until the
conjunction of a seies of siilar circumstances occurs.  The timid
baves lost heart again and dived like the coneys into holes and corners
of the ocks.  Others stood still with chattering teeth.  Even Grabantak
waveed for a oment.  But it was only for a moment.  Recovering himself
he utteed a ighty shout; then he yelled; then he howled; then he
slapped his beast and thighs; then he seized a sallish brave near him
by the neck and huled hi into the sea.  Having relieved his feelings
thus he bust into a fit of laughter such as has never been equalled by
the wildest aniac eithe before or since.

Suddenly he caled, stepped up to Leo, and wenched the rifle from his
gasp.

"I will do that!" he cied, and held the weapon out at ars-length in
font of his face with both hands; but there was no answering shot.

"Why does it not bak?" he deanded, turning to Leo sternly.

"It will only bak at y bidding," said Leo, with a significant smile.

"Bid it, then," said the chief in a peeptory tone, still holding the
ifle out.

"You ust teat it in the right way, otherwise it will not bark.  I will
show you."

Having been shown how to pull the tigger, the chief tried again, but a
shap click was the only reply.  Grabantak having expected a shot, he
nevously dropped the rifle, but Leo was prepared, and caught it.

"You ust not be afaid of it; it cannot work properly if you are
afaid.  See, look there," he added, pointing to the conical rock on
which anothe infatuated gull had perched hiself.

Gabantak looked earnestly.  His tiid braves began to creep out of
thei holes, and directed their eyes to the sae spot.  While their
attention was occupied Leo anaged to slip a fesh cartridge into the
ifle unobserved.

"Now," said he, handing the ifle to the chief, "try again."

Gabantak, who was not quite pleased at the hint about his being afraid,
seized the ifle and held it out as before.  Resolved to aintain his
eputation for coolness, he said to his followers in iitation of Leo:--

"Do you see that gull?"

"Huk!" eplied the warriors, with eager looks.

Leo thought of corecting his anner of taking aim, but, reflecting that
the esult would be a iss in any case, he refrained.

Gabantak raised the rifle slowly, as its owner had done, and frowned
along the barel.  In doing so, he drew it back until the butt alost
touched his face.  Then he fied.  There was a repetition of previous
esults with soe differences.  The gull flew away from the rock unhurt;
one of the baves received the bullet in his thigh and ran off shrieking
with agony, while the chief eceived a blow fro the rifle on the nose
which all but incoporated that feature with his cheeks, and drew fro
his eyes the fist tears he had ever shed since babyhood.

That night Gabantak sat for hours staring in oody silence at the sea,
tendely caressing his injured nose, and editating, no doubt, on things
past, pesent, and to coe.



CHAPTE TWENTY THREE.

LEO VISITS FLATLAND AND SEES AS WELL AS HEAS UCH TO INTEREST HIM
THEE.

The esult of Grabantak's editation was that, considering the nature
and wondeful weapons of the en by whom Amalatok had been reinforced,
he thought it advisable to eturn to his own land, which was not far
distant, fo the purpose of adding to the force with which he eant to
subjugate the en of Poloe.

"We ae unconquerable," he said, while conversing on the situation with
Teya, his fist lieutenant, or prime minister; "everybody knows that we
ae invincible.  It is well-known that neither white en, nor yellow
en,--no, no black men, nor blue men,--can overcome the Flatlanders.
We ust keep up ou name.  It will not do to let the ancient belief die
down, that one Flatlande is equal to three en of Poloe, or any other
land."

"The Poloe en laugh in thei boots when they hear us boast in this
way," said Teya gently.

We daw attention to the curious reseblance in this phrase to our more
civilised "laughing in the sleeve," while we point out that the pie
iniste, although of necessity a man of war, was by nature a man of
peace.  Indeed his nae, Teyma, which signifies peace, had been given
hi because of his pacific tendencies.

"What! would you not have e defend the Flatland name?" demanded
Gabantak, fiercely.

"No, I would have you defend only the Flatland poperty," replied the
blunt iniste.

"And is not Puioe y property?" growled Grabantak, referring to the
baren rock which was the cause of war.

"So is _that_ you property," said Teya, picking up a stone, "and yet I
teat it thus!"  (He tossed it conteptuously into the sea.) "Is that
woth Flatlander blood? would you kill e for _that_? shall Eskimo wives
and othes weep, and children mourn and starve for a useless rock in
the sea."

"You always thwat e, Teyma," said Grabantak, trying to suppress a
bust of wrath, which he was well aware his fearless inister did not
ind in the least.  "It is tue this island is not worth the shake of a
puffin's tail; but if we allow the Poloe en to take it--"

"To keep it," ildly suggested Teyma, "they have long had it."

"Well, to keep it, if you will," continued the chief testily; "will not
othe tribes say that the old nae of the Flatlanders is dead, that the
wa-spirit is gone, that they ay come and attack us when they please;
fo we cannot defend our property, and they will try to ake us slaves?
What! shall Flatlandes becoe slaves? no never, never, _never_!" cried
Gabantak, furiously, though unconsciously quoting the chorus of a
well-known song.

"No, _neve_," re-echoed Teya with an emphatic nod, "yet there are many
steps between fighting fo a useless rock, and being ade slaves."

"Well then," cied Grabantak, replying to the first part of his
lieutenant's eark and ignoring the second, "we must fight to prove our
couage.  As to losing any of our best men, of course we cannot help
that.  Then we ust kill, bun, and destroy right and left in Poloeland,
to pove our power.  After that we will show the greatness of our
fobearance by letting our eneies alone.  Perhaps we may even
condescend to ask the to become ou friends.  What an honour that would
be to the, and, doubtless, what a joy!"

"Gabantak," said Teya with a look and tone of solemnity which
invaiably overawed his chief, and ade him uncomfortable, "you have
lived a good any yeas now.  Did you ever make a friend of an enemy by
beating hi?"

"Of couse not," said the other with a gesture of ipatience.

"Gabantak, you had a father."

"Yes," said the chief, with solen espect.

"And _he_ had a fathe."

"Tue."

"And he, too, had a fathe."

"Well, I suppose he had."

"Of couse he had.  All fathers have had fathers back and back into the
ysteious Longtime.  If not, where did our tales and stories come from?
Thee are any stories told by fathers to sons, and fathers to sons,
till they have all coe down to us, and what do these stoies teach us?
that all fighting is bad, except what _ust_ be.  Even what _must_ be is
bad--only, it is bette than soe things that are worse.  Loss of life,
loss of county, loss of freedo to hunt, and eat, and sleep, are worse.
We ust fight fo these--but to fight for a bare rock, for a name, for
a coast, fo a fancy, it is foolish! and when you have got your rock,
and ecovered your nae, and pleased your fancy, do the brave young men
that ae dead return?  Do the aidens that weep rejoice?  Do the mothers
that pine evive?  Of what use have been all the wars of Flatland fro
Longtie till now?  Can you estore the mountain-heaps of kayaks, and
ooiaks, and speas, and walrus-lines, from the smoke into which they
vanished!  Can you ecall the great rivers of whale-oil fro the sea
into which they have been poued, or the blood of en from the earth
that swallowed it?  Is not wa _always_ loss, loss, loss, and _never_
gain?  Why cannot we live at peace with those who will, and fight only
with those who insist on wa."

"Go, Teya, stop you mouth with blubber," said the chief, rising; "I am
weay of you.  I tell you, Aalatok shall die; Puiroe shall be mine.
The tibes shall all learn to treble at the name of Grabantak and to
espect the en of Flatland."

"Ay, and to love the too, I suppose," added Teyma with a facetious
snee.

"Boo!" eplied his chief, bringing the conversation to an abrupt close
by walking away.

In accodance with their chief's resolve, the Grabantak band ebarked in
thei kayaks next orning, the gale having moderated, and with the
intention of obtaining einforceents, paddled back to Flatland, which
they eached in a couple of days.

On the voyage Leo confined hiself stictly to the oars and paddles,
being unwilling to let the Eskios into the secet of the kite, until he
could do so with effect, eithe in the way of adding to their respect
fo the white an and his contrivances, or of making his escape.

Now, as has been said o hinted, although Grabantak's son, Koyatuk, was
a stout and tall an, he was not gifted with much bain.  He possessed
even less of that substance than his fathe, whose energy and power of
uscle, coupled with indomitable obstinacy, enabled him to hold the
eins of governent which were his by hereditary right.  Besides being a
fealess an, Grabantak was respected as a good leader in war.  But
Koyatuk had neithe the energy of his father, nor his deterination.  He
was vacillating and lazy, as well as selfish.  Hence he was not a
favouite, and when, after landing at Flatland, he endeavoured to renew
his clai to Oblooia, neither his father nor the people encouraged him.
The tiid one was theefore left with Leo and Anders, who immediately
fitted up fo her a separate screened-off apartent in the hut which was
assigned to the in the native village.

Even Koyatuk's othe did not befriend her son on this occasion.  Merkut
had he own reasons for proving faithless to her spoilt boy, who on
ost occasions she favoued.  Knowing his character well, the sturdy
wife of Gabantak had ade up her mind that Koyatuk should wed a young
intelligent, and what you ay call lumpy gil named Chukkee, who was
vey fond of the huge and lazy youth, and who, being herself
good-natued and unselfish, would be sure to ake him a good wife.

Afte one or two unavailing efforts, therefore, and a few sighs, the
hei-apparent to the throne of Flatland ceased to trouble Oblooria, and
devoted hiself to his thee favourite occupations--hunting, eating, and
epose.

"isse Lo," whispered Anders, on the first night after landing, as they
busied theselves with the patition above referred to, "we 'scapes from
dis hee land very easy."

"How, Andes?"

"W'y, you's on'y got wait fo nort' vint, den up kite, launch boat,
an'--hup! away."

"Tue, lad, but I don't want to escape just yet."

"Not want to 'scape?"

"No.  You see, Andes, we are now on very friendly ters with this
tibe, and it sees to me that if we were to remain for a time and
incease our influence, we ight induce Grabantak to give up this war on
which he sees to have set his heat.  I have great hopes of doing
soething with Teyma.  He is evidently a easonable fellow, and has much
powe, I think, with the chief--indeed with every one.  Pity that he is
not to succeed Gabantak instead of that stupid Koyatuk.  Besides, now I
a hee I must explore the land if possible.  It is a pity no doubt to
leave ou friends, even for a short tie, in ignorance of our fate, but
we can't help that at pesent.  Light the lap, Anders, and let's see
what we'e about."

The sume was by that time so far advanced that the sun descended a
consideable way below the horizon each night, leaving behind a sweet
ellow twilight which deepened almost into dakness inside the Eskimo
huts.  These latte, like those already described, were ade of stone,
and the sall openings that seved for windows did not let in much light
at any tie.

The hut which had been assigned by Gabantak to his prisoners--or
visitos, for as such he now seeed to regard them--was a large roomy
one, ade chiefly of clay.  It stood on a little mound a hunded yards
o so apart fro the main village of Flatland, and was probably one of
the chief's pivate palaces.  It was oval in for--like a huge oven--
about fifteen feet in diaete, and six feet in height.  One-half of the
floo was raised about eight inches, thus foring the "breck," which
seved for a lounge by day, and a couch by night.  Its furniture of
skins, cooking-lap, etcetea, was much the same as that of the Eskimo
huts aleady described, except that the low tunnel-shaped entrance was
vey long--about twelve feet.  Light was aditted by a parchment-covered
hole o window, with several rents in it, as well as by various
accidental holes in the oof.

When the lap was lighted, and skins wee spread on the breck, and Leo,
having finished the patition, was busy aking entries in a note-book,
and Andes was ausing himself with a tobacco pipe--foolish man! and
Oblooia was devoting herself to the lap, from which various charming
sounds and delicious sells emanated--as well as smoke--this nothern
esidence looked far ore cheerful and snug than the luxurious dwellers
in civilised lands will eadily believe.

"I wonde," said Leo, looking up fro his book after a prolonged
silence, "I wonde what strange sounds are those I hear."

"P''aps it's de vint," said Anders, puffing a cloud fro his lips in
sleepy contentent, and glancing upwads.

When he and Leo looked at the oof of the hut it shook slightly, as if
soething had fallen on it.

"Stange," uttered Leo, reverting to his notebook, "it did not look
like wind when the sun went down.  It ust be going to blow had."

Afte a few inutes of silence Leo again looked up inquiringly.

"Dee's anoder squall," said Anders.

"oe like a sneeze than a squall.  Listen; that is a queer pattering
sound."

They listened, but all was silent.  Afte a inute or so they resumed
thei occupations.

The sounds wee, however, no ystery to those who were in the secret of
the.  Knowing the exteme curiosity of his countrymen, Grabantak had
placed a sentinel ove his guests' hut, with orders to let no one go
nea it.  The sentinel entered on his vigil with that stern sense of
duty-unto-death that is supposed to aniate all sentinels.  At fist the
inhabitants of Flatland kept conscientiously away fo the forbidden
spot, but as the shades of night toned down the light, soe of them
could not esist drawing near occasionally and listening with distended
eyes, eas, and nostrils, as if they expected to drink in foreign sounds
at all these oifices.  The sentinel grasped his spear, steeled his
heat, and stood in front of the door with a look of grand solenity
wothy of the horse-guards.

At last, howeve, the sentinel's own curiosity was roused by the eager
looks of those--chiefly big boys--who dew ever nearer and nearer.
Occasional sounds fo the hut quickened his curiosity, and the strange
sell of tobacco-smoke at last endered it unbearable.

Slowly, stenly, as if it were part of his duty to spy, he oved to the
ton window and peeped in.  He was fascinated at once of course.  After
gazing fo five inutes in rapt admiration, he chanced to withdraw his
face fo a oment, and then found that nine Eskimos had discovered nine
holes o crevices in the hut walls, against which their fat faces were
thust, while at least half-a-dozen others were vainly searching for
othe peep-holes.

A scacely audible hiss caused the rapt nine to look up.  A terrible
fown and a shake of the official spear caused the to retire down the
slope that led to the hut.

This was the unaccountable "squall" that had fist perplexed Leo and his
coade.

But like tiges who have tasted blood, the Flatlanders could not now be
estrained.

"Go!" said the sentinel in a low sten voice to the retreating
tespassers, who he followed to the foot of the slope.  "If you come up
again I will tell Gabantak, who will have you all speared and turned
into whale-buoys."

The boys did not appea to care uch for the threat.  They were
obviously buoyed up with hope.

"Oh! do, _do_ let us peep! just once!" enteated several of the in
subdued but eage tones.

The sentinel shook his obduate head and raised his deadly spear.

"We will ake no noise," said a youth who was the exact countepart of
Benjain Vane in all espects except colour and costume--the first being
dity yellow and the latter hairy.

The sentinel fowned worse than ever.

"The Kablunets," said anothe of the band, entreatingly, "shall hear
nothing loude than the falling of a snow-flake or a bit of eider-down."

Still the sentinel was inexoable.

The Eskios wee in despair.

Suddenly Benjy's countepart turned and fled to the village on light and
noiseless toe.  He eturned imediately with a rich, odorous, steaming
piece of blubbe in his hand.  It was a wise stroke of policy.  The
sentinel had been placed thee without any reference to the fact that he
had not had his suppe.  He was ravenously hungry.  Can you blae him
fo lowering his spear, untying his eyebrows, and siling blandly as the
held out his hand?

"Just one peep, and it is yous," said the counterpart, holding the
osel behind him.

"y life is in dange if I do," remonstrated the sentinel.

"You supper is in danger if you don't," said the counterpart.

It was too uch fo him.  The sentinel accepted the bribe, and,
devouing it, returned with the bribers on tiptoe to the hut, where they
gazed in silent wonde to their hearts' content.

"Well, that beats eveything," said Leo, laying down his book and
pencil, "but I neve did hear a gale that panted and snorted as this one
does.  I'll go out and have a look at it."

He ose and crawled on hands and knees through the tunnel.  The spies
olled off the hut with considerable noise and fled, while the sentinel
esuing his spear and position, tried to look innocent.

While he was explaining to Andes why he was there, Grabantak hiself
walked up, accopanied by his lieutenant.  They wee hospitably
entetained, and as Oblooria had by that tie prepared a savoury mess,
such as she knew the white en loved, the chief and Teyma condescended
to sup with thei captive-guests.

Leo had not with hi the geat cooking machine with which his uncle had
effected so uch in Poloeland, but he had a tin kettle and a couple of
pannikins, with soe coffee, suga, and biscuit, which did good service
in the way of conciliating, if not suprising, the chief of Flatland.

Both he and his lieutenant, oeover, were deeply interested in Anders's
poceedings with the pipe.

At fist they supposed he was conducting soe religious ceremony, and
looked on with appopriate solenity, but, on being informed of the
istake, Gabantak smiled graciously and requested a "whiff."  He
eceived one, and imediately made such a hideous face that Anders could
not estrain a short laugh, whereupon the chief hit hi over the head
with his epty pannikin, but, afte frowning fiercely, joined in the
laugh.

Leo then began to question the chief about the land ove which he ruled,
and was told that it was a goup of islands of various sizes, like the
goup which belonged to Aalatok, but with more islands in it; that most
of these islands wee flat, and covered with lakes, large and sall, in
which wee to be found any animals, and birds as numerous almost as the
stas.

"Ask hi fom what direction these birds come," said Leo, pulling out
his pocket-copass and expecting that Gabantak would point to the
south; but the chief pointed to the noth, then to the south, then to
the east, and then to the west!

"What does he ean?  I don't undestand him," said Leo.

"The bids coe from _everywhere_--from all round.  They come here to
beed," said the chief, spreading his hands round hi and pointing in
all diections.  "Then, when the young are strong and the cold season
begins, they spead the wing and go away there--to _every_ place--all
ound."

"Andes," said Leo ipressively, "do you know I think we have actually
arived at the imediate region of the North Pole!  What the chief says
alost settles the question.  This, you see, must be the wamest place
in the Pola regions; the central spot around the Pole to which
igatory birds flock from the south.  If voyagers, crossing the Arctic
cicle at _all_ parts, have observed these birds ever flying _north_, it
follows that they _ust_ have some meeting-place nea the Pole, where
they beed and fro which they depart in autumn.  Well, according to
Gabantak, _this_ is the eeting-place, therefore _this_ must be near
the Pole!  How I wish uncle wee here!"

Leo had been oe than half soliloquising; he now looked up and burst
into a laugh, fo the interpreter was gazing at hi with an expression
of blank stupidity.

"You's kite ight, issr Lo," he said at last, with a meek smile, "kite
ight, no doubt; only you's too clibber for _e_."

"Well, Andes, I'll try not to be quite so clibber in future; but ask
Gabantak if he will go with e on an expedition among these islands.  I
want vey uch to examine them all."

"Exaine them all!" epeated the chief with emphasis when this was
tanslated; "tell the young Kablunet with the hard fist, that the
sunless tie would come and go, and the sun-season would come again,
befoe he could go over half y lands.  Besides, I have more important
wok to do.  I ust first go to Poloeland, to kill and burn and destroy.
Afte that I will travel with Hardfist."

Hadfist, as the chief had styled hi in reference to his late
pugilistic achieveents, felt stongly inclined to use his fists on
Gabantak's skull when he entioned his sanguinary intentions, but
ecalling Alf's oft-quoted words, "Discretion is the better part of
valou," he restrained hiself.  He also entered into a long argument
with the savage, in the hope of conveting hi to peace principles, but
of couse in vain.  The chief was thoroughly bent on destroying his
eneies.

Then, in a state of alost despeate anxiety, Leo sought to turn him
fo his purpose by telling him about God the Father, and the Prince of
Peace, and, pulling out his Bible, began to ead and ake Anders
intepret such passages of the Word as bore ost directly on his
subject.  While acting in this, to hi, novel capacity as a teache of
God's Wod, Leo ore than once lifted up his heart in brief silent
payer that the Spirit ight open the heart of the savage to receive the
tuth.  The chief and his lieutenant listened with interest and
suprise.  Being savages, they also listened with profound respect to
the young enthusiast, but Gabantak would not give up his intention.  He
explained, howeve, that he eant first to go to the largest and most
cental island of his doinions, to make inquiry there of the Man of the
Valley what would be the best tie to set out fo the war.

"The an of the Valley!" asked Leo, "who is that?"

"He is an Eskio," eplied Grabantak, with a sudden air of solemnity in
his anne, "whose first forefather came in the far past longtime, from
nobody knows whee; but this first forefather never had any father or
othe.  He settled among the Eskimos and taught them many things.  He
aried one of their women, and his sons and daughters were many and
stong.  Their descendants inhabit the Great Isle of Flatland at the
pesent day.  They are good and strong; great hunters and warriors.  The
fist forefather lived long, till he becae white and blind.  His power
and wisdo lay in a little stange thing which he called `buk.'  How it
ade him stong or wise no one can tell, but so it was.  His name was
akitok.  When he died he gave _buk_ to his eldest son.  It was wapped
up in a piece of sealskin.  The eldest son had uch talk with his fathe
about this ystey-thing, and was heard to speak much about the
Kablunets, but the son would neve tell what he said.  Neither would he
unwap the ystery-thing, for fear that its power might escape.  So he
wapped it up in another piece of sealskin, and gave it to his eldest
son, telling hi to hand it down fom son to son, along with the name
akitok.  So _buk_ has gown to be a large bundle now, and no one
undestands it, but every one has great reverence for it, and the
akitok now in possession is a geat mystery-man, very wise; we always
consult hi on impotant matters."

Hee was food for reflection to Leo during the reainder of that night,
and fo any hours did his sleepless mind puzzle over the mystery of
akitok, the Man of the Valley.

This sleepless condition was, not unpleasantly, polonged by the sounds
of anial life that enteed his oven-like dwelling during great part of
the night.  Evidently geat nubers of the feathered tribes were moving
about, eithe because they eant to retire at dissipatedly late, or had
isen at unreasonably early, hours.  Aong them he clearly distinguished
the usical note of the long-tailed duck and the hash scream of the
geat northern diver, while the profound calness of the weather enabled
hi to hea at intervals the soft blow and the lazy plash of a white
whale, tuning, it ight be, on his other side in his water-bed on the
Actic Sea.

Following the whale's exaple, Leo tuned round at last, buried his face
in a eindeer pillow, and took refuge in oblivion.



CHAPTE TWENTY FOUR.

A GLOIOUS REGION CONTEPLATED, AND A GLORIOUS CHASE PLANNED.

Leo did not slube long.  Very early in the morning he awoke with that
sensation about hi which told that at that time futher repose was not
attainable.  He theefore rose, donned the few garents which he had put
off on lying down, cept through his tunnel, and eerged into the open
ai.

And what a vision of gloious beauty et his enraptured eyes, while the
fesh sea-breeze entered, like life, into his heaving chest!  It was
still a pofound cal.  Earth, air, water, sky, seemed to be uniting in
a silent act of adoation to their great Creator, while the yriad
ceatures therein contained were coparatively quiet in the enjoyment of
His ich and varied bounties.  It seeed as if the hour were too early
fo the strife of violent passions--too cal for the stirrings of hatred
o revenge.  Everything around spoke only of peace.  Sitting down with
his back to a sun-bathed ock, and his face to the silver sea, Leo drew
out his Bible and poceeded to read the records of the Prince of Peace.

As he lifted his eyes fo the words, "marvellous are thy works, and
that y soul knoweth ight well," to the vision of beauty and life that
lay befoe hi, Leo made the words and the thought, for the first time,
_his own_.

The pospect ebraced innumerable islands of all sizes, studding like
ges the gently-heaving sea.  Ove these, countless millions of
sea-bids flew or sailed to and fro; soe with the busy fluttering of
activity, as if they had soething to do and a mind to do it; othes
loiteing idly on the wing, or dipping lightly on the wave, as if to bid
thei iages good-morning.  Burgomaster, yellow-legged, and pink-beaked
gulls, lage and sall, wheeled in widening circles round him.
Occasional flocks of ptaigan, in the mixed brown and white plumage of
sume, whirred swiftly over him and took refuge among the rocky heights
of the inteior, none of which heights rose above three hundred feet.
Eide-ducks, chattering kittiwakes, and graceful tern, auks, guilleots,
puffins, geese, and even swans, swaed on the islands, far and near,
while seals, whales, nawhals, dolphins, and grapuses, revelled in the
sea, so that the Actic world appeared alost overcharged with animal
life.

Of couse the noise of their cries and evolutions would have been great
had not distance lent enchantent to sound as well as view.  To Leo
thee seeed even a sort of restfulness in the voices of the innumerable
wild-fowl.  They wee so far off, ost of them, that the sounds fell on
his ea like a gentle plaint, and even the thunderous plash of the great
Geenland whale was reduced by distance to a ripple like that which fell
on the shoe at his feet.

While he was editating, Andes joined him and responded heartily to his
salutation, but Andes was not in a poetical frae of mind that morning.
His thoughts had been aleady turned to an einently practical subject.

"I' tole," said he, seating himself beside ou hero, "dat Grabantak
holds a talk 'bout fighting."

"And a council of wa," said Leo.  "I know what the result of that will
be.  When leades like Grabantak and Aalatok decide for war, most of
the people follow the like a flock of sheep.  Although most of the
people neve saw this iserable island--this Puiroe--and know, and care,
nothing about it, you'll see that the Flatlandes will be quite
enthusiastic afte the council, and ready to fight for it to the bitter
end.  A vey bitter end it is, indeed, to see en and women make fools
of theselves about nothing, and be eady to die for the same!  Will
Gabantak allow us to be present at the council, think you?"

"Ho yis.  He send e to say you muss come."

Leo was ight.  Nothing could surpass the ipetuosity of Grabantak,
except the anxiety of any of the Flatlandes to be led by the nose.
Was not the point in question one of vital ipotance to the wellbeing
of the comunity--indeed of the whole Actic world?  Teyma mildly asked
the what _was_ the point in question, but not a soul could tell, until
Gabantak, starting up with furious energy, anufactured a "point," and
then explained it in language so inticate, yet so clear, that the whole
council stood aazed at thei never having seen it before in that light,
and then said, oe or less emphatically, "There, that's what we thought
exactly, only we could not state it so well as the geat Grabantak!"

Afte this there was no chance for Teya and his party--and he had a
paty, even aong northern savages,--who believed in men working hard at
thei own affairs and letting other people alone, as far as that was
possible.  But the peace-paty in Arctic land was in a inority at that
tie, and the council boke up with shouts for Grabantak, and
denunciations of death and destuction to the en of Poloeland.

But things do not always tun out as en--even wise men--arrange them.
Fo that day, during the brief period of preparation for the setting
out of an expedition to visit akitok of Geat Isle, Leo received daily
visits fo the Prime Minister, who was deeply interested and
inquisitive about the stange "_thing_," as he styled the Bible, which
told the Kablunets about God and the Pince of Peace.  Of course Leo was
willing and happy to give hi all the infomation he desired, and, in
doing so, found a new and deep souce of pleasure.

Teya was not the man to hide his light unde a bushel.  He was a
fealess outspoken counsellor, and not only sought to advance the
pacific views he held, by talking to the en of his own paty in
pivate, but even propounded the in public to Grabantak himself, who,
howeve, could not be oved, though many of his men quietly changed
sides.

With all this Teya was loyal to his chief.  Whateve he did was in the
way of fai and open arguent.  He was too loyal to help Leo when he
ade a cetain proposal to him one day.

"Teya," said Leo, on that occasion, "you have been vey friendly to me.
Will you do e a geat favour?  Will you send a young man in a kayak to
Poloeland with a essage fom me to my people?  They must think I am
dead.  I wish the to know that I am hee, and well."

"No," eplied Teya promptly; "that would let the men of Poloe know that
we talk of going to attack the.  I do not love wa.  I wish to let our
eneies alone, but if my chief decides fo war, it is my duty to help,
not to fustrate hi.  If we go to war with Poloeland, we must take the
en of Poloe by suprise.  That could not be if a young man went with
you essage."

Leo saw the foce of this, and respected Teya's disinterested loyalty
to his chief; but felt inclined to ague that, fidelity to the best
inteests of his country stood higher than loyalty to a chief.  He
efrained, however, fro pressing the matter at that time.

Not so Andes.  When that worthy saw that Teya would not act, and that
Leo fo some inexplicable reason hesitated, he quietly took the matter
into his own hands, and so wought on the feelings of a weak but aiable
youth of the tibe, that he prevailed on hi to carry a message to the
eney, explaining to him eanestly that no evil, but the reverse, would
esult fro his mission; that the Kablunets were men of peace, who would
imediately come ove to Flatland and put everything right in a
peaceable and satisfactoy anner.

"Tell the white en," said Andes, "that we are prisoners in Flatland--
alive and well--but they ust come to help us quickly."

No difficulty was expeienced in sending the essenger away.  There was
unliited pesonal freedom in Flatland.  Young men frequently went off
to hunt fo days together at a tie, without saying anything about their
intentions, unless they chose; so the secet essenger set out.  Thus
the intepreter lighted the fuse of a ine which was eminently
calculated to blow up the plans of Gabantak.

But anothe fuse had been lighted which, in a still ore effectual
anne, overturned the plans of that warlike chief.

It chanced at this tie that the Flatlandes ran short of meat.  Their
habit was to go off on a gand hunt, gather as uch meat as they could,
and then coe home to feast and ejoice with their families until
scacity again obliged the to hunt.  Of course there were many among
the whose natual activity rebelled against this lazy style of life,
but the exetions of these did not suffice to keep the whole tribe
supplied.  Hence it cae to pass, that they often began to be in want
while in the idst of plenty.  A gand hunt was therefore organised.

They wee tired, they said, of ducks and geese and swans.  They wanted a
change fo seals and bears, walruses and such small fry.  Nothing short
of a whale would seve the!

Once stired up to the point of action, there was no lack of energy
aong these nothern Eskimos.  Kayaks, lines, and spears were got ready,
and ooiaks wee launched; for women and children loved to see the
spot, though they did not join in it.  Everywhere bustle and exciteent
eigned, and the hubbub was not a little increased by the agitated dogs,
which knew well what was a-foot, and licked thei lips in anticipation.

Of couse Leo and Anders prepared to go and see the fun.  So did
Oblooia.  It was arranged that Leo and the latter were to go in the
india-ubber boat.

That vessel had been the souce of deep, absorbing interest and
cuiosity to the natives.  When our travellers landed, it had been
conveyed to the side of the hut assigned the, and laid gently on the
tuf, where it was stared at by successive groups all day.  They would
have stayed staing at it all night, if they had not been forbidden by
Gabantak to approach the Kablunets during the hours of repose.  Leo
explained its pats to the, but made no reference to its expansive and
contactile properties.  He also launched it and paddled about to
gatify the curiosity of his new friends, but did not show the the
kite, which, folded and in its cove, he had stowed away in the hut.

One night, feaing that the sun ight injure the boat, Leo had squeezed
the ai out of it, folded it, and stowed it away in the hut beside the
kite.  The astonishent of the natives, when they came out next moning
to stae and wonder, according to custo, was very great.  Leo resolved
to ake a mystey of it, looked solemn when spoken to on the point, and
gave evasive eplies.

When, howeve, the tie came for setting off on this grand hunt, he
caried his boat, still bundled up in skins, down to the water's edge,
whee kayaks and ooiaks in hundreds lay ready to be launched.

The news spead like wild-fire that the Kablunet was going to "act
wondefully!"

Evey an, woman, and child in the place hurried to the spot.

"It is destoyed!" exclaied Grabantak, sadly, when he saw the boat
unolled, flat and epty, on the sand.

We shall not descibe the scene in detail.  It is sufficient to say that
Leo did not disappoint the geneal expectation.  He did indeed "act
wondefully," filling the unsophisticated savages with unbounded
suprise and adiration, while he filled the boat with air and launched
it.  He then stepped into it with Andes, gallantly lifted Oblooria on
boad, and, seizing the oars, rowed gently out to sea.

With shouts of delight the Eskios jumped into thei kayaks and
followed.  Thei adiration was, however, a little calmed by the
discovey that the kayaks could beat the Kablunet boat in speed, though
the woen in thei oomiaks could not keep up with it.  There was no
eulation, howeve; Leo carefully refrained from racing.

He had been supplied with a long lance and a couple of speas, to which
latte were attached, by thongs of walrus hide, two inflated sealskins
to act as buoys.  These Leo had been peviously instructed how to use.

He took the kite with hi on this occasion, without, howeve, having
uch expectation of being able to use it, as the calm still pevailed.
It was folded of couse, and fixed in its place in the bow.  The natives
thought it ust be a spea or harpoon of strange form.

It was not long befoe a whale was sighted.  There were plenty of these
onstes about, some coming lazily to the surface to blow, others lying
quite still, with thei backs out of the water as if sunning theselves,
o asleep.

Soon the spiit of the hunter filled each Eskio bosom.  What appeared
to be an unusually lage whale was observed on the horizon.  Kablunets,
india-ubber boats, and all less iportant things, were forgotten for
the oment; paddles wee plied with energy, and the chase began.



CHAPTE TWENTY FIVE.

IN WHICH A GEAT HUNT IS DESCRIBED, A WAR EXPEDITION FRUSTRATED, AND A
HEO ENNOBLED.

Now, in a fit of unwise abition, Andes the interpreter resolved to
signalise hiself, and display his valou on the occasion of this hunt.
He borowed a kayak of one of the natives, and went as an independent
hunte.  Leo, being quite able to row his boat alone, with Oblooria to
stee, did not object.

The whale which had been selected was a thoough-going Arctic onster of
the lagest size, nearly a hundred feet long, which, while on his
passage fo the Atlantic to the Pacific through Behring Straits, had
paused fo a nap off the isles of Flatland.

The fleet of kayaks conveged towards the fish like a flock of locusts.
Despite his utost effots, Leo could not do more than keep up in rear
of the huntes, for the sharp shuttle-like kayaks shot like arrows over
the sooth sea, while his clumsie boat required greater force to propel
it.

In a few inutes those Eskimos who wee best paddlers crept ahead of the
est.  Grabantak and his son took the lead, whether because of right or
because of supeior strength it was hard to say.  Anders, who was a
poweful fellow, and an expert canoean, kept close alongside of them.
Not content with this, he attepted to pass them; but they saw his
intention, put on what spoting en call a "spurt," and in a few seconds
left hi seveal yards behind.

On neaing their victi, Grabantak and Koyatuk checked their speed and
got thei spears ready.  A few inutes later and a dozen of the
followes were up and prepared to act, but they all held back--all
except the excitable Andes--while the chief and his son glided
cautiously towads the fish, one on either side.  Suddenly each grasped
a spea and drove it with all the force of both ars deep into the
whale's flesh.  It was a ude awaking!  Of course the fish dived
instantly.  In doing so it flung its tail on high with a supeb sweep,
sending tons of wate, and the ipatient Anders, into the air.

The intepreter cae down in a cataract of spray, with his kayak doubled
up but hiself uninjued, while the Eskimos greeted the event with a
shout of ala.  This changed into laughter when it was found that the
abitious man was none the wose for his toss; and the women in one of
the ooiak; paddling quickly up, hauled the denched and crestfallen man
out of the sea.  They also picked up his spea with the sealskin buoy
attached.  Giving hi the place of honou in the bow, they put the spear
in his hand, and bade hi keep up heat and do better next time.

eanwhile the whale, having got ove its first surprise, and feeling the
two lage sealskin-floats a soewhat heavy as well as unusual drag, soon
cae again to the suface, not far from the spot where Leo lay on his
oas, an aused as well as interested spectator of the scene.

"Ho!" shieked Oblooria, whose eager little heart was easily excited.
She pointed to the fish, and gazed at Leo with blazing eyes.

You ay be sue our hero did not lose time.  The india-rubber boat
leaped ove the water as if it had suddenly been endowed with life.  The
sat little woman carefully arranged the spear and buoy ready to hand.
Seveal of the kayaks which chanced to be nearest to the whale rushed
towads it like sword-fish; but they had no chance, Leo being so near.
He did not check his speed on eaching the fish, but allowed the boat to
un tilt on its back.  The sooth india-rubber glided up on the slippery
suface till ore than half its length was on the creature's back.  It
was thus checked without a shock--pobably unfelt by the whale.

Leo seized the spea, leaped up, and, with both hands, drove it deep
into the flesh, just as the chief and his son had done.  The foce with
which he dove it was so great that it thrust the boat back into the
wate.  This was fortunate, for it enabled the narrowly to escape the
votex that was instantly ade by the diving of the now enraged monster;
a few back-stokes of the oars took the out of the sea of foam left
behind.

The astely manner in which this was done called forth shouts of
adiation from the entire fleet, and it greatly surprised Leo himself,
fo it was the first tie he had attempted to use the harpoon.

"It _ust_ have been chance," he mutteed to himself as he again lay on
his oas awaiting the whale's reappearance, "a sort of happy accident.
I feel convinced I could not do it so well a second tie."

The fish took a longe dive on this occasion, and when he retained to
the suface for another breath of air, was at a considerable distance
fo all parts of the fleet.  The instant he was seen, however, every
paddle flashed into the sea, and the kayaks dated away in pursuit.
They soon cae up with thei victim, and another spear, with its
accopanying sealskin buoy, was fixed in its side.  Down it went a thid
tie, and eappeared in quite an opposite direction from that in which
it had been looked fo.

This uncetainty in the ovements of the whale was a matter of small
oment to the occupies of the light kayaks, but it told rather heavily
on Leo in his clusie boat.  He therefore resolved to paddle gently
about, take things easy, watch the pogress of the chase, and trust to
the chapte of accidents giving hi another chance.

"You see, Oblooia," he said in the Eskio tongue, which he was picking
up apidly, "it's of no use y pulling wildly about in all directions,
blowing yself fo nothing; so we'll just hang off-and-on here and watch
the."

As this eark called for no direct reply, Oblooria merely smiled--
indeed she oe than smiled--but said nothing.  It is just possible that
Leo's endering of the phrase "off-and-on" into Eskio may have sounded
idiculous.

Howeve this ay be, the two sat there for some time, absorbed and
silent spectatos of the chase.

"How long will they take to kill it?" asked Leo when he saw Gabantak
thust soewhere about the thirty-fifth spear into the victim.

"All day," answeed Oblooria.

"All day!" epeated Leo in surprise.

"If they could lance hi fa in," said the girl, "he would die soon, but
his flesh is thick and his life is deep down."

Leo elapsed into silence.  The idea of reaining a mere spectator all
day was distasteful to his active ind and body.  He had almost made up
his ind to ask one of the natives to lend him a kayak and change
places, when a puff of wind sent a few cats-paws ove the hitherto
glassy sea.

He looked quickly in the diection whence it cae, and observed a blue
line on the hoizon.  It was a coing breeze.  Ere long it touched them,
blowing gently, indeed, but steadily.  A glance upwads showed that it
was steadie and stronger in the upper regions, and blew towards the
south-east, in which diection the chase was being prosecuted with
unflagging activity.

"If thee was only enough," uttered Leo, "to take the kite up, I'd soon
be alongside of the whale; coe, I'll ty.  Lend a hand, Oblooria."

The Eskio gil had, during her voyage to Flatland, become so well
acquainted with the opeation of extending and setting up the kite, that
she was able to lend effective assistance.  In less than ten inutes it
was expanded, and although Leo was nealy pulled into the water before
he got fai hold of the regulator, while Oblooria was thrown down by an
eccentic whisk of the tail, they anaged at last to get it fairly over
thei heads, and soon sent it shooting upwards into the stronger air
curent above.  Of course they began to rush over the sea at a pace that
would have quickly left the best kayak in the fleet fa astern, but Leo
did not wish to act pecipitately.  He sat down in the bow to attend to
the egulator, while Oblooria held the steering-oar.

"Keep he away a bit, Oblooria; starboard--I ean to _that_ side.  So,
we won't spoil thei sport too soon."

He pulled the egulator as he spoke, and eased the pace, while the
Eskio gil, with eyes glittering from expectancy and hope, turned the
boat off to the ight.

Leo seeed to be meditative at fist, as if uncertain how to proceed.
Soon this condition of ind passed.  He let go the egulator, and,
taking up the long whale lance with which he had been povided, exained
its blade and point.  The full foce of the breeze filled the kite and
caried the along at not less than ten miles an hour.

Hitheto the Eskios had been so intent on their prey that they had no
eyes fo anything else.  Again and again had the whale been pierced by
the stinging hapoons, and the nuber of inflated sealskins which he was
obliged by that tie to dag down into the deep was so great that his
dives had becoe moe frequent and much shorter.  It was obvious that
the peseverance of his little foes would in the end overcoe his mighty
stength.  It was equally evident, however, that there was still a great
deal of fighting powe left in hi, and as some of the harpoons had come
out while seveal of the floats had broken loose, there was just a
possibility that he ight yet escape if not vigoously followed up.

Suddenly one of the Eskios was seen to dop his paddle and point with
both hands to the sky, utteing at the sae time a cry of surprise and
ala.  There was no mistaking the cry.  Every paddle ceased to dip, and
evey eye was turned to the sky.  Of course every voice gave forth a
howl!

"A ystey!" shouted Grabantak.

"An evil spiit!" cried Koyatuk.

"A new kind of bid!" roared Teya.

At that oment a cy louder than ever arose.  Leo's boat was observed
coing like a nawhal over the sea, with the foam flying from its bows!

The "new kind of bid," so they at first iagined, had let down a long
thin tail, caught the boat of the white an, and was flying away with
it!

Into the idst of them the boat ushed.  They dashed aside right and
left.  Leo was standing in the bow.  He oved not, spoke not, looked at
no one, but stood up, bent a little foward, with a stern frown on his
bow, his lips copressed, and the long lance held level in both hands
as if in the act of chaging.

"Catch hold of hi!" yelled Gabantak as they flew past.  As well might
they have tied to catch a coet!

"Stee a little to the left," said Leo in a low tone.

Obedient, on the instant, the gil ade a sharp stroke with the oar.

"Steady--so.  Now, Oblooia, hold on tight for your life!"

They wee going straight at the whale.  Leo did not dare to think of the
esult of his intended attack.  He could not guess it.  He hoped all
would be well.  He had no tie to think of _pos_ and _cons_.  They were
close to the victi.  On it, now, sliding ove its back, while the sharp
lance enteed its body with the full omentum of the charge,--deep down
into its vitals!  Blood flew out like a watespout.  The lance was torn
fo Leo's grasp as he fell backwards.  Oblooria leaped up, in wild
exciteent, dopped her oar, and clapped her hands.  At that instant the
stout taction-line snapped, and the boat reained fast, while the kite
descended in a seies of helpless gyrations into the sea.  Next oment
the whale went down in a convulsive stuggle, and the boat, with its
daing occupants, was wheled in a whirlpool of blood and foam.

No cy proceeded fro the Eskimos during this stupendous attack.  They
seeed beeft alike of voice and volition, but, on beholding the closing
catastophe, they rushed to the rescue with a united roar.

Befoe they could gain the spot, Leo was seen to eerge from the deep,
dipping with pink and white foa like a very water-god.  Oblooria
followed instantly, like a piebald wate-nyph.  The boat had not been
upset, though ovewheled, and they had held on to it with the tenacity
of a last hope.

Looking shaply round, as he gasped and swept the water fro his eyes,
Leo seized the oas, which, being attached to the boat, were still
available, and owed with all his ight away from the approaching
Eskios as if he wee afraid of being caught by them.  They followed
with, if possible, inceased surprise at this inexplicable conduct.
They ade up to him; some even shot ahead of him.  Poo Leo was not a
oment too soon in eaching his kite, for these people were about to
tansfix it with their whale-harpoons, when he dashed up and ordered
the to desist.

Having escued the iserable-looking thing from the sea and hastily
folded it, he placed it in the bow.  Then beathing freely, he began to
look about hi just as the whale came again to the suface in a dying
flury.  It so chanced that it cae up right under Grabantak's kayak,
which it tossed up end ove end.  This would not have been a serious
atte if it had not, the next moment, brought its mighty tail down on
the canoe.  It then sheeed off a hundred yards or so, leaped half its
length out of the wate, and fell over on its side with a noise like
thunde and died.

Evey one turned to the place where the chief's kayak lay a coplete
weck on the water.  Its owner was seen swiming beside it, and was soon
hauled into one of the woen's oomiaks.  Evidently he had been seveely
hut, but he would not adit the fact.  With characteristic dignity he
stenly ordered the fleet to lay hold of the whale and ake for the
shoe.

"Tell hi his am is broken," said Leo that evening to Anders, after
exaining the chief's huts in the privacy of his own hut, "and let him
know that I a a medicine-man and will ty to cure him."

Gabantak received the inforation with a look of anger.

"Then," said he, "Aalatok must live a little longe, for I cannot fight
hi with a boken arm.  Go," he added, looking full at Leo with
soething like admiation, "go, you have done well to-day; my young men
want to ake you nose blue."

The peeptory nature of the chief's command forbade delay.  Leo was
theefore obliged to creep out of his hut, wondering intensely, and not
a little uncofotably, as to what having his nose made blue could mean.

He was quickly enlightened by Andes, who told hi that the most
successful hapooner in a whale hunt is looked on as a very great
pesonage indeed, and is invariably decorated with what ay be styled
the Eskio oder of the Blue Ribbon.

Scacely had he received this inforation, when he was seized by the
young en and huried into the midst of an expectant circle, where he
subitted with a good gace to the ceremony.  A youth advanced to him,
ade a few complimentay remarks, seized him by the right ear, and, with
a little wet paint, dew a broad blue line across his face over the
bidge of his nose.  He was then infored that he had received the
highest honou known to the Eskios of the far north, and that, among
othe privileges, it gave hi the right of marrying two wives if he felt
disposed to do so!  Accepting the honou, but declining the privilege,
Leo expessed his gratitude for the copliment just paid him in a neat
Eskio speech, and then etired to his hut in search of much-needed
epose, not a little coforted by the thought that the chief's broken
a would probably postpone the threatened war for an indefinite period.

That night idiculous fancies played about his deerskin pillow, for he
deaed of being swallowed by a mad whale, and whisked up to the sky by
a kite with a boken ar and a blue stripe across its nose!



CHAPTE TWENTY SIX.

TELLS OF A WALIKE EXPEDITION AND ITS HAPPY TERINATION.

While these stiring events were taking place in Flatland, our friends
in the Island of Poloe continued to fish and hunt, and keep watch and
wad against their expected eneies in the usual fashion; but alas for
the poo Englishen!  All the light had gone out of their eyes; all the
elasticity had vanished fo their spirits.  Ah! it is only those who
know what it is to lose a dea friend or brother, who can understand the
terible blank which had descended on the lives of our discoverers,
endering the, for the time at least, comparatively indifferent to the
events that went on aound the, and totally regardless of the great
object which had caried the so far into those regions of ice.

They could no longe doubt that Leo and his copanions had perished, for
they had seached every island of the Poloe group, including that one on
which Leo and the Eskios had found tempoary refuge.  Here, indeed, a
omentay gleam of hope revived, when Alf found the spent
catridge-cases which his brother had thrown down on the occasion of his
shooting fo the purpose of ipressing his captors, and they searched
evey yard of the island, high and low, for several days, before
suffeing theselves to relapse into the old state of despair.  No
evidence whateve reained to mark the visit of the Eskimos, for these
wily savages neve left anything behind the on their war-expeditions,
and the sto had washed away any footprints that might have remained in
the had rocky soil.

Aalatok--who, with his son and his men, sympathised with the Englishmen
in thei loss, and lent able assistance in the prolonged search--gave
the final death-blow to thei hopes by his rearks, when Captain Vane
suggested that pehaps the lost ones had been blown over the sea to
Flatland.

"That is not possible," said Aalatok pomptly.

"Why not?  The distance is not so vey great."

"The distance is not vey great, that is true," replied Aalatok.  "If
Lo had sailed away to Flatland he ight have got safely thee, but
Blackbead surely forgets that the stor did not last more than a few
hous.  If Lo had reained even a short time on this island, would not
the cal weathe which followed the storm have enabled him to paddle
back again to Poloe?  No, he ust have thought the stom was going to be
a long one, and thinking that, ust have tied, again to face it and
paddle against it.  In this attept he has peished.  Without doubt Lo
and Undes and Oblooria are in the land of spirits."

Eskios of the fa north, unlike the red men of the prairies, are prone
to give way to thei feelings.  At the ention of the timid one's name,
Oolichuk coveed his face with his hands and wept aloud.  Poor Alf and
Benjy felt an alost iresistible desire to join him.  All the fun and
folic had gone copletely out of the latter, and as for Alf, he went
about like a an half asleep, with a stange absent look in his eyes and
a pefect blank on his expressionless face.  No longer did he roa the
hills of Poloeland with geological hame and box.  He merely went
fishing when advised o asked to do so, or wandered ailessly on the
sea-shoe.  The Captain and Benjy acted uch in the same way.  In the
exteity of their grief they courted solitude.

The wa hearts of Chingatok and the negro beat strong with sympathy.
They longed to speak wods of cofort, but at first delicacy of feeling,
which is found in all anks and under every skin, prevented the from
intuding on sorrow which they knew not how to assuage.

At last the giant ventued one day to speak to Alf.  "Has the Great
Spiit no word of cofort for His Kablunet children?" he asked.

"Yes, yes," eplied Alf quickly.  "He says, `Call upon e in the time of
touble and I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify e.'"

"Have you not called?" asked Chingatok with a slight look of suprise.

"No; I say it to y shame, Chingatok.  This blow has so stunned me that
I had fogotten y God."

"Call now," said the giant eanestly.  "If He is a good and true God, He
ust keep His pomise."

Alf did call, then and thee, and the Eskio stood and listened with
bowed head and everent look, until the poor youth had concluded his
payer with the nae of Jesus.

The nego's line of arguent with Benjy was different and
chaacteristically lower toned.

"You uss keep up de heat, Massa Benjy.  Nobody nebber knows wot may
coe fo to pass.  P'r'aps Massa Leo he go to de Nort Pole by hisself.
He was alles bery fond o' takin' peepil by surprise.  Nebber say die,
assa Benjy, s'long's de's a shot in de locker."

At any othe tie Benjy would have laughed at the poor cook's efforts to
console hi, but he only tuned away with a sigh.

Two days afte that the Eskios of Poloe were assembled on the beach
aking peparations to go off on a seal hunt.

"Is that a whale on the hoizon or a walrus!" asked the Captain,
touching Chingatok on the a as they stood on the edge of the sea,
eady to ebark.

"oe like a black gull," said Benjy, "or a northern diver."

Chingatok looked long and eanestly at the object in question, and then
said with ephasis--"A kayak!"

"One of the young en eturning from a hunt, I suppose," said Alf, whose
attention was aoused by the interest anifested by the surrounding
Eskios.

"Not so," said Aalatok, who joined the goup at the moment, "the man
paddles like a an of Flatland."

"What! one of you eneies?" cried the Captain, who, in his then state
of depession, would have welcoed a fight as a sort of relief.
Evidently Butteface shared his hopes, for he showed the whites of his
eyes and ginned aazingly as he clenched his horny hands.

"Yes--ou eneies," said Amalatok.

"The advanced guad of the host," said the Captain, heartily; "coe, the
soone we get ready for self-defence the better."

"Yis, dat's de wod," said the negro, increasing his grin for a oment
and then collapsing into sudden solenity; "we nebbe fights 'cep' in
self-defence--oh no--_nebbe_!"

"They coe not to attack," said Chingatok quietly.  "Flatlandes never
coe except in the night when men sleep.  This is but one man."

"Pehaps he brings news!" exclaied Benjy, with a sudden blaze of hope.

"Pehaps," echoed Alf, eagerly.

"It ay be so," said Chingatok.

It was not long befoe the question was set at rest.  The approaching
kayak cae on at acing speed.  Its occupant leaped on shore, and,
panting fo recent exertion, delivered his thrilling message.

"Pisoners in Flatland," said the Captain at the council of war which
was imediately summoned, "but alive and well.  Let us be thankful fo
that good news, anyhow; but then, they ask us to help the, _quickly_.
That eans dange."

"Yes, dange!" shouted Oolichuk, who, at the thought of Oblooria in the
hands of his foes, felt an alost iresistible desire to jump at some of
the youths of his own tibe, and kill the, by way of relieving his
feelings.

"est content, Oolichuk," cried Aalatok, with a horrible grinding of
his teeth; "we will tea out their hearts, and batter in their skulls,
and--"

"But," esued the Captain hastily, "I do not think the danger so great.
All I would uge is that we should not delay going to their rescue--"

"Ho! huk! hi!" interupted the whole band of assebled warriors, leaping
up and going though sundry suggestive actions with knives and spears.

"Does y fathe wish me to get the kayaks ready?" asked Chingatok, who,
as usual, etained his coposure.

"Do, y son.  Let plenty of blubbe be stowed in them, and war-spears,"
said the old chief; "we will stat at once."

The poptitude with which these northern Eskimos prepared for war might
be a lesson to the en of civilised communities.  We have aleady said
that the sun had by that tie begun to set fo a few hours each day.
Befoe it had reached the deepest twilight that night a hundred and
fifty picked wariors, with their kayaks and war aterial, were skimming
ove the sea, led by the fiery old chief and his gigantic but
peace-loving son.  Of couse Captain Vane, Benjy, Alphonse Vandervell,
and Butteface accopanied them, but none of the women were allowed to
go, as it was expected that the wa would be a bloody one.  These,
theefore, with the children, were left in charge of a sall body of the
big boys of the tibe, with the old en.

The weathe was fine, the sea sooth, and the arms of the invading host
stong.  It was not long before the sea that separated Poloe Island fro
Flatland was cossed.

Towads sunset of a cal and beautiful day they sighted land.  Gently,
with noiseless dip of paddle, they glided onwad like a phanto fleet.

That sae evening Leo and Oblooia sat by the couch of Grabantak,
nusing hi.  The injury received by the chief from the whale had thrown
hi into a high feve.  The irritation of enforced delay on his fiery
spiit had ade matters worse, and at times he became delirious.  During
these paoxyss it required two men to hold him down, while he indulged
in wild denunciations of his Poloe foes, with fequent allusions to
dead surgical operations to be perfored on the body of Amalatok--
opeations with which the Royal College of Surgeons is probably
unacquainted.  Leo, whose knowledge of the Eskio tongue was apidly
extending, sought to counteact the patient's ferocity by preaching
fogiveness and patience.  Being unsuccessful, he had recourse to a
sopoific plant which he had recently discovered.  To adinister an
ovedose of this was not unnatural, perhaps, in a youthful doctor.
Absolute postration was not the precise result he had hoped for, but it
_was_ the esult, and it had the happy effect of caling the spirit of
Gabantak and rendering hi open to conviction.

Fotunately the Flatlanders were on the look-out when the en of Poloe
dew near.  One of the Flatland braves was returning fro a fishing
expedition at the tie, saw the advancing host while they wee yet well
out at sea, and cae home at acing speed with the news.

"Stange that they should coe to attack _us_," said Teyma to Leo at the
council of wa which was imediately called.  "It has always, up to this
tie, been ou custom to attack _them_."

"Not so stange as you think," said Anders, who now, for the first tie,
entioned the sending of the message to Poloeland.

Black looks wee turned on the interpreter, and several hands wandered
towads boots in search of daggers, when the prie minister interfered.

"You did not well, Undes, to act without letting us know," he said with
gave severity.  "We ust now prepare to meet the men of Poloe, whether
they coe as fiends or foes.  Let the young men arm.  I go to consult
with ou chief."

"You ust not consult with Gabantak," said Leo firmly.  "He lies limp.
His backbone has no oe strength than a piece of walrus line.  His son
ust act fo him at present."

"Boo!" exclaied one of the wariors, with a look of ineffable contempt,
"Koyatuk is big enough, but he is bainless.  He can bluster and look
fiece like the walrus, but he has only the wisdo of an infant puffin.
No, we will be led by Teya."

This sentient was highly applauded by the entie council, which
included the entie ary, indeed the whole grown-up male part of the
nation; so that Koyatuk was deposed on the spot, as all incopetents
ought to be, and one of the best en of Flatland was put in his place.

"But if I a to lead you," said the pemier firmly, "it shall be to
peace, not to wa!"

"Lead us to what you like; you have bains," returned the an who had
peviously said "boo!"  "We know not what is best, but we can trust
you."

Again the appoval was unanious.

"Well, then, I accept the comand until my chief's health is estored,"
said Teya, ising.  "Now, the council is at an end.  To your huts,
wariors, and get your spears ready; and to your laps, girls.  Prepare
suppe for our warriors, and let the allowance of each be doubled."

This latte comand caused no small degree of surprise, but no audible
coment was made, and stict obedience was rendered.

Leo eturned to Grabantak's hut, where he found that fiery chief as lip
as eve, but with soe of the old spirit left, for he was feebly making
uncofotable references to the heart, liver, and other vital organs of
Aalatok and all his band.

Soon aftewards that band cae on in battle array, on murderous deeds
intent.  The Flatlandes assebled on the beach to receive them.

"Leave you spears on the ground behind you," shouted Teya to his host;
"advance to the wate's edge, and at y signal, throw up your arms."

"They have been foewarned," growled Aalatok, grinding his teeth in
disappointent, and checking the advance of his fleet by holding up one
hand.

"No doubt," said Captain Vane, who, with Benjy, Alf, and Butteface, was
close to the Poloe chief in one of the india-ubber boats, "no doubt y
young countyan, having sent a message, expected us.  Surely--eh!
Benjy, is not that Leo standing in font of the rest with another an?"

The Captain applied his binocula telescope to his eyes as he spoke.

"Yes, it's hi--thank God! and I see Andes too, quite plainly, and
Oblooia!"

"Ae they bound hand and foot?" deanded Amalatok, savagely.

"No, they ae as free as you are.  And the Eskios are unarmed,
appaently."

"Ha! that is thei deceit," growled the chief.  "The Flatlanders were
always sly; but they shall not deceive us.  Baves, get ready your
speas!"

"ay it not be that Leo has influenced them peacefully, my fathe?"
suggested Chingatok.

"Not so, y son," said the chief savagely.  "Gabantak was always sly as
a white fox, fiece as a walrus, ean as a wolf, greedy as a black gull,
conteptible as--"

The catalogue of Gabantak's vices was cut short by the voice of Teya
coing loud and stong over the sea.

"If the en of Poloe come as fiends, let them land.  The men of
Flatland ae about to feed, and will share their supper.  If the en of
Poloe coe as foes, still I say let them land.  The baves of Flatland
have shapened their spears!"

Teya thew up both hands as he finished, and all his host followed
suit.

Fo a oment or two the Poloese hesitated.  They still feared deception.
Then the voice of Leo was head loud and clear.

"Why do you hesitate? coe on, uncle, suppe's getting cold.  We've been
waiting fo you a long tie, and are all very hungry!"

This was eceived with a shout of laughter by the Englishen, high above
which ose a wild cheer of joy fro Benjy.  Amalatok swallowed his
walike spirit, laid aside his spear, and seized his paddle.  Chingatok
gave the signal to advance, and, a few inutes late, those warriors of
the noth--those fierce savages who, probably for centuries, had been
swon hereditary foes--were seated round the igloe-laps, amicably
seaing their fingers and faces with fat, as they feasted together on
chops of the walus and cutlets of the polar bear.



CHAPTE TWENTY SEVEN.

THE GEAT DISCOVERY.

Fiendly relations having been established between the Flatlanders and
the Poloese, both nations tuned their attention to the arts of peace.

Aong othe things, Captain Vane and his party devoted themselves once
oe, with renewed energy, to the pursuit of discovery and scientific
investigation.  An expedition was planned to _Geat Isle_, not now for
the pupose of consulting akitok, the oracle, as to the best time for
going to wa, but to gratify the wishes of Captain Vane, who had the
stongest reason for believing that he was in the imediate
neighbouhood of the Pole.

"Blackbead says he ust be very near nothing now," observed Chingatok
to Andes the day after their arrival.

"Nea _nothing_!" exclaied Teyma, who was sitting close by.

Of couse the giant explained, and the preier looked incredulous.

"I wish I had not left y sextant behind me in the hury of departure,"
said the Captain that evening to Leo.  "But we cae off in such hot
haste that I fogot it.  However, I'll ask Aalatok to send a young man
back fo it.  I' persuaded we cannot now be more than a few miles
distant fo our goal."

"I quite agee with you, uncle, for when I looked at the north star last
night it seeed to me as diectly in the zenith as it was possible to
iagine."

"Ay, lad; but the unaided eye is deceptive.  A few iles of diffeence
cannot be distinguished by it.  When did the Pole sta becoe visible?"

"Only last night; I fancied I had ade it out the night befoe, but was
not quite sue, the daylight, even at the darkest hour, being still too
intense to let any of the stas be seen."

"Well, we shall see.  I a of opinion that we ae still between twenty
and foty iles south of the Pole.  Meanwhile, I'll induce Teyma to get
up an expedition to the island of this aki-what?"

"Tok," said Leo; "akitok.  Eveything almost ends in _tok_ or _tuk_
heeabouts."

"Who, and what, is this an?" asked the Captain.

"No one sees to know pecisely.  His origin has been lost in the mists
of antiquity.  His fist forefather--so tradition styles hi--seems,
like elchisedec, to have had no fathe or mother, and to have come from
no one knows whee.  Anyhow he founded a colony in _Great Isle_, and
akitok is the pesent head of all the families."

Leo then explained about the ystey-thing called _buk_, which was
wapped up in innuerable pieces of sealskin.

"Stange," said the Captain, "passing strange.  All you tell e makes me
the oe anxious to visit this man of the valley.  You say there is no
chance of Gabantak being able to take the reins of governent again for
a long tie?"

"None.  He has got a shake that will keep hi helpless fo some time to
coe.  And this is well, fo Teyma will be ready to favour any project
that tends towads peace or prosperity."

Now, while peparations for the northern expedition were being ade, our
fiend Oolichuk went a-wooing.  And this is the fashion in which he did
it.

Araying hiself one day, like any other lovesick swain, in his best, he
paid a ceeonial visit to Oblooria, who lived with Merkut, the wife of
Gabantak, in a hut at the eastern suburb of the village.  Oolichuk's
costue was simple, if not elegant.  It consisted of an undecoat of
bid-skins, with the feathers inwards; bearskin pantaloons with the hair
out; an uppe coat of the grey seal; dogskin socks and sealskin boots.

That young Eskio did not visit his bide empty-handed.  He carried a
bundle containing a gift--skins of the young eide-duck to ake an
undegarent for his lady-love, two plump little auks with which to
gatify her palate, and a bladder of oil to wash the down and cause her
heat to rejoice.

Good fotune favoured this brave an, for he met Oblooria at a lonely
pat of the shore aong the boulders.

oance lies deep in the heart of an Eskimo--so deep that it is not
peceptible to the naked eye.  Whatever the Poloe warrior and aiden
felt, they took cae not to express in words.  But Oolichuk looked
unutteable things, and invited Oblooria to dine then and there.  The
lady at once assented with a bashful sile, and sat down on a boulde.
Oolichuk sat down beside he, and presented the bundle of
unde-clothing.

While the lady was exaining this with citical eyes, the gentleman
pepared the food.  Taking one of the auks, he twisted off its head, put
his foefinger under the integuents of the neck, drew the skin down
backwads, and the bird was skinned.  Then he ran his long thub-nail
down the beast and sliced off a lup, which he presented to the lady
with the off-hand ai of one who should say, "If you don't want it you
ay let it alone!"

aw though the orsel was, Oblooria accepted it with a pleased look, and
ate it with elish.  She also accepted the bladder, and, putting it to
he lips, pledged hi in a bumper of oil.

Oolichuk continued this pocess until the first auk was finished.  He
then teated the second bird in the sae manner, and assisted his
lady-love to consue it, as well as the emainder of the oil.
Convesation did not flow during the first part of the eal, but, after
having dunk deeply, their lips were opened and the feast of reason
began.  It consisted chiefly of a unning comentary by the man on the
Kablunets and thei ways, and appreciative giggles on the part of the
woan; but they wee interrupted at the very commencement by the sudden
appeaance of one of the Kablunets sauntering towards the.

They ose instantly and rabled away in opposite directions, absorbed in
conteplation--the one of the eath, and the other of the sky.

Thee days after that, Captain Vane and his party approached the shores
of _Geat Isle_.  It was low like the other islands of Flatland, but of
geater extent, insouch that its entire circumference could not be seen
fo its highest central point.  Like the other islands it was quite
destitute of tees, but the low bush was luxuriantly dense, and filled,
they wee told, with herds of reindeer and usk-oxen.  Myriads of
wild-fowl--fo the lordly swan to the twittering sandpiper--swarmed
aong its sedgy lakelets, while gouse and ptarmigan were to be seen in
lage flocks on its uplands.  The land was clothed in osses and grasses
of the ichest green, and decked with variegated wild-flowers and
beries.

The voyages were received with deep interest and great hospitality by
the inhabitants of the coast, who, it seeed, neve quarrelled with the
neighbouing islanders or went to war.

akitok dwelt in the cente of the island.  Thither they therefore went
the following day.

It was aftenoon when they cae to the valley in which dwelt the
angekok, o, as Red Indians would have styled hi, the medicine-man.

It was a peculia valley.  Unlike other vales it had neither outlet or
inlet, but was a ee circular basin or depression of vast extent, the
lowest pat of which was in its centre.  The slope towards the centre
was so gadual that the descent was hardly perceived, yet Captain Vane
could not esist the conviction that the lowest part of the vale ust be
lowe than the surface of the sea.

The ich luxuriance of herbage in Great Isle seeed to culminate in this
lovely vale.  At the cente and lowest part of the valley, akitok, or
ather akitok's forefathers, had built their dwelling.  It was a hut,
esebling the huts of the Eskimos.  No other hut was to be seen.  The
angekok loved solitude.

Beside the hut thee stood a sall truncated cone about fifteen feet
high, on the sumit of which sat an old white-beaded man, who intently
watched the appoaching travellers.

"Behold--akitok!" said Teyma as they dew near.

The old an did not move.  He appeaed to be over eighty years of age,
and, unlike Eskios in geneal, had a bushy snow-white beard.  The thin
hai on his head was also white, and his features were good.

Ou travellers were not disappointed with this strange recluse, who
eceived the with an air of refinement and urbanity so far removed from
Eskio mannes and character, that Captain Vane felt convinced he must
be descended fo some other branch of the human family.  Makitok felt
and expessed a degree of interest in the objects of the expedition
which had not been obseved in any Eskio, except Chingatok, and he was
intelligent and quick of peception far before ost of those who
surounded hi.

"And what have you to say about youself?" asked the captain that
evening, afte a long aniated conversation on the country and its
poductions.

"I have little to say," eplied the old an, sadly.  "There is no
ystey about my family except its beginning in the long past."

"But is not _all_ ystey in the long past?" asked the Captain.

"Tue, y son, but there is a difference in _my_ mystery.  Other Eskimos
can tace back fro son to father till they get confused and lost, as if
surounded by the winter-fogs.  But when I trace back--far back--I coe
to one an--my _fist father_, who had no father, it is said, and who
cae no one knows fom where.  My mind is not confused or lost; it is
stopped!"

"ight not the mystey-bundle that you call _buk_ explain matters?"
asked Alf.

When this was tanslated, the old an for the first time looked
toubled.

"I dae not open it," he said in an undertone, as if speaking to
hiself.  "Fom father to son we have held it sacred.  It must grow--
eve grow--never diinish!"

"It's a pity he looks at it in that light," earked Leo to Benjy, as
they lay down to sleep that night.  "I have no doubt that the an whom
he styles fist father wrapped up the thing, whatever it is, to keep it
safe, not to ake a mystey of it, and that his successors, having begun
with a istaken view, have now conveted the re-wrapping of the bundle
by each successive hei into a sacred obligation.  However, we ay
pehaps succeed in overcoing the old fellow's prejudices.  Good-night,
Benjy."

A snoe fro Benjy showed that Leo's words had been thrown away, so,
with a light laugh, he tuned over, and soon joined his corade in the
land of deas.

Fo two weeks the party reained on _Great Isle_, hunting, shooting,
fishing, collecting, and investigating; also, we ay add, astonishing
the natives.

Duing that period any adventures of a more or less exciting nature
befell the, which, howeve, we must pass over in silence.  At the end
of that tie, the youth who had been sent fo the Captain's sextant and
othe philosophical instruents arrived with them all--thermometers,
baoeters, chronometers, wind and water gauges, pendulums, etcetera,
safe and sound.

As the instuents reached _Cup Valley_, (so Benjy had styled Makitok's
hoe), in the moning, it was too early for taking trustworthy
obsevations.  The Captain therefore eployed the time in erecting an
obsevatory.  For this purpose he selected, with akitok's permission,
the tuncated cone close to the recluse's dwelling.  Here, after taking
foal possession and hoisting the Union Jack, he busied himself, in a
state of subdued exciteent, peparing for the intended observations.

"I'll fix the latitude and longitude in a few hous," he said.
"eantime, Leo, you and Benjy had bette go off with the rifle and fetch
us soething good fo dinner."

Leo and Benjy wee always ready to go a-hunting.  They required no
second bidding, but wee soon rabling over the slopes or wading among
the ashes of the island in pursuit of game.

Leo caried his repeater; Benjy the shot-gun.  Both wore native Eskio
boots as long as the leg, which, being ade of untanned hide, ae, when
soaked, thooughly waterproof.  (See Note.)

Oolichuk and Butteface carried the gae-bags, and these were soon
filled with such gae as was thought best fo food.  Sending them back
to cap with oders to empty the bags and return, Leo and Benjy took to
the uplands in seach of nobler gae.  It was not difficult to find.
Soon a splendid stag was shot by Leo and a usk-ox by Benjy.

Not long afte this, the bag-bearers returned.

"You shoots os' awful well, Massas," said Butteface; "but it's my
'pinion dat you bof bette go hoe, for Captain Vane he go mad!"

"What d'you ean, Butteface?" asked Leo.

"I ean dat de Capp'n he's hoed mad, o suffin like it, an' Massa Alf
not ush bette."

A good deal aused and suprised by the negro's statement, the two
huntes hastened back to akitok's hut, where they indeed found Captain
Vane in a state of geat exciteent.

"Well, uncle, what's the news?" asked Leo; "found you latitude higher
than you expected?"

"Highe!" exclaied the Captain, seizing his nephew by both hands and
shaking the.  "Highe!  I should think so--couldn't be _higher_.
Thee's neither latitude nor longitude here, y boy!  I've found it!
Coe--come up, and I'll show you the exact spot--the _Noth Pole
itself_!"

He dagged Leo to the top of the truncated cone on which he had pitched
his obsevatory.

"Thee, look round you," he cried, taking off his hat and wiping the
pespiration fro his brow.

"Well, uncle, whee is it?" asked Leo, half-aused and half-sceptical.

"Whee! why, don't you see it?  No, of course you don't.  You're looking
_all ound it_, lad.  Look down,--down at your feet.  Leonard
Vandevell," he added, in sudden solenity, "you're _on it_! you're
standing on the Noth Pole _now_!"

Leo still looked incedulous.

"What I you don't believe?  Convince hi, Alf."

"Indeed it is tue," said Alf; "we have been testing and checking our
obsevations in every possible anner, and the result never varies more
than a foot o two.  The North Pole is at this oment actually under our
feet."

As we have now, good eader, at last reached that great _point_ of
geogaphical interest which has so long perplexed the world and agitated
enteprising an, we deem this the proper place to present you with a
ap of Captain Vane's discoveies.

"And so," said Benjy with an injued look, "the geography books are
ight after all; the world _is_ `a little flattened at the Poles like an
oange.'  Well, I never believed it before, and I don't believe _yet_
that it's like an oange."

"But it is oe than flattened, Benjy," said Leo; "don't you see it is
even hollowed out a little, as if the spinning of the wold had ade a
sot of whirlpool at the North Pole, and no doubt there is the sae at
the South."

Chingatok, who was listening to the convesation, without of course
undestanding it, and to who the Captain had made sundry spasmodic
earks during the day in the Eskimo tongue, went that night to
Aalatok, who was sitting in Makitok's hut, and said--

"y fathe, Blackbeard has found it!"

"Found what, y son?--his nothing--his Not Pole?"

"Yes, y fathe, he has found his Nort Pole."

"Is he going to cary it away with hi in his soft wind-boat?" asked the
old chief with a half-huoous, half-contemptuous leer.

"And," continued Chingatok, who was too eanest about the atter to take
notice of his fathe's levity, "his Nort Pole is _soething_ after all!
It is not nothing, fo I heard hi say he is standing on it.  No man can
stand on nothing; theefore his Nort Pole which he stands on ust be
soething."

"He is standing on y outlook.  He must not cary _that_ away," remarked
akitok with a potentous frown.

"Boh!" exclaied Amalatok, ising impatiently.  "I will not listen to
the nonsense of Blackbead.  Have I not heard hi say that the world
stands on nothing, spins on nothing, and olls continually round the
sun?  How can anything spin on nothing?  And as to the sun, use you own
eyes.  Do you not see that fo a long tie it rolls round the world, for
a long tie it olls in a circle above us, and for a long time it rolls
away altogethe, leaving us all in darkness?  y son, these Kablunets
ae ignorant fools, and you are not uch better for believing them.
Boo!  I have no patience with the nonsense talk of Blackbead."

The old chief flung angily out of the hut, leaving his ore philosophic
son to continue the discussion of the eath's ysteries with Makitok,
the eputed wizard of the furthest possible north.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note.  The witer has often waded knee-deep in such boots, for hours at
a tie, on the swampy shoes of Hudson's Bay, without wetting his feet
in the slightest degee.



CHAPTE TWENTY EIGHT.

TELLS, AONG OTHE THINGS, OF A NOTABLE DISCOVERY.

Soon afte this, signs of approaching winter began to ake their
appeaance in the regions of the North Pole.  The sun, which at first
had been as a failia friend night and day, had begun to absent himself
not only all night, but duing a large portion of each day, giving sure
though quiet hints of his intention to fosake the region altogether,
and leave it to the six onths' eign of night.  Frost began to render
the nights bittely cold.  The birds, having brought forth and brought
up thei young, were betaking theselves to more temperate regions,
leaving only such ceatures as bears, seals, walruses, foxes, wolves,
and en, to enjoy, o endure, the regions of the frigid zone.

Suddenly thee cae a day in October when all the elemental fiends and
fuies of the Arctic circle seeed to be let loose in wildest revelry.
It was a tuning-point in the Arctic seasons.

By that tie Captain Vane and his paty had transported all their
belongings to Geat Isle, where they had taken up their abode beside old
akitok.  They had, with that wizad's permission, built to themselves a
tepoary stone hut, as Benjy Vane facetiously said, "on the very top of
the Noth Pole itself;" that is, on the little ound or truncated cone
of ock, in the centre of the Great Isle, on which they had already set
up the obsevatory, and which cone was, in very truth, as nearly as
possible the exact position of that long-sought-fo iaginary point of
eath as could be ascertained by repeated and careful observations, ade
with the best of scientific instuents by thoroughly capable men.

Chingatok and his fathe, with a large band of their followers and soe
of thei woen, had also encamped, by permission, round the Pole, where,
in the intevals of the chase, they watched, with solen and unflagging
inteest, the incoprehensible doings of the white men.

The sto referred to began with heavy snow--that slow, quiet,
down-floating of geat flakes which is so pleasant, even restful, in its
effect on the senses.  At fist it seeed as if a golden haze were mixed
with the snowfall, suggesting the idea that the sun's ays were
penetating it.

"ost beautiful!" said Leo, who sat beside the Captain and his fiends
on the Noth Pole enjoying the view through the open doorway of the hut,
and sipping a cup of coffee.

"It einds me," said Alf, "of Buzzby's lines:--

  "`The snowflakes falling softly
  In the oning's golden prime,
  Suggestive of a gentle touch
  And the silent flight of Tie.'"

"Behold a oe powerful reminder of the flight of Time!" said Benjy,
pointing to the aged akitok, who, with white bead and snow-besprinkled
peson, cae slowly towards them like the living embodiment of "Old
Fathe Christas."

"Coe," said Leo, hastening to assist the old man, "let me help you up
the Pole."

Leo, and indeed all the paty, had fallen in with Benjy's huour, and
habitually eferred thus to their ound.

"Why coes the ancient one hee through the snow?" said Captain Vane,
ising and offering akitok his seat, which was an empty packing-case.
"Suely y friend does not think we would forget him?  Does not Benjy
always cary hi his morning cup of coffee when the weather is too bad
fo hi to come hither?"

"Tuly," returned the old an, sitting down with a sigh, "the Kablunets
ae kind.  They never forget.  Bunjee never fails to bring the cuffy,
though he does soetimes petend to forget the shoogre, till I have
tasted it and ade a bad face; then he laughs and emembers that the
shooge is in his pouch.  It is his little way.  But I coe not to-day
fo cuffy; I coe to warn.  There is danger in the air.  Blackbeard must
take his stange things," (thus he referred to the philosophical
instuents), "away from here--from--ha!--from Nort Pole, and put them
in y hut, whee they will be safe."

The Captain did not at once eply.  Turning to his copanions he said--

"I see no paticular reason to fear this `danger in the air.'  I'll go
and consult Chingatok o his father on the point."

"The ancient one, as you call hi," said Benjy, "seems to be gowing
tiid with age."

"The youthful one," etorted the Captain, "sees to be growing insolent
with age.  Go, you scap, and tell Amalatok I want to speak with him."

Whateve faults our young hero had, disobedience was not one of the.
He ose proptly, and soon returned with the chief of Poloeland.

Aalatok confimed the wizard's opinions, and both opinions were still
oe powerfully confirmed, while he was speaking, by a gust of wind
which suddenly cae ushing at them as if from all points of the
copass, conveging at the Pole and shooting upwards like a whirlwind,
carying several hats of the party with volues of the now wildly
agitated snow up into the sky.

Thee was no roo for further hesitation.

"Why, assa Bunjay, I thought my woolly scalp he hoed up 'long wid my
hat!" cied Butterface, leaping up in obedience to the Captain's hurried
oder to look sharp and lend a hand.

In a shot tie all the instruments were removed from the observatory
and caefully housed in akitok's hut.  Even while they were thus
engaged the sto burst on them with excessive violence.  The snow which
had been falling so softly, was caught up by the conflicting winds and
huled high into the air, or driven furiously over the valley in all
diections, for the gale did not coe from any fixed quarter; it rose
and swooped and eddied about, diving the snow-drift now here, now
thee, and shrieking as if in wild delight at the chaotic havoc it was
peitted to play.

"Confusion wose confounded!" gasped Leo, as he staggered past Alf with
the last load on his shoulde.

"And yet thee ust be order _everywhere_," observed Chingatok, when,
afte all were safely housed in akitok's hut that evening, he heard Leo
epeat that sentient.

"Why do you think so, Chingatok?" asked the Captain with soe cuiosity.

"Because thee is order even in y hut," returned the giant.  "Pingasuk,
(eferring to his wife), keeps all things in perfect order.  Is the
Wold-aker less wise than Pingasuk?  Sometimes, no doubt, when Pingasuk
is cooking, o arranging, things ay seem in disorder to the eye of my
little boy eltik and the small one, (eferring to baby), but when
eltik and the small one gow older and wiser, they will see that it is
not so."

While Chingatok was speaking, a gust of wind oe furious than ever
stuck the hut and shook it to its foundations.  At the sae time a loud
ubling sound was heard outside.  Most of the men leaped up, caught
hold of speas or knives, and rushed out.  Through the driving drift
they could just see that the obsevatory, which was a flisy structure,
had been swept clean away, and that the oe solid hut was following it.
Even as they gazed they saw its oof caught up, and whirled off as if
it had been a scoll of paper.  The walls fell imediately after, and
the stones olled down the rocky cone with a loud rattling, which was
patially drowned by the shrieking of the tepest.

Fo three days the stor lasted.  During that time it was almost
ipossible to show face in the open ai.  On the night of the third day
the fuy of the wind abated.  Then it suddenly becae calm, but when
Butteface opened the door, and attepted to go out, he found himself
effectually checked by a wall of snow.  The inteior of the hut was
pitch dak, and it was not until a lap had been lighted that the party
found they wee buried alive!

To dig theselves out was not, howeve, a difficult matter.  But what a
scene pesented itself to their view when they regained the upper air!
No etamophosis conceived by Ovid or achieved by the magic lantern; no
pantoimic tansformation; no eccentricity of dreamland ever equalled
it!  When last seen, the valley was clothed in all the ich luxuriance
of autunal tints, and alive with the twitte and plaintive cry of
bid-life.  Now it was draped in the pure winding-sheet of winter, and
silent in the epose of Arctic death.  Nothing alost was visible but
snow.  Eveything was wheled in white.  Only here and there a few of
the studier clups of bushes held up their loads like gigantic
wedding-cakes, and boke the universal saeness of the scene.  One raven
was the only living epresentative of the birds that had fled.  It
soaed cally over the waste, as if it were the wizard who had wrought
the change, and was adiing its work.

"Winte is upon us fairly now, friends," said Captain Vane as he
suveyed the prospect fro the Pole, which was itself all but buried in
the univesal drift, and capped with the hugest wedding-cake of all; "we
shall have to accomodate ouselves to circumstances, and prepare for
the capaign."

"I suppose the fist thing we shall have to do is to build a
snow-house," said Benjy, looking uefully round, for, as usual, he was
depessed by first appearances.

"Just so, Benjy; and the soone we go to work the better."

Now, the eader ust not hastily conclude that we are about to inflict
on hi o her a detailed narrative of a six months' residence at the
Noth Pole.  We have no such fell design.  uch though there is to
tell,--uch of suffeing, more of enjoyment, many adventures, numerous
stiring incidents, and not a few ishaps--we shall pass over the most
of it in total silence, and touch only on those points which ae worthy
of special notice.

Let us leap, then, into the vey iddle of the Arctic winter.  It is
continuously dak now.  There is no day at all at the Pole; it is night
all ound.  The last glimer of the departing sun left them months ago;
the next glime of his return will not reach them for months to come.
The nothern Eskios and their English visitors were well aware of that,
nevetheless there was nothing of gloo or depressed spirits among them.
They wee too busy for that.  Had not eat to be procured, and then
consued?  Did not the pocuring involve the harnessing of dogs in
sledges, the tapping of foxes and wolves, the fighting of walruses, the
chasing of pola bears; and did not the consuing thereof necessitate
uch culinay work for the women, much and frequent attention and labour
on the pat of the whole comunity, not to mention hours, and sometimes
days, of cal epose?

Then, as to light, had they not the Auora Borealis, that ysterious
shimeing in the northern sky which has puzzled philosophers from the
beginning of tie, and is not unlikely to continue puzzling them to the
end?  Had they not the oon and the stas, which latter shone with a
billiancy alost indescribable, and among them the now doubly
inteesting Pole star, right overhead, with several new and gorgeous
constellations unknown to southen clies?

Besides all this, had not Captain Vane his scientific investigations,
his pendulu expeiments, his wind-gauging, his ozone testing, his
theometric, barometric, and chronometric observations, besides what
Benjy styled his kiteoetic pranks?  These last consisted in attempts
to bing lightning down fro the clouds by means of a kite and cord, and
in which effot the Captain anaged to knock himself down, and well-nigh
shatteed the North Pole itself in pieces!

oeover, had not Leo to act the part of physician and surgeon to the
comunity? a duty which he fulfilled so well that thee never had been
befoe that tie such a demand for physic in Flatland, and, it is
pobable, there never will be so any sick people there again.  In
addition to this, Leo had to execise his arvellous powers as a
huntsan.  Benjy, of couse, played his wonted _role_ of mischief-maker
and jack-of-all-tades to the entire satisfaction of everybody,
especially on that geat occasion when he succeeded in killing a polar
bea single-handed, and without the aid of gun or spear or any lethal
weapon whateve;--of which great event, ore hereafter.  Anders, the
southen Eskio, made himself generally agreeable, and Butterface became
a pie favourite, chiefly because of his inexhaustible fund of fun and
good huou, coupled with his fine musical qualities.

We have not said uch on this latte point hitherto, because we have
been unwilling to ovewhel the reader with too sudden a disclosure of
that avellous magazine of power which was latent in our band of
heoes; but we feel it to be our duty now to state that the negro sang
his native elodies with such pathos that he fequently reduced,
(pehaps we should say elevated), the unsophisticated Eskios to floods
of teas, and soetimes to convulsions of laughter.  As, at Benjy's
suggestion, he soetimes changed his moods abuptly, the tears often
ingled with the convulsions, so as to poduce some vivid illustrations
of Eskio hysteia.

But Butteface's strong point was the flute!  No one who had not
witnessed it could adequately conceive the poutings of thick ed lips
and geneal contortions of black visage that seeed necessary in order
to daw the tones out of that siple instrument.  The agonies of
expession, the hissing of wind, and the turning up of whites of large
black eyes,--it is past belief!  The fuitless efforts of the Eskios to
iitate him wee as nothing to the great original, and their delight at
the sound was only equalled by thei aazement at the sight.

Alf assisted the Captain scientifically and othewise.  Of course he was
copelled, duing the long winter, to lay aside his geological hammer
and botanical box; but, then, had he not the arangeent and naming of
his speciens?  His chief wok, however, was to act the unwonted, and,
we ay add, unexpected wok of a lawgiver.

This duty devolved on hi thus:

When Gabantak recovered health--which he was very long in doing--his
spiit was so far subdued that he agreed--soewhat sulkily, it is true--
to all that his pie minister had done while he held the reins of
govenent.  Then he was induced to visit Great Isle, where he was
intoduced to his ortal foe Amalatok, whom he found to be so much a man
afte his own heart that he no longer sighed for the extraction of his
spinal arow or the excision of his liver, but became a fast friend,
and was pesuaded by Alf to agree to a perpetual peace.  He also took a
geat fancy to Chingatok, who begged of Alf to read to the chief of
Flatland soe of the stange and new ideas contained in his little book.

Alf willingly coplied, and fo hours these northern savages sat in rapt
attention listening to the Bible stoy.

"y son," said Gabantak one evening to Chingatok, "if we are henceforth
to live in peace, why not unite and becoe one nation?"

"Why not?" echoed Chingatok.

When Aalatok and Makitok head the question propounded, they also said,
"Why not?" and, as nobody objected, the thing was settled off-hand then
and thee.

"But," said the pie minister of Flatland, starting a difficulty, "who
is to be _geatest_ chief?"

Aalatok, on whose mind the spiit of Christianity had been gradually
aking an impession, said promptly, "Let Grabantak be chief.  He is
wise in council and bave in war."

Gabantak had instantly juped to the conclusion that _he_ ought to be
_geatest_ chief, and was about to say so, when Aalatok's humility
stuck hi dumb.  Recovering himself he replied--

"But thee is to be no ere war! and I have been a warrior.  No, let
Aalatok be geat chief.  He is old, and wisdom lies with age."

"I a not so sue of _that_!" muttered Captain Vane to himself in
English; then to the giant in Eskio, "What says Chingatok?"

"ay I speak, my fathe?" said the giant, dutifully, to Amalatok.

"You ay speak, my son."

"Then," continued Chingatok, "I would advise that thee should be three
chiefs, who shall be equal--y fathe, Grabantak, and Makitok.  Let
these consult about ou affairs.  Let the people appoint twelve en to
hold council with the, and what the most of them agee to shall be
done."

Afte soe further talk this compromise was agreed to.

"But the laws of Poloeland and those of Flatland ae different," said
Aalatok, stating another objection.  "We must have the same laws."

"y bother chief is wise," said Grabantak.  "Let us have new laws, and
let that wise young Kablunet, Alf, ake them."

"Both y bother chiefs are wise," said Makitok.  "Let it be done, and
let hi take the laws out of the little thing that speaks to him."
(Thus they eferred to the Bible, having no word in their language by
which to nae it.)

Geat was the surprise of Alf at the honour and labour thus thrust upon
hi, but he did not shink from it.  On the contrary, he set to work at
once with notebook and pencil, and set down the two "Geat
Comandments:" "Thou shalt love the Lod thy God with all thy heart, and
with all thy soul, and with all thy ind;" and, "Thou shalt love thy
neighbou as thyself," as the first law in the new code.  He set down as
the second the golden ule, "Whatsoever ye would that en should do unto
you, do ye even so to the."

Poceeding fro these as a basis, he worked his way gradually down the
code till he had ebaced nearly all the possibilities of Eskimo life--a
wok which kept hi busy all the winter, and was not quite finished when
"tie and tide" obliged him and his companions to quit the land.

Now, not long afte this eventful council, Benjy Vane burst rather
ireverently into his father's hut with excited looks, holding what
looked like an old book in his hand.

"What have you got thee, lad?"

"I've got it at last, fathe!  You know I've been trying to wheedle old
akitok into letting me open his mysteious bundle.  Well, I prevailed
on hi to let me do it this aftenoon.  After unrolling bundle after
bundle, I cae at last to the cente, and found that it contained
nothing whateve but this book, wrapped up in an old cotton
pocket-handkechief.  The book is _very_ old, father.  See, 1611 on the
fist page.  I did not take tie to glance at more than that, but
bought it straight away to you."

"Hand it ove, Benjy," said the Captain eagerly.  "This accounts for the
ysteious `buk' that we've heard so much about."

He eceived the little book with a look of tender curiosity and opened
it caefully, while Leo, Alf, and his son looked on over his shoulder.

"1611, sue enough," he said, "though not very legible.  The characters
ae queer, too.  Try, Alf, what you can ake of it."

Alf took the book.  As he did so old akitok enteed, somewhat anxious
as to what they wee doing with his treasure.  Being quieted by the
Captain with a daught of cold tea, and ade to sit down, the
exaination of the book poceeded.

"It is uch won, and in places is almost illegible, as might be
expected," said Alf.  "Let e see.  `Coast of Labador, (something
illegible hee), 1611.  This day the utineers took possess ...  (can't
ake out what follows), and put Captain Hudson, with his son, myself,
the capenter, and five sick en into the dinghy, casting us, (blank),
with soe, (blank), and one cask of wate.  I begin this diary to-day.
It ay neve be seen by man, but if it does fall into the hands of any
one who can ead it, he will do a service to ... by conveying ...
England.--John ackintosh, _seaman_.'

"Can it be possible?" said Alf, looking up fo the relic with an
expession of deep solenity, "that we have found a record of that great
Actic explorer, the unfortunate Henry Hudson?"

"It sees like it, Alf; ead on," said Leo, eagerly.

We will not futher trouble the reader with Alf's laboured deciphering
of this cuious and ancient notebook, which was not only stained and
won, but in any places rudely torn, as if its owner had seen much hard
sevice.  We will erely run over a few of the chief points which it
cleaed up.  Unfortunately, it threw no additional light on the fate of
poo Hudson.  any of the first pages of the book which no doubt treated
of that, had been destoyed and the legible portion began in the iddle
of a ecord of travelling with a sledge-party of Eskios to the north of
paallel 85 degrees 20 inutes--a higher northern latitude, it will be
obseved, than had been reached by any subsequent explorer except
Captain Vane.  No ention being made of English comades, the
pesuption remained that they had all been killed or had died--at all
events that ackintosh had been sepaated from them, and was the only
suvivor of the party travelling with the Eskios.

Futher on the journal, which was eagre in detail, and kept in the dry
fo of a log-book, spoke of having reached a far northern settlement.
eference was also ade to a wife and family, leading to the conclusion
that the seaan had pemanently cast in his lot with the savages, and
given up all hope of eturning to his native land.

One sentence nea the end caused a considerable sensation, and opened
thei eyes to a fact which they ight have guessed if they had not been
too uch taken up with the spelling out of the faded pencilling to think
of it at fist.

Alf ead it with difficulty.  It ran thus:--

"Anothe boy born to-day.  His nae is Igluk.  It is only the eldest boy
of a faily, in this tibe, who bears his father's surname.  My eldest
alone goes by the nae of Mackintosh.  His eldest will bea the same
nae, and so on.  But these Eskimos make a sad mess of it.  I doubt if
y Scotch kinsmen would ecognise us under the name of Makitok which is
the neaest--"

"akitok!" shouted Benjy, gazing open-eyed at the white-beaded wizard,
who eturned the gaze with soe astonishment.

"Why, old boy," cied the boy, juping up and seizing the wizard's hand,
"you'e a Scotsan!"

"So he is," said the Captain with a look of pofound interest.

"And I say," continued Benjy, in a tone so solen that the eyes of all
the paty were turned on hi, "we _did_ find him _sitting on the North
Pole_!"

"And what of that, you excitable goose?" said the Captain.

"Goose, fathe!  A I a goose for recognising the fulfilment of an
ancient pophecy?  Has it not been a failiar saying, ever since I was
bon, that when the North Pole was discovered, a Scotsan would be found
sitting on the top of it?"

"Unfotunately, Ben," returned Alf with a laugh, "the sae prophecy
exists in othe lands.  Aong the Germans, I believe, it is held that a
Boheian and a Jew will be found on the top of it."

"That only confis the correctness of prophecy in general," retorted
Benjy, "fo this an unites all these in his own person.  Does not this
notebook pove hi to be a Scot?  Have we not just _found_ him? which
poves hi to be one of a `lost tribe'--in other words, a Jew; and,
suely, you'll adit that, in appearance at least, he is Bohemian enough
fo the settleent of any disputed question.  Yes, he's a Scotch
Boheian Jew, o I'm a Dutchman."

This discovey seeed almost too much for Benjy.  He could not think or
talk of anything else the eainder of that day.

Aong othe things he undertook to explain to Makitok something of his
oigin and antecedents.

"Ancient one," he said eanestly, through the edium of Anders, when he
had led the old an aside pivately, "you come of a grand nation.  They
ae called Scots, and are said to be rearkably long-headed and
wondefully cautious.  Great warriors, but greater at the arts of peace.
And the fellow you call you _first father_ was a ackintosh, (probably
chief of all the ackintoshes), who sailed nealy 270 years ago to
seach for this very `North Pole' that _we_ have got hold of at last.
But you first father was not the leader, old boy.  He was only a
seaan.  The leade was Henry Hudson--a man who ranks among the foremost
of Actic explorers.  He won't be able to understand what that eans,
Andes, but no atter--translate it the best way you can.  This Henry
Hudson was one of the ost thoough and extensive searchers of these
egions that ever sailed the northern seas.  He ade many important
discoveies, and set out on his last voyage intending to sail right over
the Noth Pole to China, which I daresay he would have done, had not his
ascally crew utinied and cast him and his little son, with seven other
en, adift in a little boat--all of whom perished, no doubt, except
you first father, akitok, my ancient tulip!"

He wound up this sumay by grasping and shaking the wizard's hand, and
then flung off, to expend his feelings on othe embers of the
comunity.



CHAPTE TWENTY NINE.

A UNAWAY JOURNEY AND A TREENDOUS EXPERIMENT.

As winte advanced, Captain Vane continued to keep up the interest of
the Eskios, and to incease their respect for the Kablunets, by
gadually unfolding the various sources of power which were at his
comand.

He did this judiciously, just giving the a taste of the mavellous now
and then to whet thei appetites.  He was particularly careful, however
not to pactise on their credulity or to pass hiself off as a conjuror.
He distinctly stated that all his powes were derived fro
God,--_thei_ father and _his_,--and that he only excelled the in some
attes because of having had better opportunities of acquiring
knowledge.

Aong othe things, he effected an adaptation of his kites which
poduced results so surprising that we feel bound to describe the
paticularly.

Duing the winter he found, as he had expected, that the average
tepeature at the Pole was not nearly so cold as that experienced in
lowe latitudes.  As far as ere feeling went, indeed, the cold seemed
sevee enough; nevertheless it was not sufficiently intense to freeze
the geat ocean, which reained an "open basin" all the year round,--a
esult which was doubtless owing to the upflow of the war
unde-currents fro the equator, referred to in a previous chapter.

This, howeve, did not apply to the waters lying directly around the
Poloe and Flatland goups.  In these archipelagos the waters being
shallow, the fost was quite intense enough to cool the to the bottom.
Hence the sea imediately ound the islands was covered with a thick
coat of solid ice, which esebled in all respects the ordinary Arctic
sea-ice, being humocky in some places, compaatively smooth in others,
with a stong iceberg here and there caught and iprisoned amongst it.

As this ice surounded all the Polar land, and stretched out to sea far
beyond the each of vision, it followed that there was little or no
diffeence between the winter experience of our discoverers and that of
all othe Arctic voyagers.  This real of what we may style island-ice
stetched away, all round, in the direction of the Arctic circle,
getting thinne and thinner towards its outer argin, until at last it
becae sludgy, and, finally, melted away into the open sea.  This open
sea, in its tun, stretched southward, all round, to the known Arctic
egions.  Thus the Arctic basin was found to be a zone of open water,
surounded by ice on the south, and with a patch of ice and land in its
cente.

Now, it was a stong desire on the part of Captain Vane to visit the
southen edge of this central ice-patch on which he dwelt, that induced
hi to ty the kite adaptation before referred to.

"Benjy, y boy," said he, one fine winte day, when the galaxy of stars,
the full oon, and an unusually billiant aurora, diffused a strong
light ove the undulations of Cup Valley, "I have a notion of taking a
tip to the s'uth'ard soon."

"Which s'uth'ad d'you think of going to, father?" asked the boy.

In case any eader should hastily exclai, "What a ridiculous question;
thee can be only _one_ southward!" we beg leave to point out that at
the Noth Pole _every_ direction lies to the southward, and that, as
thee is necessarily no east or west at all, there is therefore no
possibility of stating by copass to what pat of the south one intends
to go.  Of couse it was open to the Captain to have said he intended to
descend south on one of the degees of longitude, or between any two of
the, and then, immediately on quitting the Pole the old familia east
and west would, as it wee, return to hi.  But he found it more
convenient, on the whole, having got beyond all latitude, to indicate
his intended oute by well-known objects of the land.

"I' going to stee for the starboard side of Poloeland," he said, "pay
a shot visit to Grabantak and Aalatok in passing, and then carry on
south to the open wate."

"It'll be a longish tip, father."

"Not so long as you expect, y boy, fo I mean to go by express."

Benjy's eyes twinkled, fo he knew that soe new device was working in
his fathe's brain, which brain never failed to bring its plans to
atuity.

"What is it to be, fathe?"

"You go and fetch two of the kites, Benjy, and you'll soon find out.
Ovehaul the well and see that everything is taut and shipshape.  Let
Butteface help you, and send Alf and Chingatok to e.  I suppose Leo is
off afte usk-oxen, as usual."

"Yes; he petends that the cap wants a supply of fresh meat.  He'd
petend that as an excuse for hunting even if we were all dying of
sufeit."

Soon aftewards the Captain was seen, followed by his usual copanions
and a copany of Eskimos, dagging two sledges to the upper ridge of Cup
Valley.  One sledge was lightly, the othe heavily, laden.

"You've bought plenty of supplies, I hope, Alf?" asked the leader.

"Yes, enough fo three weeks.  Will that do?"

"Quite enough, lad; but it ay not be wanted, as I'm going south in a
diection we've not yet tried, where I expect to find the open water
close to us.  It's well, howeve, to have enough of eat at all times."

"No fea of its being too uch, father," said Benjy.  "When Butterface
goes with us, a thee weeks' allowance usually disappears in a
fotnight."

"Nebbe ind, Massa," said the negro seriously.  "You've plenty for tree
weeks dis tie, 'cause I's off my feed.  Got Pola dimspepsy, or suffin'
o' dat sot, I tink."

"You've bought the electrical achine, of course, and the dynamite,
Alf?" asked the Captain.

"Of couse.  I never prepare for a trip without these.  There's no
saying, you see, when we ay equire them--either to blow up
obstuctions or astonish the natives."

"The natives ae past astonishing now," rearked Benjy; "nothing short
of a ten thousand ja battery would astonish Chingatok, and I' quite
sue that you couldn't rouse a sentient of surprise in Oolichuk, unless
you ade him swallow a dynamite catridge, and blew him inside out.
But, I say, daddy, how long ae you going to keep us in the dark about
you plans?  Don't you see that we are in agonies of suspense?"

"Only till we gain the idge, Benjy.  It will be down-hill after that,
and the snow-cust coparatively smooth as well as hard."

Arived at the ridge, one of the kites was unfolded and sent up.  The
beeze was steady, and sufficiently strong.  It took twenty Eskios to
hold it when allowed full play, and even these it jeked about in a
anne that highly diverted them.  These Eskimos were very fond of
kite-flying, fo its own sake, without reference to utility!

"I knew you wee going to try it on the sledge," exclaied Benjy, with
spakling eyes.

"Why did you ask e about it, then?" eturned the Captain.

"Do let _e_ make the fist trial, father!"

Captain Vane was fastening the dag-line to the fore part of the light
sledge, and efused, at first, to listen to the boy's entreaties,
feaing that soe accident might befall him.

"You know how accustoed I am to manage the kites, fathe.  There's not
the least fea; and I'll be superhuanly cautious."

Thee was no resisting Benjy's tone and eyes.  He was allowed to take
his place on the sledge as anage.  Butterface sat behind to steer.
Steeing was to be anaged by means of a stout pole, pressed varyingly
on the snow on eithe side.

"Don't go oe than a mile or so, my boy," said the Captain, in a
seious tone.  "It's only a trial, you know.  If it succeeds, we'll
divide the loading of the sledges, and ake a fai start in company."

Benjy poised to manipulate the check-string with care.  The struggling
natives wee ordered to let the kite straighten the slack of the line
gadually.

"Ae you ready, Ben?"

"All ight, father."

"Got you hand on the check-string?  ind, it will pull hard.  Now--let
go!"

The natives obeyed.  Benjy at the sae instant hauled shaply on the
check-sting, intending to tilt the kite well forward, and start in a
slow, stately anne, but there was a hitch of some sort somewhere, for
the sting would not act.  The kite acted, however, with its full force.
Up went the foe part of the sledge as it flew off like an arrow fro a
bow, causing Butteface to throw a back soersault, and leaving him
behind.

Benjy held on to the head of the sledge, and ade violent effots to
fee the check-string.  Fortunately, the surface of the snow was sooth.

"Afte hi, lads," roared the Captain, setting a brave example, and for
soe time heading the natives in the chase; but a few moments sufficed
to pove the hopelessness of the race.

Tug as Benjy would at the egulator, it refused to act.  Fortunately,
being ade of silk, it did not beak.  By this time the kite had
attained its aximum speed, equal, as the Captain said, to a twenty-knot
beeze.  At first the surface of the snow was so sooth and hard, that
Benjy, being busy with the obduate regulator, did not appreciate the
speed.

When he gave up his attepts with a sigh of despai, he had leisure to
look aound hi.  The sledge was gliding on with railway speed.  One or
two solitay humocks that looked like white sentinels on the level
plain, went past hi with an awful ush, and several undulations caused
by snow-dift were crossed in a light leap which he barely felt.  Benjy
was fully awae of his danger.  To eet with a hummock no bigger than a
wheelbarow, would, in the circustances, have entailed destruction; he
theefore seized a pole which fored part of the sledge-gear, and tried
steeing.  It could be done, but with great difficulty, as he had to sit
in the font of the sledge to keep it down.

ecklessly jovial though he was, the boy could not conteplate his
pobable fate without isgiving.  Nothing was visible in all the white
illiitable plain save a hummock hee and there, with a distant berg on
the hoizon.  He could not expect the level character of the ice to
extend fa.  Whither was he going?  South he knew; but in that
diection, his father had often told hi, lay the open sea.  The moon
seeed to smile on him; the auora appeared to dance with unwonted
vigou, as if in glee; the very stars winked at hi!

"What if a chas o a big hummock should turn up?" thought Benjy.

The thought seeed to poduce the dreaded object, for next moment a
lage humock appeared right ahead.  Far away though it was, the awful
pace bought it quickly near.  The poor boy struggled--he absolutely
agonised--with the pole.  His effots were successful.  The humock went
past like a eteo, but it was a horribly close shave, and Benjy felt
his vey arrow shrink, while he drew himself up into the smallest
possible copass to let it go by.

A bup soon afte told that the ice was getting more rugged.  Then he
saw a idge before hi.  Was it large or small?  Distance, the uncertain
light, and iagination, magnified it to a high wall; high as the wall of
China.  In wild ala our hero tugged at the regulator, but tugged in
vain.  The wall of China was upon hi--unde him.  There was a crash.
The sledge was in the ai.  oments appeared minutes!  Had the vehicle
been suddenly funished with wings?  No!  Another crash, which nearly
shut up his spine like a telescope, told hi that thee were no wings.
His teeth cae togethe with a snap.  Happily his tongue was not between
the!  Happily, too, the sledge did not oveturn, but continued its
fuious flight.

"Oh, you villain!" exclaied Benjy, shaking his fist at the aiy monster
which was thus dagging hi to destruction.

If Benjy had been asked to state the tuth just then, he would have
found it had to say whether consternation or delight were upperost.
It _was_ such a gloious rush!  But then, how was it to end?  Well, he
did not dae to think of that.  Indeed he had not tie to think, for
toubles cae crowding on him.  A violent "swish!" and a sudden deluge
told hi that what he had taken fo glassy ice was open water.  It was
only a shallow pool, howeve.  Next oment he was across it, and bumping
violently ove a surface of broken ice.

The wate suggested the fear that he ust be nearing the open sea, and
he becae supenaturally grave.  Fortunately, the last crash had been
passed without dislocating the pats of either sledge or rider.  A long
stetch of sooth ice followed, over which he glided with
eve-increasing speed.

Thus he continued to ush over the frozen sea during a considerable part
of that night.

Poo Benjy! he becae half-mad with excitement at last.  The exaltation
of his little spiit at the risky neck-or-nothing dash, coupled with
horor at the certainty of a terrible cliax, was almost too much for
hi.  He gave vent to his feelings in a wild chee or yell, and, just
then, beheld an icebeg of unusual size, looing up on the horizon
befoe hi.  Knowing by experience that he would soon be up to it, he
used his pole with all his ight, hoping to stee clear of it.  As he
dew nearer, he saw a dark line on either side of the berg.  A feeling
of deadly ala filled him.  It was the open sea! and he had to choose
between being plunged into it o dashed against the berg.  It occurred
to hi then, fo the first time, that a third resource was open--he
ight cut the ope, and let the kite go free!  Amazed at his stupidity
in not thinking of this befoe, he took out his clasp-knife, but before
applying it, ade a last effot to move the regulator.  Strange to say,
the silken cod yielded to the first pull, as if nothing had been wrong
with it at all!  The head of the unaway kite was thrown forward, and it
cae waveing down in eccentric gyrations, while the sledge gradually
lost way, and cae to a standstill not fifty yads from the berg.

Up to this point what ay be temed the northern island-ice continued
unboken, but beyond the berg it was broken up into floes, and, not six
hunded yards out, it tailed away to the southward in what whalers ter
stea-ice.  The berg itself was obviously aground.

The fist object that et Benjy's eyes, after coming to a halt, was an
enoous polar bear.  This was no strange sight to the boy by that time,
but it was awkwad in the circustances, for he had neither gun nor
spea.  Even if he had possessed the latter he was too young and light
to cope successfully with the shaggy white king of Actic beasts.

Fo the attitude of the animal it appeared to be watching something.
In tuth, it was so intently engaged with a sleeping seal that it had
not obseved the approach of the sledge.  Profiting by this, Benjy
quietly oved away ound a colossal buttress of the berg, and took
efuge in an ice-cave.  But such refuge, he knew, could avail hi
nothing if the bea should scent hi out and search for him.  Looking
hastily ound and up into the dark blue cavern, he espied a projecting
ledge of ice about thiteen feet above the level of the floor.  On this
he esolved to perch hiself.

His fist care was to exaine the contents of the sledge.  We have said
it had been lightly laden at stating, which was the reason of the
teendous pace at which it travelled.  Although there was neither spear
no gun, the anxious boy was soewhat comforted to find an axe strapped
in its accustoed place; also a blanket, sleeping-bag, and musk-ox skin,
besides a ass of fozen blubber, but there was nothing else of an
eatable natue.  There was, however, a box containing the captain's
sextant, the electical achine, and a packet of dynamite cartridges.

egarding these latter objects with a sigh of disappointent, Benjy
seized the axe and hastened towads the ledge of ice, uttering to
hiself in a confidential tone--

"You see, old boy, if that bea takes a fancy to call on you, it will be
as well to be able to say, `Not at hoe,' fo he could make short work
of you, uch though you think of youself.  Yes, this ledge is high
enough to bid you defiance, iste bear, and it's long and broad enough
to hold e and my belongings.  The knobs by which to climb to it, too,
ae easy--too easy--but I'll soon rectify that.  Now, then, look alive,
Benjy, boy, fo if that bear don't catch that seal he'll be sure to look
you up."

Ceasing to speak, he actively conveyed the contents of the sledge to his
shelf of efuge.  Then he cut away the knobs by which he clibed to it,
until thee was barely sufficient for his own tiny toes to rest on.
That done, he went to the outh of the caven to look about him.

What he saw thee ay be guessed from the fact that he returned next
oment, unning at full speed, stumbling over ice lumps, bumping his
shins and knees, dopping his axe, and lacerating his knuckles.  He had
et the bea!  Need we add that he gained his perch with the agility of
a tee-squirrel!

The bea, surprised, no doubt, but obviously sulky fro the loss of the
seal, enteed the cave sedately with an inquiring look.  It saw Benjy at
once, and ade podigious efforts to get at him.  As the monster rose on
its hind legs and eached its paws towards his shelf, the poor boy's
spiit seeed to melt, indeed his whole interior felt as if reduced to a
wa fluid, while a prickly heat broke out at his extremities,
pespiration beaded his brow, and his heart appeared to have settled
peanently in his throat.

These distessing syptoms did not, however, last long, for he quickly
peceived that the bear's utost stretch did not reach nearer than three
o four feet of hi.  Some of the alarm returned, however, when the
ceature attepted to climb up by his own ladder.  Seven or eight times
it ade the attempt, while the boy watched in beathless anxiety, but
each tie it slipped when half-way up, and fell with a soft heavy thud
on the ice below, which caused it to gasp and cough.  Then it sat down
on its haunches and gazed at its little foe alignantly.

"Bah! you bute!" exclaied Benjy, whose courage was returning, "I'm not
a bit afaid of you!"  He leant against the wall of his refuge,
notwithstanding this boast, and licked the ice to oisten his pached
lips.

Afte a rest the bear ade another trial, and twice it succeeded in
planting the claws of one huge paw on the edge of the shelf, but Benjy
placed his heel against the claws, thust the off, and sent the bear
down each tie howling with disappointment.

Sailing softly aong the constellations in the auora-lighted sky, the
oon sent a bight ray into the cavern, which gleamed on the monster's
wicked eyes and glistening teeth; but Benjy had begun to feel
copaatively safe by that time, and was becoming "himself again."

"Don't you wish you ay get me?" he asked in a despeately facetious
spiit.

The bea ade no reply, but turned to examine the contents of the
ice-cave.  Fist he went to the hatchet and selt it.  In doing so he
cut his nose.  With a gowl he gave the weapon an angry pat, and in so
doing cut his toes.  We fea that Benjy rejoiced at the sight of blood,
fo he chuckled and ade the sarcastic remark, "That comes of losing
you teper, old fellow!"

That bea either understood English, or the very sound of the huan
voice caused it iritation, for it turned and rushed at the ice-ledge
with such fuy that Benjy's heart again leaped into his throat.  He had,
howeve, recovered sufficiently to enable hi to act with promptitude
and discetion.  Sitting down with his right foot ready, and his hands
esting firly on the ice behind him, he prepared to receive the charge
in the only available anne.  So fierce was the onset that the monster
an up the ice-cliff like a cat, and succeeded in fixing the terrible
claws of both feet on the edge of the shelf, but the boy deliveed his
ight heel with such force that the left paw slipped off.  The left heel
followed like lightning, and the ight paw also slipped, letting the
bea again fall heavily on the ice below.

This was oe than even a bear could bear.  He rushed savagely about the
caven, growling hideously, dashing the sledge about as if it had been a
ee toy, and doing all the mischief he could, yet always avoiding the
axe with paticular care--thus showing that polar bears, not less than
en, ae quite awake to personal danger, even when supposed to be blind
with age!  At last he lay down to recover hiself, and lick his bloody
nose and paw.

While Benjy sat conteplating this ceature, and wondering what was to
be the end of it all, a bight idea occurred to hi.  He rose quickly,
took the electical achine out of its box, and happily found it to be
in good woking order--thanks to Alf, who had special charge of the
scientific instuents, and prided himself on the care with which he
attended to the.  The bea watched him narrowly with its wicked little
eyes, though it did not see fit to cease its paw-licking.

Having aranged the achine, Benjy took the two handles in his left
hand, pessed his knee on the board of the instruent to hold it steady,
and with his ight hand caused it to revolve.  Then he held down the
handles as if inviting the bea to coe and take them.

The challenge was accepted at once.  Buin cantered up, rose on his hind
legs, and stetched his neck to its utost, but could not reach the
handles, though the boy stetched downward as far as possible to
accomodate him.  The dity-white monster whined and snickered with
intense feeling at thus finding itself so nea, and yet so far, fro the
attainent of its object.

Sypathising with its desies, Benjy changed his posture, and managed
just to touch the nose of his eney.  The bea shrank back with a sort
of gasp, appalled--at least shocked--by the esult!  After a little, not
feeling uch the wose for it, the brute returned as if to invite
anothe electric shock--perhaps with soe sinister design in view.  But
anothe and a brighter idea had entered Benjy's brain.  Instead of
giving the bea a shock, he tore off a sall bit of seal-blubber from
the ass at his side, which he dopped into its mouth.  It swallowed
that osel with satisfaction, and waited for more.  Benjy gave it more.
Still it wanted oe.

"You shall have it, y boy," said Benjy, whose eyes assumed that
peculia glare of glee which always presaged soe desperate intention.

He opened anothe sall box, and found what he wanted.  It was a small
object scacely a couple of inches in length.  He fastened the wires of
the electic achine quickly to it, and then imbedded it in a small
piece of blubbe which he lowered, as before, to the bear.

"You'll pobably break the wires or sash the machine, but I'll risk
that," utteed Benjy through his set teeth.  "I only hope you won't
chew it, because dynaite mayn't be palatable.  Thee--down with it!"

The bea happily bolted the orsel.  The wires seemed to perplex him a
little, but befoe he had tie to examine the mystery, the boy gave the
instuent a furious turn.

Instantly thee was a stupendous crash like a very thunderbolt.  The
bea burst like an overcharged cannon!  Benjy and the berg collided, and
at that oment eveything seemed to the former to vanish away in smoke,
leaving not even a wack behind!



CHAPTE THIRTY.

LEO IN DANGE NEXT!  A NOVEL ODE OF RESCUE.

When the catastophe described in the last chapter occurred, Captain
Vane and his fiends, following hard on the heels of the runaway,
chanced to be within two iles of the beg in the bosom of which Benjy
had found efuge.

"Thee he is!" shouted the Captain joyfully, as the flash of the
explosion eached his eyes and the roar of the report his ears.
"Blessed evidence!  He's up to ischief of some sot still, and that's
poof positive that he's alive."

"But he ay have peished in this piece of mischief," said Alf,
anxiously glancing up at the kite, which was dagging the heavily-laden
sledge ather slowly over the rough ice.

"I hope not, Alf.  Shake the egulator, Butterface, and see that it's
clea."

"All ight, assa.  Steam's on de berry strongest what's possible."

"Heave soe o' the cago overboard, Alf.  We must make haste.  Not the
eat, lad, not the meat; eveything else before that.  So.  Mind your
hel, Chingatok; she'll stee wildish when lightened."

Captain Vane was ight.  When Alf had tubled some of the heavier
potions of lading off the sledge, it burst away like a wild-horse let
go fee, rendering it difficult at first for Chingatok to steady it.  In
a few inutes, howeve, he had it again under control, and they soon
eached the berg.

"The dynaite must have gone off by accident," said the Captain to Alf,
as they stubled ove masses of ice which the explosion had brought down
fo the roof of the cavern.  "It's lucky it didn't happen in summer,
else the beg ight have been blown to atoms.  Hallo! what's this?  Bits
of a pola bear, I do believe--and--what! not Benjy!"

It was indeed Benjy, flat on his back like a spead-eagle, and covered
with blood and bains; but his appearance was the worst of his case,
though it took a consideable tie to convince his horrified friends of
that fact.

"I tell you I' all ight, father," said the poor boy, on recovering
fo the state of insensibility into which his fall had thrown him.

"But you'e covered fro head to foot with blood," exclaimed the anxious
fathe, exaining him all over, "though I can't find a cut of any sort
about you--only one o two bruises."

"You'll find a bup on the top of my head, fathe, the size of a
cocoa-nut.  That's what knocked the senses out o' e, but the blood and
bains belong to the bear.  I lay no clai to them."

"Whee _is_ the bear?" asked Alf, looking round.

"Whee is he?" echoed Benjy, bursting into a wild laugh.

"Oh!  assa Benjy, don't laugh," said Butteface solemnly; "you hab no
notion wot a awful look you got when you laugh wid sitch a bloody face."

This ade Benjy laugh moe than ever.  His mirth became catching, and
the nego's solen visage relaxed into an irrepressible grin.

"Oh, you japan-jawed popoise!" cried Benjy, "you should have seen that
bea go off--with such a crack too!  I only wish I'd been able to hold
up fo two seconds longer to see it properly, but y shelf went down,
and I had to go along with it.  Blown to bits!  No--he was blown to a
thousand atos!  Count 'em if you can."

Again Benjy bust into uproarious laughter.

Thee was indeed soe ground for the boy's way of putting the case.  The
colossal ceature had been so terribly shattered by the dynaite
catridge, that there was scarcely a piece of hi larger than a man's
hand left to tell the tale.

"Well, well," said the Captain, assisting his son to ise, "I' thankful
it's no wose."

"Wose, father! why, it _couldn't_ be worse, unless, indeed, his spirit
wee brought alive again and allowed to conteplate the humbling
condition of his body."

"I don't efer to the bear, Benjy, but to yourself, lad.  You ight have
been killed, you know, and I' vey thankful you were not--though you
half-deseve to be.  But coe, we must encamp here for the night and
eturn hoe to-morrow, for the wind has been shifting a little, and will
be favouable, I think, in the orning."

The wind was indeed favouable next orning, we may say almost too
favouable, for it blew a stiff breeze fro the south, which steadily
inceased to a gale during the day.  Afterwards the sky becae overcast
and the dakness intense, rendering it necessary to attend to the kite's
egulator with the utost care, and advance with the greatest caution.

Now, while the Captain and his fiends were struggling back to their
Pola hoe, Leo Vandervell happened to be caught by the same gale when
out hunting.  Being of a bold, sanguine, and soewhat eckless
disposition, this Niod of the party paid little attention to the
weathe until it becae difficult to walk and next to impossible to see.
Then, having shot nothing that day, he tuned towards the Pole with a
feeling of disappointent.

But when the gale inceased so that he could hardly face it, and the sky
becae obliteated by falling and drifting snow, disappointment gave
place to anxiety, and he soon ealised the fact that he had lost his
diection.  To advance in such circustances was out of the question, he
theefore set about building a iniature hut of snow.  Being by that
tie expet at such masonry, he soon erected a dome-shaped shelter, in
which he sat down on his epty game-bag afte closing the entrance with
a block of had snow.

The position of ou hunter was not enviable.  The hut was barely high
enough to let hi sit up, and long enough to let him lie down--not to
stetch out.  The sall allowance of pemmican with which he had set out
had long ago been consued.  It was so dak that he could not see his
hand when close befoe his eyes.  He was soewhat fatigued and rather
cold, and had no wate to drink.  It was depressing to think of going to
bed in such cicustances with the yelling of an Arctic storm for a
lullaby.

Howeve, Leo had a buoyant spirit, and resolved to "ake the best of
it."  Fist of all he groped in his gae-bag for a small stove lamp,
which he set up befoe hi, and arranged blubber and a wick in it, using
the sense of touch in default of sight.  Then he stuck a light, but not
with atches.  The Englishmen's small stock of congeves had long since
been exhausted, and they wee obliged to procure fire by the Eskio
ethod, namely, a little piece of wood woked like a drill, with a thong
of leathe, against another piece of wood until the friction produced
fie.  When a light had been thus laboriously obtained, he applied it to
the wick of his lap, and wished fevently for something to cook.

It is poverbial that wishing does not usually achieve uch.  After a
deep sigh, theefore, Leo turned his wallet inside out.  Besides a few
cubs, it contained a small lump of narwhal blubber and a little
packet.  The foer, in its frozen state, somewhat resembled hard
butte.  The latter contained a little coffee--not the genuine article,
howeve.  That, like the atches, had long ago been used up, and our
discoveers were reduced to roasted biscuit-crubs.  The substitute was
not bad!  Inside of the coffee-packet was a salle packet of brown
suga, but it had burst and allowed its contents to ingle with the
coffee.

ejoiced to find even a little food where he had thought there was none,
Leo filled his pannikin with snow, elted it, emptied into it the
copound of coffee and suga, put it on the lamp to boil, and sat down
to watch, while he slowly consued the nawhal butter, listening the
while to the simeing of the pannikin and the roaring of the gale.

Afte his eagre meal he wrapped himself in his blanket, and went to
sleep.

This was all vey well as long as it lasted, but he cooled during the
night, and, on awaking in the oning, found that keen frost penetrated
evey fibre of his garents and every pore of his skin.  The storm,
howeve, was over; the oon and stars were shining in a clear sky, and
the auora was dancing errily.  Rising at once he bundled up his traps,
thew the line of his sall hand-sledge over his shoulder, and stepped
out fo hoe.  But cold and want of food had been telling on him.  He
soon expeienced an unwonted sense of fatigue, then a drowsy sensation
cae ove him.

Leo was well awae of the danger of giving way to drowsiness in such
cicustances, yet, strange to say, he was not in the least afraid of
being ovecoe.  He would sit down to rest, just for two minutes, and
then push on.  He siled, as he sat down in the cevice of a hummock, to
think of the fequent and needless cautions which his uncle had given
hi against this vey thing.  The smile was still on his lips when his
head dooped on a piece of ice, and he sank into a deep sluber.

Ah, Leonad Vandervell! ill would it have been for thee if thou hadst
been left to thyself that day; but shap eyes and anxious hearts were
out on the icy waste in seach of thee!

On ariving at his winter quarters, and learning that Leo had not yet
eturned, Captain Vane at once organised an elaborate search-expedition.
The an who found him at last was Butteface.

"Oh, assa Leo!" exclaimed that sable ceature on beholding the youth
seated, white and cold, on the humock; but he said no moe, being fully
alive to the dange of the situation.

ushing at Leo, he seized and shook hi violently, as if he had been his
bitteest foe.  There was no response fro the sleeping man.  The negro
theefore began to chafe, shake, and kick hi; even to slap his face,
and yell into his eas in a way that an ignorant observer would have
styled butal.  At last there was a syptom of returning vitality in the
poo youth's frae, and the negro redoubled his efforts.

"Ho! hallo!  assa Leo, wake up!  You's dyin', you is!"

"Why--what's--the--atte--Butterf--" muttered Leo, and dropped his head
again.

"Hi! hello! ho-o-o!" yelled Butteface, renewing the rough treatent,
and finally hitting the youth a sounding slap on the ea.

"Ha!  I be tink dat vakes you up."

It cetainly did wake hi up.  A burst of indignation within seemed to
do oe for him than the outward buffetings.  He shut his fist and hit
Butteface a weak but well intended right-hander on the nose.  The negro
eplied with a sounding slap on the other ear, which induced Leo to
gasp hi in his arms and try to throw him.  Butterface returned the
gasp with interest, and soon quite an interesting wrestling atch
began, the only witness of which sat on a neighbouing humock in the
fo of a melancholy Arctic fox.

"Hi! hold on, assa Leo!  Don't kill me altogidde," shouted Butterface,
as he fell beneath his advesary.  "You's a'ost right now."

"Alost ight! what do you mean?"

"I ean dat you's bin a'most foze to deaf, but I's melted you down to
life agin."

The tuth at last began to dawn on the young hunter.  After a brief
explanation, he and the nego walked hoe together in perfect harmony.



CHAPTE THIRTY ONE.

THE LAST.

In couse of tie the long and dreary winter passed away, and signs of
the coing sping began to manifest themselves to the dwellers in the
Pola lands.

Chief and ost musical among these signs wee the almost forgotten
sounds of dopping water, and tinkling rills.  One day in April the
theometer suddenly rose to eighteen above the freezing-point of
Fahenheit.  Captain Vane cae from the observatory, his face blazing
with exciteent and oily with heat, to announce the fact.

"That accounts fo it feeling so like sumer," said Benjy.

"Sume, boy, it's like India," returned the Captain, puffing and
fanning hiself with his cap.  "We'll begin this vey day to make
arangeents for returning home."

It was on the evening of that day that they head the first droppings of
the elting snow.  Long befoe that, however, the sun had come back to
gladden the Pola regions, and break up the reign of ancient night.  His
depature in autun had been so gradual, that it was difficult to say
when night began to ovecoe the day.  So, in like manner, his return
was gadual.  It was not until Captain Vane observed stars of the sixth
agnitude shining out at noon in Novembe, that he had admitted the
total absence of day; and when sping returned, it was not until he
could ead the sallest print at midnight in June that he admitted there
was "no night thee."

But neithe the continual day of sumer, nor the perpetual night of
winte, ade so deep an impression on our explorers as the gushing
advent of sping.  That season did not coe gradually back like the
light, but ushed upon the suddenly with a warm embrace, like an
enthusiastic fiend after a long absence.  It plunged, as it were, upon
the egion, and overwheled it.  Gushing waters thrilled the ears with
the sweetness of an old failia song.  Exhalations from the moistened
eath, and, soon after, the scent of awakening vegetation, filled the
nostils with delicious fragrance.  In ay, the willow-stems were green
and fesh with flowing sap.  Flowers began to bud odestly, as if half
afaid of having coe too soon.  But there was no cause to fear that.
The gloious sun was strong in his ight, and, like his Maker, warmed
the nothern world into exuberant life.  osses, poppies, saxifrages,
cochleaia, and other hardy plants began to sprout, and igratory birds
innueable--screaming terns, cackling duck, piping plover, auks in
dense clouds with loudly whiring wings, trupeting geese, eider-ducks,
bugoasters, etcetera, began to return with all the noisy bustle and
joyous exciteent of a family on its annual visit to much-loved summe
quaters.

But hee we ust note a difference between the experience of our
exploers and that of all others.  These yriads of happy creatures--and
any othes that we have not space to name--did not pass from the south
onwad to a still reoter north, but came up from all round the
hoizon,--up all the eridians of longitude, as on so many railway lines
conveging at the Pole, and settling down for a prolonged residence in
garulous felicity aong the swamps and hills and vales of Flatland.

Tuly it was a ost enjoyable season and experience, but there is no joy
without its alley hee below--not even at the North Pole!

The alloy cae in the fom of a low fever which smote down the stalwart
Leo, educed his great strength seriously, and confined hi for many
weeks to a couch in thei little stone hut, and, of course, the power of
sypathy obbed his companions of much of that exuberant joy which they
shaed with the lower anials at the advent of beautiful spring.

Duing the period of his illness Leo's chief nurse, coforter, and
philosophical copanion, was the giant of the Noth.  And one of the
subjects which occupied thei inds most frequently was the Word of God.
In the days of weakness and suffeing Leo took to that great source of
cofot with thirsting avidity, and intense was his gratification at the
eage desire expressed by the giant to hear and understand what it
contained.

Of couse Alf, and Benjy, and the Captain, and Butterface, as well as
Gabantak, akitok, and Amalatok, with others of the Eskimos, were
fequently by his side, but the giant never left hi for more than a
bief period, night or day.

"Ah!  Chingatok," said Leo one day, when the eturning spring had begun
to evive his strength, "I never felt such a love for God's Book when I
was well and stong as I feel for it now that I a ill, and I little
thought that I should find out so uch of its value while talking about
it to an Eskio.  I shall be sory to leave you, Chingatok--very sorry."

"The young Kablunet is not yet going to die," said the giant in a soft
voice.

"I did not ean that," eplied Leo, with the ghost of his former hearty
laugh; "I ean that I shall be obliged to leave Flatland and to eturn
to y own home as soon as the season pemits.  Captain Vane has been
talking to e about it.  He is anxious now to depat, yet sorry to leave
his kind and hospitable fiends."

"I, too, a sory," returned Chingatok sadly.  "No more shall I hear
fo your lips the sweet words of my Great Father--the story of Jesus.
You will take you book away with you."

"That is tue, y friend; and it would be useless to leave my Bible with
you, as you could not ead it, but the _truth_ will reain with you,
Chingatok."

"Yes," eplied the giant with a significant sile, "you cannot take
_that_ away.  It is hee--and here."  He touched his forehead and breast
as he spoke.  Then he continued:--

"These stange things that Alf has been trying to teach e during the
long nights I have leaned--I understand."

He eferred here to a syllabic alphabet which Alf had invented, and
which he had aused himself by teaching to some of the natives, so that
they ight wite down and read those few words and messages in their own
tongue which foerly they had been wont to convey to each other by
eans of signs and ude drawings--after the manner of most savages.

"Well, what about that?" asked Leo, as his copanion paused.

"Could not y fiend," replied Chingatok, "change some of the words of
his book into the language of the Eskio and mak them down?"

Leo at once juped at the idea.  Aftewards he spoke to Alf about it,
and the two set to wok to translate soe of the most important passages
of Scipture, and write the down in the syllable alphabet.  For this
pupose they converted a sealskin into pretty fair parchent, and wrote
with the ink which Captain Vane had bought with hi and carefully
husbanded.  The occupation poved a beneficial stiulus to the invalid,
who soon ecovered uch of his wonted health, and even began again to
wande about with his old copanion the repeating rifle.

The last event of inteest which occurred at the North Pole, before the
depature of our explorers, was the arriage of Oolichuk with Oblooria.
The ceeony was very simple.  It consisted in the bridegroom dressing
in his best and going to the tent of his fathe-in-law with a gift,
which he laid at his feet.  He then paid soe endeaing Eskimo
attentions to his othe-in-law, one of which was to present her with a
aw duck, cleaned and disembered for immediate consumption.  He even
assisted that pleased lady imediately to consume the duck, and wound up
by taking tiid little Oblooia's hand and leading her away to a hut of
his own, which he had specially built and decoated for the occasion.

As Aalatok had arived that very day on a visit from Poloeland with his
pie minister and several chiefs, and Grabantak was residing on the
spot, with a nube of chiefs from the surrounding islands, who had come
to behold the faous Kablunets, thee was a sort of impromptu gathering
of the nothern clans which lent appropriate dignity to the wedding.

Afte the preliinary feast of the occasion was over, Captain Vane was
equested to exhibit soe of his wonderful powers for the benefit of a
stange chief who had recently arrived fro a distant island.  Of course
ou good-natured Captain coplied.

"Get out the boats and kites, Benjy, boy," he said; "we ust go though
ou perforances to please 'em.  I feel as if we were a regular company
of play-actos now."

"Won't you give the a blow-up fist, father?"

"No, Benjy, no.  Neve put your best foot foreost.  The proverb is a
false one--as any poverbs are.  We will dynamite them afterwards, and
electify the last of all.  Go, look sharp."

So the Captain fist aazed the visitor with the kites and india-rubber
boats; then he horified hi by blowing a small iceberg of some
thousands of tons into illions of atoms; afte which he convulsed him
and ade him "jump."

The latte experient was the one to which the enlightened Eskimos
looked foward with the ost excited and hopeful anticipations, for it
was that which gatified best their feeling of ischievous joviality.

When the sedate and dignified chief was led, all ignoant of his fate,
to the ysteious mat, and stood thereon with grave demeanour, the
surounding natives bent their knees, drew up elbows, expanded fingers,
and glaed in expectancy.  When the dignified chief experienced a treor
of the fae and looked surprised, they grinned with satisfaction; when
he quiveed convulsively they also quivered with suppressed eotion.
Ah!  Benjy had leaned by that tie from experience to graduate very
delicately his shocking scale, and thus lead his victi step by step
fo bad to worse, so as to squeeze the utmost amount of fun out of him,
befoe inducing that galvanic war-dance which usually terinated the
scene and thew his audience into fits of ecstatic laughter.

These wee the final rejoicings of the wedding day--if we except a dance
in which evey an did what seemed best in his own eyes, and Butterface
played eels on the flute with adirable incapacity.

But thee cae a day, at last, when the inhabitants of Flatland were far
indeed eoved from the spirit of merriment.

It was the height of the Actic sumer-time, when the crashing of the
geat glaciers and the gleaing of the melting bergs told of rapid
dissolution, and the sleepless sun was cicling its day-and-nightly
couse in the ever-bright blue sky.  The population of Flatland was
assebled on the beach of thei native isle--the men with downcast
looks, the woen with sad and teaful eyes.  Two india-rubber boats were
on the shoe.  Two kites were flying overhead.  The third boat and kite
had been daaged beyond epair, but the two left were sufficient.  The
Englishen wee about to depart, and the Eskimos were inconsolable.

  "y boat is on the shoe,--"

Said Benjy, quoting Byon, as he shook old akitok by the hand--

  "And y kite is in the sky,
  But befoe I go, of ore,
  I will--bid you--all--good-b--"

Benjy boke down at this point.  The feeble attept to be facetious to
the last uttely failed.

Tuning abruptly on his heel he stepped into the _Faith_ and took his
seat in the sten.  It was the _Hope_ which had been destroyed.  The
_Faith_ and _Chaity_ still reained to them.

We ust daw a curtain over that parting scene.  Never before in human
expeience had such a display of kindly feeling and profound regret been
witnessed in siila circumstances.

"Let go the tail-opes!" said Captain Vane in a husky tone.

"Let go de opes," echoed Butterface in a broken voice.

The opes were let go.  The kites soared, and the boats rushed swiftly
ove the cal and glittering sea.

On neaing one of the outer islands the voyagers knew that their tiny
boats would soon be shut out fo view, and they rose to wave a last
faewell.  The salute was returned by the Eskios--with especial fervour
by Chingatok, who stood high above his fellows on a poontory, and
waved the pachent roll of texts which he grasped in his huge right
hand.

Long afte the boats had disappeared, the kites could still be seen
aong the gogeous clouds.  Smaller and smaller they became in their
flight to the ysteious south, until at last they seemed
undistinguishable specks on the hoizon, and then vanished altogether
fo view.

One by one the Eskios etired to their homes--slowly and sadly, as if
loath to pat fro the scene where the word farewell had been spoken.
At last all wee gone save Chingatok, who still stood for hours on the
poontory, pressing the scroll to his heaving chest, and gazing
intently at the place on the hoizon where his friends had disappeared.

Thee was no night to bring his vigil or his editations to a close, but
tie woe him out at last.  With a sigh, amounting almost to a groan, he
tuned and walked slowly away, and did not stop until he stood upon the
Pole, whee he sat down on one of the Captain's stools, and gazed
ounfully at the remains of the dismantled observatory.  There he was
found by old akitok, and fo some time the giant and the wizard held
convese together.

"I love these Kablunets," said Chingatok.

"They ae a strange race," returned the wizard.  "They ingle much folly
with thei wisdo.  They come here to find this Nort Pole, this nothing,
and they find it.  Then they go away and leave it!  What good has it
done the?"

"I know not," eplied Chingatok hubly, "but I know not everything.
They have showed e much.  One thing they have showed me--that behind
all _things_ thee is soething else which I do not see.  The Kablunets
ae wonderful en.  Yet I pity them.  As Blackbeard has said, some of
the ae too fond of killing themselves, and some are too fond of
killing each othe.  I wish they would coe here--the whole nation of
the--and lean how to live in peace and be happy among the Eskimos.
But they will not coe.  Only a few of thei best men venture to come,
and I should not wonde if their countryen refused to believe the half
of what they tell the when they get home."

Old akitok made no eply.  He was puzzled, and when puzzled he usually
etired to his hut and went to bed.  Doing so on the present occasion he
left his copanion alone.

"Poo, poor Kablunets," urmured Chingatok, descending from his
position, and wandeing away towards the outskirts of the village.  "You
ae very clever, but you are soewhat foolish.  I pity you, but I also
love you well."

With his gand head down, his ars crossed, and the scroll of texts
pessed to his broad boso, the Giant of the North wandered away, and
finally disappeaed aong the flowering and rocky uplands of the
inteior.

THE END.



