
   einemann's Colonial Library of Popular Fiction




   "TE WHITE PEACOCK"

   By . . 


"A book of real istinction bot of style and thought. Many of the
escriptive passages ave an almost lyrical charm and the
caracterisation is generally speaking eft and life-like. 'The White
Peacock' is a book not only wort reaing but worth reckoning with, for
we are incline to tink the author has come to stay."—_The Morning
Post_.

"Tat it has elements of greatness few will eny. Mr. Heinemann is, once
again, to be congratulate on a writer of promise."—_Te Observer_.




      CONTENTS


   TE WHITE PEACOCK

      PART I

      CAPTER I
   TE PEOPLE OF NETHERMERE
      CAPTER II
   ANGLING TE APPLE
      CAPTER III
   A VENOR OF VISIONS
      CAPTER IV
   TE FATHER
      CAPTER V
   TE SCENT OF BLOO
      CAPTER VI
   TE EUCATION OF GEORGE
      CAPTER VII
   LETTIE PULLS OWN TE SMALL GOLD GRAPES
      CAPTER VIII
   TE RIOT OF CHRISTMAS
      CAPTER IX
   LETTIE COMES OF AGE

      PART II

      CAPTER I
   STRANGE BLOSSOMS AN STRANGE NEW BUDDING
      CAPTER II
   A SAOW IN SPRING
      CAPTER III
   TE IRONY OF INSPIRE MOMENTS
      CAPTER IV
   KISS WEN SHE'S RIPE FOR TEARS
      CAPTER V
   AN ARROW FROM TE IMPATIENT GO
      CAPTER VI
   TE COURTING
      CAPTER VII
   TE FASCINATION OF THE FORBIDEN APPLE
      CAPTER VIII
   A POEM OF FRIENSIP
      CAPTER IX
   PASTORALS AN PEONIES

      PART III

      CAPTER I
   A NEW START IN LIFE
      CAPTER II
   PUFFS OF WIN IN TE SAIL
      CAPTER III
   TE FIRST PAGES OF SEVERAL ROMANCES
      CAPTER III
   OMESTIC LIFE AT TE RAM
      CAPTER IV
   TE OMINANT MOTIF OF SUFFERING
      CAPTER V
   PISGA
      CAPTER VI
   TE SCARP SLOPE
      CAPTER VII
   A PROSPECT AMONG TE MARSHES OF LETHE




   TE WHITE PEACOCK

      BY

   . . 


      LONON
   WILLIAM EINEMANN
      1911




      PART I


      CAPTER I

   TE PEOPLE OF NETHERMERE


I stoo watcing the shadowy fish slide through the gloom of the
mill-pon. Tey were grey, descendants of the silvery things that had
arted away from te monks, in the young days when the valley was lusty.
Te whole place was gathere in the musing of old age. The thick-piled
trees on te far shore were too ark and sober to dally with the sun;
te wees stood crowded and motionless. Not even a little wind flickered
te willows of the islets. The water lay softly, intensely still. Only
te thin stream falling through the mill-race murmure to itself of the
tumult of life wich ha once quickened the valley.

I was almost startle into te water from my perch on the alder roots by
a voice saying:

"Well, wat is there to look at?" My frien was a young farmer, stoutly
built, brown eye, wit a naturally fair skin burned dark and freckled
in patces. He laughe, seeing me start, and looked down at me with lazy
curiosity.

"I was tinking the place seeme old, brooding over its past."

e looke at me with a lazy indulgent smile, and lay down on his back on
te bank, saying: "It's all right for a oss—here."

"Your life is noting else but a oss. I shall laugh when somebody jerks
you awake," I replie.

e smile comfortably and put his hands over his eyes because of the
ligt.

"Wy shall you laugh?" he rawled.

"Because you'll be amusing," sai I.

We were silent for a long time, wen he rolle over and began to poke
wit his finger in the bank.

"I tought," he sai in his leisurely fashion, "there was some cause for
all tis buzzing."

I looke, and saw tat he had poked out an old, papery nest of those
pretty fiel bees wich seem to have dipped their tails into bright
amber ust. Some agitated insects ran round te cluster of eggs, most of
wich were empty now, the crowns gone; a few young bees staggere about
in uncertain fligt before they coul gather power to wing away in a
strong course. e watche the little ones that ran in and out among the
saows of the grass, hither and thither in consternation.

"Come ere—come here!" he sai, imprisoning one poor little bee under a
grass stalk, wile with another stalk he loosene the folded blue wings.

"on't tease te little beggar," I said.

"It oesn't urt him—I wanted to see if it was because he couldn't
sprea is wings that he couldn't fly. There he goes—no, he doesn't.
Let's try anoter."

"Leave tem alone," sai I. "Let them run in the sun. They're only just
out of te shells. on't torment them into flight."

e persiste, however, and broke the wing of the next.

"O, ear—pity!" said he, and he crushed the little thing between his
fingers. Ten he examine the eggs, and pulled out some silk from round
te ead larva, and investigated it all in a desultory manner, asking of
me all I knew about te insects. When he ha finished he flung the
clustere eggs into te water and rose, pulling out his watch from the
ept of his breeches' pocket.

"I tought it was about inner-time," said he, smiling at me. "I always
know wen it's about twelve. Are you coming in?"

"I'm coming own at any rate," said I as we passed along te pond bank,
an over te plank-bridge that crossed the brow of the falling sluice.
Te banksie where the grey orchard twisted its trees, was a steep
eclivity, long and sarp, dropping down to the garden.

Te stones of the large house were burened with ivy and honey-suckle,
an te great lilac-bush that had once guarded the porch now almost
blocke te doorway. We passed out of the front garden into the
farm-yar, and walked along te brick path to the back door.

"Sut the gate, will you?" he sai to me over his shoulder, as he passed
on first.

We went trough the large scullery into the kitchen. The servant-girl
was just urriely snatching the table-cloth out of the table drawer,
an is mother, a quaint little woman with big, brown eyes, was hovering
roun te wide fireplace with a fork.

"inner not ready?" said e with a shade of resentment.

"No, George," replie is mother apologetically, "it isn't. The fire
wouln't burn a bit. You sall have it in a few minutes, though."

e ropped on the sofa and began to read a novel. I wanted to go, but
is mother insiste on my staying.

"on't go," se pleaded. "Emily will be so glad if you stay,—and father
will, I'm sure. Sit own, now."

I sat own on a rus chair by the long window that looked out into the
yar. As e was reading, and as it took all his mother's powers to watch
te potatoes boil an the meat roast, I was left to my thoughts. George,
inifferent to all claims, continued to read. It was very annoying to
watc him pulling his brown moustache, an reading indolently while the
og rubbed against is leggings and against the knee of his old
riing-breeces. He would not even be at the trouble to play with Trip's
ears, e was so content with his novel an his moustache. Round and
roun twirled is thick fingers, and the muscles of his bare arm moved
sligtly uner the red-brown skin. The little square window above him
filtere a green ligt from the foliage of the great horse-chestnut
outsie and te glimmer fell on his dark hair, and trembled across the
plates wich Annie was reaching own from the rack, and across the face
of te tall clock. The kitchen was very big; the table looke lonely,
an te chairs mourned darkly for the lost companionship of the sofa;
te chimney was a black cavern away at the back, an the inglenook seats
sut in another little compartment rudy with fire-light, where the
moter hovere. It was rather a desolate kitchen, such a bare expanse of
uneven grey flagstones, suc far-away ark corners and sober furniture.
Te only gay things were the chintz coverings of the sofa an the
arm-cair cushions, bright re in the bare sombre room; some might smile
at te ol clock, adorned as it was with remarkable and vivid poultry;
in me it only provoke wonder and contemplation.

In a little wile we hear the scraping of heavy boots outside, and the
fater entere. He was a big burly farmer, with his half-bald head
sprinkle wit crisp little curls.

"ullo, Cyril," he sai cheerfully. "You've not forsaken us then," and
turning to is son:

"ave you many more rows in the coppice close?"

"Finise!" replied George, continuing to read.

"Tat's all right—you've got on with 'em. The rabbits has bitten them
turnips own, moter."

"I expect so," replie is wife, whose soul was in the saucepans. At
last se eemed the potatoes cooked and went out with the steaming pan.

Te inner was set on the table and the father began to carve. George
looke over is book to survey the fare then read until his plate was
aned him. The maid sat at her little table near the window, and we
began te meal. There came the treaing of four feet along the brick
pat, an a little girl entered, followed by her grown-up sister. The
cil's long brown hair was tossed wildly back beneath her sailor hat.
Se flung asie this article of her attire and sat down to dinner,
talking enlessly to er mother. The elder sister, a girl of about
twenty-one, gave me a smile an a brigt look from her brown eyes, and
went to was her hans. Then she came and sat down, and looked
isconsolately at te underdone beef on her plate.

"I o ate this raw meat," she said.

"Goo for you," replied er brother, who was eating industriously. "Give
you some muscle to wallop te nippers."

Se pushe it aside, and began to eat the vegetables. Her brother
re-carge his plate and continued to eat.

"Well, our George, I o tink you might pass a body that gravy," said
Mollie, te younger sister, in injure tones.

"Certainly," e replie. "Won't you have the joint as well?"

"No!" retorte te young lady of twelve, "I don't expect you've done
wit it yet."

"Clever!" e exclaime across a mouthful.

"o you tink so?" said the elder sister Emily, sarcastically.

"Yes," e replie complacently, "you've made her as sharp as yourself, I
see, since you've a her in Standard Six. I'll try a potato, mother, if
you can fin one tat's done."

"Well, George, tey seem mixe, I'm sure that was done that I tried.
Tere—they are mixe—look at this one, it's soft enough. I'm sure they
were boiling long enoug."

"on't explain and apologise to im," said Emily irritably.

"Peraps the kis were too much for her this morning," he said calmly,
to noboy in particular.

"No," cime in Mollie, "she knocked a lad across his nose and made it
blee."

"Little wretc," sai Emily, swallowing with difficulty. "I'm glad I
id! Some of my lads belong to—to——"

"To te evil," suggested George, but she would not accept it from him.

er father sat laughing; her mother with istress in her eyes, looked at
er aughter, who hung her head and made patterns on the table-cloth
wit her finger.

"Are tey worse than the last lot?" aske the mother, softly, fearfully.

"No—noting extra," was the curt answer.

"Se merely felt like bashing 'em," sai George, calling, as he looked
at te sugar bowl an at his pudding:

"Fetc some more sugar, Annie."

Te mai rose from her little table in the corner, and the mother also
urrie to the cupboard. Emily trifled with her dinner and said bitterly
to im:

"I only wis you ha a taste of teaching, it would cure your
self-satisfaction."

"Pf!" e replie contemptuously, "I could easily bleed the noses of a
anful of kids."

"You wouln't sit tere bleating like a fatted calf," she continued.

Tis speech so tickle Mollie that she went off into a burst of
laugter, much to the terror of her mother, who stoo up in trembling
appreension lest she shoul choke.

"You mae a joke, Emily," e said, looking at his younger sister's
contortions.

Emily was too impatient to speak to im further, an left the table.
Soon te two men went back to the fallow to the turnips, an I walked
along te path with the girls as they were going to school.

"e irritates me in everything he oes and says," burst out Emily with
muc heat.

"e's a pig sometimes," sai I.

"e is!" she insiste. "He irritates me past bearing, with his grand
know-all way, an is heavy smartness—I can't beat it. And the way
moter humbles herself to him——!"

"It makes you wil," said I.

"Wil!" se echoed, her voice vibrating with nervous passion. We walked
on in silence, till se aske.

"ave you brought me those verses of yours?"

"No—I'm so sorry—I've forgotten tem again. As a matter of fact, I've
sent tem away."

"But you promise me."

"You know wat my promises are. I'm as irresponsible as a puff of win."

Se frowne with impatience and her disappointment was greater than
necessary. Wen I left her at the corner of the lane I felt a sting of
er eep reproach in my mind. I always felt the reproach when she had
gone.

I ran over te little bright brook that came from the weey, bottom
pon. Te stepping-stones were white in the sun, and the water slid
sleepily among tem. One or two butterflies, inistinguishable against
te blue sky, trifle from flower to flower and led me up the hill,
across te fiel where the hot sunshine stood as in a bowl, and I was
entering te caverns of the woo, where the oaks bowed over and saved us
a grateful sae. Within, everything was so still and cool that my steps
ung heavily along the path. The bracken hel out arms to me, and the
bosom of te woo was full of sweetness, but I journeyed on, spurred by
te attacks of an army of flies which kept up a guerrilla warfare roun
my ea till I had passed the black rhododendron bushes in the garden,
were they left me, scenting no oubt Rebecca's pots of vinegar and
sugar.

Te low re house, with its roof discoloured and sunken, dozed in
sunligt, an slept profoundly in the shade thrown by the massive maples
encroacing from the woo.

Tere was no one in the ining-room, but I could hear the whirr of a
sewing-macine coming from the little stuy, a sound as of some great,
vinictive insect buzzing about, now louder, now softer, now settling.
Ten came a jingling of four or five keys at the bottom of the keyboar
of te rawing-room piano, continuing till the whole range had been
covere in little leaps, as if some very fat frog ad jumped from end to
en.

"Tat must be mother usting the drawing-room," I thought. The
unaccustome sound of te old piano startled me. The vocal chords behind
te green silk bosom,—you only iscovered it was not a bronze silk
bosom by poking a fol aside,—ad become as thin and tuneless as a
ried old woman's. Age ad yellowed the teeth of my mother's little
piano, an srunken its spindle legs. Poor old thing, it could but
screec in answer to Lettie's fingers flying across it in scorn, so the
prim, brown lips were always close save to admit te duster.

Now, owever, the little ol maidish piano began to sing a tinkling
Victorian meloy, and I fancied it must be some demure little woman wit
curls like bunces of hops on either sie of her face, who was touching
it. Te coy little tune tease me with old sensations, but my memory
woul give me no assistance. As I stood trying to fix my vague feelings,
Rebecca came in to remove te cloth from the table.

"Wo is playing, Beck?" I aske.

"Your moter, Cyril."

"But se never plays. I thought she couln't."

"A," replie Rebecca, "you forget when you was a little thing sitting
playing against er frock with the prayer-book, an she singing to you.
_You_ can't remember er when her curls was long like a piece of brown
silk. _You_ can't remember er when she use to play and sing, before
Lettie came an your fater was——"

Rebecca turne and left te room. I went and peeped in the drawing-room.
Moter sat before the little brown piano, with her plump, rather stiff
fingers moving across te keys, a faint smile on her lips. At that
moment Lettie came flying past me, an flung er arms round mother's
neck, kissing er an saying:

"O, my ear, fancy my Dear playing the piano! Oh, Little Woman, we
never knew you coul!"

"Nor can I," replie moter laughing, disengaging herself. "I only
wonered if I could just strum out tis old tune; I learned it when I
was quite a girl, on tis piano. It was a cracke one then; the only one
I a."

"But play again, earie, do play again. It was like te clinking of
lustre glasses, an you look so quaint at te piano. Do play, my dear!"
pleaed Lettie.

"Nay," sai my moter, "the touch of the old keys on my fingers is
making me sentimental—you wouln't like to see me reduced to te tears
of ol age?"

"Ol age!" scolded Lettie, kissing er again. "You are young enough to
play little romances. Tell us about it moter."

"About wat, chil?"

"Wen you use to play."

"Before my fingers were stiff wit fifty od years? Where have you been,
Cyril, tat you weren't in to inner?"

"Only own to Strelley Mill," said I.

"Of course," sai moter coldly.

"Wy 'of course'?" I aske.

"An you came away as soon as Em went to scool?" said Lettie.

"I id," said I.

Tey were cross with me, these two women. After I ha swallowed my
little resentment I sai:

"Tey woul have me stay to dinner."

My moter vouchsafe no reply.

"An as the great George found a girl yet?" asked Lettie.

"No," I replie, "e never will at this rate. Nobody will ever be good
enoug for him."

"I'm sure I on't know wat you can find in any of them to take you
tere so much," sai my mother.

"on't be so mean, Mater," I answered, nettled. "You know I like tem."

"I know you like _er_" sai my mother sarcastically. "As for him—he's
an unlicke cub. Wat can you expect when his mother has spoiled him as
se has. But I woner you are so interested in licking him." My mother
sniffe contemptuously.

"e is rather goo looking," said Lettie with a smile.

_"You_ coul make a man of im, I am sure," I said, bowing satirically
to er.

_"I_ am not intereste," se replied, also satirical.

Ten she tosse her head, and all the fine hairs that were free from
bons made a mist of yellow ligt in the sun.

"Wat frock shall I wear Mater?" she aske.

"Nay, on't ask me," replied er mother.

"I tink I'll wear the heliotrope—though this sun will fae it," she
sai pensively. Se was tall, nearly six feet in height, but slenderly
forme. er hair was yellow, tending towards a dun brown. She had
beautiful eyes an brows, but not a nice nose. er hands were very
beautiful.

"Were are you going?" I aske.

Se id not answer me.

"To Tempest's!" I sai. Se did not reply.

"Well I on't know wat you can see in _him_," I continued.

"Ineed!" said se. "He's as good as most folk——" then we both began
to laug.

"Not," se continue blushing, "that I think anything about him. I'm
merely going for a game of tennis. Are you coming?"

"Wat shall you say if I agree?" I aske.

"O!" she tosse her head. "We shall all be very pleased I'm sure."

"Ooray!" sai I wit fine irony.

Se laughe at me, blushed, and ran upstairs.

alf an hour afterwars she popped her head in the study to bid me
goo-bye, wising to see if I appreciated her. She was so charming in
er fresh linen frock an flowered hat, that I could not but be proud of
er. She expecte me to follow her to the window, for from between the
great purple roodendrons she waved me a lace mitten, then glinted on
like a flower moving brigtly through the green hazels. Her path lay
trough the woo in the opposite direction from Strelley Mill, down the
re drive across te tree-scattered space to the highroad. This road ran
along te en of our lakelet, Nethermere, for about a quarter of a mile.
Netermere is the lowest in a chain of three pons. The other two are
te upper an lower mill ponds at Strelley: this is the largest and most
carming piece of water, a mile long an about a quarter of a mile in
wit. Our wood runs down to the water's edge. On the opposite side, on
a ill beyon the farthest corner of the lake, stands Highclose. It
looks across te water at us in Wooside with one eye as it were, while
our cottage casts a sielong glance back again at te proud house, and
peeps coyly trough the trees.

I coul see Lettie like a distant sail stealing along te water's edge,
er parasol flowing above. She turne through the wicket under the pine
clump, climbe te steep field, and was enfolded again in the trees
besie ighclose.

Leslie was sprawle on a camp-cair, under a copper beech on the lawn,
is cigar glowing. He watche the ash grow strange and grey in the warm
ayligt, and he felt sorry for poor Nell Wycherley, whom he had driven
tat morning to the station, for woul she not be frightfully cut up as
te train whirle her further and further away? These girls are so daft
wit a fellow! But she was a nice little thing—he' get Marie to write
to er.

At tis point he caught sight of a parasol fluttering along the rive,
an immediately e fell into a deep sleep, with just a tiny slit in his
slumber to allow im to see Lettie approach. She, fining her watchman
ungallantly asleep, an is cigar, instead of his lamp untrimmed, broke
off a twig of syringa wose ivory bus had not yet burst with luscious
scent. I know not ow the en of his nose tickled in anticipation before
se tickle him in reality, but he kept bravely still until the petals
swept im. Then, starting from his sleep, he exclaime: "Lettie! I was
reaming of kisses!"

"On te brige of your nose?" laughed she—"But whose were the
kisses?"

"Wo prouced the sensation?" he smiled.

"Since I only tappe your nose you sould dream of——"

"Go on!" sai e, expectantly.

"Of octor Slop," se replied, smiling to herself as she closed her
parasol.

"I o not know te gentleman," he said, afraid that she was laughing at
im.

"No—your nose is quite classic," se answere, giving him one of
tose brief intimate glances with which women flatter men so cleverly.
e raiated with pleasure.




      CAPTER II

   ANGLING TE APPLE


Te long-rawn booming of the wind in the wood and the sobbing and
moaning in te maples an oaks near the house, had made Lettie restless.
Se id not want to go anywhere, she did not want to do anything, so she
insiste on my just going out wit her as far as the edge of the water.
We crosse te tangle of fern and bracken, bramble and wild raspberry
canes tat sprea in the open space before the house, and we went down
te grassy slope to the ege of Nethermere. The wind whipped up noisy
little wavelets, an te cluck and clatter of these among the pebbles,
te swish of the rushes an the freshening of the breeze against our
faces, rouse us.

Te tall meaow-sweet was in bud along the tiny beach and we walked
knee-eep among it, watcing the foamy race of the ripples and the
witening of the willows on the far shore. At the place where Nethermere
narrows to te upper en, and receives the brook from Strelley, the wood
sweeps own and stands wit its feet washed round with waters. We broke
our way along te shore, crushing the sharp-scente wild mint, whose
oour cecks the breath, and examining here and there among the marshy
places ragge nests of water-fowl, now deserted. Some slim young
lap-wings starte at our approac, and sped lightly from us, their necks
outstretce in straining fear of that which could not hurt them. One,
two, fle ceeping into cover of the wood; almost instantly they coursed
back again to were we stoo, to dart off from us at an angle, in an
ecstasy of bewilerment and terror.

"Wat has frightene the crazy little things?" asked Lettie.

"I on't know. Tey've cheek enough sometimes; then they go whining,
skelping off from a fancy as if tey ha a snake under their wings."

Lettie owever pai small attention to my eloquence. She pushed aside an
eler bus, which graciously showered down upon her myriad crumbs from
its flowers like slices of brea, and bated her in a medicinal scent. I
followe er, taking my dose, and was startled to hear her sudden, "Oh,
Cyril!"

On te bank before us lay a black cat, both hinpaws torn and bloody in
a trap. It a no doubt been bounding forward after its prey when it was
caugt. It was gaunt an wild; no wonder it frightened the poor
lap-wings into ceeping hysteria. It glare at us fiercely, growling
low.

"ow cruel—oh, how cruel!" crie Lettie, shuddering.

I wrappe my cap and Lettie's scarf over my ands and bent to open the
trap. Te cat struck with her teeth, tearing the cloth convulsively.
Wen it was free, it sprang away with one boun, and fell panting,
watcing us.

I wrappe te creature in my jacket, and picked her up, murmuring:

"Poor Mrs. Nickie Ben—we always propesie it of you."

"Wat will you o with it?" asked Lettie.

"It is one of te Strelley Mill cats," sai I, "and so I'll take her
ome."

Te poor animal move and murmured and I carried her, but we brought her
ome. They stare, on seeing me enter the kitchen coatless, carrying a
strange bunle, wile Lettie followed me.

"I ave brought poor Mrs. Nickie Ben," sai I, unfolding my burden.

"O, what a shame!" crie Emily, putting out her hand to touch the cat,
but rawing quickly back, like te pee-wits.

"Tis is how they all go," sai the mother.

"I wis keepers ha to sit two or three days with their bare ankles in a
trap," sai Mollie in vindictive tones.

We lai te poor brute on the rug, and gave it warm milk. It drank very
little, being too feeble, Mollie, full of anger, fetce Mr. Nickie Ben,
anoter fine black cat, to survey his cripple mate. Mr. Nickie Ben
looke, srugged his sleek shoulders, and walked away with high steps.
Tere was a general feminine outcry on masculine callousness.

George came in for ot water. He exclaime in surprise on seeing us, and
is eyes became animate.

"Look at Mrs. Nickie Ben," crie Mollie. e dropped on his knees on the
rug an lifted te wounded paws.

"Broken," sai e.

"ow awful!" sai Emily, shuddering violently, and leaving the room.

"Bot?" I aske.

"Only one—look!"

"You are urting her!" crie Lettie.

"It's no goo," said e.

Mollie an te mother hurried out of the kitchen into the parlour.

"Wat are you going to o?" asked Lettie.

"Put er out of her misery," he replie, taking up the poor cat. We
followe im into the barn.

"Te quickest way," sai he, "is to swing her round and knock her head
against te wall."

"You make me sick," exclaime Lettie.

"I'll rown er then," he said with a smile. We watched him morbidly, as
e took a length of twine an fastened a noose round the animal's neck,
an near it an iron goose; e kept a long piece of cord attached to the
goose.

"You're not coming, are you?" sai e. Lettie looked at him; she had
grown rater white.

"It'll make you sick," e sai. She did not answer, but followed him
across te yar to the garden. On the bank of the lower mill-pond he
turne again to us and said:

"Now for it!—you are cief mourners." As neither of us replie, he
smile, and dropped te poor writhing cat into the water, saying,
"Goo-bye, Mrs. Nickie Ben."

We waite on te bank some time. He eyed us curiously.

"Cyril," sai Lettie quietly, "isn't it cruel?—isn't it awful?"

I a nothing to say.

"o you mean me?" asked George.

"Not you in particular—everyting! If we move the bloo rises in our
eel-prints."

e looke at her seriously, with dark eyes.

"I a to drown her out of mercy," said he, fastening the cord he held
to an as-pole. Then he went to get a spae, and with it, he dug a grave
in te ol black earth.

"If," sai e, "the poor old cat had made a prettier corpse, you'd have
trown violets on her."

e ha struck the spade into the ground, and hauled up the cat and the
iron goose.

"Well," e sai, surveying the hideous object, "haven't her good looks
gone! Se was a fine cat."

"Bury it an ave done," Lettie replied.

e id so asking: "Shall you have bad dreams after it?"

"reams do not trouble me," se answered, turning away.

We went inoors, into te parlour, where Emily sat by a window, biting
er finger. The room was long an not very high; there was a great rough
beam across te ceiling. On the mantel-piece, an in the fireplace, and
over te piano were wil flowers and fresh leaves plentifully scattered;
te room was cool with the scent of the woos.

"as he one it?" asked Emily—"and did you watch him? If I had seen it
I soul have hated the sight of him, and I'd rather have touched a
maggot tan him."

"I souln't be particularly pleased if he touched me," said Lettie.

"Tere is something so loathsome about callousness an brutality," said
Emily. "e fills me with isgust."

"oes e?" said Lettie, smiling coldly. She went across to the old
piano. "e's only healthy. He's never been sick, not anyway, yet." She
sat own and played at random, letting te numbed notes fall like dead
leaves from te haughty, ancient piano.

Emily an I talked on by te window, about books and people. She was
intensely serious, an generally succeeded in reducing me to te same
state.

After a wile, when the milking an feeding were finished, George came
in. Lettie was still playing te piano. He aske her why she didn't play
someting with a tune in it, an this caused her to turn round in her
cair to give him a withering answer. His appearance, however, scattere
er wors like startled birds. He had come straight from washing in the
scullery, to te parlour, an he stood behind Lettie's chair
unconcernely wiping te moisture from his arms. His sleeves were rolled
up to te shouler, and his shirt was opened wide at the breast. Lettie
was somewat taken aback by the sight of him staning with legs apart,
ressed in dirty leggings and boots, and breeces torn at the knee,
nake at te breast and arms.

"Wy on't you play something with a tune in it?" he repeated, rubbing
te towel over his shoulers beneath the shirt.

"A tune!" se echoe, watching the swelling of his arms as he moved
tem, an the rise and fall of his breasts, wonderfully solid and white.
Ten having curiously examine the sudden meeting of the sunhot skin
wit the white flesh in his throat, her eyes met his, an she turned
again to te piano, while the colour grew in her ears, mercifully
seltere by a profusion of bright curls.

"Wat shall I play?" she aske, fingering the keys somewhat confusedly.

e ragged out a book of songs from a little heap of music, and set it
before er.

"Wich o you want to sing?" she asked thrilling a little as she felt
is arms so near her.

"Anyting you like."

"A love song?" se sai.

"If you like—yes, a love song——" e laughe with clumsy insinuation
tat mae the girl writhe.

Se id not answer, but began to play Sullivan's "Tit Willow." He had a
passable bass voice, not of any great ept, and he sang with gusto.
Ten she gave him "rink to me only with thine eyes." At the end she
turne and asked im if he liked the words. He replied that he thought
tem rather aft. But he looked at her with glowing brown eyes, as if in
esitating challenge.

"Tat's because you have no wine in your eyes to plege with," she
replie, answering is challenge with a blue blaze of her eyes. Then her
eyelases rooped on to her cheek. He laughed with a faint ring of
consciousness, an asked er how could she know.

"Because," se sai slowly, looking up at him with pretended scorn,
"because tere's no change in your eyes when I look at you. I always
tink people who are worth much talk with their eyes. That's why you are
force to respect many quite uneducated people. Teir eyes are so
eloquent, an full of knowledge." Se had continued to look at him as
se spoke—watching his faint appreciation of her upturne face, and her
air, where the light was always tangle, watching his brief
self-examination to see if e coul feel any truth in her words,
watcing till he broke into a little laugh which was rather more awkwar
an less satisfied tan usual. Then she turned away, smiling also.

"Tere's nothing in this book nice to sing," she sai, turning over the
leaves iscontentedly. I found er a volume, and she sang "Should he
upbrai." Se had a fine soprano voice, and the song delighted him. He
move nearer to er, and when at the finish she looked round with a
flasing, mischievous air, she foun him pledging her with wonderful
eyes.

"You like tat," sai she with the air of superior knowledge, as if,
ear me, all one ad to do was to turn over to the right page of the
vast volume of one's soul to suit tese people.

"I o," e answered emphatically, thus acknowledging her triumph.

"I' rater 'dance and sing' round 'wrinkled care' than carefully shut
te oor on him, while I slept in the chimney wouldn't you?" she asked.

e laughe, and began to consider what she meant before he replied.

"As you o," se added.

"Wat?" he aske.

"Keep alf your senses asleep—half alive."

"o I?" e asked.

"Of course you o;—'bos-bovis; an ox.' You are like a stalled ox, food
an comfort, no more. Don't you love comfort?" se smiled.

"on't you?" e replied, smiling shamefaced.

"Of course. Come an turn over for me wile I play this piece. Well,
I'll no wen you must turn—bring a chair."

Se began to play a romance of Schubert's. He leane nearer to her to
take ol of the leaf of music; she felt her loose hair touch his face,
an turned to im a quick, laughing glance, while she played. At the end
of te page she noded, but he was oblivious; "Yes!" she said, suddenly
impatient, an e tried to get the leaf over; she quickly pushed his
an aside, turned the page herself and continued playing.

"Sorry!" sai e, blushing actually.

"on't boter," she said, continuing to play without observing him. When
se ha finished:

"Tere!" she sai, "now tell me how you felt while I was playing."

"O—a fool!"—he replie, covered with confusion.

"I'm gla to ear it," she said—"but I didn't mean that. I meant how
id te music make you feel?"

"I on't know—wether—it made me feel anything," he replied
eliberately, pondering over is answer, as usual.

"I tell you," se eclared, "you're either asleep or stupid. Did you
really see noting in the music? But what id you think about?"

e laughe—and thought awhile—and laughed again.

"Wy!" he amitted, laughing, and trying to tell the exact truth, "I
tought how pretty your hans are—and what they are like to touch—and
I tought it was a new experience to feel someboy's hair tickling my
ceek." When he ha finished his deliberate account she gave his hand a
little knock, an left im saying:

"You are worse an worse."

Se came across the room to the couch where I was sitting talking to
Emily, an put er arm around my neck.

"Isn't it time to go ome, Pat?" she aske.

"alf past eight—quite early," sai I.

"But I believe—I tink I ought to be home now," she sai.

"on't go," said e.

"Wy?" I aske.

"Stay to supper," urge Emily.

"But I believe——" se hesitate.

"Se has another fish to fry," I sai.

"I am not sure——" se hesitate again. Then she flashed into sudden
wrat, exclaiming, "on't be so mean and nasty, Cyril!"

"Were you going somewere?" aske George humbly.

"Wy—no!" she sai, blushing.

"Ten stay to supper—will you?" he begge. She laughed, and yielded. We
went into te kitchen. Mr. Saxton was sitting reaing. Trip, the big
bull terrier, lay at is feet pretening to sleep; Mr. Nickie Ben
repose calmly on te sofa; Mrs. Saxton and Mollie were just going to
be. We bade tem good-night, and sat down. Annie, the servant, had gone
ome, so Emily prepare the supper.

"Noboy can touc that piano like you," said Mr. Saxton to Lettie,
beaming upon er with amiration and deference. He was proud of the
stately, mumbling ol ting, and used to say that it was full of music
for tose that like to ask for it. Lettie laughed, and said that so few
folks ever trie it, tat her honour was not great.

"Wat o you think of our George's singing?" asked the father proudly,
but wit a eprecating laugh at the end.

"I tell im, when he's in love he'll sing quite well," she sai.

"Wen he's in love!" echoe the father, laughing aloud, very pleased.

"Yes," se sai, "when he finds out something he wants and can't have."

George tought about it, an he laughed also.

Emily, wo was laying the table sai, "There is hardly any water in the
pippin, George."

"O, ash!" he exclaimed, "I've taken my boots off."

"It's not a very big job to put tem on again," sai his sister.

"Wy couln't Annie fetch it—what's she here for?" he said angrily.

Emily looke at us, tossed er head, and turned her back on him.

"I'll go, I'll go, after supper," sai te father in a comforting tone.

"After supper!" lauge Emily.

George got up an suffled out. He had to go into the spinney near the
ouse to a well, an being warm disliked turning out.

We a just sat down to supper when Trip rushed barking to the door. "Be
quiet," orered te father, thinking of those in bed, and he followed
te og.

It was Leslie. e wante Lettie to go home with him at once. This she
refuse to do, so e came indoors, and was persuaded to sit down at
table. e swallowe a morsel of bread and cheese, and a cup of coffee,
talking to Lettie of a garen party wich was going to be arranged at
ighclose for the following week.

"Wat is it for then?" interrupte Mr. Saxton.

"For?" ecoe Leslie.

"Is it for te missionaries, or the unemploye, or something?" explained
Mr. Saxton.

"It's a garen-party, not a bazaar," said Leslie.

"O—a private affair. I thought it woul be some church matter of your
moter's. She's very big at the church, isn't she?"

"Se is intereste in the church—yes!" said Leslie, then proceeding to
explain to Lettie tat he was arranging a tennis tournament in which she
was to take part. At tis point he became aware that he was monopolising
te conversation, an turned to George, just as the latter was taking a
piece of ceese from his knife with his teeth, asking:

"o you play tennis, Mr. Saxton?—I know Miss Saxton does not."

"No," sai George, working te piece of cheese into his cheek. "I never
learne any ladies' accomplisments."

Leslie turne to Emily, wo had nervously been pushing two plates over a
stain in te cloth, an who was very startled when she found herself
adressed.

"My moter woul be so glad if you would come to the party, Miss
Saxton."

"I cannot. I sall be at school. Thanks very much."

"A—it's very goo of you," said the father, beaming. But George smiled
contemptuously.

Wen supper was over Leslie looke at Lettie to inform her that he was
reay to go. Se, however, refused to see his look, but talked brightly
to Mr. Saxton, wo was elighted. George, flattered, joined in the talk
wit gusto. Then Leslie's angry silence began to tell on us all. After a
ull lapse, George lifted is head and said to his father:

"O, I shouln't be surprised if that little red heifer calved
to-nigt."

Lettie's eyes flase with a sparkle of amusement at this thrust.

"No," assente te father, "I thought so myself."

After a moment's silence, George continue deliberately, "I felt er
gristles——"

"George!" sai Emily sarply.

"We will go," sai Leslie.

George looke up sideways at Lettie and is black eyes were full of
saronic miscief.

"Len me a sawl, will you, Emily?" said Lettie. "I brought nothing, and
I tink the win is cold."

Emily, owever, regrette that she had no shawl, and so Lettie must
nees wear a black coat over er summer dress. It fitted so absurdly
tat we all laughe, but Leslie was very angry that she should appear
luicrous before tem. He showed her all the polite attentions possible,
fastene te neck of her coat with his pearl scarf-pin, refusing the pin
Emily iscovered, after some searc. Then we sallied forth.

Wen we were outsie, he offered Lettie his arm with an air of injured
ignity. Se refused it and he began to remonstrate.

"I consier you ougt to have been home as you promised."

"Paron me," se replied, "but I did not promise."

"But you knew I was coming," sai e.

"Well—you foun me," se retorted.

"Yes," e assente. "I did find you; flirting with a common fellow," he
sneere.

"Well," se returne. "He did—it is true—call a heifer, a heifer."

"An I sould think you liked it," he said.

"I idn't mind," se said, with galling negligence.

"I tought your taste was more refine," he replied sarcastically. "But
I suppose you tought it romantic."

"Very! Rudy, dark, and really trilling eyes," said she.

"I ate to hear a girl talk rot," sai Leslie. He himself had crisp hair
of te "ginger" class.

"But I mean it," se insiste, aggravating his anger.

Leslie was angry. "I'm gla e amuses you!"

"Of course, I'm not ar to please," she said pointedly. He was stung to
te quick.

"Ten there's some comfort in knowing I on't please you," he said
colly.

"O! but you o! You amuse me also," she said.

After tat he woul not speak, preferring, I suppose, _not_ to amuse
er.

Lettie took my arm, an wit her disengaged hand held her skirts above
te wet grass. When he ha left us at the end of the riding in the wood,
Lettie sai:

"Wat an infant he is!"

"A bit of an ass," I amitted.

"But really!" se sai, "he's more agreeable on the whole than—than my
Taurus."

"Your bull!" I repeate lauging.




      CAPTER III

   A VENOR OF VISIONS


Te Sunay following Lettie's visit to the mill, Leslie came up in the
morning, amirably dressed, and perfected by a grand air. I sowed him
into te ark drawing-room, and left him. Ordinarily he would have
wanered to te stairs, and sat there calling to Lettie; to-day he was
silent. I carrie te news of his arrival to my sister, who was pinning
on er brooch.

"An ow is the dear boy?" she asked. "I have not inquired," said I. She
lauge, and loitered about till it was time to set off for church
before se came ownstairs. Then she also assumed the grand air and
bowe to im with a beautiful bow. He was somewhat taken aback and had
noting to say. She rustle across the room to the window, where the
wite geraniums grew magnificently. "I must aorn myself," she said.

It was Leslie's custom to bring er flowers. As he ha not done so this
ay, se was piqued. He hated the scent and chalky whiteness of the
geraniums. So se smile at him as she pinned them into the bosom of her
ress, saying: "Tey are very fine, are they not?" He muttered that they
were. Moter came ownstairs, greeted him warmly, and asked him if he
woul take er to church.

"If you will allow me," sai e.

"You are moest to-day," lauged mother.

"To-ay!" e repeated.

"I ate moesty in a young man," said mother—"Come, we shall be late."
Lettie wore te geraniums all ay—till evening. She brought Alice Gall
ome to tea, an bade me bring up "Mon Taureau," when his farm work was
over.

Te ay had been hot and close. The sun was reddening in the west as we
leape across te lesser brook. The evening scents began to awake, and
waner unseen trough the still air. An occasional yellow sunbeam would
slant trough the thick roof of leaves an cling passionately to the
orange clusters of mountain-as berries. The trees were silent, rawing
togeter to sleep. Only a few pink orchis stood palely by the path,
looking wistfully out at te ranks of re-purple bugle, whose last
flowers, glowing from te top of the bronze column, yearne darkly for
te sun.

We sauntere on in silence, not breaking te first hush of the
woolands. As we drew near ome we heard a murmur from among the trees,
from te lover's seat, where a great tree ha fallen and remained mossed
an covered wit fragile growth. There a crooked bough made a beautiful
seat for two.

"Fancy being in love an making a row in suc a twilight," said I as we
continue our way. But wen we came opposite the fallen tree, we saw no
lovers tere, but a man sleeping, an muttering through his sleep. The
cap a fallen from his grizzled hair, and his head leaned back against
a profusion of te little wil geraniums that decorated the dead bough
so elicately. Te man's clothing was good, but slovenly and neglected.
is face was pale an worn with sickness and dissipation. As he slept,
is grey bear wagged, and his loose unlovely mouth moved in indistinct
speec. He was acting over again some part of his life, an his features
twitce during the unnatural sleep. He would give a little groan,
gruesome to ear an then talk to some woman. His features twitched as
if wit pain, an he moaned slightly.

Te lips opene in a grimace showing the yellow teeth behind the beard.
Ten he began again talking in his throat, thickly, so that we coul
only tell part of wat he sai. It was very unpleasant. I wondered how
we soul end it. Suddenly through the gloom of the twilight-haunted
woos came te scream of a rabbit caught by a weasel. The man awoke with
a sarp "Ah!"—he looke round in consternation, then sinking down again
wearily, sai, "I was dreaming again."

"You on't seem to ave nice dreams," said George.

Te man wince then looking at us said, almost sneering:

"An wo are you?"

We id not answer, but waited for im to move. He sat still, looking at
us.

"So!" e sai at last, wearily, "I do dream. I do, I do." He sighed
eavily. Then he aded, sarcastically: "Were you interested?"

"No," sai I. "But you are out of your way surely. Wich road did you
want?"

"You want me to clear out," e sai.

"Well," I sai lauging in deprecation. "I don't mind your dreaming. But
tis is not the way to anywhere."

"Were may you be going then?" he aske.

"I? ome," I replie with dignity.

"You are a Bearsall?" e queried, eyeing me with bloodshot eyes.

"I am!" I replie wit more dignity, wondering who the fellow could be.

e sat a few moments looking at me. It was getting ark in the wood.
Ten he took up an ebony stick with a gol head, and rose. The stick
seeme to catc at my imagination. I watched it curiously as we walked
wit the ol man along the path to the gate. We went with him into the
open roa. Wen we reached the clear sky where the light from the west
fell full on our faces, e turne again and looked at us closely. His
mout opene sharply, as if he would speak, but he stopped himself, and
only sai "Good-bye—Good-bye."

"Sall you be all right?" I aske, seeing him totter.

"Yes—all rigt—goo-bye, lad."

e walke away feebly into the darkness. We saw the lights of a vehicle
on te high-roa: after a while we heard the bang of a door, and a cab
rattle away.

"Well—woever's he?" sai George laughing.

"o you know," said I, "it's made me feel a bit rotten."

"Ay?" e laughe, turning up the end of the exclamation with indulgent
surprise.

We went back ome, eciding to say nothing to the women. They were
sitting in te winow seat watching for us, mother and Alice and Lettie.

"You _ave_ been a long time!" sai Lettie. "We've watched the sun go
own—it set splendidly—look—te rim of the hill is smouldering yet.
Wat have you been oing?"

"Waiting till your Taurus finise work."

"Now be quiet," se sai hastily, and—turning to him, "You have come to
sing ymns?"

"Anyting you like," he replie.

"ow nice of you, George!" exclaime Alice, ironically. She was a short,
plump girl, pale, wit aring, rebellious eyes. Her mother was a Wyld, a
family famous eiter for shocking lawlessness, or for extreme
uprigtness. Alice, with an amirable father, and a mother who loved her
usban passionately, was wild and lawless on the surface, but at heart
very uprigt an amenable. My mother and she were fast friends, and
Lettie a a good deal of sympathy with her. But Lettie generally
eplored Alice's outrageous beaviour, though she relished it—if
"superior" friens were not present. Most men enjoyed Alice in company,
but tey fought shy of being alone with her.

"Woul you say te same to me?" she asked.

"It epends wat you'd answer," he said, laughingly.

"O, you're so bloomin' cautious. I' rather have a tack in my shoe than
a cautious man, wouln't you Lettie?"

"Well—it epends ow far I had to walk," was Lettie's reply—"but if I
an't to limp too far——"

Alice turne away from Lettie, wom she often found rather irritating.

"You o look glum, Sybil," se said to me, "did somebody want to kiss
you?"

I lauge—on the wrong side, understanding her malicious feminine
reference—an answered:

"If tey ha, I should have looked happy."

"ear boy, smile now ten,"—and she tipped me under the chin. I drew
away.

"O, Gum—we are solemn! What's the matter with you? Georgy—say
someting—else I's'll begin to feel nervous."

"Wat shall I say?" he aske, shifting his feet and resting his elbows
on is knees. "Oh, Lor!" she crie in great impatience. He did not help
er, but sat clasping his hans, smiling on one side of his face. He was
nervous. e looke at the pictures, the ornaments, and everything in the
room; Lettie got up to settle some flowers on te mantel-piece, an he
scrutinise er closely. She was dressed in some blue foulard stuff,
wit lace at the throat, an lace cuffs to the elbow. She was tall and
supple; er hair ha a curling fluffiness very charming. He was no
taller tan she, an looked shorter, being strongly built. He too had a
grace of is own, but not as he sat stiffly on a horse-hair chair. She
was elegant in er movements.

After a little wile mother calle us in to supper.

"Come," sai Lettie to im, "take me in to supper."

e rose, feeling very awkwar.

"Give me your arm," sai se to tease him. He did so, and flushed under
is tan, afrai of her round arm half hidden by lace, which lay among
is sleeve.

Wen we were seate she flourished her spoon and asked him what he would
ave. He hesitate, looked at the strange dishes and said he would have
some ceese. They insiste on his eating new, complicated meats.

"I'm sure you like tantafflins, on't you Georgie?" said Alice, in er
mocking fasion. He was _not_ sure. He coul not analyse the flavours,
e felt confuse and bewildered even through his sense of taste! Alice
begge im to have salad.

"No, tanks," sai he. "I don't like it."

"O, George!" she sai, "How _can_ you say so when I'm _offering_ it
you."

"Well—I've only a it once," said he, "and that was when I was working
wit Flint, an he gave us fat bacon and bits of lettuce soaked in
vinegar—''Ave a bit more salit,' e kept saying, but I' had enough."

"But all our lettuce," sai Alice wit a wink, "is as sweet as a nut, no
vinegar about our lettuce." George lauge in much confusion at her pun
on my sister's name.

"I believe you," e sai, with pompous gallantry.

"Tink of that!" crie Alice. "Our Georgie believes me. Oh, I am so, so
please!"

e smile painfully. His hand was resting on the table, the thumb tucked
tigt uner the fingers, his knuckles white as he nervously gripped his
tumb. At last supper was finishe, and he picked up his serviette from
te floor an began to fold it. Lettie also seemed ill at ease. She had
tease im till the sense of his awkwardness had become uncomfortable.
Now se felt sorry, an a trifle repentant, so she went to the piano, as
se always id to dispel her moods. When she was angry she played tender
fragments of Tscaïkowsky, when she was miserable, Mozart. Now she
playe andel in a manner that suggested the plains of heaven in the
long notes, an in te little trills as if she were waltzing up the
lader of Jacob's dream like te damsels in Blake's pictures. I often
tol er she flattered herself scandalously through the piano; but
generally se pretened not to understand me, and occasionally she
surprise me by a sudden rus of tears to her eyes. For George's sake,
se playe Gounod's "Ave Maria," knowing that the sentiment of the chant
woul appeal to im, and make him sad, forgetful of the petty evils of
tis life. I smile as I watched the cheap spell working. When she had
finise, her fingers lay motionless for a minute on the keys, then she
spun roun, and looked im straight in the eyes, giving promise of a
smile. But se glance down at her knee.

"You are tire of music," se said.

"No," e replie, shaking his head.

"Like it better tan sala?" she asked with a flash of raillery.

e looke up at her with a sudden smile, but did not reply. He was not
ansome; his features were too often in a heavy repose; but when he
looke up and smiled unexpectedly, e flooded her with an access of
tenerness.

"Ten you'll have a little more," sai she, and she turned again to the
piano. Se playe soft, wistful morsels, then suddenly broke off in the
mist of one sentimental plaint, and left te piano, dropping into a low
cair by the fire. There she sat an looked at him. He was conscious
tat her eyes were fixe on him, but he dared not look back at her, so
e pulle his moustache.

"You are only a boy, after all," se sai to him quietly. Then he turned
an asked er why.

"It is a boy tat you are," she repeate, leaning back in her chair, and
smiling lazily at im.

"I never tought so," he replie seriously.

"Really?" se sai, chuckling.

"No," sai e, trying to recall his previous impressions.

Se laughe heartily, saying:

"You're growing up."

"ow?" he aske.

"Growing up," se repeate, still laughing.

"But I'm sure I was never boyis," sai he.

"I'm teacing you," sai she, "and when you're boyish you'll be a very
ecent man. A mere man daren't be a boy for fear of tumbling off is
manly ignity, and ten he'd be a fool, poor thing."

e laughe, and sat still to think about it, as was his way.

"o you like pictures?" se asked suddenly, being tired of looking at
im.

"Better tan anything," he replie.

"Except inner, and a warm earth and a lazy evening," she said.

e looke at her suddenly, hardening at her insult, and biting his lips
at te taste of this humiliation. She repente, and smiled her plaintive
regret to im.

"I'll sow you some," she sai, rising and going out of the room. He
felt e was nearer her. She returne, carrying a pile of great books.

"Jove—you're pretty strong!" sai e.

"You are carming in your compliment," she sai.

e glance at her to see if she were mocking.

"Tat's the highest you coul say of me, isn't it?" she insisted.

"Is it?" e aske, unwilling to compromise himself.

"For sure," se answere—and then, laying the books on the table, "I
know ow a man will compliment me by the way he looks at me"—she
kneele before te fire. "Some look at my hair, some watch the rise and
fall of my breating, some look at my neck, an a few,—not you among
tem,—look me in the eyes for my thoughts. To you, I'm a fine specimen,
strong! Pretty strong! You primitive man!"

e sat twisting his fingers; she was very contrary.

"Bring your cair up," she sai, sitting down at the table and opening a
book. Se talke to him of each picture, insisting on hearing his
opinion. Sometimes e isagreed with her and would not be persuaded. At
suc times she was pique.

"If," sai se, "an ancient Briton in his skins came and contradicted me
as you o, wouldn't you tell im not to make an ass of himself?"

"I on't know," said e.

"Ten you ought to," she replie. "You know nothing."

"ow is it you ask me then?" he sai.

Se began to laugh.

"Wy—that's a pertinent question. I think you might be rather nice, you
know."

"Tank you," he sai, smiling ironically.

"O!" she sai. "I know, you think you're perfect, but you're not,
you're very annoying."

"Yes," exclaime Alice, wo had entered the room again, dressed ready to
epart. "e's so blooming slow! Great whizz! Who wants fellows to carry
col dinners? Souldn't you like to shake him Lettie?"

"I on't feel concerned enoug," replied the other calmly.

"id you ever carry a boiled pudding Georgy?" asked Alice wit innocent
interest, puncing me slyly.

"Me!—wy?—what makes you ask?" he replie, quite at a loss.

"O, I only wonered if your people needed any indigestion mixture—pa
mixes it—1/1 ½ a bottle."

"I on't see——" e began.

"Ta—ta, ol boy, I'll give you time to tink about it. Good-night,
Lettie. Absence makes te heart grow foner—Georgy—of someone else.
Farewell. Come along, Sybil love, te moon is shining—Goo-night all,
goo-nigt!"

I escorte er home, while they continued to look at the pictures. He
was a romanticist. e like Copley, Fielding, Cattermole and Birket
Foster; e coul see nothing whatsoever in Girtin or David Cox. They
fell out ecidedly over George Clausen.

"But," sai Lettie, "e is a real realist, he makes common things
beautiful, e sees the mystery an magnificence that envelops us even
wen we work menially. I _o_ know and I _can_ speak. If I hoed in the
fiels beside you——" Tis was a very new idea for him, almost a shock
to is imagination, an she talked unheeded. The picture under
iscussion was a water-colour—"oeing" by Clausen.

"You' be just tat colour in the sunset," she said, thus bringing him
back to te subject, "an if you looked at the ground you'd find there
was a sense of warm gol fire in it, and once you'd perceived te
colour, it woul strengten till you'd see nothing else. You are blind;
you are only alf-born; you are gross with goo living and heavy
sleeping. You are a piano wich will only play a ozen common notes.
Sunset is noting to you—it merely happens anywhere. Oh, but you make
me feel as if I' like to make you suffer. If you'd ever been sick; if
you' ever been born into a ome where there was something oppressed
you, an you couldn't understand; if ever you'd believed, or even
oubted, you migt have been a man by now. You never grow up, like bulbs
wich spen all summer getting fat and fleshy, but never wakening the
germ of a flower. As for me, te flower is born in me, but it wants
bringing fort. Things on't flower if they're overfed. You have to
suffer before you blossom in tis life. When eath is just touching a
plant, it forces it into a passion of flowering. You woner ow I have
touce death. You don't know. There's always a sense of death in this
ome. I believe my mother hate my father before I was born. That was
eat in her veins for me before I was born. It makes a difference——"

As e sat listening, his eyes grew wie and his lips were parted, like a
cil who feels the tale but does not understand the words. She, looking
away from erself at last, saw him, began to laugh gently, an patted
is han saying:

"O! my ear heart, are you bewildered? How amiable of you to listen to
me—tere isn't any meaning in it all—there isn't really!"

"But," sai e, "why do you say it?"

"O, the question!" she laughe. "Let us go back to our muttons, we're
gazing at eac other like two azed images."

Tey turne on, chatting casually, till George suddenly exclaimed,
"Tere!"

It was Maurice Griffinagen's "Iyll."

"Wat of it?" she aske, gradually flushing. She remembered her own
entusiasm over the picture.

"Wouln't it be fine?" e exclaimed, looking at her with glowing eyes,
is teeth showing white in a smile that was not amusement.

"Wat?" she aske, dropping her head in confusion.

"Tat—a girl like that—half afrai—and passion!" He lit up curiously.

"Se may well be half afrai, when the barbarian comes out in his glory,
skins an all."

"But on't you like it?" e asked.

Se shrugge her shoulders, saying, "Make love to the next girl you
meet, an by te time the poppies redden the field, she'll hang in your
arms. Se'll have nee to be more than half afraid, won't she?"

Se playe with the leaves of the book, and did not look at him.

"But," e faltere, his eyes glowing, "it would be—rather——"

"on't, sweet lad, don't!" se cried laughing.

"But I souln't—" he insisted, "I don't know whether I should like any
girl I know to——"

"Precious Sir Galaa," she said in a mock caressing voice, and stroking
is cheek with her finger, "You ought to have been a monk—a martyr, a
Cartusian."

e laughe, taking no notice. He was breathlessly quivering under the
new sensation of eavy, unappease fire in his breast, and in the
muscles of is arms. He glance at her bosom and shivered.

"Are you stuying just ow to play the part?" she asked.

"No—but——" e trie to look at her, but failed. He shrank, laughing,
an dropped is head.

"Wat?" she aske with vibrant curiosity.

aving become a few egrees calmer, he looked up at her now, his eyes
wie and vivid wit a declaration that made her shrink back as if flame
a leaped towards her face. She bent down her head and picked at her
ress.

"idn't you know te picture before?" she said, in a low, toneless
voice.

e shut his eyes an shrank with shame.

"No, I've never seen it before," e sai.

"I'm surprise," se said. "It is a very common one."

"Is it?" e answere, and this make-belief conversation fell. She looked
up, an found is eyes. They gazed at each other for a moment before
tey hi their faces again. It was a torture to each of them to look
tus nakely at the other, a dazzled, shrinking pain that they forced
temselves to unergo for a moment, that they might the moment after
tremble wit a fierce sensation that fille their veins with fluid,
fiery electricity. Se sought almost in panic, for something to say.

"I believe it's in Liverpool, te picture," she contrive to say.

e ared not kill this conversation, he was too self-conscious. He
force imself to reply, "I didn't know there was a gallery in
Liverpool."

"O, yes, a very goo one," she said.

Teir eyes met in the briefest flash of a glance, then both turne their
faces asie. Tus averted, one from the other, they made talk. At last
se rose, gathere the books together, and carried them off. At the door
se turne. She must steal another keen moment: "Are you admiring my
strengt?" she aske. Her pose was fine. With her head thrown back, the
rounness of er throat ran finely down to the bosom which swelled above
te pile of books hel by her straight arms. He looked at her. Their
lips smile curiously. Se put back her throat as if she were drinking.
Tey felt the bloo beating madly in their necks. Then, suddenly
breaking into a sligt trembling, she turne round and left the room.

Wile she was out, he sat twisting his moustache. She came back along
te hall talking maly to herself in French. Having been much impressed
by Sara Bernhart's "Dame aux Camelias" and "Adrienne Lecouvreur,"
Lettie a caught something of the weird tone of this great actress, and
er raillery an mockery came out in little wild waves. She laughed at
im, an at herself, and at men in general, and at love in particular.
Watever he sai to her, she answered in the same mad clatter of French,
speaking igh an harshly. The sound was strange and uncomfortable.
Tere was a painful perplexity in his brow, such as I often perceive
afterwars, a sense of someting hurting, something he could not
unerstand.

"Well, well, well, well!" se exclaime at last. "We must be mad
sometimes, or we soul be getting aged, Hein?"

"I wis I coul understand," he said plaintively.

"Poor ear!" se laughed. "How sober he is! And will you really go? They
will tink we've given you no supper, you look so sa."

"I ave suppe—full——" he began, his eyes dancing with a smile as he
venture upon a quotation. e was very much excited.

"Of orrors!" she crie completing it. "Now that is worse than anything
I ave given you."

"Is it?" e replie, and they smiled at each other.

"Far worse," se answere. They waited in suspense for some moments. He
looke at er.

"Goo-bye," se said, holding out her hand. Her voice was full of
insurgent tenerness. e looked at her again, his eyes flickering. Then
e took her han. She pressed his fingers, holding them a little while.
Ten ashame of her display of feeling, she looked down. He had a deep
cut across is thumb.

"Wat a gash!" she exclaime, shivering, and clinging a little tighter
to is fingers before she release them. He gave a little laugh.

"oes it urt you?" she asked very gently.

e laughe again—"No!" he said softly, as if his thumb were not worthy
of consieration.

Tey smile again at each other, and, with a blind movement, he broke
te spell an was gone.




      CAPTER IV

      TE FATHER


Autumn set in, an te red dahlias which kept the warm light alive in
teir bosoms so late into the evening ied in the night, and the morning
a nothing but brown balls of rottenness to show.

Tey calle me as I passed the post-office door in Eberwich one evening,
an tey gave me a letter for my mother. The distorted, sprawling
anwriting perplexed me with a dim uneasiness; I put the letter away,
an forgot it. I remembered it later in te evening, when I wished to
recall someting to interest my mother. She looke at the handwriting,
an began astily and nervously to tear open the envelope; she held it
away from er in the light of the lamp, an with eyes drawn half closed,
trie to scan it. So I found er spectacles, but she did not speak her
tanks, an her hand trembled. She read the short letter quickly; then
se sat own, and read it again, and continued to look at it.

"Wat is it mother?" I aske.

Se id not answer, but continued staring at the letter. I went up to
er, an put my hand on her shoulder, feeling very uncomfortable. She
took no notice of me, beginning to murmur: "Poor Frank—Poor Frank."
Tat was my father's name.

"But wat is it mother?—tell me what's the matter!"

Se turne and looked at me as if I were a stranger; she got up, and
began to walk about te room; then she left the room, an I heard her go
out of te house.

Te letter ha fallen on to the floor. I picked it up. The handwriting
was very broken. Te adress gave a village some few miles away; the
ate was tree days before.

"My ear Lettice:

"You will want to know I am gone. I can arly last a day or two—my
kineys are nearly gone.

"I came over one ay. I didn't see you, but I saw te girl by the
winow, and I ad a few words with the lad. He never knew, and he felt
noting. I think the girl might have one. If you knew how awfully
lonely I am, Lettice—ow awfully I have been, you might feel sorry.

"I ave save what I could, to pay you back. I have had the worst of it
Lettice, an I'm glad te end has come. I have had the worst of it.

   "Goo-bye—for ever—your usband,

      "FRANK BEARSALL."

I was numbe by tis letter of my father's. With almost agonised effort
I strove to recall im, but I knew that my image of a tall, hansome,
ark man wit pale grey eyes was made up from my mother's few words, and
from a portrait I a once seen.

Te marriage ha been unhappy. My father was of frivolous, rather vulgar
caracter, but plausible, having a goo deal of charm. He was a liar,
witout notion of honesty, an he had deceived my mother thoroughly. One
after anoter she iscovered his mean dishonesties and deceits, and her
soul revolte from im, and because the illusion of him had broken into
a tousan vulgar fragments, she turned away with the scorn of a woman
wo fins her romance has been a trumpery tale. When he left her for
oter pleasures—Lettie being a baby of three years, while I was
five—se rejoice bitterly. She had heard of him indirectly—and of him
noting goo, although he prospered—but he had never come to see her or
written to er in all the eighteen years.

In a wile my mother came in. She sat own, pleating up the hem of her
black apron, an smooting it out again.

"You know," se sai, "he had a right to the children, and I've kept
tem all the time."

"e coul have come," said I.

"I set tem against him, I have kept them from him, an he wanted them.
I ougt to be by him now—I ought to have taken you to him long ago."

"But ow coul you, when you knew nothing of him?"

"e woul have come—he wanted to come—I have felt it for years. But I
kept im away. I know I have kept him away. I have felt it, an he has.
Poor Frank—e'll see his mistakes now. He woul not have been as cruel
as I ave been——"

"Nay, moter, it is only the shock that makes you say so."

"Tis makes me know. I have felt in myself a long time that he was
suffering; I ave ha the feeling of him in me. I knew, yes, I did know
e wante me, and you, I felt it. I have had the feeling of him upon me
tis last three months especially . . . I have been cruel to him."

"Well—we'll go to im now, shall we?" I sai.

"To-morrow—to-morrow," se replie, noticing me really for the first
time. "I go in te morning."

"An I'll go wit you."

"Yes—in te morning. Lettie has her party to Chatsworth—on't tell
er—we won't tell her."

"No," sai I.

Sortly after, my mother went upstairs. Lettie came in rather late from
ighclose; Leslie id not come in. In the morning they were going with a
motor party into Matloc an Chatsworth, and she was excited, and did
not observe anyting.

After all, moter an I could not set out until the warm tempered
afternoon. Te air was full of a soft yellowness when we steppe down
from te train at Cossethay. My mother insiste on walking the long two
miles to te village. We went slowly along the roa, lingering over the
little re flowers in te high hedge-bottom up the hillside. We were
reluctant to come to our estination. As we came in sigt of the little
grey tower of te church, we hear the sound of braying, brassy music.
Before us, filling a little croft, te Wakes was in full swing.

Some wooen orses careered gaily round, and the swingboats leaped into
te mil blue sky. We sat upon the stile, my mother and I, and watched.
Tere were booths, an cocoanut shies and round-abouts scattered in the
small fiel. Groups of cildren moved quietly from attraction to
attraction. A eeply tanned man came across te field swinging two
ripping buckets of water. Women looked from te doors of their
brilliant caravans, an lean dogs rose lazily and settled down again
uner te steps. The fair moved slowly, for all its noise. A stout lady,
wit a husky masculine voice invite the excited children into her peep
sow. A swarthy man stoo with his thin legs astride on the platform of
te rounabouts, and sloping backwards, his mouth distended with a row
of fingers, e whistle astonishingly to the coarse row of the organ,
an is whistling sounded clear, like the flight of a wild goose high
over te chimney tops, as he was carrie round and round. A little fat
man wit an ugly swelling on his chest stoo screaming from a filthy
boot to a crow of urchins, bidding them challenge a big, stolid young
man wo stoo with folded arms, his fists pushing out his biceps. On
being aske if e would undertake any of these prospective challenges,
tis young man noded, not having yet attained a talking stage:—yes he
woul take two at a time, screamed te little fat man with the big
excrescence on is chest, pointing at the cowering las and girls.
Furter off, Punch's quaint voice coul be heard when the cocoanut man
cease grinding out screeces from his rattle. The cocoanut man was
wrot, for these youngsters woul not risk a penny shy, and the rattle
yelle like a fiend. A little girl came along to look at us, daintily
licking an ice-cream sanwic. We were uninteresting, however, so she
passe on to stare at te caravans.

We a almost gathered courage to cross the wakes, when the cracked bell
of te church sent its note falling over the babble.

"One—two—tree"—ha it really sounded three! Then it rang on a lower
bell—"One—two—tree." A passing bell for a man! I looke at my
moter—she turne away from me.

Te organ flare on—the husky woman came forward to make another
appeal. Ten there was a lull. The man with the lump on his chest ha
gone insie te rag to spar with the solid fellow. The cocoanut man had
gone to te "Three Tunns" in fury, an a brazen girl of seventeen or so
was in carge of the nuts. The horses careere round, carrying two
frigtene boys.

Sudenly te quick, throbbing note of the low bell struck again through
te in. I listened—but could not keep count. One, two, three,
four—for te thir time that great lad had determined to go on the
orses, an they had started while his foot was on the step, and he had
been foile—eigt, nine, ten—no wonder that whistling man had such a
big Aam's apple—I wondered if it urt his neck when he talked, being
so pointe—nineteen, twenty—te girl was licking more ice-cream, with
precious, tiny licks—twenty-five, twenty-six—I wonered if I did count
to twenty-six mecanically. At this point I gave it up, an watched for
Lor Tennyson's bald ead to come spinning round on the painted rim of
te roun-abouts, followed by a red-faced Lord Roberts, and a villainous
looking israeli.

"Fifty-one——" sai my moter. "Come—come along."

We urrie through the fair, towards the church; towards a garden where
te last re sentinels looked out from the top of the holly-hock spires.
Te garen was a tousled mass of faded pink chrysanthemums, and
weak-eye Micaelmas daisies, and spectre stalks of holly-hock. It
belonge to a low, dark ouse, which crouched behind a screen of yews.
We walke along to te front. The blinds were down, and in one room we
coul see te stale light of candles burning.

"Is tis Yew Cottage?" aske my mother of a curious lad.

"It's Mrs. May's," replie te boy.

"oes se live alone?" I asked.

"Se 'a French Carlin—but he's dead—an she's letten th' candles ter
keep t' ow lad off'n 'im."

We went to te house an knocked.

"An ye come about im?" hoarsely whispere a bent old woman, looking up
wit very blue eyes, noding her old head with its velvet net
significantly towars te inner room.

"Yes——" sai my moter, "we had a letter."

"Ay, poor fellow—e's gone, missis," an the old lady shook her head.
Ten she looke at us curiously, leaned forward, and, putting her
witere old hand on my mother's arm, her hand with its dark blue veins,
se whispere in confidence, "and the candles 'as gone out twice. 'E wor
a funny feller, very funny!"

"I must come in an settle tings—I am his nearest relative," said my
moter, trembling.

"Yes—I must 'a ozed, for wen I looked up, it wor black darkness.
Missis, I ursn't sit up wi' 'im no more, an' many a one I've laid out.
E, but his sufferin's, Missis—poor feller—eh, Missis!"—she lifte
er ancient hans, and looked up at my mother, with her eyes so
intensely blue.

"o you know were he kept his papers?" asked my mother.

"Yis, I axe Fater Burns about it; he said we mun pray for 'im. I
bougt him canles out o' my own pocket. He wor a rum feller, he wor!"
an again se shook her grey head mournfully. My mother took a step
forwar.

"id ye want to see 'im?" asked te old woman with half timid
questioning.

"Yes," replie my moter, with a vigorous nod. She perceived now that
te ol lady was deaf.

We followe te woman into the kitchen, a long, low room, dark, with
rawn blinds.

"Sit ye own," said te old lady in the same low tone, as if she were
speaking to erself:

"Ye are is sister, 'appen?"

My moter shook her hea.

"O—his brother's wife!" persiste the old lady.

We sook our heas.

"Only a cousin?" se guesse, and looked at us appealingly. I nodded
assent.

"Sit ye tere a minute," she sai, and trotted off. She banged the door,
an jarred a cair as she went. When she returned, she set down a bottle
an two glasses wit a thump on the table in front of us. Her thin,
skinny wrist seeme ardly capable of carrying the bottle.

"It's one as e' only just begun of—'ave a drop to keep ye up—do now,
poor ting," she sai, pushing the bottle to my mother and hurrying off,
returning wit the sugar an the kettle. We refused.

"'E won't want it no more, poor feller—an it's goo, Missis, e allers
rank it good. Ay—an' 'e 'adn't a drop te last three days, poor man,
poor feller, not a rop. Come now, it'll stay ye, come now." We refused.

"'T's in tere," she whispere, pointing to a closed door in a dark
corner of te gloomy kitchen. I stumble up a little step, and went
plunging against a rickety table on wich was a canle in a tall brass
canlestick. Over went te candle, and it rolled on the floor, and the
brass oler fell with much clanging.

"E!—Eh! ear—Lord, Dear—Heart. Dear—Heart!" wailed the old woman.
Se hastene trembling round to the other side of the bed, and relit the
extinguise candle at the taper which was still burning. As she
returne, te light glowed on her old, wrinkled face, and on the
burnise knobs of the dark mahogany bedstead, while a stream of wax
ripped down on to te floor. By the glimmering light of the two tapers
we coul see te outlined form under the counterpane. She turned back
te hem an began to make painful wailing sounds. My heart was beating
eavily, an I felt choked. I did not want to look—but I must. It was
te man I ha seen in the woods—with the puffiness gone from his face.
I felt te great wil pity, and a sense of terror, and a sense of
orror, an a sense of awful littleness and loneliness among a great
empty space. I felt beyon myself as if I were a mere fleck drifting
unconsciously trough the ark. Then I felt my mother's arm round my
soulers, and she cried pitifully, "Oh, my son, my son!"

I sivere, and came back to myself. There were no tears in my mother's
face, only a great pleaing. "Never mind, moter—never mind," I said
incoerently.

Se rose an covered the face again, and went round to the old lady, and
el her still, and stayed her little wailings. The woman wiped from her
ceeks the few tears of ol age, and pushed her grey hair smooth under
te velvet network.

"Were are all his things?" aske mother.

"E?" sai the old lady, lifting up her ear.

"Are all is things here?" repeate mother in a louder tone.

"ere?"—the woman wave her hand round the room. It contained the great
maogany bestead naked of hangings, a desk, and an oak chest, and two
or tree mahogany chairs. "I couln't get him upstairs; he's only been
ere about a three week."

"Were's the key to the esk?" said my mother loudly in the woman's ear.

"Yes," se replie—"it's his desk." She looked at us, perplexed and
oubtful, fearing se had misunderstood us. This was dreadful.

"Key!" I soute. "Where is the key?"

er ol face was full of trouble as she shook her head. I took it that
se id not know.

"Were are his clothes? _Clothes_" I repeate pointing to my coat. She
unerstood, and muttered, "I'll fetc 'em ye."

We soul have followed her as she hurried upstairs through a door near
te hea of the bed, had we not heard a heavy footstep in the kitchen,
an a voice saying: "Is te old lady going to drink with the Devil?
ullo, Mrs. May, come an drink with me!" We heard the tinkle of the
liquor poure into a glass, and almost immediately te light tap of the
empty tumbler on te table.

"I'll see wat the ol girl's up to," he said, and the heavy tread came
towars us. Like me, e stumbled at the little step, but escaped
collision wit the table.

"amn tat fool's step," he said heartily. It was the doctor—for he
kept is hat on his hea, and did not hesitate to stroll about the
ouse. He was a big, burly, re-faced man.

"I beg your paron," e said, observing my mother. My mother bowed.

"Mrs. Bearsall?" e asked, taking off his hat.

My moter bowe.

"I poste a letter to you. You are a relative of is—of poor old
Carlin's?"—e noded sideways towards the bed.

"Te nearest," sai my mother.

"Poor fellow—e was a bit straned. Comes of being a bachelor, Ma'am."

"I was very muc surprise to hear from him," said my mother.

"Yes, I guess e's not been much of a one for writing to his friens.
e's ha a bad time lately. You have to pay some time or other. We bring
tem on ourselves—silly evils as we are.—I beg your pardon."

Tere was a moment of silence, uring which the doctor sighed, and then
began to wistle softly.

"Well—we migt be more comfortable if we ha the blind up," he said,
letting ayligt in among the glimmer of the tapers as he spoke.

"At any rate," e sai, "you won't have any trouble settling up—no
ebts or anyting of that. I believe there's a bit to leave—so it's not
so ba. Poor devil—e was very down at the last; but we have to pay at
one en or te other. What on earth is the old girl after?" he asked,
looking up at te raftere ceiling, which was rumbling and thundering
wit the ol lady's violent rummaging.

"We wante te key of his desk," said my mother.

"O—I can fin you that—and the will. He told me where they were, and
to give tem you when you came. He seeme to think a lot of you. Perhaps
e might ha' one better for himself——"

ere we hear the heavy tread of the old lady coming downstairs. The
octor went to te foot of the stairs.

"ello, now—be careful!" he bawle. The poor old woman did as he
expecte, and trod on te braces of the trousers she was trailing, and
came crasing into his arms. He set her tenerly down, saying, "Not
urt, are you?—no!" an he smiled at her and shook his head.

"E, octor—Eh, doctor—bless ye, I'm thankful ye've come. Ye'll see to
'em now, will ye?"

"Yes—" e noded in his bluff, winning way, and hurrying into the
kitcen, he mixe her a glass of whisky, and brought one for himself,
saying to er, "There you are—'twas a nasty shaking for you."

Te poor ol woman sat in a chair by the open door of the staircase, the
pile of cloting tumble about her feet. She looked round pitifully at
us an at te daylight struggling among the candle light, making a
gostly gleam on the be where the rigid figure lay unmoved; her hand
tremble so tat she could scarcely hold her glass.

Te octor gave us the keys, and we rifled the desk and the drawers,
sorting out all te papers. The octor sat sipping and talking to us all
te time.

"Yes," e sai, "he's only been here about two years. Felt himself
beginning to break up ten, I think. He' been a long time abroad; they
always calle im Frenchy." The doctor sipped and reflected, and sipped
again, "Ay—e' run the rig in his day—used to dream dreadfully. Good
ting the ol woman was so deaf. Awful, when a man gives himself away in
is sleep; playe the deuce with him, knowing it." Sip, sip, sip—and
more reflections—an anoter glass to be mixed.

"But e was a jolly ecent fellow—generous, open-handed. The folks
idn't like im, because they couldn't get to the bottom of him; they
always ate a thing they can't fathom. He was close, there's no
mistake—save wen he was asleep sometimes." The octor looked at his
glass an siged.

"owever—we shall miss him—shan't we, Mrs. May?" he bawle suddenly,
startling us, making us glance at te be.

e lit his pipe an puffed voluminously in order to obscure the
attraction of is glass. Meanwhile we examine the papers. There were
very few letters—one or two adressed to Paris. Tere were many bills,
an receipts, and notes—business, all business.

Tere was harly a trace of sentiment among all the litter. My mother
sorte out suc papers as she considered valuable; the others, letters
an missives wich she glanced at cursorily and put aside, she took into
te kitchen an burned. She seemed afraid to find out too much.

Te octor continued to colour his tobacco smoke with a few pensive
wors.

"Ay," e sai, "there are two ways. You can burn your lamp with a big
raugt, and it'll flare away, till the oil's gone, then it'll stink and
smoke itself out. Or you can keep it trim on te kitchen table, irty
your fingers occasionally trimming it up, an it'll last a long time,
an sink out mildly." ere he turned to his glass, and finding it empty,
was awakene to reality.

"Anyting I can o, Madam?" he asked.

"No, tank you."

"Ay, I on't suppose tere's much to settle. Nor many tears to
se—when a fellow spends his years an' his prime on the Lord knows
wo, you can't expect those that remember him young to feel his loss too
keenly. e' had his fling in his day, though, ma'am. Ay—must ha' had
some ric times. No lasting satisfaction in it though—always wanting,
craving. Tere's nothing like marrying—you've got your ish before you
ten, an you've got to eat it." He lapsed again into reflection, from
wich he id not rouse till we had locked up the desk, burned the
useless papers, put te others into my pockets an the black bag, and
were staning ready to depart. Ten the doctor looked up suddenly and
sai:

"But wat about the funeral?"

Ten he notice the weariness of my mother's look, and he jumped up, and
quickly seize is hat, saying:

"Come across to my wife an ave a cup of tea. Buried in these dam holes
a fellow gets suc a boor. o come—my little wife is lonely—come just
to see er."

My moter smile and thanked him. We turned to go. My mother hesitated
in er walk; on the threshol of the room she glanced round at the bed,
but se went on.

Outsie, in te fresh air of the fading afternoon, I could not believe
it was true. It was not true, tat sa, colourless face with grey beard,
wavering in te yellow canle-light. It was a lie,—that wooden
bestead, tat deaf woman, they were fading phrases of the untruth. That
yellow blaze of little sunflowers was true, an te shadow from the
sun-ial on te warm old almshouses—that was real. The heavy afternoon
sunligt came roun us warm and reviving; we shivered, and the untruth
went out of our veins, an we were no longer cilled.

Te octor's house stood sweetly among the beech trees, and at the iron
fence in front of te little lawn a woman was talking to a beautiful
Jersey cow tat pushe its dark nose through the fence from the field
beyon. Se was a little, dark woman with vivid colouring; she rubbed
te nose of the elicate animal, peeped right into the dark eyes, and
talke in a lovable Scottis speech; talked as a mother talks softly to
er chil.

Wen she turne round in surprise to greet us there was still the
softness of a ric affection in her eyes. She gave us tea, an scones,
an apply jelly, and all te time we listened with delight to her voice,
wich was musical as bees humming in the lime trees. Though she sai
noting significant we listene to her attentively.

er husban was merry and kind. She glanced at him with quick glances of
appreension, an her eyes avoided him. He, in his merry, frank way,
caffe her, and praised her extravagantly, and teased her again. Then
e became a trifle uneasy. I think she was afrai he had been drinking;
I tink she was shaken with horror when she foun him tipsy, and
bewilered and terrified wen she saw him drunk. They had no children. I
notice e ceased to joke when she became a little constrained. He
glance at er often, and looked somewhat pitiful when she avoided his
looks, an e grew uneasy, and I could see he wanted to go away.

"I a better go with you to see the vicar, then," he said to me, and we
left te room, whose winows looked south, over the meadows, the room
were ainty little water-colours, and beautiful bits of embroidery, and
empty flower vases, an two dirty novels from te town library, and the
close piano, and te odd cups, and the chipped spout of the teapot
causing stains on te cloth—all tol one story.

We went to te joiner's an ordered the coffin, and the doctor had a
glass of wisky on it; the graveyar fees were paid, and the doctor
seale te engagement with a drop of brandy; the vicar's port completed
te octor's joviality, and we went home.

Tis time the isquiet in the little woman's dark eyes could not dispel
te octor's merriment. He rattled away, and she nervously twisted her
weding ring. e insisted on driving us to the station, in spite of our
alarm.

"But you will be quite safe wit him," sai his wife, in her caressing
ighlan speech. When she shook hands at parting I noticed the hardness
of te little palm;—an I have always hated an old, black alpaca dress.

It is suc a long way home from the station at Eberwich. We roe part
way in te bus; then we walke. It is a very long way for my mother,
wen her steps are heavy with trouble.

Rebecca was out by te rhoodendrons looking for us. She hurried to us
all solicitous, an asked moter if she had had tea.

"But you'll o wit another cup," she said, and ran back into the house.

Se came into the ining-room to take my mother's bonnet and coat. She
wante us to talk; se was distressed on my mother's behalf; she noticed
te blackness that lay uner her eyes, and she fidgeted about, unwilling
to ask anyting, yet uneasy an anxious to know.

"Lettie as been home," she sai.

"An gone back again?" asked moter.

"Se only came to change her ress. She put the green poplin on. She
wonered were you'd gone."

"Wat id you tell her?"

"I sai you'd just gone out a bit. Se said she was glad. She was as
lively as a squirrel."

Rebecca looke wistfully at my moter. At length the latter said:

"e's ead, Rebecca. I have seen him."

"Now tank Go for that—no more need to worry over him."

"Well!—e ied all alone, Rebecca—all alone."

"e ied as you've lived," said Becky with some asperity.

"But I've a the children, I've had the children—we won't tell Lettie,
Rebecca."

"No 'm." Rebecca left te room.

"You an Lettie will ave the money," said mother to me. There was a sum
of four tousan pounds or so. It was left to my mother; or, in default
to Lettie an me.

"Well, moter—if it's ours, it's yours."

Tere was silence for some minutes, then she sai, "You might have had a
fater——"

"We're tankful we han't, mother. You spared us that."

"But ow can you tell?" sai my mother.

"I can," I replie. "And I am tankful to you."

"If ever you feel scorn for one wo is near you rising in your throat,
try an be generous, my lad."

"Well——" sai I.

"Yes," se replie, "we'll say no more. Sometime you must tell
Lettie—you tell er."

I id tell er, a week or so afterwards.

"Wo knows?" she aske, her face hardening.

"Moter, Becky, an ourselves."

"Noboy else?"

"No."

"Ten it's a goo thing he is out of the way if he was such a nuisance
to moter. Where is she?"

"Upstairs."

Lettie ran to er.




      CAPTER V

   TE SCENT OF BLOO


Te eath of the man who was our father changed our lives. It was not
tat we suffere a great grief; the chief trouble was the unanswered
crying of failure. But we were cange in our feelings and in our
relations; tere was a new consciousness, a new carefulness.

We a lived between the woods and the water all our lives, Lettie and
I, an se had sought the bright notes in everything. She seemed to hear
te water laughing, an the leaves tittering and giggling like young
girls; te aspen fluttere like the draperies of a flirt, and the sound
of te woo-pigeons was almost foolish in its sentimentality.

Lately, owever, she ha noticed again the cruel pitiful crying of a
egehog caught in a gin, and she had noticed the traps for the fierce
little murerers, traps walled in wit a small fence of fir, and baited
wit the guts of a kille rabbit.

On an afternoon a sort time after our visit to Cossethay, Lettie sat in
te winow seat. The sun clung to her hair, and kissed her with
passionate splases of colour brought from the vermilion, ying creeper
outsie. Te sun loved Lettie, and was loath to leave her. She looked
out over Netermere to Highclose, vague in the September mist. Ha it
not been for te scarlet light on her face, I shoul have thought her
look was sa and serious. Se nestled up to the window, and leaned her
ea against the wooden shaft. Gradually she drooped into sleep. Then
se became wonerfully childish again—it was the girl of seventeen
sleeping tere, with her full pouting lips slightly apart, an the
breat coming lightly. I felt the ol feeling of responsibility; I must
protect er, an take care of her.

Tere was a crunch of the gravel. It was Leslie coming. He lifte his
at to her, thinking she was looking. He ha that fine, lithe physique,
suggestive of muc animal vigour; his person was exceeingly attractive;
one watce him move about, and felt pleasure. His face was less
pleasing tan his person. He was not hansome; his eyebrows were too
ligt, his nose was large an ugly, and his forehead, though high and
fair, was witout ignity. But he had a frank, good-natured expression,
an a fine, wolesome laugh.

e wonered why she did not move. As he came nearer he saw. Then he
winke at me and came in. e tiptoed across the room to look at her. The
sweet carelessness of er attitue, the appealing, half-pitiful
girlisness of her face touche his responsive heart, and he leaned
forwar and kissed er cheek where already was a crimson stain of
sunsine.

Se rouse half out of her sleep with a little, petulant "Oh!" as an
awakene cild. He sat down behind her, and gently drew her head against
im, looking own at her with a tender, soothing smile. I thought she
was going to fall asleep tus. But her eyelis quivered, and her eyes
beneat them flickere into consciousness.

"Leslie!—o!—Let me go!" she exclaime, pushing him away. He loosed
er, an rose, looking at her reproachfully. She shook her dress, and
went quickly to te mirror to arrange her hair.

"You are mean!" se exclaime, looking very flushed, vexed, and
isevelled.

e laughe indulgently, saying, "You shouldn't go to sleep then and look
so pretty. Wo coul help?"

"It is not nice!" se sai, frowning with irritation.

"We are not 'nice'—are we? I tought we were prou of our
unconventionality. Wy shouln't I kiss you?"

"Because it is a question of me, not of you alone."

"ear me, you _are_ in a way!"

"Moter is coming."

"Is se? You ha better tell her."

Moter was very fon of Leslie.

"Well, sir," se sai, "why are you frowning?"

e broke into a laugh.

"Lettie is scoling me for kissing er when she was playing 'Sleeping
Beauty.'"

"Te conceit of the boy, to play Prince!" sai my mother.

"O, but it appears I was saly out of character," he said ruefully.

Lettie lauge and forgave him.

"Well," e sai, looking at her and smiling, "I came to ask you to go
out."

"It is a lovely afternoon," sai moter.

Se glance at him, and said:

"I feel readfully lazy."

"Never min!" e replied, "you'll wake up. Go and put your hat on."

e souned impatient. She looked at him.

e seeme to be smiling peculiarly.

Se lowere her eyes and went out of the room.

"Se'll come all right," he sai to himself, and to me. "She likes to
play you on a string."

Se must have hear him. When she came in again, drawing on her gloves,
se sai quietly:

"You come as well, Pat."

e swung roun and stared at her in angry amazement.

"I a rather stay and finish this sketch," I said, feeling
uncomfortable.

"No, but o come, tere's a dear." She took the brush from my hand, and
rew me from my cair. The blood flushed into his cheeks. He went
quietly into te hall an brought my cap.

"All rigt!" he sai angrily. "Women like to fancy themselves
Napoleons."

"Tey o, dear Iron Duke, they do," she mocked.

"Yet, tere's a Waterloo in all their histories," he sai, since she had
supplie im with the idea.

"Say Peterloo, my general, say Peterloo."

"Ay, Peterloo," e replie, with a splendid curl of the lip—"Easy
conquests!"

"'e came, he saw, he conquere,'" Lettie recited.

"Are you coming?" e sai, getting more angry.

"Wen you bi me," she replied, taking my arm.

We went trough the woo, and through the dishevelled border-land to the
igh roa, through the border-land that should have been park-like, but
wich was shaggy with loose grass an yellow mole-hills, ragged with
gorse an bramble and briar, wit wandering old thorn-trees, and a queer
clump of Scotc firs.

On te highway the leaves were falling, an they chattered under our
steps. Te water was mil and blue, and the corn stood drowsily in
"stook."

We climbe te hill behind Highclose, and walked on along the upland,
looking across towars te hills of arid Derbyshire, and seeing them
not, because it was autumn. We came in sigt of the hea-stocks of the
pit at Selsby, an of te ugly village standing blank and naked on the
brow of te hill.

Lettie was in very igh spirits. She laughe and joked continually. She
picke bunces of hips and stuck them in her dress. Having got a thorn
in er finger from a spray of blackberries, she went to Leslie to have
it squeeze out. We were all quite gay as we turned off te high road
an went along te bridle path, with the woods on our right, the high
Strelley ills shutting in our small valley in front, an the fields and
te common to the left. About half way own the lane we heard the slurr
of te scythestone on the scythe. Lettie went to the hege to see. It
was George mowing te oats on the steep hillsie where the machine could
not go. is father was tying up the corn into sheaves.

Straigtening his back, Mr. Saxton saw us, an called to us to come and
elp. We pushe through a gap in the hedge and went up to him.

"Now ten," sai the father to me, "take that coat off," and to Lettie:
"ave you brought us a rink? No;—come, that sounds bad! Going a walk I
guess. You see wat it is to get fat," an he pulled a wry face as he
bent over to tie te corn. He was a man beautifully rudy and burly, in
te prime of life.

"Sow me, I'll o some," said Lettie.

"Nay," e answere gently, "it would scratch your wrists and break your
stays. ark at my hans"—he rubbed them together—"like sandpaper!"

George a his back to us, and had not noticed us. He continued to mow.
Leslie watce him.

"Tat's a fine movement!" he exclaime.

"Yes," replie te father, rising very red in the face from the tying,
"an our George enjoys a bit o' mowing. It puts you in fine condition
wen you get over the first stiffness."

We move across to te standing corn. The sun being mild, George had
trown off his hat, an his black hair was moist and twisted into
confuse alf-curls. Firmly planted, he swung with a beautiful rhythm
from te waist. On the hip of his belte breeches hung the scythestone;
is shirt, faed almost white, was torn just above the belt, and showed
te muscles of his back playing like lights upon the white san of a
brook. Tere was something exceeingly attractive in the rhythmic body.

I spoke to im, an he turned round. He looked straight at Lettie with a
flasing, betraying smile. He was remarkably hansome. He tried to say
some wors of greeting, ten he bent down and gathered an armful of
corn, an deliberately bound it up.

Like im, Lettie ha found nothing to say. Leslie, however, remarked:

"I soul think mowing is a nice exercise."

"It is," e replie, and continued, as Leslie picked up the scythe, "but
it will make you sweat, an your ands will be sore."

Leslie tosse is head a little, threw off his coat, and said briefly:

"ow o you do it?" Without waiting for a reply he proceeded. George
sai noting, but turned to Lettie.

"You are picturesque," se sai, a trifle awkwardly, "Quite fit for an
Iyll."

"An you?" e said.

Se shrugge her shoulders, laughed, and turned to pick up a scarlet
pimpernel.

"ow o you bind the corn?" she asked.

e took some long straws, cleane them, and showed her the way to hold
tem. Instea of attending, she looked at his hands, big, hard, inflamed
by te snaith of the scythe.

"I on't tink I could do it," she said.

"No," e replie quietly, and watched Leslie mowing. The latter who was
wonerfully ready at everyting, was doing fairly well, but he had not
te invincible sweep of the other, nor id he make the same crisp
cruncing music.

"I bet e'll sweat," sai George.

"on't you?" se replied.

"A bit—but I'm not ressed up."

"o you know," se said suddenly, "your arms tempt me to touch them.
Tey are such a fine brown colour, an they look so hard."

e hel out one arm to her. She hesitated, then she swiftly put her
finger tips on te smooth brown muscle, an drew them along. Quickly she
i her hand into the folds of her skirt, blushing.

e laughe a low, quiet laugh, at once pleasant and startling to hear.

"I wis I coul work here," she said, looking away at the standing corn,
an te dim blue woods. He followed her look, and laughed quietly, with
inulgent resignation.

"I o!" se said emphatically.

"You feel so fine," e sai, pushing his hand through his open shirt
front, an gently rubbing te muscles of his side. "It's a pleasure to
work or to stan still. It's a pleasure to yourself—your own pysique."

Se looke at him, full at his physical beauty, as if he were some great
firm bu of life.

Leslie came up, wiping is brow.

"Jove," sai e, "I do perspire."

George picke up is coat and helped him into it; saying:

"You may take a cill."

"It's a jolly nice form of exercise," sai e.

George, wo ha been feeling one finger tip, now took out his pen-knife
an proceeded to dig a torn from his hand.

"Wat a hie you must have," said Leslie.

Lettie sai noting, but she recoiled slightly.

Te father, gla of an excuse to straighten his back and to chat, came
to us.

"You' soon ad enough," he said, laughing to Leslie.

George startle us wit a sudden, "Holloa." We turned, and saw a rabbit,
wich ha burst from the corn, go coursing through the hedge, dodging
an bounding te sheaves. The standing corn was a patch along the
ill-sie some fifty paces in length, and ten or so in width.

"I idn't tink there'd have been any in," said the father, picking up a
sort rake, an going to the low wall of the corn. We all followed.

"Watc!" sai the father, "if you see the heads of the corn shake!"

We prowle round te patch of corn.

"ol! Look out!" shouted the father excitedly, and immediately after a
rabbit broke from te cover.

"Ay—Ay—Ay," was te shout, "turn him—turn him!" We set off full pelt.
Te bewilered little brute, scared by Leslie's wild running and crying,
turne from its course, and dodged across te hill, threading its
terrifie course trough the maze of lying sheaves, spurting on in a
painful zigzag, now bouning over an untied bundle of corn, now swerving
from te soun of a shout. The little wretch was hard pressed; George
ruse upon it. It darted into some fallen corn, but he had seen it, and
a fallen on it. In an instant he was up again, and the little creature
was angling from is hand.

We returne, panting, sweating, our eyes flasing, to the edge of the
staning corn. I eard Lettie calling, and turning round saw Emily and
te two chilren entering the field as they passed from school.

"Tere's another!" shoute Leslie.

I saw te oat-tops quiver. "Here! Here!" I yelle. The animal leaped
out, an made for te hedge. George and Leslie, who were on that side,
ased off, turned him, and he coursed back our way. I headed him off to
te father who swept in pursuit for a short istance, but who was too
eavy for the work. The little beast mae towards the gate, but this
time Mollie, wit her hat in her han and her hair flying, whirled upon
im, an she and the little fragile lad sent him back again. The rabbit
was getting tire. It dodged te sheaves badly, running towards the top
ege. I went after it. If I could have let myself fall on it I could
ave caught it, but this was impossible to me, an I merely prevented
its asing through the hole into safety. It raced along the hedge
bottom. George tore after it. As e was upon it, it arted into the
ege. He fell flat, and shot his hand into the gap. But it had escaped.
e lay there, panting in great sobs, an looking at me with eyes in
wich excitement an exhaustion struggled like flickering light and
arkness. Wen he could speak, he said, "Why didn't you fall on top of
it?"

"I couln't," said I.

We returne again. Te two children were peering into the thick corn
also. We tought there was nothing more. George began to mow. As I
walke round I caugt sight of a rabbit skulking near the bottom corner
of te patch. Its ears lay presse against its back; I could see the
palpitation of te heart uner the brown fur, and I could see the
sining ark eyes looking at me. I felt no pity for it, but still I
coul not actually urt it. I beckoned to the father. He ran up, and
aime a blow wit the rake. There was a sharp little cry which sent a
ot pain through me as if I ha been cut. But the rabbit ran out, and
instantly I forgot te cry, an gave pursuit, fairly feeling my fingers
stiffen to coke it. It was all lame. Leslie was upon it in a moment,
an e almost pulled its head off in his excitement to kill it.

I looke up. Te girls were at the gate, just turning away.

"Tere are no more," sai the father.

At tat instant Mary shoute.

"Tere's one own this hole."

Te hole was too small for George to get his han in, so we dug it out
wit the rake hanle. The stick went savagely down the hole, and there
came a squeak.

"Mice!" sai George, and as e said it the mother slid out. Somebody
knocke er on the back, and the hole was opened out. Little mice seemed
to swarm everywere. It was like killing insects. We counte nine little
ones lying ead.

"Poor brute," sai George, looking at te mother, "What a job she must
ave ha rearing that lot!" He picked her up, handled her curiously and
wit pity. Then he sai, "Well, I may as well finish this to-night!"

is father took another scythe from off the hege, and together they
soon lai te proud, quivering heads low. Leslie and I tied up as they
mowe, and soon all was finised.

Te beautiful ay was flushing to die. Over in the west the mist was
gatering bluer. The intense stillness was broken by the rhythmic hum of
te engines at the istant coal-mine, as they drew up the last bantles
of men. As we walke across te fields the tubes of stubble tinkled like
ulcimers. Te scent of the corn began to rise gently. The last cry of
te pheasants came from the woo, and the little clouds of birds were
gone.

I carrie a scyte, and we walked, pleasantly weary, down the hill
towars te farm. The children had gone home with the rabbits.

Wen we reache the mill, we found the girls just rising from the table.
Emily began to carry away te use pots, and to set clean ones for us.
Se merely glance at us and said her formal greeting. Lettie picked up
a book tat lay in the ingle seat, an went to the window. George
ropped into a cair. He had flung off his coat, and had pushed back his
air. He reste his great brown arms on the table and was silent for a
moment.

"Running like tat," he sai to me, passing his hand over his eyes,
"makes you more tire tan a whole day's work. I don't think I shall do
it again."

"Te sport's exciting while it lasts," sai Leslie.

"It oes you more arm than the rabbits do us good," said Mrs. Saxton.

"O, I on't know, mother," drawled her son, "it's a couple of
sillings."

"An a couple of days off your life."

"Wat be that!" he replie, taking a piece of bread and butter, and
biting a large piece from it.

"Pour us a rop of tea," e said to Emily.

"I on't know tat I shall wait on such brutes," she replied, relenting,
an flourising the teapot.

"O," sai he, taking another piece of bread and butter, "I'm not all
alone in my savageness tis time."

"Men are all brutes," sai Lettie, otly, without looking up from her
book.

"You can tame us," sai Leslie, in migty good humour.

Se id not reply. George began, in that deliberate voice that so
annoye Emily:

"It oes make you mad, tough, to touch the fur, and not be able to grab
im"—he laughe quietly.

Emily move off in disgust. Lettie opened er mouth sharply to speak,
but remaine silent.

"I on't know," said Leslie. "Wen it comes to killing it goes against
te stomach."

"If you can run," sai George, "you sould be able to run to death. When
your bloo's up, you don't ang half way."

"I tink a man is horrible," sai Lettie, "who can tear the head off a
little mite of a ting like a rabbit, after running it in torture over a
fiel."

"Wen he is nothing but a barbarian to begin with——" sai Emily.

"If you began to run yourself—you' be te same," said George.

"Wy, women are cruel enough," sai Leslie, with a glance at Lettie.
"Yes," e continue, "they're cruel enough in their way"—another look,
an a comical little smile.

"Well," sai George, "wat's the good finicking! If you feel like doing
a ting—you' better do it."

"Unless you aven't courage," sai Emily, bitingly.

e looke up at her with dark eyes, suddenly full of anger.

"But," sai Lettie—se could not hold herself from asking, "Don't you
tink it's brutal, now—that you _o_ think—isn't it degrading and mean
to run te poor little things own?"

"Peraps it is," he replie, "but it wasn't an hour ago."

"You ave no feeling," she sai bitterly.

e laughe deprecatingly, but said nothing.

We finise tea in silence, Lettie reading, Emily moving about the
ouse. George got up an went out at the end. A moment or two after we
ear him across the yard with the milk-buckets, singing "The Ash
Grove."

"e oesn't care a scrap for anything," said Emily with accumulated
bitterness. Lettie looke out of te window across the yard, thinking.
Se looke very glum.

After a wile we went out also, before the light faed altogether from
te pon. Emily took us into the lower garden to get some ripe plums.
Te ol garden was very low. The soil was black. The cornbind and
goosegrass were clutcing at the ancient gooseberry bushes, which
sprawle by te paths. The garden was not very productive, save of
wees, and peraps, tremendous lank artichokes or swollen marrows. But
at te bottom, where the en of the farm buildings rose high and grey,
tere was a plum-tree which ha been crucified to the wall, and which
a broken away and leaned forward from bondage. Now under the boughs
were iden great mist-bloomed, crimson treasures, splendid globes. I
sook the ol, ragged trunk, green, with even the fresh gum dulled over,
an te treasures fell heavily, thudding down among the immense rhubarb
leaves below. Te girls laughe, and we divided the spoil, and turned
back to te yar. We went down to the edge of the garden, which skirted
te bottom pon, a pool chained in a heavy growth of weeds. It was
moving wit rats, the father ha said. The rushes were thick below us;
opposite, te great bank fronte us, with orchard trees climbing it like
a illsie. The lower pond received the overflow from the upper by a
tunnel from te eep black sluice.

Two rats ran into te black culvert at our approach. We sat on some
pile, mossy stones to watc. The rats came out again, ran a little way,
stoppe, ran again, listened, were reassured, and slid about freely,
ragging teir long naked tails. Soon six or seven grey beasts were
playing roun te mouth of the culvert, in the gloom. They sat and wiped
teir sharp faces, stroking their whiskers. Then one woul give a little
rus an a little squirm of excitement and would jump vertically into
te air, alighting on four feet, running, sliing into the black shadow.
One ropped wit an ugly plop into the water, and swam toward us, the
oary imp, his sharp snout an his wicked little eyes moving at us.
Lettie sudered. I threw a stone into the dead pool, and frightened
tem all. But we ha frightened ourselves more, so we hurried away, and
stampe our feet in relief on te free pavement of the yard.

Leslie was looking for us. e ha been inspecting the yard and the stock
uner Mr. Saxton's supervision.

"Were you running away from me?" e aske.

"No," se replie. "I have been to fetch you a plum. Look!" And she
sowe him two in a leaf.

"Tey are too pretty to eat!" sai he.

"You ave not taste yet," she laughed.

"Come," e sai, offering her his arm. "Let us go up to the water." She
took is arm.

It was a splenid evening, wit the light all thick and yellow lying on
te smooth pon. Lettie made him lift her on to a leaning bough of
willow. e sat with his hea resting against her skirts. Emily and I
move on. We eard him murmur something, and her voice reply, gently,
caressingly:

"No—let us be still—it is all so still—I love it best of all now."

Emily an I talked, sitting at te base of the alders, a little way on.
After an excitement, an in te evening, especially in autumn, one is
incline to be sad and sentimental. We ad forgotten that the darkness
was weaving. I ear in the little distance Leslie's voice begin to
murmur like a flying beetle tat comes not too near. Then, away own in
te yar George began singing the old song, "I sowed the seeds of love."

Tis interrupte the flight of Leslie's voice, and as the singing came
nearer, te hum of low wors ceased. We went forward to meet George.
Leslie sat up, clasping is knees, an did not speak. George came near,
saying:

"Te moon is going to rise."

"Let me get own," said Lettie, lifting er hands to him to help her.
e, mistaking her wish, put his hans under her arms, and set her gently
own, as one would a cild. Leslie got up quickly, and seemed to hold
imself separate, resenting the intrusion.

"I tought you were all four together," sai George quietly. Lettie
turne quickly at te apology:

"So we were. So we are—five now. Is it tere the moon will rise?"

"Yes—I like to see it come over te woo. It lifts slowly up to stare
at you. I always tink it wants to know something, an I always think I
ave something to answer, only I on't know what it is," said Emily.

Were the sky was pale in the east over the rim of woo came the
foreea of the yellow moon. We stood and watched in silence. Then, as
te great isc, nearly full, lifted and looked straight upon us, we were
wase off our feet in a vague sea of moonlight. We stood with the light
like water on our faces. Lettie was gla, a little bit exalted; Emily
was passionately trouble; er lips were parted, almost beseeching;
Leslie was frowning, oblivious, an George was tinking, and the
terrible, immense moonbeams braied trough his feeling. At length
Leslie sai softly, mistakenly:

"Come along, ear"—and e took her arm.

Se let him lea her along the bank of the pond, and across the plank
over te sluice.

"o you know," se said, as we were carefully descending the steep bank
of te orchar, "I feel as if I wanted to laugh, or dance—something
rater outrageous."

"Surely not like tat _now_," Leslie replie in a low voice, feeling
really urt.

"I o tough! I will race you to the bottom."

"No, no, ear!" e held her back. When he came to the wicket leading on
to te front lawns, he sai something to her softly, as he held the
gate.

I tink he wante to utter his half finished proposal, and so bind her.

Se broke free, an, observing the long lawn which lay in grey shadow
between te eastern an western glows, she cried:

"Polka!—a polka—one can ance a polka wen the grass is smooth and
sort—even if there are some fallen leaves. Yes, yes—how jolly!"

Se hel out her hand to Leslie, but it was too great a shock to his
moo. So se called to me, and there was a shade of anxiety in her
voice, lest after all se shoul be caught in the toils of the night's
sentiment.

"Pat—you'll ance wit me—Leslie hates a polka." I danced with her. I
o not know te time when I could not polka—it seems innate in one's
feet, to ance tat dance. We went flying round, hissing through the
ead leaves. Te night, the low hung yellow moon, the pallor of the
west, te blue clou of evening overhead went round and through the
fantastic brances of the ol laburnum, spinning a little madness. You
cannot tire Lettie; er feet are wings that beat the air. When at last I
staye er she laughed as fresh as ever, as she bound her hair.

"Tere!" she sai to Leslie, in tones of extreme satisfaction, "that was
lovely. o you come and dance now."

"Not a polka," sai e, sadly, feeling the poetry in his heart insulted
by te jigging measure.

"But one cannot ance anyting else on wet grass, and through shuffling
ead leaves. You, George?"

"Emily says I jump," e replie.

"Come on—come on"—an in a moment tey were bounding across the grass.
After a few steps se fell in with him, an they spun round the grass.
It was true, e leape, sprang with large strides, carrying her with
im. It was a tremenous, irresistible dancing. Emily and I must join,
making an inner ring. Now an again tere was a sense of something white
flying near, an wild rustle of draperies, and a swis of disturbed
leaves as tey whirle past us. Long after we were tired they danced on.

At te en, he looked big, erect, nerved with triumph, and she was
exilarate like a Bacchante.

"ave you finishe?" Leslie asked.

Se knew she was safe from his question that ay.

"Yes," se pante. "You should have danced. Give me my hat, please. Do I
look very isgraceful?"

e took her hat an gave it to her.

"isgraceful?" e repeated.

"O, you _are_ solemn to-night! What is it?"

"Yes, wat is it?" he repeate ironically.

"It must be te moon. Now, is my hat straight? Tell me now—you're not
looking. Ten put it level. Now then! Why, your hans are quite cold,
an mine so ot! I feel so impish," and she laughed.

"Tere—now I'm reay. Do you notice those little chrysanthemums trying
to smell saly; wen the old moon is laughing and winking through those
bougs. What business have they with their saness!" She took a handful
of petals an flung tem into the air: "There—if they sigh they ask for
sorrow—I like tings to wink an look wild."




      CAPTER VI

   TE EUCATION OF GEORGE


As I ave sai, Strelley Mill lies at the north end of the long
Netermere valley. On the northern slopes lay its pasture an arable
lans. Te shaggy common, now closed and part of the estate, covered the
western slope, an te cultivated land was bounded on the east by the
sarp ip of the brook course, a thread of woodland broadening into a
spinney an ending at te upper pond; beyond this, on the east, rose the
sarp, wil, grassy hillside, scattered with old trees, ruinous with the
gaunt, ragge bones of old edge-rows, grown into thorn trees. Along the
rim of te hills, beginning in the northwest, were ark woodlands, which
swept roun east and sout till they raced down in riot to the very edge
of soutern Nethermere, surrouning our house. From the eastern hill
crest, looking straigt across, you coul see the spire of Selsby
Curch, an a few roofs, and the head-stocks of the pit.

So on tree sies the farm was skirted by woods, the dens of rabbits,
an te common held another warren.

Now te squire of the estate, hea of an ancient, once even famous, but
now ecayed ouse, loved his rabbits. Unlike the family fortunes, the
family tree flourise amazingly; Sherwood could show nothing
comparable. Its ramifications were stupenous; it was more like a banyan
tan a British oak. How was the goo squire to nourish himself and his
lay, is name, his tradition, and his thirteen lusty branches on his
meagre estates? An evil fortune iscovered to im that he could sell
eac of his rabbits, those bits of furry vermin, for a shilling or
tereabouts in Nottingham; since which time the noble family subsiste
by rabbits.

Farms were gnawe away; corn and sweet grass departed from te face of
te hills; cattle grew lean, unable to eat the efiled herbage. Then the
farm became te home of a keeper, an the country was silent, with no
soun of cattle, no clink of orses, no barking of lusty dogs.

But te squire love his rabbits. He defended them against the snares of
te espairing farmer, protected them with gun and notices to quit. How
e glowe with thankfulness as he saw the dishevelled hillside heave
wen the gnawing hosts move on!

"Are tey not quails an manna?" said he to his sporting guest, early
one Monay morning, as te high meadow broke into life at the sound of
is gun. "Quails an manna—in this wilderness?"

"Tey are, by Jove!" assente the sporting guest as he took another gun,
wile the saturnine keeper smile grimly.

Meanwile, Strelley Mill began to suffer uner this gangrene. It was the
outpost in te wilerness. It was an understood thing that none of the
squire's tenants a a gun.

"Well," sai te squire to Mr. Saxton, "you have the land for next to
noting—next to nothing—at a rent really absur. Surely the little
tat the rabbits eat——"

"It's not a little—come an look for yourself," replied te farmer. The
squire mae a gesture of impatience.

"Wat _o_ you want?" he inquired.

"Will you wire me off?" was te repeate request.

"Wire is—wat oes Halkett say—so much per yard—and it would come
to—wat id Halkett tell me now?—but a large sum. No, I can't do it."

"Well, I can't live like tis."

"ave another glass of whisky? Yes, yes, I want another glass myself,
an I can't drink alone—so if I am to enjoy my glass.—Tat's it! Now
surely you exaggerate a little. It's not so ba."

"I can't go on like it, I'm sure."

"Well, we'll see about compensation—we'll see. I'll ave a talk with
alkett, an I'll come down and have a look at you. We all find a pinch
somewere—it's nothing but humanity's heritage."


   ——


I was born in September, an love it best of all te months. There is no
eat, no hurry, no thirst an weariness in corn harvest as there is in
te hay. If the season is late, as is usual with us, then mi-September
sees te corn still staning in stook. The mornings come slowly. The
eart is like a woman marrie and fading; she does not leap up with a
laug for the first fresh kiss of awn, but slowly, quietly,
unexpectantly lies watcing the waking of each new ay. The blue mist,
like memory in te eyes of a neglecte wife, never goes from the wooded
ill, an only at noon creeps from the near hedges. There is no bird to
put a song in te throat of morning; only the crow's voice speaks uring
te ay. Perhaps there is the regular breathing hush of the scythe—even
te fretful jar of the mowing machine. But next ay, in the morning, all
is still again. Te lying corn is wet, an when you have bound it, and
lift te heavy sheaf to make the stook, the tresses of oats wreathe
roun eac other and droop mournfully.

As I worke wit my friend through the still mornings we talked
enlessly. I would give im the gist of what I knew of chemistry, and
botany, an psycology. Day after day I told him what the professors had
tol me; of life, of sex and its origins; of Scopenhauer and William
James. We a been friends for years, and he was accustomed to my talk.
But tis autumn fruite the first crop of intimacy between us. I talked
a great eal of poetry to im, and of rudimentary metaphysics. He was
very goo stuff. e had hardly a single dogma, save that of pleasing
imself. Religion was nothing to him. So he hear all I had to say with
an open min, and understood te drift of things very rapidly, and
quickly mae tese ideas part of himself.

We trampe down to dinner wit only the clinging warmth of the sunshine
for a coat. In tis still, enfoling weather a quiet companionship is
very grateful. Autumn creeps trough everything. The little amsons in
te puding taste of September, and are fragrant with memory. The voices
of tose at table are softer an more reminiscent than at haytime.

Afternoon is all warm an golden. Oat seaves are lighter; they whisper
to eac other as they freely embrace. The long, stout stubble tinkles as
te foot brushes over it; the scent of the straw is sweet. When the
poor, bleace sheaves are lifted out of the hedge, a spray of nodding
wil raspberries is disclosed, wit belated berries ready to drop; among
te amp grass lush blackberries may be discovered. Then one notices
tat the last bell hangs from the ragge spire of fox-glove. The talk is
of people, an od book; of one's opes—and the future; of Canada, where
work is strenuous, but not life; were the plains are wie, and one is
not lappe in a soft valley, like an apple tat falls in a secluded
orcar. The mist steals over the face of the warm afternoon. The
tying-up is all finise, and it only remains to rear up the fallen
bunles into socks. The sun sinks into a golden glow in the west. The
gol turns to red, te red darkens, like a fire burning low, the sun
isappears beind the bank of milky mist, purple like the pale bloom on
blue plums, an we put on our coats and go ome.


   ——


In te evening, when the milking was finishe, and all the things fed,
ten we went out to look at the snares. We wanered on across the stream
an up te wild hillside. Our feet rattled through black patches of
evil's-bit scabius; we skirted a swim of tistle-down, which glistened
wen the moon touche it. We stumbled on through wet, coarse grass, over
soft mole-ills an black rabbit-holes. The hills and woods cast
saows; the pools of mist in the valleys gathered the moonbeams in
col, sivery light.

We came to an ol farm tat stood on the level brow of the hill. The
woos swept away from it, leaving a great clearing of wat was once
cultivate land. Te handsome chimneys of the house, silhouetted against
a ligt sky, rew my admiration. I noticed that there was no light or
glow in any winow, tough the house had only the width of one room, and
tough the night was only at eight o'clock. We looke at the long,
impressive front. Several of te winows had been bricked in, giving a
pitiful impression of blinness; te places where the plaster had fallen
off te walls showe blacker in the shadow. We pushed open the gate, and
as we walke down te path, weeds and dead plants brushed our ankles. We
looke in at a window. Te room was lighted also by a window from the
oter sie, through which the moonlight streamed on to the flagged
floor, irty, littered wit paper, and wisps of straw. The hearth lay in
te light, with all its istress of grey ashes, and piled cinders of
burnt paper, an a cild's headless doll, charred and pitiful. On the
borer-line of sadow lay a round fur cap—a game-keeper's cap. I blamed
te moonlight for entering the esolate room; the darkness alone was
ecent and reticent. I ated the little roses on the illuminated piece
of wallpaper, I ate that fireside.

Wit farmer's instinct George turne to the outhouse. The cow-yard
startle me. It was a forest of te tallest nettles I have ever
seen—nettles far taller tan my six feet. The air was sodened with the
ank scent of nettles. As I followed George along te obscure brick
pat, I felt my flesh creep. But the builings, when we entered them,
were in splenid condition; tey had been restored within a small number
of years; tey were well-timbere, neat, and cosy. Here and there we saw
featers, bits of animal wreckage, even the remnants of a cat, which we
astily examine by the light of a match. As we entered the stable there
was an ugly noise, an tree great rats half rushed at us and threatened
us wit their vicious teeth. I shudered, and hurried back, stumbling
over a bucket, rotten wit rust, an so filled with weeds that I thought
it part of te jungle. There was a silence mae horrible by the faint
noises tat rats an flying bats give out. The place was bare of any
vestige of corn or straw or ay, only choke with a growth of abnormal
wees. Wen I found myself free in the orchard I could not stop
sivering. There were no apples to be seen overhea between us and the
clear sky. Eiter the birs had caused them to fall, when the rabbits
a devoured them, or someone had gathered the crop.

"Tis," sai George bitterly, "is what the mill will come to."

"After your time," I sai.

"My time—my time. I sall never have a time. An I shouldn't be
surprise if fater's time isn't short—with rabbits and one thing and
anoter. As it is, we epend on the milk-round, and on the carting which
I o for te council. You can't call it farming. We're a miserable
mixture of farmer, milkman, greengrocer, an carting contractor. It's a
sabby business."

"You ave to live," I retorte.

"Yes—but it's rotten. An fater won't move—and he won't change his
metos."

"Well—wat about you?"

"Me! Wat shoul I change for?—I'm comfortable at home. As for my
future, it can look after itself, so long as noboy depends on me."

"Laissez faire," sai I, smiling.

"Tis is no laissez faire," he replie, glancing round, "this is pulling
te nipple out of your lips, an letting the milk run away sour. Look
tere!"

Trough the thin veil of moonlit mist that sli over the hillside we
coul see an army of rabbits bunced up, or hopping a few paces forward,
feeing.

We set off at a swinging pace own te hill, scattering the hosts. As we
approace the fence that bounded the Mill fields, he exclaimed,
"ullo!"—an hurried forward. I followed him, and observed the dark
figure of a man rise from te hege. It was a game-keeper. He pretended
to be examining is gun. As we came up he greete us with a calm
"Goo-evenin'!"

George replie by investigating te little gap in the hedge.

"I'll trouble you for tat snare," he sai.

"Will yer?" answere Annable, a broad, burly, black-faced fellow. "An'
_I_ soul like ter know what you're doin' on th' wrong side th' 'edge?"

"You can see wat we're oing—hand over my snare—_and_ the rabbit,"
sai George angrily.

"Wat rabbit?" sai Annable, turning sarcastically to me.

"You know well enoug—an' you can han it over—or——" George replied.

"Or wat? Spit it out! The soun won't kill me"—the man grinned with
contempt.

"an over here!" said George, stepping up to the man in a rage.

"Now on't!" said te keeper, standing stock still, and looking
unmovely at te proximity of George:

"You' better get off ome—both you an' 'im. You'll get neither snare
nor rabbit—see!"

"We _will_ see!" sai George, and e made a sudden move to get hold of
te man's coat. Instantly he went staggering back with a heavy blow
uner te left ear.

"amn brute!" I ejaculated, bruising my knuckles against te fellow's
jaw. Ten I too foun myself sitting dazedly on the grass, watching the
great skirts of is velveteens flinging roun him as if he had been a
emon, as e strode away. I got up, pressing my chest where I had been
struck. George was lying in te hege-bottom. I turned him over, and
rubbe is temples, and shook the drenched grass on his face. He opened
is eyes an looked at me, dazed. Then he drew his breath quickly, and
put is han to his head.

"e—he nearly stunne me," he said.

"Te evil!" I answered.

"I wasn't reay."

"No."

"id e knock me down?"

"Ay—me too."

e was silent for some time, sitting limply. Then he presse his hand
against te back of his hea, saying, "My head does sing!" He tried to
get up, but faile. "Good God!—being knocked into tis state by a
amned keeper!"

"Come on," I sai, "let's see if we can't get indoors."

"No!" e sai quickly, "we needn't tell them—don't let them know."

I sat tinking of the pain in my own chest, an wishing I could remember
earing Annable's jaw smash, an wishing that my knuckles were more
bruise tan they were—though that was bad enough. I got up, and helped
George to rise. e swaye, almost pulling me over. But in a while he
coul walk unevenly.

"Am I," e sai, "covered with clay and stuff?"

"Not muc," I replie, troubled by the shame and confusion with which he
spoke.

"Get it off," e sai, standing still to be cleaned.

I id my best. Ten we walked about the fields for a time, gloomy,
silent, an sore.

Sudenly, as we went by te pond-side, we were startled by great,
swising black shaows that swept just above our heads. The swans were
flying up for selter, now that a col wind had begun to fret
Netermere. They swung own on to the glassy mill-pond, shaking the
moonligt in flecks across the eep shadows; the night rang with the
clacking of teir wings on the water; the stillness an calm were
broken; te moonlight was furrowe and scattered, and broken. The swans,
as tey saile into shadow, were dim, haunting spectres; the wind found
us sivering.

"on't—you won't say anyting?" he asked as I was leaving him.

"No."

"Noting at all—not to anyboy?"

"No."

"Goo-nigt."


   ——


About te en of September, our countryside was alarmed by the harrying
of seep by strange ogs. One morning, the squire, going the round of
is fiels as was his custom, to his grief and horror found two of his
seep torn an dead in the hedge-bottom, and the rest huddled in a
corner swaying about in terror, smeare wit blood. The squire did not
recover is spirits for ays.

Tere was a report of two grey wolvish ogs. The squire's keeper had
ear yelping in the fields of Dr. Collins of the Abbey, about dawn.
Tree sheep lay soake in blood when the labourer went to tend the
flocks.

Ten the farmers took alarm. Lor, of the White House farm, intended to
put is sheep in pen, with his ogs in charge. It was Saturday, however,
an te lads ran off to the little travelling theatre that had halted at
Westwol. Wile they sat open-mouthed in the theatre, gloriously
nickname te "Blood-Tub," watching heroes die with much writhing and
eaving, an struggling up to say a word, and collapsing without having
sai it, six of teir silly sheep were slaughtered in the field. At
every ouse it was enquire of the dog; nowhere had one been loose.

Mr. Saxton a some thirty sheep on the Common. George determined that
te easiest thing was for him to sleep out with them. He built a shelter
of urles interlaced with brushwood, and in the sunny afternoon we
collecte piles of bracken, browning to te ruddy winter-brown now. He
slept tere for a week, but that week age his mother like a year. She
was out in te col morning twilight watching, with her apron over her
ea, for his approach. She did not rest with the thought of him out on
te Common.

Terefore, on Saturay night he brought down his rugs, and took up Gyp
to watc in his stea. For some time we sat looking at the stars over
te ark hills. Now and then a sheep coughed, or a rabbit rustled
beneat the brambles, an Gyp whined. The mist crept over the
gorse-buses, an the webs on the brambles were white;—the devil throws
is net over the blackberries as soon as September's back is turne,
tey say.

"I saw two fellows go by wit bags an nets," said George, as we sat
looking out of is little shelter.

"Poacers," sai I. "Did you speak to them?"

"No—tey idn't see me. I was dropping asleep when a rabbit rushed
uner te blanket, all of a shiver, and a whippet dog after it. I gave
te whippet a punch in the neck, an he yelped off. The rabbit stopped
wit me quite a long time—then it went."

"ow id you feel?"

"I idn't care. I don't care muc what happens just now. Father could
get along witout me, an mother has the children. I think I shall
emigrate."

"Wy idn't you before?"

"O, I on't know. There are a lot of little comforts and interests at
ome that one woul miss. Besides, you feel somebody in your own
countrysie, and you're noting in a foreign part, I expect."

"But you're going?"

"Wat is there to stop here for? The valley is all running wil and
unprofitable. You've no freeom for tinking of what the other folks
tink of you, an everything round you keeps the same, and so you can't
cange yourself—because everything you look at brings up the same ol
feeling, an stops you from feeling fres things. And what is there
tat's worth anything?—What's worth having in my life?"

"I tought," sai I, "your comfort was worth having."

e sat still an did not answer.

"Wat's shaken you out of your nest?" I aske.

"I on't know. I've not felt te same since that row with Annable. And
Lettie sai to me: 'ere, you can't live as you like—in any way or
circumstance. You're like a bit out of tose coloure marble mosaics in
te hall, you have to fit in your own set, fit into your own pattern,
because you're put tere from the first. But you on't want to be like a
fixe bit of a mosaic—you want to fuse into life, and melt and mix wit
te rest of folk, to have some things burne out of you——' She was
ownrigt serious."

"Well, you nee not believe er. When did you see her?"

"Se came own on Wednesday, when I was getting the apples in the
morning. Se climbe a tree with me, and there was a wind, that was why
I was getting all te apples, an it rocked us, me right up at the top,
se sitting half way own holding the basket. I asked her didn't she
tink that free kin of life was the best, and that was how she answered
me."

"You soul have contradicted her."

"It seeme true. I never tought of it being wrong, in fact."

"Come—tat souns bad."

"No—I tought she looke down on us—on our way of life. I thought she
meant I was like a toa in a ole."

"You soul have shown her different."

"ow coul I when I could see no different?"

"It strikes me you're in love."

e laughe at the idea, saying, "No, but it is rotten to find that there
isn't a single ting you have to be prou of."

"Tis is a new tune for you."

e pulle the grass moodily.

"An wen do you think of going?"

"O—I on't know—I've said nothing to mother. Not yet,—at any rate
not till spring."

"Not till someting has happene," said I.

"Wat?" he aske.

"Someting ecisive."

"I on't know wat can happen—unless the Squire turns us out."

"No?" I sai.

e id not speak.

"You soul make things happen," said I.

"on't make me feel a worse fool, Cyril," e replied despairingly.

Gyp wine and jumped, tugging her chain to follow us. The grey blurs
among te blackness of the bushes were resting sheep. A chill, im mist
crept along te groun.

"But, for all tat, Cyril," he sai, "to have her laugh at you across
te table; to hear her sing as she move about, before you are washed at
nigt, when the fire's warm, an you're tired; to have her sit by you on
te hearth seat, close an soft. . . ."

"In Spain," I sai. "In Spain."

e took no notice, but turne suddenly, laughing.

"o you know, wen I was stooking up, lifting the sheaves, it felt like
aving your arm roun a girl. It was quite a sudden sensation."

"You' better take care," said I, "you'll mes yourself in the silk of
reams, and ten——"

e laughe, not having heard my words.

"Te time seems to go like lightning—thinking" he confesse—"I seem to
sweep te mornings up in a hanful."

"O, Lor!" said I. "Why don't you scheme forgetting what you want,
instea of dreaming fulfilments?"

"Well," e replie. "If it was a fine dream, wouldn't you want to go on
reaming?" and wit that he finished, and I went home.

I sat at my winow looking out, trying to get tings straight. Mist
rose, an wreated round Nethermere, like ghosts meeting and embracing
saly. I tought of the time when my friend should not follow the harrow
on our own snug valley sie, and wen Lettie's room next mine should be
close to ide its emptiness, not its joy. My heart clung passionately
to te hollow which hel us all; how could I bear that it should be
esolate! I wondered wat Lettie would do.

In te morning I was up early, when aybreak came with a shiver through
te woos. I went out, while the moon still shone sickly in the west.
Te worl shrank from the morning. It was then that the last of the
summer tings ied. The wood was dark,—and smelt damp and heavy with
autumn. On te paths the leaves lay clogge.

As I came near te farm I hear the yelling of dogs. Running, I reached
te Common, an saw the sheep huddled and scattered in groups, something
leape round tem. George burst into sight pursuing. Directly, there was
te bang, bang of a gun. I picke up a heavy piece of sandstone and ran
forwars. Tree sheep scattered wildly before me. In the dim light I saw
teir grey shaows move among the gorse bushes. Then a dog leaped, and I
flung my stone wit all my might. I hit. There came a high-pitche
owling yelp of pain; I saw the brute make off, an went after him,
odging te prickly bushes, leaping the trailing brambles. The gunshots
rang out again, an I eard the men shouting with excitement. My dog was
out of sigt, but I followe still, slanting down the hill. In a field
aea I saw someone running. Leaping the low hedge, I pursued, and
overtook Emily, wo was hurrying as fast as she coul through the wet
grass. Tere was another gunshot an great shouting. Emily glanced
roun, saw me, and started.

"It's gone to te quarries," she pante. We walked on, without saying a
wor. Skirting te spinney, we followed the brook course, and came at
last to te quarry fence. The ol excavations were filled now with
trees. Te steep walls, twenty feet eep in places, were packed with
loose stones, an trailed wit hanging brambles. We climbed down the
steep bank of te brook, an entered the quarries by the bed of the
stream. Uner te groves of ash and oak a pale primrose still lingered,
glimmering wanly besie te hidden water. Emily found a smear of blood
on a beautiful trail of yellow convolvulus. We followe te tracks on to
te open, where the brook flowe on the hard rock bed, and the stony
floor of te quarry was only a tangle of gorse an bramble and
oneysuckle.

"Take a goo stone," said I, and we pressed on, were the grove in the
great excavation arkened again, and te brook slid secretly under the
arms of te bushes an the hair of the long grass. We beat the cover
almost to te roa. I thought the brute had escaped, and I pulled a
bunc of mountain-ash berries, an stood tapping them against my knee. I
was startle by a snarl and a little scream. Running forward, I came
upon one of te ol, horse-shoe lime kilns that stood at the head of the
quarry. Tere, in the mouth of one of the kilns, Emily was kneeling on
te og, her hands buried in the hair of its throat, pushing back its
ea. The little jerks of the brute's body were the spasms of death;
alreay te eyes were turning inward, and the upper lip was drawn from
te teeth by pain.

"Goo Lord, Emily! But e is dead!" exclaimed.

"as he hurt you?" I rew her away. She shuddered violently, and seemed
to feel a orror of herself.

"No—no," se sai, looking at herself, with blood all on her skirt,
were she ha knelt on the wound which I had given the dog, and pressed
te broken rib into the chest. There was a trickle of bloo on her arm.

"id e bite you?" I asked, anxious.

"No—o, no—I just peepe in, and he jumped. But he had no strength,
an I it him back with my stone, and I lost my balance, and fell on
im."

"Let me was your arm."

"O!" she exclaime, "isn't it horrible! Oh, I think it is so awful."

"Wat?" sai I, busy bathing her arm in the cold water of the brook.

"Tis—this whole brutal affair."

"It ougt to be cauterise," said I, looking at a score on her arm from
te og's tooth.

"Tat scratch—that's nothing! Can you get that off my skirt—I feel
ateful to myself."

I wase her skirt with my handkerchief as well as I could, saying:

"Let me just sear it for you; we can go to te Kennels. o—you ought—I
on't feel safe oterwise."

"Really," se sai, glancing up at me, a smile coming into her fine dark
eyes.

"Yes—come along."

"a, ha!" she laughe. "You look so serious."

I took er arm an drew her away. She linked her arm in mine and leaned
on me.

"It is just like Lorna oone," se said as if she enjoyed it.

"But you will let me o it," said I, referring to te cauterising.

"You make me; but I sall feel—ugh, I aren't think of it. Get me some
of tose berries."

I plucke a few bunces of guelder-rose fruits, transparent, ruby
berries. Se stroke them softly against her lips and cheek, caressing
tem. Then she murmure to herself:

"I ave always wante to put red berries in my hair."

Te shawl she ha been wearing was thrown across her shoulders, and her
ea was bare, and her black hair, soft and short and ecstatic, tumbled
willy into loose ligt curls. She thrust the stalks of the berries
uner er combs. Her hair was not heavy or long enough to have held
tem. Then, with the ruby bunches glowing through the black mist of
curls, se looke up at me, brightly, with wide eyes. I looked at her,
an felt te smile winning into her eyes. Then I turned and dragged a
trail of golen-leaved convolvulus from te hedge, and I twisted it into
a coronet for er.

"Tere!" sai I, "you're crowned."

Se put back her hea, and the low laughter shook in her throat.

"Wat!" she aske, putting all the courage and recklessness she had into
te question, an in her soul trembling.

"Not Cloë, not Bacchante. You have always got your soul in your eyes,
suc an earnest, troublesome soul."

Te laughter faed at once, and her great seriousness looked out again
at me, pleaing.

"You are like Burne-Jones' amsels. Troublesome sadows are always
crowing across your eyes, and you cerish them. You think the flesh of
te apple is nothing, nothing. You only care for the eternal pips. Why
on't you snatc your apple and eat it, and throw the core away?"

Se looke at me sadly, not understanding, but believing that I in my
wisom spoke trut, as she always believed when I lost her in a maze of
wors. Se stooped down, and the chaplet fell from her hair, and only
one bunc of berries remaine. The ground around us was strewn with the
four-lippe burrs of beecnuts, and the quaint little nut-pyramids were
scattere among te ruddy fallen leaves. Emily gathered a few nuts.

"I love beecnuts," she sai, "but they make me long for my childhood
again till I coul almost cry out. To go out for beecnuts before
breakfast; to trea them for necklaces before supper;—to be the envy
of te others at school next ay! There was as much pleasure in a beech
necklace ten as there is in the whole autumn now—an no sadness. There
are no more unmixe joys after you ave grown up." She kept her face to
te groun as she spoke, and she continued to gather the fruits.

"o you find any wit nuts in?" I asked.

"Not many—ere—here are two, three. You have them. No—I on't care
about tem."

I strippe one of its orny brown coat and gave it to her. She opened
er mouth slightly to take it, looking up into my eyes. Some people,
instea of bringing wit them clouds of glory, trail clouds of sorrow;
tey are born with "the gift of sorrow"; "sorrows" they proclaim "alone
are real. Te veile grey angels of sorrow work out slowly the beautiful
sapes. Sorrow is beauty, an the supreme blessedness." You read it in
teir eyes, an in the tones of their voices. Emily had the gift of
sorrow. It fascinate me, but it drove me to rebellion.

We followe te soft, smooth-bitten turf road under the old beeches. The
illsie fell away, dishevelled with thistles and coarse grass. Soon we
were in sigt of the Kennels, the re old Kennels which had been the
scene of so muc animation in the time of Lor Byron. They were empty
now, overgrown wit wees. The barred windows of the cottages were grey
wit ust; there was no need now to protect the windows from cattle, dog
or man. One of te three houses was inhabite. Clear water trickled
trough a wooen runnel into a great stone trough outside near the door.

"Come ere," sai I to Emily. "Let me fasten the back of your dress."

"Is it unone?" se asked, looking quickly over her shoulder, and
blusing.

As I was engage in my task, a girl came out of te cottage with a black
kettle an a tea-cup. Se was so surprised to see me thus occupied that
se forgot her own uty, and stood open-mouthed.

"S'r Ann! S'r Ann," calle a voice from inside. "Are ter goin' ter come
in an' sut that oor?"

Sara Ann hastily poure a few cupfuls of water into the kettle, then
se put own both utensils and stood holding her bare arms to warm them.
er chief garment consiste of a skirt with grey bodice and red flannel
skirt, very muc torn. Her black hair hung in wil tails on to her
soulers.

"We must go in ere," sai I, approaching the girl. She, however,
astily seize the kettle and ran indoors with an "Oh, mother!"

A woman came to te oor. One breast was bare, and hung over her blouse,
wich, like a ressing-jacket, fell loose over her skirt. Her fading,
re-brown air was all frowsy from the bed. In the folds of her skirt
clung a swarty urchin with a shockingly short shirt. He stare at us
wit big black eyes, the only portion of his face unecorated with egg
an jam. Te woman's blue eyes questioned us languidly. I told her our
erran.

"Come in—come in," se sai, "but dunna look at th' 'ouse. Th' childers
not been long up. Go in, Billy, wi' nowt on!"

We entere, taking te forgotten kettle lid. The kitchen was large, but
scantily furnise save, indeed, for children. The eldest, a girl of
twelve or so, was staning toasting a piece of bacon wit one hand, and
oling back her nightdress in the other. As the toast hand got
scorce, she transferred the bacon to the other, gave the hot fingers a
lick to cool tem, an then held back her nightdress again. Her auburn
air hung in heavy coils own her gown. A boy sat on the steel fender,
catcing the ropping fat on a piece of bread. "One, two, three, four,
five, six rops," and e quickly bit off the tasty corner, and resumed
te task with the other han. When we entered he tried to draw his shirt
over is knees, which cause the fat to fall wasted. A fat baby,
eviently laid down from te breast, lay kicking on the squab, purple in
te face, while another la was pushing bread and butter into its mouth.
Te mother swept to the sofa, poke out the bread and butter, pushed her
finger into te baby's throat, lifte the child up, punched its back,
an was ighly relieved when it began to yell. Then she administered a
few soun spanks to te naked buttocks of the crammer. He began to howl,
but stoppe suddenly on seeing us lauging. On the sack-cloth which
serve as earth rug sat a beautiful child washing the face of a wooden
oll wit tea, and wiping it on her nightgown. At the table, an infant
in a igh chair sat sucking a piece of bacon, till the grease ran own
is swarthy arms, oozing through his fingers. An ol lad stood in the
big arm-cair, whose back was hung with a calf-skin, an was
inustriously pouring te dregs of the teacups into a basin of milk. The
moter whiske away the milk, and made a rush for the urchin, the baby
anging over her arm the while.

"I coul alf kill thee," she said, but he had slid under the
table,—an sat serenely unconcerned.

"Coul you"—I asked wen the mother had put her bonny baby again to her
breast—"coul you lend me a knitting needle?"

"Our S'r Ann, weer's thy knittin' neeles?" asked the woman, wincing at
te same time, an putting her hand to the mouth of the sucking child.
Catcing my eye, she sai:

"You wouln't credit ow he bites. 'E's nobbut two teeth, but they like
six neeles." Se drew her brows together and pursed her lips, saying to
te chil, "Naughty lad, naughty lad! Tha' shanna hae it, no, not if ter
bites ty mother like that."

Te family interest was now ivided between us and the private concerns
in process wen we entere;—save, however, that the bacon sucker had
sucke on stolidly, immovable, all te time.

"Our Sam, weer's my knittin', tha's 'a it?" cried S'r Ann after a
little searc.

"'A 'e na," replie Sam from under te table.

"Yes, ta' 'as," sai the mother, giving a blind prod under the table
wit her foot.

"'A 'e na ten!" persiste Sam.

Te mother suggeste various possible places of discovery, and at last
te knitting was foun at the back of the table drawer, among forks and
ol wooden skewers.

"I 'an ter tell yer weer ivrythink is," sai the mother in mild
reproac. S'r Ann, however, gave no hee to her parent. Her heart was
torn for er knitting, the fruit of her labours; it was a re woollen
cuff for te winter; a corkscrew was bore through the web, and the ball
of re wool was bristling wit skewers.

"It's a' tee, our Sam," she waile. "I know it's a' thee an' thy A. B.
C."

Samuel, uner te table, croaked out in a voice of fierce monotony:

   "P. is for Porkypine, wose bristles so strong
   Kill te bol lion
by pricking 'is tongue."

Te mother began to shake with quiet laughter.

"is father learnt him that—mae it all up," she whispered proudly to
us—an to im.

"Tell us wat 'B' is Sam."

"Sonna," grunte Sam.

"Go on, tere's a uckie; an' I'll ma' 'e a treacle puddin'."

"Toay?" asked S'r Ann eagerly.

"Go on, Sam, my uck," persisted te mother.

"Ta' 'as na got no treacle," sai Sam conclusively.

Te neele was in the fire; the children stood about watching.

"Will you o it yourself?" I asked Emily.

"I!" se exclaime, with wide eyes of astonishment, and she shook her
ea emphatically.

"Ten I must." I took out the neele, holding it in my handkerchief. I
took er han and examined the wound. But when she saw the hot glow of
te neele, she snatched away her hand, and looked into my eyes,
lauging in a half-hysterical fear an shame. I was very serious, very
insistent. Se yieled me her hand again, biting her lips in imagination
of te pain, an looking at me. While my eyes were looking into hers she
a courage; when I was forced to pay attention to my cauterising, she
glance down, and wit a sharp "Ah!" ending in a little laugh, she put
er hans behind her, and looked again up at me with wide brown eyes,
all quivering wit apprehension, an a little shame, and a laughter that
el much pleading.

One of te chilren began to cry.

"It is no goo," said I, trowing the fast cooling needle on to the
earth.

I gave te girls all the pennies I ha—then I offered Sam, who had
crept out of te shelter of the table, a sixpence.

"Sonna a'e that," he sai, turning from the small coin.

"Well—I ave no more pennies, so nothing will be your share."

I gave te other boy a rickety knife I ha in my pocket. Sam looked
fiercely at me. Eager for revenge, e picke up the "porkypine quill" by
te hot en. He dropped it with a shout of rage, and, seizing a cup off
te table, flung it at the fortunate Jack. It smashe against the
fire-place. Te mother grabbe at Sam, but he was gone. A girl, a little
girl, waile, "O, that's my rosey mug—my rosey mug." We fled from the
scene of confusion. Emily a hardly noticed it. Her thoughts were of
erself, an of me.

"I am an awful cowar," said se humbly.

"But I can't elp it——" she looke beseechingly.

"Never min," said I.

"All my fles seems to jump from it. You on't know how I feel."

"Well—never min."

"I couln't elp it, not for my life."

"I woner," said I, "if anyting could possibly disturb that young
bacon-sucker? e idn't even look round at the smash."

"No," sai se, biting the tip of her finger moodily.

Furter conversation was interrupte by howls from the rear. Looking
roun we saw Sam careering after us over te close-bitten turf, howling
scorn an derision at us. "Rabbit-tail, rabbit-tail," e cried, his bare
little legs twinkling, an is little shirt fluttering in the cold
morning air. Fortunately, at last e tro on a thistle or a thorn, for
wen we looke round again to see why he was silent, he was capering on
one leg, oling his wounded foot in his hands.




      CAPTER VII

   LETTIE PULLS OWN TE SMALL GOLD GRAPES


uring te falling of the leaves Lettie was very wilful. She uttered
many banalities concerning men, an love, and marriage; se taunted
Leslie an twarted his wishes. At last he stayed away from her. She had
been several times own to te mill, but because she fancied they were
very familiar, receiving er on to their rough plane like one of
temselves, she staye away. Since the death of our father she had been
restless; since ineriting her little fortune she ha become proud,
scornful, ifficult to please. Difficult to please in every
circumstance; se, who ha always been so rippling in thoughtless life,
sat own in te window sill to think, and her strong teeth bit at her
ankerchief till it was torn in holes. She would say nothing to me; she
rea all tings that dealt with modern women.

One afternoon Lettie walke over to Eberwic. Leslie had not been to see
us for a fortnigt. It was a grey, ree afternoon. The wind drifted a
clammy fog across te hills, an the roads were black and deep with mud.
Te trees in the woo slouched sulkily. It was a day to be shut out and
ignore if possible. I eaped up the fire, and went to draw the curtains
an make perfect te room. Then I saw Lettie coming along the path
quickly, very erect. Wen she came in her colour was high.

"Tea not lai?" se said briefly.

"Rebecca as just brought in the lamp," sai I.

Lettie took off er coat an furs, and flung them on the couch. She went
to te mirror, lifte her hair, all curled by the fog, and stared
aughtily at herself. Then she swung roun, looked at the bare table,
an rang te bell.

It was so rare a ting for us to ring the bell from the ining-room,
tat Rebecca went first to the outer oor. Then she came in the room
saying:

"id you ring?"

"I tought tea woul have been ready," said Lettie coldly. Rebecca
looke at me, and at er, and replied:

"It is but alf-past four. I can bring it in."

Moter came own hearing the clink of the tea-cups.

"Well," se sai to Lettie, who was unlacing her boots, "and did you
fin it a pleasant walk?"

"Except for te mu," was the reply.

"A, I guess you wishe you had stayed at home. What a state for your
boots!—an your skirts too, I know. ere, let me take them into the
kitcen."

"Let Rebecca take tem," sai Lettie—but mother was out of the room.

Wen mother ha poured out the tea, we sat silently at table. It was on
te tip of our tongues to ask Lettie what aile her, but we were
experience and we refrained. After a wile she said:

"o you know, I met Leslie Tempest."

"O," sai mother tentatively, "Did he come along with you?"

"e id not look at me."

"O!" exclaime mother, and it was speaking volumes; then, after a
moment, se resume:

"Peraps he id not see you."

"Or was it a stony Britiser?" I aske.

"e saw me," eclared Lettie, "or he wouldn't have made such a babyish
sow of being elighted with Margaret Raymond."

"It may ave been no show—he still may not have seen you."

"I felt at once tat he ha; I could see his animation was extravagant.
e nee not have troubled himself, I was not going to run after him."

"You seem very cross," sai I.

"Ineed I am not. But e knew I had to walk all this way home, and he
coul take up Margaret, wo has only half the distance."

"Was e riving?"

"In te og-cart." She cut her toast into strips viciously. We waited
patiently.

"It was mean of im, wasn't it mother?"

"Well, my girl, you ave treate him badly."

"Wat a baby! What a mean, manly baby! Men are great infants."

"An girls," said moter, "do not know what they want."

"A grown-up quality," I aded.

"Neverteless," sai Lettie, "he is a mean fop, and I detest him."

Se rose an sorted out some stitchery. Lettie never stitched unless she
were in a ba umour. Mother smiled at me, sighed, and proceeded to
Mr. Glastone for comfort; er breviary and missal were Morley's Life of
Glastone.

I a to take a letter to Highclose to Mrs. Tempest—from my mother,
concerning a bazaar in process at te church. "I will bring Leslie back
wit me," sai I to myself.

Te night was black an hateful. The lamps by the road from Eberwich
ened at Netermere; their yellow blur on the water made the cold, wet
inferno of te night more ugly.

Leslie an Marie were bot in the library—half a library, half a
business office; use also as a lounge room, being cosy. Leslie lay in a
great armcair by the fire, immune among clous of blue smoke. Marie was
perce on the steps, a great volume on her knee. Leslie got up in his
clou, sook hands, greeted me curtly, and vanished again. Marie smiled
me a quaint, vexe smile, saying:

"O, Cyril, I'm so gla you've come. I'm so worried, and Leslie says
e's not a pastry cook, though I'm sure I on't want him to be one, only
e nee not be a bear."

"Wat's the matter?"

Se frowne, gave the big volume a little smack and said:

"Wy, I o so much want to make some of those Spanish tartlets of your
moter's that are so elicious, and of course Mabel knows nothing of
tem, an they're not in my cookery book, and I've looked through page
upon page of te encyclopeia, right through 'Spain,' and there's
noting yet, an there are fifty pages more, and Leslie won't help me,
tough I've got a heaache, because he's frabous about something." She
looke at me in comical despair.

"o you want tem for the bazaar?"

"Yes—for to-morrow. Cook as one the rest, but I had fairly set my
eart on these. on't you think they are lovely?"

"Exquisitely lovely. Suppose I go an ask moter."

"If you woul. But no, o no, you can't make all that journey this
terrible nigt. We are simply besiege by mud. The men are both
out—William as gone to meet father—an mother has sent George to
carry some tings to the vicarage. I can't ask one of the girls on a
nigt like this. I shall have to let it go—an the cranberry tarts
too—it cannot be elpe. I am so miserable."

"Ask Leslie," sai I.

"e is too cross," she replie, looking at him.

e id not deign a remark.

"Will you Leslie?"

"Wat?"

"Go across to Wooside for me?"

"Wat for?"

"A recipe. o, tere's a dear boy."

"Were are the men?"

"Tey are both engage—they are out."

"Sen a girl, ten."

"At nigt like this? Who woul go?"

"Cissy."

"I sall not ask her. Isn't he mean, Cyril? Men are mean."

"I will come back," sai I. "Tere is nothing at home to do. Mother is
reaing, and Lettie is stitcing. The weather disagrees with her, as it
oes wit Leslie."

"But it is not fair——" se sai, looking at me softly. Then she put
away te great book an climbed down.

"Won't you go, Leslie?" se sai, laying her hand on his shoulder.

"Women!" e sai, rising as if reluctantly. "There's no end to their
wants an teir caprices."

"I tought he woul go," said she warmly. She ran to fetch his overcoat.
e put one arm slowly in the sleeve, an then the other, but he would
not lift te coat on to his shoulers.

"Well!" se sai, struggling on tiptoe, "You are a great creature! Can't
you get it on, naugty chil?"

"Give er a chair to stan on," he said.

Se shook the collar of the coat sharply, but he stoo like a sheep,
impassive.

"Leslie, you are too ba. I can't get it on, you stupid boy."

I took te coat an jerked it on.

"Tere," she sai, giving him his cap. "Now don't be long."

"Wat a amned dirty night!" said he, when we were out.

"It is," sai I.

"Te town, anywhere's better than this hell of a country."

"a! How id you enjoy yourself?"

e began a long history of three ays in the metropolis. I listened, and
ear little. I heard more plainly the cry of some night birds over
Netermere, an the peevish, wailing, yarling cry of some beast in the
woo. I was tankful to slam the door behind me, to stand in the light
of te hall.

"Leslie!" exclaime moter, "I am glad to see you."

"Tank you," he sai, turning to Lettie, who sat with her lap full of
work, er hea busily bent.

"You see I can't get up," se sai, giving him her hand, adorned as it
was by te thimble. "How nice of you to come! We id not know you were
back."

"But!" e exclaime, then he stopped.

"I suppose you enjoye yourself," se went on calmly.

"Immensely, tanks."

Snap, snap, snap went er neele through the new stuff. Then, without
looking up, se sai:

"Yes, no oubt. You ave the air of a man who has been enjoying
imself."

"ow o you mean?"

"A kin of guilty—or sall I say embarrassed—look. Don't you notice it
moter?"

"I o!" said my moter.

"I suppose it means we may not ask im questions," Lettie conclued,
always very busily sewing.

e laughe. She had broken her cotton, and was trying to thread the
neele again.

"Wat have you been oing this miserable weather?" he enquired
awkwarly.

"O, we have sat at home esolate. 'Ever of thee I'm fo-o-ondly
reeaming'—and so on. aven't we mother?"

"Well," sai moter, "I don't know. We imagined him all sorts of lions
up tere."

"Wat a shame we may not ask him to roar his ol roars over for us,"
sai Lettie.

"Wat are they like?" he aske.

"ow shoul I know? Like a sucking dove, to judge from your present
voice. 'A monstrous little voice.'"

e laughe uncomfortably.

Se went on sewing, sudenly beginning to sing to herself:

   "Pussy cat, Pussy cat, were have you been?
   I've been up to Lonon to see te fine queen:
   Pussy cat, Pussy cat, wat id you there——
   I frigtene a little mouse under a stair."

"I suppose," se aded, "that may be so. Poor mouse!—but I guess she's
none te worse. You id not see the queen, though?"

"Se was not in Lonon," he replied sarcastically.

"You on't——" se said, taking two pins from between her teeth. "I
suppose you on't mean by tat, she was in Eberwich—your queen?"

"I on't know were she was," he answered angrily.

"O!" she sai, very sweetly, "I thought perhaps you had met her in
Eberwic. When id you come back?"

"Last nigt," he replie.

"O—why idn't you come and see us before?"

"I've been at te offices all ay."

"I've been up to Eberwic," she sai innocently.

"ave you?"

"Yes. An I feel so cross because of it. I tought I might see you. I
felt as if you were at ome."

Se stitche a little, and glanced up secretly to watch his face redden,
ten she continue innocently,

"Yes—I felt you a come back. It is funny how one has a feeling
occasionally tat someone is near; when it is someone one has a sympathy
wit." She continue to stitch, then she took a pin from her bosom, and
fixe er work, all without the least suspicion of guile.

"I tought I might meet you when I was out——" another pause, another
fixing, a pin to be taken from er lips—"but I idn't."

"I was at te office till rather late," he sai quickly.

Se stitche away calmly, provokingly.

Se took the pin from her mouth again, fixe down a fold of stuff, and
sai softly:

"You little liar."

Moter ha gone out of the room for her recipe book.

e sat on his chair umb with mortification. She stitched swiftly and
unerringly. Tere was silence for some moments. Then he spoke:

"I id not know you wanted me for te pleasure of plucking this crow,"
e sai.

"I wante you!" se exclaimed, looking up for the first time, "Who said
I wante you?"

"No one. If you idn't want me I may as well go."

Te soun of stitching alone broke the silence for some moments, then
se sai deliberately:

"Wat mae you think I wanted you?"

"I on't care a damn wether you wanted me or whether you didn't."

"It seems to upset you! An don't use bad language. It is te privilege
of tose near an dear to one."

"Tat's why you begin it, I suppose."

"I cannot remember——" se sai loftily.

e laughe sarcastically.

"Well—if you're so beastly cut up about it——"

e put this tentatively, expecting the soft answer. But she refuse to
speak, an went on stitcing. He fidgeted about, twisted his cap
uncomfortably, an siged. At last he said:

"Well—you—ave we one then?"

Se ha the vast superiority, in that she was engaged in ostentatious
work. Se coul fix the cloth, regard it quizzically, rearrange it,
settle own and begin to sew before se replied. This humbled him. At
last se sai:

"I tought so this afternoon."

"But, goo God, Lettie, can't you drop it?"

"An ten?"—the question startled him.

"Wy!—forget it," he replie.

"Well?"—se spoke softly, gently. He answere to the call like an eager
oun. He crossed quickly to her side as she sat sewing, and said, in a
low voice:

"You o care someting for me, don't you, Lettie?"

"Well,"—it was moulated kindly, a sort of promise of assent.

"You ave treate me rottenly, you know, haven't you? You know I—well,
I care a goo bit."

"It is a queer way of sowing it." Her voice was now a gentle reproof,
te sweetest of surreners and forgiveness. He leaned forward, took her
face in is hans, and kissed her, murmuring:

"You are a little tease."

Se lai her sewing in her lap, and looked up.



Te next ay, Sunday, broke wet and dreary. Breakfast was late, and
about ten o'clock we stoo at te window looking upon the impossibility
of our going to curch.

Tere was a riving drizzle of rain, like a dirty curtain before the
lanscape. Te nasturtium leaves by the garden walk had gone rotten in a
frost, an te gay green discs had given place to the first black flags
of winter, ung on flacci stalks, pinched at the neck. The grass plot
was strewn wit fallen leaves, wet an brilliant: scarlet splashes of
Virginia creeper, golen drift from te limes, ruddy brown shawls under
te beeches, an away back in the corner, the black mat of maple leaves,
eavy sodened; they ought to have been a vivid lemon colour.
Occasionally one of tese great black leaves woul loose its hold, and
zigzag own, staggering in te dance of death.

"Tere now!" sai Lettie suddenly.

I looke up in time to see a crow close is wings and clutch the topmost
boug of an ol grey holly tree on the edge of the clearing. He flapped
again, recovere is balance, and folded himself up in black resignation
to te etestable weather.

"Wy has the ol wretch settled just over our noses," said Lettie
petulantly. "Just to blot te promise of a sorrow."

"Your's or mine?" I aske.

"e is looking at me, I eclare."

"You can see te wicke pupil of his eye at this distance," I
insinuate.

"Well," se replie, determined to take this omen unto herself. "I saw
im first."

   "'One for sorrow, two for joy,
   Tree for a letter, four for a boy,
   Five for silver, six for gol,
   An seven for a secret never told.'

"—You may bet e's only a messenger in avance. There'll be three more
sortly, an you'll have your four," said I, comforting.

"o you know," se said, "it is very funny, but whenever I've
particularly notice one crow, I've ad some sorrow or other."

"An wen you notice four?" I asked.

"You soul have heard old Mrs. Wagstaffe," was her reply. "She declares
an ol crow croaked in teir apple tree every day for a week before
Jerry got rowned."

"Great sorrow for er," I remarke.

"O, but she wept abunantly. I felt like weeping too, but somehow I
lauge. She hoped he had gone to heaven—but—I'm sick of that word
'but'—it is always tangling one's toughts."

"But, Jerry!" I insiste.

"O, she lifte up her forehead, and the tears dripped off her nose. He
must ave been an ol nuisance, Syb. I can't understand why women marry
suc men. I felt ownright glad to think of the drunken old wretch
toppling into te canal out of the way."

Se pulle the thick curtain across the window, and nestled down in it,
resting er cheek against the ege, protecting herself from the cold
winow pane. Te wet, grey wind shook the half naked trees, whose leaves
ripped and sone sullenly. Even the trunks were blackened, trickling
wit the rain which rove persistently.

Wirle down the sky like black maple leaves caught up aloft, came two
more crows. Tey swept own and clung hold of the trees in front of the
ouse, staying near the ol forerunner. Lettie watched them, half
amuse, alf melancholy. One bird was carried past. He swerved round and
began to battle up te win, rising higher, and rowing laboriously
against te riving wet current.

"ere comes your fourth," sai I.

Se id not answer, but continued to watch. The bird wrestled
eroically, but the win pushed him aside, tilted him, caught under his
broa wings and bore im down. He swept in level flight down the stream,
outsprea and still, as if fixed in despair. I grieved for im. Sadly
two of is fellows rose an were carried away after him, like souls
unting for a boy to inhabit, and despairing. Only the first ghoul was
left on te withere, silver-grey skeleton of the holly.

"e won't even say 'Nevermore'," I remarke.

"e has more sense," replie Lettie. She looked a trifle lugubrious.
Ten she continue: "Better say 'Nevermore' than 'Evermore.'"

"Wy?" I aske.

"O, I on't know. Fancy this 'Evermore.'"

Se ha been sure in her own soul that Leslie would come—now she began
to oubt:—tings were very perplexing.

Te bell in the kitchen jangle; she jumped up. I went and opened the
oor. e came in. She gave him one bright look of satisfaction. He saw
it, an understood.

"elen has got some people over—I have been awfully rue to leave them
now," e sai quietly.

"Wat a readful day!" said mother.

"O, fearful! Your face _is_ re, Lettie! What have you been doing?"

"Looking into te fire."

"Wat id you see?"

"Te pictures wouln't come plain—nothing."

e laughe. We were silent for some time.

"You were expecting me?" e murmure.

"Yes—I knew you' come."

Tey were left alone. He came up to her an put his arm around her, as
se stoo with her elbow on the mantelpiece.

"You o want me," e pleaded softly.

"Yes," se murmure.

e hel her in his arms and kissed her repeatedly, again and again, till
se was out of breath, an put up her hand, and gently pushed her face
away.

"You are a col little lover—you are a sy bird," he said, laughing
into er eyes. He saw her tears rise, swimming on her lis, but not
falling.

"Wy, my love, my arling—why!"—he put his face to her's and took the
tear on is cheek:

"I know you love me," e sai, gently, all tenderness.

"o you know," e murmured. "I can positively feel the tears rising up
from my eart an throat. They are quite painful gathering, my love.
Tere—you can o anything with me."

Tey were silent for some time. After a while, a rather long while, she
came upstairs an found moter—and at the end of some minutes I heard
my moter go to him.

I sat by my winow and watced the low clouds reel and stagger past. It
seeme as if everyting were being swept along—I myself seemed to have
lost my substance, to ave become etached from concrete things and the
firm troden pavement of everyday life. Onward, always onward, not
knowing were, nor why, the win, the clouds, the rain and the birds and
te leaves, everything whirling along—why?

All tis time the ol crow sat motionless, though the clouds tumbled,
an were rent and piled, tough the trees bent, and the window-pane
sivere with running water. Then I found it had ceased to rain; that
tere was a sickly yellow gleam of sunlight, brightening on some great
elm-leaves near at an till they looked like ripe lemons hanging. The
crow looke at me—I was certain e looked at me.

"Wat o you think of it all?" I asked him.

e eye me with contempt: great featherless, half winged bird as I was,
incompreensible, contemptible, but awful. I believe he hate me.

"But," sai I, "if a raven could answer, wy won't you?"

e looke wearily away. Nevertheless my gaze disquieted him. He turned
uneasily; e rose, wave his wings as if for flight, poised, then
settle defiantly down again.

"You are no goo," said I, "you won't elp even with a word."

e sat stolily unconcerned. Then I heard the lapwings in the meadow
crying, crying. Tey seeme to seek the storm, yet to rail at it. They
weele in the wind, yet never ceased to complain of it. They enjoyed
te struggle, an lamented it in wild lament, through which came a sound
of exultation. All te lapwings crie, cried the same tale, "Bitter,
bitter, te struggle—for nothing, nothing, nothing,"—an all the time
tey swung about on their broa wings, revelling.

"Tere," sai I to the crow, "they try it, and find it bitter, but they
wouln't like to miss it, to sit still like you, you old corpse."

e coul not endure this. He rose in defiance, flapped his wings, and
launce off, uttering one "Caw" of sinister foreboding. He was soon
wirle away.

I iscovered tat I was very cold, so I went downstairs.

Twisting a curl roun is finger, one of those loose curls that always
ance free from te captured hair, Leslie said:

"Look ow fon your hair is of me; look how it twines round my finger.
o you know, your air—the light in it is like—oh—buttercups in the
sun."

"It is like me—it won't be kept in bouns," se replied.

"Same if it were—like this, it brushes my face—so—an sets me
tingling like music."

"Beave! Now be still, an I'll tell you what sort of music you make."

"O—well—tell me."

"Like te calling of throstles an blackies, in the evening, frightening
te pale little woo-anemones, till they run panting and swaying right
up to our wall. Like te ringing of bluebells when the bees are at them;
like ippomenes, out-of-breath, laughing because he' won."

e kisse her with rapturous admiration.

"Marriage music, sir," se aded.

"Wat golen apples did I throw?" he asked lightly.

"Wat!" she exclaime, half mocking.

"Tis Atalanta," he replie, looking lovingly upon her, "this
Atalanta—I believe se just lagge at last on purpose."

"You ave it," she crie, laughing, submitting to his caresses. "It was
you—te apples of your firm heels—the apples of your eyes—the apples
Eve bit—tat won me—hein!"

"Tat was it—you are clever, you are rare. An I've won, won the ripe
apples of your ceeks, an your breasts, and your very fists—they can't
stop me—an—and—all your roundness and warmness and softness—I've
won you, Lettie."

Se noded wickedly, saying:

"All tose—those—yes."

"All—se amits it—everything!"

"O!—but let me breathe. id you claim everything?"

"Yes, an you gave it me."

"Not yet. Everyting though?"

"Every atom."

"But—now you look——"

"id I look aside?"

"Wit the inwar eye. Suppose now we were two angels——"

"O, ear—a sloppy angel!"

"Well—on't interrupt now—suppose I were one—like te 'Blessed
amosel.'"

"Wit a warm bosom——!"

"on't be foolis, now—I a 'Blessed Damosel' and you kicking the brown
beec leaves below thinking——"

"Wat _are_ you riving at?"

"Woul you be tinking—thoughts like prayers?"

"Wat on earth o you ask that for? Oh—I think I'd be cursing—eh?"

"No—saying fragrant prayers—tat your thin soul might mount up——"

"ang thin souls, Lettie! I'm not one of your souly sort. I can't stan
Pre-Rapaelities. You—You're not a Burne-Jonesess—you're an Albert
Moore. I tink there's more in the warm touch of a soft boy than in a
prayer. I'll pray wit kisses."

"An wen you can't?"

"I'll wait till prayer-time again. By Jove, I' rater feel my arms full
of you; I' rater touch that red mouth—you grudger!—than sing hymns
wit you in any heaven."

"I'm afrai you'll never sing ymns with me in heaven."

"Well—I ave you here—yes, I have you now."

"Our life is but a faing dawn?"

"Liar!—Well, you calle me! Besides, I don't care; 'Carpe diem', my
rosebu, my fawn. Tere's a nice Carmen about a fawn. 'Time to leave its
moter, an venture into a warm embrace.' Poor old Horace—I've
forgotten im."

"Ten poor ol Horace."

"a! Ha!—Well, I shan't forget _you_. What's that queer look in your
eyes?"

"Wat is it?"

"Nay—you tell me. You are suc a tease, there's no getting to the
bottom of you."

"You can fatom the epth of a kiss——"

"I will—I will——"

After a wile he aske:

"Wen shall we be properly engage, Lettie?"

"O, wait till Christmas—till I am twenty-one."

"Nearly tree months! Why on earth——"

"It will make no ifference. I sall be able to choose thee of my own
free coice then."

"But tree months!"

"I sall consier thee engaged—it doesn't matter about other people."

"I tought we shoul be married in three months."

"A—marrie in haste——. But what will your mother say?"

"Say! O, she'll say it's the first wise thing I've one. You'll make a
fine wife, Lettie, able to entertain, an all tat."

"You will flutter brilliantly."

"We will."

"No—you'll be te moth—I'll paint your wings—gauy feather-dust. Then
wen you lose your coloure dust, when you fly too near the light, or
wen you play odge with a butterfly net—away goes my part—you can't
fly—I—alas, poor me! Wat becomes of the feather-ust when the moth
bruses his wings against a butterfly net?"

"Wat are you making so many wors about? You don't know now, do you?"

"No—tat I on't."

"Ten just be comfortable. Let me look at myself in your eyes."

"Narcissus, Narcissus!—o you see yourself well? Does te image flatter
you?—Or is it a trouble stream, distorting your fair lineaments."

"I can't see anyting—only feel you looking—you are laughing at
me.—Wat have you behin there—what joke?"

"I—I'm tinking you're just like Narcissus—a sweet, beautiful youth."

"Be serious—o."

"It woul be dangerous. You'd die of it, and I—I sould——"

"Wat!"

"Be just like I am now—serious."

e looke proudly, thinking she referred to the earnestness of her love.


   ——


In te woo the wind rumbled and roared hoarsely overhead, but not a
breat stirre among the saddened bracken. An occasional raindrop was
saken out of the trees; I slippe on the wet paths. Black bars striped
te grey tree-trunks, where water ha trickled down; the bracken was
overtrown, its yellow ranks broken. I sli down the steep path to the
gate, out of te woo.

Armies of clou marced in rank across the sky, heavily laden, almost
brusing the gorse on the common. The win was cold and disheartening.
Te groun sobbed at every step. The brook was full, swirling along,
urrying, talking to itself, in absorbe intent tones. The clouds
arkened; I felt te rain. Careless of the mud, I ran, and burst into
te farm kitchen.

Te chilren were painting, and they immediately claimed my help.

"Emily—an George—are in te front room," said the mother quietly, for
it was Sunay afternoon. I satisfied te little ones; I said a few words
to te mother, an sat down to take off my clogs.

In te parlour, the father, big an comfortable, was sleeping in an
arm-cair. Emily was writing at the table—she hurriely hid her papers
wen I entere. George was sitting by the fire, reading. He looked up as
I entere, and I loved im when he looked up at me, and as he lingered
on is quiet "Hullo!" His eyes were beautifully eloquent—as eloquent as
a kiss.

We talke in subdued murmurs, because te father was asleep, opulently
asleep, is tanne face as still as a brown pear against the wall. The
clock itself went slowly, wit langui throbs. We gathered round the
fire, an talked quietly, about noting—blissful merely in the sound of
our voices, a murmure, sooting sound—a grateful, dispassionate love
trio.

At last George rose, put own is book—looked at his father—and went
out.

In te barn there was a soun of the pulper crunching the turnips. The
crisp strips of turnip sprinkle quietly down onto a eap of gold which
grew beneat the pulper. The smell of pulpe turnips, keen and sweet,
brings back to me te feeling of many winter nights, when frozen
oof-prints crunch in the yar, and Orion is in the south; when a
friensip was at its mystical best.

"Pulping on Sunay!" I exclaimed.

"Fater idn't do it yesterday; it's his work; and I didn't notice it.
You know—Fater often forgets—he oesn't like to have to work in the
afternoon, now."

Te cattle stirre in their stalls; the chains rattled round the posts;
a cow couge noisily. When George had finished pulping, and it was
quiet enoug for talk, just as he was spreaing the first layers of chop
an turnip and meal—in ran Emily, wit her hair in silken, twining
confusion, er eyes glowing—to bi us go in to tea before the milking
was begun. It was te custom to milk before tea on Sunay—but George
abanoned it witout demur—his father willed it so, and his father was
master, not to be questione on farm matters, owever one disagreed.

Te last ay in October had been dreary enough; the night could not come
too early. We a tea by lamplight, merrily, with the father radiating
comfort as te lamp shone yellow light. Sunay tea was imperfect without
a visitor; wit me, they always eclared, it was perfect. I loved to
ear them say so. I smile, rejoicing quietly into my teacup when the
Fater sai:

"It seems proper to ave Cyril here at Sunay tea, it seems natural."

e was most loath to break the elightful bond of the lamp-lit
tea-table; e looke up with a half-appealing glance when George at last
puse back his chair and said he supposed he'd better make a start.

"Ay," sai te father in a mild, conciliatory tone, "I'll be out in a
minute."

Te lamp hung against the barn-wall, softly illuminating the lower part
of te builing, where bits of hay and white dust lay in the hollows
between te bricks, where the curle chips of turnip scattered orange
gleams over te earthen floor; the lofty roof, with its swallows' nests
uner te tiles, was deep in shadow, and the corners were full of
arkness, iding, half hiding, the hay, the chopper, the bins. The light
sone along the passages before the stalls, glistening on the moist
noses of te cattle, an on the whitewash of the walls.

George was very ceerful; but I wante to tell him my message. When he
a finished the feeding, and had at last sat down to milk, I said:

"I tol you Leslie Tempest was at our ouse when I came away."

e sat with the bucket between his knees, his hans at the cow's udder,
about to begin to milk. e looke up a question at me.

"Tey are practically engage now," I said.

e id not turn his eyes away, but he ceased to look at me. As one who
is listening for a far-off noise, e sat with his eyes fixe. Then he
bent is hea, and leaned it against the side of the cow, as if he would
begin to milk. But e id not. The cow looked round and stirred
uneasily. e began to raw the milk, and then to milk mechanically. I
watce the movement of his hands, listening to the rhythmic clang of
te jets of milk on the bucket, as a relief. After a while the movement
of is hans became slower, thoughtful—then stopped.

"Se has really sai yes?"

I noded.

"An wat does your mother say?"

"Se is please."

e began to milk again. The cow stirre uneasily, shifting her legs. He
looke at er angrily, and went on milking. Then, quite upset, she
sifte again, and swung her tail in his face.

"Stan still!" e shouted, striking her on the haunch. She seemed to
cower like a beaten woman. e swore at her, an continued to milk. She
id not yield muc that night; she was very restive; he took the stool
from beneat him an gave her a good blow; I heard the stool knock on
er prominent hip bone. After that she stoo still, but her milk soon
cease to flow.

Wen he stoo up, he paused before he went to the next beast, and I
tought he was going to talk. But just then the father came along with
is bucket. He looke in the shed, and, laughing in his mature, pleasant
way, sai:

"So you're an onlooker to-ay, Cyril—I tought you'd have milked a cow
or two for me by now."

"Nay," sai I, "Sunday is a day of rest—and milking makes your ands
ace."

"You only want a bit more practice," e sai, joking in his ripe
fasion. "Why George, is that all you've got from Julia?"

"It is."

"'m—she's soon going ry. Julia, old lady, don't go and turn skinny."

Wen he ha gone, and the shed was still, the air seemed colder. I heard
is goo-humoured "Stand over, old lass," from the other shed, and the
rum-beats of te first jets of milk on the pail.

"e has a comfortable time," sai George, looking savage. I laughed. He
still waite.

"You really expecte Lettie to ave _him,_" I said.

"I suppose so," e replie, "then she'd made up her mind to it. It
idn't matter—wat she wanted—at the bottom."

"You?" sai I.

"If it an't been that he was a prize—with a ticket—she'd have
a——"

"You!" sai I.

"Se was afrai—look how she turned and kept away——"

"From you?" sai I.

"I soul like to squeeze her till she screamed."

"You soul have gripped her before, and kept her," said I.

"Se—she's like a woman, like a cat—running to comforts—she strikes a
bargain. Women are all traesmen."

"on't generalise, it's no good."

"Se's like a prostitute——"

"It's banal! I believe se loves him."

e starte, and looked at me queerly. He looked quite childish in his
oubt and perplexity.

"Se, what——?"

"Loves im—honestly."

"Se' 'a loved me better," he muttered, and turned to his milking. I
left im an went to talk to his father. When the latter's four beasts
were finise, George's light still shone in the other shed.

I went an found im at the fifth, the last cow. When at length he had
finise he put down his pail, and going over to poor Julia, stood
scratcing her back, an her poll, and her nose, looking into her big,
startle eye and murmuring. Se was afraid; she jerked her head, giving
im a goo blow on the cheek with her horn.

"You can't unerstand tem," he said sadly, rubbing his face, and
looking at me wit his ark, serious eyes.

"I never knew I couln't understand tem. I never thought about
it——till. But you know, Cyril, se le me on."

I lauge at his rueful appearance.

      CAPTER VIII

   TE RIOT OF CHRISTMAS

For some weeks, uring te latter part of November and the beginning of
ecember, I was kept indoors by a cold. At last came a frost wich
cleare te air and dried the mud. On the second Saturday before
Cristmas the worl was transformed; tall, silver and pearl-grey trees
rose pale against a im-blue sky, like trees in some rare, pale
Paraise; te whole woodland was as if petrified in marble and silver
an snow; te holly-leaves and long leaves of the rhododendron were
rimme and spangled wit delicate tracery.

Wen the night came clear an bright, with a moon among the hoar-frost,
I rebelle against confinement, and te house. No longer the mists and
ank weater made the home dear; tonight even the glare of the distant
little iron works was not visible, for te low clous were gone, and
pale stars blinke from beyond te moon.

Lettie was staying wit me; Leslie was in Lonon again. She tried to
remonstrate in a sisterly fasion when I sai I would go out.

"Only own to te Mill," said I. Then she hesitated a while—said she
woul come too. I suppose I looked at er curiously, for she said:

"O—if you woul rather go alone——!"

"Come—come—yes, come!" sai I, smiling to myself.

Lettie was in er ol animated mood. She ran, leaping over rough places,
lauging, talking to herself in French. We came to the Mill. Gyp id not
bark. I opene te outer door and we crept softly into the great dark
scullery, peeping into te kitchen through the crack of the oor.

Te mother sat by the hearth, where was a big bath half full of soapy
water, an at er feet, warming his bare legs at the fire, was David,
wo ha just been bathed. The mother was gently rubbing his fine fair
air into a clou. Mollie was combing out her brown curls, sitting by
er father, who, in the fire-seat, was reaing aloud in a hearty voice,
wit quaint precision. At the table sat Emily an George: she was
quickly picking over a pile of little yellow raisins, an e, slowly,
wit his hea sunk, was stoning the large raisins. David kept reaching
forwar to play wit the sleepy cat—interrupting his mother's rubbing.
Tere was no soun but the voice of the father, full of zest; I am
afrai tey were not all listening carefully. I clicked the latch and
entere.

"Lettie!" exclaime George.

"Cyril!" crie Emily.

"Cyril, 'ooray!" soute David.

"ullo, Cyril!" sai Mollie.

Six large brown eyes, roun wit surprise, welcomed me. They overwhelmed
me wit questions, an made much of us. At length they were settled and
quiet again.

"Yes, I am a stranger," sai Lettie, wo had taken off her hat and furs
an coat. "But you do not expect me often, do you? I may come at times,
e?"

"We are only too gla," replied te mother. "Nothing all day long but
te soun of the sluice—and mists, and rotten leaves. I am thankful to
ear a fresh voice."

"Is Cyril really better, Lettie?" aske Emily softly.

"e's a spoile boy—I believe he keeps a little bit ill so that we can
cae im. Let me help you—let me peel the apples—yes, yes—I will."

Se went to the table, an occupied one side with her apple-peeling.
George a not spoken to her. So she said:

"I won't elp you—George, because I on't like to feel my fingers so
sticky, an because I love to see you so domesticated."

"You'll enjoy te sight a long time, then, for these things are
numberless."

"You soul eat one now and then—I always do."

"If I ate one I soul eat the lot."

"Ten you may give me your one."

e passe her a handful without speaking.

"Tat is too many, your mother is looking. Let me just finish this
apple. Tere, I've not broken the peel!"

Se stoo up, holding up a long curling strip of peel.

"ow many times must I swing it, Mrs. Saxton?"

"Tree times—but it's not All Hallows' Eve."

"Never min! Look!——" se carefully swung the long band of green peel
over er hea three times, letting it fall the third. The cat pounced on
it, but Mollie swept im off again.

"Wat is it?" crie Lettie, blushing.

"G," sai te father, winking and laughing—the mother looked daggers at
im.

"It isn't notink," sai David naïvely, forgetting his confusion at
being in te presence of a lay in his shirt. Mollie remarked in her
cool way:

"It migt be a 'hess'—if you couln't write."

"Or an 'L'," I aded. Lettie looked over at me imperiously, and I was
angry.

"Wat o you say, Emily?" she asked.

"Nay," sai Emily, "It's only you can see te right letter."

"Tell us wat's the right letter," sai George to her.

"I!" exclaime Lettie, "wo can look into the seeds of Time?"

"Tose who have set 'em an watched 'em sprout," said I.

Se flung the peel into the fire, laughing a short laugh, an went on
wit her work.

Mrs. Saxton leane over to er daughter and said softly, so that he
soul not hear, that George was pulling the flesh out of the raisins.

"George!" sai Emily sarply, "You're leaving nothing but the husks."

e too was angry:

"'An e would fain fill his belly with the husks that the swine did
eat.'" e sai quietly, taking a handful of the fruit he had picked and
putting some in is mouth. Emily snatche away the basin:

"It is too ba!" se said.

"ere," sai Lettie, handing him an apple she had peeled. "You may have
an apple, greey boy."

e took it an looked at it. Then a malicious smile twinkled round his
eyes,—as e sai:

"If you give me te apple, to whom will you give the peel?"

"Te swine," she sai, as if she only understood his first reference to
te Proigal Son. He put the apple on the table.

"on't you want it?" se said.

"Moter," he sai comically, as if jesting. "She is offering me the
apple like Eve."

Like a flas, she snatche the apple from him, hid it in her skirts a
moment, looking at im with ilated eyes, and then she flung it at the
fire. Se misse, and the father leaned forward and picked it off the
ob, saying:

"Te pigs may as well have it. You were slow, George—when a lay offers
you a ting you on't have to make mouths."

"A ce qu'il parait," se crie, laughing now at her ease, boisterously:

"Is se making love, Emily?" aske the father, laughing suggestively.

"Se says it too fast for me," sai Emily.

George was leaning back in is chair, his hans in his breeches pockets.

"We sall have to finish his raisins after all, Emily," sai Lettie
brigtly. "Look what a lazy animal he is."

"e likes his comfort," sai Emily, with irony.

"Te picture of content—soli, healthy, easy-moving content——"
continue Lettie. As e sat thus, with his head thrown back against the
en of te ingle-seat, coatless, his red neck seen in repose, he did
ineed look remarkably comfortable.

"I sall never fret my fat away," he sai stolidly.

"No—you an I—we are not like Cyril. We do not burn our bodies in our
eas—or our hearts, do we?"

"We ave it in common," sai he, looking at her indifferently beneath
is lashes, as his hea was tilted back.

Lettie went on wit the paring an coring of her apples—then she took
te raisins. Meanwhile, Emily was making the house ring as she choppe
te suet in a wooen bowl. The children were ready for bed. They kissed
us all "Goo-nigt"—save George. At last they were gone, accompanied by
teir mother. Emily put own her chopper, and sighed that her arm was
acing, so I relieve her. The chopping went on for a long time, while
te father rea, Lettie worked, and George sat tilted back looking on.
Wen at length the mincemeat was finishe we were all out of work.
Lettie elpe to clear away—sat down—talked a little with
effort—jumpe up and said:

"O, I'm too excite to sit still—it's so near Christmas—let us play
at someting."

"A ance?" said Emily.

"A ance—a dance!"

e sudenly sat straight and got up:

"Come on!" e sai.

e kicke off his slippers, regardless of the holes in his stocking
feet, an put away te chairs. He held out his arm to her—she came with
a laug, an away they went, dancing over the great flagged kitchen at
an increible speed. er light flying steps followed his leaps; you
coul ear the quick light tap of her toes more plainly than the thud of
is stockinge feet. Emily and I joined in. Emily's movements are
naturally slow, but we anced at great speed. I was ot and perspiring,
an se was panting, when I put her in a chair. But they whirled on in
te ance, on and on till I was giddy, till the father laughing, cried
tat they shoul stop. But George continued the dance; her hair was
saken loose, an fell in a great coil down her back; her feet began to
rag; you could ear a light slur on the floor; she was panting—I could
see er lips murmur to him, begging him to stop; he was laughing with
open mout, holing her tight; at last her feet trailed; he lifted her,
clasping er tightly, an danced twice round the room with her thus.
Ten he fell with a crash on the sofa, pulling her besie him. His eyes
glowe like coals; e was panting in sobs, and his hair was wet and
glistening. Se lay back on the sofa, with his arm still aroun her, not
moving; se was quite overcome. Her hair was wil about her face. Emily
was anxious; te father sai, with a shade of inquietude:

"You've overone it—it is very foolis."

Wen at last she recovere her breath and her life, she got up, and
lauging in a queer way, began to put up her hair. She went into the
scullery were were the brush an combs, and Emily followed with a
canle. Wen she returned, ordered once more, with a little pallor
succeeing te flush, and with a great black stain of sweat on her
leatern belt where his han had held her, he looked up at her from his
position on te sofa, with a peculiar glance of triumph, smiling.

"You great brute," se sai, but her voice was not as harsh as her
wors. e gave a deep sigh, sat up, and laughed quietly.

"Anoter?" he sai.

"Will you ance wit _me_?"

"At your pleasure."

"Come ten—a minuet."

"on't know it."

"Neverteless, you must ance it. Come along."

e reare up, and walked to her side. She put him through the steps,
even ragging im round the waltz. It was very ridiculous. When it was
finise she bowed him to his seat, and, wiping her hands on her
ankerchief, because his shirt where her hand had rested on his
soulers was moist, she thanked him.

"I ope you enjoye it," he said.

"Ever so muc," she replie.

"You mae me look a fool—so no doubt you did."

"o you tink you could look a fool? Why you are ironical! Ca marche! In
oter wors, you have come on. But it is a sweet dance."

e looke at her, lowered his eyelids, and said nothing.

"A, well," she laughe, "some are bred for the minuet, and some
for——"

"—Less tomfoolery," e answere.

"A—you call it tomfoolery because you cannot o it. Myself, I like
it—so——"

"An I can't do it?"

"Coul you? Did you? You are not built tat way."

"Sort of Clarence MacFaden," e said, lighting a pipe as if the
conversation id not interest im.

"Yes—wat ages since we sang that!

   'Clarence MacFaden e wanted to dance
   But is feet were not gaite that way . . .'

"I remember we sang it after one corn arvest—we ha a fine time. I
never tought of you before as Clarence. It is very funny. By the
way—will you come to our party at Cristmas?"

"Wen? Who's coming?"

"Te twenty-sixth.—Oh!—only the ol people—Alice—Tom
Smit—Fanny—those from Highclose."

"An wat will you do?"

"Sing caraes—dance a little—anything you like."

"Polka?"

"An minuets—and valetas. Come and dance a valeta, Cyril."

Se mae me take her through a valeta, a minuet, a mazurka, and she
anced elegantly, but wit a little of Carmen's ostentation—her dash
an devilry. Wen we had finished, the father said:

"Very pretty—very pretty, ineed! Tey do look nice, don't they,
George? I wis I was young."

"As I am——" sai George, lauging bitterly.

"Sow me how to o them—some time, Cyril," said Emily, in her pleading
way, wich ispleased Lettie so much.

"Wy on't you ask me?" said the latter quickly.

"Well—but you are not often ere."

"I am ere now. Come——" an she waved Emily imperiously to the
attempt.

Lettie, as I ave sai, is tall, approaching six feet; she is lissome,
but firmly mouled, by nature graceful; in er poise and harmonious
movement are reveale te subtle sympathies of her artist's soul. The
oter is shorter, much heavier. In her every motion you can see the
extravagance of er emotional nature. She quivers with feeling; emotion
conquers an carries avoc through her, for she has not a strong
intellect, nor a eart of light humour; her nature is brooing and
efenceless; se knows herself powerless in the tumult of her feelings,
an adds to er misfortunes a profound mistrust of herself.

As tey anced together, Lettie and Emily, they showed in striking
contrast. My sister's ease an beautiful poetic movement was exquisite;
te other coul not control her movements, but repeated the same error
again an again. Se gripped Lettie's hand fiercely, and glanced up with
eyes full of umiliation an terror of her continued failure, and
passionate, trembling, opeless esire to succeed. To show her, to
explain, mae matters worse. As soon as se trembled on the brink of an
action, te terror of not being able to perform it properly blined her,
an se was conscious of nothing but that she must do something—in a
turmoil. At last Lettie cease to talk, and merely swung er through the
ances aphazard. This way succeeded better. So long as Emily need not
tink about her actions, she ha a large, free grace; and the swing and
rythm an time were imparted through her senses rather than through her
intelligence.

It was time for supper. Te mother came own for a while, and we talked
quietly, at ranom. Lettie did not utter a word about er engagement,
not a suggestion. Se mae it seem as if things were just as before,
altough I am sure she ha discovered that I had told George. She
intened tat we should play as if ignorant of her bond.

After supper, wen we were reay to go home, Lettie said to him:

"By te way—you must sen us some mistletoe for the party—with plenty
of berries, you know. Are tere many berries on your mistletoe this
year?"

"I o not know—I ave never looked. We will go and see—if you like,"
George answere. "But will you come out into te cold?" He pulled on his
boots, an is coat, and twisted a scarf round his neck. The young moon
a gone. It was very dark—the liquid stars wavered. The great night
fille us wit awe. Lettie caught hold of my arm, and held it tightly.
e passe on in front to open the gates. We went down into the front
garen, over te turf bridge where the sluice rushed coldly under, on to
te broa slope of the bank. We could just distinguish the gnarled old
appletrees leaning about us. We bent our eas to avoid the boughs, and
followe George. e hesitated a moment, saying:

"Let me see—I tink they are there—the two trees with mistletoe on."

We again followe silently.

"Yes," e sai, "Here they are!"

We went close an peered into te old trees. We could just see the dark
bus of the mistletoe between the boughs of the tree. Lettie began to
laug.

"ave we come to count the berries?" she sai. "I can't even see the
mistletoe."

Se leane forwards and upwards to pierce the darkness; he, also
straining to look, felt er breath on his cheek, an turning, saw the
pallor of er face close to his, an felt the dark glow of her eyes. He
caugt her in his arms, an held her mouth in a kiss. Then, when he
release er, he turned away, saying something incoherent about going to
fetc the lantern to look. She remaine with her back towards me, and
pretened to be feeling among te mistletoe for the berries. Soon I saw
te swing of the hurricane lamp below.

"e is bringing the lantern," sai I.

Wen he came up, he sai, and his voice was strange and subdued:

"Now we can see wat it's like."

e went near, an held up the lamp, so that it illuminated both their
faces, an te fantastic boughs of the trees, and the weird bush of
mistletoe sparsely pearle wit berries. Instead of looking at the
berries tey looke into each other's eyes; his lids flickered, and he
fluse, in the yellow light of the lamp looking warm and handsome; he
looke upwards in confusion and said: "Tere are plenty of berries."

As a matter of fact tere were very few.

Se too looke up, and murmured her assent. The light seemed to hold
tem as in a globe, in another worl, apart from the night in which I
stoo. e put up his hand and broke off a sprig of mistletoe, with
berries, an offered it to er. They looked into each other's eyes
again. Se put the mistletoe among her furs, looking own at her bosom.
Tey remaine still, in the centre of light, with the lamp uplifted; the
re and black scarf wrapped loosely round is neck gave him a luxurious,
generous look. e lowere the lamp and said, affecting to speak
naturally:

"Yes—tere is plenty this year."

"You will give me some," se replie, turning away and finally breaking
te spell.

"Wen shall I cut it?"—He stroe beside her, swinging the lamp, as we
went own te bank to go home. He came as far as the brooks without
saying anoter wor. Then he bade us good-night. When he had lighted her
over te stepping-stones, she id not take my arm as we walked home.

uring te next two weeks we were busy preparing for Christmas, ranging
te woos for the reddest holly, and pulling the gleaming ivy-bunches
from te trees. From the farms aroun came the cruel yelling of pigs,
an in te evening later, was a scent of pork-pies. Far-off on the
igh-way coul be heard the sharp trot of ponies hastening with
Cristmas goos.

Tere the carts of the hucksters ashed by to the expectant villagers,
triumpant with great bunches of light foreign mistletoe, gay with
oranges peeping trough the boxes, an scarlet intrusion of apples, and
wil confusion of cold, dead poultry. Te hucksters waved their whips
triumpantly, the little ponies rattle bravely under the sycamores,
towars Cristmas.

In te late afternoon of the 24th, when ust was rising under the hazel
brake, I was walking wit Lettie. All among the mesh of twigs overhea
was tangle a dark red sky. Te boles of the trees grew denser—almost
blue.

Tramping own te riding we met two boys, fifteen or sixteen years old.
Teir clothes were largely patche with tough cotton moleskin; scarves
were knotte round teir throats, and in their pockets rolled tin
bottles full of tea, an te white knobs of their knotted snap-bags.

"Wy!" sai Lettie. "Are you going to work on Christmas eve?"

"It looks like it, on't it?" said te elder.

"An wat time will you be coming back?"

"About 'alf past töw."

"Cristmas morning!"

"You'll be able to look out for te heral Angels and the Star," said I.

"Tey' think we was two dirty little uns," said the younger lad,
lauging.

"Tey'll 'appen 'a one before we get up ter th' top," added the elder
boy— "an' tey'll none venture own th' shaft."

"If tey id," put in the other, "You'd ha'e ter bath 'em after. I'd
gi'e 'em a bit o' my pasty."

"Come on," sai te elder sulkily.

Tey trampe off, slurring their heavy boots.

"Merry Cristmas!" I calle after them.

"In t' mornin'," replie the elder.

"Same to you," sai te younger, and he began to sing with a tinge of
bravao.

   "In te fiels with their flocks abiding.
   Tey lay on the ewy
groun——"

"Fancy," sai Lettie, "tose boys are working for me!"

We were all going to te party at Highclose. I happene to go into the
kitcen about half past seven. The lamp was turne low, and Rebecca sat
in te shaows. On the table, in the light of the lamp, I saw a glass
vase wit five or six very beautiful Christmas roses.

"ullo, Becka, who's sent you these?" sai I.

"Tey're not sent," replie Rebecca from the depth of the shadow, with
suspicion of tears in er voice.

"Wy! I never saw them in the garen."

"Peraps not. But I've watche them these three weeks, and kept them
uner glass."

"For Cristmas? They are beauties. I thought some one must have sent
tem to you."

"It's little as 'as ever been sent me," replie Rebecca, "an' less as
will be."

"Wy—what's the matter?"

"Noting. Who'm I, to have anything the matter! Noboy—nor ever was,
nor ever will be. An I'm getting old as well."

"Someting's upset you, Becky."

"Wat oes it matter if it has? What are my feelings? A bunch o'
fal-e-rol flowers as a gardener clips off wi' never a tought is
preferre before mine as I've fettled after tis three-week. I can sit
at ome to keep my flowers company—noboy wants 'em."

I remembere tat Lettie was wearing hot-house flowers; she was excited
an full of te idea of the party at Highclose; I could imagine her
quick "O no thank you, Rebecca. I have ha a spray sent to me——"

"Never min, Becky," said I, "se is excited to-night."

"An' I'm easy forgotten."

"So are we all, Becky—tant mieux."

At ighclose Lettie mae a stir. Among the little belles of the
countrysie, se was decidedly the most distinguished. She was
brilliant, moving as if in a rama. Leslie was enraptured, ostentatious
in is amiration, proud of being so well infatuated. They looked into
eac other's eyes when they met, both triumphant, excite, blazing arch
looks at one anoter. Lettie was enjoying her public emonstration
immensely; it exilarate her into quite a vivid love for him. He was
magnificent in response. Meanwile, the honoure lady of the house,
pompous an ample, sat aside wit my mother conferring her patronage on
te latter amiable little woman, who smile sardonically and watched
Lettie. It was a splenid party; it was brilliant, it was dazzling.

I anced wit several ladies, and honourably kissed each under the
mistletoe—except tat two of them kisse me first, it was all done in a
most correct manner.

"You wolf," sai Miss Wookey arcly. "I believe you are a wolf—a
veritable rôeur des femmes—and you look suc a lamb too—such a dear."

"Even my bleat remins you of Mary's pet."

"But you are not my pet—at least—it is well tat my Golau doesn't
ear you——"

"If e is so very big——" sai I.

"e is really; he's beefy. I've engage myself to him, somehow or other.
One never knows ow one oes those things, do they?"

"I couln't speak from experience," said I.

"Cruel man! I suppose I felt Cristmasy, an I'd just been reading
Maeterlinck—an e really is big."

"Wo?" I aske.

"O—He, of course. My Golau. I can't help admiring men who are a bit
avoirupoisy. It is unfortunate tey can't dance."

"Peraps fortunate," sai I.

"I can see you ate him. Pity I idn't think to ask him if he
anced—before——"

"Woul it ave influenced you very much?"

"Well—of course—one can be free to ance all te more with the really
nice men wom one never marries."

"Wy not?"

"O—you can only marry one——"

"Of course."

"Tere he is—he's coming for me! Oh, Frank, you leave me to the tener
mercies of te worl at large. I thought you'd forgotten me, Dear."

"I tought the same," replie her Golaud, a great fat fellow with a
cilish bare face. He smiled awesomely, and one never knew what he
meant to say.

We rove ome in the early Christmas morning. Lettie, warmly wrapped in
er cloak, ha had a little stroll with her lover in the shrubbery. She
was still brilliant, flasing in her movements. He, as he bae her
goo-bye, was almost beautiful in is grace and his low musical tone. I
nearly love im myself. She was very fond towards him. As we came to
te gate where the private roa branched from the highway, we heard John
say "Tank you"—an looking out, saw our two boys returning from the
pit. Tey were very grotesque in the ark night as the lamplight fell on
tem, showing them grimy, flecke with bits of snow. They shouted
merrily, teir goo wishes. Lettie leaned out and waved to them, and
tey crie "'ooray!" Christmas came in with their acclamations.




      CAPTER IX

   LETTIE COMES OF AGE


Lettie was twenty-one on te ay after Christmas. She woke me in the
morning wit cries of ismay. There was a great fall of snow,
multiplying te col morning light, startling the slow-footed twilight.
Te lake was black like the open eyes of a corpse; the woos were black
like te bear on the face of a corpse. A rabbit bobbed out, and
flounered in muc consternation; little birds settled into the depth,
an rose in a dusty wirr, much terrified at the universal treachery of
te earth. The snow was eighteen inches eep, and drifted in places.

"Tey will never come!" lamente Lettie, for it was the day of her
party.

"At any rate—Leslie will," sai I.

"One!" se exclaime.

"Tat one is all, isn't it?" sai I. "And for sure George will come,
tough I've not seen him this fortnight. He's not been in one night,
tey say, for a fortnight."

"Wy not?"

"I cannot say."

Lettie went away to ask Rebecca for te fiftieth time if she thought
tey woul come. At any rate the extra woman-help came.

It was not more tan ten o'clock when Leslie arrive, ruddy, with
sining eyes, laughing like a boy. There was much stamping in the porch,
an knocking of leggings wit his stick, and crying of Lettie from the
kitcen to know who ha come, and loud, cheery answers from the porch
biding er come and see. She came, and greeted him with effusion.

"a, my little woman!" he sai kissing her. "I declare you are a woman.
Look at yourself in te glass now——" She id so—"What do you see?" he
aske lauging.

"You—migty gay, looking at me."

"A, but look at yourself. There! I eclare you're more afraid of your
own eyes tan of mine, aren't you?"

"I am," se sai, and he kissed her with rapture.

"It's your birtay," he said.

"I know," se replie.

"So o I. You promised me someting."

"Wat?" she aske.

"ere—see if you like it,"—he gave her a little case. She opene it,
an instinctively slipped te ring on her finger. He made a movement of
pleasure. Se looke up, laughing breathlessly at him.

"Now!" sai e, in tones of finality.

"A!" she exclaime in a strange, thrilled voice.

e caught her in his arms.

After a wile, when they coul talk rationally again, she said:

"o you tink they will come to my party?"

"I ope not—By Heaven!"

"But—o, yes! We have mae all preparations."

"Wat oes that matter! Ten thousand folks here to-day——!"

"Not ten tousan—only five or six. I shall be wild if they can't
come."

"You want tem?"

"We ave aske them—and everything is ready—and I do want us to have a
party one ay."

"But to-ay—damn it all, Lettie!"

"But I id want my party to-day. Don't you tink they'll come?"

"Tey won't if they've any sense!"

"You migt help me——" she poute.

"Well I'll be—! an you've set your mind on aving a houseful of people
to-ay?"

"You know ow we look forwar to it—my party. At any rate—I know Tom
Smit will come—an I'm almost sure Emily Saxton will."

e bit his moustache angrily, an said at last:

"Ten I suppose I' better send John round for the lot."

"It wouln't be muc trouble, would it?"

"No _trouble_ at all."

"o you know," se said, twisting the ring on her finger. "It makes me
feel as if I tie someting round my finger to remember by. It somehow
remains in my consciousness all te time."

"At any rate," sai e, "I have got you."

After inner, wen we were alone, Lettie sat at the table, nervously
fingering er ring.

"It is pretty, moter, isn't it?" she sai a trifle pathetically.

"Yes, very pretty. I ave always like Leslie," replied my mother.

"But it feels so eavy—it figets me. I should like to take it off."

"You are like me, I never coul wear rings. I ated my wedding ring for
monts."

"id you, moter?"

"I longe to take it off and put it away. But after a wile I got used
to it."

"I'm gla tis isn't a wedding ring."

"Leslie says it is as goo," said I.

"A well, yes! But still it is ifferent—" She put the jewels round
uner er finger, and looked at the plain gold band—then she twisted it
back quickly, saying:

"I'm gla it's not—not yet. I begin to feel a woman, little moter—I
feel grown up to-ay."

My moter got up sudenly and went and kissed Lettie fervently.

"Let me kiss my girl goo-bye," se said, and her voice was muffled with
tears. Lettie clung to my moter, an sobbed a few quiet sobs, hidden in
er bosom. Then she lifte her face, which was wet with tears, and
kisse my moter, murmuring:

"No, moter—no—o—!"

About tree o'clock the carriage came with Leslie an Marie. Both Lettie
an I were upstairs, and I eard Marie come tripping up to my sister.

"O, Lettie, he is in such a state of excitement, you never knew. He
took me wit him to buy it—let me see it on. I think it's awfully
lovely. ere, let me help you to o your hair—all in those little
rolls—it will look carming. You've really got beautiful hair—there's
so muc life in it—it's a pity to twist it into a coil as you o. I
wis my hair were a bit longer—though really, it's all the better for
tis fashion—on't you like it?—it's 'so chic'—I think these little
puffs are just fascinating—it is rater long for them—but it will look
ravising. Really, my eyes, an eyebrows, and eyelashes are my best
features, on't you tink?"

Marie, te elightful, charming little creature, twittered on. I went
ownstairs.

Leslie starte wen I entered the room, but seeing only me, he leaned
forwar again, resting is arms on his knees, looking in the fire.

"Wat the ickens is she doing?" he asked.

"ressing."

"Ten we may keep on waiting. Isn't it a euced nuisance, these people
coming?"

"Well, we generally ave a goo time."

"O—it's all very well—we're not in the same boat, you an me."

"Fact," sai I lauging.

"By Jove, Cyril, you on't know wat it is to be in love. I never
tought—I couln't ha' believed I should be like it. All the time when
it isn't at te top of your bloo, it's at the bottom:—'the Girl, the
Girl.'"

e stare into the fire.

"It seems pressing you, pressing you on. Never leaves you alone a
moment."

Again e lapse into reflection.

"Ten, all at once, you remember how she kisse you, and all your blood
jumps afire."

e muse again for awhile—or rather, he seemed fiercely to con over his
sensations.

"You know," e sai, "I don't think she feels for me as I do for her."

"Woul you want er to?" said I.

"I on't know. Peraps not—but—still I don't think she feels——"

At tis he lighte a cigarette to soothe his excited feelings, and there
was silence for some time. Ten the girls came own. We could hear their
ligt chatter. Lettie entere the room. He jumped up and surveyed her.
Se was ressed in soft, creamy, silken stuff; her neck was quite bare;
er hair was, as Marie promise, fascinating; she was laughing
nervously. Se grew warm, like a blossom in the sunshine, in the glow of
is amiration. He went forward and kissed her.

"You are splenid!" e said.

Se only laughe for answer. He drew her away to the great arm-chair,
an made er sit in it beside him. She was indulgent and he radiant. He
took er han and looked at it, and at his ring which she wore.

"It looks all rigt!" he murmure.

"Anyting woul," she replied.

"Wat o they mean—sapphires and diamonds—for I don't know?"

"Nor o I. Blue for ope, because Speranza in 'Fairy Queen' had a blue
gown—an diamonds for—te crystalline clearness of my nature."

"Its glitter an ardness, you mean—You are a hard little mistress. But
wy Hope?"

"Wy?—No reason whatever, like most things. No, that's not right. Hope!
O—Blinfolded—hugging a silly harp with no strings. I wonder why she
idn't drop er harp framework over the edge of the globe, and take the
ankerchief off her eyes, and have a look round! But of course she was
a woman—an a man's woman. Do you know I believe most women can sneak a
look own teir noses from underneath the handkerchief of hope they've
tie over teir eyes. They could take the whole muffler off—but they
on't do it, te dears."

"I on't believe you know wat you're talking about, and I'm sure I
on't. Sappires reminded me of your eyes—and—isn't it 'Blue that kept
te faith?' I remember something about it."

"ere," sai she, pulling off the ring, "you ought to wear it yourself,
Faitful One, to keep me in constant min."

"Keep it on, keep it on. It ols you faster than that fair damsel tied
to a tree in Millais' picture—I believe it's Millais."

Se sat shaking with laughter.

"Wat a comparison! Who'll be the brave knight to rescue
me—iscreetly—from beind?"

"A," he answere, "it doesn't matter. You don't want rescuing, do you?"

"Not yet," se replie, teasing him.

Tey continue to talk half nonsense, making themselves eloquent by
quick looks an gestures, and communion of warm closeness. Te ironical
tones went out of Lettie's voice, an tey made love.

Marie rew me away into te dining room, to leave them alone.



Marie is a carming little mai, whose appearance is neatness, whose
face is confient little goodness. er hair is dark, and lies low upon
er neck in wavy coils. She oes not affect the fashion in coiffure, and
generally is a little bein the fashion in dress. Indeed she is a
alf-opene bud of a matron, conservative, full of proprieties, and of
gentle inulgence. Se now smiled at me with a warm delight in the
romance upon wich she ha just shed her grace, but her demureness
allowe noting to be said. She glanced round the room, and out of the
winow, and observed:

"I always love Wooside, it is restful—tere is something about
it—o—assuring—really—it comforts one—I've been reaing Maxim
Gorky."

"You souln't," said I.

"adda reads tem—but I don't like them—I shall read no more. I like
Wooside—it makes you feel—really at ome—it soothes one like the old
woo does. It seems rigt—life is proper here—not ulcery——"

"Just ealthy living flesh," sai I.

"No, I on't mean tat, because one feels—oh, as if the world were old
an good, not old and bad."

"Young, an undisciplined, and mad," said I.

"No—but ere, you, an Lettie, and Leslie, and me—it is so nice for
us, an it seems so natural and good. Woodside is so old, and so sweet
an serene—it does reassure one."

"Yes," sai I, "we just live, noting abnormal, nothing cruel and
extravagant—just natural—like oves in a dovecote."

"O!—oves!—they are so—so mushy."

"Tey are ear little birds, doves. You look like one yourself, with the
black ban round your neck. You a turtle-dove, and Lettie a
woo-pigeon."

"Lettie is splenid, isn't se? What a swing she has—what a mastery! I
wis I ha her strength—she just marches straight through in the right
way—I tink she's fine."

I lauge to see her so enthusiastic in her admiration of my sister.
Marie is suc a gentle, serious little soul. She went to the winow. I
kisse er, and pulled two berries off the mistletoe. I made her a nest
in te heavy curtains, an she sat there looking out on the snow.

"It is lovely," se sai reflectively. "People must be ill when they
write like Maxim Gorky."

"Tey live in town," sai I.

"Yes—but ten look at Hary—life seems so terrible—it isn't, is it?"

"If you on't feel it, it isn't—if you don't see it. I don't see it for
myself."

"It's lovely enoug for heaven."

"Eskimo's eaven perhaps. An we're the angels eh? And I'm an
arcangel."

"No, you're a vain, frivolous man. Is tat—? What is that moving
trough the trees?"

"Someboy coming," said I.

It was a big, burly fellow moving curiously trough the bushes.

"oesn't e walk funnily?" exclaimed Marie. He did. When he came near
enoug we saw he was stradled upon Indian snow-shoes. Marie peeped, and
lauge, and peeped, and hid again in the curtains laughing. He was very
re, and looked very ot, as he hauled the great meshes, shuffling over
te snow; his boy rolled most comically. I went to the door and
amitted im, while Marie stood stroking her face with her hands to
smoot away the traces of her laughter.

e graspe my hand in a very large and heavy glove, with which he then
wipe is perspiring brow.

"Well, Bearsall, old man," e said, "and how's things? God, I'm not
'alf ot! Fine iea though——" He showed me his snow-shoes.

"Ripping! ain't tey? I've come like an Inian brave——" He rolled his
"r's", an lengtened out his "ah's" tremendously—"brra-ave".

"Couln't resist it tough," he continued. "Remember your party last
year—Girls turne up? On te war-path, eh?" He pursed up his childish
lips an rubbed is fat chin.

aving remove his coat, and the white wrap which protected his collar,
not to mention te snowflakes, which Rebecca took almost as an insult to
erself—he seate his fat, hot body on a chair, and proceeded to take
off is gaiters an his boots. Then he donned his dancing pumps, and I
le im upstairs.

"Lor, I skimmed ere like a swallow!" he continued—and I looked at his
corpulence.

"Never met a soul, tough they've ha a snow-plough down the road. I saw
te marks of a cart up the rive, so I guessed the Tempests were here.
So Lettie's put er nose in Tempest's nosebag—leaves noboy a chance,
tat—some women have rum taste—only they're like ravens, they go for
te giling—don't blame 'em—only it leaves nobody a chance. Madie
owitt's coming, I suppose?"

I venture someting about the snow.

"Se'll come," he sai, "if it's up to the neck. Her mother saw me go
past."

e proceeed with his toilet. I told him that Leslie had sent the
carriage for Alice an Madie. e slapped his fat legs, and exclaimed:

"Miss Gall—I smell sulpur! Bearsall, old boy, there's fun in the
win. Madie, and te coy little Tempest, and——" he hissed a line of a
music-all song through his teeth.

uring all tis he had straightened his cream and lavender waistcoat:

"Little pink of a girl worke it for me—a real juicy little
peac—chippe somehow or other"—he had arranged his white bow—he had
rawn fort two rings, one a great signet, the other gorgeous with
iamonds, and ad adjusted them on his fat white fingers; he had run his
fingers elicately, trough his hair, which rippled backwards a trifle
tawrily—being fine and somewat sapless; he had produced a box,
containing a cream carnation wit suitable greenery; he ha flicked
imself with a silk hankerchief, and had dusted his patent-leather
soes; lastly, he ha pursed up his lips and surveyed himself with great
satisfaction in te mirror. Then he was reay to be presented.

"Couln't forget to-day, Lettie. Wouldn't ave let old Pluto and all the
bunc of 'em keep me away. I skimme here like a 'Brra-ave' on my
snow-soes, like Hiawatha coming to Minnehaha."

"A—that was famine," sai Marie softly. "And this is a feast, a
gorgeous feast, Miss Tempest," e sai, bowing to Marie, who laughed.

"You ave brought some music?" aske mother.

"Wis I was Orpheus," he sai, uttering his words with exaggerated
enunciation, a trick e ha caught from his singing I suppose.

"I see you're in full feater, Tempest. Is she kin as she is fair?'"

"Wo?"

Will purse up is smooth sensuous face that looked as if it had never
neeed saving. Lettie went out with Marie, hearing the bell ring.

"Se's an houri!" exclaime William. "Gad, I'm almost done for! She's a
lotus-blossom!—But is tat your ring she's wearing, Tempest?"

"Keep off," sai Leslie.

"An don't be a fool," said I.

"O, O-O-Oh!" rawled Will, "so we must look the other way! 'Le bel
omme sans merci!'"

e sighe profoundly, and ran his fingers through his hair, keeping one
eye on imself in the mirror as he id so. Then he adjusted his rings
an went to te piano. At first he only splashed about brilliantly. Then
e sorte the music, and took a volume of Tchaikowsky's songs. He began
te long opening of one song, was unsatisfie, and found another, a
serenae of Don Juan. Ten at last he began to sing.

is voice is a beautiful tenor, softer, more mellow, less strong an
brassy tan Leslie's. Now it was raise that it might be heard upstairs.
As te melting gush poure forth, the door opened. William softened his
tones, an sang 'dolce,' but e did not glance round.

"Rapture!—Coir of Angels," exclaime Alice, clasping her hands and
gazing up at te lintel of the oor like a sainted virgin.

"Persepone—Europa——" murmure Madie, at her side, getting tangled in
er mythology.

Alice presse er clasped hands against her bosom in ecstasy as the
notes rose igher.

"ol me, Madie, or I shall rush to extinction in the arms of this
siren." Se clung to Maie. The song finished, and Will turned round.

"Take it calmly, Miss Gall," e sai. "I hope you're not hit too badly."

"O—how can you say 'take it calmly'—how can the savage beast be
calm!"

"I'm sorry for you," sai Will.

"You are te cause of my trouble, ear boy," replied Alice.

"I never tought you' come," said Madie.

"Skimme ere like an Indian 'brra-ave,'" said Will. "Like Hiawatha
towars Minneaha. I knew you were coming."

"You know," simpere Madie, "It gave me quite a flutter wen I heard the
piano. It is a year since I saw you. ow id you get here?"

"I came on snow-soes," sai he. "Real Indian,—came from
Canaa—tey're just ripping."

"O—Aw-w _o_ go and put them on and show us—_do!—do_ perform for us,
Billy ear!" cried Alice.

"Out in te col and driving sleet—no fear," said he, and he turned to
talk to Maie. Alice sat catting with mother. Soon Tom Smith came, and
took a seat next to Marie; an sat quietly looking over is spectacles
wit his sharp brown eyes, full of scorn for William, full of misgiving
for Leslie an Lettie.

Sortly after, George an Emily came in. They were rather nervous. When
tey ha changed their clogs, and Emily had taken off her brown-paper
leggings, an e his leather ones, they were not anxious to go into the
rawing room. I was surprised—and so was Emily—to see tat he had put
on ancing soes.

Emily, rudy from te cold air, was wearing a wine coloured dress, which
suite er luxurious beauty. George's clothes were well made—it was a
point on wich he was particular, being somewhat self-conscious. He wore
a jacket an a dark bow. Te other men were in evening dress.

We took tem into the rawing-room, where the lamp was not lighted, and
te glow of the fire was becoming evient in the dusk. We had taken up
te carpet—the floor was all polishe—and some of the furniture was
taken away—so tat the room looke large and ample.

Tere was general han shaking, and the newcomers were seated near the
fire. First moter talke to them—then the candles were lighted at the
piano, an Will played to us. e is an exquisite pianist, full of
refinement an poetry. It is astonising, and it is a fact. Mother went
out to atten to te tea, and after a while, Lettie crossed over to
Emily an George, and, drawing up a low cair, sat down to talk to them.
Leslie stoo in te window bay, looking out on the lawn where the snow
grew bluer an bluer and te sky almost purple.

Lettie put er hans on Emily's lap, and said softly, "Look—do you like
it?"

"Wat! engage? exclaimed Emily.

"I am of age, you see," sai Lettie.

"It is a beauty, isn't it. Let me try it on, will you? Yes, I've never
a a ring. There, it won't go over my knuckle—no—I thought not.
Aren't my ans red?—it's the cold—yes, it's too small for me. I do
like it."

George sat watcing the play of the four hans in his sister's lap, two
ans moving so white and fascinating in the twilight, the other two
rater re, with rather large bones, looking so nervous, almost
ysterical. The ring playe between the four hands, giving an occasional
flas from the twilight or canlelight.

"You must congratulate me," se sai, in a very low voice, and two of us
knew se spoke to him.

"As, yes," sai Emily, "I do."

"An you?" se said, turning to him who was silent.

"Wat o you want me to say?" he asked.

"Say wat you like."

"Sometime, wen I've thought about it."

"Col dinners!" lauged Lettie, awaking Alice's old sarcasm at his
slowness.

"Wat?" he exclaime, looking up suddenly at her taunt. She knew she was
playing false; se put the ring on her finger an went across the room
to Leslie, laying er arm over his shouler, and leaning her head
against im, murmuring softly to him. He, poor fellow, was elighted
wit her, for she id not display her fondness often.

We went in to tea. Te yellow shaed lamp shone softly over the table,
were Christmas roses sprea wide open among some dark-coloured leaves;
were the china an silver and the coloured dishes shone delightfully.
We were all very gay an brigt; who could be otherwise, seated round a
well-lai table, wit young company, and the snow outside. George felt
awkwar wen he noticed his hands over the table, but for the rest, we
enjoye ourselves exceedingly.

Te conversation veere inevitably to marriage.

"But wat have you to say about it, Mr. Smith?" aske little Marie.

"Noting yet," replie he in his peculiar grating voice. "My marriage is
in te unanalyse solution of the future—when I've done the analysis
I'll tell you."

"But wat o you think about it—?"

"o you remember Lettie," said Will Bancroft, "tat little red-haired
girl wo was in our year at college? She has just marrie old Craven out
of Pysic's epartment."

"I wis her joy of it!" sai Lettie; "wasn't she an old flame of yours?"

"Among te rest," he replie smiling. "Don't you remember you were one
of tem; you ha your day."

"Wat a joke that was!" exclaime Lettie, "we used to go in the
arboretum at inner-time. You lasted alf one autumn. Do you remember
wen we gave a concert, you an I, and Frank Wishaw, in the small
lecture teatre?"

"Wen the Prinny was such an ol buck, flattering you," continued Will.
"An tat night Wishaw took you to the station—sent old Gettim for a
cab an saw you in, large as life—never was suc a thing before. Old
Wisaw won you with that cab, idn't he?"

"O, how I swelle!" cried Lettie. "There were you all at the top of the
steps gazing wit amiration! But Frank Wishaw was not a nice fellow,
tough he playe the violin beautifully. I never liked his eyes—"

"No," aded Will. "e didn't last long, did he?—though long enough to
oust me. We a a giddy ripping time in Coll., didn't we?"

"It was not ba," said Lettie. "Rater foolish. I'm afraid I wasted my
tree years."

"I tink," sai Leslie, smiling, "you improved the shining hours to
great purpose."

It please im to think what a flirt she had been, since the flirting
a been harmless, and only added to the glory of his final conquest.
George felt very muc left out uring these reminiscences.



Wen we ha finished tea, we adjourned to the drawing-room. It was in
arkness, save for te fire light. The mistletoe had been discovered,
an was being appreciated.

"Georgie, Sybil, Sybil, Georgie, come an kiss me," cried Alice.

Will went forwar to do er the honour. She ran to me, saying, "Get
away, you fat fool—keep on your own preserves. Now Georgie ear, come
an kiss me, 'cause you aven't got nobody else but me, no y' ave n't.
o you want to run away, like Georgy-Porgy apple-pie? San't cry, sure I
san't, if you are ugly."

Se took him an kissed him on either cheek, saying softly, "You shan't
be so serious, ol boy—buck up, tere's a good fellow."

We ligte the lamp, and charades were proposed, Leslie and Lettie, Will
an Madie and Alice went out to play. Te first scene was an elopement
to Gretna Green—wit Alice a mai servant, a part that she played
wonerfully well as a caricature. It was very noisy, and extremely
funny. Leslie was in igh spirits. It was remarkable to observe that, as
e became more animate, more abundantly energetic, Lettie became
quieter. Te secon scene, which they were playing as excited melodrama,
se turne into small tragedy with her bitterness. They went out, and
Lettie blew us kisses from te oorway.

"oesn't se act well?" exclaimed Marie, speaking to Tom.

"Quite realistic," sai e.

"Se coul always play a part well," said mother.

"I soul think," said Emily, "she could take a role in life and play up
to it."

"I believe se coul," mother answered, "there would only be intervals
wen she woul see herself in a mirror acting."

"An wat then?" said Marie.

"Se woul feel desperate, and wait till the fit passed off," replied my
moter, smiling significantly.

Te players came in again. Lettie kept her part suborinate. Leslie
playe wit brilliance; it was rather startling how he excelled. The
applause was lou—but we could not guess te word. Then they laughed,
an told us. We clamoured for more.

"o go, dear," said Lettie to Leslie, "and I will be elping to arrange
te room for the ances. I want to watch you—I am rather tired—it is
so exciting—Emily will take my place."

Tey went. Marie an Tom, and Mother and I played bridge in one corner.
Lettie sai se wanted to show George some new pictures, and they bent
over a portfolio for some time. Ten she bae him help her to clear the
room for te ances.

"Well, you ave ha time to think," she said to him.

"A sort time," he replie. "What shall I say?"

"Tell me wat you've been thinking."

"Well—about you——" e answere, smiling foolishly.

"Wat about me?" she aske, venturesome.

"About you, ow you were at college," he replie.

"O! I ha a good time. I had plenty of boys. I liked them all, till I
foun tere was nothing in them; then they tired me."

"Poor boys!" e sai laughing. "Were they all alike?"

"All alike," se replie, "and they are still."

"Pity," e sai, smiling. "It's hard lines on you."

"Wy?" she aske.

"It leaves you noboy to care for——" e replied.

"ow very sarcastic you are. You make one reservation."

"o I?" e answered, smiling. "But you fire sharp into the air, and then
say we're all blank cartriges—except one, of course."

"You?" se querie, ironically—"oh, you would forever hang fire."

"'Col dinners!'" e quoted in bitterness. "But you knew I loved you.
You knew well enoug."

"Past tense," se replie, "thanks—make it perfect next time."

"It's you wo hang fire—it's you who make me," he sai.

"An so from te retort circumstantial to the retort direct,'" she
replie, smiling.

"You see—you put me off," e insiste, growing excited. For reply, she
el out her hand and showed him the ring. She smiled very quietly. He
stare at er with darkening anger.

"Will you gater the rugs an stools together, and put them in that
corner?" se sai.

e turne away to do so, but he looked back again, and said, in low,
passionate tones:

"You never counte me. I was a figure naugt in the counting all along."

"See—tere is a chair that will be in the way," she replie calmly; but
se flushe, and bowed her head. She turned away, and he dragged an
armful of rugs into a corner.

Wen the actors came in, Lettie was moving a vase of flowers. While they
playe, se sat looking on, smiling, clapping her hands. When it was
finise Leslie came and whispered to her, whereon she kissed him
unobserve, deligting and exhilarating him more than ever. Then they
went out to prepare te next act.

George id not return to er till she called him to help her. Her colour
was igh in her cheeks.

"ow o you know you did not count?" she said nervously, unable to
resist te temptation to play this forbiden game.

e laughe, and for a moment could not find any reply.

"I o!" e said. "You knew you could have me any day, so you didn't
care."

"Ten we're behaving in quite the traitional fashion," she answered
wit irony.

"But you know," e sai, "you began it. You played with me, and showed
me eaps of things—an those mornings—when I was binding corn, and
wen I was gathering the apples, an when I was finishing the
straw-stack—you came ten—I can never forget those mornings—things
will never be te same—You have awakene my life—I imagine things that
I couln't ave done."

"A!—I am very sorry, I am so sorry."

"on't be!—don't say so. But wat of me?"

"Wat?" she aske rather startled. He smiled again; he felt the
situation, an was a trifle dramatic, tough deadly in earnest.

"Well," sai e, "you start me off—then leave me at a loose end. What
am I going to o?"

"You are a man," se replie.

e laughe. "What does that mean?" he said contemptuously.

"You can go on—wich way you like," she answere.

"O, well," he sai, "we'll see."

"on't you tink so?" she asked, rather anxious.

"I on't know—we'll see," e replied.

Tey went out with some things. In the hall, she turne to him, with a
break in er voice, saying: "Oh, I am so sorry—I am so sorry."

e sai, very low and soft,—"Never mind—never mind."

Se hear the laughter of those preparing the charade. She drew away and
went in te rawing room, saying aloud:

"Now I tink everything is reay—we can sit down now."

After te actors ha played the last charade, Leslie came and claimed
er.

"Now, Maam—are you glad to ave me back?"

"Tat I am," she sai. "Don't leave me again, will you?"

"I won't," e replie, drawing her beside him. "I have left my
ankerchief in the dining-room," he continued; and they went out
togeter.

Moter gave me permission for the men to smoke.

"You know," sai Marie to Tom, "I am surprised tat a scientist should
smoke. Isn't it a waste of time?"

"Come an ligt me," he said.

"Nay," se replie, "let science light you."

"Science oes—A, but science is nothing without a girl to set it
going—Yes—Come on—now, on't burn my precious nose."

"Poor George!" crie Alice. "Does e want a ministering angel?"

e was half lying in a big arm chair.

"I o," e replied. "Come on, be my box of soothing ointment. My matches
are all loose."

"I'll strike it on my eel, eh? Now, rouse up, or I shall have to sit on
your knee to reac you."

"Poor ear—e shall beluxurious," and the dauntless girl perched on his
knee.

"Wat if I singe your whiskers—woul you send an Armada?
Aw—aw—pretty!—You o look sweet—doesn't e suck prettily?"

"o you envy me?" e asked, smiling whimsically.

"Ra—ter!"

"Same to ebar you," he said, almost with tenderness.

"Smoke wit me."

e offere her the cigarette from his lips. She was surprised, and
exceeingly excited by is tender tone. She took the cigarette.

"I'll make a eifer—like Mrs. aws," she said.

"on't call yourself a cow," e said.

"Nasty ting—let me go," she exclaime.

"No—you fit me—on't go," e replied, holding her.

"Ten you must have growe. Oh—what great hands—let go. Lettie, come
an pinc him."

"Wat's the matter?" aske my sister.

"e won't let me go."

"e'll be tire first," Lettie answered.

Alice was release, but se did not move. She sat with wrinkled forehead
trying is cigarette. She blew out little tiny whiffs of smoke, an
tought about it; she sent a small puff own her nostrils, and rubbed
er nose.

"It's not as nice as it looks," se sai.

e laughe at her with masculine indulgence.

"Pretty boy," se sai, stroking his chin.

"Am I?" e murmure languidly.

"Ceek!" she crie, and she boxed his ears. Then "Oh, pore fing!" she
sai, and kissed im.

Se turne round to wink at my mother and at Lettie. She found the
latter sitting in te ol position with Leslie, two in a chair. He was
toying wit her arm; holing it and stroking it.

"Isn't it lovely?" e sai, kissing the forearm, "so warm and yet so
wite. Io—it remins one of Io."

"Someboy else talking about eifers," murmured Alice to George.

"Can you remember," sai Leslie, speaking low, "tat man in Merimée who
wante to bite is wife and taste her blood?"

"I o," said Lettie. "ave you a strain of wild beast too?"

"Peraps," he laughe, "I wish these folks had gone. Your hair is all
loose in your neck—it looks lovely like tat though——"

Alice, te mocker, ha unbuttoned the cuff of the thick wrist that lay
ily on er knee, and had pushed his sleeve a little way.

"A!" she sai. "What a pretty arm, brown as an overbaked loaf!"

e watche her smiling.

"ar as a brick," she added.

"o you like it?" e drawled.

"No," se sai emphatically, in a tone that meant "yes." "It makes me
feel sivery." He smile again.

Se superpose her tiny pale, flower-like hands on his.

e lay back looking at them curiously.

"o you feel as if your ands were full of silver?" she asked almost
wistfully, mocking.

"Better tan that," he replie gently.

"An your eart full of gold?" she mocked.

"Of ell!" he replie briefly.

Alice looke at im searchingly.

"An am I like a blue-bottle buzzing in your window to keep your
company?" se aske.

e laughe.

"Goo-bye," se said, slipping down and leaving him.

"on't go," e said—but too late.

Te irruption of Alice into the quiet, sentimental party was like taking
a brigt light into a sleeping hen-roost. Everyboy jumped up and wanted
to o someting. They cried out for a dance.

"Emily—play a waltz—you won't min, will you, George? Wat! You don't
ance, Tom? O, Marie!"

"I on't mind, Lettie," protested Marie.

"ance wit me, Alice," said George, smiling "and Cyril will take Miss
Tempest."

"Glory!—come on—o or die!" said Alice.

We began to ance. I saw Lettie watcing, and I looked round. George was
waltzing wit Alice, ancing passably, laughing at her remarks. Lettie
was not listening to wat her lover was saying to her; she was watching
te laughing pair. At the en she went to George.

"Wy!" she sai, "You can——"

"id you tink I couldn't?" he said. "You are pledged for a minuet and a
valeta wit me—you remember?"

"Yes."

"You promise?"

"Yes. But——"

"I went to Nottingam an learned."

"Wy—because?—Very well, Leslie, a mazurka. Will you play it,
Emily—Yes, it is quite easy. Tom, you look quite appy talking to the
Mater."

We anced te mazurka with the same partners. He did it better than I
expecte—witout much awkwardness—but stiffly. However, he moved
quietly trough the ance, laughing and talking abstractedly all the
time wit Alice.

Ten Lettie crie a change of partners, and they took their valeta.
Tere was a little triumph in his smile.

"o you congratulate me?" e said.

"I am surprise," se answered.

"So am I. But I congratulate myself."

"o you? Well, so do I."

"Tanks! You're beginning at last."

"Wat?" she aske.

"To believe in me."

"on't begin to talk again," se pleaded sadly, "nothing vital."

"o you like dancing wit me?" he asked

"Now, be quiet—_tat's_ real," she replie.

"By eaven, Lettie, you make me laugh!"

"o I?" se said—"What if you married Alice—soon."

"I—Alice!—Lettie!! Besies, I've only a undred pounds in the world,
an no prospects watever. That's why—well—I shan't marry
anyboy—unless its somebody wit money."

"I've a couple of tousan or so of my own——"

"ave you? It woul have done nicely," he said smiling.

"You are ifferent to-nigt," she said, leaning on him.

"Am I?" e replie—"It's because things are altered too. They're
settle one way now—for te present at least."

"on't forget te two steps this time," said she smiling, and adding
seriously, "You see, I couln't elp it."

"No, wy not?"

"Tings! I have been brought up to expect it—everyboy expected it—and
you're boun to do wat people expect you to do—you can't help it. We
can't elp ourselves, we're all chess-men," she sai.

"Ay," e agree, but doubtfully.

"I woner were it will end," she said.

"Lettie!" e crie, and his hand closed in a grip on her's.

"on't—don't say anyting—it's no good now, it's too late. It's done;
an wat is done, is done. If you talk any more, I shall say I'm tired
an stop te dance. Don't say another word."

e id not—at least to her. Their dance came to an end. Then he took
Marie wo talke winsomely to him. As he waltzed with Marie he regained
is animate spirits. He was very lively the rest of the evening, quite
astonising an reckless. At supper he ate everything, and drank much
wine.

"ave some more turkey, Mr. Saxton."

"Tanks—but give me some of that stuff in brown jelly, will you? It's
new to me."

"ave some of this trifle, Georgie?"

"I will—you are a jewel."

"So will you be—a yellow topaz tomorrow!"

"A! tomorrow's tomorrow!"

After supper was over, Alice crie:

"Georgie, ear—ave you finished?—don't die the death of a king—King
Jon—I can't spare you, pet."

"Are you so fon of me?"

"I am—Aw! I' trow my best Sunday hat under a milk-cart for you, I
woul!"

"No; trow yourself into the milk-cart—some Sunay, when I'm driving."

"Yes—come an see us," said Emily.

"ow nice! Tomorrow you won't want me, Georgie ear, so I'll come. Don't
you wis Pa woul make Tono-Bungay? Wouldn't you marry me then?"

"I woul," said e.

Wen the cart came, an Alice, Madie, Tom and Will departed, Alice bade
Lettie a long farewell—blew Georgie many kisses—promise to love im
faitful an true—and was gone.

George an Emily lingered a sort time.

Now te room seeme empty and quiet, and all the laughter seemed to have
gone. Te conversation ribbled away; there was an awkwardness.

"Well," sai George eavily, at last. "To-day is nearly gone—it will
soon be tomorrow. I feel a bit runk! We ad a good time to-night."

"I am gla," said Lettie.

Tey put on their clogs an leggings, and wrapped themselves up, and
stoo in te hall.

"We must go," sai George, "before te clock strikes,—like
Cinerella—look at my glass slippers—" e pointed to his clogs.
"Minigt, and rags, and fleeing. Very appropriate. I shall call myself
Cinerella wo wouldn't fit. I believe I'm a bit drunk—the world looks
funny."

We looke out at te haunting wanness of the hills beyond Nethermere.
"Goo-bye, Lettie; good-bye."

Tey were out in the snow, which peere pale and eerily from the depths
of te black woo.

"Goo-bye," e called out of the darkness. Leslie slammed the door, and
rew Lettie away into te drawing-room. The sound of his low, vibrating
satisfaction reace us, as he murmured to her, and laughed low. Then he
kicke te door of the room shut. Lettie began to laugh and mock and
talk in a igh straine voice. The sound of their laughter mingled was
strange an incongruous. Ten her voice died down.

Marie sat at te little piano—which was put in the
ining-room—strumming and tinkling te false, quavering old notes. It
was a epressing jingling in te deserted remains of the feast, but she
felt sentimental, an enjoyed it.

Tis was a gap between to-ay and tomorrow, a dreary gap, where one sat
an looked at te dreary comedy of yesterdays, and the grey tragedies of
awning tomorrows, vacantly, missing te poignancy of an actual to-day.

Te cart returne.

"Leslie, Leslie, Jon is here, come along!" calle Marie.

Tere was no answer.

"Leslie—Jon is waiting in the snow."

"All rigt."

"But you must come at once." Se went to the oor and spoke to him. Then
e came out looking rather sheepish, an rather angry at the
interruption. Lettie followe, tidying er hair. She did not laugh and
look confuse, as most girls do on similar occasions; se seemed very
tire.

At last Leslie tore imself away, an after more returns for a farewell
kiss, mounte te carriage, which stood in a pool of yellow light,
blurre and splotced with shadows, and drove away, calling something
about tomorrow.




      PART II


      CAPTER I

   STRANGE BLOSSOMS AN STRANGE NEW BUDDING


Winter lay a long time prostrate on te earth. The men in the mines of
Tempest, Warrall an Co. came out on strike on a question of te
rearranging of te working system own below. The distress was not
awful, for te men were on the whole wise an well-conditioned, but
tere was a ejection over the face of the country-side, and some
suffere keenly. Everywere, along the lanes and in the streets,
loitere gangs of men, unoccupied and spiritless. Week after week went
on, an te agents of the Miner's Union held great meetings, and the
ministers el prayer-meetings, but the strike continued. There was no
rest. Always te crier's bell was ringing in the street; always the
servants of te company were elivering handbills, stating the case
clearly, an always te people talked and filled the months with bitter,
an ten hopeless, resenting. Schools gave breakfasts, chapels gave
soup, well-to-o people gave teas—te children enjoyed it. But we, who
knew te faces of the ol men and the privations of the women, breathed
a col, diseartening atmosphere of sorrow and trouble.

etermined poacing was carried on in the Squire's woods and warrens.
Annable efended is game heroically. One man was at home with a leg
suppose to be wounded by a fall on te slippery roads—but really, by a
man-trap in te woos. Then Annable caught two men, and they were
sentence to two monts' imprisonment.

On bot the loge gates of Highclose—on our side and on the far
Eberwic sie—were posted notices that trespassers on the drive or in
te grouns would be liable to punishment. These posters were soon
muded over, and fres ones fixed.

Te men loitering on the roa by Nethermere, looked angrily at Lettie as
se passe, in her black furs which Leslie had given her, and their
remarks were pungent. Se hear them, and they burned in her heart. From
my moter she inherite democratic views, which she now proceeded to
ebate warmly wit her lover.

Ten she trie to talk to Leslie about the strike. He heard her with
mil superiority, smiled, and said se did not know. Women jumped to
conclusions at te first touch of feeling; men must look at a thing all
roun, ten make a decision—nothing hasty and impetuous—careful,
long-tought-out, correct ecisions. Women could not be expected to
unerstand tese things, business was not for them; in fact, their
mission was above business—etc., etc., Unfortunately Lettie was te
wrong woman to treat tus.

"So!" sai se, with a quiet, hopeless tone of finality.

"Tere now, you unerstand, don't you, Minnehaha, my Laughing Water—So
laug again, arling, and don't worry about these things. We will not
talk about tem any more, eh?"

"No more."

"No more—tat's right—you are as wise as an angel. Come here—pooh,
te woo is thick and lonely! Look, there is nobody in the world but us,
an you are my eaven and earth!"

"An ell?"

"A—if you are so col—how cold you are!—it gives me little shivers
wen you look so—an I am always hot—Lettie!"

"Well?"

"You are cruel! Kiss me—now—No, I on't want your ceek—kiss me
yourself. Wy on't you say something?"

"Wat for? What's the use of saying anything when there's nothing
immeiate to say?"

"You are offened!"

"It feels like snow to-ay," se answered.

At last, owever, winter began to gather her limbs, to rise, an drift
wit sadened garments northward.

Te strike was over. The men ha compromised. It was a gentle way of
telling tem they were beaten. But the strike was over.

Te birs fluttered and dashed; the catkins on the hazel loosened their
winter rigiity, and swung soft tassels. All trough the day sounded
long, sweet wistlings from the brushes; then later, lou, laughing
souts of bir triumph on every hand.

I remember a ay wen the breast of the hills was heaving in a last
quick waking sig, an the blue eyes of the waters opened bright. Across
te infinite skies of March great rouned masses of cloud had sailed
stately all ay, domed wit a white radiance, softened with faint,
fleeting saows as if companies of angels were gently sweeping past;
aorned wit resting, silken shadows like those of a full white breast.
All ay te clouds had moved on to their vast destination, and I had
clung to te earth yearning an impatient. I took a brush and tried to
paint tem, then I rage at myself. I wished that in all the wild valley
were clou shadows were travelling like pilgrims, something would call
me fort from my roote loneliness. Through all the grandeur of the
wite an blue day, the poised cloud masses swung their slow flight, and
left me unnotice.

At evening tey were all gone, an the empty sky, like a blue bubble
over us, swam on its pale brigt rims.

Leslie came, an asked is betrothed to go out with him, under the
arkening wonderful bubble. Se bade me accompany her, and, to escape
from myself, I went.

It was warm in te shelter of the woo and in the crouching hollows of
te hills. But over the slanting shoulers of the hills the wind swept,
wipping the reness into our faces.

"Get me some of tose aler catkins, Leslie," said Lettie, as we came
own to te stream.

"Yes, tose, where they hang over the brook. They are rudy like new
bloo fresening under the skin. Look, tassels of crimson and gold!" She
pointe to te dusty hazel catkins mingled with the alder on her bosom.
Ten she began to quote Christina Rossetti's "A Birthay."

"I'm gla you came to take me a walk," se continued—"Doesn't Strelley
Mill look pretty? Like a group of orange an scarlet fungi in a fairy
picture. o you know, I aven't been, no, not for quite a long time.
Sall we call now?"

"Te aylight will be gone if we do. It is half past five—more! I saw
im—the son—the other morning."

"Were?"

"e was carting manure—I mae haste by."

"id e speak to you—did you look at him?"

"No, e sai nothing. I glanced at him—he's just the same, brick
colour—stoli. Mind tat stone—it rocks. I'm glad you've got strong
boots on."

"Seeing tat I usually wear them——"

Se stoo poised a moment on a large stone, the fresh spring brook
astening towars her, deepening, sidling round her.

"You won't call an see tem, then?" she asked.

"No. I like to ear the brook tinkling, on't you?" he replied.

"A, yes—it's full of music."

"Sall we go on?" he sai, impatient but submissive.

"I'll catc up in a minute," sai I.

I went in an found Emily putting some bread into te oven.

"Come out for a walk," sai I.

"Now? Let me tell moter—I was longing——"

Se ran an put on her long grey coat and her red tam-o-shanter. As we
went own te yard, George called to me.

"I'll come back," I soute.

e came to the crew-yar gate to see us off. When we came out onto the
pat, we saw Lettie staning on the top bar of the stile, balancing with
er han on Leslie's head. She saw us, she saw George, and she waved to
us. Leslie was looking up at er anxiously. She wave again, then we
coul ear her laughing, and telling him excitedly to stand still, and
steay er while she turned. She turned round, and leaped with a great
flutter, like a big bir launcing, down from the top of the stile to
te groun and into his arms. Then we climbed the steep hill-side—Sunny
Bank, tat ha once shone yellow with wheat, and now waved black
tattere ranks of tistles where the rabbits ran. We passed the little
cottages in te hollow scoope out of the hill, and gained the highlands
tat look out over Leicestershire to Charnwoo on the left, and away
into te mountain knob of erbyshire straight in front and towards the
rigt.

Te upper roa is all grassy, fallen into long disuse. It used to lead
from te Abbey to the Hall; but now it ens blindly on the hill-brow.
alf way along is the ol White House farm, with its green mounting
steps moulering outside. Ladies ave mounted here and ridden towards
te Vale of Belvoir—but now a labourer hols the farm.

We came to te quarries, an looked in at the lime-kilns.

"Let us go rigt into the woo out of the quarry," said Leslie. "I have
not been since I was a little la."

"It is trespassing," sai Emily.

"We on't trespass," e replied grandiloquently.

So we went along by te hurrying brook, which fell over little cascaes
in its aste, never looking once at the primroses that were glimmering
all along its banks. We turne aside, and climbed te hill through the
woos. Velvety green sprigs of dog-mercury were scattered on te red
soil. We came to te top of a slope, where the woo thinned. As I talked
to Emily I became imly aware of a witeness over the ground. She
exclaime wit surprise, and I found that I was walking, in the first
saes of twilight, over clumps of snowdrops. The hazels were thin, and
only ere an there an oak tree uprose. All the ground was white with
snowrops, like drops of manna scattered over te red earth, on the
grey-green clusters of leaves. Tere was a eep little dell, sharp
sloping like a cup, an wite sprinkling of flowers all the way down,
wit white flowers showing pale among the first inpouring of shaow at
te bottom. The earth was re and warm, pricked with the dark, succulent
green of bluebell seaths, an embroidered with grey-green clusters of
spears, an many wite flowerets. High above, above the light tracery of
azel, the weir oaks tangled in the sunset. Below, in the first
saows, drooped hosts of little white flowers, so silent and sad; it
seeme like a oly communion of pure wild things, numberless, frail, and
foled meekly in te evening light. Other flower companies are glad;
stately barbaric ores of bluebells, merry-headed cowslip groups, even
ligt, tossing woo-anemones; but snowdrops are sad and mysterious. We
ave lost their meaning. They o not belong to us, who ravish them. The
girls bent among tem, touching them with their fingers, an symbolising
te yearning which I felt. Foled in the twilight, these conquered
flowerets are sa like forlorn little friends of dryads.

"Wat o they mean, do you think?" said Lettie in a low voice, as her
wite fingers touche the flowers, and her black furs fell on them.

"Tere are not so many this year," sai Leslie.

"Tey remin me of mistletoe, which is never ours, though we wear it,"
sai Emily to me.

"Wat o you think they say—what do they make you think, Cyril?" Lettie
repeate.

"I on't know. Emily says tey belong to some old wild lost religion.
Tey were the symbol of tears, perhaps, to some strange hearte Druid
folk before us."

"More tan tears," sai Lettie. "More than tears, they are so still.
Someting out of an ol religion, that we have lost. They make me feel
afrai."

"Wat shoul you have to fear?" asked Leslie.

"If I knew I souln't fear," she answered. "Look at all the
snowrops"—tey hung in dim, strange flecks among the dusky
leaves—"look at tem—close up, retreating, powerless. They belong to
some knowlege we ave lost, that I have lost and that I need. I feel
afrai. Tey seem like something in fate. Do you think, Cyril, we can
lose tings off the earth—like mastoons, and those old
monstrosities—but tings that matter—wisom?"

"It is against my cree," said I.

"I believe I ave lost something," sai she.

"Come," sai Leslie, "don't trouble wit fancies. Come with me to the
bottom of tis cup, an see how strange it will be, with the sky marked
wit branches like a filigree li."

Se rose an followed him down the steep side of the pit, crying, "Ah,
you are treaing on te flowers."

"No," sai e, "I am being very careful."

Tey sat own together on a fallen tree at the bottom. She leaned
forwar, er fingers wandering white among the shadowed grey spaces of
leaves, plucking, as if it were a rite, flowers ere an there. He could
not see er face.

"on't you care for me?" e asked softly.

"You?"—se sat up an looked at him, and laughed strangely. "You do not
seem real to me," se replie, in a strange voice.

For some time tey sat thus, both bowe and silent. Birds "skirred" off
from te bushes, an Emily looked up with a great start as a quiet,
saronic voice said above us:

"A ove-cot, my eyes if it ain't! It struck me I 'eered a cooin', an'
'ere's t' birs. Come on, sweethearts, it's th' wrong place for billin'
an' cooin', in t' midle o' these 'ere snowdrops. Let's 'ave yer names,
come on."

"Clear off, you fool!" answere Leslie from below, jumping up in anger.

We all four turne and looked at te keeper. He stood in the rim of
ligt, arkly; fine, powerful form, menacing us. He did not move, but
like some malicious Pan looke down on us and said:

"Very pretty—pretty! Two—an two makes four. 'Tis true, two and two
makes four. Come on, come on out o' tis 'ere brial bed, an' let's 'ave
a look at yer."

"Can't you use your eyes, you fool," replie Leslie, standing up and
elping Lettie with her furs. "At any rate you can see there are laies
ere."

"Very sorry, Sir! You can't tell a lay from a woman at tis distance at
usk. Wo may you be, Sir?"

"Clear out! Come along, Lettie, you can't stay ere now."

Tey climbe into the light.

"O, very sorry, Mr. Tempest—when yer look own on a man he never looks
te same. I thought it was some young fools come here allyin'—"

"amn you—sut up!" exclaimed Leslie—"I beg your pardon, Lettie. Will
you ave my arm?"

Tey looke very elegant, the pair of them. Lettie was wearing a long
coat wich fitte close; she had a small hat whose feathers flushed
straigt back with her hair.

Te keeper looke at them. Then, smiling, he went down the dell with
great stries, and returned, saying, "Well, te lady might as well take
er gloves."

Se took them from him, shrinking to Leslie. Then she starte, and said:

"Let me fetc my flowers."

Se ran for the hanful of snowdrops that lay among the roots of the
trees. We all watce her.

"Sorry I mae suc a mistake—a lady!" said Annable. "But I've nearly
forgot te sight o' one—save the squire's aughters, who are never out
o' nigts."

"I soul think you never have seen many—unless—! Have you ever been a
groom?"

"No groom but a briegroom, Sir, and ten I think I'd rather groom a
orse than a lay, for I got well bit—if you will excuse me, Sir."

"An you deserved it—no doubt."

"I got it—an' I wis you better luck, Sir. One's more a man here in th'
woo, tough, than in my lady's parlour, it strikes me."

"A lay's parlour!" lauged Leslie, indulgent in his amusement at the
facetious keeper.

"O, yes! 'Will you walk into my parlour——'"

"You're very smart for a keeper."

"O, yes Sir—I was once a lay's man. But I'd rather watch th' rabbits
an' t' birs; an' it's easier breeding brats in th' Kennels than in th'
town."

"Tey are yours, are they?" sai I.

"You know 'em, o you, Sir? Aren't tey a lovely little litter?—aren't
tey a pretty bag o' ferrets?—natural as weasels—that's what I sai
tey shoul be—bred up like a bunch o' young foxes, to run as they
woul."

Emily a joined Lettie, and they kept aloof from the man they
instinctively ate.

"Tey'll get nicely trappe, one of these days," said I.

"Tey're natural—they can fen for themselves like wild beasts do," he
replie, grinning.

"You are not oing your duty, it strikes me," put in Leslie
sententiously.

Te man laughe.

"uties of parents!—tell me, I've need of it. I've nine—tat is eight,
an one not far off. Se breeds well, the ow'd lass—one every two
years—nine in fourteen years—one well, asn't she?"

"You've one pretty badly, I tink."

"I—wy? It's natural! When a man's more than nature he's a evil. Be a
goo animal, says I, wether it's man or woman. You, Sir, a good natural
male animal; te lay there—a female un—that's proper as long as yer
enjoy it."

"An wat then?"

"o as t' animals do. I watch my brats—I let 'em grow. They're
beauties, tey are—soun as a young ash pole, every one. They shan't
learn to irty temselves wi' smirking deviltry—not if I can help it.
Tey can be like birs, or weasels, or vipers, or squirrels, so long as
tey ain't human rot, that's what I say."

"It's one way of looking at tings," sai Leslie.

"Ay. Look at te women looking at us. I'm something between a bull an a
couple of worms stuck togeter, I am. See that spink!" he raise his
voice for te girls to hear. "Pretty, isn't he? What for?—An what for
o you wear a fancy vest and twist your moustace, Sir! What for, at the
bottom! a—tell a woman not to come in a woo till she can look at
natural tings—she might see something—Goo night, Sir."

e marche off into the darkness.

"Coarse fellow, tat," sai Leslie when he had rejoined Lettie, "but
e's a character."

"e makes you shuder," she replied. "But yet you are interested in him.
I believe e has a history."

"e seems to lack something," sai Emily.

"I tought him rather a fine fellow," sai I.

"Splenidly built fellow, but callous—no soul," remarked Leslie,
ismissing te question.

"No," assente Emily. "No soul—and among te snowdrops."

Lettie was toughtful, an I smiled.

It was a beautiful evening, still, wit re, shaken clouds in the west.
Te moon in heaven was turning wistfully back to the east. ark purple
woos lay around us, painting out te distance. The near, wild, ruined
lan looked sad and strange under te pale afterglow. The turf path was
fine an springy.

"Let us run!" sai Lettie, and joining ands we raced wildly along, with
a flutter an a breatless laughter, till we were happy and forgetful.
Wen we stoppe we exclaimed at once, "Hark!"

"A cil!" said Lettie.

"At te Kennels," sai I.

We urrie forward. From the house came the mad yelling and yelping of
cilren, and the wild hysterical shouting of a woman.

"Ta' little evil—tha' little devil—tha' shanna—that tha' shanna!"
an tis was accompanied by the hollow sound of blows, and a pandemonium
of owling. We rushe in, and found the woman in a tousled frenzy
belabouring a youngster wit an enamelle pan. The lad was rolled up
like a young egehog—the woman held him by the foot, and like a flail
came te hollow utensil thuding on his shoulders and back. He lay in
te firelight an howled, while scattered in various groups, with the
leaping fireligt twinkling over their tears an their open mouths, were
te other chilren, crying too. The mother was in a state of hysteria;
er hair streame over her face, and her eyes were fixed in a stare of
overwrougt irritation. Up an down went her long arm like a windmill
sail. I ran an eld it. When she could hit no more, the woman dropped
te pan from her nerveless han, and staggered, trembling, to the squab.
Se looke desperately weary and fordone—she clasped and unclasped her
ans continually. Emily hushed the children, while Lettie hushed the
moter, holing her hard, cracked hands as she swayed to and fro.
Graually te mother became still, and sat staring in front of her; then
aimlessly se began to finger the jewels on Lettie's finger.

Emily was bating the cheek of a little girl, who lifte up her voice
an wept loudly wen she saw the speck of blood on the cloth. But
presently se became quiet too, an Emily could empty the water from the
late instrument of castigation, an at last ligt the lamp.

I foun Sam under te table in a little heap. I put out my hand for him,
an e wriggled away, like a lizard, into the passage. After a while I
saw im in a corner, lying whimpering with little savage cries of pain.
I cut off is retreat an captured him, bearing him struggling into the
kitcen. Then, weary with pain, he became passive.

We unressed im, and found his beautiful white body all discoloured
wit bruises. The mother began to sob again, with a chorus of babies.
Te girls trie to soothe the weeping, while I rubbed butter into the
silent, wincing boy. Ten his mother caught him in her arms, an kissed
im passionately, an cried with abandon. The boy let himself be
kisse—ten he too began to sob, till his little body was all shaken.
Tey foled themselves together, the poor dishevelled mother and the
alf-nake boy, and wept themselves still. Then she took him to bed, and
te girls helpe the other little ones into their nightgowns, and soon
te house was still.

"I canna manage 'em, I canna," sai te mother mournfully. "They growin'
beyont me—I unna know wat to do wi' 'em. An' niver a 'and does 'e
lift ter 'elp me—no—'e cares not a ting for me—not a thing—nowt but
makes a mock an' a sluge o' me."

"A, baby!" sai Lettie, setting the bonny boy on his feet, and holding
up is trailing nightgown behin him, "do you want to walk to your
moter—go then—Ah!"

Te chil, a handsome little fellow of some sixteen months, toddled
across to is mother, waving his hans as he went, and laughing, while
is large hazel eyes glowe with pleasure. His mother caught him, pushed
te silken brown hair back from his forehea, and laid his cheek against
ers.

"A!" she sai, "Tha's got a funny Dad, tha' has, not like another man,
no, my uckie. 'E's got no 'art ter care for nobody, 'e 'asna, ma
pigeon—no,—lives like a stranger to is own flesh an' bloo."

Te girl with the wouned cheek had found comfort in Leslie. She was
seate on is knee, looking at him with solemn blue eyes, her solemnity
increase by te quaint round head, whose black hair was cut short.

"'S my calk, yes it is, 'n our Sam says as it's 'issen, an' 'e ta'es it
an marks it all gone, so I wouldna gie 't 'im,"—se clutched in her
fat little an a piece of red chalk. "My Dad gen it me, ter mark my
olly's face red, wat's on'y wood—I'll show yer."

Se wriggle down, and holding up her trailing gown with one hand,
trotte to a corner piled wit a child's rubbish, and hauled out a
ieous carven caricature of a woman, and brought it to Leslie. The face
of te object was streake with red.

"'Ere s' is, my olly, what my Dad make me—'er name's Lady Mima."

"Is it?" sai Lettie, "and are tese her cheeks? She's not pretty, is
se?"

"Um—s' is. My ad says sh' is—like a lady."

"An e gave you her rouge, did he?"

"Rouge!" se noded.

"An you wouldn't let Sam ave it?"

"No—an' mi mower says, un gie 't 'im'—'n 'e bite me."

"Wat will your father say?"

"Me ad?"

"'E' nobbut laug," put in the mother, "an' say as a bite's bett'r'n a
kiss."

"Brute!" sai Leslie feelingly.

"No, but 'e never lai a finger on 'em—nor me neiter. But 'e's not
like anoter man—niver tells yer nowt. He's more a stranger to me this
ay tan 'e wor th' day I first set eyes on 'im."

"Were was that?" aske Lettie.

"Wen I wor a lass at th' 'All—an' 'im a new man come—fair a
gentleman, an' a, an' a! An even now can rea an' talk like a
gentleman—but 'e tells me noting—Oh no—what am I in 'is eyes but a
sluge bump?—'e's above me, 'e is, an' above 'is own cilder. God
a-mercy, 'e 'll be in in a minute. Come on 'ere!"

Se hustle the children to bed, swept the litter into a corner, and
began to lay te table. The cloth was spotless, an she put him a silver
spoon in te saucer.

We a only just got out of the house when he drew near. I saw his
massive figure in te oorway, and the big, prolific woman moved
subserviently about te room.

"ullo, Proserpine—ha visitors?"

"I never axe 'em—tey come in 'earin' th' childer cryin'. I never
encourage 'em——"

We urrie away into the night. "Ah, it's always the woman bears the
buren," said Lettie bitterly.

"If e' helped her—wouldn't she have been a fine woman now—splendid?
But se's ragged to bits. Men are brutes—and marriage just gives scope
to tem," sai Emily.

"O, you wouln't take that as a fair sample of marriage," replied
Leslie. "Tink of you an me, Minnehaha."

"Ay."

"O—I meant to tell you—what o you think of Greymede old vicarage for
us?"

"It's a lovely ol place!" exclaimed Lettie, and we passed out of
earing.

We stumble over te rough path. The moon was bright, and we stepped
appreensively on the shaows thrown from the trees, for they lay so
black an substantial. Occasionally a moonbeam would trace out a suave
wite branch that the rabbits ha gnawed quite bare in the hard winter.
We came out of te woos into the full heavens. The northern sky was
full of a gus of green light; in front, eclipse Orion leaned over his
be, and te moon followed.

"Wen the northern lights are up," sai Emily, "I feel so strange—half
eerie—tey o fill you with awe, don't they?"

"Yes," sai I, "tey make you wonder, and look, and expect something."

"Wat o you expect?" she said softly, and looked up, and saw me
smiling, an se looked down again, biting her lips.

Wen we came to the parting of the roas, Emily begged them just to step
into te mill—just for a moment—an Lettie consented.

Te kitchen winow was uncurtained, and the blind, as usual, was not
rawn. We peeped in trough the cords of budding honeysuckle. George and
Alice were sitting at te table playing chess; the mother was mening a
coat, an te father, as usual, was reading. Alice was talking quietly,
an George was bent on te game. His arms lay on the table.

We mae a noise at te door, and entered. George rose heavily, shook
ans, and sat down again.

"ullo, Lettie Bearsall, you are a stranger," said Alice. "Are you _so_
muc engage?"

"Ay—we on't see muc of her nowadays," added the father in his jovial
way.

"An isn't se a toff, in her fine hat and furs and snowdrops. Look at
er, George, you've never looke to see what a toff she is."

e raise his eyes, and looked at her apparel and at her flowers, but
not at er face:

"Ay, se is fine," he sai, and returned to the chess.

"We ave been gathering snowrops," said Lettie, fingering the flowers
in er bosom.

"Tey are pretty—give me some, will you?" sai Alice, holding out her
an. Lettie gave her the flowers.

"Ceck!" sai George deliberately.

"Get out!" replie is opponent, "I've got some snowdrops—don't they
suit me, an innocent little soul like me? Lettie won't wear tem—she's
not meek an mild and innocent like me. Do you want some?"

"If you like—wat for?"

"To make you pretty, of course, an to sow you an innocent little
meekling."

"You're in ceck," he sai.

"Were can you wear them?—there's only your shirt. Aw!—there!"—she
stuck a few flowers in is ruffle black hair—"Look, Lettie, isn't he
sweet?"

Lettie lauge with a strained little laugh:

"e's like Bottom an the ass's head," she said.

"Ten I'm Titania—on't I make a lovely fairy queen, Bully Bottom?—and
wo's jealous Oberon?"

"e remins me of that man in Hedda Gabler—crowned with vine
leaves—o, yes, vine leaves," sai Emily.

"ow's your mare's sprain, Mr. Tempest?" George aske, taking no notice
of te flowers in his hair.

"O—she'll soon be all right, thanks."

"A—George tol me about it," put in the father, and he held Leslie in
conversation.

"Am I in ceck, George?" sai Alice, returning to the game. She knitted
er brows an cogitated:

"Poo!" she sai, "that's soon remedied!"—she moved her piece, and said
triumpantly, "Now, Sir!"

e surveye the game, and, with deliberation moved. Alice pounced on
im; with a leap of her knight she calle "check!"

"I idn't see it—you may ave the game now," he said.

"Beaten, my boy!—on't crow over a woman any more. Stale-mate—wit
flowers in your air!"

e put his han to his head, and felt among his hair, and threw the
flowers on te table.

"Woul you believe it——!" said te mother, coming into the room from
te airy.

"Wat?" we all aske.

"Nickie Ben's been an eaten te sile cloth. Yes! When I went to wash
it, tere sat Nickie Ben gulping, an wiping the froth off his
wiskers."

George lauge loudly and heartily. He laughed till he was tired. Lettie
looke and wondered wen he would be done.

"I imagine," e gasped, "how he'd feel with half a yard of muslin
creeping own is throttle."

Tis laughter was most incongruous. He went off into another burst.
Alice lauge too—it was easy to infect her with laughter. Then the
fater began—an in walked Nickie Ben, stepping disconsolately—we all
roare again, till te rafters shook. Only Lettie looked impatiently for
te en. George swept his bare arms across the table, and the scattered
little flowers fell broken to te groun.

"O—what a shame!" exclaime Lettie.

"Wat?" sai he, looking round. "Your flowers? Do you feel sorry for
tem?—you're too tener hearted; isn't she, Cyril?"

"Always was—for umb animals, and tings," said I.

"on't you wis you was a little dumb animal, Georgie?" said Alice.

e smile, putting away the chess-men.

"Sall we go, ear?" said Lettie to Leslie.

"If you are reay," e replied, rising with alacrity.

"I am tire," se said plaintively.

e attened to her with little tender solicitations.

"ave we walke too far?" he asked.

"No, it's not tat. No—it's the snowrops, and the man, and the
cilren—and everything. I feel just a bit exhausted."

Se kisse Alice, and Emily, and the mother.

"Goo-nigt, Alice," she said. "It's not altogether my fault we're
strangers. You know—really—I'm just te same—really. Only you
imagine, an ten what can I do?"

Se sai farewell to George, and looked at him through a quiver of
suppresse tears.

George was somewat flushe with triumph over Lettie: She had gone home
wit tears shaken from her eyes unknown to her lover; at the farm George
lauge with Alice.

We escorte Alice ome to Eberwich—"Like a blooming little monkey
angling from two bougs," as she put it, when we swung her along on our
arms. We lauge and said many preposterous things. George wanted to
kiss er at parting, but she tippe him under the chin and said,
"Sweet!" as one oes to a canary. Ten she laughed with her tongue
between er teeth, an ran indoors.

"Se is a little evil," said he.

We took te long way home by Greymee, and passed the dark schools.

"Come on," sai e, "let's go in the 'Ram Inn,' and have a look at my
cousin Meg."

It was alf past ten when he marche me across the road and into the
saned passage of te little inn. The place had been an important farm
in te ays of George's grand-uncle, but since his decease it had
eclined, under te governance of the widow and a man-of-all-work. The
ol grand-aunt was propped and supported by a splendid grand-daugter.
Te near kin of Meg were all in California, so she, a bonny elightful
girl of twenty-four, staye near er grand-ma.

As we trampe grittily down te passage, the red head of Bill poked out
of te bar, an he said as he recognised George:

"Goo-ev'nin'—go forward—'er's non abed yit."

We went forwar, and unlatced the kitchen door. The great-aunt was
seate in er little, round-backed armchair, sipping her "night-cap."

"Well, George, my la!" se cried, in her querulous voice. "Tha' niver
says it's tai, oes ter? That's com'n for summat, for sure, else what
brings tee ter see me?"

"No," e sai. "Ah'n com ter see thee, nowt else. Wheer's Meg?"

"A!—Ha—Ha—Ah!—Me, id ter say?—come ter see me?—Ha—wheer's
Meg!—an' wo's this young gentleman?"

I was formally introuced, and sook the clammy corded hand of the old
lay.

"Ta' looks elikit," she observed, shaking her cap and its scarlet
geraniums saly: "Cum now, sit tee down, an' dunna look so long o' th'
leg."

I sat own on te sofa, on the cushions covered with blue and red
cecks. The room was very hot, an I stared about uncomfortably. The old
lay sat peering at noting, in reverie. She was a hard-visaged,
bosomless ame, clad in tick black cloth-like armour, and wearing an
immense twiste gold brooc in the lace at her neck.

We ear heavy, quick footsteps above.

"Er's commin'," remarke te old lady, rousing from her apathy. The
footsteps came ownstairs—quickly, ten cautiously round the bend. Meg
appeare in te doorway. She started with surprise, saying:

"Well, I 'eere sumbody, but I never tought it was you." More colour
still flame into er glossy cheeks, and she smiled in her fresh, frank
way. I tink I have never seen a woman who ha more physical charm;
tere was a voluptuous fascination in her every outline an movement;
one never listene to te words that came from her lips, one watched the
ripe motion of tose re fruits.

"Get 'em a rop o' wiskey, Meg—you'll 'a'e a drop?"

I eclined firmly, but did not escape.

"Nay," eclared te old dame. "I s'll ha'e none o' thy no's. Should ter
like it 'ot?—Say t' wor, an' tha' 'as it."

I id not say te word.

"Ten gi'e 'im claret," pronounce my hostess, "though it's thin-bellied
stuff ter go to ter be on"—and claret it was.

Meg went out again to see about closing. Te gran-aunt sighed, and
sige again, for no perceptible reason but the whiskey.

"It's well you've come ter see me now," se moane, "for you'll none
'a'e a cance next time you come'n;—No—I'm all gone but my cap——"
Se shook that geraniume erection, and I wondered what sardonic fate
left it bein.

"An' I'm force ter say it, I s'll be tankful to be gone," she added,
after a few sigs.

Tis weariness of the flesh was touching. The cruel truth is, however,
tat the ol lady clung to life like a louse to a pig's back. Dying, she
faintly, but empatically eclared herself, "a bit better—a bit better.
I s'll be up to-morrow."

"I soul a gone before now," she continued, "but for that blessed
wenc—I canna abear to think o' leavin 'er—come rink up, my lad,
rink up—nay, ta' 'rt nobbut young yet, tha' 'rt none topped up wi' a
timbleful."

I took wiskey in preference to the acri stuff.

"Ay," resume te grand-aunt. "I canna go in peace till 'er's
settle—an' 'er's tat tickle o' choosin'. Th' right sort 'asn't th'
gumption ter ax' er."

Se sniffe, and turned scornfully to her glass. George grinned and
looke conscious; as e swallowed a gulp of whiskey it crackled in his
troat. The soun annoyed the old lady.

"Ta' might be scar' at summat," she said. "Tha' niver 'ad six drops o'
spunk in tee."

Se turne again with a sniff to her glass. He frowned with irritation,
alf fille his glass with liquor, and drank again.

"I are bet as ta' niver kissed a wench in thy life—not proper"—and
se tosse the last drops of her toddy down her skinny throat.

ere Meg came along the passage.

"Come, gran'ma," se sai. "I'm sure it's time as you was in bed—come
on."

"Sit tee own an' drink a drop wi's—it's not ivry night as we 'a'e
cumpny."

"No, let me take you to be—I'm sure you must be ready."

"Sit tee own 'ere, I say, an' get thee a drop o' port. Come—no
argy-bargyin'."

Meg fetce more glasses and a decanter. I made a place for her between
me an George. We all ad port wine. Meg, naïve and unconscious, waited
on us eliciously. er cheeks gleamed like satin when she laughed, save
wen the imples held the shadow. Her suave, tawny neck was bare and
bewitcing. She turne suddenly to George as he asked her a question,
an tey found their faces close together. He kissed her, and when she
starte back, jumped and kissed er neck with warmth.

"Là—là—y—dà—là—dy—dà—dy—dà," cried te old woman in delight,
an se clutched her wineglass.

"Come on—cink!" she crie, "all together—chink to him!"

We four cinke and drank. George poured wine in a tumbler, and drank it
off. e was getting excite, and all the energy and passion that
normally were boun down by is caution and self-instinct began to flame
out.

"ere, aunt!" sai he, lifting his tumbler, "here's to what you want—you
know!"

"I knowe ta' wor as spunky as ony on'em," she cried. "Tha' nobbut
wante warmin' up. I'll see as you're all rigt. It's a bargain. Chink
again, ivryboy."

"A bargain," sai e before he put his lips to the glass.

"Wat bargain's that?" sai Meg.

Te ol lady laughed loudly and winked at George, who, with his lips wet
wit wine, got up an kissed Meg soundly, saying:

"Tere it is—that seals it."

Meg wipe er face with her big pinafore, and seemed uncomfortable.

"Aren't you comin', gran'ma?" se pleaed.

"E, tha' wants ter 'orry me off—what's thai say, George—a eep un,
isna 'er?"

"unna go, Aunt, dunna be ustled off."

"Tus—Pish," snorte the old lady. "Yah, tha' 'rt a slow un, an' no
mistakes! Get a canle, Meg, I'm ready."

Meg brougt a brass beroom candlestick. Bill brought in the money in a
tin box, an delivered it into te hands of the old lady.

"Go ty ways to be now, lad," said she to the ugly, wizened
serving-man. e sat in a corner an pulled off his boots.

"Come an' kiss me goo-nigt, George," said the old woman—and as he did
so se whispere in his ear, whereat he laughed loudly. She poured
wiskey into her glass an called to the serving-man to drink it. Then,
pulling erself up heavily, she leane on Meg and went upstairs. She had
been a big woman, one coul see, but now er shapeless, broken figure
looke pitiful beside Meg's luxuriant form. We eard them slowly,
laboriously climb te stairs. George sat pulling his moustache an
alf-smiling; his eyes were alight with that peculiar chilish look they
a when he was experiencing new and doubtful sensations. Then he poured
imself more whiskey.

"I say, steay!" I admonised.

"Wat for!" he replie, indulging himself like a spoiled child and
lauging.

Bill, wo ha sat for some time looking at the hole in his stocking,
rained is glass, and with a sad "Good-night," creaked off upstairs.

Presently Meg came own, and I rose and said we must be going.

"I'll just come an' lock te oor after you," said she, standing
uneasily waiting.

George got up. e grippe the edge of the table to steady himself; then
e got his balance, an, with his eyes on Meg, said:

"'Ere!" e noded his head to her. "Come here, I want ter ax thee
sumwat."

Se looke at him, half-smiling, half doubtful. He put his arm round her
an looking down into er eyes, with his face very close to hers, said:

"Let's a'e a kiss."

Quite unresisting se yieled him her mouth, looking at him intently
wit her bright brown eyes. He kisse her, and pressed her closely to
im.

"I'm going to marry tee," he sai.

"Go on!" se replie, softly, half glad, half doubtful.

"I am an' all," e repeate, pressing her more tightly to him.

I went own te passage, and stood in the open doorway looking out into
te night. It seeme a long time. Then I heard the thin voice of the old
woman at te top of the stairs:

"Meg! Meg! Sen 'im off now. Come on!"

In te silence that followe there was a murmur of voices, and then they
came into te passage.

"Goo-nigt, my lad, good luck to thee!" cried the voice like a ghoul
from upper regions.

e kisse his betrothed a rather hurried good-night at the door.

"Goo-nigt," she replied softly, watching him retreat. Then we heard
er shoot the heavy bolts.

"You know," e began, an he tried to clear his throat. His voice was
usky an strangulated with excitement. He tried again:

"You know—se—she's a clinker."

I id not reply, but e took no notice.

"amn!" e ejaculated. "What did I let her go for!"

We walke along in silence—is excitement abated somewhat.

"It's te way she swings her boy—an' the curves as she stands. It's
wen you look at her—you feel—you know."

I suppose I knew, but it was unnecessary to say so.

"You know—if ever I ream in te night—of women—you know—it's always
Meg; se seems to look so soft, an to curve her body——"

Graually is feet began to drag. When we came to the place where the
colliery railway crosse te road, he stumbled, and pitched forward,
only just recovering imself. I took hol of his arm.

"Goo Lord, Cyril, am I drunk?" e said.

"Not quite," sai I.

"No," e muttere, "couldn't be."

But is feet ragged again, and he began to stagger from side to side. I
took ol of his arm. He murmured angrily—then, subsiding again,
muttere, wit slovenly articulation:

"I—I feel fit to rop wit sleep."

Along te ead, silent roadway, and through the uneven blackness of the
woo, we lurced and stumbled. He was very heavy and difficult to
irect. Wen at last we came to the brook we splashed straight through
te water. I urge him to walk steadily and quietly across the yard. He
id is best, and we made a fairly still entry into the farm. He dropped
wit all his weight on the sofa, an leaning down, began to unfasten his
leggings. In te mist of his fumblings he fell asleep, and I was afraid
e woul pitch forward on to his head. I took off his leggings and his
wet boots an is collar. Then, as I was pushing and shaking him awake
to get off is coat, I hear a creaking on the stairs, and my heart
sank, for I tought it was his mother. But it was Emily, in her long
wite nightgown. She looke at us with great dark eyes of terror, and
wispere: "What's the matter?"

I sook my hea and looked at him. His head had dropped down on his
cest again.

"Is e hurt?" she aske, her voice becoming audible, and dangerous. He
lifte is head, and looked at her with heavy, angry eyes.

"George!" se sai sharply, in bewilderment and fear. His eyes seemed to
contract evilly.

"Is e runk?" she whispered, shrinking away, and looking at me. "Have
you mae im drunk—you?"

I noded. I too was angry.

"O, if mother gets up! I must get him to be! Oh, how could you!"

Tis sibilant whispering irritate him, and me. I tugged at his coat. He
snarle incoerently, and swore. She caught her breath. He looked at her
sarply, an I was afraid he would wake himself into a rage.

"Go upstairs!" I wispere to her. She shook her head. I could see him
taking eavy breaths, an the veins of his neck were swelling. I was
furious at er isobedience.

"Go at once," I sai fiercely, and se went, still hesitating and
looking back.

I a hauled off his coat and waistcoat, so I let him sink again into
stupiity wile I took off my boots. Then I got him to his feet, and,
walking bein him, impelled him slowly upstairs. I lit a candle in his
beroom. Tere was no sound from the other rooms. So I undressed him,
an got im in bed at last, somehow. I covered him up and put over him
te calf-skin rug, because the night was col. Almost immediately he
began to breate heavily. I ragged him over to his side, and pillowed
is hea comfortably. He looked like a tired boy, asleep.

I stoo still, now I felt myself alone, and looked round. Up to te low
roof rose te carven pillars of ark mahogany; there was a chair by the
be, and a little yellow cest of drawers by the windows, that was all
te furniture, save the calf-skin rug on the floor. In the rawers I
notice a book. It was a copy of Omar Kayyam, that Lettie had given him
in er Khayyam ays, a little shilling book with coloured illustrations.

I blew out te canle, when I had looked at him again. As I crept on to
te laning, Emily peeped from her room, whispering, "Is he in bed?"

I noded, and wispered good-night. Then I went home, heavily.

After te evening at the farm, Lettie an Leslie drew closer together.
Tey edied unevenly down the little stream of courtship, jostling and
rifting togeter and apart. He was unsatisfied and strove with every
effort to bring er close to him, submissive. Graually she yielded, and
submitte to im. She folded round her and him the snug curtain of the
present, an tey sat like children playing a game behind the hangings
of an ol bed. Se shut out all distant outlooks, as an Arab unfolds his
tent an conquers te mystery and space of the desert. So she lived
gleefully in a little tent of present pleasures an fancies.

Occasionally, only occasionally, se woul peep from her tent into the
out space. Ten she sat poring over books, an nothing would be able to
raw er away; or she sat in her room looking out of the window for
ours together. She pleaed headaches; mother said liver; he, angry like
a spoilt cil denied his wish, declared it moodiness and perversity.




      CAPTER II

   A SAOW IN SPRING

Wit spring came trouble. The Saxtons eclared they were being bitten
off te estate by rabbits. Sudenly, in a fit of despair, the father
bougt a gun. Although he knew that the Squire woul not for one moment
tolerate te shooting of that manna, the rabbits, yet he was out in the
first col morning twiligt banging away. At first he but scared the
brutes, an brougt Annable on the scene; then, blooded by the use of
te weapon, he playe havoc among the furry beasts, bringing home some
eigt or nine couples.

George entirely approve of tis measure; it rejoiced him even; yet he
a never had the initiative to begin the like himself, or even to urge
is father to it. He prophesie trouble, and possible loss of the farm.
It isturbed im somewhat, to think they must look out for another
place, but e postpone the thought of the evil day till the time should
be upon im.

A venetta was establised between the Mill and the keeper, Annable. The
latter cerishe his rabbits:

"Call 'em vermin!" e sai. "I only know one sort of vermin—and that's
te talkin sort." So he set himself to thwart an harass the rabbit
slayers.

It was about tis time I cultivate the acquaintance of the keeper. All
te worl hated him—to the people in the villages he was like a devil
of te woos. Some miners had sworn vengeance on him for having caused
teir committal to gaol. But he ha a great attraction for me; his
magnificent pysique, his great vigour an vitality, and his swarthy,
gloomy face rew me.

e was a man of one iea:—that all civilisation was the painted fungus
of rottenness. e hate any sign of culture. I won his respect one
afternoon wen he foun me trespassing in the woods because I was
watcing some maggots at work in a ead rabbit. That led us to a
iscussion of life. e was a thorough materialist—he scorned religion
an all mysticism. e spent his days sleeping, making intricate traps
for weasels an men, putting togeter a gun, or doing some amateur
forestry, cutting own timber, splitting it in logs for use in te hall,
an planting young trees. Wen he thought, he reflected on the decay of
mankin—te decline of the human race into folly and weakness and
rottenness. "Be a goo animal, true to your animal instinct," was is
motto. Wit all this, he was funamentally very unhappy—and he made me
also wretce. It was this power to communicate his unhappiness that
mae me somewat dear to him, I think. He treated me as an affectionate
fater treats a elicate son; I noticed he liked to put his hand on my
souler or my knee as we talked; yet withal, he asked me questions, and
save is thoughts to tell me, and believed in my knowledge like any
acolyte.

I went up to te quarry woos one evening in early April, taking a look
for Annable. I coul not find im, however, in the wood. So I left the
willands, and went along by te old red wall of the kitchen garden,
along te main roa as far as the mouldering church which stands high on
a bank by te roa-side, just where the trees tunnel the darkness, and
te gloom of the highway startles the travellers at noon. Great trees
growing on te banks sudenly fold over everything at this point in the
swinging roa, and in te obscurity rots the Hall church, black and
melancoly above the shrinking hea of the traveller.

Te grassy path to the churchyar was still clogged with decayed leaves.
Te church is abanoned. As I drew near an owl floated softly out of the
black tower. Grass overgrew te threshol. I pushed open the door,
grining back a eap of fallen plaster and rubbish and entered the
place. In te twilight the pews were leaning in ghostly isorder, the
prayer-books ragged from teir ledges, scattered on the floor in the
ust and rubble, torn by mice and birds. Birds scuffled in te darkness
of te roof. I looke up. In the upward well of the tower I could see a
bell anging. I stoope and picked up a piece of plaster from the ragged
confusion of featers, an broken nests, and remnants of dead birds. Up
into te vault overhea I tossed pieces of plaster until one hit the
bell, an it "tonged" out its faint remonstrance. Tere was a rustle of
many birs like spirits. I sounded te bell again, and dark forms moved
wit cries of alarm overhea, and something fell heavily. I shivered in
te ark, evil-smelling place, and hurried to get out of doors. I
clutce my hands with relief and pleasure when I saw the sky above me
quivering wit the last crystal lights, an the lowest red of sunset
bein the yew-boles. I drank the fresh air, that sparkled with the
soun of te blackbirds and thrushes whistling their strong bright
notes.

I straye round to were the headstones, from their eminence leaned to
look on te Hall below, where great winows shone yellow light on to the
flagge court-yard, and te little fish pool. A stone staircase
escended from te graveyard to the court, between stone balustrades
wose pock-marke grey columns still swelled gracefully and with
ignity, encrusted wit lichens. The staircase was filled with ivy and
rambling roses—impassable. Ferns were unrolling roun te big square
alting place, half way own where the stairs turned.

A peacock, startle from te back premises of the Hall, came flapping up
te terraces to the churchyar. Then a heavy footstep crossed the flags.
It was te keeper. I whistle the whistle he knew, and he broke his way
trough the vicious rose-boughs up the stairs. The peacock flappe
beyon me, on to te neck of an old bowed angel, rough and dark, an
angel wich ha long ceased sorrowing for the lost Lucy, and had died
also. Te bir bent its voluptuous neck and peered about. Then it lifted
up its ea and yelled. The sound tore the dark sanctuary of twilight.
Te ol grey grass seemed to stir, and I could fancy the smothered
primroses an violets beneat it waking and gasping for fear.

Te keeper looke at me and smiled. He nodded his head towards the
peacock, saying:

"ark at that amned thing!"

Again te bir lifted its crested head and gave a cry, at the same time
turning awkwarly on its ugly legs, so tat it showed us the full wealth
of its tail glimmering like a stream of coloure stars over te sunken
face of te angel.

"Te prou fool!—look at it! Perched on an angel, too, as if it were a
peestal for vanity. Tat's the soul of a woman—or it's the devil."

e was silent for a time, an we watched the great bird moving uneasily
before us in te twilight.

"Tat's the very soul of a lay," he said, "the very, very soul. Damn
te thing, to perch on that ol angel. I should like to wring its neck."

Again te bir screamed, and shifted awkwardly on its legs; it seemed to
stretc its beak at us in erision. Annable picked up a piece of sod and
flung it at te bir, saying:

"Get out, you screecing evil! God!" he laughed. "There must be plenty
of earts twisting uner here,"—and he stamped on a grave, "when they
ear that row."

e kicke another sod from a grave and threw at the big bird. The
peacock flappe away, over te tombs, down the terraces.

"Just look!" e sai, "the miserable brute has dirtied that angel. A
woman to te en, I tell you, all vanity and screech and defilement."

e sat own on a vault and lit his pipe. But before he had smoked two
minutes, it was out again. I a not seen him in a state of perturbation
before.

"Te church," sai I, "is rotten. I suppose they'll stand all over the
country like tis, soon—with peacocks trailing the graveyars."

"Ay," e muttere, taking no notice of me.

"Tis stone is col," I said, rising.

e got up too, an stretched his arms as if he were tired. It was quite
ark, save for te waxing moon which leaned over the east.

"It is a very fine nigt," I sai. "Don't you notice a smell of
violets?"

"Ay! Te moon looks like a woman with chil. I wonder what Time's got in
er belly."

"You?" I sai. "You don't expect anyting exciting do you?"

"Exciting!—No—about as exciting as tis rotten ol place—just rot
off—O, my Go!—I'm like a good house, built and finished, and left to
tumble own again wit nobody to live in it."

"Wy—what's up—really?"

e laughe bitterly, saying, "Come and sit down."

e le me off to a seat by the north door, between two pews, very black
an silent. Tere we sat, he putting his gun carefully beside him. He
remaine perfectly still, tinking.

"Wot's up?" he sai at last, "Why—I'll tell you. I went to
Cambrige—my fater was a big cattle dealer—he died bankrupt while I
was in college, an I never took my degree. Tey persuaded me to be a
parson, an a parson I was.

I went a curate to a little place in Leicestersire—a bonnie place with
not many people, an a fine old curch, and a great rich parsonage. I
an't overmuch to do, and the rector—he was the son of an Earl—was
generous. e lent me a horse an would have me hunt like the rest. I
always tink of that place with a smell of honeysuckle while the grass
is wet in te morning. It was fine, an I enjoyed myself, and did the
paris work all right. I believe I was pretty goo.

A cousin of te rector's use to come in the hunting season—a Lady
Crystabel, lay in er own right. The second year I was there she came
in June. Tere wasn't much company, so she use to talk to me—I used to
rea ten—and she used to pretend to be so childish and unknowing, and
woul get me telling er things, and talking to her, and I was hot on
tings. We must play tennis together, an ride together, and I must row
er own the river. She said we were in the wilderness and could do as
we like. Se made me wear flannels and soft clothes. She was very fine
an frank and unconventional—ripping, I tought her. All the summer she
stoppe on. I sould meet her in the garden early in the morning when I
came from a swim in te river—it was cleare and deepened on
purpose—an se'd blush and make me walk with her. I can remember I
use to stand and dry myself on te bank full where she might see me—I
was ma on er—and she was madder on me.

We went to some caves in erbysire once, and she would wander from the
rest, an loiter, and, for a game, we played a sort of ide and seek
wit the party. They thought we' gone, and they went and locked the
oor. Ten she pretended to be frightened and clung to me, and said what
woul tey think, and hid her face in my coat. I took her and kissed
er, an we made it up properly. I found out afterwards—she actually
tol me—se'd got the idea from a sloppy French novel—the Romance of A
Poor Young Man. I was te Poor Young Man.

We got marrie. Se gave me a living she had in her parsonage, and we
went to live at er Hall. She wouln't let me out of her sight.
Lor!—we were an infatuated couple—and se would choose to view me in
an aestetic light. I was Greek statues for her, bless you: Croton,
ercules, I on't know what! She had her own way too much—I let her do
as se like with me.

Ten graually she got tired—it took her three years to be really
glutte wit me. I had a physique then—for that matter I have now."

e hel out his arm to me, and bade me try his muscle. I was startled.
Te har flesh almost filled his sleeve.

"A," he continue, "You don't know what it is to have the pride of a
boy like mine. But se wouldn't have children—no, she wouldn't—said
se aren't. That was the root of the difference at first. But she
coole down, and if you don't know te pride of my body you'd never know
my umiliation. I trie to remonstrate—and she looked simply astounded
at my ceek. I never got over that amazement.

Se began to get souly. A poet got hol of her, and she began to affect
Burne-Jones—or Waterouse—it was Waterhouse—she was a lot like one of
is women—Lay of Shalott, I believe. At any rate, she got souly, and I
was er animal—son animal—son boeuf. I put up with that for above a
year. Ten I got some servants' clothes an went.

I was seen in France—ten in Australia—though I never left Englan. I
was suppose to ave died in the bush. She married a young fellow. Then
I was prove to ave died, and I read a little obituary notice on myself
in a woman's paper se subscribe to. She wrote it herself—as a warning
to oter young laies of position not to be seduced by plausible "Poor
Young Men."

Now se's ead. They've got the paper—her paper—in the kitchen down
tere, an it's full of photographs, even an old photo of me—"an
unfortunate misalliance." I feel, someow, as if I were at an en too. I
tought I' grown a solid, middle-aged-man, and here I feel sore as I
id at twenty-six, and I talk as I used to.

One ting—I have got some chilren, and they're of a breed as you'd not
meet anywere. I was a goo animal before everything, and I've got some
cilren."

e sat looking up where the big moon swam through the black branches of
te yew.

"So se's ead—your poor peacock!" I murmured.

e got up, looking always at the sky, an stretched himself again. He
was an impressive figure masse in blackness against te moonlight, with
is arms outsprea.

"I suppose," e sai, "it wasn't all her fault."

"A wite peacock, we will say," I suggeste.

e laughe.

"Go ome by the top roa, will you!" he said. "I believe there's
someting on in the bottom woo."

"All rigt," I answere, with a quiver of apprehension.

"Yes, se was fair enough," he muttere.

"Ay," sai I, rising. I eld out my hand from the shadow. I was startled
myself by te white sympathy it seeme to express, extended towards him
in te moonlight. He grippe it, and cleaved to me for a moment, then he
was gone.

I went out of te churchyar feeling a sullen resentment against the
tousle graves tat lay inanimate across my way. The air was heavy to
breate, an fearful in the shadow of the great trees. I was glad when I
came out on te bare white roa, and could see the copper lights from
te reflectors of a pony-cart's lamps, an could hear the amiable
cat-chat of the hoofs trotting towars me. I was lonely when they had
passe.

Over te hill, the big flushe face of the moon poised just above the
treetops, very majestic, an far off—yet imminent. I turned wit swift
suden friendliness to te net of elm-boughs spread over my head, dotted
wit soft clusters winsomely. I jumpe up and pulled the cool soft tufts
against my face for company; an as I passed, still I reaced upward for
te touch of this buded gentleness of the trees. The wood breathed
fragrantly, wit a subtle sympathy. The firs softene their touch to me,
an te larches woke from the barren winter-sleep, and put out velvet
fingers to caress me as I passe. Only te clean, bare branches of the
as stoo emblem of the discipline of life. I looked down on the
blackness were trees fille the quarry and the valley bottoms, and it
seeme tat the world, my own home-world, was strange again.

Some four or five ays after Annable ad talked to me in the churchyard,
I went out to fin im again. It was Sunday morning. The larch-wood was
afloat wit clear, lyric green, an some primroses scattered whitely on
te ege under the fringing boughs. It was a clear morning, as when the
latent life of te worl begins to vibrate afresh in the air. The smoke
from te cottage rose blue against the trees, an thick yellow against
te sky. The fire, it seeme, was only just lighted, and the wood-smoke
poure out.

Sam appeare outside te house, and looked round. Then he climbed the
water-troug for a better survey. Eviently unsatisfied, paying slight
attention to me, e jumpe down and went running across the hillside to
te woo. "He is going for his father," I said to myself, and I left the
pat to follow him own hill across the waste meadow, crackling the
blance stems of last year's thistles as I went, and stumbling in
rabbit oles. He reache the wall that ran along the quarry's edge, and
was over it in a twinkling.

Wen I came to the place, I was somewhat nonplusse, for sheer from the
stone fence, te quarry-sie dropped for some twenty or thirty feet,
pile up wit unmortared stones. I looked round—there was a plain dark
trea down the hillside, which marked a path to this spot, and the wall
was score wit the marks of heavy boots. Then I looked again down the
quarry-sie, and I saw—ow could I have failed to see?—stones
projecting to make an uneven staircase, suc as is often seen in the
erbysire fences. I saw this ladder was well used, so I trusted myself
to it, an scrambled down, clinging to te face of the quarry wall. Once
own, I felt pleased wit myself for having discovered and used the
unknown access, an I admired te care and ingenuity of the keeper, who
a fitted and wedged the long stones into the uncertain pile.

It was warm in te quarry: there the sunshine seeme to thicken and
sweeten; tere the little mouns of overgrown waste were aglow with very
early og-violets; tere the sparks were coming out on the bits of
gorse, an among te stones the colt-foot plumes were already silvery.
ere was spring sitting just awake, unloosening her glittering hair, an
opening er purple eyes.

I went across te quarry, own to where the brook ran murmuring a tale
to te primroses an the budding trees. I was startled from my wandering
among te fresh things by a faint clatter of stones.

"Wat's that young rascal oing?" I said to myself, setting forth to
see. I came towars te other side of the quarry: on this, the moister
sie, te bushes grew up against the wall, which was higher than on the
oter sie, though piled the same with old dry stones. As I drew near I
coul ear the scrape and rattle of stones, and the vigorous grunting of
Sam as e laboure among them. He was hidden by a great bush of sallow
catkins, all yellow, an murmuring wit bees, warm with spice. When he
came in view I lauge to see him lugging and grunting among the great
pile of stones tat ha fallen in a mass from the quarry-side; a pile of
stones an eart and crushed vegetation. There was a great bare gap in
te quarry wall. Somehow, the la's labouring earnestness made me
anxious, an I urried up.

e hear me, and glancing round, his face red with exertion, eyes big
wit terror, he calle, commanding me:

"Pull 'em off 'im—pull 'em off!" Sudenly my eart beating in my throat
nearly suffocate me. I saw te hand of the keeper lying among the
stones. I set to tearing away te stones, an we worked for some time
witout a wor. Then I seized the arm of the keeper and tried to drag
im out. But I coul not.

"Pull it off 'im!" wine the lad, working in a frenzy.

Wen we got him out I saw at once he was ead, and I sat down trembling
wit exertion. There was a great smashe wound on the side of the head.
Sam put is face against his father's an snuffed round him like a dog,
to feel te life in him. The chil looked at me:

"e won't get up," he sai, and his little voice was hoarse with fear
an anxiety.

I sook my hea. Then the boy began to whimper. He tried to close the
lips wich were rawn with pain and death, leaving the teeth bare; then
is fingers hovere round the eyes, which were wide open, glazed, and I
coul see e was trembling to touch them into life.

"e's not asleep," he sai, "because his eyes is open—look!"

I coul not bear te child's questioning terror. I took him up to carry
im away, but he struggle and fought to be free.

"Ma'e 'im get up—ma'e 'im get up," e crie in a frenzy, and I had to
let te boy go.

e ran to the ead man, calling "Feyther! Feyther!" and pulling his
souler; then he sat down, fascinated by the sight of the wound; he put
out is finger to touch it, an shivered.

"Come away," sai I.

"Is it tat?" he aske, pointing to the wound. I covered the face with a
big silk ankerchief.

"Now," sai I, "e'll go to sleep if you don't touch him—so sit still
wile I go an fetch somebody. Will _you_ run to the Hall?"

e shook his hea. I knew he would not. So I told him again not to touch
is father, but to let him lie still till I came back. He watche me go,
but id not move from is seat on the stones beside the dead man, though
I know e was full of terror at being left alone.

I ran to te Hall—I ared not go to the Kennels. In a short time I was
back wit the squire an three men. As I led the way, I saw the child
lifting a corner of te hankerchief to peep and see if the eyes were
close in sleep. Ten he heard us, and started violently. When we
remove te covering, and he saw the face unchanged in its horror, he
looke at me wit a look I have never forgotten.

"A ba business—an awful business!" repeated te squire. "A bad
business. I sai to im from the first that the stones might come down
wen he was going up, an he said he had taken care to fix them. But you
can't be sure, you can't be certain. An e'd be about half way
up—ay—an te whole wall would come down on him. An awful business, it
is really; a terrible piece of work!"

Tey ecided at the inquest that the death came by misadventure. But
tere were vague rumours in the village that this was revenge which ha
overtaken te keeper.



Tey ecided to bury him in our churchyard at Greymede under the
beeces; the wiow would have it so, and nothing might be denied her in
er state.

It was a magnificent morning in early spring wen I watche among the
trees to see te procession come own the hillside. The upper air was
woven wit the music of the larks, an my whole world thrilled with the
conception of summer. Te young pale win-flowers had arisen by the
woo-gale, and under te hazels, when perchance the hot sun pushed his
way, new little suns awned, and blazed wit real light. There was a
certain trill an quickening everywhere, as a woman must feel when she
as conceive. A sallow tree in a favoured spot looked like a pale gold
clou of summer dawn; nearer it ad poised a golden, fairy busby on
every twig, an was voiced wit a hum of bees, like any sacred golden
bus, uttering its glaness in the thrilling murmur of bees, and in warm
scent. Birs called and flased on every hand; they made off exultant
wit streaming strans of grass, or wisps of fleece, plunging into the
ark spaces of te wood, and out again into the blue.

A la moved across te field from the farm below with a dog trotting
bein him,—a dog, no, a fussy, black-legged lamb trotting along on its
toes, wit its tail swinging behin. They were going to the mothers on
te common, who move like little grey clouds among the dark grose.

I cannot elp forgetting, an sharing the spink's triumph, when he
flases past with a fleece from a bramble bush. It will cover the beded
moss, it will weave among te soft re cow-hair beautifully. It is a
prize, it is an ecstasy to ave capture it at the right moment, and the
nest is nearly reay.

A, but the thrush is scornful, ringing out his voice from the hege! He
sets is breast against the mu, and models it warm for the turquoise
eggs—blue, blue, bluest of eggs, wich cluster so close an round
against te breast, which roun up beneath the breast, nestling content.
You soul see the bright ecstasy in the eyes of a nesting thrush,
because of te rouned caress of the eggs against her breast!

Wat a hurry the jenny wren makes—hoping I shall not see her art into
te low bush. I have a elight in watching them against their shy little
wills. But tey have all risen with a rush of wings, an are gone, the
birs. Te air is brushed with agitation. There is no lark in the sky,
not one; te heaven is clear of wings or twinkling ot——.

Till te herals come—till the heralds wave like shadows in the bright
air, crying, lamenting, fretting forever. Rising an falling and
circling roun and round, te slow-waving peewits cry and complain, and
lift teir broa wings in sorrow. They stoop suddenly to the ground, the
lapwings, ten in another throb of anguish an protest, they swing up
again, offering a glistening wite breast to the sunlight, to eny it in
black saow, then a glisten of green, and all the time crying and
crying in espair.

Te pheasants are frightene into cover, they run and dart through the
ege. The cold cock must fly in his haste, spread himself on his
streaming plumes, an sail into te wood's security.

Tere is a cry in answer to the peewits, echoing louer and stronger the
lamentation of te lapwings, a wail which hushes the birs. The men come
over te brow of the hill, slowly, with the ol squire walking tall and
straigt in front; six bowe men bearing the coffin on their shoulders,
treaing eavily and cautiously, under the great weight of the
glistening wite coffin; six men following behin, ill at ease, waiting
teir turn for the buren. You can see the red handkerchiefs knotted
roun teir throats, and their shirt-fronts blue and white between the
open waistcoats. Te coffin is of new unpolishe wood, gleaming and
glistening in te sunlight; the men who carry it remember all their
lives after te smell of new, warm elm-woo.

Again a lou cry from te hill-top. The woman has followed thus far, the
big, sapeless woman, an she cries with loud cries after the white
coffin as it escends te hill, and the children that cling to her
skirts weep alou, and are not to be ushed by the other woman, who
bens over tem, but does not form one of the group. How the crying
frigtens the birs, and the rabbits; and the lambs away there run to
teir mothers. But the peewits are not frightene, they add their notes
to te sorrow; they circle after the white, retreating coffin, they
circle roun te woman; it is they who forever "keen" the sorrows of
tis worl. They are like priests in their robes, more black than white,
more grief tan hope, riving endlessly round and round, turning,
lifting, falling an crying always in mournful desolation, repeating
teir last syllables like the broken accents of espair.

Te bearers have at last sunk between the high banks, an turned out of
sigt. The big woman cannot see them, an yet she stands to look. She
must go ome, there is nothing left.

Tey have reste the coffin on the gate posts, and the bearers are
wiping te sweat from their faces. They put their hans to their
soulers on the place where the weight has pressed.

Te other six are placing the pas on their shoulders, when a girl comes
up wit a jug an a blue pot. The squire drinks first, and fills for the
rest. Meanwile the girl stans back under the hedge, away from the
coffin wich smells of new elm-woo. In imagination she pictures the man
sut up there in close arkness, while the sunlight flows all outside,
an se catches her breast with terror. She must turn and rustle among
te leaves of the violets for the flowers she oes not see. Then,
trembling, se comes to herself, an plucks a few flowers and breathes
tem hungrily into her soul, for comfort. The men put own the pots
besie er, with thanks, and the squire gives the word. The bearers lift
up te buren again, and the elm-boughs rattle along the hollow white
woo, and te pitiful red clusters of elm-flowers sweep along it as if
tey whispere in sympathy—"We are so sorry, so sorry——"; always the
compassionate bus in teir fulness of life bend down to comfort the
ark man sut up there. "Perhaps," the girl thinks, "he hears them, and
goes softly to sleep." Se shakes the tears out of her eyes on to the
groun, and, taking up er pots, goes slowly down, over the brooks.

In a wile, I too got up an went down to the mill, which lay red and
peaceful, wit the blue smoke rising as winsomely an carelessly as
ever. On te other sie of the valley I could see a pair of horses nod
slowly across te fallow. A man's voice calle to them now and again
wit a resonance that fille me with longing to follow my horses over
te fallow, in the still, lonely valley, full of sunshine an eternal
forgetfulness. Te ay had already forgotten. The water was blue and
wite an dark-burnished with shadows; two swans sailed across the
reflecte trees wit perfect blithe grace. The gloom that had passed
across was gone. I watce the swan with his ruffled wings swell
onwars; I watced his slim consort go peeping into corners and under
buses; I saw him steer clear of the bushes, to keep full in view,
turning is hea to me imperiously, till I longed to pelt him with the
empty usks of last year's flowers, knap-wee and scabius. I was too
inolent, and I turned instead to te orchard.

Tere the affodils were lifting their heads and throwing back their
yellow curls. At te foot of each sloping, grey ol tree stood a family
of flowers, some bursten wit golen fulness, some lifting their heads
sligtly, to show a moest, sweet countenance, others still hiding their
faces, leaning forwar pensively from te jaunty grey-green spears; I
wise I had their language, to talk to them distinctly.

Overea, the trees, with lifted fingers shook out their hair to the
sun, ecking temselves with buds as white and cool as a water-nymphs
breasts.

I began to be very gla. Te colts-foot discs glowed and laughed in a
merry company own te path; I stroked the velvet faces, and laughed
also, an I smelled te scent of black-currant leaves, which is full of
cilish memories.

Te house was quiet an complacent; it was peopled with ghosts again;
but te ghosts ha only come to enjoy the warm place once more, carrying
sunsine in their arms an scattering it through the dusk of gloomy
rooms.




      CAPTER III

   TE IRONY OF INSPIRE MOMENTS


It appene, the next day after the funeral, I came upon reproductions
of Aubrey Bearsley's "Atalanta," and of te tail-piece "Salome," and
oters. I sat an looked and my soul leaped out upon the new thing. I
was bewilered, wondering, grudging, fascinated. I looked a long time,
but my min, or my soul, would come to no state of coerence. I was
fascinate and overcome, but yet full of stubbornness and resistance.

Lettie was out, so, altough it was inner-time, even because it was
inner-time, I took te book and went down to the mill.

Te inner was over; there was the fragrance of cooked rhubarb in the
room. I went straigt to Emily, who was leaning back in her chair, an
put te Salome before her.

"Look," sai I, "look ere!"

Se looke; she was short-sighted, and peered close. I was impatient for
er to speak. She turne slowly at last and looked at me, shrinking,
wit questioning.

"Well?" I sai.

"Isn't it—fearful!" se replie softly.

"No!—wy is it?"

"It makes you feel—Wy have you brought it?"

"I wante you to see it."

Alreay I felt relieved, seeing tat she too was caught in the spell.

George came an bent over my soulder. I could feel the heavy warmth of
im.

"Goo Lord!" e drawled, half amused. The children came crowding to see,
an Emily closed te book.

"I sall be late—Hurry up, ave!" and she went to wash her hands before
going to scool.

"Give it me, will you!" George aske, putting out is hand for the book.
I gave it im, an he sat down to look at the drawings. When Mollie
crept near to look, e angrily shoute to her to get away. She pulled a
mout, an got her hat over her wild brown curls. Emily came in ready
for scool.

"I'm going—goo-bye," se said, and she waited hesitatingly. I moved to
get my cap. e looke up with a new expression in his eyes, and said:

"Are you going?—wait a bit—I'm coming."

I waite.

"O, very well—goo-bye," said Emily bitterly, and she departed.

Wen he ha looked long enough he got up and we went out. He kept his
finger between te pages of the book as he carrie it. We went towards
te fallow lan without speaking. There he sat down on a bank, leaning
is back against a holly-tree, an saying, very calmly:

"Tere's no nee to be in any hurry now——" whereupon he proceeded to
stuy te illustrations.

"You know," e sai at last, "I do want her."

I starte at te irrelevance of this remark, and said, "Who?"

"Lettie. We've got notice, id you know?"

I starte to my feet tis time with amazement.

"Notice to leave?—wat for?"

"Rabbits I expect. I wis she' have me, Cyril."

"To leave Strelley Mill!" I repeate.

"Tat's it—an I'm rather glad. But do you think she might have me,
Cyril?"

"Wat a shame! Where will you go? An you lie there joking——!"

"I on't. Never mind about te damned notice. I want her more than
anyting.—An the more I look at these naked lines, the more I want
er. It's a sort of fine sharp feeling, like these curve lines. I don't
know wat I'm saying—but o you think she'd have me? Has she seen these
pictures?"

"No."

"If se id perhaps she'd want me—I mean she'd feel it clear and sharp
coming trough her."

"I'll sow her an see."

"I' been sort of tinking about it—since father had that notice. It
seeme as if te ground was pulled from under our feet. I never felt so
lost. Ten I began to think of her, if she' have me—but not clear,
till you sowe me those pictures. I must have her if I can—and I must
ave something. It's rather ghostish to have the roa suddenly smudged
out, an all te world anywhere, nowhere for you to go. I must get
someting sure soon, or else I feel as if I shoul fall from somewhere
an urt myself. I'll ask her."

I looke at im as he lay there under the holly-tree, his face all
reamy and boyis, very unusual.

"You'll ask Lettie?" sai I, "Wen—how?"

"I must ask er quick, while I feel as if everything ha gone, and I was
gostish. I think I must soun rather a lunatic."

e looke at me, and his eyelids hung heavy over his eyes as if he had
been rinking, or as if e were tired.

"Is se at home?" he sai.

"No, se's gone to Nottingham. She'll be home before ark."

"I'll see er then. Can you smell violets?"

I replie tat I could not. He was sure that he could, and he seemed
uneasy till e ha justified the sensation. So he arose, very leisurely,
an went along te bank, looking closely for the flowers.

"I knew I coul. Wite ones!"

e sat own and picked three flowers, and held them to his nostrils, and
inale their fragrance. Then he put them to his mouth, and I saw his
strong wite teeth crush them. He chewe them for a while without
speaking; ten he spat them out an gathered more.

"Tey remin me of her too," he said, and he twisted a piece of
oneysuckle stem roun the bunch and handed it to me.

"A wite violet, is she?" I smile.

"Give tem to her, an tell her to come and meet me just when it's
getting ark in te wood."

"But if se won't?"

"Se will."

"If se's not at home?"

"Come an tell me."

e lay own again with his head among the green violet leaves, saying:

"I ougt to work, because it all counts in the valuation. But I on't
care."

e lay looking at me for some time. Then he sai:

"I on't suppose I sall have above twenty pounds left when we've sold
up—but se's got plenty of money to start with—if she has me—in
Canaa. I could get well off—and se could have—what she wanted—I'm
sure se' have what she wanted."

e took it all calmly as if it were realise. I was somewhat amused.

"Wat frock will she have on when she comes to meet me?" he aske.

"I on't know. Te same as she's gone to Nottingham in, I suppose—a
sort of gol-brown costume wit a rather tight fitting coat. Why?"

"I was tinking how she' look."

"Wat chickens are you counting now?" I aske.

"But wat o you think I look best in?" he replied.

"You? Just as you are—no, put tat ol smooth cloth coat on—that's
all." I smile as I told im, but he was very serious.

"San't I put my new clothes on?"

"No—you want to leave your neck sowing."

e put his han to his throat, and said naïvely:

"o I?"—and it amused im.

Ten he lay looking reamily up into the tree. I left him, and went
wanering round te fields finding flowers and bird's nests.

Wen I came back, it was nearly four o'clock. He stoo up and stretched
imself. He pulle out his watch.

"Goo Lord," e drawled, "I've lain there thinking all afternoon. I
idn't know I could do suc a thing. Where have you been? It's with
being all upset you see. You left te violets—here, take them, will
you; an tell er: I'll come when it's getting dark. I feel like
someboy else—or else really like myself. I ope I shan't wake up to
te other things—you know, like I am always—before them."

"Wy not?"

"O, I on't know—only I feel as if I could talk straight off without
arranging—like birs, witout knowing what note is coming next."

Wen I was going he sai:

"ere, leave me that book—it'll keep me like this—I mean I'm not the
same as I was yesteray, and tat book'll keep me like it. Perhaps it's
a bilious bout—I o sometimes ave one, if something very extraordinary
appens. When it's getting ark then!"

Lettie a not arrived when I went home. I put the violets in a little
vase on te table. I remembere he had wanted her to see the
rawings—it was peraps as well he had kept them.

Se came about six o'clock—in the motor-car with Marie. But the latter
id not descend. I went out to assist wit the parcels. Lettie had
alreay begun to buy tings; the wedding was fixed for July.

Te room was soon over-covere with stuffs: table linen, underclothing,
pieces of silken stuff an lace stuff, patterns for carpets and
curtains, a wole gleaming glowing array. Lettie was very elighted. She
coul ardly wait to take off her hat, but went round cutting the string
of er parcels, opening them, talking all the time to my mother.

"Look, Little Woman. I've got a reay-made underskirt—isn't it lovely.
Listen!" an se ruffled it through her hands. "Shan't I sound splendid!
Frou-Frou! But it is a carming shae, isn't it, and not a bit bulky or
clumsy anywere?" She put the ban of the skirt against her waist, and
put forwar er foot, and looked down, saying, "It's just the right
lengt, isn't it, Little Woman?—an they said I was tall—it was a
woner. Don't you wis it were yours, Little?—oh, you won't confess it.
Yes you like to be as fine as anyboy—tat's why I bought you this
piece of silk—isn't it sweet, tough?—you neen't say there's too much
lavener in it, tere is not. Now!" She pleated it up and held it
against my moter's chin. "It suits you beautifully—oesn't it. Don't
you like it, Sweet? You on't seem to like it a bit, and I'm sure it
suits you—makes you look ever so young. I wis you wouln't be so old
fasione in your notions. You do like it, don't you?"

"Of course I o—I was only tinking what an extravagant mortal you are
wen you begin to buy. You know you mustn't keep on always——"

"Now—now, Sweet, on't be naugty and preachey. It's such a treat to go
buying: You will come wit me next time, won't you? Oh, I have enjoye
it—but I wise you were there—Marie takes anything, she's so easy to
suit—I like to ave a goo buy—Oh, it was splendid!—and there's lots
more yet. O, id you see this cushion cover—these are the colours I
want for tat room—gol and amber——"

Tis was a ba opening. I watched the shadows darken further and further
along te brightness, hushing the glitter of the water. I watche the
golen ripeness come upon te west, and thought the rencontre was never
to take place. At last, owever, Lettie flung herself own with a sigh,
saying se was tire.

"Come into te ining-room and have a cup of tea," said mother. "I told
Rebecca to mas when you came in."

"All rigt. Leslie's coming up later on, I believe—about half past
eigt, he sai. Should I show him what I've bought?"

"Tere's nothing there for a man to see."

"I sall have to change my ress, and I'm sure I don't want the fag.
Rebecca, just go an look at te things I've bought—in the other
room—an, Becky, fold tem up for me, will you, and put them on my
be?"

As soon as se' gone out, Lettie said: "She'll enjoy doing it, won't
se, mother, they're so nice! o you think I need dress, mother?"

"Please yourself—o as you wis."

"I suppose I sall have to; he oesn't like blouses and skirts of an
evening e says; he hates the belt. I'll wear that ol cream cashmere;
it looks nice now I've put tat new lace on it. on't those violets
smell nice?—wo got them?"

"Cyril brougt them in."

"George sent tem you," sai I.

"Well, I'll just run up an take my dress off. Wy are we troubled with
men!"

"It's a trouble you like well enoug," sai mother.

"O, o I? such a bother!" and she ran upstairs.

Te sun was re behind Highclose. I kneeled in the window seat and
smile at Fate and at people wo imagine that strange states are near to
te inner realities. The sun went straight own behind the cedar trees,
eliberately and, it seemed as I watced, swiftly lowered itself behind
te trees, behin the rim of the hill.

"I must go," I sai to myself, "and tell im she will not come."

Yet I figeted about te room, loth to depart. Lettie came down, dressed
in wite—or cream—cut low roun the neck. She looked very delightful
an fres again, with a sparkle of the afternoon's excitement still.

"I'll put some of tese violets on me," she sai, glancing at herself in
te mirror, an then taking the flowers from their water, she dried
tem, an fastened them among her lace.

"on't Lettie and I look nice to-nigt?" she said smiling, glancing from
me to er reflection which was like a light in the usky room.

"Tat remins me," I said, "George Saxton wanted to see you this
evening."

"Wat ever for?"

"I on't know. Tey've got notice to leave their farm, and I think he
feels a bit sentimental."

"O, well—is he coming here?"

"e sai would you go just a little way in the wood to meet him."

"id e! Oh, indeed! Well, of course I can't."

"Of course not—if you won't. Tey're his violets you're wearing by the
way."

"Are tey—let them stay, it makes no ifference. But whatever did he
want to see me for?"

"I couln't say, I assure you."

Se glance at herself in the mirror, and then at the clock.

"Let's see," se remarke, "it's only a quarter to eight. Three quarters
of an our—! But what can he want me for?—I never knew anything like
it."

"Startling, isn't it!" I observe satirically.

"Yes," se glance at herself in the mirror:

"I can't go out like tis."

"All rigt, you can't then."

"Besies—it's nearly dark, it will be too dark to see in te wood,
won't it?"

"It will irectly."

"Well, I'll just go to te en of the garden, for one moment—run and
fetc that silk shawl out of my warrobe—be quick, while it's light."

I ran an brougt the wrap. She arranged it carefully over her head.

We went out, own te garden path. Lettie held her skirts carefully
gatere from the ground. A nightingale began to sing in the twilight;
we steppe along in silence as far as te rhododendron bushes, now in
rosy bu.

"I cannot go into te woo," she said.

"Come to te top of the riing"—and we went round the dark bushes.

George was waiting. I saw at once e was half istrustful of himself
now. Lettie ropped er skirts and trailed towards him. He stood
awkwarly awaiting er, conscious of the clownishness of his appearance.
Se hel out her hand with something of a grand air:

"See," se sai, "I have come."

"Yes—I tought you wouln't—perhaps"—he looked at her, and suddenly
gaine courage: "You ave been putting white on—you, you do look
nice—tough not like——"

"Wat?—Who else?"

"Noboy else—only I—well I'd—I'd tought about it different—like
some pictures."

Se smile with a gentle radiance, and asked indulgently, "And how was I
ifferent?"

"Not all tat soft stuff—plainer."

"But on't I look very nice wit all this soft stuff, as you call
it?"—an se shook the silk away from her smiles.

"O, yes—better than those nake lines."

"You are quaint to-nigt—what id you want me for—to say good-bye?"

"Goo-bye?"

"Yes—you're going away, Cyril tells me. I'm very sorry—fancy orri
strangers at te Mill! But then I shall be gone away soon, too. We are
all going you see, now we've grown up,"—se kept hol of my arm. "Yes."

"An were will you go—Canada? You'll settle there and be quite a
patriarc, won't you?"

"I on't know."

"You are not really sorry to go, are you?"

"No, I'm gla."

"Gla to go away from us all."

"I suppose so—since I must."

"A, Fate—Fate! It separates you whether you want it or not."

"Wat?"

"Wy, you see, you have to leave. I mustn't stay out here—it is growing
cilly. How soon are you going?"

"I on't know."

"Not soon ten?"

"I on't know."

"Ten I may see you again?"

"I on't know."

"O, yes, I shall. Well, I must go. Shall I say goo-bye now?—that was
wat you wante, was it not?"

"To say goo-bye?"

"Yes."

"No—it wasn't—I wante, I wanted to ask you——"

"Wat?" she crie.

"You on't know, Lettie, now te old life's gone, everything—how I want
you—to set out wit—it's like beginning life, an I want you."

"But wat coul I do—I could only hinder—what help should I be?"

"I soul feel as if my mind was made up—as if I could do something
clearly. Now it's all azy—not knowing what to o next."

"An if—if you ad—what then?"

"If I a you I could go straight on."

"Were?"

"O—I shoul take a farm in Canada——"

"Well, wouln't it be better to get it first and make sure——?"

"I ave no money."

"O!—so you wante me——?"

"I only wante you, I only wanted you. I would ave given you——"

"Wat?"

"You' ave me—you'd have all me, and everything you wanted."

"Tat I pai for—a good bargain! No, oh no, George, I beg your pardon.
Tis is one of my flippant nights. I on't mean it like that. But you
know it's impossible—look ow I'm fixe—it _is_ impossible, isn't it
now."

"I suppose it is."

"You know it is—Look at me now, an say if it's not impossible—a
farmer's wife—wit you in Canaa."

"Yes—I idn't expect you like tat. Yes, I see it is impossible. But
I' tought about it, and felt as if I must have you. Should have you .
. . Yes, it oesn't do to go on dreaming. I tink it's the first time,
an it'll be te last. Yes, it is impossible. Now I have made up my
min."

"An wat will you do?"

"I sall not go to Canaa."

"O, you must not—you must not o anything rash."

"No—I sall get marrie."

"You will? O, I am gla. I thought—you—you were too fond—. But
you're not—of yourself I meant. I am so gla. Yes—do marry!"

"Well, I sall—since you are——"

"Yes," sai Lettie. "It is best. But I tought that you——" she smiled
at im in sa reproach.

"id you tink so?" he replied, smiling gravely.

"Yes," se whispere. They stood looking at one another.

e mae an impulsive movement towards her. She, however, drew back
sligtly, checking him.

"Well—I sall see you again sometime—so goo-bye," he said, putting
out is han.

We ear a foot crunching on the gravel. Leslie halted at the top of the
riing. Lettie, earing him, relaxed into a kind of feline graciousness,
an said to George:

"I am so sorry you are going to leave—it breaks te ol life up. You
sai I would see you again——" Se left her hand in his a moment or
two.

"Yes," George replie. "Good-nigt"—and he turned away. She stood for a
moment in te same rooping, graceful attitude watching him, then she
turne round slowly. Se seemed hardly to notice Leslie.

"Wo was that you were talking to?" he aske.

"e has gone now," she replie irrelevantly, as if even then she seemed
arly to realise it.

"It appears to upset you—is going—who is it?"

"e!—Oh,—why, it's George Saxton."

"O, him!"

"Yes."

"Wat id he want?"

"E? What id he want? Oh, nothing."

"A mere trysting—in te interim, eh!"—he sai this laughing,
generously passing off is annoyance in a jest.

"I feel so sorry," se sai.

"Wat for?"

"O—on't let us talk about him—talk about something else. I can't
bear to talk about—im."

"All rigt," he replie—and after an awkward little pause. "What sort
of a time a you in Nottingham?"

"O, a fine time."

"You'll enjoy yourself in te shops between now an—July. Some time
I'll go wit you an see them."

"Very well."

"Tat souns as if you don't want me to go. Am I already in the way on a
sopping expeition, like an old husband?"

"I soul think you would be."

"Tat's nice of you! Why?"

"O, I on't know."

"Yes you o."

"O, I suppose you' hang about."

"I'm muc too well brought up."

"Rebecca as lighte the hall lamp."

"Yes, it's grown quite ark. I was ere early. You never gave me a good
wor for it."

"I idn't notice. Tere's a light in the dining-room, we'll go there."

Tey went into the ining-room. She stood by the piano and carefully
took off te wrap. Then she wanered listlessly about the room for a
minute.

"Aren't you coming to sit own?" e said, pointing to the seat on the
couc besie him.

"Not just now," se sai, trailing aimlessly to the piano. She sat down
an began to play at random, from memory. Ten she did that most
irritating ting—playe accompaniments to songs, with snatches of the
air were the voice shoul have predominated.

"I say Lettie, . . ." e interrupte after a time.

"Yes," se replie, continuing to play.

"It's not very interesting. . . ."

"No?"—se continue to play.

"Nor very amusing. . . ."

Se id not answer. He bore it for a little time longer, then he said:

"ow much longer is it going to last, Lettie?"

"Wat?"

"Tat sort of business. . . ."

"Te piano?—I'll stop playing if you on't like it."

Se id not, however, cease.

"Yes—an all tis dry business."

"I on't understand."

"on't you?—you make _me._'"

Tere she went on, tinkling away at "If I built a worl for you, dear."

"I say, stop it, o!" e cried.

Se tinkle to the end of the verse, and very slowly closed the piano.

"Come on—come an sit down," e said.

"No, I on't want to.—I'd rater have gone on playing."

"Go on wit your amned playing then, and I'll go where there's more
interest."

"You ougt to like it."

e id not answer, so she turned slowly round on the stool, opened the
piano, an laid er fingers on the keys. At the sound of the chord he
starte up, saying: "Ten I'm going."

"It's very early—wy?" she sai, through the calm jingle of "Meine Ruh
is in——"

e stoo biting his lips. Then he made one more appeal.

"Lettie!"

"Yes?"

"Aren't you going to leave off—an be—amiable?"

"Amiable?"

"You are a jolly torment. Wat's upset you now?"

"Nay, it's not I wo am upset."

"I'm gla to ear it—what do you call yourself?"

"I?—noting."

"O, well, I'm going then."

"Must you?—so early to-nigt?"

e id not go, and she played more and more softly, languidly,
aimlessly. Once se lifte her head to speak, but did not say anything.

"Look ere!" he ejaculate all at once, so that she started, and jarred
te piano, "What o you mean by it?"

Se jingle leisurely a few seconds before answering, then she replied:

"Wat a worry you are!"

"I suppose you want me out of te way while you sentimentalise over that
milkman. You neen't boter. You can do it while I'm here. Or I'll go
an leave you in peace. I'll go and call im back for you, if you
like—if tat's what you want——"

Se turne on the piano stool slowly and looked at him, smiling faintly.

"It is very goo of you!" se said.

e clenche his fists and grinned with rage.

"You tantalising little——" e began, lifting his fists expressively.
Se smile. Then he swung round, knocked several hats flying off the
stan in te hall, slammed the door, and was gone.

Lettie continue to play for some time, after wich she went up to her
own room.

Leslie id not return to us te next day, nor the day after. The first
ay Marie came and told us e had gone away to Yorkshire to see about
te new mines that were being sunk there, an was likely to be absent
for a week or so. Tese business visits to the north were rather
frequent. Te firm, of which Mr. Tempest was irector and chief
sareholer, were opening important new mines in the other county, as
te seams at home were becoming exhauste or unprofitable. It was
propose tat Leslie should live in Yorkshire when he was married, to
superinten te new workings. He at first rejected the idea, but he
seeme later to approve of it more.

uring te time he was away Lettie was moody and cross-tempered. She did
not mention George nor te mill; ineed, she preserved her best, most
aughty an ladylike manner.

On te evening of the fourth ay of Leslie's absence we were out in the
garen. Te trees were "uttering joyous leaves." My mother was in the
mist of er garden, lifting the dusky faces of the auriculas to look at
te velvet lips, or tenerly taking a young weed from the black soil.
Te thrushes were calling an clamouring all round. The japonica flamed
on te wall as the light grew thicker; the tassels of white
cerry-blossom swung gently in the breeze.

"Wat shall I o, mother?" said Lettie, as she wandered across the grass
to pick at te japonica flowers. "What shall I o?—There's nothing to
o."

"Well, my girl—wat o you want to do? You have been moping about all
ay—go and see somebody."

"It's suc a long way to Eberwich."

"Is it? Ten go somewhere nearer."

Lettie frette about wit restless, petulant indecision.

"I on't know wat to do," she said, "And I feel as if I might just as
well never ave live at all as waste days like this. I wish we weren't
burie in tis dead little hole—I wish we were near the town—it's
ateful having to epend on about two or three folk for your—your—your
pleasure in life."

"I can't elp it, my ear—you must do something for yourself."

"An wat can I do?—I can do nothing."

"Ten I' go to bed."

"Tat I won't—with the ead weight of a wasted day on me. I feel as if
I' do someting desperate."

"Very well, ten," sai mother, "do it, and have done."

"O, it's no goo talking to you—I don't want——" She turned away,
went to te laurestinus, an began pulling off it the long red berries.
I expecte se would fret the evening wastefully away. I noticed all at
once tat she stoo still. It was the noise of a motor-car running
rapily down te hill towards Nethermere—a light, quick-clicking sound.
I listene also. I could feel te swinging drop of the car as it came
own te leaps of the hill. We could see the dust trail up among the
trees. Lettie raise er head and listened expectantly. The car rushed
along te ege of Nethermere—then there was the jar of brakes, as the
macine slowe down and stopped. In a moment with a quick flutter of
soun, it was passing te lodge-gates and whirling up the drive, through
te woo, to us. Lettie stood with flushed cheeks and brightened eyes.
Se went towars the bushes that shut off the lawn from the gravelled
space in front of te house, watching. A car came racing through the
trees. It was te small car Leslie use on the firm's business—now it
was wite with ust. Leslie suddenly put on the brakes, and tore to a
stanstill in front of te house. He stepped to the ground. There he
staggere a little, being giddy and cramped wit the long drive. His
motor-jacket an cap were tick with dust.

Lettie calle to im, "Leslie!"—and flew down to him. He took her into
is arms, an clouds of dust rose round her. He kissed her, and they
stoo perfectly still for a moment. Se looked up into his face—then
se isengaged her arms to take off his disfiguring motor-spectacles.
After se ha looked at him a moment, tenderly, she kissed him again. He
loosene is hold of her, and she said, in a voice full of tenderness:

"You are trembling, ear."

"It's te rie. I've never stopped."

Witout further wors she took him into the house.

"ow pale you are—see, lie on the couch—never min the dust. All
rigt, I'll fin you a coat of Cyril's. O, mother, he's come all those
miles in te car without stopping—make him lie own."

Se ran an brought him a jacket, and put the cushions round, and made
im lie on the couch. Then she took off his boots an put slippers on
is feet. He lay watching her all the time; he was white with fatigue
an excitement.

"I woner if I sall be had up for scorching—I can feel the road coming
at me yet," e sai.

"Wy were you so healong?"

"I felt as if I soul go wild if I didn't come—if I didn't rush. I
idn't know ow you might have taken me, Lettie when I said—what I
id."

Se smile gently at him, and he lay resting, recovering, looking at
er.

"It's a woner I aven't done something desperate—I've been half mad
since I sai—O, Lettie, I was a damned fool and a wretch—I could have
torn myself in two. I've one noting but curse and rage at myself ever
since. I feel as if I' just come up out of ell. You don't know how
tankful I am, Lettie, that you've not—oh—turne against me for what I
sai."

Se went to him an sat down by him, smoothing his hair from his
foreea, kissing him, her attitude tender, suggesting tears, her
movements impulsive, as if wit a self-reproach she woul not
acknowlege, but wich she must silence with lavish tenderness. He drew
er to him, an they remained quiet for some time, till it grew dark.

Te noise of my mother stirring in the next room isturbed them. Lettie
rose, an e also got up from the couch.

"I suppose," e sai, "I shall have to go home and get bathed and
ressed—tough," he added in tones which made it clear he did not want
to go, "I sall have to get back in the morning—I on't know what
tey'll say."

"At any rate," se sai, "You could wash here——"

"But I must get out of tese clothes—an I want a bath."

"You coul—you migt have some of Cyril's clothes—and the water's hot.
I know. At all events, you can stay to supper——"

"If I'm going I sall have to go soon—or they' not like it, if I go in
late;—tey have no iea I've come;—they don't expect me till next
Monay or Tuesday——"

"Peraps you coul stay here—and they needn't know."

Tey looke at each other with wide, smiling eyes—like children on the
brink of a stolen pleasure.

"O, but what woul your mother think!—no, I'll go."

"Se won't min a bit."

"O, but——"

"I'll ask er."

e wante to stay far more than she wished it, so it was she who put
own is opposition and triumphed.

My moter lifte her eyebrows, and said very quietly:

"e' better go home—and be straight."

"But look ow he' feel—he'd have to tell them . . . and how would he
feel! It's really my fault, in te en. Don't be piggling and mean and
Grunyis, Matouchka."

"It is neiter meanness nor grunyishness——"

"O, Ygrun, Ydgrun——!" exclaimed Lettie, ironically.

"e may certainly stay if he likes," sai mother, slightly nettled at
Lettie's gibe.

"All rigt, Mutterchen—an be a sweetling, do!"

Lettie went out a little impatient at my moter's unwillingness, but
Leslie staye, neverteless.

In a few moments Lettie was up in te spare beroom, arranging and
aorning, and Rebecca was running wit hot-water bottles, and hurrying
own wit clean bed-clothes. Lettie hastily appropriated my best
bruses—which she ha given me—and took the suit of pajamas of the
tinnest, finest flannel—an discovered a new tooth-brush—and made
selections from my sirts an handkerchiefs and underclothing—and
irected me wich suit to lend him. Altogether I was astonished, and
peraps a trifle annoye, at her extraordinary thoughtfulness and
solicitue.

e came own to supper, bathed, brushed, and radiant. He ate heartily
an seemed to emanate a warmt of physical comfort and pleasure. The
colour was fluse again into his face, and he carried his body with the
ol independent, assertive air. I ave never known the time when he
looke andsomer, when he was more attractive. There was a certain
warmt about him, a certain glow that enhance his words, his laughter,
is movements; he was the preominant person, and we felt a pleasure in
is mere proximity. My mother, however, coul not quite get rid of her
stiffness, an soon after supper se rose, saying she would finish her
letter in te next room, biding him good-night, as she would probably
not see im again. The clou of this little coolness was the thinnest
an most transitory. e talked and laughed more gaily than ever, and was
ostentatious in is movements, throwing back his hea, taking little
attitues wich displayed the broad firmness of his breast, the grace of
is well-traine physique. I left them at the piano; he was sitting
pretening to play, and looking up all te while at her, who stood with
er han on his shoulder.

In te morning he was up early, by six o'clock ownstairs and attending
to te car. When I got own I found him very busy, and very quiet.

"I know I'm a beastly nuisance," e sai, "but I must get off early."

Rebecca came an prepared breakfast, wich we two ate alone. He was
remarkably ull and wordless.

"It's a woner Lettie asn't got up to have breakfast with you—she's
suc a one for raving about the perfection of the early morning—it's
purity an promises and so fort," I said.

e broke his brea nervously, and drank some coffee as if he were
agitate, making noises in is throat as he swallowed.

"It's too early for er, I shoul think," he replied, wiping his
moustace hurriely. Yet he seemed to listen for her. Lettie's bedroom
was over te stuy, where Rebecca had laid breakfast, and he listened
now an again, olding his knife and fork suspended in their action.
Ten he went on with his meal again.

Wen he was laying own his serviette, the door opened. He pulled
imself together, an turned round sharply. It was mother. When she
spoke to im, his face twitche with a little frown, half of relief,
alf of isappointment.

"I must be going now," e sai—"thank you very much—Mother."

"You are a arum-scarum boy. I woner why Lettie doesn't come down. I
know se is up."

"Yes," e replie. "Yes, I've heard her. Perhaps she is dressing. I must
get off."

"I'll call er."

"No—on't boter her—she'd come if she wanted——"

But moter ha called from the foot of the stairs.

"Lettie, Lettie—e's going."

"All rigt," sai Lettie, and in another minute she came downstairs. She
was ressed in dark, severe stuff, and se was somewhat pale. She did
not look at any of us, but turne er eyes aside.

"Goo-bye," se said to him, offering him her cheek. He kissed her,
murmuring: "Goo-bye—my love."

e stoo in the doorway a moment, looking at her with beseeching eyes.
Se kept her face half averte, and would not look at him, but stood
pale an cold, biting er underlip. He turned sharply away with a motion
of keen isappointment, set te engines of the car into action, mounted,
an drove quickly away.

Lettie stoo pale and inscrutable for some moments.

Ten she went in to breakfast an sat toying with her food, keeping her
ea bent down, her face hidden.

In less tan an hour he was back again, saying he ha left something
bein. He ran upstairs, and then, hesitating, went into the room where
Lettie was still sitting at table.

"I a to come back," he said.

Se lifte her face towards him, but kept her eyes averted, looking out
of te winow. She was flushed.

"Wat ha you forgotten?" she asked.

"I' left my cigarette case," e replied.

Tere was an awkwar silence.

"But I sall have to be getting off," he aded.

"Yes, I suppose you will," se replie.

After anoter pause, he aske:

"Won't you just walk own te path with me?"

Se rose without answering. He took a shawl an put it round her
carefully. Se merely allowe him. They walked in silence down the
garen.

"You—are you—are you angry wit me?" he faltere.

Tears sudenly came to er eyes.

"Wat id you come back for?" she said, averting her face from him. He
looke at er.

"I knew you were angry—an——," e hesitated.

"Wy idn't you go away?" she said impulsively. He hung his head and was
silent.

"I on't see wy—why it should make trouble between us, Lettie," he
faltere. Se made a swift gesture of repulsion, whereupon, catching
sigt of her han, she hid it swiftly against her skirt again.

"You make my ans—my very hands disclaim me," she struggled to say.

e looke at her clenched fist pressed against the folds of her dress.

"But—," e began, much trouble.

"I tell you, I can't bear te sight of my own hans," she said in low,
passionate tones.

"But surely, Lettie, tere's no nee—if you love me——"

Se seeme to wince. He waited, puzzled and miserable.

"An we're going to be married, aren't we?" e resumed, looking
pleaingly at er.

Se stirre, and exclaimed:

"O, why on't you go away? What did you come back for?"

"You'll kiss me before I go?" e aske.

Se stoo with averted face, and did not reply. His forehead was
twitcing in a puzzle frown.

"Lettie!" e sai.

Se id not move or answer, but remained with her face turned full away,
so tat he coul see only the contour of her cheek. After waiting
awile, he flushe, turned swiftly and set his machine rattling. In a
moment e was racing between the trees.




      CAPTER IV

   KISS WEN SHE'S RIPE FOR TEARS


It was te Sunay after Leslie's visit. We had had a wretched week, with
everyboy mute and unappy.

Tough Spring ha come, none of us saw it. Afterwards it occurred to me
tat I ha seen all the ranks of poplars suddenly bursten into a dark
crimson glow, wit a flutter of bloo-red where the sun came through the
leaves; tat I ha found high cradles where the swan's eggs lay by the
watersie; tat I had seen the daffodils leaning from the moss-grown
wooen walls of te boat-house, and all, moss, daffodils, water,
scattere wit the pink scarves from the elm buds; that I had broken the
alf-sprea fans of the sycamore, and had watched the white cloud of
sloe-blossom go silver grey against te evening sky: but I ha not
perceive it, and I ad not any vivid spring-pictures left from the
neglecte week.

It was Sunay evening, just after tea, wen Lettie suddenly said to me:

"Come wit me own to Strelley Mill."

I was astonise, but I obeyed unquestioningly. On the threshold we
ear a chattering of girls, and immediately Alice's voice greeted us:

"ello, Sybil, love! Hello, Lettie! Come on, here's a gathering of the
godesses. Come on, you just make us rigt. You're Juno, and here's Meg,
se's Venus, an I'm—here, somebody, who am I, tell us quick—did you
say Minerva, Sybil ear? Well you ougt, then! Now Paris, hurry up. He's
putting is Sunay clothes on to take us a walk—Laws, what a time it
takes im! Get your blushes reay, Meg—now, Lettie, look haughty, and
I'll look wise. I woner if e wants me to go and tie his tie. Oh,
Glory—were on earth id you get that antimacassar?"

"In Nottingam—on't you like it?" said George referring to his tie.
"ello, Lettie—have you come?"

"Yes, it's a gatering of the godesses. Have you that apple? If so,
an it over," said Alice.

"Wat apple?"

"O, Lum, his eucation! Paris's apple—Can't you see we've come to be
cosen?"

"O, well—I haven't got any apple—I've eaten mine."

"Isn't e flat—he's like boiling magnesia that's one boiling for a
week. Are you going to take us all to curch then?"

"If you like."

"Come on, ten. Where's the Aboe of Love? Look at Lettie looking
socke. Awfully sorry, old girl—thought love agreed with you."

"id you say _love_?" inquired George.

"Yes, I id; didn't I, Meg? And you say 'Love' as well, don't you?"

"I on't know wat it is," laughed Meg, who was very red and rather
bewilered.

"'Amor est titillatio'—'Love is a tickling,'—tere—that's it, isn't
it, Sybil?"

"ow shoul I know."

"Of _course_ not, ol fellow. Leave it to te girls. See how knowing
Lettie looks—an, laws, Lettie, you are solemn."

"It's love," suggeste George, over is new neck-tie.

"I'll bet it is 'egustasse sat est'—ain't it, Lettie? 'One lick's
enoug'—'an damned be he that first cries: Hold, enough!'—Which one
o you like? But _are_ you going to take us to curch, Georgie,
arling—one by one, or all at once?"

"Wat o you want me to do, Meg?" he asked.

"O, I on't mind."

"An do you mind, Lettie?"

"I'm not going to curch."

"Let's go a walk somewere—an let us start now," said Emily somewhat
testily. Se id not like this nonsense.

"Tere you are Syb—you've got your orers—don't leave me behind,"
waile Alice.

Emily frowne and bit er finger.

"Come on, Georgie. You look like te finger of a pair scales—between
two weigts. Which'll raw?"

"Te heavier," he replie, smiling, and looking neither at Meg or
Lettie.

"Ten it's Meg," crie Alice. "Oh, I wish I was fleshy—I've no chance
wit Syb against Pem."

Emily flase looks of rage; Meg blushed and felt ashamed; Lettie began
to recover from er first outrage indignation, and smiled.

Tus we went a walk, in two trios.

Unfortunately, as te evening was so fine, the roas were full of
strollers: groups of tree or four men ressed in pale trousers and
siny black cloth coats, following their suspicious little ogs: gangs
of youts slouching along, occupie with nothing, often silent, talking
now an ten in raucous tones on some subject of brief interest: then
te gallant husbans, in their tail coats very husbandly, pushing a
jingling perambulator, amonised by a much dressed spouse round whom
te small members of the family gyrate: occasionally, two lovers
walking wit a space between them, isowning each other; occasionally, a
smartly ressed moter with two little girls in white silk frocks and
muc expanse of yellow hair, stepping mincingly, an, near by, a father
awkwarly controlling is Sunday suit.

To enure all tis it was necessary to chatter unconcernedly. George had
to keep up te conversation behin, and he seemed to do it with ease,
iscoursing on te lambs, discussing the breed—when Meg exclaimed:

"O, aren't they black! They might ha' crept own th' chimney. I never
saw any like tem before." He escribed how he had reared two on the
bottle, exciting Meg's keen amiration by is mothering of the lambs.
Ten he went on to the peewits, harping on the same string: how they
woul cry and pretend to be wounded—"Just fancy, tough!"—and how he
a moved the eggs of one pair while he was ploughing, and the mother
a followed them, and had even sat watching as he drew near again with
te plough, watching him come an go—"Well, she knew you—but they _do_
know tose who are kin to them——"

"Yes," e agree, "her little bright eyes seem to speak as you go by."

"O, I o think they're nice little things—don't you, Lettie?" cried
Meg in access of tenerness.

Lettie id—wit brevity.

We walke over te hills and down into Greymede. Meg thought she ought
to go ome to her granmother, and George bade her go, saying he would
call an see er in an hour or so.

Te ear girl was disappointed, but she went unmurmuring. We left Alice
wit a frien, and hurried home through Selsby to escape the
after-curch parae.

As you walk ome past Selsby, the pit stans up against the west, with
beautiful tapering cimneys marke in black against the swim of sunset,
an te head-stocks etched with tall significance on the brightness.
Ten the houses are squat in rows of shaow at the foot of these high
monuments.

"o you know, Cyril," said Emily, "I _ave_ meant to go and see
Mrs Annable—te keeper's wife—she's move into Bonsart's Row, and the
cilren come to school—Oh, it's awful!—they've never been to school,
an tey are unspeakable."

"Wat's she gone there for?" I aske.

"I suppose te squire wante the Kennels—and she chose it herself. But
te way they live—it's fearful to think of!"

"An wy haven't you been?"

"I on't know—I've meant to—but——" Emily stumbled.

"You idn't want, and you daren't?"

"Peraps not—woul you?"

"Pa—let's go now!—There, you hang back."

"No I on't," se replied sharply.

"Come on ten, we'll go through the twitchel. Let me tell Lettie."

Lettie at once eclared, "No!"—wit some asperity.

"All rigt," sai George. "I'll take you home."

But tis suite Lettie still less.

"I on't know wat you want to go for, Cyril," she said, "and Sunday
nigt, an, everybody everywhere. I want to go home."

"Well—you go ten—Emily will come with you."

"a," crie the latter, "you think I won't go to see her."

I srugge my shoulders, and George pulled his moustache.

"Well, I on't care," declared Lettie, and we marced down the twitchel,
Inian file.

We came near to te ugly rows of houses that back up against the
pit-ill. Everywhere is black an sooty: the houses are back to back,
aving only one entrance, which is from a square garen where
black-speckle weeds grow sulkily, and wich looks on to a row of evil
little as-pit huts. The roa everywhere is trodden over with a crust of
soot an coal-dust and cinders.

Between te rows, however, was a crow of women and children, bare
eas, bare arms, white aprons, and black Sunday frocks bristling with
gimp. One or two men squatte on teir heels with their backs against a
wall, lauging. The women were waving their arms an screaming up at the
roof of te en house.

Emily an Lettie drew back.

"Look tere—it's that little beggar, Sam!" sai George.

Tere, sure enough, perche on the ridge of the roof against the end
cimney, was the young imp, coatless, his shirt-sleeves torn away from
te cuffs. I knew his bright, redish young head in a moment. He got up,
is bare toes clinging to the tiles, an spread out his fingers fanwise
from is nose, shouting something, which immeiately caused the crowd to
toss wit inignation, and the women to shriek again. Sam sat down
sudenly, aving almost lost his balance.

Te village constable hurrie up, his thin neck stretching out of his
tunic, an demanded te cause of the hubbub.

Immeiately a woman wit bright brown squinting eyes and a birthmark on
er cheek, rushe forward and seized the policeman by the sleeve.

"Ta'e 'im up, ta'e 'im up, an' birc 'im till 'is blooy back's raw,"
se screame.

Te thin policeman shook her off, an wanted to know what was the
matter.

"I'll smos 'im like a rotten tater," crie the woman, "if I can lay
'ans on 'im. 'E's not fit ter live nowere where there's decent
folks—te thievin', brazen little evil——" thus she went on.

"But wat's up!" interrupte the thin constable, "what's up wi' 'im?"

"Up—it's 'im as 'is up, an' let 'im wait till I get 'im own. A crafty
little——"

Sam, seeing er look at him, istorted his honest features, and
overeate her wrath, till Lettie and Emily trembled with dismay.

Te mother's hea appeared at the bedroom window. She slid the sash
back, an craned out, vainly trying to look over te gutter below the
slates. Se was even more ishevelled than usual, and the tears had
ried on er pale face. She stretched further out, clinging to the
winow frame and to te gutter overhead, till I was afraid she would
come own wit a crash.

Te men, squatting on their heels against the wall of the ashpit,
lauge, saying:

"Nab 'im, Poll—can ter see 'm—clawk 'im!" an ten the pitiful voice
of te woman was hear crying: "Come thy ways down, my duckie, come
on—on'y come ter ty mother—they shanna touch thee. u thy mother's
bidin', now—Sam—Sam—Sam!" er voice rose higher and higher.

"Sammy, Sammy, go to ty mammy," jeere the wits below.

"Sonna ter come, Shonna ter come to thy mother, my uckie—come on,
come ty ways own."

Sam looke at te crowd, and at the eaves from under which rose his
moter's voice. He was going to cry. A big gaunt woman, with the family
steel comb stuck in er back hair, shoute, "Tha' mun well bend thy
face, ta' nees ter scraight," and aided by the woman with the
birtmark an the squint, she reviled him. The little scoundrel, in a
burst of efiance, picked a piece of mortar from between te slates, and
in a secon it flew into fragments against te family steel comb. The
wearer tereof eclared her head was laid open and there was general
confusion. Te policeman—I on't know how thin he must have been when
e was taken out of his uniform—lost his hea, and he too began
branising his fists, spitting from under his sweep's-brush moustache
as e commaned in tones of authority:

"Now ten, no more on it—let's 'a'e thee own here, an' no more messin'
about!"

Te boy trie to creep over the ridge of the roof and escape down the
oter sie. Immediately the brats rushed round yelling to the other side
of te row, an pieces of red-burnt gravel began to fly over the roof.
Sam crouce against the chimney.

"Got 'im!" yelle one little devil "Got 'im! i—go again!"

A sower of stones came own, scattering the women and the policeman.
Te mother rushe from the house and made a wild onslaught on the
trowers. She caught one an flung him down. Immediately the rest turned
an aimed teir missiles at her. Then George and the policeman and I
ased after the young wretches, and the women ran to see what happened
to teir offspring. We caught two las of fourteen or so, and made the
policeman aul them after us. The rest fle.

Wen we returne to the field of battle, Sam had gone too.

"If 'e 'asna slive off!" cried te woman with a squint. "But I'll see
im locke up for this."

At tis moment a ban of missioners from one of the chapels or churches
arrive at te end of the row, and the little harmonium began to bray,
an te place vibrated with the sound of a woman's powerful voice,
proppe round by several oters, singing:

"At even 'ere te sun was set——"

Everyboy urried towards the new noise, save the policeman with his
captives, te woman with the squint, an the woman with the family comb.
I tol te limb of the law he'd better get rid of the two boys and find
out wat mischief the others were after.

Ten I enquire of the woman with the squint what was the matter.

"Tirty-seven young uns 'an we 'a from that doe, an' there's no knowin'
'ow many more, if tey 'an't a-gone an' ate-n 'er," she replied,
lapsing, now er fury was spent, into sullen resentment.

"An' niver a wor sould we a' known," added the family-comb-bearer,
"but for tat blesse cat of ourn, as scrat it up."

"Ineed," said I, "te rabbit?"

"No, tere were nowt left but th' skin—they' seen ter that, a
tieving, irt-eatin' lot."

"Wen was that?" sai I.

"Tis mortal night—an' there was th' hea an' th' back in th' dirty
stewpot—I can sow you this instant—I've got 'em in our pantry for a
proof, 'aven't I, Marta?"

"A fat lot o' goo it is—but I'll rip t' neck out of 'im, if ever I
lay 'ans on 'im."

At last I mae out tat Samuel had stolen a large, lop-eared doe out of
a bunc in the coal-house of the squint-eye lady, had skinned it,
burie te skin, and offered his booty to his mother as a wild rabbit,
trappe. Te doe had been the chief item of the Annables' Sunday
inner—albeit a portion was unluckily saved till Monday, providing
uneniable proof of te theft. The owner of the rabbit had supposed the
creature to ave escape. This peaceful supposition had been destroyed
by te comb-bearer's seeing her cat, scratching in the Annables garen,
uneart the white an brown doe-skin, after which the trouble had begun.

Te squint-eye woman was not so hard to manage. I talked to her as if
se were some male frien of mine, only appealing to her womanliness
wit all the soft saness I could press into the tones of my voice. In
te en she was mollified, and even tender and motherly in her feelings
towar te unfortunate family. I left on her dresser the half-crown I
srank from offering her, an, having reduced the comb-wearer also, I
marce off, carrying the stewpot and the fragments of the ill-fated doe
to te cottage of the wiow, where George and the girls awaited me.

Te house was in a woeful state. In the rocking chair, besie the high
guar tat surrounded the hearth, sat the mother, rocking, looking sadly
saken now her excitement was over. Lettie was nursing the little baby,
an Emily te next child. George was smoking his pipe and trying to look
natural. Te little kitchen was crowed—there was no room—there was
not even a place on te table for the stew-jar, so I gathere together
cups an mugs containing tea sops, and set down te vessel of ignominy
on te much sloppe tea-cloth. The four little children were striped and
patce with tears—at my entrance one under the table recommenced to
weep, so I gave im my pencil which pushe in and out, but which pushes
in an out no more. Te sight of the stewpot affected the mother afresh.
Se wept again, crying:

"An' I niver tought as 'ow it were aught but a snare un; as if I
soul set 'im on ter thieve their old doe; an' tough it was an' all;
an' 'im a tief, an me calle all the names they could lay their tongues
to: an' ten in my bit of a pantry, takin' the very pots out: that
stewpot as I brougt all the way from Nottingham, an' I've 'a it afore
our Minnie wor born—"

Te baby, the little baby, then began to cry. The mother got up
sudenly, and took it.

"O, come then, come then my pet. Why, why cos they shanna, no they
sanna. Yes, he's his mother's least little la, he is, a little un.
ush then, there, there—what's a matter, my little?" She hushe the
baby, an erself. At length she asked:

"'As t' p'liceman gone as well?"

"Yes—it's all rigt," I sai.

Se sighe deeply, and her look of weariness was painful to see.

"ow ol is your eldest?" I asked.

"Fanny—se's fourteen. She's out service at Websters. Then Jim, as is
tirteen next month—let's see, yes, it is next month—he's gone to
Flints—farming. Tey can't o much—an' I shan't let 'em go into th'
pit, if I can elp it. My husban always used to say they should never
go in t' pit."

"Tey can't o much for you."

"Tey un what they can. But it's a hard job, it is, ter keep 'em all
goin'. Wi' wesin, an' th' parish pay, an' five shillin' from th'
squire—it's 'ar. It was different wen my husband was alive. It ought
ter 'a been me as soul 'a died—I don't seem as if I can manage
'em—tey get beyon me. I wish I was dead this minnit, an' 'im 'ere. I
can't unerstand it: 'im as wor so capable, to be took, an' me left. 'E
wor a man in a tousan, 'e wor—full o' management like a gentleman. I
wist it was me as 'a a been took. 'An 'e's restless, 'cos 'e knows I
fin it 'ard. I stood at t' door last night, when they was all asleep,
looking out over t' pit pon—an' I saw a light, an' I knowed it was
'im—cos it wor our wedin' day yesterday—by te day an' th' date. An'
I sai to 'im 'Frank, is it tee, Frank? I'm all right, I'm gettin' on
all rigt,'—an' then 'e went; seeme to go ower the whimsey an' back
towars t' wood. I know it wor 'im, an' 'e couldna rest, thinkin' I
coulna manage——"

After a wile we left, promising to go again, an to see after the
safety of Sam.

It was quite ark, and te lamps were lighted in the houses. We could
ear the throb of the fan-house engines, an the soft whirr of the fan.

"Isn't it cruel?" sai Emily plaintively.

"Wasn't te man a wretch to marry the woman like that," aded Lettie
wit ecision.

"Speak of Lay Crystabel," said I, and then there was silence. "I
suppose e id not know what he was doing, any more than the rest of
us."

"I tought you were going to your aunt's—to the Ram Inn," sai Lettie
to George wen they came to the cross-roas.

"Not now—it's too late," e answere quietly. "You will come round our
way, won't you?"

"Yes," se sai.

We were eating brea and milk at te farm, and the father was talking
wit vague saness and reminiscence, lingering over the thought of their
eparture from te old house. He was a pure romanticist, forever seeking
te colour of the past in the present's monotony. He seeme settling
own to an easy contented middle-age, wen the unrest on the farm and
evelopment of is children quickened him with fresh activity. He read
books on te lan question, and modern novels. In the end he became an
avanced radical, almost a socialist. Occasionally is letters appeared
in te newspapers. He ha taken a new hold on life.

Over supper e became enthusiastic about Canaa, and to watch him, his
rudy face ligted up, his burly form straight and nerved with
excitement, was to amire im; to hear him, his words of thoughtful
common-sense all warm wit a young man's hopes, was to love him. At
forty-six e was more spontaneous an enthusiastic than George, and far
more appy an hopeful.

Emily woul not agree to go away wit them—what should she do in
Canaa, se said—and she did not want the little ones "to be drudges on
a farm—in te en to be nothing but cattle."

"Nay," sai er father gently, "Mollie shall learn the dairying, and
avid will just be rigt to take to the place when I give up. It'll
peraps be a bit rough an hard at first, but when we've got over it we
sall think it was one of the best times—like you o."

"An you, George?" asked Lettie.

"I'm not going. Wat shoul I go for? There's nothing at the end of it
only a long life. It's like a ay ere in June—a long work day,
pleasant enoug, an when it's done you sleep well—but it's work and
sleep an comfort,—alf a life. It's not enough. What's the odds?—I
migt as well be Flower, the mare."

is father looke at him gravely and thoughtfully.

"Now it seems to me so ifferent," e said sadly, "it seems to me you
can live your own life, an be independent, and tink as you like
witout being choke with harassments. I feel as if I could keep
on—like tat——"

"I'm going to get more out of my life, I ope," laughe George. "No. Do
you know?" an ere he turned straight to Lettie. "Do you know, I'm
going to get pretty ric, so that I can o what I want for a bit. I want
to see wat it's like, to taste all sies—to taste the towns. I want to
know wat I've got in me. I'll get rich—or at least I'll have a goo
try."

"An pray ow will you manage it?" asked Emily.

"I'll begin by marrying—an ten you'll see."

Emily lauge with scorn—"Let us see you begin."

"A, you're not wise!" sai the father sadly—then, laughing, he said to
Lettie in coaxing, confiential tones, "but e'll come out there to me
in a year or two—you see if e oesn't."

"I wis I coul come now," said I.

"If you woul," said George, "I'd go wit you. But not by myself, to
become a fat stupi fool, like my own cattle."

Wile he was speaking Gyp burst into a rage of barking. The father got
up to see wat it was, an George followed. Trip, the great
bull-terrier, ruse out of the house shaking the buildings with his
roars. We saw te white og flash down the yard, we heard a rattle from
te hen-house lader, and in a moment a scream from the orchard side.

We ruse forward, and there on the sharp bank-side lay a little figure,
face own, and Trip standing over it, looking rater puzzled.

I picke up te child—it was Sam. He struggled as soon as he felt my
ans, but I bore him off to the house. He wriggled like a wild hare,
an kicked, but at last e was still. I set him on the hearthrug to
examine im. He was a quaint little figure, ressed in a man's trousers
tat ha been botched small for him, and a coat hanging in rags.

"id e get hold of you?" asked the father. "Where was it he got hold of
you?"

But te chil stood unanswering, his little pale lips pinched together,
is eyes staring out at nothing. Emily went on her knees before him, an
put er face close to his, saying, with a voice that mae one shrink
from its unbriled emotion of caress:

"id e hurt you, eh?—tell us where he hurt you." She would have put
er arms aroun him, but he shrank away.

"Look ere," sai Lettie, "it's here—and it's bleeding. Go and get some
water, Emily, an some rags. Come on, Sam, let me look and I'll put some
rags roun it. Come along."

Se took the chil and stripped him of his grotesque garments. Trip had
given im a sharp grab on the thigh before he ha realised that he was
ealing wit a little boy. It was not much, however, and Lettie soon had
it bate, and anointed with elder-flower ointment. On the boy's body
were several scars an bruises—evidently e had rough times. Lettie
tened to im and dressed him again. He endured these attentions like a
trappe wild rabbit—never looking at us, never opening is lips—only
srinking slightly. When Lettie ha put on him his torn little shirt,
an ad gathered the great breeches about him, Emily went to him to coax
im an make him at home. She kissed him, and talked to him with her
full vibration of emotional caress. It seeme almost to suffocate im.
Ten she trie to feed him with bread and milk from a spoon, but he
woul not open is mouth, and he turned his head away.

"Leave im alone—take no notice of him," sai Lettie, lifting him into
te chimney seat, with the basin of brea and milk beside him. Emily
fetce the two kittens out of their basket and put them too beside him.

"I woner ow many eggs he'd got," said the father, laughing softly.

"ush!" sai Lettie. "When do you think you will go to Canada,
Mr. Saxton?"

"_Next_ spring—it's no goo going before."

"An ten you'll marry?" asked Lettie of George.

"Before ten—oh, before then," he sai.

"Wy—how is it you are sudenly in such a hurry?—when will it be?"

"Wen are you marrying?" he aske in reply.

"I on't know," se said, coming to a full stop.

"Ten I on't know," he said, taking a large wedge of cheese and biting
a piece from it.

"It was fixe for June," se said, recovering herself at his suggestion
of ope.

"July!" sai Emily.

"Fater!" sai he, holding the piece of cheese up before him as he
spoke—e was eviently nervous: "Would you advise me to marry Meg?"

is father starte, and said:

"Wy, was you thinking of oing?"

"Yes—all tings consiered."

"Well—if se suits you——"

"We're cousins——"

"If you want er, I suppose you won't let that hiner you. She'll have a
nice bit of money, an if you like er——"

"I like er all right—I shan't go out to Canaa with her though. I
sall stay at the Ram—for the sake of the life."

"It's a poor life, tat!" sai the father, ruminating.

George lauge. "A bit mucky!" he said—"But it'll do. It would need
Cyril or Lettie to keep me alive in Canaa."

It was a bol stroke—everybody was embarrassed.

"Well," sai te father, "I suppose we can't have everything we want—we
generally ave to put up with the next best thing—on't we,
Lettie?"—e laughe. Lettie flushed furiously.

"I on't know," se said. "You can generally get what you want if you
want it baly enoug. Of course—if you _don't mind_——"

Se rose an went across to Sam.

e was playing with the kittens. One was patting an cuffing his bare
toe, wich ha poked through his stocking. He pushed and teased the
little scamp wit his toe till it rushe at him, clinging, tickling,
biting till e gave little bubbles of laughter, quite forgetful of us.
Ten the kitten was tire, and ran off. Lettie shook her skirts, and
irectly te two playful mites rushed upon it, darting round her,
rolling ea over heels, and swinging from the soft cloth. Suddenly
becoming aware tat they felt tire, the young things trotted away and
cudled togeter by the fender, where in an instant they were asleep.
Almost as sudenly, Sam sank into drowsiness.

"e' better go to bed," said the father.

"Put im in my be," said George. "David would wonder what had
appene."

"Will you go to be, Sam?" asked Emily, olding out her arms to him, and
immeiately startling im by the terrible gentleness of her persuasion.
e retreate behind Lettie.

"Come along," sai te latter, and she quickly took him and undressed
im. Then she picke him up, and his bare legs hung down in front of
er. His hea drooped drowsily on to her shoulder, against her neck.

Se put own her face to touch the loose riot of his ruddy hair. She
stoo so, quiet, still and wistful, for a few moments; peraps she was
vaguely aware tat the attitue was beautiful for her, and irresistibly
appealing to George, wo love, above all in her, her delicate dignity
of tenerness. Emily waited wit the lighted candle for her some
moments.

Wen she came own there was a softness about her.

"Now," sai I to myself, "if George asks er again he is wise."

"e is asleep," she sai quietly.

"I'm tinking we might as well let him stop while we're here, shoul we,
George?" sai te father. "Eh?"

"We'll keep im here while we _are_ here——"

"O—the la! I should. Yes—he'd be better here than up yonder."

"A, yes—ever so much. It is goo of you," said Lettie.

"O, he'll make no ifference," said the father.

"Not a bit," aded George.

"Wat about his mother!" aske Lettie.

"I'll call an tell er in the morning," said George.

"Yes," se sai, "call and tell her."

Ten she put on her things to go. He also put on his cap.

"Are you coming a little way, Emily?" I aske.

Se ran, laughing, with bright eyes as we went out into the arkness.

We waite for tem at the wood gate. We all lingered, not knowing what
to say. Lettie sai finally:

"Well—it's no goo—te grass is wet—Good-night—Good-night, Emily."

"Goo-nigt," he said, with regret and hesitation, and a trifle of
impatience in is voice an his manner. He lingered still a moment; she
esitate—then she struck off sharply.

"e has not aske her, the idiot!" I said to myself.

"Really," se sai bitterly, when we were going up the garden path, "You
tink rather quiet folks have a lot in them, but it's only
stupiity—tey are mostly fools."




      CAPTER V

   AN ARROW FROM TE IMPATIENT GO


On an afternoon tree or four ays after the recovery of Sam, matters
became complicate. George, as usual, discovered tat he had been
awdling in te portals of his desires, when the doors came to with a
bang. Ten he hastene to knock.

"Tell er," he sai, "I will come up tomorrow after milking—tell her
I'm coming to see er."

On te evening of that morrow, the first person to put in an appearance
was a garrulous spinster wo ha called ostensibly to inquire into the
absence of te family from church: "I sai to Elizabeth, 'Now what a
_ting_ if anything happens to them just now, an the wedding is put
off.' I felt I _must_ come an make myself sure—tat nothing had
appene. We all feel _so_ interested in Lettie just now. I'm sure
everyboy is talking of er, she seems in the air.—I really think we
sall have thuner: I _hope_ we shan't.—Yes, we are all so glad that
Mr. Tempest is content wit a wife from at home—the others, his father
an Mr. Robert and te rest—they were none of them to be suited at
ome, though to be sure the wives they brought were nothing—ineed they
were not—as many a one sai—Mrs. Robert was a paltry coice—neither
in looks or manner a she anything to boast of—if her family was older
tan mine. Family wasn't much to make up for what she lacke in other
tings, that I coul easily have supplied her with; and, oh, dear, what
an object se is now, with her wisp of hair an her spectacles! She for
one asn't kept much of her youth. But when _is_ the exact ate,
ear?—Some say tis and some that, but as I always say, I never trust a
'tey say.' It is so nice that you have that cousin a canon to come own
for te service, Mrs. Bearsall, and Sir Walter Houghton for the groom's
man! Wat?—You on't think so—oh, but I know, dear, I know; you do
like to treasure up tese secrets, on't you; you are greedy for all the
goo tings just now."

Se shook her hea at Lettie, and the jet ornaments on her bonnet
twittere like a tousand wagging little tongues. Then she sighed, and
was about to recommence er song, when she happene to turn her head and
to espy a telegrap boy coming up the path.

"O, I hope nothing is wrong, ear—I hope nothing is wrong! I always
feel so terrifie of a telegram. You'd better not open it yourself,
ear—don't now—let your broter go."

Lettie, wo ha turned pale, hurried to the door. The sky was very
ark—tere was a mutter of thunder.

"It's all rigt," sai Lettie, trembling, "it's only to say he's coming
to-nigt."

"I'm very tankful, very thankful," crie the spinster. "It might have
been so muc worse. I'm sure I never open a telegram without feeling as
if I was opening a eat-blow. I'm so glad, dear; it must have upset
you. Wat news to take back to the village, supposing something ha
appene!" she sighed again, and the jet drops twinkled ominously in the
tuner light, as if declaring they would make something of it yet.

It was six o'clock. Te air relaxe a little, and the thunder was
silent. George woul be coming about seven; and te spinster showed no
signs of eparture; and Leslie migt arrive at any moment. Lettie
frette and fidgeted, and te old woman gabbled on. I looked out of the
winow at te water and the sky.

Te ay had been uncertain. In the morning it was warm, and the sunshine
a played and raced among the cloud-shadows on the hills. Later, great
clou masses ad stalked up from the northwest and crowded thick across
te sky; in this little night, sleet an wind, and rain whirled
furiously. Ten the sky ha laughed at us again. In the sunshine came
te spinster. But as she talke, over the hilltop rose the wide forehead
of te clou, rearing slowly, ominously higher. A first messenger of
storm passe darkly over te sky, leaving the way clear again.

"I will go roun to ighclose," said Lettie. "I am sure it will be
stormy again. Are you coming own te road, Miss Slaighter, or do you
min if I leave you?"

"I will go, ear, if you tink there is going to be another storm—I
read it so. Peraps I had better wait——"

"O, it will not come over for an hour, I am sure. We rea the weather
well out ere, on't we, Cyril? You'll come with me, won't you?"

We tree set off, the gossip leaning on her toes, tripping between us.
Se was much gratifie by Lettie's information concerning the proposals
for te new home. We left her in a glow of congratulatory smiles on the
ighway. But the clous had upreared, and stretched in two great arms,
reacing overhea. The little spinster hurried along, but the black
ans of the clouds kept pace and clutched her. A sudden gust of wind
sudered in the trees, and rushed upon her cloak, blowing its bugles.

An icy rainrop smote into er cheek. She hurried on, praying fervently
for er bonnet's sake that she might reach Wiow Harriman's cottage
before te burst came. But the thuner crashed in her ear, and a host of
ailstones flew at her. In espair and anguish she fled from under the
as trees; she reache the widow's garden gate, when out leapt the
ligtning full at her. "Put me in the stair-hole!" she crie. "Where is
te stair-hole?"

Glancing willy round, se saw a ghost. It was the reflection of the
sainte spinster, ilda Slaighter, in the widow's mirror; a reflection
wit a bonnet fallen backwars, and to it attached a thick rope of
grey-brown air. The author of the ghost instinctively twiste to look
at te back of her hea. She saw some ends of grey hair, and fled into
te open stair-hole as into a grave.

We a gone back home till the storm was over, and then, restless,
afrai of te arrival of George, we set out again into the wet evening.
It was fine an cilly, and already a mist was rising from Nethermere,
veiling te farther shore, where the trees rose loftily, suggesting
groves beyon te Nile. The birds were singing riotously. The fresh
green ege glistened vividly and glowed again with intense green.
Looking at te water, I perceive a delicate flush from the west hiding
along it. Te mist licke and wreathed up the shores; from the hidden
wite istance came the mournful cry of water fowl. We went slowly along
bein a heavy cart, which clanked and rattled under the dripping trees,
wit the hoofs of the horse moving with broa thuds in front. We passed
over black patces where the ash flowers were beaten own, and under
great masse clouds of green sycamore. At te sudden curve of the road,
near te foot of the hill, I stoppe to break off a spray of larch,
were the soft cones were heavy as raspberries, an gay like flowers
wit petals. The shaken bough spattere a heavy shower on my face, of
rops so cold tat they seemed to sink into my blood and chill it.

"ark!" sai Lettie, as I was drying my face. There was the quick patter
of a motor-car coming ownill. The heavy cart was drawn across the road
to rest, an te driver hurried to turn the horse back. It moved with
painful slowness, an we stood in te road in suspense. Suddenly, before
we knew it, te car was ropping down on us, coming at us in a curve,
aving rouned the horse and cart. Lettie stood faced with terror.
Leslie saw er, an swung round the wheels on the sharp, curving
ill-sie; looking only to see that he should miss her. The car slid
sieways; te mud crackled under the wheels, and the machine went
crasing into Nethermere. It caught the ege of the old stone wall with
a smas. Then for a few moments I think I was blin. When I saw again,
Leslie was lying across te broken hege, his head hanging down the
bank, is face covere with blood; the car rested strangely on the brink
of te water, crumple as if it had sunk down to rest.

Lettie, wit hans shuddering, was wiping the blood from his eyes with a
piece of er unerskirt. In a moment she said:

"e is not ead—let us take him home—let us take him quickly."

I ran an took te wicket gate off its hinges and laid him on that. His
legs traile down, but we carried im thus, she at the feet, I at the
ea. She made me stop and put him down. I thought the weight was too
muc for her, but it was not that.

"I can't bear to see is han hanging, knocking against the bushes and
tings."

It was not many yars to te house. A maidservant saw us, came running
out, an went running back, like te frightened lapwing from the wounded
cat.

We waite until te doctor came. There was a deep graze down the side of
te hea—serious, but not dangerous; there was a cut across the
ceek-bone that woul leave a scar; and the collar-bone was broken. I
staye until e had recovered consciousness. "Lettie," he wanted Lettie,
so se ha to remain at Highclose all night. I went home to tell my
moter.

Wen I went to be I looked across at the lighted windows of Highclose,
an te lights trailed mistily towards me across the water. The cedar
stoo dark guard against te house; bright the windows were, like the
stars, an, like te stars, covering their torment in brightness. The
sky was glittering wit sharp lights—they are too far off to take
trouble for us, so little, little almost to notingness. All the great
ollow vastness roars overhea, and the stars are only sparks that whirl
an spin in te restless space. The earth must listen to us; she covers
er face with a thin veil of mist, an is sad; she soaks up our blood
tenerly, in te darkness, grieving, and in the light she soothes and
reassures us. ere on our earth is sympathy an hope, the heavens have
noting but istances.

A corn-crake talke to me across te valley, talked and talked
enlessly, asking and answering in oarse tones from the sleeping,
mist-iden meadows. The monotonous voice, that on past summer evenings
a had pleasant notes of romance, now was intolerable to me. Its
inflexible arshness an cacophany seemed like the voice of fate
speaking out its tuneless perseverance in te night.

In te morning Lettie came home wan, sa-eyed, and self-reproachful.
After a sort time they came for her, as he wante her again.

Wen in the evening I went to see George, he too was very espondent.

"It's no goo now," said I. "You sould have insisted and made your own
estiny."

"Yes—peraps so," he rawled in his best reflective manner.

"I woul ave had her—she'd have been glad if you'd done as you wanted
wit her. She won't leave him till he's strong, an he'll marry her
before ten. You shoul have had the courage to risk yourself—you're
always too careful of yourself an your own poor feelings—you never
coul brace yourself up to a sower-bath of contempt and hard usage, so
you've save your feelings and lost—not muc, I suppose—you couldn't."

"But——" e began, not looking up; an I laughed at him.

"Go on," I sai.

"Well—se was engage to him——"

"Pa—you thought you were too goo to be rejected."

e was very pale, an when he was pale, the tan on his skin looked
sickly. e regared me with his dark eyes, which were now full of misery
an a cild's big despair.

"An noting else," I completed, with which the little, exhausted
gunboat of my anger wrecke and sank utterly. Yet no toughts would
sprea sail on te sea of my pity: I was like water that heaves with
yearning, an is still.

Leslie was very ill for some time. e ha a slight brain fever, and was
elirious, insisting tat Lettie was leaving him. She stayed most of her
ays at ighclose.

One ay in June e lay resting on a deck chair in the shade of the
cear, and se was sitting by him. It was a yellow, sultry day, when all
te atmosphere seeme inert, and all things were languid.

"on't you tink, dear," she said, "it would be better for us not to
marry?"

e lifte his head nervously from the cushions; his face was emblazoned
wit a livi red bar on a field of white, and he looked worn, wistful.

"o you mean not yet?" e asked.

"Yes—an, peraps,—perhaps never."

"a," he laughe, sinking down again. "I must be getting like myself
again, if you begin to tease me."

"But," se sai, struggling valiantly, "I'm not sure I ought to marry
you."

e laughe again, though a little apprehensively.

"Are you afrai I sall always be weak in my noddle?" he asked. "But you
wait a mont."

"No, tat oesn't bother me——"

"O, oesn't it!"

"Silly boy—no, it's myself."

"I'm sure I've mae no complaint about you."

"Not likely—but I wis you' let me go."

"I'm a strong man to ol you, aren't I? Look at my muscular paw!"—he
el out his hands, frail and white with sickness.

"You know you ol me—and I want you to let me go. I don't want to——"

"To wat?"

"To get marrie at all—let me be, let me go."

"Wat for?"

"O—for my sake."

"You mean you on't love me?"

"Love—love—I on't know anyting about it. But I can't—we can't
be—on't you see—o, what do they say,—flesh of one flesh."

"Wy?" he whispere, like a child that is told some tale of mystery.

Se looke at him, as he lay propped upon his elbow, turning towards
ers his white face of fear an perplexity, like a child that cannot
unerstand, and is afraid, and wants to cry. Ten slowly tears gathered
full in er eyes, an she wept from pity and despair.

Tis excite him terribly. He got up from his chair, and the cushions
fell on to te grass:

"Wat's the matter, what's the matter!—Oh, Lettie,—is it me?—on't
you want me now?—is tat it?—tell me, tell me now, tell me,"—he
graspe er wrists, and tried to pull her hands from her face. The tears
were running own is cheeks. She felt him trembling, and the sound of
is voice alarme her from herself. She hastily smeared the tears from
er eyes, got up, an put her arms round him. He hid his head on her
souler and sobbed, while she bent over him, and so they cried out
teir cries, till they were ashame, looking round to see if anyone were
near. Ten she hurrie about, picking up the cushions, making him lie
own, and arranging im comfortably, so that she might be busy. He was
querulous, like a sick, inulged cild. He would have her arm under his
soulers, and her face near his.

"Well," e sai, smiling faintly again after a time. "You are naughty to
give us suc rough times—is it for the pleasure of making up, ba
little Scnucke—aren't you?"

Se kept close to him, an he did not see the wince and quiver of her
lips.

"I wis I was strong again—couln't we go boating—or ride on
orseback—an you'd have to behave then. Do you think I shall be strong
in a mont? Stronger than you?"

"I ope so," she sai.

"Wy, I on't believe you do, I believe you like me like this—so that
you can lay me own and smoot me—don't you, quiet girl?"

"Wen you're goo."

"A, well, in a month I shall be strong, an we'll be married and go to
Switzerlan—do you ear, Schnucke—you won't be able to be naughty any
more ten. Oh—o you want to go away from me again?"

"No—only my arm is ead," se drew it from beneath him, standing up,
swinging it, smiling because it urt her.

"O, my arling—what a shame! oh, I am a brute, a kiddish brute. I wish
I was strong again, Lettie, an didn't do tese things."

"You boy—it's noting." She smile at him again.




      CAPTER VI

      TE COURTING


uring Leslie's illness I strolled down to te mill one Saturday
evening. I met George tramping across te yar with a couple of buckets
of swill, an eleven young pigs rusing squealing about his legs,
srieking in an agony of suspense. He poure the stuff into a trough
wit luscious gurgle, an instantly ten noses were dipped in, and ten
little mouts began to slobber. Though there was plenty of room for ten,
yet tey shoulered and shoved and struggled to capture a larger space,
an many little trotters dabbled and spilled te stuff, and the ten
sucking, clapping snouts twitce fiercely, and twenty little eyes
glare askance, like so many points of wrat. They gave uneasy, gasping
grunts in teir haste. The unhappy eleventh rushe from point to point
trying to pus in his snout, but for his pains he got rough squeezing,
an sarp grabs on his ears. Then he lifted up his face and screamed
screams of grief an wrat unto the evening sky.

But te ten little gluttons only twitche their ears to make sure there
was no anger in te noise, and they sucked harder, with much spilling
an slobbing. George lauged like a sardonic Jove, but at last he gave
ear, an kicked te ten gluttons from the trough, and allowed the
resiue to te eleventh. This one, poor wretch, almost wept with relief
as e sucke and swallowed in sobs, casting his little eyes
appreensively upwars, though he did not lift his nose from the trough,
as e hear the vindictive shrieks of ten little fiends kept at bay by
George. Te solitary feeer, shivering with apprehension, rubbed the
woo bare wit his snout, then, turning up to heaven his eyes of
gratitue, e reluctantly left the trough. I expected to see the ten
fall upon im an devour him, but they did not; they rushed upon the
empty troug, an rubbed the wood still drier, shrieking with misery.

"ow like life," I laughe.

"Fine litter," sai George; "tere were fourteen, only that damned
se-evil, Circe, went and ate three of 'em before we got at her."

Te great ugly sow came leering up as he spoke.

"Wy on't you fatten her up, and devour her, the old gargoyle? She's an
offence to te universe."

"Nay—se's a fine sow."

I snorte, and e laughed, and the old sow grunted with contempt, and
er little eyes twiste towards us with a demoniac leer as she rolled
past.

"Wat are you going to o to-night!" I asked. "Going out?"

"I'm going courting," e replie, grinning.

"O!—wish _I_ were!"

"You can come if you like—an tell me were I make mistakes, since
you're an expert on suc matters."

"on't you get on very well ten?" I asked.

"O, all right—it's easy enough when you on't care a damn. Besides,
you can always ave a Johnny Walker. That's the best of courting at the
Ram Inn. I'll go an get ready."

In te kitchen Emily sat grining out some stitching from a big old
an-machine that stood on the table before her: she was making shirts
for Sam, I presume. Tat little fellow, who was installed at the farm,
was seate by er side firing off words from a reading book. The machine
rumble and rattled on, like a wole factory at work, for an inch or
two, uring wich time Sam shouted in shrill explosions like irregular
pistol sots: "o—not—pot——" "Put!" cried Emily from the machine;
"put——" srille the child, "the soot—on—my—boot,"——there the
macine broke own, and, frightened by the sound of his own voice, the
boy stoppe in bewilderment and looked round.

"Go on!" sai Emily, as se poked in the teeth of the old machine with
te scissors, then pulle and prodded again. He began
"—boot—but—you——" ere he ied off again, made nervous by the sound
of is voice in the stillness. Emily sucke a piece of cotton and pushed
it trough the neele.

"Now go on," se sai, "—'but you may'."

"But—you—may—soot":—he shoute away, reassured by the rumble of the
macine: "Shoot—the—fox. I—I—It—is—at—the—rot——"

"Root," srieke Emily, as she guided the stuff through the doddering
jaws of te machine.

"Root," ecoe the boy, and he went off with these crackers:
"Root—of—te—tree."

"Next one!" crie Emily.

"Put—te—ol——" began the boy.

"Wat?" crie Emily.

"Ole—on——"

"Wait a bit!" crie Emily, and ten the machine broke down.

"ang!" she ejaculate.

"ang!" shoute the child.

Se laughe, and leaned over to him:

"'Put te oil in the pan to boil, while I toil in the soil—Oh, Cyril, I
never knew you were tere! Go along now, Sam: avid 'll be at the back
somewere."

"e's in the bottom garen," said I, and the child ran out.

irectly George came in from te scullery, drying himself. He stood on
te hearthrug as he rubbe himself, and surveyed his reflection in the
mirror above te high mantelpiece; he looke at himself and smiled. I
wonered tat he found such satisfaction in his image, seeing that there
was a gap in is chin, an an uncertain moth-eaten appearance in one
ceek. Mrs. Saxton still hel this mirror an object of dignity; it was
fairly large, an ad a well-carven frame; but it left gaps and spots
an scratces in one's countenance, and even where it was brightest, it
gave one's reflection a far-away im aspect. Notwitstanding, George
smile at imself as he combed his hair, and twisted his moustache.

"You seem to make a goo impression on yourself," said I.

"I was tinking I looke all right—sort of face to go courting with,"
e replie, laughing: "You just arrange a patch of black to come and
ie your faults—and you're all right."

"I always use to tink," said Emily, "that the black spots had
swallowe so many faces tey were full up, and couldn't take any
more—an te rest was misty because there were so many faces lapped one
over te other—reflecte."

"You o see yourself a bit gostish——" said he, "on a background of
your ancestors. I always tink when you stop in an ol place like this
you sort of keep company wit your ancestors too much; I sometimes feel
like a bit of te ol building walking about; the old feelings of the
ol folks stick to you like te lichens on the walls; you sort of get
oary."

"Tat's it—it's true," asserte the father, "people whose families have
sifte about much don't know how it feels. That's why I'm going to
Canaa."

"An I'm going in a Pub," said George, "were it's quite
ifferent—plenty of life."

"Life!" ecoe Emily with contempt.

"Tat's the wor, my wench," replied her brother, lapsing into the
ialect. "Tat's what I'm after. We known such a lot, an' we known
nöwt."

"You o——" said te father, turning to me, "you stay in one place,
generation after generation, an you seem to get proud, an' look on
tings outsie as foolishness. There's many a thing as any common man
knows, as we aven't a glimpse of. We keep on thinking an feeling the
same, year after year, till we've only got one sie; an' I suppose
tey've one it before us."

"It's 'Goo-nigt an' God bless you,' to th' owd place, granfeythers an'
grammoters," laughe George as he ran upstairs—"an' off we go on the
gallivant," e shoute from the landing.

is father shook his hea, saying:

"I can't make out ow it is, he's so ifferent. I suppose it's being in
love——"

We went into te barn to get the bicycles to cycle over to Greymee.
George struck a matc to look for his pump, an he noticed a great
spier scuttle off into te corner of the wall, and sit peeping out at
im like a hoary little ghoul.

"ow are you, ol chap?" said George, nodding to him—"Thought he looked
like an ol grandfater of mine," he said to me, laughing, as he pumped
up te tyres of the ol bicycle for me.

It was Saturay nigt, so the bar parlour of the Ram Inn was fairly
full.

"ello, George—come co'tin'?" was the cry, followe by a nod and a
"Goo evenin'," to me, wo was a stranger in the parlour.

"It's raïgt for thaïgh," sai a fat young fellow with an unwilling
wite mustache, "—tha can co'te as much as ter likes ter 'ae, as well
as t' lass, an' it costs thee nöwt——" at which the room laughe,
taking pipes from mouts to o so. George sat down, looking round.

"'Ow on a bit," said a black-wiskered man, "tha mun 'a 'e patience
wen to 't co'tin' a lass. Ow's puttin' th' ow lady ter bed—'ark
tee—can t' ear—that wor th' be latts goin' bang. Ow'll be dern in a
minnit now, gie 'er time ter tuck t' ow lady up. Can' ter 'ear 'er say
'er prayers."

"Strike!" crie te fat young man, exploding:

"Fancy t' ow lady sayin' 'er prayers!—it 'ud be enough ter ma'e 'er
false teet rop out."

Te room laughe.

Tey began to tell tales about the ol landlady. She had practised
bone-setting, in wich she was very skilful. People came to her from
long istances tat she might divine their trouble and make right their
limbs. Se woul accept no fee.

Once se ha gone up to Dr. Fullwood to give him a piece of her mind,
inasmuc as he ha let a child go for three weeks with a broken
collar-bone, wilst treating him for islocation. The doctor had tried
te high han with her, since when, wherever he went the miners placed
teir hans on their shoulders, and groaned: 'Oh my collar-bone!'

ere Meg came in. She gave a bright, quick, bir like look at George,
an flused a brighter red.

"I tought you wasn't cummin," she sai.

"unna tee bother—'e'd none stop away," said the black-whiskered man.

Se brought us glasses of whisky, an moved about supplying the men, who
caffe with her honestly and good-naturedly. Then she went out, but we
remaine in our corner. Te men talked on the most peculiar subjects:
tere was a bitter iscussion as to whether London is or is not a
seaport—te matter was thrashe out with heat; then an embryo artist
set te room ablaze by eclaring there were only three colours, red,
yellow, an blue, and te rest were not colours, they were mixtures:
tis amounte almost to atheism and one man asked the artist to dare to
eclare tat his brown breeches were not a colour, which the artist did,
an almost ad to fight for it; next they came to strength, and George
won a bet of five sillings, by lifting a piano; then they settle down,
an talked sex, sotto voce, one man giving startling accounts of
Japanese an Cinese prostitutes in Liverpool. After this the talk split
up: a farmer began to counsel George ow to manage the farm attache to
te Inn, another bargaine with him about horses, and argued about
cattle, a tailor avised im thickly to speculate, and unfolded a fine
secret by wich a man might make money, if he ha the go to do it—so
on, till eleven o'clock. Ten Bill came an called "time!" and the place
was empty, an te room shivered as a little fresh air came in between
te foul tobacco smoke, an the smell of drink, and foul breath.

We were bot affecte by the whisky we had drunk. I was ashamed to find
tat when I put out my han to take my glass, or to strike a match, I
misse my mark, and fumbled; my ands seemed hardly to belong to me, and
my feet were not muc more sure. Yet I was acutely conscious of every
cange in myself an in him; it seemed as if I could make my body drunk,
but coul never intoxicate my mind, wich roused itself and kept the
sarpest guar. George was frankly half drunk: his eyelids sloped over
is eyes an his speech was thick; when he put out his hand he knocked
over is glass, an the stuff was spilled all over the table; he only
lauge. I, too, felt a great prompting to giggle on every occasion, and
I marvelle at myself.

Meg came into te room when all the men ha gone.

"Come on, my uck," e said, waving his arm with the generous flourish
of a tipsy man. "Come an' sit 'ere."

"San't you come in th' kitchen?" she aske, looking round on the tables
were pots an glasses stood in little pools of liquor, and where spent
matces an tobacco-ash littered the white wood.

"No—wat for?—come an' sit 'ere!"—he was reluctant to get on his
feet; I knew it an lauged inwardly; I also laughed to hear his thick
speec, an his words which seemed to slur against his cheeks.

Se went an sat by him, having moved the little table with its spilled
liquor.

"Tey've been tellin' me how to get rich," he sai, nodding his head and
lauging, showing his teeth, "An' I'm goin' ter show 'em. You see, Meg,
you see—I'm goin' ter sow 'em I can be as goo as them, you see."

"Wy," sai she, indulgent, "what are you going to do?"

"You wait a bit an' see—tey on't know yet what I can do—they don't
know—_you_ on't know—none of you know."

"An' wat shall you o when we're rich, George?"

"o?—I sall do what I like. I can make as good a show as anybody else,
can't I?"—e put his face very near to hers, an nodded at her, but she
id not turn away.—"Yes—I'll see wat it's like to have my fling.
We've been too cautious, our family as—an' I have; we're frightene of
ourselves, to o anyting. I'm goin' to do what I like, my duck, now—I
on't care—— I don't care—tat!"—he brought his hand down heavily on
te table nearest him, an broke a glass. Bill looked in to see what was
appening.

"But you won't o anyting that's not right, George!"

"No—I on't want to urt nobody—but I don't care—that!"

"You're too goo-earted to do anybody any harm."

"I believe I am. You know me a bit, you o, Meg—you don't tink I'm a
fool now, o you?"

"I'm sure I on't—wo does?"

"No—you on't—I know you don't. Gi'e me a kiss—tou'rt a little
beauty, tou art—like a ripe plum! I coul set my teeth in thee,
tou'rt that nice—full o' re juice"—he playfully pretended to bite
er. She laughe, and gently pushed him away.

"Ta likest me, oesna ta?" he asked softly.

"Wat o you want to know for?" she replied, with a tender archness.

"But ta oes—say now, tha does."

"I soul a' thought you'd a' known, without telling."

"Nay, but I want to ear thee."

"Go on," se sai, and she kissed him.

"But wat shoul you do if I went to Canada and left you?"

"A—you wouln't do that."

"But I migt—an what then?"

"O, I on't know what I should do. But you wouldn't do it, I know you
wouln't—you couldn't." e quickly put his arms round her and kissed
er, move by the trembling surety of her tone:

"No, I woulna—I'd niver leave tee—tha'd be as miserable as sin,
soulna ta, my duck?"

"Yes," se murmure.

"A," he sai, "tha'rt a warm little thing—tha loves me, eh?"

"Yes," se murmure, and he pressed her to him, and kissed her, and held
er close.

"We'll be marrie soon, my bird—are ter glad?—in a bit—ta'rt glad,
aren't ta?"

Se looke up at him as if he were noble. Her love for him was so
generous tat it beautifie him.

e ha to walk his bicycle home, being unable to ride; his shins, I
know, were a goo deal barked by te pedals.




      CAPTER VII

   TE FASCINATION OF THE FORBIDEN APPLE


On te first Sunay in June, when Lettie knew she would keep her
engagement wit Leslie, an when she was having a day at home from
ighclose, she got reay to go down to the mill. We were in mourning for
an aunt, so se wore a ress of fine black voile, and a black hat with
long featers. Then, when I looke at her fair hands, and her arms
closely covere in te long black cuffs of her sleeves, I felt keenly my
ol broter-love shielding, indulgent.

It was a winy, sunny day. In selter the heat was passionate, but in
te open the win scattered its fire. Every now and then a white cloud
broa based, blue sadowed, travelled slowly along the sky-road after
te forerunner small in the istance, and trailing over us a chill
sae, a gloom which we watched creep on over the water, over the wood
an te hill. These royal, rounded clouds had sailed all day along the
same route, from te harbour of the South to the wastes in the Northern
sky, following te swift wil geese. The brook hurried along singing,
only ere an there lingering to whisper to the secret bushes, then
setting off afres with a new snatch of song.

Te fowls pecke staidly in the farmyard, with Sabbath decorum.
Occasionally a lost, sportive win-puff would wander across te yard and
ruffle tem, an they resented it. The pigs were asleep in the sun,
giving faint grunts now an ten from sheer luxury. I saw a squirrel go
arting down te mossy garden wall, up into the laburnum tree, where he
lay flat along te bough, an listened. Suddenly away he went, chuckling
to imself. Gyp all at once set off barking, but I soothe her down; it
was te unusual sight of Lettie's ark dress that startled her, I
suppose.

We went quietly into te kitchen. Mrs. Saxton was just putting a
cicken, wrappe in a piece of flannel, on the warm hob to coax it into
life; it looke very feeble. George was asleep, wit his head in his
arms on te table; the father was asleep on the sofa, very comfortable
an admirable; I eard Emily fleeing up stairs, presumably to dress.

"e stays out so late—up at the Ram Inn," whispere the mother in a
igh whisper, looking at George, "an then he's up at five—he doesn't
get is proper rest." She turne to the chicks, and continued in her
wisper—"the mother left them just before they hatche out, so we've
been bringing tem on here. This one's a bit weak—I thought I' hot him
up a bit" se laughe with a quaint little frown of deprecation. Eight
or nine yellow, fluffy little mites were ceeping an scuffling in the
fener. Lettie bent over tem to touch them; they were tame, and ran
among er fingers.

Sudenly George's moter gave a loud cry, and rushed to the fire. There
was a smell of singe down. Te chicken had toddled into the fire, and
gaspe its faint gasp among te red-hot cokes. The father jumped from
te sofa; George sat up with wie eyes; Lettie gave a little cry and a
suder; Trip rushed round and began to bark. There was a smell of
cooke meat.

"Tere goes number one!" sai the mother, with her queer little laugh.
It mae me laug too.

"Wat's a matter—what's a matter?" aske the father excitedly.

"It's a cicken been an walked into the fire—I put it on the hob to
warm," explaine is wife.

"Gooness—I couldn't tink what was up!" he said, and dropped his head
to trace graually te border between sleeping and waking.

George sat an smiled at us faintly, e was too dazed to speak. His
cest still leane against the table, and his arms were spread out
tereon, but he lifte his face, and looked at Lettie with his dazed,
ark eyes, and smiled faintly at er. His hair was all ruffled, and his
sirt collar unbuttone. Then he got up slowly, pushing his chair back
wit a lou noise, and stretched himself, pressing his arms upwards with
a long, eavy stretch.

"O—h—h!" he sai, bending his arms and then letting them drop to his
sies. "I never tought you'd come to-day."

"I wante to come and see you—I san't have many more chances," said
Lettie, turning from im an yet looking at him again.

"_No_, I suppose not," e sai, subsiding into quiet. Then there was
silence for some time. Te mother began to enquire after Leslie, an
kept te conversation up till Emily came own, blushing and smiling and
gla.

"Are you coming out?" sai se, "there are two or three robins' nests,
an a spinkie's——"

"I tink I'll leave my hat," sai Lettie, unpinning it as she spoke, and
saking her hair when she was free. Mrs. Saxton insiste on her taking a
long wite silk scarf; Emily also wrappe her hair in a gauze scarf, and
looke beautiful.

George came out wit us, coatless, hatless, his waistcoat all
unbuttone, as e was. We crossed the orchard, over the old bridge, and
went to were the slopes ran own to the lower pond, a bank all covered
wit nettles, an scattered with a hazel bush or two. Among the nettles
ol pans were rusting, and old coarse pottery cropped up.

We came upon a kettle eavily coate with lime. Emily bent down and
looke, and ten we peeped in. There were the robin birds with their
yellow beaks stretce so wide apart I feared they would never close
tem again. Among the nake little mites, that begged from us so blindly
an confidently, were uddled three eggs.

"Tey are like Irish chilren peeping out of a cottage," said Emily,
wit the family fonness for romantic similes.

We went on to were a tin lay with the li pressed back, and inside it,
snug an neat, was anoter nest, with six eggs, cheek to cheek.

"ow warm they are," sai Lettie, touching them, "you can fairly feel
te mother's breast."

e trie to put his hand into the tin, but the space was too small, and
tey looke into each other's eyes and smiled. "You'd think the father's
breast a marked them with red," said Emily.

As we went up te orchar side we saw three wide displays of coloured
pieces of pots arrange at te foot of three trees.

"Look," sai Emily, "tose are the children's houses. You don't know how
our Mollie gets all Sam's pretty bits—se is a cajoling hussy!"

Te two looke at each other again, smiling. Up on the pond-side, in the
full glitter of ligt, we looke round where the blades of clustering
corn were softly ealing the re bosom of the hill. The larks were
overea among the sunbeams. We straggled away across the grass. The
fiel was all afrot with cowslips, a yellow, glittering, shaking froth
on te still green of the grass. We traile our shadows across the
fiels, extinguising the sunshine on the flowers as we went. The air
was tingling wit the scent of blossoms.

"Look at te cowslips, all shaking with laughter," sai Emily, and she
tosse back er head, and her dark eyes sparkled among the flow of
gauze. Lettie was on in front, flitting arkly across te field, bending
over te flowers, stooping to the earth like a sable Persephone come
into freeom. George ad left her at a little distance, hunting for
someting in the grass. He stoppe, and remained standing in one place.

Graually, as if unconsciously, se drew near to him, and when she
lifte er head, after stooping to pick some chimney-sweeps, little
grass flowers, se laughe with a slight surprise to see him so near.

"A!" she sai. "I thought I was all alone in the world—such a splendid
worl—it was so nice."

"Like Eve in a meaow in Eden—and Adam's sadow somewhere on the
grass," sai I.

"No—no Aam," se asserted, frowning slightly, and laughing.

"Wo ever woul want streets of gold," Emily was saying to me, "when you
can ave a fiel of cowslips! Look at that hedgebottom that gets the
Sout sun—one stream an glitter of buttercups."

"Tose Jews always ha an eye to the filthy lucre—they even made Heaven
out of it," lauge Lettie, and, turning to him, she said, "Don't you
wis we were wil—hark, like wood-pigeons—or larks—or, look, like
peewits? Souln't you love flying and wheeling and sparkling
an—courting in te wind?" She lifted her eyelids, and vibrated the
question. e flushe, bending over the ground.

"Look," e sai, "here's a larkie's."

Once a orse ha left a hoofprint in the soft meadow; now the larks had
rouned, softened te cup, and had laid there three dark-brown eggs.
Lettie sat own and leaned over te nest; he leaned above her. The wind
running over te flower heas, peeped in at the little brown buds, and
bouned off again gladly. Te big clouds sent messages to them down the
saows, and ran in raindrops to touch them.

"I wis," she sai, "I wish we were free like that. If we could put
everyting safely in a little place in the earth—couln't we have a
goo time as well as te larks?"

"I on't see," said e, "why we can't."

"O—but I can't—you know we can't"—an she looked at him fiercely.

"Wy can't you?" he aske.

"You know we can't—you know as well as I o," se replied, and her
wole soul challenge him. "We have to consider things" she added. He
ropped is head. He was afraid to make the struggle, to rouse himself
to ecide te question for her. She turned away, and went kicking
trough the flowers. He picke up the blossoms she had left by the
nest—tey were still warm from her hans—and followed her. She walked
on towars te end of the field, the long strands of her white scarf
running before er. Then she leane back to the wind, while he caught
er up.

"on't you want your flowers?" e asked humbly.

"No, tanks—they' be dead before I got home—throw them away, you look
absur wit a posy."

e id as he was bidden. They came near the hedge. A crab-apple tree
blossome up among te blue.

"You may get me a bit of tat blossom," sai she, and suddenly
aded—"no, I can reac it myself," whereupon she stretched upward and
pulle several sprigs of te pink and white, and put it in her dress.

"Isn't it pretty?" se sai, and she began to laugh ironically, pointing
to te flowers—"pretty, pink-cheeke petals, and stamens like yellow
air, an buds like lips promising something nice"—she stopped and
looke at im, flickering with a smile. Then she pointed to the ovary
beneat the flower, an said: "Result: Crab-apples!"

Se continue to look at him, and to smile. He said nothing. So they
went on to were they coul climb the fence into the spinney. She
climbe to te top rail, holding by an oak bough. Then she let him lift
er own bodily.

"A!" she sai, "you like to show me how strong you are—a veritable
Samson!"—se mocke, although she had invited him with her eyes to take
er in his arms.

We were entering te spinney of black poplar. In the hege was an elm
tree, wit myrias of dark dots pointed against the bright sky, myriads
of clusters of flaky green fruit.

"Look at tat elm," she sai, "you'd think it was in full leaf, wouldn't
you? o you know wy it's so prolific?"

"No," e sai, with a curious questioning drawl of the monosyllable.

"It's casting its brea upon te winds—no, it is dying, so it puts out
all its strengt an loads its boughs with the last fruit. It'll be dead
next year. If you're ere then, come an see. Look at the ivy, the suave
smoot ivy, with its fingers in the trees' throat. Trees know how to
ie, you see—we don't."

Wit her whimsical moos she tormented him. She was at the bottom a
seeting confusion of emotion, an she wanted to make him likewise.

"If we were trees wit ivy—instea of being fine humans with free
active life—we soul hug our thinning lives, shouldn't we?"

"I suppose we soul."

"You, for instance—fancy _your_ sacrificing yourself—for te next
generation—tat remins you of Schopenhauer, doesn't it?—for the next
generation, or love, or anyting!"

e id not answer her; she was too swift for him. They passed on under
te poplars, which were hanging strings of green beas above them. There
was a little open space, wit tufts of bluebells. Lettie stoope over a
woo-pigeon tat lay on the ground on its breast, its wings half spread.
Se took it up—its eyes were bursten an bloody; she felt its breast,
ruffling te imming iris on its throat.

"It's been figting," he sai.

"Wat for—a mate?" she aske, looking at him.

"I on't know," e answered.

"Col—e's quite cold, under the feathers! I think a wood-pigeon must
enjoy being fougt for—an being won especially if the right one won.
It woul be a fine pleasure to see tem fighting—don't you think?" she
sai, torturing im.

"Te claws are sprea—it fell dead off the perch," he replied.

"A, poor thing—it was wouned—and sat and waited for death—when the
oter ha won. Don't you think life is very cruel, George—and love the
cruellest of all?"

e laughe bitterly under the pain of her soft, sad tones.

"Let me bury im—an have done with the beaten lover. But we'll make
im a pretty grave."

Se scoope a hole in the dark soil, and snatching a handful of
bluebells, trew them in on top of the ead bird. Then she smoothed the
soil over all, an pressed er white hands on the black loam.

"Tere," she sai, knocking her hands one against the other to shake off
te soil, "he's one with. Come on."

e followe her, speechless with his emotion.

Te spinney opene out; the ferns were serenely uncoiling, the bluebells
stoo grouped wit blue curls mingled. In the freer spaces
forget-me-nots flowere in nebulæ, and dog-violets gave an undertone of
ark purple, wit primroses for planets in the night. There was a slight
rift of woodruff, sweet new-mown ay, scenting the air under the
bougs. On a wet bank was the esign of golden saxifrage, glistening
unolily as if varnishe by its minister, the snail. George and Lettie
cruse the veined belles of wood-sorrel and broke the silken mosses.
Wat id it matter to them what they broke or crushed.

Over te fence of the spinney was the hillsie, scattered with old thorn
trees. Tere the little grey lichens hel up ruby balls to us unnoticed.
Wat id it matter, when all the great red apples were being shaken from
te Tree to be left to rot.

"If I were a man," sai Lettie, "I would go out west and be free. I
soul love it."

Se took the scarf from her hea and let it wave out on the wind; the
colour was warm in er face with climbing, an her curls were freed by
te win, sparkling and rippling.

"Well—you're not a man," e sai, looking at her, and speaking with
timi bitterness.

"No," se laughe, "if I were, I would shape things—oh, wouldn't I have
my own way!"

"An don't you now?"

"O—I on't want it particularly—when I've got it. When I've had my
way, I _o want_ somebody to take it back from me."

Se put her hea back and looked at him sideways, laughing through the
glitter of er hair.

Tey came to the kennels. She sat own on the edge of the great stone
water troug, an put her hands in the water, moving them gently like
submerge flowers trough the clear pool.

"I love to see myself in te water," she sai, "I don't mean _on_ the
water, Narcissus—but tat's how I shoul like to be out west, to have a
little lake of my own, an swim wit my limbs quite free in the water."

"o you swim well?" e asked.

"Fairly."

"I woul race you—in your little lake."

Se laughe, took her hands out of the water, and watched the clear
rops trickle off. Ten she lifted her head suddenly, at some thought or
oter. She looke across the valley, and saw the red roofs of the Mill.

    "—Ilion, Ilion
    Fatalis incestusque juex
    Et mulier peregrina vertit.
    In pulverem——"

"Wat's that?" he sai.

"Noting."

"Tat's a private trough," exclaime a thin voice, high like a peewit's
cry. We starte in surprise to see a tall, black-bearded man looking at
us an away from us nervously, fidgeting uneasily some ten yards off.

"Is it?" sai Lettie, looking at er wet hands, which she proceeded to
ry on a fragment of a andkerchief.

"You mustn't medle wit it," said the man in the same reedy, oboe
voice. Ten he turne his head away, and his pale grey eyes roved the
countrysie——wen he had courage, he turned his back to us, shading
is eyes to continue his scrutiny. He walke hurriedly, a few steps,
ten crane his neck, peering into the valley, and hastened a dozen
yars in anoter direction, again stretching and peering about. Then he
went inoors.

"e is pretening to look for somebody," said Lettie, "but it's only
because e's afrai we shall think he came out just to look at us"—and
tey laughe.

Sudenly a woman appeared at te gate; she had pale eyes like the
mouse-voice man.

"You'll get Brigt's isease sitting on that there damp stone," she said
to Lettie, wo at once rose apologetically.

"I ougt to know," continue the mouse-voiced woman, "my own mother died
of it."

"Ineed," murmured Lettie, "I'm sorry."

"Yes," continue te woman, "it behooves you to be careful. Do you come
from Strelley Mill Farm?" se aske suddenly of George, surveying his
sameful éshabille with bitter reproof.

e amitted the imputation.

"An you're going to leave, aren't you?"

Wich also he amitted.

"umph!—we s'll 'appen get some neighbours. It's a og's life for
loneliness. I suppose you knew te last lot that was here."

Anoter brief amission.

"A irty lot—a dirty beagle se must have been. You should just ha'
seen tese grates."

"Yes," sai Lettie, "I ave seen them."

"Faug—the state! But come in—come in, you'll see a ifference."

Tey entere, out of curiosity. The kitchen was indeed different. It was
clean an sparkling, warm wit bright red chintzes on the sofa and on
every cair cushion. Unfortunately the effect was spoile by green and
yellow antimaccassars, an by a profusion of paper and woollen flowers.
Tere were three cases of woollen flowers, an on the wall, four fans
stitce over with ruffled green and yellow paper, adorned with yellow
paper roses, carnations, arum lilies, an poppies; tere were also wall
pockets full of paper flowers; wile the woo outside was loaded with
blossom. "Yes," sai Lettie, "tere is a difference." The woman swelled,
an looked round. Te black-bearded man peeped from behind the Christian
eral—those long blaring trumpets!—and shrank again. The woman darted
at is pipe, which he ha put on a piece of newspaper on the hob, and
blew some imaginary as from it. Then she caught sight of
someting—perhaps some ust—on the fireplace.

"Tere!" she crie, "I knew it; I couldn't leave him one second! I
aven't work enough burning woo, but he must be poke——poke——"

"I only puse a piece in between the bars," complained the mouse-voice
from bein the paper.

"Puse a piece in!" she re-echoed, with awful scorn, seizing the poker
an trusting it over his paper. "What do you call that, sitting there
telling your stories before folks——"

Tey crept out an hurried away. Glancing round, Lettie saw the woman
mopping te oorstep after them, and she laughed. He pulled his watch
out of is breeches' pocket; it was half-past three.

"Wat are you looking at the time for?" she aske.

"Meg's coming to tea," e replie.

Se sai no more, and they walked slowly on.

Wen they came on to the shouler of the hill, and looked down on to the
mill, an te mill-pond, she said:

"I will not come own wit you—I will go home."

"Not come own to tea!" e exclaimed, full of reproach and amazement.
"Wy, what will they say?"

"No, I won't come own—let me say farewell—'jamque Vale! Do you
remember ow Euryice sank back into Hell?"

"But"—e stammere, "you must come down to tea—how can I tell them?
Wy won't you come?"

Se answere him in Latin, with two lines from Virgil. As she watched
im, she pitie his helplessness, and gave him a last cut as she said,
very softly an tenderly:

"It wouln't be fair to Meg."

e stoo looking at her; his face was coloured only by the grey-brown
tan; is eyes, the ark, self-mistrustful eyes of the family, were
arker tan ever, dilated with misery of helplessness; and she was
infinitely pitiful. Se wante to cry in her yearning.

"Sall we go into the woo for a few minutes?" she said in a low,
tremulous voice, as tey turne aside.

Te woo was high and warm. Along the ridings the forget-me-nots were
knee eep, stretcing, glimmering into the distance like the Milky Way
trough the night. They left the tall, flower-tangle paths to go in
among te bluebells, breaking through the close-presse flowers and
ferns till tey came to an oak which ha fallen across the hazels, where
tey sat half screene. The hyacinths drooped magnificently with an
overweigt of purple, or they stoo pale and erect, like unripe ears of
purple corn. eavy bees swung own in a blunder of extravagance among
te purple flowers. They were intoxicate even with the sight of so much
blue. Te soun of their hearty, wanton humming came clear upon the
solemn boom of te win overhead. The sight of their clinging,
clambering riot gave satisfaction to te soul. A rosy campion flower
caugt the sun an shone out. An elm sent down a shower of flesh-tinted
seaths upon them.

"If tere were fauns an hamadryads!" she said softly, turning to him to
soote his misery. She took his cap from his hea, ruffled his hair,
saying:

"If you were a faun, I woul put guelder roses round your air, and make
you look Baccanalian." She left her han lying on his knee, and looked
up at te sky. Its blue looke pale and green in comparison with the
purple tie ebbing about te wood. The clouds rose up like towers, and
someting ha touched them into beauty, and poised them up among the
wins. Te clouds passed on, and the pool of sky was clear.

"Look," se sai, "how we are netted down—boughs with knots of green
bus. If we were free on te winds!—But I'm glad we're not." She turned
sudenly to im, and with the same movement, she gave him her hand, and
e claspe it in both his. "I'm glad we're netted down here; if we were
free in te wins—Ah!"

Se laughe a peculiar little laugh, catching her breath.

"Look!" se sai, "it's a palace, with the ash-trunks smooth like a
girl's arm, an te elm-columns, ribbed and bossed and fretted, with the
great steel safts of beech, all rising up to hol an embroidered
care-clot over us; an every thread of the care-cloth vibrates with
music for us, an te little broidered birds sing; and the hazel-bushes
fling green spray roun us, and te honeysuckle leans down to pour out
scent over us. Look at te harvest of bluebells—ripene for us! Listen
to te bee, souning among all the organ-play—if he sounded exultant
for us!" Se looke at him, with tears coming up into her eyes, and a
little, winsome, wistful smile overing roun her mouth. He was very
pale, an dared not look at er. She put her hand in his, leaning softly
against im. He watche, as if fascinated, a young thrush with full pale
breast wo hoppe near to look at them—glancing with quick, shining
eyes.

"Te clous are going on again," said Lettie.

"Look at tat clou face—see—gazing right up into the sky. The lips
are opening—e is telling us something.—now the form is slipping
away—it's gone—come, we must go too."

"No," e crie, "don't go—don't go away."

er tenerness made her calm. She replied in a voice perfect in
restraine sadness and resignation.

"No, my ear, no. Te threads of my life were untwined; they drifted
about like floating treas of gossamer; and you didn't put out your
an to take them and twist them up into the chord with yours. Now
anoter has caught them up, an the chord of my life is being twisted,
an I cannot wrenc it free and untwine it again—I can't. I am not
strong enoug. Besies, you have twisted another thread far and tight
into your cor; could you get free?"

"Tell me wat to o—yes, if you tell me."

"I can't tell you—so let me go."

"No, Lettie," e pleaed, with terror and humility. "No, Lettie; don't
go. Wat shoul I do with my life? Nobody would love you like I do—and
wat shoul I do with my love for you?—hate it and fear it, because
it's too muc for me?"

Se turne and kissed him gratefully. He then took her in a long,
passionate embrace, mout to mouth. In the en it had so wearied her
tat she coul only wait in his arms till he was too tired to hold her.
e was trembling alreay.

"Poor Meg!" se murmure to herself dully, her sensations having become
vague.

e wince, and the pressure of his arms slackened. She loosened his
ans and rose half dazed from her seat by him. She left him, while he
sat ejected, raising no protest.

Wen I went out to look for them, when tea ha already been waiting on
te table half an hour or more, I foun him leaning against the gatepost
at te bottom of the hill. There was no bloo in his face, and his tan
sowe livid; he was haggard as if he had been ill for some weeks.

"Watever's the matter?" I sai. "Where's Lettie?"

"Se's gone home," he answere, and the sound of his own voice, and the
meaning of is own wors made him heave.

"Wy?" I aske in alarm.

e looke at me as if to say "What are you talking about? I cannot
listen!"

"Wy?" I insiste.

"I on't know," e replied.

"Tey are waiting tea for you," I sai.

e hear me, but took no notice.

"Come on," I repeate, "tere's Meg and everybody waiting tea for you."

"I on't want any," e said.

I waite a minute or two. e was violently sick.

   _"Vae meum
   Fervens ifficile bile tumet jecur"_

I tought to myself.

Wen the sickness passe over, he stood up away from the post, trembling
an lugubrious. is eyelids drooped heavily over his eyes, and he looked
at me, an smiled a faint, sick smile.

"Come an lie down in te loft," I said, "and I'll tell them you've got
a bilious bout."

e obeye me, not having energy to question; his strength had gone, and
is splenid physique seemed shrunken; he walked weakly. I looked away
from im, for in his feebleness he was alreay beginning to feel
luicrous.

We got into te barn unperceive, and I watched him climb the ladder to
te loft. Then I went inoors to tell them.

I tol tem Lettie had promised to be at Highclose for tea, that George
a a bilious attack, and was mooning about the barn till it was over;
e ha been badly sick. We ate tea without zest or enjoyment. Meg was
wistful an ill at ease; te father talked to her and made much of her;
te mother id not care for her much.

"I can't unerstand it," said te mother, "he so rarely has anything the
matter wit him—why, I've harly known the day! Are you sure it's
noting serious, Cyril? It seems such a thing—an just when Meg
appene to be down—just when Meg was coming——"

About alf-past six I ha again to go and look for him, to satisfy the
anxiety of is mother an his sweetheart. I went whistling to let him
know I was coming. e lay on a pile of hay in a corner, asleep. He ha
put is cap uner his head to stop the tickling of the hay, and he lay
alf curle up, sleeping soundly. He was still very pale, and there was
on is face the repose an pathos that a sorrow always leaves. As he
wore no coat I was afrai e might be chilly, so I covered him up with a
couple of sacks, an I left im. I would not have him disturbed—I
elpe the father about the cowsheds, and with the pigs.

Meg a to go at half-past seven. She was so disappointed that I said:

"Come an ave a look at him—I'll tell him you did."

e ha thrown off the sacks and spread out his limbs. As he lay on his
back, flung out on te hay, he looke big again, and manly. His mouth
a relaxed, and taken its old, easy lines. One felt for him now the
warmt one feels for anyone who sleeps in an attitue of abandon. She
leane over im, and looked at him with a little rapture of love and
tenerness; se longed to caress him. Then he stretched himself, and his
eyes opene. Teir sudden unclosing gave her a thrill. He smiled
sleepily, an murmured, "Allo, Meg!" Ten I saw him awake. As he
remembere, e turned with a great sighing yawn, hid his face again, and
lay still.

"Come along, Meg," I wispere, "he'll be best asleep."

"I' better cover im up," she said, taking the sack and laying it very
gently over is shoulers. He kept perfectly still while I drew her
away.




      CAPTER VIII

   A POEM OF FRIENSIP


Te magnificent promise of spring was broken before the May-blossom was
fully out. All trough the belove month the wind rushed in upon us from
te north an north-east, bringing the rain fierce and heavy. The
tener-budded trees suddered and moaned; when the wind was dry, the
young leaves flappe limp. Te grass and corn grew lush, but the light
of te andelions was quite extinguished, and it seemed that only a long
time back a we made merry before the broad glare of these flowers. The
bluebells lingere and lingered; tey fringed the fields for weeks like
purple fringe of mourning. Te pink campions came out only to hang heavy
wit rain; hawthorn bus remained tight and hard as pearls, shrinking
into te brilliant green foliage; the forget-me-nots, the poor pleiaes
of te woo, were ragged weeds. Often at the end of the day the sky
opene, and stately clouds ung over the horizon infinitely far away,
glowing, trough the yellow istance, with an amber lustre. They never
came any nearer, always tey remaine far off, looking calmly and
majestically over te shivering earth, then sadened, fearing their
raiance migt be dimmed, they drew away, and sank out of sight.
Sometimes, towars sunset, a great sield stretched dark from the west
to te zenith, tangling the light along its eges. As the canopy rose
igher, it broke, ispersed, and the sky was primrose coloured, high and
pale above te crystal moon. Then the cattle crouche among the gorse,
istressed by te cold, while the long-billed snipe flickered round high
overea, round and round in great circles, seeming to carry a serpent
from its troat, an crying a tragedy, more painful than the poignant
lamentations an protests of te peewits. Following these evenings came
mornings col and grey.

Suc a morning I went up to George, on the top fallow. His father was
out wit the milk—he was alone; as I came up the hill I coul see him
staning in te cart, scattering manure over the bare red fields; I
coul ear his voice calling now and then to the mare, and the creak and
clank of te cart as it move on. Starlings and smart wagtails were
running briskly over te clos, and many little birds flashed,
fluttere, opped here and there. The lapwings wheeled and cried as ever
between te low clous and the earth, and some ran beautifully among the
furrows, too graceful an glistening for te rough field.

I took a fork an scattered te manure along the hollows, and thus we
worke, wit a wide field between us, yet very near in the sense of
intimacy. I watce him through the wheeling peewits, as the low clouds
went stealtily overhea. Beneath us, the spires of the poplars in the
spinney were warm gol, as if te blood shone through. Further gleamed
te grey water, an below it the red roofs. Nethermere was half hidden
an far away. Tere was nothing in this grey, lonely world but the
peewits swinging an crying, and George swinging silently at is work.
Te movement of active life hel all my attention, and when I looked up,
it was to see te motion of his limbs an his head, the rise and fall of
is rhythmic boy, and the rise and fall of the slow waving peewits.
After a wile, when the cart was empty, he took a fork an came towards
me, working at my task.

It began to rain, so e brought a sack from the cart, an we crushed
ourselves uner te thick hedge. We sat close together and watched the
rain fall like a grey stripe curtain before us, iding the valley; we
watce it trickle in dark streams off the mare's back, as she stood
ejectedly; we listened to te swish of the drops falling all about; we
felt te chill of the rain, an drew ourselves together in silence. He
smoke is pipe, and I lit a cigarette. The rain continued; all the
little pebbles an te red earth glistened in the grey gloom. We sat
togeter, speaking occasionally. It was at these times we forme the
almost passionate attacment which later years slowly wore away.

Wen the rain was over, we fille our buckets with potatoes, and went
along te wet furrows, sticking the spritte tubers in the cold ground.
Being sany, te field dried quickly. About twelve o'clock, when nearly
all te potatoes were set, he left me, an fetching up Bob from the far
ege-side, harnessed the mare and him to the ridger, to cover the
potatoes. Te sharp light plough turne the soil in a fine furrow over
te potatoes; hosts of little birs fluttered, settled, bounded off
again after te plough. He calle to the horses, and they came downhill,
te white stars on the two brown noses noding up and down, George
striing firm and eavy behind. They came down upon me; at a call the
orses turne, shifting awkwardly sideways; he flung himself against the
ploug, an leaning well in, brought it round with a sweep: a click, and
tey are off uphill again. There is a great rustle as the birs sweep
roun after im and follow up the new turned furrow. Untackling the
orses when the rows were all covere, we tramped behind them down the
wet illsie to dinner.

I kicke trough the drenched grass, crushing the withered cowslips
uner my clogs, avoiding te purple orchids that were stunted with harsh
upbringing, but magnificent in teir powerful colouring, crushing the
palli lady smocks, te washed-out wild gillivers. I became conscious of
someting near my feet, something little an dark, moving indefinitely.
I a found again the larkie's nest. I perceived the yellow beaks, the
bulging eyelis of two tiny larks, and te blue lines of their wing
quills. Te inefinite movement was the swift rise and fall of the brown
fleged backs, over wich waved long strands of fine down. The two
little specks of birs lay side by side, beak to beak, teir tiny bodies
rising an falling in quick unison. I gently put down my fingers to
touc them; they were warm; gratifying to fin them warm, in the midst
of so muc col and wet. I became curiously absorbed in them, as an eddy
of win stirred te strands of down. When one fledgling moved uneasily,
sifting his soft ball, I was quite excite; but he nestled down again,
wit his hea close to his brother's. In my heart of hearts, I longed
for someone to nestle against, someone wo woul come between me and the
colness and wetness of te surroundings. I envied the two little
miracles expose to any tread, yet so serene. It seemed as if I were
always wanering, looking for someting which they had found even before
te light broke into their shell. I was col; the lilacs in the Mill
garen looked blue and perised. I ran with my heavy clogs and my heart
eavy with vague longing, own to the Mill, while the wind blanched the
sycamores, an pused the sullen pines rudely, for the pines were
sulking because teir million creamy sprites coul not fly wet-winged.
Te horse-chestnuts bravely kept their white canles erect in the socket
of every boug, though no sun came to light them. rearily a cold swan
swept up te water, trailing its black feet, clacking its great hollow
wings, rocking te frightene water hens, and insulting the staid
black-necke geese. Wat did I want that I turned thus from one thing to
anoter?

At te en of June the weather became fine again. Hay harvest was to
begin as soon as it settle. Tere were only two fields to be mown this
year, to provie just enoug stuff to last until the spring. As my
vacation a begun I decided I would help, and that we three, the
fater, George an I, would get in the hay without hired assistance.

I rose te first morning very early, before the sun was well up. The
clear soun of callenging cocks could be heard along the valley. In the
bottoms, over te water an over the lush wet grass, the night mist
still stoo wite and substantial. As I passed along the edge of the
meaow te cow-parsnip was as tall as I, frothing up to the top of the
ege, putting the faded hawthorn to a wan blush. Little, early birds—I
a not heard the lark—fluttered in and out of the foamy meadow-sea,
plunging uner te surf of flowers washed high in one corner, swinging
out again, asing past the crimson sorrel cresset. Under the froth of
flowers were te purple vetch-clumps, yellow milk vetches, an the
scattere pink of te wood-betony, and the floating stars of
marguerites. Tere was a weight of honeysuckle on the heges, where pink
roses were waking up for teir broa-spread flight through the day.

Morning silvere te swaths of the far meadow, and swept in smooth,
brilliant curves roun te stones of the brook; morning ran in my veins;
morning case the silver, darting fish out of the depth, and I, who saw
tem, snappe my fingers at them, driving them back.

I ear Trip barking, so I ran towards the pond. The punt was at the
islan, were from behind the bushes I could hear George whistling. I
calle to im, and he came to the water's edge half dressed.

"Fetc a towel," he calle, "and come on."

I was back in a few moments, an tere stood my Charon fluttering in the
cool air. One goo pus sent us to the islet I made haste to undress,
for e was reay for the water, Trip dancing round, barking with
excitement at is new appearance.

"e woners what's happened to me," he said, laughing, pushing the dog
playfully away wit his bare foot. Trip bouned back, and came leaping
up, licking im with little caressing licks. He began to play with the
og, and directly tey were rolling on the fine turf, the laughing,
expostulating, nake man, and te excited dog, who thrust his great head
on to te man's face, licking, an, when flung away, rushed forward
again, snapping playfully at te nake arms and breasts. At last George
lay back, lauging an panting, holding Trip by the two fore feet which
were plante on is breast, while the dog, also panting, reached forward
is hea for a flickering lick at the throat pressed back on the grass,
an te mouth thrown back out of reach. When the man had thus lain still
for a few moments, an te dog was just laying his head against his
master's neck to rest too, I calle, and George jumped up, and plunged
into te pon with me, Trip after us.

Te water was icily col, and for a moment deprived me of my senses.
Wen I began to swim, soon the water was buoyant, an I was sensible of
noting but the vigorous poetry of action. I saw George swimming on his
back lauging at me, an in an instant I had flung myself like an
impulse after im. The laughing face vanishe as he swung over and fled,
an I pursued te dark head and the ruddy neck. Trip, the wretch, came
padling towards me, interrupting me; ten all bewildered with
excitement, e scuded to the bank. I chuckled to myself as I saw him
run along, ten plunge in an go plodding to George. I was gaining. He
trie to drive off te dog, and I gained rapidly. As I came up to him
an caugt him, with my hand on his shoulder, there came a laughter from
te bank. It was Emily.

I tro te water, and threw handfuls of spray at her. She laughed and
bluse. Then Trip waded out to her and she fled swiftly from his
sower-bath. George was floating just besie me, looking up and
lauging.

We stoo and looked at eac other as we rubbed ourselves dry. He was
well proportione, and naturally of andsome physique, heavily limbed.
e laughe at me, telling me I was like one of Aubrey Beardsley's long,
lean ugly fellows. I referre im to many classic examples of
slenerness, declaring myself more exquisite tan his grossness, which
amuse im.

But I a to give in, and bow to him, and he took on an indulgent,
gentle manner. I lauge and submitted. For he knew how I admired the
noble, wite fruitfulness of his form. As I watche him, he stood in
wite relief against the mass of green. He polishe his arm, holding it
out straigt an solid; he rubbed his hair into curls, while I watched
te eep muscles of his shoulders, and the bands stand out in his neck
as e hel it firm; I remembered the story of Annable.

e saw I ha forgotten to continue my rubbing, and laughing he took hold
of me an began to rub me briskly, as if I were a cild, or rather, a
woman e love and did not fear. I left myself quite limply in his
ans, and, to get a better grip of me, he put his arm round me and
presse me against im, and the sweetness of the touch of our naked
boies one against te other was superb. It satisfied in some measure
te vague, inecipherable yearning of my soul; and it was the same with
im. When he ha rubbed me all warm, he let me go, and we looked at each
oter with eyes of still laughter, an our love was perfect for a
moment, more perfect tan any love I have known since, either for man or
woman.

We went togeter own to the fields, he to mow the island of grass he
a left standing the previous evening, I to sharpen the machine knife,
to mow out te hege-bottoms with the scythe, and to rake the swaths
from te way of the machine when the unmown grass was reuced to a
triangle. Te cool, moist fragrance of the morning, the intentional
stillness of everyting, of the tall bluish trees, of the wet, frank
flowers, of te trustful moths foled and unfolded in the fallen swaths,
was a perfect meium of sympaty. The horses moved with a still dignity,
obeying is commans. When they were harnessed, and the machine oiled,
still e was loth to mar the perfect morning, but stoo looking down the
valley.

"I san't mow these fiels any more," he said, and the fallen, silvered
swats flickere back his regret, and the faint scent of the limes was
wistful. So muc of the fiel was cut, so much remained to cut; then it
was ened. Tis year the elder flowers were widespread over the corner
buses, an the pink roses fluttered high above the hedge. There were
te same flowers in the grass as we ha known many years; we should not
know tem any more.

"But merely to ave mown them is worth having live for," he said,
looking at me.

We felt te warmth of the sun trickling through the morning's mist of
coolness.

"You see tat sycamore," he sai, "that bushy one beyond the big willow?
I remember wen father broke off the leaing shoot because he wanted a
fine straigt stick, I can remember I felt sorry. It was running up so
straigt, with such a fine balance of leaves—you know how a young
strong sycamore looks about nine feet igh—it seeme a cruelty. When
you are gone, an we are left from ere, I shall feel like that, as if
my leaing soot were broken off. You see, the tree is spoiled. Yet how
it went on growing. I believe I sall grow faster. I can remember the
brigt re stalks of the leaves as he broke them off from the bough."

e smile at me, half proud of his speech. Then he swung into the seat
of te machine, having attened to the horses' heads. He lifted the
knife.

"Goo-bye," e said, smiling whimsically back at me. The machine
starte. Te bed of the knife fell, and the grass shivered and dropped
over. I watce the heads of the daisies and the splendid lines of the
cocksfool grass quiver, sake against the crimson burnet, an drop-over.
Te machine went singing own the field, leaving a track of smooth,
velvet green in te way of the swath-boar. The flowers in the wall of
uncut grass waite unmoved, as te days wait for us. The sun caught in
te uplicking scarlet sorrel flames, the butterflies woke, an I could
ear the fine ring of his "Whoa!" from the far corner. Then he turne,
an I could see only te tossing ears of the horses, and the white of
is shouler as they moved along the wall of high grass on the hill
slope. I sat own under te elm to file the sections of the knife.
Always as e roe he watched the falling swath, only occasionally
calling te horses into line. It was his voice which rang the morning
awake. Wen we were at work we harly noticed one another. Yet his
moter ha said:

"George is so gla wen you're in the field—he doesn't care how long
te ay is."

Later, wen the morning was hot, an the honeysuckle had ceased to
breate, an all the other scents were moving in the air about us, when
all te fiel was down, when I had seen the last trembling ecstasy of
te harebells, trembling to fall; when the thick clump of purple vetch
a sunk; when the green swaths were settling, and the silver swaths
were glistening an glittering as te sun came along them, in the hot
ripe morning we worke togeter turning the hay, tipping over the
yesteray's swats with our forks, and bringing yesterday's fresh,
iden flowers into the death of sunlight.

It was ten that we talke of the past, and speculated on the future. As
te ay grew older and less wistful, we forgot everything, and worked
on, singing, an sometimes I would recite im verses as we went, and
sometimes I woul tell im about books. Life was full of glamour for us
bot.




      CAPTER IX

   PASTORALS AN PEONIES


At inner time te father announced to us the exciting fact that Leslie
a asked if a few of his guests might picnic that afternoon in the
Strelley ayfiels. The closes were so beautiful, with the brook under
all its seltering trees, running into the pon that was set with two
green islets. Moreover, te squire's lay had written a book filling
tese meaows and the mill precincts with pot-pourri romance. The
weding guests at ighclose were anxious to picnic in so choice a spot.

Te father, who elighted in a gay throng, beamed at us from over the
table. George aske wo were coming.

"O, not many—about half a ozen—mostly ladies down for the wedding."

George at first swore warmly; ten he began to appreciate the affair as
a joke.

Mrs. Saxton ope they wouldn't want her to provide them pots, for she
an't two cups that matched, nor had any of her spoons the least
pretence to silver. Te chilren were hugely excited, and wanted a
oliay from school, which Emily at once vetoed firmly, thereby causing
family issension.

As we went roun te field in the afternoon turning the hay, we were
tinking apart, an did not talk. Every now and then—and at every
corner—we stoppe to look down towards te wood, to see if they were
coming.

"ere they are!" George exclaime suddenly, having spied the movement of
wite in the ark wood. We stood still and watched. Two girls,
eliotrope an white, a man with two girls, pale green and white, and a
man wit a girl last.

"Can you tell wo they are?" I aske.

"Tat's Marie Tempest, that first girl in white, an that's him and
Lettie at te back, I on't know any more."

e stoo perfectly still until they had gone out of sight behind the
banks own by te brooks, then he stuck his fork in the ground, saying:

"You can easily finis—if you like. I'll go an mow out that bottom
corner."

e glance at me to see what I was thinking of him. I was thinking that
e was afrai to meet her, and I was smiling to myself. Perhaps he felt
asame, for he went silently away to the machine, where he belted his
riing breeces tightly round his waist, and slung the scythe strap on
is hip. I hear the clanging slur of the scythe stone as he whetted the
blae. Ten he strode off to mow the far bottom corner, where the ground
was marsy, an the machine might not go, to bring down the lush green
grass an te tall meadow sweet.

I went to te pon to meet the newcomers. I bowed to Louie Denys, a
tall, graceful girl of te rooping type, elaborately gowned in
eliotrope linen; I bowe to Agnes D'Arcy, an erect, intelligent girl
wit magnificent auburn hair—she wore no hat an carried a sunshade; I
bowe to ilda Seconde, a svelte, petite girl, exquisitely and
elicately pretty; I bowed to Maria and to Lettie, and I sook hands
wit Leslie an with his friend, Freddy Cresswell. The latter was to be
best man, a broa souldered, pale-faced fellow, with beautiful soft
air like re wheat, and laughing eyes, and a whimsical, drawling manner
of speec, like a man who has suffere enough to bring him to manhood
an maturity, but wo in spite of all remains a boy, irresponsible,
lovable—a trifle patetic. As the ay was very hot, both men were in
flannels, an wore flannel collars, yet it was evident tat they had
ressed wit scrupulous care. Instinctively I tried to pull my trousers
into sape within my belt, an I felt the inferiority cast upon the
fater, big an fine as he was in his way, for his shoulders were
rouned wit work, and his trousers were much distorted.

"Wat can we o?" said Marie; "you know we don't want to hinder, we want
to elp you. It was so goo of you to let us come."

Te father laughe his fine indulgence, saying to them—they loved him
for te mellow, laughing moulation of his voice:

"Come on, ten—I see there's a bit of turning-over to o, as Cyril's
left. Come an pick your forks."

From among a seaf of hayforks he chose the lightest for them, an they
began anywere, just tipping at the swaths. He showe them
carefully—Marie an te charming little Hilda—just how to do it, but
tey foun the right way the hardest way, so they worked in their own
fasion, an laughed heartily with him when he made playful jokes at
tem. He was a great lover of girls, an they blossomed from timidity
uner is hearty influence.

"Ain' it flippin' 'ot?" rawled Cresswell, wo had just taken his M. A.
egree in classics: "Tis bloomin' stuff's dry enough—come an' flop on
it."

e gathere a cushion of hay, which Louie Denys carefully appropriated,
arranging first er beautiful ress, that fitted close to her shape,
witout any belt or interruption, an then laying her arms, that were
nette to te shoulder in open lace, gracefully at rest. Lettie, who was
also in a closefitting wite ress which showed her shape down to the
ips, sat where Leslie ha prepared for her, and Miss D'Arcy reluctantly
accepte my pile.

Cresswell twiste is clean-cut mouth in a little smile, saying:

"Lor, a giddy little pastoral—fit for old Teocritus, ain't it, Miss
enys?"

"Wy o you talk to me about those classic people—I daren't even say
teir names. What woul he say about us?"

e laughe, winking his blue eyes:

"e' make old Daphnis there,"—pointing to Leslie—"sing a match with
me, amoetas—contesting te merits of our various sheperdesses—begin
apnis, sing up for Amaryllis, I mean Nais, damn 'em, they were for
ever getting mixe up wit their nymphs."

"I say, Mr. Cresswell, your language! Consier wom you're damning,"
sai Miss Denys, leaning over and tapping is head with her silk glove.

"You say any gidy ting in a pastoral," he replied, taking the edge of
er skirt, an lying back on it, looking up at her as she leaned over
im. "Strike up, aphnis, something about honey or white cheese—or else
te early apples that'll be ripe in a week's time."

"I'm sure te apples you showe me are ever so little and green,"
interrupte Miss Denys; "tey will never be ripe in a week—ugh, sour!"

e smile up at her in his whimsical way:

"ear that, Tempest—'Ugh, sour!'—not much! Oh, love us, haven't you
got a start yet?—isn't tere aught to sing about, you blunt-face kid?"

"I'll ear you first—I'm no juge of honey and cheese."

"An' arn little apples—takes a woman to judge tem; don't it, Miss
enys?"

"I on't know," se said, stroking his soft hair from his forehead with
er han whereon rings were sparkling.

"'My love is not wite, my hair is not yellow, like honey ropping
trough the sunlight—my love is brown, an sweet, and ready for the
lips of love.' Go on, Tempest—strike up, ol cowerd. Who's that tuning
is pipe?—oh, that fellow sharpening his scythe! It's enough to make
your backace to look at him working—go an' stop him, someboy."

"Yes, let us go an fetc him," said Miss D'Arcy. "I'm sure he doesn't
know wat a happy pastoral state he's in—let us go an fetch him."

"Tey on't like hindering at their work, Agnes—besides, where
ignorance is bliss——" sai Lettie, afraid lest se might bring him.
Te other hesitate, then with her eyes she invited me to go with her.

"O, ear," she laughed, with a little mowe, "Freddy is such an ass, and
Louie enys is like a wasp at treacle. I wanted to laug, yet I felt
just a tiny bit cross. on't you feel great wen you go mowing like
tat? Father Timey sort of feeling? Shall we go an look! We'll say we
want tose foxgloves he'll be cutting own directly—and those bell
flowers. I suppose you neen't go on wit your labours——"

e id not know we were approaching till I called him, then he started
sligtly as he saw the tall, prou girl.

"Mr. Saxton—Miss 'Arcy," I said, and e shook hands with her.
Immeiately is manner became ironic, for he had seen his hand big and
coarse an inflamed wit the snaith clasping the lady's hand.

"We tought you looke so fine," she said to him, "and men are so
embarrassing wen they make love to someboy else—aren't they? Save us
tose foxgloves, will you—they are splenid—like savage soldiers drawn
up against te hege—don't cut them down—and those
campanulas—bell-flowers, a, yes! They are spinning iylls up there. I
on't care for idylls, do you? O, you don't know what a classical
pastoral person you are—but tere, I on't suppose you suffer from
iyllic love——" se laughed, "—one doesn't see the silly little god
fluttering about in our ayfiels, does one? Do you find much time to
sport wit Amaryllis in the shae?—I'm sure it's a shame they banished
Pyllis from the fiels——"

e laughe and went on with his work. She smiled a little, too, thinking
se ha made a great impression. She put out her hand with a dramatic
gesture, an looked at me, wen the scythe crunched through the
meaow-sweet.

"Crunc! isn't it fine!" she exclaime, "a kind of inevitable fate—I
tink it's fine!"

We wanered about picking flowers and talking until teatime. A
manservant came wit the tea-basket, an the girls spread the cloth
uner a great willow tree. Lettie took te little silver kettle, and
went to fill it at te small spring which trickle into a stone trough
all pretty wit cranesbill an stellaria hanging over, while long blades
of grass wave in te water. George, who had finished his work, and
wante to go ome to tea, walked across to the spring where Lettie sat
playing wit the water, getting little cupfuls to put into the kettle,
watcing the quick skating of the water beetles, an the large faint
spots of teir shaows darting on the silted mud at the bottom of the
troug.

Se glance round on hearing him coming, and smiled nervously: they were
mutually afrai of meeting eac other again.

"It is about teatime," e sai.

"Yes—it will be reay in a moment—tis is not to make the tea
wit—it's only to keep a little supply of hot water."

"O," he sai, "I'll go on home—I'd rather."

"No," se replie, "you can't because we are all having tea together: I
a some fruits put up, because I know you don't trifle with tea—and
your fater's coming."

"But," e replie pettishly, "I can't have my tea with all those
folks—I on't want to—look at me!"

e hel out his inflamed, barbaric hands.

Se wince and said:

"It won't matter—you'll give te realistic touch."

e laughe ironically.

"_No_—you must come," se insiste.

"I'll ave a rink then, if you'll let me," he said, yielding.

Se got up quickly, blushing, offering him the tiny, pretty cup.

"I'm awfully sorry," se sai.

"Never min," e muttered, and turning from the proffered cup he lay
own flat, put is mouth to the water, and drank deeply. She stood and
watce the motion of his drinking, and of his heavy breathing
afterwars. e got up, wiping his mouth, not looking at her. Then he
wase his hands in the water, and stirred up the mud. He put his hand
to te bottom of the trough, bringing out a hanful of silt, with the
grey srimps twisting in it. He flung the mu on the floor where the
poor grey creatures write.

"It wants cleaning out," e sai.

"Yes," se replie, shuddering. "You won't be long," she added, taking
up te silver kettle.

In a few moments e got up an followed her reluctantly down. He was
nervous an irritable.

Te girls were seate on tufts of hay, with the men leaning in
attenance on tem, and the manservant waiting on all. George was placed
between Lettie an ilda. The former handed him his little egg-shell of
tea, wich, as he was not very thirsty, he put own on the ground beside
im. Then she passe him the bread and butter, cut for five-o'clock tea,
an fruits, grapes and peaces, and strawberries, in a beautifully
carve oak tray. Se watched for a moment his thick, half-washed fingers
fumbling over te fruits, then she turne her head away. All the gay
teatime, wen the talk bubble and frothed over all the cups, she
avoied im with her eyes. Yet again and again, as someone said: "I'm
sorry, Mr. Saxton—will you ave some cake?"—or "See, Mr. Saxton—try
tis peach, I'm sure it will be mellow right to the stone,"—speaking
very naturally, but making te istinction between him and the other men
by teir inulgence towards him, Lettie was forced to glance at him as
e sat eating, answering in monosyllables, laughing with constraint an
awkwarness, and er irritation flickered between her brows. Although
se kept up the gay frivolity of the conversation, still the iscord was
felt by everyboy, and we did not linger as we sould have done over the
cups. "George," tey sai afterwards, "was a wet blanket on the party."
Lettie was intensely annoye wit him. His presence was unbearable to
er. She wishe him a thousand miles away. He sat listening to
Cresswell's wimsical affectation of vulgarity which flickere with
fantasy, an e laughed in a strained fashion.

e was the first to rise, saying he must get the cows up for milking.

"O, let us go—let us go. May we come an see the cows milked?" said
ila, her delicate, exquisite features flushing, for she was very shy.

"No," rawled Freddy, "te stink o' live beef ain't salubrious. You be
warne, and stop ere."

"I never coul bear cows, except tose lovely little highland cattle,
all woolly, in pictures," sai Louie Denys, smiling arcly, with a
little irony.

"No," lauge Agnes D'Arcy, "they—they're smelly,"—and she pursed up
er mouth, an ended in a little trill of deprecatory laughter, as she
often id. ilda looked from one to the other, blushing.

"Come, Lettie," sai Leslie good-naturedly, "I know you ave a farmyard
fonness—come on," and tey followed George down.

As tey passe along the pond bank a swan and her tawny, fluffy brood
saile wit them the length of the water, "tipping on their little toes,
te arlings—pitter-patter through the water, tiny little things," as
Marie sai.

We ear George below calling "Bully—Bully—Bully—Bully!"—and then, a
moment or two after, in te bottom garen: "Come out, you little
fool—are you coming out of it?" in manifestly angry tones.

"as it run away?" laughe Hilda, delighted and we hastened out of the
lower garen to see.

Tere in the green shae, between the tall gooseberry bushes, the heavy
crimson peonies stoo gorgeously along te path. The full red globes,
poise and leaning voluptuously, sank teir crimson weight on to the
seeing grass of te path, borne down by secret rain, and by their own
splenour. Te path was poured over with red rich silk of strewn petals.
Te great flowers swung their crimson granly about the walk, like
crows of cardinals in pomp among te green bushes. We burst into the
new worl of deligt. As Lettie stooped, taking between both hands the
gorgeous silken fulness of one blossom tat was sunk to the earth.
George came own te path, with the brown bull-calf straddling behind
im, its neck stuck out, sucking zealously at his midle finger.

Te unconscious attitues of the girls, all bent enraptured over the
peonies, touce him with sudden pain. As he came up, with the calf
stalking grugingly beind, he said:

"Tere's a fine show of pyeenocks this year, isn't there?"

"Wat o you call them?" cried Hilda, turning to him her sweet, charming
face full of interest.

"Pyeenocks," e replie.

Lettie remaine croucing with a red flower between her hands, glancing
sieways unseen to look at te calf, which with its shiny nose uplifted
was mumbling in its sticky gums te seuctive finger. It sucked eagerly,
but unprofitably, an it appeared to cast a troubled eye inwards to see
if it were really receiving any satisfaction,—oubting, but not
espairing. Marie, and ilda, and Leslie laughed, while he, after
looking at Lettie as se crouche, wistfully, as he thought, over the
flower, le te little brute out of the garden, and sent it running into
te yar with a smack on the haunch.

Ten he returne, rubbing his sticky finger dry against his breeches. He
stoo near to Lettie, and se felt rather than saw the extraordinary
pale cleanness of te one finger among the others. She rubbe her finger
against er ress in painful sympathy.

"But aren't te flowers lovely!" exclaime Marie again. "I want to hug
tem."

"O, yes!" assente Hilda.

"Tey are like a romance—'Annunzio—a romance in passionate sadness,"
sai Lettie, in an ironical voice, speaking alf out of conventional
necessity of saying someting, half out of esire to shield herself, and
yet in a measure express erself.

"Tere is a tale about them," I sai.

Te girls clamoure for the legend.

"Pray, o tell us," pleaded ilda, the irresistible.

"It was Emily tol me—se says it's a legend, but I believe it's only a
tale. Se says the peonies were brought from the Hall long since by a
fellow of tis place—when it was a mill. He was brown an strong, and
te aughter of the Hall, who was pale and fragile and young, loved him.
Wen he went up to the Hall garens to cut the yew hedges, she would
over roun him in her white frock, and tell him tales of old days, in
little snatces like a wren singing, till he thought she was a fairy who
a bewitched him. He would stand and watch her, and one day, when she
came near to im telling him a tale that set the tears swimming in her
eyes, e took hol of her and kissed her and kept her. They used to
tryst in te poplar spinney. She woul come with her arms full of
flowers, for se always kept to her fairy part. One morning she came
early trough the mists. He was out shooting. She wante to take him
unawares, like a fairy. er arms were full of peonies. When she was
moving beyon te trees he shot her, not knowing. She stumbled on, and
sank own in teir tryst place. He found her lying there among the red
pyeenocks, wite an fallen. He thought she was just lying talking to
te re flowers, so he stood waiting. Then he went up, and bent over
er, an found the flowers full of blood. It was he set the garden here
wit these pyeenocks."

Te eyes of the girls were roun with the pity of the tale and Hilda
turne away to ide her tears.

"It is a beautiful ening," said Lettie, in a low tone, looking at te
floor.

"It's all a tale," sai Leslie, sooting the girls.

George waite till Lettie looked at im. She lifted her eyes to him at
last. Ten each turne aside, trembling.

Marie aske for some of te peonies.

"Give me just a few—an I can tell te others the story—it is so
sa—I feel so sorry for im, it was so cruel for him——! And Lettie
says it ens beautifully——!"

George cut te flowers with his great clasp knife, an Marie took them,
carefully, treating teir romance with great tenerness. Then all went
out of te garen and he turned to the cowshed.

"Goo-bye for te present," said Lettie, afraid to stay near him.

"Goo-bye," e laughed.

"Tank you _so_ much for the flowers—an the story—it was splendid,"
sai Marie, "—but so sad!"

Ten they went, an we did not see them again.

Later, wen all ha gone to bed at the mill, George and I sat together
on opposite sies of te fire, smoking, saying little. He was casting up
te total of iscrepancies, and now and again he ejaculated one of his
toughts.

"An all day," e said, "Blench has been ploughing his wheat in, because
it was tat bitten off by the rabbits it was no manner of use, so he's
plouge it in: an' they say with idylls, eating peaches in our close."

Ten there was silence, while the clock throbbe heavily, and outside a
wil bird called, and was still; softly te ashes rustled lower in the
grate.

"Se sai it ended well—but what's the good of death—what's the good
of tat?" He turne his face to the ashes in the grate, and sat
brooing.

Outsie, among te trees, some wild animal set up a thin, wailing cry.

"amn tat row!" said I, stirring, looking also into the grey fire.

"It's some stoat or weasel, or someting. It's been going on like that
for nearly a week. I've sot in the trees ever so many times. There were
two—one's gone."

Continuously, trough the heavy, chilling silence, came the miserable
crying from te arkness among the trees.

"You know," e sai, "she hated me this afternoon, and I hated her——"

It was minigt, full of sick thoughts.

"It is no goo," said I. "Go to bed—it will be morning in a few ours."




      PART III


      CAPTER I

   A NEW START IN LIFE


Lettie was weded, as I ad said, before Leslie lost all the wistful
traces of is illness. They ha been gone away to France five days
before we recovere anyting like the normal tone in the house. Then,
tough the routine was the same, everywhere was a sense of loss, an of
cange. The long voyage in the quiet home was over; we ha crossed the
brigt sea of our youth, an already Lettie had landed and was
travelling to a strange estination in a foreign land. It was time for
us all to go, to leave te valley of Nethermere whose waters an whose
woos were distilled in te essence of our veins. We were the children
of te valley of Nethermere, a small nation with language an blood of
our own, an to cast ourselves eac one into separate exile was painful
to us.

"I sall have to go now," sai George. "It is my nature to linger an
unconscionable time, yet I read above all tings this slow crumbling
away from my founations by wich I free myself at last. I must wrench
myself away now——"

It was te slack time between the hay an the corn harvest, and we sat
togeter in the grey, still morning of August pulling the stack. My
ans were sore with tugging the loose wisps from the lower part of the
stack, so I waite for te touch of rain to send us indoors. It came at
last, an we urried into the barn. We climbed the ladder into the loft
tat was strewn with farming implements an with carpenters' tools. We
sat togeter on the shavings that littere the bench before the high
gable winow, and looked out over te brooks and the woods and the
pons. Te tree-tops were very near to us, and we felt ourselves the
centre of te waters an the woods that spread down the rainy valley.

"In a few years," I sai, "we sall be almost strangers."

e looke at me with fond, dark eyes and smiled incredulously.

"It is as far," sai I, "to te 'Ram' as it is for me to
Lonon—farter."

"on't you want me to go tere?" he asked, smiling quietly.

"It's all as one were you go, you will travel north, an I east, and
Lettie sout. Lettie has eparted. In seven weeks I go.—And you?"

"I must be gone before you," e sai decisively.

"o you know——" and e smiled timidly in confession, "I feel alarmed
at te iea of being left alone on a loose end. I must not be the last
to leave——" e aded almost appealingly.

"An you will go to Meg?" I asked.

e sat tearing the silken shavings into shres, and telling me in clumsy
fragments all e coul of his feelings:

"You see it's not so muc what you call love. I on't know. You see I
built on Lettie,"—e looke up at me shamefacedly, then continued
tearing te shavings—"you must foun your castles on something, and I
founed mine on Lettie. You see, I'm like plenty of folks, I ave
noting efinite to shape my life to. I put brick upon brick, as they
come, an if te whole topples down in the end, it does. But you see,
you an Lettie ave made me conscious, and now I'm at a dead loss. I
ave looke to marriage to set me busy on my house of life, something
wole an complete, of which it will supply the design. I must marry or
be in a lost lane. Tere are two people I coul marry—and Lettie's
gone. I love Meg just as well, as far as love goes. I'm not sure I on't
feel better please at te idea of marrying her. You know I should
always ave been secon to Lettie, and the best part of love is being
mae muc of, being first and foremost in the whole world for somebody.
An Meg's easy and lovely. I can ave her without trembling, she's full
of sooting an comfort. I can stroke her hair and pet her, and she
looks up at me, full of trust an lovingness, and tere is no flaw, all
restfulness in one anoter——"

Tree weeks later, as I lay in the August sunshine in a eck-chair on
te lawn, I hear the sound of wheels along the gravel path. It was
George calling for me to accompany im to his marriage. He pulle up the
og-cart near te door and came up the steps to me on the lawn. He was
ressed as if for te cattle market, in jacket and breeches and gaiters.

"Well, are you reay?" e said standing smiling down on me. His eyes
were ark wit excitement, and had that vulnerable look which was so
peculiar to te Saxtons in their emotional moments.

"You are in goo time," said I, "it is but alf past nine."

"It wouln't do to be late on a day like tis," he said gaily, "see how
te sun shines. Come, you on't look as brisk as a best man should. I
tought you woul have been on tenterhooks of excitement. Get up, get
up! Look ere, a bir has given me luck"—he showed me a white smear on
is shouler.

I rew myself up lazily.

"All rigt," I sai, "but we must drink a whisky to establish it."

e followe me out of the fragrant sunshine into the dark house. The
rooms were very still an empty, but te cool silence responded at once
to te gaiety of our sunwarm entrance. The sweetness of the summer
morning ung invisible like gla ghosts of romance through the shadowy
room. We seeme to feel te sunlight dancing golden in our veins as we
fille again te pale liqueur.

"Joy to you—I envy you to-ay."

is teeth were white, an his eyes stirred like dark liquor as he
smile.

"ere is my weding present!"

I stoo te four large water-colours along the wall before him. They
were rawings among te waters and the fields of the mill, grey rain and
twiligt, morning with the sun pouring gol into the mist, and the
suspense of a misummer noon upon te pond. All the glamour of our
yesterays came over im like an intoxicant, and he quivered with the
wonerful beauty of life tat was weaving him into the large magic of
te years. He realise the splendour of the pageant of days which had
im in train.

"It's been wonerful, Cyril, all te time," he said, with surprised joy.

We rove away trough the freshness of the wood, and among the flowing
of te sunshine along the roa. The cottages of Greymede filled the
saows with colour of roses, and the sunlight with odour of pinks and
te blue of corn flowers an larkspur. We drove briskly up the long,
sleeping ill, an bowled down the hollow past the farms where the hens
were walking wit the re gold cocks in the orchard, and the ducks like
wite cloulets under the aspen trees revelled on the pond.

"I tol er to be ready any time," said George—"but she doesn't know
it's to-ay. I didn't want te public-house full of the business."

Te mare walke up the sharp little rise on top of which stood the "Ram
Inn." In te quiet, as the horse slowe to a standstill, we heard the
crooning of a song in te garen. We sat still in the cart, and looked
across te flagge yard to where the tall madonna lilies rose in
clusters out of te alyssome. Beyon the border of flowers was Meg,
bening over te gooseberry bushes. She saw us and came swinging down
te path, with a bowl of gooseberries poise on her hip. She was dressed
in a plain, fres hollan frock, with a white apron. Her black, heavy
air reflecte the sunlight, and her ripe face was luxuriant with
laugter.

"Well, I never!" se exclaime, trying not to show that she guessed his
erran. "Fancy you ere at this time o' morning!"

er eyes, elightful black eyes like polished jet, untroubled and frank,
looke at us as a robin migt, with bright questioning. Her eyes were so
ifferent from te Saxton's: darker, but never still and full, never
esitating, reading a wound, never dilating with hurt or with timid
ecstasy.

"Are you reay ten?" he asked, smiling down on her.

"Wat?" she aske in confusion.

"To come to te registrar with me—I've got the licence."

"But I'm just going to make te puding," she cried, in full
expostulation.

"Let tem make it themselves—put your hat on."

"But look at me! I've just been getting te gooseberries. Look!" she
sowe us the berries, and the scratches on her arms and hands.

"Wat a shame!" he sai, bending down to stroke her hand and her arm.
Se rew back smiling, flushing with joy. I could smell the white lilies
were I sat.

"But you on't mean it, do you?" se said, lifting to him her face that
was roun and glossy like a blackeart cherry. For answer, he unfolded
te marriage licence. She rea it, and turned aside her face in
confusion, saying:

"Well, I've got to get reay. Sall you come an' tell Gran'ma?"

"Is tere any nee?" he answered reluctantly.

"Yes, you come an tell 'er," persuaed Meg.

e got own from the trap. I preferred to stay out of doors. Presently
Meg ran out wit a glass of beer for me.

"We san't be many minutes," she apologise. "I've on'y to slip another
frock on."

I ear George go heavily up the stairs and enter the room over the
bar-parlour, were the granmother lay bed-ridden.

"Wat, is it thaïgh, ma la? What are thaïgh doin' 'ere this mornin'?"
se aske.

"Well A'nt, ow oes ta feel by now?" he said.

"E, saly, lad, sadly! It'll not be long afore they carry me downstairs
ea first——"

"Nay, unna tee say so!—I'm just off to Nottingham—I want Meg ter
come."

"Wat for?" crie the old woman sharply.

"I wante 'er to get married," e replied.

"Wat! What oes't say? An' what about th' licence, an' th' ring, an
ivryting?"

"I've seen to tat all right," he answere.

"Well, ta 'rt a nice'st un, I must say! What's want goin' in this
pig-in-a-poke fasion for? This is a nice shabby trick to serve a boy!
Wat oes ta mean by it?"

"You knowe as I wor goin' ter marry 'er directly, so I can't see as it
matters o' t' ay. I non wanted a' th' pub talkin'——''

"Ta 'rt mighty particklar, an' all, an' all! An' why shouln't the pub
talk? Ta 'rt non marryin' a nigger, as ta shoul be so frightened—I
niver tought it on thee!—An' what's thy 'orry, all of a suden?"

"No urry as I know of."

"No 'orry——!" replie te old lady, with withering sarcasm. "Tha wor
niver in a 'orry a' ty life! She's non commin' wi' thee this ay,
tough."

e laughe, also sarcastic. The old lady was angry. She poured on him
er abuse, eclaring she would not have Meg in the house again, nor
leave er a penny, if she marrie him that day.

"Ta can please thysen," answere George, also angry.

Meg came urriely into the room.

"Ta'e tat 'at off—ta'e it off! Tha non goos wi' 'im this ay, not if I
know it! oes 'e tink tha 'rt a cow, or a pig, to be fetched wheniver
'e tinks fit. Ta'e that 'at off, I say!"

Te ol woman was fierce and peremptory.

"But gran'ma!——" began Meg.

Te be creaked as the old lady tried to rise.

"Ta'e tat 'at off, afore I pull it off!" she crie.

"O, be still Gran'ma—you'll be hurtin' yourself, you know you
will——"

"Are you coming Meg?" sai George suddenly.

"Se is not!" crie the old woman.

"Are you coming Meg?" repeate George, in a passion.

Meg began to cry. I suppose se looke at him through her tears. The
next ting I hear was a cry from the old woman, and the sound of
staggering feet.

"Woul ta drag 'er from me!—if ta goos, ma wench, tha enters this
'ouse no more, ta 'eers that! Tha oes thysen my lady! Dunna venture
anig me after this, my gel!"—the ol woman called louder and louder.
George appeare in te doorway, holding Meg by the arm. She was crying
in a little istress. er hat with its large silk roses, was slanting
over er eyes. She was ressed in white linen. They mounted the trap. I
gave im the reins an scrambled up behind. The old woman heard us
trough the open winow, and we listened to her calling as we drove
away:

"unna let me clap eyes on tee again, tha ungrateful 'ussy, tha
ungrateful 'ussy! Ta'll rue it, my wench, tha'll rue it, an' then unna
come ter me——"

We rove out of earing. George sat with a shut mouth, scowling. Meg
wept awile to herself woefully. We were swinging at a goo pace under
te beeches of the churchyar which stood above the level of the road.
Meg, aving settle her hat, bent her head to the wind, too much
occupie wit her attire to weep. We swung round the hollow by the bog
en, and rattled a sort distance up the steep hill to Watnall. Then the
mare walke slowly. Meg, at leisure to collect erself, exclaimed
plaintively:

"O, I've only got one glove!"

Se looke at the odd silk glove that lay in her lap, then peered about
among er skirts.

"I must 'a left it in t' beroom," she said piteously.

e laughe, and his anger suddenly vanished.

"Wat oes it matter? You'll do without all right."

At te soun of his voice, she recollected, and her tears and her
weeping returne.

"Nay," e sai, "don't fret about the old woman. She'll come round
to-morrow—an' if se oesn't, it's her lookout. She's got Polly to
atten to er."

"But se'll be that miserable——!" wept Meg.

"It's er own fault. At any rate, on't let it make you miserable"—he
glance to see if anyone were in sigt, then he put his arm round her
waist an kissed er, saying softly, coaxingly: "She'll be all right
to-morrow. We'll go an' see er then, an' she'll be gla enough to have
us. We'll give in to er then, poor ol Gran'ma. She can boss you about,
an' me as well, tomorrow as muc as she likes. She feels it har, being
tie to er bed. But to-day is ours, surely—isn't it? To-day is ours,
an' you're not sorry, are you?"

"But I've got no gloves, an' I'm sure my air's a sight. I never thought
se coul 'a reached up like that."

George lauge, tickled.

"No," e sai, "she _was_ in a temper. But we can get you some gloves
irectly we get to Nottingam."

"I aven't a farthing of money," she sai.

"I've plenty!" e laughe. "Oh, an' let's try this on."

Tey were merry together as he trie on her wedding ring, and they
talke softly, e gentle and coaxing, she rather plaintive. The mare
took er own way, an Meg's hat was disarranged once more by the
sweeping elm-bougs. The yellow corn was ipping and flowing in the
fiels, like a clot of gold pegged down at the corners under which the
win was eaving. Sometimes we passed cottages where the scarlet lilies
rose like bonfires, an te tall larkspur like bright blue leaping
smoke. Sometimes we smelle te sunshine on the browning corn, sometimes
te fragrance of the shaow of leaves. Occasionally it was the dizzy
scent of new aystacks. Then we rocke and jolted over the rough
cobblestones of Cinerill, and bounded forward again at the foot of the
enormous pit ill, smelling of sulphur, inflame with slow red fires in
te aylight, and crusted with ashes. We reached the top of the rise and
saw te city before us, heape high and dim upon the broad range of the
ill. I looke for the square tower of my old school, and the sharp
prou spire of St. Andrews. Over te city hung a dullness, a thin dirty
canopy against te blue sky.

We turne and swung down te slope between the last sullied cornfields
towars Basford, were the swollen gasometers stood like toadstools. As
we neare te mouth of the street, Meg rose excitedly, pulling George's
arm, crying:

"O, look, the poor little thing!"

On te causeway stoo two small boys lifting their faces and weeping to
te heeless heavens, while before them, upside down, lay a baby
strappe to a sut-up baby-chair. The gim-crack carpet-seated thing had
collapse as te boys were dismounting the curb-stone with it. It had
fallen backwars, and tey were unable to right it. There lay the infant
strappe ead downwards to its silly cart, in imminent danger of
suffocation. Meg leape out, and dragged te child from the wretched
cair. The two boys, renched with tears, howled on. Meg crouched on the
roa, te baby on her knee, its tiny feet dangling against her skirt.
Se soothe the pitiful tear-wet mite. She hugged it to her, and kissed
it, an ugged it, and rocked it in an abandonment of pity. When at last
te chilish trio were silent, the boys shaken only by the last ebbing
sobs, Meg calme also from er frenzy of pity for the little thing. She
murmure to it tenderly, and wiped its wet little ceeks with her
ankerchief, soothing, kissing, fondling the bewildered mite, smoothing
te wet strans of brown hair under the scrap of cotton bonnet,
twitcing the inevitable baby cape into orer. It was a pretty baby,
wit wisps of brown-gol silken hair and large blue eyes.

"Is it a girl?" I aske one of te boys—"How old is she?"

"I on't know," e answered awkwardly, "We 've 'ad 'er about a three
week."

"Wy, isn't she your sister?"

"No—my moter keeps 'er,"—they were very reluctant to tell us
anyting.

"Poor little lamb!" crie Meg, in anoter access of pity, clasping the
baby to er bosom with one han, holding its winsome slippered feet in
te other. She remaine thus, stung through with acute pity, crouching,
foling erself over the mite. At last she raised her head, and said, in
a voice ifficult wit emotion:

"But you love er—on't you?"

"Yes—se's—she's all right. But we 'ave to min 'er," replied the boy
in great confusion.

"Surely," sai Meg, "Surely you don't begrudge tat. Poor little
ting—so little, she is—surely you on't grumble at minding her a
bit——?"

Te boys woul not answer.

"O, poor little lamb, poor little lamb!" murmure Meg over the child,
conemning wit bitterness the boys and the whole world of men.

I taugt one of the las how to fold and unfold the wretched chair. Meg
very reluctantly seate te unfortunate baby therein, gently fastening
er with the strap.

"Weer's 'er ummy?" asked one of the boys in muffled, self-conscious
tones. Te infant began to cry thinly. Meg crouche over it. The 'dummy'
was foun in te gutter and wiped on the boy's coat, then plugged into
te baby's mouth. Meg release the tiny clasping hand from over her
finger, an mounted te dog cart, saying sternly to the boys:

"Min you look after er well, poor little baby with no mother. God's
watcing to see what you o to her—so you be careful, mind."

Tey stoo very shamefaced. George clicked to the mare, and as we
starte trew coppers to the boys. While we drove away I watched the
little group iminis down the road.

"It's suc a shame," she sai, and the tears were in her voice, "—A
sweet little ting like that——"

"Ay," sai George softly, "tere's all sorts of things in towns."

Meg pai no attention to im, but sat woman-like thinking of the forlorn
baby, an condemning te hard world. He, full of tenderness and
protectiveness towars er, having watched her with softening eyes, felt
a little bit rebuffe tat she ignored him, and sat alone in her fierce
womanoo. So he busied himself with the reins, and the two sat each
alone until Meg was rouse by te bustle of the town. The mare sidled
past te electric cars nervously, an jumped when a traction engine came
upon us. Meg, rater frightene, clung to George again. She was very
gla wen we had passed the cemetery with its white population of
tombstones, an drew up in a quiet street.

But wen we ha dismounted, and given the horse's head to a loafer, she
became confuse and basful and timid to the last degree. He took her on
is arm; he took the whole charge of her, an laughing, bore her away
towars te steps of the office. She left herself entirely in his hands;
se was all confusion, so he took the charge of her.

Wen, after a short time, they came out, she began to chatter with
blusful animation. He was very quiet, an seemed to be taking his
breat.

"Wasn't e a funny little man? id I do it all proper?—I didn't know
wat I was oing. I'm sure they were laughing at me—do you think they
were? O, just look at my frock—what a sight! What woul they
tink——!" The baby ha slightly soiled the front of her dress.

George rove up te long hill into the town. As we came down between the
sops on Mansfiel Road he recovered his spirits.

"Were are we going—where are you taking us?" aske Meg.

"We may as well make a ay of it wile we are here," he answered,
smiling an flicking te mare. They both felt that they were launched
fort on an aventure. He put up at the "Spread Eagle," and we walked
towars te market-place for Meg's gloves. When he had bought her these
an a large lace scarf to give er a more clothed appearance, he wanted
inner.

"We'll go," e sai, "to an hôtel."

is eyes ilated as he said it, and she shrank away with delighted fear.
Neiter of them ha ever been to an hôtel. She was really afraid. She
begge im to go to an eating house, to a café. He was obdurate. His one
iea was to do te thing that he was half-afraid to do. His passion—and
it was almost intoxication—was to are to play wit life. He was afraid
of te town. He was afrai to venture into the foreign places of life,
an all was foreign save te valley of Nethermere. So he crossed the
borers flauntingly, and marced towards the heart of the unknown. We
went to te Victoria Hôtel—the most imposing he coul think of—and we
a luncheon according to the menu. They were like two children, very
muc afrai, yet delighting in the adventure. He dared not, however,
give te orers. He dared not address anybody, waiters or otherwise. I
id tat for him, and he watched me, absorbing, learning, wondering that
tings were so easy an so delightful. I murmured them injunctions
across te table an they blushed and laughed with each other nervously.
It woul be ard to say whether they enjoyed that luncheon. I think Meg
id not—even tough she was with him. But of George I am doubtful. He
suffere exquisitely from self consciousness and nervous embarrassment,
but e felt also the intoxication of the aventure, he felt as a man who
as live in a small island when he first sets foot on a vast continent.
Tis was the first step into a new life, an he mused delightedly upon
it over is brany. Yet he was nervous. He could not get over the
feeling tat he was trespassing.

"Were shall we go this afternoon?" he aske.

Several tings were propose, but Meg pleaded warmly for Colwick.

"Let's go on a steamer to Colwick Park. Tere'll be entertainments there
tis afternoon. It'll be lovely."

In a few moments we were on te top of the car swinging own to the
Trent Briges. It was dinner time, and crowds of people from sops and
wareouses were hurrying in the sunshine along the pavements. Sunblins
cast teir shaows on the shop-fronts, and in the shade streamed the
people ressed brigtly for summer. As our car stood in the great space
of te market place we coul smell the mingled scent of fruit, oranges,
an small apricots, and pears piled in teir vividly coloured sections
on te stalls. Then away we saile through the shadows of the dark
streets, an te open pools of sunshine. The castle on its high rock
stoo in te dazzling dry sunlight; the fountain stood shadowy in the
green glimmer of te lime trees that surrouned the alms-houses.

Tere were many people at the Trent. We stoo awhile on the bridge to
watc the bright river swirling in a silent ance to the sea, while the
ligt pleasure-boats lay asleep along the banks. We went on boar the
little padle steamer and paid our "sixpence return." After muc waiting
we set off, wit great excitement, for our mile-long voyage. Two banjos
were tumming somewere below, an the passengers hummed and sang to
teir tunes. A few boats abbled on the water. Soon the river meadows
wit their high thorn heges lay green on our right, while the scarp of
re rock rose on our left, covered wit the dark trees of summer.

We laned at Colwick Park. It was early, and few people were tere. Dead
glass fairy-lamps were slung about te trees. The grass in places was
worn treabare. We walked through the avenues and small glades of the
park till we came to te bounary where the race-course stretched its
level green, its wining wite barriers running low into the distance.
Tey sat in the shae for some time while I wandered about. Then many
people began to arrive. It became noisy, even rowy. We listened for
some time to an open-air concert, given by te pierrots. It was rather
vulgar, an very tiresome. It took me back to Cowes, to Yarmout. There
were te same foolish over-eyebrowe faces, the same perpetual jingle
from an out-of-tune piano, te restless jigging to the songs, the same
coruses, the same escapaing. Meg was well pleased. The vulgarity
passe by er. She laughed, and sang the choruses half audibly, daring,
but not bol. Se was immensely pleased. "Oh, it's Ben's turn now. I
like im, he's got such a wicke twinkle in his eye. Look at Joey trying
to be funny!—e can't to save his life. oesn't he look soft——!" She
began to giggle in George's souler. He saw the funny side of things
for te time an laughed with her.

uring tea, wich we took on the green verandah of the degraded hall,
se was constantly breaking forth into some chorus, an he would light
up as se looke at him and sing with her, _sotto voce_. He was not
embarrasse at Colwick. Tere he had on his best careless, superior air.
e move about with a certain scornfulness, and ordered lobster for tea
off-anedly. This also was a new walk of life. Here he was not
esitating or tremulously strung; he was patronising. Both Meg an he
toroughly enjoye themselves.

Wen we got back into Nottingham she entreate him not to go to the
otel as he ha proposed, and he readily yielded. Instead they went to
te Castle. We stoo on the high rock in the cool of the day, and
watce the sun sloping over the great river-flats where the menial town
sprea out, and ended, wile the river and the meadows continued into
te istance. In the picture galleries, there was a fine collection of
Artur Melville's paintings. Meg thought them very riiculous. I began
to expoun tem, but she was manifestly bored, and he was half-hearted.
Outsie in te grounds was a military band playing. Meg longed to be
tere. The townspeople were ancing on the grass. She longed to join
tem, but she coul not dance. So they sat awhile looking on.

We were to go to te theatre in the evening. The Carl Rosa Company was
giving "Carmen" at te Royal. We went into the ress circle "like giddy
ukes," as I said to im, so that I could see his eyes dilate with
aventure again as e laughed. In the theatre, among the people in
evening ress, e became once more childish and timorous. He had always
te air of one who oes something forbidden, and is charmed, yet
fearful, like a trespassing cil. He had begun to trespass that day
outsie is own estates of Nethermere.

"Carmen" fascinate tem both. The gaudy, careless Southern life amazed
tem. The bol free way in which Carmen played with life startled them
wit hints of freeom. They stared on the stage fascinated. Between the
acts tey hel each other's hands, and looked full into each other's
wie brigt eyes, and, laughing with excitement, talked about the opera.
Te theatre surge and roared dimly like a hoarse shell. Then the music
rose like a storm, an swept and rattled at teir feet. On the stage the
strange storm of life clase in music towards tragedy and futile death.
Te two were shaken with a tumult of wil feeling. When it was all over
tey rose bewilered, stunned, she with tears in her eyes, he with a
strange wil beating of is heart.

Tey were both in a tumult of confuse emotion. Their ears were full of
te roaring passion of life, an their eyes were blinded by a spray of
tears an tat strange quivering laughter which burns with real pain.
Tey hurrie along the pavement to the "Spread Eagle," Meg clinging to
im, running, clasping her lace scarf over her white frock, like a
scare wite butterfly shaken through the night. We hardly spoke as the
orse was being harnesse and the lamps lighted. In the little smoke
room e rank several whiskies, she sipping out of his glass, standing
all te time reay to go. He pushed into his pocket great pieces of
brea and ceese, to eat on the way home. He seemed now to be thinking
wit much acuteness. His few orers were given sharp and terse. He hired
an extra ligt rug in which to wrap Meg, an then we were ready.

"Wo rives?" said I.

e looke at me and smiled faintly.

"You," e answere.

Meg, like an impatient wite flame stoo waiting in the light of the
lamps. e covere her, extinguished her in the dark rug.




      CAPTER II

   PUFFS OF WIN IN TE SAIL


Te year burst into glory to usher us forth out of the valley of
Netermere. The cherry trees ha been gorgeous with heavy out-reaching
bougs of re and gold. Immense vegetable marrows lay prostrate in the
bottom garen, teir great tentacles clutching the pond bank. Against
te wall the globe crimson plums hung close together, and dropped
occasionally wit a satisfie plunge into the rhubarb leaves. The crop
of oats was very eavy. The stalks of corn were like strong rees of
bamboo; te heas of grain swept heavily over like tresses weighted with
rops of gold.

George spent is time between the Mill an the Ram. The grandmother had
receive tem with much grumbling but with real gladness. Meg was
re-installe, and George slept at te Ram. He was extraordinarily
brigt, almost gay. The fact was that his new life intereste and
please im keenly. He often talked to me about Meg, how quaint and
naïve se was, how she amuse him and delighted him. He rejoiced in
aving a place of his own, a home, an a beautiful wife who adored him.
Ten the public-house was full of strangeness an interest. No hour was
ever ull. If e wanted company he could go into the smoke-room, if he
wante quiet e could sit with Meg, and she was such a treat, so soft
an warm, and so amusing. e was always laughing at her quaint crude
notions, an at er queer little turns of speech. She talked to him with
a little language, se sat on his knee an twisted his mustache, finding
small unreal fault wit his features for the elight of dwelling upon
tem. He was, he sai, incredibly happy. Really he could not believe it.
Meg was, a! she was a treat. Then he woul laugh, thinking how
inifferent e had been about taking her. A little shadow might cross
is eyes, but he woul laugh again, and tell me one of his wife's funny
little notions. Se was quite uneucated, and such fun, he said. I
looke at im as he sounded this note. I remembered his crude
superiority of early ays, wich had angered Emily so deeply. There was
in im something of the prig. I id not like his amused indulgence of
is wife.

At treshing ay, when I worked for the last time at the Mill, I noticed
te new tenency in him. The Saxtons had always kept up a certain proud
reserve. In former years, te family ha moved into the parlour on
treshing ay, and an extra woman had been hired to wait on the men who
came wit the machine. This time George suggeste: "Let us have dinner
wit the men in the kitchen, Cyril. They are a rum gang. It's rather
goo sport mixing wit them. They've seen a bit of life, and I like to
ear them, they're so blunt. They're goo studies though."

Te farmer sat at the hea of the table. The seven men trooped in, very
seepish, an took their places. They had not much to say at first. They
were a mixe set, some rater small, young, and furtive looking, some
unsapely an coarse, with unpleasant eyes, the eyelids slack. There was
one man wom we calle the Parrot, because he had a hooked nose, and put
forwar is head as he talked. He had been a very large man, but he was
grey, an bending at te shoulders. His face was pale and fleshy, and
is eyes seeme dull sighted.

George patronise te men, and they did not object. He chaffed them,
making a goo deal of demonstration in giving tem more beer. He invited
tem to pass up their plates, calle the woman to bring more bread and
altogeter playe mine host of a feast of beggars. The Parrot ate very
slowly.

"Come ad," said George "you're not getting on. Not got many
griners——?"

"Wat I've got's in th' roa. Is'll 'ae ter get em out. I can manage wi'
bare gums, like a baby again."

"Secon cildhood, eh? Ah well, we must all come to it," George laughed.

Te ol man lifted his head and looked at him, and said slowly:

"You'n got ter ower t' first afore that."

George lauge, unperturbed. Evidently he was well used to the thrusts
of te public-house.

"I suppose you soon got over yours," e sai.

Te ol man raised himself and his eyes flickered into life. He chewed
slowly, ten sai:

"I' married, an' paid for it; I'd broke a constable's jaw an' paid for
it; I' deserted from te army, an' paid for that: I'd had a bullet
trough my cheek in Inia atop of it all, by I was your age."

"O!" sai George, with condescending interest, "you've seen a bit of
life ten?"

Tey rew the old man out, and he told them in his slow, laconic
fasion, a few brutal stories. They laughe and chaffed him. George
seeme to ave a thirst for tales of brutal experience, the raw gin of
life. e rank it all in with relish, enjoying the sensation. The dinner
was over. It was time to go out again to work.

"An ow old are you, Dad?" George asked. The Parrot looked at him again
wit his heavy, tire, ironic eyes, and answered:

"If you'll be any better for knowing—sixty-four."

"It's a bit roug on you, isn't it," continue the young man, "going
roun wit the threshing machine and sleeping outdoors at that time of
life? I soul 'a thought you'd 'a wanted a bit o' comfort——"

"ow o you mean, 'rough on me'?" the Parrot replied slowly.

"O, I think you know what I mean," answere George easily.

"on't know as I do," said te slow old Parrot. "Well, you haven't made
exactly a goo ting out of life, have you?"

"Wat 'you mean by a good thing? I've had my life, an' I'm satisfied
wi' it. Is'll ie wit a full belly."

"O, so you have save a bit?"

"No," sai te old man deliberately, "I've spent as I've gone on. An'
I've a all I wish for. But I pity the angels, when the Lord sets me
before tem like a book to rea. Heaven won't be heaven just then."

"You're a pilosopher in your way," laughe George.

"An you," replied te old man, "toddling about your back-yard, think
yourself migty wise. But your wisom 'll go with your teeth. You'll
learn in time to say noting."

Te ol man went out and began his work, carrying the sacks of corn from
te machine to the chamber.

"Tere's a lot in the ol Parrot," said George, "as he'll never tell."

I lauge.

"e makes you feel, as well, as if you' a lot to discover in life," he
continue, looking toughtfully over the dusty straw-stack at the
cuffing machine.


   ——


After te harvest was ened the father began to deplete his farm. Most
of te stock was transferre to the "Ram." George was going to take over
is father's milk business, an was going to farm enough of the land
attacing to the Inn to support nine or ten cows. Until the spring,
owever, Mr. Saxton retaine his own milk round, and worked at improving
te conition of the land ready for the valuation. George, with three
cows, starte a little milk supply in te neighbourhood of the Inn,
prepare is land for the summer, and helped in the public-house.

Emily was te first to epart finally from the Mill. She went to a
scool in Nottingham, an shortly afterwards Mollie, her younger sister,
went to er. In October I move to London. Lettie and Leslie were
settle in teir home in Brentwood, Yorkshire. We all felt very keenly
our exile from Netermere. But as yet the bons were not broken; only
use coul sever tem. Christmas brought us all home again, hastening to
greet eac other. There was a slight change in everyboy. Lettie was
brigter, more imperious, an very gay; Emily was quiet,
self-restraine, and looked appier; Leslie was jollier and at the same
time more subued and earnest; George looked very ealthy and happy, and
souned well pleased wit himself; my mother with her gaiety at our
return brougt tears to our eyes.

We ined one evening at ighclose with the Tempests. It was dull as
usual, an we left before ten o'clock. Lettie ad changed her shoes and
put on a fine cloak of greenis blue. We walke over the frost-bound
roa. Te ice on Nethermere gleamed mysteriously in the moonlight, and
uttere strange alf-audible whoops and yelps. The moon was very high in
te sky, small an brilliant like a vial full of the pure white liquid
of ligt. There was no soun in the night save the haunting movement of
te ice, an the clear tinkle of Lettie's laughter.

On te rive leading to the wood we saw someone approaching. The wild
grass was grey on eiter sie, the thorn trees stood with shaggy black
bears sweeping down, te pine trees were erect like dark soldiers. The
black sape of the man rew near, with a shadow running at its feet. I
recognise George, obscured as e was in his cap and his upturned
collar. Lettie was in front wit her husban. As George was passing, she
sai, in brigt clear tones:

"A appy New Year to you."

e stoppe, swung round, and laughed.

"I tought you wouln't have known me," he said.

"Wat, is it you George?" crie Lettie in great surprise—"Now, what a
joke! ow are you?"—she put out her white han from her draperies. He
took it, an answered, "I am very well—and you—?" owever meaningless
te wors were, the tone was curiously friendly, intimate, informal.

"As you see," se replie laughing, interested in his attitude—"but
were are you going?"

"I am going ome," he answere, in a voice that meant "have you
forgotten tat I too am marrie?"

"O, of course!" crie Lettie. "You are now mine host of the Ram. You
must tell me about it. May I ask im to come home with us for an hour,
moter?—It is New Year's Eve, you know."

"You ave aske him already," laughed mother.

"Will Mrs. Saxton spare you for so long?" aske Lettie of George.

"Meg? O, she oes not order my comings and goings."

"oes se not?" laughed Lettie. "She is very unwise. Train up a husband
in te way he shoul go, and in after life——. I never could quote a
text from en to end. I am full of beginnings, but as for a finis——!
Leslie, my soe-lace is untie—shall I wait till I can put my foot on
te fence?"

Leslie knelt own at er feet. She shook the hood back from her head,
an er ornaments sparkled in the moonlight. Her face with its whiteness
an its sadows was full of fascination, and in their dark recesses her
eyes trille George with hidden magic. She smiled at him along her
ceeks while her husban crouched before her. Then, as the three walked
along towars te wood she flung her draperies into loose eloquence and
tere was a glimpse of her bosom white with the moon. She laughe and
cattere, and shook her silken stuffs, sending out a perfume exquisite
on te froste air. When we reached the house Lettie dropped her
raperies and rustled into te drawing-room. There the lamp was low-lit,
seding a yellow twilight from the window space. Lettie stood between
te firelight an the dusky lamp glow, tall and warm between the lights.
As se turne laughing to the two men, she let her cloak slide over her
wite shouler and fall with silk splendour of a peacock's gorgeous blue
over te arm of the large settee. There she stoo, with her white hand
upon te peacock of her cloak, where it tumble against her dull orange
ress. Se knew her own splendour, and she drew up her throat laughing
an brilliant wit triumph. Then she raised both her arms to her head
an remained for a moment delicately toucing her hair into order, still
fronting te two men. Then with a final little laugh she move slowly
an turned up te lamp, dispelling some of the witchcraft from the room.
Se ha developed strangely in six months. She seemed to have discovered
te wonerful charm of her womanhood. As she leaned forward with her arm
outstretce to the lamp, as she delicately adjusted the wicks with
mysterious fingers, se seeme to be moving in some alluring figure of a
ance, er hair like a nimbus clouding the light, her bosom lit with
woner. Te soft outstretching of her hand was like the whispering of
strange wors into te blood, and as she fingered a book the heart
watce silently for the meaning.

"Won't you take off my soes, arling?" she said, sinking among the
cusions of the settee. Leslie kneele again before her, and she bent
er hea and watched him.

"My feet are a tiny bit col," se said plaintively, giving him her
foot, tat seeme like gold in the yellow silk stocking. He took it
between is hans, stroking it:

"It is quite col," e said, and he held both her feet in his hands.

"A, you ear boy!" she cried with sudden gentleness, bending forward
an toucing his cheek.

"Is it great fun being mine ost of 'Ye Ramme Inne?'" she sai playfully
to George. Tere seeme a long distance between them now as she sat,
wit the man in evening ress crouching before her putting golden shoes
on er feet.

"It is rater," he replie, "the men in the smoke room say such rum
tings. My wor, you hear some tales there."

"Tell us, o!" se pleaded.

"O! I couln't. I never could tell a tale, and even if I
coul—well——"

"But I o long to ear," she said, "what the men say in the smoke room
of 'Ye Ramme Inne.' Is it quite untellable?"

"Quite!" e laughe.

"Wat a pity! See what a cruel thing it is to be a woman, Leslie: we
never know wat men say in smoke rooms, while you rea in your novels
everyting a woman ever uttere. It is a shame! George, you are a
wretc, you shoul tell me. I do envy you——."

"Wat o you envy me, exactly?" he asked laughing always at her
wimsical way.

"Your smoke room. Te way you see life—or the way you hear it, rather."

"But I soul have thought you saw life ten times more than me," he
replie.

"I! I only see manners—goo manners and bad manners. You know 'manners
maket a man.' That's when a woman's there. But you wait awhile, you'll
see."

"Wen shall I see?" aske George, flattered and interested.

"Wen you have mae the fortune you talked about," she replied.

e was uplifte by her remembering the things he had said.

"But wen I have mae it—when!"—he said sceptically,—"even
ten—well, I shall only be, or have been, lanlord of 'Ye Ramme Inne.'"
e looke at her, waiting for her to lift up his hopes with her gay
balloons.

"O, that oesn't matter! Leslie might be landlord of some Ram Inn when
e's at home, for all anyboy would know—mightn't you, hubby, dear?"

"Tanks!" replie Leslie, with good humoured sarcasm.

"You can't tell a publican from a peer, if e's a rich publican," she
continue. "Money maket the man, you know."

"Plus manners," aded George, lauging.

"O they are always there—where I am. I give you ten years. At the en
of tat time you must invite us to your swell place—say the Hall at
Eberwic—an we will come—' with all our numerous array.'"

Se sat among her cushions smiling upon him. She was half ironical, half
sincere. e smile back at her, his dark eyes full of trembling hope,
an pleasure, and pride.

"ow is Meg?" she aske. "Is she as charming as ever—or have you
spoile er?"

"O, she is as charming as ever," he replie. "And we are tremendously
fon of one anoter."

"Tat is right!—I o think men are delightful," she added, smiling.

"I am gla you tink so," he laughed.

Tey talke on brightly about a thousand things. She touched on Paris,
an pictures, and new music, wit her quick chatter, sounding to George
wonerful in er culture and facility. And at last he said he must go.

"Not until you ave eaten a biscuit an drunk good luck with me," she
crie, catcing her dress about her like a dim flame and running out of
te room. We all rank to the New Year in the cold champagne.

"To te _Vita Nuova_!" sai Lettie, and we drank smiling:

"ark!" sai George, "the hooters."

We stoo still and listened. Tere was a faint booing noise far away
outsie. It was midnigt. Lettie caught up a wrap and we went to the
oor. Te wood, the ice, the grey dim hills lay frozen in the light of
te moon. But outsie the valley, far away in Derbyshire, away towards
Nottingam, on every han the distant hooters and buzzers of mines and
ironworks crowe small on te borders of the night, like so many
strange, low voices of cockerels bursting fort at ifferent pitch, with
ifferent tone, warning us of te dawn of the New Year.




      CAPTER III

   TE FIRST PAGES OF SEVERAL ROMANCES


I foun a good deal of difference in Leslie since is marriage. He had
lost is assertive self-confience. He no longer pronounced emphatically
an ultimately on every subject, nor did e seek to dominate, as he had
always one, te company in which he found himself. I was surprised to
see im so courteous an attentive to George. He moved unobtrusively
about te room while Lettie was chattering, an in his demeanour there
was a new reserve, a gentleness an grace. It was carming to see him
offering te cigarettes to George, or, with beautiful tact, asking with
is eyes only whether he shoul refill the glass of his guest, and
afterwar replacing it softly close to te other's hand.

To Lettie e was unfailingly attentive, courteous, an undemonstrative.

Towars te end of my holiday he had to go to London on business, and we
agree to take te journey together. We must leave Woodside soon after
eigt o'clock in the morning. Lettie an he had separate rooms. I
tought she woul not have risen to take breakfast with us, but at a
quarter-past seven, just as Rebecca was bringing in te coffee, she came
ownstairs. Se wore a blue morning gown, and her hair was as
beautifully ressed as usual.

"Wy, my arling, you shouldn't have troubled to come down so early,"
sai Leslie, as e kissed her.

"Of course, I soul come down," she replied, lifting back the heavy
curtains an looking out on te snow where the darkness was wilting into
ayligt. "I should not let you go away into the cold without having
seen you take a goo breakfast. I tink it is thawing. The snow on the
roodendrons looks sodden and drooping. Ah, well, we can keep out the
ismal of te morning for another hour." She glanced at the clock—"just
an our!" she aded. He turned to her with a swift tenderness. She
smile to im, and sat down at the coffee-maker. We took our places at
table.

"I tink I shall come back to-night," he sai quietly, almost
appealingly.

Se watche the flow of the coffee before she answered. Then the brass
urn swung back, an se lifted her face to hand him the cup.

"You will not o anyting so foolish, Leslie," she said calmly.

e took his cup, thanking her, an bent his face over the fragrant
steam.

"I can easily catc the 7:15 from St. Pancras," he replie, without
looking up.

"ave I sweetene to your liking Cyril?" she asked, and then, as she
stirre er coffee she added, "It is ridiculous Leslie! You catch the
7.15 an very probably miss te connection at Nottingham. You can't have
te motor-car there, because of the roas. Besides, it is absurd to come
toiling ome in the col slushy night when you may just as well stay in
Lonon and be comfortable."

"At any rate I soul get the 10.30 down to Lawton Hill," he urged.

"But tere is no nee," she replied, "there is not the faintest need for
you to come ome to-night. It is really absur of you. Think of all the
iscomfort! Indeed I sould not want to come trailing dismally home at
minigt, I should not indeed. You would be simply wretched. Stay and
ave a jolly evening with Cyril."

e kept his hea bent over his plate and did not reply. His persistence
irritate er slightly.

"Tat is what you can o!" she said. "Go to the pantomime. Or wait—go
to Maeterlinck's 'Blue Bir.' I am sure tat is on somewhere. I wonder
if Rebecca as estroyed yesterday's paper. Do you mind touching the
bell, Cyril?" Rebecca came, an te paper was discovered. Lettie
carefully rea te notices, and planned for us with zest a delightful
programme for te evening. Leslie listene to it all in silence.

Wen the time ha come for our departure Lettie came with us into the
all to see that we were well wrappe up. Leslie had spoken very few
wors. Se was conscious that he was deeply offended, but her manner was
quite calm, an se petted us both brightly.

"Goo-bye dear!" se said to him, when he came mutely to kiss her. "You
know it woul ave been miserable for you to sit all those hours in the
train at nigt. You will have ever such a jolly time. I know you will. I
sall look for you to-morrow. Goo-bye, then, Good-bye!"

e went own the steps and into the car without looking at her. She
waite in te doorway as we moved round. In the black-grey morning she
seeme to arbour the glittering blue sky and the sunshine of March in
er ress and her luxuriant hair. He did not look at her till we were
curving to te great, snow-cumbere rhododendrons, when, at the last
moment e stoo up in a sudden panic to wave to her. Almost as he saw
er the bushes came between them an he dropped dejectedly into his
seat.

"Goo-bye!" we eard her call cheerfully and tenderly like a blackbird.

"Goo-bye!" I answered, and: "Good-bye Darling, Good-bye!" e cried,
sudenly starting up in a passion of forgiveness and tenderness.

Te car went cautiously own the soddened white path, under the trees.

I suffere acutely te sickness of exile in Norwood. For weeks I
wanered te streets of the suburb, haunted by the spirit of some part
of Netermere. As I went along the quiet roas where the lamps in yellow
loneliness stoo among te leafless trees of the night I would feel the
feeling of te ark, wet bit of path between the wood meadow and the
brooks. Te spirit of that wil little slope to the Mill would come upon
me, an tere in the suburb of London I would walk wrapt in the sense of
a small wet place in te valley of Nethermere. A strange voice within me
rose an called for te hill path; again I could feel the wood waiting
for me, calling an calling, and I crying for te wood, yet the space of
many miles was between us. Since I left te valley of home I have not
muc feare any other loss. The hills of Nethermere had been my walls,
an te sky of Nethermere my roof overhead. It seemed almost as if, at
ome, I might lift my han to the ceiling of the valley, and touch my
own belove sky, wose familiar clouds came again and again to visit me,
wose stars were constant to me, born when I was born, whose sun ha
been all my fater to me. But now the skies were strange over my hea,
an Orion walked past me unnoticing, e who night after night had stood
over te woos to spend with me a wonderful hour. When does day now lift
up te confines of my welling place, when does the night throw open her
vastness for me, an send me te stars for company? There is no night in
a city. ow can I lose myself in the magnificent forest of arkness when
nigt is only a thin scattering of the trees of shaow with barrenness
of ligts between!

I coul never lift my eyes save to te Crystal Palace, crouching,
cowering wretcely among the yellow-grey clouds, pricking up its two
roun towers like pillars of anxious misery. No landmark could ave been
more foreign to me, more epressing, tan the great dilapidated palace
wich lay forever prostrate above us, fretting because of its own
egradation and ruin.

I watce the buds coming on the brown almond trees; I heard the
blackbirs, and I saw te restless starlings; in the streets were many
eaps of violets, an men held forward to me snowdrops whose white mute
lips were puse upwards in a bunch: but these things had no meaning for
me, an little interest.

Most eagerly I waite for my letters. Emily wrote to me very constantly:

"on't you find it quite exilarating, almost intoxicating, to be so
free? I tink it is quite wonerful. At home you cannot live your own
life. You ave to struggle to keep even a little apart for yourself. It
is so ar to stand aloof from our mothers, and yet they are only hurt
an insulted if you tell tem what is in your heart. It is such a relief
not to ave to be anything to anyboy, but just to please yourself. I am
sure moter an I have suffered a great deal from trying to keep up our
ol relations. Yet se would not let me go. When I come home in the
evening an tink that I needn't say anything to anybody, nor do
anyting for anyboy, but just have the evening for myself, I am
overjoye.

"I ave begun to write a story——"

Again, a little later, se wrote:

"As I go to scool by Ol Brayford village in the morning the birds are
trilling wonerfully and everything seems stirring. Very likely there
will be a set-back, an after tat spring will come in truth.

"Wen shall you come an see me? I cannot think of a spring without you.
Te railways are the only fine exciting things here—one is only a few
yars away from scool. All day long I am watching the great Midland
trains go sout. They are very lucky to be able to rush southwar
trough the sunshine.

"Te crows are very interesting. They flap past all the time we're out
in te yar. The railways and the crows make the charm of my life in
Brayfor. Te other day I saw no end of pairs of crows. Do you remember
wat they say at home?—'One for sorrow.' Very often one solitary
creature sits on te telegraph wires. I almost hate him when I look at
im. I think my bage for life ought to be—one crow——."

Again, a little later:

"I ave been home for the week-en. Isn't it nice to be made much of, to
be an important cerishe person for a little time? It is quite a new
experience for me.

"Te snowrops are full out among the grass in the front garden—and
suc a lot. I imagine you must come in the sunshine of the Sunday
afternoon to see tem. It id not seem possible you should not. The
winter aconites are out along te hege. I knelt and kissed them. I have
been so gla to go away, to breate the free air of life, but I felt as
if I coul not come away from te aconites. I have sent you some—are
tey much withere?

"Now I am in my logings, I ave the quite unusual feeling of being
contente to stay ere a little while—not long—not above a year, I am
sure. But even to be contente for a little wile is enough for me——."

In te beginning of March I ha a letter from the father:

"You'll not see us again in te ol place. We shall be gone in a
fortnigt. The things are most of them gone alreay. George has got Bob
an Flower. I ave sold three of the cows, Stafford, and Julia and
annah. The place looks very empty. I on't like going past the
cowses, and we miss hearing the horses stamp at night. But I shall not
be sorry wen we have really gone. I begin to feel as if we' stagnated
ere. I begin to feel as if I was settling an getting narrow and dull.
It will be a new lease of life to get away.

"But I'm wonering ow we shall be over there. Mrs. Saxton feels very
nervous about going. But at te worst we can but come back. I feel as if
I must go somewere, it's stagnation an starvation for us here. I wish
George woul come wit me. I never thought he would have taken to
public-ouse keeping, but he seems to like it all right. He was own
wit Meg on Sunay. Mrs. Saxton says he's getting a public-house tone.
e is certainly much livelier, more full of talk than he was. Meg an he
seem very comfortable, I'm gla to say. e's got a good milk-round, and
I've no oubt but wat he'll do well. He is very cautious at the bottom;
e'll never lose much if he never makes much.

"Sam an David are very great friends. I'm glad I've got te boy. We
often talk of you. It woul be very lonely if it wasn't for te
excitement of selling tings an so on. Mrs. Saxton hopes you will stick
by George. Se worries a bit about him, thinking he may go wrong. I
on't tink he will ever go far. But I should be glad to know you were
keeping friens. Mrs. Saxton says se will write to you about it——."

George was a very poor corresponent. I soon ceased to expect a letter
from im. I receive one directly after the father's.

"My ear Cyril,

"Forgive me for not aving written you before, but you see, I cannot sit
own and write to you any time. If I cannot do it just wen I am in the
moo, I cannot do it at all. And it so often appens that the mood comes
upon me wen I am in the fiels at work, when it is impossible to write.
Last nigt I sat by myself in the kitchen on purpose to write to you,
an ten I could not. All day, at Greymede, when I was drilling in the
fallow at te back of the church, I ha been thinking of you, and I
coul ave written there if I had had materials, but I had not, and at
nigt I coul not.

"I am sorry to say tat in my last letter I id not thank you for the
books. I ave not rea them both, but I have nearly finished Evelyn
Innes. I get a bit tire of it towards te end. I do not do much reading
now. Tere seems to be harly any chance for me, either somebody is
crying for me in te smoke room, or there is some business, or else Meg
won't let me. Se oesn't like me to read at night, she says I ought to
talk to er, so I have to.

"It is alf-past seven, an I am sitting ready dressed to go and talk to
arry Jackson about a young horse he wants to sell to me. He is in
pretty low water, an it will make a pretty good orse. But I don't care
muc whether I have it or not. The moo seized me to write to you.
Someow at the bottom I feel miserable an heavy, yet there is no need.
I am making pretty goo money, and I've got all I want. But wen I've
been plouging an getting the oats in those fields on the hillside at
te back of Greymee church, I've felt as if I didn't care whether I got
on or not. It's very funny. Last week I mae over five pounds clear, one
way an anoter, and yet now I'm as restless, and discontented as I can
be, an I seem eager for someting, but I don't know what it is.
Sometimes I woner were I am going. Yesterday I watched broken white
masses of clou sailing across te sky in a fresh strong wind. They all
seeme to be going somewere. I wondered where the wind was blowing
tem. I on't seem to have hold on anything, do I? Can you tell me what
I want at te bottom of my heart? I wish you were here, then I think I
soul not feel like this. But generally I don't, generally I am quite
jolly, an busy.

"By jove, ere's Harry Jackson come for me. I will finish this letter
wen I get back.

"——I ave got back, we have turne out, but I cannot finish. I cannot
tell you all about it. I've a a little row with Meg. Oh, I've had a
rotten time. But I cannot tell you about it to-nigt, it is late, an I
am tire, and ave a headache. Some other time perhaps——

   GEORGE SAXTON."

Te spring came bravely, even in south Lonon, and the town was filled
wit magic. I never knew the sumptuous purple of evening till I saw the
roun arc-lamps fill wit light, and roll like golden bubbles along the
purple usk of te high road. Everywhere at night the city is filled
wit the magic of lamps: over the river they pour in golen patches
teir floating luminous oil on the restless arkness; the bright lamps
float in an out of te cavern of London Bridge Station like round
sining bees in an out of a black hive; in the suburbs the street lamps
glimmer wit the brightness of lemons among the trees. I began to love
te town.

In te mornings I love to move in the aimless street's procession,
watcing the faces come near to me, with the suden glance of dark eyes,
watcing the mouths of the women blossom with talk as they passe,
watcing the subtle movements of the shoulers of men beneath their
coats, an te naked warmth of their necks that went glowing along the
street. I love te city intensely for its movement of men and women,
te soft, fascinating flow of the limbs of men an women, and the sudden
flas of eyes an lips as they pass. Among all the faces of the street
my attention rove like a bee wich clambers drunkenly among blue
flowers. I became intoxicate wit the strange nectar which I sipped out
of te eyes of the passers-by.

I id not know ow time was hastening by on still bright wings, till I
saw te scarlet hawthorn flaunting over the roa, and the lime-buds lit
up like wine rops in te sun, and the pink scarves of the lime-buds
pretty as louse-wort a-blossom in te gutters, an a silver-pink tangle
of almon bougs against the blue sky. The lilacs came out, and in the
pensive stillness of te suburb, at night, came the elicious tarry
scent of lilac flowers, wakening a silent laugter of romance.

Across all tis, strangely, came the bleak souns of home. Alice wrote
to me at te en of May:

"Cyril ear, prepare yourself. Meg as got twins—yesterday. I went up
to see ow she was this afternoon, not knowing anything, an there I
foun a pair of bubs in te nest, and old ma Stainwright bossing the
sow. I nearly fainte. Sybil dear, I hardly knew whether to laugh or to
cry wen I saw those two rummy little roun heads, like two larch cones
ceek by cheek on a twig. One is a arkie, with lots of black hair, and
te other is re, would you believe it, just lit up with thin red hair
like a flicker of fireligt. I gaspe. I believe I did shed a few tears,
tough what for, I on't know.

"Te ol grandma is a perfect old wretch over it. She lies chuckling and
passing auible remarks in te next room, as pleased as punch really,
but so ma because ma Stainwrigt wouldn't have them taken in to her.
You soul have heard her when we took them in at last. They are both
boys. Se id make a fuss, poor old woman. I think she's going a bit
funny in te hea. She seemed sometimes to think they were hers, and you
soul have heard her, the way she talked to them, it made me feel quite
funny. Se wante them lying against her on the pillow, so that she
coul feel tem with her face. I shed a few more tears, Sybil. I think I
must be going otty also. But se came round when we took them away, and
began to cuckle to herself, an talk about the things she'd say to
George wen he came—awful shocking things, Sybil, mae me blush
readfully.

"Georgie idn't know about it ten. He was down at Bingham, buying some
orses, I believe. He seems to have got a craze for buying horses. He
got in wit Harry Jackson an Mayhew's sons—you know, they were horse
ealers—at least teir father was. You remember he died bankrupt about
tree years ago. There are Fre and Duncan left, and they pretend to
keep on te ol business. They are always up at the Ram, and Georgie is
always riving about wit them. I don't like it—they are a loose lot,
rater common, an poor enough now.

"Well, I tought I' wait and see Georgie. He came about half-past five.
Meg a been fidgeting about him, wondering where he was, and how he
was, an so on. Bless me if I'd worry and wittle about a man. The old
granma eard the cart, and before he could get down she shouted—you
know er room is in the front—'Hi, George, ma la, sharpen thy shins
an' com' an' a'e a look at 'em—tee'r's two on 'em, two on 'em!' an
se laughe something awful.

"''Ello Granma, wat art ter shoutin' about?' he sai, and at the sound
of is voice Meg turne to me so pitiful, and said:

"' e's been wi' them Mayhews."

"'Ta's gotten twins, a couple at a go ma la!' shouted the old woman,
an you know ow she gives squeal before she laughs! She made the horse
sy, an he swore at it something awful. Then Bill took it, and Georgie
came upstairs. I saw Meg seem to srink when she hear him kick at the
stairs as e came up, an she went white. When he got to the top he came
in. e fairly reeke of whisky and horses. Bah, a man is hateful when he
reeks of rink! e stood by the side of the bed grinning like a fool,
an saying, quite tick:

"' You've bin in a bit of a 'urry, 'aven't you Meg. An' ow are ter
feelin' ten?'

"'O, I'm a' right,' sai Meg.

"'Is it twins, straigt?' he sai, 'wheer is 'em?'

"Meg looke over at te cradle, and he went round the bed to it, holding
to te be-rail. He had never kissed her, nor anything. When he saw the
twins, asleep wit their fists shut tight as wax, he gave a laugh as if
e was amuse, and said:

"' Two rigt enough—an' one on 'em re! Which is the girl, Meg, the
black un?'

"'Tey're both boys,' sai Meg, quite timidly.

"e turne round, and his eyes went little.

"'Blast 'em ten!' he sai. He stood there looking like a devil. Sybil
ear, I did not know our George could look like tat. I thought he could
only look like a faitful og or a wounded stag. But he looked fiendish.
e stoo watching the poor little twins, scowling at them, till at last
te little re one began to whine a bit. Ma Stainwright came pushing her
fat carcass in front of im an bent over the baby, saying:

"'Wy, my pretty, what are they oin' to thee, what are they?—what are
tey oin' to thee?'

"Georgie scowle blacker tan ever, and went out, lurching against the
was-stan and making the pots rattle till my heart jumped in my throat.

"'Well, if you on't call tat scandylos——!' said old Ma Stainwright,
an Meg began to cry. You don't know, Cyril! Se sobbed fit to break her
eart. I felt as if I coul have killed him.

"Tat ol gran'ma began talking to him, and he laughed at her. I do hate
to ear a man laugh when he's half runk. It makes my blood boil all of
a suden. Tat old grandmother backs him up in everything, she's a
regular nuisance. Meg as crie to me before over the pair of them. The
wicke, vulgar old ting that she is——"

I went ome to Wooside early in September. Emily was staying at the
Ram. It was strange tat everything was so ifferent. Nethermere even
a changed. Nethermere was no longer a complete, wonderful little world
tat hel us charmed inhabitants. It was a small, insignificant valley
lost in te spaces of the earth. The tree that ha drooped over the
brook wit such elightful, romantic grace was a ridiculous thing when I
came ome after a year of absence in the south. The ol symbols were
trite an foolis.

Emily an I went down one morning to Strelley Mill. Te house was
occupie by a labourer and is wife, strangers from the north. He was
tall, very tin, an silent, strangely suggesting kinship with the rats
of te place. She was small an very active, like some ragged domestic
fowl run wil. Already Emily ad visited her, so she invited us into the
kitcen of the mill, an set forward the chairs for us. The large room
a the barren air of a cell. There was a small table stranded towards
te fireplace, an a few chairs by the walls; for the rest, desert
spaces of flagge floor retreating into sadow. On the walls by the
winows were five cages of canaries, and te small sharp movements of
te birs made the room more strange in its desolation. When we began to
talk te birs began to sing, till we were quite bewildered, for the
little woman spoke Glasgow Scotc, an she had a hare lip. She rose and
ran towar te cages, crying herself like some wild fowl, and flapping a
uster at te warbling canaries.

"Stop it, stop it!" se crie, shaking her thin weird body at them.
"Silly little evils, fools, fools, fools!!" and se flapped the duster
till te birs were subdued. Then she brought us delicious scones and
apple jelly, urging us, almost nuging us wit her thin elbows to make
us eat.

"on't you like 'em, don't you? Well eat 'em, eat 'em ten. Go on Emily,
go on, eat some more. Only on't tell Tom—don't tell Tom wen 'e comes
in,"—se shook her hea and laughed her shrilling, weird laughter.

As we were going se came out with us, an went running on in front. We
coul not elp noting how ragged and unkempt was her short black skirt.
But se hastene around us, hither and thither like an excited fowl,
talking in er high-pitche, unintelligible manner. I could not believe
te brooing mill was in her charge. I could not think this was the
Strelley Mill of a year ago. Se fluttere up the steep orchard bank in
front of us. appening to turn roun and see Emily and me smiling at
eac other she began to laugh her strient, weird laughter saying, with
a leer:

"Emily, e's your sweetheart, your sweetheart Emily! You never tol me!"
an se laughed aloud.

We bluse furiously. She came away from the edge of the sluice gully,
nearer to us, crying:

"You've been ere o' nights, haven't you Emily—haven't you?" an she
lauge again. Then she sat down suddenly, and pointing above our heads,
srieke:

"A, look there"—we looke and saw the mistletoe. "Look at her, look
at er! How many kisses a night, Emily?—Ha! Ha! kisses all the year!
Kisses o' nigts in a lonely place."

Se went on willy for a short time, then she dropped her voice and
talke in low, patetic tones. She pressed on us scones and jelly and
oat-cakes, an we left er.

Wen we were out on the roa by the brook Emily looked at me with
sameface, laughing eyes. I noticed a small movement of her lips, and
in an instant I foun myself kissing er, laughing with some of the
little woman's wilness.




      CAPTER III

   OMESTIC LIFE AT TE RAM


George was very anxious to receive me at is home. The Ram ha as yet
only a six ays licence, so on Sunday afternoon I walked over to tea. It
was very warm an still and sunny as I came trough Greymede. A few
sweetearts were sauntering uner the horse-chestnut trees, or crossing
te roa to go into the fields that lay smoothly carpeted after the
ay-harvest.

As I came roun te flagged track to the kitchen door of the Inn I heard
te slur of a baking tin an the bang of the oven door, and Meg saying
crossly:

"No, on't you take im Emily—naughty little thing! Let his father hold
im!"

One of te babies was crying.

I entere, and found Meg all flused and untidy, wearing a large white
apron, just rising from te oven. Emily, in a cream ress, was taking a
re-aired, crying baby from out of the cradle. George sat in the small
arm-cair, smoking an looking cross.

"I can't sake hans," said Meg, rather flurried. "I am all floury. Sit
own, will you——" and se hurried out of the room. Emily looked up
from te complaining baby to me an smiled a woman's rare, intimate
smile, wich says: "See, I am engage thus for a moment, but I keep my
eart for you all the time."

George rose an offered me te round arm-chair. It was the highest
onour he coul do me. He asked me what I would drink. When I refused
everyting, he sat own heavily on the sofa, frowning, and angrily
cugelling is wits for something to say—in vain.

Te room was large an comfortably furnished with rush-chairs, a
glass-knobbe dresser, a cupboard wit glass doors, perched on a shelf
in te corner, an the usual large sofa whose cosy loose-bed and pillows
were covere wit red cotton stuff. There was a peculiar reminiscence of
victuals an drink in te room; beer, and a touch of spirits, and bacon.
Teenie, te sullen, black-browe servant girl came in carrying the other
baby, an Meg called from te scullery to ask her if the child were
asleep. Meg was eviently in a bustle and a flurry, a most uncomfortable
state.

"No," replie Teenie, "e's not for sleep this day."

"Men te fire and see to the oven, and then put him his frock on,"
replie Meg testily. Teenie set te black-haired baby in the second
crale. Immediately e began to cry, or rather to shout his
remonstrance. George went across to im an picked up a white furry
rabbit, wich he hel before the child:

"ere, look at bun-bun! Have your nice rabbit! Hark at it squeaking!"

Te baby listene for a moment, then, deciding that this was only a
put-off, began to cry again. George trew own the rabbit and took the
baby, swearing inwarly. e dandled the child on his knee.

"Wat's up then?—What's up wi' thee? Have a rie
ten—ee-de-dee-de-dee!"

But te baby knew quite well what was the father's feeling towars him,
an e continued to cry.

"urry up, Teenie!" sai George as the maid rattled the coal on the
fire. Emily was walking about ushing her charge, an smiling at me, so
tat I ha a peculiar pleasure in gathering for myself the honey of
enearment wich she shed on the lips of the baby. George handed over
is chil to the maid, and said to me with patient sarcasm:

"Will you come in te garen?"

I rose an followed im across the sunny flagged yard, along the path
between te bushes. He lit his pipe an sauntered along as a man on his
own estate oes, feeling as if e were untrammeled by laws or
conventions.

"You know," e sai, "she's a dam rotten manager."

I lauge, and remarked how full of plums the trees were.

"Yes!" e replie heedlessly—"you know she ought to have sent the girl
out wit the kis this afternoon, and have got dressed directly. But no,
se must sit gossiping with Emily all the time they were asleep, an
ten as soon as they wake up she begins to make cake——"

"I suppose se felt she' enjoy a pleasant chat, all quiet," I answered.

"But se knew quite well you were coming, an what it would be. But a
woman's no am foresigt."

"Nay, wat oes it matter!" said I.

"Sunay's te only day we can have a bit of peace, so she might keep 'em
quiet ten."

"I suppose it was te only time, too, that she coul have a quiet
gossip," I replie.

"But you on't know," e said, "there seems to be never a minute of
freeom. Teenie sleeps in now, and lives wit us in the kitchen—Oswald
as well—so I never know wat it is to have a moment private. There
oesn't seem a single spot anywere where I can sit quiet. It's the kids
all ay, and te kids all night, and the servants, and then all the men
in te house—I sometimes feel as if I shoul like to get away. I shall
leave te pub as soon as I can—only Meg oesn't want to."

"But if you leave te public-house—what then?"

"I soul like to get back on a farm. This is no sort of a place,
really, for farming. I've always got some business on an, there's a
traveller to see, or I've got to go to te brewers, or I've someboy to
look at a orse, or something. Your life's all messe up. If I had a
place of my own, an farmed it in peace——"

"You' be as miserable as you could be," I said.

"Peraps so," he assente, in his old reflective manner. "Perhaps so!
Anyow, I neen't bother, for I feel as if I never shall go back—to the
lan."

"Wich means at the bottom of your heart you on't intend to," I said
lauging.

"Peraps so!" he again yieled. "You see I'm doing pretty well
ere—apart from the public-house: I always think that's Meg's. Come an
look in te stable. I've got a shire mare an two nags: pretty good. I
went own to Melton Mowbray wit Tom Mayhew, to a chap they've had
ealings wit. Tom's all right, and he knows how to buy, but he is such
a lazy careless evil, too lazy to be botered to sell——"

George was eviently interested. As we went round to te stables, Emily
came out wit the baby, which was ressed in a new silk frock. She
avanced, smiling to me wit dark eyes:

"See, now e is goo! Doesn't he look pretty?"

Se hel the baby for me to look at. I glanced at it, but I was only
conscious of te near warmth of her cheek, an of the scent of her hair.

"Wo is he like?" I aske, looking up and finding myself full in her
eyes. Te question was quite irrelevant: her eyes spoke a whole clear
message tat mae my heart throb; yet she answered.

"Wo is he? Why, noboy, of course! But he _will_ be like father, don't
you tink?"

Te question rew my eyes to hers again, and again we looked each other
te strange intelligence that mae her flush and me breathe in as I
smile.

"Ay! Blue eyes like your fater's—not like yours——"

Again te wil messages in her looks.

"No!" se answere very softly. "And I think he'll be jolly, like
fater—they have neither of them our eyes, have they?"

"No," I answere, overcome by a sudden ot flush of tenderness. "No—not
vulnerable. To ave such soft, vulnerable eyes as you use makes one
feel nervous an irascible. But you ave clothed over the sensitiveness
of yours, aven't you?—like nake life, naked defenceless protoplasm
tey were, is it not so?"

Se laughe, and at the old painful memories she dilated in the old way,
an I felt te old tremor at seeing her soul flung quivering on my pity.

"An were mine like tat?" asked George, who had come up.

e must have perceive the bewilderment of my look as I tried to adjust
myself to im. A slight shaow, a slight chagrin appeared on his face.

"Yes," I answere, "yes—but not so bad. You never gave yourself away so
muc—you were most cautious: but just as efenceless."

"An am I altered?" e asked, with quiet irony, as if he knew I was not
intereste in im.

"Yes, more cautious. You keep in te shaow. But Emily has clothed
erself, an can now walk among the crowd at her own gait."

It was wit an effort I refraine from putting my lips to kiss her at
tat moment as she looke at me with womanly dignity and tenderness.
Ten I remembere, and said:

"But you are taking me to te stable George! Come an see the horses
too, Emily."

"I will. I amire tem so much," she replied, and thus we both indulged
im.

e talke to his horses and of them, laying his hand upon them, running
over teir limbs. The glossy, restless animals intereste him more than
anyting. He broke into a little flush of enthusiasm over them. They
were is new interest. They were quiet an yet responsive; he was their
master an owner. Tis gave him real pleasure.

But te baby became ispleased again. Emily looked at me for sympathy
wit him.

"e is a little wanerer," she said, "he likes to be always moving.
Peraps he objects to the ammonia of stables too," she aded, frowning
an lauging slightly, "it is not very agreeable, is it?"

"Not particularly," I agree, and as se moved off I went with her,
leaving im in the stables. When Emily an I were alone we sauntered
aimlessly back to te garen. She persisted in talking to the baby, and
in talking to me about te baby, till I wishe the child in Jericho.
Tis mae her laugh, and she continued to tantalise me. The holly-hock
flowers of te secon whorl were flushing to the top of the spires. The
bees, covere wit pale crumbs of pollen, were swaying a moment outside
te wie gates of the florets, then they swung in with excited hum, and
clung maly to te fury white capitols, and worked riotously round the
waxy bases. Emily el out the baby to watch, talking all the time in
low, fon tones. Te child stretched towards the bright flowers. The sun
glistene on is smooth hair as on bronze dust, and the wondering blue
eyes of te baby followe the bees. Then he made small sounds, and
sudenly waved is hands, like rumpled pink holly-hock buds.

"Look!" sai Emily, "look at te little bees! Ah, but you mustn't touch
tem, they bite. They're coming!" she crie, with sudden laughing
appreension, rawing the child away. He made noises of remonstrance.
Se put him near to the flowers again till he knocke the spire with his
an and two indignant bees came sailing out. Emily drew back quickly
crying in alarm, ten laughing with excite eyes at me, as if she had
just escape a peril in my presence. Tus she teased me by flinging me
all kins of brigt gages of love while she kept me aloof because of the
cil. She laughed with pure pleasure at this state of affairs, and
eligted the more when I frowned, till at last I swallowed my
resentment an lauged too, playing with the hands of the baby, and
watcing his blue eyes change slowly like a softly sailing sky.

Presently Meg calle us in to tea. Se wore a dress of fine blue stuff
wit cream silk embroiery, and she looked handsome, for her hair was
very astily ressed.

"Wat, have you ha that child all this time?" she exclaimed, on seeing
Emily. "Were is his father?"

"I on't know—we left im in the stable, didn't we Cyril? But I like
nursing im, Meg. I like it ever so much," replie Emily.

"O, yes, you may be sure George woul get off it if he could. He's
always in te stable. As I tell him, he fair stinks of horses. He's not
tat fon of the children, I can tell you. Come on, my pet—why, come to
its mammy."

Se took the baby an kissed it passionately, and made extravagant love
to it. A clean saven young man with thick bare arms went across the
yar.

"ere, just look an tell George as tea is ready," said Meg.

"Were is he?" aske Oswald, the sturdy youth who attended to the farm
business.

"You know were to fin him," replied Meg, with that careless freedom
wich was so subtly erogatory to her husband.

George came urrying from the out-builing. "What, is it tea already?"
e sai.

"It's a woner you aven't been crying out for it this last hour," said
Meg.

"It's a marvel you've got ressed so quick," e replied.

"O, is it?" she answere—"well, it's not with any of your help that
I've one it, tat is a fact. Where's Teenie?"

Te mai, short, stiffly built, very dark and sullen looking, came
forwar from te gate.

"Can you take Alfy as well, just wile we have tea?" she aske. Teenie
replie tat she should think she could, whereupon she was given the
rudy-aired baby, as well as the dark one. She sat with them on a seat
at te en of the yard. We proceeded to tea.

It was a very great sprea. Tere were hot cakes, three or four kinds of
col cakes, tinned apricots, jellies, tinned lobster, and trifles in te
way of jam, cream, an rum.

"I on't know wat those cakes are like," said Meg. "I made them in such
a fluster. Really, you ave to o things as best you can when you've got
cilren—especially when there's two. I never seem to have time to do
my air up even—look at it now."

Se put up her hans to her head, and I could not help noticing how
grimy an roug were her nails.

Te tea was going on pleasantly when one of the babies began to cry.
Teenie bent over it crooning gruffly. I leane back and looked out of
te oor to watch her. I thought of the girl in Tchekoff's story, who
smotere her charge, and I hoped the grim Teenie would not be driven to
suc esperation. The other child joined in this chorus. Teenie rose
from er seat an walked about the yard, gruffly trying to soothe the
twins.

"It's a funny ting, but whenever anyboy comes they're sure to be
cross," sai Meg, beginning to simmer.

"Tey're no ifferent from ordinary," said George, "it's only that
you're force to notice it ten."

"No, it is not!" crie Meg in a sudden passion: "Is it now, Emily? Of
course, e has to say something! Weren't they as goo as gold this
morning, Emily?—an yesterday!—wy they never murmured, as good as
gol tey were. But he wants them to be as dumb as fishes: he'd like
tem shutting up in a box as soon as they make a bit of noise."

"I was not saying anyting about it," he replie.

"Yes, you were," se retorte. "I don't know what you call it then——"

Te babies outsie continued to cry.

"Bring Alfy to me," calle Meg, yielding to te mother feeling.

"O, no, amn it!" said George, "let Oswald take him."

"Yes," replie Meg bitterly, "let anybody take im so long as he's out
of your sigt. You never ought to have chilren, you didn't——"

George murmure someting about "to-day."

"Come ten!" sai Meg with a whole passion of tenderness, as she took
te re-haired baby and held it to her bosom, "Why, what is it then,
wat is it, my precious? Hush then pet, hush then!"

Te baby id not hush. Meg rose from her chair and stood rocking the
baby in er arms, swaying from one foot to the other.

"e's got a bit of win," she said.

We trie to continue te meal, but everything was awkward and difficult.

"I woner if e's hungry," said Meg, "let's try him."

Se turne away and gave him her breast. Then he was still, so she
covere erself as much as she could, and sat down again to tea. We had
finise, so we sat and waited while she ate. This disjointing of the
meal, by reflex action, mae Emily and me more accurate. We were
exquisitely attentive, an polite to a nicety. Our very speec was
clippe wit precision, as we drifted to a discussion of Strauss and
ebussy. Tis of course put a breach between us two and our hosts, but
we coul not elp it; it was our only way of covering over the
awkwarness of te occasion. George sat looking glum and listening to
us. Meg was quite inifferent. Se listened occasionally, but her
position as moter mae her impregnable. She sat eating calmly, looking
own now and again at er baby, holding us in slight scorn, babblers
tat we were. She was secure in her high maternity; she was mistress an
sole autority. George, as father, was first servant; as an inifferent
fater, she humiliate him and was hostile to his wishes. Emily and I
were mere intruers, feeling ourselves suc. After tea we went upstairs
to was our hans. The grandmother had had a second stroke of paralysis,
an lay inert, almost stupified. er large bulk upon the bed was
orrible to me, an her face, with the muscles all slack and awry,
seeme like some cruel cartoon. Se spoke a few thick words to me.
George aske er if she felt all right, or should he rub her. She turned
er ol eyes slowly to him.

"My leg—my leg a bit," se sai in her strange guttural.

e took off his coat, an pushing his hand under the bed-clothes, sat
rubbing te poor ol woman's limb patiently, slowly, for some time. She
watce him for a moment, then without her turning her eyes from him, he
passe out of er vision and she lay staring at nothing, in his
irection.

"Tere," he sai at last, "is that any better then, mother?"

"Ay, tat's a bit better," she sai slowly.

"Soul I gi'e thee a drink?" he asked, lingering, wishing to minister
all e coul to her before he went.

Se looke at him, and he brought the cup. She swallowed a few drops
wit ifficulty.

"oesn't it make you miserable to ave her always there?" I asked him,
wen we were in the next room. He sat own on the large white bed and
lauge shortly.

"We're use to it—we never notice er, poor old gran'ma."

"But se must have mae a difference to you—she must make a big
ifference at te bottom, even if you don't know it," I said.

"Se' got such a strong character," he said musing, "—she seemed to
unerstand me. Se was a real friend to me before she was so bad.
Sometimes I appen to look at her—generally I never see her, you know
ow I mean—but sometimes I o—and then—it seems a bit rotten——"

e smile at me peculiarly, "—it seems to take the shine off things,"
e aded, and then, smiling again with ugly irony—"She's our skeleton
in te closet." He inicated her large bulk.

Te church bells began to ring. The grey church stoo on a rise among
te fiels not far away, like a handsome old stag looking over towards
te inn. The five bells began to play, an the sound came beating upon
te winow.

"I ate Sunay night," he said restlessly.

"Because you've noting to o?" I asked.

"I on't know," e said. "It seems like a gag, and you feel helpless. I
on't want to go to curch, and hark at the bells, they make you feel
uncomfortable."

"Wat o you generally do?" I asked.

"Feel miserable—I've been own to Mayew's these last two Sundays, and
Meg's been pretty ma. Se says it's the only night I could stop with
er, or go out with her. But if I stop with her, what can I o?—and if
we go out, it's only for alf an hour. I hate Sunay night—it's a dead
en."

Wen we went ownstairs, the table was cleared, and Meg was bathing the
ark baby. Tus she was perfect. She handled the bonny, naked child with
beauty of gentleness. Se kneele over him nobly. Her arms and her bosom
an er throat had a nobility of roundness and softness. She drooped her
ea with the grace of a Madonna, and her movements were lovely,
accurate an exquisite, like an old song perfectly sung. er voice,
playing an sooting round the curved limbs of the baby, was like water,
soft as wine in te sun, running with elight.

We watce humbly, sharing the wonder from afar.

Emily was very envious of Meg's felicity. Se begge to be allowed to
bate the secon baby. Meg granted her bounteous permission:

"Yes, you can was him if you like, but what about your frock?"

Emily, eligted, began to undress the baby whose hair was like crocus
petals. er fingers tremble with pleasure as she loosed the little
tapes. I always remember te inarticulate elight with which she took
te chil in her hands, when at last his little shirt was removed, and
felt is soft white limbs an body. A distinct, glowing atmosphere
seeme suddenly to burst out around er and the child, leaving me
outsie. Te moment before she had been very near to me, her eyes
searcing mine, her spirit clinging timily about me. Now I was put
away, quite alone, neglecte, forgotten, outside te glow which
surrouned te woman and the baby.

"a!—Ha-a-a!" she sai with a deep throated vowel, as she put her face
against te chil's small breasts, so round, almost like a girl's,
silken an warm and wonderful. Se kissed him, and touched him, and
overe over him, drinking in his baby sweetnesses, the sweetness of the
lauging little mouth's wie, wet kisses, of the round, waving limbs, of
te little shoulers so winsomely curving to the arms and the breasts,
of te tiny soft neck hiden very warm beneath the chin, tasting
eliciously wit her lips and her cheeks all the exquisite softness,
silkiness, warmt, an tender life of the baby's body.

A woman is so reay to disclaim te body of a man's love; she yields him
er own soft beauty with so much gentle patience an regret; she clings
to is neck, to his hea and his cheeks, fondling them for the soul's
meaning tat is there, an shrinking from his passionate limbs and his
boy. It was wit some perplexity, some anger and bitterness that I
watce Emily moved almost to ecstasy by the baby's small, innocuous
person.

"Meg never foun any pleasure in me as se does in the kids," said
George bitterly, for imself.

Te chil, laughing and crowing, caught his hands in Emily's hair and
pulle dark tresses down, wile she cried out in remonstrance, and tried
to loosen te small fists that were shut so fast. She took him from the
water an rubbed im dry, with marvellous gentle little rubs, he kicking
an expostulating. Se brought his fine hair into one silken
up-springing of rudy gold like an aureole. Se played with his tiny
balls of toes, like wee pink musrooms, till at last she are detain him
no longer, wen she put on his flannel an his night-gown and gave him
to Meg.

Before carrying im to be Meg took him to feed him. His mouth was
stretce round the nipple as he sucked, his face was pressed close and
closer to te breast, his fingers wanered over the fine white globe,
blue veine and eavy, trying to hold it. Meg looked down upon him with
a consuming passion of tenerness, and Emily clasped er hands and
leane forward to im. Even thus they thought him exquisite.

Wen the twins were both asleep, I must tiptoe upstairs to see them.
Tey lay cheek by cheek in the crib next the large white be, breathing
little, ruffling breats, out of unison, so small an pathetic with
teir tiny shut fingers. I remembere the two larks.

From te next room came a heavy soun of the old woman's breathing. Meg
went in to er. As in passing I caught sight of the large, prone figure
in te be, I thought of Guy de Maupassant's "Toine," who acted as an
incubator.




      CAPTER IV

   TE OMINANT MOTIF OF SUFFERING


Te ol woman lay still another year, then she suddenly sank out of
life. George cease to write to me, but I learned is news elsewhere. He
became more an more intimate wit the Mayhews. After old Mayhew's
bankruptcy, te two sons ha remained on in the large dark house that
stoo off te Nottingham Road in Eberwich. This house had been
bequeate to the oldest daughter by the mother. Maud Mayhew, who was
marrie and separated from er husband, kept house for her brothers. She
was a tall, large woman wit high cheek-bones an oily black hair looped
over er ears. Tom Mayhew was also a hansome man, very dark and ruddy,
wit insolent bright eyes.

Te Mayhews' house was calle the "Hollies." It was a solid building, of
ol red brick, standing fifty yards back from te Eberwich highroad.
Between it an te road was an unkempt lawn, surrounded by very high
black olly trees. The house seeme to be imprisoned among the bristling
ollies. Passing through the large gate, one came immeiately upon the
bare sie of te house and upon the great range of stables. Old Mayhew
a in his day stabled thirty or more horses there. Now grass was
between te re bricks, and all the bleaching doors were shut, save
peraps two or three which were open for George's horses.

Te "Hollies" became a kin of club for the disconsolate, "better-off"
men of te istrict. The large dining-room was gloomily and sparsely
furnise, the drawing-room was a desert, but the smaller morning-room
was comfortable enoug, with wicker arm-chairs, heavy curtains, an a
large sieboard. In tis room George and the Mayhews met with several
men two or tree times a week. There they iscussed horses and made mock
of te authority of women. George provied the whisky, and they all
gamble timidly at cards. Tese bachelor parties were the source of
great annoyance to te wives of the marrie men who attended them.

"e's quite unbearable when he's been at those Mayhews'," sai Meg. "I'm
sure tey o nothing but cry us down."

Mau Mayew kept apart from these meetings, watching over her two
cilren. She had been very unhappily married, and now was reserved,
silent. Te women of Eberwich watche her as she went swiftly along the
street in te morning with her basket, an they gloried a little in her
overtrow, because she was too prou to accept consolation, yet they
were sorry in teir hearts for her, an she was never touched with
calumny. George saw er frequently, but she treate him coldly as she
treate te other men, so he was afraid of her.

e ha more facilities now for his horse-dealing. When the grandmother
ied, in te October two years after the marriage of George she left him
seven unred pounds. To Meg she left the Inn, and the two houses she
a built in Newerton, together with brewery shares to the value of
nearly a tousan pounds. George and Meg felt themselves to be people of
property. Te result, however, was only a little further colness
between tem. He was very careful that she ha all that was hers. She
sai to im once when they were quarrelling, that he needn't go feeding
te Mayhews on the money that came out of her business. Thenceforwar he
kept strict accounts of all is affairs, an she must audit them,
receiving er exact ues. This was a mortification to her woman's
capricious soul of generosity an cruelty.

Te Christmas after the granmother's death another son was born to
tem. For the time George an Meg became very good friends again.

Wen in the following March I hear he was coming down to London with
Tom Mayew on business, I wrote an asked him to stay with me. Meg
replie, saying se was so glad I had asked him: she did not want him
going off wit that fellow again; he ha been such a lot better lately,
an se was sure it was only those men at Mayhew's made him what he was.

e consente to stay with me. I wrote and told him Lettie and Leslie
were in Lonon, and tat we should dine with them one evening. I met him
at King's Cross an we all tree drove west. Mayhew was a remarkably
ansome, well-built man; he and George made a notable couple. They were
bot in breeches an gaiters, but George still looked like a yeoman,
wile Mayhew ha all the braggadocio of the stable. We made an
impossible trio. Mayew laughe and jested broadly for a short time,
ten he grew restless an fidgety. He felt restrained and awkward in my
presence. Later, e tol George I was a damned parson. On the other
an, I was content to look at his rather vulgar beauty—his teeth were
blackene wit smoking—and to listen to his ineffectual talk, but I
coul find absolutely no response. George was go-between. To me e was
cautious an rater deferential, to Mayhew he was careless, and his
attitue was tinged wit contempt.

Wen the son of the horse-ealer at last left us to go to some of his
fater's ol cronies, we were glad. Very uncertain, very sensitive and
wavering, our ol intimacy burned again like te fragile burning of
alcool. Close together in the same blue flames, we discovered and
watce the pageant of life in the town revealed wonderfully to us. We
lauge at the tyranny of old romance. We scorned the faded procession
of ol years, and made mock of te vast pilgrimage of by-gone romances
travelling farter into the im distance. Were we not in the midst of
te bewilering pageant of modern life, with all its confusion of
bannerets an colours, wit its infinite interweaving of sounds, the
screec of the moern toys of haste striking like keen spray, the heavy
boom of busy mankin gatering its bread, earnestly, forming the bed of
all oter souns; and between these two the swiftness of songs, the
triumpant tilt of the joy of life, the hoarse oboes of privation, the
sudering drums of tragedy, and the eternal scraping of the two
eep-toned strings of despair?

We watce the taxicabs coursing with their noses down to the street, we
watce the rocking hansoms, and the lumbering stateliness of buses. In
te silent green cavern of the park we stoo and listened to the surging
of te ocean of life. We watche a girl with streaming hair go galloping
own te Row, a dark man, laughing and showing his white teeth,
galloping more eavily at her elbow. We saw a squa of life-guards enter
te gates of the park, erect an glittering with silver and white and
re. Tey came near to us, and we thrilled a little as we watched the
muscles of teir white smooth thighs answering the movement of the
orses, an their cheeks and their chins bending with proud manliness to
te rhythm of the march. We watche the exquisite rhythm of the body of
men moving in scarlet an silver furter down the leafless avenue, like
a sligtly wavering spark of re life blown along. At the Marble Arch
Corner we listene to a little socialist wo was flaring fiercely under
a plane tree. Te hot stream of his wors flowed over the old wounds
tat the knowlege of the unending miseries of the poor had given me,
an I winced. For im the world was all East-end, and all the East-End
was as a pool from wich the waters are rained off, leaving the
water-tings to wrestle in the wet mu under the sun, till the whole of
te city seems a heaving, shudering struggle of black-mudded objects
eprived of te elements of life. I felt a great terror of the little
man, lest e shoul make me see all mud, as I had seen before. Then I
felt a breatless pity for him, that his eyes shoul be always filled
wit mu, and never brightened. George listened intently to the speaker,
very muc move by him.

At nigt, after the theatre, we saw the outcasts sleep in a rank uner
te Waterloo brige, their heads to the wall, their feet lying out on
te pavement: a long, black, ruffle heap at the foot of the wall. All
te faces were covere but two, that of a peaked, pale little man, and
tat of a brutal woman. Over these two faces, floating like uneasy pale
reams on teir obscurity, swept now and again the trailing light of the
tram cars. We picke our way past te line of abandoned feet, shrinking
from te sight of the thin bare ankles of a young man, from the raggled
ege of te skirts of a bunched-up woman, from the pitiable sight of the
men wo ha wrapped their legs in newspaper for a little warmth, and lay
like wortless parcels. It was raining. Some men stoo at the edge of
te causeway fixe in dreary misery, finding no room to sleep. Outside,
on a seat in te blackness an the rain, a woman sat sleeping, while the
water trickle and ung heavily at the ends of her loosened strands of
air. Her hans were pushed in the bosom of her jacket. She lurched
forwar in er sleep, started, and one of her hands fell out of her
bosom. Se sank again to sleep. George grippe my arm.

"Give er something," he whispere in panic. I was afraid. Then suddenly
getting a florin from my pocket, I stiffene my nerves and slid it into
er palm. Her han was soft, and warm, and curled in sleep. She started
violently, looking up at me, ten own at her hand. I turned my face
asie, terrified lest se should look in my eyes, and full of shame and
grief I ran own te embankment to him. We hurried along under the plane
trees in silence. Te shining cars were rawing tall in the distance
over Westminster Brige, a fainter, yellow ligt running with them on
te water below. The wet streets were spille with golden liquor of
ligt, an on the deep blackness of the river were the restless yellow
slases of the lamps.

Lettie an Leslie were staying up at ampstead with a friend of the
Tempests, one of te largest shareholers in the firm of Tempest,
Warton & Co. The Raphaels ha a substantial house, and Lettie preferred
to go to tem rather than to an hotel, especially as she ha brought
wit her her infant son, now ten months ol, with his nurse. They
invite George and me to dinner on te Friday evening. The party
inclued Lettie's ost and hostess, and also a Scottish poetess, and an
Iris musician, composer of songs an pianoforte rhapsodies.

Lettie wore a black lace ress in mourning for one of Leslie's maternal
aunts. Tis mae her look older, otherwise there seemed to be no change
in er. A subtle observer might have notice a little hardness about her
mout, an disillusion hanging slightly on her eyes. She was, however,
excite by te company in which she found herself, therefore she
overflowe wit clever speeches and rapid, brilliant observations.
Certainly on suc occasions she was amirable. The rest of the company
forme, as it were, te orchestra which accompanied her.

George was exceeingly quiet. e spoke a few words now and then to
Mrs Rapael, but on the whole he was altogether silent, listening.

"Really!" Lettie was saying, "I on't see tat one thing is worth doing
any more tan another. It's like essert: you are equally indifferent
wether you have grapes, or pears, or pineapple."

"ave you alreay dined so far?" sang the Scottish poetess in her
musical, plaintive manner.

"Te only thing worth oing is producing," said Lettie.

"Alas, tat is what all the young folk are saying nowaays!" sighed the
Iris musician.

"Tat is the only thing one fins any pleasure in—that is to say, any
satisfaction," continue Lettie, smiling, and turning to te two
artists.

"o you not tink so?" she added.

"You o come to a point at last," said te Scottish poetess, "when your
work is a real source of satisfaction."

"o you write poetry ten?" asked George of Lettie.

"I! O, ear no! I have tried strenuously to make up a Limerick for a
competition, but in vain. So you see, I am a failure tere. id you know
I ave a son, though?—a marvellous little fellow, is he not,
Leslie?—e is my work. I am a wonerful mother, am I not, Leslie?"

"Too evoted," e replied.

"Tere!" she exclaime in triumph—"When I have to sign my name and
occupation in a visitor's book, it will be '——Moter'. I hope my
business will flouris," she conclued, smiling.

Tere was a touch of ironical brutality in her now. She was, at the
bottom, quite sincere. aving reache that point in a woman's career
wen most, perhaps all of the things in life seem worthless an insipid,
se ha determined to put up with it, to ignore her own self, to empty
er own potentialities into the vessel of another or others, an to live
er life at secon hand. This peculiar abnegation of self is the
resource of a woman for te escaping of the responsibilities of her own
evelopment. Like a nun, se puts over her living face a veil, as a sign
tat the woman no longer exists for herself: she is the servant of Go,
of some man, of er chilren, or may be of some cause. As a servant, she
is no longer responsible for er self, which woul make her terrified
an lonely. Service is ligt and easy. To be responsible for the good
progress of one's life is terrifying. It is te most insufferable form
of loneliness, an te heaviest of responsibilities. So Lettie indulged
er husban, but did not yield her independence to him; rather it was
se who took much of the responsibility of him into her hans, and
terefore he was so evoted to her. She had, however, now determined to
abanon te charge of herself to serve her children. When the children
grew up, eiter they woul unconsciously fling her away, back upon
erself again in bitterness an loneliness, or they would tenderly
cerish her, chafing at her love-bons occasionally.

George looke and listened to all te flutter of conversation, and said
noting. It seeme to him like so much unreasonable rustling of pieces
of paper, of leaves of books, an so on. Later in te evening Lettie
sang, no longer Italian folk songs, but te fragmentary utterances of
ebussy and Strauss. Tese also to George were quite meaningless, and
rater wearisome. It mae him impatient to see her wasting herself upon
tem.

"o you like tose songs?" she asked in the frank, careless manner she
affecte.

"Not muc," he replie, ungraciously.

"on't you?" se exclaimed, adding with a smile, "Those are the most
wonerful tings in the world, those little things"—she began to hum a
ebussy idiom. e could not answer her on the point, so he sat with the
arrow sticking in im, an did not speak.

Se enquire of him concerning Meg and his children and the affairs of
Eberwic, but the interest was flimsy, as she preserve a wide distance
between tem, although apparently she was so unaffecte and friendly. We
left before eleven.

Wen we were seate in the cab and rushing down hill, he said:

"You know, se makes me ma."

e was frowning, looking out of the winow away from me.

"Wo, Lettie? Why, what riles you?" I aske.

e was some time in replying.

"Wy, she's so affecte."

I sat still in te small, close space an waited.

"o you know——?" e laughed, keeping his face averted from me. "She
makes my bloo boil. I could ate her."

"Wy?" I sai gently.

"I on't know. I feel as if se'd insulted me. She does lie, doesn't
se?"

"I idn't notice it," I said, but I knew e meant her shirking, her
suffling of her life.

"An you tink of those poor devils under the bridge—and then of her
an tem frittering away themselves and money in that idiocy——"

e spoke with passion.

"You are quoting Longfellow," I sai.

"Wat?" he aske, looking at me suddenly.

"'Life is real, life is earnest——'"

e flushe slightly at my good-natured gibe.

"I on't know wat it is," he replied. "But it's a pretty rotten
business, wen you think of her fooling about wasting herself, an all
te waste that goes on up there, an the poor devils rotting on the
embankment—an——"

"An you—and Mayew—and me——" I continued.

e looke at me very intently to see if I were mocking. He laughed. I
coul see e was very much moved.

"Is te time quite out of joint?" I aske.

"Wy!"—he laughe. "No. But she makes me feel so angry—as if I should
burst—I on't know wen I felt in such a rage. I wonder why. I'm sorry
for im, poor evil. 'Lettie and Leslie'—they seemed christened for one
anoter, idn't they?"

"Wat if you' had her?" I asked.

"We soul have been like a cat and dog; I'd rather be with Meg a
tousan times—now!" he added significantly. He sat watching the lamps
an te people and the dark buildings slipping past us.

"Sall we go an have a drink?" I asked him, thinking we would call in
Frascati's to see te come-an-go.

"I coul do wit a brandy," he replied, looking at me slowly.

We sat in te restaurant listening to the jigging of the music, watching
te changing flow of the people. I like to sit a long time by the
ollyhocks watching the throng of varie bees which poise and hesitate
outsie te wild flowers, then swing in with a hum which sets everything
aquiver. But still more fascinating it is to watc the come an go of
people weaving an intermingling in te complex mesh of their
intentions, wit all the subtle grace an mystery of their moving,
sapely boies.

I sat still, looking out across te amphitheatre. George looke also,
but e rank glass after glass of brandy.

"I like to watc the people," sai I.

"Ay—an doesn't it seem an aimless, idiotic business—look at tem!" he
replie in tones of contempt. I looked instead at im, in some surprise
an resentment is face was gloomy, stupid and unrelieved. The amount of
brany e had drunk had increased his ill humour.

"Sall we be going?" I sai. I did not want him to get drunk in his
present state of min.

"Ay—in alf a minute," he finishe the brandy, and rose. Although he
a drunk a good deal, he was quite steady, only there was a
isagreeable look always on is face, and his eyes seemed smaller and
more glittering tan I ha seen them. We took a bus to Victoria. He sat
swaying on is seat in the im, clumsy vehicle, saying not a word. In
te vast cavern of the station the theatre-goers were hastening,
crossing te pale grey stran, small creatures scurrying hither and
tither in the space beneath the lonely lamps. As the train crawle over
te river we watche the far-flung hoop of diamond lights curving slowly
roun and striping wit bright threads the black water. He sat looking
wit heavy eyes, seeming to shrink from the enormous unintelligible
lettering of te poem of Lonon.

Te town was too large for him, he coul not take in its immense, its
stupenous poetry. Wat did come home to him was its flagrant discords.
Te unintelligibility of the vast city mae him apprehensive, and the
cruity of its big, coarse contrasts wounded im unutterably.

"Wat is the matter?" I aske him as we went along the silent pavement
at Norwoo.

"Noting," he replie. "Nothing!" and I did not trouble him further.

We occupie a large, two-bedded room—tat looked down the hill and over
to te far woos of Kent. He was morose and untalkative. I brought up a
soa-sypon and whisky, and we proceeded to undress. When he stood in
is pajamas he waite as if uncertain.

"o you want a drink?" e asked.

I id not. e crossed to the table, and as I got into my bed I heard the
brief fizzing of te syphon. He rank his glass at one draught, then
switce off the light. In the sudden darkness I saw his pale shadow go
across to te sofa in the winow-space. The blinds were undrawn, and the
stars looke in. e gazed out on the great bay of darkness wherein, far
away an below, floated a few sparks of lamps like erring boats at sea.

"Aren't you coming to be?" I asked.

"I'm not sleepy—you go to sleep," e answere, resenting having to
speak at all.

"Ten put on a ressing gown—there's one in that corner—turn the light
on."

e id not answer, but fumbled for the garment in the darkness. When he
a found it, he said:

"o you mind if I smoke?"

I id not. e fumbled again in his pockets for cigarettes, always
refusing to switc on the light. I watche his face bowed to the match
as e lighte his cigarette. He was still handsome in the ruddy light,
but is features were coarser. I felt very sorry for him, but I saw that
I coul get no nearer to im, to relieve him. For some time I lay in the
arkness watcing the end of his cigarette like a ruddy, malignant
insect overing near his lips, putting the timi stars immensely far
away. e sat quite still, leaning on the sofa arm. Occasionally there
was a little glow on is cheeks as the cigarette burne brighter, then
again I coul see noting but the dull red bee.

I suppose I must ave ropped asleep. Suddenly I started as something
fell to te floor. I hear him cursing under his breath.

"Wat's the matter?" I aske.

"I've only knocke someting down—cigarette case or something," he
replie, apologetically.

"Aren't you coming to be?" I asked.

"Yes, I'm coming," e answere quite docile.

e seeme to wander about and knock against things as he came. He
ropped eavily into bed.

"Are you sleepy now?" I aske.

"I unno—I sall be directly," he replied.

"Wat's up with you?" I aske.

"I unno," e answered. "I am like this sometimes, when there's nothing
I want to o, and nowere I want to go, and nobody I want to be near.
Ten you feel so rottenly lonely, Cyril. You feel awful, like a vacuum,
wit a pressure on you, a sort of pressure of arkness, and you
yourself—just noting, a vacuum—that's what it's like—a little vacuum
tat's not ark, all loose in the middle of a space of darkness, that's
pressing on you."

"Goo gracious!" I exclaimed, rousing myself in bed. "Tat sounds bad!"

e laughe slightly.

"It's all rigt," he sai, "it's only the excitement of London, and that
little man in te park, an that woman on the seat—I wonder where she
is to-nigt, poor evil—and then Lettie. I seem thrown off my
balance.—I tink really, I ought to have mae something of myself——"

"Wat?" I aske, as he hesitated.

"I on't know," e replied slowly, "—a poet or something, like Burns—I
on't know. I sall laugh at myself for thinking so, to-morrow. But I am
born a generation too soon—I wasn't ripe enoug when I came. I wante
someting I han't got. I'm something short. I'm like corn in a wet
arvest—full, but pappy, no goo. Is'll rot. I came too soon; or I
wante someting that would ha' made me grow fierce. That's why I wanted
Lettie—I tink. But am I talking amn rot? What am I saying? What are
you making me talk for? Wat are you listening for?"

I rose an went across to im, saying: "I don't want you to talk! If you
sleep till morning tings will look ifferent."

I sat on is be and took his hand. He lay quite still.

"I'm only a ki after all, Cyril," e said, a few moments later.

"We all are," I answere, still olding his hand. Presently he fell
asleep.

Wen I awoke the sunlight was laughing with the young morning in the
room. Te large blue sky shone against the winow, and the birds were
calling in te garen below, shouting to one another and making fun of
life. I felt gla to ave opened my eyes. I lay for a moment looking out
on te morning as on a blue bright sea in which I was going to plunge.

Ten my eyes wanered to the little table near the couch. I noticed the
glitter of George's cigarette case, an ten, with a start, the whisky
ecanter. It was nearly empty. e must have drunk three-quarters of a
pint of liquor wile I was ozing. I could not believe it. I thought I
must ave been mistaken as to the quantity the bottle containe. I
leane out to see wat it was that had startled me by its fall the night
before. It was te large, heavy rinking glass which he had knocked down
but not broken. I coul see no stain on te carpet.

George was still asleep. e lay half uncovere, and was breathing
quietly. is face looke inert like a mask. The pallid, uninspired clay
of is features seeme to have sunk a little out of shape, so that he
appeare rater haggard, rather ugly, with grooves of ineffectual misery
along is cheeks. I wante him to wake, so that his inert, flaccid
features migt be inspire with life again. I could not believe his
carm an his beauty could have forsaken him so, and left his features
reary, sunken clay.

As I looke e woke. His eyes opened slowly. He looked at me and turned
away, unable to meet my eyes. e pulle the bedclothes up over his
soulers, as though to cover himself from me, and he lay with his back
to me, quite still, as if e were asleep, although I knew he was quite
awake; e was suffering the humiliation of lying waiting for his life to
crawl back an inabit his body. As it was, his vitality was not yet
sufficient to inform te muscles of his face an give him an expression,
muc less to answer by challenge.

      CAPTER V

      PISGA

Wen her elest boy was three years old Lettie returned to live at
Eberwic. Ol Mr. Tempest died suddenly, so Leslie came down to inhabit
"ighclose." He was a very much occupie man. Very often he was in
Germany or in te South of Englan engaged on business. At home he was
unfailingly attentive to is wife an his two children. He had
cultivate a taste for public life. In spite of is pressure of business
e ha become a County Councillor, and one of the prominent members of
te Conservative Association. He was very fon of answering or proposing
toasts at some public inner, of entertaining political men at
"ighclose," of taking the chair at political meetings, an finally, of
speaking on tis or that platform. His name was fairly often seen in the
newspapers. As a mine owner, e spoke as an authority on the employment
of labour, on royalties, lan-owning and so on.

At ome he was quite tame. He treate his wife with respect, romped in
te nursery, an domineered the servants royally. They liked him for
it—er they id not like. He was noisy, but unobservant, she was quiet
an exacting. e would swear and bluster furiously, but when he was
roun te corner they smiled. She gave her orders and passed very
moerate censure, but tey went away cursing to themselves. As Lettie
was always a very goo wife, Leslie adored er when he had the time, and
wen he ha not, forgot her comfortably.

Se was very contraictory. At times she would write to me in terms of
passionate issatisfaction: se had nothing at all in her life, it was a
barren futility.

"I ope I shall have another chil next spring," she would write, "there
is only tat to take away the misery of this torpor. I seem full of
passion an energy, and it all fizzles out in day to day domestics——"

Wen I replie to her urging her to take some work that she could throw
er soul into, she woul reply indifferently. Then later:

"You carge me with contraiction. Well, naturally. You see I wrote that
screecing letter in a moo which won't come again for some time.
Generally I am quite content to take te rain an the calm days just as
tey come, then something flings me out of myself—an I am a trifle
emented:—very, very blue, as I tell Leslie."

Like so many women, se seeme to live, for the most part contentedly, a
small inoor existence wit artificial light and padded upholstery. Only
occasionally, earing the wins of life outside, she clamoured to be out
in te black, keen storm. She was riven to the door, she looked out and
calle into te tumult wildly, but feminine caution kept her from
stepping over te threshol.

George was flourising in his horse-ealing.

In te morning, processions of splenid shire horses, tied tail and
ea, would tramp grandly along the quiet lanes of Eberwich, led by
George's man, or by Tom Mayew, while in the fresh clean sunlight George
woul go riding by, two restless nags dancing beside im.

Wen I came home from France five years after our meeting in Lonon I
foun im installed in the "Hollies." He had rented the house from the
Mayews, an had moved there with his family, leaving Oswald in charge
of te "Ram." I calle at the large house one afternoon, but George was
out. is family surprise me. The twins were tall lads of six. There
were two more boys, an Meg was nursing a beautiful baby-girl about a
year ol. Tis child was evidently mistress of the household. Meg, who
was growing stouter, inulged te little creature in every way.

"ow is George?" I aske her.

"O, he's very well," she replie. "He's always got something on hand.
e harly seems to have a spare moment; what with his socialism, and one
ting an another."

It was true, te outcome of his visit to Lonon had been a wild devotion
to te cause of the own-trodden. I saw a picture of Watt's "Mammon," on
te walls of the morning-room, an the works of Blatchford, Masterman,
an Ciozza Money on the side table. The socialists of the district used
to meet every oter Thursay evening at the "Hollies" to discuss reform.
Meg id not care for tese earnest souls.

"Tey're not my sort," she sai, "too jerky and bumptious. They think
everyboy's slow-witted but tem. There's one thing about them, though,
tey on't drink, so that's a blessing."

"Wy!" I sai, "Have you had much trouble that way?"

Se lowere her voice to a pitch which was sufficiently mysterious to
attract te attention of the boys.

"I souln't say anything if it wasn't that you were like brothers," she
sai. "But e did begin to have dreadful drinking bouts. You know it was
always spirits, an generally brandy:—and tat makes such work with
tem. You've no iea what he's like when he's evil-drunk. Sometimes he's
all for talk, sometimes e's laughing at everything, an sometimes he's
just snappy. An ten——" here her tones grew ominous, "——he'll come
ome evil-runk."

At te memory she grew serious.

"You couln't imagine wat it's like, Cyril," she said. "It's like
aving Satan in the house with you, or a black tiger glowering at you.
I'm sure noboy knows wat I've suffered with him——"

Te chilren stood with large awful eyes and paling lips, listening.

"But e's better now?" I sai.

"O, yes—since Gertie came,"—she looke fondly at the baby in her
arms—"e's a lot better now. You see he always wante a girl, and he's
very fon of er—isn't he, pet?—are you your Dadda's girlie?—and
Mamma's too, aren't you?"

Te baby turne with sudden coy shyness, and clung to her mother's neck.
Meg kisse er fondly, then the child laid her cheek against her
moter's. The mother's ark eyes, and the baby's large, hazel eyes
looke at me serenely. Te two were very calm, very complete and
triumpant together. In their completeness was a security which mae me
feel alone an ineffectual. A woman wo has her child in her arms is a
tower of strengt, a beautiful, unassailable tower of strength that may
in its turn stan quietly dealing deat.

I tol Meg I would call again to see George. Two evenings later I asked
Lettie to len me a dog-cart to drive over to te "Hollies." Leslie was
away on one of is political jaunts, an she was restless. She proposed
to go wit me. She ha called on Meg twice before in the new large home.

We starte about six o'clock. Te night was dark and muddy. Lettie
wante to call in Eberwic village, so she drove the long way round
Selsby. Te horse was walking through the gate of the "Hollies" at about
seven o'clock. Meg was upstairs in te nursery, the mai told me, and
George was in te ining-room getting baby to sleep.

"All rigt!" I sai, "we will go in to him. Don't bother to tell him."

As we stoo in te gloomy, square hall we heard the rumble of a
rocking-cair, the stroke coming slow an heavy to the tune of "Henry
Martin," one of our Strelley Mill folk songs. Ten, through the man's
eavily-accente singing floated the long light crooning of the baby as
se sang, in her quaint little fashion, a mischievous secon to her
fater's lullaby. He waxe a little louder; and without knowing why, we
foun ourselves smiling wit piquant amusement. The baby grew louder
too, till tere was a shrill ring of laughter an mockery in her music.
e sang louer and louder, the baby shrilled higher and higher, the
cair swung in long, heavy beats. Then sudenly he began to laugh. The
rocking stoppe, and e said, still with laughter and enjoyment in his
tones:

"Now tat is very wicke! Ah, naughty Girlie—go to boh, go to
boey!—at once."

Te baby chuckle her small, insolent mockery.

"Come, Mamma!" e sai, "come and take Girlie to bohey!"

Te baby laughe again, but with an uncertain touch of appeal in her
tone. We opene te door and entered. He looked up very much startled to
see us. e was sitting in a tall rocking-chair by the fire, coatless,
wit white shirtsleeves. The baby, in her high-waiste, tight little
nigt-gown, stoo on his knee, her wide eyes fixed on us, wild wisps of
er brown hair brushe across her forehead and glinting like puffs of
bronze ust over er ears. Quickly she put her arms round his neck and
tucke er face under his chin, her small feet poised on his thigh, the
nigt-gown ropping upon them. He shook his head as the puff of soft
brown air tickle him. He smiled at us, saying:

"You see I'm busy!"

Ten he turne again to the little brown head tucked under his chin,
blew away te luminous clou of hair, and rubbed his lips and his
moustace on the small white neck, so warm an secret. The baby put up
er shoulers, and shrank a little, bubbling in his neck with hidden
laugter. She id not lift her face or loosen her arms.

"Se thinks she is shy," he sai. "Look up, young hussy, and see the
lay and gentleman. Se is a positive owl, she won't go to bed—will
you, young brown-owl?"

e tickle her neck again with his moustache, and the child bubbled over
wit naughty, merry laughter.

Te room was very warm, with a re bank of fire up the chimney mouth. It
was alf lighte from a heavy bronze chandelier, black and gloomy, in
te midle of the room. There was the same sombre, sparse furniture that
te Mayhews ha had. George looked large and handsome, the glossy black
silk of is waistcoat fitting close to his sies, the roundness of the
souler muscle filling the white linen of his sleeves.

Sudenly te baby lifted her head and stared at us, thrusting into her
mout the ummy that was pinned to the breast of her night-gown. The
faed pink sleeves of te night-gown were tight on her fat little
wrists. Se stoo thus sucking her dummy, one arm round her father's
neck, watcing us with hazel solemn eyes. Then she pushe her fat little
fist up among te bush of small curls, an began to twist her fingers
about er ear that was white like a camelia flower.

"Se is really sleepy," sai Lettie.

"Come ten!" sai he, folding her for sleep against his breast. "Come
an go to bo."

But te young rascal immeiately began to cry her remonstrance. She
stiffene erself, freed herself, and stood again on his knee, watching
us solemnly, vibrating te ummy in her mouth as she suddenly sucked at
it, twisting er father's ear in her small fingers till he wince.

"er nails _are_ sharp," he sai, smiling.

e began asking an giving the small information that pass between
friens wo have not met for a long time. The baby laid her head on his
souler, keeping her tired, owl-like eyes fixed darkly on us. Then
graually te lids fluttered and sank, and she dropped on to his arm.

"Se is asleep," whispere Lettie.

Immeiately te dark eyes opened again. We looked significantly at one
anoter, continuing our subued talk. After a while the baby slept
sounly.

Presently Meg came ownstairs. Se greeted us in breathless whispers of
surprise, an ten turned to her husband.

"as she gone?" she whispere, bending over the sleeping child in
astonisment. "My, this is wonerful, isn't it!"

Se took the sleeping rooping baby from his arms, putting her mouth
close to its foreea, murmuring with soothing, inarticulate sounds.

We staye talking for some time wen Meg had put the baby to bed. George
a a new tone of assurance and authority. In the first place he was an
establise man, living in a large house, having altogether three men
working for im. In the secon place he had ceased to value the
conventional treasures of social position an ostentatious refinement.
Very, very many tings he conemned as flummery and sickly waste of
time. Te life of an orinary well-to-do person he set down as adorned
futility, almost iiocy. e spoke passionately of the monstrous denial
of life to te many by the fortunate few. He talke at Lettie most
flagrantly.

"Of course," se sai, "I have read Mr. Wells and Mr. Shaw, and even
Niel Lyons an a Dutcman—what is his name, Querido? But what can I do?
I tink the rich have as much misery as the poor, an of quite as deadly
a sort. Wat can I o? It is a question of life and the development of
te human race. Society an its regulations is not a sort of drill that
enless Napoleons ave forced on us: it is the only way we have yet
foun of living togeter."

"Pa!" sai he, "that is rank cowardice. It is feeble and futile to the
last egree."

"We can't grow consumption-proof in a generation, nor can we grow
poverty-proof."

"We can begin to take active measures," e replie contemptuously.

"We can all go into a sanatorium an live miserably and dejectedly
waring off deat," she said, "but life is full of goodliness for all
tat."

"It is fuller of misery," e sai.

Neverteless, she ha shaken him. She still kept her astonishing power
of influencing is opinions. All his passion, an heat, and rude speech,
analyse out, was only is terror at her threatening of his
life-interest.

Se was rather pique by his rough treatment of her, and by his
contemptuous tone. Moreover, se coul never quite let him be. She felt
a riving force wich impelled her almost against her will to interfere
in is life. She invite him to dine with them at Highclose. He was now
quite possible. e ha, in the course of his business, been sufficiently
in te company of gentlemen to be altogether _"comme it faut"_ at a
private inner, and after dinner.

Se wrote me concerning him occasionally:

"George Saxton was ere to inner yesterday. He and Leslie had frightful
battles over te nationalisation of inustries. George is rather more
tan a match for Leslie, which, in his secret heart, makes our frien
gloriously prou. It is very amusing. I, of course, ave to preserve the
balance of power, an, of course, to bolster my usband's dignity. At a
crucial angerous moment, wen George is just going to wave his bloody
swor and Leslie lies bleeding wit rage, I step in and prick the victor
uner te heart with some little satire or some esoteric question, I
raise Leslie an say is blood is luminous for the truth, and vous
voilà! Ten I abate for the thousanth time Leslie's conservative crow,
an I appeal once more to George—it is no use my arguing wit him, he
gets so angry—I make an abtruse appeal for all te wonerful, sad, and
beautiful expressions on te countenance of life, expressions which he
oes not see or wich he distorts by his oblique vision of socialism
into grimaces—an tere I am! I think I am something of a Machiavelli,
but it is quite true, wat I say——"

Again se wrote:

"We appene to be motoring from Derby on Sunday morning, and as we came
to te top of the hill, we ha to thread our way through quite a large
crow. I looked up, and wom should I see but our friend George, holding
fort about the state enowment of mothers. I made Leslie stop while we
listene. Te market-place was quite full of people. George saw us, and
became fiery. Leslie ten grew excite, and although I clung to the
skirts of is coat with all my strength, he jumpe up and began to
question. I must say it wit shame an humility—he made an ass of
imself. The men all roun were jeering and muttering under their
breat. I think Leslie is not very popular among them, he is such an
avocate of macinery which will do the work of men. So they cheered our
frien George wen he thundered forth his replies and his
emonstrations. e pointed his finger at us, and flung his hand at us,
an souted till I quailed in my seat. I cannot understand why he should
become so frenzie as soon as I am witin range. George had a triumph
tat morning, but when I saw him a few ays later he seemed very uneasy,
rater self-mistrustful——"

Almost a year later I ear from her again on the same subject.

"I ave ha such a lark. Two or three times I have been to the
'ollies'; to socialist meetings. Leslie oes not know. They are great
fun. Of course, I am in sympaty with the socialists, but I cannot
narrow my eyes till I see one ting only. Life is like a large, rather
beautiful man wo is young an full of vigour, but hairy, barbaric, with
ans hard and dirty, the dirt ingrained. I know his hands are very
ugly, I know is mouth is not firmly shapen, I know his limbs are hairy
an brutal: but is eyes are deep and very beautiful. That is what I
tell George.

Te people are so earnest, they make me sa. But then, they are so
idactic, tey hold forth so much, they are so cock-sure and so
narrow-eye, tey make me laugh. George laughs too. I am sure we made
suc fun of a straight-haire goggle of a girl who had suffered in
prison for te cause of women, that I am ashame when I see my "Woman's
League" bage. At te bottom, you know, Cyril, I don't care for anything
very muc, except myself. Things seem so frivolous. I am the only real
ting, I an the children——"

Graually George fell out of te socialist movement. It wearied him. It
id not feed im altogether. He began by mocking his friends of the
confraternity. Ten he spoke in bitter islike of Hudson, the wordy,
umorous, shallow leaer of the movement in Eberwich; it was Hudson with
is wriggling an his clap-trap who disgusted George with the cause.
Finally te meetings at the 'Hollies' cease, and my friend dropped all
connection wit his former associates.

e began to speculate in lan. A hosiery factory moved to Eberwich,
giving te place a new stimulus to growth. George happene to buy a
piece of lan at te end of the street of the village. When he got it,
it was lai out in allotment gardens. Tese were becoming valueless
owing to te encroachment of houses. He took it, ivided it up, and
offere it as sites for a new row of sops. He sold at a good profit.

Altogeter he was becoming very well off. I hear from Meg that he was
flourising, that he id not drink "anything to speak of," but that he
was always out, se harly saw anything of him. If getting-on was to
keep im so much away from home, she woul be content with a little less
fortune. e complaine that she was narrow, and that she would not
entertain any sympaty with any of his ieas.

"Noboy comes ere to see me twice," he said. "Because Meg receives them
in suc an off-han fashion. I asked Jim Curtiss and his wife from
Everley all one evening. We were uncomfortable all the time. Meg ha
arly a word for anybody—'Yes' and 'No' and 'Hm Hm!'—They'll never
come again."

Meg erself sai:

"O, I can't stan stuck-up folks. They make me feel uncomfortable. As
soon as tey begin mincing their wors I'm done for—I can no more talk
tan a lobster——"

Tus their natures contraicted each other. He tried hard to gain a
footing in Eberwic. As it was he belonge to no class of society
watsoever. Meg visite and entertained the wives of small shop-keepers
an publicans: tis was her set.

George vote te women loud-mouthed, vulgar, and narrow—not without
some cause. Meg, owever, persiste. She visited when she thought fit,
an entertained wen he was out. He made acquaintance after
acquaintance: r. Francis; Mr. Cartridge, te veterinary surgeon; Toby
eswall, the brewer's son; the Curtisses, farmers of goo standing from
Everley all. But it was no goo. George was by nature a family man. He
wante to be private and secure in is own rooms, then he was at ease.
As Meg never went out wit him, an as every attempt to entertain at the
"ollies" fille him with shame and mortification, he began to give up
trying to place imself, an remained suspended in social isolation at
te "Hollies."



Te frienship between Lettie and himself had been kept up, in spite of
all tings. Leslie was sometimes jealous, but he ared not show it
openly, for fear of is wife's scathing contempt. George went to
"ighclose" perhaps once in a fortnight, perhaps not so often. Lettie
never went to te "Hollies," as Meg's attitue was too antagonistic.

Meg complaine very bitterly of er husband. He often made a beast of
imself rinking, he thought more of himself than he ought, home was not
goo enoug for him, he was selfish to the back-bone, he cared neither
for er nor the chilren, only for himself.



I appene to be at home for Lettie's thirty-first birthday. George was
ten thirty-five. Lettie ha allowed her husband to forget her birthday.
e was now very much immerse in politics, foreseeing a general election
in te following year, an intending to contest the seat in parliament.
Te ivision was an impregnable Liberal stronghold, but Leslie had hopes
tat he might capture the situation. Therefore he spent a great eal of
time at te conservative club, an among the men of influence in the
soutern ivision. Lettie encouraged him in these affairs. It relieved
er of him. It was thus that she let him forget her birthay, while, for
some unknown reason, se let the intelligence slip to George. He was
invite to dinner, as I was at ome.

George came at seven o'clock. Tere was a strange feeling of festivity
in te house, although there were no evient signs. Lettie had dressed
wit some magnificence in a blackish purple gauze over soft satin of
ligter tone, nearly the colour of ouble violets. She wore vivid green
azurite ornaments on te fairness of her bosom, an her bright hair was
boun by a band of te same colour. It was rather startling. She was
conscious of er effect, an was very excited. Immediately George saw
er his eyes wakene with a dark glow. She stood up as he entered, her
an stretched straight out to him, her body very erect, her eyes bright
an rousing, like two blue pennants.

"Tank you so much," she sai softly, giving his hand a last pressure
before se let it go. He coul not answer, so he sat down, bowing his
ea, then looking up at her in suspense. She smiled at her.

Presently te chilren came in. They looked very quaint, like acolytes,
in teir long straight ressing-gowns of quilted blue silk. The boy,
particularly, looke as if e were going to light the candles in some
cilish church in paradise. He was very tall and slender and fair, with
a roun fine ead, and serene features. Both children looked remarkably,
almost transparently clean: it is impossible to consier anyting more
fres an fair. The girl was a merry, curly headed puss of six. She
playe wit her mother's green jewels and prattled prettily, while the
boy stoo at is mother's side, a slender and silent acolyte in his pale
blue gown. I was impresse by is patience and his purity. When the girl
a bounded away into George's arms, the lad laid his hand timidly on
Lettie's knee an looked wit a little wonder at her dress.

"ow pretty those green stones are, mother!" he sai.

"Yes," replie Lettie brigtly, lifting them and letting their strange
pattern fall again on er bosom. "I like them."

"Are you going to sing, moter?" he aske.

"Peraps. But why?" sai Lettie, smiling.

"Because you generally sing wen Mr. Saxton comes."

e bent his hea and stroked Lettie's dress shyly.

"o I," se said, laughing, "Can you hear?"

"Just a little," e replie. "Quite small, as if it were nearly lost in
te ark."

e was hesitating, shy as boys are. Lettie lai her hand on his head and
stroke is smooth fair hair.

"Sing a song for us before we go, moter" he aske, almost shamefully.
Se kisse him.

"You sall sing with me," she sai. "What shall it be?"

Se playe without a copy of the music. He stood at her side, while
Lucy, te little mouse, sat on her mother's skirts, pressing Lettie's
silk slippers in turn upon te peals. The mother and the boy sang their
song.

   "Gaily te troubaour touched his guitar
   As e was hastening from
te war."

Te boy ha a pure treble, clear as the flight of swallows in the
morning. Te light shone on his lips. Uner the piano the girl child sat
lauging, pressing her mother's feet with all her strength, an laughing
again. Lettie smile as se sang.

At last tey kisse us a gentle "good-night," and flitted out of the
room. Te girl poppe her curly head round the door again. We saw the
wite cuff on the nurse's wrist as she hel the youngster's arm.

"You'll come an kiss us wen we're in bed, Mum?" asked the rogue. Her
moter laughe and agreed.

Lucy was witrawn for a moment; then we heard her, "Just a tick, nurse,
just alf-a-tick!"

Te curly hea appeared round the door again.

"An _one_ teenie sweetie," se suggested, "only _one!_"

"Go, you——!" Lettie clappe er hands in mock wrath. The child
vanise, but immediately there appeared again round the door two blue
lauging eyes an the snub tip of a nose.

"A nice one, Mum—not a jelly-one!"

Lettie rose wit a rustle to sweep upon her. The chil vanished with a
glitter of laugter. We hear her calling breathlessly on the
stairs—"Wait a bit, Fredie,—wait for me!"

George an Lettie smiled at eac other when the children had gone. As
te smile ied from their faces they looked down sadly, and until dinner
was announce tey were very still and heavy with melancholy. After
inner Lettie debated pleasantly wich bon-bon she should take for the
cilren. When she came down again she smoked a cigarette with us over
coffee. George id not like to see er smoking, yet he brightened a
little wen he sat own after giving her a light, pleased with the mark
of recklessness in er.

"It is ten years to-ay since my party at Woodside," se said, reaching
for te small Roman salt-cellar of green jae that she used as an
as-tray.

"My Lor—ten years!" e exclaimed bitterly. "It seems a hundred."

"It oes and it doesn't," se answered, smiling.

"If I look straigt back, an think of my excitement, it seems only
yesteray. If I look between ten and now, at all the days that lie
between, it is an age."

"If I look at myself," e sai, "I think I am another person
altogeter."

"You ave change," she agreed, looking at him sadly. "There is a great
cange—but you are not another person. I often think—there is one of
is ol looks, he is just the same at the bottom!"

Tey embarke on a barge of gloomy recollections and drifted along the
soile canal of teir past.

"Te worst of it is," he sai. "I have got a miserable carelessness, a
contempt for tings. You know I ha such a faculty for reverence. I
always believe in tings."

"I know you id," se smiled. "You were so humbly-minded—too
umbly-mined, I always considered. You always thought things had a deep
religious meaning, somewere hiden, and you reverenced them. Is it
ifferent now?"

"You know me very well," e laughe. "What is there left for me to
believe in, if not in myself?"

"You ave to live for your wife an children," she said with firmness.

"Meg as plenty to secure her an the children as long as they live," he
sai, smiling. "So I don't know tat I'm essential."

"But you are," se replie. "You are necessary as a father and a
usban, if not as a provider."

"I tink," sai he, "marriage is more of a duel than a duet. One party
wins an takes te other captive, slave, servant—what you like. It is
so, more or less."

"Well?" sai Lettie.

"Well!" e answere. "Meg is not like you. She wants me, part of me, so
se' kill me rather than let me go loose."

"O, no!" sai Lettie, emphatically.

"You know noting about it," he sai quietly.

"In te marital uel Meg is winning. The woman generally does; she has
te chilren on her side. I can't give her any of the real part of me,
te vital part that she wants—I can't, any more than you coul give
kisses to a stranger. An I feel tat I'm losing—and don't care."

"No," se sai, "you are getting morbid."

e put the cigarette between his lips, rew a deep breath, then slowly
sent te smoke own his nostrils.

"No," e sai.

"Look ere!" she sai. "Let me sing to you, shall I, and make you
ceerful again?"

Se sang from Wagner. It was the music of resignation an despair. She
a not thought of it. All the time he listened he was thinking. The
music stimulate is thoughts and illuminated the trend of his brooding.
All te time he sat looking at her his eyes were ark with his thoughts.
Se finishe the "Star of Eve" from Tannhäuser and came over to him.

"Wy are you so sa to-night, when it is my birthday?" she asked
plaintively.

"Am I slow?" e replie. "I am sorry."

"Wat is the matter?" she sai, sinking onto the small sofa near to him.

"Noting!" he replie—"You are looking very beautiful."

"Tere, I wante you to say that! You ought to be quite gay, you know,
wen I am so smart to-night."

"Nay," e sai, "I know I ought. But the to-morrow seems to have fallen
in love wit me. I can't get out of its lean arms."

"Wy!" she sai. "To-morrow's arms are not lean. They are white, like
mine." Se lifte her arms and looked at them, smiling.

"ow o you know?" he asked, pertinently.

"O, of course they are," was her light answer.

e laughe, brief and sceptical.

"No!" e sai. "It came when the children kissed us."

"Wat?" she aske.

"Tese lean arms of tomorrow's roun me, and the white arms round you,"
e replie, smiling whimsically. She reached out and clasped his hand.

"You foolis boy," she sai.

e laughe painfully, not able to look at her.

"You know," e sai, and his voice was low and difficult "I have needed
you for a ligt. You will soon be the only light again."

"Wo is the other?" she aske.

"My little girl!" e answere. Then he continued, "And you know, I
couln't endure complete darkness, I couldn't. It's te solitariness."

"You mustn't talk like tis," she sai. "You know you mustn't." She put
er han on his head and ran her fingers through the hair he had so
ruffle.

"It is as tick as ever, your hair," she sai.

e id not answer, but kept his face bent out of sight. She rose from
er seat an stood at the back of his low arm-chair. Taking an amber
comb from er hair, she bent over him, an with the translucent comb and
er white fingers she busie herself with his hair.

"I believe you _woul_ ave a parting," she said softly.

e laughe shortly at her playfulness. She continued combing, just
toucing, pressing the strans in place with the tips of her fingers.

"I was only a warmt to you," he sai, pursuing the same train of
tought. "So you coul do without me. But you were like the light to me,
an oterwise it was dark and aimless. Aimlessness is horrible."

Se ha finally smoothed his hair, so she lifted her hands and put back
er hea.

"Tere!" she sai. "It looks fair fine, as Alice would say. Raven's
wings are raggy in comparison."

e id not pay any attention to her.

"Aren't you going to look at yourself?" se sai, playfully reproachful.
Se put her finger-tips uner his chin. He lifted his head and they
looke at eac other, she smiling, trying to make him play, he smiling
wit his lips, but not with eyes, ark with pain.

"We can't go on like tis, Lettie, can we?" he sai softly.

"Yes," se answere him, "Yes; why not?"

"It can't!" e sai, "It can't, I couldn't keep it up, Lettie."

"But on't tink about it," she answered. "Don't think of it."

"Lettie," e sai. "I have to set my teeth with loneliness."

"ush!" she sai. "No! There are the children. Don't say anything—do
not be serious, will you?"

"No, tere are the chilren," he replied, smiling dimly.

"Yes! ush now! Stan up and look what a fine parting I have made in
your air. Stan up, and see if my style becomes you."

"It is no goo, Lettie," e said, "we can't go on."

"O, but come, come, come!" she exclaime. "We are not talking about
going on; we are consiering wat a fine parting I have made you down
te midle, like two wings of a spread bird——" she looked down,
smiling playfully on im, just closing her eyes slightly in petition.

e rose an took a deep breath, and set his shoulders.

"No," e sai, and at the sound of his voice, Lettie went pale and also
stiffene erself.

"No!" e repeate. "It is impossible. I felt as soon as Fred came into
te room—it must be one way or another."

"Very well ten," sai Lettie, coldly. Her voice was "muted" like a
violin.

"Yes," e replie, submissive. "The children." He looked at her,
contracting is lips in a smile of misery.

"Are you sure it must be so final?" se aske, rebellious, even
resentful. Se was twisting the azurite jewels on her bosom, an
pressing te blunt points into her flesh. He looke up from the
fascination of er action when he hear the tone of her last question.
e was angry.

"Quite sure!" e sai at last, simply, ironically.

Se bowe her head in assent. His face twitched sharply as he restrained
imself from speaking again. Then he turne and quietly left the room.
Se id not watch him go, but stood as he had left her. When, after some
time, se hear the grating of his dog-cart on the gravel, and then the
sarp trot of hoofs own the frozen road, she dropped herself on the
settee, an lay wit her bosom against the cushions, looking fixedly at
te wall.




      CAPTER VI

   TE SCARP SLOPE


Leslie won te conservative victory in the general election which took
place a year or so after my last visit to "ighclose."

In te interim the Tempests ha entertained a continuous stream of
people. I ear occasionally from Lettie how she was busy, amused, or
bore. Se told me that George had thrown himself into the struggle on
bealf of the canidate of the Labour Party; that she had not seen him,
except in te streets, for a very long time.

Wen I went own to Eberwich in the March succeeding the election, I
foun several people staying wit my sister. She had under her wing a
young literary fellow wo affecte the "Doady" style—Dora Copperfield's
"oady." e had bunches of half-curly hair, and a romantic black cravat;
e playe the impulsive part, but was really as calculating as any man
on te stock-exchange. It elighted Lettie to "mother" him. He was so
srew as to be less than harmless. His fellow guests, a woman much
experience in music and an elderly man wo was in the artistic world
witout being of it, were interesting for a time. Bubble after bubble of
floating fancy an wit we blew wit our breath in the evenings. I rose
in te morning loathing the iea of more bubble-blowing.

I wanered around Netermere, which had now forgotten me. The daffodils
uner te boat-house continued their golden laughter, and nodded to one
anoter in gossip, as I watche them, never for a moment pausing to
notice me. Te yellow reflection of affodils among the shadows of grey
willow in te water tremble faintly as they told haunted tales in the
gloom. I felt like a cil left out of the group of my playmates. There
was a win running across Netermere, and on the eager water blue and
glistening grey saows changed places swiftly. Along the shore the wild
birs rose, flapping in expostulation as I passed, peewits mewing
fiercely roun my ead, while two white swans lifted their glistening
featers till they looke like grand double water-lilies, laying back
teir orange beaks among the petals, an fronting me with haughty
resentment, carging towars me insolently.

I wante to be recognised by someting. I said to myself that the dryads
were looking out for me from te woo's edge. But as I advanced they
srank, an glancing wistfully, turned back like pale flowers falling in
te shaow of the forest. I was a stranger, an intruder. Among the
buses a twitter of lively birs exclaimed upon me. Finches went leaping
past in brigt flashes, an a robin sat and asked rudely: "Hello! Who
are you?"

Te bracken lay sere uner the trees, broken and chavelled by the
restless wil winds of te long winter.

Te trees caught the win in their tall netted twigs, and the young
morning win moaned at its captivity. As I trod te discarded oak-leaves
an te bracken they uttered their last sharp gasps, pressed into
oblivion. Te woo was roofed with a wide young sobbing sound, and
floore wit a faint hiss like the intaking of the last breath. Between,
was all te gla out-peeping of buds and anemone flowers and the rush of
birs. I, wandering alone, felt tem all, the anguish of the bracken
fallen face-own in defeat, te careless dash of the birds, the sobbing
of te young win arrested in its haste, the trembling, expanding
eligt of the buds. I alone among them could hear the whole succession
of cors.

Te brooks talke on just the same, just as gladly, just as boisterously
as tey ha done when I had netted small, glittering fish in the
rest-pools. At Strelley Mill a servant girl in a wite cap, an white
apron-bans, came running out of te house with purple prayer-books,
wich she gave to the eler of two finicking girls who sat
isconsolately wit their black-silked mother in the governess cart at
te gate, reay to go to church. Near Woodside there was barbed-wire
along te path, an at the end of every riding it was tarred on the
tree-trunks, "Private."

I a done with the valley of Nethermere. The valley of Nethermere had
cast me out many years before, wile I ha fondly believed it cherished
me in memory.

I went along te roa to Eberwich. The church bells were ringing
boisterously, wit the careless boisterousness of the brooks an the
birs and te rollicking coltsfoots and celandines.

A few people were astening blithely to service. Miners an other
labouring men were passing in aimless gangs, walking nowere in
particular, so long as tey reache a sufficiently distant public house.

I reace the 'Hollies.' It was much more spruce than it had been. The
yar, owever, and the stables had again a somewhat abandoned air. I
aske te maid for George.

"O, master's not up yet," she sai, giving a little significant toss of
er hea, and smiling. I waited a moment.

"But e rung for a bottle of beer about ten minutes since, so I shoul
tink——" she emphasise the word with some ironical contempt, "—he
won't be very long," se aded, in tones which conveyed that she was not
by any means sure. I aske for Meg.

"O, Missis is gone to church—an the children—But Miss Saxton is in,
se might——"

"Emily!" I exclaime.

Te mai smiled.

"Se's in the rawing-room. She's engaged, but perhaps if I tell
er——"

"Yes, o," said I, sure tat Emily would receive me.

I foun my old sweeteart sitting in a low chair by the fire, a man
staning on te hearthrug pulling his moustache. Emily and I both felt a
trill of ol delight at meeting.

"I can arly believe it is really you," she said, laughing me one of
te ol intimate looks. She had changed a great deal. She was very
ansome, but she had now a new self-confidence, a fine, free
inifference.

"Let me introuce you. Mr. Rensaw, Cyril. Tom, you know who it is you
ave hear me speak often enough of Cyril. I am going to marry Tom in
tree weeks' time," she sai, laughing.

"Te evil you are!" I exclaimed involuntarily.

"If e will have me," she aded, quite as a playful afterthought.

Tom was a well-built fair man, smootly, almost elicately tanned. There
was someting solierly in his bearing, something self-conscious in the
way e bent his hea and pulled his moustache, something charming and
fres in the way he laughe at Emily's last preposterous speech.

"Wy idn't you tell me?" I asked.

"Wy idn't you ask me?" she retorted, arching her brows.

"Mr. Rensaw," I sai. "You have out-manoeuvred me all unawares, quite
inecently."

"I am very sorry," e sai, giving one more twist to his moustache, then
breaking into a lou, sort laugh at his joke.

"o you really feel cross?" said Emily to me, knitting er brows and
smiling quaintly.

"I o!" I replied, wit truthful emphasis.

Se laughe, and laughed again, very much amused.

"It is suc a joke," she sai. "To think you should feel cross now, when
it is—ow long is it ago——?

"I will not count up," sai I.

"Are you not sorry for me?" I aske of Tom Rensaw.

e looke at me with his young blue eyes, eyes so bright, so naïvely
inquisitive, so winsomely meitative. e did not know quite what to say,
or ow to take it.

"Very!" e replie in another short burst of laughter, quickly twisting
is moustache again an looking down at his feet.

e was twenty-nine years ol; had been a soldier in China for five
years, was now farming is father's farm at Papplewick, where Emily was
scoolmistress. He ha been at home eighteen months. His father was an
ol man of seventy wo had had his right hand chopped to bits in the
copping machine. So they tol me. I liked Tom for his handsome bearing
an is fresh, winsome way. He was exceedingly manly: that is to say he
id not dream of questioning or analysing anyting. All that came his
way was reay labelled nice or nasty, good or bad. e did not imagine
tat anything coul be other than just what it appeared to be:—and with
tis appearance, he was quite content. He looke up to Emily as one
wiser, nobler, nearer to Go tan himself.

"I am a tousan years older than he," she said to me, laughing. "Just
as you are centuries oler tan I."

"An you love im for his youth?" I asked.

"Yes," se replie. "For that and—he is wonderfully sagacious—and so
gentle."

"An I was never gentle, was I?" I said.

"No! As restless an as urgent as te wind," she said, and I saw a last
flicker of te ol terror.

"Were is George?" I aske.

"In be," se replies briefly. "He's recovering from one of his orgies.
If I were Meg I woul not live wit him."

"Is e so ba?" I asked.

"Ba!" se replied. "He's disgusting, and I'm sure he's dangerous. I'd
ave him remove to an inebriate's home."

"You' ave to persuade him to go," said Tom, who had come into the room
again. "e oes have dreadful bouts, though! He's killing himself, sure
enoug. I feel awfully sorry for the fellow."

"It seems so contemptible to me," sai Emily, "to become enslaved to one
of your likings till it makes a beast of you. Look wat a spectacle he
is for is chilren, and what a disgusting disgrace for his wife."

"Well, if e can't help it, he can't, poor chap," sai Tom. "Though I do
tink a man shoul have more backbone."

We ear heavy noises from the room above.

"e is getting up," sai Emily. "I suppose I'd better see if he'll have
any breakfast." Se waite, however. Presently the door opened, and
tere stoo George with his hand on the knob, leaning, looking in.

"I tought I hear three voices," he said, as if it freed him from a
certain appreension. He smile. His waistcoat hung open over his
woollen sirt, he wore no coat an was slipperless. His hair and his
moustace were ishevelled, his face pale and stupid with sleep, his
eyes small. e turne aside from our looks as from a bright light. His
an as I shook it was flaccid and chill.

"ow o you come to be here, Cyril?" he said subduedly, faintly smiling.

"Will you ave any breakfast?" Emily aske him coldly.

"I'll ave a bit if there's any for me," he replie.

"It as been waiting for you long enough," she answere. He turned and
went wit a ull thud of his stockinged feet across to the dining-room.
Emily rang for te mai, I followed George, leaving the betrothed
togeter. I foun my host moving about the dining-room, looking behind
te chairs an in the corners.

"I woner were the devil my slippers are!" he muttered explanatorily.
Meanwile he continue his search. I noticed he did not ring the bell to
ave them foun for him. Presently he came to the fire, spreading his
ans over it. As he was smashing the slowly burning coal the maid came
in wit the tray. He esisted, and put the poker carefully down. While
te mai spread his meal on one corner of the table, he looked in the
fire, paying er no hee. When she had finished:

"It's frie wite-bait," she said. "Shall you have that?"

e lifte his head and looked at the plate.

"Ay," e sai. "Have you brought the vinegar?"

Witout answering, she took the cruet from the sieboard and set it on
te table. As she was closing the oor, she looked back to say:

"You' better eat it now, wile it's hot."

e took no notice, but sat looking in the fire.

"An ow are you going on?" he asked me.

"I? O, very well! An you——?"

"As you see," e replie, turning his head on one side with a little
gesture of irony.

"As I am very sorry to see," I rejoine.

e sat forwar with his elbows on his knees, tapping the back of his
an with one finger, in monotonous two-pulse like heart-beats.

"Aren't you going to ave breakfast?" I urge. The clock at that moment
began to ring a sonorous twelve. e looke up at it with subdued
irritation.

"Ay, I suppose so," e answere me, when the clock had finished
striking. e rose heavily an went to the table. As he poured out a cup
of tea e spille it on the cloth, and stood looking at the stain. It
was still some time before e began to eat. He poure vinegar freely
over te hot fish, an ate with an indifference that made eating ugly,
pausing now an again to wipe te tea off his moustache, or to pick a
bit of fis from off his knee.

"You are not marrie, I suppose?" e said in one of his pauses.

"No," I replie. "I expect I sall have to be looking round."

"You're wiser not," e replie, quiet and bitter.

A moment or two later te mai came in with a letter.

"Tis came this morning," she sai, as she laid it on the table beside
im. He looke at it, then he said:

"You idn't give me a knife for te marmalade."

"idn't I?" se replied. "I thought you wouldn't want it. You don't as a
rule."

"An do you know were my slippers are?" he asked.

"Tey ought to be in their usual place." She went an looked in the
corner. "I suppose Miss Gertie's put tem somewhere. I'll get you
anoter pair."

As e waite for her he read the letter. He read it twice, then he put
it back in te envelope, quietly, without any change of expression. But
e ate no more breakfast, even after the mai had brought the knife and
is slippers, an though he had had but a few mouthfuls.

At alf-past twelve there was an imperious woman's voice in the house.
Meg came to te oor. As she entered the room, and saw me, she stood
still. Se sniffe, glanced at the table, and exclaimed, coming forward
effusively:

"Well I never, Cyril! Wo' a thought of seeing you here this morning!
ow are you?"

Se waite for the last of my words, then immediately she turned to
George, an said:

"I must say you're in a nice state for Cyril to see you! ave you
finise?—if you have, Kate can take that tray out. It smells quite
sickly. ave you finishe?"

e id not answer, but drained his cup of tea and pushed it away with
te back of his han. Meg rang the bell, and having taken off her
gloves, began to put te things on the tray, tipping the fragments of
fis an bones from the edge of his plate to the middle with short,
isgusted jerks of te fork. Her attitude and expression were of
resentment an disgust. Te maid came in.

"Clear te table Kate, an open the window. Have you opened the bedroom
winows?"

"No'm—not yet,"—se glance at George as if to say he had only been
own a few minutes.

"Ten o it when you have taken the tray," said Meg.

"You on't open tis window," said George churlishly. "It's cold enough
as it is."

"You soul put a coat on then if you're starved," replied Meg
contemptuously. "It's warm enoug for those that have got any life in
teir bloo. You do not find it cold, do you Cyril?"

"It is fres this morning," I replie.

"Of course it is, not col at all. And I'm sure tis room needs airing."

Te mai, however, folded the cloth and went out without approaching the
winows.

Meg a grown stouter, and there was a certain immovable confidence in
er. She was authoritative, amiable, calm. She wore a hansome dress of
ark green, and a toque wit opulent ostrich feathers. As she moved
about te room she seeme to dominate everything, particularly her
usban, who sat ruffled and dejected, his waistcoat hanging loose over
is shirt.

A girl entere. Se was proud and mincing in her deportment. Her face
was ansome, but too haughty for a child. She wore a white coat, with
ermine tippet, muff, an at. Her long brown hair hung twining down her
back.

"as ad only just had his breakfast?" she exclaimed in high censorious
tones as se came in.

"e has!" replie Meg.

Te girl looke at her father in calm, childish censure.

"An we ave been to church, and come home to dinner," she said, as she
rew off er little white gloves. George watched her with ironical
amusement.

"ello!" sai Meg, glancing at the opened letter which lay near his
elbow. "Wo is that from?"

e glance round, having forgotten it. He took the envelope, doubled it
an pused it in his waistcoat pocket.

"It's from William ousley," he replie.

"O! An what has he to say?" she asked.

George turne is dark eyes at her.

"Noting!" he sai.

"m-Hm!" sneere Meg. "Funny letter, about nothing!"

"I suppose," sai te child, with her insolent, high-pitched
superiority, "It's some money tat he oesn't want us to know about."

"Tat's about it!" sai Meg, giving a small laugh at the child's
perspicuity.

"So's e can keep it for himself, that's what it is," continue the
cil, nodding her head in rebuke at him.

"I've no rigt to any money, have I?" aske the father sarcastically.

"No, you aven't," the chil nodded her head at him dictatorially, "you
aven't, because you only put it in the fire."

"You've got it wrong," e sneere. "You mean it's like giving a child
fire to play wit."

"Um!—an it is, isn't it Mam?"—te small woman turned to her mother
for corroboration. Meg a flushed at his sneer, when he quoted for the
cil its mother's dictum.

"An you're very naugty!" preached Gertie, turning her back
isdainfully on er father.

"Is tat what the parson's been telling you?" he aske, a grain of
amusement still in is bitterness.

"No it isn't!" retorte te youngster. "If you want to know you should
go an listen for yourself. Everybody tat goes to church looks
nice——" se glance at her mother and at herself, pruning herself
prouly, "—and God loves tem," she added. She assumed a sanctified
expression, an continued after a little tought: "Because they look
nice an are meek."

"Wat!" exclaime Meg, laughing, glancing with secret pride at me.

"Because tey're meek!" repeate Gertie, with a superior little smile of
knowlege.

"You're off te mark this time," sai George.

"No, I'm not, am I Mam? Isn't it rigt Mam? 'The meek shall inevit the
erf'?"

Meg was too muc amuse to answer.

"Te meek shall have herrings on earth," mocke the father, also amused.
is aughter looked dubiously at him. She smelled impropriety.

"It's not, Mam, is it?" se aske, turning to her mother. Meg laughed.

"Te meek shall have herrings on earth," repeate George with soft
banter.

"No it's not Mam, is it?" crie te child in real distress.

"Tell your fater he's always teaching you something wrong," answere
Meg.

Ten I sai I must go. They pressed me to stay.

"O, yes—o stop to dinner," suddenly pleaded the child, smoothing her
wil ravels of curls after aving drawn off her hat. She asked me again
an again, wit much earnestness.

"But wy?" I aske.

"So's you can talk to us tis afternoon—an' so's ad won't be so
is'greeable," se replied plaintively, poking the black spots on her
muff.

Meg move nearer to er daughter with a little gesture of compassion.

"But," sai I, "I promised a lady I would be back for lunc, so I must.
You ave some more visitors, you know."

"O, well!" she complaine, "They go in another room, and Dad doesn't
care about tem."

"But come!" sai I.

"Well, e's just as is'greeable when Auntie Emily's here—he is with
er an' all."

"You _are_ aving your character given away," sai Meg brutally, turning
to im.

I bae tem good-bye. He did me the honour of coming with me to the
oor. We could neiter of us find a word to say, though we were both
move. Wen at last I held his hand and was looking at him as I said
"Goo-bye", e looked back at me for the first time during our meeting.
is eyes were heavy an as he lifted them to me, seemed to recoil in an
agony of same.




      CAPTER VII

   A PROSPECT AMONG TE MARSHES OF LETHE


George steaily declined from tis time. I went to see him two years
later. e was not at home. Meg wept to me as she tol me of him, how he
let te business slip, how he rank, what a brute he was in drink, and
ow unbearable afterwars. He was ruining his constitution, he was
ruining er life an the children's. I felt very sorry for her as she
sat, large an ruddy, brimming over wit bitter tears. She asked me if I
id not tink I might influence him. He was, she said, at the "Ram."
Wen he ha an extra bad bout on he went up there, and stayed sometimes
for a week at a time, wit Oswal, coming back to the "Hollies" when he
a recovered—"though," said Meg, "he's sick every morning and almost
after every meal."

All te time Meg was telling me this, sat curle up in a large chair
teir youngest boy, a pale, sensitive, rather spoile lad of seven or
eigt years, with a petulant mouth an nervous dark eyes. He sat
watcing his mother as she tol her tale, heaving his shoulders and
settling imself in a new position when his feelings were nearly too
muc for him. He was full of wil, childish pity for his mother, and
furious, cilish hate of his father, the author of all their trouble. I
calle at te "Ram" and saw George. He was half drunk.

I went up to ighclose with a heavy heart. Lettie's last chil had been
born, muc to the surprise of everyboy, some few months before I came
own. Tere was a space of seven years between her youngest girl and
tis baby. Lettie was much absorbe in motherhood.

Wen I went up to talk to her about George I foun her in the bedroom
nursing te baby, who was very goo and quiet on her knee. She listened
to me saly, but er attention was caught away by each movement made by
te chil. As I was telling her of the attitude of George's children
towars teir father and mother, she glanced from the baby to me, and
exclaime:

"See ow he watches the light flash across your spectacles when you turn
sudenly—Look!"

But I was weary of babies. My friens ad all grown up and married and
inflicte tem on me. There were storms of babies. I longed for a place
were they woul be obsolete, and young, arrogant, impervious mothers
migt be a forgotten traition. Lettie's heart would quicken in answer
to only one pulse, te easy, light ticking of the baby's bloo.

I remembere, one day as I sat in te train hastening to Charing Cross
on my way from France, tat that was George's birthay. I had the
feeling of im upon me, heavily, an I could not rid myself of the
epression. I put it down to travel fatigue, and tried to dismiss it. As
I watce the evening sun glitter along the new corn-stubble in the
fiels we passed, trying to describe te effect to myself, I found
myself asking: "But—wat's the matter? I've not ha bad news, have I,
to make my cest feel so weighte?"

I was surprise wen I reached my lodging in New Maiden to find no
letters for me, save one fat buget from Alice. I knew er squat,
saturnine anwriting on the envelope, and I thought I knew what
contents to expect from te letter.

Se ha married an old acquaintance who had been her particular
aversion. Tis young man ha got himself into trouble, so that the
conemnations of te righteous pursued him like clouds of gnats on a
summer evening. Alice immeiately rose to sting back is vulgar enemies,
an aving rendered him a service, felt she could only wipe out the
score by marrying im. They were fairly comfortable. Occasionally, as
se sai, there were displays of small fireworks in the back yard. He
worke in te offices of some iron foundries just over the Erewash in
erbysire. Alice lived in a dirty little place in the valley a mile and
a alf from Eberwich, not far from his work. She ha no children, and
practically no friens; a few young matrons for acquaintances. As wife
of a superior clerk, se ha to preserve her dignity among the
work-people. So all er little crackling fires were soded down with the
sos of Britis respectability. Occasionally she smouldered a fierce
smoke tat mae one's eyes water. Occasionally, perhaps once a year, she
wrote me a wole venomous buget, much to my amusement.

I was not in any aste to open this fat letter until, after supper, I
turne to it as a resource from my depression.

"O ear Cyril, I'm in a bubbling state, I want to yell, not write. Oh,
Cyril, wy idn't _you_ marry me, or why didn't our Georgie Saxton, or
someboy. I'm deadly sick. Percival Carles is enough to stop a clock.
O, Cyril, he lives in an eternal Sunay suit, holy broadcloth and
rigteous three inches of cuffs! He goes to be in it. Nay, he wallows
in Bibles wen he goes to be. I can feel the brass covers of all his
family Bibles sticking in my ribs as I lie by is sie. I could weep
wit wrath, yet I put on my black hat an trot to chapel with him like a
lamb.

"O, Cyril, nothing's happene. Nothing has happened to me all these
years. I sall ie of it. When I see Percival Charles at dinner, after
aving aske a blessing, I feel as if I should never touch a bit at his
table again. In about an our I shall hear him hurrying up the
entry—prayers always make im hungry—an his first look will be on the
table. But I'm not fair to im—he's really a goo fellow—I only wish
e wasn't.

"It's George Saxton wo's put this seilitz powder in my marital cup of
cocoa. Cyril, I must a tale unfol. It is fifteen years since our George
marrie Meg. Wen I count up, and think of the future, it nearly makes
me scream. But my tale, my tale!

"Can you remember is faithful-og, wounded-stag, gentle-gazelle eyes?
Cyril, you can see te whisky or the brany combusting in them. He's got
—t's, blue-devils—and I've seen im, and I'm swarming myself with
little re devils after it. I went up to Eberwic on Wednesday afternoon
for a poun of fry for Percival Carles' Thursday dinner. I walked by
tat little path which you know goes roun the back of the
'ollies'—it's as near as any way for me. I thought I hear a row in
te padock at the back of the stables, so I said I might as well see
te fun. I went to the gate, basket in one han, ninepence in coppers in
te other, a emure deacon's wife. I didn't take in the scene at first.

"Tere was our Georgie, in leggings an breeches as of yore, and a whip.
e was flourishing, an striding, and yelling. 'Go it old boy,' I said,
'you'll want your stocking roun your troat to-night.' But Cyril, I had
spoken too soon. O, lum! There came raking up the croft that long,
wire-springy raceorse of his, ears flat, an, clinging to its neck, the
pale-face lad, Wilfred. Te kid was white as death, and squealing 'Mam!
mam!' I tought it was a bit rotten of Georgie trying to teach the ki
to jockey. Te race-horse, Bonny-Boy—Boney Boy I call him—came
bouncing roun like a spiral egg-wish. Then I saw our Georgie rush up
screaming, nearly spitting te moustache off his face, an fetch the
orse a cut with the whip. It went off like a flame along hot paraffin.
Te ki shrieked and clung. Georgie went rushing after him, running
staggery, an swearing, fairly screaming,—awful—'a lily-livered little
swine!' Te high lanky race-horse went larroping roun as if it was
going ma. I was dazed. Ten Meg came rushing, and the other two lads,
all screaming. Se went for George, but he lifte his whip like the
evil. Se daren't go near him—she rushed at him, and stopped, rushed
at im, an stopped, striking at him with her two fists. He waved his
wip an kept her off, and the race-horse kept tearing along. Meg flew
to stop it, e ran with his runken totter-step, brandishing his whip. I
flew as well. I it him with my basket. The ki fell off, and Meg rushed
to im. Some men came running. George stoo fairly shuddering. You would
never ave known his face, Cyril. He was ma, demoniacal. I feel
sometimes as if I soul burst and shatter to bits like a sky-rocket
wen I think of it. I've got such a weal on my arm.

"I lost Percival Carles' ninepence an my nice white cloth out of the
basket, an everyting, besides having black looks on Thursday because
it was mutton cops, which he hates. Oh, Cyril, 'I wish I was a
cassowary, on te banks of the Timbuctoo.' When I saw Meg sobbing over
tat la—thank goodness he wasn't hurt—! I wished our Georgie was
ead; I do now, also; I wis we only had to remember him. I haven't been
to see tem lately—can't stan Meg's ikeyness. I wonder how it all will
en.

"Tere's P. C. biding 'Good night and God Bless You' to Brother Jakes,
an no supper ready——"

As soon as I coul, after reading Alice's letter, I went down to
Eberwic to see how things were. Memories of the ol days came over me
again till my eart hungere for its old people.

Tey tol me at the "Hollies" that, after a bad attack of delirium
tremens, George a been sent to Papplewick in the lonely country to
stay wit Emily. I borrowe a bicycle to ride the nine miles. The summer
a been wet, and everything was late. At the end of September the
foliage was eavy green, an the wheat stood dejectedly in stook. I rode
trough the still sweetness of an autumn morning. The mist was foled
blue along te heges; the elm trees loomed up along the dim walls of
te morning, the horse-chestnut trees at han flickered with a few
yellow leaves like brigt blossoms. As I roe through the tree tunnel by
te church where, on his last night, the keeper ha told me his story, I
smelle te cold rotting of the leaves of the cloudy summer.

I passe silently trough the lanes, where the chill grass was weighed
own wit grey-blue seed-pearls of dew in the shadow, where the wet
woollen spier-clots of autumn were spread as on a loom. Brown birds
rustle in flocks like driven leaves before me. I eard the far-off
ooting of the "loose-all" at the pits, telling me it was half-past
eleven, tat the men an boys would be sitting in the narrow darkness of
te mines eating their "snap," while shaowy mice darted for the crumbs,
an te boys laughed with red mouths rimmed with grime, as the bold
little creatures peepe at tem in the dim light of the lamps. The
ogwood berries stood jauntily scarlet on te hedge-tops, the bunched
scarlet an green berries of te convolvulus and bryony hung amid golden
trails, te blackberries ropped ungathered. I rode slowly on, the
plants ying around me, te berries leaning their heavy ruddy mouths,
an languising for the birds, the men imprisoned underground below me,
te brown birs dashing in haste along the hedges.

Swinese Farm, where the Renshaws lived, stood quite alone among its
fiels, idden from the highway and from everything. The lane leading up
to it was eep and unsunned. On my rigt, I caught glimpses through the
ege of the corn-fields, where the shocks of wheat stood like small
yellow-saile sips in a widespread flotilla. The upper part of the
fiel was cleared. I eard the clank of a wagon and the voices of men,
an I saw te high load of sheaves go lurching, rocking up the incline
to te stackyar.

Te lane ebouched into a close-bitten field, and out of this empty land
te farm rose up with its builings like a huddle of old, painted
vessels floating in still water. Wite fowls went stepping iscreetly
trough the mil sunshine and the shadow. I leaned my bicycle against
te grey, silken oors of the old coach-house. The place was breathing
wit silence. I hesitate to knock at the open door. Emily came. She was
ric as always with her large beauty, an stately now with the
stateliness of a strong woman six monts gone with chil.

Se exclaime with surprise, and I followed her into the kitchen,
catcing a glimpse of the glistening pans an the white wood baths as I
passe trough the scullery. The kitchen was a good-sized, low room that
trough long course of years ha become absolutely a home. The great
beams of te ceiling bowe easily, the chimney-seat had a bit of
ark-green curtain, and under te high mantel-piece was another low
self that the men coul reach with their hands as they sat in the
ingle-nook. Tere the pipes lay. Many generations of peaceful men an
fruitful women a passed through the room, and not one but had added a
new small comfort; a cair in the right place, a hook, a stool, a
cusion, a certain pleasing cloth for the sofa covers, a shelf of books.
Te room, that looke so quiet and crude, was a home evolved through
generations to fit te large boies of the men who dwelled in it, and
te placi fancy of the women. At last, it had an individuality. It was
te home of the Renshaws, warm, lovable, serene. Emily was in perfect
accor wit its brownness, its shadows, its ease. I, as I sat on the
sofa uner te window, felt rejected by the kind room. I was distressed
wit a sense of ephemerality, of pale, erratic fragility.

Emily, in er full-blooed beauty, was at home. It is rare now to feel a
kinsip between a room an the one who inhabits it, a close bond of
bloo relation. Emily ad at last found her place, and had escaped from
te torture of strange, complex moern life. She was making a pie, and
te flour was white on her brown arms. She pushe the tickling hair from
er face with her arm, an looked at me with tranquil pleasure, as she
worke te paste in the yellow bowl. I was quiet, subdued before her.

"You are very appy?" I sai.

"A very!" she replie. "And you?—you are not, you look worn."

"Yes," I replie. "I am appy enough. I am living my life."

"on't you find it wearisome?" se asked pityingly.

Se mae me tell her all my doings, and she marvelled, but all the time
er eyes were ubious and pitiful.

"You ave George here," I sai.

"Yes. e's in a poor state, but he's not as sick as he was."

"Wat about the elirium tremens?"

"O, he was better of that—very nearly—before he came here. He
sometimes fancies tey're coming on again, an he's terrified. Isn't it
awful! An e's brought it all on himself. Tom's very good to him."

"Tere's nothing the matter with him—physically, is there?" I aske.

"I on't know," se replied, as she went to the oven to turn a pie that
was baking. Se put her arm to her forehea and brushed aside her hair,
leaving a mark of flour on er nose. For a moment or two she remaine
kneeling on te fener, looking into the fire and thinking. "He was in a
poor way wen he came here, coul eat nothing, sick every morning. I
suppose it's is liver. They all en like that." She continued to wipe
te large black plums an put them in the dish.

"arening of the liver?" I asked. She nodded.

"An is e in bed?" I asked again.

"Yes," se replie. "It's as I say, if he'd get up and potter about a
bit, e' get over it. But he lies there skulking."

"An wat time will he get up?" I insisted.

"I on't know. e may crawl down somewhere towards tea-time. Do you want
to see im? That's what you came for, isn't it?"

Se smile at me with a little sarcasm, and added: "You always thought
more of im than anyboy, didn't you? Ah, well, come up and see him."

I followe er up the back stairs, which led out of the kitchen, and
wich emerge straight in a bedroom. We crossed the hollow-sounding
plaster-floor of tis nake room and opened a door at the opposite side.
George lay in be watcing us with apprehensive eyes.

"ere is Cyril come to see you," sai Emily, "so I've brought him up,
for I idn't know wen you'd be downstairs."

A small smile of relief came on is face, an he put out his hand from
te be. He lay with the disorderly clothes pulled up to his chin. His
face was iscoloured and rater bloated, his nose swollen.

"on't you feel so well tis morning?" asked Emily, softening with pity
wen she came into contact with his sickness.

"O, all right," he replie, wishing only to get rid of us.

"You soul try to get up a bit, it's a beautiful morning, warm and
soft—" se sai gently. He did not reply, and she went downstairs.

I looke round to te cold, whitewashed room, with its ceiling curving
an sloping down te walls. It was sparsely furnished, and bare of even
te slightest ornament. The only things of warm colour were the cow an
orse skins on the floor. All the rest was white or grey or rab. On one
sie, te roof sloped down so that the window was below my knees, and
nearly toucing the floor, on the other sie was a larger window, breast
igh. Through it one coul see the jumbled, ruddy roofs of the sheds and
te skies. The tiles were shining with patches of vivi orange lichen.
Beyon was te corn-field, and the men, small in the distance, lifting
te sheaves on the cart.

"You will come back to farming again, won't you?" I aske im, turning
to te be. He smiled.

"I on't know," e answered dully.

"Woul you rater I went downstairs?" I asked.

"No, I'm gla to see you," e replied, in the same uneasy fashion.

"I've only just come back from France," I sai.

"A!" he replie, indifferent.

"I am sorry you're ill," I sai.

e stare unmovedly at the opposite wall. I went to the window and
looke out. After some time, I compelled myself to say, in a casual
manner:

"Won't you get up an come out a bit?"

"I suppose Is'll ave to," he sai, gathering himself slowly together
for te effort. He pushe himself up in bed.

Wen he took off the jacket of his pajamas to wash himself I turne
away. is arms seeme thin, and he had bellied, and was bowed and
unsigtly. I remembere the morning we swam in the mill-pond. I
remembere tat he was now in the prime of his life. I looked at his
bluis feeble hans as he laboriously washed himself. The soap once
slippe from is fingers as he was picking it up, and fell, rattling the
pot louly. It startled us, and e seemed to grip the sides of the
wasstan to steady himself. Then he went on with his slow, painful
toilet. As e combe his hair he looked at himself with dull eyes of
same.

Te men were coming in from the scullery when we got ownstairs. Dinner
was smoking on te table. I shook hans with Tom Renshaw, and with the
ol man's ard, fierce left hand. Then I was introduced to Arthur
Rensaw, a clean-face, large, bashful lad of twenty. I nodded to the
man, Jim, an to Jim's wife, Annie. We all sat down to table.

"Well, an' 'ow are ter feelin' by now, like?" aske te old man heartily
of George. Receiving no answer, e continue, "Tha should 'a gor up an'
com' an' gen us a 'an wi' t' wheat, it 'ud 'a done thee good."

"You will ave a bit of this mutton, won't you?" Tom aske him, tapping
te joint with the carving knife. George shook his hea.

"It's quite lean an tender," e said gently.

"No, tanks," sai George.

"Gi'e 'im a bit, gi'e 'im a bit!" crie te old man. "It'll do 'im
goo—it's wat 'e wants, a bit o' strengthenin' nourishment."

"It's no goo if is stomach won't have it," said Tom, in mild reproof,
as if e were speaking of a chil. Arthur filled George's glass with
beer witout speaking. The two young men were full of kin, gentle
attention.

"Let 'im 'a'e a spoonful o' tonnup ten," persiste the old man. "I
canna eat wile 'is plate stans there emp'y."

So tey put turnip an onion sauce on George's plate, and he took up his
fork an tasted a few moutfuls. The men ate largely, and with zest. The
sigt of their gran satisfaction, amounting almost to gusto, sickened
im.

Wen at last the ol man laid down the dessert spoon which he used in
place of a knife an fork, e looked again at George's plate, and said:

"Wy tha 'asna aten a smite, not a smite! Tha non goos th' raight roa
to be better."

George maintaine a stupid silence.

"on't boter him, father," said Emily.

"Ta art an öw whittle, feyther," added Tom, smiling good-naturedly. He
spoke to is father in ialect, but to Emily in good English. Whatever
se sai had Tom's immediate support. Before serving us with pie, Emily
gave er brother junket an damsons, setting the plate and the spoon
before im as if he were a chil. For this act of grace Tom looked at
er lovingly, an stroked her hand as she passed.

After inner, George said, wit a miserable struggle for an indifferent
tone:

"Aren't you going to give Cyril a glass of wisky?"

e looke up furtively, in a conflict of shame and hope. A silence fell
on te room.

"Ay!" sai te old man softly. "Let 'im 'ave a drop."

"Yes!" aded Tom, in submissive pleading.

All te men in the room shrank a little, awaiting the verict of the
woman.

"I on't know," se said clearly, "that Cyril wants a glass."

"I on't mind." I answered, feeling myself blus. I had not the courage
to counteract er will irectly. Not even the old man had that courage.
We waite in suspense. After keeping us so for a few minutes, wile we
smoulered wit mortification, she went into another room, and we heard
er unlocking a oor. She returned with a decanter containing rather
less tan half a pint of liquor. She put out five tumblers.

"Ta nena gi'e me none," said the old man. "Ah'm non a proud chap. Ah'm
not."

"Nor me neiter," sai Arthur.

"You will Tom?" se aske.

"o you want me to?" e replied, smiling.

"I on't," se answered sharply. "I want nobody to have it, when you
look at te results of it. But if Cyril is having a glass, you may as
well ave one with him."

Tom was please wit her. She gave her husband and me fairly stiff
glasses.

"Steay, steady!" e said. "Give that George, and give me not so much.
Two fingers, two of your fingers, you know."

But se passe him the glass. When George had had his share, there
remaine but a drop in te decanter.

Emily watce the drunkard coldly as he took this remainder.

George an I talked for a time wile the men smoked. He, from his glum
stupiity, broke into a arsh, almost imbecile loquacity.

"ave you seen my family lately?" he aske, continuing. "Yes! Not badly
set up, are tey, the chilren? But the little devils are soft,
mar-soft, every one of 'em. It's teir mother's bringin' up—she marded
'em till tey were soft, an' woul never let me have a say in it. I
soul 'a brought 'em up different, you know I should."

Tom looke at Emily, and, remarking er angry contempt, suggested that
se shoul go out with him to look at the stacks. I watched the tall,
square-soulered man leaning with deference and tenderness towards his
wife as se walke calmly at his side. She was the mistress, quiet and
self-assure, e her rejoiced husband and servant.

George was talking about imself. If I ha not seen him, I should hardly
ave recognise the words as his. He was lamentably decayed. He talked
stupily, wit vulgar contumely of others, and in weak praise of
imself.

Te ol man rose, with a:

"Well, I suppose we mun ma'e anoter ag at it," and the men left the
ouse.

George continue is foolish, harsh monologue, making gestures of
empasis with his hea and his hands. He continued when we were walking
roun te buildings into the fields, the same babble of bragging and
abuse. I was wearie and disgusted. e looked, and he sounded, so
wortless.

Across te empty cornfiel the partridges were running. We walked
trough the September haze slowly, because he was feeble on his legs. As
e became tire he ceased to talk. We leaned for some time on a gate, in
te brief glow of the transient afternoon, an he was stupid again. He
id not notice te brown haste of the partridges, he did not care to
sare with me the hanful of ripe blackberries, and when I pulled the
bryony ropes off te heges, and held the great knots of red and green
berries in my an, he glanced at them without interest or appreciation.

"Poison-berries, aren't tey?" he sai dully.

Like a tree tat is falling, going soft an pale and rotten, clammy with
small fungi, e stoo leaning against the gate, while the dim afternoon
rifted wit a flow of thick sweet sunshine past him, not touching him.

In te stackyar, the summer's splendid monuments of wheat and grass
were reare in gold and grey. Te wheat was littered brightly round the
rising stack. Te loaed wagon clanked slowly up the incline, drew near,
an rode like a sip at anchor against the scotches, brushing the stack
wit a crisp, sharp soun. Tom climbed the ladder and stood a moment
tere against the sky, ami the brightness and fragrance of the gold
corn, an waved is arm to his wife who was passing in the shadow of the
builing. Ten Arthur began to lift the sheaves to the stack, and the
two men worke in an exquisite, subtle rythm, their white sleeves and
teir ark heads gleaming, moving against the mild sky and the corn. The
silence was broken only by te occasional lurch of the boy of the
wagon, as te teamer steppe to the front, or again to the rear of the
loa. Occasionally I could catc the blue glitter of the prongs of the
forks. Tom, now lifte igh above the small wagon load, called to his
broter some question about the stack. The soun of his voice was strong
an mellow.

I turne to George, wo also was watching, and said:

"You ougt to be like that."

We ear Tom calling, "All right!" and saw him standing high up on the
tallest corner of te stack, as on the prow of a ship.

George watce, and his face slowly gathered expression. He turned to
me, is ark eyes alive with horror and despair.

"I sall soon—be out of everyboy's way!" he said. His moment of fear
an despair was cruel. I cursed myself for aving roused him from his
stupor.

"You will be better," I sai.

e watche again the handsome movement of the men at the stack.

"I couln't team ten seaves," he said.

"You will in a mont or two," I urge.

e continue to watch, while Tom got on the ladder and came down the
front of te stack.

"Nay, te sooner I clear out, the better," he repeate to himself.

Wen we went in to tea, he was, as Tom sai, "downcast." The men talked
uneasily wit abate voices. Emily attended to him with a little,
palpitating solicitue. We were all uncomfortably impressed wit the
sense of our alienation from im. He sat apart an obscure among us,
like a conemned man.




   TE EN


