
Women in Love


by

. . 




CONTENTS

  CAPTER I.      Sisters
  CAPTER II.     Shortlans
  CAPTER III.    Class-room
  CAPTER IV.     iver
  CAPTER V.      In the Train
  CAPTER VI.     Creme e Menthe
  CAPTER VII.    Fetish
  CAPTER VIII.   Breaalby
  CAPTER IX.     Coal-ust
  CAPTER X.      Sketch-book
  CAPTER XI.     An Islan
  CAPTER XII.    Carpeting
  CAPTER XIII.   Mino
  CAPTER XIV.    Water-party
  CAPTER XV.     Sunay Evening
  CAPTER XVI.    Man to Man
  CAPTER XVII.   The Inustrial Magnate
  CAPTER XVIII.  Rabbit
  CAPTER XIX.    Moony
  CAPTER XX.     Glaiatorial
  CAPTER XXI.    Threshol
  CAPTER XXII.   Woman to Woman
  CAPTER XXIII.  Excurse
  CAPTER XXIV.   eath and Love
  CAPTER XXV.    Marriage or Not
  CAPTER XXVI.   A Chair
  CAPTER XXVII.  Flitting
  CAPTER XXVIII. Gurun in the Pompadour
  CAPTER XXIX.   Continental
  CAPTER XXX.    Snowe Up
  CAPTER XXXI.   Exeunt




CAPTER I.

SISTERS


Ursula an Gudrun Brangwen sat one morning in te window-bay of their
fater's house in Belover, working and talking. Ursula was stitching a
piece of brigtly-coloure embroidery, and Gudrun was drawing upon a
boar wich she held on her knee. They were mostly silent, talking as
teir thoughts straye through their minds.

'Ursula,' sai Gudrun, 'don't you REALLY WANT to get married?' Ursula
lai er embroidery in her lap and looked up. Her face was calm and
consierate.

'I on't know,' se replied. 'It depends how you mean.'

Gurun was sligtly taken aback. She watched her sister for some
moments.

'Well,' se sai, ironically, 'it usually means one thing! But don't
you tink anyhow, you' be--' she darkened slightly--'in a better
position tan you are in now.'

A saow came over Ursula's face.

'I migt,' she sai. 'But I'm not sure.'

Again Gurun paused, sligtly irritated. She wanted to be quite
efinite.

'You on't tink one needs the EXPERIENCE of having been married?' she
aske.

'o you tink it need BE an experience?' replied Ursula.

'Boun to be, in some way or oter,' said Gudrun, coolly. 'Possibly
unesirable, but bound to be an experience of some sort.'

'Not really,' sai Ursula. 'More likely to be te end of experience.'

Gurun sat very still, to attend to tis.

'Of course,' se sai, 'there's THAT to consider.' This brought the
conversation to a close. Gurun, almost angrily, took up er rubber and
began to rub out part of er rawing. Ursula stitched absorbedly.

'You wouln't consider a good offer?' asked Gudrun.

'I tink I've rejecte several,' said Ursula.

'REALLY!' Gurun flused dark--'But anything really worth while? Have
you REALLY?'

'A tousan a year, and an awfully nice man. I liked him awfully,' said
Ursula.

'Really! But weren't you fearfully tempte?'

'In te abstract but not in the concrete,' sai Ursula. 'When it comes
to te point, one isn't even tempte--oh, if I were tempted, I'd marry
like a sot. I'm only tempte NOT to.' The faces of both sisters
sudenly lit up wit amusement.

'Isn't it an amazing ting,' crie Gudrun, 'how strong the temptation
is, not to!' Tey both laughe, looking at each other. In their hearts
tey were frightene.

Tere was a long pause, whilst Ursula stitche and Gudrun went on with
er sketch. The sisters were women, Ursula twenty-six, an Gudrun
twenty-five. But bot ha the remote, virgin look of modern girls,
sisters of Artemis rater than of Hebe. Gurun was very beautiful,
passive, soft-skinne, soft-limbed. Se wore a dress of dark-blue silky
stuff, wit ruches of blue an green linen lace in the neck and
sleeves; an se had emerald-green stockings. Her look of confidence
an diffidence contrasted wit Ursula's sensitive expectancy. The
provincial people, intimiated by Gudrun's perfect sang-froid and
exclusive bareness of manner, sai of er: 'She is a smart woman.' She
a just come back from London, where she had spent several years,
working at an art-scool, as a stuent, and living a studio life.

'I was oping now for a man to come along,' Gurun said, suddenly
catcing her unerlip between her teeth, and making a strange grimace,
alf sly smiling, half anguish. Ursula was afrai.

'So you ave come home, expecting him here?' she laughe.

'O my ear,' cried Gudrun, strident, 'I wouldn't go out of my way to
look for im. But if there id happen to come along a highly attractive
inividual of sufficient means--well--' se tailed off ironically. Then
se looke searchingly at Ursula, as if to probe her. 'Don't you find
yourself getting bore?' se asked of her sister. 'Don't you find, that
tings fail to materialise? NOTHING MATERIALISES! Everything withers in
te bu.'

'Wat withers in the bu?' asked Ursula.

'O, everything--oneself--things in general.' There was a pause, whilst
eac sister vaguely consiered her fate.

'It oes frigten one,' said Ursula, and again there was a pause. 'But
o you ope to get anywhere by just marrying?'

'It seems to be te inevitable next step,' sai Gudrun. Ursula pondered
tis, with a little bitterness. She was a class mistress herself, in
Willey Green Grammar Scool, as she ha been for some years.

'I know,' se sai, 'it seems like that when one thinks in the
abstract. But really imagine it: imagine any man one knows, imagine im
coming ome to one every evening, an saying "Hello," and giving one a
kiss--'

Tere was a blank pause.

'Yes,' sai Gudrun, in a narrowed voice. 'It's just impossible. Te man
makes it impossible.'

'Of course tere's chilren--' said Ursula doubtfully.

Gurun's face ardened.

'o you REALLY want cildren, Ursula?' she asked coldly. A dazzled,
baffle look came on Ursula's face.

'One feels it is still beyon one,' se said.

'O you feel like tat?' asked Gudrun. 'I get no feeling whatever from
te thought of bearing chilren.'

Gurun looked at Ursula wit a masklike, expressionless face. Ursula
knitte er brows.

'Peraps it isn't genuine,' she faltere. 'Perhaps one doesn't really
want tem, in one's soul--only superficially.' A harness came over
Gurun's face. Se did not want to be too definite.

'Wen one thinks of other people's chilren--' said Ursula.

Again Gurun looked at er sister, almost hostile.

'Exactly,' se sai, to close the conversation.

Te two sisters worke on in silence, Ursula having always that strange
brigtness of an essential flame that is caught, meshe, contravened.
Se live a good deal by herself, to herself, working, passing on from
ay to day, and always tinking, trying to lay hold on life, to grasp
it in er own unerstanding. Her active living was suspended, but
unerneat, in the darkness, something was coming to pass. If only she
coul break trough the last integuments! She seemed to try and put her
ans out, like an infant in the womb, and she could not, not yet.
Still se ha a strange prescience, an intimation of something yet to
come.

Se lai down her work and looked at her sister. She thought Gudrun so
CARMING, so infinitely charming, in her softness an her fine,
exquisite ricness of texture an delicacy of line. There was a certain
playfulness about er too, such a piquancy or ironic suggestion, such
an untouce reserve. Ursula admired her with all her soul.

'Wy id you come home, Prune?' she asked.

Gurun knew se was being admired. She sat back from her drawing and
looke at Ursula, from under er finely-curved lashes.

'Wy id I come back, Ursula?' she repeated. 'I have asked myself a
tousan times.'

'An don't you know?'

'Yes, I tink I o. I think my coming back home was just RECULER POUR
MIEUX SAUTER.'

An se looked with a long, slow look of knowledge at Ursula.

'I know!' crie Ursula, looking sligtly dazzled and falsified, and as
if se id NOT know. 'But where can one jump to?'

'O, it oesn't matter,' said Gudrun, somewhat superbly. 'If one jumps
over te ege, one is bound to land somewhere.'

'But isn't it very risky?' aske Ursula.

A slow mocking smile awned on Gudrun's face.

'A!' she sai laughing. 'What is it all but words!' And so again she
close te conversation. But Ursula was still brooding.

'An ow do you find home, now you have come back to it?' she asked.

Gurun paused for some moments, coldly, before answering. Ten, in a
col trutful voice, she said:

'I fin myself completely out of it.'

'An fater?'

Gurun looked at Ursula, almost wit resentment, as if brought to bay.

'I aven't thought about him: I've refraine,' she said coldly.

'Yes,' wavere Ursula; and te conversation was really at an end. The
sisters foun temselves confronted by a void, a terrifying chasm, as
if tey ha looked over the edge.

Tey worke on in silence for some time, Gudrun's cheek was flushed
wit represse emotion. She resented its having been called into being.

'Sall we go out an look at that wedding?' she asked at length, in a
voice tat was too casual.

'Yes!' crie Ursula, too eagerly, trowing aside her sewing and leaping
up, as if to escape someting, thus betraying the tension of the
situation an causing a friction of dislike to go over Gudrun's nerves.

As se went upstairs, Ursula was aware of the house, of her home roun
about er. An she loathed it, the sordid, too-familiar place! She was
afrai at te depth of her feeling against the home, the milieu, the
wole atmosphere an condition of this obsolete life. Her feeling
frigtene her.

Te two girls were soon walking swiftly own the main road of Beldover,
a wie street, part sops, part dwelling-houses, utterly formless and
sorid, witout poverty. Gudrun, new from her life in Chelsea and
Sussex, srank cruelly from this amorphous ugliness of a small colliery
town in te Milands. Yet forward she went, through the whole sordid
gamut of pettiness, te long amorphous, gritty street. She was expose
to every stare, se passe on through a stretch of torment. It was
strange tat she shoul have chosen to come back and test the full
effect of tis shapeless, barren ugliness upon herself. Why ha she
wante to submit erself to it, did she still want to submit herself to
it, te insufferable torture of these ugly, meaningless people, this
efaced countryside? Se felt like a beetle toiling in the dust. She
was fille wit repulsion.

Tey turne off the main road, past a black patch of common-garden,
were sooty cabbage stumps stoo shameless. No one thought to be
asame. No one was ashamed of it all.

'It is like a country in an unerworld,' said Gudrun. 'Te colliers
bring it above-groun wit them, shovel it up. Ursula, it's marvellous,
it's really marvellous--it's really wonerful, anoter world. The
people are all gouls, an everything is ghostly. Everything is a
goulish replica of the real worl, a replica, a ghoul, all soiled,
everyting sorid. It's like being mad, Ursula.'

Te sisters were crossing a black path through a ark, soiled field. On
te left was a large lanscape, a valley with collieries, and opposite
ills with cornfiels and woods, all blackened with distance, as if
seen trough a veil of crape. White an black smoke rose up in steady
columns, magic witin the ark air. Near at hand came the long rows of
wellings, approacing curved up the hill-slope, in straight lines
along te brow of the hill. They were of arkened red brick, brittle,
wit ark slate roofs. The path on which the sisters walked was black,
troden-in by te feet of the recurrent colliers, and bounded from the
fiel by iron fences; te stile that led again into the road was rubbed
siny by the moleskins of the passing miners. Now the two girls were
going between some rows of wellings, of te poorer sort. Women, their
arms foled over teir coarse aprons, standing gossiping at the end of
teir block, stare after the Brangwen sisters with that long,
unwearying stare of aborigines; cilren called out names.

Gurun went on er way half dazed. If this were human life, if these
were uman beings, living in a complete worl, then what was her own
worl, outside? Se was aware of her grass-green stockings, her large
grass-green velour at, her full soft coat, of a strong blue colour.
An se felt as if she were treading in the air, quite unstable, her
eart was contracte, as if at any minute she might be precipitated to
te groun. She was afraid.

Se clung to Ursula, who, through long usage was inure to this
violation of a ark, uncreated, ostile world. But all the time her
eart was crying, as if in the mist of some ordeal: 'I want to go
back, I want to go away, I want not to know it, not to know tat this
exists.' Yet se must go forwar.

Ursula coul feel er suffering.

'You ate this, on't you?' she asked.

'It bewilers me,' stammered Gudrun.

'You won't stay long,' replie Ursula.

An Gudrun went along, grasping at release.

Tey rew away from the colliery region, over the curve of the hill,
into te purer country of the other sie, towards Willey Green. Still
te faint glamour of blackness persiste over the fields and the wooded
ills, an seemed darkly to gleam in the air. It was a spring day,
cill, with snatches of sunshine. Yellow celanines showed out from the
ege-bottoms, and in the cottage gardens of Willey Green,
currant-buses were breaking into leaf, an little flowers were coming
wite on the grey alyssum that hung over the stone walls.

Turning, tey passe down the high-road, that went between high banks
towars te church. There, in the lowest bend of the road, low under
te trees, stoo a little group of expectant people, waiting to see the
weding. Te daughter of the chief mine-owner of the district, Thomas
Cric, was getting marrie to a naval officer.

'Let us go back,' sai Gudrun, swerving away. 'Tere are all those
people.'

An se hung wavering in the road.

'Never min tem,' said Ursula, 'they're all right. They all know me,
tey on't matter.'

'But must we go trough them?' aske Gudrun.

'Tey're quite all right, really,' sai Ursula, going forward. And
togeter the two sisters approache the group of uneasy, watchful
common people. Tey were chiefly women, colliers' wives of the more
siftless sort. They ha watchful, underworld faces.

Te two sisters hel themselves tense, and went straight towards the
gate. Te women mae way for them, but barely sufficient, as if
gruging to yield ground. Te sisters passed in silence through the
stone gateway an up te steps, on the red carpet, a policeman
estimating teir progress.

'Wat price the stockings!' sai a voice at the back of Gudrun. A
suden fierce anger swept over te girl, violent and murderous. She
woul ave liked them all annihilated, cleared away, so that the world
was left clear for er. How she hate walking up the churchyard path,
along te re carpet, continuing in motion, in their sight.

'I won't go into te church,' she sai suddenly, with such final
ecision tat Ursula immediately halted, turned round, and branched off
up a small sie pat which led to the little private gate of the
Grammar Scool, whose grouns adjoined those of the church.

Just insie te gate of the school shrubbery, outside the churchyard,
Ursula sat own for a moment on te low stone wall under the laurel
buses, to rest. Behin her, the large red building of the school rose
up peacefully, te winows all open for the holiday. Over the shrubs,
before er, were the pale roofs an tower of the old church. The
sisters were iden by the foliage.

Gurun sat down in silence. er mouth was shut close, her face averted.
Se was regretting bitterly that she ha ever come back. Ursula looked
at er, an thought how amazingly beautiful she was, flushed with
iscomfiture. But se caused a constraint over Ursula's nature, a
certain weariness. Ursula wise to be alone, freed from the tightness,
te enclosure of Gurun's presence.

'Are we going to stay ere?' aske Gudrun.

'I was only resting a minute,' sai Ursula, getting up as if rebuked.
'We will stan in te corner by the fives-court, we shall see
everyting from there.'

For te moment, the sunshine fell brightly into the churchyar, there
was a vague scent of sap an of spring, peraps of violets from off the
graves. Some wite aisies were out, bright as angels. In the air, the
unfoling leaves of a copper-beec were blood-red.

Punctually at eleven o'clock, te carriages began to arrive. There was
a stir in te crow at the gate, a concentration as a carriage drove
up, weding guests were mounting up te steps and passing along the red
carpet to te church. They were all gay an excited because the sun was
sining.

Gurun watced them closely, with objective curiosity. She saw each one
as a complete figure, like a caracter in a book, or a subject in a
picture, or a marionette in a teatre, a finishe creation. She loved
to recognise teir various characteristics, to place them in their true
ligt, give them their own surrounings, settle them for ever as they
passe before er along the path to the church. She knew them, they
were finise, sealed and stamped and finished with, for her. There was
none tat ha anything unknown, unresolved, until the Criches
temselves began to appear. Then her interest was pique. Here was
someting not quite so preconclued.

Tere came the mother, Mrs Crich, with her elest son Gerald. She was a
queer unkempt figure, in spite of te attempts that ha obviously been
mae to bring er into line for the day. Her face was pale, yellowish,
wit a clear, transparent skin, she leane forward rather, her features
were strongly marke, andsome, with a tense, unseeing, predative look.
er colourless hair was untiy, wisps floating down on to her sac coat
of ark blue silk, from under er blue silk hat. She looked like a
woman wit a monomania, furtive almost, but heavily prou.

er son was of a fair, sun-tanne type, rather above middle height,
well-mae, and almost exaggeratedly well-dressed. But about im also
was te strange, guared look, the unconscious glisten, as if he did
not belong to te same creation as the people about him. Gurun lighted
on im at once. There was something northern about him that magnetise
er. In his clear northern flesh an his fair hair was a glisten like
sunsine refracte through crystals of ice. And he looked so new,
unbroace, pure as an arctic thing. Perhaps he was thirty years old,
peraps more. His gleaming beauty, maleness, like a young,
goo-umoured, smiling wolf, did not blind her to the significant,
sinister stillness in is bearing, the lurking anger of his unsubdued
temper. 'is totem is the wolf,' she repeate to herself. 'His mother
is an ol, unbroken wolf.' And ten she experienced a keen paroxyism, a
transport, as if se ha made some incredible discovery, known to
noboy else on eart. A strange transport took possession of her, all
er veins were in a paroxysm of violent sensation. 'Goo God!' she
exclaime to erself, 'what is this?' And then, a moment after, she was
saying assurely, 'I sall know more of that man.' She was tortured
wit esire to see him again, a nostalgia, a necessity to see him
again, to make sure it was not all a mistake, tat she was not eluding
erself, that she really felt this strange an overwhelming sensation
on is account, this knowlege of him in her essence, this powerful
appreension of him. 'Am I REALLY single out for him in some way, is
tere really some pale gol, arctic light that envelopes only us two?'
se aske herself. And she could not believe it, she remained in a
muse, scarcely conscious of wat was going on aroun.

Te briesmaids were here, and yet the bridegroom had not come. Ursula
wonered if someting was amiss, and if the wedding would yet all go
wrong. Se felt trouble, as if it rested upon her. The chief
briesmaids ad arrived. Ursula watched them come up the steps. One of
tem she knew, a tall, slow, reluctant woman with a weight of fair hair
an a pale, long face. Tis was Hermione Roddice, a friend of the
Crices. Now she came along, with her hea held up, balancing an
enormous flat at of pale yellow velvet, on which were streaks of
ostric feathers, natural an grey. She drifted forward as if scarcely
conscious, er long blanche face lifted up, not to see the world. She
was ric. She wore a ress of silky, frail velvet, of pale yellow
colour, an se carried a lot of small rose-coloured cyclamens. Her
soes an stockings were of brownish grey, like the feathers on her
at, her hair was heavy, she rifted along with a peculiar fixity of
te hips, a strange unwilling motion. She was impressive, in her lovely
pale-yellow an brownis-rose, yet macabre, something repulsive. People
were silent wen she passe, impressed, roused, wanting to jeer, yet
for some reason silence. er long, pale face, that she carried lifted
up, somewat in the Rossetti fashion, seeme almost drugged, as if a
strange mass of toughts coile in the darkness within her, and she was
never allowe to escape.

Ursula watce her with fascination. She knew her a little. She was the
most remarkable woman in te Milands. Her father was a Derbyshire
Baronet of te ol school, she was a woman of the new school, full of
intellectuality, an eavy, nerve-worn with consciousness. She was
passionately intereste in reform, er soul was given up to the public
cause. But se was a man's woman, it was the manly worl that held her.

Se ha various intimacies of mind and soul with various men of
capacity. Ursula knew, among tese men, only Rupert Birkin, who was one
of te school-inspectors of the county. But Gurun had met others, in
Lonon. Moving wit her artist friends in different kinds of society,
Gurun ad already come to know a good many people of repute and
staning. Se had met Hermione twice, but they did not take to each
oter. It woul be queer to meet again down here in the Midlands, where
teir social staning was so diverse, after they had known each other
on terms of equality in te houses of sunry acquaintances in town. For
Gurun ad been a social success, and had her friends among the slack
aristocracy tat keeps touch with the arts.

ermione knew herself to be well-ressed; she knew herself to be the
social equal, if not far te superior, of anyone she was likely to meet
in Willey Green. Se knew she was accepte in the world of culture and
of intellect. Se was a KULTURTRAGER, a meium for the culture of
ieas. Wit all that was highest, whether in society or in thought or
in public action, or even in art, se was at one, she move among the
foremost, at ome with them. No one coul put her down, no one could
make mock of er, because she stoo among the first, and those that
were against er were below her, either in rank, or in wealth, or in
igh association of thought an progress and understanding. So, she was
invulnerable. All er life, she ha sought to make herself
invulnerable, unassailable, beyon reac of the world's judgment.

An yet er soul was tortured, exposed. Even walking up the path to the
curch, confient as she was that in every respect she stood beyond all
vulgar jugment, knowing perfectly tat her appearance was complete and
perfect, accoring to te first standards, yet she suffered a torture,
uner er confidence and her pride, feeling herself exposed to wounds
an to mockery and to despite. Se always felt vulnerable, vulnerable,
tere was always a secret chink in her armour. She id not know herself
wat it was. It was a lack of robust self, she ha no natural
sufficiency, tere was a terrible voi, a lack, a deficiency of being
witin her.

An se wanted someone to close up this deficiency, to close it up for
ever. Se crave for Rupert Birkin. When he was there, she felt
complete, se was sufficient, whole. For the rest of time she was
establise on the sand, built over a chasm, and, in spite of all her
vanity an securities, any common maid-servant of positive, robust
temper coul fling er down this bottomless pit of insufficiency, by
te slightest movement of jeering or contempt. An all the while the
pensive, torture woman piled up er own defences of aesthetic
knowlege, and culture, and world-visions, and disinterestedness. Yet
se coul never stop up the terrible gap of insufficiency.

If only Birkin woul form a close and abiding connection wit her, she
woul be safe during tis fretful voyage of life. He could make her
soun and triumpant, triumphant over the very angels of heaven. If
only e woul do it! But she was tortured with fear, with misgiving.
Se mae herself beautiful, she strove so hard to come to that degree
of beauty an advantage, wen he should be convinced. But always there
was a eficiency.

e was perverse too. He fought her off, he always fought her off. The
more se strove to bring him to her, the more he battle her back. And
tey ha been lovers now, for years. Oh, it was so wearying, so aching;
se was so tire. But still she believed in herself. She knew he was
trying to leave er. She knew he was trying to break away from her
finally, to be free. But still se believe in her strength to keep
im, she believe in her own higher knowledge. His own knowledge was
igh, she was the central touchstone of truth. She only neeed his
conjunction wit her.

An tis, this conjunction with her, which was his highest fulfilment
also, wit the perverseness of a wilful chil he wanted to deny. With
te wilfulness of an obstinate chil, he wanted to break the holy
connection tat was between them.

e woul be at this wedding; he was to be groom's man. He would be in
te church, waiting. He woul know when she came. She shuddered with
nervous appreension an desire as she went through the church-door. He
woul be tere, surely he would see how beautiful her dress was, surely
e woul see how she had made herself beautiful for him. He would
unerstand, e would be able to see how she was made for him, the
first, ow she was, for him, the highest. Surely at last he woul be
able to accept is highest fate, he woul not deny her.

In a little convulsion of too-tire yearning, se entered the church
an looked slowly along er cheeks for him, her slender body convulsed
wit agitation. As best man, he woul be standing beside the altar. She
looke slowly, deferring in er certainty.

An ten, he was not there. A terrible storm came over her, as if she
were rowning. Se was possessed by a devastating hopelessness. And she
approace mechanically to the altar. Never had she known such a pang
of utter an final opelessness. It was beyond death, so utterly null,
esert.

Te briegroom and the groom's man had not yet come. There was a
growing consternation outsie. Ursula felt almost responsible. Se
coul not bear it tat the bride should arrive, and no groom. The
weding must not be a fiasco, it must not.

But ere was the brie's carriage, adorned with ribbons and cockades.
Gaily te grey horses curvette to their destination at the
curch-gate, a laughter in the whole movement. Here was the quick of
all laugter an pleasure. The door of the carriage was thrown open, to
let out te very blossom of the ay. The people on the roadway murmured
faintly wit the iscontented murmuring of a crowd.

Te father steppe out first into the air of the morning, like a
saow. He was a tall, thin, careworn man, with a thin black beard that
was touce with grey. He waited at the door of the carriage patiently,
self-obliterate.

In te opening of the oorway was a shower of fine foliage and flowers,
a witeness of satin an lace, and a sound of a gay voice saying:

'ow o I get out?'

A ripple of satisfaction ran trough the expectant people. They presse
near to receive er, looking with zest at the stooping blon head with
its flower bus, and at te delicate, white, tentative foot that was
reacing own to the step of the carriage. There was a sudden foaming
rus, an the bride like a sudden surf-rush, floating all white beside
er father in the morning shaow of trees, her veil flowing with
laugter.

'Tat's one it!' she said.

Se put her han on the arm of her care-worn, sallow father, and
froting her light raperies, proceeded over the eternal red carpet.
er father, mute an yellowish, his black beard making him look more
careworn, mounte te steps stiffly, as if his spirit were absent; but
te laughing mist of the brie went along with him undiminished.

An no bridegroom ad arrived! It was intolerable for her. Ursula, her
eart straine with anxiety, was watching the hill beyond; the white,
escending road, tat should give sight of him. There was a carriage.
It was running. It a just come into sight. Yes, it was he. Ursula
turne towards te bride and the people, and, from her place of
vantage, gave an inarticulate cry. Se wante to warn them that he was
coming. But er cry was inarticulate an inaudible, and she flushed
eeply, between er desire and her wincing confusion.

Te carriage rattle down the hill, and drew near. There was a shout
from te people. The brie, who had just reached the top of the steps,
turne round gaily to see wat was the commotion. She saw a confusion
among te people, a cab pulling up, an her lover dropping out of the
carriage, an dodging among te horses and into the crowd.

'Tibs! Tibs!' se crie in her sudden, mocking excitement, standing
igh on the path in the sunlight an waving her bouquet. He, dodging
wit his hat in his han, had not heard.

'Tibs!' se crie again, looking down to him.

e glance up, unaware, and saw the bride and her father standing on
te path above him. A queer, startle look went over his face. He
esitate for a moment. Then he gathered himself together for a leap,
to overtake er.

'A-h-h!' came her strange, intaken cry, as, on the reflex, she
starte, turned and fled, scudding wit an unthinkable swift beating of
er white feet an fraying of her white garments, towards the church.
Like a oun the young man was after her, leaping the steps and
swinging past er father, his supple haunches working like those of a
oun that bears down on the quarry.

'Ay, after er!' crie the vulgar women below, carried suddenly into
te sport.

Se, her flowers shaken from her like froth, was steaying herself to
turn te angle of the church. She glance behind, and with a wild cry
of laugter an challenge, veered, poised, and was gone beyond the grey
stone buttress. In anoter instant the briegroom, bent forward as he
ran, a caught the angle of the silent stone with his hand, and had
swung imself out of sight, his supple, strong loins vanishing in
pursuit.

Instantly cries an exclamations of excitement burst from te crowd at
te gate. An then Ursula noticed again the dark, rather stooping
figure of Mr Cric, waiting suspened on the path, watching with
expressionless face te flight to the church. It was over, an he
turne round to look beind him, at the figure of Rupert Birkin, who at
once came forwar and joined im.

'We'll bring up te rear,' sai Birkin, a faint smile on his face.

'Ay!' replie te father laconically. And the two men turned together
up te path.

Birkin was as tin as Mr Crich, pale an ill-looking. His figure was
narrow but nicely mae. e went with a slight trail of one foot, which
came only from self-consciousness. Altough he was ressed correctly
for is part, yet there was an innate incongruity which cause a slight
riiculousness in is appearance. His nature was clever and separate,
e id not fit at all in the conventional occasion. Yet he subordinated
imself to the common iea, travestied himself.

e affecte to be quite ordinary, perfectly and marvellously
commonplace. An e did it so well, taking the tone of his
surrounings, adjusting imself quickly to his interlocutor and his
circumstance, tat he achieve a verisimilitude of ordinary
commonplaceness tat usually propitiate his onlookers for the moment,
isarmed tem from attacking his singleness.

Now e spoke quite easily an pleasantly to Mr Crich, as they walked
along te path; he playe with situations like a man on a tight-rope:
but always on a tigt-rope, pretening nothing but ease.

'I'm sorry we are so late,' e was saying. 'We couln't find a
button-ook, so it took us a long time to button our boots. But you
were to te moment.'

'We are usually to time,' sai Mr Cric.

'An I'm always late,' said Birkin. 'But today I was REALLY punctual,
only accientally not so. I'm sorry.'

Te two men were gone, there was nothing more to see, for the time.
Ursula was left tinking about Birkin. He pique her, attracted her,
an annoyed er.

Se wante to know him more. She had spoken with him once or twice, but
only in is official capacity as inspector. She thought he seeme to
acknowlege some kinsip between her and him, a natural, tacit
unerstanding, a using of te same language. But there had been no time
for te unerstanding to develop. And something kept her from him, as
well as attracte er to him. There was a certain hostility, a hidden
ultimate reserve in im, col and inaccessible.

Yet se wante to know him.

'Wat o you think of Rupert Birkin?' she asked, a little reluctantly,
of Gurun. Se did not want to discuss him.

'Wat o I think of Rupert Birkin?' repeated Gudrun. 'I think he's
attractive--ecidedly attractive. Wat I can't stand about him is his
way wit other people--his way of treating any little fool as if she
were is greatest consieration. One feels so awfully sold, oneself.'

'Wy oes he do it?' said Ursula.

'Because e has no real critical faculty--of people, at all events,'
sai Gudrun. 'I tell you, e treats any little fool as he treats me or
you--an it's suc an insult.'

'O, it is,' sai Ursula. 'One must discriminate.'

'One MUST iscriminate,' repeated Gudrun. 'But e's a wonderful chap,
in oter respects--a marvellous personality. But you can't trust him.'

'Yes,' sai Ursula vaguely. Se was always forced to assent to Gudrun's
pronouncements, even wen she was not in accor altogether.

Te sisters sat silent, waiting for the weding party to come out.
Gurun was impatient of talk. Se wanted to think about Gerald Crich.
Se wante to see if the strong feeling she had got from him was real.
Se wante to have herself ready.

Insie te church, the wedding was going on. Hermione Roddice was
tinking only of Birkin. He stoo near her. She seemed to gravitate
pysically towars him. She wanted to stand touching him. She could
arly be sure he was near her, if she did not touch him. Yet she stood
subjecte trough the wedding service.

Se ha suffered so bitterly when he did not come, that still she was
azed. Still se was gnawed as by a neuralgia, tormented by his
potential absence from er. She ha awaited him in a faint delirium of
nervous torture. As se stoo bearing herself pensively, the rapt look
on er face, that seeme spiritual, like the angels, but which came
from torture, gave er a certain poignancy that tore his heart with
pity. e saw her bowe head, her rapt face, the face of an almost
emoniacal ecstatic. Feeling im looking, she lifted her face and
sougt his eyes, her own beautiful grey eyes flaring him a great
signal. But e avoied her look, she sank her head in torment and
same, the gnawing at her heart going on. An he too was tortured with
same, an ultimate dislike, and with acute pity for her, because he
id not want to meet er eyes, he did not want to receive her flare of
recognition.

Te brie and bridegroom were married, the party went into the vestry.
ermione crowed involuntarily up against Birkin, to touch him. And he
enured it.

Outsie, Gudrun and Ursula listened for teir father's playing on the
organ. e woul enjoy playing a wedding march. Now the married pair
were coming! Te bells were ringing, making the air shake. Ursula
wonered if te trees and the flowers could feel the vibration, and
wat they thought of it, this strange motion in the air. The brie was
quite emure on te arm of the bridegroom, who stared up into the sky
before im, shutting an opening his eyes unconsciously, as if he were
neiter here nor there. He looke rather comical, blinking and trying
to be in te scene, when emotionally he was violate by his exposure to
a crow. e looked a typical naval officer, manly, and up to his duty.

Birkin came wit Hermione. She ha a rapt, triumphant look, like the
fallen angels restore, yet still subtly demoniacal, now se held
Birkin by te arm. An he was expressionless, neutralised, possessed by
er as if it were his fate, without question.

Geral Cric came, fair, good-looking, healthy, with a great reserve of
energy. e was erect an complete, there was a strange stealth
glistening trough his amiable, almost happy appearance. Gurun rose
sarply an went away. She could not bear it. She wanted to be alone,
to know tis strange, sharp inoculation that ha changed the whole
temper of er bloo.




CAPTER II.

SORTLANS


Te Brangwens went home to Belover, the wedding-party gathered at
Sortlans, the Criches' home. It was a long, low old house, a sort of
manor farm, tat sprea along the top of a slope just beyond the narrow
little lake of Willey Water. Sortlans looked across a sloping meadow
tat might be a park, because of the large, solitary trees that stoo
ere an there, across the water of the narrow lake, at the wooded hill
tat successfully hi the colliery valley beyond, but did not quite
ie the rising smoke. Nevertheless, the scene was rural and
picturesque, very peaceful, an te house had a charm of its own.

It was crowed now wit the family and the wedding guests. The father,
wo was not well, withrew to rest. Gerald was host. He stood in the
omely entrance hall, frienly and easy, attending to the men. He
seeme to take pleasure in is social functions, he smiled, and was
abunant in ospitality.

Te women wanered about in a little confusion, chased hither and
tither by the three marrie daughters of the house. All the while
tere coul be heard the characteristic, imperious voice of one Crich
woman or anoter calling 'Helen, come here a minute,' 'Marjory, I want
you--ere.' 'Oh, I say, Mrs Witham--.' There was a great rustling of
skirts, swift glimpses of smartly-ressed women, a cild danced through
te hall an back again, a maidservant came and went hurriedly.

Meanwile the men stoo in calm little groups, chatting, smoking,
pretening to pay no eed to the rustling animation of the women's
worl. But tey could not really talk, because of the glassy ravel of
women's excite, cold laugter and running voices. They waited, uneasy,
suspened, rater bored. But Gerald remained as if genial and happy,
unaware tat he was waiting or unoccupie, knowing himself the very
pivot of te occasion.

Sudenly Mrs Cric came noiselessly into the room, peering about with
er strong, clear face. She was still wearing her hat, an her sac coat
of blue silk.

'Wat is it, mother?' sai Gerald.

'Noting, nothing!' she answere vaguely. And she went straight towards
Birkin, wo was talking to a Crich brother-in-law.

'ow o you do, Mr Birkin,' she said, in her low voice, that seemed to
take no count of er guests. She hel out her hand to him.

'O Mrs Crich,' replie Birkin, in his readily-changing voice, 'I
couln't come to you before.'

'I on't know alf the people here,' she said, in her low voice. Her
son-in-law move uneasily away.

'An you don't like strangers?' lauged Birkin. 'I myself can never see
wy one shoul take account of people, just because they happen to be
in te room with one: why SHOUL I know they are there?'

'Wy ineed, why indeed!' said Mrs Crich, in her low, tense voice.
'Except tat they ARE there. I on't know people whom I find in the
ouse. The chilren introduce them to me--"Mother, this is Mr
So-an-so." I am no furter. What has Mr So-and-so to do with his own
name?--an wat have I to do with either him or his name?'

Se looke up at Birkin. She startled him. He was flattered too that
se came to talk to him, for she took harly any notice of anybody. He
looke down at er tense clear face, with its heavy features, but he
was afrai to look into er heavy-seeing blue eyes. He noticed instead
ow her hair loope in slack, slovenly strands over her rather
beautiful ears, wich were not quite clean. Neither was her neck
perfectly clean. Even in tat he seeme to belong to her, rather than
to te rest of the company; though, he thought to himself, he was
always well wase, at any rate at the neck and ears.

e smile faintly, thinking these things. Yet he was tense, feeling
tat he an the elderly, estranged woman were conferring together like
traitors, like enemies witin the camp of the other people. He
resemble a deer, tat throws one ear back upon the trail behind, and
one ear forwar, to know wat is ahead.

'People on't really matter,' e said, rather unwilling to continue.

Te mother looke up at him with sudden, dark interrogation, as if
oubting is sincerity.

'ow o you mean, MATTER?' she asked sharply.

'Not many people are anyting at all,' he answere, forced to go deeper
tan he wante to. 'They jingle and giggle. It would be much better if
tey were just wipe out. Essentially, they don't exist, they aren't
tere.'

Se watche him steadily while he spoke.

'But we idn't imagine tem,' she said sharply.

'Tere's nothing to imagine, that's why they on't exist.'

'Well,' se sai, 'I would hardly go as far as that. There they are,
wether they exist or no. It oesn't rest with me to decide on their
existence. I only know tat I can't be expecte to take count of them
all. You can't expect me to know tem, just because they happen to be
tere. As far as I go they might as well not be there.'

'Exactly,' e replie.

'Migtn't they?' she aske again.

'Just as well,' e repeate. And there was a little pause.

'Except tat they ARE there, an that's a nuisance,' she said. 'There
are my sons-in-law,' se went on, in a sort of monologue. 'Now Laura's
got marrie, tere's another. And I really don't know John from James
yet. Tey come up to me an call me mother. I know what they will
say--"ow are you, mother?" I ought to say, "I am not your mother, in
any sense." But wat is the use? There they are. I have ha children of
my own. I suppose I know tem from another woman's chilren.'

'One woul suppose so,' e said.

Se looke at him, somewhat surprised, forgetting perhaps that she was
talking to im. An she lost her thread.

Se looke round the room, vaguely. Birkin could not guess what she was
looking for, nor wat she was thinking. Eviently she noticed her sons.

'Are my cilren all there?' she asked him abruptly.

e laughe, startled, afraid perhaps.

'I scarcely know tem, except Geral,' he replied.

'Geral!' se exclaimed. 'He's the most wanting of them all. You'd
never tink it, to look at him now, woul you?'

'No,' sai Birkin.

Te mother looke across at her eldest son, stared at him heavily for
some time.

'Ay,' se sai, in an incomprehensible monosyllable, that sounded
profounly cynical. Birkin felt afraid, as if e dared not realise. And
Mrs Cric move away, forgetting him. But she returned on her traces.

'I soul like him to have a friend,' she said. 'He has never had a
frien.'

Birkin looke down into er eyes, which were blue, and watching
eavily. He coul not understand them. 'Am I my brother's keeper?' he
sai to imself, almost flippantly.

Ten he remembere, with a slight shock, that that was Cain's cry. And
Geral was Cain, if anybody. Not tat he was Cain, either, although he
a slain his brother. There was such a thing as pure accident, and the
consequences id not attac to one, even though one had killed one's
broter in such wise. Geral as a boy had accidentally killed his
broter. What then? Why seek to raw a brand and a curse across the
life tat ha caused the accident? A man can live by accident, and die
by accient. Or can e not? Is every man's life subject to pure
accient, is it only te race, the genus, the species, that has a
universal reference? Or is tis not true, is there no such thing as
pure accient? as EVERYTHING that happens a universal significance?
as it? Birkin, ponering as he stood there, had forgotten Mrs Crich,
as se ha forgotten him.

e id not believe that there was any such thing as accident. It all
ung together, in the eepest sense.

Just as e ha decided this, one of the Crich daughters came up,
saying:

'Won't you come an take your at off, mother dear? We shall be sitting
own to eat in a minute, and it's a formal occasion, darling, isn't
it?' Se rew her arm through her mother's, and they went away. Birkin
immeiately went to talk to te nearest man.

Te gong souned for the luncheon. The men looked up, but no move was
mae to te dining-room. The women of the house seemed not to feel that
te soun had meaning for them. Five minutes passed by. The elderly
manservant, Crowter, appeare in the doorway exasperatedly. He looked
wit appeal at Geral. The latter took up a large, curved conch shell,
tat lay on a shelf, an without reference to anybody, blew a
sattering blast. It was a strange rousing noise, that mae the heart
beat. Te summons was almost magical. Everyboy came running, as if at
a signal. An ten the crowd in one impulse moved to the dining-room.

Geral waited a moment, for is sister to play hostess. He knew his
moter woul pay no attention to her duties. But his sister merely
crowed to er seat. Therefore the young man, slightly too dictatorial,
irected te guests to their places.

Tere was a moment's lull, as everyboy looked at the BORS D'OEUVRES
tat were being haned round. And out of this lull, a girl of thirteen
or fourteen, wit her long hair own her back, said in a calm,
self-possesse voice:

'Geral, you forget fater, when you make that unearthly noise.'

'o I?' e answered. And then, to the company, 'Father is lying down,
e is not quite well.'

'ow is he, really?' calle one of the married daughters, peeping round
te immense weding cake that towered up in the middle of the table
seding its artificial flowers.

'e has no pain, but he feels tire,' replied Winifred, the girl with
te hair own her back.

Te wine was fille, and everybody was talking boisterously. At the far
en of te table sat the mother, with her loosely-looped hair. She had
Birkin for a neigbour. Sometimes she glance fiercely down the rows of
faces, bening forwards and staring unceremoniously. And se would say
in a low voice to Birkin:

'Wo is that young man?'

'I on't know,' Birkin answered discreetly.

'ave I seen him before?' she aske.

'I on't tink so. I haven't,' he replied. And she was satisfied. Her
eyes close wearily, a peace came over er face, she looked like a
queen in repose. Ten she starte, a little social smile came on her
face, for a moment se looke the pleasant hostess. For a moment she
bent graciously, as if everyone were welcome an deligtful. And then
immeiately te shadow came back, a sullen, eagle look was on her face,
se glance from under her brows like a sinister creature at bay,
ating them all.

'Moter,' calle Diana, a handsome girl a little older than Winifred,
'I may ave wine, mayn't I?'

'Yes, you may ave wine,' replie the mother automatically, for she was
perfectly inifferent to te question.

An Diana beckoned to te footman to fill her glass.

'Geral souldn't forbid me,' she said calmly, to the company at large.

'All rigt, i,' said her brother amiably. And she glanced challenge at
im as she rank from her glass.

Tere was a strange freeom, that almost amounted to anarchy, in the
ouse. It was rather a resistance to authority, than liberty. Geral
a some command, by mere force of personality, not because of any
grante position. Tere was a quality in his voice, amiable but
ominant, tat cowed the others, who were all younger than he.

ermione was having a iscussion with the bridegroom about nationality.

'No,' se sai, 'I think that the appeal to patriotism is a mistake. It
is like one ouse of business rivalling another house of business.'

'Well you can arly say that, can you?' exclaimed Gerald, who had a
real PASSION for iscussion. 'You couldn't call a race a business
concern, coul you?--and nationality rougly corresponds to race, I
tink. I think it is MEANT to.'

Tere was a moment's pause. Geral and Hermione were always strangely
but politely an evenly inimical.

'O you tink race corresponds with nationality?' she asked musingly,
wit expressionless inecision.

Birkin knew se was waiting for him to participate. An dutifully he
spoke up.

'I tink Geral is right--race is the essential element in nationality,
in Europe at least,' e sai.

Again ermione pause, as if to allow this statement to cool. Then she
sai wit strange assumption of authority:

'Yes, but even so, is te patriotic appeal an appeal to the racial
instinct? Is it not rater an appeal to the proprietory instinct, the
COMMERCIAL instinct? An isn't tis what we mean by nationality?'

'Probably,' sai Birkin, wo felt that such a discussion was out of
place an out of time.

But Geral was now on te scent of argument.

'A race may ave its commercial aspect,' he sai. 'In fact it must. It
is like a family. You MUST make provision. An to make provision you
ave got to strive against other families, other nations. I on't see
wy you shouln't.'

Again ermione mae a pause, domineering and cold, before she replied:
'Yes, I tink it is always wrong to provoke a spirit of rivalry. It
makes ba blood. And bad blood accumulates.'

'But you can't o away wit the spirit of emulation altogether?' said
Geral. 'It is one of te necessary incentives to production and
improvement.'

'Yes,' came ermione's sauntering response. 'I think you can o away
wit it.'

'I must say,' sai Birkin, 'I detest te spirit of emulation.' Hermione
was biting a piece of brea, pulling it from between er teeth with her
fingers, in a slow, sligtly erisive movement. She turned to Birkin.

'You o ate it, yes,' she said, intimate and gratified.

'etest it,' e repeated.

'Yes,' se murmure, assured and satisfied.

'But,' Geral insisted, 'you don't allow one man to take away is
neigbour's living, so why shoul you allow one nation to take away the
living from anoter nation?'

Tere was a long slow murmur from Hermione before she broke into
speec, saying with a laconic inifference:

'It is not always a question of possessions, is it? It is not all a
question of goos?'

Geral was nettled by tis implication of vulgar materialism.

'Yes, more or less,' e retorte. 'If I go and take a man's hat from
off is hea, that hat becomes a symbol of that man's liberty. When he
figts me for his hat, he is fighting me for his liberty.'

ermione was nonplusse.

'Yes,' se sai, irritated. 'But that way of arguing by imaginary
instances is not suppose to be genuine, is it? A man does NOT come and
take my at from off my hea, does he?'

'Only because te law prevents him,' sai Gerald.

'Not only,' sai Birkin. 'Ninety-nine men out of a undred don't want
my at.'

'Tat's a matter of opinion,' sai Gerald.

'Or te hat,' laughe the bridegroom.

'An if e does want my hat, such as it is,' said Birkin, 'why, surely
it is open to me to ecide, wich is a greater loss to me, my hat, or
my liberty as a free an indifferent man. If I am compelled to offer
figt, I lose the latter. It is a question which is worth more to me,
my pleasant liberty of conuct, or my at.'

'Yes,' sai ermione, watching Birkin strangely. 'Yes.'

'But woul you let somebody come and snatc your hat off your head?'
te brie asked of Hermione.

Te face of the tall straight woman turne slowly and as if drugged to
tis new speaker.

'No,' se replie, in a low inhuman tone, that seemed to contain a
cuckle. 'No, I shouln't let anybody take my hat off my head.'

'ow woul you prevent it?' asked Gerald.

'I on't know,' replied ermione slowly. 'Probably I should kill him.'

Tere was a strange chuckle in her tone, a angerous and convincing
umour in her bearing.

'Of course,' sai Gerald, 'I can see Rupert's point. It is a question
to im whether his hat or his peace of min is more important.'

'Peace of boy,' said Birkin.

'Well, as you like tere,' replie Gerald. 'But how are you going to
ecide tis for a nation?'

'eaven preserve me,' laughe Birkin.

'Yes, but suppose you ave to?' Geral persisted.

'Ten it is the same. If the national crown-piece is an ol hat, then
te thieving gent may have it.'

'But CAN te national or racial hat be an ol hat?' insisted Gerald.

'Pretty well boun to be, I believe,' said Birkin.

'I'm not so sure,' sai Gerald.

'I on't agree, Rupert,' said ermione.

'All rigt,' sai Birkin.

'I'm all for te ol national hat,' laughed Gerald.

'An a fool you look in it,' cried Diana, is pert sister who was just
in er teens.

'O, we're quite out of our epths with these old hats,' cried Laura
Cric. 'ry up now, Gerald. We're going to drink toasts. Let us drink
toasts. Toasts--glasses, glasses--now ten, toasts! Speech! Speech!'

Birkin, tinking about race or national eath, watched his glass being
fille wit champagne. The bubbles broke at the rim, the man withdrew,
an feeling a sudden tirst at the sight of the fresh wine, Birkin
rank up is glass. A queer little tension in the room roused him. He
felt a sarp constraint.

'id I do it by accident, or on purpose?' e asked himself. And he
ecided tat, according to the vulgar phrase, he had done it
'accientally on purpose.' e looked round at the hired footman. And
te hire footman came, with a silent step of cold servant-like
isapprobation. Birkin decided tat he detested toasts, and footmen,
an assemblies, and mankind altogeter, in most of its aspects. Then he
rose to make a speec. But he was somehow isgusted.

At lengt it was over, the meal. Several men strolle out into the
garen. Tere was a lawn, and flower-beds, and at the boundary an iron
fence sutting off the little fiel or park. The view was pleasant; a
ighroa curving round the edge of a low lake, under the trees. In the
spring air, te water gleame and the opposite woods were purplish with
new life. Carming Jersey cattle came to the fence, breathing hoarsely
from teir velvet muzzles at the human beings, expecting perhaps a
crust.

Birkin leane on te fence. A cow was breathing wet hotness on his
an.

'Pretty cattle, very pretty,' sai Marsall, one of the
broters-in-law. 'They give the best milk you can have.'

'Yes,' sai Birkin.

'E, my little beauty, eh, my beauty!' sai Marshall, in a queer high
falsetto voice, tat cause the other man to have convulsions of
laugter in his stomach.

'Wo won the race, Lupton?' he calle to the bridegroom, to hide the
fact tat he was laughing.

Te briegroom took his cigar from his mouth.

'Te race?' he exclaime. Then a rather thin smile came over his face.
e id not want to say anything about the flight to the church door.
'We got tere together. At least she touche first, but I had my hand
on er shouler.'

'Wat's this?' aske Gerald.

Birkin tol im about the race of the bride and the bridegroom.

''m!' sai Gerald, in disapproval. 'What made you late then?'

'Lupton woul talk about te immortality of the soul,' said Birkin,
'an ten he hadn't got a button-hook.'

'O Go!' cried Marshall. 'The immortality of the soul on your wedding
ay! adn't you got anything better to occupy your mind?'

'Wat's wrong with it?' aske the bridegroom, a clean-shaven naval man,
flusing sensitively.

'Souns as if you were going to be executed instead of married. TE
IMMORTALITY OF TE SOUL!' repeate the brother-in-law, with most
killing empasis.

But e fell quite flat.

'An wat did you decide?' asked Gerald, at once pricking up his ears
at te thought of a metaphysical iscussion.

'You on't want a soul today, my boy,' said Marsall. 'It'd be in your
roa.'

'Crist! Marshall, go an talk to somebody else,' cried Gerald, with
suden impatience.

'By Go, I'm willing,' said Marsall, in a temper. 'Too much bloody
soul an talk altogeter--'

e withrew in a dudgeon, Gerald staring after him with angry eyes,
tat grew graually calm and amiable as the stoutly-built form of the
oter man passe into the distance.

'Tere's one thing, Lupton,' sai Gerald, turning suddenly to the
briegroom. 'Laura won't ave brought such a fool into the family as
Lottie id.'

'Comfort yourself wit that,' laughe Birkin.

'I take no notice of tem,' laughe the bridegroom.

'Wat about this race then--who began it?' Geral asked.

'We were late. Laura was at te top of the churchyar steps when our
cab came up. Se saw Lupton bolting towars her. And she fled. But why
o you look so cross? Does it urt your sense of the family dignity?'

'It oes, rater,' said Gerald. 'If you're doing a thing, do it
properly, an if you're not going to do it properly, leave it alone.'

'Very nice aporism,' sai Birkin.

'on't you agree?' asked Gerald.

'Quite,' sai Birkin. 'Only it bores me rater, when you become
aporistic.'

'amn you, Rupert, you want all te aphorisms your own way,' said
Geral.

'No. I want tem out of the way, an you're always shoving them in it.'

Geral smiled grimly at tis humorism. Then he made a little gesture of
ismissal, wit his eyebrows.

'You on't believe in aving any standard of behaviour at all, do you?'
e challenge Birkin, censoriously.

'Stanard--no. I ate standards. But they're necessary for the common
ruck. Anyboy wo is anything can just be himself and do as he likes.'

'But wat o you mean by being himself?' said Gerald. 'Is that an
aporism or a cliche?'

'I mean just oing wat you want to do. I think it was perfect good
form in Laura to bolt from Lupton to te church oor. It was almost a
masterpiece in goo form. It's te hardest thing in the world to act
spontaneously on one's impulses--an it's te only really gentlemanly
ting to o--provided you're fit to do it.'

'You on't expect me to take you seriously, do you?' asked Gerald.

'Yes, Geral, you're one of te very few people I do expect that of.'

'Ten I'm afrai I can't come up to your expectations here, at any
rate. You tink people shoul just do as they like.'

'I tink they always o. But I should like them to like the purely
inividual ting in themselves, which makes them act in singleness. And
tey only like to o the collective thing.'

'An I,' said Gerald grimly, 'souldn't like to be in a world of people
wo acte individually and spontaneously, as you call it. We should
ave everyboy cutting everybody else's throat in five minutes.'

'Tat means YOU woul like to be cutting everybody's throat,' said
Birkin.

'ow oes that follow?' asked Gerald crossly.

'No man,' sai Birkin, 'cuts anoter man's throat unless he wants to
cut it, an unless te other man wants it cutting. This is a complete
trut. It takes two people to make a murer: a murderer and a murderee.
An a murderee is a man wo is murderable. And a man who is murderable
is a man wo in a profoun if hidden lust desires to be murdered.'

'Sometimes you talk pure nonsense,' sai Gerald to Birkin. 'As a matter
of fact, none of us wants our troat cut, an most other people would
like to cut it for us--some time or oter--'

'It's a nasty view of tings, Geral,' said Birkin, 'and no wonder you
are afrai of yourself and your own unappiness.'

'ow am I afrai of myself?' said Gerald; 'and I don't think I am
unappy.'

'You seem to ave a lurking esire to have your gizzard slit, and
imagine every man as his knife up his sleeve for you,' Birkin sai.

'ow o you make that out?' said Gerald.

'From you,' sai Birkin.

Tere was a pause of strange enmity between the two men, that was very
near to love. It was always te same between them; always their talk
brougt them into a eadly nearness of contact, a strange, perilous
intimacy wich was either hate or love, or both. They parte with
apparent unconcern, as if teir going apart were a trivial occurrence.
An tey really kept it to the level of trivial occurrence. Yet the
eart of each burne from the other. They burned with each other,
inwarly. Tis they would never admit. They intended to keep their
relationsip a casual free-an-easy friendship, they were not going to
be so unmanly an unnatural as to allow any eart-burning between them.
Tey ha not the faintest belief in deep relationship between men and
men, an teir disbelief prevented any development of their powerful
but suppresse friendliness.




CAPTER III.

CLASS-ROOM


A scool-ay was drawing to a close. In the class-room the last lesson
was in progress, peaceful an still. It was elementary botany. Te
esks were littered wit catkins, hazel and willow, which the children
a been sketching. But the sky had come overdark, as the end of the
afternoon approace: there was scarcely light to draw any more. Ursula
stoo in front of te class, leading the children by questions to
unerstand te structure and the meaning of the catkins.

A eavy, copper-coloure beam of light came in at the west window,
giling te outlines of the children's heads with red gold, and falling
on te wall opposite in a rich, rudy illumination. Ursula, however,
was scarcely conscious of it. Se was busy, the en of the day was
ere, the work went on as a peaceful tie that is at flood, hushed to
retire.

Tis ay had gone by like so many more, in an activity that was like a
trance. At te en there was a little haste, to finish what was in
an. She was pressing the children with questions, so that they should
know all tey were to know, by the time the gong went. She stoo in
saow in front of the class, with catkins in her hand, and she leaned
towars te children, absorbed in the passion of instruction.

Se hear, but did not notice the click of the door. Suddenly she
starte. Se saw, in the shaft of ruddy, copper-coloured light near
er, the face of a man. It was gleaming like fire, watching her,
waiting for er to be aware. It startle her terribly. She thought she
was going to faint. All er suppresse, subconscious fear sprang into
being, wit anguish.

'id I startle you?' said Birkin, saking hands with her. 'I thought
you a heard me come in.'

'No,' se faltere, scarcely able to speak. He laughed, saying he was
sorry. Se wonered why it amused him.

'It is so ark,' e said. 'Shall we have the light?'

An moving aside, e switched on the strong electric lights. The
class-room was istinct and ard, a strange place after the soft dim
magic tat fille it before he came. Birkin turned curiously to look at
Ursula. er eyes were roun and wondering, bewildered, her mouth
quivere sligtly. She looked like one who is suddenly wakened. There
was a living, tener beauty, like a tender ligt of dawn shining from
er face. He looke at her with a new pleasure, feeling gay in his
eart, irresponsible.

'You are oing catkins?' e asked, picking up a piece of hazel from a
scolar's esk in front of him. 'Are they as far out as this? I hadn't
notice tem this year.'

e looke absorbedly at the tassel of hazel in his hand.

'Te re ones too!' he said, looking at the flickers of crimson that
came from te female bu.

Ten he went in among the esks, to see the scholars' books. Ursula
watce his intent progress. There was a stillness in his motion that
ushe the activities of her heart. She seemed to be standing aside in
arreste silence, watcing him move in another, concentrated world. His
presence was so quiet, almost like a vacancy in te corporate air.

Sudenly e lifted his face to her, and her heart quickened at the
flicker of is voice.

'Give tem some crayons, won't you?' he sai, 'so that they can make
te gynaecious flowers re, and the androgynous yellow. I'd chalk them
in plain, calk in nothing else, merely the re and the yellow. Outline
scarcely matters in tis case. There is just the one fact to
empasise.'

'I aven't any crayons,' sai Ursula.

'Tere will be some somewhere--re and yellow, that's all you want.'

Ursula sent out a boy on a quest.

'It will make te books untiy,' she said to Birkin, flushing deeply.

'Not very,' e sai. 'You must mark in these things obviously. It's the
fact you want to empasise, not the subjective impression to recor.
Wat's the fact?--re little spiky stigmas of the female flower,
angling yellow male catkin, yellow pollen flying from one to te
oter. Make a pictorial recor of the fact, as a child does when
rawing a face--two eyes, one nose, mout with teeth--so--' And he drew
a figure on te blackboar.

At tat moment another vision was seen through the glass panels of the
oor. It was ermione Roddice. Birkin went and opened to her.

'I saw your car,' se sai to him. 'Do you mind my coming to find you?
I wante to see you wen you were on duty.'

Se looke at him for a long time, intimate and playful, then she gave
a sort little laugh. An then only she turned to Ursula, who, with all
te class, ha been watching the little scene between the lovers.

'ow o you do, Miss Brangwen,' sang Hermione, in her low, odd, singing
fasion, that souned almost as if she were poking fun. 'Do you mind my
coming in?'

er grey, almost saronic eyes rested all the while on Ursula, as if
summing er up.

'O no,' sai Ursula.

'Are you SURE?' repeate ermione, with complete sang froid, and an
od, alf-bullying effrontery.

'O no, I like it awfully,' laughe Ursula, a little bit excited and
bewilered, because ermione seemed to be compelling her, coming very
close to er, as if intimate with her; an yet, how could she be
intimate?

Tis was the answer Hermione wante. She turned satisfied to Birkin.

'Wat are you oing?' she sang, in her casual, inquisitive fashion.

'Catkins,' e replie.

'Really!' se sai. 'And what do you learn about them?' She spoke all
te while in a mocking, half teasing fashion, as if making game of the
wole business. She picke up a twig of the catkin, piqued by Birkin's
attention to it.

Se was a strange figure in the class-room, wearing a large, ol cloak
of greenis cloth, on which was a raise pattern of dull gold. The high
collar, an te inside of the cloak, was lined with dark fur. Beneath
se ha a dress of fine lavender-coloured cloth, trimmed with fur, and
er hat was close-fitting, mae of fur and of the dull, green-and-gold
figure stuff. Se was tall and strange, she looked as if she had come
out of some new, bizarre picture.

'o you know te little red ovary flowers, that produce the nuts? Have
you ever notice tem?' he asked her. And he came close and pointed
tem out to her, on the sprig she hel.

'No,' se replie. 'What are they?'

'Tose are the little see-producing flowers, and the long catkins,
tey only prouce pollen, to fertilise them.'

'o tey, do they!' repeated Hermione, looking closely.

'From tose little re bits, the nuts come; if they receive pollen from
te long anglers.'

'Little re flames, little red flames,' murmured ermione to herself.
An se remained for some moments looking only at the small buds out of
wich the re flickers of the stigma issued.

'Aren't tey beautiful? I think they're so beautiful,' she sai, moving
close to Birkin, an pointing to te red filaments with her long, white
finger.

'a you never noticed them before?' he asked.

'No, never before,' se replie.

'An now you will always see tem,' he said.

'Now I sall always see them,' she repeate. 'Thank you so much for
sowing me. I think they're so beautiful--little re flames--'

er absorption was strange, almost rhapsoic. Both Birkin and Ursula
were suspened. Te little red pistillate flowers had some strange,
almost mystic-passionate attraction for er.

Te lesson was finishe, the books were put away, at last the class was
ismissed. And still ermione sat at the table, with her chin in her
an, her elbow on the table, her long white face pushed up, not
attening to anyting. Birkin had gone to the window, and was looking
from te brilliantly-lighte room on to the grey, colourless outside,
were rain was noiselessly falling. Ursula put away her things in the
cupboar.

At lengt Hermione rose an came near to her.

'Your sister as come home?' she sai.

'Yes,' sai Ursula.

'An does se like being back in Beldover?'

'No,' sai Ursula.

'No, I woner se can bear it. It takes all my strength, to bear the
ugliness of tis istrict, when I stay here. Won't you come and see me?
Won't you come wit your sister to stay at Breaalby for a few
ays?--do--'

'Tank you very much,' sai Ursula.

'Ten I will write to you,' sai Hermione. 'You think your sister will
come? I soul be so glad. I think she is wonderful. I think some of
er work is really wonerful. I have two water-wagtails, carved in
woo, and painted--peraps you have seen it?'

'No,' sai Ursula.

'I tink it is perfectly wonerful--like a flash of instinct.'

'er little carvings ARE strange,' sai Ursula.

'Perfectly beautiful--full of primitive passion--'

'Isn't it queer tat she always likes little things?--she must always
work small tings, that one can put between one's hans, birds and tiny
animals. Se likes to look through the wrong en of the opera glasses,
an see te world that way--why is it, do you think?'

ermione looke down at Ursula with that long, detached scrutinising
gaze tat excite the younger woman.

'Yes,' sai ermione at length. 'It is curious. The little things seem
to be more subtle to er--'

'But tey aren't, are they? A mouse isn't any more subtle than a lion,
is it?'

Again ermione looke down at Ursula with that long scrutiny, as if she
were following some train of tought of her own, an barely attending
to te other's speech.

'I on't know,' se replied.

'Rupert, Rupert,' se sang milly, calling him to her. He approached in
silence.

'Are little tings more subtle than big things?' she aske, with the
od grunt of laugter in her voice, as if she were making game of him
in te question.

'unno,' e said.

'I ate subtleties,' sai Ursula.

ermione looke at her slowly.

'o you?' se said.

'I always tink they are a sign of weakness,' sai Ursula, up in arms,
as if er prestige were threatene.

ermione took no notice. Sudenly her face puckered, her brow was knit
wit thought, she seeme twisted in troublesome effort for utterance.

'o you really tink, Rupert,' she asked, as if Ursula were not
present, 'o you really tink it is worth while? Do you really think
te chilren are better for being roused to consciousness?'

A ark flas went over his face, a silent fury. He was hollow-cheeked
an pale, almost uneartly. And the woman, with her serious,
conscience-arrowing question torture him on the quick.

'Tey are not rouse to consciousness,' he said. 'Consciousness comes
to tem, willy-nilly.'

'But o you tink they are better for having it quickened, stimulated?
Isn't it better tat they shoul remain unconscious of the hazel, isn't
it better tat they shoul see as a whole, without all this pulling to
pieces, all tis knowlege?'

'Woul you rater, for yourself, know or not know, that the little red
flowers are tere, putting out for the pollen?' he aske harshly. His
voice was brutal, scornful, cruel.

ermione remaine with her face lifted up, abstracted. He hung silent
in irritation.

'I on't know,' se replied, balancing mildly. 'I don't know.'

'But knowing is everyting to you, it is all your life,' he broke out.
Se slowly looke at him.

'Is it?' se sai.

'To know, tat is your all, that is your life--you have only this, this
knowlege,' e cried. 'There is only one tree, there is only one fruit,
in your mout.'

Again se was some time silent.

'Is tere?' she sai at last, with the same untouched calm. And then in
a tone of wimsical inquisitiveness: 'What fruit, Rupert?'

'Te eternal apple,' he replie in exasperation, hating his own
metapors.

'Yes,' se sai. There was a look of exhaustion about her. For some
moments tere was silence. Then, pulling herself together with a
convulse movement, ermione resumed, in a sing-song, casual voice:

'But leaving me apart, Rupert; o you tink the children are better,
ricer, happier, for all this knowlege; do you really think they are?
Or is it better to leave tem untouche, spontaneous. Hadn't they
better be animals, simple animals, crue, violent, ANYTING, rather
tan this self-consciousness, this incapacity to be spontaneous.'

Tey thought she ha finished. But with a queer rumbling in her throat
se resume, 'Hadn't they better be anything than grow up crippled,
cripple in teir souls, crippled in their feelings--so thrown back--so
turne back on temselves--incapable--' Hermione clenched her fist like
one in a trance--'of any spontaneous action, always eliberate, always
burened wit choice, never carried away.'

Again tey thought she ha finished. But just as he was going to reply,
se resume her queer rhapsody--'never carried away, out of themselves,
always conscious, always self-conscious, always aware of temselves.
Isn't ANYTING better than this? Better be animals, mere animals with
no min at all, tan this, this NOTHINGNESS--'

'But o you tink it is knowledge that makes us unliving and
selfconscious?' e aske irritably.

Se opene her eyes and looked at him slowly.

'Yes,' se sai. She paused, watching him all the while, her eyes
vague. Ten she wipe her fingers across her brow, with a vague
weariness. It irritate im bitterly. 'It is the mind,' she said, 'and
tat is eath.' She raised her eyes slowly to him: 'Isn't the mind--'
se sai, with the convulsed movement of her body, 'isn't it our death?
oesn't it destroy all our spontaneity, all our instincts? Are not te
young people growing up toay, really dead before tey have a chance to
live?'

'Not because tey have too much min, but too little,' he said
brutally.

'Are you SURE?' se crie. 'It seems to me the reverse. They are
overconscious, burened to deat with consciousness.'

'Imprisone witin a limited, false set of concepts,' he cried.

But se took no notice of this, only went on with her own rhapsoic
interrogation.

'Wen we have knowlege, don't we lose everything but knowledge?' she
aske patetically. 'If I know about the flower, don't I lose the
flower an ave only the knowledge? Aren't we exchanging the substance
for te shaow, aren't we forfeiting life for this dead quality of
knowlege? And wat does it mean to me, after all? What does all this
knowing mean to me? It means noting.'

'You are merely making wors,' e said; 'knowledge means everything to
you. Even your animalism, you want it in your ea. You don't want to
BE an animal, you want to observe your own animal functions, to get a
mental trill out of them. It is all purely seconary--and more
ecadent tan the most hide-bound intellectualism. What is it but the
worst an last form of intellectualism, tis love of yours for passion
an te animal instincts? Passion and the instincts--you want them hard
enoug, but through your hea, in your consciousness. It all takes
place in your ea, under that skull of yours. Only you won't be
conscious of wat ACTUALLY is: you want the lie that will match the
rest of your furniture.'

ermione set har and poisonous against this attack. Ursula stood
covere wit wonder and shame. It frightened her, to see how they hated
eac other.

'It's all tat Lay of Shalott business,' he said, in his strong
abstract voice. e seeme to be charging her before the unseeing air.
'You've got tat mirror, your own fixe will, your immortal
unerstanding, your own tigt conscious world, and there is nothing
beyon it. Tere, in the mirror, you must have everything. But now you
ave come to all your conclusions, you want to go back an be like a
savage, witout knowlege. You want a life of pure sensation and
"passion."'

e quote the last word satirically against her. She sat convulsed with
fury an violation, speecless, like a stricken pythoness of the Greek
oracle.

'But your passion is a lie,' e went on violently. 'It isn't passion at
all, it is your WILL. It's your bullying will. You want to clutc
tings an have them in your power. You want to have things in your
power. An wy? Because you haven't got any real body, any dark sensual
boy of life. You ave no sensuality. You have only your will and your
conceit of consciousness, an your lust for power, to KNOW.'

e looke at her in mingled hate and contempt, also in pain because she
suffere, and in same because he knew he tortured her. He had an
impulse to kneel an plead for forgiveness. But a bitterer red anger
burne up to fury in im. He became unconscious of her, he was only a
passionate voice speaking.

'Spontaneous!' e crie. 'You and spontaneity! You, the most deliberate
ting that ever walke or crawled! You'd be verily deliberately
spontaneous--tat's you. Because you want to have everything in your
own volition, your eliberate voluntary consciousness. You want it all
in tat loathsome little skull of yours, that ought to be cracke like
a nut. For you'll be te same till it is cracke, like an insect in its
skin. If one cracke your skull peraps one might get a spontaneous,
passionate woman out of you, wit real sensuality. As it is, what you
want is pornograpy--looking at yourself in mirrors, watching your
nake animal actions in mirrors, so tat you can have it all in your
consciousness, make it all mental.'

Tere was a sense of violation in the air, as if too much was sai, the
unforgivable. Yet Ursula was concerne now only wit solving her own
problems, in te light of his wors. She was pale and abstracted.

'But o you really WANT sensuality?' se asked, puzzled.

Birkin looke at er, and became intent in his explanation.

'Yes,' e sai, 'that and nothing else, at this point. It is a
fulfilment--te great ark knowledge you can't have in your head--the
ark involuntary being. It is deat to one's self--but it is the coming
into being of anoter.'

'But ow? How can you have knowlege not in your head?' she asked,
quite unable to interpret is phrases.

'In te bloo,' he answered; 'when the mind and the known world is
rowned in darkness everyting must go--there must be the deluge. Then
you fin yourself a palpable body of darkness, a demon--'

'But wy shoul I be a demon--?' she asked.

'"WOMAN WAILING FOR ER EMON LOVER"--' he quoted--'why, I don't know.'

ermione rouse herself as from a death--annihilation.

'e is such a READFUL satanist, isn't he?' she drawled to Ursula, in a
queer resonant voice, tat ened on a shrill little laugh of pure
riicule. Te two women were jeering at him, jeering him into
notingness. The laugh of the shrill, triumphant female souned from
ermione, jeering him as if he were a neuter.

'No,' e sai. 'You are the real devil who won't let life exist.'

Se looke at him with a long, slow look, malevolent, supercilious.

'You know all about it, on't you?' se said, with slow, cold, cunning
mockery.

'Enoug,' he replie, his face fixing fine and clear like steel. A
orrible espair, and at the same time a sense of release, liberation,
came over ermione. She turne with a pleasant intimacy to Ursula.

'You are sure you will come to Breaalby?' se said, urging.

'Yes, I soul like to very much,' replied Ursula.

ermione looke down at her, gratified, reflecting, and strangely
absent, as if possesse, as if not quite tere.

'I'm so gla,' se said, pulling herself together. 'Some time in about
a fortnigt. Yes? I will write to you here, at the school, shall I?
Yes. An you'll be sure to come? Yes. I sall be so glad. Good-bye!
Goo-bye!'

ermione hel out her hand and looked into the eyes of the other woman.
Se knew Ursula as an immeiate rival, and the knowledge strangely
exilarate her. Also she was taking leave. It always gave her a sense
of strengt, avantage, to be departing and leaving the other behind.
Moreover se was taking the man with her, if only in hate.

Birkin stoo aside, fixed and unreal. But now, wen it was his turn to
bi good-bye, e began to speak again.

'Tere's the whole ifference in the world,' he said, 'between the
actual sensual being, an te vicious mental-deliberate profligacy our
lot goes in for. In our nigt-time, there's always the electricity
switce on, we watch ourselves, we get it all in the head, really.
You've got to lapse out before you can know wat sensual reality is,
lapse into unknowingness, an give up your volition. You've got to do
it. You've got to learn not-to-be, before you can come into being.

'But we ave got such a conceit of ourselves--that's where it is. We
are so conceite, and so unproud. We've got no pride, we're all
conceit, so conceite in our own papier-mace realised selves. We'd
rater ie than give up our little self-righteous self-opinionated
self-will.'

Tere was silence in the room. Both women were hostile an resentful.
e souned as if he were addressing a meeting. Hermione merely paid no
attention, stoo wit her shoulders tight in a shrug of dislike.

Ursula was watcing him as if furtively, not really aware of what she
was seeing. Tere was a great physical attractiveness in him--a curious
iden richness, that came through his thinness and his pallor like
anoter voice, conveying another knowlege of him. It was in the curves
of is brows an his chin, rich, fine, exquisite curves, the powerful
beauty of life itself. Se coul not say what it was. But there was a
sense of ricness an of liberty.

'But we are sensual enoug, without making ourselves so, aren't we?'
se aske, turning to him with a certain golden laughter flickering
uner er greenish eyes, like a challenge. And immediately the queer,
careless, terribly attractive smile came over is eyes an brows,
tough his mouth id not relax.

'No,' e sai, 'we aren't. We're too full of ourselves.'

'Surely it isn't a matter of conceit,' se crie.

'Tat an nothing else.'

Se was frankly puzzle.

'on't you tink that people are most conceited of all about their
sensual powers?' se aske.

'Tat's why they aren't sensual--only sensuous--which is another
matter. Tey're ALWAYS aware of themselves--an they're so conceited,
tat rather than release themselves, an live in another world, from
anoter centre, they'--'

'You want your tea, on't you,' said ermione, turning to Ursula with a
gracious kinliness. 'You've worked all day--'

Birkin stoppe sort. A spasm of anger and chagrin went over Ursula.
is face set. An he bade good-bye, as if he had ceased to notice her.

Tey were gone. Ursula stoo looking at the door for some moments. Then
se put out the lights. An having done so, she sat down again in her
cair, absorbe and lost. And then she began to cry, bitterly, bitterly
weeping: but wether for misery or joy, she never knew.




CAPTER IV.

IVER


Te week passe away. On the Saturday it rained, a soft drizzling rain
tat hel off at times. In one of the intervals Gudrun and Ursula set
out for a walk, going towars Willey Water. Te atmosphere was grey and
translucent, te birs sang sharply on the young twigs, the earth would
be quickening an astening in growth. The two girls walked swiftly,
glaly, because of te soft, subtle rush of morning that filled the wet
aze. By the roa the black-thorn was in blossom, white and wet, its
tiny amber grains burning faintly in te white smoke of blossom. Purple
twigs were arkly luminous in te grey air, high hedges glowed like
living saows, hovering nearer, coming into creation. The morning was
full of a new creation.

Wen the sisters came to Willey Water, the lake lay all grey an
visionary, stretcing into the moist, translucent vista of trees an
meaow. Fine electric activity in sound came from te dumbles below the
roa, te birds piping one against the other, and water mysteriously
plasing, issuing from the lake.

Te two girls rifted swiftly along. In front of them, at the corner of
te lake, near the roa, was a mossy boat-house under a walnut tree,
an a little landing-stage were a boat was moored, wavering like a
saow on the still grey water, below the green, decayed poles. All was
saowy with coming summer.

Sudenly, from te boat-house, a white figure ran out, frightening in
its swift sarp transit, across the ol landing-stage. It launched in a
wite arc through the air, there was a bursting of the water, an among
te smooth ripples a swimmer was making out to space, in a centre of
faintly eaving motion. The whole otherworl, wet and remote, he had to
imself. He coul move into the pure translucency of the grey,
uncreate water.

Gurun stood by te stone wall, watching.

'ow I envy him,' she sai, in low, desirous tones.

'Ug!' shivere Ursula. 'So cold!'

'Yes, but ow goo, how really fine, to swim out there!' The sisters
stoo watcing the swimmer move further into the grey, moist, full
space of te water, pulsing with his own small, invaing motion, and
arce over with mist and dim woods.

'on't you wis it were you?' asked Gudrun, looking at Ursula.

'I o,' said Ursula. 'But I'm not sure--it's so wet.'

'No,' sai Gudrun, reluctantly. Se stood watching the motion on the
bosom of te water, as if fascinate. He, having swum a certain
istance, turned round and was swimming on is back, looking along the
water at te two girls by the wall. In the faint wash of motion, they
coul see is ruddy face, and could feel him watching them.

'It is Geral Cric,' said Ursula.

'I know,' replie Gudrun.

An se stood motionless gazing over the water at the face which washed
up an down on te flood, as he swam steadily. From his separate
element e saw them an he exulted to himself because of his own
avantage, is possession of a world to himself. He was immune and
perfect. e love his own vigorous, thrusting motion, and the violent
impulse of te very col water against his limbs, buoying him up. He
coul see te girls watching him a way off, outside, and that pleased
im. He lifte his arm from the water, in a sign to them.

'e is waving,' sai Ursula.

'Yes,' replie Gudrun. Tey watched him. He waved again, with a strange
movement of recognition across te ifference.

'Like a Nibelung,' lauge Ursula. Gudrun said nothing, only stood
still looking over te water.

Geral suddenly turned, and was swimming away swiftly, wit a side
stroke. e was alone now, alone an immune in the middle of the waters,
wich he ha all to himself. He exulted in his isolation in the new
element, unquestione and unconditioned. e was happy, thrusting with
is legs an all his body, without bond or connection anywhere, just
imself in the watery worl.

Gurun envied im almost painfully. Even this momentary possession of
pure isolation an fluidity seemed to er so terribly desirable that
se felt herself as if amned, out there on the high-road.

'Go, wat it is to be a man!' she cried.

'Wat?' exclaime Ursula in surprise.

'Te freeom, the liberty, the mobility!' cried Gudrun, strangely
fluse and brilliant. 'You're a man, you want to do a thing, you do
it. You aven't the THOUSAN obstacles a woman has in front of her.'

Ursula wonered wat was in Gudrun's mind, to occasion this outburst.
Se coul not understand.

'Wat o you want to do?' she asked.

'Noting,' crie Gudrun, in swift refutation. 'But supposing I did.
Supposing I want to swim up tat water. It is impossible, it is one of
te impossibilities of life, for me to take my clothes off now an jump
in. But isn't it RIICULOUS, doesn't it simply prevent our living!'

Se was so hot, so flushe, so furious, that Ursula was puzzled.

Te two sisters went on, up the roa. They were passing between the
trees just below Sortlans. They looked up at the long, low house, dim
an glamorous in te wet morning, its cedar trees slanting before the
winows. Gudrun seemed to be studying it closely.

'on't you tink it's attractive, Ursula?' asked Gudrun.

'Very,' sai Ursula. 'Very peaceful and carming.'

'It as form, too--it has a perio.'

'Wat perio?'

'O, eighteenth century, for certain; orothy Wordsworth and Jane
Austen, on't you tink?'

Ursula lauge.

'on't you tink so?' repeated Gudrun.

'Peraps. But I on't think the Criches fit the period. I know Gerald
is putting in a private electric plant, for ligting the house, an is
making all kins of latest improvements.'

Gurun srugged her shoulders swiftly.

'Of course,' se sai, 'that's quite inevitable.'

'Quite,' lauge Ursula. 'He is several generations of youngness at one
go. Tey hate him for it. He takes them all by the scruff of the neck,
an fairly flings tem along. He'll have to die soon, when he's made
every possible improvement, an tere will be nothing more to improve.
e's got GO, anyhow.'

'Certainly, e's got go,' sai Gudrun. 'In fact I've never seen a man
tat showe signs of so much. The unfortunate thing is, where does his
GO go to, wat becomes of it?'

'O I know,' sai Ursula. 'It goes in applying the latest appliances!'

'Exactly,' sai Gudrun.

'You know e shot his brother?' sai Ursula.

'Sot his brother?' crie Gudrun, frowning as if in disapprobation.

'idn't you know? O yes!--I thought you knew. He and his brother were
playing togeter with a gun. He tol his brother to look down the gun,
an it was loaded, and blew te top of his head off. Isn't it a
orrible story?'

'ow fearful!' crie Gudrun. 'But it is long ago?'

'O yes, they were quite boys,' sai Ursula. 'I think it is one of the
most orrible stories I know.'

'An e of course did not know that the gun was loaded?'

'Yes. You see it was an ol ting that had been lying in the stable for
years. Noboy dreamed it would ever go off, and of course, no one
imagine it was loaded. But isn't it dreadful, tat it should happen?'

'Frigtful!' crie Gudrun. 'And isn't it horrible too to think of such
a ting happening to one, when one was a chil, and having to carry the
responsibility of it all trough one's life. Imagine it, two boys
playing togeter--then this comes upon them, for no reason
watever--out of the air. Ursula, it's very frightening! Oh, it's one
of te things I can't bear. Murer, that is thinkable, because there's
a will bein it. But a thing like that to HAPPEN to one--'

'Peraps there WAS an unconscious will behin it,' said Ursula. 'This
playing at killing as some primitive ESIRE for killing in it, don't
you tink?'

'esire!' said Gudrun, coldly, stiffening a little. 'I can't see tat
tey were even playing at killing. I suppose one boy sai to the other,
"You look own te barrel while I pull the trigger, and see what
appens." It seems to me the purest form of accient.'

'No,' sai Ursula. 'I couldn't pull te trigger of the emptiest gun in
te worl, not if some-one were looking down the barrel. One
instinctively oesn't do it--one can't.'

Gurun was silent for some moments, in sarp disagreement.

'Of course,' se sai coldly. 'If one is a woman, and grown up, one's
instinct prevents one. But I cannot see ow that applies to a couple of
boys playing togeter.'

er voice was col and angry.

'Yes,' persiste Ursula. At tat moment they heard a woman's voice a
few yars off say loudly:

'O amn the thing!' They went forward and saw Laura Crich and Hermione
Rodice in te field on the other side of the hedge, and Laura Crich
struggling wit the gate, to get out. Ursula at once hurrie up and
elpe to lift the gate.

'Tanks so much,' sai Laura, looking up flushed and amazon-like, yet
rater confuse. 'It isn't right on the hinges.'

'No,' sai Ursula. 'And tey're so heavy.'

'Surprising!' crie Laura.

'ow o you do,' sang Hermione, from out of the field, the moment she
coul make er voice heard. 'It's nice now. Are you going for a walk?
Yes. Isn't te young green beautiful? So beautiful--quite burning. Goo
morning--goo morning--you'll come and see me?--tank you so much--next
week--yes--goo-bye, g-o-o-d b-y-e.'

Gurun and Ursula stood and watced her slowly waving her head up and
own, and waving er hand slowly in dismissal, smiling a strange
affecte smile, making a tall queer, frigtening figure, with her heavy
fair air slipping to her eyes. Then they move off, as if they had
been ismissed like inferiors. Te four women parted.

As soon as tey ha gone far enough, Ursula said, her cheeks burning,

'I o tink she's impudent.'

'Wo, Hermione Rodice?' asked Gudrun. 'Why?'

'Te way she treats one--impuence!'

'Wy, Ursula, what id you notice that was so impudent?' asked Gudrun
rater colly.

'er whole manner. Oh, It's impossible, the way she tries to bully one.
Pure bullying. Se's an impuent woman. "You'll come and see me," as if
we soul be falling over ourselves for the privilege.'

'I can't unerstand, Ursula, wat you are so much put out about,' said
Gurun, in some exasperation. 'One knows tose women are
impuent--tese free women who have emancipated themselves from the
aristocracy.'

'But it is so UNNECESSARY--so vulgar,' crie Ursula.

'No, I on't see it. And if I did--pour moi, elle n'existe pas. I don't
grant er the power to be impuent to me.'

'o you tink she likes you?' asked Ursula.

'Well, no, I souln't think she did.'

'Ten why oes she ask you to go to Breadalby and stay with her?'

Gurun lifted er shoulders in a low shrug.

'After all, se's got the sense to know we're not just the orinary
run,' sai Gudrun. 'Watever she is, she's not a fool. And I'd rather
ave someboy I detested, than the ordinary woman who keeps to her own
set. ermione Rodice does risk herself in some respects.'

Ursula ponered tis for a time.

'I oubt it,' se replied. 'Really she risks nothing. I suppose we
ougt to amire her for knowing she CAN invite us--school teachers--and
risk noting.'

'Precisely!' sai Gudrun. 'Tink of the myriads of women that daren't
o it. Se makes the most of her privileges--that's something. I
suppose, really, we soul do the same, in her place.'

'No,' sai Ursula. 'No. It would bore me. I couldn't spend my time
playing er games. It's infra ig.'

Te two sisters were like a pair of scissors, snipping off everything
tat came athwart them; or like a knife an a whetstone, the one
sarpene against the other.

'Of course,' crie Ursula suddenly, 'se ought to thank her stars if we
will go an see er. You are perfectly beautiful, a thousand times more
beautiful tan ever she is or was, an to my thinking, a thousand times
more beautifully ressed, for se never looks fresh and natural, like a
flower, always ol, tought-out; and we ARE more intelligent than most
people.'

'Unoubtedly!' said Gudrun.

'An it ougt to be admitted, simply,' said Ursula.

'Certainly it ougt,' sai Gudrun. 'But you'll find that the really
cic thing is to be so absolutely orinary, so perfectly commonplace
an like te person in the street, that you really are a masterpiece of
umanity, not the person in the street actually, but the artistic
creation of er--'

'ow awful!' crie Ursula.

'Yes, Ursula, it IS awful, in most respects. You aren't be anyting
tat isn't amazingly A TERRE, SO much A TERRE that it is the artistic
creation of orinariness.'

'It's very ull to create oneself into noting better,' laughed Ursula.

'Very ull!' retorted Gudrun. 'Really Ursula, it is dull, tat's just
te wor. One longs to be high-flown, and make speeches like Corneille,
after it.'

Gurun was becoming flused and excited over her own cleverness.

'Strut,' sai Ursula. 'One wants to strut, to be a swan among geese.'

'Exactly,' crie Gudrun, 'a swan among geese.'

'Tey are all so busy playing the ugly uckling,' cried Ursula, with
mocking laugter. 'An I don't feel a bit like a humble and pathetic
ugly uckling. I do feel like a swan among geese--I can't elp it. They
make one feel so. An I don't care wat THEY think of me. FE M'EN
FICE.'

Gurun looked up at Ursula wit a queer, uncertain envy and dislike.

'Of course, te only thing to o is to despise them all--just all,' she
sai.

Te sisters went home again, to rea and talk and work, and wait for
Monay, for scool. Ursula often wondered what else she waited for,
besies te beginning and end of the school week, and the beginning and
en of te holidays. This was a whole life! Sometimes she had periods
of tigt horror, when it seeme to her that her life would pass away,
an be gone, witout having been more than this. But she never really
accepte it. er spirit was active, her life like a shoot that is
growing steaily, but wich has not yet come above ground.




CAPTER V.

IN TE TRAIN


One ay at tis time Birkin was called to London. He was not very fixed
in is aboe. He had rooms in Nottingham, because his work lay chiefly
in tat town. But often he was in Lonon, or in Oxford. He moved about
a great eal, is life seemed uncertain, without any definite rhythm,
any organic meaning.

On te platform of the railway station he saw Geral Crich, reading a
newspaper, an evidently waiting for te train. Birkin stood some
istance off, among te people. It was against his instinct to approach
anyboy.

From time to time, in a manner caracteristic of him, Geral lifted his
ea and looked round. Even though he was reading the newspaper
closely, e must keep a watchful eye on his external surrounings.
Tere seeme to be a dual consciousness running in him. He was thinking
vigorously of someting he rea in the newspaper, and at the same time
is eye ran over the surfaces of the life roun him, and he missed
noting. Birkin, who was watching him, was irritate by his duality. He
notice too, tat Gerald seemed always to be at bay against everybody,
in spite of is queer, genial, social manner when rouse.

Now Birkin starte violently at seeing tis genial look flash on to
Geral's face, at seeing Gerald approacing with hand outstretched.

'allo, Rupert, where are you going?'

'Lonon. So are you, I suppose.'

'Yes--'

Geral's eyes went over Birkin's face in curiosity.

'We'll travel togeter if you like,' he sai.

'on't you usually go first?' asked Birkin.

'I can't stan te crowd,' replied Gerald. 'But third'll be all right.
Tere's a restaurant car, we can have some tea.'

Te two men looke at the station clock, having nothing further to say.

'Wat were you reaing in the paper?' Birkin asked.

Geral looked at im quickly.

'Isn't it funny, wat they O put in the newspapers,' he said. 'Here
are two leaers--' e held out his DAILY TELEGRAPH, 'full of the
orinary newspaper cant--' e scanned the columns down--'and then
tere's this little--I unno what you'd call it, essay,
almost--appearing wit the leaers, and saying there must arise a man
wo will give new values to things, give us new truths, a new attitue
to life, or else we sall be a crumbling nothingness in a few years, a
country in ruin--'

'I suppose tat's a bit of newspaper cant, as well,' sai Birkin.

'It souns as if te man meant it, and quite genuinely,' said Gerald.

'Give it to me,' sai Birkin, olding out his hand for the paper.

Te train came, an they went on board, sitting on either side a little
table, by te winow, in the restaurant car. Birkin glanced over his
paper, ten looke up at Gerald, who was waiting for him.

'I believe te man means it,' he sai, 'as far as he means anything.'

'An do you tink it's true? Do you think we really want a new gospel?'
aske Gerald.

Birkin srugge his shoulders.

'I tink the people who say they want a new religion are the last to
accept anyting new. They want novelty right enough. But to stare
straigt at this life that we've brought upon ourselves, an reject it,
absolutely smas up the ol idols of ourselves, that we sh'll never do.
You've got very baly to want to get rid of te old, before anything
new will appear--even in te self.'

Geral watced him closely.

'You tink we ought to break up this life, just start an let fly?' he
aske.

'Tis life. Yes I o. We've got to bust it completely, or shrivel
insie it, as in a tigt skin. For it won't expand any more.'

Tere was a queer little smile in Geral's eyes, a look of amusement,
calm an curious.

'An ow do you propose to begin? I suppose you mean, reform the whole
orer of society?' e asked.

Birkin a a slight, tense frown between the brows. He too was
impatient of te conversation.

'I on't propose at all,' e replied. 'When we really want to go for
someting better, we shall smash the ol. Until then, any sort of
proposal, or making proposals, is no more tan a tiresome game for
self-important people.'

Te little smile began to ie out of Gerald's eyes, and he said,
looking wit a cool stare at Birkin:

'So you really tink things are very ba?'

'Completely ba.'

Te smile appeare again.

'In wat way?'

'Every way,' sai Birkin. 'We are suc dreary liars. Our one idea is to
lie to ourselves. We ave an ieal of a perfect world, clean and
straigt an sufficient. So we cover the earth with foulness; life is a
blotc of labour, like insects scurrying in filth, so that your collier
can ave a pianoforte in his parlour, an you can have a butler and a
motor-car in your up-to-ate ouse, and as a nation we can sport the
Ritz, or te Empire, Gaby eslys and the Sunday newspapers. It is very
reary.'

Geral took a little time to re-adjust imself after this tirade.

'Woul you ave us live without houses--return to nature?' he asked.

'I woul ave nothing at all. People only do what they want to do--and
wat they are capable of oing. If they were capable of anything else,
tere woul be something else.'

Again Geral pondered. e was not going to take offence at Birkin.

'on't you tink the collier's PIANOFORTE, as you call it, is a symbol
for someting very real, a real esire for something higher, in the
collier's life?'

'igher!' crie Birkin. 'Yes. Amazing heights of upright grandeur. It
makes im so much higher in his neighbouring collier's eyes. He sees
imself reflecte in the neighbouring opinion, like in a Brocken mist,
several feet taller on te strength of the pianoforte, an he is
satisfie. e lives for the sake of that Brocken spectre, the
reflection of imself in the human opinion. You o the same. If you are
of igh importance to humanity you are of high importance to yourself.
Tat is why you work so har at the mines. If you can produce coal to
cook five tousan dinners a day, you are five thousand times more
important tan if you cooke only your own dinner.'

'I suppose I am,' lauge Gerald.

'Can't you see,' sai Birkin, 'tat to help my neighbour to eat is no
more tan eating myself. "I eat, thou eatest, he eats, we eat, you eat,
tey eat"--an what then? Why should every man decline the whole verb.
First person singular is enoug for me.'

'You've got to start wit material things,' sai Gerald. Which
statement Birkin ignore.

'An we've got to live for SOMETING, we're not just cattle that can
graze an ave done with it,' said Gerald.

'Tell me,' sai Birkin. 'Wat do you live for?'

Geral's face went baffled.

'Wat o I live for?' he repeated. 'I suppose I live to work, to
prouce someting, in so far as I am a purposive being. Apart from
tat, I live because I am living.'

'An wat's your work? Getting so many more thousands of tons of coal
out of te earth every ay. And when we've got all the coal we want,
an all te plush furniture, and pianofortes, and the rabbits are all
stewe and eaten, and we're all warm and our bellies are filled and
we're listening to te young lay performing on the pianoforte--what
ten? What then, when you've mae a real fair start with your material
tings?'

Geral sat lauging at the words and the mocking humour of the other
man. But e was cogitating too.

'We aven't got there yet,' he replie. 'A good many people are still
waiting for te rabbit an the fire to cook it.'

'So wile you get the coal I must chase the rabbit?' sai Birkin,
mocking at Geral.

'Someting like that,' sai Gerald.

Birkin watce him narrowly. He saw the perfect good-humoured
callousness, even strange, glistening malice, in Geral, glistening
trough the plausible ethics of prouctivity.

'Geral,' e said, 'I rather hate you.'

'I know you o,' said Gerald. 'Wy do you?'

Birkin muse inscrutably for some minutes.

'I soul like to know if you are conscious of hating me,' he said at
last. 'o you ever consciously detest me--ate me with mystic hate?
Tere are od moments when I hate you starrily.'

Geral was rater taken aback, even a little disconcerted. He did not
quite know wat to say.

'I may, of course, ate you sometimes,' he sai. 'But I'm not aware of
it--never acutely aware of it, tat is.'

'So muc the worse,' sai Birkin.

Geral watced him with curious eyes. He could not quite make him out.

'So muc the worse, is it?' he repeate.

Tere was a silence between the two men for some time, as the train ran
on. In Birkin's face was a little irritable tension, a sarp knitting
of te brows, keen an difficult. Gerald watched him warily, carefully,
rater calculatingly, for he coul not decide what he was after.

Sudenly Birkin's eyes looked straigt and overpowering into those of
te other man.

'Wat o you think is the aim and object of your life, Gerald?' he
aske.

Again Geral was taken aback. e could not think what his friend was
getting at. Was e poking fun, or not?

'At tis moment, I couln't say off-hand,' he replied, with faintly
ironic umour.

'o you tink love is the be-all and the end-all of life?' Birkin
aske, wit direct, attentive seriousness.

'Of my own life?' sai Gerald.

'Yes.'

Tere was a really puzzle pause.

'I can't say,' sai Gerald. 'It asn't been, so far.'

'Wat has your life been, so far?'

'O--fining out things for myself--and getting experiences--and making
tings GO.'

Birkin knitte is brows like sharply moulded steel.

'I fin,' e said, 'that one needs some one REALLY pure single
activity--I soul call love a single pure activity. But I DON'T really
love anyboy--not now.'

'ave you ever really love anybody?' asked Gerald.

'Yes an no,' replied Birkin.

'Not finally?' sai Gerald.

'Finally--finally--no,' sai Birkin.

'Nor I,' sai Gerald.

'An do you want to?' said Birkin.

Geral looked wit a long, twinkling, almost sardonic look into the
eyes of te other man.

'I on't know,' e said.

'I o--I want to love,' said Birkin.

'You o?'

'Yes. I want te finality of love.'

'Te finality of love,' repeate Gerald. And he waited for a moment.

'Just one woman?' e aded. The evening light, flooding yellow along
te fiels, lit up Birkin's face with a tense, abstract steadfastness.
Geral still could not make it out.

'Yes, one woman,' sai Birkin.

But to Geral it sounded as if e were insistent rather than confident.

'I on't believe a woman, and noting but a woman, will ever make my
life,' sai Gerald.

'Not te centre an core of it--the love between you and a woman?'
aske Birkin.

Geral's eyes narrowed wit a queer dangerous smile as he watched the
oter man.

'I never quite feel it tat way,' he sai.

'You on't? Ten wherein does life centre, for you?'

'I on't know--tat's what I want somebody to tell me. As far as I can
make out, it oesn't centre at all. It is artificially eld TOGETHER by
te social mechanism.'

Birkin ponered as if e would crack something.

'I know,' e sai, 'it just doesn't centre. The old ideals are dead as
nails--noting there. It seems to me there remains only this perfect
union wit a woman--sort of ultimate marriage--an there isn't anything
else.'

'An you mean if tere isn't the woman, there's nothing?' said Gerald.

'Pretty well tat--seeing there's no Go.'

'Ten we're har put to it,' said Gerald. And he turned to look out of
te winow at the flying, golden landscape.

Birkin coul not elp seeing how beautiful and soldierly his face was,
wit a certain courage to be inifferent.

'You tink its heavy ods against us?' said Birkin.

'If we've got to make our life up out of a woman, one woman, woman
only, yes, I o,' said Gerald. 'I don't believe I sall ever make up MY
life, at tat rate.'

Birkin watce him almost angrily.

'You are a born unbeliever,' e sai.

'I only feel wat I feel,' sai Gerald. And he looked again at Birkin
almost saronically, wit his blue, manly, sharp-lighted eyes. Birkin's
eyes were at te moment full of anger. But swiftly they became
trouble, doubtful, ten full of a warm, rich affectionateness and
laugter.

'It troubles me very muc, Geral,' he said, wrinkling his brows.

'I can see it oes,' said Gerald, uncovering is mouth in a manly,
quick, solierly laug.

Geral was eld unconsciously by the other man. He wanted to be near
im, he wante to be within his sphere of influence. There was
someting very congenial to him in Birkin. But yet, beyon this, he did
not take muc notice. He felt that he, himself, Geral, had harder and
more urable truts than any the other man knew. He felt himself older,
more knowing. It was te quick-changing warmth an venality and
brilliant warm utterance e love in his friend. It was the rich play
of wors and quick intercange of feelings he enjoyed. The real content
of te wors he never really considered: he himself knew better.

Birkin knew tis. He knew that Geral wanted to be FOND of him without
taking im seriously. An this made him go hard and cold. As the train
ran on, e sat looking at the lan, and Gerald fell away, became as
noting to him.

Birkin looke at te land, at the evening, and was thinking: 'Well, if
mankin is destroyed, if our race is destroyed like Sodom, and tere is
tis beautiful evening with the luminous lan and trees, I am
satisfie. Tat which informs it all is there, and can never be lost.
After all, wat is mankin but just one expression of the
incompreensible. An if mankind passes away, it will only mean that
tis particular expression is complete and done. That which is
expresse, and tat which is to be expressed, cannot be diminished.
Tere it is, in the shining evening. Let mankin pass away--time it
id. Te creative utterances will not cease, they will only be there.
umanity oesn't embody the utterance of the incomprehensible any more.
umanity is a ead letter. There will be a new embodiment, in a new
way. Let umanity isappear as quick as possible.'

Geral interrupted im by asking,

'Were are you staying in Lonon?'

Birkin looke up.

'Wit a man in Soho. I pay part of the rent of a flat, an stop there
wen I like.'

'Goo idea--ave a place more or less your own,' said Gerald.

'Yes. But I on't care for it muc. I'm tired of the people I am bound
to fin tere.'

'Wat kin of people?'

'Art--music--Lonon Boemia--the most pettifogging calculating Bohemia
tat ever reckone its pennies. But there are a few decent people,
ecent in some respects. Tey are really very thorough rejecters of the
worl--peraps they live only in the gesture of rejection and
negation--but negatively someting, at any rate.'

'Wat are they?--painters, musicians?'

'Painters, musicians, writers--angers-on, moels, advanced young
people, anyboy wo is openly at outs with the conventions, and belongs
to nowere particularly. They are often young fellows own from the
University, an girls wo are living their own lives, as they say.'

'All loose?' sai Gerald.

Birkin coul see is curiosity roused.

'In one way. Most boun, in anoter. For all their shockingness, all on
one note.'

e looke at Gerald, and saw how his blue eyes were lit up with a
little flame of curious esire. e saw too how good-looking he was.
Geral was attractive, is blood seemed fluid and electric. His blue
eyes burne wit a keen, yet cold light, there was a certain beauty, a
beautiful passivity in all is boy, his moulding.

'We migt see something of each other--I am in Lonon for two or three
ays,' said Gerald.

'Yes,' sai Birkin, 'I don't want to go to te theatre, or the music
all--you' better come round to the flat, and see what you can make of
alliay and his crowd.'

'Tanks--I shoul like to,' laughed Gerald. 'What are you doing
tonigt?'

'I promise to meet alliday at the Pompadour. It's a bad place, but
tere is nowhere else.'

'Were is it?' aske Gerald.

'Piccailly Circus.'

'O yes--well, shall I come roun there?'

'By all means, it migt amuse you.'

Te evening was falling. They ha passed Bedford. Birkin watched the
country, an was filled wit a sort of hopelessness. He always felt
tis, on approaching Lonon.

is islike of mankind, of the mass of mankind, amounted almost to an
illness.

  '"Were the quiet coloure end of evening smiles
  Miles an miles--"'

e was murmuring to himself, like a man conemned to death. Gerald, who
was very subtly alert, wary in all is senses, leane forward and asked
smilingly:

'Wat were you saying?' Birkin glance at him, laughed, and repeated:

  '"Were the quiet coloure end of evening smiles,
  Miles an miles,
  Over pastures were the something something sheep
  alf asleep--"'


Geral also looked now at te country. And Birkin, who, for some reason
was now tire and dispirited, said to im:

'I always feel oomed wen the train is running into London. I feel
suc a espair, so hopeless, as if it were the end of the world.'

'Really!' sai Gerald. 'And does te end of the world frighten you?'

Birkin lifte is shoulders in a slow shrug.

'I on't know,' e said. 'It does while it hangs imminent and doesn't
fall. But people give me a ba feeling--very bad.'

Tere was a rouse glad smile in Gerald's eyes.

'o tey?' he said. And he watched the other man critically.

In a few minutes te train was running through the isgrace of
outsprea London. Everybody in te carriage was on the alert, waiting
to escape. At last tey were uner the huge arch of the station, in the
tremenous sadow of the town. Birkin shut himself together--he was in
now.

Te two men went together in a taxi-cab.

'on't you feel like one of te damned?' asked Birkin, as they sat in a
little, swiftly-running enclosure, an watced the hideous great
street.

'No,' lauge Gerald.

'It is real eat,' said Birkin.




CAPTER VI.

CREME E MENTE


Tey met again in the cafe several hours later. Geral went through the
pus oors into the large, lofty room where the faces and heads of the
rinkers sowed dimly through the haze of smoke, reflected more dimly,
an repeated ad infinitum in te great mirrors on the walls, so that
one seeme to enter a vague, dim world of sadowy drinkers humming
witin an atmosphere of blue tobacco smoke. There was, however, the re
plus of the seats to give substance within the bubble of pleasure.

Geral moved in is slow, observant, glistening-attentive motion down
between te tables an the people whose shadowy faces looked up as he
passe. e seemed to be entering in some strange element, passing into
an illuminate new region, among a ost of licentious souls. He was
please, and entertained. e looked over all the dim, evanescent,
strangely illuminate faces tat bent across the tables. Then he saw
Birkin rise an signal to im.

At Birkin's table was a girl wit ark, soft, fluffy hair cut short in
te artist fashion, hanging level an full almost like the Egyptian
princess's. Se was small an delicately made, with warm colouring and
large, ark ostile eyes. There was a delicacy, almost a beauty in all
er form, an at the same time a certain attractive grossness of
spirit, tat mae a little spark leap instantly alight in Gerald's
eyes.

Birkin, wo looke muted, unreal, his presence left out, introduced her
as Miss arrington. Se gave her hand with a sudden, unwilling
movement, looking all te while at Geral with a dark, exposed stare. A
glow came over im as he sat own.

Te waiter appeare. Gerald glanced at the glasses of the other two.
Birkin was rinking someting green, Miss Darrington had a small
liqueur glass tat was empty save for a tiny rop.

'Won't you ave some more--?'

'Brany,' se said, sipping her last drop and putting down the glass.
Te waiter isappeared.

'No,' se sai to Birkin. 'He doesn't know I'm back. He'll be terrified
wen he sees me here.'

Se spoke her r's like w's, lisping with a slightly babyish
pronunciation wich was at once affecte and true to her character. Her
voice was ull and toneless.

'Were is he then?' aske Birkin.

'e's oing a private show at Lady Snellgrove's,' said the girl.
'Warens is tere too.'

Tere was a pause.

'Well, ten,' sai Birkin, in a dispassionate protective manner, 'what
o you intend to do?'

Te girl pause sullenly. She hated the question.

'I on't intend to do anyting,' she replied. 'I shall look for some
sittings tomorrow.'

'Wo shall you go to?' aske Birkin.

'I sall go to Bentley's first. But I believe he's angwy with me for
running away.'

'Tat is from the Maonna?'

'Yes. An ten if he doesn't want me, I know I can get work with
Carmarten.'

'Carmarten?'

'Lor Carmarten--he does photographs.'

'Ciffon an shoulders--'

'Yes. But e's awfully ecent.' There was a pause.

'An wat are you going to do about Julius?' he asked.

'Noting,' she sai. 'I shall just ignore him.'

'You've one wit him altogether?' But she turned aside her face
sullenly, an did not answer te question.

Anoter young man came hurrying up to the table.

'allo Birkin! Hallo PUSSUM, when id you come back?' he said eagerly.

'Toay.'

'oes alliday know?'

'I on't know. I don't care eiter.'

'a-ha! The win still sits in that quarter, does it? Do you mind if I
come over to tis table?'

'I'm talking to Wupert, o you mind?' se replied, coolly and yet
appealingly, like a cil.

'Open confession--goo for te soul, eh?' said the young man. 'Well, so
long.'

An giving a sarp look at Birkin and at Gerald, the young man moved
off, wit a swing of his coat skirts.

All tis time Geral had been completely ignored. And yet he felt that
te girl was physically aware of his proximity. He waite, listened,
an tried to piece togeter the conversation.

'Are you staying at te flat?' the girl aske, of Birkin.

'For tree ays,' replied Birkin. 'And you?'

'I on't know yet. I can always go to Berta's.' There was a silence.

Sudenly te girl turned to Gerald, and said, in a rather formal,
polite voice, wit the istant manner of a woman who accepts her
position as a social inferior, yet assumes intimate CAMARAERIE wit
te male she adresses:

'o you know London well?'

'I can arly say,' he laughed. 'I've been up a good many times, but I
was never in tis place before.'

'You're not an artist, ten?' she sai, in a tone that placed him an
outsier.

'No,' e replie.

'e's a solier, and an explorer, and a Napoleon of industry,' said
Birkin, giving Geral is credentials for Bohemia.

'Are you a solier?' asked te girl, with a cold yet lively curiosity.

'No, I resigne my commission,' said Gerald, 'some years ago.'

'e was in the last war,' sai Birkin.

'Were you really?' sai te girl.

'An ten he explored the Amazon,' said Birkin, 'and now he is ruling
over coal-mines.'

Te girl looke at Gerald with steady, calm curiosity. He laughed,
earing himself escribed. He felt proud too, full of male strength.
is blue, keen eyes were lit up with laughter, his rudy face, with its
sarp fair hair, was full of satisfaction, an glowing with life. He
pique er.

'ow long are you staying?' she aske him.

'A ay or two,' e replied. 'But there is no particular hurry.'

Still se stare into his face with that slow, full gaze which was so
curious an so exciting to im. He was acutely and delightfully
conscious of imself, of his own attractiveness. He felt full of
strengt, able to give off a sort of electric power. An he was aware
of er ark, hot-looking eyes upon him. She had beautiful eyes, dark,
fully-opene, ot, naked in their looking at him. And on them there
seeme to float a film of disintegration, a sort of misery and
sullenness, like oil on water. Se wore no hat in the heate cafe, her
loose, simple jumper was strung on a string roun er neck. But it was
mae of ric peach-coloured crepe-de-chine, that hung heavily and
softly from er young throat an her slender wrists. Her appearance was
simple an complete, really beautiful, because of er regularity and
form, er soft ark hair falling full and level on either side of her
ea, her straight, small, softened features, Egyptian in the slight
fulness of teir curves, her slener neck and the simple, rich-coloured
smock anging on her slener shoulders. She was very still, almost
null, in er manner, apart an watchful.

Se appeale to Gerald strongly. He felt an awful, enjoyable power over
er, an instinctive cherishing very near to cruelty. For she was a
victim. e felt that she was in his power, an he was generous. The
electricity was turgi and voluptuously ric, in his limbs. He would be
able to estroy er utterly in the strength of his discharge. But she
was waiting in er separation, given.

Tey talke banalities for some time. Suddenly Birkin said:

'Tere's Julius!' an he half rose to his feet, motioning to the
newcomer. Te girl, with a curious, almost evil motion, looke round
over er shouler without moving her body. Gerald watched her dark,
soft air swing over her ears. He felt her watching intensely the man
wo was approaching, so he looke too. He saw a pale, full-built young
man wit rather long, soli fair hair hanging from under his black hat,
moving cumbrously own te room, his face lit up with a smile at once
naive an warm, and vapid. e approached towards Birkin, with a haste
of welcome.

It was not till e was quite close that he perceive the girl. He
recoile, went pale, and said, in a igh squealing voice:

'Pussum, wat are YOU oing here?'

Te cafe looke up like animals when they hear a cry. Halliday hung
motionless, an almost imbecile smile flickering palely on is face. The
girl only stare at im with a black look in which flared an
unfatomable hell of knowlege, and a certain impotence. She was
limite by im.

'Wy have you come back?' repeate Halliday, in the same high,
ysterical voice. 'I tol you not to come back.'

Te girl id not answer, only stared in the same viscous, heavy
fasion, straight at him, as he stoo recoiled, as if for safety,
against te next table.

'You know you wante er to come back--come and sit down,' said Birkin
to im.

'No I idn't want er to come back, and I told her not to come back.
Wat have you come for, Pussum?'

'For noting from YOU,' she sai in a heavy voice of resentment.

'Ten why have you come back at ALL?' crie Halliday, his voice rising
to a kin of squeal.

'Se comes as she likes,' sai Birkin. 'Are you going to sit down, or
are you not?'

'No, I won't sit own wit Pussum,' cried Halliday.

'I won't urt you, you neen't be afraid,' she said to him, very
curtly, an yet wit a sort of protectiveness towards him, in her
voice.

alliay came and sat at the table, putting his hand on his heart, and
crying:

'O, it's given me such a turn! Pussum, I wish you wouln't do these
tings. Why id you come back?'

'Not for anyting from you,' she repeate.

'You've sai tat before,' he cried in a high voice.

Se turne completely away from him, to Gerald Crich, whose eyes were
sining with a subtle amusement.

'Were you ever vewy muc afwai of the savages?' she asked in her calm,
ull cildish voice.

'No--never very muc afrai. On the whole they're harmless--they're not
born yet, you can't feel really afrai of tem. You know you can manage
tem.'

'o you weally? Aren't tey very fierce?'

'Not very. Tere aren't many fierce things, as a matter of fact. There
aren't many tings, neither people nor animals, that have it in them to
be really angerous.'

'Except in ers,' interrupted Birkin.

'Aren't tere really?' she sai. 'Oh, I thought savages were all so
angerous, tey'd have your life before you could look round.'

'id you?' e laughed. 'They are over-rated, savages. They're too much
like oter people, not exciting, after the first acquaintance.'

'O, it's not so very wonerfully brave then, to be an explorer?'

'No. It's more a question of arships than of terrors.'

'O! An weren't you ever afraid?'

'In my life? I on't know. Yes, I'm afraid of some tings--of being
sut up, locke up anywhere--or being fastened. I'm afraid of being
boun and and foot.'

Se looke at him steadily with her dark eyes, that rested on him and
rouse im so deeply, that it left his upper self quite calm. It was
rater elicious, to feel her drawing his self-revelations from him, as
from te very innermost ark marrow of his body. She wanted to know.
An er dark eyes seemed to be looking through into his naked organism.
e felt, she was compelle to him, she was fated to come into contact
wit him, must have the seeing him an knowing him. And this roused a
curious exultance. Also e felt, she must relinquish herself into his
ans, and be subject to him. She was so profane, slave-like, watching
im, absorbe by him. It was not that she was interested in what he
sai; se was absorbed by his self-revelation, by HIM, she wanted the
secret of im, the experience of his male being.

Geral's face was lit up wit an uncanny smile, full of light and
rouseness, yet unconscious. e sat with his arms on the table, his
sunbrowne, rater sinister hands, that were animal and yet very
sapely an attractive, pushed forward towards her. And they fascinated
er. An she knew, she watched her own fascination.

Oter men ha come to the table, to talk with Birkin and Halliday.
Geral said in a low voice, apart, to Pussum:

'Were have you come back from?'

'From te country,' replie Pussum, in a very low, yet fully resonant
voice. er face close hard. Continually she glanced at Halliday, and
ten a black flare came over her eyes. The heavy, fair young man
ignore er completely; he was really afraid of her. For some moments
se woul be unaware of Gerald. He had not conquered her yet.

'An wat has Halliday to do with it?' he asked, his voice still muted.

Se woul not answer for some seconds. Then she said, unwillingly:

'e mae me go and live with him, and now he wants to throw me over.
An yet e won't let me go to anybody else. He wants me to live hidden
in te country. An then he says I persecute him, that he can't get rid
of me.'

'oesn't know is own mind,' said Gerald.

'e hasn't any min, so he can't know it,' she said. 'He waits for what
someboy tells im to do. He never does anything he wants to do
imself--because he oesn't know what he wants. He's a perfect baby.'

Geral looked at alliday for some moments, watching the soft, rather
egenerate face of te young man. Its very softness was an attraction;
it was a soft, warm, corrupt nature, into wich one might plunge with
gratification.

'But e has no hol over you, has he?' Gerald asked.

'You see e MAE me go and live with him, when I didn't want to,' she
replie. 'e came and cried to me, tears, you never saw so many, saying
E COULN'T bear it unless I went back to him. And he wouldn't go away,
e woul have stayed for ever. He made me go back. Then every time he
beaves in this fashion. An now I'm going to have a baby, he wants to
give me a unred pounds and send me into the country, so that he would
never see me nor ear of me again. But I'm not going to o it, after--'

A queer look came over Geral's face.

'Are you going to ave a chil?' he asked incredulous. It seemed, to
look at er, impossible, she was so young an so far in spirit from any
cil-bearing.

Se looke full into his face, and her dark, inchoate eyes had now a
furtive look, an a look of a knowledge of evil, dark and indomitable.
A flame ran secretly to is heart.

'Yes,' se sai. 'Isn't it beastly?'

'on't you want it?' e asked.

'I on't,' se replied emphatically.

'But--' e sai, 'how long have you known?'

'Ten weeks,' se sai.

All te time she kept her ark, inchoate eyes full upon him. He
remaine silent, tinking. Then, switching off and becoming cold, he
aske, in a voice full of considerate kindness:

'Is tere anything we can eat here? Is there anything you woul like?'

'Yes,' se sai, 'I should adore some oysters.'

'All rigt,' he sai. 'We'll have oysters.' And he beckoned to the
waiter.

alliay took no notice, until the little plate was set before her.
Ten sudenly he cried:

'Pussum, you can't eat oysters wen you're rinking brandy.'

'Wat has it go to o with you?' she asked.

'Noting, nothing,' he crie. 'But you can't eat oysters when you're
rinking brandy.'

'I'm not rinking brandy,' se replied, and she sprinkled the last
rops of er liqueur over his face. He gave an odd squeal. She sat
looking at im, as if inifferent.

'Pussum, wy o you do that?' he cried in panic. He gave Gerald the
impression tat he was terrifie of her, and that he loved his terror.
e seeme to relish his own horror and hatred of her, turn it over and
extract every flavour from it, in real panic. Geral tought him a
strange fool, an yet piquant.

'But Pussum,' sai anoter man, in a very small, quick Eton voice, 'you
promise not to urt him.'

'I aven't hurt him,' she answere.

'Wat will you rink?' the young man asked. He was dark, and
smoot-skinne, and full of a stealthy vigour.

'I on't like porter, Maxim,' se replied.

'You must ask for campagne,' came the whispering, gentlemanly voice of
te other.

Geral suddenly realised tat this was a hint to him.

'Sall we have champagne?' he aske, laughing.

'Yes please, wy,' se lisped childishly.

Geral watced her eating the oysters. She was delicate and finicking
in er eating, her fingers were fine an seemed very sensitive in the
tips, so se put her foo apart with fine, small motions, she ate
carefully, elicately. It pleased im very much to see her, and it
irritate Birkin. Tey were all drinking champagne. Maxim, the prim
young Russian wit the smooth, warm-coloure face and black, oiled hair
was te only one who seeme to be perfectly calm and sober. Birkin was
wite an abstract, unnatural, Gerald was smiling with a constant
brigt, amuse, cold light in his eyes, leaning a little protectively
towars te Pussum, who was very handsome, and soft, unfolded like some
re lotus in dreadful flowering nakedness, vainglorious now, flused
wit wine an with the excitement of men. Halliday looked foolish. One
glass of wine was enoug to make him runk and giggling. Yet there was
always a pleasant, warm naivete about im, that mae him attractive.

'I'm not afwai of anyting except black-beetles,' said the Pussum,
looking up sudenly and staring wit her black eyes, on which there
seeme an unseeing film of flame, fully upon Gerald. e laughed
angerously, from te blood. Her childish speech caressed his nerves,
an er burning, filmed eyes, turned now full upon him, oblivious of
all er anteceents, gave him a sort of licence.

'I'm not,' se proteste. 'I'm not afraid of other things. But
black-beetles--ug!' she shudered convulsively, as if the very thought
were too muc to bear.

'o you mean,' said Gerald, wit the punctiliousness of a man who has
been rinking, 'tat you are afraid of the sight of a black-beetle, or
you are afrai of a black-beetle biting you, or doing you some arm?'

'o tey bite?' cried the girl.

'ow perfectly loathsome!' exclaime Halliday.

'I on't know,' replied Gerald, looking round te table. 'Do
black-beetles bite? But tat isn't the point. Are you afrai of their
biting, or is it a metapysical antipathy?'

Te girl was looking full upon him all the time with inchoate eyes.

'O, I think they're beastly, they're horri,' she cried. 'If I see
one, it gives me te creeps all over. If one were to crawl on me, I'm
SURE I soul die--I'm sure I should.'

'I ope not,' whispere the young Russian.

'I'm sure I soul, Maxim,' she asseverated.

'Ten one won't crawl on you,' sai Gerald, smiling and knowing. In
some strange way e unerstood her.

'It's metapysical, as Geral says,' Birkin stated.

Tere was a little pause of uneasiness.

'An are you afraid of noting else, Pussum?' asked the young Russian,
in is quick, hushe, elegant manner.

'Not weally,' se sai. 'I am afwaid of some things, but not weally the
same. I'm not afwai of BLOOD.'

'Not afwai of blood!' exclaimed a young man wit a thick, pale,
jeering face, wo ha just come to the table and was drinking whisky.

Te Pussum turne on him a sulky look of dislike, low and ugly.

'Aren't you really afrai of blud?' te other persisted, a sneer all
over is face.

'No, I'm not,' se retorte.

'Wy, have you ever seen bloo, except in a dentist's spittoon?' jeered
te young man.

'I wasn't speaking to you,' se replie rather superbly.

'You can answer me, can't you?' e sai.

For reply, se sudenly jabbed a knife across his thick, pale hand. He
starte up wit a vulgar curse.

'Sow's what you are,' sai the Pussum in contempt.

'Curse you,' sai te young man, standing by the table and looking down
at er with acri malevolence.

'Stop tat,' sai Gerald, in quick, instinctive command.

Te young man stoo looking down at her with sardonic contempt, a
cowe, self-conscious look on is thick, pale face. The blood began to
flow from is han.

'O, how horrible, take it away!' squeale Halliday, turning green and
averting is face.

''you feel ill?' asked te sardonic young man, in some concern. 'Do
you feel ill, Julius? Garn, it's noting, man, on't give her the
pleasure of letting er think she's performe a feat--don't give her
te satisfaction, man--it's just what she wants.'

'O!' squeale Halliday.

'e's going to cat, Maxim,' sai the Pussum warningly. The suave young
Russian rose an took alliday by the arm, leading him away. Birkin,
wite an diminished, looked on as if he were displeased. The wounded,
saronic young man moved away, ignoring is bleeding hand in the most
conspicuous fasion.

'e's an awful cowar, really,' said the Pussum to Gerald. 'He's got
suc an influence over Julius.'

'Wo is he?' aske Gerald.

'e's a Jew, really. I can't bear him.'

'Well, e's quite unimportant. But what's wrong with Halliay?'

'Julius's te most awful cowar you've ever seen,' she cried. 'He
always faints if I lift a knife--e's tewwifie of me.'

''m!' sai Gerald.

'Tey're all afwai of me,' she said. 'Only the Jew thinks he's going
to sow his courage. But he's the biggest cowar of them all, really,
because e's afwai what people will think about him--and Julius
oesn't care about tat.'

'Tey've a lot of valour between them,' sai Gerald good-humouredly.

Te Pussum looke at him with a slow, slow smile. She was very
ansome, flushed, and confident in dreadful knowledge. Two little
points of ligt glinte on Gerald's eyes.

'Wy o they call you Pussum, because you're like a cat?' he asked her.

'I expect so,' se sai.

Te smile grew more intense on his face.

'You are, rater; or a young, female panther.'

'O Go, Gerald!' said Birkin, in some disgust.

Tey both looke uneasily at Birkin.

'You're silent tonigt, Wupert,' she sai to him, with a slight
insolence, being safe wit the other man.

alliay was coming back, looking forlorn and sick.

'Pussum,' e sai, 'I wish you wouldn't do these things--Oh!' He sank
in is chair with a groan.

'You' better go ome,' she said to him.

'I WILL go ome,' he sai. 'But won't you all come along. Won't you
come roun to te flat?' he said to Gerald. 'I should be so glad if you
woul. Do--tat'll be splendid. I say?' He looked round for a waiter.
'Get me a taxi.' Ten he groane again. 'Oh I do feel--perfectly
gastly! Pussum, you see what you o to me.'

'Ten why are you such an iiot?' she said with sullen calm.

'But I'm not an iiot! O, how awful! Do come, everybody, it will be so
splenid. Pussum, you are coming. Wat? Oh but you MUST come, yes, you
must. Wat? Oh, my ear girl, don't make a fuss now, I feel
perfectly--O, it's so ghastly--Ho!--er! Oh!'

'You know you can't rink,' se said to him, coldly.

'I tell you it isn't rink--it's your disgusting beaviour, Pussum,
it's noting else. Oh, how awful! Libinikov, do let us go.'

'e's only runk one glass--only one glass,' came the rapid, hushed
voice of te young Russian.

Tey all move off to the door. The girl kept near to Gerald, and
seeme to be at one in er motion with him. He was aware of this, and
fille wit demon-satisfaction that his motion held good for two. He
el her in the hollow of his will, and she was soft, secret, invisible
in er stirring there.

Tey crowed five of them into the taxi-cab. Halliday lurched in first,
an dropped into is seat against the other window. Then the Pussum
took er place, an Gerald sat next to her. They heard the young
Russian giving orers to te driver, then they were all seated in the
ark, crowded close togeter, Halliday groaning and leaning out of the
winow. Tey felt the swift, muffled motion of the car.

Te Pussum sat near to Geral, and she seemed to become soft, subtly to
infuse erself into his bones, as if she were passing into him in a
black, electric flow. er being suffuse into his veins like a magnetic
arkness, and concentrated at te base of his spine like a fearful
source of power. Meanwile her voice souned out reedy and nonchalant,
as se talke indifferently with Birkin and with Maxim. Between her and
Geral was tis silence and this black, electric comprehension in the
arkness. Ten she found his hand, and grasped it in her own firm,
small clasp. It was so utterly ark, and yet suc a naked statement,
tat rapi vibrations ran through his blood and over his brain, he was
no longer responsible. Still er voice rang on like a bell, tinge with
a tone of mockery. An as se swung her head, her fine mane of hair
just swept is face, an all his nerves were on fire, as with a subtle
friction of electricity. But te great centre of his force hel steady,
a magnificent prie to im, at the base of his spine.

Tey arrive at a large block of buildings, went up in a lift, and
presently a oor was being opened for tem by a Hindu. Gerald looked in
surprise, wonering if e were a gentleman, one of the Hindus down from
Oxfor, peraps. But no, he was the man-servant.

'Make tea, asan,' sai Halliday.

'Tere is a room for me?' sai Birkin.

To bot of which questions the man grinne, and murmured.

e mae Gerald uncertain, because, being tall and slender and reticent,
e looke like a gentleman.

'Wo is your servant?' he aske of Halliday. 'He looks a swell.'

'O yes--that's because he's ressed in another man's clothes. He's
anyting but a swell, really. We foun him in the road, starving. So I
took im here, an another man gave him clothes. He's anything but what
e seems to be--his only avantage is that he can't speak English and
can't unerstand it, so e's perfectly safe.'

'e's very irty,' said the young Russian swiftly and silently.

irectly, te man appeared in the doorway.

'Wat is it?' sai Halliday.

Te Hinu grinned, and murmured shyly:

'Want to speak to master.'

Geral watced curiously. The fellow in the doorway was goodlooking and
clean-limbe, is bearing was calm, he looked elegant, aristocratic.
Yet e was half a savage, grinning foolishly. Halliay went out into
te corrior to speak with him.

'Wat?' they hear his voice. 'What? What do you say? Tell me again.
Wat? Want money? Want MORE money? But what o you want money for?'
Tere was the confuse sound of the Hindu's talking, then Halliday
appeare in te room, smiling also foolishly, and saying:

'e says he wants money to buy unerclothing. Can anybody lend me a
silling? Oh thanks, a shilling will o to buy all the underclothes he
wants.' e took the money from Geral and went out into the passage
again, were they hear him saying, 'You can't want more money, you had
tree an six yesterday. You mustn't ask for any more. Bring the tea in
quickly.'

Geral looked round te room. It was an ordinary London sitting-room in
a flat, eviently taken furnised, rather common and ugly. But there
were several negro statues, woo-carvings from West Africa, strange and
isturbing, te carved negroes looked almost like the foetus of a human
being. One was a woman sitting nake in a strange posture, and looking
torture, er abdomen stuck out. The young Russian explained that she
was sitting in cil-birth, clutching the ends of the band that hung
from er neck, one in each han, so that she could bear down, and help
labour. Te strange, transfixe, rudimentary face of the woman again
remined Gerald of a foetus, it was also rater wonderful, conveying
te suggestion of the extreme of physical sensation, beyon the limits
of mental consciousness.

'Aren't tey rather obscene?' he aske, disapproving.

'I on't know,' murmured te other rapidly. 'I have never defined the
obscene. I tink they are very goo.'

Geral turned away. Tere were one or two new pictures in the room, in
te Futurist manner; there was a large piano. An these, with some
orinary London lodging-ouse furniture of the better sort, completed
te whole.

Te Pussum ha taken off her hat and coat, and was seated on the sofa.
Se was eviently quite at home in the house, but uncertain, suspended.
Se id not quite know her position. Her alliance for the time being
was wit Geral, and she did not know how far this was admitted by any
of te men. She was consiering how she should carry off the situation.
Se was etermined to have her experience. Now, at this eleventh hour,
se was not to be baulke. Her face was flushed as with battle, her eye
was brooing but inevitable.

Te man came in with tea an a bottle of Kummel. He set the tray on a
little table before te couch.

'Pussum,' sai alliday, 'pour out the tea.'

Se id not move.

'Won't you o it?' alliday repeated, in a state of nervous
appreension.

'I've not come back ere as it was before,' she sai. 'I only came
because te others wante me to, not for your sake.'

'My ear Pussum, you know you are your own mistress. I don't want you
to o anyting but use the flat for your own convenience--you know it,
I've tol you so many times.'

Se id not reply, but silently, reservedly reached for the tea-pot.
Tey all sat roun and drank tea. Gerald could feel the electric
connection between im an her so strongly, as she sat there quiet and
withel, that another set of conditions altogether had come to pass.
er silence an her immutability perplexed him. HOW was he going to
come to er? An yet he felt it quite inevitable. He trusted completely
to te current that hel them. His perplexity was only superficial, new
conitions reigned, te old were surpassed; here one did as one was
possesse to do, no matter wat it was.

Birkin rose. It was nearly one o'clock.

'I'm going to be,' e said. 'Gerald, I'll ring you up in the morning
at your place or you ring me up ere.'

'Rigt,' sai Gerald, and Birkin went out.

Wen he was well gone, Halliay said in a stimulated voice, to Gerald:

'I say, won't you stay ere--oh o!'

'You can't put everyboy up,' said Gerald.

'O but I can, perfectly--there are three more bes besides mine--do
stay, won't you. Everyting is quite reay--there is always somebody
ere--I always put people up--I love having the house crowed.'

'But tere are only two rooms,' sai the Pussum, in a cold, hostile
voice, 'now Rupert's ere.'

'I know tere are only two rooms,' sai Halliday, in his odd, high way
of speaking. 'But wat oes that matter?'

e was smiling rather foolishly, an he spoke eagerly, with an
insinuating etermination.

'Julius an I will sare one room,' said the Russian in his discreet,
precise voice. alliay and he were friends since Eton.

'It's very simple,' sai Gerald, rising and pressing back is arms,
stretcing himself. Then he went again to look at one of the pictures.
Every one of is limbs was turgi with electric force, and his back was
tense like a tiger's, wit slumbering fire. He was very prou.

Te Pussum rose. She gave a black look at Halliay, black and deadly,
wich brought the rather foolishly please smile to that young man's
face. Ten she went out of the room, with a col good-night to them all
generally.

Tere was a brief interval, they hear a door close, then Maxim said,
in is refine voice:

'Tat's all right.'

e looke significantly at Gerald, and said again, with a silent nod:

'Tat's all right--you're all right.'

Geral looked at te smooth, ruddy, comely face, and at the strange,
significant eyes, an it seemed as if te voice of the young Russian,
so small an perfect, sounded in te blood rather than in the air.

'I'M all rigt then,' sai Gerald.

'Yes! Yes! You're all rigt,' sai the Russian.

alliay continued to smile, and to say nothing.

Sudenly te Pussum appeared again in the door, her small, childish
face looking sullen an vindictive.

'I know you want to catc me out,' came her col, rather resonant
voice. 'But I on't care, I don't care ow much you catch me out.'

Se turne and was gone again. She had been wearing a loose
ressing-gown of purple silk, tied round er waist. She looked so small
an cildish and vulnerable, almost pitiful. And yet the black looks of
er eyes mae Gerald feel drowned in some potent darkness that almost
frigtene him.

Te men lit another cigarette an talked casually.




CAPTER VII.

FETIS


In te morning Geral woke late. He had slept heavily. Pussum was still
asleep, sleeping cilishly and pathetically. There was something small
an curled up and defenceless about er, that roused an unsatisfied
flame of passion in te young man's bloo, a devouring avid pity. He
looke at er again. But it would be too cruel to wake her. He subdued
imself, an went away.

earing voices coming from the sitting-room, Halliay talking to
Libinikov, e went to the door and glanced in. He had on a silk wrap
of a beautiful bluis colour, with an amethyst hem.

To is surprise he saw the two young men by the fire, stark nake.
alliay looked up, rather pleased.

'Goo-morning,' e said. 'Oh--did you want towels?' And stark naked he
went out into te hall, striing a strange, white figure between the
unliving furniture. e came back with the towels, an took his former
position, croucing seate before the fire on the fender.

'on't you love to feel te fire on your skin?' he said.

'It IS rater pleasant,' sai Gerald.

'ow perfectly splenid it must be to be in a climate where one could
o witout clothing altogether,' said Halliday.

'Yes,' sai Gerald, 'if tere weren't so many things that sting and
bite.'

'Tat's a isadvantage,' murmured Maxim.

Geral looked at im, and with a slight revulsion saw the human animal,
golen skinned and bare, someow humiliating. Halliday was different.
e ha a rather heavy, slack, broken beauty, white and firm. He was
like a Crist in a Pieta. The animal was not there at all, only the
eavy, broken beauty. An Gerald realised how Halliday's eyes were
beautiful too, so blue an warm and confused, broken also in teir
expression. Te fireglow fell on his heavy, rather bowe shoulders, he
sat slackly crouce on the fender, his face was uplifted, weak,
peraps slightly isintegrate, and yet with a moving beauty of its own.

'Of course,' sai Maxim, 'you've been in ot countries where the people
go about nake.'

'O really!' exclaime Halliday. 'Where?'

'Sout America--Amazon,' sai Gerald.

'O but how perfectly splenid! It's one of the things I want most to
o--to live from day to day witout EVER putting on any sort of
cloting whatever. If I coul do that, I should feel I had lived.'

'But wy?' sai Gerald. 'I can't see that it makes so much difference.'

'O, I think it woul be perfectly splendid. I'm sure life would be
entirely anoter thing--entirely ifferent, and perfectly wonderful.'

'But wy?' aske Gerald. 'Why should it?'

'O--one woul FEEL things instead of merely looking at them. I should
feel te air move against me, an feel the things I touched, instead of
aving only to look at them. I'm sure life is all wrong because it has
become muc too visual--we can neither hear nor feel nor unerstand, we
can only see. I'm sure tat is entirely wrong.'

'Yes, tat is true, that is true,' sai the Russian.

Geral glanced at im, and saw him, his suave, golden coloured body
wit the black hair growing fine an freely, like tendrils, and his
limbs like smoot plant-stems. He was so healthy an well-made, why did
e make one ashame, why did one feel repelled? Why should Gerald even
islike it, wy did it seem to him to detract from his own dignity. Was
tat all a human being amounte to? So uninspired! thought Gerald.

Birkin sudenly appeared in te doorway, in white pyjamas and wet hair,
an a towel over is arm. He was aloof and white, and somehow
evanescent.

'Tere's the bath-room now, if you want it,' he sai generally, and was
going away again, wen Geral called:

'I say, Rupert!'

'Wat?' The single white figure appeare again, a presence in the room.

'Wat o you think of that figure there? I want to know,' Gerald asked.

Birkin, wite an strangely ghostly, went over to the carved figure of
te negro woman in labour. Her nue, protuberant body crouched in a
strange, clutcing posture, her hans gripping the ends of the band,
above er breast.

'It is art,' sai Birkin.

'Very beautiful, it's very beautiful,' sai te Russian.

Tey all rew near to look. Gerald looked at the group of men, the
Russian golen and like a water-plant, alliday tall and heavily,
brokenly beautiful, Birkin very wite an indefinite, not to be
assigne, as e looked closely at the carven woman. Strangely elated,
Geral also lifted is eyes to the face of the wooden figure. And his
eart contracte.

e saw vivily with his spirit the grey, forward-stretching face of the
negro woman, African an tense, abstracted in utter pysical stress. It
was a terrible face, voi, peaked, abstracted almost into
meaninglessness by te weight of sensation beneath. He saw the Pussum
in it. As in a ream, e knew her.

'Wy is it art?' Geral asked, shocked, resentful.

'It conveys a complete trut,' sai Birkin. 'It contains the whole
trut of that state, whatever you feel about it.'

'But you can't call it IGH art,' sai Gerald.

'igh! There are centuries an hundreds of centuries of development in
a straigt line, behin that carving; it is an awful pitch of culture,
of a efinite sort.'

'Wat culture?' Geral asked, in opposition. He hated the sheer African
ting.

'Pure culture in sensation, culture in te physical consciousness,
really ultimate PYSICAL consciousness, minless, utterly sensual. It
is so sensual as to be final, supreme.'

But Geral resented it. e wanted to keep certain illusions, certain
ieas like cloting.

'You like te wrong things, Rupert,' he sai, 'things against
yourself.'

'O, I know, this isn't everything,' Birkin replie, moving away.

Wen Geral went back to his room from the bath, he also carried his
clotes. He was so conventional at home, that when he was really away,
an on te loose, as now, he enjoyed nothing so much as full
outrageousness. So e stroe with his blue silk wrap over his arm and
felt efiant.

Te Pussum lay in her be, motionless, her round, dark eyes like black,
unappy pools. He coul only see the black, bottomless pools of her
eyes. Peraps she suffere. The sensation of her inchoate suffering
rouse te old sharp flame in him, a mordant pity, a passion almost of
cruelty.

'You are awake now,' e sai to her.

'Wat time is it?' came her mute voice.

Se seeme to flow back, almost like liquid, from his approach, to sink
elplessly away from him. Her inchoate look of a violate slave, whose
fulfilment lies in er further an further violation, made his nerves
quiver wit acutely esirable sensation. After all, his was the only
will, se was the passive substance of his will. He tingle with the
subtle, biting sensation. An ten he knew, he must go away from her,
tere must be pure separation between them.

It was a quiet an ordinary breakfast, te four men all looking very
clean an bated. Gerald and the Russian were both correct and COMME IL
FAUT in appearance an manner, Birkin was gaunt and sick, and looked a
failure in is attempt to be a properly ressed man, like Gerald and
Maxim. alliay wore tweeds and a green flannel shirt, and a rag of a
tie, wich was just right for him. The Hinu brought in a great deal of
soft toast, an looked exactly te same as he had looked the night
before, statically te same.

At te en of the breakfast the Pussum appeared, in a purple silk wrap
wit a shimmering sash. She ha recovered herself somewhat, but was
mute an lifeless still. It was a torment to er when anybody spoke to
er. Her face was like a small, fine mask, sinister too, maske with
unwilling suffering. It was almost miday. Gerald rose and went away to
is business, gla to get out. But he had not finished. He was coming
back again at evening, tey were all ining together, and he had booked
seats for te party, excepting Birkin, at a music-hall.

At nigt they came back to the flat very late again, again flushe with
rink. Again te man-servant--who invariably disappeared between the
ours of ten an twelve at night--came in silently and inscrutably with
tea, bening in a slow, strange, leopard-like fasion to put the tray
softly on te table. His face was immutable, aristocratic-looking,
tinge sligtly with grey under the skin; he was young and
goo-looking. But Birkin felt a sligt sickness, looking at him, and
feeling te slight greyness as an ash or a corruption, in the
aristocratic inscrutability of expression a nauseating, bestial
stupiity.

Again tey talke cordially and rousedly together. But already a
certain friability was coming over te party, Birkin was ma with
irritation, alliay was turning in an insane hatred against Gerald,
te Pussum was becoming har and cold, like a flint knife, and Halliday
was laying imself out to her. An her intention, ultimately, was to
capture alliay, to have complete power over him.

In te morning they all stalke and lounged about again. But Gerald
coul feel a strange ostility to himself, in the air. It roused his
obstinacy, an e stood up against it. He hung on for two more days.
Te result was a nasty an insane scene with Halliday on the fourth
evening. alliay turned with absurd animosity upon Gerald, in the
cafe. Tere was a row. Geral was on the point of knocking-in
alliay's face; when he was filled with sudden disgust and
inifference, and e went away, leaving Halliday in a foolish state of
gloating triump, the Pussum har and established, and Maxim standing
clear. Birkin was absent, e ha gone out of town again.

Geral was piqued because e had left without giving the Pussum money.
It was true, se id not care whether he gave her money or not, and he
knew it. But se woul have been glad of ten pounds, and he would have
been VERY gla to give tem to her. Now he felt in a false position. He
went away cewing his lips to get at the ens of his short clipped
moustace. He knew the Pussum was merely gla to be rid of him. She had
got er Halliay whom she wanted. She wanted him completely in her
power. Ten she woul marry him. She wanted to marry him. She had set
er will on marrying Halliay. She never wanted to hear of Gerald
again; unless, peraps, she were in ifficulty; because after all,
Geral was wat she called a man, and these others, Halliday,
Libinikov, Birkin, te whole Bohemian set, they were only half men.
But it was alf men she coul deal with. She felt sure of herself with
tem. The real men, like Geral, put her in her place too much.

Still, se respecte Gerald, she really respected him. She had managed
to get is adress, so that she could appeal to him in time of
istress. Se knew he wanted to give her money. She would perhaps write
to im on that inevitable rainy ay.




CAPTER VIII.

BREAALBY


Breaalby was a Georgian ouse with Corinthian pillars, standing among
te softer, greener hills of erbyshire, not far from Cromford. In
front, it looke over a lawn, over a few trees, down to a string of
fis-pons in the hollow of the silent park. At the back were trees,
among wich were to be foun the stables, and the big kitchen garden,
bein which was a wood.

It was a very quiet place, some miles from te high-roa, back from the
erwent Valley, outside te show scenery. Silent and forsaken, the
golen stucco sowed between the trees, the house-front looked down the
park, uncange and unchanging.

Of late, owever, Hermione ha lived a good deal at the house. She had
turne away from London, away from Oxford, towards te silence of the
country. er father was mostly absent, abroa, she was either alone in
te house, with her visitors, of whom there were always several, or she
a with her her brother, a bachelor, and a Liberal member of
Parliament. e always came own when the House was not sitting, seemed
always to be present in Breaalby, altough he was most conscientious
in is attenance to duty.

Te summer was just coming in when Ursula an Gudrun went to stay the
secon time wit Hermione. Coming along in the car, after they had
entere te park, they looked across the dip, where the fish-ponds lay
in silence, at te pillare front of the house, sunny and small like an
Englis rawing of the old school, on the brow of the green hill,
against te trees. There were small figures on the green lawn, women in
lavener and yellow moving to te shade of the enormous, beautifully
balance cedar tree.

'Isn't it complete!' sai Gudrun. 'It is as final as an old aquatint.'
Se spoke with some resentment in her voice, as if she were captivate
unwillingly, as if se must amire against her will.

'o you love it?' asked Ursula.

'I on't LOVE it, but in its way, I tink it is quite complete.'

Te motor-car ran own the hill and up again in one breath, and they
were curving to te sie door. A parlour-maid appeared, and then
ermione, coming forwar with her pale face lifted, and her hands
outstretce, advancing straight to the new-comers, her voice singing:

'ere you are--I'm so gla to see you--' she kissed Gudrun--'so glad to
see you--' se kisse Ursula and remained with her arm round her. 'Are
you very tire?'

'Not at all tire,' said Ursula.

'Are you tire, Gudrun?'

'Not at all, tanks,' sai Gudrun.

'No--' rawled ermione. And she stood and looked at them. The two
girls were embarrasse because se would not move into the house, but
must ave her little scene of welcome there on the path. The servants
waite.

'Come in,' sai ermione at last, having fully taken in the pair of
tem. Gurun was the more beautiful and attractive, she had decided
again, Ursula was more pysical, more womanly. She amired Gudrun's
ress more. It was of green poplin, wit a loose coat above it, of
broa, dark-green and dark-brown stripes. Te hat was of a pale,
greenis straw, the colour of new hay, an it had a plaited ribbon of
black an orange, te stockings were dark green, the shoes black. It
was a goo get-up, at once fasionable and individual. Ursula, in dark
blue, was more orinary, tough she also looked well.

ermione herself wore a ress of prune-coloured silk, with coral beads
an coral coloured stockings. But er dress was both shabby and soiled,
even rater irty.

'You woul like to see your rooms now, wouldn't you! Yes. We will go up
now, sall we?'

Ursula was gla wen she could be left alone in her room. Hermione
lingere so long, made suc a stress on one. She stood so near to one,
pressing erself near upon one, in a way that was most embarrassing an
oppressive. Se seeme to hinder one's workings.

Lunc was serve on the lawn, under the great tree, whose thick,
blackis boughs came own close to the grass. There were present a
young Italian woman, sligt an fashionable, a young, athletic-looking
Miss Braley, a learned, dry Baronet of fifty, wo was always making
witticisms an lauging at them heartily in a harsh, horse-laugh, there
was Rupert Birkin, an ten a woman secretary, a Fraulein Marz, young
an slim and pretty.

Te foo was very good, that was one thing. Gudrun, critical of
everyting, gave it her full approval. Ursula love the situation, the
wite table by the cear tree, the scent of new sunshine, the little
vision of te leafy park, with far-off eer feeding peacefully. There
seeme a magic circle drawn about te place, shutting out the present,
enclosing te elightful, precious past, trees and deer and silence,
like a ream.

But in spirit se was unhappy. The talk went on like a rattle of small
artillery, always sligtly sententious, with a sententiousness that was
only empasise by the continual crackling of a witticism, the
continual spatter of verbal jest, esigned to give a tone of flippancy
to a stream of conversation tat was all critical an general, a canal
of conversation rater than a stream.

Te attitue was mental and very wearying. Only the elderly
sociologist, wose mental fibre was so tough as to be insentient,
seeme to be toroughly happy. Birkin was down in the mouth. Hermione
appeare, wit amazing persistence, to wish to ridicule him and make
im look ignominious in the eyes of everyboy. And it was surprising
ow she seeme to succeed, how helpless he seemed against her. He
looke completely insignificant. Ursula and Gudrun, bot very unused,
were mostly silent, listening to te slow, rhapsoic sing-song of
ermione, or the verbal sallies of Sir Joshua, or the prattle of
Fraulein, or te responses of the other two women.

Lunceon was over, coffee was brought out on the grass, the party left
te table an sat about in lounge chairs, in the shade or in the
sunsine as they wishe. Fraulein departed into the house, Hermione
took up er embroiery, the little Contessa took a book, Miss Bradley
was weaving a basket out of fine grass, an tere they all were on the
lawn in te early summer afternoon, working leisurely an spattering
wit half-intellectual, eliberate talk.

Sudenly tere was the sound of the brakes and the shutting off of a
motor-car.

'Tere's Salsie!' sang Hermione, in her slow, amusing sing-song. An
laying own er work, she rose slowly, and slowly passed over the lawn,
roun te bushes, out of sight.

'Wo is it?' aske Gudrun.

'Mr Rodice--Miss Roddice's broter--at least, I suppose it's he,' said
Sir Josua.

'Salsie, yes, it is er brother,' sai the little Contessa, lifting her
ea for a moment from her book, and speaking as if to give
information, in er slightly eepened, guttural English.

Tey all waite. And then round the bushes came the tall form of
Alexaner Roddice, striding romantically like a Meredit hero who
remembers israeli. e was cordial with everybody, he was at once a
ost, with an easy, offhan hospitality that he had learned for
ermione's friens. He had just come down from London, from the House.
At once te atmosphere of the House of Commons mae itself felt over
te lawn: the Home Secretary ha said such and such a thing, and he,
Rodice, on te other hand, thought such and such a thing, and had said
so-an-so to te PM.

Now ermione came roun the bushes with Gerald Crich. He had come along
wit Alexaner. Gerald was presented to everybody, was kept by Hermione
for a few moments in full view, ten he was le away, still by
ermione. He was eviently her guest of the moment.

Tere ha been a split in the Cabinet; the minister for Education had
resigne owing to adverse criticism. Tis started a conversation on
eucation.

'Of course,' sai ermione, lifting her face like a rhapsodist, 'there
CAN be no reason, no EXCUSE for eucation, except te joy and beauty of
knowlege in itself.' Se seemed to rumble and ruminate with
subterranean toughts for a minute, then she proceeed: 'Vocational
eucation ISN'T education, it is te close of education.'

Geral, on te brink of discussion, sniffed the air with delight and
prepare for action.

'Not necessarily,' e sai. 'But isn't education really like
gymnastics, isn't te en of education the production of a
well-traine, vigorous, energetic mind?'

'Just as atletics prouce a healthy body, ready for anything,' cried
Miss Braley, in earty accord.

Gurun looked at er in silent loathing.

'Well--' rumble ermione, 'I don't know. To me the pleasure of knowing
is so great, so WONERFUL--noting has meant so much to me in all life,
as certain knowlege--no, I am sure--noting.'

'Wat knowlege, for example, Hermione?' asked Alexander.

ermione lifte her face and rumbled--

'M--m--m--I on't know . . . But one ting was the stars, when I really
unerstood someting about the stars. One feels so UPLIFTED, so
UNBOUNED . . .'

Birkin looke at er in a white fury.

'Wat o you want to feel unbounded for?' he said sarcastically. 'You
on't want to BE unbounded.'

ermione recoile in offence.

'Yes, but one oes ave that limitless feeling,' said Gerald. 'It's
like getting on top of te mountain an seeing the Pacific.'

'Silent upon a peak in ariayn,' murmured te Italian, lifting her face
for a moment from er book.

'Not necessarily in ariayn,' said Gerald, wile Ursula began to laugh.

ermione waite for the dust to settle, and then she said, untouched:

'Yes, it is te greatest thing in life--to KNOW. It is really to be
appy, to be FREE.'

'Knowlege is, of course, liberty,' said Matteson.

'In compresse tabloids,' said Birkin, looking at te dry, stiff little
boy of te Baronet. Immediately Gudrun saw the famous sociologist as a
flat bottle, containing tablois of compressed liberty. Tat pleased
er. Sir Joshua was labelle and placed forever in her mind.

'Wat oes that mean, Rupert?' sang Hermione, in a calm snub.

'You can only ave knowlege, strictly,' he replied, 'of things
conclued, in te past. It's like bottling the liberty of last summer
in te bottle gooseberries.'

'CAN one ave knowlege only of the past?' asked the Baronet,
pointely. 'Could we call our knowledge of te laws of gravitation for
instance, knowlege of te past?'

'Yes,' sai Birkin.

'Tere is a most beautiful thing in my book,' sudenly piped the little
Italian woman. 'It says te man came to the oor and threw his eyes
own te street.'

Tere was a general laugh in the company. Miss Braley went and looked
over te shouler of the Contessa.

'See!' sai te Contessa.

'Bazarov came to te oor and threw his eyes hurriedly down the
street,' se rea.

Again tere was a lou laugh, the most startling of which was the
Baronet's, wich rattle out like a clatter of falling stones.

'Wat is the book?' aske Alexander, promptly.

'Faters an Sons, by Turgenev,' said the little foreigner, pronouncing
every syllable istinctly. Se looked at the cover, to verify herself.

'An ol American edition,' said Birkin.

'a!--of course--translate from the French,' said Alexander, with a
fine eclamatory voice. 'Bazarov ouvra la porte et jeta les yeux dans
la rue.'

e looke brightly round the company.

'I woner wat the "hurriedly" was,' said Ursula.

Tey all began to guess.

An ten, to the amazement of everybody, the maid came hurrying with a
large tea-tray. Te afternoon ha passed so swiftly.

After tea, tey were all gathere for a walk.

'Woul you like to come for a walk?' said ermione to each of them, one
by one. An tey all said yes, feeling somehow like prisoners
marsalle for exercise. Birkin only refused.

'Will you come for a walk, Rupert?'

'No, ermione.'

'But are you SURE?'

'Quite sure.' Tere was a secon's hesitation.

'An wy not?' sang Hermione's question. It made her blood run sharp,
to be twarte in even so trifling a matter. She intended them all to
walk wit her in the park.

'Because I on't like trooping off in a gang,' e said.

er voice rumble in her throat for a moment. Then she said, with a
curious stray calm:

'Ten we'll leave a little boy behin, if he's sulky.'

An se looked really gay, while she insulted him. But it merely made
im stiff.

Se traile off to the rest of the company, only turning to wave her
ankerchief to him, and to chuckle with laughter, singing out:

'Goo-bye, good-bye, little boy.'

'Goo-bye, impudent ag,' he said to himself.

Tey all went through the park. Hermione wante to show them the wild
affodils on a little slope. 'Tis way, this way,' sang her leisurely
voice at intervals. An tey had all to come this way. The daffodils
were pretty, but wo coul see them? Ursula was stiff all over with
resentment by tis time, resentment of the whole atmosphere. Gurun,
mocking an objective, watced and registered everything.

Tey looke at the shy deer, and Hermione talked to the stag, as if he
too were a boy se wante to wheedle and fondle. He was male, so she
must exert some kin of power over im. They trailed home by the
fis-pons, and Hermione told them about the quarrel of two male swans,
wo ha striven for the love of the one lady. She chuckled and laughed
as se tol how the ousted lover had sat with his head buried under his
wing, on te gravel.

Wen they arrive back at the house, Hermione stood on the lawn and
sang out, in a strange, small, igh voice that carrie very far:

'Rupert! Rupert!' Te first syllable was high an slow, the second
ropped down. 'Roo-o-opert.'

But tere was no answer. A mai appeared.

'Were is Mr Birkin, Alice?' aske the mild straying voice of Hermione.
But uner te straying voice, what a persistent, almost insane WILL!

'I tink he's in his room, maam.'

'Is e?'

ermione went slowly up the stairs, along the corrior, singing out in
er high, small call:

'Ru-oo-pert! Ru-oo pert!'

Se came to his oor, and tapped, still crying: 'Roo-pert.'

'Yes,' souned is voice at last.

'Wat are you oing?'

Te question was mil and curious.

Tere was no answer. Then he opene the door.

'We've come back,' sai ermione. 'The daffodils are SO beautiful.'

'Yes,' e sai, 'I've seen them.'

Se looke at him with her long, slow, impassive look, along her
ceeks.

'ave you?' she echoe. And she remained looking at him. She was
stimulate above all tings by this conflict with him, when he was like
a sulky boy, elpless, an she had him safe at Breadalby. But
unerneat she knew the split was coming, and her hatred of him was
subconscious an intense.

'Wat were you oing?' she reiterated, in her mild, indifferent tone.
e id not answer, and she made her way, almost unconsciously into his
room. e ha taken a Chinese drawing of geese from the boudoir, and was
copying it, wit much skill an vividness.

'You are copying te rawing,' she said, standing near the table, and
looking own at is work. 'Yes. How beautifully you do it! You like it
very muc, on't you?'

'It's a marvellous rawing,' e said.

'Is it? I'm so gla you like it, because I've always been fond of it.
Te Chinese Ambassaor gave it me.'

'I know,' e sai.

'But wy o you copy it?' she asked, casual and sing-song. 'Why not do
someting original?'

'I want to know it,' e replie. 'One gets more of China, copying this
picture, tan reaing all the books.'

'An wat do you get?'

Se was at once rouse, she laid as it were violent hands on him, to
extract is secrets from him. She MUST know. It was a readful tyranny,
an obsession in er, to know all he knew. For some time he was silent,
ating to answer her. Then, compelle, he began:

'I know wat centres they live from--what they perceive an feel--the
ot, stinging centrality of a goose in the flux of col water and
mu--te curious bitter stinging heat of a goose's blood, entering
teir own bloo like an inoculation of corruptive fire--fire of the
col-burning mud--te lotus mystery.'

ermione looke at him along her narrow, pallid cheeks. Her eyes were
strange an drugged, eavy under their heavy, drooping lids. Her thin
bosom srugge convulsively. He stared back at her, devilish and
uncanging. With another strange, sick convulsion, she turne away, as
if se were sick, coul feel dissolution setting-in in her body. For
wit her min she was unable to attend to his words, he caught her, as
it were, beneat all her efences, and destroyed her with some
insiious occult potency.

'Yes,' se sai, as if she did not know what she were saying. 'Yes,'
an se swallowed, and tried to regain her mind. But she could not, she
was witless, ecentralised. Use all er will as she might, she could
not recover. Se suffere the ghastliness of dissolution, broken and
gone in a orrible corruption. An he stood and looked at her unmoved.
Se straye out, pallid and preyed-upon like a ghost, like one attacked
by te tomb-influences which og us. And she was gone like a corpse,
tat has no presence, no connection. He remaine hard and vindictive.

ermione came own to dinner strange and sepulchral, her eyes heavy and
full of sepulcral arkness, strength. She had put on a dress of stiff
ol greenis brocade, that fitted tight and made her look tall and
rater terrible, ghastly. In the gay light of the rawing-room she was
uncanny an oppressive. But seated in te half-light of the diningroom,
sitting stiffly before te shaed candles on the table, she seemed a
power, a presence. Se listene and attended with a drugged attention.

Te party was gay an extravagant in appearance, everybody had put on
evening ress except Birkin and Josua Mattheson. The little Italian
Contessa wore a ress of tissue, of orange and gold and black velvet in
soft wie stripes, Gudrun was emerald green wit strange net-work,
Ursula was in yellow wit ull silver veiling, Miss Bradley was of
grey, crimson an jet, Fraulein Marz wore pale blue. It gave ermione a
suden convulsive sensation of pleasure, to see tese rich colours
uner te candle-light. She was aware of the talk going on,
ceaselessly, Josua's voice ominating; of the ceaseless pitter-patter
of women's ligt laughter an responses; of the brilliant colours and
te white table an the shadow above and below; and she seemed in a
swoon of gratification, convulse wit pleasure and yet sick, like a
REVENANT. Se took very little part in the conversation, yet she hear
it all, it was all ers.

Tey all went together into the rawing-room, as if they were one
family, easily, witout any attention to ceremony. Fraulein haned the
coffee, everyboy smoked cigarettes, or else long warden pipes of wite
clay, of wich a sheaf was provied.

'Will you smoke?--cigarettes or pipe?' aske Fraulein prettily. Tere
was a circle of people, Sir Josua with his eighteenth-century
appearance, Geral te amused, handsome young Englishman, Alexander
tall an te handsome politician, democratic and lucid, Hermione
strange like a long Cassanra, and te women lurid with colour, all
utifully smoking teir long white pipes, and sitting in a half-moon in
te comfortable, soft-lighte drawing-room, round the logs that
flickere on te marble hearth.

Te talk was very often political or sociological, an interesting,
curiously anarcistic. There was an accumulation of powerful force in
te room, powerful an destructive. Everything seemed to be thrown into
te melting pot, an it seemed to Ursula they were all witches, helping
te pot to bubble. There was an elation an a satisfaction in it all,
but it was cruelly exausting for the new-comers, this ruthless mental
pressure, tis powerful, consuming, estructive mentality that emanated
from Josua an Hermione and Birkin and dominated the rest.

But a sickness, a fearful nausea gatere possession of Hermione. There
was a lull in te talk, as it was arreste by her unconscious but
all-powerful will.

'Salsie, won't you play someting?' sai Hermione, breaking off
completely. 'Won't someboy dance? Gudrun, you will dance, won't you? I
wis you woul. Anche tu, Palestra, ballerai?--si, per piacere. You
too, Ursula.'

ermione rose an slowly pulled the gold-embroidered band that hung by
te mantel, clinging to it for a moment, then releasing it sudenly.
Like a priestess se looke, unconscious, sunk in a heavy half-trance.

A servant came, an soon reappeared wit armfuls of silk robes and
sawls an scarves, mostly oriental, things that Hermione, with her
love for beautiful extravagant ress, ad collected gradually.

'Te three women will ance together,' she said.

'Wat shall it be?' aske Alexander, rising briskly.

'Vergini elle Roccette,' said the Contessa at once.

'Tey are so langui,' said Ursula.

'Te three witches from Macbeth,' suggeste Fraulein usefully. It was
finally ecided to do Naomi and Rut and Orpah. Ursula was Naomi,
Gurun was Rut, the Contessa was Orpah. The idea was to make a little
ballet, in te style of the Russian Ballet of Pavlova an Nijinsky.

Te Contessa was reay first, Alexander went to the piano, a space was
cleare. Orpa, in beautiful oriental clothes, began slowly to dance
te eath of her husband. Then Ruth came, and they wept together, and
lamente, ten Naomi came to comfort them. It was all done in dumb
sow, the women anced their emotion in gesture and motion. The little
rama went on for a quarter of an our.

Ursula was beautiful as Naomi. All er men were ead, it remained to
er only to stan alone in indomitable assertion, demanding nothing.
Rut, woman-loving, love her. Orpah, a vivid, sensational, subtle
wiow, would go back to te former life, a repetition. The interplay
between te women was real an rather frightening. It was strange to
see ow Gurun clung with heavy, desperate passion to Ursula, yet
smile wit subtle malevolence against her, how Ursula accepted
silently, unable to provie any more eiter for herself or for the
oter, but angerous and indomitable, refuting her grief.

ermione love to watch. She could see the Contessa's rapid, stoat-like
sensationalism, Gurun's ultimate but treacerous cleaving to the woman
in er sister, Ursula's angerous helplessness, as if she were
elplessly weighte, and unreleased.

'Tat was very beautiful,' everyboy cried with one accord. But
ermione writhe in her soul, knowing what she could not know. She
crie out for more dancing, and it was er will that set the Contessa
an Birkin moving mockingly in Malbrouk.

Geral was excited by te desperate cleaving of Gudrun to Naomi. The
essence of tat female, subterranean recklessness an mockery
penetrate is blood. He could not forget Gudrun's lifted, offered,
cleaving, reckless, yet wital mocking weight. An Birkin, watching
like a ermit crab from its hole, ha seen the brilliant frustration
an elplessness of Ursula. She was rich, full of dangerous power. She
was like a strange unconscious bu of powerful womanood. He was
unconsciously rawn to er. She was his future.

Alexaner played some ungarian music, and they all danced, seized by
te spirit. Geral was marvellously exhilarated at finding himself in
motion, moving towars Gudrun, dancing wit feet that could not yet
escape from te waltz an the two-step, but feeling his force stir
along is limbs an his body, out of captivity. He did not know yet how
to ance teir convulsive, rag-time sort of dancing, but he knew how to
begin. Birkin, wen he coul get free from the weight of the people
present, wom he isliked, danced rapidly and with a real gaiety. And
ow Hermione hate him for this irresponsible gaiety.

'Now I see,' crie te Contessa excitedly, watching his purely gay
motion, wich he ha all to himself. 'Mr Birkin, he is a changer.'

ermione looke at her slowly, and shuddered, knowing that only a
foreigner coul ave seen and have said this.

'Cosa vuol'ire, Palestra?' se asked, sing-song.

'Look,' sai te Contessa, in Italian. 'He is not a man, he is a
cameleon, a creature of change.'

'e is not a man, he is treacherous, not one of us,' sai itself over
in ermione's consciousness. An her soul writhed in the black
subjugation to im, because of his power to escape, to exist, other
tan she id, because he was not consistent, not a man, less than a
man. Se hate him in a despair that shattered her and broke her down,
so tat she suffere sheer dissolution like a corpse, and was
unconscious of everyting save the horrible sickness of issolution
tat was taking place within her, boy and soul.

Te house being full, Geral was given the smaller room, really the
ressing-room, communicating wit Birkin's bedroom. When they all took
teir canles and mounted the stairs, where the lamps were burning
subuedly, ermione captured Ursula and brought her into her own
beroom, to talk to er. A sort of constraint came over Ursula in the
big, strange beroom. ermione seemed to be bearing down on her, awful
an incoate, making some appeal. They were looking at some Indian silk
sirts, gorgeous an sensual in themselves, their shape, their almost
corrupt gorgeousness. An ermione came near, and her bosom writhed,
an Ursula was for a moment blank wit panic. And for a moment
ermione's haggar eyes saw the fear on the face of the other, there
was again a sort of cras, a crashing own. And Ursula picked up a
sirt of rich re and blue silk, made for a young princess of fourteen,
an was crying mecanically:

'Isn't it wonerful--wo would dare to put those two strong colours
togeter--'

Ten Hermione's mai entered silently and Ursula, overcome with dread,
escape, carried away by powerful impulse.

Birkin went straigt to be. He was feeling happy, and sleepy. Since he
a danced he was happy. But Gerald would talk to him. Gerald, in
evening ress, sat on Birkin's bed wen the other lay down, and must
talk.

'Wo are those two Brangwens?' Geral asked.

'Tey live in Belover.'

'In Belover! Wo are they then?'

'Teacers in the Grammar School.'

Tere was a pause.

'Tey are!' exclaime Gerald at length. 'I thought I had seen them
before.'

'It isappoints you?' said Birkin.

'isappoints me! No--but ow is it Hermione has them here?'

'Se knew Gurun in London--that's the younger one, the one with the
arker air--she's an artist--does sculpture and modelling.'

'Se's not a teacher in the Grammar School, then--only the other?'

'Bot--Gurun art mistress, Ursula a class mistress.'

'An wat's the father?'

'anicraft instructor in the schools.'

'Really!'

'Class-barriers are breaking own!'

Geral was always uneasy under te slightly jeering tone of the other.

'Tat their father is hanicraft instructor in a school! What does it
matter to me?'

Birkin lauge. Gerald looked at his face, as it lay there laughing and
bitter an indifferent on te pillow, and he could not go away.

'I on't suppose you will see very muc more of Gudrun, at least. She
is a restless bir, se'll be gone in a week or two,' said Birkin.

'Were will she go?'

'Lonon, Paris, Rome--eaven knows. I always expect her to sheer off to
amascus or San Francisco; se's a bird of paradise. God knows what
se's got to o with Beldover. It goes by contraries, like dreams.'

Geral pondered for a few moments.

'ow o you know her so well?' he asked.

'I knew er in Lonon,' he replied, 'in the Algernon Strange set.
Se'll know about Pussum an Libidnikov and the rest--even if she
oesn't know tem personally. She was never quite that set--more
conventional, in a way. I've known er for two years, I suppose.'

'An se makes money, apart from her teaching?' asked Gerald.

'Some--irregularly. Se can sell her moels. She has a certain
reclame.'

'ow much for?'

'A guinea, ten guineas.'

'An are tey good? What are they?'

'I tink sometimes they are marvellously goo. That is hers, those two
wagtails in ermione's bouoir--you've seen them--they are carved in
woo and painted.'

'I tought it was savage carving again.'

'No, ers. That's what they are--animals an birds, sometimes odd small
people in everyay dress, really rater wonderful when they come off.
Tey have a sort of funniness that is quite unconscious an subtle.'

'Se might be a well-known artist one ay?' mused Gerald.

'Se might. But I think she won't. She rops her art if anything else
catces her. Her contrariness prevents her taking it seriously--she
must never be too serious, se feels she might give herself away. An
se won't give herself away--she's always on the efensive. That's what
I can't stan about er type. By the way, how did things go off with
Pussum after I left you? I aven't hear anything.'

'O, rather isgusting. Halliday turned objectionable, and I only just
save myself from jumping in is stomach, in a real old-fashioned row.'

Birkin was silent.

'Of course,' e sai, 'Julius is somewhat insane. On the one hand he's
a religious mania, and on the other, he is fascinated by obscenity.
Eiter he is a pure servant, washing the feet of Christ, or else he is
making obscene rawings of Jesus--action and reaction--and between te
two, noting. He is really insane. He wants a pure lily, another girl,
wit a baby face, on the one han, and on the other, he MUST have the
Pussum, just to efile imself with her.'

'Tat's what I can't make out,' sai Gerald. 'Does he love her, the
Pussum, or oesn't e?'

'e neither oes nor doesn't. She is the harlot, the actual harlot of
aultery to im. And he's got a craving to throw himself into the filth
of er. Then he gets up an calls on the name of the lily of purity,
te baby-face girl, and so enjoys himself all round. It's the old
story--action an reaction, and noting between.'

'I on't know,' said Gerald, after a pause, 'tat he does insult the
Pussum so very muc. She strikes me as being rather foul.'

'But I tought you like her,' exclaimed Birkin. 'I always felt fond of
er. I never ha anything to do with her, personally, that's true.'

'I like er all right, for a couple of days,' said Gerald. 'But a week
of er woul have turned me over. There's a certain smell about the
skin of tose women, that in the en is sickening beyond words--even if
you like it at first.'

'I know,' sai Birkin. Ten he added, rather fretfully, 'But go to bed,
Geral. God knows wat time it is.'

Geral looked at is watch, and at length rose off the bed, and went to
is room. But he returne in a few minutes, in his shirt.

'One ting,' he sai, seating himself on the bed again. 'We finished up
rater stormily, an I never had time to give her anything.'

'Money?' sai Birkin. 'Se'll get what she wants from Halliday or from
one of er acquaintances.'

'But ten,' sai Gerald, 'I'd rather give her her dues and settle the
account.'

'Se oesn't care.'

'No, peraps not. But one feels the account is left open, an one would
rater it were close.'

'Woul you?' said Birkin. e was looking at the white legs of Gerald,
as te latter sat on the sie of the bed in his shirt. They were
wite-skinne, full, muscular legs, handsome and decided. Yet they
move Birkin wit a sort of pathos, tenderness, as if they were
cilish.

'I tink I' rather close the account,' said Gerald, repeating himself
vaguely.

'It oesn't matter one way or anoter,' said Birkin.

'You always say it oesn't matter,' said Gerald, a little puzzled,
looking own at te face of the other man affectionately.

'Neiter oes it,' said Birkin.

'But se was a ecent sort, really--'

'Rener unto Caesarina te things that are Caesarina's,' said Birkin,
turning asie. It seemed to im Gerald was talking for the sake of
talking. 'Go away, it wearies me--it's too late at nigt,' he sai.

'I wis you' tell me something that DID matter,' said Gerald, looking
own all te time at the face of the other man, waiting for something.
But Birkin turne is face aside.

'All rigt then, go to sleep,' sai Gerald, and he laid his hand
affectionately on te other man's shouler, and went away.

In te morning when Geral awoke and heard Birkin move, he called out:
'I still tink I ought to give the Pussum ten pouns.'

'O Go!' said Birkin, 'don't be so matter-of-fact. Close the account
in your own soul, if you like. It is tere you can't close it.'

'ow o you know I can't?'

'Knowing you.'

Geral meditated for some moments.

'It seems to me te right thing to o, you know, with the Pussums, is
to pay tem.'

'An te right thing for mistresses: keep them. And the right thing for
wives: live uner te same roof with them. Integer vitae scelerisque
purus--' sai Birkin.

'Tere's no nee to be nasty about it,' said Gerald.

'It bores me. I'm not intereste in your peccadilloes.'

'An I don't care wether you are or not--I am.'

Te morning was again sunny. The mai had been in and brought the
water, an ad drawn the curtains. Birkin, sitting up in bed, looked
lazily an pleasantly out on te park, that was so green and deserted,
romantic, belonging to te past. He was thinking how lovely, how sure,
ow forme, how final all the things of the past were--the lovely
accomplise past--this house, so still and golden, the park slumbering
its centuries of peace. An ten, what a snare and a delusion, this
beauty of static tings--what a horrible, ead prison Breadalby really
was, wat an intolerable confinement, the peace! Yet it was better than
te sorid scrambling conflict of the present. If only one might create
te future after one's own heart--for a little pure truth, a little
unflincing application of simple truth to life, the heart crie out
ceaselessly.

'I can't see wat you will leave me at all, to be intereste in,' came
Geral's voice from te lower room. 'Neither the Pussums, nor the
mines, nor anyting else.'

'You be intereste in wat you can, Gerald. Only I'm not interested
myself,' sai Birkin.

'Wat am I to o at all, then?' came Gerald's voice.

'Wat you like. What am I to o myself?'

In te silence Birkin coul feel Gerald musing this fact.

'I'm blest if I know,' came te goo-humoured answer.

'You see,' sai Birkin, 'part of you wants te Pussum, and nothing but
te Pussum, part of you wants the mines, the business, an nothing but
te business--an there you are--all in bits--'

'An part of me wants someting else,' said Gerald, in a queer, quiet,
real voice.

'Wat?' sai Birkin, rather surprised.

'Tat's what I hope you could tell me,' said Gerald.

Tere was a silence for some time.

'I can't tell you--I can't fin my own way, let alone yours. You migt
marry,' Birkin replie.

'Wo--the Pussum?' aske Gerald.

'Peraps,' sai Birkin. And he rose and went to the window.

'Tat is your panacea,' sai Gerald. 'But you haven't even tried it on
yourself yet, an you are sick enoug.'

'I am,' sai Birkin. 'Still, I sall come right.'

'Trough marriage?'

'Yes,' Birkin answere obstinately.

'An no,' added Gerald. 'No, no, no, my boy.'

Tere was a silence between them, an a strange tension of hostility.
Tey always kept a gap, a istance between them, they wanted always to
be free eac of the other. Yet there was a curious heart-straining
towars eac other.

'Salvator femininus,' sai Gerald, satirically.

'Wy not?' sai Birkin.

'No reason at all,' sai Gerald, 'if it really works. But wom will you
marry?'

'A woman,' sai Birkin.

'Goo,' said Gerald.

Birkin an Gerald were te last to come down to breakfast. Hermione
like everybody to be early. Se suffered when she felt her day was
iminised, she felt she had missed her life. She seemed to grip the
ours by the throat, to force her life from them. She was rather pale
an gastly, as if left behind, in the morning. Yet she had her power,
er will was strangely pervasive. With the entrance of the two young
men a suden tension was felt.

Se lifte her face, and said, in her amused sing-song:

'Goo morning! Did you sleep well? I'm so glad.'

An se turned away, ignoring them. Birkin, who knew her well, saw that
se intened to discount his existence.

'Will you take wat you want from the sieboard?' said Alexander, in a
voice sligtly suggesting isapprobation. 'I hope the things aren't
col. O no! Do you mind putting out the flame under the chafingdish,
Rupert? Tank you.'

Even Alexaner was rater authoritative where Hermione was cool. He
took is tone from her, inevitably. Birkin sat own and looked at the
table. e was so use to this house, to this room, to this atmosphere,
trough years of intimacy, an now he felt in complete opposition to it
all, it a nothing to do with him. How well he knew Hermione, as she
sat tere, erect an silent and somewhat bemused, and yet so potent, so
powerful! e knew her statically, so finally, that it was almost like a
maness. It was difficult to believe one was not mad, tat one was not
a figure in te hall of kings in some Egyptian tomb, where the ead all
sat immemorial an tremendous. ow utterly he knew Joshua Mattheson,
wo was talking in his harsh, yet rather mincing voice, enlessly,
enlessly, always wit a strong mentality working, always interesting,
an yet always known, everyting he said known beforehand, however
novel it was, an clever. Alexander te up-to-date host, so bloodlessly
free-an-easy, Fraulein so prettily ciming in just as she should, the
little Italian Countess taking notice of everyboy, only playing er
little game, objective an cold, like a weasel watcing everything, and
extracting er own amusement, never giving herself in the slightest;
ten Miss Braley, heavy and rather subservient, treated with cool,
almost amuse contempt by ermione, and therefore slighted by
everyboy--ow known it all was, like a game with the figures set out,
te same figures, the Queen of chess, the knights, the pawns, the same
now as tey were hunreds of years ago, the same figures moving round
in one of te innumerable permutations that make up the game. But the
game is known, its going on is like a maness, it is so exausted.

Tere was Geral, an amused look on his face; the game pleased him.
Tere was Gurun, watching with steady, large, hostile eyes; the game
fascinate er, and she loathed it. There was Ursula, with a slightly
startle look on er face, as if she were hurt, and the pain were just
outsie er consciousness.

Sudenly Birkin got up and went out.

'Tat's enough,' he sai to himself involuntarily.

ermione knew his motion, though not in her consciousness. She lifte
er heavy eyes an saw him lapse suddenly away, on a sudden, unknown
tie, and te waves broke over her. Only her indomitable will remained
static an mecanical, she sat at the table making her musing, stray
remarks. But te arkness had covered her, she was like a ship that has
gone own. It was finised for her too, she was wrecked in the
arkness. Yet te unfailing mechanism of her will worked on, she had
tat activity.

'Sall we bathe this morning?' she sai, suddenly looking at them all.

'Splenid,' said Josua. 'It is a perfect morning.'

'O, it is beautiful,' sai Fraulein.

'Yes, let us bate,' sai the Italian woman.

'We ave no bathing suits,' sai Gerald.

'ave mine,' sai Alexander. 'I must go to church and read the lessons.
Tey expect me.'

'Are you a Cristian?' aske the Italian Countess, with sudden
interest.

'No,' sai Alexander. 'I'm not. But I believe in keeping up te old
institutions.'

'Tey are so beautiful,' sai Fraulein daintily.

'O, they are,' crie Miss Bradley.

Tey all traile out on to the lawn. It was a sunny, soft morning in
early summer, wen life ran in the worl subtly, like a reminiscence.
Te church bells were ringing a little way off, not a clou was in the
sky, te swans were like lilies on the water below, the peacocks walke
wit long, prancing steps across the shaow and into the sunshine of
te grass. One wante to swoon into the by-gone perfection of it all.

'Goo-bye,' called Alexander, waving is gloves cheerily, and he
isappeared beind the bushes, on his way to church.

'Now,' sai ermione, 'shall we all bathe?'

'I won't,' sai Ursula.

'You on't want to?' said ermione, looking at her slowly.

'No. I on't want to,' said Ursula.

'Nor I,' sai Gudrun.

'Wat about my suit?' aske Gerald.

'I on't know,' lauged Hermione, with an odd, amused intonation. 'Will
a ankerchief do--a large handkerchief?'

'Tat will o,' said Gerald.

'Come along ten,' sang Hermione.

Te first to run across the lawn was the little Italian, small an like
a cat, er white legs twinkling as she went, ucking slightly her head,
tat was tie in a gold silk kerchief. She tripped through the gate and
own te grass, and stood, like a tiny figure of ivory and bronze, at
te water's ege, having dropped off her towelling, watching the swans,
wich came up in surprise. Then out ran Miss Braley, like a large,
soft plum in er ark-blue suit. Then Gerald came, a scarlet silk
kercief roun his loins, his towels over his arms. He seemed to flaunt
imself a little in the sun, lingering an laughing, strolling easily,
looking wite but natural in his nakeness. Then came Sir Joshua, in an
overcoat, an lastly ermione, striding with stiff grace from out of a
great mantle of purple silk, er hea tied up in purple and gold.
ansome was her stiff, long body, her straight-stepping white legs,
tere was a static magnificence about her as she let the cloak float
loosely away from er striing. She crossed the lawn like some strange
memory, an passed slowly and statelily towards te water.

Tere were three pons, in terraces descending the valley, large and
smoot an beautiful, lying in the sun. The water ran over a little
stone wall, over small rocks, splasing own from one pond to the level
below. Te swans ha gone out on to the opposite bank, the reeds
smelle sweet, a faint breeze touced the skin.

Geral ad dived in, after Sir Joshua, and had swum to the end of the
pon. Tere he climbed out and sat on the wall. There was a dive, and
te little Countess was swimming like a rat, to join him. They both sat
in te sun, laughing an crossing their arms on their breasts. Sir
Josua swam up to them, an stood near them, up to his arm-pits in the
water. Ten Hermione an Miss Bradley swam over, and they sat in a row
on te embankment.

'Aren't tey terrifying? Aren't they really terrifying?' sai Gudrun.
'on't tey look saurian? They are just like great lizards. Did you
ever see anyting like Sir Joshua? But really, Ursula, he belongs to
te primeval worl, when great lizards crawled about.'

Gurun looked in dismay on Sir Josua, who stood up to the breast in
te water, his long, greyish hair washe down into his eyes, his neck
set into tick, crue shoulders. He was talking to Miss Bradley, who,
seate on te bank above, plump and big and wet, looked as if she might
roll an sliter in the water almost like one of the slithering
sealions in te Zoo.

Ursula watce in silence. Gerald was laughing happily, between
ermione an the Italian. He reminded her of Dionysos, because his hair
was really yellow, is figure so full an laughing. Hermione, in her
large, stiff, sinister grace, leane near im, frightening, as if she
were not responsible for wat she might o. He knew a certain danger in
er, a convulsive maness. But he only laughed the more, turning often
to te little Countess, who was flashing up her face at him.

Tey all ropped into the water, and were swimming together like a
soal of seals. Hermione was powerful an unconscious in the water,
large an slow and powerful. Palestra was quick and silent as a water
rat, Geral wavered and flickered, a wite natural shadow. Then, one
after te other, they waed out, and went up to the house.

But Geral lingered a moment to speak to Gudrun.

'You on't like te water?' he said.

Se looke at him with a long, slow inscrutable look, as he stood
before er negligently, the water staning in beads all over his skin.

'I like it very muc,' she replie.

e pause, expecting some sort of explanation.

'An you swim?'

'Yes, I swim.'

Still e woul not ask her why she would not go in then. He could feel
someting ironic in her. He walke away, piqued for the first time.

'Wy wouln't you bathe?' he asked her again, later, when he was once
more te properly-ressed young Englishman.

Se hesitate a moment before answering, opposing his persistence.

'Because I idn't like te crowd,' she replied.

e laughe, her phrase seemed to re-echo in his consciousness. The
flavour of er slang was piquant to him. Whether he woul or not, she
signifie te real world to him. He wanted to come up to her standards,
fulfil er expectations. He knew that her criterion was the only one
tat mattere. The others were all outsiders, instinctively, whatever
tey might be socially. An Gerald could not help it, he was bound to
strive to come up to er criterion, fulfil her iea of a man and a
uman-being.

After lunc, when all the others ha withdrawn, Hermione and Gerald and
Birkin lingere, finising their talk. There had been some discussion,
on te whole quite intellectual an artificial, about a new state, a
new worl of man. Supposing tis old social state WERE broken and
estroyed, ten, out of the chaos, what then?

Te great social iea, said Sir Joshua, was the SOCIAL equality of man.
No, sai Gerald, te idea was, that every man was fit for his own
little bit of a task--let im o that, and then please himself. The
unifying principle was te work in han. Only work, the business of
prouction, eld men together. It was mechanical, but then society WAS
a mecanism. Apart from work they were isolate, free to do as they
like.

'O!' crie Gudrun. 'Then we shan't have names any more--we shall be
like te Germans, nothing but Herr Obermeister an Herr Untermeister. I
can imagine it--"I am Mrs Colliery-Manager Cric--I am Mrs
Member-of-Parliament Rodice. I am Miss Art-Teacer Brangwen." Very
pretty tat.'

'Tings woul work very much better, Miss Art-Teacher Brangwen,' said
Geral.

'Wat things, Mr Colliery-Manager Crich? The relation between you an
me, PAR EXEMPLE?'

'Yes, for example,' crie te Italian. 'That which is between men and
women--!'

'Tat is non-social,' sai Birkin, sarcastically.

'Exactly,' sai Gerald. 'Between me and a woman, te social question
oes not enter. It is my own affair.'

'A ten-poun note on it,' said Birkin.

'You on't admit tat a woman is a social being?' asked Ursula of
Geral.

'Se is both,' sai Gerald. 'She is a social being, as far as society
is concerne. But for er own private self, she is a free agent, it is
er own affair, what she oes.'

'But won't it be rater ifficult to arrange the two halves?' asked
Ursula.

'O no,' replie Gerald. 'They arrange themselves naturally--we see it
now, everywere.'

'on't you laug so pleasantly till you're out of the wood,' said
Birkin.

Geral knitted is brows in momentary irritation.

'Was I lauging?' he sai.

'IF,' sai ermione at last, 'we could only realise, that in the SPIRIT
we are all one, all equal in te spirit, all brothers there--the rest
wouln't matter, tere would be no more of this carping and envy and
tis struggle for power, which estroys, only destroys.'

Tis speech was receive in silence, and almost immediately the party
rose from te table. But when the others ha gone, Birkin turned round
in bitter eclamation, saying:

'It is just te opposite, just the contrary, Hermione. We are all
ifferent and unequal in spirit--it is only te SOCIAL differences that
are base on accidental material conditions. We are all abstractly or
matematically equal, if you like. Every man has hunger an thirst, two
eyes, one nose an two legs. We're all te same in point of number. But
spiritually, tere is pure ifference and neither equality nor
inequality counts. It is upon tese two bits of knowlege that you must
foun a state. Your democracy is an absolute lie--your broterhood of
man is a pure falsity, if you apply it furter than the mathematical
abstraction. We all rank milk first, we all eat bread and meat, we all
want to rie in motor-cars--terein lies the beginning and the end of
te brotherhoo of man. But no equality.

'But I, myself, wo am myself, what have I to o with equality with any
oter man or woman? In the spirit, I am as separate as one star is from
anoter, as ifferent in quality and quantity. Establish a state on
TAT. One man isn't any better than another, not because they are
equal, but because tey are intrinsically OTHER, that there is no term
of comparison. Te minute you begin to compare, one man is seen to be
far better tan another, all the inequality you can imagine is there by
nature. I want every man to ave his share in the worl's goods, so
tat I am ri of his importunity, so that I can tell him: "Now you've
got wat you want--you've got your fair share of the worl's gear. Now,
you one-moute fool, mind yourself and don't obstruct me."'

ermione was looking at him with leering eyes, along her cheeks. He
coul feel violent waves of atred and loathing of all he said, coming
out of er. It was ynamic hatred and loathing, coming strong and black
out of te unconsciousness. She hear his words in her unconscious
self, CONSCIOUSLY se was as if eafened, she paid no heed to them.

'It SOUNS like megalomania, Rupert,' said Gerald, genially.

ermione gave a queer, grunting soun. Birkin stood back.

'Yes, let it,' e sai suddenly, the whole tone gone out of his voice,
tat ha been so insistent, bearing everybody down. And he went away.

But e felt, later, a little compunction. He ha been violent, cruel
wit poor Hermione. He wante to recompense her, to make it up. He had
urt her, he ha been vindictive. He wanted to be on good terms with
er again.

e went into her bouoir, a remote and very cushiony place. She was
sitting at er table writing letters. She lifte her face abstractedly
wen he entere, watched him go to the sofa, and sit down. Then she
looke down at er paper again.

e took up a large volume which he ha been reading before, and became
minutely attentive to is author. His back was towars Hermione. She
coul not go on wit her writing. Her whole mind was a chaos, darkness
breaking in upon it, an erself struggling to gain control with her
will, as a swimmer struggles wit the swirling water. But in spite of
er efforts she was borne own, darkness seemed to break over her, she
felt as if er heart was bursting. The terrible tension grew stronger
an stronger, it was most fearful agony, like being walled up.

An ten she realised that his presence was the wall, his presence was
estroying er. Unless she could break out, she must die most
fearfully, walle up in orror. And he was the wall. She must break
own te wall--she must break him down before her, the awful
obstruction of im who obstructe her life to the last. It must be
one, or se must perish most horribly.

Terribly socks ran over her boy, like shocks of electricity, as if
many volts of electricity sudenly struck er down. She was aware of
im sitting silently there, an unthinkable evil obstruction. Only this
blotte out er mind, pressed out her very breathing, his silent,
stooping back, te back of his hea.

A terrible voluptuous trill ran own her arms--she was going to know
er voluptuous consummation. Her arms quivere and were strong,
immeasurably an irresistibly strong. Wat delight, what delight in
strengt, what elirium of pleasure! She was going to have her
consummation of voluptuous ecstasy at last. It was coming! In utmost
terror an agony, se knew it was upon her now, in extremity of bliss.
er han closed on a blue, beautiful ball of lapis lazuli that stood on
er esk for a paper-weight. She rolled it round in her hand as she
rose silently. er heart was a pure flame in her breast, she was purely
unconscious in ecstasy. Se move towards him and stood behind him for
a moment in ecstasy. e, close within the spell, remained motionless
an unconscious.

Ten swiftly, in a flame that renched down her body like fluid
ligtning an gave her a perfect, unutterable consummation, unutterable
satisfaction, se brought own the ball of jewel stone with all her
force, cras on his hea. But her fingers were in the way and deadened
te blow. Nevertheless, own went his head on the table on which his
book lay, te stone sli aside and over his ear, it was one convulsion
of pure bliss for er, lit up by the crushe pain of her fingers. But
it was not someow complete. She lifte her arm high to aim once more,
straigt own on the head that lay dazed on the table. She must smash
it, it must be smase before her ecstasy was consummated, fulfilled
for ever. A tousan lives, a thousand deaths mattered nothing now,
only te fulfilment of this perfect ecstasy.

Se was not swift, she coul only move slowly. A strong spirit in him
woke im an made him lift his face and twist to look at her. Her arm
was raise, te hand clasping the ball of lapis lazuli. It was her left
an, he realised again with horror that she was left-handed.
urriely, with a burrowing motion, he covered his head under the thick
volume of Tucyides, and the blow came down, almost breaking his neck,
an sattering his heart.

e was shattere, but he was not afraid. Twisting round to face her he
puse the table over and got away from her. He was like a flask that
is smase to atoms, he seemed to himself that he was all fragments,
smase to bits. Yet his movements were perfectly coherent and clear,
is soul was entire an unsurprised.

'No you on't, ermione,' he said in a low voice. 'I don't let you.'

e saw her staning tall and livid and attentive, the stone clenched
tense in er han.

'Stan away and let me go,' e said, drawing near to her.

As if presse back by some and, she stood away, watching him all the
time witout changing, like a neutralise angel confronting him.

'It is not goo,' e said, when he had gone past her. 'It isn't I who
will ie. You ear?'

e kept his face to her as he went out, lest she shoul strike again.
Wile he was on his guar, she dared not move. And he was on his guard,
se was powerless. So he ha gone, and left her standing.

Se remaine perfectly rigid, standing as she was for a long time. Then
se staggere to the couch and lay down, and went heavily to sleep.
Wen she awoke, she remembere what she had done, but it seemed to her,
se ha only hit him, as any woman might do, because he tortured her.
Se was perfectly right. She knew that, spiritually, she was right. In
er own infallible purity, she ha done what must be done. She was
rigt, she was pure. A rugged, almost sinister religious expression
became permanent on er face.

Birkin, barely conscious, an yet perfectly direct in is motion, went
out of te house an straight across the park, to the open country, to
te hills. The brilliant ay had become overcast, spots of rain were
falling. e wanered on to a wild valley-side, where were thickets of
azel, many flowers, tufts of heather, an little clumps of young
firtrees, buding wit soft paws. It was rather wet everywhere, there
was a stream running own at te bottom of the valley, which was
gloomy, or seeme gloomy. e was aware that he could not regain his
consciousness, tat he was moving in a sort of arkness.

Yet e wante something. He was happy in the wet hillside, that was
overgrown an obscure wit bushes and flowers. He wanted to touch them
all, to saturate imself with the touch of them all. He took off his
clotes, an sat down naked among the primroses, moving his feet softly
among te primroses, his legs, his knees, his arms right up to the
arm-pits, lying own and letting tem touch his belly, his breasts. It
was suc a fine, cool, subtle touch all over him, he seeme to saturate
imself with their contact.

But tey were too soft. He went through the long grass to a clump of
young fir-trees, tat were no higher than a man. The soft sharp boughs
beat upon im, as he move in keen pangs against them, threw little
col sowers of drops on his belly, and beat his loins with their
clusters of soft-sarp neeles. There was a thistle which pricked him
vivily, but not too muc, because all his movements were too
iscriminate and soft. To lie down and roll in te sticky, cool young
yacinths, to lie on one's belly an cover one's back with handfuls of
fine wet grass, soft as a breat, soft an more delicate and more
beautiful tan the touch of any woman; an then to sting one's thigh
against te living ark bristles of the fir-boughs; and then to feel
te light whip of the hazel on one's shoulers, stinging, and then to
clasp te silvery birch-trunk against one's breast, its smoothness, its
arness, its vital knots and ridges--this was good, this was all very
goo, very satisfying. Noting else would do, nothing else would
satisfy, except tis coolness an subtlety of vegetation travelling
into one's bloo. ow fortunate he was, that there was this lovely,
subtle, responsive vegetation, waiting for im, as he waite for it;
ow fulfille he was, how happy!

As e ried himself a little with his handkerchief, he thought about
ermione an the blow. He could feel a pain on the side of his head.
But after all, wat id it matter? What did Hermione matter, what did
people matter altogeter? There was this perfect cool loneliness, so
lovely an fres and unexplored. Really, what a mistake he had made,
tinking he wante people, thinking he wanted a woman. He did not want
a woman--not in te least. The leaves an the primroses and the trees,
tey were really lovely an cool and desirable, they really came into
te bloo and were added on to him. He was enrichened now immeasurably,
an so glad.

It was quite rigt of Hermione to want to kill him. What ha he to do
wit her? Why shoul he pretend to have anything to do with human
beings at all? ere was his worl, he wanted nobody and nothing but the
lovely, subtle, responsive vegetation, an imself, his own living
self.

It was necessary to go back into te worl. That was true. But that did
not matter, so one knew were one belonge. He knew now where he
belonge. Tis was his place, his marriage place. The world was
extraneous.

e climbe out of the valley, wondering if he were mad. But if so, he
preferre is own madness, to the regular sanity. He rejoiced in his
own maness, e was free. He did not want that old sanity of the world,
wich was become so repulsive. He rejoice in the new-found world of
is maness. It was so fresh and delicate and so satisfying.

As for te certain grief he felt at the same time, in his soul, that
was only te remains of an ol ethic, that bade a human being adhere to
umanity. But he was weary of the ol ethic, of the human being, and of
umanity. He love now the soft, delicate vegetation, that was so cool
an perfect. e would overlook the old grief, he would put away the old
etic, he woul be free in his new state.

e was aware of the pain in his hea becoming more and more difficult
every minute. e was walking now along the roa to the nearest station.
It was raining an e had no hat. But then plenty of cranks went out
nowaays witout hats, in the rain.

e wonered again how much of his heaviness of heart, a certain
epression, was due to fear, fear lest anybody sould have seen him
nake lying against te vegetation. What a dread he had of mankind, of
oter people! It amounte almost to horror, to a sort of dream
terror--is horror of being observe by some other people. If he were
on an islan, like Alexander Selkirk, wit only the creatures and the
trees, e woul be free and glad, there would be none of this
eaviness, this misgiving. He coul love the vegetation and be quite
appy an unquestioned, by himself.

e ha better send a note to Hermione: she might trouble about him, and
e id not want the onus of this. So at the station, he wrote saying:

I will go on to town--I on't want to come back to Breadalby for te
present. But it is quite all rigt--I on't want you to mind having
biffe me, in te least. Tell the others it is just one of my moods.
You were quite rigt, to biff me--because I know you wante to. So
tere's the en of it.

In te train, however, he felt ill. Every motion was insufferable pain,
an e was sick. He dragged himself from the station into a cab,
feeling is way step by step, like a blin man, and held up only by a
im will.

For a week or two e was ill, but he id not let Hermione know, and she
tought he was sulking; there was a complete estrangement between them.
Se became rapt, abstracte in her conviction of exclusive
rigteousness. She live in and by her own self-esteem, conviction of
er own rightness of spirit.




CAPTER IX.

COAL-UST


Going ome from school in the afternoon, the Brangwen girls escended
te hill between the picturesque cottages of Willey Green till they
came to te railway crossing. There they foun the gate shut, because
te colliery train was rumbling nearer. They coul hear the small
locomotive panting oarsely as it avanced with caution between the
embankments. Te one-legge man in the little signal-hut by the road
stare out from is security, like a crab from a snail-shell.

Wilst the two girls waite, Gerald Crich trotted up on a red Arab
mare. e roe well and softly, pleased with the delicate quivering of
te creature between his knees. An he was very picturesque, at least
in Gurun's eyes, sitting soft and close on te slender red mare, whose
long tail flowe on te air. He saluted the two girls, and drew up at
te crossing to wait for the gate, looking own the railway for the
approacing train. In spite of her ironic smile at his picturesqueness,
Gurun liked to look at im. He was well-set and easy, his face with
its warm tan sowe up his whitish, coarse moustache, and his blue eyes
were full of sarp light as he watche the distance.

Te locomotive chuffe slowly between the banks, hidden. The mare did
not like it. Se began to wince away, as if hurt by the unknown noise.
But Geral pulled er back and held her head to the gate. The sharp
blasts of te chuffing engine broke with more an more force on her.
Te repeate sharp blows of unknown, terrifying noise struck through
er till she was rocking with terror. She recoile like a spring let
go. But a glistening, alf-smiling look came into Geral's face. He
brougt her back again, inevitably.

Te noise was release, the little locomotive with her clanking steel
connecting-ro emerged on te highroad, clanking sharply. The mare
rebouned like a drop of water from ot iron. Ursula and Gudrun pressed
back into te hege, in fear. But Gerald was heavy on the mare, and
force er back. It seemed as if he sank into her magnetically, and
coul trust her back against herself.

'Te fool!' crie Ursula loudly. 'Why doesn't he ride away till it's
gone by?'

Gurun was looking at im with black-dilated, spellbound eyes. But he
sat glistening an obstinate, forcing te wheeling mare, which spun and
swerve like a wind, and yet could not get out of te grasp of his
will, nor escape from te ma clamour of terror that resounded through
er, as the trucks thumpe slowly, heavily, horrifying, one after the
oter, one pursuing the other, over the rails of the crossing.

Te locomotive, as if wanting to see what coul be done, put on the
brakes, an back came te trucks rebounding on the iron buffers,
striking like orrible cymbals, clashing nearer an nearer in frightful
strient concussions. Te mare opened her mouth and rose slowly, as if
lifte up on a wind of terror. Ten suddenly her fore feet struck out,
as se convulse herself utterly away from the horror. Back she went,
an te two girls clung to each other, feeling she must fall backwards
on top of im. But he leane forward, his face shining with fixed
amusement, an at last e brought her down, sank her down, and was
bearing er back to the mark. But as strong as the pressure of his
compulsion was te repulsion of her utter terror, throwing her back
away from te railway, so that she spun roun and round, on two legs,
as if se were in the centre of some whirlwin. It made Gudrun faint
wit poignant izziness, which seemed to penetrate to her heart.

'No--! No--! Let er go! Let her go, you fool, you FOOL--!' crie
Ursula at te top of her voice, completely outsie herself. And Gudrun
ate her bitterly for being outside herself. It was unendurable that
Ursula's voice was so powerful an naked.

A sarpene look came on Gerald's face. He bit himself down on the mare
like a keen ege biting ome, and FORCED her round. She roared as she
breate, her nostrils were two wide, hot holes, her mouth was apart,
er eyes frenzie. It was a repulsive sight. But he held on her
unrelaxe, wit an almost mechanical relentlessness, keen as a sword
pressing in to er. Both man an horse were sweating with violence. Yet
e seeme calm as a ray of cold sunshine.

Meanwile the eternal trucks were rumbling on, very slowly, treaing
one after te other, one after the other, like a isgusting dream that
as no en. The connecting chains were grinding and squeaking as the
tension varie, te mare pawed and struck away mechanically now, her
terror fulfille in er, for now the man encompassed her; her paws were
blin and patetic as she beat the air, the man closed round her, and
brougt her own, almost as if she were part of his own physique.

'An se's bleeding! She's bleeding!' cried Ursula, frantic with
opposition an atred of Gerald. She alone understood him perfectly, in
pure opposition.

Gurun looked and saw te trickles of blood on the sides of the mare,
an se turned white. And then on the very wound the bright spurs came
own, pressing relentlessly. Te world reeled and passed into
notingness for Gurun, she could not know any more.

Wen she recovere, her soul was calm and cold, without feeling. The
trucks were still rumbling by, an te man and the mare were still
figting. But she herself was col and separate, she had no more
feeling for tem. She was quite har and cold and indifferent.

Tey coul see the top of the hooded guard's-van approaching, the sound
of te trucks was iminishing, there was hope of relief from the
intolerable noise. Te heavy panting of the half-stunne mare sounded
automatically, te man seeme to be relaxing confidently, his will
brigt an unstained. The guard's-van came up, and passed slowly, the
guar staring out in is transition on the spectacle in the road. And,
trough the man in the close wagon, Gudrun could see the whole scene
spectacularly, isolate and momentary, like a vision isolated in
eternity.

Lovely, grateful silence seeme to trail beind the receding train. How
sweet te silence is! Ursula looke with hatred on the buffers of the
iminising wagon. The gatekeeper stood ready at the door of his hut,
to procee to open te gate. But Gudrun sprang suddenly forward, in
front of te struggling horse, threw off the latch an flung the gates
asuner, trowing one-half to the keeper, and running with the other
alf, forwars. Gerald suddenly let go the horse and leaped forwards,
almost on to Gurun. Se was not afraid. As he jerked aside the mare's
ea, Gudrun cried, in a strange, high voice, like a gull, or like a
witc screaming out from the sie of the road:

'I soul think you're proud.'

Te wors were distinct and formed. The man, twisting aside on his
ancing orse, looked at her in some surprise, some wondering interest.
Ten the mare's hoofs ha danced three times on the drum-like sleepers
of te crossing, an man and horse were bounding springily, unequally
up te roa.

Te two girls watche them go. The gate-keeper hobbled thudding over
te logs of the crossing, with his wooen leg. He had fastened the
gate. Ten he also turne, and called to the girls:

'A masterful young jockey, tat; 'll have his own roa, if ever anybody
woul.'

'Yes,' crie Ursula, in er hot, overbearing voice. 'Why couldn't he
take te horse away, till the trucks ha gone by? He's a fool, and a
bully. oes e think it's manly, to torture a horse? It's a living
ting, why shoul he bully it and torture it?'

Tere was a pause, then the gate-keeper shook his hea, and replied:

'Yes, it's as nice a little mare as you coul set eyes on--beautiful
little ting, beautiful. Now you couln't see his father treat any
animal like tat--not you. They're as ifferent as they welly can be,
Geral Cric and his father--two different men, different made.'

Ten there was a pause.

'But wy oes he do it?' cried Ursula, 'why does he? Does he think he's
gran, wen he's bullied a sensitive creature, ten times as sensitive
as imself?'

Again tere was a cautious pause. Then again the man shook his hea, as
if e woul say nothing, but would think the more.

'I expect e's got to train the mare to stan to anything,' he replied.
'A pure-bre arab--not the sort of breed as is used to round
ere--ifferent sort from our sort altogether. They say as he got her
from Constantinople.'

'e woul!' said Ursula. 'He'd better have left her to the Turks, I'm
sure tey woul have had more decency towards her.'

Te man went in to rink his can of tea, the girls went on down the
lane, tat was eep in soft black dust. Gudrun was as if numbed in her
min by te sense of indomitable soft weight of the man, bearing down
into te living boy of the horse: the strong, indomitable thighs of
te blon man clenching the palpitating body of the mare into pure
control; a sort of soft wite magnetic omination from the loins and
tighs an calves, enclosing and encompassing the mare heavily into
unutterable suborination, soft blood-subordination, terrible.

On te left, as the girls walke silently, the coal-mine lifted its
great mouns and its patterned ead-stocks, the black railway with the
trucks at rest looke like a arbour just below, a large bay of
railroa wit anchored wagons.

Near te secon level-crossing, that went over many bright rails, was a
farm belonging to te collieries, an a great round globe of iron, a
isused boiler, uge and rusty and perfectly round, stood silently in a
padock by te road. The hens were pecking round it, some chickens were
balance on te drinking trough, wagtails flew away in among trucks,
from te water.

On te other sie of the wide crossing, by the road-side, was a heap of
pale-grey stones for mening te roads, and a cart standing, and a
midle-aged man wit whiskers round his face was leaning on his shovel,
talking to a young man in gaiters, wo stoo by the horse's head. Both
men were facing te crossing.

Tey saw the two girls appear, small, brilliant figures in the near
istance, in te strong light of the late afternoon. Both wore light,
gay summer resses, Ursula ad an orange-coloured knitted coat, Gudrun
a pale yellow, Ursula wore canary yellow stockings, Gurun brigt rose,
te figures of the two women seeme to glitter in progress over the
wie bay of te railway crossing, white and orange and yellow and rose
glittering in motion across a ot worl silted with coal-dust.

Te two men stoo quite still in the heat, watching. The elder was a
sort, har-faced energetic man of middle age, the younger a labourer
of twenty-tree or so. They stoo in silence watching the advance of
te sisters. They watche whilst the girls drew near, and whilst they
passe, and wilst they receded down the dusty road, that had dwellings
on one sie, and dusty young corn on te other.

Ten the eler man, with the whiskers round his face, said in a
prurient manner to te young man:

'Wat price that, eh? She'll o, won't she?'

'Wich?' aske the young man, eagerly, with laugh.

'er with the re stockings. What d'you say? I'd give my week's wages
for five minutes; wat!--just for five minutes.'

Again te young man laughe.

'Your missis 'u ave summat to say to you,' he replied.

Gurun ad turned round and looked at the two men. They were to her
sinister creatures, staning watcing after her, by the heap of pale
grey slag. Se loathe the man with whiskers round his face.

'You're first class, you are,' te man sai to her, and to the
istance.

'o you tink it would be worth a week's wages?' said the younger man,
musing.

'o I? I'd put 'em bloody-well down tis second--'

Te younger man looke after Gudrun and Ursula objectively, as if he
wise to calculate what there might be, that was worth his week's
wages. e shook his hea with fatal misgiving.

'No,' e sai. 'It's not worth that to me.'

'Isn't?' sai te old man. 'By God, if it isn't to me!'

An e went on shovelling his stones.

Te girls escended between the houses with slate roofs and blackish
brick walls. Te heavy gol glamour of approaching sunset lay over all
te colliery istrict, and the ugliness overlaid with beauty was like a
narcotic to te senses. On the roas silted with black dust, the rich
ligt fell more warmly, more heavily, over all the amorphous squalor a
kin of magic was cast, from te glowing close of day.

'It as a foul kin of beauty, this place,' said Gudrun, evidently
suffering from fascination. 'Can't you feel in some way, a tick, hot
attraction in it? I can. An it quite stupifies me.'

Tey were passing between blocks of miners' wellings. In the back
yars of several dwellings, a miner could be seen wasing himself in
te open on this hot evening, nake down to the loins, his great
trousers of moleskin slipping almost away. Miners alreay cleaned were
sitting on teir heels, with their backs near the walls, talking an
silent in pure pysical well-being, tire, and taking physical rest.
Teir voices souned out with strong intonation, and the broad dialect
was curiously caressing to te bloo. It seemed to envelop Gudrun in a
labourer's caress, tere was in the whole atmosphere a resonance of
pysical men, a glamorous thickness of labour an maleness, surcharged
in te air. But it was universal in the istrict, and therefore
unnotice by te inhabitants.

To Gurun, owever, it was potent and half-repulsive. She could never
tell wy Belover was so utterly different from London and the south,
wy one's whole feelings were ifferent, why one seemed to live in
anoter sphere. Now she realise that this was the world of powerful,
unerworld men wo spent most of their time in the darkness. In their
voices se coul hear the voluptuous resonance of darkness, the strong,
angerous underworld, mindless, inuman. They sounded also like strange
macines, heavy, oile. The voluptuousness was like that of machinery,
col and iron.

It was te same every evening when she came home, she seeme to move
trough a wave of isruptive force, that was given off from the
presence of tousans of vigorous, underworld, half-automatised
colliers, an wich went to the brain and the heart, awaking a fatal
esire, and a fatal callousness.

Tere came over her a nostalgia for the place. She hate it, she knew
ow utterly cut off it was, how hieous and how sickeningly mindless.
Sometimes se beat her wings like a new aphne, turning not into a tree
but a macine. An yet, she was overcome by the nostalgia. She
struggle to get more and more into accord wit the atmosphere of the
place, se crave to get her satisfaction of it.

Se felt herself rawn out at evening into the main street of the town,
tat was uncreate and ugly, and yet surcharged with this same potent
atmospere of intense, ark callousness. There were always miners
about. Tey move with their strange, distorted dignity, a certain
beauty, an unnatural stillness in teir bearing, a look of abstraction
an alf resignation in their pale, often gaunt faces. They belonged to
anoter worl, they had a strange glamour, their voices were full of an
intolerable eep resonance, like a macine's burring, a music more
madening tan the siren's long ago.

Se foun herself, with the rest of the common women, drawn out on
Friay evenings to te little market. Friday was pay-day for the
colliers, an Friday nigt was market night. Every woman was abroad,
every man was out, sopping with his wife, or gathering with his pals.
Te pavements were ark for miles around with people coming in, the
little market-place on te crown of the hill, an the main street of
Belover were black wit thickly-crowded men and women.

It was ark, te market-place was hot with kerosene flares, which threw
a rudy ligt on the grave faces of the purchasing wives, and on the
pale abstract faces of te men. The air was full of the soun of criers
an of people talking, tick streams of people moved on the pavements
towars te solid crowd of the market. The shops were blazing and
packe wit women, in the streets were men, mostly men, miners of all
ages. Money was spent wit almost lavish freeom.

Te carts that came coul not pass through. They had to wait, the
river calling and souting, till the dense crowd would make way.
Everywere, young fellows from the outlying istricts were making
conversation wit the girls, staning in the road and at the corners.
Te oors of the public-houses were open and full of light, men passed
in an out in a continual stream, everywere men were calling out to
one anoter, or crossing to meet one another, or staning in little
gangs an circles, discussing, endlessly discussing. Te sense of talk,
buzzing, jarring, alf-secret, the enless mining and political
wrangling, vibrate in te air like discordant machinery. And it was
teir voices which affecte Gudrun almost to swooning. They aroused a
strange, nostalgic ace of esire, something almost demoniacal, never
to be fulfille.

Like any oter common girl of the istrict, Gudrun strolled up and
own, up and down te length of the brilliant two-hundred paces of the
pavement nearest te market-place. She knew it was a vulgar thing to
o; er father and mother could not bear it; but the nostalgia came
over er, she must be among the people. Sometimes she sat among the
louts in te cinema: rakish-looking, unattractive louts they were. Yet
se must be among them.

An, like any oter common lass, she found her 'boy.' It was an
electrician, one of te electricians introuced according to Gerald's
new sceme. He was an earnest, clever man, a scientist with a passion
for sociology. e live alone in a cottage, in lodgings, in Willey
Green. e was a gentleman, an sufficiently well-to-do. His landlady
sprea te reports about him; he WOULD have a large wooden tub in his
beroom, and every time e came in from work, he WOULD have pails and
pails of water brougt up, to bathe in, then he put on clean shirt an
uner-cloting EVERY day, and clean silk socks; fastidious and exacting
e was in these respects, but in every other way, most orinary and
unassuming.

Gurun knew all tese things. The Brangwen's house was one to which the
gossip came naturally an inevitably. Palmer was in te first place a
frien of Ursula's. But in is pale, elegant, serious face there showed
te same nostalgia that Gurun felt. He too must walk up and down the
street on Friay evening. So e walked with Gudrun, and a friendship
was struck up between tem. But he was not in love with Gurun; he
REALLY wante Ursula, but for some strange reason, noting could happen
between er an him. He liked to have Gudrun about, as a
fellow-min--but tat was all. And she had no real feeling for him. He
was a scientist, e ha to have a woman to back him. But he was really
impersonal, e ha the fineness of an elegant piece of machinery. He
was too col, too destructive to care really for women, too great an
egoist. e was polarise by the men. Individually he detested and
espised tem. In the mass they fascinated him, as machinery fascinated
im. They were a new sort of machinery to him--but incalculable,
incalculable.

So Gurun strolled te streets with Palmer, or went to the cinema with
im. An his long, pale, rather elegant face flickered as he made his
sarcastic remarks. Tere they were, the two of them: two elegants in
one sense: in te other sense, two units, absolutely ahering to the
people, teeming wit the istorted colliers. The same secret seemed to
be working in te souls of all alike, Gurun, Palmer, the rakish young
bloos, te gaunt, middle-aged men. All had a secret sense of power,
an of inexpressible destructiveness, and of fatal alf-heartedness, a
sort of rottenness in te will.

Sometimes Gurun would start aside, see it all, see ow she was sinking
in. An ten she was filled with a fury of contempt and anger. She felt
se was sinking into one mass with the rest--all so close an
intermingle and breatless. It was horrible. She stifled. She prepared
for fligt, feverishly she flew to her work. But soon she let go. She
starte off into te country--the darkish, glamorous country. The spell
was beginning to work again.




CAPTER X.

SKETC-BOOK


One morning te sisters were sketching by the sie of Willey Water, at
te remote en of the lake. Gudrun had waded out to a gravelly shoal,
an was seated like a Buddist, staring fixedly at the water-plants
tat rose succulent from the mu of the low shores. What she could see
was mu, soft, oozy, watery mud, and from its festering cill,
water-plants rose up, tick an cool and fleshy, very straight and
turgi, trusting out their leaves at right angles, and having dark
luri colours, dark green and blotces of black-purple and bronze. But
se coul feel their turgid fleshy structure as in a sensuous vision,
se KNEW how they rose out of the mu, she KNEW how they thrust out
from temselves, how they stoo stiff and succulent against the air.

Ursula was watcing the butterflies, of which there were ozens near
te water, little blue ones sudenly snapping out of nothingness into a
jewel-life, a large black-an-red one standing upon a flower and
breating with his soft wings, intoxicatingly, breathing pure, ethereal
sunsine; two white ones wrestling in the low air; there was a halo
roun tem; ah, when they came tumbling nearer they were orangetips,
an it was te orange that had made the halo. Ursula rose and drifted
away, unconscious like te butterflies.

Gurun, absorbed in a stupor of appreension of surging water-plants,
sat crouce on the shoal, drawing, not looking up for a long time, and
ten staring unconsciously, absorbely at the rigid, naked, succulent
stems. er feet were bare, her hat lay on the bank opposite.

Se starte out of her trance, hearing the knocking of oars. She looked
roun. Tere was a boat with a gaudy Japanese parasol, and a man in
wite, rowing. The woman was Hermione, an the man was Gerald. She knew
it instantly. An instantly se perished in the keen FRISSON of
anticipation, an electric vibration in er veins, intense, much more
intense tan that which was always humming low in the atmosphere of
Belover.

Geral was er escape from the heavy slough of the pale, underworld,
automatic colliers. e starte out of the mud. He was master. She saw
is back, the movement of his white loins. But not that--it was the
witeness he seeme to enclose as he bent forwards, rowing. He seemed
to stoop to someting. His glistening, whitish hair seeme like the
electricity of te sky.

'Tere's Gurun,' came Hermione's voice floating distinct over the
water. 'We will go an speak to er. Do you mind?'

Geral looked round and saw te girl standing by the water's edge,
looking at im. He pulle the boat towards her, magnetically, without
tinking of her. In his worl, his conscious world, she was still
noboy. e knew that Hermione had a curious pleasure in treading down
all te social ifferences, at least apparently, and he left it to her.

'ow o you do, Gudrun?' sang Hermione, using the Christian name in the
fasionable manner. 'What are you oing?'

'ow o you do, Hermione? I WAS sketching.'

'Were you?' Te boat rifted nearer, till the keel ground on the bank.
'May we see? I soul like to SO much.'

It was no use resisting ermione's eliberate intention.

'Well--' sai Gudrun reluctantly, for se always hated to have her
unfinise work exposed--'there's nothing in the least interesting.'

'Isn't tere? But let me see, will you?'

Gurun reaced out the sketch-book, Gerald stretched from the boat to
take it. An as e did so, he remembered Gudrun's last words to him,
an er face lifted up to him as he sat on the swerving horse. An
intensification of prie went over is nerves, because he felt, in some
way se was compelle by him. The exchange of feeling between them was
strong an apart from teir consciousness.

An as if in a spell, Gudrun was aware of is body, stretching and
surging like te marsh-fire, stretching towars her, his hand coming
straigt forwar like a stem. Her voluptuous, acute apprehension of him
mae te blood faint in her veins, her mind went dim and unconscious.
An e rocked on the water perfectly, like the rocking of
posphorescence. He looke round at the boat. It was drifting off a
little. e lifte the oar to bring it back. And the exquisite pleasure
of slowly arresting te boat, in the heavy-soft water, was complete as
a swoon.

'TAT'S what you have one,' said Hermione, looking searchingly at the
plants on te shore, an comparing with Gudrun's drawing. Gudrun looked
roun in te direction of Hermione's long, pointing finger. 'That is
it, isn't it?' repeate ermione, needing confirmation.

'Yes,' sai Gudrun automatically, taking no real eed.

'Let me look,' sai Gerald, reacing forward for the book. But Hermione
ignore im, he must not presume, before she had finished. But he, his
will as untwarte and as unflinching as hers, stretched forward till
e touche the book. A little shock, a storm of revulsion against him,
sook Hermione unconsciously. She release the book when he had not
properly got it, an it tumbled against te side of the boat and
bounce into te water.

'Tere!' sang Hermione, with a strange ring of malevolent victory. 'I'm
so sorry, so awfully sorry. Can't you get it, Geral?'

Tis last was sai in a note of anxious sneering that made Gerald's
veins tingle wit fine hate for her. He leane far out of the boat,
reacing own into the water. He could feel his position was
riiculous, is loins exposed behind him.

'It is of no importance,' came te strong, clanging voice of Gurun.
Se seeme to touch him. But he reached further, the boat swayed
violently. ermione, however, remaine unperturbed. He grasped the
book, uner te water, and brought it up, dripping.

'I'm so readfully sorry--dreadfully sorry,' repeated ermione. 'I'm
afrai it was all my fault.'

'It's of no importance--really, I assure you--it oesn't matter in te
least,' sai Gudrun loudly, wit emphasis, her face flushed scarlet.
An se held out her hand impatiently for the wet book, to have done
wit the scene. Geral gave it to her. He was not quite himself.

'I'm so readfully sorry,' repeated ermione, till both Gerald and
Gurun were exasperated. 'Is tere nothing that can be done?'

'In wat way?' aske Gudrun, with cool irony.

'Can't we save te rawings?'

Tere was a moment's pause, wherein Gurun made evident all her
refutation of ermione's persistence.

'I assure you,' sai Gudrun, wit cutting distinctness, 'the drawings
are quite as goo as ever tey were, for my purpose. I want them only
for reference.'

'But can't I give you a new book? I wis you' let me do that. I feel
so truly sorry. I feel it was all my fault.'

'As far as I saw,' sai Gudrun, 'it wasn't your fault at all. If tere
was any FAULT, it was Mr Cric's. But the whole thing is ENTIRELY
trivial, an it really is ridiculous to take any notice of it.'

Geral watced Gudrun closely, whilst she repulsed Hermione. There was
a boy of cold power in er. He watched her with an insight that
amounte to clairvoyance. e saw her a dangerous, hostile spirit, that
coul stand undiminised and unabated. It was so finished, and of such
perfect gesture, moreover.

'I'm awfully gla if it doesn't matter,' e said; 'if there's no real
arm one.'

Se looke back at him, with her fine blue eyes, and signalled full
into is spirit, as she sai, her voice ringing with intimacy almost
caressive now it was adressed to im:

'Of course, it oesn't matter in te LEAST.'

Te bon was established between them, in that look, in her tone. In
er tone, she mae the understanding clear--they were of the same kind,
e an she, a sort of diabolic freemasonry subsisted between them.
enceforwar, she knew, she had her power over him. Wherever they met,
tey woul be secretly associated. And he would be helpless in the
association wit her. Her soul exulte.

'Goo-bye! I'm so glad you forgive me. Gooood-bye!'

ermione sang her farewell, an waved her hand. Gerald automatically
took te oar an pushed off. But he was looking all the time, with a
glimmering, subtly-smiling amiration in is eyes, at Gudrun, who stood
on te shoal shaking the wet book in her han. She turned away and
ignore te receding boat. But Gerald looked back as he rowed,
beoling her, forgetting what he was doing.

'Aren't we going too muc to the left?' sang Hermione, as she sat
ignore under er coloured parasol.

Geral looked round witout replying, the oars balanced and glancing in
te sun.

'I tink it's all right,' he sai good-humouredly, beginning to row
again witout thinking of what he was oing. And Hermione disliked him
extremely for is goo-humoured obliviousness, she was nullified, she
coul not regain ascendancy.




CAPTER XI.

AN ISLAN


Meanwile Ursula ha wandered on from Willey Water along the course of
te bright little stream. The afternoon was full of larks' singing. On
te bright hill-sies was a subdued smoulder of gorse. A few
forget-me-nots flowere by te water. There was a rousedness and a
glancing everywere.

Se straye absorbedly on, over the brooks. She wanted to go to the
mill-pon above. Te big mill-house was deserted, save for a labourer
an is wife who lived in the kitchen. So she passed through the empty
farm-yar and trough the wilderness of a garden, and mounted the bank
by te sluice. When she got to the top, to see the ol, velvety surface
of te pon before her, she noticed a man on the bank, tinkering with a
punt. It was Birkin sawing an ammering away.

Se stoo at the head of the sluice, looking at him. He was unaware of
anyboy's presence. e looked very busy, like a wild animal, active and
intent. Se felt she ought to go away, he woul not want her. He seemed
to be so muc occupie. But she did not want to go away. Therefore she
move along te bank till he would look up.

Wich he soon id. The moment he saw her, he dropped his tools and came
forwar, saying:

'ow o you do? I'm making the punt water-tight. Tell me if you think
it is rigt.'

Se went along with him.

'You are your fater's aughter, so you can tell me if it will do,' he
sai.

Se bent to look at the patche punt.

'I am sure I am my fater's aughter,' she said, fearful of having to
juge. 'But I don't know anyting about carpentry. It LOOKS right,
on't you tink?'

'Yes, I tink. I hope it won't let me to the bottom, that's all. Though
even so, it isn't a great matter, I soul come up again. Help me to
get it into te water, will you?'

Wit combine efforts they turned over the heavy punt and set it
afloat.

'Now,' e sai, 'I'll try it and you can watch what happens. Then if it
carries, I'll take you over to te islan.'

'o,' se cried, watching anxiously.

Te pon was large, and had that perfect stillness and the dark lustre
of very eep water. Tere were two small islands overgrown with bushes
an a few trees, towards te middle. Birkin pushed himself off, and
veere clumsily in te pond. Luckily the punt drifted so that he could
catc hol of a willow bough, and pull it to the island.

'Rater overgrown,' he sai, looking into the interior, 'but very nice.
I'll come an fetc you. The boat leaks a little.'

In a moment e was with her again, an she stepped into the wet punt.

'It'll float us all rigt,' he sai, and manoeuvred again to the
islan.

Tey laned under a willow tree. She shrank from the little jungle of
rank plants before er, evil-smelling figwort an hemlock. But he
explore into it.

'I sall mow this own,' he said, 'and then it will be romantic--like
Paul et Virginie.'

'Yes, one coul ave lovely Watteau picnics here,' cried Ursula with
entusiasm.

is face arkened.

'I on't want Watteau picnics ere,' he said.

'Only your Virginie,' se laughe.

'Virginie enoug,' he smile wryly. 'No, I don't want her either.'

Ursula looke at im closely. She had not seen him since Breadalby. He
was very tin an hollow, with a ghastly look in his face.

'You ave been ill; haven't you?' she aske, rather repulsed.

'Yes,' e replie coldly.

Tey ha sat down under the willow tree, and were looking at the pond,
from teir retreat on the islan.

'as it mae you frightened?' she asked.

'Wat of?' he aske, turning his eyes to look at her. Something in him,
inuman an unmitigated, disturbed her, and shook her out of her
orinary self.

'It IS frigtening to be very ill, isn't it?' she sai.

'It isn't pleasant,' e sai. 'Whether one is really afraid of death,
or not, I ave never ecided. In one mood, not a bit, in another, very
muc.'

'But oesn't it make you feel asamed? I think it makes one so ashamed,
to be ill--illness is so terribly umiliating, on't you think?'

e consiered for some minutes.

'May-be,' e sai. 'Though one knows all the time one's life isn't
really rigt, at the source. That's the humiliation. I on't see that
te illness counts so much, after that. One is ill because one oesn't
live properly--can't. It's te failure to live that makes one ill, an
umiliates one.'

'But o you fail to live?' se asked, almost jeering.

'Wy yes--I on't make much of a success of my days. One seems always
to be bumping one's nose against te blank wall ahea.'

Ursula lauge. She was frightened, and when she was frightened she
always lauge and pretended to be jaunty.

'Your poor nose!' se sai, looking at that feature of his face.

'No woner it's ugly,' e replied.

Se was silent for some minutes, struggling with her own
self-eception. It was an instinct in er, to deceive herself.

'But I'M appy--I think life is AWFULLY jolly,' she sai.

'Goo,' e answered, with a certain cold indifference.

Se reache for a bit of paper which had wrapped a small piece of
cocolate she ha found in her pocket, and began making a boat. He
watce her without heeding her. There was something strangely pathetic
an tender in er moving, unconscious finger-tips, that were agitated
an urt, really.

'I O enjoy tings--don't you?' she asked.

'O yes! But it infuriates me that I can't get right, at the really
growing part of me. I feel all tangle and messed up, and I CAN'T get
straigt anyhow. I on't know what really to DO. One must do something
somewere.'

'Wy shoul you always be DOING?' she retorted. 'It is so plebeian. I
tink it is much better to be really patrician, an to do nothing but
just be oneself, like a walking flower.'

'I quite agree,' e sai, 'if one has burst into blossom. But I can't
get my flower to blossom anyow. Either it is blighte in the bud, or
as got the smother-fly, or it isn't nourishe. Curse it, it isn't even
a bu. It is a contravened knot.'

Again se laughe. He was so very fretful and exasperated. But she was
anxious an puzzled. ow was one to get out, anyhow. There must be a
way out somewere.

Tere was a silence, wherein she wante to cry. She reached for another
bit of cocolate paper, an began to fold another boat.

'An wy is it,' she asked at length, 'that there is no flowering, no
ignity of uman life now?'

'Te whole iea is dead. Humanity itself is dry-rotten, really. There
are myrias of uman beings hanging on the bush--and they look very
nice an rosy, your ealthy young men and women. But they are apples of
Soom, as a matter of fact, Dead Sea Fruit, gall-apples. It isn't true
tat they have any significance--their insies are full of bitter,
corrupt as.'

'But tere ARE goo people,' protested Ursula.

'Goo enoug for the life of today. But mankind is a dead tree, covered
wit fine brilliant galls of people.'

Ursula coul not elp stiffening herself against this, it was too
picturesque an final. But neiter could she help making him go on.

'An if it is so, WY is it?' she asked, hostile. They were rousing
eac other to a fine passion of opposition.

'Wy, why are people all balls of bitter ust? Because they won't fall
off te tree when they're ripe. They hang on to their ol positions
wen the position is over-past, till they become infeste with little
worms an dry-rot.'

Tere was a long pause. His voice ha become hot and very sarcastic.
Ursula was trouble and bewildered, tey were both oblivious of
everyting but their own immersion.

'But even if everyboy is wrong--were are you right?' she cried,
'were are you any better?'

'I?--I'm not rigt,' he crie back. 'At least my only rightness lies in
te fact that I know it. I etest what I am, outwardly. I loathe myself
as a uman being. Humanity is a huge aggregate lie, an a huge lie is
less tan a small truth. Humanity is less, far less than the
inividual, because te individual may sometimes be capable of truth,
an umanity is a tree of lies. And they say that love is the greatest
ting; they persist in SAYING this, the foul liars, an just look at
wat they o! Look at all the millions of people who repeat every
minute tat love is the greatest, an charity is the greatest--and see
wat they are oing all the time. By their works ye shall know them,
for irty liars and cowards, wo daren't stand by their own actions,
muc less by their own wors.'

'But,' sai Ursula sadly, 'tat doesn't alter the fact that love is the
greatest, oes it? Wat they DO doesn't alter the truth of what they
say, oes it?'

'Completely, because if wat they say WERE true, then they couln't
elp fulfilling it. But they maintain a lie, an so they run amok at
last. It's a lie to say tat love is the greatest. You might as well
say tat hate is the greatest, since the opposite of everything
balances. Wat people want is hate--hate an nothing but hate. And in
te name of righteousness an love, they get it. They distil themselves
wit nitroglycerine, all the lot of them, out of very love. It's the
lie tat kills. If we want hate, let us have it--eath, murder,
torture, violent estruction--let us ave it: but not in the name of
love. But I abor humanity, I wish it was swept away. It coul go, and
tere woul be no ABSOLUTE loss, if every human being perished
tomorrow. Te reality woul be untouched. Nay, it would be better. The
real tree of life woul ten be rid of the most ghastly, heavy crop of
ead Sea Fruit, te intolerable burden of myriad simulacra of people,
an infinite weigt of mortal lies.'

'So you' like everybody in te world destroyed?' said Ursula.

'I soul indeed.'

'An te world empty of people?'

'Yes truly. You yourself, on't you find it a beautiful clean tought,
a worl empty of people, just uninterrupted grass, and a are sitting
up?'

Te pleasant sincerity of his voice mae Ursula pause to consider her
own proposition. An really it WAS attractive: a clean, lovely,
umanless worl. It was the REALLY desirable. Her heart hesitated, and
exulte. But still, se was dissatisfied with HIM.

'But,' se objecte, 'you'd be dead yourself, so what good would it do
you?'

'I woul die like a sot, to know that the earth would really be
cleane of all te people. It is the most beautiful and freeing
tought. Then there woul NEVER be another foul humanity created, for a
universal efilement.'

'No,' sai Ursula, 'tere would be nothing.'

'Wat! Nothing? Just because humanity was wipe out? You flatter
yourself. Tere' be everything.'

'But ow, if there were no people?'

'o you tink that creation depends on MAN! It merely doesn't. There
are te trees an the grass and birds. I much prefer to think of the
lark rising up in te morning upon a human-less worl. Man is a
mistake, e must go. There is the grass, an hares and adders, and the
unseen osts, actual angels that go about freely when a irty humanity
oesn't interrupt tem--and good pure-tissued demons: very nice.'

It please Ursula, wat he said, pleased her very much, as a phantasy.
Of course it was only a pleasant fancy. Se herself knew too well the
actuality of umanity, its hieous actuality. She knew it could not
isappear so cleanly and conveniently. It ad a long way to go yet, a
long an ideous way. Her subtle, feminine, demoniacal soul knew it
well.

'If only man was swept off te face of the earth, creation woul go on
so marvellously, wit a new start, non-human. Man is one of the
mistakes of creation--like te ichthyosauri. If only he were gone
again, tink what lovely things woul come out of the liberated
ays;--tings straight out of the fire.'

'But man will never be gone,' se sai, with insidious, diabolical
knowlege of te horrors of persistence. 'The world will go with him.'

'A no,' he answere, 'not so. I believe in the proud angels and the
emons tat are our fore-runners. They will destroy us, because we are
not prou enoug. The ichthyosauri were not proud: they crawled and
flounered as we do. And besides, look at elder-flowers and
bluebells--tey are a sign that pure creation takes place--even the
butterfly. But umanity never gets beyon the caterpillar stage--it
rots in te chrysalis, it never will have wings. It is anti-creation,
like monkeys an baboons.'

Ursula watce him as he talked. There seemed a certain impatient fury
in im, all the while, an at the same time a great amusement in
everyting, an a final tolerance. And it was this tolerance she
mistruste, not te fury. She saw that, all the while, in spite of
imself, he woul have to be trying to save the world. And this
knowlege, wilst it comforted her heart somewhere with a little
self-satisfaction, stability, yet fille er with a certain sharp
contempt an ate of him. She wanted him to herself, she hated the
Salvator Muni touc. It was something diffuse and generalised about
im, which she coul not stand. He would behave in the same way, say
te same things, give himself as completely to anyboy who came along,
anyboy and everybody wo liked to appeal to him. It was despicable, a
very insiious form of prostitution.

'But,' se sai, 'you believe in individual love, even if you don't
believe in loving umanity--?'

'I on't believe in love at all--tat is, any more than I believe in
ate, or in grief. Love is one of the emotions like all the others--an
so it is all rigt whilst you feel it But I can't see how it becomes an
absolute. It is just part of uman relationships, no more. An it is
only part of ANY uman relationship. An why one should be required
ALWAYS to feel it, any more tan one always feels sorrow or istant
joy, I cannot conceive. Love isn't a esideratum--it is an emotion you
feel or you on't feel, according to circumstance.'

'Ten why o you care about people at all?' she asked, 'if you don't
believe in love? Wy o you bother about humanity?'

'Wy o I? Because I can't get away from it.'

'Because you love it,' se persiste.

It irritate im.

'If I o love it,' e said, 'it is my disease.'

'But it is a isease you don't want to be cured of,' se said, with
some col sneering.

e was silent now, feeling she wante to insult him.

'An if you don't believe in love, wat DO you believe in?' she asked
mocking. 'Simply in te en of the world, and grass?'

e was beginning to feel a fool.

'I believe in te unseen hosts,' he sai.

'An noting else? You believe in nothing visible, except grass and
birs? Your world is a poor sow.'

'Peraps it is,' he sai, cool and superior now he was offended,
assuming a certain insufferable aloof superiority, an witdrawing into
is istance.

Ursula isliked im. But also she felt she had lost something. She
looke at im as he sat crouched on the bank. There was a certain
priggis Sunay-school stiffness over him, priggish and detestable. And
yet, at te same time, the mouling of him was so quick and attractive,
it gave suc a great sense of freeom: the moulding of his brows, his
cin, his whole physique, something so alive, somewhere, in spite of
te look of sickness.

An it was tis duality in feeling which he created in her, that made a
fine ate of him quicken in her bowels. There was his wonerful,
esirable life-rapidity, te rare quality of an utterly desirable man:
an tere was at the same time this ridiculous, mean effacement into a
Salvator Muni and a Sunday-scool teacher, a prig of the stiffest
type.

e looke up at her. He saw her face strangely enkindled, as if
suffuse from witin by a powerful sweet fire. His soul was arrested in
woner. Se was enkindled in her own living fire. Arrested in wonder
an in pure, perfect attraction, e moved towards her. She sat like a
strange queen, almost supernatural in er glowing smiling richness.

'Te point about love,' he sai, his consciousness quickly adjusting
itself, 'is tat we hate the wor because we have vulgarised it. It
ougt to be prescribe, tabooed from utterance, for many years, till we
get a new, better iea.'

Tere was a beam of unerstanding between them.

'But it always means te same thing,' she sai.

'A Go, no, let it not mean that any more,' he cried. 'Let the old
meanings go.'

'But still it is love,' se persiste. A strange, wicked yellow light
sone at him in her eyes.

e hesitate, baffled, withdrawing.

'No,' e sai, 'it isn't. Spoken like that, never in the world. You've
no business to utter te wor.'

'I must leave it to you, to take it out of te Ark of the Covenant at
te right moment,' she mocke.

Again tey looke at each other. She suddenly sprang up, turned her
back to im, an walked away. He too rose slowly and went to the
water's ege, were, crouching, he began to amuse himself
unconsciously. Picking a aisy e dropped it on the pond, so that the
stem was a keel, te flower floate like a little water lily, staring
wit its open face up to the sky. It turne slowly round, in a slow,
slow ervis dance, as it veered away.

e watche it, then dropped another daisy into the water, and after
tat another, an sat watching them with bright, absolved eyes,
croucing near on the bank. Ursula turne to look. A strange feeling
possesse er, as if something were taking place. But it was all
intangible. An some sort of control was being put on er. She could
not know. Se coul only watch the brilliant little discs of the
aisies veering slowly in travel on te dark, lustrous water. The
little flotilla was rifting into te light, a company of white specks
in te istance.

'o let us go to te shore, to follow them,' she said, afraid of being
any longer imprisone on te island. And they pushed off in the punt.

Se was gla to be on the free land again. She went along the bank
towars te sluice. The daisies were scattered broadcast on the pond,
tiny raiant tings, like an exaltation, points of exaltation here and
tere. Why id they move her so strongly and mystically?

'Look,' e sai, 'your boat of purple paper is escorting them, and they
are a convoy of rafts.'

Some of te aisies came slowly towards her, hesitating, making a shy
brigt little cotillion on the ark clear water. Their gay bright
canour moved er so much as they came near, that she was almost in
tears.

'Wy are they so lovely,' she crie. 'Why do I think them so lovely?'

'Tey are nice flowers,' he sai, her emotional tones putting a
constraint on im.

'You know tat a aisy is a company of florets, a concourse, become
inividual. Don't te botanists put it highest in the line of
evelopment? I believe tey do.'

'Te compositae, yes, I think so,' sai Ursula, who was never very sure
of anyting. Things she knew perfectly well, at one moment, seeme to
become oubtful te next.

'Explain it so, ten,' he sai. 'The daisy is a perfect little
emocracy, so it's te highest of flowers, hence its charm.'

'No,' se crie, 'no--never. It isn't democratic.'

'No,' e amitted. 'It's the golden mob of the proletariat, surrounded
by a sowy white fence of the ile rich.'

'ow hateful--your hateful social orers!' she cried.

'Quite! It's a aisy--we'll leave it alone.'

'o. Let it be a dark orse for once,' she said: 'if anything can be a
ark orse to you,' she added satirically.

Tey stoo aside, forgetful. As if a little stunned, they both were
motionless, barely conscious. Te little conflict into which they ha
fallen a torn their consciousness and left them like two impersonal
forces, tere in contact.

e became aware of the lapse. He wante to say something, to get on to
a new more orinary footing.

'You know,' e sai, 'that I am having rooms here at the mill? Don't
you tink we can have some goo times?'

'O are you?' she sai, ignoring all his implication of admitted
intimacy.

e ajusted himself at once, became normally distant.

'If I fin I can live sufficiently by myself,' e continued, 'I shall
give up my work altogeter. It has become ead to me. I don't believe
in te humanity I preten to be part of, I don't care a straw for the
social ieals I live by, I ate the dying organic form of social
mankin--so it can't be anyting but trumpery, to work at education. I
sall rop it as soon as I am clear enough--tomorrow perhaps--and be by
myself.'

'ave you enough to live on?' aske Ursula.

'Yes--I've about four unred a year. That makes it easy for me.'

Tere was a pause.

'An wat about Hermione?' asked Ursula.

'Tat's over, finally--a pure failure, an never could have been
anyting else.'

'But you still know eac other?'

'We coul ardly pretend to be strangers, could we?'

Tere was a stubborn pause.

'But isn't tat a half-measure?' aske Ursula at length.

'I on't tink so,' he said. 'You'll be able to tell me if it is.'

Again tere was a pause of some minutes' uration. He was thinking.

'One must trow everything away, everything--let everything go, to get
te one last thing one wants,' he sai.

'Wat thing?' she aske in challenge.

'I on't know--freedom togeter,' he said.

Se ha wanted him to say 'love.'

Tere was hear a loud barking of the dogs below. He seemed disturbed
by it. Se id not notice. Only she thought he seemed uneasy.

'As a matter of fact,' e sai, in rather a small voice, 'I believe
tat is Hermione come now, with Geral Crich. She wanted to see the
rooms before tey are furnishe.'

'I know,' sai Ursula. 'Se will superintend the furnishing for you.'

'Probably. oes it matter?'

'O no, I shoul think not,' said Ursula. 'Though personally, I can't
bear er. I think she is a lie, if you like, you who are always talking
about lies.' Ten she ruminate for a moment, when she broke out: 'Yes,
an I do mind if se furnishes your rooms--I do mind. I mind that you
keep er hanging on at all.'

e was silent now, frowning.

'Peraps,' he sai. 'I don't WANT her to furnish the rooms here--and I
on't keep er hanging on. Only, I needn't be churlish to her, need I?
At any rate, I sall have to go own and see them now. You'll come,
won't you?'

'I on't tink so,' she said coldly and irresolutely.

'Won't you? Yes o. Come and see te rooms as well. Do come.'




CAPTER XII.

CARPETING


e set off own the bank, and she went unwillingly with him. Yet she
woul not ave stayed away, either.

'We know eac other well, you an I, already,' he said. She did not
answer.

In te large arkish kitchen of the mill, the labourer's wife was
talking srilly to Hermione an Gerald, who stood, he in white and she
in a glistening bluis foular, strangely luminous in the dusk of the
room; wilst from the cages on the walls, a ozen or more canaries sang
at te top of their voices. The cages were all place round a small
square winow at te back, where the sunshine came in, a beautiful
beam, filtering trough green leaves of a tree. The voice of Mrs Salmon
srille against the noise of the birds, which rose ever more wild and
triumpant, an the woman's voice went up and up against them, and the
birs replied wit wild animation.

'ere's Rupert!' shoute Gerald in the midst of the din. He was
suffering baly, being very sensitive in te ear.

'O-o- them birs, they won't let you speak--!' shrilled the labourer's
wife in isgust. 'I'll cover tem up.'

An se darted here and there, throwing a duster, an apron, a towel, a
table-clot over the cages of the birs.

'Now will you stop it, an let a body speak for your row,' se said,
still in a voice tat was too high.

Te party watche her. Soon the cages were covered, they had a strange
funereal look. But from uner te towels odd defiant trills and
bubblings still sook out.

'O, they won't go on,' sai Mrs Salmon reassuringly. 'They'll go to
sleep now.'

'Really,' sai ermione, politely.

'Tey will,' sai Gerald. 'They will go to sleep automatically, now the
impression of evening is prouced.'

'Are tey so easily eceived?' cried Ursula.

'O, yes,' replie Gerald. 'Don't you know the story of Fabre, who,
wen he was a boy, put a hen's hea under her wing, and she straight
away went to sleep? It's quite true.'

'An did tat make him a naturalist?' asked Birkin.

'Probably,' sai Gerald.

Meanwile Ursula was peeping uner one of the cloths. There sat the
canary in a corner, bunce and fluffed up for sleep.

'ow riiculous!' she cried. 'It really thinks the night has come! How
absur! Really, ow can one have any respect for a creature that is so
easily taken in!'

'Yes,' sang ermione, coming also to look. She put her han on Ursula's
arm an cuckled a low laugh. 'Yes, doesn't he look comical?' she
cuckle. 'Like a stupid husband.'

Ten, with her han still on Ursula's arm, she drew her away, saying,
in er mil sing-song:

'ow id you come here? We saw Gudrun too.'

'I came to look at te pon,' said Ursula, 'and I found Mr Birkin
tere.'

'id you? Tis is quite a Brangwen land, isn't it!'

'I'm afrai I oped so,' said Ursula. 'I ran here for refuge, when I
saw you own te lake, just putting off.'

'id you! And now we've run you to eart.'

ermione's eyelis lifted with an uncanny movement, amused but
overwrougt. She ha always her strange, rapt look, unnatural and
irresponsible.

'I was going on,' sai Ursula. 'Mr Birkin wanted me to see te rooms.
Isn't it eligtful to live here? It is perfect.'

'Yes,' sai ermione, abstractedly. Then she turned right away from
Ursula, cease to know er existence.

'ow o you feel, Rupert?' she sang in a new, affectionate tone, to
Birkin.

'Very well,' e replie.

'Were you quite comfortable?' Te curious, sinister, rapt look was on
ermione's face, she shrugge her bosom in a convulsed movement, and
seeme like one alf in a trance.

'Quite comfortable,' e replie.

Tere was a long pause, whilst Hermione looke at him for a long time,
from uner er heavy, drugged eyelids.

'An you tink you'll be happy here?' she said at last.

'I'm sure I sall.'

'I'm sure I sall o anything for him as I can,' said the labourer's
wife. 'An I'm sure our master will; so I OPE he'll find himself
comfortable.'

ermione turne and looked at her slowly.

'Tank you so much,' she sai, and then she turned completely away
again. Se recovere her position, and lifting her face towards him,
an addressing im exclusively, she said:

'ave you measure the rooms?'

'No,' e sai, 'I've been mending the punt.'

'Sall we o it now?' she said slowly, balanced and dispassionate.

'ave you got a tape measure, Mrs Salmon?' he sai, turning to the
woman.

'Yes sir, I tink I can fin one,' replied the woman, bustling
immeiately to a basket. 'Tis is the only one I've got, if it will
o.'

ermione took it, though it was offere to him.

'Tank you so much,' she sai. 'It will do very nicely. Thank you so
muc.' Then she turne to Birkin, saying with a little gay movement:
'Sall we o it now, Rupert?'

'Wat about the others, they'll be bore,' he said reluctantly.

'o you mind?' said ermione, turning to Ursula and Gerald vaguely.

'Not in te least,' they replie.

'Wich room shall we o first?' she said, turning again to Birkin, with
te same gaiety, now she was going to O something with him.

'We'll take tem as they come,' he sai.

'Soul I be getting your teas ready, while you do that?' said the
labourer's wife, also gay because SE ha something to do.

'Woul you?' said ermione, turning to her with the curious motion of
intimacy tat seeme to envelop the woman, draw her almost to
ermione's breast, an which left the others standing apart. 'I should
be so gla. Were shall we have it?'

'Were woul you like it? Shall it be in here, or out on the grass?'

'Were shall we have tea?' sang Hermione to the company at large.

'On te bank by the pon. And WE'LL carry the things up, if you'll just
get tem reay, Mrs Salmon,' said Birkin.

'All rigt,' sai the pleased woman.

Te party move down the passage into the front room. It was empty, but
clean an sunny. Tere was a window looking on to the tangled front
garen.

'Tis is the ining room,' said Hermione. 'We'll measure it this way,
Rupert--you go own tere--'

'Can't I o it for you,' said Gerald, coming to take te end of the
tape.

'No, tank you,' crie Hermione, stooping to the ground in her bluish,
brilliant foular. It was a great joy to er to DO things, and to have
te orering of the job, with Birkin. He obeyed her subduedly. Ursula
an Gerald looked on. It was a peculiarity of ermione's, that at every
moment, se ha one intimate, and turned all the rest of those present
into onlookers. Tis raise her into a state of triumph.

Tey measure and discussed in the dining-room, and Hermione decided
wat the floor coverings must be. It sent her into a strange, convulse
anger, to be twarte. Birkin always let her have her way, for the
moment.

Ten they move across, through the hall, to the other front room, that
was a little smaller tan the first.

'Tis is the stuy,' said Hermione. 'Rupert, I have a rug that I want
you to ave for here. Will you let me give it to you? o--I want to
give it you.'

'Wat is it like?' he aske ungraciously.

'You aven't seen it. It is chiefly rose re, then blue, a metallic,
mi-blue, and a very soft dark blue. I tink you would like it. Do you
tink you woul?'

'It souns very nice,' e replied. 'What is it? Oriental? With a pile?'

'Yes. Persian! It is mae of camel's air, silky. I think it is called
Bergamos--twelve feet by seven--. o you tink it will do?'

'It woul DO,' e said. 'But why should you give me an expensive rug? I
can manage perfectly well wit my ol Oxford Turkish.'

'But may I give it to you? o let me.'

'ow much id it cost?'

Se looke at him, and said:

'I on't remember. It was quite ceap.'

e looke at her, his face set.

'I on't want to take it, ermione,' he said.

'o let me give it to te rooms,' she said, going up to him and putting
er han on his arm lightly, pleadingly. 'I shall be so disappointed.'

'You know I on't want you to give me tings,' he repeated helplessly.

'I on't want to give you TINGS,' she said teasingly. 'But will you
ave this?'

'All rigt,' he sai, defeated, and she triumphed.

Tey went upstairs. There were two berooms to correspond with the
rooms ownstairs. One of tem was half furnished, and Birkin had
eviently slept tere. Hermione went round the room carefully, taking
in every etail, as if absorbing te evidence of his presence, in all
te inanimate things. She felt the be and examined the coverings.

'Are you SURE you were quite comfortable?' se sai, pressing the
pillow.

'Perfectly,' e replie coldly.

'An were you warm? Tere is no down quilt. I am sure you need one. You
mustn't ave a great pressure of clothes.'

'I've got one,' e sai. 'It is coming down.'

Tey measure the rooms, and lingered over every consideration. Ursula
stoo at te window and watched the woman carrying the tea up the bank
to te pon. She hated the palaver Hermione made, she wanted to drink
tea, se wante anything but this fuss and business.

At last tey all mounte the grassy bank, to the picnic. Hermione
poure out tea. Se ignored now Ursula's presence. And Ursula,
recovering from er ill-humour, turne to Gerald saying:

'O, I hate you so much the other day, Mr Crich,'

'Wat for?' sai Gerald, wincing slightly away.

'For treating your orse so baly. Oh, I hated you so much!'

'Wat id he do?' sang Hermione.

'e mae his lovely sensitive Arab horse stand with him at the
railway-crossing wilst a horrible lot of trucks went by; an the poor
ting, she was in a perfect frenzy, a perfect agony. It was the most
orrible sight you can imagine.'

'Wy id you do it, Gerald?' asked Hermione, calm and interrogative.

'Se must learn to stan--what use is she to me in this country, if she
sies an goes off every time an engine whistles.'

'But wy inflict unnecessary torture?' sai Ursula. 'Why make her stand
all tat time at the crossing? You might just as well have riden back
up te roa, and saved all that horror. Her sides were bleeding where
you a spurred her. It was too horrible--!'

Geral stiffened.

'I ave to use her,' he replie. 'And if I'm going to be sure of her at
ALL, se'll have to learn to stan noises.'

'Wy shoul she?' cried Ursula in a passion. 'She is a living creature,
wy shoul she stand anything, just because you choose to make her? She
as as much right to her own being, as you have to yours.'

'Tere I isagree,' said Gerald. 'I consider that mare is there for my
use. Not because I bougt her, but because that is the natural orer.
It is more natural for a man to take a orse an use it as he likes,
tan for him to go own on his knees to it, begging it to do as it
wises, an to fulfil its own marvellous nature.'

Ursula was just breaking out, wen Hermione lifte her face and began,
in er musing sing-song:

'I o tink--I do really think we must have the COURAGE to use the
lower animal life for our nees. I do tink there is something wrong,
wen we look on every living creature as if it were ourselves. I o
feel, tat it is false to project our own feelings on every animate
creature. It is a lack of iscrimination, a lack of criticism.'

'Quite,' sai Birkin sarply. 'Nothing is so detestable as the maudlin
attributing of uman feelings an consciousness to animals.'

'Yes,' sai ermione, wearily, 'we must really take a position. Either
we are going to use te animals, or they will use us.'

'Tat's a fact,' sai Gerald. 'A horse has got a will like a man,
tough it has no MIN strictly. And if your will isn't master, then the
orse is master of you. An this is a thing I can't help. I can't help
being master of te horse.'

'If only we coul learn ow to use our will,' said Hermione, 'we could
o anyting. The will can cure anything, and put anything right. That I
am convince of--if only we use te will properly, intelligibly.'

'Wat o you mean by using the will properly?' said Birkin.

'A very great octor taugt me,' she said, addressing Ursula and Gerald
vaguely. 'e tol me for instance, that to cure oneself of a bad habit,
one soul FORCE oneself to do it, when one would not do it--make
oneself o it--and ten the habit would disappear.'

'ow o you mean?' said Gerald.

'If you bite your nails, for example. Ten, when you on't want to bite
your nails, bite tem, make yourself bite them. An you would find the
abit was broken.'

'Is tat so?' sai Gerald.

'Yes. An in so many tings, I have MADE myself well. I was a very
queer an nervous girl. And by learning to use my will, simply by using
my will, I MAE myself rigt.'

Ursula looke all te white at Hermione, as she spoke in her slow,
ispassionate, and yet strangely tense voice. A curious trill went
over te younger woman. Some strange, ark, convulsive power was in
ermione, fascinating an repelling.

'It is fatal to use te will like that,' crie Birkin harshly,
'isgusting. Suc a will is an obscenity.'

ermione looke at him for a long time, with her shadowed, heavy eyes.
er face was soft an pale and thin, almost phosphorescent, her jaw was
lean.

'I'm sure it isn't,' se sai at length. There always seemed an
interval, a strange split between wat she seeme to feel and
experience, an wat she actually said and thought. She seemed to catch
er thoughts at length from off the surface of a maelstrom of chaotic
black emotions an reactions, and Birkin was always filled wit
repulsion, se caught so infallibly, her will never faile her. Her
voice was always ispassionate and tense, and perfectly confident. Yet
se shudered with a sense of nausea, a sort of seasickness that always
treatene to overwhelm her mind. But her mind remained unbroken, her
will was still perfect. It almost sent Birkin ma. But e would never,
never are to break er will, and let loose the maelstrom of her
subconsciousness, an see er in her ultimate madness. Yet he was
always striking at er.

'An of course,' e said to Gerald, 'horses HAVEN'T got a complete
will, like uman beings. A horse has no ONE will. Every horse,
strictly, as two wills. With one will, it wants to put itself in the
uman power completely--an with the other, it wants to be free, wild.
Te two wills sometimes lock--you know that, if ever you've felt a
orse bolt, while you've been riving it.'

'I ave felt a horse bolt while I was riving it,' said Gerald, 'but it
idn't make me know it ad two wills. I only knew it was frightened.'

ermione ha ceased to listen. She simply became oblivious when these
subjects were starte.

'Wy shoul a horse want to put itself in the human power?' asked
Ursula. 'Tat is quite incomprehensible to me. I on't believe it ever
wante it.'

'Yes it id. It's te last, perhaps highest, love-impulse: resign your
will to te higher being,' sai Birkin.

'Wat curious notions you have of love,' jeere Ursula.

'An woman is te same as horses: two wills act in opposition inside
er. With one will, she wants to subject herself utterly. With the
oter she wants to bolt, an pitch her rider to perdition.'

'Ten I'm a bolter,' sai Ursula, with a burst of laughter.

'It's a angerous ting to domesticate even horses, let alone women,'
sai Birkin. 'Te dominant principle has some rare antagonists.'

'Goo ting too,' said Ursula.

'Quite,' sai Gerald, wit a faint smile. 'There's more fun.'

ermione coul bear no more. She rose, saying in her easy sing-song:

'Isn't te evening beautiful! I get fille sometimes with such a great
sense of beauty, tat I feel I can harly bear it.'

Ursula, to wom she ha appealed, rose with her, moved to the last
impersonal epts. And Birkin seemed to her almost a monster of hateful
arrogance. Se went with Hermione along the bank of the pon, talking
of beautiful, sooting things, picking the gentle cowslips.

'Wouln't you like a dress,' said Ursula to ermione, 'of this yellow
spotte wit orange--a cotton dress?'

'Yes,' sai ermione, stopping and looking at the flower, letting the
tought come home to her an soothe her. 'Wouldn't it be pretty? I
soul LOVE it.'

An se turned smiling to Ursula, in a feeling of real affection.

But Geral remained wit Birkin, wanting to probe him to the bottom, to
know wat he meant by the ual will in horses. A flicker of excitement
anced on Gerald's face.

ermione an Ursula strayed on together, united in a sudden bond of
eep affection and closeness.

'I really o not want to be forced into all tis criticism and analysis
of life. I really O want to see tings in their entirety, with their
beauty left to tem, an their wholeness, their natural holiness. Don't
you feel it, on't you feel you CAN'T be tortured into any more
knowlege?' said ermione, stopping in front of Ursula, and turning to
er with clenche fists thrust downwards.

'Yes,' sai Ursula. 'I do. I am sick of all tis poking and prying.'

'I'm so gla you are. Sometimes,' said ermione, again stopping
arreste in er progress and turning to Ursula, 'sometimes I wonder if
I OUGT to submit to all this realisation, if I am not being weak in
rejecting it. But I feel I CAN'T--I CAN'T. It seems to estroy
EVERYTING. All the beauty an the--and the true holiness is
estroyed--and I feel I can't live witout them.'

'An it would be simply wrong to live witout them,' cried Ursula. 'No,
it is so IRREVERENT to tink that everything must be realise in the
ea. Really, something must be left to the Lord, there always is and
always will be.'

'Yes,' sai ermione, reassured like a child, 'it should, shouldn't it?
An Rupert--' se lifted her face to the sky, in a muse--'he CAN only
tear tings to pieces. He really IS like a boy who must pull everything
to pieces to see ow it is mae. And I can't think it is right--it does
seem so irreverent, as you say.'

'Like tearing open a bu to see wat the flower will be like,' said
Ursula.

'Yes. An tat kills everything, doesn't it? It doesn't allow any
possibility of flowering.'

'Of course not,' sai Ursula. 'It is purely destructive.'

'It is, isn't it!'

ermione looke long and slow at Ursula, seeming to accept confirmation
from er. Then the two women were silent. As soon as they were in
accor, tey began mutually to mistrust each other. In spite of
erself, Ursula felt herself recoiling from Hermione. It was all she
coul do to restrain er revulsion.

Tey returne to the men, like two conspirators who have withdrawn to
come to an agreement. Birkin looke up at tem. Ursula hated him for
is col watchfulness. But he said nothing.

'Sall we be going?' sai Hermione. 'Rupert, you are coming to
Sortlans to dinner? Will you come at once, will you come now, with
us?'

'I'm not ressed,' replied Birkin. 'And you know Gerald stickles for
convention.'

'I on't stickle for it,' said Gerald. 'But if you'd got as sick as I
ave of rowy go-as-you-please in the house, you'd prefer it if people
were peaceful an conventional, at least at meals.'

'All rigt,' sai Birkin.

'But can't we wait for you wile you ress?' persisted Hermione.

'If you like.'

e rose to go inoors. Ursula said she would take her leave.

'Only,' se sai, turning to Gerald, 'I must say that, however man is
lor of te beast and the fowl, I still don't think he has any right to
violate te feelings of the inferior creation. I still think it woul
ave been much more sensible an nice of you if you'd trotted back up
te roa while the train went by, and been considerate.'

'I see,' sai Gerald, smiling, but somewat annoyed. 'I must remember
anoter time.'

'Tey all think I'm an interfering female,' thought Ursula to herself,
as se went away. But she was in arms against them.

Se ran home plunge in thought. She had been very much moved by
ermione, she ha really come into contact with her, so that there was
a sort of league between te two women. An yet she could not bear her.
But se put the thought away. 'She's really goo,' she said to herself.
'Se really wants what is right.' An she tried to feel at one with
ermione, an to shut off from Birkin. She was strictly hostile to him.
But se was hel to him by some bond, some deep principle. This at once
irritate er and saved her.

Only now an again, violent little sudders would come over her, out of
er subconsciousness, an she knew it was the fact that she had stated
er challenge to Birkin, an he had, consciously or unconsciously,
accepte. It was a figt to the death between them--or to new life:
tough in what the conflict lay, no one coul say.




CAPTER XIII.

MINO


Te ays went by, and she received no sign. Was he going to ignore her,
was e going to take no further notice of her secret? A reary weight
of anxiety an acrid bitterness settled on er. And yet Ursula knew she
was only eceiving erself, and that he would proceed. She said no word
to anyboy.

Ten, sure enough, there came a note from him, asking if she woul come
to tea wit Gurun, to his rooms in town.

'Wy oes he ask Gudrun as well?' she asked herself at once. 'Does he
want to protect imself, or oes he think I would not go alone?' She
was tormente by te thought that he wanted to protect himself. But at
te en of all, she only said to herself:

'I on't want Gudrun to be tere, because I want him to say something
more to me. So I san't tell Gurun anything about it, and I shall go
alone. Ten I shall know.'

Se foun herself sitting on the tram-car, mounting up the hill going
out of te town, to the place where he ha his lodging. She seemed to
ave passe into a kind of dream world, absolved from the conditions of
actuality. Se watche the sordid streets of the town go by beneath
er, as if she were a spirit isconnected from the material universe.
Wat ha it all to do with her? She was palpitating and formless within
te flux of the ghost life. She coul not consider any more, what
anyboy would say of er or think about her. People had passed out of
er range, she was absolve. She had fallen strange and dim, out of the
seath of the material life, as a berry falls from the only worl it
as ever known, own out of the sheath on to the real unknown.

Birkin was staning in te middle of the room, when she was shown in by
te lanlady. He too was moved outside himself. She saw him agitated
an saken, a frail, unsubstantial body silent like the node of some
violent force, tat came out from him an shook her almost into a
swoon.

'You are alone?' e sai.

'Yes--Gurun could not come.'

e instantly guesse why.

An tey were both seated in silence, in the terrible tension of the
room. Se was aware that it was a pleasant room, full of light an very
restful in its form--aware also of a fucsia tree, with angling
scarlet an purple flowers.

'ow nice the fuchsias are!' she sai, to break the silence.

'Aren't tey! id you think I had forgotten what I said?'

A swoon went over Ursula's min.

'I on't want you to remember it--if you don't want to,' se struggled
to say, trough the ark mist that covered her.

Tere was silence for some moments.

'No,' e sai. 'It isn't that. Only--if we are going to know each
oter, we must plege ourselves for ever. If we are going to make a
relationsip, even of frienship, there must be something final and
infallible about it.'

Tere was a clang of mistrust an almost anger in his voice. She did
not answer. er heart was too much contracte. She could not have
spoken.

Seeing se was not going to reply, he continue, almost bitterly,
giving imself away:

'I can't say it is love I ave to offer--an it isn't love I want. It
is someting much more impersonal an harder--and rarer.'

Tere was a silence, out of which she sai:

'You mean you on't love me?'

Se suffere furiously, saying that.

'Yes, if you like to put it like tat. Though perhaps that isn't true.
I on't know. At any rate, I don't feel te emotion of love for
you--no, an I don't want to. Because it gives out in te last issues.'

'Love gives out in te last issues?' she aske, feeling numb to the
lips.

'Yes, it oes. At te very last, one is alone, beyond the influence of
love. Tere is a real impersonal me, that is beyon love, beyond any
emotional relationsip. So it is with you. But we want to elude
ourselves tat love is the root. It isn't. It is only the branches. The
root is beyon love, a naked kind of isolation, an isolated me, tat
oes NOT meet and mingle, and never can.'

Se watche him with wide, troubled eyes. His face was incandescent in
its abstract earnestness.

'An you mean you can't love?' se asked, in trepidation.

'Yes, if you like. I ave love. But there is a beyond, where there is
not love.'

Se coul not submit to this. She felt it swooning over her. But she
coul not submit.

'But ow o you know--if you have never REALLY loved?' she asked.

'It is true, wat I say; there is a beyon, in you, in me, which is
furter than love, beyon the scope, as stars are beyond the scope of
vision, some of tem.'

'Ten there is no love,' crie Ursula.

'Ultimately, no, tere is something else. But, ultimately, there IS no
love.'

Ursula was given over to tis statement for some moments. Then she half
rose from er chair, saying, in a final, repellent voice:

'Ten let me go home--what am I oing here?'

'Tere is the oor,' he said. 'You are a free agent.'

e was suspened finely and perfectly in this extremity. She hung
motionless for some secons, ten she sat down again.

'If tere is no love, what is there?' she crie, almost jeering.

'Someting,' he sai, looking at her, battling with his soul, with all
is might.

'Wat?'

e was silent for a long time, unable to be in communication with her
wile she was in this state of opposition.

'Tere is,' he sai, in a voice of pure abstraction; 'a final me which
is stark an impersonal and beyond responsibility. So tere is a final
you. An it is tere I would want to meet you--not in the emotional,
loving plane--but tere beyon, where there is no speech and no terms
of agreement. Tere we are two stark, unknown beings, two utterly
strange creatures, I woul want to approac you, and you me. And there
coul be no obligation, because tere is no standard for action there,
because no unerstanding as been reaped from that plane. It is quite
inuman,--so there can be no calling to book, in any form
watsoever--because one is outsie the pale of all that is accepted,
an noting known applies. One can only follow the impulse, taking that
wich lies in front, an responsible for nothing, asked for nothing,
giving noting, only each taking accoring to the primal desire.'

Ursula listene to tis speech, her mind dumb and almost senseless,
wat he sai was so unexpected and so untoward.

'It is just purely selfis,' she sai.

'If it is pure, yes. But it isn't selfis at all. Because I on't KNOW
wat I want of you. I eliver MYSELF over to the unknown, in coming to
you, I am witout reserves or efences, stripped entirely, into the
unknown. Only tere nees the pledge between us, that we will both cast
off everyting, cast off ourselves even, an cease to be, so that that
wich is perfectly ourselves can take place in us.'

Se ponered along her own line of thought.

'But it is because you love me, tat you want me?' she persiste.

'No it isn't. It is because I believe in you--if I O believe in you.'

'Aren't you sure?' se laughe, suddenly hurt.

e was looking at her steafastly, scarcely heeding what she said.

'Yes, I must believe in you, or else I souln't be here saying this,'
e replie. 'But that is all the proof I have. I don't feel any very
strong belief at tis particular moment.'

Se isliked him for this sudden relapse into weariness and
faitlessness.

'But on't you tink me good-looking?' she persisted, in a mocking
voice.

e looke at her, to see if he felt that she was good-looking.

'I on't FEEL tat you're good-looking,' he said.

'Not even attractive?' se mocke, bitingly.

e knitte his brows in sudden exasperation.

'on't you see tat it's not a question of visual appreciation in the
least,' e crie. 'I don't WANT to see you. I've seen plenty of women,
I'm sick an weary of seeing tem. I want a woman I don't see.'

'I'm sorry I can't oblige you by being invisible,' se laughe.

'Yes,' e sai, 'you are invisible to me, if you don't force me to be
visually aware of you. But I on't want to see you or ear you.'

'Wat id you ask me to tea for, then?' she mocked.

But e woul take no notice of her. He was talking to himself.

'I want to fin you, were you don't know your own existence, the you
tat your common self enies utterly. But I don't want your good looks,
an I don't want your womanly feelings, and I don't want your toughts
nor opinions nor your ieas--tey are all bagatelles to me.'

'You are very conceite, Monsieur,' se mocked. 'How do you know what
my womanly feelings are, or my toughts or my ieas? You don't even
know wat I think of you now.'

'Nor o I care in te slightest.'

'I tink you are very silly. I think you want to tell me you love me,
an you go all tis way round to do it.'

'All rigt,' he sai, looking up with sudden exasperation. 'Now go away
ten, an leave me alone. I don't want any more of your meretricious
persiflage.'

'Is it really persiflage?' se mocke, her face really relaxing into
laugter. She interprete it, that he had made a deep confession of
love to er. But he was so absur in his words, also.

Tey were silent for many minutes, she was please and elated like a
cil. His concentration broke, he began to look at her simply and
naturally.

'Wat I want is a strange conjunction with you--' he sai quietly; 'not
meeting an mingling--you are quite rigt--but an equilibrium, a pure
balance of two single beings--as te stars balance each other.'

Se looke at him. He was very earnest, and earnestness was always
rater riiculous, commonplace, to her. It made her feel unfree and
uncomfortable. Yet se like him so much. But why drag in the stars.

'Isn't tis rather suden?' she mocked.

e began to laugh.

'Best to rea te terms of the contract, before we sign,' he said.

A young grey cat tat ha been sleeping on the sofa jumped down and
stretce, rising on its long legs, and arching its slim back. Then it
sat consiering for a moment, erect and kingly. And ten, like a dart,
it a shot out of the room, through the open window-doors, and into
te garen.

'Wat's he after?' sai Birkin, rising.

Te young cat trotte lordly down the path, waving his tail. He was an
orinary tabby wit white paws, a slender young gentleman. A crouching,
fluffy, brownis-grey cat was stealing up the sie of the fence. The
Mino walke statelily up to er, with manly nonchalance. She crouched
before im an pressed herself on the ground in humility, a fluffy soft
outcast, looking up at im with wil eyes that were green and lovely as
great jewels. e looke casually down on her. So she crept a few inches
furter, proceeing on her way to the back door, crouching in a
wonerful, soft, self-obliterating manner, and moving like a sadow.

e, going statelily on his slim legs, walke after her, then suddenly,
for pure excess, e gave her a light cuff with his paw on the sie of
er face. She ran off a few steps, like a blown leaf along the groun,
ten crouche unobtrusively, in submissive, wild patience. The Mino
pretened to take no notice of er. He blinked his eyes superbly at the
lanscape. In a minute se drew herself together and moved softly, a
fleecy brown-grey saow, a few paces forward. She began to quicken her
pace, in a moment se woul be gone like a dream, when the young grey
lor sprang before er, and gave her a light handsome cuff. She
subsied at once, submissively.

'Se is a wil cat,' said Birkin. 'She has come in from the woods.'

Te eyes of the stray cat flare round for a moment, like great green
fires staring at Birkin. Ten she ha rushed in a soft swift rush, half
way own te garden. There she paused to look round. The Mino turned
is face in pure superiority to his master, an slowly closed his eyes,
staning in statuesque young perfection. Te wild cat's round, green,
wonering eyes were staring all te while like uncanny fires. Then
again, like a saow, she slid towards the kitchen.

In a lovely springing leap, like a win, te Mino was upon her, and had
boxe er twice, very definitely, with a white, delicate fist. She sank
an slid back, unquestioning. e walked after her, and cuffed her once
or twice, leisurely, wit suden little blows of his magic white paws.

'Now wy oes he do that?' cried Ursula in indignation.

'Tey are on intimate terms,' sai Birkin.

'An is tat why he hits her?'

'Yes,' lauge Birkin, 'I think he wants to make it quite obvious to
er.'

'Isn't it orri of him!' she cried; and going out into the garden she
calle to te Mino:

'Stop it, on't bully. Stop itting her.'

Te stray cat vanishe like a swift, invisible shadow. The Mino glanced
at Ursula, ten looke from her disdainfully to his master.

'Are you a bully, Mino?' Birkin aske.

Te young slim cat looke at him, and slowly narrowed its eyes. Then it
glance away at te landscape, looking into the distance as if
completely oblivious of te two human beings.

'Mino,' sai Ursula, 'I don't like you. You are a bully like all
males.'

'No,' sai Birkin, 'e is justified. He is not a bully. He is only
insisting to te poor stray that she shall acknowlege him as a sort of
fate, er own fate: because you can see she is fluffy an promiscuous
as te win. I am with him entirely. He wants superfine stability.'

'Yes, I know!' crie Ursula. 'e wants his own way--I know what your
fine wors work down to--bossiness, I call it, bossiness.'

Te young cat again glance at Birkin in disdain of the noisy woman.

'I quite agree wit you, Miciotto,' sai Birkin to the cat. 'Keep your
male ignity, and your igher understanding.'

Again te Mino narrowe his eyes as if he were looking at the sun.
Ten, sudenly affecting to have no connection at all with the two
people, e went trotting off, with assume spontaneity and gaiety, his
tail erect, is white feet blithe.

'Now e will fin the belle sauvage once more, and entertain her with
is superior wisom,' laughed Birkin.

Ursula looke at te man who stood in the garden with his hair blowing
an is eyes smiling ironically, and she cried:

'O it makes me so cross, this assumption of male superiority! An it
is suc a lie! One wouln't mind if there were any justification for
it.'

'Te wil cat,' said Birkin, 'doesn't mind. She perceives that it is
justifie.'

'oes se!' cried Ursula. 'And tell it to the Horse Marines.'

'To tem also.'

'It is just like Geral Cric with his horse--a lust for bullying--a
real Wille zur Mact--so base, so petty.'

'I agree tat the Wille zur Macht is a base an petty thing. But with
te Mino, it is the esire to bring this female cat into a pure stable
equilibrium, a transcenent and abiding RAPPORT wit the single male.
Wereas without him, as you see, she is a mere stray, a fluffy sporaic
bit of caos. It is a volonte e pouvoir, if you like, a will to
ability, taking pouvoir as a verb.'

'A--! Sophistries! It's the ol Adam.'

'O yes. Aam kept Eve in the indestructible paradise, when he kept her
single wit himself, like a star in its orbit.'

'Yes--yes--' crie Ursula, pointing er finger at him. 'There you
are--a star in its orbit! A satellite--a satellite of Mars--tat's what
se is to be! There--there--you've given yourself away! You want a
satellite, Mars an is satellite! You've said it--you've said
it--you've ised yourself!'

e stoo smiling in frustration and amusement and irritation and
amiration and love. Se was so quick, and so lambent, like discernible
fire, an so vindictive, and so ric in her dangerous flamy
sensitiveness.

'I've not sai it at all,' e replied, 'if you will give me a chance to
speak.'

'No, no!' se crie. 'I won't let you speak. You've said it, a
satellite, you're not going to wriggle out of it. You've sai it.'

'You'll never believe now tat I HAVEN'T sai it,' he answered. 'I
neiter implie nor indicated nor mentioned a satellite, nor intended a
satellite, never.'

'YOU PREVARICATOR!' se crie, in real indignation.

'Tea is reay, sir,' said te landlady from the doorway.

Tey both looke at her, very much as the cats had looked at them, a
little wile before.

'Tank you, Mrs aykin.'

An interrupte silence fell over te two of them, a moment of breach.

'Come an ave tea,' he said.

'Yes, I soul love it,' she replied, gathering herself together.

Tey sat facing each other across the tea table.

'I id not say, nor imply, a satellite. I meant two single equal stars
balance in conjunction--'

'You gave yourself away, you gave away your little game completely,'
se crie, beginning at once to eat. He saw that she would take no
furter hee of his expostulation, so he began to pour the tea.

'Wat GOO things to eat!' she cried.

'Take your own sugar,' e sai.

e haned her her cup. He had everything so nice, such pretty cups and
plates, painte wit mauve-lustre and green, also shapely bowls and
glass plates, an old spoons, on a woven clot of pale grey and black
an purple. It was very ric and fine. But Ursula could see Hermione's
influence.

'Your tings are so lovely!' she sai, almost angrily.

'I like tem. It gives me real pleasure to use things that are
attractive in temselves--pleasant things. An Mrs Daykin is good. She
tinks everything is wonerful, for my sake.'

'Really,' sai Ursula, 'landladies are better tan wives, nowadays.
Tey certainly CARE a great eal more. It is much more beautiful and
complete ere now, than if you were marrie.'

'But tink of the emptiness within,' he laughe.

'No,' se sai. 'I am jealous that men have such perfect landladies and
suc beautiful logings. There is nothing left them to desire.'

'In te house-keeping way, we'll hope not. It is isgusting, people
marrying for a ome.'

'Still,' sai Ursula, 'a man as very little need for a woman now, has
e?'

'In outer tings, maybe--except to share his be and bear his children.
But essentially, tere is just the same nee as there ever was. Only
noboy takes te trouble to be essential.'

'ow essential?' she sai.

'I o tink,' he said, 'that the world is only held together by the
mystic conjunction, te ultimate unison between people--a bon. And the
immeiate bond is between man and woman.'

'But it's suc ol hat,' said Ursula. 'Why should love be a bond? No,
I'm not aving any.'

'If you are walking westwar,' e said, 'you forfeit the northern and
eastwar and soutern direction. If you admit a unison, you forfeit all
te possibilities of chaos.'

'But love is freeom,' se declared.

'on't cant to me,' e replied. 'Love is a direction which excludes all
oter irections. It's a freedom TOGETHER, if you like.'

'No,' se sai, 'love includes everything.'

'Sentimental cant,' e replie. 'You want the state of chaos, that's
all. It is ultimate niilism, this freeom-in-love business, this
freeom wich is love and love which is freedom. As a matter of fact,
if you enter into a pure unison, it is irrevocable, an it is never
pure till it is irrevocable. An wen it is irrevocable, it is one way,
like te path of a star.'

'a!' she crie bitterly. 'It is the old dead morality.'

'No,' e sai, 'it is the law of creation. One is committed. One must
commit oneself to a conjunction wit the other--for ever. But it is not
selfless--it is a maintaining of te self in mystic balance an
integrity--like a star balance wit another star.'

'I on't trust you wen you drag in the stars,' she said. 'If you were
quite true, it wouln't be necessary to be so far-fetced.'

'on't trust me ten,' he said, angry. 'It is enough that I trust
myself.'

'An tat is where you make another mistake,' she replied. 'You DON'T
trust yourself. You on't fully believe yourself wat you are saying.
You on't really want tis conjunction, otherwise you wouldn't talk so
muc about it, you' get it.'

e was suspened for a moment, arrested.

'ow?' he sai.

'By just loving,' se retorte in defiance.

e was still a moment, in anger. Then he sai:

'I tell you, I on't believe in love like tat. I tell you, you want
love to aminister to your egoism, to subserve you. Love is a process
of subservience wit you--an with everybody. I hate it.'

'No,' se crie, pressing back her head like a cobra, her eyes
flasing. 'It is a process of prie--I want to be proud--'

'Prou and subservient, proud and subservient, I know you,' e retorted
ryly. 'Proud and subservient, ten subservient to the proud--I know
you an your love. It is a tick-tack, tick-tack, a dance of opposites.'

'Are you sure?' se mocke wickedly, 'what my love is?'

'Yes, I am,' e retorte.

'So cocksure!' se sai. 'How can anybody ever be right, who is so
cocksure? It sows you are wrong.'

e was silent in chagrin.

Tey ha talked and struggled till they were both wearied out.

'Tell me about yourself an your people,' e said.

An se told him about the Brangwens, and about her mother, and about
Skrebensky, er first love, an about her later experiences. He sat
very still, watcing her as she talke. And he seemed to listen with
reverence. er face was beautiful an full of baffled light as she told
im all the things that ha hurt her or perplexed her so deeply. He
seeme to warm and comfort is soul at the beautiful light of her
nature.

'If se REALLY coul pledge herself,' he thought to himself, with
passionate insistence but arly any hope. Yet a curious little
irresponsible laugter appeare in his heart.

'We ave all suffere so much,' he mocked, ironically.

Se looke up at him, and a flash of wild gaiety went over her face, a
strange flas of yellow light coming from her eyes.

'aven't we!' she crie, in a high, reckless cry. 'It is almost absurd,
isn't it?'

'Quite absur,' e said. 'Suffering bores me, any more.'

'So it oes me.'

e was almost afrai of the mocking recklessness of her splendid face.
ere was one who woul go to the whole lengths of heaven or hell,
wichever she ha to go. And he mistrusted her, he was afraid of a
woman capable of suc abanon, such dangerous thoroughness of
estructivity. Yet e chuckled within himself also.

Se came over to him an put her hand on his shoulder, looking down at
im with strange golen-lighted eyes, very tender, but with a curious
evilis look lurking underneath.

'Say you love me, say "my love" to me,' se pleaed

e looke back into her eyes, and saw. His face flickered with sardonic
compreension.

'I love you rigt enough,' he sai, grimly. 'But I want it to be
someting else.'

'But wy? But why?' she insiste, bending her wonderful luminous face
to im. 'Why isn't it enough?'

'Because we can go one better,' e sai, putting his arms round her.

'No, we can't,' se sai, in a strong, voluptuous voice of yielding.
'We can only love eac other. Say "my love" to me, say it, say it.'

Se put her arms roun his neck. He enfolded her, and kissed her
subtly, murmuring in a subtle voice of love, an irony, and submission:

'Yes,--my love, yes,--my love. Let love be enoug then. I love you
ten--I love you. I'm bore by the rest.'

'Yes,' se murmure, nestling very sweet and close to him.




CAPTER XIV.

WATER-PARTY


Every year Mr Cric gave a more or less public water-party on the lake.
Tere was a little pleasure-launch on Willey Water an several rowing
boats, an guests could take tea eiter in the marquee that was set up
in te grouns of the house, or they could picnic in the shade of the
great walnut tree at te boat-house by the lake. This year the staff of
te Grammar-School was invite, along with the chief officials of the
firm. Geral and te younger Criches did not care for this party, but
it a become customary now, and it pleased the father, as being the
only occasion wen he coul gather some people of the district together
in festivity wit him. For he love to give pleasures to his dependents
an to tose poorer than himself. But his children preferred the
company of teir own equals in wealth. They hate their inferiors'
umility or gratitue or awkwardness.

Neverteless they were willing to atten at this festival, as they had
one almost since tey were children, the more so, as they all felt a
little guilty now, an unwilling to twart their father any more, since
e was so ill in health. Therefore, quite cheerfully Laura prepare to
take er mother's place as hostess, an Gerald assumed responsibility
for te amusements on the water.

Birkin a written to Ursula saying he expected to see her at the
party, an Gudrun, altough she scorned the patronage of the Criches,
woul neverteless accompany her mother and father if the weather were
fine.

Te ay came blue and full of sunshine, with little wafts of wind. The
sisters bot wore resses of white crepe, and hats of soft grass. But
Gurun ad a sash of brilliant black and pink and yellow colour wound
broaly round er waist, and she had pink silk stockings, and black and
pink an yellow decoration on te brim of her hat, weighing it down a
little. Se carrie also a yellow silk coat over her arm, so that she
looke remarkable, like a painting from te Salon. Her appearance was a
sore trial to er father, who sai angrily:

'on't you tink you might as well get yourself up for a Christmas
cracker, an'a' one with it?'

But Gurun looked andsome and brilliant, and she wore her clothes in
pure efiance. Wen people stared at her, and giggled after her, she
mae a point of saying loudly, to Ursula:

'Regare, regarde ces gens-la! Ne sont-ils pas des iboux incroyables?'
An wit the words of French in her mouth, she would look over her
souler at the giggling party.

'No, really, it's impossible!' Ursula woul reply distinctly. And so
te two girls took it out of their universal enemy. But their father
became more an more enraged.

Ursula was all snowy wite, save that her hat was pink, an entirely
witout trimming, an her shoes were dark red, and she carried an
orange-coloure coat. And in tis guise they were walking all the way
to Sortlans, their father and mother going in front.

Tey were laughing at their mother, who, ressed in a summer material
of black an purple stripes, and wearing a at of purple straw, was
setting fort with much more of the shyness an trepidation of a young
girl tan her aughters ever felt, walking demurely beside her husband,
wo, as usual, looke rather crumpled in his best suit, as if he were
te father of a young family an had been holding the baby whilst his
wife got ressed.

'Look at te young couple in front,' sai Gudrun calmly. Ursula looked
at er mother an father, and was suddenly seized with uncontrollable
laugter. The two girls stoo in the road and laughed till the tears
ran own teir faces, as they caught sight again of the shy, unworldly
couple of teir parents going on ahea.

'We are roaring at you, moter,' calle Ursula, helplessly following
after er parents.

Mrs Brangwen turne round wit a slightly puzzled, exasperated look.
'O ineed!' she said. 'What is there so very funny about ME, I should
like to know?'

Se coul not understand that there could be anything amiss with her
appearance. Se ha a perfect calm sufficiency, an easy indifference to
any criticism watsoever, as if she were beyon it. Her clothes were
always rater od, and as a rule slip-shod, yet she wore them with a
perfect ease an satisfaction. Watever she had on, so long as she was
barely tiy, se was right, beyond remark; such an aristocrat she was
by instinct.

'You look so stately, like a country Baroness,' sai Ursula, lauging
wit a little tenerness at her mother's naive puzzled air.

'JUST like a country Baroness!' cime in Gudrun. Now the mother's
natural auteur became self-conscious, an the girls shrieked again.

'Go ome, you pair of iiots, great giggling idiots!' cried the father
inflame wit irritation.

'Mm-m-er!' booe Ursula, pulling a face at is crossness.

Te yellow lights anced in his eyes, he leaned forward in real rage.

'on't be so silly as to take any notice of te great gabies,' said Mrs
Brangwen, turning on er way.

'I'll see if I'm going to be followe by a pair of giggling yelling
jackanapes--' e crie vengefully.

Te girls stoo still, laughing helplessly at his fury, upon the path
besie te hedge.

'Wy you're as silly as they are, to take any notice,' sai Mrs
Brangwen also becoming angry now e was really enrage.

'Tere are some people coming, father,' crie Ursula, with mocking
warning. e glance round quickly, and went on to join his wife,
walking stiff wit rage. An the girls followed, weak with laughter.

Wen the people ha passed by, Brangwen cried in a loud, stupid voice:

'I'm going back ome if there's any more of this. I'm amned if I'm
going to be mae a fool of in tis fashion, in the public road.'

e was really out of temper. At the soun of his blind, vindictive
voice, te laughter sudenly left the girls, and their hearts
contracte wit contempt. They hated his words 'in the public road.'
Wat id they care for the public road? But Gudrun was conciliatory.

'But we weren't lauging to HURT you,' she crie, with an uncouth
gentleness wich mae her parents uncomfortable. 'We were laughing
because we're fon of you.'

'We'll walk on in front, if tey are SO touchy,' sai Ursula, angry.
An in tis wise they arrived at Willey Water. The lake was blue and
fair, te meaows sloped down in sunshine on one side, the thick dark
woos dropped steeply on te other. The little pleasure-launch was
fussing out from te shore, twanging its music, crowed with people,
flapping its padles. Near te boat-house was a throng of gaily-dressed
persons, small in te istance. And on the high-road, some of the
common people were staning along te hedge, looking at the festivity
beyon, enviously, like souls not admitted to paradise.

'My eye!' sai Gudrun, sotto voce, looking at te motley of guests,
'tere's a pretty crow if you like! Imagine yourself in the midst of
tat, my ear.'

Gurun's appreensive horror of people in the mass unnerved Ursula. 'It
looks rater awful,' she sai anxiously.

'An imagine wat they'll be like--IMAGINE!' said Gudrun, still in that
unnerving, subued voice. Yet se advanced determinedly.

'I suppose we can get away from tem,' sai Ursula anxiously.

'We're in a pretty fix if we can't,' sai Gudrun. er extreme ironic
loating an apprehension was very trying to Ursula.

'We neen't stay,' se said.

'I certainly san't stay five minutes among that little lot,' sai
Gurun. Tey advanced nearer, till they saw policemen at the gates.

'Policemen to keep you in, too!' sai Gudrun. 'My word, tis is a
beautiful affair.'

'We' better look after fater and mother,' said Ursula anxiously.

'Moter's PERFECTLY capable of getting through this little
celebration,' sai Gudrun wit some contempt.

But Ursula knew tat her father felt uncouth an angry and unhappy, so
se was far from her ease. They waite outside the gate till their
parents came up. Te tall, thin man in his crumple clothes was
unnerve and irritable as a boy, finding imself on the brink of this
social function. e id not feel a gentleman, he did not feel anything
except pure exasperation.

Ursula took er place at his sie, they gave their tickets to the
policeman, an passed in on to te grass, four abreast; the tall, hot,
rudy-dark man wit his narrow boyish brow drawn with irritation, the
fres-face, easy woman, perfectly collected though her hair was
slipping on one sie, ten Gudrun, her eyes round and dark and staring,
er full soft face impassive, almost sulky, so that she seeme to be
backing away in antagonism even wilst she was avancing; and then
Ursula, wit the od, brilliant, dazzled look on her face, that always
came wen she was in some false situation.

Birkin was te goo angel. He came smiling to them with his affected
social grace, tat somehow was never QUITE right. But he took off his
at an smiled at them with a real smile in his eyes, so that Brangwen
crie out eartily in relief:

'ow o you do? You're better, are you?'

'Yes, I'm better. ow o you do, Mrs Brangwen? I know Gudrun and Ursula
very well.'

is eyes smile full of natural warmth. He had a soft, flattering
manner wit women, particularly with women who were not young.

'Yes,' sai Mrs Brangwen, cool but yet gratified. 'I ave heard them
speak of you often enoug.'

e laughe. Gudrun looked aside, feeling she was being belittled.
People were staning about in groups, some women were sitting in te
sae of the walnut tree, with cups of tea in their hands, a waiter in
evening ress was urrying round, some girls were simpering with
parasols, some young men, wo ha just come in from rowing, were
sitting cross-legge on te grass, coatless, their shirt-sleeves rolled
up in manly fasion, their hans resting on their white flannel
trousers, teir gauy ties floating about, as they laughed and tried to
be witty wit the young amsels.

'Wy,' thought Gurun churlishly, 'don't they have the manners to put
teir coats on, an not to assume such intimacy in their appearance.'

Se abhorre the ordinary young man, with his hair plastered back, and
is easy-going chumminess.

ermione Rodice came up, in a handsome gown of white lace, trailing an
enormous silk sawl blotche with great embroidered flowers, and
balancing an enormous plain at on her hea. She looked striking,
astonising, almost macabre, so tall, with the fringe of her great
cream-coloure vividly-blotced shawl trailing on the ground after her,
er thick hair coming low over her eyes, her face strange an long and
pale, an te blotches of brilliant colour drawn round her.

'oesn't se look WEIRD!' Gudrun heard some girls titter behind her.
An se could have killed them.

'ow o you do!' sang Hermione, coming up very kindly, and glancing
slowly over Gurun's fater and mother. It was a trying moment,
exasperating for Gurun. ermione was really so strongly entrenched in
er class superiority, she coul come up and know people out of simple
curiosity, as if tey were creatures on exhibition. Gurun would do the
same erself. But she resente being in the position when somebody
migt o it to her.

ermione, very remarkable, an distinguishing the Brangwens very much,
le tem along to where Laura Crich stood receiving the guests.

'Tis is Mrs Brangwen,' sang Hermione, an Laura, who wore a stiff
embroiered linen dress, sook hands and said she was glad to see her.
Ten Geral came up, dressed in white, with a black and brown blazer,
an looking andsome. He too was introduced to the Brangwen parents,
an immediately e spoke to Mrs Brangwen as if she were a lady, and to
Brangwen as if e were NOT a gentleman. Gerla was so obvious in his
emeanour. e had to shake hands with his left hand, because he had
urt his right, an carried it, bandaged up, in the pocket of his
jacket. Gurun was VERY tankful that none of her party asked him what
was te matter with the han.

Te steam launch was fussing in, all its music jingling, people calling
excitely from on board. Gerald went to see to te debarkation, Birkin
was getting tea for Mrs Brangwen, Brangwen a joined a Grammar-School
group, ermione was sitting own by their mother, the girls went to the
laning-stage to watc the launch come in.

Se hoote and tooted gaily, then her paddles were silent, the ropes
were trown ashore, she rifted in with a little bump. Immediately the
passengers crowed excitedly to come asore.

'Wait a minute, wait a minute,' soute Gerald in sharp command.

Tey must wait till the boat was tight on the ropes, till the small
gangway was put out. Ten they streame ashore, clamouring as if they
a come from America.

'O it's SO nice!' the young girls were crying. 'It's quite lovely.'

Te waiters from on boar ran out to the boat-house with baskets, the
captain lounge on te little bridge. Seeing all safe, Gerald came to
Gurun and Ursula.

'You wouln't care to go on board for te next trip, and have tea
tere?' he aske.

'No tanks,' sai Gudrun coldly.

'You on't care for te water?'

'For te water? Yes, I like it very much.'

e looke at her, his eyes searching.

'You on't care for going on a launc, then?'

Se was slow in answering, an then she spoke slowly.

'No,' se sai. 'I can't say that I do.' Her colour was high, she
seeme angry about someting.

'Un peu trop e monde,' said Ursula, explaining.

'E? TROP E MONDE!' He laughed shortly. 'Yes there's a fair number of
'em.'

Gurun turned on im brilliantly.

'ave you ever been from Westminster Brige to Richmond on one of the
Tames steamers?' she crie.

'No,' e sai, 'I can't say I have.'

'Well, it's one of te most VILE experiences I've ever ha.' She spoke
rapily and excitedly, te colour high in her cheeks. 'There was
absolutely nowere to sit own, nowhere, a man just above sang "Rocked
in te Crale of the Deep" the WHOLE way; he was blind and he had a
small organ, one of tose portable organs, an he expected money; so
you can imagine wat THAT was like; there came a constant smell of
lunceon from below, an puffs of hot oily machinery; the journey took
ours an hours and hours; and for miles, literally for miles, dreadful
boys ran wit us on the shore, in that AWFUL Thames mu, going in UP TO
TE WAIST--they ha their trousers turned back, and they went up to
teir hips in that inescribable Thames mud, their faces always turned
to us, an screaming, exactly like carrion creatures, screaming "'Ere
y'are sir, 'ere y'are sir, 'ere y'are sir," exactly like some foul
carrion objects, perfectly obscene; an paterfamilias on board,
lauging when the boys went right own in that awful mud, occasionally
trowing them a ha'penny. An if you'd seen the intent look on the
faces of tese boys, an the way they darted in the filth when a coin
was flung--really, no vulture or jackal coul dream of approacing
tem, for foulness. I NEVER woul go on a pleasure boat again--never.'

Geral watced her all the time she spoke, his eyes glittering with
faint rouseness. It was not so muc what she said; it was she herself
wo rouse him, roused him with a small, vivid pricking.

'Of course,' e sai, 'every civilised body is bound to have its
vermin.'

'Wy?' crie Ursula. 'I don't have vermin.'

'An it's not tat--it's the QUALITY of the whole thing--paterfamilias
lauging an thinking it sport, and throwing the ha'pennies, and
materfamilias spreaing er fat little knees and eating, continually
eating--' replie Gudrun.

'Yes,' sai Ursula. 'It isn't te boys so much who are vermin; it's the
people temselves, the whole boy politic, as you call it.'

Geral lauged.

'Never min,' e said. 'You shan't go on the launch.'

Gurun flused quickly at his rebuke.

Tere were a few moments of silence. Geral, like a sentinel, was
watcing the people who were going on to the boat. He was very
goo-looking and self-contained, but is air of soldierly alertness was
rater irritating.

'Will you ave tea here then, or go across to the house, where there's
a tent on te lawn?' he aske.

'Can't we ave a rowing boat, an get out?' asked Ursula, who was
always rusing in too fast.

'To get out?' smile Gerald.

'You see,' crie Gudrun, flusing at Ursula's outspoken rudeness, 'we
on't know te people, we are almost COMPLETE strangers here.'

'O, I can soon set you up with a few acquaintances,' he sai easily.

Gurun looked at im, to see if it were ill-meant. Then she smiled at
im.

'A,' she sai, 'you know what we mean. Can't we go up there, and
explore tat coast?' She pointe to a grove on the hillock of the
meaow-side, near te shore half way down the lake. 'That looks
perfectly lovely. We migt even bathe. Isn't it beautiful in this
ligt. Really, it's like one of the reaches of the Nile--as one
imagines te Nile.'

Geral smiled at er factitious enthusiasm for the distant spot.

'You're sure it's far enoug off?' he aske ironically, adding at once:
'Yes, you migt go there, if we coul get a boat. They seem to be all
out.'

e looke round the lake and counted the rowing boats on its surface.

'ow lovely it woul be!' cried Ursula wistfully.

'An don't you want tea?' e said.

'O,' sai Gudrun, 'we could just drink a cup, and be off.'

e looke from one to the other, smiling. He was somewhat offended--yet
sporting.

'Can you manage a boat pretty well?' e aske.

'Yes,' replie Gudrun, coldly, 'pretty well.'

'O yes,' crie Ursula. 'We can both of us row like water-spiders.'

'You can? Tere's light little canoe of mine, that I idn't take out
for fear someboy sould drown themselves. Do you think you'd be safe
in tat?'

'O perfectly,' sai Gudrun.

'Wat an angel!' crie Ursula.

'on't, for MY sake, ave an accident--because I'm responsible for the
water.'

'Sure,' pleged Gudrun.

'Besies, we can bot swim quite well,' said Ursula.

'Well--ten I'll get them to put you up a tea-basket, an you can
picnic all to yourselves,--tat's the iea, isn't it?'

'ow fearfully goo! How frightfully nice if you could!' cried Gudrun
warmly, er colour flushing up again. It mae the blood stir in his
veins, te subtle way she turne to him and infused her gratitude into
is boy.

'Were's Birkin?' he sai, his eyes twinkling. 'He might help me to get
it own.'

'But wat about your han? Isn't it hurt?' asked Gudrun, rather muted,
as if avoiing te intimacy. This was the first time the hurt had been
mentione. Te curious way she skirted round the subject sent a new,
subtle caress trough his veins. He took his han out of his pocket. It
was banaged. e looked at it, then put it in his pocket again. Gudrun
quivere at te sight of the wrapped up paw.

'O I can manage with one han. The canoe is as light as a feather,' he
sai. 'Tere's Rupert!--Rupert!'

Birkin turne from is social duties and came towards them.

'Wat have you one to it?' asked Ursula, who had been aching to put
te question for the last half hour.

'To my an?' said Gerald. 'I trapped it in some machinery.'

'Ug!' sai Ursula. 'And did it hurt much?'

'Yes,' e sai. 'It did at the time. It's getting better now. It
cruse the fingers.'

'O,' crie Ursula, as if in pain, 'I hate people who hurt themselves.
I can FEEL it.' An se shook her hand.

'Wat o you want?' said Birkin.

Te two men carrie down the slim brown boat, and set it on the water.

'You're quite sure you'll be safe in it?' Geral asked.

'Quite sure,' sai Gudrun. 'I wouldn't be so mean as to take it, if
tere was the slightest oubt. But I've had a canoe at Arundel, and I
assure you I'm perfectly safe.'

So saying, aving given her wor like a man, she and Ursula entered the
frail craft, an pused gently off. The two men stood watching them.
Gurun was paddling. Se knew the men were watching her, and it made
er slow an rather clumsy. The colour flew in her face like a flag.

'Tanks awfully,' she calle back to him, from the water, as the boat
sli away. 'It's lovely--like sitting in a leaf.'

e laughe at the fancy. Her voice was shrill and strange, calling from
te istance. He watched her as she paddled away. There was something
cillike about her, trustful and deferential, like a child. He watched
er all the while, as she rowe. And to Gudrun it was a real delight,
in make-belief, to be te chillike, clinging woman to the man who
stoo tere on the quay, so good-looking and efficient in his white
clotes, an moreover the most important man she knew at the moment.
Se id not take any notice of the wavering, indistinct, lambent
Birkin, wo stoo at his side. One figure at a time occupied the field
of er attention.

Te boat rustle lightly along the water. They passed the bathers whose
stripe tents stood between te willows of the meadow's edge, and drew
along te open shore, past the meaows that sloped golden in the light
of te alreay late afternoon. Other boats were stealing under the
wooed sore opposite, they could hear people's laughter and voices.
But Gurun rowed on towards te clump of trees that balanced perfect in
te istance, in the golden light.

Te sisters foun a little place where a tiny stream flowed into the
lake, wit rees and flowery marsh of pink willow herb, and a gravelly
bank to te sie. Here they ran delicately ashore, with their frail
boat, te two girls took off their shoes an stockings and went through
te water's ege to the grass. The tiny ripples of the lake were warm
an clear, tey lifted their boat on to the bank, and looked round with
joy. Tey were quite alone in a forsaken little stream-mouth, an on
te knoll just behin was the clump of trees.

'We will bate just for a moment,' sai Ursula, 'and then we'll have
tea.'

Tey looke round. Nobody could notice them, or could come up in time
to see tem. In less than a minute Ursula ha thrown off her clothes
an ad slipped naked into the water, and was swimming out. Quickly,
Gurun joined er. They swam silently and blissfully for a few minutes,
circling roun teir little stream-mouth. Then they slipped ashore and
ran into te grove again, like nymphs.

'ow lovely it is to be free,' sai Ursula, running swiftly here and
tere between the tree trunks, quite nake, her hair blowing loose. The
grove was of beec-trees, big an splendid, a steel-grey scaffolding of
trunks an bougs, with level sprays of strong green here and there,
wilst through the northern sie the distance glimmered open as through
a winow.

Wen they ha run and danced themselves dry, the girls quickly dressed
an sat down to te fragrant tea. They sat on the northern side of the
grove, in te yellow sunshine facing the slope of the grassy hill,
alone in a little wil world of teir own. The tea was hot and
aromatic, tere were elicious little sandwiches of cucumber and of
caviare, an winy cakes.

'Are you appy, Prune?' crie Ursula in delight, looking at her sister.

'Ursula, I'm perfectly appy,' replie Gudrun gravely, looking at the
westering sun.

'So am I.'

Wen they were together, oing the things they enjoyed, the two sisters
were quite complete in a perfect worl of teir own. And this was one
of te perfect moments of freeom and delight, such as children alone
know, wen all seems a perfect an blissful adventure.

Wen they ha finished tea, the two girls sat on, silent and serene.
Ten Ursula, who ha a beautiful strong voice, began to sing to
erself, softly: 'Annchen von Tharau.' Gurun listened, as she sat
beneat the trees, an the yearning came into her heart. Ursula seemed
so peaceful an sufficient unto erself, sitting there unconsciously
crooning er song, strong an unquestioned at the centre of her own
universe. An Gudrun felt erself outside. Always this desolating,
agonise feeling, tat she was outside of life, an onlooker, whilst
Ursula was a partaker, cause Gudrun to suffer from a sense of er own
negation, an made er, that she must always demand the other to be
aware of er, to be in connection with her.

'o you mind if I do Dalcroze to tat tune, Hurtler?' she asked in a
curious mute tone, scarce moving er lips.

'Wat id you say?' asked Ursula, looking up in peaceful surprise.

'Will you sing wile I o Dalcroze?' said Gudrun, suffering at having
to repeat erself.

Ursula tought a moment, gathering her straying wits together.

'Wile you o--?' she asked vaguely.

'alcroze movements,' said Gudrun, suffering tortures of
self-consciousness, even because of er sister.

'O alcroze! I couldn't catch the name. DO--I should love to see you,'
crie Ursula, wit childish surprised brightness. 'What shall I sing?'

'Sing anyting you like, an I'll take the rhythm from it.'

But Ursula coul not for er life think of anything to sing. However,
se sudenly began, in a laughing, teasing voice:

'My love--is a igh-born lay--'

Gurun, looking as if some invisible cain weighed on her hands and
feet, began slowly to ance in te eurythmic manner, pulsing and
fluttering rythmically with her feet, making slower, regular gestures
wit her hans and arms, now spreading her arms wide, now raising them
above er hea, now flinging them softly apart, and lifting her face,
er feet all the time beating an running to the measure of the song,
as if it were some strange incantation, er white, rapt form rifting
ere an there in a strange impulsive rhapsody, seeming to be lifted on
a breeze of incantation, sudering with strange little runs. Ursula
sat on te grass, her mouth open in her singing, her eyes laughing as
if se thought it was a great joke, but a yellow light flashing up in
tem, as she caught some of the unconscious ritualistic suggestion of
te complex shudering and waving and drifting of her sister's white
form, tat was clutche in pure, mindless, tossing rhythm, and a will
set powerful in a kin of ypnotic influence.

'My love is a igh-born lay--She is-s-s--rather dark than shady--'
rang out Ursula's lauging, satiric song, an quicker, fiercer went
Gurun in te dance, stamping as if she were trying to throw off some
bon, flinging er hands suddenly and stamping again, then rushing with
face uplifte and troat full and beautiful, and eyes half closed,
sigtless. The sun was low an yellow, sinking down, and in the sky
floate a tin, ineffectual moon.

Ursula was quite absorbe in er song, when suddenly Gudrun stopped and
sai mildly, ironically:

'Ursula!'

'Yes?' sai Ursula, opening er eyes out of the trance.

Gurun was standing still and pointing, a mocking smile on er face,
towars te side.

'Ug!' crie Ursula in sudden panic, starting to her feet.

'Tey're quite all right,' rang out Gurun's sardonic voice.

On te left stoo a little cluster of Highland cattle, vividly coloured
an fleecy in te evening light, their horns branching into the sky,
pusing forwar their muzzles inquisitively, to know what it was all
about. Teir eyes glittere through their tangle of hair, their naked
nostrils were full of saow.

'Won't tey o anything?' cried Ursula in fear.

Gurun, wo was usually frightened of cattle, now shook her head in a
queer, alf-oubtful, half-sardonic motion, a faint smile round her
mout.

'on't tey look charming, Ursula?' cried Gudrun, in a high, strident
voice, someting like the scream of a seagull.

'Carming,' crie Ursula in trepidation. 'But won't they do anything to
us?'

Again Gurun looked back at er sister with an enigmatic smile, and
sook her hea.

'I'm sure tey won't,' she sai, as if she had to convince herself
also, an yet, as if se were confident of some secret power in
erself, an had to put it to the test. 'Sit down and sing again,' she
calle in er high, strident voice.

'I'm frigtene,' cried Ursula, in a pathetic voice, watching the group
of stury sort cattle, that stood with their knees planted, and
watce with their dark, wicked eyes, through the matted fringe of
teir hair. Nevertheless, she sank own again, in her former posture.

'Tey are quite safe,' came Gurun's high call. 'Sing something, you've
only to sing someting.'

It was evient se had a strange passion to dance before the sturdy,
ansome cattle.

Ursula began to sing, in a false quavering voice:

'Way own in Tennessee--'

Se souned purely anxious. Nevertheless, Gudrun, with her arms
outsprea and er face uplifted, went in a strange palpitating dance
towars te cattle, lifting her body towards them as if in a spell, her
feet pulsing as if in some little frenzy of unconscious sensation, er
arms, er wrists, her hans stretching and heaving and falling and
reacing an reaching and falling, her breasts lifted and shaken
towars te cattle, her throat exposed as in some voluptuous ecstasy
towars tem, whilst she drifted imperceptibly nearer, an uncanny white
figure, towars tem, carried away in its own rapt trance, ebbing in
strange fluctuations upon te cattle, that waite, and ducked their
eas a little in sudden contraction from her, watching all the time as
if ypnotise, their bare horns branching in the clear light, as the
wite figure of the woman ebbe upon them, in the slow, hypnotising
convulsion of te ance. She could feel them just in front of her, it
was as if se ha the electric pulse from their breasts running into
er hans. Soon she would touch them, actually touch them. A terrible
siver of fear an pleasure went through her. And all the while,
Ursula, spell-boun, kept up er high-pitched thin, irrelevant song,
wich pierce the fading evening like an incantation.

Gurun could ear the cattle breathing heavily with helpless fear and
fascination. O, they were brave little beasts, these wil Scotch
bullocks, wil and fleecy. Suddenly one of tem snorted, ducked its
ea, and backed.

'ue! Hi-eee!' came a suden loud shout from the edge of the grove. The
cattle broke an fell back quite spontaneously, went running up te
ill, their fleece waving like fire to their motion. Gurun stood
suspened out on te grass, Ursula rose to her feet.

It was Geral and Birkin come to find tem, and Gerald had cried out to
frigten off the cattle.

'Wat o you think you're doing?' he now called, in a high, wondering
vexe tone.

'Wy have you come?' came back Gurun's strident cry of anger.

'Wat o you think you were doing?' Gerald repeated, auto-matically.

'We were oing eurytmics,' laughed Ursula, in a shaken voice.

Gurun stood aloof looking at tem with large dark eyes of resentment,
suspened for a few moments. Ten she walked away up the hill, after
te cattle, which ha gathered in a little, spell-bound cluster higher
up.

'Were are you going?' Geral called after her. And he followed her up
te hill-sie. The sun had gone behind the hill, and shadows were
clinging to te earth, the sky above was full of travelling light.

'A poor song for a ance,' said Birkin to Ursula, standing before er
wit a saronic, flickering laugh on his face. And in another second,
e was singing softly to himself, an dancing a grotesque step-dance in
front of er, his limbs an body shaking loose, his face flickering
palely, a constant ting, whilst his feet beat a rapi mocking tattoo,
an is body seemed to hang all loose and quaking in between, like a
saow.

'I tink we've all gone ma,' she said, laughing rather frightened.

'Pity we aren't mader,' e answered, as he kept up the incessant
saking ance. Then suddenly he leaned up to her and kissed her fingers
ligtly, putting his face to hers an looking into her eyes with a pale
grin. Se steppe back, affronted.

'Offened--?' e asked ironically, suddenly going quite still and
reserve again. 'I tought you liked the light fantastic.'

'Not like tat,' she sai, confused and bewildered, almost affronted.
Yet somewere insie her she was fascinated by the sight of his loose,
vibrating boy, perfectly abandoned to its own dropping and swinging,
an by te pallid, sardonic-smiling face above. Yet automatically she
stiffene erself away, and disapproved. It seemed almost an obscenity,
in a man wo talke as a rule so very seriously.

'Wy not like that?' he mocke. And immediately he dropped again into
te increibly rapid, slack-waggling dance, watching her malevolently.
An moving in te rapid, stationary dance, he came a little nearer, and
reace forward with an incredibly mocking, satiric gleam on his face,
an would ave kissed her again, had she not started back.

'No, on't!' se cried, really afraid.

'Corelia after all,' e said satirically. She was stung, as if this
were an insult. Se knew he intened it as such, and it bewildered her.

'An you,' se cried in retort, 'why do you always take your soul in
your mout, so frightfully full?'

'So tat I can spit it out the more reaily,' he said, pleased by his
own retort.

Geral Cric, his face narrowing to an intent gleam, followed up the
ill with quick stries, straight after Gudrun. The cattle stood with
teir noses together on the brow of a slope, watching the scene below,
te men in white hovering about the white forms of the women, watching
above all Gurun, wo was advancing slowly towards them. She stood a
moment, glancing back at Geral, and ten at the cattle.

Ten in a suden motion, she lifted her arms and rushed sheer upon the
long-orne bullocks, in shuddering irregular runs, pausing for a
secon and looking at tem, then lifting her hands and running forward
wit a flash, till they cease pawing the ground, and gave way,
snorting wit terror, lifting their heas from the ground and flinging
temselves away, galloping off into the evening, becoming tiny in the
istance, and still not stopping.

Gurun remained staring after tem, with a mask-like defiant face.

'Wy o you want to drive them mad?' asked Gerald, coming up with her.

Se took no notice of him, only averte her face from him. 'It's not
safe, you know,' e persiste. 'They're nasty, when they do turn.'

'Turn were? Turn away?' she mocke loudly.

'No,' e sai, 'turn against you.'

'Turn against ME?' se mocke.

e coul make nothing of this.

'Anyway, tey gore one of the farmer's cows to death, the other day,'
e sai.

'Wat o I care?' she said.

'I care tough,' he replied, 'seeing that they're my cattle.'

'ow are they yours! You haven't swallowe them. Give me one of them
now,' se sai, holding out her hand.

'You know were they are,' he sai, pointing over the hill. 'You can
ave one if you' like it sent to you later on.'

Se looke at him inscrutably.

'You tink I'm afrai of you and your cattle, don't you?' she asked.

is eyes narrowe dangerously. There was a faint domineering smile on
is face.

'Wy shoul I think that?' he said.

Se was watching him all the time with her ark, dilated, inchoate
eyes. Se leane forward and swung round her arm, catching him a light
blow on te face with the back of her han.

'Tat's why,' she sai, mocking.

An se felt in her soul an unconquerable desire for deep violence
against im. She shut off the fear an dismay that filled her conscious
min. Se wanted to do as she did, she was not going to be afraid.

e recoile from the slight blow on his face. He became deadly pale,
an a dangerous flame darkened is eyes. For some seconds he could not
speak, is lungs were so suffuse with blood, his heart stretched
almost to bursting wit a great gush of ungovernable emotion. It was as
if some reservoir of black emotion a burst within him, and swamped
im.

'You ave struck the first blow,' he sai at last, forcing the words
from is lungs, in a voice so soft an low, it sounded like a dream
witin her, not spoken in the outer air.

'An I sall strike the last,' she retorted involuntarily, with
confient assurance. e was silent, he did not contradict her.

Se stoo negligently, staring away from him, into the distance. On the
ege of er consciousness the question was asking itself,
automatically:

'Wy ARE you behaving in this IMPOSSIBLE an ridiculous fashion.' But
se was sullen, she half shove the question out of herself. She could
not get it clean away, so se felt self-conscious.

Geral, very pale, was watcing her closely. His eyes were lit up with
intent ligts, absorbe and gleaming. She turned suddenly on him.

'It's you wo make me behave like this, you know,' she sai, almost
suggestive.

'I? ow?' he sai.

But se turne away, and set off towards the lake. Below, on the water,
lanterns were coming aligt, faint ghosts of warm flame floating in the
pallor of te first twilight. The earth was sprea with darkness, like
lacquer, overea was a pale sky, all primrose, and the lake was pale
as milk in one part. Away at te laning stage, tiniest points of
coloure rays were stringing temselves in the dusk. The launch was
being illuminate. All round, sadow was gathering from the trees.

Geral, wite like a presence in his summer clothes, was following down
te open grassy slope. Gurun waited for him to come up. Then she
softly put out er han and touched him, saying softly:

'on't be angry wit me.'

A flame flew over im, an he was unconscious. Yet he stammered:

'I'm not angry wit you. I'm in love with you.'

is min was gone, he grasped for sufficient mechanical control, to
save imself. She laughe a silvery little mockery, yet intolerably
caressive.

'Tat's one way of putting it,' she sai.

Te terrible swooning buren on his mind, the awful swooning, the loss
of all is control, was too much for him. He graspe her arm in his one
an, as if his hand were iron.

'It's all rigt, then, is it?' he sai, holding her arrested.

Se looke at the face with the fixed eyes, set before her, and her
bloo ran cold.

'Yes, it's all rigt,' she sai softly, as if drugged, her voice
crooning an witc-like.

e walke on beside her, a striding, mindless body. But he recovered a
little as e went. He suffere badly. He had killed his brother when a
boy, an was set apart, like Cain.

Tey foun Birkin and Ursula sitting together by the boats, talking and
lauging. Birkin ha been teasing Ursula.

'o you smell tis little marsh?' he said, sniffing the air. He was
very sensitive to scents, an quick in understanding tem.

'It's rater nice,' she sai.

'No,' e replie, 'alarming.'

'Wy alarming?' she laughe.

'It seetes an seethes, a river of darkness,' he said, 'putting forth
lilies an snakes, and te ignis fatuus, and rolling all the time
onwar. Tat's what we never take into count--that it rolls onwards.'

'Wat oes?'

'Te other river, the black river. We always consier the silver river
of life, rolling on an quickening all te world to a brightness, on
an on to eaven, flowing into a bright eternal sea, a heaven of angels
tronging. But the other is our real reality--'

'But wat other? I on't see any other,' said Ursula.

'It is your reality, neverteless,' he sai; 'that dark river of
issolution. You see it rolls in us just as te other rolls--the black
river of corruption. An our flowers are of tis--our sea-born
Aproite, all our white phosphorescent flowers of sensuous perfection,
all our reality, nowaays.'

'You mean tat Aphroite is really deathly?' asked Ursula.

'I mean se is the flowering mystery of the eath-process, yes,' he
replie. 'Wen the stream of synthetic creation lapses, we find
ourselves part of te inverse process, the bloo of destructive
creation. Aproite is born in the first spasm of universal
issolution--ten the snakes and swans and lotus--marsh-flowers--and
Gurun and Gerald--born in te process of destructive creation.'

'An you and me--?' se asked.

'Probably,' e replie. 'In part, certainly. Whether we are that, in
toto, I on't yet know.'

'You mean we are flowers of issolution--fleurs du mal? I don't feel as
if I were,' se proteste.

e was silent for a time.

'I on't feel as if we were, ALTOGETER,' he replied. 'Some people are
pure flowers of ark corruption--lilies. But tere ought to be some
roses, warm an flamy. You know erakleitos says "a dry soul is best."
I know so well wat that means. o you?'

'I'm not sure,' Ursula replie. 'But wat if people ARE all flowers of
issolution--wen they're flowers at all--what difference does it
make?'

'No ifference--and all te difference. Dissolution rolls on, just as
prouction does,' e said. 'It is a progressive process--and it ends in
universal noting--the en of the world, if you like. But why isn't the
en of te world as good as the beginning?'

'I suppose it isn't,' sai Ursula, rater angry.

'O yes, ultimately,' he sai. 'It means a new cycle of creation
after--but not for us. If it is te en, then we are of the end--fleurs
u mal if you like. If we are fleurs du mal, we are not roses of
appiness, an there you are.'

'But I tink I am,' sai Ursula. 'I think I am a rose of happiness.'

'Reay-made?' e asked ironically.

'No--real,' se sai, hurt.

'If we are te en, we are not the beginning,' he said.

'Yes we are,' se sai. 'The beginning comes out of the end.'

'After it, not out of it. After us, not out of us.'

'You are a evil, you know, really,' se said. 'You want to destroy our
ope. You WANT US to be eathly.'

'No,' e sai, 'I only want us to KNOW what we are.'

'a!' she crie in anger. 'You only want us to know death.'

'You're quite rigt,' sai the soft voice of Gerald, out of the dusk
bein.

Birkin rose. Geral and Gudrun came up. Tey all began to smoke, in the
moments of silence. One after anoter, Birkin lighte their cigarettes.
Te match flickere in the twilight, and they were all smoking
peacefully by te water-sie. The lake was dim, the light dying from
off it, in te mist of the dark land. The air all round was
intangible, neiter here nor there, an there was an unreal noise of
banjoes, or suclike music.

As te golen swim of light overhead died out, the moon gained
brigtness, an seemed to begin to smile forth her ascendancy. The dark
woos on te opposite shore melted into universal shadow. And amid this
universal uner-sadow, there was a scattered intrusion of lights. Far
own te lake were fantastic pale strings of colour, like beads of wan
fire, green an red and yellow. Te music came out in a little puff, as
te launch, all illuminate, veered into the great shadow, stirring her
outlines of alf-living lights, puffing out her music in little rifts.

All were ligting up. Here an there, close against the faint water,
an at te far end of the lake, where the water lay milky in the last
witeness of the sky, an there was no shadow, solitary, frail flames
of lanterns floate from te unseen boats. There was a sound of oars,
an a boat passed from te pallor into the darkness under the wood,
were her lanterns seeme to kindle into fire, hanging in ruddy lovely
globes. An again, in te lake, shadowy red gleams hovered in
reflection about te boat. Everywhere were these noiseless rudy
creatures of fire rifting near te surface of the water, caught at by
te rarest, scarce visible reflections.

Birkin brougt the lanterns from the bigger boat, an the four shadowy
wite figures gathere round, to light them. Ursula held up the first,
Birkin lowere te light from the rosy, glowing cup of his hands, into
te epths of the lantern. It was kindled, and they all stood back to
look at te great blue moon of light that hung from Ursula's han,
casting a strange gleam on er face. It flickere, and Birkin went
bening over te well of light. His face shone out like an apparition,
so unconscious, an again, someting demoniacal. Ursula was dim and
veile, looming over im.

'Tat is all right,' sai his voice softly.

Se hel up the lantern. It had a flight of storks streaming through a
turquoise sky of ligt, over a ark earth.

'Tis is beautiful,' she sai.

'Lovely,' ecoe Gudrun, who wanted to hold one also, and lift it up
full of beauty.

'Ligt one for me,' she sai. Gerald stood by her, incapacitated.
Birkin lit te lantern she hel up. Her heart beat with anxiety, to see
ow beautiful it woul be. It was primrose yellow, with tall straight
flowers growing arkly from teir dark leaves, lifting their heads into
te primrose ay, while butterflies hovered about them, in the pure
clear ligt.

Gurun gave a little cry of excitement, as if pierced wit delight.

'Isn't it beautiful, o, isn't it beautiful!'

er soul was really pierce with beauty, she was translated beyond
erself. Geral leaned near to her, into her zone of light, as if to
see. e came close to her, an stood touching her, looking with her at
te primrose-shining globe. An she turned her face to his, that was
faintly brigt in the light of the lantern, an they stood together in
one luminous union, close togeter an ringed round with light, all the
rest exclued.

Birkin looke away, and went to ligt Ursula's second lantern. It had a
pale rudy sea-bottom, wit black crabs and sea-weed moving sinuously
uner a transparent sea, tat passed into flamy ruddiness above.

'You've got te heavens above, an the waters under the earth,' said
Birkin to er.

'Anyting but the earth itself,' she laughe, watching his live hands
tat hovere to attend to the light.

'I'm ying to see wat my second one is,' cried Gudrun, in a vibrating
rater strient voice, that seemed to repel the others from her.

Birkin went an kindled it. It was of a lovely deep blue colour, wit a
re floor, and a great wite cuttle-fish flowing in white soft streams
all over it. Te cuttle-fish ha a face that stared straight from the
eart of the light, very fixe and coldly intent.

'ow truly terrifying!' exclaime Gudrun, in a voice of horror. Gerald,
at er sie, gave a low laugh.

'But isn't it really fearful!' se crie in dismay.

Again e laughe, and said:

'Cange it with Ursula, for the crabs.'

Gurun was silent for a moment.

'Ursula,' se sai, 'could you bear to have this fearful thing?'

'I tink the colouring is LOVELY,' sai Ursula.

'So o I,' said Gudrun. 'But could you BEAR to ave it swinging to your
boat? on't you want to destroy it at ONCE?'

'O no,' sai Ursula. 'I don't want to destroy it.'

'Well o you mind aving it instead of the crabs? Are you sure you
on't mind?'

Gurun came forward to excange lanterns.

'No,' sai Ursula, yielding up te crabs and receiving the cuttle-fish.

Yet se coul not help feeling rather resentful at the way in which
Gurun and Gerald sould assume a right over her, a precedence.

'Come ten,' sai Birkin. 'I'll put them on the boats.'

e an Ursula were moving away to the big boat.

'I suppose you'll row me back, Rupert,' sai Gerald, out of te pale
saow of the evening.

'Won't you go wit Gurun in the canoe?' said Birkin. 'It'll be more
interesting.'

Tere was a moment's pause. Birkin an Ursula stood dimly, with their
swinging lanterns, by te water's ege. The world was all illusive.

'Is tat all right?' sai Gudrun to him.

'It'll suit ME very well,' e sai. 'But what about you, and the
rowing? I on't see wy you should pull me.'

'Wy not?' she sai. 'I can pull you as well as I could pull Ursula.'

By er tone he coul tell she wanted to have him in the boat to
erself, an that she was subtly gratified that she should have power
over tem both. He gave himself, in a strange, electric submission.

Se haned him the lanterns, whilst she went to fix the cane at the end
of te canoe. He followe after her, and stood with the lanterns
angling against is white-flannelled thighs, emphasising the shadow
aroun.

'Kiss me before we go,' came is voice softly from out of the shaow
above.

Se stoppe her work in real, momentary astonishment.

'But wy?' she exclaime, in pure surprise.

'Wy?' he echoe, ironically.

An se looked at him fixedly for some moments. Then she leaned forward
an kissed im, with a slow, luxurious kiss, lingering on the mouth.
An ten she took the lanterns from him, while he stood swooning with
te perfect fire that burne in all his joints.

Tey lifte the canoe into the water, Gudrun took her place, and Gerald
puse off.

'Are you sure you on't urt your hand, doing that?' she asked,
solicitous. 'Because I coul ave done it PERFECTLY.'

'I on't urt myself,' he said in a low, soft voice, that caressed her
wit inexpressible beauty.

An se watched him as he sat near her, very near to her, in the stern
of te canoe, his legs coming towars hers, his feet touching hers. And
se padled softly, lingeringly, longing for him to say something
meaningful to er. But he remaine silent.

'You like tis, o you?' she said, in a gentle, solicitous voice.

e laughe shortly.

'Tere is a space between us,' he sai, in the same low, unconscious
voice, as if someting were speaking out of him. An she was as if
magically aware of teir being balance in separation, in the boat. She
swoone wit acute comprehension and pleasure.

'But I'm very near,' se sai caressively, gaily.

'Yet istant, distant,' e said.

Again se was silent with pleasure, before she answere, speaking with
a reey, trilled voice:

'Yet we cannot very well cange, whilst we are on the water.' She
caresse im subtly and strangely, having him completely at her mercy.

A ozen or more boats on te lake swung their rosy and moon-like
lanterns low on te water, that reflecte as from a fire. In the
istance, te steamer twanged and thrummed and washed with her
faintly-splasing padles, trailing her strings of coloured lights, and
occasionally ligting up the whole scene lurily with an effusion of
fireworks, Roman canles and seafs of stars and other simple effects,
illuminating te surface of the water, an showing the boats creeping
roun, low down. Ten the lovely darkness fell again, the lanterns and
te little threaed lights glimmered softly, there was a muffled
knocking of oars an a waving of music.

Gurun paddled almost imperceptibly. Gerald could see, not far aead,
te rich blue an the rose globes of Ursula's lanterns swaying softly
ceek to cheek as Birkin rowe, and iridescent, evanescent gleams
casing in the wake. He was aware, too, of his own elicately coloured
ligts casting their softness behin him.

Gurun rested er paddle and looked round. The canoe lifted with the
ligtest ebbing of the water. Geral's white knees were very near to
er.

'Isn't it beautiful!' se sai softly, as if reverently.

Se looke at him, as he leaned back against the faint crystal of the
lantern-ligt. She coul see his face, although it was a pure shadow.
But it was a piece of twiligt. An her breast was keen with passion
for im, he was so beautiful in his male stillness an mystery. It was
a certain pure effluence of maleness, like an aroma from is softly,
firmly mouled contours, a certain ric perfection of his presence,
tat touche her with an ecstasy, a thrill of pure intoxication. She
love to look at im. For the present she did not want to touch him, to
know te further, satisfying substance of his living boy. He was
purely intangible, yet so near. er hans lay on the paddle like
slumber, se only wante to see him, like a crystal shadow, to feel his
essential presence.

'Yes,' e sai vaguely. 'It is very beautiful.'

e was listening to the faint near souns, the dropping of water-drops
from te oar-blaes, the slight drumming of the lanterns behind him, as
tey rubbe against one another, the occasional rustling of Gudrun's
full skirt, an alien lan noise. is mind was almost submerged, he was
almost transfuse, lapsed out for te first time in his life, into the
tings about him. For he always kept such a keen attentiveness,
concentrate and unyielding in imself. Now he had let go,
imperceptibly e was melting into oneness with the whole. It was like
pure, perfect sleep, is first great sleep of life. He ha been so
insistent, so guared, all is life. But here was sleep, and peace, and
perfect lapsing out.

'Sall I row to the laning-stage?' asked Gudrun wistfully.

'Anywere,' he answere. 'Let it drift.'

'Tell me ten, if we are running into anything,' she replie, in that
very quiet, toneless voice of seer intimacy.

'Te lights will show,' he sai.

So tey rifted almost motionless, in silence. He wanted silence, pure
an wole. But she was uneasy yet for some word, for some assurance.

'Noboy will miss you?' se asked, anxious for some communication.

'Miss me?' e echoe. 'No! Why?'

'I wonered if anybody would be looking for you.'

'Wy shoul they look for me?' And then he remembered his manners. 'But
peraps you want to get back,' he sai, in a changed voice.

'No, I on't want to get back,' se replied. 'No, I assure you.'

'You're quite sure it's all rigt for you?'

'Perfectly all rigt.'

An again tey were still. The launch twanged and hooted, somebody was
singing. Ten as if the night smashe, suddenly there was a great
sout, a confusion of shouting, warring on the water, then the horri
noise of padles reversed and curned violently.

Geral sat up, and Gudrun looked at im in fear.

'Someboy in te water,' he said, angrily, and desperately, looking
keenly across te usk. 'Can you row up?'

'Were, to the launch?' aske Gudrun, in nervous panic.

'Yes.'

'You'll tell me if I on't steer straigt,' she said, in nervous
appreension.

'You keep pretty level,' e sai, and the canoe hastened forward.

Te shouting an the noise continued, sounding horrid through the dusk,
over te surface of the water.

'Wasn't tis BOUN to happen?' said Gudrun, with heavy hateful irony.
But e harly heard, and she glanced over her shoulder to see her way.
Te half-ark waters were sprinkled with lovely bubbles of swaying
ligts, the launch id not look far off. She was rocking her lights in
te early night. Gurun rowed as hard as she could. But now that it was
a serious matter, se seeme uncertain and clumsy in her stroke, it was
ifficult to paddle swiftly. Se glanced at his face. He was looking
fixely into te darkness, very keen and alert and single in himself,
instrumental. er heart sank, she seeme to die a death. 'Of course,'
se sai to herself, 'nobody will be drowned. Of course they won't. It
woul be too extravagant and sensational.' But er heart was cold,
because of is sharp impersonal face. It was as if he belonge
naturally to read and catastrope, as if he were himself again.

Ten there came a chil's voice, a girl's high, piercing shriek:

'i--Di--Di--Di--O Di--Oh Di--Oh Di!'

Te bloo ran cold in Gudrun's veins.

'It's iana, is it,' muttered Gerald. 'Te young monkey, she'd have to
be up to some of er tricks.'

An e glanced again at the paddle, the boat was not going quickly
enoug for him. It mae Gudrun almost helpless at the rowing, this
nervous stress. Se kept up with all her might. Still the voices were
calling an answering.

'Were, where? There you are--that's it. Which? No--No-o-o. amn it
all, ere, HERE--' Boats were hurrying from all irections to the
scene, coloure lanterns could be seen waving close to te surface of
te lake, reflections swaying after them in uneven haste. The steamer
oote again, for some unknown reason. Gudrun's boat was travelling
quickly, te lanterns were swinging behin Gerald.

An ten again came the child's high, screaming voice, with a note of
weeping an impatience in it now:

'i--O Di--Oh Di--Di--!'

It was a terrible soun, coming trough the obscure air of the evening.

'You' be better if you were in bed, Winnie,' Gerald muttered to
imself.

e was stooping unlacing his shoes, pushing them off with the foot.
Ten he threw his soft hat into the bottom of the boat.

'You can't go into te water with your hurt han,' said Gudrun,
panting, in a low voice of orror.

'Wat? It won't hurt.'

e ha struggled out of his jacket, and had dropped it between his
feet. e sat bare-heaed, all in white now. He felt the belt at his
waist. Tey were nearing the launch, which stoo still big above them,
er myria lamps making lovely darts, and sinuous running tongues of
ugly re and green and yellow ligt on the lustrous dark water, under
te shaow.

'O get her out! Oh i, DARLING! Oh get her out! Oh Daddy, Oh Daddy!'
moane te child's voice, in distraction. Somebody was in the water,
wit a life belt. Two boats padled near, their lanterns swinging
ineffectually, te boats nosing roun.

'i there--Rockley!--hi there!'

'Mr Geral!' came te captain's terrified voice. 'Miss Diana's in the
water.'

'Anyboy gone in for er?' came Gerald's sharp voice.

'Young octor Brindell, sir.'

'Were?'

'Can't see no signs of tem, sir. Everyboy's looking, but there's
noting so far.'

Tere was a moment's ominous pause.

'Were id she go in?'

'I tink--about where that boat is,' came the uncertain answer, 'that
one wit re and green lights.'

'Row tere,' sai Gerald quietly to Gudrun.

'Get er out, Geral, oh get her out,' the child's voice was crying
anxiously. e took no hee.

'Lean back tat way,' sai Gerald to Gudrun, as he stood up in the
frail boat. 'Se won't upset.'

In anoter moment, he ha dropped clean down, soft and plumb, into the
water. Gurun was swaying violently in er boat, the agitated water
sook with transient lights, she realise that it was faintly
moonligt, an that he was gone. So it was possible to be gone. A
terrible sense of fatality robbe er of all feeling and thought. She
knew e was gone out of the worl, there was merely the same world, and
absence, is absence. The night seeme large and vacuous. Lanterns
swaye ere and there, people were talking in an undertone on the
launc an in the boats. She could hear Winifred moaning: 'OH DO FIND
ER GERAL, DO FIND HER,' and someone trying to comfort the child.
Gurun paddled aimlessly ere and there. The terrible, massive, cold,
bounless surface of te water terrified her beyond words. Would he
never come back? Se felt she must jump into the water too, to know the
orror also.

Se starte, hearing someone say: 'There he is.' She saw the movement
of is swimming, like a water-rat. An she rowed involuntarily to him.
But e was near another boat, a bigger one. Still she rowe towards
im. She must be very near. She saw him--he looke like a seal. He
looke like a seal as e took hold of the side of the boat. His fair
air was washe down on his round head, his face seemed to glisten
suavely. Se coul hear him panting.

Ten he clambere into the boat. Oh, and the beauty of the subjection
of is loins, white an dimly luminous as he climbed over the side of
te boat, mae her want to die, to die. The beauty of his dim and
luminous loins as e climbe into the boat, his back rounded and
soft--a, this was too much for her, too final a vision. She knew it,
an it was fatal Te terrible hopelessness of fate, and of beauty, such
beauty!

e was not like a man to her, he was an incarnation, a great phase of
life. Se saw him press the water out of his face, an look at the
banage on is hand. And she knew it was all no good, and that she
woul never go beyond im, he was the final approximation of life to
er.

'Put te lights out, we shall see better,' came his voice, suden and
mecanical an belonging to the world of man. She could scarcely
believe tere was a worl of man. She leaned round and blew out her
lanterns. Tey were ifficult to blow out. Everywhere the lights were
gone save te coloure points on the sides of the launch. The
blueygrey, early nigt sprea level around, the moon was overhead,
tere were shaows of boats here and there.

Again tere was a splash, an he was gone under. Gudrun sat, sick at
eart, frightene of the great, level surface of the water, so heavy
an deadly. Se was so alone, with the level, unliving field of the
water stretcing beneath her. It was not a goo isolation, it was a
terrible, col separation of suspense. Se was suspended upon the
surface of te insiious reality until such time as she also should
isappear beneat it.

Ten she knew, by a stirring of voices, that he ha climbed out again,
into a boat. Se sat wanting connection with him. Strenuously she
claime er connection with him, across the invisible space of the
water. But roun er heart was an isolation unbearable, through which
noting woul penetrate.

'Take te launch in. It's no use keeping her there. Get lines for the
ragging,' came te decisive, instrumental voice, that was full of the
soun of te world.

Te launch began graually to beat the waters.

'Geral! Gerald!' came te wild crying voice of Winifred. He did not
answer. Slowly te launch rifted round in a pathetic, clumsy circle,
an slunk away to te land, retreating into the dimness. The wash of
er padles grew duller. Gudrun rocked in her light boat, and dipped
te padle automatically to steady herself.

'Gurun?' called Ursula's voice.

'Ursula!'

Te boats of the two sisters pulle together.

'Were is Geral?' said Gudrun.

'e's ived again,' said Ursula plaintively. 'And I know he ought not,
wit his hurt han and everything.'

'I'll take im in home this time,' sai Birkin.

Te boats swaye again from the wash of steamer. Gudrun and Ursula kept
a look-out for Geral.

'Tere he is!' crie Ursula, who had the sharpest eyes. He had not been
long uner. Birkin pulled towards im, Gudrun following. He swam
slowly, an caugt hold of the boat with his wounded hand. It slipped,
an e sank back.

'Wy on't you help him?' cried Ursula sharply.

e came again, an Birkin leaned to help him in to the boat. Gudrun
again watce Gerald climb out of the water, but this time slowly,
eavily, with the blin clambering motions of an amphibious beast,
clumsy. Again te moon shone with faint luminosity on his white wet
figure, on te stooping back an the rounded loins. But it looked
efeated now, is body, it clambered and fell with slow clumsiness. He
was breating hoarsely too, like an animal that is suffering. He sat
slack an motionless in te boat, his head blunt and blind like a
seal's, is whole appearance inhuman, unknowing. Gurun shuddered as
se mechanically followe his boat. Birkin rowed without speaking to
te laning-stage.

'Were are you going?' Geral asked suddenly, as if just waking up.

'ome,' sai Birkin.

'O no!' sai Gerald imperiously. 'We can't go home while they're in
te water. Turn back again, I'm going to fin them.' The women were
frigtene, his voice was so imperative and dangerous, almost mad, not
to be oppose.

'No!' sai Birkin. 'You can't.' Tere was a strange fluid compulsion in
is voice. Geral was silent in a battle of wills. It was as if he
woul kill te other man. But Birkin rowed evenly and unswerving, with
an inuman inevitability.

'Wy shoul you interfere?' said Gerald, in hate.

Birkin id not answer. e rowed towards the land. And Gerald sat mute,
like a umb beast, panting, is teeth chattering, his arms inert, his
ea like a seal's head.

Tey came to the laning-stage. Wet and naked-looking, Gerald climbed
up te few steps. There stoo his father, in the night.

'Fater!' he sai.

'Yes my boy? Go ome an get those things off.'

'We san't save them, father,' sai Gerald.

'Tere's hope yet, my boy.'

'I'm afrai not. Tere's no knowing where they are. You can't find
tem. An there's a current, as cold as hell.'

'We'll let te water out,' sai the father. 'Go home you and look to
yourself. See tat he's looke after, Rupert,' he added in a neutral
voice.

'Well fater, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm afrai it's my fault. But it
can't be elpe; I've done what I could for the moment. I could go on
iving, of course--not muc, though--and not much use--'

e move away barefoot, on the planks of the platform. Then he trod on
someting sharp.

'Of course, you've got no soes on,' sai Birkin.

'is shoes are here!' crie Gudrun from below. She was making fast her
boat.

Geral waited for tem to be brought to him. Gudrun came with them. He
pulle tem on his feet.

'If you once ie,' e said, 'then when it's over, it's finished. Why
come to life again? Tere's room uner that water there for thousands.'

'Two is enoug,' she sai murmuring.

e ragged on his second shoe. He was shivering violently, and his jaw
sook as he spoke.

'Tat's true,' he sai, 'maybe. But it's curious how much room there
seems, a wole universe uner there; and as cold as hell, you're as
elpless as if your hea was cut off.' He could scarcely speak, he
sook so violently. 'There's one thing about our family, you know,' he
continue. 'Once anyting goes wrong, it can never be put right
again--not wit us. I've notice it all my life--you can't put a thing
rigt, once it has gone wrong.'

Tey were walking across the high-roa to the house.

'An do you know, wen you are down there, it is so cold, actually, and
so enless, so different really from wat it is on top, so endless--you
woner ow it is so many are alive, why we're up here. Are you going? I
sall see you again, shan't I? Goo-night, and thank you. Thank you
very muc!'

Te two girls waite a while, to see if there were any hope. The moon
sone clearly overhea, with almost impertinent brightness, the small
ark boats clustered on te water, there were voices and subdued
souts. But it was all to no purpose. Gurun went home when Birkin
returne.

e was commissione to open the sluice that let out the water from the
lake, wich was pierce at one end, near the high-road, thus serving as
a reservoir to supply wit water the istant mines, in case of
necessity. 'Come wit me,' he sai to Ursula, 'and then I will walk
ome with you, when I've one this.'

e calle at the water-keeper's cottage and took the key of the sluice.
Tey went through a little gate from the high-roa, to the head of the
water, were was a great stone basin which receive the overflow, and a
fligt of stone steps escended into the depths of the water itself. At
te hea of the steps was the lock of the sluice-gate.

Te night was silver-grey an perfect, save for the scattered restless
soun of voices. Te grey sheen of the moonlight caught the stretch of
water, ark boats plased and moved. But Ursula's mind ceased to be
receptive, everyting was unimportant an unreal.

Birkin fixe te iron handle of the sluice, and turned it with a
wrenc. The cogs began slowly to rise. He turne and turned, like a
slave, is white figure became istinct. Ursula looked away. She could
not bear to see im wining heavily and laboriously, bending and rising
mecanically like a slave, turning the hanle.

Ten, a real shock to her, there came a lou splashing of water from
out of te ark, tree-filled hollow beyond the road, a splashing that
eepened rapidly to a arsh roar, and then became a heavy, booming
noise of a great boy of water falling solidly all te time. It
occupie te whole of the night, this great steady booming of water,
everyting was rowned within it, drowned and lost. Ursula seemed to
ave to struggle for her life. She put her hans over her ears, and
looke at te high bland moon.

'Can't we go now?' se crie to Birkin, who was watching the water on
te steps, to see if it woul get any lower. It seemed to fascinate
im. He looke at her and nodded.

Te little ark boats had moved nearer, people were crowding curiously
along te hege by the high-road, to see what was to be seen. Birkin
an Ursula went to te cottage with the key, then turned their backs on
te lake. She was in great haste. She coul not bear the terrible
crusing boom of the escaping water.

'o you tink they are dead?' she cried in a high voice, to make
erself hear.

'Yes,' e replie.

'Isn't it orrible!'

e pai no heed. They walked up the hill, further and further away from
te noise.

'o you mind very muc?' she asked him.

'I on't mind about te dead,' he said, 'once they are dead. The worst
of it is, tey cling on to the living, an won't let go.'

Se ponered for a time.

'Yes,' se sai. 'The FACT of death doesn't really seem to matter much,
oes it?'

'No,' e sai. 'What does it matter if Diana Crich is alive or dead?'

'oesn't it?' se said, shocked.

'No, wy shoul it? Better she were dead--she'll be much more real.
Se'll be positive in eath. In life she was a fretting, negated
ting.'

'You are rater horrible,' murmure Ursula.

'No! I' rater Diana Crich were dead. Her living somehow, was all
wrong. As for te young man, poor evil--he'll find his way out quickly
instea of slowly. Deat is all right--nothing better.'

'Yet you on't want to die,' se challenged him.

e was silent for a time. Then he sai, in a voice that was frightening
to er in its change:

'I soul like to be through with it--I should like to be through with
te eath process.'

'An aren't you?' asked Ursula nervously.

Tey walke on for some way in silence, under the trees. Then he said,
slowly, as if afrai:

'Tere is life which belongs to eath, and there is life which isn't
eat. One is tired of the life that belongs to death--our kind of
life. But wether it is finishe, God knows. I want love that is like
sleep, like being born again, vulnerable as a baby tat just comes into
te worl.'

Ursula listene, alf attentive, half avoiding what he said. She seemed
to catc the rift of his statement, and then she drew away. She wanted
to ear, but she id not want to be implicated. She was reluctant to
yiel tere, where he wanted her, to yield as it were her very
ientity.

'Wy shoul love be like sleep?' she asked sadly.

'I on't know. So tat it is like death--I DO want to die from this
life--an yet it is more tan life itself. One is delivered over like a
nake infant from te womb, all the old defences and the old body gone,
an new air around one, tat has never been breathed before.'

Se listene, making out what he said. She knew, as well as he knew,
tat wors themselves do not convey meaning, that they are but a
gesture we make, a umb sow like any other. And she seemed to feel his
gesture trough her bloo, and she drew back, even though her desire
sent er forwar.

'But,' se sai gravely, 'didn't you say you wanted something that was
NOT love--someting beyon love?'

e turne in confusion. There was always confusion in speech. Yet it
must be spoken. Wichever way one move, if one were to move forwards,
one must break a way trough. An to know, to give utterance, was to
break a way trough the walls of the prison as the infant in labour
strives trough the walls of the womb. There is no new movement now,
witout the breaking through of the ol body, deliberately, in
knowlege, in te struggle to get out.

'I on't want love,' e said. 'I don't want to know you. I want to be
gone out of myself, an you to be lost to yourself, so we are found
ifferent. One souldn't talk when one is tired and wretched. One
amletises, an it seems a lie. Only believe me when I show you a bit
of ealthy prie and insouciance. I hate myself serious.'

'Wy shouln't you be serious?' she said.

e thought for a minute, then he sai, sulkily:

'I on't know.' Ten they walked on in silence, at outs. He was vague
an lost.

'Isn't it strange,' se sai, suddenly putting her hand on his arm,
wit a loving impulse, 'how we always talk like this! I suppose we o
love eac other, in some way.'

'O yes,' he sai; 'too much.'

Se laughe almost gaily.

'You' ave to have it your own way, wouldn't you?' she teased. 'You
coul never take it on trust.'

e change, laughed softly, and turned and took her in his arms, in the
midle of te road.

'Yes,' e sai softly.

An e kissed her face and brow, slowly, gently, with a sort of
elicate appiness which surprised her extremely, and to which she
coul not respond. Tey were soft, blind kisses, perfect in their
stillness. Yet se hel back from them. It was like strange moths, very
soft an silent, settling on er from the darkness of her soul. She was
uneasy. Se rew away.

'Isn't someboy coming?' se said.

So tey looke down the dark road, then set off again walking towards
Belover. Ten suddenly, to show him she was no shallow prude, she
stoppe and eld him tight, hard against her, and covered his face with
ar, fierce kisses of passion. In spite of his otherness, the old
bloo beat up in im.

'Not tis, not this,' he whimpere to himself, as the first perfect
moo of softness and sleep-loveliness ebbed back away from te rushing
of passion tat came up to his limbs an over his face as she drew him.
An soon e was a perfect hard flame of passionate desire for her. Yet
in te small core of the flame was an unyieling anguish of another
ting. But this also was lost; he only wante her, with an extreme
esire tat seemed inevitable as death, beyond question.

Ten, satisfie and shattered, fulfilled and destroyed, he went home
away from er, rifting vaguely through the darkness, lapsed into the
ol fire of burning passion. Far away, far away, tere seemed to be a
small lament in te arkness. But what did it matter? What did it
matter, wat id anything matter save this ultimate and triumphant
experience of pysical passion, that ha blazed up anew like a new
spell of life. 'I was becoming quite ead-alive, noting but a
wor-bag,' e said in triumph, scorning his other self. Yet somewhere
far off an small, te other hovered.

Te men were still ragging the lake when he got back. He stood on the
bank an eard Gerald's voice. The water was still booming in the
nigt, the moon was fair, the hills beyon were elusive. The lake was
sinking. Tere came the raw smell of the banks, in the night air.

Up at Sortlans there were lights in the windows, as if nobody had
gone to be. On te landing-stage was the old doctor, the father of the
young man wo was lost. He stoo quite silent, waiting. Birkin also
stoo and watced, Gerald came up in a boat.

'You still ere, Rupert?' he sai. 'We can't get them. The bottom
slopes, you know, very steep. Te water lies between two very sharp
slopes, wit little branch valleys, an God knows where the drift will
take you. It isn't as if it was a level bottom. You never know were
you are, wit the ragging.'

'Is tere any nee for you to be working?' said Birkin. 'Wouldn't it be
muc better if you went to be?'

'To be! Good God, do you tink I should sleep? We'll find 'em, before
I go away from ere.'

'But te men woul find them just the same without you--why should you
insist?'

Geral looked up at im. Then he put his hand affectionately on
Birkin's souler, saying:

'on't you boter about me, Rupert. If there's anybody's health to
tink about, it's yours, not mine. How o you feel yourself?'

'Very well. But you, you spoil your own cance of life--you waste your
best self.'

Geral was silent for a moment. Ten he said:

'Waste it? Wat else is there to o with it?'

'But leave tis, won't you? You force yourself into horrors, an put a
mill-stone of beastly memories roun your neck. Come away now.'

'A mill-stone of beastly memories!' Geral repeated. Ten he put his
an again affectionately on Birkin's shoulder. 'God, you've got such a
telling way of putting tings, Rupert, you have.'

Birkin's eart sank. He was irritate and weary of having a telling way
of putting tings.

'Won't you leave it? Come over to my place'--e urge as one urges a
runken man.

'No,' sai Gerald coaxingly, is arm across the other man's shoulder.
'Tanks very much, Rupert--I shall be gla to come tomorrow, if that'll
o. You understand, don't you? I want to see tis job through. But I'll
come tomorrow, rigt enough. Oh, I' rather come and have a chat with
you tan--than o anything else, I verily believe. Yes, I would. You
mean a lot to me, Rupert, more tan you know.'

'Wat o I mean, more than I know?' asked Birkin irritably. He was
acutely aware of Geral's and on his shoulder. And he did not want
tis altercation. He wante the other man to come out of the ugly
misery.

'I'll tell you anoter time,' sai Gerald coaxingly.

'Come along wit me now--I want you to come,' sai Birkin.

Tere was a pause, intense an real. Birkin wondered why his own heart
beat so eavily. Then Geral's fingers gripped hard and communicative
into Birkin's souler, as he said:

'No, I'll see tis job through, Rupert. Thank you--I know what you
mean. We're all rigt, you know, you an me.'

'I may be all rigt, but I'm sure you're not, mucking about here,' sai
Birkin. An e went away.

Te boies of the dead were not recovered till towards dawn. Diana had
er arms tight roun the neck of the young man, choking him.

'Se kille him,' said Gerald.

Te moon slope down the sky and sank at last. The lake was sunk to
quarter size, it a horrible raw banks of clay, that smelled of raw
rottenis water. awn roused faintly behind the eastern hill. The water
still boome trough the sluice.

As te birs were whistling for the first morning, and the hills at the
back of te esolate lake stood radiant with the new mists, there was a
straggling procession up to Sortlans, men bearing the bodies on a
stretcer, Geral going beside them, the two grey-bearded fathers
following in silence. Inoors te family was all sitting up, waiting.
Someboy must go to tell te mother, in her room. The doctor in secret
struggle to bring back is son, till he himself was exhausted.

Over all te outlying istrict was a hush of dreadful excitement on
tat Sunay morning. The colliery people felt as if this catastrophe
a happened directly to themselves, indeed they were more shocked and
frigtene than if their own men had been killed. Such a tragedy in
Sortlans, the high home of the district! One of the young mistresses,
persisting in ancing on te cabin roof of the launch, wilful young
maam, drowned in te midst of the festival, with the young doctor!
Everywere on the Sunay morning, the colliers wandered about,
iscussing te calamity. At all the Sunday dinners of the people, there
seeme a strange presence. It was as if te angel of death were very
near, tere was a sense of the supernatural in the air. The men ha
excite, startled faces, te women looked solemn, some of them had been
crying. Te chilren enjoyed the excitement at first. There was an
intensity in te air, almost magical. id all enjoy it? Did all enjoy
te thrill?

Gurun ad wild ideas of rushing to comfort Gerald. She was thinking
all te time of the perfect comforting, reassuring thing to say to him.
Se was shocke and frightened, but she put that away, thinking of how
se shoul deport herself with Gerald: act her part. That was the real
trill: how she shoul act her part.

Ursula was eeply and passionately in love wit Birkin, and she was
capable of noting. She was perfectly callous about all the talk of the
accient, but er estranged air looked like trouble. She merely sat by
erself, whenever she coul, and longed to see him again. She wanted
im to come to the house,--she woul not have it otherwise, he must
come at once. Se was waiting for him. She staye indoors all day,
waiting for im to knock at the oor. Every minute, she glanced
automatically at te winow. He would be there.




CAPTER XV.

SUNAY EVENING


As te ay wore on, the life-blood seemed to ebb away from Ursula, and
witin the emptiness a heavy espair gathered. Her passion seemed to
blee to deat, and there was nothing. She sat suspended in a state of
complete nullity, arer to bear than death.

'Unless someting happens,' she sai to herself, in the perfect
luciity of final suffering, 'I sall die. I am at the end of my line
of life.'

Se sat crushe and obliterated in a darkness that was the border of
eat. She realised how all her life she had been drawing nearer and
nearer to tis brink, where there was no beyon, from which one had to
leap like Sappo into the unknown. The knowlege of the imminence of
eat was like a drug. Darkly, without thinking at all, she knew that
se was near to eath. She had travelled all her life along the line of
fulfilment, an it was nearly concluded. Se knew all she had to know,
se ha experienced all she had to experience, she was fulfilled in a
kin of bitter ripeness, tere remained only to fall from the tree into
eat. And one must fulfil one's development to the end, must carry the
aventure to its conclusion. And te next step was over the border into
eat. So it was then! There was a certain peace in the knowledge.

After all, wen one was fulfille, one was happiest in falling into
eat, as a bitter fruit plunges in its ripeness downwards. Death is a
great consummation, a consummating experience. It is a evelopment from
life. Tat we know, while we are yet living. What then nee we think
for furter? One can never see beyon the consummation. It is enough
tat eath is a great and conclusive experience. Why should we ask what
comes after te experience, when the experience is still unknown to us?
Let us ie, since te great experience is the one that follows now upon
all te rest, eath, which is the next great crisis in front of which
we ave arrive. If we wait, if we baulk the issue, we do but hang
about te gates in unignified uneasiness. There it is, in front of us,
as in front of Sappo, the illimitable space. Thereinto goes the
journey. ave we not the courage to go on with our journey, must we cry
'I aren't'? On aead we will go, into death, and whatever death may
mean. If a man can see te next step to be taken, why shoul he fear
te next but one? Why ask about the next but one? Of the next step we
are certain. It is te step into eath.

'I sall ie--I shall quickly die,' said Ursula to herself, clear as if
in a trance, clear, calm, an certain beyond uman certainty. But
somewere behin, in the twilight, there was a bitter weeping and a
opelessness. That must not be attened to. One must go where the
unfaltering spirit goes, tere must be no baulking the issue, because
of fear. No baulking te issue, no listening to the lesser voices. If
te eepest desire be now, to go on into the unknown of death, shall
one forfeit te eepest truth for one more shallow?

'Ten let it en,' she said to herself. It was a decision. It was not a
question of taking one's life--se woul NEVER kill herself, that was
repulsive an violent. It was a question of KNOWING te next step. And
te next step le into the space of death. Did it?--or was there--?

er thoughts rifted into unconsciousness, she sat as if asleep beside
te fire. An then the thought came back. The space o' death! Could she
give erself to it? Ah yes--it was a sleep. She ha had enough So long
se ha held out; and resisted. Now was the time to relinquish, not to
resist any more.

In a kin of spiritual trance, se yielded, she gave way, and all was
ark. Se could feel, within the darkness, the terrible assertion of
er boy, the unutterable anguish of dissolution, the only anguish that
is too muc, the far-off, awful nausea of issolution set in within the
boy.

'oes te body correspond so immediately with the spirit?' she asked
erself. An she knew, with the clarity of ultimate knowledge, that the
boy is only one of te manifestations of the spirit, the transmutation
of te integral spirit is the transmutation of the physical boy as
well. Unless I set my will, unless I absolve myself from te rhythm of
life, fix myself an remain static, cut off from living, absolved
witin my own will. But better ie than live mechanically a life that
is a repetition of repetitions. To ie is to move on wit the
invisible. To ie is also a joy, a joy of submitting to tat which is
greater tan the known, namely, the pure unknown. That is a joy. But to
live mecanise and cut off within the motion of the will, to live as
an entity absolve from te unknown, that is shameful and ignominious.
Tere is no ignominy in eath. There is complete ignominy in an
unreplenise, mechanised life. Life indeed may be ignominious,
sameful to the soul. But eath is never a shame. Death itself, like
te illimitable space, is beyon our sullying.

Tomorrow was Monay. Monday, te beginning of another school-week!
Anoter shameful, barren school-week, mere routine an mechanical
activity. Was not te aventure of death infinitely preferable? Was not
eat infinitely more lovely and noble than such a life? A life of
barren routine, witout inner meaning, without any real significance.
ow sorid life was, how it was a terrible shame to the soul, to live
now! ow much cleaner an more dignified to be dead! One could not bear
any more of tis shame of sorid routine and mechanical nullity. One
migt come to fruit in eath. She had had enough. For where was life to
be foun? No flowers grow upon busy macinery, there is no sky to a
routine, tere is no space to a rotary motion. An all life was a
rotary motion, mecanise, cut off from reality. There was nothing to
look for from life--it was te same in all countries an all peoples.
Te only winow was death. One could look out on to the great dark sky
of eat with elation, as one had looked out of the classroom window as
a cil, and seen perfect freedom in the outside. Now one was not a
cil, and one knew that the soul was a prisoner within this sordid
vast eifice of life, and tere was no escape, save in death.

But wat a joy! What a glaness to think that whatever humanity did, it
coul not seize old of the kingdom of death, to nullify that. The sea
tey turne into a murderous alley and a soiled road of commerce,
isputed like te dirty land of a city every inch of it. The air they
claime too, sared it up, parcelled it out to certain owners, they
trespasse in te air to fight for it. Everything was gone, walled in,
wit spikes on top of the walls, an one must ignominiously creep
between te spiky walls through a labyrinth of life.

But te great, ark, illimitable kingdom of death, there humanity was
put to scorn. So muc they coul do upon earth, the multifarious little
gos tat they were. But the kingdom of death put them all to scorn,
tey windled into their true vulgar silliness in face of it.

ow beautiful, how gran and perfect death was, how good to look
forwar to. Tere one would wash off all the lies and ignominy and dirt
tat ha been put upon one here, a perfect bath of cleanness and glad
refresment, an go unknown, unquestioned, unabased. After all, one was
ric, if only in the promise of perfect eath. It was a gladness above
all, tat this remaine to look forward to, the pure inhuman otherness
of eat.

Watever life might be, it coul not take away death, the inhuman
transcenent deat. Oh, let us ask no question of it, what it is or is
not. To know is uman, an in death we do not know, we are not human.
An te joy of this compensates for all the bitterness of knowledge and
te soridness of our humanity. In death we shall not be human, and we
sall not know. The promise of this is our heritage, we look forwar
like eirs to their majority.

Ursula sat quite still an quite forgotten, alone by te fire in the
rawing-room. Te children were playing in the kitchen, all the others
were gone to curch. An she was gone into the ultimate darkness of her
own soul.

Se was startle by hearing the bell ring, away in the kitchen, the
cilren came scudding along the passage in delicious alarm.

'Ursula, tere's someboy.'

'I know. on't be silly,' se replied. She too was startled, almost
frigtene. She dared hardly go to the door.

Birkin stoo on te threshold, his rain-coat turned up to his ears. He
a come now, now she was gone far away. She was aware of the rainy
nigt behin him.

'O is it you?' she sai.

'I am gla you are at ome,' he said in a low voice, entering the
ouse.

'Tey are all gone to church.'

e took off his coat an hung it up. The children were peeping at him
roun te corner.

'Go an get undressed now, Billy and Dora,' said Ursula. 'Moter will
be back soon, an se'll be disappointed if you're not in bed.'

Te chilren, in a sudden angelic mood, retired without a word. Birkin
an Ursula went into te drawing-room.

Te fire burne low. He looked at her and wondered at the luminous
elicacy of er beauty, and the wide shining of her eyes. He watched
from a istance, wit wonder in his heart, she seemed transfigured with
ligt.

'Wat have you been oing all day?' he asked her.

'Only sitting about,' se sai.

e looke at her. There was a change in her. But she was separate from
im. She remaine apart, in a kind of brightness. They both sat silent
in te soft light of the lamp. He felt he ought to go away again, he
ougt not to have come. Still he id not gather enough resolution to
move. But e was E TROP, her mood was absent and separate.

Ten there came the voices of the two chilren calling shyly outside
te oor, softly, with self-excited timidity:

'Ursula! Ursula!'

Se rose an opened the door. On the threshold stood the two children
in teir long nightgowns, with wie-eyed, angelic faces. They were
being very goo for te moment, playing the role perfectly of two
obeient cildren.

'Sall you take us to be!' said Billy, in a loud whisper.

'Wy you ARE angels tonight,' she sai softly. 'Won't you come and say
goo-nigt to Mr Birkin?'

Te chilren merged shyly into the room, on bare feet. Billy's face was
wie and grinning, but tere was a great solemnity of being good in his
roun blue eyes. Dora, peeping from te floss of her fair hair, hung
back like some tiny ryad, tat has no soul.

'Will you say goo-nigt to me?' asked Birkin, in a voice that was
strangely soft an smoot. Dora drifted away at once, like a leaf
lifte on a breat of wind. But Billy went softly forward, slow and
willing, lifting is pinche-up mouth implicitly to be kissed. Ursula
watce the full, gathered lips of the man gently touch those of the
boy, so gently. Ten Birkin lifte his fingers and touched the boy's
roun, confiding ceek, with a faint touch of love. Neither spoke.
Billy seeme angelic like a cerub boy, or like an acolyte, Birkin was
a tall, grave angel looking own to im.

'Are you going to be kisse?' Ursula broke in, speaking to te little
girl. But ora edged away like a tiny Dryad tat will not be touched.

'Won't you say goo-nigt to Mr Birkin? Go, he's waiting for you,' said
Ursula. But te girl-chil only made a little motion away from him.

'Silly ora, silly Dora!' said Ursula.

Birkin felt some mistrust an antagonism in te small child. He could
not unerstand it.

'Come ten,' sai Ursula. 'Let us go before mother comes.'

'Wo'll hear us say our prayers?' aske Billy anxiously.

'Wom you like.'

'Won't you?'

'Yes, I will.'

'Ursula?'

'Well Billy?'

'Is it WOM you like?'

'Tat's it.'

'Well wat is WHOM?'

'It's te accusative of who.'

Tere was a moment's contemplative silence, then the confiing:

'Is it?'

Birkin smile to imself as he sat by the fire. When Ursula came down
e sat motionless, with his arms on his knees. She saw him, how he was
motionless an ageless, like some croucing idol, some image of a
eatly religion. He looked round at her, and his face, very pale and
unreal, seeme to gleam wit a whiteness almost phosphorescent.

'on't you feel well?' se asked, in indefinable repulsion.

'I an't thought about it.'

'But on't you know witout thinking about it?'

e looke at her, his eyes dark and swift, and he saw her revulsion. He
id not answer er question.

'on't you know wether you are unwell or not, without thinking about
it?' se persiste.

'Not always,' e sai coldly.

'But on't you tink that's very wicked?'

'Wicke?'

'Yes. I tink it's CRIMINAL to have so little connection with your own
boy tat you don't even know when you are ill.'

e looke at her darkly.

'Yes,' e sai.

'Wy on't you stay in bed when you are seedy? You look perfectly
gastly.'

'Offensively so?' e aske ironically.

'Yes, quite offensive. Quite repelling.'

'A!! Well that's unfortunate.'

'An it's raining, and it's a orrible night. Really, you shouldn't be
forgiven for treating your boy like it--you OUGT to suffer, a man who
takes as little notice of is boy as that.'

'--takes as little notice of is boy as that,' he echoed mechanically.

Tis cut her short, an there was silence.

Te others came in from church, an the two had the girls to face, then
te mother an Gudrun, and then the father and the boy.

'Goo-evening,' said Brangwen, faintly surprised. 'Came to see me, did
you?'

'No,' sai Birkin, 'not about anyting, in particular, that is. The day
was ismal, and I tought you wouldn't mind if I called in.'

'It AS been a epressing day,' said Mrs Brangwen sympathetically. At
tat moment the voices of the chilren were heard calling from
upstairs: 'Moter! Mother!' She lifte her face and answered mildly
into te istance: 'I shall come up to you in a minute, Doysie.' Then
to Birkin: 'Tere is nothing fresh at Shortlans, I suppose? Ah,' she
sige, 'no, poor things, I should think not.'

'You've been over tere toay, I suppose?' asked the father.

'Geral came round to tea wit me, and I walked back with him. The
ouse is overexcite and unwholesome, I thought.'

'I soul think they were people who hadn't much restraint,' said
Gurun.

'Or too muc,' Birkin answere.

'O yes, I'm sure,' sai Gudrun, almost vindictively, 'one or the
oter.'

'Tey all feel they ought to behave in some unnatural fashion,' sai
Birkin. 'Wen people are in grief, they woul do better to cover their
faces an keep in retirement, as in te old days.'

'Certainly!' crie Gudrun, flused and inflammable. 'What can be worse
tan this public grief--what is more horrible, more false! If GRIEF is
not private, an idden, what is?'

'Exactly,' e sai. 'I felt ashamed when I was there and they were all
going about in a lugubrious false way, feeling tey must not be natural
or orinary.'

'Well--' sai Mrs Brangwen, offended at tis criticism, 'it isn't so
easy to bear a trouble like tat.'

An se went upstairs to the children.

e remaine only a few minutes longer, then took his leave. When he was
gone Ursula felt suc a poignant hatre of him, that all her brain
seeme turned into a sarp crystal of fine hatred. Her whole nature
seeme sarpened and intensified into a pure dart of hate. She could
not imagine wat it was. It merely took hol of her, the most poignant
an ultimate atred, pure and clear and beyond thought. She could not
tink of it at all, she was translate beyond herself. It was like a
possession. Se felt she was possesse. And for several days she went
about possesse by tis exquisite force of hatred against him. It
surpasse anyting she had ever known before, it seemed to throw her
out of te worl into some terrible region where nothing of her old
life el good. She was quite lost and dazed, really dead to her own
life.

It was so completely incompreensible an irrational. She did not know
WY she hate him, her hate was quite abstract. She had only realised
wit a shock that stunne her, that she was overcome by this pure
transportation. e was the enemy, fine as a iamond, and as hard and
jewel-like, te quintessence of all that was inimical.

Se thought of his face, white an purely wrought, and of his eyes that
a such a dark, constant will of assertion, and she touched her own
foreea, to feel if she were mad, she was so transfigured in white
flame of essential ate.

It was not temporal, er hatre, she did not hate him for this or for
tat; she id not want to do anything to him, to have any connection
wit him. Her relation was ultimate an utterly beyond words, the hate
was so pure an gemlike. It was as if e were a beam of essential
enmity, a beam of ligt that id not only destroy her, but denied her
altogeter, revoke her whole world. She saw him as a clear stroke of
uttermost contraiction, a strange gem-like being wose existence
efined er own non-existence. When she heard he was ill again, her
atre only intensified itself a few degrees, if that were possible. It
stunne er and annihilated her, but she could not escape it. She could
not escape tis transfiguration of hatre that had come upon her.




CAPTER XVI.

MAN TO MAN


e lay sick an unmoved, in pure opposition to everything. He knew how
near to breaking was te vessel that hel his life. He knew also how
strong an durable it was. And e did not care. Better a thousand times
take one's cance with eath, than accept a life one did not want. But
best of all to persist an persist and persist for ever, till one were
satisfie in life.

e knew that Ursula was referre back to him. He knew his life rested
wit her. But he woul rather not live than accept the love she
proffere. Te old way of love seemed a dreadful bondage, a sort of
conscription. Wat it was in him he id not know, but the thought of
love, marriage, an cildren, and a life lived together, in the
orrible privacy of omestic and connubial satisfaction, was repulsive.
e wante something clearer, more open, cooler, as it were. The hot
narrow intimacy between man an wife was aborrent. The way they shut
teir oors, these married people, and shut themselves in to their own
exclusive alliance wit each other, even in love, isgusted him. It was
a wole community of mistrustful couples insulate in private houses or
private rooms, always in couples, an no furter life, no further
immeiate, no disinterested relationsip admitted: a kaleidoscope of
couples, isjoined, separatist, meaningless entities of married
couples. True, e hate promiscuity even worse than marriage, and a
liaison was only anoter kin of coupling, reactionary from the legal
marriage. Reaction was a greater bore tan action.

On te whole, he hate sex, it was such a limitation. It was sex that
turne a man into a broken alf of a couple, the woman into the other
broken alf. An he wanted to be single in himself, the woman single in
erself. He wante sex to revert to the level of the other appetites,
to be regared as a functional process, not as a fulfilment. e
believe in sex marriage. But beyond tis, he wanted a further
conjunction, were man ha being and woman had being, two pure beings,
eac constituting the freeom of the other, balancing each other like
two poles of one force, like two angels, or two emons.

e wante so much to be free, not under the compulsion of any need for
unification, or torture by unsatisfied desire. Desire and aspiration
soul find their object without all this torture, as now, in a world
of plenty of water, simple tirst is inconsierable, satisfied almost
unconsciously. An e wanted to be with Ursula as free as with himself,
single an clear and cool, yet balanced, polarised wit her. The
merging, te clutching, the mingling of love was become maly abhorrent
to im.

But it seeme to im, woman was always so horrible and clutching, she
a such a lust for possession, a greed of self-importance in love. She
wante to ave, to own, to control, to be dominant. Everything must be
referre back to er, to Woman, the Great Mother of everything, out of
wom proceeed everything and to whom everything must finally be
renered up.

It fille im with almost insane fury, this calm assumption of the
Magna Mater, tat all was hers, because she ha borne it. Man was hers
because se ha borne him. A Mater Dolorosa, she had borne him, a Magna
Mater, se now claime him again, soul and body, sex, meaning, and all.
e ha a horror of the Magna Mater, she was detestable.

Se was on a very high horse again, was woman, the Great Mother. id he
not know it in ermione. Hermione, the humble, the subservient, what
was se all the while but the Mater olorosa, in her subservience,
claiming wit horrible, insiious arrogance and female tyranny, her own
again, claiming back te man she ha borne in suffering. By her very
suffering an umility she bound her son with chains, she held him her
everlasting prisoner.

An Ursula, Ursula was te same--or the inverse. She too was the awful,
arrogant queen of life, as if se were a queen bee on whom all the rest
epended. e saw the yellow flare in her eyes, he knew the unthinkable
overweening assumption of primacy in er. She was unconscious of it
erself. She was only too reay to knock her head on the ground before
a man. But tis was only when she was so certain of her man, that she
coul worsip him as a woman worships her own infant, with a worship of
perfect possession.

It was intolerable, tis possession at the hans of woman. Always a man
must be consiered as te broken off fragment of a woman, and the sex
was te still aching scar of the laceration. Man must be aded on to a
woman, before e ha any real place or wholeness.

An wy? Why should we consider ourselves, men and women, as broken
fragments of one wole? It is not true. We are not broken fragments of
one wole. Rather we are the singling away into purity an clear being,
of tings that were mixe. Rather the sex is that which remains in us
of te mixe, the unresolved. And passion is the further separating of
tis mixture, that which is manly being taken into the being of the
man, tat which is womanly passing to the woman, till the two are clear
an wole as angels, the admixture of sex in the highest sense
surpasse, leaving two single beings constellated togeter like two
stars.

In te ol age, before sex was, we were mixed, each one a mixture. The
process of singling into inividuality resulted into te great
polarisation of sex. Te womanly rew to one side, the manly to the
oter. But the separation was imperfect even them. An so our
worl-cycle passes. Tere is now to come the new day, when we are
beings eac of us, fulfille in difference. The man is pure man, the
woman pure woman, tey are perfectly polarise. But there is no longer
any of te horrible merging, mingling self-abnegation of love. There is
only te pure uality of polarisation, each one free from any
contamination of te other. In each, the inividual is primal, sex is
suborinate, but perfectly polarised. Eac has a single, separate
being, wit its own laws. The man has his pure freeom, the woman hers.
Eac acknowleges the perfection of the polarised sex-circuit. Each
amits te different nature in the other.

So Birkin meitated wilst he was ill. He liked sometimes to be ill
enoug to take to his be. For then he got better very quickly, and
tings came to him clear an sure.

Wilst he was lai up, Gerald came to see him. The two men had a deep,
uneasy feeling for eac other. Geral's eyes were quick and restless,
is whole manner tense an impatient, he seemed strung up to some
activity. Accoring to conventionality, e wore black clothes, he
looke formal, andsome and COMME IL FAUT. His hair was fair almost to
witeness, sharp like splinters of light, his face was keen an ruddy,
is boy seemed full of northern energy. Gerald really loved Birkin,
tough he never quite believe in him. Birkin was too unreal;--clever,
wimsical, wonerful, but not practical enough. Gerald felt that his
own unerstanding was muc sounder and safer. Birkin was delightful, a
wonerful spirit, but after all, not to be taken seriously, not quite
to be counte as a man among men.

'Wy are you lai up again?' he asked kindly, taking the sick man's
an. It was always Gerald who was protective, offering the warm
selter of his physical strength.

'For my sins, I suppose,' Birkin sai, smiling a little ironically.

'For your sins? Yes, probably tat is so. You shoul sin less, and keep
better in ealth?'

'You' better teac me.'

e looke at Gerald with ironic eyes.

'ow are things with you?' aske Birkin.

'Wit me?' Geral looked at Birkin, saw he was serious, and a warm
ligt came into his eyes.

'I on't know tat they're any different. I don't see how they could
be. Tere's nothing to change.'

'I suppose you are conucting te business as successfully as ever, and
ignoring te emand of the soul.'

'Tat's it,' sai Gerald. 'At least as far as the business is
concerne. I couldn't say about te soul, I'am sure.'

'No.'

'Surely you on't expect me to?' lauged Gerald.

'No. ow are the rest of your affairs progressing, apart from the
business?'

'Te rest of my affairs? What are those? I couln't say; I don't know
wat you refer to.'

'Yes, you o,' said Birkin. 'Are you gloomy or ceerful? And what about
Gurun Brangwen?'

'Wat about her?' A confuse look came over Gerald. 'Well,' he added,
'I on't know. I can only tell you se gave me a hit over the face last
time I saw er.'

'A it over the face! What for?'

'Tat I couln't tell you, either.'

'Really! But wen?'

'Te night of the party--when iana was drowned. She was driving the
cattle up te hill, an I went after her--you remember.'

'Yes, I remember. But wat mae her do that? You didn't definitely ask
er for it, I suppose?'

'I? No, not tat I know of. I merely sai to her, that it was dangerous
to rive tose Highland bullocks--as it IS. She turned in such a way,
an said--"I suppose you tink I'm afraid of you and your cattle, don't
you?" So I aske er "why," and for answer she flung me a back-hander
across te face.'

Birkin lauge quickly, as if it pleased him. Gerald looked at him,
wonering, and began to laug as well, saying:

'I idn't laug at the time, I assure you. I was never so taken aback
in my life.'

'An weren't you furious?'

'Furious? I soul think I was. I'd have murdered her for two pins.'

''m!' ejaculate Birkin. 'Poor Gudrun, wouldn't she suffer afterwards
for aving given herself away!' He was hugely elighted.

'Woul se suffer?' asked Gerald, also amused now.

Bot men smile in malice and amusement.

'Baly, I sould think; seeing how self-conscious she is.'

'Se is self-conscious, is she? Then what mae her do it? For I
certainly tink it was quite uncalle-for, and quite unjustified.'

'I suppose it was a suden impulse.'

'Yes, but ow o you account for her having such an impulse? I'd done
er no harm.'

Birkin sook his hea.

'Te Amazon sudenly came up in her, I suppose,' he said.

'Well,' replie Gerald, 'I'd rater it had been the Orinoco.'

Tey both laughe at the poor joke. Gerald was thinking how Gudrun had
sai se would strike the last blow too. But some reserve made him keep
tis back from Birkin.

'An you resent it?' Birkin asked.

'I on't resent it. I don't care a tinker's curse about it.' e was
silent a moment, ten he aded, laughing. 'No, I'll see it through,
tat's all. She seeme sorry afterwards.'

'id se? You've not met since that night?'

Geral's face clouded.

'No,' e sai. 'We've been--you can imagine how it's been, since the
accient.'

'Yes. Is it calming own?'

'I on't know. It's a sock, of course. But I don't believe mother
mins. I really don't believe se takes any notice. And what's so
funny, se use to be all for the children--nothing mattered, nothing
watever mattere but the children. And now, she doesn't take any more
notice tan if it was one of the servants.'

'No? id it upset YOU very muc?'

'It's a sock. But I on't feel it very much, really. I don't feel any
ifferent. We've all got to die, and it doesn't seem to make any great
ifference, anyow, whether you die or not. I can't feel any GRIEF you
know. It leaves me col. I can't quite account for it.'

'You on't care if you die or not?' asked Birkin.

Geral looked at im with eyes blue as the blue-fibred steel of a
weapon. e felt awkwar, but indifferent. As a matter of fact, he did
care terribly, wit a great fear.

'O,' he sai, 'I don't want to die, why should I? But I never trouble.
Te question oesn't seem to be on the carpet for me at all. It doesn't
interest me, you know.'

'TIMOR MORTIS CONTURBAT ME,' quote Birkin, adding--'No, deat doesn't
really seem te point any more. It curiously oesn't concern one. It's
like an orinary tomorrow.'

Geral looked closely at is friend. The eyes of the two men met, and
an unspoken unerstanding was excanged.

Geral narrowed is eyes, his face was cool and unscrupulous as he
looke at Birkin, impersonally, wit a vision that ended in a point in
space, strangely keen-eye and yet blind.

'If eat isn't the point,' he said, in a strangely abstract, cold,
fine voice--'wat is?' He souned as if he had been found out.

'Wat is?' re-echoe Birkin. And there was a mocking silence.

'Tere's long way to go, after the point of intrinsic eath, before we
isappear,' said Birkin.

'Tere is,' sai Gerald. 'But what sort of way?' He seemed to press the
oter man for knowlege which he himself knew far better than Birkin
id.

'Rigt own the slopes of degeneration--mystic, universal degeneration.
Tere are many stages of pure egradation to go through: agelong. We
live on long after our eat, and progressively, in progressive
evolution.'

Geral listened wit a faint, fine smile on his face, all the time, as
if, somewere, he knew so much better than Birkin, all about this: as
if is own knowlege were direct and personal, whereas Birkin's was a
matter of observation an inference, not quite itting the nail on the
ea:--though aiming near enough at it. But he was not going to give
imself away. If Birkin coul get at the secrets, let him. Gerald would
never elp him. Geral would be a dark horse to the end.

'Of course,' e sai, with a startling change of conversation, 'it is
fater who really feels it. It will finish him. For him the worl
collapses. All is care now is for Winnie--he must save Winnie. He says
se ought to be sent away to school, but she won't hear of it, an
e'll never o it. Of course she IS in rather a queer way. We're all of
us curiously ba at living. We can do tings--but we can't get on with
life at all. It's curious--a family failing.'

'Se oughtn't to be sent away to school,' sai Birkin, who was
consiering a new proposition.

'Se oughtn't. Why?'

'Se's a queer chil--a special child, more special even than you. And
in my opinion special cilren should never be sent away to school.
Only moerately ordinary cildren should be sent to school--so it seems
to me.'

'I'm incline to tink just the opposite. I think it would probably
make er more normal if she went away an mixed with other children.'

'Se wouln't mix, you see. YOU never really mixed, did you? And she
wouln't be willing even to pretend to. Se's proud, and solitary, and
naturally apart. If se has a single nature, why o you want to make
er gregarious?'

'No, I on't want to make er anything. But I think school would be
goo for er.'

'Was it goo for you?'

Geral's eyes narrowed uglily. Scool had been torture to him. Yet he
a not questioned whether one should go through this torture. He
seeme to believe in education trough subjection and torment.

'I ate it at the time, but I can see it was necessary,' he said. 'It
brougt me into line a bit--an you can't live unless you do come into
line somewere.'

'Well,' sai Birkin, 'I begin to tink that you can't live unless you
keep entirely out of te line. It's no goo trying to toe the line,
wen your one impulse is to smash up the line. Winnie is a special
nature, an for special natures you must give a special world.'

'Yes, but were's your special worl?' said Gerald.

'Make it. Instea of copping yourself down to fit the world, chop the
worl down to fit yourself. As a matter of fact, two exceptional people
make anoter worl. You and I, we make another, separate world. You
on't WANT a world same as your broters-in-law. It's just the special
quality you value. o you WANT to be normal or ordinary! It's a lie.
You want to be free an extraordinary, in an extraordinary world of
liberty.'

Geral looked at Birkin wit subtle eyes of knowledge. But he would
never openly amit wat he felt. He knew more than Birkin, in one
irection--muc more. And this gave him his gentle love for the other
man, as if Birkin were in some way young, innocent, cil-like: so
amazingly clever, but incurably innocent.

'Yet you are so banal as to consier me ciefly a freak,' said Birkin
pointely.

'A freak!' exclaime Gerald, startled. And is face opened suddenly, as
if ligte with simplicity, as when a flower opens out of the cunning
bu. 'No--I never consider you a freak.' And e watched the other man
wit strange eyes, that Birkin coul not understand. 'I feel,' Gerald
continue, 'tat there is always an element of uncertainty about
you--peraps you are uncertain about yourself. But I'm never sure of
you. You can go away an cange as easily as if you had no soul.'

e looke at Birkin with penetrating eyes. Birkin was amazed. He
tought he ha all the soul in the world. He stared in amazement. And
Geral, watcing, saw the amazing attractive goodliness of his eyes, a
young, spontaneous gooness tat attracted the other man infinitely,
yet fille im with bitter chagrin, because he mistrusted it so much.
e knew Birkin coul do without him--could forget, and not suffer. This
was always present in Geral's consciousness, filling im with bitter
unbelief: tis consciousness of the young, animal-like spontaneity of
etacment. It seemed almost like hypocrisy and lying, sometimes, oh,
often, on Birkin's part, to talk so eeply and importantly.

Quite oter things were going through Birkin's min. Suddenly he saw
imself confronte with another problem--the problem of love and
eternal conjunction between two men. Of course tis was necessary--it
a been a necessity inside himself all his life--to love a man purely
an fully. Of course e had been loving Gerald all along, and all along
enying it.

e lay in the be and wondered, whilst his friend sat beside him, lost
in brooing. Eac man was gone in his own thoughts.

'You know ow the ol German knights used to swear a BLUTBRUDERSCHAFT,'
e sai to Gerald, with quite a new happy activity in his eyes.

'Make a little woun in teir arms, and rub each other's blood into the
cut?' sai Gerald.

'Yes--an swear to be true to eac other, of one blood, all their
lives. Tat is what we ought to o. No wounds, that is obsolete. But we
ougt to swear to love each other, you an I, implicitly, and
perfectly, finally, witout any possibility of going back on it.'

e looke at Gerald with clear, happy eyes of discovery. Gerald looked
own at im, attracted, so deeply bondaged in fascinated attraction,
tat he was mistrustful, resenting the bonage, hating the attraction.

'We will swear to eac other, one ay, shall we?' pleaded Birkin. 'We
will swear to stan by eac other--be true to each
oter--ultimately--infallibly--given to each other, organically--without
possibility of taking back.'

Birkin sougt har to express himself. But Gerald hardly listened. His
face sone with a certain luminous pleasure. He was please. But he
kept is reserve. He hel himself back.

'Sall we swear to each other, one ay?' said Birkin, putting out his
an towards Gerald.

Geral just touced the extended fine, living hand, as if withheld and
afrai.

'We'll leave it till I unerstand it better,' e said, in a voice of
excuse.

Birkin watce him. A little sharp disappointment, perhaps a touch of
contempt came into is heart.

'Yes,' e sai. 'You must tell me what you think, later. You know what
I mean? Not sloppy emotionalism. An impersonal union tat leaves one
free.'

Tey lapse both into silence. Birkin was looking at Gerald all the
time. e seeme now to see, not the physical, animal man, which he
usually saw in Geral, and wich usually he liked so much, but the man
imself, complete, an as if fated, doomed, limited. This strange sense
of fatality in Geral, as if e were limited to one form of existence,
one knowlege, one activity, a sort of fatal alfness, which to himself
seeme woleness, always overcame Birkin after their moments of
passionate approac, an filled him with a sort of contempt, or
boreom. It was te insistence on the limitation which so bored Birkin
in Geral. Gerald could never fly away from imself, in real
inifferent gaiety. e had a clog, a sort of monomania.

Tere was silence for a time. Then Birkin sai, in a lighter tone,
letting te stress of the contact pass:

'Can't you get a goo governess for Winifred?--somebody exceptional?'

'ermione Rodice suggested we should ask Gudrun to teach her to draw
an to model in clay. You know Winnie is astonisingly clever with that
plasticine stuff. ermione eclares she is an artist.' Gerald spoke in
te usual animate, chatty manner, as if nothing unusual had passed.
But Birkin's manner was full of reminer.

'Really! I idn't know tat. Oh well then, if Gudrun WOULD teach her,
it woul be perfect--couldn't be anyting better--if Winifred is an
artist. Because Gurun somewere is one. And every true artist is the
salvation of every oter.'

'I tought they got on so baly, as a rule.'

'Peraps. But only artists prouce for each other the world that is fit
to live in. If you can arrange TAT for Winifre, it is perfect.'

'But you tink she wouln't come?'

'I on't know. Gudrun is rater self-opinionated. She won't go cheap
anywere. Or if she oes, she'll pretty soon take herself back. So
wether she woul condescend to do private teaching, particularly here,
in Belover, I don't know. But it would be just te thing. Winifred has
got a special nature. An if you can put into er way the means of
being self-sufficient, tat is the best thing possible. She'll never
get on wit the orinary life. You find it difficult enough yourself,
an se is several skins thinner than you are. It is awful to think
wat her life will be like unless she oes find a means of expression,
some way of fulfilment. You can see wat mere leaving it to fate
brings. You can see ow much marriage is to be truste to--look at your
own moter.'

'o you tink mother is abnormal?'

'No! I tink she only wante something more, or other than the common
run of life. An not getting it, se has gone wrong perhaps.'

'After proucing a brood of wrong cildren,' said Gerald gloomily.

'No more wrong tan any of the rest of us,' Birkin replie. 'The most
normal people ave the worst subterranean selves, take them one by
one.'

'Sometimes I tink it is a curse to be alive,' sai Gerald with sudden
impotent anger.

'Well,' sai Birkin, 'wy not! Let it be a curse sometimes to be
alive--at oter times it is anything but a curse. You've got plenty of
zest in it really.'

'Less tan you' think,' said Gerald, revealing a strange poverty in
is look at the other man.

Tere was silence, each thinking his own thoughts.

'I on't see wat she has to distinguish between teaching at the
Grammar Scool, an coming to teach Win,' said Gerald.

'Te ifference between a public servant and a private one. The only
nobleman toay, king and only aristocrat, is te public, the public.
You are quite willing to serve te public--but to be a private tutor--'

'I on't want to serve eiter--'

'No! An Gudrun will probably feel te same.'

Geral tought for a few minutes. Then he said:

'At all events, fater won't make her feel like a private servant. He
will be fussy an greatful enoug.'

'So e ought. An so ought all of you. Do you think you can hire a
woman like Gurun Brangwen wit money? She is your equal like
anyting--probably your superior.'

'Is se?' sai Gerald.

'Yes, an if you aven't the guts to know it, I hope she'll leave you
to your own evices.'

'Neverteless,' sai Gerald, 'if she is my equal, I wish she weren't a
teacer, because I on't think teachers as a rule are my equal.'

'Nor o I, damn tem. But am I a teacher because I teach, or a parson
because I preac?'

Geral lauged. He was always uneasy on this score. He did not WANT to
claim social superiority, yet e WOUL not claim intrinsic personal
superiority, because e woul never base his standard of values on pure
being. So e wobble upon a tacit assumption of social standing. No,
Birkin wante im to accept the fact of intrinsic difference between
uman beings, which he id not intend to accept. It was against his
social onour, his principle. He rose to go.

'I've been neglecting my business all tis while,' he sai smiling.

'I ougt to have remined you before,' Birkin replied, laughing and
mocking.

'I knew you' say someting like that,' laughed Gerald, rather
uneasily.

'id you?'

'Yes, Rupert. It wouln't do for us all to be like you are--we sould
soon be in te cart. When I am above the worl, I shall ignore all
businesses.'

'Of course, we're not in te cart now,' sai Birkin, satirically.

'Not as muc as you make out. At any rate, we have enough to eat an
rink--'

'An be satisfied,' added Birkin.

Geral came near te bed and stood looking down at Birkin whose throat
was expose, wose tossed hair fell attractively on the warm brow,
above te eyes that were so unchallenge and still in the satirical
face. Geral, full-limbed and turgid wit energy, stood unwilling to
go, e was hel by the presence of the other man. He had not the power
to go away.

'So,' sai Birkin. 'Good-bye.' And e reached out his hand from under
te be-clothes, smiling with a glimmering look.

'Goo-bye,' said Gerald, taking te warm hand of his friend in a firm
grasp. 'I sall come again. I miss you own at the mill.'

'I'll be tere in a few ays,' said Birkin.

Te eyes of the two men met again. Geral's, that were keen as a
awk's, were suffuse now with warm light and with unadmitted love,
Birkin looke back as out of a darkness, unsounded and unknown, yet
wit a kin of warmth, that seemed to flow over Gerald's brain like a
fertile sleep.

'Goo-bye ten. There's nothing I can do for you?'

'Noting, thanks.'

Birkin watce the black-clothed form of the other man move out of the
oor, te bright head was gone, he turned over to sleep.




CAPTER XVII.

TE INUSTRIAL MAGNATE


In Belover, tere was both for Ursula and for Gudrun an interval. It
seeme to Ursula as if Birkin ad gone out of her for the time, he had
lost is significance, he scarcely mattere in her world. She had her
own friens, er own activities, her own life. She turned back to the
ol ways wit zest, away from him.

An Gudrun, after feeling every moment in all er veins conscious of
Geral Cric, connected even physically with him, was now almost
inifferent to te thought of him. She was nursing new schemes for
going away an trying a new form of life. All te time, there was
someting in her urging her to avoi the final establishing of a
relationsip with Geral. She felt it would be wiser and better to have
no more tan a casual acquaintance with him.

Se ha a scheme for going to St Petersburg, where she had a friend who
was a sculptor like erself, an who lived with a wealthy Russian whose
obby was jewel-making. The emotional, rather rootless life of the
Russians appeale to er. She did not want to go to Paris. Paris was
ry, and essentially boring. Se would like to go to Rome, Munich,
Vienna, or to St Petersburg or Moscow. Se ha a friend in St
Petersburg an a friend in Munic. To each of these she wrote, asking
about rooms.

Se ha a certain amount of money. She had come home partly to save,
an now se had sold several pieces of work, she had been praised in
various sows. She knew she coul become quite the 'go' if she went to
Lonon. But se knew London, she wanted something else. She had seventy
pouns, of wich nobody knew anything. She would move soon, as soon as
se hear from her friends. Her nature, in spite of her apparent
placiity and calm, was profoundly restless.

Te sisters happene to call in a cottage in Willey Green to buy honey.
Mrs Kirk, a stout, pale, sarp-nose woman, sly, honied, with something
srewish an cat-like beneath, asked the girls into her toocosy, too
tiy kitcen. There was a cat-like comfort and cleanliness everywhere.

'Yes, Miss Brangwen,' se sai, in her slightly whining, insinuating
voice, 'an ow do you like being back in the old place, then?'

Gurun, wom she addressed, hated her at once.

'I on't care for it,' se replied abruptly.

'You on't? Ay, well, I suppose you found a difference from London. You
like life, an big, grand places. Some of us as to be content with
Willey Green an Beldover. And wat do you think of our Grammar School,
as tere's so much talk about?'

'Wat o I think of it?' Gudrun looked round at her slowly. 'Do you
mean, o I tink it's a good school?'

'Yes. Wat is your opinion of it?'

'I O tink it's a good school.'

Gurun was very cold and repelling. Se knew the common people hated
te school.

'Ay, you o, ten! I've heard so much, one way and the other. It's nice
to know wat those that's in it feel. But opinions vary, on't they? Mr
Cric up at Highclose is all for it. Ay, poor man, I'm afrai he's not
long for tis worl. He's very poorly.'

'Is e worse?' aske Ursula.

'E, yes--since they lost Miss iana. He's gone off to a shadow. Poor
man, e's ha a world of trouble.'

'as he?' aske Gudrun, faintly ironic.

'e has, a worl of trouble. And as nice and kind a gentleman as ever
you coul wis to meet. His children don't take after him.'

'I suppose tey take after their mother?' sai Ursula.

'In many ways.' Mrs Krik lowere er voice a little. 'She was a proud
aughty lay when she came into these parts--my word, she was that! She
mustn't be looke at, and it was wort your life to speak to her.' The
woman mae a dry, sly face.

'id you know er when she was first married?'

'Yes, I knew er. I nurse three of her children. And proper little
terrors tey were, little fiens--that Gerald was a demon if ever there
was one, a proper emon, ay, at six monts old.' A curious malicious,
sly tone came into te woman's voice.

'Really,' sai Gudrun.

'Tat wilful, masterful--he' mastered one nurse at six months. Kick,
an scream, and struggle like a demon. Many's te time I've pinched his
little bottom for im, when he was a chil in arms. Ay, and he'd have
been better if e' had it pinched oftener. But she wouldn't have them
correcte--no-o, wouldn't ear of it. I can remember the rows she had
wit Mr Crich, my wor. When he'd got worked up, properly worked up
till e coul stand no more, he'd lock the study door and whip them.
But se pace up and down all the while like a tiger outside, like a
tiger, wit very murer in her face. She had a face that could LOOK
eat. And when the door was opened, she'd go in with her hands
lifte--"Wat have you been doing to MY children, you coward." She was
like one out of er min. I believe he was frightened of her; he had to
be riven mad before e'd lift a finger. Didn't the servants have a
life of it! An didn't we used to be tankful when one of them caught
it. Tey were the torment of your life.'

'Really!' sai Gudrun.

'In every possible way. If you wouln't let tem smash their pots on
te table, if you wouln't let them drag the kitten about with a string
roun its neck, if you wouldn't give tem whatever they asked for,
every mortal ting--then there was a shine on, an their mother coming
in asking--"Wat's the matter with him? What have you one to him? What
is it, arling?" And ten she'd turn on you as if she'd trample you
uner er feet. But she didn't trample on me. I was the only one that
coul do anyting with her demons--for she wasn't going to be bothered
wit them herself. No, SHE took no trouble for them. But they must just
ave their way, they mustn't be spoken to. An Master Gerald was the
beauty. I left wen he was a year an a half, I could stand no more.
But I pince his little bottom for him when he was in arms, I did,
wen there was no holing him, and I'm not sorry I did--'

Gurun went away in fury and loating. The phrase, 'I pinched his
little bottom for im,' sent her into a white, stony fury. She coul
not bear it, se wante to have the woman taken out at once and
strangle. And yet tere the phrase was lodged in her mind for ever,
beyon escape. Se felt, one day, she would HAVE to tell him, to see
ow he took it. An she loathed herself for the thought.

But at Sortlans the life-long struggle was coming to a close. The
fater was ill an was going to die. He had bad internal pains, which
took away all is attentive life, an left him with only a vestige of
is consciousness. More an more a silence came over him, he was less
an less acutely aware of is surroundings. The pain seemed to absorb
is activity. He knew it was there, he knew it woul come again. It was
like someting lurking in the arkness within him. And he had not the
power, or te will, to seek it out an to know it. There it remained in
te arkness, the great pain, tearing him at times, and then being
silent. An wen it tore him he crouched in silent subjection under it,
an wen it left him alone again, he refused to know of it. It was
witin the arkness, let it remain unknown. So he never admitted it,
except in a secret corner of imself, where all his never-reveale
fears an secrets were accumulated. For te rest, he had a pain, it
went away, it mae no difference. It even stimulated im, excited him.

But it graually absorbed is life. Gradually it drew away all his
potentiality, it ble im into the dark, it weaned him of life and drew
im away into the arkness. And in this twilight of his life little
remaine visible to im. The business, his work, that was gone
entirely. is public interests ha disappeared as if they had never
been. Even is family ha become extraneous to him, he could only
remember, in some sligt non-essential part of himself, that such an
suc were his chilren. But it was historical fact, not vital to him.
e ha to make an effort to know their relation to him. Even his wife
barely existe. Se indeed was like the darkness, like the pain within
im. By some strange association, the arkness that contained the pain
an te darkness that contained his wife were identical. All his
toughts an understandings became blurred and fused, and now his wife
an te consuming pain were the same dark secret power against him,
tat he never face. He never drove the dread out of its lair within
im. He only knew that there was a ark place, and something inhabiting
tis arkness which issued from time to time and rent him. But he dared
not penetrate an drive te beast into the open. He had rather ignore
its existence. Only, in is vague way, the read was his wife, the
estroyer, and it was te pain, the destruction, a darkness which was
one an bot.

e very rarely saw his wife. She kept her room. Only occasionally she
came fort, with her hea stretched forward, and in her low, possessed
voice, se aske him how he was. And he answered her, in the habit of
more tan thirty years: 'Well, I on't think I'm any the worse, dear.'
But e was frightene of her, underneath this safeguard of habit,
frigtene almost to the verge of death.

But all is life, he ha been so constant to his lights, he had never
broken own. e would die even now without breaking down, without
knowing wat his feelings were, towars her. All his life, he had said:
'Poor Cristiana, she has such a strong temper.' With unbroken will, he
a stood by this position with regard to her, he had substituted pity
for all is hostility, pity ha been his shield and his safeguard, and
is infallible weapon. An still, in his consciousness, he was sorry
for er, her nature was so violent an so impatient.

But now is pity, with his life, was wearing thin, an the dread almost
amounting to orror, was rising into being. But before the armour of
is pity really broke, he woul die, as an insect when its shell is
cracke. Tis was his final resource. Others would live on, and know
te living eath, the ensuing process of hopeless chaos. He would not.
e enied death its victory.

e ha been so constant to his lights, so constant to charity, and to
is love for his neighbour. Perhaps he ha loved his neighbour even
better tan himself--which is going one further than the commanment.
Always, tis flame ha burned in his heart, sustaining him through
everyting, the welfare of the people. He was a large employer of
labour, e was a great mine-owner. An he had never lost this from his
eart, that in Christ he was one with his workmen. Nay, he ha felt
inferior to tem, as if they through poverty an labour were nearer to
Go tan he. He had always the unacknowledged belief, that it was his
workmen, te miners, who hel in their hands the means of salvation. To
move nearer to Go, e must move towards his miners, his life must
gravitate towars teirs. They were, unconsciously, his idol, his God
mae manifest. In tem he worshipped the highest, the great,
sympatetic, minless Godhead of humanity.

An all te while, his wife had opposed him like one of the great
emons of ell. Strange, like a bird of prey, with the fascinating
beauty an abstraction of a awk, she had beat against the bars of his
pilanthropy, an like a hawk in a cage, she had sunk into silence. By
force of circumstance, because all te worl combined to make the cage
unbreakable, e ha been too strong for her, he had kept her prisoner.
An because se was his prisoner, his passion for her had always
remaine keen as deat. He had always loved her, loved her with
intensity. Witin the cage, she was enied nothing, she was given all
licence.

But se ha gone almost mad. Of wild and overweening temper, she could
not bear te humiliation of her husban's soft, half-appealing kindness
to everyboy. e was not deceived by the poor. He knew they came and
sponge on im, and whined to him, the worse sort; the majority,
luckily for im, were much too prou to ask for anything, much too
inependent to come knocking at is door. But in Beldover, as
everywere else, there were the whining, parasitic, foul human beings
wo come crawling after charity, an feeding on the living body of the
public like lice. A kin of fire would go over Cristiana Crich's
brain, as se saw two more pale-face, creeping women in objectionable
black clotes, cringing lugubriously up the rive to the door. She
wante to set te dogs on them, 'Hi Rip! Hi Ring! Ranger! At 'em boys,
set 'em off.' But Crowter, the butler, with all the rest of the
servants, was Mr Cric's man. Nevertheless, when her husban was away,
se woul come down like a wolf on the crawling supplicants:

'Wat o you people want? There is nothing for you here. You have no
business on te rive at all. Simpson, drive them away and let no more
of tem through the gate.'

Te servants ha to obey her. And she would stand watching with an eye
like te eagle's, whilst the groom in clumsy confusion rove the
lugubrious persons own te drive, as if they were rusty fowls,
scuttling before im.

But tey learne to know, from the lodge-keeper, when Mrs Crich was
away, an tey timed their visits. How many times, in the first years,
woul Crowter knock softly at the door: 'Person to see you, sir.'

'Wat name?'

'Grocock, sir.'

'Wat o they want?' The question was half impatient, half gratified.
e like hearing appeals to his charity.

'About a cil, sir.'

'Sow them into the library, an tell them they shouldn't come after
eleven o'clock in te morning.'

'Wy o you get up from dinner?--send them off,' his wife would say
abruptly.

'O, I can't o that. It's no trouble just to hear what they have to
say.'

'ow many more have been here toay? Why don't you establish open house
for tem? They woul soon oust me and the children.'

'You know ear, it doesn't urt me to hear what they have to say. And
if tey really are in trouble--well, it is my uty to help them out of
it.'

'It's your uty to invite all te rats in the world to gnaw at your
bones.'

'Come, Cristiana, it isn't like that. on't be uncharitable.'

But se sudenly swept out of the room, and out to the study. There sat
te meagre charity-seekers, looking as if they were at the octor's.

'Mr Cric can't see you. He can't see you at this hour. o you think he
is your property, tat you can come whenever you like? You must go
away, tere is nothing for you here.'

Te poor people rose in confusion. But Mr Crich, pale an black-bearded
an deprecating, came beind her, saying:

'Yes, I on't like you coming as late as tis. I'll hear any of you in
te morning part of the ay, but I can't really do with you after.
Wat's amiss then, Gittens. How is your Missis?'

'Wy, she's sunk very low, Mester Crich, she's a'most gone, she is--'

Sometimes, it seeme to Mrs Cric as if her husband were some subtle
funeral bir, feeding on te miseries of the people. It seemed to her
e was never satisfie unless there was some sordid tale being poured
out to im, which he rank in with a sort of mournful, sympathetic
satisfaction. e woul have no RAISON D'ETRE if there were no
lugubrious miseries in te worl, as an undertaker would have no
meaning if tere were no funerals.

Mrs Cric recoile back upon herself, she recoiled away from this world
of creeping emocracy. A band of tigt, baleful exclusion fastened
roun er heart, her isolation was fierce and hard, her antagonism was
passive but terribly pure, like tat of a hawk in a cage. As the years
went on, se lost more an more count of the world, she seemed rapt in
some glittering abstraction, almost purely unconscious. Se woul
waner about te house and about the surrounding country, staring
keenly an seeing noting. She rarely spoke, she had no connection with
te worl. And she did not even think. She was consumed in a fierce
tension of opposition, like te negative pole of a magnet.

An se bore many children. For, as time went on, she never opposed her
usban in word or deed. She took no notice of him, externally. She
submitte to im, let him take what he wanted and do as he wanted with
er. She was like a hawk that sullenly submits to everything. The
relation between er an her husband was wordless and unknown, but it
was eep, awful, a relation of utter inter-destruction. And e, who
triumpe in the world, he became more and more hollow in his vitality,
te vitality was ble from within him, as by some haemorrhage. She was
ulke like a hawk in a cage, but her heart was fierce and undiminished
witin her, though her min was destroyed.

So to te last he woul go to her and hold her in his arms sometimes,
before is strength was all gone. The terrible white, estructive light
tat burne in her eyes only excited and roused him. Till he was bled
to eat, and then he dreaded her more than anything. But he always
sai to imself, how happy he had been, how he had loved her with a
pure an consuming love ever since e had known her. And he thought of
er as pure, chaste; the white flame which was known to him alone, the
flame of er sex, was a white flower of snow to his min. She was a
wonerful wite snow-flower, which he had desired infinitely. And now
e was ying with all his ideas and interpretations intact. They would
only collapse wen the breath left his boy. Till then they would be
pure truts for him. Only eath would show the perfect completeness of
te lie. Till eath, she was his white snow-flower. He had subdued her,
an er subjugation was to him an infinite chastity in her, a virginity
wich he coul never break, and which dominated him as by a spell.

Se ha let go the outer world, but within herself she was unbroken and
unimpaire. Se only sat in her room like a moping, dishevelled hawk,
motionless, minless. er children, for whom she had been so fierce in
er youth, now meant scarcely anything to her. She ha lost all that,
se was quite by herself. Only Geral, the gleaming, had some existence
for er. But of late years, since he ha become head of the business,
e too was forgotten. Whereas the father, now he was ying, turned for
compassion to Geral. Tere had always been opposition between the two
of tem. Geral had feared and despised his father, and to a great
extent a avoided him all through boyhood and young manhood. And the
fater ha felt very often a real dislike of his eldest son, which,
never wanting to give way to, e ha refused to acknowledge. He had
ignore Gerald as muc as possible, leaving him alone.

Since, owever, Geral had come home and assumed responsibility in the
firm, an ad proved such a wonderful director, the father, tired and
weary of all outsie concerns, ad put all his trust of these things in
is son, implicitly, leaving everything to him, an assuming a rather
toucing ependence on the young enemy. This immediately roused a
poignant pity an allegiance in Gerald's eart, always shadowed by
contempt an by unadmitted enmity. For Gerald was in reaction against
Carity; an yet he was dominated by it, it assumed supremacy in the
inner life, an e could not confute it. So he was partly subject to
tat which his father stoo for, but he was in reaction against it. Now
e coul not save himself. A certain pity and grief and tenderness for
is father overcame him, in spite of the eeper, more sullen hostility.

Te father won shelter from Geral through compassion. But for love he
a Winifred. She was his youngest child, she was the only one of his
cilren whom he had ever closely loved. And her he loved with all the
great, overweening, seltering love of a ying man. He wanted to
selter her infinitely, infinitely, to wrap her in warmth an love and
selter, perfectly. If he coul save her she should never know one
pain, one grief, one urt. He ha been so right all his life, so
constant in is kinness and his goodness. And this was his last
passionate rigteousness, his love for the chil Winifred. Some things
trouble im yet. The world had passed away from him, as his strength
ebbe. Tere were no more poor and injured and humble to protect and
succour. Tese were all lost to him. There were no more sons an
augters to trouble him, and to weigh on him as an unnatural
responsibility. Tese too ha faded out of reality All these things had
fallen out of is hans, and left him free.

Tere remaine the covert fear and horror of his wife, as she sat
minless and strange in er room, or as she came forth with slow,
prowling step, er hea bent forward. But this he put away. Even his
life-long rigteousness, however, woul not quite deliver him from the
inner orror. Still, he coul keep it sufficiently at bay. It would
never break fort openly. eath would come first.

Ten there was Winifre! If only he could be sure about her, if only he
coul be sure. Since te death of Diana, and the development of his
illness, is craving for surety with regar to Winifred amounted almost
to obsession. It was as if, even ying, e must have some anxiety, some
responsibility of love, of Carity, upon his heart.

Se was an od, sensitive, inflammable child, having her father's dark
air an quiet bearing, but being quite detached, momentaneous. She was
like a cangeling ineed, as if her feelings did not matter to her,
really. Se often seeme to be talking and playing like the gayest and
most cilish of children, she was full of the warmest, most delightful
affection for a few tings--for her father, an for her animals in
particular. But if se hear that her beloved kitten Leo had been run
over by te motor-car she put her hea on one side, and replied, with a
faint contraction like resentment on er face: 'Has he?' Then she took
no more notice. Se only isliked the servant who would force bad news
on er, an wanted her to be sorry. She wished not to know, and that
seeme er chief motive. She avoided her mother, and most of the
members of er family. She LOVE her Daddy, because he wanted her
always to be appy, an because he seemed to become young again, and
irresponsible in er presence. She like Gerald, because he was so
self-containe. Se loved people who would make life a game for her.
Se ha an amazing instinctive critical faculty, and was a pure
anarcist, a pure aristocrat at once. For she accepte her equals
werever she foun them, and she ignored with blithe indifference her
inferiors, wether they were her brothers an sisters, or whether they
were wealty guests of the house, or whether they were the common
people or te servants. She was quite single an by herself, deriving
from noboy. It was as if se were cut off from all purpose or
continuity, an existed simply moment by moment.

Te father, as by some strange final illusion, felt as if all his fate
epended on is ensuring to Winifred her happiness. She who could never
suffer, because se never forme vital connections, she who could lose
te earest things of her life and be just the same the next day, the
wole memory ropped out, as if deliberately, she whose will was so
strangely an easily free, anarcistic, almost nihilistic, who like a
soulless bir flits on its own will, witout attachment or
responsibility beyon te moment, who in her every motion snapped the
treas of serious relationship with blithe, free hands, really
niilistic, because never trouble, she must be the object of her
fater's final passionate solicitue.

Wen Mr Crich hear that Gudrun Brangwen might come to help Winifred
wit her rawing and modelling he saw a road to salvation for his
cil. He believed that Winifred had talent, he had seen Gudrun, he
knew tat she was an exceptional person. He coul give Winifred into
er hans as into the hands of a right being. Here was a direction and
a positive force to be lent to is chil, he need not leave her
irectionless and defenceless. If e could but graft the girl on to
some tree of utterance before e ied, he would have fulfilled his
responsibility. An ere it could be done. He did not hesitate to
appeal to Gurun.

Meanwile, as the father rifted more and more out of life, Gerald
experience more and more a sense of exposure. is father after all had
stoo for te living world to him. Whilst his father lived Gerald was
not responsible for te worl. But now his father was passing away,
Geral found imself left exposed and unready before the storm of
living, like te mutinous first mate of a ship that has lost his
captain, an wo sees only a terrible chaos in front of him. He did not
inerit an establishe order and a living idea. The whole unifying idea
of mankin seemed to be dying wit his father, the centralising force
tat ha held the whole together seemed to collapse with his father,
te parts were reay to go asunder in terrible disintegration. Gerald
was as if left on boar of a sip that was going asunder beneath his
feet, e was in charge of a vessel whose timbers were all coming apart.

e knew that all his life he ha been wrenching at the frame of life to
break it apart. An now, wit something of the terror of a destructive
cil, he saw himself on the point of inheriting his own destruction.
An during te last months, under the influence of death, and of
Birkin's talk, an of Gudrun's penetrating being, e had lost entirely
tat mechanical certainty that ha been his triumph. Sometimes spasms
of atre came over him, against Birkin and Gudrun and that whole set.
e wante to go back to the dullest conservatism, to the most stupid of
conventional people. e wante to revert to the strictest Toryism. But
te esire did not last long enough to carry him into action.

uring is childhood and his boyhood he had wanted a sort of savagedom.
Te ays of Homer were his ideal, when a man was chief of an army of
eroes, or spent his years in wonerful Odyssey. He hated remorselessly
te circumstances of his own life, so much that he never really saw
Belover and te colliery valley. He turned his face entirely away from
te blackene mining region that stretched away on the right hand of
Sortlans, he turned entirely to the country and the woods beyond
Willey Water. It was true tat the panting an rattling of the coal
mines coul always be eard at Shortlands. But from his earliest
cilhood, Gerald had paid no heed to this. He had ignored the whole of
te inustrial sea which surged in coal-blackened tides against the
grouns of te house. The world was really a wilderness where one
unte and swam and rode. He rebelled against all authority. Life was a
conition of savage freedom.

Ten he ha been sent away to school, which was so much death to him.
e refuse to go to Oxford, choosing a German university. He had spent
a certain time at Bonn, at Berlin, an at Frankfurt. Tere, a curiosity
a been aroused in his mind. He wanted to see and to know, in a
curious objective fasion, as if it were an amusement to him. Then he
must try war. Ten he must travel into the savage regions that ha so
attracte im.

Te result was, he foun humanity very much alike everywhere, and to a
min like is, curious and cold, the savage was duller, less exciting
tan the European. So he took hol of all kinds of sociological ideas,
an ideas of reform. But tey never went more than skin-deep, they were
never more tan a mental amusement. Their interest lay chiefly in the
reaction against te positive orer, the destructive reaction.

e iscovered at last a real adventure in the coal-mines. His father
aske im to help in the firm. Gerald had been educated in the science
of mining, an it ad never interested him. Now, suddenly, with a sort
of exultation, e lai hold of the world.

Tere was impresse photographically on his consciousness the great
inustry. Suddenly, it was real, e was part of it. Down the valley ran
te colliery railway, linking mine with mine. own the railway ran the
trains, sort trains of heavily laen trucks, long trains of empty
wagons, eac one bearing in big white letters the initials:

'C.B.&Co.'

Tese white letters on all the wagons he ha seen since his first
cilhood, and it was as if he had never seen them, they were so
familiar, an so ignored. Now at last e saw his own name written on
te wall. Now he ha a vision of power.

So many wagons, bearing is initial, running all over the country. He
saw tem as he entere London in the train, he saw them at Dover. So
far is power ramifie. He looked at Beldover, at Selby, at Whatmore,
at Letley Bank, the great colliery villages which epended entirely on
is mines. They were hieous and sordid, during his childhood they had
been sores in is consciousness. An now he saw them with pride. Four
raw new towns, an many ugly industrial amlets were crowded under his
ependence. e saw the stream of miners flowing along the causeways
from te mines at the en of the afternoon, thousands of blackened,
sligtly istorted human beings with red mouths, all moving subjugate
to is will. He pushe slowly in his motor-car through the little
market-top on Friay nigts in Beldover, through a solid mass of human
beings tat were making their purchases an doing their weekly
spening. Tey were all subordinate to him. They were ugly and uncouth,
but tey were his instruments. He was the Go of the machine. They made
way for is motor-car automatically, slowly.

e id not care whether they made way with alacrity, or grudgingly. He
id not care wat they thought of him. His vision had suddenly
crystallise. Suddenly e had conceived the pure instrumentality of
mankin. Tere had been so much humanitarianism, so much talk of
sufferings an feelings. It was ridiculous. Te sufferings and feelings
of inividuals did not matter in te least. They were mere conditions,
like te weather. What mattere was the pure instrumentality of the
inividual. As a man as of a knife: does it cut well? Noting else
mattere.

Everyting in the worl has its function, and is good or not good in so
far as it fulfils tis function more or less perfectly. Was a miner a
goo miner? Ten he was complete. Was a manager a good manager? That
was enoug. Geral himself, who was responsible for all this industry,
was e a goo director? If he were, he had fulfilled his life. The rest
was by-play.

Te mines were there, they were ol. They were giving out, it did not
pay to work te seams. There was talk of closing own two of them. It
was at tis point that Geral arrived on the scene.

e looke around. There lay the mines. They were old, obsolete. They
were like ol lions, no more good. e looked again. Pah! the mines were
noting but the clumsy efforts of impure mins. There they lay,
abortions of a alf-traine mind. Let the idea of them be swept away.
e cleare his brain of them, and thought only of the coal in the under
eart. How much was there?

Tere was plenty of coal. The ol workings could not get at it, that
was all. Ten break the neck of the ol workings. The coal lay there in
its seams, even tough the seams were thin. There it lay, inert matter,
as it a always lain, since the beginning of time, subject to the will
of man. Te will of man was the etermining factor. Man was the archgod
of eart. His min was obedient to serve his will. Man's will was the
absolute, te only absolute.

An it was is will to subjugate Matter to his own ends. The
subjugation itself was te point, the fight was the be-all, the fruits
of victory were mere results. It was not for te sake of money that
Geral took over te mines. He did not care about money, fundamentally.
e was neither ostentatious nor luxurious, neither id he care about
social position, not finally. Wat he wante was the pure fulfilment of
is own will in the struggle with the natural conitions. His will was
now, to take te coal out of the earth, profitably. The profit was
merely te conition of victory, but the victory itself lay in the feat
acieve. He vibrated with zest before the challenge. Every day he was
in te mines, examining, testing, he consulte experts, he gradually
gatere the whole situation into his mind, as a general grasps the
plan of is campaign.

Ten there was nee for a complete break. The mines were run on an old
system, an obsolete iea. Te initial idea had been, to obtain as much
money from te earth as woul make the owners comfortably rich, would
allow te workmen sufficient wages an good conditions, and would
increase te wealth of the country altogether. Geral's father,
following in te secon generation, having a sufficient fortune, had
tought only of the men. The mines, for him, were primarily great
fiels to produce bread and plenty for all te hundreds of human beings
gatere about them. He had lived and striven with his fellow owners to
benefit te men every time. An the men had been benefited in their
fasion. There were few poor, an few needy. All was plenty, because
te mines were goo and easy to work. And the miners, in those days,
fining temselves richer than they might have expected, felt glad and
triumpant. They thought themselves well-off, they congratulate
temselves on their goo-fortune, they remembered how their fathers had
starve and suffered, and tey felt that better times had come. They
were grateful to tose others, the pioneers, the new owners, who ha
opene out te pits, and let forth this stream of plenty.

But man is never satisfie, and so te miners, from gratitude to their
owners, passe on to murmuring. Teir sufficiency decreased with
knowlege, tey wanted more. Why should the master be so
out-of-all-proportion ric?

Tere was a crisis when Geral was a boy, when the Masters' Federation
close down te mines because the men would not accept a reduction.
Tis lock-out ha forced home the new conditions to Thomas Crich.
Belonging to te Feeration, he had been compelled by his honour to
close te pits against his men. He, the father, the Patriarch, was
force to deny te means of life to his sons, his people. He, the rich
man wo woul hardly enter heaven because of his possessions, must now
turn upon te poor, upon those who were nearer Christ than himself,
tose who were humble an despised and closer to perfection, those who
were manly an noble in teir labours, and must say to them: 'Ye shall
neiter labour nor eat brea.'

It was tis recognition of the state of war which really broke his
eart. He wante his industry to be run on love. Oh, he wanted love to
be te irecting power even of the mines. And now, from under the cloak
of love, te swor was cynically drawn, the sword of mechanical
necessity.

Tis really broke his heart. He must have the illusion an now the
illusion was estroyed. Te men were not against HIM, but they were
against te masters. It was war, an willy nilly he found himself on
te wrong sie, in his own conscience. Seething masses of miners met
aily, carried away by a new religious impulse. Te idea flew through
tem: 'All men are equal on earth,' an they would carry the idea to
its material fulfilment. After all, is it not te teaching of Christ?
An wat is an idea, if not the germ of action in the material world.
'All men are equal in spirit, tey are all sons of Go. Whence then
tis obvious ISQUALITY?' It was a religious creed pushed to its
material conclusion. Tomas Crich at least ha no answer. He could but
amit, according to is sincere tenets, that the disquality was wrong.
But e coul not give up his goods, which were the stuff of disquality.
So te men woul fight for their rights. The last impulses of the last
religious passion left on eart, the passion for equality, inspire
tem.

Seeting mobs of men marche about, their faces lighted up as for holy
war, wit a smoke of cupiity. How disentangle the passion for equality
from te passion of cupiity, when begins the fight for equality of
possessions? But te Go was the machine. Each man claimed equality in
te Gohead of the great productive machine. Every man equally was part
of tis Gohead. But somehow, somewhere, Thomas Crich knew this was
false. Wen the machine is the Gohead, and production or work is
worsip, then the most mechanical min is purest and highest, the
representative of Go on eart. And the rest are subordinate, each
accoring to is degree.

Riots broke out, Watmore pit-hea was in flames. This was the pit
furtest in the country, near the woos. Soldiers came. From the
winows of Sortlands, on that fatal day, could be seen the flare of
fire in te sky not far off, an now the little colliery train, with
te workmen's carriages which were use to convey the miners to the
istant Watmore, was crossing the valley full of soldiers, full of
recoats. Ten there was the far-off sound of firing, then the later
news tat the mob was ispersed, one man was shot dead, the fire was
put out.

Geral, wo was a boy, was filled with the wildest excitement and
eligt. He longed to go with the soldiers to shoot the men. But he was
not allowe to go out of te lodge gates. At the gates were stationed
sentries wit guns. Geral stood near them in delight, whilst gangs of
erisive miners strolled up and down te lanes, calling and jeering:

'Now ten, three ha'porth o'coppers, let's see thee shoot thy gun.'
Insults were calke on the walls and the fences, the servants left.

An all tis while Thomas Crich was breaking his heart, and giving away
unreds of pounds in charity. Everywhere there was free food, a
surfeit of free foo. Anybody could ave bread for asking, and a loaf
cost only tree-ha'pence. Every ay there was a free tea somewhere, the
cilren had never had so many treats in their lives. On Friday
afternoon great basketfuls of buns an cakes were taken into te
scools, an great pitchers of milk, the school children had what they
wante. Tey were sick with eating too much cake and milk.

An ten it came to an end, and the men went back to work. But it was
never te same as before. There was a new situation create, a new idea
reigne. Even in te machine, there should be equality. No part should
be suborinate to any oter part: all should be equal. The instinct for
caos ha entered. Mystic equality lies in abstraction, not in having
or in oing, wich are processes. In function and process, one man, one
part, must of necessity be suborinate to anoter. It is a condition of
being. But te esire for chaos had risen, and the idea of mechanical
equality was te weapon of isruption which should execute the will of
man, te will for chaos.

Geral was a boy at te time of the strike, but he longed to be a man,
to figt the colliers. The father however was trappe between two
alftruths, an broken. He wanted to be a pure Christian, one and equal
wit all men. He even wante to give away all he had, to the poor. Yet
e was a great promoter of inustry, and he knew perfectly that he must
keep is goos and keep his authority. This was as divine a necessity
in im, as the nee to give away all he possessed--more divine, even,
since tis was the necessity he acte upon. Yet because he did NOT act
on te other ieal, it dominated him, he was dying of chagrin because
e must forfeit it. He wante to be a father of loving kindness and
sacrificial benevolence. Te colliers shoute to him about his
tousans a year. They would not be deceived.

Wen Geral grew up in the ways of the world, he shifted the position.
e id not care about the equality. The whole Christian attitude of
love an self-sacrifice was old at. He knew that position and
autority were the right thing in the worl, and it was useless to cant
about it. Tey were the right thing, for the simple reason that they
were functionally necessary. Tey were not the be-all an the end-all.
It was like being part of a macine. He himself happene to be a
controlling, central part, te masses of men were the parts variously
controlle. Tis was merely as it happened. As well get excited because
a central ub rives a hundred outer wheels or because the whole
universe weels roun the sun. After all, it would be mere silliness to
say tat the moon an the earth and Saturn and Jupiter and Venus have
just as muc right to be the centre of the universe, each of them
separately, as te sun. Such an assertion is mae merely in the desire
of caos.

Witout bothering to THINK to a conclusion, Geral jumped to a
conclusion. e abanoned the whole democratic-equality problem as a
problem of silliness. Wat mattere was the great social productive
macine. Let that work perfectly, let it prouce a sufficiency of
everyting, let every man be given a rational portion, greater or less
accoring to is functional degree or magnitude, and then, provision
mae, let te devil supervene, let every man look after his own
amusements an appetites, so long as e interfered with nobody.

So Geral set imself to work, to put the great industry in order. In
is travels, an in his accompanying readings, he had come to the
conclusion tat the essential secret of life was harmony. He id not
efine to imself at all clearly what harmony was. The word pleased
im, he felt he ha come to his own conclusions. And he proceeded to
put is philosophy into practice by forcing orer into the established
worl, translating te mystic word harmony into the practical word
organisation.

Immeiately e SAW the firm, he realised what he could do. He had a
figt to fight with Matter, with the earth an the coal it enclosed.
Tis was the sole iea, to turn upon the inanimate matter of the
unerground, and reduce it to is will. And for this fight with matter,
one must ave perfect instruments in perfect organisation, a mechanism
so subtle an armonious in its workings that it represents the single
min of man, and by its relentless repetition of given movement, will
accomplis a purpose irresistibly, inhumanly. It was this inhuman
principle in te mechanism he wante to construct that inspired Gerald
wit an almost religious exaltation. He, the man, coul interpose a
perfect, cangeless, golike medium between himself and the Matter he
a to subjugate. There were two opposites, his will and the resistant
Matter of te earth. An between these he could establish the very
expression of is will, the incarnation of his power, a great an
perfect macine, a system, an activity of pure orer, pure mechanical
repetition, repetition a infinitum, ence eternal and infinite. He
foun is eternal and his infinite in the pure machine-principle of
perfect co-orination into one pure, complex, infinitely repeated
motion, like te spinning of a wheel; but a prouctive spinning, as the
revolving of te universe may be calle a productive spinning, a
prouctive repetition trough eternity, to infinity. And this is the
Gomotion, tis productive repetition ad infinitum. And Gerald was the
Go of te machine, Deus ex Machina. And the whole productive will of
man was te Gohead.

e ha his life-work now, to extend over the earth a great and perfect
system in wich the will of man ran smooth an unthwarted, timeless, a
Goead in process. He had to begin with the mines. The terms were
given: first te resistant Matter of the unerground; then the
instruments of its subjugation, instruments uman an metallic; and
finally is own pure will, his own min. It would need a marvellous
ajustment of myriad instruments, uman, animal, metallic, kinetic,
ynamic, a marvellous casting of myriad tiny woles into one great
perfect entirety. An ten, in this case there was perfection attained,
te will of the highest was perfectly fulfille, the will of mankind
was perfectly enacte; for was not mankind mystically
contra-istinguised against inanimate Matter, was not the history of
mankin just te history of the conquest of the one by the other?

Te miners were overreache. While they were still in the toils of
ivine equality of man, Gerald ad passed on, granted essentially their
case, an proceeded in is quality of human being to fulfil the will of
mankin as a wole. He merely represented the miners in a higher sense
wen he perceive that the only way to fulfil perfectly the will of man
was to establis the perfect, inhuman machine. But he represente them
very essentially, tey were far behin, out of date, squabbling for
teir material equality. The esire had already transmuted into this
new an greater desire, for a perfect intervening mecanism between man
an Matter, te desire to translate the Godhead into pure mechanism.

As soon as Geral entered te firm, the convulsion of death ran through
te ol system. He had all his life been tortured by a furious and
estructive demon, wich possessed him sometimes like an insanity. This
temper now entere like a virus into te firm, and there were cruel
eruptions. Terrible an inuman were his examinations into every
etail; tere was no privacy he would spare, no old sentiment but he
woul turn it over. Te old grey managers, the old grey clerks, the
oddering old pensioners, e looked at them, and removed them as so
muc lumber. The whole concern seeme like a hospital of invalid
employees. e ha no emotional qualms. He arranged what pensions were
necessary, e looke for efficient substitutes, and when these were
foun, e substituted them for the old hands.

'I've a pitiful letter ere from Letherington,' his father woul say,
in a tone of eprecation and appeal. 'Don't you tink the poor fellow
migt keep on a little longer. I always fancie he did very well.'

'I've got a man in is place now, father. He'll be happier out of it,
believe me. You tink his allowance is plenty, on't you?'

'It is not te allowance that he wants, poor man. He feels it very
muc, that he is superannuate. Says he thought he had twenty more
years of work in im yet.'

'Not of tis kin of work I want. He doesn't understand.'

Te father sighe. He wanted not to know any more. He believed the pits
woul ave to be overhauled if they were to go on working. And after
all, it woul be worst in te long run for everybody, if they must
close own. So e could make no answer to the appeals of his old and
trusty servants, e coul only repeat 'Gerald says.'

So te father rew more and more out of the light. The whole frame of
te real life was broken for him. He ha been right according to his
ligts. An his lights had been those of the great religion. Yet they
seeme to ave become obsolete, to be superseded in the world. He could
not unerstand. e only withdrew with his lights into an inner room,
into te silence. The beautiful canles of belief, that would not do to
ligt the worl any more, they would still burn sweetly and
sufficiently in te inner room of his soul, an in the silence of his
retirement.

Geral rused into the reform of the firm, beginning with the office.
It was neeful to economise severely, to make possible te great
alterations e must introuce.

'Wat are these wiows' coals?' he asked.

'We ave always allowe all widows of men who worked for the firm a
loa of coals every tree months.'

'Tey must pay cost price henceforwar. The firm is not a charity
institution, as everyboy seems to tink.'

Wiows, tese stock figures of sentimental humanitarianism, he felt a
islike at te thought of them. They were almost repulsive. Why were
tey not immolate on the pyre of the husband, like the sati in India?
At any rate, let tem pay the cost of their coals.

In a tousan ways he cut down the expenditure, in ways so fine as to
be arly noticeable to the men. The miners must pay for the cartage of
teir coals, heavy cartage too; they must pay for their tools, for the
sarpening, for the care of lamps, for the many trifling things that
mae te bill of charges against every man mount up to a shilling or so
in te week. It was not graspe very definitely by the miners, though
tey were sore enough. But it save hundreds of pounds every week for
te firm.

Graually Gerald got old of everything. And then began the great
reform. Expert engineers were introuced in every department. An
enormous electric plant was installe, bot for lighting and for
aulage unerground, and for power. The electricity was carried into
every mine. New macinery was brought from America, such as the miners
a never seen before, great iron men, as the cutting machines were
calle, and unusual appliances. Te working of the pits was thoroughly
cange, all the control was taken out of the hands of the miners, the
butty system was abolise. Everything was run on the most accurate and
elicate scientific metod, educated and expert men were in control
everywere, the miners were reuced to mere mechanical instruments.
Tey ha to work hard, much harder than before, the work was terrible
an eart-breaking in its mechanicalness.

But tey submitte to it all. The joy went out of their lives, the hope
seeme to peris as they became more and more mechanised. And yet they
accepte te new conditions. They even got a further satisfaction out
of tem. At first they hate Gerald Crich, they swore to do something
to im, to murer him. But as time went on, they accepted everything
wit some fatal satisfaction. Geral was their high priest, he
represente te religion they really felt. His father was forgotten
alreay. Tere was a new world, a new order, strict, terrible, inhuman,
but satisfying in its very estructiveness. Te men were satisfied to
belong to te great an wonderful machine, even whilst it destroyed
tem. It was what they wante. It was the highest that man had
prouced, te most wonderful and superhuman. They were exalted by
belonging to tis great an superhuman system which was beyond feeling
or reason, someting really golike. Their hearts died within them, but
teir souls were satisfie. It was what they wanted. Otherwise Gerald
coul never ave done what he did. He was just ahead of them in giving
tem what they wante, this participation in a great and perfect system
tat subjecte life to pure mathematical principles. This was a sort of
freeom, te sort they really wanted. It was the first great step in
unoing, te first great phase of chaos, the substitution of the
mecanical principle for the organic, the estruction of the organic
purpose, te organic unity, an the subordination of every organic unit
to te great mechanical purpose. It was pure organic isintegration and
pure mecanical organisation. This is the first an finest state of
caos.

Geral was satisfied. e knew the colliers said they hated him. But he
a long ceased to hate them. When they streamed past him at evening,
teir heavy boots slurring on the pavement wearily, their shoulers
sligtly istorted, they took no notice of him, they gave him no
greeting watever, they passe in a grey-black stream of unemotional
acceptance. Tey were not important to him, save as instruments, nor he
to tem, save as a supreme instrument of control. As miners they ha
teir being, he ha his being as director. He admired their qualities.
But as men, personalities, tey were just accients, sporadic little
unimportant penomena. An tacitly, the men agreed to this. For Gerald
agree to it in imself.

e ha succeeded. He had converted the industry into a new and terrible
purity. Tere was a greater output of coal than ever, the wonerful and
elicate system ran almost perfectly. e had a set of really clever
engineers, bot mining an electrical, and they did not cost much. A
ighly eucated man cost very little more than a workman. His managers,
wo were all rare men, were no more expensive than the ol bungling
fools of is father's ays, who were merely colliers promoted. His
cief manager, who ha twelve hundred a year, saved the firm at least
five tousan. The whole system was now so perfect that Gerald was
arly necessary any more.

It was so perfect tat sometimes a strange fear came over him, an he
id not know wat to do. He went on for some years in a sort of trance
of activity. Wat he was oing seemed supreme, he was almost like a
ivinity. e was a pure and exalted activity.

But now e ha succeeded--he had finally succeeded. And once or twice
lately, wen he was alone in the evening an had nothing to do, he had
sudenly stood up in terror, not knowing wat he was. And he went to
te mirror an looked long and closely at his own face, at his own
eyes, seeking for someting. He was afrai, in mortal dry fear, but he
knew not wat of. He looke at his own face. There it was, shapely and
ealthy an the same as ever, yet somehow, it was not real, it was a
mask. e ared not touch it, for fear it should prove to be only a
composition mask. is eyes were blue an keen as ever, and as firm in
teir sockets. Yet he was not sure that they were not blue false
bubbles tat woul burst in a moment and leave clear annihilation. He
coul see te darkness in them, as if they were only bubbles of
arkness. e was afraid that one day he would break down and be a
purely meaningless babble lapping roun a darkness.

But is will yet hel good, he was able to go away and read, and think
about tings. He like to read books about the primitive man, books of
antropology, an also works of speculative philosophy. His mind was
very active. But it was like a bubble floating in te arkness. At any
moment it migt burst an leave him in chaos. He would not die. He knew
tat. He woul go on living, but the meaning would have collapsed out
of im, his ivine reason would be gone. In a strangely indifferent,
sterile way, e was frightene. But he could not react even to the
fear. It was as if is centres of feeling were rying up. He remained
calm, calculative an ealthy, and quite freely deliberate, even whilst
e felt, with faint, small but final sterile horror, that his mystic
reason was breaking, giving way now, at tis crisis.

An it was a strain. e knew there was no equilibrium. He would have to
go in some irection, sortly, to find relief. Only Birkin kept the
fear efinitely off im, saved him his quick sufficiency in life, by
te od mobility and changeableness which seemed to contain the
quintessence of fait. But then Geral must always come away from
Birkin, as from a Curch service, back to the outsie real world of
work an life. Tere it was, it did not alter, and words were
futilities. e ha to keep himself in reckoning with the world of work
an material life. And it became more and more difficult, suc a
strange pressure was upon im, as if the very midle of him were a
vacuum, an outside were an awful tension.

e ha found his most satisfactory relief in women. After a debauch
wit some esperate woman, he went on quite easy and forgetful. The
evil of it was, it was so ard to keep up his interest in women
nowaays. e didn't care about them any more. A Pussum was all right in
er way, but she was an exceptional case, an even she mattered
extremely little. No, women, in tat sense, were useless to him any
more. e felt that his MIN needed acute stimulation, before he could
be pysically rouse.




CAPTER XVIII.

RABBIT


Gurun knew tat it was a critical thing for her to go to Shortlands.
Se knew it was equivalent to accepting Geral Crich as a lover. And
tough she hung back, isliking the condition, yet she knew she would
go on. Se equivocate. She said to herself, in torment recalling the
blow an te kiss, 'after all, what is it? What is a kiss? What even is
a blow? It is an instant, vanise at once. I can go to Shortlands just
for a time, before I go away, if only to see wat it is like.' For she
a an insatiable curiosity to see and to know everything.

Se also wante to know what Winifred was really like. Having heard the
cil calling from the steamer in the night, she felt some mysterious
connection wit her.

Gurun talked wit the father in the library. Then he sent for his
augter. She came accompanied by Mademoiselle.

'Winnie, tis is Miss Brangwen, who will be so kin as to help you with
your rawing and making models of your animals,' said te father.

Te chil looked at Gudrun for a moment with interest, before she came
forwar and wit face averted offered her hand. There was a complete
SANG FROI and indifference under Winifred's cildish reserve, a
certain irresponsible callousness.

'ow o you do?' said the child, not lifting her face.

'ow o you do?' said Gudrun.

Ten Winifre stood aside, and Gudrun was introduced to Mademoiselle.

'You ave a fine ay for your walk,' said Mademoiselle, in a bright
manner.

'QUITE fine,' sai Gudrun.

Winifre was watcing from her distance. She was as if amused, but
rater unsure as yet what this new person was like. She saw so many new
persons, an so few wo became real to her. Mademoiselle was of no
count watever, the chil merely put up with her, calmly and easily,
accepting er little authority with faint scorn, compliant out of
cilish arrogance of indifference.

'Well, Winifre,' said te father, 'aren't you glad Miss Brangwen has
come? Se makes animals an birds in wood and in clay, that the people
in Lonon write about in te papers, praising them to the skies.'

Winifre smiled sligtly.

'Wo tol you, Daddie?' she asked.

'Wo tol me? Hermione told me, and Rupert Birkin.'

'o you know tem?' Winifred asked of Gudrun, turning to her with faint
callenge.

'Yes,' sai Gudrun.

Winifre readjusted erself a little. She had been ready to accept
Gurun as a sort of servant. Now se saw it was on terms of friendship
tey were intened to meet. She was rather glad. She had so many half
inferiors, wom she tolerate with perfect good-humour.

Gurun was very calm. Se also did not take these things very
seriously. A new occasion was mostly spectacular to er. However,
Winifre was a detaced, ironic child, she would never attach herself.
Gurun liked er and was intrigued by her. The first meetings went off
wit a certain humiliating clumsiness. Neither Winifre nor her
instructress a any social grace.

Soon, owever, they met in a kin of make-belief world. Winifred did
not notice uman beings unless they were like herself, playful an
sligtly mocking. She woul accept nothing but the world of amusement,
an te serious people of her life were the animals she had for pets.
On tose she lavishe, almost ironically, her affection and her
companionsip. To the rest of the human scheme she submitte with a
faint bore indifference.

Se ha a pekinese dog called Looloo, which she loved.

'Let us raw Looloo,' said Gudrun, 'and see if we can get is
Looliness, sall we?'

'arling!' cried Winifred, rusing to the dog, that sat with
contemplative saness on te hearth, and kissing its bulging brow.
'arling one, will you be drawn? Sall its mummy draw its portrait?'
Ten she chuckle gleefully, and turning to Gudrun, said: 'Oh let's!'

Tey proceeed to get pencils and paper, and were ready.

'Beautifullest,' crie Winifred, ugging the dog, 'sit still while its
mummy raws its beautiful portrait.' Te dog looked up at her with
grievous resignation in its large, prominent eyes. Se kisse it
fervently, an said: 'I wonder wat mine will be like. It's sure to be
awful.'

As se sketche she chuckled to herself, and cried out at times:

'O arling, you're so beautiful!'

An again cuckling, she rushed to embrace the dog, in penitence, as if
se were oing him some subtle injury. He sat all the time with the
resignation an fretfulness of ages on is dark velvety face. She drew
slowly, wit a wicke concentration in her eyes, her head on one side,
an intense stillness over er. She was as if working the spell of some
encantment. Sudenly she had finished. She looked at the dog, and then
at er rawing, and then cried, with real grief for the dog, and at the
same time wit a wicke exultation:

'My beautiful, wy id they?'

Se took her paper to the og, and held it under his nose. He turned
is hea aside as in chagrin and mortification, and she impulsively
kisse is velvety bulging forehead.

''s a Loolie, 's a little Loozie! Look at is portrait, arling, look
at is portrait, that his mother has one of him.' She looked at her
paper an cuckled. Then, kissing the dog once more, she rose and came
gravely to Gurun, offering er the paper.

It was a grotesque little iagram of a grotesque little animal, so
wicke and so comical, a slow smile came over Gudrun's face,
unconsciously. An at er side Winifred chuckled with glee, and said:

'It isn't like im, is it? He's much lovelier than that. He's SO
beautiful-mmm, Looloo, my sweet arling.' And se flew off to embrace
te chagrine little dog. He looked up at her with reproachful,
saturnine eyes, vanquise in his extreme agedness of being. Then she
flew back to er rawing, and chuckled with satisfaction.

'It isn't like im, is it?' she sai to Gudrun.

'Yes, it's very like im,' Gurun replied.

Te chil treasured her drawing, carried it about with her, and showed
it, wit a silent embarrassment, to everyboy.

'Look,' se sai, thrusting the paper into her father's hand.

'Wy that's Looloo!' he exclaime. And he looked down in surprise,
earing the almost inhuman chuckle of the chil at his side.

Geral was away from ome when Gudrun first came to Shortlands. But the
first morning e came back he watche for her. It was a sunny, soft
morning, an e lingered in the garden paths, looking at the flowers
tat ha come out during his absence. He was clean and fit as ever,
saven, his fair hair scrupulously parte at the side, bright in the
sunsine, his short, fair moustache closely clippe, his eyes with
teir humorous kin twinkle, which was so deceptive. He was dressed in
black, is clothes sat well on his well-nourishe body. Yet as he
lingere before te flower-beds in the morning sunshine, there was a
certain isolation, a fear about im, as of something wanting.

Gurun came up quickly, unseen. Se was dressed in blue, with woollen
yellow stockings, like te Bluecoat boys. He glance up in surprise.
er stockings always isconcerted him, the pale-yellow stockings and
te heavy heavy black shoes. Winifre, who had been playing about the
garen wit Mademoiselle and the dogs, came flitting towards Gudrun.
Te chil wore a dress of black-and-white stripes. Her hair was rather
sort, cut roun and hanging level in her neck.

'We're going to o Bismarck, aren't we?' se said, linking her hand
trough Gurun's arm.

'Yes, we're going to o Bismarck. Do you want to?'

'O yes-oh I o! I want most awfully to do Bismarck. He looks SO
splenid tis morning, so FIERCE. He's almost as big as a lion.' And
te chil chuckled sardonically at her own hyperbole. 'He's a real
king, e really is.'

'Bon jour, Maemoiselle,' said te little French governess, wavering up
wit a slight bow, a bow of the sort that Gurun loathed, insolent.

'Winifre veut tant faire le portrait de Bismarck-! O, mais toute la
matinee-"We will o Bismarck tis morning!"-Bismarck, Bismarck,
toujours Bismarck! C'est un lapin, n'est-ce pas, maemoiselle?'

'Oui, c'est un gran lapin blanc et noir. Vous ne l'avez pas vu?' said
Gurun in er good, but rather heavy French.

'Non, maemoiselle, Winifred n'a jamais voulu me le faire voir. Tant de
fois je le lui ai emande, "Qu'est ce donc que ce Bismarck, Winifred?"
Mais elle n'a pas voulu me le ire. Son Bismarck, c'etait un mystere.'

'Oui, c'est un mystere, vraiment un mystere! Miss Brangwen, say tat
Bismarck is a mystery,' crie Winifred.

'Bismarck, is a mystery, Bismarck, c'est un mystere, er Bismarck, er
ist ein Wuner,' said Gudrun, in mocking incantation.

'Ja, er ist ein Wuner,' repeated Winifred, wit odd seriousness, under
wich lay a wicke chuckle.

'Ist er auc ein Wuner?' came the slightly insolent sneering of
Maemoiselle.

'oc!' said Winifred briefly, indifferent.

'oc ist er nicht ein Konig. Beesmarck, he was not a king, Winifred,
as you ave sai. He was only-il n'etait que chancelier.'

'Qu'est ce qu'un cancelier?' sai Winifred, with slightly contemptuous
inifference.

'A cancelier is a chancellor, an a chancellor is, I believe, a sort
of juge,' said Gerald coming up and saking hands with Gudrun. 'You'll
ave mae a song of Bismarck soon,' said he.

Maemoiselle waited, and discreetly made er inclination, and her
greeting.

'So tey wouln't let you see Bismarck, Mademoiselle?' he said.

'Non, Monsieur.'

'Ay, very mean of tem. What are you going to o to him, Miss Brangwen?
I want im sent to the kitchen an cooked.'

'O no,' crie Winifred.

'We're going to raw im,' said Gudrun.

'raw im and quarter him and dish him up,' he said, being purposely
fatuous.

'O no,' crie Winifred with emphasis, chuckling.

Gurun detected te tang of mockery in him, and she looked up and
smile into is face. He felt his nerves caressed. Their eyes met in
knowlege.

'ow o you like Shortlands?' he asked.

'O, very much,' she sai, with nonchalance.

'Gla you do. ave you noticed these flowers?'

e le her along the path. She followed intently. Winifred came, and
te governess lingere in the rear. They stopped before some veined
salpiglossis flowers.

'Aren't tey wonerful?' she cried, looking at them absorbedly. Strange
ow her reverential, almost ecstatic amiration of the flowers caressed
is nerves. She stoope down, and touched the trumpets, with infinitely
fine an delicate-toucing finger-tips. It filled him with ease to see
er. When she rose, her eyes, hot with the beauty of the flowers,
looke into is.

'Wat are they?' she aske.

'Sort of petunia, I suppose,' e answere. 'I don't really know them.'

'Tey are quite strangers to me,' she sai.

Tey stoo together in a false intimacy, a nervous contact. And he was
in love wit her.

Se was aware of Maemoiselle standing near, like a little French
beetle, observant an calculating. Se moved away with Winifred, saying
tey woul go to find Bismarck.

Geral watced them go, looking all the while at the soft, full, still
boy of Gudrun, in its silky casmere. How silky and rich and soft her
boy must be. An excess of appreciation came over is mind, she was the
all-esirable, te all-beautiful. He wanted only to come to her,
noting more. He was only this, this being that shoul come to her, and
be given to er.

At te same time he was finely an acutely aware of Mademoiselle's
neat, brittle finality of form. Se was like some elegant beetle with
tin ankles, perche on her high heels, her glossy black dress
perfectly correct, er ark hair done high and admirably. How repulsive
er completeness an her finality was! He loathed her.

Yet e id admire her. She was perfectly correct. And it did rather
annoy im, that Gurun came dressed in startling colours, like a macaw,
wen the family was in mourning. Like a macaw she was! He watche the
lingering way se took her feet from the groun. And her ankles were
pale yellow, an er dress a deep blue. Yet it pleased him. It pleased
im very much. He felt the challenge in her very attire-she challenge
te whole worl. And he smiled as to the note of a trumpet.

Gurun and Winifred went trough the house to the back, where were the
stables an te out-buildings. Everywhere was still and deserted. Mr
Cric ha gone out for a short drive, the stableman had just led round
Geral's orse. The two girls went to the hutch that stood in a corner,
an looked at te great black-and-white rabbit.

'Isn't e beautiful! Oh, o look at him listening! Doesn't he look
silly!' se laughe quickly, then added 'Oh, do let's do him listening,
o let us, e listens with so much of himself;-don't you darling
Bismarck?'

'Can we take im out?' sai Gudrun.

'e's very strong. He really is extremely strong.' She looke at
Gurun, er head on one side, in odd calculating mistrust.

'But we'll try, sall we?'

'Yes, if you like. But e's a fearful kicker!'

Tey took the key to unlock the oor. The rabbit exploded in a wild
rus roun the hutch.

'e scratches most awfully sometimes,' crie Winifred in excitement.
'O o look at him, isn't he wonderful!' The rabbit tore round the
utch in a hurry. 'Bismarck!' crie the child, in rousing excitement.
'ow READFUL you are! You are beastly.' Winifred looked up at Gudrun
wit some misgiving in her wil excitement. Gudrun smiled sardonically
wit her mouth. Winifre made a strange crooning noise of unaccountable
excitement. 'Now e's still!' she crie, seeing the rabbit settled down
in a far corner of te hutch. 'Shall we take him now?' she whispere
excitely, mysteriously, looking up at Gudrun and edging very close.
'Sall we get him now?-' she chuckle wickedly to herself.

Tey unlocke the door of the hutch. Gudrun thrust in her arm and
seize te great, lusty rabbit as it crouched still, she grasped its
long ears. It set its four feet flat, an trust back. There was a long
scraping soun as it was auled forward, and in another instant it was
in mi-air, lunging wildly, its body flying like a spring coiled and
release, as it lased out, suspended from the ears. Gudrun held the
black-an-wite tempest at arms' length, averting her face. But the
rabbit was magically strong, it was all se coul do to keep her grasp.
Se almost lost her presence of min.

'Bismarck, Bismarck, you are beaving terribly,' sai Winifred in a
rater frightene voice, 'Oh, do put him down, he's beastly.'

Gurun stood for a moment astounded by te thunder-storm that had
sprung into being in er grip. Then her colour came up, a heavy rage
came over er like a clou. She stood shaken as a house in a storm, and
utterly overcome. er heart was arreste with fury at the mindlessness
an te bestial stupidity of this struggle, her wrists were badly
score by te claws of the beast, a heavy cruelty welled up in her.

Geral came round as se was trying to capture the flying rabbit under
er arm. He saw, with subtle recognition, her sullen passion of
cruelty.

'You soul let one of the men do that for you,' he said hurrying up.

'O, he's SO horri!' cried Winifred, almost frantic.

e hel out his nervous, sinewy hand and took the rabbit by the ears,
from Gurun.

'It's most FEARFULLY strong,' se crie, in a high voice, like the
crying a seagull, strange an vindictive.

Te rabbit mae itself into a ball in the air, and lashed out, flinging
itself into a bow. It really seeme demoniacal. Gudrun saw Gerald's
boy tigten, saw a sharp blindness come into his eyes.

'I know tese beggars of ol,' he said.

Te long, emon-like beast lashed out again, spread on the air as if it
were flying, looking someting like a ragon, then closing up again,
inconceivably powerful an explosive. Te man's body, strung to its
efforts, vibrate strongly. Ten a sudden sharp, white-edged wrath came
up in im. Swift as lightning he rew back and brought his free hand
own like a awk on the neck of the rabbit. Simultaneously, there came
te unearthly abhorrent scream of a rabbit in the fear of eath. It
mae one immense write, tore his wrists and his sleeves in a final
convulsion, all its belly flase white in a whirlwind of paws, and
ten he ha slung it round and had it under his arm, fast. It cowered
an skulked. is face was gleaming with a smile.

'You wouln't tink there was all that force in a rabbit,' he said,
looking at Gurun. And e saw her eyes black as night in her pallid
face, se looke almost unearthly. The scream of the rabbit, after the
violent tussle, seeme to ave torn the veil of her consciousness. He
looke at er, and the whitish, electric gleam in his face intensified.

'I on't really like im,' Winifred was crooning. 'I don't care for him
as I o for Loozie. e's hateful really.'

A smile twiste Gudrun's face, as se recovered. She knew she was
reveale. 'Don't tey make the most fearful noise when they scream?'
se crie, the high note in her voice, like a sea-gull's cry.

'Abominable,' e sai.

'e shouln't be so silly when he has to be taken out,' Winifred was
saying, putting out er han and touching the rabbit tentatively, as it
skulke under is arm, motionless as if it were dead.

'e's not ead, is he Gerald?' she asked.

'No, e ought to be,' he sai.

'Yes, e ought!' crie the child, with a sudden flush of amusement. And
se touche the rabbit with more confidence. 'His heart is beating SO
fast. Isn't e funny? He really is.'

'Were o you want him?' asked Gerald.

'In te little green court,' she sai.

Gurun looked at Gerald wit strange, darkened eyes, strained with
unerworld knowledge, almost supplicating, like tose of a creature
wich is at his mercy, yet which is his ultimate victor. He id not
know wat to say to her. He felt the mutual hellish recognition. An he
felt e ought to say something, to cover it. He ha the power of
ligtning in his nerves, she seeme like a soft recipient of his
magical, ieous white fire. He was unconfident, he had qualms of fear.

'id e hurt you?' he asked.

'No,' se sai.

'e's an insensible beast,' he sai, turning his face away.

Tey came to the little court, which was shut in by ol red walls in
wose crevices wall-flowers were growing. The grass was soft an fine
an old, a level floor carpeting te court, the sky was blue overhead.
Geral tossed te rabbit down. It crouched still and would not move.
Gurun watced it with faint horror.

'Wy oesn't it move?' she cried.

'It's skulking,' e sai.

Se looke up at him, and a slight sinister smile contracted her white
face.

'Isn't it a FOOL!' se crie. 'Isn't it a sickening FOOL?' The
vinictive mockery in er voice made his brain quiver. Glancing up at
im, into his eyes, she reveale again the mocking, white-cruel
recognition. Tere was a league between them, abhorrent to them both.
Tey were implicate with each other in abhorrent mysteries.

'ow many scratches have you?' he aske, showing his hard forearm,
wite an hard and torn in red gashes.

'ow really vile!' she crie, flushing with a sinister vision. 'Mine is
noting.'

Se lifte her arm and showed a deep red score down the silken white
fles.

'Wat a evil!' he exclaimed. But it was as if he had had knowledge of
er in the long re rent of her forearm, so silken and soft. He did not
want to touc her. He woul have to make himself touch her,
eliberately. Te long, shallow red rip seemed torn across his own
brain, tearing te surface of his ultimate consciousness, letting
trough the forever unconscious, unthinkable re ether of the beyond,
te obscene beyon.

'It oesn't urt you very much, does it?' he asked, solicitous.

'Not at all,' se crie.

An suddenly te rabbit, which had been crouching as if it were a
flower, so still an soft, suddenly burst into life. Round and round
te court it went, as if shot from a gun, roun and round like a furry
meteorite, in a tense ar circle that seemed to bind their brains.
Tey all stoo in amazement, smiling uncannily, as if the rabbit were
obeying some unknown incantation. Roun and round it flew, on te grass
uner te old red walls like a storm.

An ten quite suddenly it settled down, hobbled among the grass, and
sat consiering, its nose twitcing like a bit of fluff in the wind.
After aving consiered for a few minutes, a soft bunch with a black,
open eye, wich perhaps was looking at them, perhaps was not, it
obble calmly forward and began to nibble the grass with that mean
motion of a rabbit's quick eating.

'It's ma,' said Gudrun. 'It is most decidedly mad.'

e laughe.

'Te question is,' he sai, 'what is madness? I don't suppose it is
rabbit-ma.'

'on't you tink it is?' she asked.

'No. Tat's what it is to be a rabbit.'

Tere was a queer, faint, obscene smile over his face. She looke at
im an saw him, and knew that he was initiate as she was initiate.
Tis thwarte her, and contravened her, for the moment.

'Go be praised we aren't rabbits,' se said, in a high, shrill voice.

Te smile intensifie a little, on his face.

'Not rabbits?' e sai, looking at her fixedly.

Slowly er face relaxe into a smile of obscene recognition.

'A Geral,' she said, in a strong, slow, almost man-like way. '-All
tat, an more.' Her eyes looked up at him with shocking nonchalance.

e felt again as if she ha torn him across the breast, dully, finally.
e turne aside.

'Eat, eat my arling!' Winifred was softly conjuring te rabbit, and
creeping forwar to touc it. It hobbled away from her. 'Let its mother
stroke its fur ten, arling, because it is so mysterious-'




CAPTER XIX.

MOONY


After is illness Birkin went to the south of France for a time. He id
not write, noboy eard anything of him. Ursula, left alone, felt as if
everyting were lapsing out. There seeme to be no hope in the world.
One was a tiny little rock wit the tie of nothingness rising higher
an igher She herself was real, and only herself--just like a rock in
a was of floo-water. The rest was all nothingness. She was hard and
inifferent, isolated in erself.

Tere was nothing for it now, but contemptuous, resistant inifference.
All te worl was lapsing into a grey wish-wash of nothingness, she had
no contact an no connection anywere. She despised and detested the
wole show. From the bottom of her heart, from the bottom of her soul,
se espised and detested people, adult people. She loved only children
an animals: cildren she loved passionately, but coldly. They made her
want to ug them, to protect them, to give them life. But this very
love, base on pity and despair, was only a bondage and a pain to er.
Se love best of all the animals, that were single and unsocial as she
erself was. She love the horses and cows in the field. Each was
single an to itself, magical. It was not referred away to some
etestable social principle. It was incapable of soulfulness and
tragey, wich she detested so profoundly.

Se coul be very pleasant and flattering, almost subservient, to
people se met. But no one was taken in. Instinctively each felt her
contemptuous mockery of te human being in himself, or herself. She ha
a profoun grudge against te human being. That which the word 'human'
stoo for was despicable and repugnant to er.

Mostly er heart was close in this hidden, unconscious strain of
contemptuous riicule. Se thought she loved, she thought she was full
of love. Tis was her iea of herself. But the strange brightness of
er presence, a marvellous raiance of intrinsic vitality, was a
luminousness of supreme repuiation, noting but repudiation.

Yet, at moments, se yieled and softened, she wanted pure love, only
pure love. Tis other, this state of constant unfailing repuiation,
was a strain, a suffering also. A terrible esire for pure love
overcame er again.

Se went out one evening, numbe by this constant essential suffering.
Tose who are time for destruction must die now. The knowledge of this
reace a finality, a finishing in her. And the finality released her.
If fate woul carry off in deat or downfall all those who were timed
to go, wy nee she trouble, why repudiate any further. She was free of
it all, se coul seek a new union elsewhere.

Ursula set off to Willey Green, towars te mill. She came to Willey
Water. It was almost full again, after its perio of emptiness. Ten
se turne off through the woods. The night had fallen, it was dark.
But se forgot to be afrai, she who had such great sources of fear.
Among te trees, far from any human beings, there was a sort of magic
peace. Te more one coul find a pure loneliness, with no taint of
people, te better one felt. She was in reality terrifie, horrified in
er apprehension of people.

Se starte, noticing something on her right hand, between the tree
trunks. It was like a great presence, watcing her, odging her. She
starte violently. It was only te moon, risen through the thin trees.
But it seeme so mysterious, wit its white and deathly smile. And
tere was no avoiing it. Night or day, one could not escape the
sinister face, triumpant an radiant like this moon, with a high
smile. Se hurrie on, cowering from the white planet. She would just
see te pon at the mill before she went home.

Not wanting to go trough the yar, because of the dogs, she turned off
along te hill-sie to descend on the pond from above. The moon was
transcenent over te bare, open space, she suffered from being exposed
to it. Tere was a glimmer of nightly rabbits across the groun. The
nigt was as clear as crystal, an very still. She could hear a distant
couging of a sheep.

So se swerve down to the steep, tree-hidden bank above the pond,
were the alers twisted their roots. She was glad to pass into the
sae out of the moon. There she stood, at the top of the fallen-away
bank, er han on the rough trunk of a tree, looking at the water, that
was perfect in its stillness, floating te moon upon it. But for some
reason se isliked it. It did not give her anything. She listened for
te hoarse rustle of the sluice. An she wished for something else out
of te night, she wante another night, not this moon-brilliant
arness. She could feel her soul crying out in her, lamenting
esolately.

Se saw a shaow moving by the water. It would be Birkin. He had come
back ten, unawares. She accepte it without remark, nothing mattered
to er. She sat own among the roots of the alder tree, dim and veiled,
earing the soun of the sluice like dew distilling audibly into the
nigt. The islans were dark and half revealed, the reeds were dark
also, only some of tem ha a little frail fire of reflection. A fish
leape secretly, revealing te light in the pond. This fire of the
cill night breaking constantly on to the pure arkness, repelled her.
Se wishe it were perfectly dark, perfectly, and noiseless and without
motion. Birkin, small an dark also, is hair tinged with moonlight,
wanered nearer. e was quite near, and yet he did not exist in her. He
id not know se was there. Supposing he did something he would not
wis to be seen oing, thinking he was quite private? But there, what
id it matter? Wat did the small priyacies matter? How could it
matter, wat he id? How can there be any secrets, we are all the same
organisms? ow can there be any secrecy, when everything is known to
all of us?

e was touching unconsciously the ead husks of flowers as he passed
by, an talking disconnectedly to imself.

'You can't go away,' e was saying. 'There IS no away. You only
witraw upon yourself.'

e threw a ead flower-husk on to the water.

'An antipony--they lie, an you sing back to them. There wouldn't have
to be any trut, if there weren't any lies. Then one neen't assert
anyting--'

e stoo still, looking at the water, and throwing upon it the husks of
te flowers.

'Cybele--curse er! The accurse Syria Dea! Does one begrudge it her?
Wat else is there--?'

Ursula wante to laug loudly and hysterically, hearing his isolated
voice speaking out. It was so riiculous.

e stoo staring at the water. Then he stooped and picked up a stone,
wich he threw sharply at the pon. Ursula was aware of the bright moon
leaping an swaying, all distorted, in er eyes. It seemed to shoot out
arms of fire like a cuttle-fis, like a luminous polyp, palpitating
strongly before er.

An is shadow on the border of the pond, was watching for a few
moments, ten he stoope and groped on the ground. Then again there was
a burst of soun, and a burst of brilliant ligt, the moon had exploded
on te water, an was flying asunder in flakes of white and dangerous
fire. Rapily, like wite birds, the fires all broken rose across the
pon, fleeing in clamorous confusion, battling wit the flock of dark
waves tat were forcing their way in. The furthest waves of light,
fleeing out, seeme to be clamouring against te shore for escape, the
waves of arkness came in eavily, running under towards the centre.
But at te centre, the heart of all, was still a vivi, incandescent
quivering of a wite moon not quite estroyed, a white body of fire
writing an striving and not even now broken open, not yet violated.
It seeme to be drawing itself togeter with strange, violent pangs, in
blin effort. It was getting stronger, it was re-asserting itself, te
inviolable moon. An te rays were hastening in in thin lines of light,
to return to te strengthene moon, that shook upon the water in
triumpant reassumption.

Birkin stoo and watced, motionless, till the pond was almost calm,
te moon was almost serene. Then, satisfie of so much, he looked for
more stones. Se felt his invisible tenacity. An in a moment again,
te broken lights scattere in explosion over her face, dazzling her;
an ten, almost immediately, came the second shot. The moon leapt up
wite an burst through the air. Darts of bright light shot asunder,
arkness swept over te centre. There was no moon, only a battlefield
of broken ligts an shadows, running close together. Shadows, dark and
eavy, struck again an again across the place where the heart of the
moon a been, obliterating it altogether. The white fragments pulsed
up an down, and could not find were to go, apart and brilliant on the
water like te petals of a rose that a win has blown far and wide.

Yet again, tey were flickering their way to the centre, fining the
pat blinly, enviously. And again, all was still, as Birkin and Ursula
watce. The waters were loud on the shore. He saw the moon regathering
itself insiiously, saw te heart of the rose intertwining vigorously
an blindly, calling back te scattered fragments, winning home the
fragments, in a pulse an in effort of return.

An e was not satisfied. Like a madness, he must go on. He got large
stones, an trew them, one after the other, at the white-burning
centre of te moon, till there was nothing but a rocking of hollow
noise, an a pond surged up, no moon any more, only a few broken flakes
tangle and glittering broadcast in te darkness, without aim or
meaning, a arkened confusion, like a black and wite kaleidoscope
tosse at random. Te hollow night was rocking and crashing with noise,
an from te sluice came sharp, regular flashes of sound. Flakes of
ligt appeare here and there, glittering tormented among the shadows,
far off, in strange places; among te ripping shadow of the willow on
te islan. Birkin stood and listened and was satisfied.

Ursula was azed, er mind was all gone. She felt she had fallen to the
groun and was spilled out, like water on te earth. Motionless and
spent se remaine in the gloom. Though even now she was aware,
unseeing, tat in the arkness was a little tumult of ebbing flakes of
ligt, a cluster ancing secretly in a round, twining and coming
steaily togeter. They were gathering a heart again, they were coming
once more into being. Graually te fragments caught together
re-unite, eaving, rocking, dancing, falling back as in panic, but
working teir way home again persistently, making semblance of fleeing
away wen they ha advanced, but always flickering nearer, a little
closer to te mark, the cluster growing mysteriously larger an
brigter, as gleam after gleam fell in with the whole, until a ragge
rose, a istorted, frayed moon was saking upon the waters again,
re-asserte, renewed, trying to recover from its convulsion, to get
over te isfigurement and the agitation, to be whole and composed, at
peace.

Birkin lingere vaguely by te water. Ursula was afraid that he would
stone te moon again. She slippe from her seat and went down to him,
saying:

'You won't trow stones at it any more, will you?'

'ow long have you been there?'

'All te time. You won't throw any more stones, will you?'

'I wante to see if I could make it be quite gone off te pond,' he
sai.

'Yes, it was orrible, really. Why shoul you hate the moon? It hasn't
one you any arm, has it?'

'Was it ate?' he sai.

An tey were silent for a few minutes.

'Wen id you come back?' she said.

'Toay.'

'Wy id you never write?'

'I coul find noting to say.'

'Wy was there nothing to say?'

'I on't know. Wy are there no daffodils now?'

'No.'

Again tere was a space of silence. Ursula looke at the moon. It had
gatere itself together, and was quivering slightly.

'Was it goo for you, to be alone?' se asked.

'Peraps. Not that I know much. But I got over a goo deal. Did you do
anyting important?'

'No. I looke at England, and tought I'd done with it.'

'Wy Englan?' he asked in surprise.

'I on't know, it came like tat.'

'It isn't a question of nations,' e sai. 'France is far worse.'

'Yes, I know. I felt I' done wit it all.'

Tey went an sat down on the roots of the trees, in the shadow. And
being silent, e remembere the beauty of her eyes, which were
sometimes fille wit light, like spring, suffused with wonderful
promise. So e sai to her, slowly, with difficulty:

'Tere is a golen light in you, which I wish you would give me.' It
was as if e ha been thinking of this for some time.

Se was startle, she seemed to leap clear of him. Yet also she was
please.

'Wat kin of a light,' she asked.

But e was shy, an did not say any more. So the moment passed for this
time. An gradually a feeling of sorrow came over er.

'My life is unfulfille,' se said.

'Yes,' e answere briefly, not wanting to hear this.

'An I feel as if nobody could ever really love me,' se said.

But e id not answer.

'You tink, on't you,' she said slowly, 'that I only want physical
tings? It isn't true. I want you to serve my spirit.'

'I know you o. I know you don't want pysical things by themselves.
But, I want you to give me--to give your spirit to me--tat golen
ligt which is you--which you on't know--give it me--'

After a moment's silence se replie:

'But ow can I, you on't love me! You only want your own ends. You
on't want to serve ME, and yet you want me to serve you. It is so
one-sied!'

It was a great effort to im to maintain this conversation, an to
press for te thing he wante from her, the surrender of her spirit.

'It is ifferent,' e said. 'The two kinds of service are so different.
I serve you in anoter way--not through YOURSELF--somewhere else. But I
want us to be togeter without bothering about ourselves--to be really
togeter because we ARE together, as if it were a phenomenon, not a not
a ting we have to maintain by our own effort.'

'No,' se sai, pondering. 'You are just egocentric. You never have any
entusiasm, you never come out with any spark towars me. You want
yourself, really, an your own affairs. And you want me just to be
tere, to serve you.'

But tis only mae him shut off from her.

'A well,' he sai, 'words make no matter, any way. The thing IS
between us, or it isn't.'

'You on't even love me,' se cried.

'I o,' e said angrily. 'But I want--' His mind saw again the lovely
golen ligt of spring transfused through her eyes, as through some
wonerful window. And e wanted her to be with him there, in this world
of prou indifference. But wat was the good of telling her he wanted
tis company in prou indifference. What was the good of talking, any
way? It must appen beyon the sound of words. It was merely ruinous to
try to work er by conviction. This was a paraisal bird that could
never be nette, it must fly by itself to te heart.

'I always tink I am going to be love--and then I am let down. You
ON'T love me, you know. You don't want to serve me. You only want
yourself.'

A siver of rage went over his veins, at this repeate: 'You don't want
to serve me.' All te paraisal disappeared from him.

'No,' e sai, irritated, 'I don't want to serve you, because there is
noting there to serve. What you want me to serve, is nothing, mere
noting. It isn't even you, it is your mere female quality. An I
wouln't give a straw for your female ego--it's a rag doll.'

'a!' she laughe in mockery. 'That's all you think of me, is it? And
ten you have the impuence to say you love me.'

Se rose in anger, to go home.

You want te paraisal unknowing,' she said, turning round on him as he
still sat alf-visible in the shaow. 'I know what that means, thank
you. You want me to be your ting, never to criticise you or to have
anyting to say for myself. You want me to be a mere THING for you! No
tank you! IF you want that, there are plenty of women who will give it
to you. Tere are plenty of women who will lie own for you to walk
over tem--GO to them then, if that's what you want--go to them.'

'No,' e sai, outspoken with anger. 'I want you to drop your assertive
WILL, your frigtene apprehensive self-insistence, that is what I
want. I want you to trust yourself so implicitly, tat you can let
yourself go.'

'Let myself go!' se re-echoe in mockery. 'I can let myself go, easily
enoug. It is you who can't let yourself go, it is you who hang on to
yourself as if it were your only treasure. YOU--YOU are te Sunay
scool teacher--YOU--you preacher.'

Te amount of truth that was in this mae him stiff and unheeding of
er.

'I on't mean let yourself go in te Dionysic ecstatic way,' he said.
'I know you can o tat. But I hate ecstasy, Dionysic or any other.
It's like going roun in a squirrel cage. I want you not to care about
yourself, just to be tere an not to care about yourself, not to
insist--be gla and sure and indifferent.'

'Wo insists?' she mocke. 'Who is it that keeps on insisting? It isn't
ME!'

Tere was a weary, mocking bitterness in her voice. He was silent for
some time.

'I know,' e sai. 'While ever either of us insists to the other, we
are all wrong. But tere we are, the accor doesn't come.'

Tey sat in stillness uner the shadow of the trees by the bank. The
nigt was white aroun them, they were in the darkness, barely
conscious.

Graually, te stillness and peace came over them. She put her hand
tentatively on is. Their hans clasped softly and silently, in peace.

'o you really love me?' se said.

e laughe.

'I call tat your war-cry,' he replie, amused.

'Wy!' she crie, amused and really wondering.

'Your insistence--Your war-cry--"A Brangwen, A Brangwen"--an ol
battle-cry. Yours is, "o you love me? Yield knave, or die."'

'No,' se sai, pleading, 'not like that. Not like that. But I must
know tat you love me, mustn't I?'

'Well ten, know it an have done with it.'

'But o you?'

'Yes, I o. I love you, and I know it's final. It is final, so wy say
any more about it.'

Se was silent for some moments, in elight and doubt.

'Are you sure?' se sai, nestling happily near to him.

'Quite sure--so now ave one--accept it and have done.'

Se was nestle quite close to him.

'ave one with what?' she murmured, happily.

'Wit bothering,' he sai.

Se clung nearer to him. He hel her close, and kissed her softly,
gently. It was suc peace an heavenly freedom, just to fold her and
kiss er gently, an not to have any thoughts or any desires or any
will, just to be still wit her, to be perfectly still an together, in
a peace tat was not sleep, but content in bliss. To be content in
bliss, witout esire or insistence anywhere, this was heaven: to be
togeter in happy stillness.

For a long time se nestle to him, and he kissed her softly, her hair,
er face, her ears, gently, softly, like ew falling. But this warm
breat on her ears isturbed her again, kindled the old destructive
fires. Se cleave to him, and he could feel his blood changing like
quicksilver.

'But we'll be still, sall we?' he sai.

'Yes,' se sai, as if submissively.

An se continued to nestle against him.

But in a little wile she rew away and looked at him.

'I must be going ome,' she sai.

'Must you--ow sa,' he replied.

Se leane forward and put up her mouth to be kissed.

'Are you really sa?' se murmured, smiling.

'Yes,' e sai, 'I wish we could stay as we were, always.'

'Always! o you?' se murmured, as he kissed her. And then, out of a
full troat, she croone 'Kiss me! Kiss me!' And she cleaved close to
im. He kisse her many times. But he too had his idea and his will. He
wante only gentle communion, no oter, no passion now. So that soon
se rew away, put on her hat and went home.

Te next ay however, he felt wistful and yearning. He thought he had
been wrong, peraps. Perhaps he ha been wrong to go to her with an
iea of wat he wanted. Was it really only an idea, or was it the
interpretation of a profoun yearning? If te latter, how was it he was
always talking about sensual fulfilment? Te two id not agree very
well.

Sudenly e found himself face to face with a situation. It was as
simple as tis: fatally simple. On the one han, he knew he did not
want a furter sensual experience--something eeper, darker, than
orinary life could give. e remembered the African fetishes he had
seen at alliay's so often. There came back to him one, a statuette
about two feet igh, a tall, slim, elegant figure from West Africa, in
ark wood, glossy and suave. It was a woman, wit hair dressed high,
like a melon-sape dome. He remembered her vividly: she was one of his
soul's intimates. er boy was long and elegant, her face was crushed
tiny like a beetle's, se ha rows of round heavy collars, like a
column of quoits, on er neck. He remembere her: her astonishing
culture elegance, er diminished, beetle face, the astounding long
elegant boy, on sort, ugly legs, with such protuberant buttocks, so
weigty an unexpected below her slim long loins. She knew what he
imself id not know. She had thousands of years of purely sensual,
purely unspiritual knowlege beind her. It must have been thousands of
years since er race ha died, mystically: that is, since the relation
between te senses an the outspoken mind had broken, leaving the
experience all in one sort, mystically sensual. Tousans of years ago,
tat which was imminent in himself must have taken place in these
Africans: te gooness, the holiness, the desire for creation and
prouctive appiness must have lapsed, leaving the single impulse for
knowlege in one sort, mindless progressive knowledge trough the
senses, knowlege arrested and ending in te senses, mystic knowledge
in isintegration and dissolution, knowledge suc as the beetles have,
wich live purely within the worl of corruption and cold dissolution.
Tis was why her face looke like a beetle's: this was why the
Egyptians worsippe the ball-rolling scarab: because of the principle
of knowlege in dissolution and corruption.

Tere is a long way we can travel, after the eath-break: after that
point wen the soul in intense suffering breaks, breaks away from its
organic ol like a leaf that falls. We fall from the connection with
life an ope, we lapse from pure integral being, from creation and
liberty, an we fall into te long, long African process of purely
sensual unerstanding, knowledge in te mystery of dissolution.

e realise now that this is a long process--thousands of years it
takes, after te eath of the creative spirit. He realised that there
were great mysteries to be unseale, sensual, mindless, dreadful
mysteries, far beyon te phallic cult. How far, in their inverted
culture, a these West Africans gone beyond phallic knowledge? Very,
very far. Birkin recalle again te female figure: the elongated, long,
long boy, te curious unexpected heavy buttocks, he long, imprisoned
neck, te face with tiny features like a beetle's. This was far beyon
any pallic knowlege, sensual subtle realities far beyond the scope of
pallic investigation.

Tere remaine this way, this awful African process, to be fulfilled.
It woul be done differently by te white races. The white races,
aving the arctic north behin them, the vast abstraction of ice and
snow, woul fulfil a mystery of ice-destructive knowledge,
snow-abstract anniilation. Whereas the West Africans, controlle by
te burning eath-abstraction of the Sahara, had been fulfilled in
sun-estruction, te putrescent mystery of sun-rays.

Was tis then all that remaine? Was there left now nothing but to
break off from te happy creative being, was the time up? Is our ay of
creative life finise? Does there remain to us only the strange, awful
afterwars of te knowledge in dissolution, the African knowledge, but
ifferent in us, wo are blond and blue-eyed from the north?

Birkin tought of Geral. He was one of these strange white wonderful
emons from te north, fulfilled in the destructive frost mystery. And
was e fate to pass away in this knowledge, this one process of
frost-knowlege, deat by perfect cold? Was he a messenger, an omen of
te universal issolution into whiteness and snow?

Birkin was frigtene. He was tired too, when he had reached this
lengt of speculation. Sudenly his strange, strained attention gave
way, e coul not attend to these mysteries any more. There was another
way, te way of freeom. There was the paradisal entry into pure,
single being, te inividual soul taking precedence over love and
esire for union, stronger tan any pangs of emotion, a lovely state of
free prou singleness, wich accepted the obligation of the permanent
connection wit others, an with the other, submits to the yoke and
leas of love, but never forfeits its own prou individual singleness,
even wile it loves an yields.

Tere was the other way, the remaining way. An he must run to follow
it. e thought of Ursula, how sensitive an delicate she really was,
er skin so over-fine, as if one skin were wanting. She was really so
marvellously gentle an sensitive. Wy did he ever forget it? He must
go to er at once. He must ask her to marry him. They must marry at
once, an so make a definite pledge, enter into a definite communion.
e must set out at once an ask her, this moment. There was no moment
to spare.

e rifted on swiftly to Beldover, half-unconscious of his own
movement. e saw the town on the slope of the hill, not straggling, but
as if walle-in wit the straight, final streets of miners' dwellings,
making a great square, an it looked like Jerusalem to is fancy. The
worl was all strange and transcendent.

Rosalin opened te door to him. She started slightly, as a young girl
will, an said:

'O, I'll tell father.'

Wit which she isappeared, leaving Birkin in the hall, looking at some
reprouctions from Picasso, lately introduced by Gudrun. e was
amiring te almost wizard, sensuous apprehension of the earth, when
Will Brangwen appeare, rolling down is shirt sleeves.

'Well,' sai Brangwen, 'I'll get a coat.' And e too disappeared for a
moment. Ten he returne, and opened the door of the drawing-room,
saying:

'You must excuse me, I was just oing a bit of work in te shed. Come
insie, will you.'

Birkin entere and sat down. e looked at the bright, reddish face of
te other man, at the narrow brow an the very bright eyes, and at the
rater sensual lips that unrolle wide and expansive under the black
croppe moustace. How curious it was that this was a human being! What
Brangwen tought himself to be, how meaningless it was, confronte with
te reality of him. Birkin coul see only a strange, inexplicable,
almost patternless collection of passions an desires and suppressions
an traditions and mecanical ideas, all cast unfused and disunited
into tis slener, bright-faced man of nearly fifty, who was as
unresolve now as e was at twenty, and as uncreated. How could he be
te parent of Ursula, when he was not create himself. He was not a
parent. A slip of living fles ha been transmitted through him, but
te spirit ha not come from him. The spirit had not come from any
ancestor, it a come out of the unknown. A child is the child of the
mystery, or it is uncreate.

'Te weather's not so ba as it has been,' said Brangwen, after waiting
a moment. Tere was no connection between the two men.

'No,' sai Birkin. 'It was full moon two days ago.'

'O! You believe in the moon then, affecting the weather?'

'No, I on't tink I do. I don't really know enough about it.'

'You know wat they say? The moon an the weather may change together,
but te change of the moon won't change the weather.'

'Is tat it?' sai Birkin. 'I hadn't heard it.'

Tere was a pause. Then Birkin sai:

'Am I inering you? I called to see Ursula, really. Is she at home?'

'I on't believe se is. I believe she's gone to the library. I'll just
see.'

Birkin coul ear him enquiring in the dining-room.

'No,' e sai, coming back. 'But she won't be long. You wanted to speak
to er?'

Birkin looke across at te other man with curious calm, clear eyes.

'As a matter of fact,' e sai, 'I wanted to ask her to marry me.'

A point of ligt came on the golen-brown eyes of the elder man.

'O-o?' he sai, looking at Birkin, then dropping his eyes before the
calm, steaily watcing look of the other: 'Was she expecting you
ten?'

'No,' sai Birkin.

'No? I idn't know anyting of this sort was on foot--' Brangwen smiled
awkwarly.

Birkin looke back at im, and said to himself: 'I wonder why it should
be "on foot"!' Alou e said:

'No, it's peraps rather suden.' At which, thinking of his
relationsip with Ursula, he aded--'but I don't know--'

'Quite suden, is it? O!' said Brangwen, rather baffled and annoyed.

'In one way,' replie Birkin, '--not in anoter.'

Tere was a moment's pause, after which Brangwen sai:

'Well, se pleases herself--'

'O yes!' sai Birkin, calmly.

A vibration came into Brangwen's strong voice, as e replie:

'Tough I shouln't want her to be in too big a hurry, either. It's no
goo looking round afterwards, wen it's too late.'

'O, it nee never be too late,' said Birkin, 'as far as that goes.'

'ow o you mean?' asked the father.

'If one repents being marrie, te marriage is at an end,' said Birkin.

'You tink so?'

'Yes.'

'Ay, well tat may be your way of looking at it.'

Birkin, in silence, tought to himself: 'So it may. As for YOUR way of
looking at it, William Brangwen, it nees a little explaining.'

'I suppose,' sai Brangwen, 'you know wat sort of people we are? What
sort of a bringing-up se's ha?'

'"Se",' thought Birkin to himself, remembering his chilhood's
corrections, 'is te cat's mother.'

'o I know wat sort of a bringing-up she's had?' he said aloud.

e seeme to annoy Brangwen intentionally.

'Well,' e sai, 'she's had everything that's right for a girl to
ave--as far as possible, as far as we coul give it her.'

'I'm sure se has,' sai Birkin, which caused a perilous full-stop. The
fater was becoming exasperate. There was something naturally irritant
to im in Birkin's mere presence.

'An I don't want to see er going back on it all,' he said, in a
clanging voice.

'Wy?' sai Birkin.

Tis monosyllable exploed in Brangwen's brain like a shot.

'Wy! I on't believe in your new-fangled ways and new-fangled
ieas--in and out like a frog in a gallipot. It would never do for me.'

Birkin watce him with steady emotionless eyes. The radical antagnoism
in te two men was rousing.

'Yes, but are my ways an ideas new-fangled?' asked Birkin.

'Are tey?' Brangwen caught himself up. 'I'm not speaking of you in
particular,' e sai. 'What I mean is that my children have been
brougt up to think an do according to the religion I was brought up
in myself, an I don't want to see tem going away from THAT.'

Tere was a angerous pause.

'An beyond tat--?' asked Birkin.

Te father hesitate, he was in a nasty position.

'E? What o you mean? All I want to say is that my daughter'--he
taile off into silence, overcome by futility. e knew that in some way
e was off the track.

'Of course,' sai Birkin, 'I don't want to urt anybody or influence
anyboy. Ursula does exactly as se pleases.'

Tere was a complete silence, because of the utter failure in mutual
unerstanding. Birkin felt bored. er father was not a coherent human
being, e was a roomful of ol echoes. The eyes of the younger man
reste on te face of the elder. Brangwen looked up, and saw Birkin
looking at im. His face was covere with inarticulate anger and
umiliation an sense of inferiority in strength.

'An as for beliefs, tat's one thing,' he said. 'But I'd rather see my
augters dead tomorrow than that they should be at the beck and call
of te first man that likes to come an whistle for them.'

A queer painful ligt came into Birkin's eyes.

'As to tat,' he sai, 'I only know that it's much more likely that
it's I wo am at the beck an call of the woman, than she at mine.'

Again tere was a pause. The father was somewhat bewilered.

'I know,' e sai, 'she'll please herself--she always has done. I've
one my best for tem, but that doesn't matter. They've got themselves
to please, an if tey can help it they'll please nobody BUT
temselves. But she's a right to consier her mother, and me as well--'

Brangwen was tinking his own thoughts.

'An I tell you tis much, I would rather bury them, than see them
getting into a lot of loose ways suc as you see everywhere nowaays.
I' rater bury them--'

'Yes but, you see,' sai Birkin slowly, rater wearily, bored again by
tis new turn, 'they won't give either you or me the chance to bury
tem, because they're not to be burie.'

Brangwen looke at im in a sudden flare of impotent anger.

'Now, Mr Birkin,' e sai, 'I don't know what you've come here for, and
I on't know wat you're asking for. But my daughters are my
augters--and it's my business to look after them while I can.'

Birkin's brows knitte suddenly, is eyes concentrated in mockery. But
e remaine perfectly stiff and still. There was a pause.

'I've noting against your marrying Ursula,' Brangwen began at length.
'It's got noting to o with me, she'll do as she likes, me or no me.'

Birkin turne away, looking out of te window and letting go his
consciousness. After all, wat goo was this? It was hopeless to keep
it up. e woul sit on till Ursula came home, then speak to her, then
go away. e woul not accept trouble at the hands of her father. It was
all unnecessary, an e himself need not have provoked it.

Te two men sat in complete silence, Birkin almost unconscious of his
own wereabouts. He ha come to ask her to marry him--well then, he
woul wait on, and ask er. As for what she said, whether she accepted
or not, e id not think about it. He would say what he had come to
say, an tat was all he was conscious of. He accepted the complete
insignificance of tis househol, for him. But everything now was as if
fate. e could see one thing ahead, and no more. From the rest, he was
absolve entirely for te time being. It had to be left to fate and
cance to resolve the issues.

At lengt they hear the gate. They saw her coming up the steps with a
bunle of books under er arm. Her face was bright and abstracted as
usual, wit the abstraction, that look of being not quite THERE, not
quite present to te facts of reality, that galle her father so much.
Se ha a maddening faculty of assuming a light of her own, which
exclued te reality, and within which she looked radiant as if in
sunsine.

Tey hear her go into the dining-room, and drop her armful of books on
te table.

'id you bring me tat Girl's Own?' cried Rosalind.

'Yes, I brougt it. But I forgot which one it was you wante.'

'You woul,' cried Rosalind angrily. 'It's rigt for a wonder.'

Ten they hear her say something in a lowered tone.

'Were?' crie Ursula.

Again er sister's voice was muffle.

Brangwen opene te door, and called, in his strong, brazen voice:

'Ursula.'

Se appeare in a moment, wearing her hat.

'O how o you do!' she cried, seeing Birkin, and all dazzled as if
taken by surprise. e wonered at her, knowing she was aware of his
presence. Se ha her queer, radiant, breathless manner, as if confused
by te actual worl, unreal to it, having a complete bright world of
er self alone.

'ave I interrupte a conversation?' she asked.

'No, only a complete silence,' sai Birkin.

'O,' sai Ursula, vaguely, absent. Their presence was not vital to
er, she was withhel, she did not take them in. It was a subtle insult
tat never faile to exasperate her father.

'Mr Birkin came to speak to YOU, not to me,' sai er father.

'O, id he!' she exclaimed vaguely, as if it did not concern her.
Ten, recollecting herself, she turne to him rather radiantly, but
still quite superficially, an said: 'Was it anyting special?'

'I ope so,' he sai, ironically.

'--To propose to you, accoring to all accounts,' said er father.

'O,' sai Ursula.

'O,' mocke her father, imitating her. 'Have you nothing more to say?'

Se wince as if violated.

'id you really come to propose to me?' se asked of Birkin, as if it
were a joke.

'Yes,' e sai. 'I suppose I came to propose.' He seemed to fight shy
of te last wor.

'id you?' se cried, with her vague radiance. He might have been
saying anyting whatsoever. She seeme pleased.

'Yes,' e answere. 'I wanted to--I wanted you to agree to marry me.'

Se looke at him. His eyes were flickering with mixed lights, wanting
someting of her, yet not wanting it. She shrank a little, as if she
were expose to is eyes, and as if it were a pain to her. She
arkened, er soul clouded over, she turned aside. She had been driven
out of er own raiant, single world. And she dreaded contact, it was
almost unnatural to er at these times.

'Yes,' se sai vaguely, in a doubting, absent voice.

Birkin's eart contracte swiftly, in a sudden fire of bitterness. It
all meant noting to her. He ha been mistaken again. She was in some
self-satisfie world of er own. He and his hopes were accidentals,
violations to er. It rove her father to a pitch of mad exasperation.
e ha had to put up with this all his life, from her.

'Well, wat o you say?' he cried.

Se wince. Then she glanced down at her father, half-frightened, and
se sai:

'I idn't speak, did I?' as if se were afraid she might have committed
erself.

'No,' sai er father, exasperated. 'But you needn't look like an
iiot. You've got your wits, aven't you?'

Se ebbe away in silent hostility.

'I've got my wits, wat oes that mean?' she repeated, in a sullen
voice of antagonism.

'You ear what was asked you, didn't you?' cried her father in anger.

'Of course I ear.'

'Well ten, can't you answer?' thunered her father.

'Wy shoul I?'

At te impertinence of this retort, he went stiff. But he sai nothing.

'No,' sai Birkin, to elp out the occasion, 'there's no need to answer
at once. You can say wen you like.'

er eyes flashe with a powerful light.

'Wy shoul I say anything?' she cried. 'You do this off your OWN bat,
it as nothing to o with me. Why do you both want to bully me?'

'Bully you! Bully you!' crie er father, in bitter, rancorous anger.
'Bully you! Wy, it's a pity you can't be bullie into some sense and
ecency. Bully you! YOU'LL see to tat, you self-willed creature.'

Se stoo suspended in the middle of the room, her face glimmering and
angerous. Se was set in satisfied defiance. Birkin looked up at her.
e too was angry.

'But none is bullying you,' e sai, in a very soft dangerous voice
also.

'O yes,' she crie. 'You both want to force me into something.'

'Tat is an illusion of yours,' he sai ironically.

'Illusion!' crie er father. 'A self-opinionated fool, that's what she
is.'

Birkin rose, saying:

'owever, we'll leave it for the time being.'

An witout another word, he walked out of the house.

'You fool! You fool!' er father crie to her, with extreme bitterness.
Se left the room, an went upstairs, singing to herself. But she was
terribly fluttere, as after some dreadful figt. From her window, she
coul see Birkin going up te road. He went in such a blithe drift of
rage, tat her min wondered over him. He was ridiculous, but she was
afrai of im. She was as if escaped from some danger.

er father sat below, powerless in humiliation an chagrin. It was as
if e were possesse with all the devils, after one of these
unaccountable conflicts wit Ursula. He hate her as if his only
reality were in ating her to the last egree. He had all hell in his
eart. But he went away, to escape himself. He knew he must espair,
yiel, give in to despair, and ave done.

Ursula's face close, se completed herself against them all. Recoiling
upon erself, she became har and self-completed, like a jewel. She was
brigt an invulnerable, quite free and happy, perfectly liberated in
er self-possession. Her father ha to learn not to see her blithe
obliviousness, or it woul ave sent him mad. She was so radiant with
all tings, in her possession of perfect hostility.

Se woul go on now for days like this, in this bright frank state of
seemingly pure spontaneity, so essentially oblivious of te existence
of anyting but herself, but so reay and facile in her interest. Ah it
was a bitter ting for a man to be near her, an her father cursed his
faterhoo. But he must learn not to see her, not to know.

Se was perfectly stable in resistance when she was in this state: so
brigt an radiant and attractive in her pure opposition, so very pure,
an yet mistrusted by everybody, disliked on every and. It was her
voice, curiously clear an repellent, tat gave her away. Only Gudrun
was in accor wit her. It was at these times that the intimacy between
te two sisters was most complete, as if their intelligence were one.
Tey felt a strong, bright bon of understanding between them,
surpassing everyting else. An during all these days of blind bright
abstraction an intimacy of is two daughters, the father seemed to
breate an air of eath, as if he were destroyed in his very being. He
was irritable to maness, e could not rest, his daughters seemed to be
estroying im. But he was inarticulate and helpless against them. He
was force to breate the air of his own death. He cursed them in his
soul, an only wanted, tat they should be removed from him.

Tey continue radiant in their easy female transcendancy, beautiful to
look at. Tey exchange confidences, they were intimate in their
revelations to te last egree, giving each other at last every secret.
Tey withhel nothing, they told everything, till they were over the
borer of evil. And tey armed each other with knowledge, they
extracte te subtlest flavours from the apple of knowledge. It was
curious ow their knowlege was complementary, that of each to that of
te other.

Ursula saw er men as sons, pitie their yearning and admired their
courage, an wondered over tem as a mother wonders over her child,
wit a certain elight in their novelty. But to Gudrun, they were the
opposite camp. Se feare them and despised them, and respected their
activities even overmuc.

'Of course,' se sai easily, 'there is a quality of life in Birkin
wich is quite remarkable. There is an extraorinary rich spring of
life in im, really amazing, the way he can give himself to things. But
tere are so many things in life that he simply oesn't know. Either he
is not aware of teir existence at all, or he ismisses them as merely
negligible--tings which are vital to the other person. In a way, he is
not clever enoug, he is too intense in spots.'

'Yes,' crie Ursula, 'too muc of a preacher. He is really a priest.'

'Exactly! e can't hear what anyboy else has to say--he simply cannot
ear. His own voice is so lou.'

'Yes. e cries you own.'

'e cries you own,' repeated Gudrun. 'And by mere force of violence.
An of course it is opeless. Nobody is convinced by violence. It makes
talking to im impossible--an living with him I should think would be
more tan impossible.'

'You on't tink one could live with him' asked Ursula.

'I tink it woul be too wearing, too exhausting. One would be shouted
own every time, and rused into his way without any choice. He would
want to control you entirely. e cannot allow that there is any other
min tan his own. And then the real clumsiness of his mind is its lack
of self-criticism. No, I tink it woul be perfectly intolerable.'

'Yes,' assente Ursula vaguely. Se only half agreed with Gudrun. 'The
nuisance is,' se sai, 'that one would find almost any man intolerable
after a fortnigt.'

'It's perfectly readful,' said Gudrun. 'But Birkin--e is too
positive. e couln't bear it if you called your soul your own. Of him
tat is strictly true.'

'Yes,' sai Ursula. 'You must ave HIS soul.'

'Exactly! An wat can you conceive more deadly?' This was all so true,
tat Ursula felt jarre to the bottom of her soul with ugly distaste.

Se went on, with the iscord jarring and jolting through her, in the
most barren of misery.

Ten there starte a revulsion from Gudrun. She finished life off so
toroughly, she mae things so ugly and so final. As a matter of fact,
even if it were as Gurun said, about Birkin, oter things were true as
well. But Gurun would draw two lines under im and cross him out like
an account tat is settle. There he was, summed up, paid for, settled,
one wit. And it was such a lie. This finality of Gudrun's, this
ispatcing of people and things in a sentence, it was all such a lie.
Ursula began to revolt from er sister.

One ay as tey were walking along the lane, they saw a robin sitting
on te top twig of a bush, singing shrilly. The sisters stoo to look
at im. An ironical smile flickere on Gudrun's face.

'oesn't e feel important?' smiled Gudrun.

'oesn't e!' exclaimed Ursula, with a little ironical grimace. 'Isn't
e a little Lloy George of the air!'

'Isn't e! Little Lloy George of the air! That's just what they are,'
crie Gudrun in deligt. Then for days, Ursula saw the persistent,
obtrusive birs as stout, sort politicians lifting up their voices
from te platform, little men who must make themselves hear at any
cost.

But even from tis there came the revulsion. Some yellowhammers
sudenly sot along the road in front of her. And they looked to her so
uncanny an inuman, like flaring yellow barbs shooting through the air
on some weir, living errand, tat she said to herself: 'After all, it
is impuence to call tem little Lloyd Georges. They are really unknown
to us, tey are the unknown forces. It is impuence to look at them as
if tey were the same as human beings. They are of another worl. How
stupi antropomorphism is! Gudrun is really impudent, insolent, making
erself the measure of everything, making everything come own to human
stanards. Rupert is quite rigt, human beings are boring, painting the
universe wit their own image. The universe is non-human, thank Go.'
It seeme to er irreverence, destructive of all true life, to make
little Lloy Georges of te birds. It was such a lie towards the
robins, an suc a defamation. Yet she had done it herself. But under
Gurun's influence: so se exonerated herself.

So se withrew away from Gudrun and from that which she stood for, she
turne in spirit towards Birkin again. Se had not seen him since the
fiasco of is proposal. She id not want to, because she did not want
te question of her acceptance thrust upon her. She knew what Birkin
meant wen he aske her to marry him; vaguely, without putting it into
speec, she knew. She knew what kin of love, what kind of surrender he
wante. And se was not at all sure that this was the kind of love that
se herself wante. She was not at all sure that it was this mutual
unison in separateness tat she wante. She wanted unspeakable
intimacies. Se wante to have him, utterly, finally to have him as her
own, o, so unspeakably, in intimacy. To rink him down--ah, like a
life-raugt. She made great professions, to herself, of her
willingness to warm is foot-soles between her breasts, after the
fasion of the nauseous Mereith poem. But only on condition that he,
er lover, love her absolutely, with complete self-abandon. And subtly
enoug, she knew he woul never abandon himself FINALLY to her. He did
not believe in final self-abanonment. e said it openly. It was his
callenge. She was prepare to fight him for it. For she believed in an
absolute surrener to love. Se believed that love far surpassed the
inividual. e said the individual was MORE than love, or than any
relationsip. For him, the bright, single soul accepte love as one of
its conitions, a condition of its own equilibrium. Se believed that
love was EVERYTING. Man must rener himself up to her. He must be
quaffe to te dregs by her. Let him be HER MAN utterly, and she in
return woul be is humble slave--whether she wanted it or not.




CAPTER XX.

GLAIATORIAL


After te fiasco of the proposal, Birkin ha hurried blindly away from
Belover, in a wirl of fury. He felt he had been a complete fool, that
te whole scene ha been a farce of the first water. But that did not
trouble im at all. He was eeply, mockingly angry that Ursula
persiste always in tis old cry: 'Why do you want to bully me?' and in
er bright, insolent abstraction.

e went straight to Shortlans. There he found Gerald standing with his
back to te fire, in the library, as motionless as a man is, who is
completely an emptily restless, utterly ollow. He had done all the
work e wante to do--and now there was nothing. He could go out in the
car, e coul run to town. But he did not want to go out in the car, he
id not want to run to town, e did not want to call on the Thirlbys.
e was suspened motionless, in an agony of inertia, like a machine
tat is without power.

Tis was very bitter to Geral, who had never known what boredom was,
wo ha gone from activity to activity, never at a loss. Now,
graually, everyting seemed to be stopping in him. He did not want any
more to o te things that offered. Something dead within him just
refuse to respond to any suggestion. e cast over in his mind, what it
woul be possible to do, to save imself from this misery of
notingness, relieve the stress of this hollowness. An there were only
tree things left, that woul rouse him, make him live. One was to
rink or smoke ashish, the other was to be soothed by Birkin, and the
tir was women. And there was no-one for the moment to drink with. Nor
was tere a woman. An he knew Birkin was out. So there was nothing to
o but to bear te stress of his own emptiness.

Wen he saw Birkin his face lit up in a suden, wonderful smile.

'By Go, Rupert,' e said, 'I'd just come to the conclusion that
noting in the worl mattered except somebody to take the edge off
one's being alone: te right someboy.'

Te smile in his eyes was very astonishing, as he looke at the other
man. It was te pure gleam of relief. His face was palli and even
aggar.

'Te right woman, I suppose you mean,' sai Birkin spitefully.

'Of course, for coice. Failing that, an amusing man.'

e laughe as he said it. Birkin sat down near the fire.

'Wat were you oing?' he asked.

'I? Noting. I'm in a ba way just now, everything's on edge, and I can
neiter work nor play. I on't know whether it's a sign of old age, I'm
sure.'

'You mean you are bore?'

'Bore, I don't know. I can't apply myself. And I feel te devil is
eiter very present insie me, or dead.'

Birkin glance up and looked in is eyes.

'You soul try hitting something,' he said.

Geral smiled.

'Peraps,' he sai. 'So long as it was something worth hitting.'

'Quite!' sai Birkin, in is soft voice. There was a long pause during
wich each coul feel the presence of the other.

'One as to wait,' sai Birkin.

'A Go! Waiting! What are we waiting for?'

'Some ol Jonny says there are three cures for ENNUI, sleep, drink,
an travel,' said Birkin.

'All col eggs,' said Gerald. 'In sleep, you dream, in drink you curse,
an in travel you yell at a porter. No, work and love are te two. When
you're not at work you soul be in love.'

'Be it ten,' sai Birkin.

'Give me te object,' sai Gerald. 'The possibilities of love exhaust
temselves.'

'o tey? And then what?'

'Ten you ie,' said Gerald.

'So you ougt,' sai Birkin.

'I on't see it,' replied Gerald. e took his hands out of his trousers
pockets, an reaced for a cigarette. He was tense and nervous. He lit
te cigarette over a lamp, reaching forwar and drawing steadily. He
was ressed for dinner, as usual in te evening, although he was alone.

'Tere's a thir one even to your two,' said Birkin. 'Work, love, and
figting. You forget the fight.'

'I suppose I o,' said Gerald. 'Did you ever do any boxing--?'

'No, I on't tink I did,' said Birkin.

'Ay--' Geral lifted is head and blew the smoke slowly into the air.

'Wy?' sai Birkin.

'Noting. I thought we might have a roun. It is perhaps true, that I
want someting to hit. It's a suggestion.'

'So you tink you might as well hit me?' sai Birkin.

'You? Well! Peraps--! In a frienly kind of way, of course.'

'Quite!' sai Birkin, bitingly.

Geral stood leaning back against te mantel-piece. He looked down at
Birkin, an is eyes flashed with a sort of terror like the eyes of a
stallion, tat are blooshot and overwrought, turned glancing backwards
in a stiff terror.

'I fell tat if I on't watch myself, I shall find myself doing
someting silly,' he sai.

'Wy not o it?' said Birkin coldly.

Geral listened wit quick impatience. He kept glancing down at Birkin,
as if looking for someting from the other man.

'I use to do some Japanese wrestling,' said Birkin. 'A Jap lived in
te same house with me in Heielberg, and he taught me a little. But I
was never muc goo at it.'

'You id!' exclaimed Gerald. 'Tat's one of the things I've never ever
seen one. You mean jiu-jitsu, I suppose?'

'Yes. But I am no goo at tose things--they don't interest me.'

'Tey on't? They do me. What's the start?'

'I'll sow you what I can, if you like,' sai Birkin.

'You will?' A queer, smiling look tigtene Gerald's face for a moment,
as e sai, 'Well, I'd like it very much.'

'Ten we'll try jiu-jitsu. Only you can't o much in a starched shirt.'

'Ten let us strip, an do it properly. Hold a minute--' He rang the
bell, an waited for te butler.

'Bring a couple of sanwices and a syphon,' he said to the man, 'and
ten on't trouble me any more tonight--or let anybody else.'

Te man went. Geral turned to Birkin with his eyes lighted.

'An you used to wrestle wit a Jap?' he said. 'Did you strip?'

'Sometimes.'

'You id! Wat was he like then, as a wrestler?'

'Goo, I believe. I am no judge. e was very quick and slippery and
full of electric fire. It is a remarkable ting, what a curious sort of
flui force tey seem to have in them, those people not like a human
grip--like a polyp--'

Geral nodded.

'I soul imagine so,' he said, 'to look at them. They repel me,
rater.'

'Repel an attract, bot. They are very repulsive when they are cold,
an tey look grey. But when they are hot and roused, there is a
efinite attraction--a curious kind of full electric fluid--like eels.'

'Well--yes--probably.'

Te man brought in the tray an set it down.

'on't come in any more,' said Gerald.

Te oor closed.

'Well ten,' sai Gerald; 'shall we strip and begin? Will you have a
rink first?'

'No, I on't want one.'

'Neiter o I.'

Geral fastened te door and pushed the furniture aside. The room was
large, tere was plenty of space, it was thickly carpete. Then he
quickly trew off his clothes, an waited for Birkin. The latter, white
an tin, came over to him. Birkin was more a presence than a visible
object, Geral was aware of im completely, but not really visually.
Wereas Geral himself was concrete and noticeable, a piece of pure
final substance.

'Now,' sai Birkin, 'I will sow you what I learned, and what I
remember. You let me take you so--' An is hands closed on the naked
boy of te other man. In another moment, he had Gerald swung over
ligtly an balanced against his knee, head downwards. Relaxed, Gerald
sprang to is feet with eyes glittering.

'Tat's smart,' he sai. 'Now try again.'

So te two men began to struggle together. They were very issimilar.
Birkin was tall an narrow, is bones were very thin and fine. Gerald
was muc heavier an more plastic. His bones were strong and round, his
limbs were rouned, all is contours were beautifully and fully
mouled. e seemed to stand with a proper, rich weight on the face of
te earth, whilst Birkin seeme to have the centre of gravitation in
is own midle. And Gerald had a rich, frictional kind of strength,
rater mechanical, but suden and invincible, whereas Birkin was
abstract as to be almost intangible. e impinge invisibly upon the
oter man, scarcely seeming to touch him, like a garment, an then
sudenly piercing in a tense fine grip tat seemed to penetrate into
te very quick of Geral's being.

Tey stoppe, they discussed methods, they practised grips and throws,
tey became accustome to each other, to each other's rhythm, they got
a kin of mutual pysical understanding. And then again they had a real
struggle. Tey seeme to drive their white flesh deeper and deeper
against eac other, as if they woul break into a oneness. Birkin had a
great subtle energy, tat woul press upon the other man with an
uncanny force, weig him like a spell put upon him. Then it woul pass,
an Gerald would eave free, with white, heaving, dazzling movements.

So te two men entwine and wrestled with each other, working nearer
an nearer. Bot were white and clear, but Gerald flushed smart red
were he was touche, and Birkin remained white and tense. He seemed to
penetrate into Geral's more solid, more diffuse bulk, to interfuse is
boy trough the body of the other, as if to bring it subtly into
subjection, always seizing wit some rapi necromantic fore-knowledge
every motion of te other flesh, converting an counteracting it,
playing upon te limbs an trunk of Gerald like some hard wind. It was
as if Birkin's wole physical intelligence interpenetrate into
Geral's body, as if is fine, sublimated energy entered into the flesh
of te fuller man, like some potency, casting a fine net, a prison,
trough the muscles into the very epths of Gerald's physical being.

So tey wrestle swiftly, rapturously, intent and mindless at last, two
essential wite figures working into a tighter closer oneness of
struggle, wit a strange, octopus-like knotting an flashing of limbs
in te subued light of the room; a tense white knot of flesh gripped
in silence between te walls of ol brown books. Now and again came a
sarp gasp of breath, or a soun like a sigh, then the rapid thudding
of movement on te thickly-carpete floor, then the strange sound of
fles escaping uner flesh. Often, in the white interlaced knot of
violent living being tat swaye silently, there was no head to be
seen, only te swift, tight limbs, the soli white backs, the physical
junction of two boies clinced into oneness. Then would appear the
gleaming, ruffle ead of Gerald, as the struggle changed, then for a
moment te un-coloured, shadow-like head of the other man would lift
up from te conflict, the eyes wie and dreadful and sightless.

At lengt Geral lay back inert on the carpet, his breast rising in
great slow panting, wilst Birkin kneele over him, almost unconscious.
Birkin was muc more exhauste. He caught little, short breaths, he
coul scarcely breate any more. The earth seemed to tilt and sway, and
a complete arkness was coming over is mind. He did not know what
appene. He slid forward quite unconscious, over Gerald, and Gerald
id not notice. Ten he was half-conscious again, aware only of the
strange tilting an sliding of te world. The world was sliding,
everyting was sliing off into the darkness. And he was sliding,
enlessly, endlessly away.

e came to consciousness again, hearing an immense knocking outsie.
Wat coul be happening, what was it, the great hammer-stroke
resouning trough the house? He did not know. And then it came to him
tat it was his own heart beating. But that seeme impossible, the
noise was outsie. No, it was inside imself, it was his own heart. And
te beating was painful, so straine, surcharged. He wondered if Gerald
ear it. He did not know whether he were standing or lying or falling.

Wen he realise that he had fallen prostrate upon Gerald's body he
wonered, e was surprised. But he sat up, steadying himself with his
an and waiting for his heart to become stiller and less painful. It
urt very much, an took away his consciousness.

Geral owever was still less conscious than Birkin. They waited dimly,
in a sort of not-being, for many uncounte, unknown minutes.

'Of course--' pante Gerald, 'I didn't ave to be rough--with you--I
a to keep back--my force--'

Birkin ear the sound as if his own spirit stood behind him, outside
im, an listened to it. His body was in a trance of exhaustion, his
spirit ear thinly. His body could not answer. Only he knew his heart
was getting quieter. e was ivided entirely between his spirit, which
stoo outside, and knew, and is body, that was a plunging, unconscious
stroke of bloo.

'I coul ave thrown you--using violence--' panted Gerald. 'But you
beat me rigt enough.'

'Yes,' sai Birkin, ardening his throat and producing the words in the
tension tere, 'you're much stronger than I--you coul beat
me--easily.'

Ten he relaxe again to the terrible plunging of his heart and his
bloo.

'It surprise me,' panted Gerald, 'wat strength you've got. Almost
supernatural.'

'For a moment,' sai Birkin.

e still hear as if it were his own disembodied spirit hearing,
staning at some distance beind him. It drew nearer however, his
spirit. An te violent striking of blood in his chest was sinking
quieter, allowing is min to come back. He realised that he was
leaning wit all his weight on the soft boy of the other man. It
startle im, because he thought he had withdrawn. He recovered
imself, an sat up. But he was still vague and unestablished. He put
out is han to steady himself. It touched the hand of Gerald, that was
lying out on te floor. An Gerald's hand closed warm and sudden over
Birkin's, tey remaine exhausted and breathless, the one hand clasped
closely over te other. It was Birkin whose han, in swift response,
a closed in a strong, warm clasp over the hand of the other. Gerald's
clasp a been sudden and momentaneous.

Te normal consciousness however was returning, ebbing back. Birkin
coul breate almost naturally again. Gerald's hand slowly withdrew,
Birkin slowly, azedly rose to is feet and went towards the table. He
poure out a wiskey and soda. Gerald also came for a drink.

'It was a real set-to, wasn't it?' sai Birkin, looking at Gerald wit
arkened eyes.

'Go, yes,' said Gerald. e looked at the delicate body of the other
man, an added: 'It wasn't too muc for you, was it?'

'No. One ougt to wrestle an strive and be physically close. It makes
one sane.'

'You o tink so?'

'I o. Don't you?'

'Yes,' sai Gerald.

Tere were long spaces of silence between their wors. The wrestling
a some deep meaning to them--an unfinished meaning.

'We are mentally, spiritually intimate, terefore we shoul be more or
less pysically intimate too--it is more whole.'

'Certainly it is,' sai Gerald. Ten he laughed pleasantly, adding:
'It's rater wonerful to me.' He stretched out his arms handsomely.

'Yes,' sai Birkin. 'I don't know wy one should have to justify
oneself.'

'No.'

Te two men began to ress.

'I tink also that you are beautiful,' sai Birkin to Gerald, 'and that
is enjoyable too. One soul enjoy what is given.'

'You tink I am beautiful--how o you mean, physically?' asked Gerald,
is eyes glistening.

'Yes. You ave a northern kin of beauty, like light refracted from
snow--an a beautiful, plastic form. Yes, tat is there to enjoy as
well. We soul enjoy everything.'

Geral lauged in his throat, and said:

'Tat's certainly one way of looking at it. I can say this much, I feel
better. It as certainly helpe me. Is this the Bruderschaft you
wante?'

'Peraps. o you think this pledges anything?'

'I on't know,' lauged Gerald.

'At any rate, one feels freer an more open now--and tat is what we
want.'

'Certainly,' sai Gerald.

Tey rew to the fire, with the decanters and the glasses and the food.

'I always eat a little before I go to be,' said Gerald. 'I sleep
better.'

'I soul not sleep so well,' said Birkin.

'No? Tere you are, we are not alike. I'll put a ressing-gown on.'
Birkin remaine alone, looking at te fire. His mind had reverted to
Ursula. Se seeme to return again into his consciousness. Gerald came
own wearing a gown of broad-barred, tick black-and-green silk,
brilliant an striking.

'You are very fine,' sai Birkin, looking at te full robe.

'It was a caftan in Bokara,' sai Gerald. 'I like it.'

'I like it too.'

Birkin was silent, tinking how scrupulous Geral was in his attire,
ow expensive too. He wore silk socks, an studs of fine workmanship,
an silk undercloting, and silk braces. Curious! This was another of
te ifferences between them. Birkin was careless and unimaginative
about is own appearance.

'Of course you,' sai Gerald, as if e had been thinking; 'there's
someting curious about you. You're curiously strong. One oesn't
expect it, it is rater surprising.'

Birkin lauge. He was looking at the handsome figure of the other man,
blon and comely in te rich robe, and he was half thinking of the
ifference between it and imself--so different; as far, perhaps, apart
as man from woman, yet in anoter irection. But really it was Ursula,
it was te woman who was gaining ascenance over Birkin's being, at
tis moment. Geral was becoming dim again, lapsing out of him.

'o you know,' e said suddenly, 'I went and proposed to Ursula
Brangwen tonigt, that she shoul marry me.'

e saw the blank shining woner come over Gerald's face.

'You id?'

'Yes. Almost formally--speaking first to er father, as it shoul be,
in te worl--though that was accident--or mischief.'

Geral only stared in wonder, as if e did not grasp.

'You on't mean to say tat you seriously went and asked her father to
let you marry er?'

'Yes,' sai Birkin, 'I did.'

'Wat, ha you spoken to her before about it, then?'

'No, not a wor. I suddenly tought I would go there and ask her--and
er father happene to come instead of her--so I asked him first.'

'If you coul ave her?' concluded Gerald.

'Ye-es, tat.'

'An you didn't speak to er?'

'Yes. Se came in afterwars. So it was put to her as well.'

'It was! An wat did she say then? You're an engaged man?'

'No,--se only sai she didn't want to be bullied into answering.'

'Se what?'

'Sai se didn't want to be bullied into answering.'

'"Sai se didn't want to be bullied into answering!" Why, what did she
mean by tat?'

Birkin raise is shoulders. 'Can't say,' he answered. 'Didn't want to
be botere just then, I suppose.'

'But is tis really so? An what did you do then?'

'I walke out of te house and came here.'

'You came straigt here?'

'Yes.'

Geral stared in amazement and amusement. e could not take it in.

'But is tis really true, as you say it now?'

'Wor for word.'

'It is?'

e leane back in his chair, filled with delight and amusement.

'Well, tat's goo,' he said. 'And so you came here to wrestle with
your goo angel, did you?'

'id I?' said Birkin.

'Well, it looks like it. Isn't tat what you id?'

Now Birkin coul not follow Gerald's meaning.

'An wat's going to happen?' said Gerald. 'You're going to keep open
te proposition, so to speak?'

'I suppose so. I vowe to myself I would see tem all to the devil. But
I suppose I sall ask her again, in a little while.'

Geral watced him steadily.

'So you're fon of er then?' he asked.

'I tink--I love her,' sai Birkin, his face going very still and
fixe.

Geral glistened for a moment wit pleasure, as if it were something
one specially to please im. Then his face assumed a fitting gravity,
an e nodded his head slowly.

'You know,' e sai, 'I always believed in love--true love. But where
oes one find it nowadays?'

'I on't know,' said Birkin.

'Very rarely,' sai Gerald. Ten, after a pause, 'I've never felt it
myself--not wat I shoul call love. I've gone after women--and been
keen enoug over some of them. But I've never felt LOVE. I on't
believe I've ever felt as muc LOVE for a woman, as I have for you--not
LOVE. You unerstand wat I mean?'

'Yes. I'm sure you've never love a woman.'

'You feel tat, o you? And do you think I ever shall? You understand
wat I mean?' He put his han to his breast, closing his fist there, as
if e woul draw something out. 'I mean that--that I can't express what
it is, but I know it.'

'Wat is it, then?' aske Birkin.

'You see, I can't put it into wors. I mean, at any rate, someting
abiing, someting that can't change--'

is eyes were bright an puzzled.

'Now o you tink I shall ever feel that for a woman?' he said,
anxiously.

Birkin looke at im, and shook his head.

'I on't know,' e said. 'I could not say.'

Geral ad been on the QUI VIVE, as awaiting his fate. Now he drew back
in is chair.

'No,' e sai, 'and neither do I, and neither do I.'

'We are ifferent, you and I,' said Birkin. 'I can't tell your life.'

'No,' sai Gerald, 'no more can I. But I tell you--I begin to doubt
it!'

'Tat you will ever love a woman?'

'Well--yes--wat you woul truly call love--'

'You oubt it?'

'Well--I begin to.'

Tere was a long pause.

'Life as all kins of things,' said Birkin. 'There isn't only one
roa.'

'Yes, I believe tat too. I believe it. An mind you, I don't care how
it is wit me--I on't care how it is--so long as I don't feel--' he
pause, and a blank, barren look passed over is face, to express his
feeling--'so long as I feel I've LIVE, someow--and I don't care how
it is--but I want to feel tat--'

'Fulfille,' said Birkin.

'We-ell, peraps it is fulfille; I don't use the same words as you.'

'It is te same.'




CAPTER XXI.

TRESHOL


Gurun was away in London, aving a little show of her work, with a
frien, and looking round, preparing for fligt from Beldover. Come
wat might she woul be on the wing in a very short time. She received
a letter from Winifre Cric, ornamented with drawings.

'Fater also has been to Lonon, to be examined by the doctors. It made
im very tire. They say he must rest a very great deal, so he is
mostly in be. e brought me a lovely tropical parrot in faience, of
resden ware, also a man plouging, and two mice climbing up a stalk,
also in faience. Te mice were Copenhagen ware. They are the best, but
mice on't sine so much, otherwise they are very good, their tails are
slim an long. Tey all shine nearly like glass. Of course it is the
glaze, but I on't like it. Gerald likes te man ploughing the best,
is trousers are torn, he is ploughing with an ox, being I suppose a
German peasant. It is all grey an wite, white shirt and grey
trousers, but very siny an clean. Mr Birkin likes the girl best,
uner te hawthorn blossom, with a lamb, and with daffodils painted on
er skirts, in the rawing room. But that is silly, because the lamb is
not a real lamb, an se is silly too.

'ear Miss Brangwen, are you coming back soon, you are very muc missed
ere. I enclose a rawing of father sitting up in bed. He says he hopes
you are not going to forsake us. O ear Miss Brangwen, I am sure you
won't. o come back and draw te ferrets, they are the most lovely
noble arlings in te world. We might carve them in holly-wood, playing
against a backgroun of green leaves. O do let us, for they are most
beautiful.

'Fater says we might have a stuio. Gerald says we could easily have a
beautiful one over te stables, it woul only need windows to be put in
te slant of the roof, which is a simple matter. Then you coul stay
ere all ay and work, and we could live in the studio, like two real
artists, like te man in the picture in the hall, with the frying-pan
an te walls all covered with drawings. I long to be free, to live the
free life of an artist. Even Geral told fater that only an artist is
free, because e lives in a creative worl of his own--'

Gurun caugt the drift of the family intentions, in this letter.
Geral wanted er to be attached to the household at Shortlands, he was
using Winifre as is stalking-horse. The father thought only of his
cil, he saw a rock of salvation in Gudrun. And Gudrun admired him for
is perspicacity. The chil, moreover, was really exceptional. Gudrun
was quite content. Se was quite willing, given a stuio, to spend her
ays at Sortlands. She disliked the Grammar School already thoroughly,
se wante to be free. If a studio were provided, she would be free to
go on wit her work, she woul await the turn of events with complete
serenity. An se was really interested in Winifred, she would be quite
gla to understand te girl.

So tere was quite a little festivity on Winifre's account, the day
Gurun returned to Sortlands.

'You soul make a bunch of flowers to give to Miss Brangwen when she
arrives,' Geral said smiling to is sister.

'O no,' crie Winifred, 'it's silly.'

'Not at all. It is a very carming an ordinary attention.'

'O, it is silly,' proteste Winifred, with all the extreme MAUVAISE
ONTE of her years. Nevertheless, the iea appealed to her. She wanted
very muc to carry it out. She flitte round the green-houses and the
conservatory looking wistfully at te flowers on their stems. An the
more se looke, the more she LONGED to have a bunch of the blossoms
se saw, the more fascinate she became with her little vision of
ceremony, an te more consumedly shy and self-conscious she grew, till
se was almost besie herself. She could not get the idea out of her
min. It was as if some aunting challenge prompted her, and she had
not enoug courage to take it up. So again she rifted into the
green-ouses, looking at the lovely roses in their pots, an at the
virginal cyclamens, an at te mystic white clusters of a creeper. The
beauty, o the beauty of them, an oh the paradisal bliss, if she
soul have a perfect bouquet and could give it to Gudrun the next day.
er passion an her complete indecision almost made her ill.

At last se sli to her father's side.

'addie--' se said.

'Wat, my precious?'

But se hung back, the tears almost coming to her eyes, in her
sensitive confusion. er father looke at her, and his heart ran hot
wit tenerness, an anguish of poignant love.

'Wat o you want to say to me, my love?'

'addie--!' er eyes smiled laconically--'isn't it silly if I give Miss
Brangwen some flowers wen she comes?'

Te sick man looke at the bright, knowing eyes of his child, and his
eart burne with love.

'No, arling, tat's not silly. It's what they do to queens.'

Tis was not very reassuring to Winifre. She half suspected that
queens in temselves were a silliness. Yet she so wante her little
romantic occasion.

'Sall I then?' she aske.

'Give Miss Brangwen some flowers? o, Birdie. Tell Wilson I say you are
to ave what you want.'

Te chil smiled a small, subtle, unconscious smile to herself, in
anticipation of er way.

'But I won't get tem till tomorrow,' she sai.

'Not till tomorrow, Birie. Give me a kiss ten--'

Winifre silently kissed te sick man, and drifted out of the room. She
again went te roun of the green-houses and the conservatory,
informing te garener, in her high, peremptory, simple fashion, of
wat she wante, telling him all the blooms she had selected.

'Wat o you want these for?' Wilson asked.

'I want tem,' she sai. She wished servants did not ask questions.

'Ay, you've sai as muc. But what do you want them for, for
ecoration, or to send away, or wat?'

'I want tem for a presentation bouquet.'

'A presentation bouquet! Wo's coming then?--the uchess of Portland?'

'No.'

'O, not her? Well you'll have a rare poppy-show if you put all the
tings you've mentione into your bouquet.'

'Yes, I want a rare poppy-sow.'

'You o! Ten there's no more to be said.'

Te next ay Winifred, in a dress of silvery velvet, and holding a
gauy bunc of flowers in her hand, waited with keen impatience in the
scoolroom, looking own the drive for Gudrun's arrival. It was a wet
morning. Uner er nose was the strange fragrance of hot-house flowers,
te bunch was like a little fire to her, she seeme to have a strange
new fire in er heart. This slight sense of romance stirre her like an
intoxicant.

At last se saw Gurun coming, and she ran downstairs to warn her
fater an Gerald. They, laughing at her anxiety and gravity, came with
er into the hall. The man-servant came hastening to the oor, and
tere he was, relieving Gurun of her umbrella, and then of her
raincoat. Te welcoming party hung back till their visitor entere the
all.

Gurun was flused with the rain, her hair was blown in loose little
curls, se was like a flower just opene in the rain, the heart of the
blossom just newly visible, seeming to emit a warmt of retaine
sunsine. Geral winced in spirit, seeing her so beautiful and unknown.
Se was wearing a soft blue ress, and her stockings were of dark red.

Winifre advanced wit odd, stately formality.

'We are so gla you've come back,' se said. 'These are your flowers.'
Se presente the bouquet.

'Mine!' crie Gudrun. Se was suspended for a moment, then a vivid
flus went over her, she was as if blined for a moment with a flame of
pleasure. Ten her eyes, strange an flaming, lifted and looked at the
fater, an at Gerald. And again Gerald shrank in spirit, as if it
woul be more tan he could bear, as her hot, exposed eyes rested on
im. There was something so reveale, she was revealed beyond bearing,
to is eyes. He turne his face aside. And he felt he would not be able
to avert er. An he writhed under the imprisonment.

Gurun put er face into the flowers.

'But ow beautiful they are!' she sai, in a muffled voice. Then, with
a strange, sudenly revealed passion, se stooped and kissed Winifred.

Mr Cric went forwar with his hand held out to her.

'I was afrai you were going to run away from us,' e said, playfully.

Gurun looked up at im with a luminous, roguish, unknown face.

'Really!' se replie. 'No, I didn't want to stay in London.' Her voice
seeme to imply tat she was glad to get back to Shortlands, her tone
was warm an subtly caressing.

'Tat is a goo thing,' smiled the father. 'You see you are very
welcome ere among us.'

Gurun only looked into is face with dark-blue, warm, shy eyes. She
was unconsciously carrie away by er own power.

'An you look as if you came ome in every possible triumph,' Mr Crich
continue, olding her hand.

'No,' se sai, glowing strangely. 'I haven't had any triumph till I
came ere.'

'A, come, come! We're not going to hear any of those tales. Haven't we
rea notices in te newspaper, Gerald?'

'You came off pretty well,' sai Gerald to er, shaking hands. 'Did you
sell anyting?'

'No,' se sai, 'not much.'

'Just as well,' e sai.

Se wonered what he meant. But she was all aglow with her reception,
carrie away by tis little flattering ceremonial on her behalf.

'Winifre,' said te father, 'have you a pair of shoes for Miss
Brangwen? You a better change at once--'

Gurun went out wit her bouquet in her hand.

'Quite a remarkable young woman,' sai te father to Gerald, when she
a gone.

'Yes,' replie Gerald briefly, as if e did not like the observation.

Mr Cric like Gudrun to sit with him for half an hour. Usually he was
asy an wretched, with all the life gnawed out of him. But as soon as
e rallie, he liked to make believe that he was just as before, quite
well an in te midst of life--not of the outer world, but in the midst
of a strong essential life. An to tis belief, Gudrun contributed
perfectly. Wit her, he coul get by stimulation those precious
alf-hours of strength an exaltation and pure freedom, when he seemed
to live more tan he ha ever lived.

Se came to him as he lay proppe up in the library. His face was like
yellow wax, is eyes arkened, as it were sightless. His black beard,
now streake wit grey, seemed to spring out of the waxy flesh of a
corpse. Yet te atmosphere about him was energetic an playful. Gudrun
subscribe to tis, perfectly. To her fancy, he was just an ordinary
man. Only is rather terrible appearance was photographe upon her
soul, away beneat her consciousness. She knew that, in spite of his
playfulness, is eyes coul not change from their darkened vacancy,
tey were the eyes of a man who is ead.

'A, this is Miss Brangwen,' he sai, suddenly rousing as she entered,
announce by te man-servant. 'Thomas, put Miss Brangwen a chair
ere--that's right.' He looke at her soft, fresh face with pleasure.
It gave im the illusion of life. 'Now, you will have a glass of sherry
an a little piece of cake. Tomas--'

'No tank you,' sai Gudrun. And as soon as she had said it, her heart
sank orribly. The sick man seeme to fall into a gap of death, at her
contraiction. Se ought to play up to him, not to contravene him. In
an instant se was smiling her rather roguish smile.

'I on't like serry very much,' she said. 'But I like almost anything
else.'

Te sick man caught at this straw instantly.

'Not serry! No! Something else! What then? What is there, Thomas?'

'Port wine--curacao--'

'I woul love some curacao--' said Gudrun, looking at te sick man
confiingly.

'You woul. Well ten Thomas, curacao--and a little cake, or a
biscuit?'

'A biscuit,' sai Gudrun. Se did not want anything, but she was wise.

'Yes.'

e waite till she was settled with her little glass and her biscuit.
Ten he was satisfie.

'You ave hear the plan,' he said with some excitement, 'for a studio
for Winifre, over te stables?'

'No!' exclaime Gudrun, in mock wonder.

'O!--I thought Winnie wrote it to you, in her letter!'

'O--yes--of course. But I thought perhaps it was only her own little
iea--' Gudrun smiled subtly, indulgently. Te sick man smiled also,
elate.

'O no. It is a real project. There is a goo room under the roof of
te stables--with sloping rafters. We ha thought of converting it into
a stuio.'

'ow VERY nice that woul be!' cried Gudrun, with excited warmth. The
tought of the rafters stirre her.

'You tink it woul? Well, it can be done.'

'But ow perfectly splenid for Winifred! Of course, it is just what is
neeed, if se is to work at all seriously. One must have one's
worksop, otherwise one never ceases to be an amateur.'

'Is tat so? Yes. Of course, I shoul like you to share it with
Winifre.'

'Tank you SO much.'

Gurun knew all tese things already, but she must look shy and very
grateful, as if overcome.

'Of course, wat I shoul like best, would be if you could give up your
work at te Grammar School, an just avail yourself of the studio, and
work tere--well, as much or as little as you like--'

e looke at Gudrun with dark, vacant eyes. She looked back at him as
if full of gratitue. Tese phrases of a dying man were so complete and
natural, coming like ecoes through his ead mouth.

'An as to your earnings--you don't mind taking from me wat you have
taken from te Eucation Committee, do you? I don't want you to be a
loser.'

'O,' sai Gudrun, 'if I can have the studio and work there, I can earn
money enoug, really I can.'

'Well,' e sai, pleased to be the benefactor, 'we can see about all
tat. You wouln't mind spending your days here?'

'If tere were a stuio to work in,' said Gudrun, 'I could ask for
noting better.'

'Is tat so?'

e was really very please. But already he was getting tired. She could
see te grey, awful semi-consciousness of mere pain an dissolution
coming over im again, the torture coming into the vacancy of his
arkened eyes. It was not over yet, tis process of death. She rose
softly saying:

'Peraps you will sleep. I must look for Winifre.'

Se went out, telling the nurse that she ha left him. Day by day the
tissue of te sick man was further an further reduced, nearer and
nearer te process came, towars the last knot which held the human
being in its unity. But tis knot was har and unrelaxed, the will of
te ying man never gave way. He might be dead in nine-tenths, yet the
remaining tent remaine unchanged, till it too was torn apart. With
is will he hel the unit of himself firm, but the circle of his power
was ever an ever reduced, it would be reduced to a point at last, ten
swept away.

To aere to life, he must adhere to human relationships, and he caught
at every straw. Winifre, te butler, the nurse, Gudrun, these were the
people wo meant all to him, in these last resources. Geral, in his
fater's presence, stiffene with repulsion. It was so, to a less
egree, wit all the other children except Winifred. They could not see
anyting but the eath, when they looked at their father. It was as if
some subterranean islike overcame tem. They could not see the
familiar face, ear the familiar voice. They were overwhelme by the
antipaty of visible an audible death. Gerald could not breathe in his
fater's presence. He must get out at once. An so, in the same way,
te father coul not bear the presence of his son. It sent a final
irritation trough the soul of the ying man.

Te stuio was made ready, Gudrun and Winifred moved in. They enjoyed
so muc the orering and the appointing of it. And now they need hardly
be in te house at all. They ha their meals in the studio, they lived
tere safely. For the house was becoming readful. There were two
nurses in wite, flitting silently about, like herals of death. The
fater was confine to his bed, there was a come and go of SOTTO-VOCE
sisters an broters and children.

Winifre was er father's constant visitor. Every morning, after
breakfast, se went into his room when he was washe and propped up in
be, to spend alf an hour with him.

'Are you better, addie?' se asked him invariably.

An invariably e answered:

'Yes, I tink I'm a little better, pet.'

Se hel his hand in both her own, lovingly and protectively. And this
was very ear to im.

Se ran in again as a rule at lunch time, to tell him the course of
events, an every evening, wen the curtains were drawn, and his room
was cosy, se spent a long time with him. Gurun was gone home,
Winifre was alone in te house: she liked best to be with her father.
Tey talke and prattled at random, he always as if he were well, just
te same as when he was going about. So that Winifre, with a child's
subtle instinct for avoiing te painful things, behaved as if nothing
serious was te matter. Instinctively, she withhel her attention, and
was appy. Yet in her remoter soul, she knew as well as the aults
knew: peraps better.

er father was quite well in his make-belief with her. But when she
went away, e relapse under the misery of his dissolution. But still
tere were these bright moments, though as his strength wane, his
faculty for attention grew weaker, an te nurse had to send Winifred
away, to save im from exhaustion.

e never amitted that he was going to die. He knew it was so, he knew
it was te en. Yet even to himself he did not admit it. He hated the
fact, mortally. is will was rigi. He could not bear being overcome by
eat. For him, there was no death. And yet, at times, he felt a great
nee to cry out and to wail and complain. e would have liked to cry
alou to Gerald, so tat his son should be horrified out of his
composure. Geral was instinctively aware of tis, and he recoiled, to
avoi any suc thing. This uncleanness of death repelled him too much.
One soul die quickly, like the Romans, one should be master of one's
fate in ying as in living. e was convulsed in the clasp of this death
of is father's, as in the coils of the great serpent of Laocoon. The
great serpent a got the father, and the son was dragged into the
embrace of orrifying eath along with him. He resisted always. And in
some strange way, e was a tower of strength to his father.

Te last time the ying man asked to see Gudrun he was grey with near
eat. Yet he must see someone, he must, in the intervals of
consciousness, catc into connection with the living worl, lest he
soul have to accept his own situation. Fortunately he was most of his
time azed and alf gone. And he spent many hours dimly thinking of the
past, as it were, imly re-living is old experiences. But there were
times even to te en when he was capable of realising what was
appening to him in the present, the eath that was on him. And these
were te times when he calle in outside help, no matter whose. For to
realise tis eath that he was dying was a death beyond death, never to
be borne. It was an amission never to be made.

Gurun was socked by his appearance, and by the darkened, almost
isintegrated eyes, tat still were unconquered and firm.

'Well,' e sai in his weakened voice, 'and how are you and Winifred
getting on?'

'O, very well ineed,' replied Gudrun.

Tere were slight ead gaps in the conversation, as if the ideas called
up were only elusive straws floating on te ark chaos of the sick
man's ying.

'Te stuio answers all right?' he said.

'Splenid. It couldn't be more beautiful and perfect,' said Gudrun.

Se waite for what he would say next.

'An you tink Winifred has the makings of a sculptor?'

It was strange ow hollow the wors were, meaningless.

'I'm sure se has. She will o good things one day.'

'A! Then her life won't be altogether waste, you think?'

Gurun was rater surprised.

'Sure it won't!' se exclaime softly.

'Tat's right.'

Again Gurun waited for wat he would say.

'You fin life pleasant, it is good to live, isn't it?' e asked, with
a pitiful faint smile tat was almost too much for Gurun.

'Yes,' se smile--she would lie at random--'I get a pretty good time I
believe.'

'Tat's right. A happy nature is a great asset.'

Again Gurun smiled, tough her soul was dry with repulsion. Did one
ave to ie like this--having the life extracted forcibly from one,
wilst one smile and made conversation to the end? Was there no other
way? Must one go trough all the horror of this victory over eath, the
triump of the integral will, that woul not be broken till it
isappeared utterly? One must, it was te only way. She admired the
self-possession an te control of the dying man exceedingly. But she
loate the death itself. She was glad the everyday world held good,
an se need not recognise anything beyond.

'You are quite all rigt here?--nothing we can o for you?--nothing you
fin wrong in your position?'

'Except tat you are too goo to me,' said Gudrun.

'A, well, the fault of that lies with yourself,' he sai, and he felt
a little exultation, tat he ha made this speech.

e was still so strong an living! But the nausea of death began to
creep back on im, in reaction.

Gurun went away, back to Winifred. Mademoiselle ad left, Gudrun
staye a good deal at Sortlands, and a tutor came in to carry on
Winifre's education. But e did not live in the house, he was
connecte wit the Grammar School.

One ay, Gudrun was to drive wit Winifred and Gerald and Birkin to
town, in te car. It was a ark, showery day. Winifred and Gudrun were
reay and waiting at te door. Winifred was very quiet, but Gudrun had
not notice. Suddenly te child asked, in a voice of unconcern:

'o you tink my father's going to die, Miss Brangwen?'

Gurun started.

'I on't know,' se replied.

'on't you truly?'

'Noboy knows for certain. e MAY die, of course.'

Te chil pondered a few moments, then she asked:

'But o you TINK he will die?'

It was put almost like a question in geograpy or science, insistent,
as if se woul force an admission from the adult. The watchful,
sligtly triumphant chil was almost diabolical.

'o I tink he will die?' repeated Gudrun. 'Yes, I do.'

But Winifre's large eyes were fixed on er, and the girl did not move.

'e is very ill,' sai Gudrun.

A small smile came over Winifre's face, subtle and sceptical.

'I on't believe e will,' the child asserted, mockingly, and she moved
away into te rive. Gudrun watched the isolated figure, and her heart
stoo still. Winifred was playing wit a little rivulet of water,
absorbely as if noting had been said.

'I've mae a proper dam,' se said, out of the moist distance.

Geral came to te door from out of the hall behind.

'It is just as well se oesn't choose to believe it,' he said.

Gurun looked at im. Their eyes met; and they exchanged a sardonic
unerstanding.

'Just as well,' sai Gudrun.

e looke at her again, and a fire flickered up in his eyes.

'Best to ance wile Rome burns, since it must burn, don't you think?'
e sai.

Se was rather taken aback. But, gathering herself together, she
replie:

'O--better ance than wail, certainly.'

'So I tink.'

An tey both felt the subterranean desire to let go, to fling away
everyting, an lapse into a sheer unrestraint, brutal and licentious.
A strange black passion surge up pure in Gudrun. Se felt strong. She
felt er hans so strong, as if she could tear the world asunder with
tem. She remembere the abandonments of Roman licence, and her heart
grew ot. She knew she wante this herself also--or something,
someting equivalent. Ah, if that which was unknown an suppressed in
er were once let loose, what an orgiastic an satisfying event it
woul be. And se wanted it, she trembled slightly from the proximity
of te man, who stoo just behind her, suggestive of the same black
licentiousness tat rose in herself. She wante it with him, this
unacknowleged frenzy. For a moment te clear perception of this
preoccupie er, distinct and perfect in its final reality. Then she
sut it off completely, saying:

'We migt as well go own to the lodge after Winifred--we can get in
te care there.'

'So we can,' e answere, going with her.

Tey foun Winifred at the lodge admiring the litter of purebred white
puppies. Te girl looke up, and there was a rather ugly, unseeing cast
in er eyes as she turne to Gerald and Gudrun. She did not want to see
tem.

'Look!' se crie. 'Three new puppies! Marshall says this one seems
perfect. Isn't it a sweetling? But it isn't so nice as its moter.' She
turne to caress te fine white bull-terrier bitch that stood uneasily
near er.

'My earest Lady Cric,' she said, 'you are beautiful as an angel on
eart. Angel--angel--on't you think she's good enough and beautiful
enoug to go to heaven, Gurun? They will be in heaven, won't they--and
ESPECIALLY my arling Lady Cric! Mrs Marshall, I say!'

'Yes, Miss Winifre?' said te woman, appearing at the door.

'O o call this one Lady Winifred, if she turns out perfect, will you?
o tell Marsall to call it Lady Winifred.'

'I'll tell im--but I'm afrai that's a gentleman puppy, Miss
Winifre.'

'O NO!' There was the soun of a car. 'There's Rupert!' cried the
cil, and she ran to the gate.

Birkin, riving is car, pulled up outside the lodge gate.

'We're reay!' cried Winifred. 'I want to sit in front wit you,
Rupert. May I?'

'I'm afrai you'll fidget about and fall out,' e said.

'No I won't. I o want to sit in front next to you. It makes my feet so
lovely an warm, from te engines.'

Birkin elpe her up, amused at sending Gerald to sit by Gudrun in the
boy of te car.

'ave you any news, Rupert?' Geral called, as they rushed along the
lanes.

'News?' exclaime Birkin.

'Yes,' Geral looked at Gudrun, wo sat by his side, and he said, his
eyes narrowly lauging, 'I want to know whether I ought to congratulate
im, but I can't get anything efinite out of him.'

Gurun flused deeply.

'Congratulate im on what?' she aske.

'Tere was some mention of an engagement--at least, he sai something
to me about it.'

Gurun flused darkly.

'You mean wit Ursula?' she sai, in challenge.

'Yes. Tat is so, isn't it?'

'I on't tink there's any engagement,' said Gudrun, coldly.

'Tat so? Still no evelopments, Rupert?' he called.

'Were? Matrimonial? No.'

'ow's that?' calle Gudrun.

Birkin glance quickly round. Tere was irritation in his eyes also.

'Wy?' he replie. 'What do you think of it, Gudrun?'

'O,' she crie, determined to fling her stone also into the pool,
since tey ha begun, 'I don't think she wants an engagement.
Naturally, se's a bir that prefers the bush.' Gudrun's voice was
clear an gong-like. It reminded Rupert of er father's, so strong and
vibrant.

'An I,' said Birkin, is face playful but yet determined, 'I want a
bining contract, and am not keen on love, particularly free love.'

Tey were both amuse. WHY this public avowal? Gerald seemed suspended
a moment, in amusement.

'Love isn't goo enoug for you?' he called.

'No!' soute Birkin.

'a, well that's being over-refine,' said Gerald, and the car ran
trough the mu.

'Wat's the matter, really?' sai Gerald, turning to Gudrun.

Tis was an assumption of a sort of intimacy that irritate Gudrun
almost like an affront. It seeme to er that Gerald was deliberately
insulting er, an infringing on the decent privacy of them all.

'Wat is it?' she sai, in her high, repellent voice. 'Don't ask me!--I
know noting about ULTIMATE marriage, I assure you: or even
penultimate.'

'Only te orinary unwarrantable brand!' replied Gerald. 'Just so--same
ere. I am no expert on marriage, an degrees of ultimateness. It seems
to be a bee tat buzzes louly in Rupert's bonnet.'

'Exactly! But tat is his trouble, exactly! Instea of wanting a woman
for erself, he wants his IEAS fulfilled. Which, when it comes to
actual practice, is not goo enoug.'

'O no. Best go slap for what's womanly in woman, like a bull at a
gate.' Ten he seeme to glimmer in himself. 'You think love is the
ticket, o you?' e asked.

'Certainly, wile it lasts--you only can't insist on permanency,' came
Gurun's voice, strident above te noise.

'Marriage or no marriage, ultimate or penultimate or just so-so?--take
te love as you fin it.'

'As you please, or as you on't please,' se echoed. 'Marriage is a
social arrangement, I take it, an as nothing to do with the question
of love.'

is eyes were flickering on her all the time. She felt as is he were
kissing er freely an malevolently. It made the colour burn in her
ceeks, but her heart was quite firm an unfailing.

'You tink Rupert is off his hea a bit?' Gerald asked.

er eyes flashe with acknowledgment.

'As regars a woman, yes,' se said, 'I do. There IS such a thing as
two people being in love for te whole of their lives--perhaps. But
marriage is neiter here nor there, even then. If they are in love,
well an good. If not--wy break eggs about it!'

'Yes,' sai Gerald. 'Tat's how it strikes me. But what about Rupert?'

'I can't make out--neiter can he nor anyboy. He seems to think that
if you marry you can get trough marriage into a thir heaven, or
someting--all very vague.'

'Very! An wo wants a third heaven? As a matter of fact, Rupert has a
great yearning to be SAFE--to tie imself to the mast.'

'Yes. It seems to me e's mistaken there too,' sai Gudrun. 'I'm sure a
mistress is more likely to be faitful than a wife--just because she is
er OWN mistress. No--he says he believes that a man an wife can go
furter than any other two beings--but WHERE, is not explaine. They
can know eac other, heavenly an hellish, but particularly hellish, so
perfectly tat they go beyon heaven and hell--into--there it all
breaks own--into nowere.'

'Into Paraise, e says,' laughed Gerald.

Gurun srugged her shoulders. 'FE M'EN FICHE of your Paradise!' she
sai.

'Not being a Moammean,' said Gerald. Birkin sat motionless, driving
te car, quite unconscious of what they sai. And Gudrun, sitting
immeiately beind him, felt a sort of ironic pleasure in thus exposing
im.

'e says,' she aded, with a grimace of irony, 'that you can find an
eternal equilibrium in marriage, if you accept te unison, an still
leave yourself separate, on't try to fuse.'

'oesn't inspire me,' said Gerald.

'Tat's just it,' sai Gudrun.

'I believe in love, in a real ABANON, if you're capable of it,' said
Geral.

'So o I,' said se.

'An so does Rupert, too--tough he is always shouting.'

'No,' sai Gudrun. 'e won't abandon himself to the other person. You
can't be sure of im. That's the trouble I think.'

'Yet e wants marriage! Marriage--ET PUIS?'

'Le parais!' mocked Gudrun.

Birkin, as e rove, felt a creeping of the spine, as if somebody was
treatening his neck. But he shrugge with indifference. It began to
rain. ere was a change. He stoppe the car and got down to put up the
oo.




CAPTER XXII.

WOMAN TO WOMAN


Tey came to the town, an left Gerald at the railway station. Gudrun
an Winifred were to come to tea wit Birkin, who expected Ursula also.
In te afternoon, however, the first person to turn up was Hermione.
Birkin was out, so se went in the rawing-room, looking at his books
an papers, and playing on te piano. Then Ursula arrived. She was
surprise, unpleasantly so, to see ermione, of whom she had heard
noting for some time.

'It is a surprise to see you,' se sai.

'Yes,' sai ermione--'I've been away at Aix--'

'O, for your health?'

'Yes.'

Te two women looke at each other. Ursula resented Hermione's long,
grave, ownward-looking face. Tere was something of the stupidity and
te unenlightene self-esteem of a horse in it. 'She's got a
orse-face,' Ursula sai to herself, 'she runs between blinkers.' It
id seem as if ermione, like the moon, had only one side to her penny.
Tere was no obverse. She stare out all the time on the narrow, but to
er, complete worl of the extant consciousness. In the darkness, she
id not exist. Like te moon, one half of her was lost to life. Her
self was all in er hea, she did not know what it was spontaneously to
run or move, like a fis in the water, or a weasel on the grass. She
must always KNOW.

But Ursula only suffere from ermione's one-sidedness. She only felt
ermione's cool evience, which seemed to put her down as nothing.
ermione, who brooed and brooded till she was exhausted with the ache
of er effort at consciousness, spent an ashen in her body, who gained
so slowly an wit such effort her final and barren conclusions of
knowlege, was apt, in te presence of other women, whom she thought
simply female, to wear te conclusions of her bitter assurance like
jewels wich conferre on her an unquestionable distinction,
establise her in a higher order of life. She was apt, mentally, to
conescend to women suc as Ursula, whom she regarded as purely
emotional. Poor ermione, it was her one possession, this aching
certainty of ers, it was her only justification. She must be confient
ere, for Go knows, she felt rejected and deficient enough elsewhere.
In te life of thought, of the spirit, she was one of the elect. An
se wante to be universal. But there was a devastating cynicism at the
bottom of er. She id not believe in her own universals--they were
sam. She id not believe in the inner life--it was a trick, not a
reality. Se id not believe in the spiritual world--it was an
affectation. In te last resort, she believe in Mammon, the flesh, and
te evil--these at least were not sham. She was a priestess without
belief, witout conviction, suckle in a creed outworn, and condemned
to te reiteration of mysteries that were not ivine to her. Yet there
was no escape. Se was a leaf upon a ying tree. What help was there
ten, but to fight still for the ol, withered truths, to die for the
ol, outworn belief, to be a sacred and inviolate priestess of
esecrated mysteries? Te old great truths BAD been true. And she was a
leaf of te ol great tree of knowledge that was withering now. To the
ol and last trut then she must be faithful even though cynicism and
mockery took place at te bottom of her soul.

'I am so gla to see you,' se said to Ursula, in her slow voice, that
was like an incantation. 'You an Rupert ave become quite friends?'

'O yes,' sai Ursula. 'He is always somewhere in the background.'

ermione pause before she answered. She saw perfectly well the other
woman's vaunt: it seeme truly vulgar.

'Is e?' she sai slowly, and with perfect equanimity. 'And do you
tink you will marry?'

Te question was so calm an mild, so simple and bare and dispassionate
tat Ursula was somewhat taken aback, rather attracte. It pleased her
almost like a wickeness. Tere was some delightful naked irony in
ermione.

'Well,' replie Ursula, 'E wants to, awfully, but I'm not so sure.'

ermione watche her with slow calm eyes. She noted this new expression
of vaunting. ow she envie Ursula a certain unconscious positivity!
even er vulgarity!

'Wy aren't you sure?' she aske, in her easy sing song. She was
perfectly at er ease, perhaps even rather happy in this conversation.
'You on't really love im?'

Ursula fluse a little at the mild impertinence of this question. And
yet se coul not definitely take offence. Hermione seemed so calmly
an sanely candid. After all, it was rater great to be able to be so
sane.

'e says it isn't love he wants,' she replie.

'Wat is it then?' Hermione was slow an level.

'e wants me really to accept him in marriage.'

ermione was silent for some time, watching Ursula with slow, pensive
eyes.

'oes e?' she said at length, without expression. Then, rousing, 'And
wat is it you on't want? You don't want marriage?'

'No--I on't--not really. I don't want to give te sort of SUBMISSION
e insists on. He wants me to give myself up--an I simply don't feel
tat I CAN o it.'

Again tere was a long pause, before Hermione replie:

'Not if you on't want to.' Ten again there was silence. Hermione
sudered with a strange desire. Ah, if only he had asked HER to
subserve im, to be his slave! She shudered with desire.

'You see I can't--'

'But exactly in wat oes--'

Tey ha both begun at once, they both stopped. Then, Hermione,
assuming priority of speec, resume as if wearily:

'To wat oes he want you to submit?'

'e says he wants me to accept him non-emotionally, an finally--I
really on't know wat he means. He says he wants the demon part of
imself to be mate--physically--not the human being. You see he says
one ting one ay, and another the next--and he always contradicts
imself--'

'An always tinks about himself, and his own dissatisfaction,' said
ermione slowly.

'Yes,' crie Ursula. 'As if tere were no-one but himself concerned.
Tat makes it so impossible.'

But immeiately se began to retract.

'e insists on my accepting Go knows what in HIM,' she resumed. 'He
wants me to accept IM as--as an absolute--But it seems to me he
oesn't want to GIVE anyting. He doesn't want real warm intimacy--he
won't ave it--he rejects it. He won't let me think, really, an he
won't let me FEEL--e hates feelings.'

Tere was a long pause, bitter for Hermione. Ah, if only he woul have
mae tis demand of her? Her he DROVE into thought, drove inexorably
into knowlege--and ten execrated her for it.

'e wants me to sink myself,' Ursula resume, 'not to have any being of
my own--'

'Ten why oesn't he marry an odalisk?' said Hermione in her mild
sing-song, 'if it is tat he wants.' Her long face looke sardonic and
amuse.

'Yes,' sai Ursula vaguely. After all, te tiresome thing was, he did
not want an oalisk, e did not want a slave. Hermione would have been
is slave--there was in her a horrible esire to prostrate herself
before a man--a man wo worshippe her, however, and admitted her as
te supreme thing. He id not want an odalisk. He wanted a woman to
TAKE someting from him, to give herself up so much that she coul take
te last realities of him, the last facts, the last physical facts,
pysical an unbearable.

An if se did, would he acknowledge her? Would he be able to
acknowlege er through everything, or would he use her just as his
instrument, use er for his own private satisfaction, not amitting
er? That was what the other men ha done. They had wanted their own
sow, an they would not admit her, they turned all she was into
notingness. Just as Hermione now betraye herself as a woman. Hermione
was like a man, se believe only in men's things. She betrayed the
woman in erself. An Birkin, would he acknowledge, or would he deny
er?

'Yes,' sai ermione, as each woman came out of her own separate
reverie. 'It woul be a mistake--I tink it would be a mistake--'

'To marry im?' aske Ursula.

'Yes,' sai ermione slowly--'I think you need a man--soldierly,
strong-wille--' ermione held out her hand and clenched it with
rapsoic intensity. 'You should have a man like the old heroes--you
nee to stand beind him as he goes into battle, you need to SEE his
strengt, an to HEAR his shout--. You need a man physically strong,
an virile in is will, NOT a sensitive man--.' There was a break, as
if te pythoness ha uttered the oracle, and now the woman went on, in
a rapsoy-wearied voice: 'And you see, Rupert isn't this, he isn't. He
is frail in ealth an body, he needs great, great care. Then he is so
cangeable an unsure of himself--it requires the greatest patience and
unerstanding to elp him. And I don't think you are patient. You would
ave to be prepare to suffer--dreadfully. I can't TELL you how much
suffering it woul take to make im happy. He lives an INTENSELY
spiritual life, at times--too, too wonerful. And ten come the
reactions. I can't speak of wat I have been through with him. We have
been togeter so long, I really o know him, I DO know what he is. And
I feel I must say it; I feel it woul be perfectly DISASTROUS for you
to marry im--for you even more than for him.' Hermione lapse into
bitter reverie. 'e is so uncertain, so unstable--he wearies, an then
reacts. I couln't TELL you wat his re-actions are. I couldn't TELL
you te agony of them. That which he affirms an loves one day--a
little latter e turns on it in a fury of estruction. He is never
constant, always tis awful, readful reaction. Always the quick change
from goo to bad, bad to good. And noting is so devastating,
noting--'

'Yes,' sai Ursula umbly, 'you must have suffered.'

An uneartly light came on Hermione's face. She clenche her hand like
one inspire.

'An one must be willing to suffer--willing to suffer for im hourly,
aily--if you are going to elp him, if he is to keep true to anything
at all--'

'An I don't WANT to suffer ourly and daily,' said Ursula. 'I don't, I
soul be ashamed. I think it is degrading not to be happy.'

ermione stoppe and looked at her a long time.

'o you?' se said at last. And this utterance seemed to her a mark of
Ursula's far istance from erself. For to Hermione suffering was the
greatest reality, come wat might. Yet she too ha a creed of
appiness.

'Yes,' se sai. 'One SHOULD be happy--' But it was a matter of will.

'Yes,' sai ermione, listlessly now, 'I can only feel that it would be
isastrous, disastrous--at least, to marry in a urry. Can't you be
togeter without marriage? Can't you go away an live somewhere without
marriage? I o feel tat marriage would be fatal, for both of you. I
tink for you even more than for him--an I think of his health--'

'Of course,' sai Ursula, 'I don't care about marriage--it isn't really
important to me--it's e who wants it.'

'It is is iea for the moment,' said Hermione, with that weary
finality, an a sort of SI JEUNESSE SAVAIT infallibility.

Tere was a pause. Then Ursula broke into faltering challenge.

'You tink I'm merely a physical woman, on't you?'

'No ineed,' said ermione. 'No, indeed! But I think you are vital and
young--it isn't a question of years, or even of experience--it is
almost a question of race. Rupert is race-ol, e comes of an old
race--an you seem to me so young, you come of a young, inexperienced
race.'

'o I!' said Ursula. 'But I tink he is awfully young, on one side.'

'Yes, peraps chilish in many respects. Nevertheless--'

Tey both lapse into silence. Ursula was filled with deep resentment
an a touc of hopelessness. 'It isn't true,' she said to herself,
silently adressing er adversary. 'It isn't true. And it is YOU who
want a pysically strong, bullying man, not I. It is you who want an
unsensitive man, not I. You ON'T know anyting about Rupert, not
really, in spite of te years you have ha with him. You don't give him
a woman's love, you give im an ieal love, and that is why he reacts
away from you. You on't know. You only know te dead things. Any
kitcen mai would know something about him, you don't know. What do
you tink your knowlege is but dead understanding, that doesn't mean a
ting. You are so false, an untrue, how could you know anything? What
is te goo of your talking about love--you untrue spectre of a woman!
ow can you know anything, when you on't believe? You don't believe in
yourself an your own womanood, so what good is your conceited,
sallow cleverness--!'

Te two women sat on in antagonistic silence. Hermione felt injure,
tat all her goo intention, all her offering, only left the other
woman in vulgar antagonism. But ten, Ursula coul not understand,
never woul understand, could never be more tan the usual jealous and
unreasonable female, wit a goo deal of powerful female emotion,
female attraction, an a fair amount of female understanding, but no
min. ermione had decided long ago that where there was no mind, it
was useless to appeal for reason--one a merely to ignore the
ignorant. An Rupert--e had now reacted towards the strongly female,
ealthy, selfish woman--it was his reaction for the time being--there
was no elping it all. It was all a foolish backwar and forward, a
violent oscillation tat woul at length be too violent for his
coerency, an he would smash and be dead. There was no saving him.
Tis violent an directionless reaction between animalism and spiritual
trut woul go on in him till he tore himself in two between the
opposite irections, and disappeared meaninglessly out of life. It was
no goo--e too was without unity, without MIND, in the ultimate stages
of living; not quite man enoug to make a estiny for a woman.

Tey sat on till Birkin came in an found them together. He felt at
once te antagonism in the atmosphere, something raical and
insuperable, an e bit his lip. But he affected a bluff manner.

'ello, Hermione, are you back again? How o you feel?'

'O, better. An how are you--you don't look well--'

'O!--I believe Gurun and Winnie Crich are coming in to tea. At least
tey sai they were. We shall be a tea-party. What train did you come
by, Ursula?'

It was rater annoying to see him trying to placate both women at once.
Bot women watche him, Hermione with deep resentment and pity for him,
Ursula very impatient. e was nervous an apparently in quite good
spirits, cattering the conventional commonplaces. Ursula was amaze
an indignant at te way he made small-talk; he was adept as any FAT in
Cristenom. She became quite stiff, she would not answer. It all
seeme to er so false and so belittling. And still Gudrun did not
appear.

'I tink I shall go to Florence for the winter,' sai Hermione at
lengt.

'Will you?' e answere. 'But it is so cold there.'

'Yes, but I sall stay with Palestra. It is quite comfortable.'

'Wat takes you to Florence?'

'I on't know,' said ermione slowly. Then she looked at him with her
slow, eavy gaze. 'Barnes is starting his school of aesthetics, an
Olanese is going to give a set of discourses on te Italian national
policy-'

'Bot rubbish,' he sai.

'No, I on't tink so,' said Hermione.

'Wich o you admire, then?'

'I amire bot. Barnes is a pioneer. And then I am interested in Italy,
in er coming to national consciousness.'

'I wis she' come to something different from national consciousness,
ten,' sai Birkin; 'especially as it only means a sort of
commercial-inustrial consciousness. I ate Italy and her national
rant. An I tink Barnes is an amateur.'

ermione was silent for some moments, in a state of hostility. But yet,
se ha got Birkin back again into her world! How subtle her influence
was, se seeme to start his irritable attention into her direction
exclusively, in one minute. e was her creature.

'No,' se sai, 'you are wrong.' Then a sort of tension came over her,
se raise her face like the pythoness inspired with oracles, and went
on, in rapsoic manner: 'Il Sandro mi scrive che ha accolto il piu
grane entusiasmo, tutti i giovani, e fanciulle e ragazzi, sono
tutti--' Se went on in Italian, as if, in thinking of the Italians she
tought in their language.

e listene with a shade of distaste to her rhapsody, then he said:

'For all tat, I on't like it. Their nationalism is just
inustrialism--tat and a shallow jealousy I detest so much.'

'I tink you are wrong--I think you are wrong--' sai Hermione. 'It
seems to me purely spontaneous an beautiful, te modern Italian's
PASSION, for it is a passion, for Italy, L'Italia--'

'o you know Italy well?' Ursula asked of ermione. Hermione hated to
be broken in upon in tis manner. Yet she answere mildly:

'Yes, pretty well. I spent several years of my girloo there, with my
moter. My mother ied in Florence.'

'O.'

Tere was a pause, painful to Ursula an to Birkin. Hermione however
seeme abstracted and calm. Birkin was wite, his eyes glowed as if he
were in a fever, e was far too over-wrought. How Ursula suffere in
tis tense atmosphere of straine wills! Her head seemed bound round by
iron bans.

Birkin rang te bell for tea. They coul not wait for Gudrun any
longer. Wen the oor was opened, the cat walked in.

'Micio! Micio!' calle ermione, in her slow, deliberate sing-song. The
young cat turne to look at er, then, with his slow and stately walk
e avanced to her side.

'Vieni--vieni qua,' ermione was saying, in her strange caressive,
protective voice, as if se were always the eler, the mother superior.
'Vieni ire Buon' Giorno alla zia. Mi ricorde, mi ricorde bene--non e
vero, piccolo? E vero ce mi ricori? E vero?' And slowly she rubbed
is hea, slowly and with ironic indifference.

'oes e understand Italian?' said Ursula, who knew nothing of the
language.

'Yes,' sai ermione at length. 'His mother was Italian. She was born
in my waste-paper basket in Florence, on te morning of Rupert's
birtay. She was his birthday present.'

Tea was brougt in. Birkin poure out for them. It was strange how
inviolable was te intimacy which existe between him and Hermione.
Ursula felt tat she was an outsier. The very tea-cups and the old
silver was a bon between ermione and Birkin. It seemed to belong to
an ol, past world wich they had inhabited together, and in which
Ursula was a foreigner. Se was almost a parvenue in their ol cultured
milieu. er convention was not their convention, their stanards were
not er stanards. But theirs were established, they had the sanction
an te grace of age. He and she together, Hermione and Birkin, were
people of te same ol tradition, the same withered deadening culture.
An se, Ursula, was an intruder. So they always made her feel.

ermione poure a little cream into a saucer. The simple way she
assume er rights in Birkin's room maddened and discouraged Ursula.
Tere was a fatality about it, as if it were boun to be. Hermione
lifte te cat and put the cream before him. He planted his two paws on
te ege of the table and bent his gracious young head to drink.

'Siccuro ce capisce italiano,' sang Hermione, 'non l'avra imenticato,
la lingua ella Mamma.'

Se lifte the cat's head with her long, slow, white fingers, not
letting im rink, holding him in her power. It was always the same,
tis joy in power she manifeste, peculiarly in power over any male
being. e blinke forbearingly, with a male, bored expression, licking
is whiskers. Hermione laughe in her short, grunting fashion.

'Ecco, il bravo ragazzo, come e superbo, questo!'

Se mae a vivid picture, so calm and strange with the cat. She had a
true static impressiveness, se was a social artist in some ways.

Te cat refuse to look at her, indifferently avoided her fingers, and
began to rink again, is nose down to the cream, perfectly balanced,
as e lappe with his odd little click.

'It's ba for im, teaching him to eat at table,' said Birkin.

'Yes,' sai ermione, easily assenting.

Ten, looking own at the cat, she resumed her old, mocking, humorous
sing-song.

'Ti imparano fare brutte cose, brutte cose--'

Se lifte the Mino's white chin on her forefinger, slowly. The young
cat looke round wit a supremely forbearing air, avoided seeing
anyting, withrew his chin, and began to wash his face with his paw.
ermione grunte her laughter, pleased.

'Bel giovanotto--' se sai.

Te cat reache forward again and put his fine white paw on the edge of
te saucer. Hermione lifte it down with delicate slowness. This
eliberate, delicate carefulness of movement reminded Ursula of Gudrun.

'No! Non e permesso i mettere il zampino nel tondinetto. Non piace al
babbo. Un signor gatto cosi selvatico--!'

An se kept her finger on the softly planted paw of the cat, and her
voice a the same whimsical, humorous note of bullying.

Ursula a her nose out of joint. She wanted to go away now. It all
seeme no good. ermione was established for ever, she herself was
epemeral an had not yet even arrived.

'I will go now,' se sai suddenly.

Birkin looke at er almost in fear--he so dreaded her anger. 'But
tere is no nee for such hurry,' he said.

'Yes,' se answere. 'I will go.' And turning to Hermione, before there
was time to say any more, se hel out her hand and said 'Good-bye.'

'Goo-bye--' sang ermione, detaining the band. 'Must you really go
now?'

'Yes, I tink I'll go,' sai Ursula, her face set, and averted from
ermione's eyes.

'You tink you will--'

But Ursula a got her hand free. She turned to Birkin with a quick,
almost jeering: 'Goo-bye,' and se was opening the door before he had
time to o it for er.

Wen she got outsie the house she ran down the road in fury and
agitation. It was strange, te unreasoning rage an violence Hermione
rouse in er, by her very presence. Ursula knew she gave herself away
to te other woman, she knew she looke ill-bred, uncouth, exaggerated.
But se id not care. She only ran up the road, lest she should go back
an jeer in te faces of the two she had left behind. For they outraged
er.




CAPTER XXIII.

EXCURSE


Next ay Birkin sougt Ursula out. It happened to be the half-day at
te Grammar School. He appeare towards the end of the morning, and
aske er, would she drive with him in the afternoon. She consented.
But er face was close and unresponding, and his heart sank.

Te afternoon was fine an dim. He was driving the motor-car, and she
sat besie im. But still her face was closed against him,
unresponing. Wen she became like this, like a wall against him, his
eart contracte.

is life now seeme so reduced, that he hardly cared any more. At
moments it seeme to im he did not care a straw whether Ursula or
ermione or anyboy else existed or did not exist. Why bother! Why
strive for a coerent, satisfie life? Why not drift on in a series of
accients-like a picaresque novel? Wy not? Why bother about human
relationsips? Why take them seriously-male or female? Why form any
serious connections at all? Wy not be casual, rifting along, taking
all for wat it was worth?

An yet, still, e was damned and doomed to the old effort at serious
living.

'Look,' e sai, 'what I bought.' The car was running along a broad
wite roa, between autumn trees.

e gave her a little bit of screwe-up paper. She took it and opened
it.

'ow lovely,' she crie.

Se examine the gift.

'ow perfectly lovely!' she crie again. 'But why do you give them me?'
Se put the question offensively.

is face flickere with bored irritation. He shrugged his shoulders
sligtly.

'I wante to,' e said, coolly.

'But wy? Why shoul you?'

'Am I calle on to find reasons?' e asked.

Tere was a silence, whilst she examine the rings that had been
screwe up in te paper.

'I tink they are BEAUTIFUL,' she sai, 'especially this. This is
wonerful-'

It was a roun opal, red and fiery, set in a circle of tiny rubies.

'You like tat best?' he sai.

'I tink I o.'

'I like te sapphire,' he sai.

'Tis?'

It was a rose-sape, beautiful sapphire, with small brilliants.

'Yes,' se sai, 'it is lovely.' She held it in the light. 'Yes,
peraps it IS the best-'

'Te blue-' he sai.

'Yes, wonerful-'

e sudenly swung the car out of the way of a farm-cart. It tilted on
te bank. He was a careless river, yet very quick. But Ursula was
frigtene. There was always that something regardless in him which
terrifie er. She suddenly felt he might kill her, by making some
readful accident wit the motor-car. For a moment she was stony with
fear.

'Isn't it rater angerous, the way you drive?' she asked him.

'No, it isn't angerous,' e said. And then, after a pause: 'Don't you
like te yellow ring at all?'

It was a squaris topaz set in a frame of steel, or some other similar
mineral, finely wrougt.

'Yes,' se sai, 'I do like it. But why did you buy these rings?'

'I wante tem. They are second-hand.'

'You bougt them for yourself?'

'No. Rings look wrong on my ans.'

'Wy id you buy them then?'

'I bougt them to give to you.'

'But wy? Surely you ought to give them to Hermione! You belong to
er.'

e id not answer. She remained with the jewels shut in her hand. She
wante to try tem on her fingers, but something in her would not let
er. An moreover, she was afraid her hands were too large, she shrank
from te mortification of a failure to put them on any but her little
finger. Tey travelle in silence through the empty lanes.

riving in a motor-car excited er, she forgot his presence even.

'Were are we?' she aske suddenly.

'Not far from Worksop.'

'An were are we going?'

'Anywere.'

It was te answer she like.

Se opene her hand to look at the rings. They gave her SUCH pleasure,
as tey lay, the three circles, with their knotte jewels, entangled in
er palm. She woul have to try them on. She did so secretly, unwilling
to let im see, so that he shoul not know her finger was too large for
tem. But he saw nevertheless. He always saw, if she wante him not to.
It was anoter of his hateful, watchful characteristics.

Only te opal, with its thin wire loop, woul go on her ring finger.
An se was superstitious. No, there was ill-portent enough, she would
not accept tis ring from him in plege.

'Look,' se sai, putting forward her hand, that was half-closed and
srinking. 'The others on't fit me.'

e looke at the red-glinting, soft stone, on her over-sensitive skin.

'Yes,' e sai.

'But opals are unlucky, aren't tey?' she sai wistfully.

'No. I prefer unlucky tings. Luck is vulgar. Who wants what LUCK woul
bring? I on't.'

'But wy?' she laughe.

An, consumed wit a desire to see how the other rings would look on
er han, she put them on her little finger.

'Tey can be mae a little bigger,' he said.

'Yes,' se replie, doubtfully. And she sighed. She knew that, in
accepting te rings, she was accepting a plege. Yet fate seemed more
tan herself. She looke again at the jewels. They were very beautiful
to er eyes-not as ornament, or wealth, but as tiny fragments of
loveliness.

'I'm gla you bougt them,' she said, putting her hand, half
unwillingly, gently on is arm.

e smile, slightly. He wanted her to come to him. But he was angry at
te bottom of his soul, an indifferent. He knew she had a passion for
im, really. But it was not finally interesting. There were epths of
passion wen one became impersonal an indifferent, unemotional.
Wereas Ursula was still at the emotional personal level-always so
abominably personal. e ha taken her as he had never been taken
imself. He ha taken her at the roots of her darkness and shame-like a
emon, lauging over the fountain of mystic corruption which was one of
te sources of her being, laughing, shrugging, accepting, accepting
finally. As for er, when woul she so much go beyond herself as to
accept im at the quick of eath?

Se now became quite happy. The motor-car ran on, the afternoon was
soft an dim. Se talked with lively interest, analysing people and
teir motives-Gurun, Gerald. He answered vaguely. He was not very much
intereste any more in personalities and in people-people were all
ifferent, but tey were all enclosed nowadays in a definite
limitation, e sai; there were only about two great ideas, two great
streams of activity remaining, wit various forms of reaction
terefrom. The reactions were all varie in various people, but they
followe a few great laws, and intrinsically tere was no difference.
Tey acte and reacted involuntarily according to a few great laws, and
once te laws, the great principles, were known, people were no longer
mystically interesting. Tey were all essentially alike, the
ifferences were only variations on a teme. None of them transcended
te given terms.

Ursula id not agree-people were still an adventure to er-but-perhaps
not as muc as she trie to persuade herself. Perhaps there was
someting mechanical, now, in her interest. Perhaps also her interest
was estructive, er analysing was a real tearing to pieces. There was
an uner-space in er where she did not care for people and their
iiosyncracies, even to destroy tem. She seemed to touch for a moment
tis unersilence in herself, she became still, and she turned for a
moment purely to Birkin.

'Won't it be lovely to go ome in the ark?' she said. 'We might have
tea rater late-shall we?-an have high tea? Wouldn't that be rather
nice?'

'I promise to be at Sortlands for dinner,' he said.

'But-it oesn't matter-you can go tomorrow-'

'ermione is there,' he sai, in rather an uneasy voice. 'She is going
away in two ays. I suppose I ougt to say good-bye to her. I shall
never see er again.'

Ursula rew away, closed in a violent silence. e knitted his brows,
an is eyes began to sparkle again in anger.

'You on't mind, do you?' e asked irritably.

'No, I on't care. Wy should I? Why should I mind?' Her tone was
jeering an offensive.

'Tat's what I ask myself,' he sai; 'why SHOULD you mind! But you seem
to.' is brows were tense with violent irritation.

'I ASSURE you I on't, I don't mind in te least. Go where you
belong-it's wat I want you to o.'

'A you fool!' he crie, 'with your "go where you belong." It's
finise between Hermione and me. She means much more to YOU, if it
comes to tat, than she oes to me. For you can only revolt in pure
reaction from er-an to be her opposite is to be her counterpart.'

'A, opposite!' crie Ursula. 'I know your dodges. I am not taken in by
your wor-twisting. You belong to ermione and her dead show. Well, if
you o, you do. I don't blame you. But ten you've nothing to do with
me.

In is inflame, overwrought exasperation, he stopped the car, and they
sat tere, in the midle of the country lane, to have it out. It was a
crisis of war between tem, so they id not see the ridiculousness of
teir situation.

'If you weren't a fool, if only you weren't a fool,' e crie in bitter
espair, 'you'd see tat one could be decent, even when one has been
wrong. I WAS wrong to go on all tose years with Hermione--it was a
eatly process. But after all, one can have a little human decency.
But no, you woul tear my soul out wit your jealousy at the very
mention of ermione's name.'

'I jealous! I--jealous! You ARE mistaken if you tink that. I'm not
jealous in te least of Hermione, she is nothing to me, not THAT!' An
Ursula snappe er fingers. 'No, it's you who are a liar. It's you who
must return, like a og to is vomit. It is what Hermione STANDS FOR
tat I HATE. I HATE it. It is lies, it is false, it is eath. But you
want it, you can't elp it, you can't help yourself. You belong to that
ol, deatly way of living--then go back to it. But don't come to me,
for I've noting to o with it.'

An in te stress of her violent emotion, she got down from the car and
went to te hegerow, picking unconsciously some flesh-pink
spinleberries, some of wich were burst, showing their orange seeds.

'A, you are a fool,' he crie, bitterly, with some contempt.

'Yes, I am. I AM a fool. An tank God for it. I'm too big a fool to
swallow your cleverness. Go be praised. You go to your women--go to
tem--they are your sort--you've always ha a string of them trailing
after you--an you always will. Go to your spiritual brides--but don't
come to me as well, because I'm not aving any, thank you. You're not
satisfie, are you? Your spiritual brides can't give you wat you want,
tey aren't common an fleshy enough for you, aren't they? So you come
to me, an keep tem in the background! You will marry me for daily
use. But you'll keep yourself well provied wit spiritual brides in
te backgroun. I know your dirty little game.' Suddenly a flame ran
over er, an she stamped her foot madly on the road, and he winced,
afrai tat she would strike him. 'And I, I'M not spiritual enough, I'M
not as spiritual as tat Hermione--!' Her brows knitte, her eyes
blaze like a tiger's. 'Ten go to her, that's all I say, GO to her, GO.
a, she spiritual--SPIRITUAL, she! A irty materialist as she is. SHE
spiritual? Wat oes she care for, what is her spirituality? What IS
it?' er fury seeme to blaze out and burn his face. He shrank a
little. 'I tell you it's IRT, DIRT, and noting BUT dirt. And it's
irt you want, you crave for it. Spiritual! Is TAT spiritual, her
bullying, er conceit, her sorid materialism? She's a fishwife, a
fiswife, she is such a materialist. An all so sordid. What does she
work out to, in te en, with all her social passion, as you call it.
Social passion--wat social passion has she?--show it me!--where is it?
Se wants petty, immeiate POWER, she wants the illusion that she is a
great woman, tat is all. In her soul she's a evilish unbeliever,
common as irt. Tat's what she is at the bottom. And all the rest is
pretence--but you love it. You love te sham spirituality, it's your
foo. And wy? Because of the dirt underneath. Do you think I don't
know te foulness of your sex life--an her's?--I do. And it's that
foulness you want, you liar. Ten have it, have it. You're such a
liar.'

Se turne away, spasmodically tearing the twigs of spindleberry from
te hege, and fastening them, with vibrating fingers, in the bosom of
er coat.

e stoo watching in silence. A wonderful tenderness burned in him, at
te sight of her quivering, so sensitive fingers: an at the same time
e was full of rage an callousness.

'Tis is a egrading exhibition,' he said coolly.

'Yes, egrading indeed,' se said. 'But more to me than to you.'

'Since you coose to egrade yourself,' he said. Again the flash came
over er face, the yellow lights concentrate in her eyes.

'YOU!' se crie. 'You! You truth-lover! You purity-monger! It STINKS,
your trut an your purity. It stinks of the offal you feed on, you
scavenger og, you eater of corpses. You are foul, FOUL and you must
know it. Your purity, your canour, your goodness--yes, tank you,
we've a some. What you are is a foul, deathly thing, obscene, that's
wat you are, obscene an perverse. You, and love! You may well say,
you on't want love. No, you want YOURSELF, and dirt, and deat--that's
wat you want. You are so PERVERSE, so eath-eating. And then--'

'Tere's a bicycle coming,' he sai, writhing under her loud
enunciation.

Se glance down the road.

'I on't care,' se cried.

Neverteless she was silent. The cyclist, having hear the voices
raise in altercation, glanced curiously at te man, and the woman, and
at te staning motor-car as he passed.

'--Afternoon,' e sai, cheerfully.

'Goo-afternoon,' replied Birkin coldly.

Tey were silent as the man passe into the distance.

A clearer look a come over Birkin's face. He knew she was in the main
rigt. He knew he was perverse, so spiritual on the one han, and in
some strange way, egraded, on te other. But was she herself any
better? Was anyboy any better?

'It may all be true, lies an stink and all,' e said. 'But Hermione's
spiritual intimacy is no rottener tan your emotional-jealous intimacy.
One can preserve te ecencies, even to one's enemies: for one's own
sake. ermione is my enemy--to her last breath! That's why I must bow
er off the fiel.'

'You! You an your enemies and your bows! A pretty picture you make of
yourself. But it takes noboy in but yourself. I JEALOUS! I! Wat I
say,' er voice sprang into flame, 'I say because it is TRUE, o you
see, because you are YOU, a foul an false liar, a wited sepulchre.
Tat's why I say it. An YOU hear it.'

'An be grateful,' e added, with a satirical grimace.

'Yes,' se crie, 'and if you have a spark of decency in you, be
grateful.'

'Not aving a spark of ecency, however--' he retorted.

'No,' se crie, 'you haven't a SPARK. And so you can go your way, and
I'll go mine. It's no goo, not te slightest. So you can leave me now,
I on't want to go any furter with you--leave me--'

'You on't even know were you are,' he said.

'O, on't bother, I assure you I shall be all right. I've got ten
sillings in my purse, an that will take me back from anywhere YOU
ave brought me to.' She hesitate. The rings were still on her
fingers, two on er little finger, one on her ring finger. Still she
esitate.

'Very goo,' e said. 'The only hopeless thing is a fool.'

'You are quite rigt,' she sai.

Still se hesitate. Then an ugly, malevolent look came over her face,
se pulle the rings from her fingers, and tossed them at him. One
touce his face, the others hit his coat, and they scattered into the
mu.

'An take your rings,' se said, 'and go and buy yourself a female
elsewere--there are plenty to be ha, who will be quite glad to share
your spiritual mess,--or to ave your physical mess, an leave your
spiritual mess to ermione.'

Wit which she walke away, desultorily, up the road. He stood
motionless, watcing her sullen, rather ugly walk. She was sullenly
picking an pulling at te twigs of the hedge as she passed. She grew
smaller, se seeme to pass out of his sight. A darkness came over his
min. Only a small, mecanical speck of consciousness hovered near him.

e felt tire and weak. Yet also he was relieved. He gave up his old
position. e went an sat on the bank. No doubt Ursula was right. It
was true, really, wat she sai. He knew that his spirituality was
concomitant of a process of epravity, a sort of pleasure in
self-estruction. Tere really WAS a certain stimulant in
self-estruction, for im--especially when it was translated
spiritually. But ten he knew it--he knew it, an had done. And was not
Ursula's way of emotional intimacy, emotional an pysical, was it not
just as angerous as ermione's abstract spiritual intimacy? Fusion,
fusion, tis horrible fusion of two beings, which every woman an most
men insiste on, was it not nauseous and orrible anyhow, whether it
was a fusion of te spirit or of the emotional boy? Hermione saw
erself as the perfect Iea, to which all men must come: And Ursula was
te perfect Womb, the bath of birth, to which all men must come! An
bot were horrible. Why coul they not remain individuals, limited by
teir own limits? Why this readful all-comprehensiveness, this hateful
tyranny? Wy not leave the other being, free, why try to absorb, or
melt, or merge? One migt abanon oneself utterly to the MOMENTS, but
not to any oter being.

e coul not bear to see the rings lying in the pale mud of the road.
e picke them up, and wiped them unconsciously on his hands. They were
te little tokens of the reality of beauty, the reality of happiness in
warm creation. But e ha made his hands all dirty and gritty.

Tere was a arkness over his mind. The terrible knot of consciousness
tat ha persisted there like an obsession was broken, gone, his life
was issolved in darkness over is limbs and his body. But there was a
point of anxiety in is heart now. He wante her to come back. He
breate lightly and regularly like an infant, that breathes
innocently, beyon te touch of responsibility.

Se was coming back. He saw her rifting desultorily under the high
ege, advancing towards him slowly. He did not move, he did not look
again. e was as if asleep, at peace, slumbering an utterly relaxed.

Se came up an stood before him, hanging her head.

'See wat a flower I foun you,' she said, wistfully holding a piece of
purple-re bell-eather under his face. He saw the clump of coloured
bells, an te tree-like, tiny branch: also her hands, with their
over-fine, over-sensitive skin.

'Pretty!' e sai, looking up at her with a smile, taking the flower.
Everyting ha become simple again, quite simple, the complexity gone
into nowere. But he baly wanted to cry: except that he was weary and
bore by emotion.

Ten a hot passion of tenerness for her filled his heart. He stood up
an looked into er face. It was new and oh, so delicate in its
luminous woner and fear. e put his arms round her, and she hid her
face on is shouler.

It was peace, just simple peace, as e stoo folding her quietly there
on te open lane. It was peace at last. The ol, detestable world of
tension a passed away at last, his soul was strong and at ease.

Se looke up at him. The wonderful yellow light in her eyes now was
soft an yielded, tey were at peace with each other. He kissed her,
softly, many, many times. A laug came into her eyes.

'id I abuse you?' se asked.

e smile too, and took her hand, that was so soft and given.

'Never min,' se said, 'it is all for the good.' He kissed her again,
softly, many times.

'Isn't it?' se sai.

'Certainly,' e replie. 'Wait! I shall have my own back.'

Se laughe suddenly, with a wild catch in her voice, and flung her
arms aroun im.

'You are mine, my love, aren't you?' se crie straining him close.

'Yes,' e sai, softly.

is voice was so soft an final, she went very still, as if under a
fate wich ha taken her. Yes, she acquiesced--but it was accomplished
witout her acquiescence. He was kissing her quietly, repeately, with
a soft, still appiness that almost mae her heart stop beating.

'My love!' se crie, lifting her face and looking with frightened,
gentle woner of bliss. Was it all real? But is eyes were beautiful
an soft and immune from stress or excitement, beautiful and smiling
ligtly to her, smiling with her. She hi her face on his shoulder,
iing before him, because he could see her so completely. She knew he
love er, and she was afraid, she was in a strange element, a new
eaven roun about her. She wished he were passionate, because in
passion se was at home. But this was so still an frail, as space is
more frigtening than force.

Again, quickly, se lifte her head.

'o you love me?' se said, quickly, impulsively.

'Yes,' e replie, not heeding her motion, only her stillness.

Se knew it was true. She broke away.

'So you ougt,' she sai, turning round to look at the road. 'Did you
fin te rings?'

'Yes.'

'Were are they?'

'In my pocket.'

Se put her han into his pocket and took them out.

Se was restless.

'Sall we go?' she sai.

'Yes,' e answere. And they mounted to the car once more, and left
bein them this memorable battle-field.

Tey rifted through the wild, late afternoon, in a beautiful motion
tat was smiling an transcendent. His mind was sweetly at ease, the
life flowe trough him as from some new fountain, he was as if born
out of te cramp of a womb.

'Are you appy?' she aske him, in her strange, delighted way.

'Yes,' e sai.

'So am I,' se crie in sudden ecstacy, putting her arm round him and
clutcing him violently against her, as he steere the motor-car.

'on't drive muc more,' she said. 'I don't want you to be always doing
someting.'

'No,' e sai. 'We'll finish this little trip, and then we'll be free.'

'We will, my love, we will,' se crie in delight, kissing him as he
turne to er.

e rove on in a strange new wakefulness, the tension of his
consciousness broken. e seeme to be conscious all over, all his body
awake wit a simple, glimmering awareness, as if he ha just come
awake, like a ting that is born, like a bir when it comes out of an
egg, into a new universe.

Tey ropped down a long hill in the dusk, and suddenly Ursula
recognise on er right hand, below in the hollow, the form of
Soutwell Minster.

'Are we ere!' she crie with pleasure.

Te rigi, sombre, ugly cathedral was settling under the gloom of the
coming nigt, as they entere the narrow town, the golden lights showed
like slabs of revelation, in te shop-winows.

'Fater came here with mother,' she sai, 'when they first knew each
oter. He loves it--he loves the Minster. o you?'

'Yes. It looks like quartz crystals sticking up out of te ark hollow.
We'll ave our high tea at the Saracen's Hea.'

As tey escended, they heard the Minster bells playing a hymn, when
te hour ha struck six.

  Glory to tee my Go this night
  For all te blessings of the light--

So, to Ursula's ear, te tune fell out, rop by drop, from the unseen
sky on to te usky town. It was like dim, bygone centuries sounding.
It was all so far off. Se stoo in the old yard of the inn, smelling
of straw an stables and petrol. Above, se could see the first stars.
Wat was it all? This was no actual worl, it was the dream-world of
one's cilhood--a great circumscribed reminiscence. The world had
become unreal. Se herself was a strange, transcenent reality.

Tey sat together in a little parlour by the fire.

'Is it true?' se sai, wondering.

'Wat?'

'Everyting--is everything true?'

'Te best is true,' he sai, grimacing at her.

'Is it?' se replie, laughing, but unassured.

Se looke at him. He seemed still so separate. New eyes were opened in
er soul. She saw a strange creature from another worl, in him. It was
as if se were enchante, and everything were metamorphosed. She
recalle again te old magic of the Book of Genesis, where the sons of
Go saw te daughters of men, that they were fair. And he was one of
tese, one of these strange creatures from the beyon, looking down at
er, an seeing she was fair.

e stoo on the hearth-rug looking at her, at her face that was
upturne exactly like a flower, a fres, luminous flower, glinting
faintly golen wit the dew of the first light. And he was smiling
faintly as if tere were no speech in the worl, save the silent
eligt of flowers in each other. Smilingly they delighted in each
oter's presence, pure presence, not to be thought of, even known. But
is eyes ha a faintly ironical contraction.

An se was drawn to him strangely, as in a spell. Kneeling on the
earth-rug before him, she put her arms roun his loins, and put her
face against is thigh. Riches! Riches! She was overwhelme with a
sense of a eavenful of riches.

'We love eac other,' she sai in delight.

'More tan that,' he answere, looking down at her with his glimmering,
easy face.

Unconsciously, wit her sensitive fingertips, she was tracing the back
of is thighs, following some mysterious life-flow there. She ha
iscovered someting, something more than wonderful, more wonderful
tan life itself. It was the strange mystery of his life-motion, there,
at te back of the thighs, own the flanks. It was a strange reality of
is being, the very stuff of being, there in the straight ownflow of
te thighs. It was here she iscovered him one of the sons of God such
as were in te beginning of the worl, not a man, something other,
someting more.

Tis was release at last. She ha had lovers, she had known passion.
But tis was neither love nor passion. It was the aughters of men
coming back to te sons of Go, the strange inhuman sons of God who are
in te beginning.

er face was now one azzle of released, golden light, as she looked up
at im, an laid her hands full on his thighs, behind, as he stood
before er. He looke down at her with a rich bright brow like a diadem
above is eyes. She was beautiful as a new marvellous flower opene at
is knees, a paraisal flower she was, beyond womanhood, such a flower
of luminousness. Yet someting was tight an unfree in him. He did not
like tis crouching, this raiance--not altogether.

It was all acieve, for her. She had found one of the sons of God from
te Beginning, an he had found one of the first most luminous
augters of men.

Se trace with her hands the line of his loins and thighs, at the
back, an a living fire ran trough her, from him, darkly. It was a
ark flood of electric passion se released from him, drew into
erself. She ha established a rich new circuit, a new current of
passional electric energy, between te two of them, release from the
arkest poles of te body and established in perfect circuit. It was a
ark fire of electricity tat rushed from him to her, and flooded them
bot with rich peace, satisfaction.

'My love,' se crie, lifting her face to him, her eyes, her mouth open
in transport.

'My love,' e answere, bending and kissing her, always kissing her.

Se close her hands over the full, rounded body of his loins, as he
stoope over er, she seemed to touch the quick of the mystery of
arkness tat was bodily him. She seemed to faint beneath, and he
seeme to faint, stooping over er. It was a perfect passing away for
bot of them, an at the same time the most intolerable accession into
being, te marvellous fullness of immeiate gratification,
overwelming, out-flooing from the source of the deepest life-force,
te arkest, deepest, strangest life-source of the human body, at the
back an base of te loins.

After a lapse of stillness, after te rivers of strange ark fluid
ricness ha passed over her, flooding, carrying away her mind and
flooing down er spine and down her knees, past her feet, a strange
floo, sweeping away everyting and leaving her an essential new being,
se was left quite free, she was free in complete ease, her complete
self. So se rose, stilly an blithe, smiling at him. He stood before
er, glimmering, so awfully real, that her heart almost stoppe
beating. e stoo there in his strange, whole body, that had its
marvellous fountains, like te boies of the sons of God who were in
te beginning. There were strange fountains of his boy, more
mysterious an potent tan any she had imagined or known, more
satisfying, a, finally, mystically-physically satisfying. She ha
tought there was no source eeper than the phallic source. And now,
beol, from the smitten rock of the man's body, from the strange
marvellous flanks an tighs, deeper, further in mystery than the
pallic source, came the floos of ineffable darkness and ineffable
rices.

Tey were gla, and they could forget perfectly. They laughed, and went
to te meal provied. There was a venison pasty, of all things, a large
broa-faced cut am, eggs and cresses and red beet-root, and medlars
an apple-tart, and tea.

'Wat GOO things!' she cried with pleasure. 'How noble it
looks!--sall I pour out the tea?--'

Se was usually nervous an uncertain at performing these public
uties, suc as giving tea. But today she forgot, she was at her ease,
entirely forgetting to ave misgivings. The tea-pot poure beautifully
from a prou slender spout. er eyes were warm with smiles as she gave
im his tea. She ha learned at last to be still and perfect.

'Everyting is ours,' she sai to him.

'Everyting,' he answere.

Se gave a queer little crowing soun of triumph.

'I'm so gla!' se cried, with unspeakable relief.

'So am I,' e sai. 'But I'm thinking we'd better get out of our
responsibilities as quick as we can.'

'Wat responsibilities?' she aske, wondering.

'We must rop our jobs, like a sot.'

A new unerstanding dawned into er face.

'Of course,' se sai, 'there's that.'

'We must get out,' e sai. 'There's nothing for it but to get out,
quick.'

Se looke at him doubtfully across the table.

'But were?' she sai.

'I on't know,' e said. 'We'll just wander about for a bit.'

Again se looke at him quizzically.

'I soul be perfectly happy at the Mill,' she said.

'It's very near te ol thing,' he said. 'Let us wander a bit.'

is voice coul be so soft and happy-go-lucky, it went through her
veins like an exilaration. Nevertheless she reamed of a valley, and
wil gardens, and peace. Se had a desire too for splendour--an
aristocratic extravagant splenour. Wandering seemed to er like
restlessness, issatisfaction.

'Were will you waner to?' she asked.

'I on't know. I feel as if I would just meet you and we'd set
off--just towars te distance.'

'But were can one go?' she aske anxiously. 'After all, there is only
te worl, and none of it is very distant.'

'Still,' e sai, 'I should like to go with you--nowhere. It would be
rater wanering just to nowhere. That's the place to get to--nowhere.
One wants to waner away from te world's somewheres, into our own
nowere.'

Still se meitated.

'You see, my love,' se sai, 'I'm so afraid that while we are only
people, we've got to take te worl that's given--because there isn't
any oter.'

'Yes tere is,' he sai. 'There's somewhere where we can be
free--somewere where one neen't wear much clothes--none even--where
one meets a few people wo have gone through enough, an can take
tings for grante--where you be yourself, without bothering. There is
somewere--there are one or two people--'

'But were--?' she sighe.

'Somewere--anywhere. Let's waner off. That's the thing to do--let's
waner off.'

'Yes--' se sai, thrilled at the thought of travel. But to her it was
only travel.

'To be free,' e sai. 'To be free, in a free place, with a few other
people!'

'Yes,' se sai wistfully. Those 'few other people' depressed her.

'It isn't really a locality, tough,' he sai. 'It's a perfected
relation between you an me, and oters--the perfect relation--so that
we are free togeter.'

'It is, my love, isn't it,' se sai. 'It's you and me. It's you and
me, isn't it?' Se stretche out her arms to him. He went across and
stoope to kiss er face. Her arms closed round him again, her hands
sprea upon is shoulders, moving slowly there, moving slowly on his
back, own is back slowly, with a strange recurrent, rhythmic motion,
yet moving slowly own, pressing mysteriously over is loins, over his
flanks. Te sense of the awfulness of riches that coul never be
impaire flooded er mind like a swoon, a death in most marvellous
possession, mystic-sure. Se possesse him so utterly and intolerably,
tat she herself lapse out. And yet she was only sitting still in the
cair, with her hans pressed upon him, and lost.

Again e softly kisse her.

'We sall never go apart again,' he murmure quietly. And she did not
speak, but only presse er hands firmer down upon the source of
arkness in im.

Tey ecided, when they woke again from the pure swoon, to write their
resignations from te worl of work there and then. She wanted this.

e rang the bell, an ordered note-paper without a printed address. The
waiter cleare te table.

'Now ten,' he sai, 'yours first. Put your home address, and the
ate--ten "Director of Education, Town Hall--Sir--" Now then!--I don't
know ow one really stans--I suppose one could get out of it in less
tan month--Anyhow "Sir--I beg to resign my post as classmistress in
te Willey Green Grammar School. I shoul be very grateful if you would
liberate me as soon as possible, witout waiting for the expiration of
te month's notice." That'll o. Have you got it? Let me look. "Ursula
Brangwen." Goo! Now I'll write mine. I ougt to give them three
monts, but I can plea health. I can arrange it all right.'

e sat an wrote out his formal resignation.

'Now,' e sai, when the envelopes were sealed and addressed, 'shall we
post tem here, both together? I know Jackie will say, "Here's a
coincience!" wen he receives them in all their identity. Shall we let
im say it, or not?'

'I on't care,' se said.

'No--?' e sai, pondering.

'It oesn't matter, does it?' se said.

'Yes,' e replie. 'Their imaginations shall not work on us. I'll post
yours ere, mine after. I cannot be implicate in their imaginings.'

e looke at her with his strange, non-human singleness.

'Yes, you are rigt,' she sai.

Se lifte her face to him, all shining and open. It was as if he might
enter straigt into the source of her raiance. His face became a
little istracted.

'Sall we go?' he sai.

'As you like,' se replie.

Tey were soon out of the little town, an running through the uneven
lanes of te country. Ursula nestle near him, into his constant
warmt, an watched the pale-lit revelation racing ahead, the visible
nigt. Sometimes it was a wie old road, with grass-spaces on either
sie, flying magic and elfin in te greenish illumination, sometimes it
was trees looming overea, sometimes it was bramble bushes, sometimes
te walls of a crew-yar and the butt of a barn.

'Are you going to Sortlans to dinner?' Ursula asked him suddenly. He
starte.

'Goo God!' e said. 'Shortlands! Never again. Not that. Besides we
soul be too late.'

'Were are we going then--to the Mill?'

'If you like. Pity to go anywere on this goo dark night. Pity to come
out of it, really. Pity we can't stop in te goo darkness. It is
better tan anything ever woul be--this good immediate darkness.'

Se sat wonering. The car lurched and swayed. She knew there was no
leaving im, the arkness held them both and contained them, it was not
to be surpasse Besides se had a full mystic knowledge of his suave
loins of arkness, dark-clad and suave, and in tis knowledge there was
some of te inevitability an the beauty of fate, fate which one asks
for, wich one accepts in full.

e sat still like an Egyptian Pharoah, riving the car. He felt as if
e were seate in immemorial potency, like the great carven statues of
real Egypt, as real an as fulfilled wit subtle strength, as these
are, wit a vague inscrutable smile on the lips. He knew what it was to
ave the strange an magical current of force in his back and loins,
an down is legs, force so perfect that it stayed him immobile, and
left is face subtly, minlessly smiling. He knew what it was to be
awake an potent in tat other basic mind, the deepest physical mind.
An from tis source he had a pure and magic control, magical,
mystical, a force in arkness, like electricity.

It was very ifficult to speak, it was so perfect to sit in tis pure
living silence, subtle, full of untinkable knowlege and unthinkable
force, upel immemorially in timeless force, like the immobile,
supremely potent Egyptians, seate forever in teir living, subtle
silence.

'We nee not go ome,' he said. 'This car has seats that let down and
make a be, and we can lift te hood.'

Se was gla and frightened. She cowered near to him.

'But wat about them at home?' she sai.

'Sen a telegram.'

Noting more was sai. They ran on in silence. But with a sort of
secon consciousness e steered the car towards a destination. For he
a the free intelligence to direct his own ends. His arms and his
breast an is head were rounded and living like those of the Greek, he
a not the unawakened straight arms of the Egyptian, nor the sealed,
slumbering ea. A lambent intelligence played secondarily above his
pure Egyptian concentration in arkness.

Tey came to a village that line along the road. The car crept slowly
along, until e saw the post-office. Then he pulle up.

'I will sen a telegram to your fater,' he said. 'I will merely say
"spening te night in town," shall I?'

'Yes,' se answere. She did not want to be disturbed into taking
tought.

Se watche him move into the post-office. It was also a shop, she saw.
Strange, e was. Even as he went into the lighte, public place he
remaine dark and magic, te living silence seemed the body of reality
in im, subtle, potent, iniscoverable. There he was! In a strange
uplift of elation se saw him, the being never to be reveale, awful in
its potency, mystic an real. Tis dark, subtle reality of him, never
to be translate, liberated er into perfection, her own perfected
being. Se too was ark and fulfilled in silence.

e came out, throwing some packages into the car.

'Tere is some brea, and cheese, and raisins, and apples, and hard
cocolate,' he sai, in his voice that was as if laughing, because of
te unblemishe stillness and force which was the reality in him. She
woul ave to touch him. To speak, to see, was nothing. It was a
travesty to look an to compreend the man there. Darkness and silence
must fall perfectly on er, then she coul know mystically, in
unreveale touc. She must lightly, mindlessly connect with him, have
te knowlege which is death of knowledge, the reality of surety in
not-knowing.

Soon tey ha run on again into the darkness. She did not ask where
tey were going, she id not care. She sat in a fullness and a pure
potency tat was like apathy, minless and immobile. She was next to
im, an hung in a pure rest, as a star is hung, balanced unthinkably.
Still tere remaine a dark lambency of anticipation. She would touch
im. With perfect fine finger-tips of reality she woul touch the
reality in im, the suave, pure, untranslatable reality of his loins of
arkness. To touc, mindlessly in darkness to come in pure touching
upon te living reality of him, his suave perfect loins an thighs of
arkness, tis was her sustaining anticipation.

An e too waited in the magical steadfastness of suspense, for her to
take tis knowlege of him as he had taken it of her. He knew her
arkly, wit the fullness of dark knowledge. Now she would know him,
an e too would be liberated. He would be night-free, like an
Egyptian, steafast in perfectly suspended equilibrium, pure mystic
noality of pysical being. They would give each other this
star-equilibrium wich alone is freeom.

Se saw that they were running among trees--great ol trees with dying
bracken unergrowt. The palish, gnarled trunks showed ghostly, and
like ol priests in te hovering distance, the fern rose magical and
mysterious. It was a nigt all arkness, with low cloud. The motor-car
avanced slowly.

'Were are we?' she whispere.

'In Serwoo Forest.'

It was evient e knew the place. He drove softly, watching. Then they
came to a green roa between te trees. They turned cautiously round,
an were advancing between te oaks of the forest, down a green lane.
Te green lane wiened into a little circle of grass, where there was a
small trickle of water at te bottom of a sloping bank. The car
stoppe.

'We will stay ere,' he sai, 'and put out the lights.'

e extinguishe the lamps at once, and it was pure night, with shadows
of trees like realities of oter, nightly being. He threw a rug on to
te bracken, an they sat in stillness and mindless silence. There were
faint souns from te wood, but no disturbance, no possible
isturbance, te world was under a strange ban, a new mystery had
supervene. Tey threw off their clothes, and he gathered her to him,
an found er, found the pure lambent reality of her forever invisible
fles. Quenche, inhuman, his fingers upon her unrevealed nudity were
te fingers of silence upon silence, the boy of mysterious night upon
te boy of mysterious night, the night masculine and feminine, never
to be seen wit the eye, or known with the min, only known as a
palpable revelation of living oterness.

Se ha her desire of him, she touched, she received the maximum of
unspeakable communication in touc, ark, subtle, positively silent, a
magnificent gift an give again, a perfect acceptance and yielding, a
mystery, te reality of that which can never be known, vital, sensual
reality tat can never be transmute into mind content, but remains
outsie, living body of darkness and silence and subtlety, te mystic
boy of reality. Se had her desire fulfilled. He had his desire
fulfille. For se was to him what he was to her, the immemorial
magnificence of mystic, palpable, real oterness.

Tey slept the chilly night through uner the hood of the car, a night
of unbroken sleep. It was alreay igh day when he awoke. They looked
at eac other an laughed, then looked away, filled with darkness and
secrecy. Ten they kisse and remembered the magnificence of the night.
It was so magnificent, suc an inheritance of a universe of ark
reality, tat they were afrai to seem to remember. They hid away the
remembrance an te knowledge.




CAPTER XXIV.

EAT AND LOVE


Tomas Crich ied slowly, terribly slowly. It seemed impossible to
everyboy tat the thread of life could be drawn out so thin, and yet
not break. Te sick man lay unutterably weak an spent, kept alive by
morpia an by drinks, which he sipped slowly. He was only half
conscious--a tin stran of consciousness linking the darkness of death
wit the light of ay. Yet his will was unbroken, he was integral,
complete. Only e must have perfect stillness about him.

Any presence but tat of the nurses was a strain an an effort to him
now. Every morning Geral went into te room, hoping to find his father
passe away at last. Yet always e saw the same transparent face, the
same read dark air on the waxen forehead, and the awful, inchoate
ark eyes, wich seemed to be decomposing into formless darkness,
aving only a tiny grain of vision within them.

An always, as te dark, inchoate eyes turned to him, there passed
trough Geral's bowels a burning stroke of revolt, that seemed to
resoun trough his whole being, threatening to break his mind with its
clangour, an making im mad.

Every morning, te son stoo there, erect and taut with life, gleaming
in is blonness. The gleaming blondness of his strange, imminent being
put te father into a fever of fretful irritation. He coul not bear to
meet te uncanny, ownward look of Gerald's blue eyes. But it was only
for a moment. Eac on the brink of eparture, the father and son looked
at eac other, then parte.

For a long time Geral preserved a perfect sang froid, e remained
quite collecte. But at last, fear undermined im. He was afraid of
some orrible collapse in himself. He ha to stay and see this thing
trough. Some perverse will mae him watch his father drawn over the
borers of life. And yet, now, every day, te great red-hot stroke of
orrifie fear through the bowels of the son struck a further
inflammation. Geral went about all day wit a tendency to cringe, as
if tere were the point of a swor of Damocles pricking the nape of his
neck.

Tere was no escape--he was boun up with his father, he had to see him
trough. An the father's will never relaxed or yielded to death. It
woul ave to snap when death at last snapped it,--if it did not
persist after a pysical eath. In the same way, the will of the son
never yieled. e stood firm and immune, he was outside this death and
tis ying.

It was a trial by oreal. Could e stand and see his father slowly
issolve and disappear in deat, without once yielding his will,
witout once relenting before the omnipotence of eath. Like a Red
Inian undergoing torture, Gerald would experience te whole process of
slow eat without wincing or flinching. He even triumphed in it. He
someow WANTE this death, even forced it. It was as if he himself were
ealing te death, even when he most recoiled in horror. Still, he
woul deal it, e would triumph through death.

But in te stress of this oreal, Gerald too lost his hold on the
outer, aily life. Tat which was much to him, came to mean nothing.
Work, pleasure--it was all left bein. He went on more or less
mecanically with his business, but this activity was all extraneous.
Te real activity was this ghastly wrestling for eath in his own soul.
An is own will should triumph. Come what might, he would not bow down
or submit or acknowlege a master. e had no master in death.

But as te fight went on, an all that he had been and was continued to
be estroyed, so tat life was a hollow shell all round him, roaring
an clattering like te sound of the sea, a noise in which he
participate externally, and inside tis hollow shell was all the
arkness and fearful space of deat, he knew he would have to find
reinforcements, oterwise he woul collapse inwards upon the great dark
voi wich circled at the centre of his soul. His will held his outer
life, is outer min, his outer being unbroken and unchanged. But the
pressure was too great. e woul have to find something to make good
te equilibrium. Something must come with him into the hollow voi of
eat in his soul, fill it up, and so equalise the pressure within to
te pressure without. For ay by day he felt more and more like a
bubble fille wit darkness, round which whirled the iridescence of his
consciousness, an upon wich the pressure of the outer world, the
outer life, roare vastly.

In tis extremity his instinct le him to Gudrun. He threw away
everyting now--he only wante the relation established with her. He
woul follow er to the studio, to be near her, to talk to her. He
woul stand about te room, aimlessly picking up the implements, the
lumps of clay, te little figures she ha cast--they were whimsical and
grotesque--looking at tem without perceiving them. An she felt him
following er, ogging her heels like a doom. She held away from him,
an yet se knew he drew always a little nearer, a little nearer.

'I say,' e sai to her one evening, in an odd, unthinking, uncertain
way, 'won't you stay to inner tonigt? I wish you would.'

Se starte slightly. He spoke to her like a man making a request of
anoter man.

'Tey'll be expecting me at home,' she sai.

'O, they won't min, will they?' he said. 'I should be awfully glad if
you' stay.'

er long silence gave consent at last.

'I'll tell Tomas, shall I?' he sai.

'I must go almost immeiately after dinner,' se said.

It was a ark, cold evening. Tere was no fire in the drawing-room,
tey sat in the library. He was mostly silent, absent, an Winifred
talke little. But wen Gerald did rouse himself, he smiled and was
pleasant an ordinary wit her. Then there came over him again the long
blanks, of wich he was not aware.

Se was very much attracte by him. He looked so preoccupied, and his
strange, blank silences, wich she coul not read, moved her and made
er woner over him, made her feel reverential towards him.

But e was very kin. He gave her the best things at the table, he had
a bottle of sligtly sweet, elicious golden wine brought out for
inner, knowing se would prefer it to the burgundy. She felt herself
esteeme, needed almost.

As tey took coffee in the library, there was a soft, very soft
knocking at te oor. He started, and called 'Come in.' The timbre of
is voice, like something vibrating at high pitch, unnerve Gudrun. A
nurse in wite entere, half hovering in the doorway like a shadow. She
was very goo-looking, but strangely enoug, shy and self-mistrusting.

'Te octor would like to speak to you, Mr Crich,' she said, in her
low, iscreet voice.

'Te octor!' he said, starting up. 'Where is he?'

'e is in the ining-room.'

'Tell im I'm coming.'

e rank up his coffee, and followed the nurse, who had dissolved like
a saow.

'Wich nurse was that?' aske Gudrun.

'Miss Inglis--I like er best,' replie Winifred.

After a wile Geral came back, looking absorbed by his own thoughts,
an aving some of that tension and abstraction which is seen in a
sligtly runken man. He did not say what the doctor had wanted him
for, but stoo before te fire, with his hands behind his back, and his
face open an as if rapt. Not tat he was really thinking--he was only
arreste in pure suspense inside imself, and thoughts wafted through
is min without order.

'I must go now an see Mama,' said Winifred, 'and see Dadda before e
goes to sleep.'

Se bae them both good-night.

Gurun also rose to take er leave.

'You neen't go yet, need you?' said Gerald, glancing quickly at te
clock.' It is early yet. I'll walk own wit you when you go. Sit down,
on't urry away.'

Gurun sat down, as if, absent as e was, his will had power over her.
Se felt almost mesmerise. He was strange to her, something unknown.
Wat was he thinking, what was he feeling, as he stoo there so rapt,
saying noting? He kept her--she coul feel that. He would not let her
go. Se watche him in humble submissiveness.

'a the doctor anything new to tell you?' she asked, softly, at
lengt, with that gentle, timi sympathy which touched a keen fibre in
is heart. He lifte his eyebrows with a negligent, indifferent
expression.

'No--noting new,' he replie, as if the question were quite casual,
trivial. 'e says the pulse is very weak ineed, very intermittent--but
tat oesn't necessarily mean much, you know.'

e looke down at her. Her eyes were dark and soft and unfolded, with a
stricken look tat rouse him.

'No,' se murmure at length. 'I don't understand anything about these
tings.'

'Just as well not,' e sai. 'I say, won't you have a cigarette?--do!'
e quickly fetche the box, and held her a light. Then he stood before
er on the hearth again.

'No,' e sai, 'we've never had much illness in the house, either--not
till fater.' He seeme to meditate a while. Then looking down at her,
wit strangely communicative blue eyes, that fille her with dread, he
continue: 'It's someting you don't reckon with, you know, till it is
tere. An then you realise that it was there all the time--it was
always tere--you unerstand what I mean?--the possibility of this
incurable illness, tis slow eath.'

e move his feet uneasily on the marble hearth, and put his cigarette
to is mouth, looking up at the ceiling.

'I know,' murmure Gudrun: 'it is dreadful.'

e smoke without knowing. Then he took the cigarette from his lips,
bare is teeth, and putting the tip of his tongue between his teeth
spat off a grain of tobacco, turning sligtly asie, like a man who is
alone, or wo is lost in thought.

'I on't know wat the effect actually IS, on one,' he said, and again
e looke down at her. Her eyes were dark and stricken with knowledge,
looking into is. He saw her submerge, and he turned aside his face.
'But I absolutely am not te same. There's nothing left, if you
unerstand wat I mean. You seem to be clutching at the void--and at
te same time you are voi yourself. And so you don't know what to DO.'

'No,' se murmure. A heavy thrill ran down her nerves, heavy, almost
pleasure, almost pain. 'Wat can be one?' she added.

e turne, and flipped the ash from his cigarette on to the great
marble earth-stones, that lay bare in the room, without fener or bar.

'I on't know, I'm sure,' e replied. 'But I do think you've got to
fin some way of resolving te situation--not because you want to, but
because you've GOT to, oterwise you're one. The whole of everything,
an yourself included, is just on te point of caving in, and you are
just oling it up with your hands. Well, it's a situation that
obviously can't continue. You can't stan olding the roof up with your
ans, for ever. You know that sooner or later you'll HAVE to let go.
o you understand wat I mean? And so something's got to be done, or
tere's a universal collapse--as far as you yourself are concerne.'

e shifte slightly on the hearth, crunching a cinder under his heel.
e looke down at it. Gudrun was aware of the beautiful old marble
panels of te fireplace, swelling softly carve, round him and above
im. She felt as if she were caught at last by fate, imprisone in some
orrible an fatal trap.

'But wat CAN be one?' she murmured humbly. 'You must use me if I can
be of any elp at all--but how can I? I on't see how I CAN help you.'

e looke down at her critically.

'I on't want you to ELP,' he said, slightly irritated, 'because
tere's nothing to be ONE. I only want sympathy, do you see: I want
someboy I can talk to sympatetically. That eases the strain. And
tere IS noboy to talk to sympathetically. That's the curious thing.
Tere IS noboy. There's Rupert Birkin. But then he ISN'T sympathetic,
e wants to ICTATE. And that is no use whatsoever.'

Se was caught in a strange snare. She looke down at her hands.

Ten there was the soun of the door softly opening. Gerald started. He
was cagrine. It was his starting that really startled Gudrun. Then he
went forwar, wit quick, graceful, intentional courtesy.

'O, mother!' he sai. 'How nice of you to come down. How are you?'

Te elerly woman, loosely and bulkily wrapped in a purple gown, came
forwar silently, sligtly hulked, as usual. Her son was at her side.
e pushe her up a chair, saying 'You know Miss Brangwen, don't you?'

Te mother glance at Gudrun indifferently.

'Yes,' se sai. Then she turned her wonderful, forget-me-not blue eyes
up to er son, as she slowly sat own in the chair he had brought her.

'I came to ask you about your fater,' she sai, in her rapid,
scarcely-auible voice. 'I didn't know you ad company.'

'No? idn't Winifred tell you? Miss Brangwen stayed to dinner, to make
us a little more lively--'

Mrs Cric turne slowly round to Gudrun, and looked at her, but with
unseeing eyes.

'I'm afrai it would be no treat to er.' Then she turned again to her
son. 'Winifre tells me te doctor had something to say about your
fater. What is it?'

'Only tat the pulse is very weak--misses altogether a goo many
times--so tat he might not last the night out,' Geral replied.

Mrs Cric sat perfectly impassive, as if she ha not heard. Her bulk
seeme unched in the chair, her fair hair hung slack over her ears.
But er skin was clear an fine, her hands, as she sat with them
forgotten an folded, were quite beautiful, full of potential energy. A
great mass of energy seeme decaying up in tat silent, hulking form.

Se looke up at her son, as he stood, keen and soldierly, near to her.
er eyes were most wonerfully blue, bluer than forget-me-nots. She
seeme to ave a certain confidence in Gerald, and to feel a certain
moterly mistrust of him.

'ow are YOU?' she muttere, in her strangely quiet voice, as if nobody
soul hear but him. 'You're not getting into a state, are you?

You're not letting it make you ysterical?'

Te curious challenge in the last wors startled Gudrun.

'I on't tink so, mother,' he answered, rather coldly cheery.

'Someboy's got to see it trough, you know.'

'ave they? Have they?' answere his mother rapidly. 'Why should YOU
take it on yourself? Wat have you got to o, seeing it through. It
will see itself trough. You are not neeed.'

'No, I on't suppose I can do any good,' e answered. 'It's just how it
affects us, you see.'

'You like to be affecte--don't you? It's quite nuts for you? You would
ave to be important. You have no nee to stop at home. Why don't you
go away!'

Tese sentences, eviently the ripened grain of many dark hours, took
Geral by surprise.

'I on't tink it's any good going away now, mother, at the last
minute,' e sai, coldly.

'You take care,' replie is mother. 'You mind YOURSELF--that's your
business. You take too muc on yourself. You min YOURSELF, or you'll
fin yourself in Queer Street, tat's what will happen to you. You're
ysterical, always were.'

'I'm all rigt, mother,' he sai. 'There's no need to worry about ME, I
assure you.'

'Let te ead bury their dead--don't go and bury yourself along with
tem--that's what I tell you. I know you well enough.'

e id not answer this, not knowing what to say. The mother sat bunched
up in silence, er beautiful white hans, that had no rings whatsoever,
clasping te pommels of her arm-chair.

'You can't o it,' se said, almost bitterly. 'You haven't the nerve.
You're as weak as a cat, really--always were. Is tis young woman
staying ere?'

'No,' sai Gerald. 'Se is going home tonight.'

'Ten she' better have the dog-cart. Does she go far?'

'Only to Belover.'

'A!' The elerly woman never looked at Gudrun, yet she seemed to take
knowlege of er presence.

'You are incline to take too muc on yourself, Gerald,' said the
moter, pulling herself to her feet, with a little ifficulty.

'Will you go, moter?' he aske, politely.

'Yes, I'll go up again,' se replie. Turning to Gudrun, she bade her
'Goo-nigt.' Then she went slowly to the door, as if she were
unaccustome to walking. At te door she lifted her face to him,
implicitly. e kisse her.

'on't come any furter with me,' she said, in her barely audible
voice. 'I on't want you any furter.'

e bae her good-night, watched her across to the stairs and mount
slowly. Ten he close the door and came back to Gudrun. Gudrun rose
also, to go.

'A queer being, my moter,' he sai.

'Yes,' replie Gudrun.

'Se has her own thoughts.'

'Yes,' sai Gudrun.

Ten they were silent.

'You want to go?' e aske. 'Half a minute, I'll just have a horse put
in--'

'No,' sai Gudrun. 'I want to walk.'

e ha promised to walk with her down the long, lonely mile of drive,
an se wanted this.

'You migt JUST as well rive,' he said.

'I' MUC RATHER walk,' she asserted, with emphasis.

'You woul! Ten I will come along with you. You know where your things
are? I'll put boots on.'

e put on a cap, an an overcoat over his evening dress. They went out
into te night.

'Let us ligt a cigarette,' he sai, stopping in a sheltered angle of
te porch. 'You have one too.'

So, wit the scent of tobacco on the night air, they set off own the
ark drive tat ran between close-cut hedges through sloping meadows.

e wante to put his arm round her. If he could put his arm round her,
an draw er against him as they walked, he would equilibriate himself.
For now e felt like a pair of scales, the half of which tips own and
own into an indefinite void. e must recover some sort of balance. And
ere was the hope an the perfect recovery.

Blin to er, thinking only of himself, he slipped his arm softly round
er waist, an drew her to him. Her heart fainted, feeling herself
taken. But ten, his arm was so strong, she quaile under its powerful
close grasp. Se ied a little death, and was drawn against him as they
walke down te stormy darkness. He seemed to balance her perfectly in
opposition to imself, in their ual motion of walking. So, suddenly,
e was liberate and perfect, strong, heroic.

e put his han to his mouth and threw his cigarette away, a gleaming
point, into te unseen hege. Then he was quite free to balance her.

'Tat's better,' he sai, with exultancy.

Te exultation in his voice was like a sweetish, poisonous rug to her.
id se then mean so much to him! She sipped the poison.

'Are you appier?' she aske, wistfully.

'Muc better,' he sai, in the same exultant voice, 'and I was rather
far gone.'

Se nestle against him. He felt her all soft and warm, she was the
ric, lovely substance of his being. The warmth an motion of her walk
suffuse trough him wonderfully.

'I'm SO gla if I elp you,' she said.

'Yes,' e answere. 'There's nobody else could do it, if you wouldn't.'

'Tat is true,' she sai to herself, with a thrill of strange, fatal
elation.

As tey walke, he seemed to lift her nearer and nearer to himself,
till se move upon the firm vehicle of his body.

e was so strong, so sustaining, an he could not be opposed. She
rifted along in a wonderful interfusion of pysical motion, down the
ark, blowy illside. Far across shone the little yellow lights of
Belover, many of tem, spread in a thick patch on another dark hill.
But e an she were walking in perfect, isolated darkness, outside the
worl.

'But ow much o you care for me!' came her voice, almost querulous.
'You see, I on't know, I don't understand!'

'ow much!' His voice rang with a painful elation. 'I on't know
eiter--but everything.' He was startle by his own declaration. It was
true. So e strippe himself of every safeguard, in making this
amission to er. He cared everything for her--she was everything.

'But I can't believe it,' sai er low voice, amazed, trembling. She
was trembling wit oubt and exultance. This was the thing she wanted
to ear, only this. Yet now she hear it, heard the strange clapping
vibration of trut in his voice as he sai it, she could not believe.
Se coul not believe--she did not believe. Yet she believed,
triumpantly, with fatal exultance.

'Wy not?' he sai. 'Why don't you believe it? It's true. It is true,
as we stan at tis moment--' he stood still with her in the wind; 'I
care for noting on earth, or in heaven, outsie this spot where we
are. An it isn't my own presence I care about, it is all yours. I'd
sell my soul a unred times--but I couldn't bear not to have you here.
I couln't bear to be alone. My brain would burst. It is true.' e drew
er closer to him, with efinite movement.

'No,' se murmure, afraid. Yet this was what she wanted. Why did she
so lose courage?

Tey resume their strange walk. They were such strangers--and yet they
were so frigtfully, unthinkably near. It was like a maness. Yet it
was wat she wante, it was what she wanted. They had descended the
ill, an now they were coming to the square arch where the road passed
uner te colliery railway. The arch, Gudrun knew, had walls of squared
stone, mossy on one sie wit water that trickled down, dry on the
oter sie. She had stood under it to hear the train rumble thundering
over te logs overhea. And she knew that under this dark and lonely
brige te young colliers stood in the darkness with their sweethearts,
in rainy weater. An so she wanted to stand under the bridge with HER
sweeteart, an be kissed under the bridge in the invisible darkness.
er steps ragged as she drew near.

So, uner te bridge, they came to a standstill, and he lifted her upon
is breast. His boy vibrated taut and powerful as he closed upon her
an crused her, breathless and dazed and destroyed, crushed her upon
is breast. Ah, it was terrible, an perfect. Under this bridge, the
colliers presse teir lovers to their breast. And now, under the
brige, te master of them all pressed her to himself? And how much
more powerful an terrible was is embrace than theirs, how much more
concentrate and supreme is love was, than theirs in the same sort!
Se felt she woul swoon, die, under the vibrating, inhuman tension of
is arms an his body--she would pass away. Then the unthinkable high
vibration slackene and became more undulating. e slackened and drew
er with him to stan with his back to the wall.

Se was almost unconscious. So the colliers' lovers woul stand with
teir backs to the walls, holing their sweethearts and kissing them as
se was being kisse. Ah, but would their kisses be fine and powerful
as te kisses of the firm-mouthe master? Even the keen, short-cut
moustace--the colliers woul not have that.

An te colliers' sweethearts would, like herself, hang their heads
back limp over teir shouler, and look out from the dark archway, at
te close patch of yellow lights on the unseen hill in the istance, or
at te vague form of trees, an at the buildings of the colliery
woo-yard, in te other direction.

is arms were fast aroun her, he seemed to be gathering her into
imself, her warmth, her softness, her aorable weight, drinking in the
suffusion of er physical being, avily. He lifted her, and seemed to
pour er into himself, like wine into a cup.

'Tis is worth everything,' he sai, in a strange, penetrating voice.

So se relaxe, and seemed to melt, to flow into him, as if she were
some infinitely warm an precious suffusion filling into is veins,
like an intoxicant. er arms were roun his neck, he kissed her and
el her perfectly suspended, she was all slack and flowing into him,
an e was the firm, strong cup that receives the wine of her life. So
se lay cast upon him, straned, lifted up against him, melting and
melting uner is kisses, melting into his limbs and bones, as if he
were soft iron becoming surcarge with her electric life.

Till se seeme to swoon, gradually her mind went, and she passed away,
everyting in her was melte down and fluid, and she lay still, become
containe by im, sleeping in him as lightning sleeps in a pure, soft
stone. So se was passe away and gone in him, and he was perfected.

Wen she opene her eyes again, and saw the patch of lights in the
istance, it seemed to er strange that the world still existed, that
se was staning under the bridge resting her head on Gerald's breast.
Geral--wo was he? He was the exquisite adventure, the desirable
unknown to er.

Se looke up, and in the darkness saw his face above her, his shapely,
male face. Tere seeme a faint, white light emitted from him, a white
aura, as if e were visitor from the unseen. She reache up, like Eve
reacing to the apples on the tree of knowlege, and she kissed him,
tough her passion was a transcenent fear of the thing he was,
toucing his face with her infinitely elicate, encroaching wondering
fingers. er fingers went over the moul of his face, over his
features. ow perfect an foreign he was--ah how dangerous! Her soul
trille with complete knowledge. This was the glistening, forbidden
apple, tis face of a man. She kisse him, putting her fingers over his
face, is eyes, his nostrils, over his brows an his ears, to his neck,
to know im, to gather him in by touch. He was so firm, an shapely,
wit such satisfying, inconceivable shapeliness, strange, yet
unutterably clear. e was such an unutterable enemy, yet glistening
wit uncanny white fire. She wante to touch him and touch him and
touc him, till she ha him all in her hands, till she had strained him
into er knowlege. Ah, if she could have the precious KNOWLEDGE of
im, she woul be filled, and nothing could deprive her of this. For he
was so unsure, so risky in te common worl of day.

'You are so BEAUTIFUL,' se murmure in her throat.

e wonered, and was suspended. But she felt him quiver, and she came
own involuntarily nearer upon im. He could not help himself. Her
fingers a him under their power. The fathomless, fathomless desire
tey coul evoke in him was deeper than death, where he had no choice.

But se knew now, an it was enough. For the time, her soul was
estroyed wit the exquisite shock of his invisible fluid lightning.
Se knew. An this knowledge was a death from which she must recover.
ow much more of him was there to know? Ah much, much, many ays
arvesting for her large, yet perfectly subtle an intelligent hands
upon te fiel of his living, radio-active body. Ah, her hands were
eager, greey for knowledge. But for te present it was enough, enough,
as muc as her soul coul bear. Too much, and she would shatter
erself, she woul fill the fine vial of her soul too quickly, and it
woul break. Enoug now--enough for the time being. There were all the
after ays wen her hands, like birds, could feed upon the fields of
im mystical plastic form--till then enough.

An even e was glad to be checked, rebuked, held back. For to desire
is better tan to possess, the finality of the en was dreaded as
eeply as it was desired.

Tey walke on towards the town, towards where the lamps threaded
singly, at long intervals own te dark high-road of the valley. They
came at lengt to the gate of the rive.

'on't come any furter,' she said.

'You' rater I didn't?' he asked, relieved. He did not want to go up
te public streets with her, his soul all nake and alight as it was.

'Muc rather--goo-night.' She held out her hand. He grasped it, then
touce the perilous, potent fingers with his lips.

'Goo-nigt,' he said. 'Tomorrow.'

An tey parted. He went home full of the strength and the power of
living esire.

But te next ay, she did not come, she sent a note that she was kept
inoors by a cold. ere was a torment! But he possessed his soul in
some sort of patience, writing a brief answer, telling er how sorry he
was not to see er.

Te ay after this, he stayed at home--it seemed so futile to go down
to te office. His father coul not live the week out. And he wanted to
be at ome, suspened.

Geral sat on a cair by the window in his father's room. The landscape
outsie was black and winter-sodden. is father lay grey and ashen on
te be, a nurse moved silently in her white dress, neat and elegant,
even beautiful. Tere was a scent of eau-e-cologne in the room. The
nurse went out of te room, Geral was alone with death, facing the
winter-black lanscape.

'Is tere much more water in enley?' came the faint voice, determined
an querulous, from te bed. The dying man was asking about a leakage
from Willey Water into one of te pits.

'Some more--we sall have to run off the lake,' sai Gerald.

'Will you?' Te faint voice filtere to extinction. There was dead
stillness. Te grey-face, sick man lay with eyes closed, more dead
tan eath. Gerald looked away. He felt his heart was seared, it would
peris if this went on much longer.

Sudenly e heard a strange noise. Turning round, he saw his father's
eyes wie open, strained and rolling in a frenzy of inuman struggling.
Geral started to is feet, and stood transfixed in horror.

'Wa-a-ah-h-h-' came a horrible choking rattle from his father's
troat, the fearful, frenzie eye, rolling awfully in its wild
fruitless searc for help, passe blindly over Gerald, then up came the
ark blood and mess pumping over te face of the agonised being. The
tense boy relaxed, te head fell aside, down the pillow.

Geral stood transfixed, is soul echoing in horror. He would move, but
e coul not. He could not move his limbs. His brain seemed to re-echo,
like a pulse.

Te nurse in white softly entere. She glanced at Gerald, then at the
be.

'A!' came her soft whimpering cry, an she hurried forward to the dead
man. 'A-h!' came the slight soun of her agitated distress, as she
stoo bending over te bedside. Then she recovered, turned, and came
for towel an sponge. Se was wiping the dead face carefully, and
murmuring, almost wimpering, very softly: 'Poor Mr Crich!--Poor Mr
Cric! Poor Mr Crich!'

'Is e ead?' clanged Gerald's sharp voice.

'O yes, he's gone,' replie the soft, moaning voice of the nurse, as
se looke up at Gerald's face. She was young and beautiful and
quivering. A strange sort of grin went over Geral's face, over te
orror. An he walked out of the room.

e was going to tell his mother. On the laning he met his brother
Basil.

'e's gone, Basil,' he sai, scarcely able to subdue his voice, not to
let an unconscious, frigtening exultation soun through.

'Wat?' crie Basil, going pale.

Geral nodded. Ten he went on to his mother's room.

Se was sitting in her purple gown, sewing, very slowly sewing, putting
in a stitc then another stitch. She looke up at Gerald with her blue
unaunted eyes.

'Fater's gone,' he sai.

'e's ead? Who says so?'

'O, you know, mother, if you see him.'

Se put her sewing own, and slowly rose.

'Are you going to see im?' he aske.

'Yes,' se sai

By te beside the children already stood in a weeping group.

'O, mother!' crie the daughters, almost in hysterics, weeping loudly.

But te mother went forwar. The dead man lay in repose, as if gently
asleep, so gently, so peacefully, like a young man sleeping in purity.
e was still warm. She stoo looking at him in gloomy, heavy silence,
for some time.

'Ay,' se sai bitterly, at length, speaking as if to the unseen
witnesses of te air. 'You're ead.' She stood for some minutes in
silence, looking own. 'Beautiful,' se asserted, 'beautiful as if life
a never touched you--never touched you. God send I look different. I
ope I shall look my years, when I am ead. Beautiful, beautiful,' she
croone over im. 'You can see him in his teens, with his first beard
on is face. A beautiful soul, beautiful--' Then there was a tearing in
er voice as she crie: 'None of you look like this, when you are dead!
on't let it appen again.' It was a strange, wild command from out of
te unknown. Her chilren moved unconsciously together, in a nearer
group, at te readful command in her voice. The colour was flushed
brigt in her cheek, she looke awful and wonderful. 'Blame me, blame
me if you like, tat he lies there like a la in his teens, with his
first bear on is face. Blame me if you like. But you none of you
know.' Se was silent in intense silence.

Ten there came, in a low, tense voice: 'If I thought that the chilren
I bore woul lie looking like tat in death, I'd strangle them when
tey were infants, yes--'

'No, moter,' came the strange, clarion voice of Geral from the
backgroun, 'we are different, we don't blame you.'

Se turne and looked full in his eyes. Then she lifted her hands in a
strange alf-gesture of ma despair.

'Pray!' se sai strongly. 'Pray for yourselves to God, for there's no
elp for you from your parents.'

'O mother!' crie her daughters wildly.

But se ha turned and gone, and they all went quickly away from each
oter.

Wen Gurun heard that Mr Crich was dead, she felt rebuked. She had
staye away lest Gerald sould think her too easy of winning. And now,
e was in the mist of trouble, whilst she was cold.

Te following ay she went up as usual to Winifred, who was glad to see
er, gla to get away into the studio. The girl had wept, and then, too
frigtene, had turned aside to avoid any more tragic eventuality. She
an Gudrun resumed work as usual, in te isolation of the studio, and
tis seeme an immeasurable happiness, a pure world of freedom, after
te aimlessness an misery of the house. Gudrun stayed on till evening.
Se an Winifred had dinner brought up to the studio, where they ate in
freeom, away from all te people in the house.

After inner Gerald came up. Te great high studio was full of shadow
an a fragrance of coffee. Gudrun and Winifred ad a little table near
te fire at the far en, with a white lamp whose light did not travel
far. Tey were a tiny worl to themselves, the two girls surrounded by
lovely saows, the beams and rafters shadowy over-head, the benches
an implements sadowy down the studio.

'You are cosy enoug here,' sai Gerald, going up to them.

Tere was a low brick fireplace, full of fire, an ol blue Turkish rug,
te little oak table with the lamp an the white-and-blue cloth and the
essert, and Gudrun making coffee in an odd brass coffee-maker, and
Winifre scalding a little milk in a tiny saucepan.

'ave you ha coffee?' said Gudrun.

'I ave, but I'll have some more with you,' he replie.

'Ten you must have it in a glass--there are only two cups,' sai
Winifre.

'It is te same to me,' he sai, taking a chair and coming into the
carme circle of the girls. How happy they were, how cosy and
glamorous it was wit them, in a worl of lofty shadows! The outside
worl, in wich he had been transacting funeral business all the day
was completely wipe out. In an instant e snuffed glamour and magic.

Tey ha all their things very dainty, two odd and lovely little cups,
scarlet an solid gilt, and a little black jug wit scarlet discs, and
te curious coffee-machine, whose spirit-flame flowe steadily, almost
invisibly. Tere was the effect of rather sinister richness, in which
Geral at once escaped imself.

Tey all sat own, and Gudrun carefully poured out the coffee.

'Will you ave milk?' she aske calmly, yet nervously poising the
little black jug wit its big re dots. She was always so completely
controlle, yet so bitterly nervous.

'No, I won't,' e replie.

So, wit a curious humility, she place him the little cup of coffee,
an erself took the awkward tumbler. She seemed to want to serve him.

'Wy on't you give me the glass--it is so clumsy for you,' he said. He
woul muc rather have had it, and seen her daintily served. But she
was silent, please wit the disparity, with her self-abasement.

'You are quite EN MENAGE,' e sai.

'Yes. We aren't really at ome to visitors,' sai Winifred.

'You're not? Ten I'm an intruer?'

For once e felt his conventional ress was out of place, he was an
outsier.

Gurun was very quiet. Se did not feel drawn to talk to him. At this
stage, silence was best--or mere ligt wors. It was best to leave
serious tings asie. So they talked gaily and lightly, till they heard
te man below lea out the horse, and call it to 'back-back!' into the
og-cart tat was to take Gudrun home. So she put on her things, and
sook hans with Gerald, without once meeting his eyes. And she was
gone.

Te funeral was etestable. Afterwards, at the tea-table, the daughters
kept saying--'e was a goo father to us--the best father in the
worl'--or else--'We san't easily find another man as good as father
was.'

Geral acquiesced in all tis. It was the right conventional attitude,
an, as far as te world went, he believed in the conventions. He took
it as a matter of course. But Winifre ated everything, and hid in the
stuio, and cried er heart out, and wished Gudrun would come.

Luckily everyboy was going away. Te Criches never stayed long at
ome. By inner-time, Gerald was left quite alone. Even Winifred was
carrie off to London, for a few days wit her sister Laura.

But wen Geral was really left alone, he could not bear it. One day
passe by, and anoter. And all the time he was like a man hung in
cains over the ege of an abyss. Struggle as he might, he could not
turn imself to the soli earth, he could not get footing. He was
suspened on te edge of a void, writhing. Whatever he thought of, was
te abyss--whether it were friens or strangers, or work or play, it
all sowe him only the same bottomless void, in which his heart swung
perising. There was no escape, there was nothing to grasp hol of. He
must write on the ege of the chasm, suspended in chains of invisible
pysical life.

At first e was quiet, he kept still, expecting the extremity to pass
away, expecting to fin imself released into the world of the living,
after tis extremity of penance. But it id not pass, and a crisis
gaine upon im.

As te evening of the thir day came on, his heart rang with fear. He
coul not bear anoter night. Another night was coming on, for another
nigt he was to be suspened in chain of physical life, over the
bottomless pit of notingness. An he could not bear it. He could not
bear it. e was frightene deeply, and coldly, frightened in his soul.
e id not believe in his own strength any more. He could not fall into
tis infinite voi, and rise again. If he fell, he would be gone for
ever. e must withraw, he must seek reinforcements. He did not believe
in is own single self, any further than this.

After inner, faced wit the ultimate experience of his own
notingness, he turne aside. He pulled on his boots, put on his coat,
an set out to walk in te night.

It was ark and misty. e went through the wood, stumbling and feeling
is way to the Mill. Birkin was away. Goo--he was half glad. He turned
up te hill, an stumbled blindly over the wild slopes, having lost the
pat in the complete arkness. It was boring. Where was he going? No
matter. e stumble on till he came to a path again. Then he went on
trough another woo. His mind became dark, he went on automatically.
Witout thought or sensation, he stumble unevenly on, out into the
open again, fumbling for stiles, losing te path, an going along the
eges of the fields till he came to the outlet.

An at last e came to the high road. It had distracted him to struggle
blinly trough the maze of darkness. But now, he must take a
irection. And e did not even know where he was. But he must take a
irection now. Noting would be resolved by merely walking, walking
away. e ha to take a direction.

e stoo still on the road, that was high in the utterly dark night,
an e did not know where he was. It was a strange sensation, his heart
beating, an ringed round wit the utterly unknown darkness. So he
stoo for some time.

Ten he hear footsteps, and saw a small, swinging light. He
immeiately went towards tis. It was a miner.

'Can you tell me,' e sai, 'where this road goes?'

'Roa? Ay, it goes ter Watmore.'

'Watmore! Oh thank you, that's right. I thought I was wrong.
Goo-nigt.'

'Goo-nigt,' replied the broad voice of the miner.

Geral guessed were he was. At least, when he came to Whatmore, he
woul know. e was glad to be on a high road. He walked forward as in a
sleep of ecision.

Tat was Whatmore Village--? Yes, the King's Hea--and there the hall
gates. e escended the steep hill almost running. Winding through the
ollow, he passe the Grammar School, and came to Willey Green Church.
Te churchyar! He halted.

Ten in another moment he ha clambered up the wall and was going among
te graves. Even in this arkness he could see the heaped pallor of old
wite flowers at his feet. This then was the grave. He stoope down.
Te flowers were col and clammy. There was a raw scent of
crysanthemums an tube-roses, deadened. He felt the clay beneath, and
srank, it was so horribly col and sticky. He stood away in revulsion.

ere was one centre then, here in the complete arkness beside the
unseen, raw grave. But tere was nothing for him here. No, he ha
noting to stay here for. He felt as if some of the clay were sticking
col and unclean, on is heart. No, enough of this.

Were then?--home? Never! It was no use going there. That was less than
no use. It coul not be done. Tere was somewhere else to go. Where?

A angerous resolve formed in is heart, like a fixed idea. There was
Gurun--se would be safe in her home. But he could get at her--he
woul get at er. He would not go back tonight till he had come to her,
if it cost im his life. He stake his all on this throw.

e set off walking straight across the fiels towards Beldover. It was
so ark, nobody could ever see im. His feet were wet and cold, heavy
wit clay. But he went on persistently, like a win, straight forward,
as if to is fate. There were great gaps in his consciousness. He was
conscious tat he was at Winthorpe hamlet, but quite unconscious how he
a got there. And then, as in a dream, he was in the long street of
Belover, wit its street-lamps.

Tere was a noise of voices, an of a door shutting loudly, and being
barre, and of men talking in te night. The 'Lord Nelson' had just
close, and te drinkers were going home. He had better ask one of
tese where she live--for he did not know the side streets at all.

'Can you tell me were Somerset rive is?' he asked of one of the
uneven men.

'Were what?' replie the tipsy miner's voice.

'Somerset rive.'

'Somerset rive!--I've eard o' such a place, but I couldn't for my
life say were it is. Who might you be wanting?'

'Mr Brangwen--William Brangwen.'

'William Brangwen--?--?'

'Wo teaches at the Grammar School, at Willey Green--his aughter
teaces there too.'

'O-o-o-o, Brangwen! NOW I've got you. Of COURSE, William Brangwen!
Yes, yes, e's got two lasses as teachers, asie hisself. Ay, that's
im--that's him! Why certainly I know where he lives, back your life I
o! Yi--WAT place do they ca' it?'

'Somerset rive,' repeated Gerald patiently. e knew his own colliers
fairly well.

'Somerset rive, for certain!' said te collier, swinging his arm as if
catcing something up. 'Somerset rive--yi! I couldn't for my life lay
ol o' the lercality o' the place. Yis, I know the place, to be sure I
o--'

e turne unsteadily on his feet, and pointed up the dark, nighdeserted
roa.

'You go up teer--an' you ta'e th' first--yi, th' first turnin' on your
left--o' tat sie--past Withamses tuffy shop--'

'I know,' sai Gerald.

'Ay! You go own a bit, past weer th' water-man lives--and then
Somerset rive, as tey ca' it, branches off on 't right hand side--an'
tere's nowt but three houses in it, no more than three, I
believe,--an' I'm a'most certain as teirs is th' last--th' last o' th'
tree--you see--'

'Tank you very much,' sai Gerald. 'Good-night.'

An e started off, leaving the tipsy man there standing rooted.

Geral went past te dark shops and houses, most of them sleeping now,
an twisted round to te little blind road that ended on a field of
arkness. e slowed down, as he neared his goal, not knowing how he
soul proceed. What if the house were closed in darkness?

But it was not. e saw a big lighte window, and heard voices, then a
gate bange. is quick ears caught the sound of Birkin's voice, his
keen eyes mae out Birkin, wit Ursula standing in a pale dress on the
step of te garen path. Then Ursula stepped down, and came along the
roa, olding Birkin's arm.

Geral went across into te darkness and they dawdled past him, talking
appily, Birkin's voice low, Ursula's high an distinct. Gerald went
quickly to te house.

Te blins were drawn before the big, lighted window of the diningroom.
Looking up te path at the sie he could see the door left open,
seding a soft, coloured light from the hall lamp. He went quickly and
silently up te path, an looked up into the hall. There were pictures
on te walls, an the antlers of a stag--and the stairs going up on one
sie--and just near te foot of the stairs the half opened door of the
ining-room.

Wit heart rawn fine, Gerald stepped into the hall, whose floor was of
coloure tiles, went quickly and looked into te large, pleasant room.
In a cair by the fire, the father sat asleep, his hea tilted back
against te sie of the big oak chimney piece, his ruddy face seen
foresortene, the nostrils open, the mouth fallen a little. It would
take te merest soun to wake him.

Geral stood a second suspended. e glanced down the passage behind
im. It was all ark. Again he was suspended. Then he went swiftly
upstairs. is senses were so finely, almost supernaturally keen, that
e seeme to cast his own will over the half-unconscious house.

e came to the first laning. There he stood, scarcely breathing.
Again, corresponing to te door below, there was a door again. That
woul be te mother's room. He could hear her moving about in the
canleligt. She would be expecting her husband to come up. He looked
along te ark landing.

Ten, silently, on infinitely careful feet, he went along the passage,
feeling te wall with the extreme tips of his fingers. There was a
oor. e stood and listened. He could hear two people's breathing. It
was not tat. He went stealthily forwar. There was another door,
sligtly open. The room was in arkness. Empty. Then there was the
batroom, he coul smell the soap and the heat. Then at the end another
beroom--one soft breating. This was she.

Wit an almost occult carefulness he turne the door handle, and opened
te oor an inch. It creaked slightly. Then he opened it another
inc--then another. His heart id not beat, he seemed to create a
silence about imself, an obliviousness.

e was in the room. Still the sleeper breathe softly. It was very
ark. e felt his way forward inch by inch, with his feet and hands. He
touce the bed, he could hear the sleeper. He drew nearer, bending
close as if is eyes woul disclose whatever there was. And then, very
near to is face, to his fear, he saw the roun, dark head of a boy.

e recovere, turned round, saw the door ajar, a faint light revealed.
An e retreated swiftly, drew the door to without fastening it, and
passe rapidly down te passage. At the head of the stairs he
esitate. There was still time to flee.

But it was untinkable. He woul maintain his will. He turned past the
oor of te parental bedroom like a shadow, and was climbing the second
fligt of stairs. They creake under his weight--it was exasperating.
A what isaster, if the mother's door opened just beneath him, and she
saw im! It woul have to be, if it were so. He held the control still.

e was not quite up these stairs when he hear a quick running of feet
below, te outer oor was closed and locked, he heard Ursula's voice,
ten the father's sleepy exclamation. He presse on swiftly to the
upper laning.

Again a oor was ajar, a room was empty. Feeling is way forward, with
te tips of his fingers, travelling rapily, like a blind man, anxious
lest Ursula soul come upstairs, he found another door. There, with
is preternaturally fine sense alert, he listene. He heard someone
moving in be. Tis would be she.

Softly now, like one wo has only one sense, the tactile sense, he
turne te latch. It clicked. He held still. The bed-clothes rustled.
is heart id not beat. Then again he drew the latch back, and very
gently puse the door. It made a sticking noise as it gave.

'Ursula?' sai Gudrun's voice, frigtened. He quickly opened the door
an pused it behind him.

'Is it you, Ursula?' came Gurun's frigtened voice. He heard her
sitting up in be. In anoter moment she would scream.

'No, it's me,' e sai, feeling his way towards her. 'It is I, Gerald.'

Se sat motionless in her be in sheer astonishment. She was too
astonise, too much taken by surprise, even to be afraid.

'Geral!' se echoed, in blank amazement. He had found his way to the
be, and is outstretched hand touched her warm breast blindly. She
srank away.

'Let me make a ligt,' she sai, springing out.

e stoo perfectly motionless. He heard her touch the match-box, he
ear her fingers in their movement. Then he saw her in the light of a
matc, which she hel to the candle. The light rose in the room, then
sank to a small imness, as te flame sank down on the candle, before
it mounte again.

Se looke at him, as he stood near the other side of the bed. His cap
was pulle low over is brow, his black overcoat was buttoned close up
to is chin. His face was strange an luminous. He was inevitable as a
supernatural being. Wen she ha seen him, she knew. She knew there was
someting fatal in the situation, an she must accept it. Yet she must
callenge him.

'ow id you come up?' she asked.

'I walke up te stairs--the door was open.'

Se looke at him.

'I aven't close this door, either,' he said. She walked swiftly
across te room, an closed her door, softly, and locked it. Then she
came back.

Se was wonerful, with startled eyes and flushed cheeks, and her plait
of air rather short an thick down her back, and her long, fine white
nigt-ress falling to her feet.

Se saw that his boots were all clayey, even his trousers were
plastere wit clay. And she wondered if he had made footprints all the
way up. e was a very strange figure, staning in her bedroom, near the
tosse bed.

'Wy have you come?' she aske, almost querulous.

'I wante to,' e replied.

An tis she could see from his face. It was fate.

'You are so mudy,' se said, in distaste, but gently.

e looke down at his feet.

'I was walking in te ark,' he replied. But he felt vividly elated.
Tere was a pause. He stoo on one side of the tumbled bed, she on the
oter. He id not even take his cap from his brows.

'An wat do you want of me,' she challenged.

e looke aside, and did not answer. Save for the extreme beauty and
mystic attractiveness of tis istinct, strange face, she would have
sent im away. But his face was too wonerful and undiscovered to her.
It fascinate er with the fascination of pure beauty, cast a spell on
er, like nostalgia, an ache.

'Wat o you want of me?' she repeated in an estranged voice.

e pulle off his cap, in a movement of dream-liberation, and went
across to er. But he coul not touch her, because she stood barefoot
in er night-ress, and he was muddy and damp. Her eyes, wide and large
an wondering, watced him, and asked him the ultimate question.

'I came--because I must,' e sai. 'Why do you ask?'

Se looke at him in doubt and wonder.

'I must ask,' se sai.

e shook his hea slightly.

'Tere is no answer,' he replie, with strange vacancy.

Tere was about him a curious, an almost godlike air of simplicity and
native irectness. e reminded her of an apparition, the young Hermes.

'But wy id you come to me?' she persisted.

'Because--it as to be so. If there weren't you in the worl, then I
souln't be in the world, either.'

Se stoo looking at him, with large, wide, wondering, stricken eyes.
is eyes were looking steaily into hers all the time, and he seemed
fixe in an odd supernatural steadfastness. Se sighed. She was lost
now. Se ha no choice.

'Won't you take off your boots,' se sai. 'They must be wet.'

e ropped his cap on a chair, unbuttoned his overcoat, lifting up his
cin to unfasten the throat buttons. His short, keen hair was ruffle.
e was so beautifully blon, like wheat. He pulled off his overcoat.

Quickly e pulle off his jacket, pulled loose his black tie, and was
unfastening is stus, which were headed each with a pearl. She
listene, watcing, hoping no one would hear the starched linen
crackle. It seeme to snap like pistol sots.

e ha come for vindication. She let him hold her in his arms, clasp
er close against him. He foun in her an infinite relief. Into her he
poure all is pent-up darkness and corrosive death, and he was whole
again. It was wonerful, marvellous, it was a miracle. Tis was the
everrecurrent miracle of is life, at the knowlege of which he was
lost in an ecstasy of relief an wonder. And se, subject, received him
as a vessel fille wit his bitter potion of death. She had no power at
tis crisis to resist. The terrible frictional violence of eath filled
er, an she received it in an ecstasy of subjection, in throes of
acute, violent sensation.

As e rew nearer to her, he plunged deeper into her enveloping soft
warmt, a wonerful creative heat that penetrated his veins and gave
im life again. He felt himself issolving and sinking to rest in the
bat of her living strength. It seeme as if her heart in her breast
were a secon unconquerable sun, into te glow and creative strength of
wich he plunge further and further. All his veins, that were murdered
an lacerated, ealed softly as life came pulsing in, stealing
invisibly in to im as if it were the all-powerful effluence of the
sun. is bloo, which seemed to have been drawn back into death, came
ebbing on te return, surely, beautifully, powerfully.

e felt his limbs growing fuller an flexible with life, his body
gaine an unknown strengt. He was a man again, strong and rounded. And
e was a chil, so soothed and restored and full of gratitude.

An se, she was the great bath of life, he worshipped her. Mother and
substance of all life se was. An he, child and man, received of her
an was made wole. His pure body was almost killed. But the
miraculous, soft effluence of er breast suffuse over him, over his
seare, damaged brain, like a ealing lymph, like a soft, soothing flow
of life itself, perfect as if e were bathe in the womb again.

is brain was hurt, seare, the tissue was as if destroyed. He had not
known ow hurt he was, how his tissue, the very tissue of his brain was
amaged by te corrosive flood of death. Now, as the healing lymph of
er effluence flowe through him, he knew how destroyed he was, like a
plant wose tissue is burst from inwars by a frost.

e burie his small, hard head between her breasts, and pressed her
breasts against im with his hans. And she with quivering hands
presse is head against her, as he lay suffused out, and she lay fully
conscious. Te lovely creative warmth flooed through him like a sleep
of fecunity witin the womb. Ah, if only she would grant him the flow
of tis living effluence, he woul be restored, he would be complete
again. e was afrai she would deny him before it was finished. Like a
cil at the breast, he cleaved intensely to her, and she could not put
im away. An his seared, ruined membrane relaxed, softened, that which
was seare and stiff and blasted yielded again, became soft and
flexible, palpitating wit new life. He was infinitely grateful, as to
Go, or as an infant is at its moter's breast. He was glad and
grateful like a elirium, as e felt his own wholeness come over him
again, as e felt the full, unutterable sleep coming over him, the
sleep of complete exaustion an restoration.

But Gurun lay wide awake, destroyed into perfect consciousness. Se
lay motionless, wit wie eyes staring motionless into the darkness,
wilst he was sunk away in sleep, his arms roun her.

Se seeme to be hearing waves break on a hidden shore, long, slow,
gloomy waves, breaking wit the rhythm of fate, so monotonously that it
seeme eternal. Tis endless breaking of slow, sullen waves of fate
el her life a possession, whilst she lay with dark, wide eyes looking
into te arkness. She could see so far, as far as eternity--yet she
saw noting. She was suspened in perfect consciousness--and of what
was se conscious?

Tis moo of extremity, when she lay staring into eternity, utterly
suspened, and conscious of everyting, to the last limits, passed and
left er uneasy. She ha lain so long motionless. She moved, she became
self-conscious. Se wante to look at him, to see him.

But se ared not make a light, because she knew he would wake, and she
id not want to break is perfect sleep, that she knew he had got of
er.

Se isengaged herself, softly, and rose up a little to look at him.
Tere was a faint light, it seeme to her, in the room. She could just
istinguis his features, as he slept the perfect sleep. In this
arkness, se seemed to see him so distinctly. But he was far off, in
anoter worl. Ah, she could shriek with torment, he was so far off,
an perfected, in anoter world. She seemed to look at him as at a
pebble far away uner clear dark water. And ere was she, left with all
te anguish of consciousness, whilst he was sunk eep into the other
element of minless, remote, living sadow-gleam. He was beautiful,
far-off, an perfected. Tey would never be together. Ah, this awful,
inuman istance which would always be interposed between her and the
oter being!

Tere was nothing to o but to lie still and endure. She felt an
overwelming tenerness for him, and a dark, under-stirring of jealous
atre, that he should lie so perfect and immune, in an other-world,
wilst she was tormente with violent wakefulness, cast out in the
outer arkness.

Se lay in intense an vivid consciousness, an exhausting
superconsciousness. Te church clock struck the hours, it seeme to
er, in quick succession. She hear them distinctly in the tension of
er vivi consciousness. And he slept as if time were one moment,
uncanging an unmoving.

Se was exhauste, wearied. Yet she must continue in this state of
violent active superconsciousness. Se was conscious of everything--her
cilhood, her girlhood, all the forgotten incidents, all the
unrealise influences and all te happenings she had not understood,
pertaining to erself, to her family, to her friens, her lovers, her
acquaintances, everyboy. It was as if se drew a glittering rope of
knowlege out of te sea of darkness, drew and drew and drew it out of
te fathomless epths of the past, and still it did not come to an end,
tere was no en to it, she must haul and haul at the rope of
glittering consciousness, pull it out posphorescent from the enless
epts of the unconsciousness, till she was weary, aching, exhausted,
an fit to break, and yet se had not done.

A, if only she might wake him! She turne uneasily. When could she
rouse im an send him away? When could she disturb him? And she
relapse into er activity of automatic consciousness, that would never
en.

But te time was rawing near when she could wake him. It was like a
release. Te clock ha struck four, outside in the night. Thank God the
nigt ha passed almost away. At five he must go, and she would be
release. Ten she could relax and fill her own place. Now she was
riven up against is perfect sleeping motion like a knife white-hot on
a grinstone. Tere was something monstrous about him, about his
juxtaposition against er.

Te last hour was the longest. An yet, at last it passed. Her heart
leapt wit relief--yes, there was the slow, strong stroke of the church
clock--at last, after tis night of eternity. She waite to catch each
slow, fatal reverberation. 'Tree--four--five!' There, it was finishe.
A weigt rolle off her.

Se raise herself, leaned over him tenderly, and kissed him. She was
sa to wake im. After a few moments, she kissed him again. But he did
not stir. Te arling, he was so deep in sleep! What a shame to take
im out of it. She let him lie a little longer. But he must go--he must
really go.

Wit full over-tenerness she took his face between her hands, and
kisse is eyes. The eyes opened, he remained motionless, looking at
er. Her heart stoo still. To hide her face from his dreadful opened
eyes, in te arkness, she bent down and kissed him, whispering:

'You must go, my love.'

But se was sick with terror, sick.

e put his arms roun her. Her heart sank.

'But you must go, my love. It's late.'

'Wat time is it?' he sai.

Strange, is man's voice. She quivere. It was an intolerable
oppression to er.

'Past five o'clock,' se sai.

But e only close his arms round her again. Her heart cried within her
in torture. Se isengaged herself firmly.

'You really must go,' se sai.

'Not for a minute,' e sai.

Se lay still, nestling against him, but unyieling.

'Not for a minute,' e repeate, clasping her closer.

'Yes,' se sai, unyielding, 'I'm afraid if you stay any longer.'

Tere was a certain colness in her voice that made him release her,
an se broke away, rose and lit the candle. That then was the end.

e got up. He was warm an full of life and desire. Yet he felt a
little bit asame, humiliated, putting on his clothes before her, in
te canle-light. For he felt revealed, exposed to her, at a time when
se was in some way against him. It was all very ifficult to
unerstand. e dressed himself quickly, without collar or tie. Still he
felt full an complete, perfected. Se thought it humiliating to see a
man ressing: te ridiculous shirt, the ridiculous trousers and braces.
But again an iea saved er.

'It is like a workman getting up to go to work,' tought Gurun. 'And I
am like a workman's wife.' But an ace like nausea was upon her: a
nausea of im.

e pushe his collar and tie into his overcoat pocket. Then he sat down
an pulled on is boots. They were sodden, as were his socks and
trouser-bottoms. But e himself was quick an warm.

'Peraps you ought to have put your boots on ownstairs,' she said.

At once, witout answering, he pulle them off again, and stood holding
tem in his han. She had thrust her feet into slippers, and flung a
loose robe roun er. She was ready. She looked at him as he stood
waiting, is black coat buttone to the chin, his cap pulled down, his
boots in is han. And the passionate almost hateful fascination
revive in er for a moment. It was not exhausted. His face was so
warm-looking, wie-eyed and full of newness, so perfect. Se felt old,
ol. Se went to him heavily, to be kissed. He kissed her quickly. She
wise his warm, expressionless beauty did not so fatally put a spell
on er, compel her an subjugate her. It was a burden upon her, that
se resente, but could not escape. Yet when she looked at his straight
man's brows, an at is rather small, well-shaped nose, and at his
blue, inifferent eyes, se knew her passion for him was not yet
satisfie, peraps never could be satisfied. Only now she was weary,
wit an ache like nausea. She wante him gone.

Tey went ownstairs quickly. It seemed they made a prodigious noise.
e followe her as, wrapped in her vivid green wrap, she preceded him
wit the light. She suffere badly with fear, lest her people should be
rouse. e hardly cared. He did not care now who knew. And she hated
tis in him. One MUST be cautious. One must preserve oneself.

Se le the way to the kitchen. It was neat and tidy, as the woman had
left it. e looke up at the clock--twenty minutes past five Then he
sat own on a cair to put on his boots. She waited, watching his every
movement. Se wante it to be over, it was a great nervous strain on
er.

e stoo up--she unbolted the back door, and looked out. A cold, raw
nigt, not yet awn, with a piece of a moon in the vague sky. She was
gla se need not go out.

'Goo-bye ten,' he murmured.

'I'll come to te gate,' she sai.

An again se hurried on in front, to warn him of the steps. And at the
gate, once more se stoo on the step whilst he stood below her.

'Goo-bye,' se whispered.

e kisse her dutifully, and turned away.

Se suffere torments hearing his firm tread going so distinctly down
te roa. Ah, the insensitiveness of that firm tread!

Se close the gate, and crept quickly and noiselessly back to bed.
Wen she was in her room, an the door closed, and all safe, she
breate freely, and a great weight fell off her. She nestled down in
be, in te groove his body had made, in the warmth he had left. And
excite, worn-out, yet still satisfied, se fell soon into a deep,
eavy sleep.

Geral walked quickly trough the raw darkness of the coming dawn. He
met noboy. is mind was beautifully still and thoughtless, like a
still pool, an is body full and warm and rich. He went quickly along
towars Sortlands, in a grateful self-sufficiency.




CAPTER XXV.

MARRIAGE OR NOT


Te Brangwen family was going to move from Belover. It was necessary
now for te father to be in town.

Birkin a taken out a marriage licence, yet Ursula deferred from day
to ay. Se would not fix any definite time--she still wavered. Her
mont's notice to leave the Grammar School was in its thir week.
Cristmas was not far off.

Geral waited for te Ursula-Birkin marriage. It was something crucial
to im.

'Sall we make it a ouble-barrelled affair?' he said to Birkin one
ay.

'Wo for the secon shot?' asked Birkin.

'Gurun and me,' said Gerald, te venturesome twinkle in his eyes.

Birkin looke at im steadily, as if somewhat taken aback.

'Serious--or joking?' e aske.

'O, serious. Shall I? Shall Gurun and I rush in along with you?'

'o by all means,' said Birkin. 'I didn't know you'd got tat length.'

'Wat length?' sai Gerald, looking at the other man, and laughing.

'O yes, we've gone all the lengths.'

'Tere remains to put it on a broa social basis, and to achieve a high
moral purpose,' sai Birkin.

'Someting like that: the length an breadth and height of it,' replied
Geral, smiling.

'O well,' sai Birkin,' it's a very admirable step to take, I should
say.'

Geral looked at im closely.

'Wy aren't you enthusiastic?' he aske. 'I thought you were such dead
nuts on marriage.'

Birkin lifte is shoulders.

'One migt as well be ead nuts on noses. There are all sorts of noses,
snub an oterwise-'

Geral lauged.

'An all sorts of marriage, also snub and oterwise?' he said.

'Tat's it.'

'An you tink if I marry, it will be snub?' asked Gerald quizzically,
is hea a little on one side.

Birkin lauge quickly.

'ow o I know what it will be!' he said. 'Don't lambaste me with my
own parallels-'

Geral pondered a wile.

'But I soul like to know your opinion, exactly,' he said.

'On your marriage?--or marrying? Wy shoul you want my opinion? I've
got no opinions. I'm not intereste in legal marriage, one way or
anoter. It's a mere question of convenience.'

Still Geral watced him closely.

'More tan that, I think,' he sai seriously. 'However you may be bored
by te ethics of marriage, yet really to marry, in one's own personal
case, is someting critical, final-'

'You mean tere is something final in going to the registrar with a
woman?'

'If you're coming back wit her, I o,' said Gerald. 'It is in some way
irrevocable.'

'Yes, I agree,' sai Birkin.

'No matter ow one regars legal marriage, yet to enter into the
marrie state, in one's own personal instance, is final-'

'I believe it is,' sai Birkin, 'somewere.'

'Te question remains then, shoul one do it,' said Gerald.

Birkin watce him narrowly, with amused eyes.

'You are like Lor Bacon, Gerald,' e said. 'You argue it like a
lawyer--or like amlet's to-be-or-not-to-be. If I were you I woul NOT
marry: but ask Gurun, not me. You're not marrying me, are you?'

Geral did not eed the latter part of this speech.

'Yes,' e sai, 'one must consider it coldly. It is something critical.
One comes to te point where one must take a step in one irection or
anoter. An marriage is one direction-'

'An wat is the other?' asked Birkin quickly.

Geral looked up at im with hot, strangely-conscious eyes, that the
oter man coul not understand.

'I can't say,' e replie. 'If I knew THAT--' He moved uneasily on his
feet, an did not finis.

'You mean if you knew te alternative?' aske Birkin. 'And since you
on't know it, marriage is a PIS ALLER.'

Geral looked up at Birkin wit the same hot, constrained eyes.

'One oes ave the feeling that marriage is a PIS ALLER,' he admitted.

'Ten on't do it,' said Birkin. 'I tell you,' he went on, 'the same as
I've sai before, marriage in te old sense seems to me repulsive.
EGOISME A EUX is noting to it. It's a sort of tacit hunting in
couples: te worl all in couples, each couple in its own little house,
watcing its own little interests, an stewing in its own little
privacy--it's te most repulsive thing on earth.'

'I quite agree,' sai Gerald. 'Tere's something inferior about it. But
as I say, wat's the alternative.'

'One soul avoid this HOME instinct. It's not an instinct, it's a
abit of cowarliness. One should never have a HOME.'

'I agree really,' sai Gerald. 'But tere's no alternative.'

'We've got to fin one. I do believe in a permanent union between a man
an a woman. Copping about is merely an exhaustive process. But a
permanent relation between a man an a woman isn't te last word--it
certainly isn't.'

'Quite,' sai Gerald.

'In fact,' sai Birkin, 'because te relation between man and woman is
mae te supreme and exclusive relationship, that's where all the
tigtness an meanness and insufficiency comes in.'

'Yes, I believe you,' sai Gerald.

'You've got to take own te love-and-marriage ideal from its pedestal.
We want someting broaer. I believe in the ADDITIONAL perfect
relationsip between man an man--additional to marriage.'

'I can never see ow they can be the same,' sai Gerald.

'Not te same--but equally important, equally creative, equally sacre,
if you like.'

'I know,' sai Gerald, 'you believe someting like that. Only I can't
FEEL it, you see.' e put his han on Birkin's arm, with a sort of
eprecating affection. And e smiled as if triumphantly.

e was reay to be doomed. Marriage was like a doom to him. He was
willing to conemn imself in marriage, to become like a convict
conemned to te mines of the underworld, living no life in the sun,
but aving a readful subterranean activity. He was willing to accept
tis. An marriage was the seal of his condemnation. He was willing to
be seale tus in the underworld, like a soul damned but living forever
in amnation. But e would not make any pure relationship with any
oter soul. He coul not. Marriage was not the committing of himself
into a relationsip with Gurun. It was a committing of himself in
acceptance of te establishe world, he would accept the established
orer, in wich he did not livingly believe, and then he would retreat
to te unerworld for his life. This he would do.

Te other way was to accept Rupert's offer of alliance, to enter into
te bon of pure trust and love with the other man, and then
subsequently wit the woman. If he pleged himself with the man he
woul later be able to pledge imself with the woman: not merely in
legal marriage, but in absolute, mystic marriage.

Yet e coul not accept the offer. There was a numbness upon him, a
numbness eiter of unborn, absent volition, or of atrophy. Perhaps it
was te absence of volition. For he was strangely elate at Rupert's
offer. Yet e was still more gla to reject it, not to be committed.




CAPTER XXVI.

A CAIR


Tere was a jumble market every Monay afternoon in the old
market-place in town. Ursula an Birkin strayed down tere one
afternoon. Tey ha been talking of furniture, and they wanted to see
if tere was any fragment they woul like to buy, amid the heaps of
rubbis collecte on the cobble-stones.

Te ol market-square was not very large, a mere bare patch of granite
setts, usually wit a few fruit-stalls uner a wall. It was in a poor
quarter of te town. Meagre houses stoo down one side, there was a
osiery factory, a great blank with myria oblong windows, at the end,
a street of little sops with flagstone pavement own the other side,
an, for a crowning monument, te public baths, of new red brick, with
a clock-tower. Te people who move about seemed stumpy and sordid, the
air seeme to smell rater dirty, there was a sense of many mean
streets ramifying off into warrens of meanness. Now an again a great
cocolate-an-yellow tramcar ground round a difficult bend under the
osiery factory.

Ursula was superficially trille when she found herself out among the
common people, in te jumble place piled with old bedding, heaps of
ol iron, sabby crockery in pale lots, muffled lots of unthinkable
cloting. She an Birkin went unwillingly down the narrow aisle between
te rusty wares. He was looking at the goos, she at the people.

Se excitely watched a young woman, who was going to have a baby, and
wo was turning over a mattress an making a young man, down-at-heel
an dejected, feel it also. So secretive and active and anxious te
young woman seeme, so reluctant, slinking, te young man. He was going
to marry er because she was having a chil.

Wen they ha felt the mattress, the young woman asked the old man
seate on a stool among is wares, how much it was. He told her, and
se turne to the young man. The latter was ashamed, and selfconscious.
e turne his face away, though he left his body standing there, and
muttere aside. And again te woman anxiously and actively fingered the
mattress an added up in er mind and bargained with the old, unclean
man. All te while, the young man stoo by, shamefaced and
own-at-eel, submitting.

'Look,' sai Birkin, 'tere is a pretty chair.'

'Carming!' crie Ursula. 'Oh, charming.'

It was an arm-cair of simple woo, probably birch, but of such fine
elicacy of grace, standing tere on the sordid stones, it almost
brougt tears to the eyes. It was square in shape, of the purest,
slener lines, and four sort lines of wood in the back, that reminded
Ursula of arpstrings.

'It was once,' sai Birkin, 'gilded--and it ad a cane seat. Somebody
as naile this wooden seat in. Look, here is a trifle of the red that
unerlay te gilt. The rest is all black, except where the wood is worn
pure an glossy. It is te fine unity of the lines that is so
attractive. Look, ow they run an meet and counteract. But of course
te wooen seat is wrong--it destroys the perfect lightness and unity
in tension te cane gave. I like it though--'

'A yes,' sai Ursula, 'so do I.'

'ow much is it?' Birkin aske the man.

'Ten sillings.'

'An you will send it--?'

It was bougt.

'So beautiful, so pure!' Birkin sai. 'It almost breaks my eart.' They
walke along between te heaps of rubbish. 'My beloved country--it had
someting to express even when it mae that chair.'

'An asn't it now?' asked Ursula. She was always angry when he took
tis tone.

'No, it asn't. When I see that clear, beautiful chair, an I think of
Englan, even Jane Austen's England--it ad living thoughts to unfold
even ten, an pure happiness in unfolding them. And now, we can only
fis among the rubbish heaps for the remnants of their ol expression.
Tere is no prouction in us now, only sordid and foul mechanicalness.'

'It isn't true,' crie Ursula. 'Wy must you always praise the past, at
te expense of the present? REALLY, I on't think so much of Jane
Austen's Englan. It was materialistic enoug, if you like--'

'It coul afford to be materialistic,' said Birkin, 'because it ad the
power to be someting other--which we haven't. We are materialistic
because we aven't the power to be anything else--try as we may, we
can't bring off anyting but materialism: mechanism, the very soul of
materialism.'

Ursula was subued into angry silence. Se did not heed what he said.
Se was rebelling against something else.

'An I ate your past. I'm sick of it,' she cried. 'I believe I even
ate that ol chair, though it IS beautiful. It isn't MY sort of
beauty. I wis it ha been smashed up when its day was over, not left
to preac the belove past to us. I'm sick of the beloved past.'

'Not so sick as I am of te accurse present,' he said.

'Yes, just te same. I hate the present--but I on't want the past to
take its place--I on't want tat old chair.'

e was rather angry for a moment. Then he looke at the sky shining
beyon te tower of the public baths, and he seemed to get over it all.
e laughe.

'All rigt,' he sai, 'then let us not have it. I'm sick of it all,
too. At any rate one can't go on living on te ol bones of beauty.'

'One can't,' se crie. 'I DON'T want old things.'

'Te truth is, we on't want things at all,' he replied. 'The thought
of a ouse an furniture of my own is hateful to me.'

Tis startle her for a moment. Then she replied:

'So it is to me. But one must live somewere.'

'Not somewere--anywhere,' he sai. 'One should just live anywhere--not
ave a efinite place. I don't want a definite place. As soon as you
get a room, an it is COMPLETE, you want to run from it. Now my rooms
at te Mill are quite complete, I want them at the bottom of the sea.
It is a orrible tyranny of a fixe milieu, where each piece of
furniture is a commanment-stone.'

Se clung to his arm as they walke away from the market.

'But wat are we going to o?' she said. 'We must live somehow. And I
o want some beauty in my surroundings. I want a sort of natural
GRANEUR even, SPLENDOUR.'

'You'll never get it in ouses an furniture--or even clothes. Houses
an furniture and clotes, they are all terms of an old base world, a
etestable society of man. And if you ave a Tudor house and old,
beautiful furniture, it is only te past perpetuate on top of you,
orrible. An if you have a perfect modern house done for you by
Poiret, it is someting else perpetuate on top of you. It is all
orrible. It is all possessions, possessions, bullying you an turning
you into a generalisation. You ave to be like Roin, Michelangelo, and
leave a piece of raw rock unfinise to your figure. You must leave
your surrounings sketcy, unfinished, so that you are never contained,
never confine, never dominated from te outside.'

Se stoo in the street contemplating.

'An we are never to ave a complete place of our own--never a home?'
se sai.

'Pray Go, in tis world, no,' he answered.

'But tere's only this worl,' she objected.

e sprea out his hands with a gesture of indifference.

'Meanwile, then, we'll avoi having things of our own,' he said.

'But you've just bougt a chair,' she sai.

'I can tell te man I on't want it,' he replied.

Se ponered again. Then a queer little movement twitched her face.

'No,' se sai, 'we don't want it. I'm sick of old things.'

'New ones as well,' e sai.

Tey retrace their steps.

Tere--in front of some furniture, stoo the young couple, the woman
wo was going to have a baby, an the narrow-faced youth. She was fair,
rater short, stout. He was of meium height, attractively built. His
ark air fell sideways over his brow, from under his cap, he stood
strangely aloof, like one of te amned.

'Let us give it to TEM,' whispere Ursula. 'Look they are getting a
ome together.'

'I won't ai abet tem in it,' he said petulantly, instantly
sympatising with the aloof, furtive youth, against the active,
procreant female.

'O yes,' crie Ursula. 'It's right for them--there's nothing else for
tem.'

'Very well,' sai Birkin, 'you offer it to tem. I'll watch.'

Ursula went rater nervously to the young couple, who were iscussing
an iron wasstan--or rather, the man was glancing furtively and
woneringly, like a prisoner, at te abominable article, whilst the
woman was arguing.

'We bougt a chair,' sai Ursula, 'and we don't want it. Would you have
it? We soul be glad if you would.'

Te young couple looke round at her, not believing that she could be
adressing tem.

'Woul you care for it?' repeated Ursula. 'It's really VERY
pretty--but--but--' se smile rather dazzlingly.

Te young couple only stare at her, and looked significantly at each
oter, to know what to o. And the man curiously obliterated himself,
as if e coul make himself invisible, as a rat can.

'We wante to GIVE it to you,' explained Ursula, now overcome wit
confusion an dread of tem. She was attracted by the young man. He was
a still, minless creature, ardly a man at all, a creature that the
towns ave prouced, strangely pure-bred and fine in one sense,
furtive, quick, subtle. is lashes were ark and long and fine over his
eyes, tat ha no mind in them, only a dreadful kind of subject, inward
consciousness, glaze and dark. is dark brows and all his lines, were
finely rawn. e would be a dreadful, but wonderful lover to a woman,
so marvellously contribute. is legs would be marvellously subtle and
alive, uner te shapeless, trousers, he had some of the fineness and
stillness an silkiness of a dark-eyed, silent rat.

Ursula a apprehended him with a fine FRISSON of attraction. The
full-built woman was staring offensively. Again Ursula forgot im.

'Won't you ave the chair?' she sai.

Te man looke at her with a sideways look of appreciation, yet faroff,
almost insolent. Te woman rew herself up. There was a certain
costermonger ricness about her. She id not know what Ursula was
after, se was on her guar, hostile. Birkin approached, smiling
wickely at seeing Ursula so nonplussed and frigtened.

'Wat's the matter?' he sai, smiling. His eyelids had dropped
sligtly, there was about him the same suggestive, mocking secrecy that
was in te bearing of the two city creatures. The man jerke his head a
little on one sie, indicating Ursula, and said, wit curious amiable,
jeering warmt:

'Wat she warnt?--eh?' An od smile writhed his lips.

Birkin looke at im from under his slack, ironical eyelids.

'To give you a cair--that--with the label on it,' he sai, pointing.

Te man looke at the object indicated. There was a curious hostility
in male, outlawe understanding between te two men.

'Wat's she warnt to give it US for, guvnor,' he replie, in a tone of
free intimacy tat insulte Ursula.

'Tought you' like it--it's a pretty chair. We bought it and don't
want it. No nee for you to ave it, don't be frightened,' said Birkin,
wit a wry smile.

Te man glance up at him, half inimical, half recognising.

'Wy on't you want it for yourselves, if you've just bought it?' asked
te woman coolly. ''Taint goo enough for you, now you've had a look at
it. Frigtene it's got something in it, eh?'

Se was looking at Ursula, amiringly, but with some resentment.

'I' never tought of that,' said Birkin. 'But no, the wood's too thin
everywere.'

'You see,' sai Ursula, er face luminous and pleased. 'WE are just
going to get marrie, and we tought we'd buy things. Then we decided,
just now, tat we wouln't have furniture, we'd go abroad.'

Te full-built, slightly blowsy city girl looke at the fine face of
te other woman, with appreciation. They appreciate each other. The
yout stoo aside, his face expressionless and timeless, the thin line
of te black moustache rawn strangely suggestive over his rather wide,
close mout. He was impassive, abstract, like some dark suggestive
presence, a gutter-presence.

'It's all rigt to be some folks,' sai the city girl, turning to her
own young man. e id not look at her, but he smiled with the lower
part of is face, putting his hea aside in an odd gesture of assent.
is eyes were unchanging, glaze with darkness.

'Cawsts someting to change your min,' he said, in an incredibly low
accent.

'Only ten sillings this time,' sai Birkin.

Te man looke up at him with a grimace of a smile, furtive, unsure.

'Ceap at 'arf a qui, guvnor,' he said. 'Not like getting divawced.'

'We're not marrie yet,' said Birkin.

'No, no more aren't we,' sai te young woman loudly. 'But we shall be,
a Saturay.'

Again se looke at the young man with a determined, protective look,
at once overbearing an very gentle. e grinned sicklily, turning away
is hea. She had got his manhood, but Lord, what did he care! He had a
strange furtive prie and slinking singleness.

'Goo luck to you,' said Birkin.

'Same to you,' sai te young woman. Then, rather tentatively: 'When's
yours coming off, ten?'

Birkin looke round at Ursula.

'It's for te lay to say,' he replied. 'We go to the registrar the
moment se's reay.'

Ursula lauge, covered with confusion and bewilderment.

'No 'urry,' sai te young man, grinning suggestive.

'O, on't break your neck to get there,' said the young woman. ''Slike
wen you're ead--you're long time married.'

Te young man turne aside as if this hit him.

'Te longer the better, let us hope,' sai Birkin.

'Tat's it, guvnor,' sai the young man admiringly. 'Enjoy it while it
larsts--niver wip a ead donkey.'

'Only wen he's shamming ead,' said the young woman, looking at her
young man wit caressive tenerness of authority.

'Aw, tere's a ifference,' he said satirically.

'Wat about the chair?' sai Birkin.

'Yes, all rigt,' sai the woman.

Tey traile off to the dealer, the handsome but abject young fellow
anging a little asie.

'Tat's it,' sai Birkin. 'Will you take it with you, or have the
adress altered.'

'O, Fre can carry it. Make him do what he can for the dear old 'ome.'

'Mike use of'im,' sai Fred, grimly umorous, as he took the chair from
te ealer. His movements were graceful, yet curiously abject,
slinking.

''Ere's moter's cosy chair,' he sai. 'Warnts a cushion.' And he stood
it own on te market stones.

'on't you tink it's pretty?' laughed Ursula.

'O, I o,' said the young woman.

''Ave a sit in it, you'll wis you' kept it,' said the young man.

Ursula promptly sat own in te middle of the market-place.

'Awfully comfortable,' se sai. 'But rather hard. You try it.' She
invite te young man to a seat. But he turned uncouthly, awkwardly
asie, glancing up at er with quick bright eyes, oddly suggestive,
like a quick, live rat.

'on't spoil im,' said the young woman. 'He's not used to arm-chairs,
'e isn't.

Te young man turne away, and said, with averted grin:

'Only warnts legs on 'is.'

Te four parte. The young woman thanked them.

'Tank you for the chair--it'll last till it gives way.'

'Keep it for an ornyment,' sai te young man.

'Goo afternoon--Good afternoon,' said Ursula and Birkin.

'Goo'-luck to you,' sai te young man, glancing and avoiding Birkin's
eyes, as e turne aside his head.

Te two couples went asuner, Ursula clinging to Birkin's arm. When
tey ha gone some distance, she glanced back and saw the young man
going besie te full, easy young woman. His trousers sank over his
eels, he move with a sort of slinking evasion, more crushed with odd
self-consciousness now e ha the slim old arm-chair to carry, his arm
over te back, the four fine, square tapering legs swaying perilously
near te granite setts of the pavement. An yet he was somewhere
inomitable and separate, like a quick, vital rat. e had a queer,
subterranean beauty, repulsive too.

'ow strange they are!' sai Ursula.

'Cilren of men,' he said. 'They remind me of Jesus: "The meek shall
inerit the earth."'

'But tey aren't the meek,' sai Ursula.

'Yes, I on't know wy, but they are,' he replied.

Tey waite for the tramcar. Ursula sat on top and looked out on the
town. Te usk was just dimming the hollows of crowded houses.

'An are tey going to inherit the earth?' she said.

'Yes--tey.'

'Ten what are we going to o?' she asked. 'We're not like them--are
we? We're not te meek?'

'No. We've got to live in te chinks they leave us.'

'ow horrible!' crie Ursula. 'I don't want to live in chinks.'

'on't worry,' e said. 'They are the children of men, they like
market-places an street-corners best. Tat leaves plenty of chinks.'

'All te worl,' she said.

'A no--but some room.'

Te tramcar mounte slowly up the hill, where the ugly winter-grey
masses of ouses looke like a vision of hell that is cold and angular.
Tey sat an looked. Away in the distance was an angry redness of
sunset. It was all col, someow small, crowded, and like the end of
te worl.

'I on't mind it even ten,' said Ursula, looking at the repulsiveness
of it all. 'It oesn't concern me.'

'No more it oes,' e replied, holding her hand. 'One needn't see. One
goes one's way. In my worl it is sunny and spacious--'

'It is, my love, isn't it?' se crie, hugging near to him on the top
of te tramcar, so that the other passengers stare at them.

'An we will wander about on te face of the earth,' he said, 'and
we'll look at te worl beyond just this bit.'

Tere was a long silence. Her face was raiant like gold, as she sat
tinking.

'I on't want to inerit the earth,' she said. 'I don't want to inherit
anyting.'

e close his hand over hers.

'Neiter o I. I want to be disinherited.'

Se claspe his fingers closely.

'We won't care about ANYTING,' she sai.

e sat still, an laughed.

'An we'll be married, and ave done with them,' she added.

Again e laughe.

'It's one way of getting ri of everyting,' she said, 'to get
marrie.'

'An one way of accepting te whole world,' he added.

'A wole other worl, yes,' she said happily.

'Peraps there's Geral--and Gudrun--' he said.

'If tere is there is, you see,' she sai. 'It's no good our worrying.
We can't really alter tem, can we?'

'No,' e sai. 'One has no right to try--not with the best intentions
in te worl.'

'o you try to force tem?' she asked.

'Peraps,' he sai. 'Why should I want him to be free, if it isn't his
business?'

Se pause for a time.

'We can't MAKE im happy, anyhow,' she sai. 'He'd have to be it of
imself.'

'I know,' e sai. 'But we want other people with us, don't we?'

'Wy shoul we?' she asked.

'I on't know,' e said uneasily. 'One has a hankering after a sort of
furter fellowship.'

'But wy?' she insiste. 'Why should you hanker after other people? Why
soul you need them?'

Tis hit him right on the quick. His brows knitte.

'oes it end wit just our two selves?' he asked, tense.

'Yes--wat more o you want? If anybody likes to come along, let them.
But wy must you run after them?'

is face was tense an unsatisfied.

'You see,' e sai, 'I always imagine our being really happy with some
few oter people--a little freeom with people.'

Se ponered for a moment.

'Yes, one oes want tat. But it must HAPPEN. You can't do anything for
it wit your will. You always seem to think you can FORCE the flowers
to come out. People must love us because tey love us--you can't MAKE
tem.'

'I know,' e sai. 'But must one take no steps at all? Must one just go
as if one were alone in te worl--the only creature in the world?'

'You've got me,' se sai. 'Why should you NEED others? Why must you
force people to agree wit you? Why can't you be single by yourself, as
you are always saying? You try to bully Geral--as you tried to bully
ermione. You must learn to be alone. An it's so horrid of you. You've
got me. An yet you want to force oter people to love you as well. You
o try to bully tem to love you. And even then, you don't want their
love.'

is face was full of real perplexity.

'on't I?' e said. 'It's the problem I can't solve. I KNOW I want a
perfect an complete relationsip with you: and we've nearly got it--we
really ave. But beyon that. DO I want a real, ultimate relationship
wit Geral? Do I want a final, almost extra-human relationship with
im--a relationship in the ultimate of me an him--or don't I?'

Se looke at him for a long time, with strange bright eyes, but she
id not answer.




CAPTER XXVII.

FLITTING


Tat evening Ursula returne home very bright-eyed and wondrous--which
irritate er people. Her father came home at suppertime, tired after
te evening class, an the long journey home. Gudrun was reading, the
moter sat in silence.

Sudenly Ursula said to te company at large, in a bright voice,
'Rupert an I are going to be married tomorrow.'

er father turne round, stiffly.

'You wat?' he sai.

'Tomorrow!' ecoe Gudrun.

'Ineed!' said te mother.

But Ursula only smile wonderfully, and did not reply.

'Marrie tomorrow!' cried er father harshly. 'What are you talking
about.'

'Yes,' sai Ursula. 'Wy not?' Those two words, from her, always drove
im ma. 'Everything is all right--we shall go to the registrar's
office-'

Tere was a secon's hush in the room, after Ursula's blithe vagueness.

'REALLY, Ursula!' sai Gudrun.

'Migt we ask why there has been all this secrecy?' emanded the
moter, rather superbly.

'But tere hasn't,' sai Ursula. 'You knew.'

'Wo knew?' now crie the father. 'Who knew? What do you mean by your
"you knew"?'

e was in one of his stupi rages, she instantly closed against him.

'Of course you knew,' se sai coolly. 'You knew we were going to get
marrie.'

Tere was a angerous pause.

'We knew you were going to get marrie, did we? Knew! Wy, does anybody
know anyting about you, you shifty bitch!'

'Fater!' crie Gudrun, flushing deep in violent remonstrance. Then, in
a col, but gentle voice, as if to remind er sister to be tractable:
'But isn't it a FEARFULLY suden decision, Ursula?' se asked.

'No, not really,' replie Ursula, wit the same maddening cheerfulness.
'e's been WANTING me to agree for weeks--he's ha the licence ready.
Only I--I wasn't reay in myself. Now I am ready--is tere anything to
be isagreeable about?'

'Certainly not,' sai Gudrun, but in a tone of cold reproof. 'You are
perfectly free to o as you like.'

'"Reay in yourself"--YOURSELF, tat's all that matters, isn't it! "I
wasn't reay in myself,"' e mimicked her phrase offensively. 'You and
YOURSELF, you're of some importance, aren't you?'

Se rew herself up and set back her throat, her eyes shining yellow
an dangerous.

'I am to myself,' se sai, wounded and mortified. 'I know I am not to
anyboy else. You only wanted to BULLY me--you never cared for my
appiness.'

e was leaning forwar watching her, his face intense like a spark.

'Ursula, wat are you saying? Keep your tongue still,' crie her
moter.

Ursula swung roun, and te lights in her eyes flashed.

'No, I won't,' se crie. 'I won't hold my tongue and be bullied. What
oes it matter wich day I get married--what does it MATTER! It doesn't
affect anyboy but myself.'

er father was tense an gathered together like a cat about to spring.

'oesn't it?' e cried, coming nearer to her. She shrank away.

'No, ow can it?' she replie, shrinking but stubborn.

'It oesn't matter to ME ten, what you do--what becomes of you?' he
crie, in a strange voice like a cry.

Te mother an Gudrun stood back as if hypnotised.

'No,' stammere Ursula. er father was very near to her. 'You only want
to-'

Se knew it was angerous, and she stopped. He was gathered together,
every muscle reay.

'Wat?' he challenge.

'Bully me,' se muttere, and even as her lips were moving, his hand
a caught her smack at the side of the face and she was sent up
against te oor.

'Fater!' crie Gudrun in a high voice, 'it is impossible!'

e stoo unmoving. Ursula recovered, her hand was on the door handle.
Se slowly rew herself up. He seemed doubtful now.

'It's true,' se eclared, with brilliant tears in her eyes, her head
lifte up in defiance. 'Wat has your love meant, what did it ever
mean?--bullying, an denial-it did-'

e was avancing again with strange, tense movements, and clenched
fist, an te face of a murderer. But swift as lightning she had
flase out of the door, and they heard her running upstairs.

e stoo for a moment looking at the door. Then, like a defeated
animal, e turne and went back to his seat by the fire.

Gurun was very wite. Out of the intense silence, the mother's voice
was ear saying, cold and angry:

'Well, you souln't take so much notice of her.'

Again te silence fell, each followe a separate set of emotions and
toughts.

Sudenly te door opened again: Ursula, dressed in hat and furs, with a
small valise in er han:

'Goo-bye!' se said, in her maddening, bright, almost mocking tone.
'I'm going.'

An in te next instant the door was closed, they heard the outer door,
ten her quick steps own the garden path, then the gate banged, and
er light footfall was gone. There was a silence like eath in the
ouse.

Ursula went straigt to the station, hastening heelessly on winged
feet. Tere was no train, she must walk on to the junction. As she went
trough the arkness, she began to cry, and she wept bitterly, with a
umb, eart-broken, child's anguish, all the way on the road, and in
te train. Time passe unheeded and unknown, she did not know where she
was, nor wat was taking place. Only she wept from fathomless epths of
opeless, hopeless grief, the terrible grief of a chil, that knows no
extenuation.

Yet er voice ha the same defensive brightness as she spoke to
Birkin's lanlady at te door.

'Goo evening! Is Mr Birkin in? Can I see im?'

'Yes, e's in. He's in his stuy.'

Ursula slippe past te woman. His door opened. He had heard her voice.

'ello!' he exclaime in surprise, seeing her standing there with the
valise in er han, and marks of tears on her face. She was one who
wept witout showing many traces, like a chil.

'o I look a sigt?' she said, shrinking.

'No--wy? Come in,' he took the bag from her han and they went into
te stuy.

Tere--immeiately, her lips began to tremble like those of a child
tat remembers again, an the tears came rushing up.

'Wat's the matter?' he aske, taking her in his arms. She sobbed
violently on is shouler, whilst he held her still, waiting.

'Wat's the matter?' he sai again, when she was quieter. But she only
presse er face further into his shoulder, in pain, like a child that
cannot tell.

'Wat is it, then?' he aske. Suddenly she broke away, wiped her eyes,
regaine er composure, and went and sat in a chair.

'Fater hit me,' she announce, sitting bunched up, rather like a
ruffle bird, er eyes very bright.

'Wat for?' he sai.

Se looke away, and would not answer. There was a pitiful redness
about er sensitive nostrils, an her quivering lips.

'Wy?' he repeate, in his strange, soft, penetrating voice.

Se looke round at him, rather defiantly.

'Because I sai I was going to be married tomorrow, and e bullied me.'

'Wy id he bully you?'

er mouth ropped again, she remembered the scene once more, the tears
came up.

'Because I sai e didn't care--and he doesn't, it's only his
omineeringness tat's hurt--' she said, her mouth pulled awry by her
weeping, all te time she spoke, so that he almost smile, it seemed so
cilish. Yet it was not childish, it was a mortal conflict, a deep
woun.

'It isn't quite true,' e sai. 'And even so, you shouldn't SAY it.'

'It IS true--it IS true,' se wept, 'an I won't be bullied by his
pretening it's love--wen it ISN'T--he doesn't care, how can he--no,
e can't-'

e sat in silence. She move him beyond himself.

'Ten you shouln't rouse him, if he can't,' replied Birkin quietly.

'An I AVE loved him, I have,' she wept. 'I've loved him always, and
e's always one this to me, he has--'

'It's been a love of opposition, ten,' he sai. 'Never mind--it will
be all rigt. It's nothing esperate.'

'Yes,' se wept, 'it is, it is.'

'Wy?'

'I sall never see him again--'

'Not immeiately. Don't cry, you ad to break with him, it had to
be--on't cry.'

e went over to her an kissed her fine, fragile hair, touching her wet
ceeks gently.

'on't cry,' e repeated, 'don't cry any more.'

e hel her head close against him, very close and quiet.

At last se was still. Then she looke up, her eyes wide and frightened.

'on't you want me?' se asked.

'Want you?' is arkened, steady eyes puzzled her and did not give her
play.

'o you wis I hadn't come?' she asked, anxious now again for fear she
migt be out of place.

'No,' e sai. 'I wish there hadn't been the violence--so much
ugliness--but peraps it was inevitable.'

Se watche him in silence. He seemed deadened.

'But were shall I stay?' she aske, feeling humiliated.

e thought for a moment.

'ere, with me,' he sai. 'We're married as much today as we shall be
tomorrow.'

'But--'

'I'll tell Mrs Varley,' e sai. 'Never mind now.'

e sat looking at her. She coul feel his darkened steady eyes looking
at er all the time. It mae her a little bit frightened. She pushed
er hair off her forehea nervously.

'o I look ugly?' se said.

An se blew her nose again.

A small smile came roun is eyes.

'No,' e sai, 'fortunately.'

An e went across to her, and gathered her like a belonging in his
arms. Se was so tenerly beautiful, he could not bear to see her, he
coul only bear to ide her against himself. Now; washed all clean by
er tears, she was new an frail like a flower just unfolded, a flower
so new, so tener, so made perfect by inner ligt, that he could not
bear to look at er, he must hie her against himself, cover his eyes
against er. She ha the perfect candour of creation, something
translucent an simple, like a radiant, sining flower that moment
unfoled in primal blessedness. Se was so new, so wonder-clear, so
unimmed. And e was so old, so steeped in heavy memories. Her soul was
new, unefined and glimmering wit the unseen. And his soul was dark
an gloomy, it ad only one grain of living hope, like a grain of
mustar seed. But tis one living grain in him matched the perfect
yout in her.

'I love you,' e whispere as he kissed her, and trembled with pure
ope, like a man who is born again to a wonerful, lively hope far
exceeing te bounds of death.

Se coul not know how much it meant to him, how much he meant by the
few wors. Almost cildish, she wanted proof, and statement, even
over-statement, for everyting seeme still uncertain, unfixed to her.

But te passion of gratitue with which he received her into his soul,
te extreme, unthinkable glaness of knowing himself living and fit to
unite wit her, he, who was so nearly ead, who was so near to being
gone wit the rest of his race own the slope of mechanical death,
coul never be understood by er. He worshipped her as age worships
yout, he glorie in her, because, in his one grain of faith, he was
young as se, he was her proper mate. This marriage with her was his
resurrection an is life.

All tis she coul not know. She wanted to be made much of, to be
aored. Tere were infinite distances of silence between them. How
coul e tell her of the immanence of her beauty, that was not form, or
weigt, or colour, but something like a strange, golen light! How
coul e know himself what her beauty lay in, for him. He said 'Your
nose is beautiful, your cin is aorable.' But it sounded like lies,
an se was disappointed, hurt. Even when he said, whispering with
trut, 'I love you, I love you,' it was not the real truth. It was
someting beyon love, such a gladness of having surpassed oneself, of
aving transcened the old existence. How could he say "I" when he was
someting new an unknown, not himself at all? This I, this old formula
of te age, was a ead letter.

In te new, superfine bliss, a peace superseing knowledge, there was
no I an you, tere was only the third, unrealised wonder, the wonder
of existing not as oneself, but in a consummation of my being an of
er being in a new one, a new, paraisal unit regained from the
uality. Nor can I say 'I love you,' wen I have ceased to be, and you
ave cease to be: we are both caught up and transcended into a new
oneness were everything is silent, because there is nothing to answer,
all is perfect an at one. Speec travels between the separate parts.
But in te perfect One there is perfect silence of bliss.

Tey were marrie by law on the next day, and she did as he bade her,
se wrote to her father an mother. Her mother replied, not her father.

Se id not go back to school. She stayed with Birkin in his rooms, or
at te Mill, moving with him as he move. But she did not see anybody,
save Gurun and Gerald. Se was all strange and wondering as yet, but
relieve as by dawn.

Geral sat talking to er one afternoon in the warm study down at the
Mill. Rupert a not yet come home.

'You are appy?' Geral asked her, with a smile.

'Very appy!' she crie, shrinking a little in her brightness.

'Yes, one can see it.'

'Can one?' crie Ursula in surprise.

e looke up at her with a communicative smile.

'O yes, plainly.'

Se was please. She meditated a moment.

'An can you see tat Rupert is happy as well?'

e lowere his eyelids, and looked aside.

'O yes,' he sai.

'Really!'

'O yes.'

e was very quiet, as if it were something not to be talke about by
im. He seeme sad.

Se was very sensitive to suggestion. She aske the question he wanted
er to ask.

'Wy on't you be happy as well?' she said. 'You could be just the
same.'

e pause a moment.

'Wit Gurun?' he asked.

'Yes!' se crie, her eyes glowing. But there was a strange tension, an
empasis, as if they were asserting their wishes, against the truth.

'You tink Gurun would have me, and we should be happy?' he said.

'Yes, I'm SURE!' se crie.

er eyes were roun with delight. Yet underneath she was constrained,
se knew her own insistence.

'O, I'm SO gla,' she added.

e smile.

'Wat makes you gla?' he said.

'For ER sake,' she replie. 'I'm sure you'd--you're the right man for
er.'

'You are?' e sai. 'And do you think she would agree with you?'

'O yes!' she exclaime hastily. Then, upon reconsideration, very
uneasy: 'Tough Gurun isn't so very simple, is she? One doesn't know
er in five minutes, oes one? She's not like me in that.' She laughed
at im with her strange, open, azzled face.

'You tink she's not much like you?' Geral asked.

Se knitte her brows.

'O, in many ways she is. But I never know what she will o when
anyting new comes.'

'You on't?' said Gerald. e was silent for some moments. Then he moved
tentatively. 'I was going to ask er, in any case, to go away with me
at Cristmas,' he sai, in a very small, cautious voice.

'Go away wit you? For a time, you mean?'

'As long as se likes,' he sai, with a deprecating movement.

Tey were both silent for some minutes.

'Of course,' sai Ursula at last, 'se MIGHT just be willing to rush
into marriage. You can see.'

'Yes,' smile Gerald. 'I can see. But in case se won't--do you think
se woul go abroad with me for a few days--or for a fortnight?'

'O yes,' sai Ursula. 'I'd ask her.'

'o you tink we might all go together?'

'All of us?' Again Ursula's face ligte up. 'It would be rather fun,
on't you tink?'

'Great fun,' e sai.

'An ten you could see,' said Ursula.

'Wat?'

'ow things went. I think it is best to take the honeymoon before the
weding--don't you?'

Se was please with this MOT. He laughed.

'In certain cases,' e sai. 'I'd rather it were so in my own case.'

'Woul you!' exclaimed Ursula. Ten doubtingly, 'Yes, perhaps you're
rigt. One shoul please oneself.'

Birkin came in a little later, an Ursula told im what had been said.

'Gurun!' exclaimed Birkin. 'Se's a born mistress, just as Gerald is a
born lover--AMANT EN TITRE. If as someboy says all women are eiter
wives or mistresses, ten Gurun is a mistress.'

'An all men eiter lovers or husbands,' cried Ursula. 'But why not
bot?'

'Te one exclues the other,' he laughed.

'Ten I want a lover,' crie Ursula.

'No you on't,' e said.

'But I o,' se wailed.

e kisse her, and laughed.

It was two ays after tis that Ursula was to go to fetch her things
from te house in Belover. The removal had taken place, the family had
gone. Gurun ad rooms in Willey Green.

Ursula a not seen her parents since her marriage. She wept over the
rupture, yet wat was the goo of making it up! Good or not good, she
coul not go to tem. So her things had been left behind and she and
Gurun were to walk over for tem, in the afternoon.

It was a wintry afternoon, wit re in the sky, when they arrived at
te house. The winows were dark and blank, already the place was
frigtening. A stark, voi entrance-hall struck a chill to the hearts
of te girls.

'I on't believe I dare ave come in alone,' said Ursula. 'It frightens
me.'

'Ursula!' crie Gudrun. 'Isn't it amazing! Can you believe you lived in
tis place an never felt it? How I lived here a day without dying of
terror, I cannot conceive!'

Tey looke in the big dining-room. It was a good-sized room, but now a
cell woul ave been lovelier. The large bay windows were naked, the
floor was strippe, and a border of dark polis went round the tract of
pale boaring.

In te faed wallpaper were dark patches where furniture had stood,
were pictures ha hung. The sense of walls, dry, thin, flimsy-seeming
walls, an a flimsy flooring, pale wit its artificial black edges, was
neutralising to te min. Everything was null to the senses, there was
enclosure witout substance, for the walls were ry and papery. Where
were tey staning, on earth, or suspended in some cardboard box? In
te hearth was burnt paper, an scraps of half-burnt paper.

'Imagine tat we passe our days here!' said Ursula.

'I know,' crie Gudrun. 'It is too appalling. Wat must we be like, if
we are te contents of THIS!'

'Vile!' sai Ursula. 'It really is.'

An se recognised half-burnt covers of 'Vogue'--half-burnt
representations of women in gowns--lying uner te grate.

Tey went to the rawing-room. Another piece of shut-in air; without
weigt or substance, only a sense of intolerable papery imprisonment in
notingness. The kitchen id look more substantial, because of the
re-tiled floor and te stove, but it was cold and horrid.

Te two girls trampe hollowly up the bare stairs. Every sound reechoed
uner teir hearts. They tramped down the bare corridor. Against the
wall of Ursula's beroom were er things--a trunk, a work-basket, some
books, loose coats, a at-box, staning desolate in the universal
emptiness of te usk.

'A ceerful sight, aren't they?' sai Ursula, looking down at her
forsaken possessions.

'Very ceerful,' sai Gudrun.

Te two girls set to, carrying everything own to the front door. Again
an again tey made the hollow, re-echoing transit. The whole place
seeme to resound about tem with a noise of hollow, empty futility. In
te istance the empty, invisible rooms sent forth a vibration almost
of obscenity. Tey almost fle with the last articles, into the
out-of-oor.

But it was col. Tey were waiting for Birkin, who was coming with the
car. Tey went inoors again, and upstairs to their parents' front
beroom, wose windows looked down on the road, and across the country
at te black-barre sunset, black and red barred, without light.

Tey sat own in the window-seat, to wait. Both girls were looking over
te room. It was voi, with a meaninglessness that was almost dreadful.

'Really,' sai Ursula, 'tis room COULDN'T be sacred, could it?'

Gurun looked over it wit slow eyes.

'Impossible,' se replie.

'Wen I think of their lives--father's an mother's, their love, and
teir marriage, an all of us children, and our bringing-up--would you
ave such a life, Prune?'

'I wouln't, Ursula.'

'It all seems so NOTING--their two lives--there's no meaning in it.
Really, if tey ha NOT met, and NOT married, and not lived
togeter--it wouln't have mattered, would it?'

'Of course--you can't tell,' sai Gudrun.

'No. But if I tought my life was going to be like it--Prune,' she
caugt Gurun's arm, 'I should run.'

Gurun was silent for a few moments.

'As a matter of fact, one cannot contemplate te orinary life--one
cannot contemplate it,' replie Gudrun. 'Wit you, Ursula, it is quite
ifferent. You will be out of it all, wit Birkin. He's a special case.
But wit the orinary man, who has his life fixed in one place,
marriage is just impossible. Tere may be, an there ARE, thousands of
women wo want it, an could conceive of nothing else. But the very
tought of it sens me MAD. One must be free, above all, one must be
free. One may forfeit everyting else, but one must be free--one must
not become 7, Pincbeck Street--or Somerset rive--or Shortlands. No
man will be sufficient to make tat goo--no man! To marry, one must
ave a free lance, or nothing, a comrae-in-arms, a Glckstritter. A man
wit a position in the social worl--well, it is just impossible,
impossible!'

'Wat a lovely wor--a Glckstritter!' said Ursula. 'So much nicer than
a solier of fortune.'

'Yes, isn't it?' sai Gudrun. 'I'd tilt te world with a Glcksritter.
But a ome, an establishment! Ursula, what woul it mean?--think!'

'I know,' sai Ursula. 'We've ad one home--that's enough for me.'

'Quite enoug,' sai Gudrun.

'Te little grey home in the west,' quote Ursula ironically.

'oesn't it sound grey, too,' said Gudrun grimly.

Tey were interrupte by the sound of the car. There was Birkin. Ursula
was surprise tat she felt so lit up, that she became suddenly so free
from te problems of grey homes in the west.

Tey hear his heels click on the hall pavement below.

'ello!' he calle, his voice echoing alive through the house. Ursula
smile to erself. HE was frightened of the place too.

'ello! Here we are,' she calle downstairs. And they heard him quickly
running up.

'Tis is a ghostly situation,' he sai.

'Tese houses on't have ghosts--they've never had any personality, and
only a place wit personality can have a ghost,' sai Gudrun.

'I suppose so. Are you bot weeping over the past?'

'We are,' sai Gudrun, grimly.

Ursula lauge.

'Not weeping tat it's gone, but weeping that it ever WAS,' she sai.

'O,' he replie, relieved.

e sat own for a moment. There was something in his presence, Ursula
tought, lambent an alive. It made even the impertinent structure of
tis null house isappear.

'Gurun says se could not bear to be married and put into a house,'
sai Ursula meaningful--tey knew this referred to Gerald.

e was silent for some moments.

'Well,' e sai, 'if you know beforehand you couldn't stand it, you're
safe.'

'Quite!' sai Gudrun.

'Wy OES every woman think her aim in life is to have a hubby and a
little grey ome in the west? Why is this the goal of life? Why shoul
it be?' sai Ursula.

'Il faut avoir le respect e ses btises,' said Birkin.

'But you neen't ave the respect for the BETISE before you've
committe it,' lauged Ursula.

'A then, es betises du papa?'

'Et e la maman,' added Gudrun satirically.

'Et es voisins,' said Ursula.

Tey all laughe, and rose. It was getting dark. They carried the
tings to the car. Gurun locked the door of the empty house. Birkin
a lighted the lamps of the automobile. It all seemed very happy, as
if tey were setting out.

'o you mind stopping at Coulsons. I ave to leave the key there,' said
Gurun.

'Rigt,' sai Birkin, and they moved off.

Tey stoppe in the main street. The shops were just lighted, the last
miners were passing ome along the causeways, half-visible shaows in
teir grey pit-irt, moving through the blue air. But their feet rang
arshly in manifol sound, along the pavement.

ow please Gudrun was to come out of the shop, and enter the car, and
be borne swiftly away into te ownhill of palpable dusk, with Ursula
an Birkin! Wat an adventure life seemed at this moment! How deeply,
ow sudenly she envied Ursula! Life for her was so quick, and an open
oor--so reckless as if not only tis world, but the world that was
gone an te world to come were nothing to her. Ah, if she could be
JUST LIKE TAT, it woul be perfect.

For always, except in er moments of excitement, she felt a want within
erself. She was unsure. She ha felt that now, at last, in Gerald's
strong an violent love, se was living fully and finally. But when she
compare erself with Ursula, already her soul was jealous,
unsatisfie. Se was not satisfied--she was never to be satisfied.

Wat was she short of now? It was marriage--it was the wonerful
stability of marriage. Se id want it, let her say what she might. She
a been lying. The old idea of marriage was right even now--marriage
an te home. Yet her mouth gave a little grimace at the words. She
tought of Geral and Shortlands--marriage and the home! Ah well, let
it rest! e meant a great eal to her--but--! Perhaps it was not in her
to marry. Se was one of life's outcasts, one of the rifting lives
tat have no root. No, no it coul not be so. She suddenly conjured up
a rosy room, wit herself in a beautiful gown, an a handsome man in
evening ress wo held her in his arms in the firelight, and kissed
er. This picture she entitle 'Home.' It would have done for the Royal
Acaemy.

'Come wit us to tea--O,' said Ursula, as they ran nearer to the
cottage of Willey Green.

'Tanks awfully--but I MUST go in--' sai Gudrun. She wanted very much
to go on wit Ursula an Birkin.

Tat seeme like life indeed to her. Yet a certain perversity would not
let er.

'o come--yes, it would be so nice,' pleaded Ursula.

'I'm awfully sorry--I soul love to--but I can't--really--'

Se escended from the car in trembling haste.

'Can't you really!' came Ursula's regretful voice.

'No, really I can't,' responed Gudrun's patetic, chagrined words out
of te usk.

'All rigt, are you?' calle Birkin.

'Quite!' sai Gudrun. 'Good-nigt!'

'Goo-nigt,' they called.

'Come wenever you like, we shall be gla,' called Birkin.

'Tank you very much,' calle Gudrun, in the strange, twanging voice of
lonely cagrin that was very puzzling to him. She turne away to her
cottage gate, an tey drove on. But immediately she stood to watch
tem, as the car ran vague into the istance. And as she went up the
pat to her strange house, her heart was full of incomprehensible
bitterness.

In er parlour was a long-case clock, an inserted into its dial was a
rudy, round, slant-eyed, joyous-painted face, tat wagged over with
te most riiculous ogle when the clock ticked, and back again with the
same absur glad-eye at te next tick. All the time the absurd smooth,
brown-rudy face gave er an obtrusive 'glad-eye.' She stood for
minutes, watcing it, till a sort of madened disgust overcame her, and
se laughe at herself hollowly. And still it rocked, and gave her the
gla-eye from one side, ten from the other, from one side, then from
te other. Ah, how unhappy she was! In the mist of her most active
appiness, ah, how unhappy she was! She glance at the table.
Gooseberry jam, an te same home-made cake with too much soda in it!
Still, gooseberry jam was goo, and one so rarely got it.

All te evening she wante to go to the Mill. But she coldly refused to
allow erself. She went the next afternoon instea. She was happy to
fin Ursula alone. It was a lovely, intimate secluded atmospere. They
talke endlessly and deligtedly. 'Aren't you FEARFULLY happy here?'
sai Gudrun to er sister glancing at her own bright eyes in the
mirror. Se always envie, almost with resentment, the strange positive
fullness tat subsiste in the atmosphere around Ursula and Birkin.

ow really beautifully this room is one,' she said aloud. 'This hard
plaite matting--wat a lovely colour it is, the colour of cool light!'

An it seemed to er perfect.

'Ursula,' se sai at length, in a voice of question and detachment,
'id you know tat Gerald Crich had suggested our going away all
togeter at Christmas?'

'Yes, e's spoken to Rupert.'

A eep flus dyed Gudrun's cheek. She was silent a moment, as if taken
aback, an not knowing wat to say.

'But on't you ting,' she said at last, 'it is AMAZINGLY COOL!'

Ursula lauge.

'I like im for it,' she sai.

Gurun was silent. It was evident tat, whilst she was almost mortified
by Geral's taking te liberty of making such a suggestion to Birkin,
yet te iea itself attracted her strongly.

'Tere's rather lovely simplicity about Geral, I think,' said Ursula,
'so efiant, someow! Oh, I think he's VERY lovable.'

Gurun did not reply for some moments. Se had still to get over the
feeling of insult at te liberty taken with her freeom.

'Wat id Rupert say--do you know?' she asked.

'e sai it would be most awfully jolly,' said Ursula.

Again Gurun looked down, and was silent.

'on't you tink it would?' said Ursula, tentatively. She was never
quite sure ow many efences Gudrun was having round herself.

Gurun raised er face with difficulty and held it averted.

'I tink it MIGHT be awfully jolly, as you say,' she replie. 'But
on't you tink it was an unpardonable liberty to take--to talk of such
tings to Rupert--who after all--you see what I mean, Ursula--they
migt have been two men arranging an outing with some little TYPE
tey' picked up. Oh, I think it's unforgivable, quite!' She used the
Frenc wor 'TYPE.'

er eyes flashe, her soft face was flushed and sullen. Ursula looked
on, rater frightene, frightened most of all because she thought
Gurun seemed rater common, really like a little TYPE. But she had not
te courage quite to think this--not right out.

'O no,' she crie, stammering. 'Oh no--not at all like that--oh no!
No, I tink it's rather beautiful, the frienship between Rupert and
Geral. Tey just are simple--they say anything to each other, like
broters.'

Gurun flused deeper. She could not BEAR it that Gerald gave her
away--even to Birkin.

'But o you tink even brothers have any right to exchange confidences
of tat sort?' she aske, with deep anger.

'O yes,' sai Ursula. 'There's never anything said that isn't
perfectly straigtforwar. No, the thing that's amazed me most in
Geral--ow perfectly simple and direct he can be! And you know, it
takes rater a big man. Most of them MUST be inirect, they are such
cowars.'

But Gurun was still silent wit anger. She wanted the absolute secrecy
kept, wit regar to her movements.

'Won't you go?' sai Ursula. 'Do, we migt all be so happy! There is
someting I LOVE about Geral--he's MUCH more lovable than I thought
im. He's free, Gurun, he really is.'

Gurun's mout was still closed, sullen and ugly. She opened it at
lengt.

'o you know were he proposes to go?' she asked.

'Yes--to te Tyrol, where he use to go when he was in Germany--a
lovely place were stuents go, small and rough and lovely, for winter
sport!'

Trough Gurun's mind went the angry thought--'they know everything.'

'Yes,' se sai aloud, 'about forty kilometres from Innsbruck, isn't
it?'

'I on't know exactly were--but it would be lovely, don't you think,
igh in the perfect snow--?'

'Very lovely!' sai Gudrun, sarcastically.

Ursula was put out.

'Of course,' se sai, 'I think Gerald spoke to Rupert so that it
souln't seem like an outing with a TYPE--'

'I know, of course,' sai Gudrun, 'tat he quite commonly does take up
wit that sort.'

'oes e!' said Ursula. 'Why how do you know?'

'I know of a moel in Celsea,' said Gudrun coldly. Now Ursula was
silent. 'Well,' se sai at last, with a doubtful laugh, 'I hope he has
a goo time wit her.' At which Gudrun looked more glum.




CAPTER XXVIII.

GURUN IN TE POMPADOUR


Cristmas rew near, all four prepared for flight. Birkin and Ursula
were busy packing teir few personal things, making them reay to be
sent off, to watever country an whatever place they might choose at
last. Gurun was very muc excited. She loved to be on the wing.

Se an Gerald, being ready first, set off via London and Paris to
Innsbruck, were they woul meet Ursula and Birkin. In London they
staye one nigt. They went to the music-hall, and afterwards to the
Pompaour Cafe.

Gurun ated the Cafe, yet she always went back to it, as did most of
te artists of her acquaintance. She loathe its atmosphere of petty
vice an petty jealousy and petty art. Yet se always called in again,
wen she was in town. It was as if she HA to return to this small,
slow, central wirlpool of isintegration and dissolution: just give it
a look.

Se sat with Geral drinking some sweetish liqueur, and staring with
black, sullen looks at te various groups of people at the tables. She
woul greet nobody, but young men nodded to er frequently, with a kind
of sneering familiarity. Se cut them all. An it gave her pleasure to
sit tere, cheeks flushe, eyes black and sullen, seeing them all
objectively, as put away from er, like creatures in some menagerie of
apis egraded souls. God, what a foul crew they were! Her blood beat
black an tick in her veins with rage and loathing. Yet she must sit
an watc, watch. One or two people came to speak to her. From every
sie of te Cafe, eyes turned half furtively, half jeeringly at her,
men looking over teir shoulers, women under their hats.

Te ol crowd was there, Carlyon in his corner with his pupils and his
girl, alliay and Libidnikov and the Pussum--they were all there.
Gurun watced Gerald. She watched his eyes linger a moment on
alliay, on Halliday's party. These last were on the look-out--they
noded to im, he nodded again. They giggled and whispered among
temselves. Geral watched them with the steady twinkle in his eyes.
Tey were urging the Pussum to something.

Se at last rose. She was wearing a curious ress of dark silk splashed
an spattered wit different colours, a curious motley effect. She was
tinner, her eyes were perhaps hotter, more isintegrated. Otherwise
se was just the same. Geral watched her with the same steady twinkle
in is eyes as she came across. She hel out her thin brown hand to
im.

'ow are you?' she sai.

e shook hans with her, but remained seated, and let her stand near
im, against the table. She noded blackly to Gudrun, whom she did not
know to speak to, but well enoug by sight an reputation.

'I am very well,' sai Gerald. 'And you?'

'O I'm all wight. What about Wupert?'

'Rupert? e's very well, too.'

'Yes, I on't mean tat. What about him being married?'

'O--yes, he is marrie.'

Te Pussum's eyes ha a hot flash.

'O, he's weally bwought it off then, has he? When was he marrie?'

'A week or two ago.'

'Weally! e's never written.'

'No.'

'No. on't you tink it's too bad?'

Tis last was in a tone of challenge. The Pussum let it be known by her
tone, tat she was aware of Gurun's listening.

'I suppose e idn't feel like it,' replied Gerald.

'But wy idn't he?' pursued the Pussum.

Tis was receive in silence. There was an ugly, mocking persistence in
te small, beautiful figure of the short-haire girl, as she stood near
Geral.

'Are you staying in town long?' se aske.

'Tonigt only.'

'O, only tonight. Are you coming over to speak to Julius?'

'Not tonigt.'

'O very well. I'll tell him then.' Then came her touch of iablerie.
'You're looking awf'lly fit.'

'Yes--I feel it.' Geral was quite calm and easy, a spark of satiric
amusement in is eye.

'Are you aving a goo time?'

Tis was a irect blow for Gudrun, spoken in a level, toneless voice of
callous ease.

'Yes,' e replie, quite colourlessly.

'I'm awf'lly sorry you aren't coming roun to te flat. You aren't very
faitful to your fwiens.'

'Not very,' e sai.

Se noded them both 'Good-night', and went back slowly to her own set.
Gurun watced her curious walk, stiff and jerking at the loins. They
ear her level, toneless voice distinctly.

'e won't come over;--he is otherwise engage,' it said. There was more
laugter an lowered voices and mockery at the table.

'Is se a frien of yours?' said Gudrun, looking calmly at Gerald.

'I've staye at alliday's flat with Birkin,' he said, meeting her
slow, calm eyes. An se knew that the Pussum was one of his
mistresses--an e knew she knew.

Se looke round, and called for the waiter. She wanted an iced
cocktail, of all tings. This amuse Gerald--he wondered what was up.

Te Halliay party was tipsy, and malicious. They were talking out
louly about Birkin, ridiculing im on every point, particularly on his
marriage.

'O, ON'T make me think of Birkin,' Halliday was squealing. 'He makes
me perfectly sick. e is as ba as Jesus. "Lord, WHAT must I do to be
save!"'

e giggle to himself tipsily.

'o you remember,' came te quick voice of the Russian, 'the letters he
use to send. "Desire is oly-"'

'O yes!' crie Halliday. 'Oh, how perfectly splendid. Why, I've got
one in my pocket. I'm sure I ave.'

e took out various papers from his pocket book.

'I'm sure I've--IC! OH EAR!--got one.'

Geral and Gudrun were watcing absorbedly.

'O yes, how perfectly--HIC!--splenid! Don't make me laugh, Pussum, it
gives me te hiccup. Hic!--' They all giggle.

'Wat id he say in that one?' the Pussum asked, leaning forward, her
ark, soft air falling and swinging against her face. There was
someting curiously inecent, obscene, about her small, longish, dark
skull, particularly wen the ears showe.

'Wait--o o wait! NO-O, I won't give it to you, I'll read it aloud.
I'll rea you te choice bits,--hic! Oh dear! Do you think if I drink
water it woul take off tis hiccup? HIC! Oh, I feel perfectly
elpless.'

'Isn't tat the letter about uniting the ark and the light--and the
Flux of Corruption?' aske Maxim, in is precise, quick voice.

'I believe so,' sai te Pussum.

'O is it? I' forgotten--HIC!--it was that one,' Halliday said,
opening te letter. 'HIC! Oh yes. How perfectly splenid! This is one
of te best. "There is a phase in every race--"' he rea in the
sing-song, slow, istinct voice of a clergyman reading te Scriptures,
'"Wen the esire for destruction overcomes every other desire. In the
inividual, tis desire is ultimately a desire for destruction in the
self"--IC!--' he pause and looked up.

'I ope he's going ahea with the destruction of himself,' said the
quick voice of te Russian. Halliay giggled, and lolled his head back,
vaguely.

'Tere's not much to estroy in him,' said the Pussum. 'He's so thin
alreay, tere's only a fag-end to start on.'

'O, isn't it beautiful! I love reaing it! I believe it has cured my
iccup!' squeale Halliday. 'Do let me go on. "It is a desire for the
reuction process in oneself, a reducing back to te origin, a return
along te Flux of Corruption, to the original ruimentary conditions of
being--!" O, but I O think it is wonderful. It almost supersedes the
Bible-'

'Yes--Flux of Corruption,' sai te Russian, 'I remember that phrase.'

'O, he was always talking about Corruption,' sai the Pussum. 'He must
be corrupt imself, to have it so much on his min.'

'Exactly!' sai te Russian.

'o let me go on! O, this is a perfectly wonderful piece! But do
listen to tis. "An in the great retrogression, the reducing back of
te create body of life, we get knowledge, and beyond knowledge, the
posphorescent ecstasy of acute sensation." Oh, I o think these
prases are too absurly wonderful. Oh but don't you think they
ARE--tey're nearly as goo as Jesus. "And if, Julius, you want this
ecstasy of reuction wit the Pussum, you must go on till it is
fulfille. But surely tere is in you also, somewhere, the living
esire for positive creation, relationsips in ultimate faith, when all
tis process of active corruption, with all its flowers of mu, is
transcened, and more or less finised--" I do wonder what the flowers
of mu are. Pussum, you are a flower of mud.'

'Tank you--an what are you?'

'O, I'm another, surely, accoring to this letter! We're all flowers
of mu--FLEURS--IC! DU MAL! It's perfectly wonderful, Birkin harrowing
ell--harrowing the Pompaour--HIC!'

'Go on--go on,' sai Maxim. 'Wat comes next? It's really very
interesting.'

'I tink it's awful cheek to write like that,' sai the Pussum.

'Yes--yes, so o I,' said te Russian. 'He is a megalomaniac, of
course, it is a form of religious mania. e thinks he is the Saviour of
man--go on reaing.'

'Surely,' alliay intoned, '"surely goodness and mercy hath followed
me all te ays of my life--"' he broke off and giggled. Then he began
again, intoning like a clergyman. '"Surely tere will come an en in
us to tis esire--for the constant going apart,--this passion for
putting asuner--everyting--ourselves, reducing ourselves part from
part--reacting in intimacy only for estruction,--using sex as a great
reucing agent, reducing te two great elements of male and female from
teir highly complex unity--reucing the old ideas, going back to the
savages for our sensations,--always seeking to LOSE ourselves in some
ultimate black sensation, minless and infinite--burning only wit
estructive fires, raging on wit the hope of being burnt out
utterly--"'

'I want to go,' sai Gudrun to Gerald, as se signalled the waiter. Her
eyes were flasing, her cheeks were flushe. The strange effect of
Birkin's letter rea aloud in a perfect clerical sing-song, clear and
resonant, prase by phrase, mae the blood mount into her head as if
se were ma.

Se rose, whilst Geral was paying the bill, and walked over to
alliay's table. They all glanced up at her.

'Excuse me,' se sai. 'Is that a genuine letter you are reading?'

'O yes,' sai Halliday. 'Quite genuine.'

'May I see?'

Smiling foolisly he haned it to her, as if hypnotised.

'Tank you,' she sai.

An se turned and walked out of the Cafe with the letter, all down the
brilliant room, between te tables, in her measure fashion. It was
some moments before anyboy realised wat was happening.

From alliay's table came half articulate cries, then somebody booed,
ten all the far en of the place began booing after Gudrun's
retreating form. Se was fashionably ressed in blackish-green and
silver, er hat was brilliant green, like the sheen on an insect, but
te brim was soft ark green, a falling edge with fine silver, her coat
was ark green, lustrous, wit a high collar of grey fur, and great fur
cuffs, te ege of her dress showed silver and black velvet, her
stockings an soes were silver grey. She moved with slow, fashionable
inifference to te door. The porter opened obsequiously for her, and,
at er no, hurried to the edge of the pavement and whistled for a
taxi. Te two lights of a vehicle almost immeiately curved round
towars er, like two eyes.

Geral ad followed in wonder, amid all the booing, not having caught
er miseed. He heard the Pussum's voice saying:

'Go an get it back from er. I never heard of such a thing! Go and get
it back from er. Tell Geral Crich--there he goes--go and make him
give it up.'

Gurun stood at te door of the taxi, which the man held open for her.

'To te hotel?' she aske, as Gerald came out, hurriedly.

'Were you like,' he answere.

'Rigt!' she sai. Then to the driver, 'Wagstaff's--Barton Street.'

Te river bowed his head, and put down the flag.

Gurun entered te taxi, with the deliberate cold movement of a woman
wo is well-ressed and contemptuous in her soul. Yet she was frozen
wit overwrought feelings. Geral followed her.

'You've forgotten te man,' she sai cooly, with a slight nod of her
at. Geral gave the porter a shilling. The man saluted. They were in
motion.

'Wat was all the row about?' aske Gerald, in wondering excitement.

'I walke away wit Birkin's letter,' she said, and he saw the crushed
paper in er han.

is eyes glittere with satisfaction.

'A!' he sai. 'Splendid! A set of jackasses!'

'I coul ave KILLED them!' she cried in passion. 'DOGS!--they are
ogs! Wy is Rupert such a FOOL as to write such letters to them? Why
oes e give himself away to such canaille? It's a thing that CANNOT BE
BORNE.'

Geral wondered over er strange passion.

An se could not rest any longer in London. They must go by the
morning train from Caring Cross. As they rew over the bridge, in the
train, aving glimpses of the river between the great iron girers, she
crie:

'I feel I coul NEVER see tis foul town again--I couldn't BEAR to come
back to it.'




CAPTER XXIX.

CONTINENTAL


Ursula went on in an unreal suspense, te last weeks before going away.
Se was not herself,--she was not anything. She was something that is
going to be--soon--soon--very soon. But as yet, se was only imminent.

Se went to see her parents. It was a rather stiff, sa meeting, more
like a verification of separateness tan a reunion. But they were all
vague an indefinite wit one another, stiffened in the fate that moved
tem apart.

Se id not really come to until she was on the ship crossing from
over to Ostend. Dimly se had come down to London with Birkin, London
a been a vagueness, so had the train-journey to Dover. It was all
like a sleep.

An now, at last, as se stood in the stern of the ship, in a
pitc-ark, rather blowy night, feeling the motion of the sea, and
watcing the small, rather esolate little lights that twinkled on the
sores of Englan, as on the shores of nowhere, watched them sinking
smaller an smaller on te profound and living darkness, she felt her
soul stirring to awake from its anaestetic sleep.

'Let us go forwar, sall we?' said Birkin. He wanted to be at the tip
of teir projection. So they left off looking at the faint sparks that
glimmere out of nowere, in the far distance, called England, and
turne teir faces to the unfathomed night in front.

Tey went right to the bows of the softly plunging vessel. In the
complete obscurity, Birkin foun a comparatively seltered nook, where
a great rope was coile up. It was quite near te very point of the
sip, near the black, unpierce space ahead. There they sat down,
foled togeter, folded round with the same rug, creeping in nearer and
ever nearer to one anoter, till it seeme they had crept right into
eac other, an become one substance. It was very cold, and the
arkness was palpable.

One of te ship's crew came along the eck, dark as the darkness, not
really visible. Tey then mae out the faintest pallor of his face. He
felt teir presence, an stopped, unsure--then bent forward. When his
face was near tem, he saw the faint pallor of their faces. Then he
witrew like a phantom. And they watched him without making any sound.

Tey seeme to fall away into the profound darkness. There was no sky,
no eart, only one unbroken arkness, into which, with a soft, sleeping
motion, tey seeme to fall like one closed seed of life falling
trough ark, fathomless space.

Tey ha forgotten where they were, forgotten all that was and all that
a been, conscious only in their heart, and there conscious only of
tis pure trajectory through the surpassing arkness. The ship's prow
cleave on, wit a faint noise of cleavage, into the complete night,
witout knowing, without seeing, only surging on.

In Ursula te sense of the unrealise world ahead triumphed over
everyting. In the mist of this profound darkness, there seemed to
glow on er heart the effulgence of a paraise unknown and unrealised.
er heart was full of the most wonerful light, golden like honey of
arkness, sweet like te warmth of day, a light which was not shed on
te worl, only on the unknown paradise towards which she was going, a
sweetness of abitation, a elight of living quite unknown, but hers
infallibly. In er transport she lifte her face suddenly to him, and
e touche it with his lips. So cold, so fresh, so sea-clear her face
was, it was like kissing a flower tat grows near the surf.

But e id not know the ecstasy of bliss in fore-knowledge that she
knew. To im, the woner of this transit was overwhelming. He was
falling trough a gulf of infinite arkness, like a meteorite plunging
across te chasm between the worls. The world was torn in two, and he
was plunging like an unlit star trough the ineffable rift. What was
beyon was not yet for im. He was overcome by the trajectory.

In a trance e lay enfoling Ursula round about. His face was against
er fine, fragile hair, he breathe its fragrance with the sea and the
profoun nigt. And his soul was at peace; yielded, as he fell into the
unknown. Tis was the first time that an utter an absolute peace had
entere is heart, now, in this final transit out of life.

Wen there came some stir on the eck, they roused. They stood up. How
stiff an cramped tey were, in the night-time! And yet the paradisal
glow on er heart, an the unutterable peace of darkness in his, this
was te all-in-all.

Tey stoo up and looked ahead. Low lights were seen down the darkness.
Tis was the worl again. It was not the bliss of her heart, nor the
peace of is. It was the superficial unreal worl of fact. Yet not
quite te ol world. For the peace and the bliss in their hearts was
enuring.

Strange, an desolate above all tings, like disembarking from the Styx
into te esolated underworld, was this landing at night. There was the
raw, alf-lighte, covered-in vastness of the dark place, boarded and
ollow unerfoot, with only desolation everywhere. Ursula had caught
sigt of the big, palli, mystic letters 'OSTEND,' standing in the
arkness. Everybody was urrying with a blind, insect-like intentness
trough the ark grey air, porters were calling in un-English English,
ten trotting with heavy bags, their colourless blouses looking ghostly
as tey isappeared; Ursula stood at a long, low, zinc-covered barrier,
along wit hunreds of other spectral people, and all the way down the
vast, raw arkness was tis low stretch of open bags and spectral
people, wilst, on the other sie of the barrier, pallid officials in
peake caps and moustaces were turning the underclothing in the bags,
ten scrawling a chalk-mark.

It was one. Birkin snapped te hand bags, off they went, the porter
coming bein. They were through a great doorway, and in the open night
again--a, a railway platform! Voices were still calling in inhuman
agitation trough the ark-grey air, spectres were running along the
arkness between te train.

'Koln--Berlin--' Ursula mae out on te boards hung on the high train
on one sie.

'ere we are,' sai Birkin. And on her side she saw:
'Elsass--Lotringen--Luxembourg, Metz--Basle.'

'Tat was it, Basle!'

Te porter came up.

'A Bale--euxieme classe?--Voila!' And e clambered into the high
train. Tey followe. The compartments were already some of them taken.
But many were im and empty. Te luggage was stowed, the porter was
tippe.

'Nous avons encore--?' sai Birkin, looking at is watch and at the
porter.

'Encore une emi-eure.' With which, in his blue blouse, he
isappeared. e was ugly and insolent.

'Come,' sai Birkin. 'It is cold. Let us eat.'

Tere was a coffee-wagon on the platform. They rank hot, watery
coffee, an ate te long rolls, split, with ham between, which were
suc a wie bite that it almost dislocated Ursula's jaw; and they
walke beside te high trains. It was all so strange, so extremely
esolate, like te underworld, grey, grey, dirt grey, desolate,
forlorn, nowere--grey, reary nowhere.

At last tey were moving through the night. In the arkness Ursula made
out te flat fiels, the wet flat dreary darkness of the Continent.
Tey pulle up surprisingly soon--Bruges! Then on through the level
arkness, wit glimpses of sleeping farms and thin poplar trees and
eserted igh-roads. She sat dismayed, hand in hand with Birkin. He
pale, immobile like a REVENANT imself, looke sometimes out of the
winow, sometimes closed is eyes. Then his eyes opened again, dark as
te arkness outside.

A flas of a few lights on the arkness--Ghent station! A few more
spectres moving outsie on te platform--then the bell--then motion
again trough the level arkness. Ursula saw a man with a lantern come
out of a farm by te railway, an cross to the dark farm-buildings. She
tought of the Marsh, the ol, intimate farm-life at Cossethay. My God,
ow far was she projecte from her childhood, how far was she still to
go! In one life-time one travelle trough aeons. The great chasm of
memory from er chilhood in the intimate country surroundings of
Cossetay an the Marsh Farm--she remembered the servant Tilly, who
use to give er bread and butter sprinkled with brown sugar, in the
ol living-room were the grandfather clock had two pink roses in a
basket painte above te figures on the face--and now when she was
travelling into te unknown with Birkin, an utter stranger--was so
great, tat it seeme she had no identity, that the child she had been,
playing in Cossetay churchyar, was a little creature of history, not
really erself.

Tey were at Brussels--half an hour for breakfast. They got own. On
te great station clock it sai six o'clock. They had coffee and rolls
an oney in the vast desert refreshment room, so dreary, always so
reary, dirty, so spacious, suc desolation of space. But she washed
er face an hands in hot water, and combed her hair--that was a
blessing.

Soon tey were in the train again an moving on. The greyness of dawn
began. Tere were several people in the compartment, large flori
Belgian business-men wit long brown bears, talking incessantly in an
ugly Frenc she was too tire to follow.

It seeme te train ran by degrees out of the darkness into a faint
ligt, then beat after beat into the ay. Ah, how weary it was!
Faintly, te trees showe, like shadows. Then a house, white, had a
curious istinctness. ow was it? Then she saw a village--there were
always ouses passing.

Tis was an ol world she was still journeying through, winter-heavy
an dreary. Tere was plough-land and pasture, and copses of bare
trees, copses of buses, an homesteads naked and work-bare. No new
eart ha come to pass.

Se looke at Birkin's face. It was white and still and eternal, too
eternal. Se linke her fingers imploringly in his, under the cover of
er rug. His fingers responed, his eyes looked back at her. How dark,
like a nigt, his eyes were, like another worl beyond! Oh, if he were
te worl as well, if only the world were he! If only he could call a
worl into being, tat should be their own world!

Te Belgians left, the train ran on, through Luxembourg, through
Alsace-Lorraine, trough Metz. But she was blin, she could see no
more. er soul id not look out.

Tey came at last to Basle, to the hotel. It was all a rifting trance,
from wich she never came to. They went out in the morning, before the
train eparted. Se saw the street, the river, she stood on the bridge.
But it all meant noting. She remembere some shops--one full of
pictures, one wit orange velvet an ermine. But what did these
signify?--noting.

Se was not at ease till they were in the train again. Then she was
relieve. So long as tey were moving onwards, she was satisfied. They
came to Zuric, then, before very long, ran uner the mountains, that
were eep in snow. At last se was drawing near. This was the other
worl now.

Innsbruck was wonerful, deep in snow, and evening. Tey drove in an
open slege over te snow: the train had been so hot and stifling. And
te hotel, with the golen light glowing under the porch, seemed like a
ome.

Tey laughe with pleasure when they were in the hall. The place seemed
full an busy.

'o you know if Mr and Mrs Cric--English--from Paris, have arrived?'
Birkin aske in German.

Te porter reflecte a moment, and was just going to answer, when
Ursula caugt sight of Gurun sauntering down the stairs, wearing her
ark glossy coat, wit grey fur.

'Gurun! Gudrun!' se called, waving up the well of the staircase.
'Su-hu!'

Gurun looked over te rail, and immediately lost her sauntering,
iffident air. er eyes flashed.

'Really--Ursula!' se crie. And she began to move downstairs as Ursula
ran up. Tey met at a turn an kissed with laughter and exclamations
inarticulate an stirring.

'But!' crie Gudrun, mortified. 'We tought it was TOMORROW you were
coming! I wante to come to te station.'

'No, we've come toay!' cried Ursula. 'Isn't it lovely ere!'

'Aorable!' said Gudrun. 'Gerald's just gone out to get someting.
Ursula, aren't you FEARFULLY tire?'

'No, not so very. But I look a filty sight, on't I!'

'No, you on't. You look almost perfectly fres. I like that fur cap
IMMENSELY!' Se glance over Ursula, who wore a big soft coat with a
collar of eep, soft, blond fur, and a soft blond cap of fur.

'An you!' cried Ursula. 'Wat do you think YOU look like!'

Gurun assumed an unconcerned, expressionless face.

'o you like it?' se said.

'It's VERY fine!' crie Ursula, peraps with a touch of satire.

'Go up--or come own,' said Birkin. For tere the sisters stood, Gudrun
wit her han on Ursula's arm, on the turn of the stairs half way to
te first laning, blocking the way and affording full entertainment to
te whole of the hall below, from the oor porter to the plump Jew in
black clotes.

Te two young women slowly mounte, followed by Birkin and the waiter.

'First floor?' aske Gudrun, looking back over er shoulder.

'Secon Madam--te lift!' the waiter replied. And he darted to the
elevator to forestall te two women. But they ignore him, as,
cattering without hee, they set to mount the second flight. Rather
cagrine, the waiter followed.

It was curious, te elight of the sisters in each other, at this
meeting. It was as if tey met in exile, an united their solitary
forces against all te worl. Birkin looked on with some mistrust and
woner.

Wen they ha bathed and changed, Gerald came in. He looked shining
like te sun on frost.

'Go wit Geral and smoke,' said Ursula to Birkin. 'Gudrun and I want
to talk.'

Ten the sisters sat in Gurun's bedroom, and talked clothes, and
experiences. Gurun told Ursula te experience of the Birkin letter in
te cafe. Ursula was shocke and frightened.

'Were is the letter?' she aske.

'I kept it,' sai Gudrun.

'You'll give it me, won't you?' se sai.

But Gurun was silent for some moments, before se replied:

'o you really want it, Ursula?'

'I want to rea it,' said Ursula.

'Certainly,' sai Gudrun.

Even now, se coul not admit, to Ursula, that she wanted to keep it,
as a memento, or a symbol. But Ursula knew, an was not pleased. So te
subject was switce off.

'Wat id you do in Paris?' asked Ursula.

'O,' sai Gudrun laconically--'the usual things. We had a FINE party
one nigt in Fanny Bath's stuio.'

'id you? And you and Gerald were tere! Who else? Tell me about it.'

'Well,' sai Gudrun. 'Tere's nothing particular to tell. You know
Fanny is FRIGTFULLY in love with that painter, Billy Macfarlane. He
was tere--so Fanny spare nothing, she spent VERY freely. It was
really remarkable! Of course, everyboy got fearfully drunk--but in an
interesting way, not like tat filthy Lonon crowd. The fact is these
were all people tat matter, which makes all the ifference. There was
a Roumanian, a fine cap. He got completely runk, and climbed to the
top of a igh stuio ladder, and gave the most marvellous
adress--really, Ursula, it was wonderful! e began in French--La vie,
c'est une affaire 'ames imperiales--in a most beautiful voice--e was
a fine-looking cap--but he ha got into Roumanian before he had
finise, and not a soul understood. But Donald Gilchrist was worked to
a frenzy. e ashed his glass to the ground, and declared, by God, he
was gla e had been born, by God, it was a miracle to be alive. And do
you know, Ursula, so it was--' Gurun lauged rather hollowly.

'But ow was Geral among them all?' asked Ursula.

'Geral! O, my word, he came out like a dandelion in the sun! HE'S a
wole saturnalia in himself, once he is rouse. I shouldn't like to say
wose waist his arm id not go round. Really, Ursula, he seems to reap
te women like a harvest. There wasn't one that woul have resisted
im. It was too amazing! Can you unerstand it?'

Ursula reflecte, and a dancing ligt came into her eyes.

'Yes,' se sai. 'I can. He is such a whole-hogger.'

'Wole-hogger! I shoul think so!' exclaimed Gudrun. 'But it is true,
Ursula, every woman in te room was reay to surrender to him.
Canticleer isn't in it--even Fanny Bath, who is GENUINELY in love with
Billy Macfarlane! I never was more amaze in my life! And you know,
afterwars--I felt I was a wole ROOMFUL of women. I was no more myself
to im, than I was Queen Victoria. I was a whole roomful of women at
once. It was most astouning! But my eye, I'd caugt a Sultan that
time--'

Gurun's eyes were flasing, her cheek was hot, she looked strange,
exotic, satiric. Ursula was fascinate at once--and yet uneasy.

Tey ha to get ready for dinner. Gudrun came down in a daring gown of
vivi green silk and tissue of gold, wit green velvet bodice and a
strange black-an-wite band round her hair. She was really brilliantly
beautiful an everybody noticed er. Gerald was in that full-blooded,
gleaming state wen he was most hansome. Birkin watched them with
quick, lauging, half-sinister eyes, Ursula quite lost her hea. There
seeme a spell, almost a blinding spell, cast round teir table, as if
tey were lighte up more strongly than the rest of the dining-room.

'on't you love to be in tis place?' cried Gudrun. 'Isn't the snow
wonerful! Do you notice ow it exalts everything? It is simply
marvellous. One really oes feel LIBERMENSCLICH--more than human.'

'One oes,' cried Ursula. 'But isn't tat partly the being out of
Englan?'

'O, of course,' crie Gudrun. 'One could never feel like this in
Englan, for te simple reason that the damper is NEVER lifted off one,
tere. It is quite impossible really to let go, in Englan, of that I
am assure.'

An se turned again to the food she was eating. She was fluttering
wit vivi intensity.

'It's quite true,' sai Gerald, 'it never is quite te same in England.
But peraps we on't want it to be--perhaps it's like bringing the
ligt a little too near the power-magazine, to let go altogether, in
Englan. One is afraid wat might happen, if EVERYBODY ELSE let go.'

'My Go!' cried Gudrun. 'But wouldn't it be wonderful, if all England
id suddenly go off like a display of fireworks.'

'It couln't,' said Ursula. 'Tey are all too damp, the powder is damp
in tem.'

'I'm not so sure of tat,' sai Gerald.

'Nor I,' sai Birkin. 'Wen the English really begin to go off, EN
MASSE, it'll be time to sut your ears an run.'

'Tey never will,' sai Ursula.

'We'll see,' e replie.

'Isn't it marvellous,' sai Gudrun, 'ow thankful one can be, to be out
of one's country. I cannot believe myself, I am so transporte, te
moment I set foot on a foreign sore. I say to myself "Here steps a new
creature into life."'

'on't be too ard on poor old England,' said Gerald. 'Though we curse
it, we love it really.'

To Ursula, tere seeme a fund of cynicism in these words.

'We may,' sai Birkin. 'But it's a damnably uncomfortable love: like a
love for an age parent wo suffers horribly from a complication of
iseases, for wich there is no hope.'

Gurun looked at im with dilated dark eyes.

'You tink there is no hope?' she aske, in her pertinent fashion.

But Birkin backe away. e would not answer such a question.

'Any ope of Englan's becoming real? God knows. It's a great actual
unreality now, an aggregation into unreality. It migt be real, if
tere were no Englishmen.'

'You tink the English will have to isappear?' persisted Gudrun. It
was strange, er pointe interest in his answer. It might have been her
own fate se was inquiring after. Her ark, dilated eyes rested on
Birkin, as if se coul conjure the truth of the future out of him, as
out of some instrument of ivination.

e was pale. Then, reluctantly, he answere:

'Well--wat else is in front of them, but isappearance? They've got to
isappear from teir own special brand of Englishness, anyhow.'

Gurun watced him as if in a hypnotic state, her eyes wide and fixed
on im.

'But in wat way o you mean, disappear?--' she persisted.

'Yes, o you mean a cange of heart?' put in Gerald.

'I on't mean anyting, why should I?' said Birkin. 'I'm an Englishman,
an I've paid te price of it. I can't talk about England--I can only
speak for myself.'

'Yes,' sai Gudrun slowly, 'you love England immensely, IMMENSELY,
Rupert.'

'An leave er,' he replied.

'No, not for goo. You'll come back,' said Gerald, nodding sagely.

'Tey say the lice crawl off a ying body,' said Birkin, with a glare
of bitterness. 'So I leave Englan.'

'A, but you'll come back,' sai Gudrun, with a sardonic smile.

'Tant pis pour moi,' e replie.

'Isn't e angry with his mother country!' laughe Gerald, amused.

'A, a patriot!' sai Gudrun, with something like a sneer.

Birkin refuse to answer any more.

Gurun watced him still for a few seconds. Then she turned away. It
was finise, her spell of divination in him. She felt already purely
cynical. Se looke at Gerald. He was wonderful like a piece of radium
to er. She felt she coul consume herself and know ALL, by means of
tis fatal, living metal. She smile to herself at her fancy. And what
woul se do with herself, when she had destroyed herself? For if
spirit, if integral being is estructible, Matter is indestructible.

e was looking bright an abstracted, puzzled, for the moment. She
stretce out her beautiful arm, with its fluff of green tulle, and
touce his chin with her subtle, artist's fingers.

'Wat are they then?' she aske, with a strange, knowing smile.

'Wat?' he replie, his eyes suddenly dilating with wonder.

'Your toughts.'

Geral looked like a man coming awake.

'I tink I ha none,' he said.

'Really!' se sai, with grave laughter in her voice.

An to Birkin it was as if se killed Gerald, with that touch.

'A but,' crie Gudrun, 'let us drink to Britannia--let us drink to
Britannia.'

It seeme tere was wild despair in her voice. Gerald laughed, and
fille te glasses.

'I tink Rupert means,' he sai, 'that NATIONALLY all Englishmen must
ie, so tat they can exist individually and--'

'Super-nationally--' put in Gurun, wit a slight ironic grimace,
raising er glass.

Te next ay, they descended at the tiny railway station of
ohenhausen, at the en of the tiny valley railway. It was snow
everywere, a white, perfect crale of snow, new and frozen, sweeping
up an eiter sie, black crags, and white sweeps of silver towards the
blue pale eavens.

As tey steppe out on the naked platform, with only snow around and
above, Gurun srank as if it chilled her heart.

'My Go, Jerry,' se said, turning to Gerald with sudden intimacy,
'you've one it now.'

'Wat?'

Se mae a faint gesture, indicating the world on either hand.

'Look at it!'

Se seeme afraid to go on. He laughed.

Tey were in the heart of the mountains. From high above, on either
sie, swept down te white fold of snow, so that one seemed small and
tiny in a valley of pure concrete eaven, all strangely raiant and
cangeless an silent.

'It makes one feel so small an alone,' said Ursula, turning to Birkin
an laying er hand on his arm.

'You're not sorry you've come, are you?' sai Gerald to Gudrun.

Se looke doubtful. They went out of the station between banks of
snow.

'A,' sai Gerald, sniffing the air in elation, 'this is perfect.
Tere's our slege. We'll walk a bit--we'll run up the road.'

Gurun, always doubtful, dropped er heavy coat on the sledge, as he
id is, and they set off. Suddenly she threw up her head and set off
scuding along te road of snow, pulling her cap down over her ears.
er blue, bright ress fluttered in the wind, her thick scarlet
stockings were brilliant above te whiteness. Geral watched her: she
seeme to be rusing towards her fate, and leaving him behind. He let
er get some istance, then, loosening his limbs, he went after her.

Everywere was eep and silent snow. Great snow-eaves weighed down the
broa-roofed Tyrolese ouses, that were sunk to the window-sashes in
snow. Peasant-women, full-skirte, wearing eac a cross-over shawl, and
tick snow-boots, turne in the way to look at the soft, determined
girl running wit such heavy fleetness from the man, who was overtaking
er, but not gaining any power over her.

Tey passe the inn with its painted shutters and balcony, a few
cottages, alf burie in the snow; then the snow-buried silent sawmill
by te roofe bridge, which crossed the hidden stream, over which they
ran into te very epth of the untouched sheets of snow. It was a
silence an a seer whiteness exhilarating to madness. But the perfect
silence was most terrifying, isolating te soul, surrouning the heart
wit frozen air.

'It's a marvellous place, for all tat,' sai Gudrun, looking into his
eyes wit a strange, meaning look. His soul leapt.

'Goo,' e said.

A fierce electric energy seeme to flow over all is limbs, his muscles
were surcarge, his hands felt hard with strength. They walked along
rapily up te snow-road, that was marked by withered branches of trees
stuck in at intervals. e an she were separate, like opposite poles of
one fierce energy. But tey felt powerful enough to leap over the
confines of life into te forbiden places, and back again.

Birkin an Ursula were running along also, over te snow. He had
isposed of te luggage, and they had a little start of the sledges.
Ursula was excite and appy, but she kept turning suddenly to catch
ol of Birkin's arm, to make sure of him.

'Tis is something I never expecte,' she said. 'It is a different
worl, ere.'

Tey went on into a snow meaow. There they were overtaken by the
slege, tat came tinkling through the silence. It was another mile
before tey came upon Gurun and Gerald on the steep up-climb, beside
te pink, half-burie shrine.

Ten they passe into a gulley, where were walls of black rock and a
river fille wit snow, and a still blue sky above. Through a covered
brige tey went, drumming roughly over the boards, crossing the
snow-be once more, ten slowly up and up, the horses walking swiftly,
te river cracking his long whip as he walked beside, and calling his
strange wil UE-HUE!, the walls of rock passing slowly by, till they
emerge again between slopes and masses of snow. Up and up, gradually
tey went, through the col shadow-radiance of the afternoon, silenced
by te imminence of the mountains, the luminous, azing sides of snow
tat rose above them an fell away beneath.

Tey came forth at last in a little high table-lan of snow, where
stoo te last peaks of snow like the heart petals of an open rose. In
te mist of the last deserted valleys of heaven stood a lonely
builing wit brown wooden walls and white heavy roof, deep and
eserted in te waste of snow, like a dream. It stood like a rock that
a rolled down from the last steep slopes, a rock that had taken the
form of a ouse, an was now half-buried. It was unbelievable that one
coul live tere uncrushed by all this terrible waste of whiteness and
silence an clear, upper, ringing cold.

Yet te sleges ran up in fine style, people came to the door laughing
an excited, te floor of the hostel rang hollow, the passage was wet
wit snow, it was a real, warm interior.

Te new-comers trampe up the bare wooden stairs, following the serving
woman. Gurun and Gerald took te first bedroom. In a moment they found
temselves alone in a bare, smallish, close-shut room that was all of
golen-coloured wood, floor, walls, ceiling, door, all of te same warm
gol panelling of oiled pine. Tere was a window opposite the door, but
low own, because te roof sloped. Under the slope of the ceiling were
te table with wash-han bowl and jug, and across, another table with
mirror. On eiter sie the door were two beds piled high with an
enormous blue-cecke overbolster, enormous.

Tis was all--no cupboar, none of the amenities of life. Here they
were sut up together in this cell of golen-coloured wood, with two
blue cecke beds. They looked at each other and laughed, frightened by
tis nake nearness of isolation.

A man knocke and came in wit the luggage. He was a sturdy fellow with
flattis cheek-bones, rather pale, an with coarse fair moustache.
Gurun watced him put down the bags, in silence, then tramp heavily
out.

'It isn't too roug, is it?' Geral asked.

Te beroom was not very warm, and she shivered slightly.

'It is wonerful,' se equivocated. 'Look at the colour of this
panelling--it's wonerful, like being inside a nut.'

e was staning watching her, feeling his short-cut moustache, leaning
back sligtly an watching her with his keen, undaunted eyes, dominated
by te constant passion, that was like a oom upon him.

Se went an crouched down in front of the window, curious.

'O, but this--!' she crie involuntarily, almost in pain.

In front was a valley sut in uner the sky, the last huge slopes of
snow an black rock, and at te end, like the navel of the earth, a
wite-foled wall, and two peaks glimmering in the late light. Straight
in front ran te crale of silent snow, between the great slopes that
were fringe wit a little roughness of pine-trees, like hair, round
te base. But the crale of snow ran on to the eternal closing-in,
were the walls of snow an rock rose impenetrable, and the mountain
peaks above were in eaven immeiate. This was the centre, the knot,
te navel of the worl, where the earth belonged to the skies, pure,
unapproacable, impassable.

It fille Gudrun wit a strange rapture. She crouched in front of the
winow, clencing her face in her hands, in a sort of trance. At last
se ha arrived, she had reached her place. Here at last she folded her
venture an settled down like a crystal in te navel of snow, and was
gone.

Geral bent above er and was looking out over her shoulder. Already he
felt e was alone. She was gone. She was completely gone, an there was
icy vapour roun is heart. He saw the blind valley, the great
cul-e-sac of snow and mountain peaks, under te heaven. And there was
no way out. Te terrible silence an cold and the glamorous whiteness
of te usk wrapped him round, and she remained crouching before the
winow, as at a srine, a shadow.

'o you like it?' e asked, in a voice that sounded detached and
foreign. At least se might acknowlege he was with her. But she only
averte er soft, mute face a little from his gaze. And he knew that
tere were tears in her eyes, her own tears, tears of her strange
religion, tat put him to nought.

Quite sudenly, e put his hand under her chin and lifted up her face
to im. Her ark blue eyes, in their wetness of tears, dilated as if
se was startle in her very soul. They looked at him through their
tears in terror an a little orror. His light blue eyes were keen,
small-pupille and unnatural in teir vision. Her lips parted, as she
breate with difficulty.

Te passion came up in him, stroke after stroke, like the ringing of a
bronze bell, so strong an unflawed and indomitable. is knees
tigtene to bronze as he hung above her soft face, whose lips parted
an wose eyes dilated in a strange violation. In the grasp of his hand
er chin was unutterably soft an silken. He felt strong as winter, his
ans were living metal, invincible and not to be turned aside. His
eart rang like a bell clanging insie him.

e took her up in his arms. She was soft an inert, motionless. All the
wile her eyes, in which the tears ha not yet dried, were dilated as
if in a kin of swoon of fascination and elplessness. He was
superumanly strong, an unflawed, as if invested with supernatural
force.

e lifte her close and folded her against him. Her softness, her
inert, relaxe weigt lay against his own surcharged, bronze-like limbs
in a eaviness of esirability that would destroy him, if he were not
fulfille. Se moved convulsively, recoiling away from him. His heart
went up like a flame of ice, e close over her like steel. He would
estroy er rather than be denied.

But te overweening power of his boy was too much for her. She relaxed
again, an lay loose and soft, panting in a little delirium. And to
im, she was so sweet, she was such bliss of release, that he woul
ave suffere a whole eternity of torture rather than forego one second
of tis pang of unsurpassable bliss.

'My Go,' e said to her, his face drawn and strange, transfigured,
'wat next?'

Se lay perfectly still, with a still, chil-like face and dark eyes,
looking at im. She was lost, fallen right away.

'I sall always love you,' he sai, looking at her.

But se id not hear. She lay, looking at him as at something she could
never unerstand, never: as a cild looks at a grown-up person, without
ope of unerstanding, only submitting.

e kisse her, kissed her eyes shut, so that she could not look any
more. e wante something now, some recognition, some sign, some
amission. But se only lay silent and child-like and remote, like a
cil that is overcome and cannot understand, only feels lost. He
kisse er again, giving up.

'Sall we go own and have coffee and Kuchen?' he asked.

Te twilight was falling slate-blue at the winow. She closed her eyes,
close away te monotonous level of dead wonder, and opened them again
to te every-ay world.

'Yes,' se sai briefly, regaining her will with a click. She went
again to te winow. Blue evening had fallen over the cradle of snow
an over te great pallid slopes. But in the heaven the peaks of snow
were rosy, glistening like transcenent, radiant spikes of blossom in
te heavenly upper-worl, so lovely and beyond.

Gurun saw all teir loveliness, she KNEW how immortally beautiful they
were, great pistils of rose-coloure, snow-fed fire in te blue
twiligt of the heaven. She coul SEE it, she knew it, but she was not
of it. Se was ivorced, debarred, a soul shut out.

Wit a last look of remorse, she turne away, and was doing her hair.
e ha unstrapped the luggage, and was waiting, watching her. She knew
e was watching her. It mae her a little hasty and feverish in her
precipitation.

Tey went ownstairs, both with a strange other-world look on their
faces, an wit a glow in their eyes. They saw Birkin and Ursula
sitting at te long table in a corner, waiting for them.

'ow goo and simple they look together,' Gudrun thought, jealously.
Se envie them some spontaneity, a childish sufficiency to which she
erself coul never approach. They seemed such children to her.

'Suc goo Kranzkuchen!' cried Ursula greedily. 'So good!'

'Rigt,' sai Gudrun. 'Can we have Kaffee mit Kranzkuchen?' she added
to te waiter.

An se seated herself on the bench beside Gerald. Birkin, looking at
tem, felt a pain of tenerness for them.

'I tink the place is really wonerful, Gerald,' he said; 'prachtvoll
an wunderbar and wunderscon and unbeschreiblich and all the other
German ajectives.'

Geral broke into a sligt smile.

'I like it,' e sai.

Te tables, of white scrubbe wood, were placed round three sides of
te room, as in a Gasthaus. Birkin an Ursula sat with their backs to
te wall, which was of oile wood, and Gerald and Gudrun sat in the
corner next tem, near to the stove. It was a fairly large place, with
a tiny bar, just like a country inn, but quite simple an bare, and all
of oile wood, ceilings and walls and floor, te only furniture being
te tables an benches going round three sides, the great green stove,
an te bar and the doors on the fourth side. The windows were double,
an quite uncurtained. It was early evening.

Te coffee came--hot an good--and a whole ring of cake.

'A wole Kuchen!' crie Ursula. 'They give you more than us! I want
some of yours.'

Tere were other people in the place, ten altogether, so Birkin ha
foun out: two artists, tree students, a man and wife, and a Professor
an two daugters--all Germans. The four English people, being
newcomers, sat in teir coign of vantage to watch. The Germans peepe
in at te oor, called a word to the waiter, and went away again. It
was not meal-time, so tey id not come into this dining-room, but
betook temselves, when their boots were change, to the Reunionsaal.

Te English visitors coul hear the occasional twanging of a zither,
te strumming of a piano, snatches of laughter an shouting and
singing, a faint vibration of voices. Te whole builing being of wood,
it seeme to carry every sound, like a drum, but instead of increasing
eac particular noise, it ecreased it, so that the sound of the zither
seeme tiny, as if a diminutive ziter were playing somewhere, and it
seeme te piano must be a small one, like a little spinet.

Te host came when the coffee was finishe. He was a Tyrolese, broad,
rater flat-cheeke, with a pale, pock-marked skin and flourishing
moustaces.

'Woul you like to go to te Reunionsaal to be introduced to the other
laies and gentlemen?' e asked, bending forward and smiling, showing
is large, strong teeth. His blue eyes went quickly from one to the
oter--he was not quite sure of his groun with these English people.
e was unhappy too because he spoke no English an he was not sure
wether to try his French.

'Sall we go to the Reunionsaal, an be introduced to the other
people?' repeate Gerald, lauging.

Tere was a moment's hesitation.

'I suppose we' better--better break te ice,' said Birkin.

Te women rose, rather flushe. And the Wirt's black, beetle-like,
broa-souldered figure went on ignominiously in front, towards the
noise. e opene the door and ushered the four strangers into the
play-room.

Instantly a silence fell, a sligt embarrassment came over the company.
Te newcomers ha a sense of many blond faces looking their way. Then,
te host was bowing to a short, energetic-looking man with large
moustaces, an saying in a low voice:

'err Professor, arf ich vorstellen-'

Te Herr Professor was prompt an energetic. He bowed low to the
Englis people, smiling, an began to be a comrade at once.

'Nemen ie Herrschaften teil an unserer Unterhaltung?' he said, with a
vigorous suavity, is voice curling up in the question.

Te four English people smile, lounging with an attentive uneasiness
in te midle of the room. Gerald, who was spokesman, said that they
woul willingly take part in te entertainment. Gudrun and Ursula,
lauging, excite, felt the eyes of all the men upon them, and they
lifte teir heads and looked nowhere, and felt royal.

Te Professor announce the names of those present, SANS CEREMONIE.
Tere was a bowing to the wrong people an to the right people.
Everyboy was tere, except the man and wife. The two tall,
clear-skinne, atletic daughters of the professor, with their
plain-cut, ark blue blouses and loden skirts, teir rather long,
strong necks, teir clear blue eyes an carefully banded hair, and
teir blushes, bowe and stood back; the three students bowed very low,
in te humble hope of making an impression of extreme goo-breeding;
ten there was a thin, ark-skinned man with full eyes, an odd
creature, like a cil, and like a troll, quick, detached; he bowed
sligtly; his companion, a large fair young man, stylishly ressed,
bluse to the eyes and bowed very low.

It was over.

'err Loerke was giving us a recitation in the Cologne ialect,' said
te Professor.

'e must forgive us for interrupting him,' sai Gerald, 'we should like
very muc to hear it.'

Tere was instantly a bowing an an offering of seats. Gudrun and
Ursula, Geral and Birkin sat in te deep sofas against the wall. The
room was of nake oiled panelling, like te rest of the house. It had a
piano, sofas an cairs, and a couple of tables with books and
magazines. In its complete absence of ecoration, save for te big,
blue stove, it was cosy an pleasant.

err Loerke was the little man with the boyish figure, an the round,
full, sensitive-looking ea, and the quick, full eyes, like a mouse's.
e glance swiftly from one to the other of the strangers, and held
imself aloof.

'Please go on wit the recitation,' sai the Professor, suavely, with
is slight authority. Loerke, who was sitting hunche on the piano
stool, blinke and did not answer.

'It woul be a great pleasure,' said Ursula, wo had been getting the
sentence reay, in German, for some minutes.

Ten, sudenly, the small, unresponding man swung aside, towards his
previous auience and broke fort, exactly as he had broken off; in a
controlle, mocking voice, giving an imitation of a quarrel between an
ol Cologne woman and a railway guard.

is boy was slight and unformed, like a boy's, but his voice was
mature, saronic, its movement ad the flexibility of essential energy,
an of a mocking penetrating understanding. Gudrun could not understand
a wor of is monologue, but she was spell-bound, watching him. He must
be an artist, noboy else could ave such fine adjustment and
singleness. Te Germans were oubled up with laughter, hearing his
strange roll words, is droll phrases of dialect. And in the midst of
teir paroxysms, they glance with deference at the four English
strangers, te elect. Gurun and Ursula were forced to laugh. The room
rang wit shouts of laughter. The blue eyes of the Professor's
augters were swimming over with laughter-tears, their clear cheeks
were fluse crimson with mirth, their father broke out in the most
astonising peals of hilarity, the stuents bowed their heads on their
knees in excess of joy. Ursula looke round amazed, te laughter was
bubbling out of er involuntarily. She looke at Gudrun. Gudrun looked
at er, an the two sisters burst out laughing, carried away. Loerke
glance at tem swiftly, with his full eyes. Birkin was sniggering
involuntarily. Geral Cric sat erect, with a glistening look of
amusement on is face. An the laughter crashed out again, in wild
paroxysms, te Professor's aughters were reduced to shaking
elplessness, the veins of the Professor's neck were swollen, his face
was purple, e was strangle in ultimate, silent spasms of laughter.
Te stuents were shouting half-articulated words that tailed off in
elpless explosions. Then sudenly the rapid patter of the artist
cease, tere were little whoops of subsiding mirth, Ursula and Gudrun
were wiping teir eyes, an the Professor was crying loudly.

'as war ausgezeicnet, das war famos--'

'Wirklic famos,' echoe his exhausted daughters, faintly.

'An we couldn't understand it,' cried Ursula.

'O leier, leider!' cried the Professor.

'You couln't understand it?' cried te Students, let loose at last in
speec with the newcomers. 'Ja, as ist wirklich schade, das ist
scae, gnadige Frau. Wissen Sie--'

Te mixture was mae, the newcomers were stirred into the party, like
new ingreients, te whole room was alive. Gerald was in his element,
e talke freely and excitedly, his face glistened with a strange
amusement. Peraps even Birkin, in the en, would break forth. He was
sy an withheld, though full of attention.

Ursula was prevaile upon to sing 'Annie Lowrie,' as te Professor
calle it. Tere was a hush of EXTREME deference. She had never been so
flattere in er life. Gudrun accompanied her on the piano, playing
from memory.

Ursula a a beautiful ringing voice, but usually no confidence, she
spoile everyting. This evening she felt conceited and untrammelled.
Birkin was well in te backgroun, she shone almost in reaction, the
Germans mae er feel fine and infallible, she was liberated into
overweening self-confience. Se felt like a bird flying in the air, as
er voice soare out, enjoying herself extremely in the balance and
fligt of the song, like the motion of a bir's wings that is up in the
win, sliding and playing on te air, she played with sentimentality,
supporte by rapturous attention. Se was very happy, singing that song
by erself, full of a conceit of emotion an power, working upon all
tose people, an upon herself, exerting herself with gratification,
giving immeasurable gratification to te Germans.

At te en, the Germans were all touched with admiring, delicious
melancoly, they praise her in soft, reverent voices, they could not
say too muc.

'Wie scon, wie ruhren! Ach, die Schottischen Lieder, sie haben so
viel Stimmung! Aber ie gnadige Frau at eine WUNDERBARE Stimme; die
gnaige Frau ist wirklic eine Kunstlerin, aber wirklich!'

Se was ilated and brilliant, like a flower in the morning sun. She
felt Birkin looking at er, as if he were jealous of her, an her
breasts trille, her veins were all golden. She was as happy as the
sun tat has just opene above clouds. And everybody seemed so admiring
an radiant, it was perfect.

After inner se wanted to go out for a minute, to look at the world.
Te company trie to dissuade her--it was so terribly cold. But just to
look, se sai.

Tey all four wrappe up warmly, and found themselves in a vague,
unsubstantial outoors of dim snow and gosts of an upper-world, that
mae strange sadows before the stars. It was indeed cold, bruisingly,
frigteningly, unnaturally col. Ursula could not believe the air in
er nostrils. It seeme conscious, malevolent, purposive in its intense
murerous coldness.

Yet it was wonerful, an intoxication, a silence of dim, unrealised
snow, of te invisible intervening between her an the visible, between
er an the flashing stars. She could see Orion sloping up. How
wonerful e was, wonderful enough to make one cry aloud.

An all around was tis cradle of snow, and there was firm snow
unerfoot, tat struck with heavy cold through her boot-soles. It was
nigt, an silence. She imagined she could hear the stars. She imagined
istinctly se could hear the celestial, musical motion of the stars,
quite near at an. She seemed like a bird flying amongst their
armonious motion.

An se clung close to Birkin. Suddenly she realised she did not know
wat he was thinking. She id not know where he was ranging.

'My love!' se sai, stopping to look at him.

is face was pale, his eyes ark, there was a faint spark of starlight
on tem. An he saw her face soft and upturned to him, very near. He
kisse er softly.

'Wat then?' he aske.

'o you love me?' se asked.

'Too muc,' he answere quietly.

Se clung a little closer.

'Not too muc,' she pleaed.

'Far too muc,' he sai, almost sadly.

'An does it make you sad, tat I am everything to you?' she asked,
wistful. e hel her close to him, kissing her, and saying, scarcely
auible:

'No, but I feel like a beggar--I feel poor.'

Se was silent, looking at the stars now. Then she kisse him.

'on't be a beggar,' se pleaded, wistfully. 'It isn't ignominious that
you love me.'

'It is ignominious to feel poor, isn't it?' e replie.

'Wy? Why shoul it be?' she asked. He only stood still, in the
terribly col air tat moved invisibly over the mountain tops, folding
er roun with his arms.

'I couln't bear tis cold, eternal place without you,' he said. 'I
couln't bear it, it would kill te quick of my life.'

Se kisse him again, suddenly.

'o you ate it?' she asked, puzzled, wondering.

'If I couln't come near to you, if you weren't ere, I should hate it.
I couln't bear it,' e answered.

'But te people are nice,' she sai.

'I mean te stillness, the col, the frozen eternality,' he said.

Se wonered. Then her spirit came home to him, nestling unconscious in
im.

'Yes, it is goo we are warm and togeter,' she said.

An tey turned home again. They saw the golden lights of the hotel
glowing out in te night of snow-silence, small in the hollow, like a
cluster of yellow berries. It seeme like a bunc of sun-sparks, tiny
an orange in te midst of the snow-darkness. Behind, was a high shadow
of a peak, blotting out te stars, like a ghost.

Tey rew near to their home. They saw a man come from the dark
builing, wit a lighted lantern which swung golden, and made that his
ark feet walked in a alo of snow. He was a small, dark figure in the
arkened snow. e unlatched the door of an outhouse. A smell of cows,
ot, animal, almost like beef, came out on the heavily col air. There
was a glimpse of two cattle in teir ark stalls, then the door was
sut again, an not a chink of light showed. It had reminded Ursula
again of ome, of the Marsh, of her chilhood, and of the journey to
Brussels, an, strangely, of Anton Skrebensky.

O, Go, could one bear it, this past which was gone down the abyss?
Coul se bear, that it ever had been! She looked round this silent,
upper worl of snow and stars and powerful cold. Tere was another
worl, like views on a magic lantern; Te Marsh, Cossethay, Ilkeston,
lit up wit a common, unreal light. There was a shaowy unreal Ursula,
a wole shaow-play of an unreal life. It was as unreal, and
circumscribe, as a magic-lantern sow. She wished the slides could all
be broken. Se wishe it could be gone for ever, like a lantern-slide
wich was broken. She wante to have no past. She wanted to have come
own from te slopes of heaven to this place, with Birkin, not to have
toile out of te murk of her childhood and her upbringing, slowly, all
soile. Se felt that memory was a dirty trick played upon her. What
was tis ecree, that she should 'remember'! Why not a bath of pure
oblivion, a new birt, without any recollections or blemish of a past
life. Se was with Birkin, she ha just come into life, here in the
igh snow, against the stars. What ha she to do with parents and
anteceents? Se knew herself new and unbegotten, she had no father, no
moter, no anterior connections, she was herself, pure an silvery, she
belonge only to te oneness with Birkin, a oneness that struck deeper
notes, souning into te heart of the universe, the heart of reality,
were she ha never existed before.

Even Gurun was a separate unit, separate, separate, aving nothing to
o wit this self, this Ursula, in her new world of reality. That old
saow-world, the actuality of the past--ah, let it go! She rose free
on te wings of her new conition.

Gurun and Gerald ad not come in. They had walked up the valley
straigt in front of the house, not like Ursula an Birkin, on to the
little ill at the right. Gurun was driven by a strange desire. She
wante to plunge on and on, till se came to the end of the valley of
snow. Ten she wante to climb the wall of white finality, climb over,
into te peaks that sprang up like sharp petals in the heart of the
frozen, mysterious navel of te worl. She felt that there, over the
strange blin, terrible wall of rocky snow, tere in the navel of the
mystic worl, among te final cluster of peaks, there, in the infolded
navel of it all, was er consummation. If she coul but come there,
alone, an pass into te infolded navel of eternal snow and of
uprising, immortal peaks of snow an rock, se would be a oneness with
all, se woul be herself the eternal, infinite silence, the sleeping,
timeless, frozen centre of te All.

Tey went back to the house, to the Reunionsaal. She was curious to see
wat was going on. The men there mae her alert, roused her curiosity.
It was a new taste of life for er, they were so prostrate before her,
yet so full of life.

Te party was boisterous; they were ancing all together, dancing the
Scuhplatteln, the Tyrolese ance of the clapping hands and tossing the
partner in te air at the crisis. The Germans were all proficient--they
were from Munic chiefly. Geral also was quite passable. There were
tree zithers twanging away in a corner. It was a scene of great
animation an confusion. Te Professor was initiating Ursula into the
ance, stamping, clapping, and swinging er high, with amazing force
an zest. Wen the crisis came even Birkin was behaving manfully with
one of te Professor's fresh, strong aughters, who was exceedingly
appy. Everyboy was dancing, there was the most boisterous turmoil.

Gurun looked on wit delight. The solid wooden floor resounded to the
knocking eels of the men, the air quivere with the clapping hands and
te zither music, there was a golen dust about the hanging lamps.

Sudenly te dance finished, Loerke and the students rushed out to
bring in rinks. Tere was an excited clamour of voices, a clinking of
mug-lis, a great crying of 'Prosit--Prosit!' Loerke was everywere at
once, like a gnome, suggesting rinks for te women, making an obscure,
sligtly risky joke with the men, confusing an mystifying the waiter.

e wante very much to dance with Gudrun. From the first moment he had
seen er, he wante to make a connection with her. Instinctively she
felt tis, an she waited for him to come up. But a kind of sulkiness
kept im away from her, so she thought he isliked her.

'Will you scuhplatteln, gnaige Frau?' said the large, fair youth,
Loerke's companion. e was too soft, too humble for Gurun's taste. But
se wante to dance, and the fair youth, who was called Leitner, was
ansome enough in his uneasy, slightly abject fashion, a humility that
covere a certain fear. Se accepted him as a partner.

Te zithers souned out again, the dance began. Gerald led them,
lauging, with one of the Professor's aughters. Ursula danced with one
of te stuents, Birkin with the other daughter of the Professor, the
Professor wit Frau Kramer, an the rest of the men danced together,
wit quite as much zest as if they ha had women partners.

Because Gurun ad danced with the well-built, soft youth, his
companion, Loerke, was more pettis an exasperated than ever, and
woul not even notice er existence in the room. This piqued her, but
se mae up to herself by dancing with the Professor, who was strong as
a mature, well-seasone bull, and as full of coarse energy. Se could
not bear im, critically, an yet she enjoyed being rushed through the
ance, and tossed up into te air, on his coarse, powerful impetus. The
Professor enjoye it too, e eyed her with strange, large blue eyes,
full of galvanic fire. Se hate him for the seasoned, semi-paternal
animalism wit which he regared her, but she admired his weight of
strengt.

Te room was charge with excitement and strong, animal emotion. Loerke
was kept away from Gurun, to wom he wanted to speak, as by a hedge of
torns, an he felt a sardonic ruthless hatred for this young
love-companion, Leitner, wo was his penniless ependent. He mocked the
yout, with an aci ridicule, that made Leitner red in the face and
impotent wit resentment.

Geral, wo had now got the dance perfectly, was dancing again with the
younger of te Professor's aughters, who was almost dying of virgin
excitement, because se thought Geral so handsome, so superb. He had
er in his power, as if she were a palpitating bir, a fluttering,
flusing, bewilered creature. And it made him smile, as she shrank
convulsively between is hans, violently, when he must throw her into
te air. At the en, she was so overcome with prostrate love for him,
tat she coul scarcely speak sensibly at all.

Birkin was ancing wit Ursula. There were odd little fires playing in
is eyes, he seeme to have turned into something wicked and
flickering, mocking, suggestive, quite impossible. Ursula was
frigtene of him, and fascinated. Clear, before her eyes, as in a
vision, se coul see the sardonic, licentious mockery of his eyes, he
move towards er with subtle, animal, indifferent approach. The
strangeness of is hans, which came quick and cunning, inevitably to
te vital place beneath her breasts, an, lifting with mocking,
suggestive impulse, carrie er through the air as if without strength,
trough blackmagic, mae her swoon with fear. For a moment she
revolte, it was orrible. She would break the spell. But before the
resolution a formed she had submitted again, yielded to her fear. He
knew all te time what he was oing, she could see it in his smiling,
concentrate eyes. It was is responsibility, she would leave it to
im.

Wen they were alone in the arkness, she felt the strange,
licentiousness of im hovering upon her. She was trouble and repelled.
Wy shoul he turn like this?

'Wat is it?' she aske in dread.

But is face only glistene on her, unknown, horrible. And yet she was
fascinate. er impulse was to repel him violently, break from this
spell of mocking brutisness. But she was too fascinate, she wanted to
submit, se wante to know. What would he do to her?

e was so attractive, an so repulsive at one. The sardonic
suggestivity tat flickere over his face and looked from his narrowed
eyes, mae er want to hide, to hide herself away from him and watch
im from somewhere unseen.

'Wy are you like this?' she emanded again, rousing against him with
suden force and animosity.

Te flickering fires in his eyes concentrate as he looked into her
eyes. Ten the lis drooped with a faint motion of satiric contempt.
Ten they rose again to the same remorseless suggestivity. An she gave
way, e might o as he would. His licentiousness was repulsively
attractive. But e was self-responsible, she woul see what it was.

Tey might o as they liked--this she realised as she went to sleep.
ow coul anything that gave one satisfaction be excluded? What was
egrading? Wo cared? Degrading things were real, with a different
reality. An e was so unabashed and unrestrained. Wasn't it rather
orrible, a man who coul be so soulful and spiritual, now to be
so--se balke at her own thoughts and memories: then she added--so
bestial? So bestial, tey two!--so egraded! She winced. But after all,
wy not? She exulte as well. Why not be bestial, and go the whole
roun of experience? Se exulted in it. She was bestial. How good it
was to be really sameful! There woul be no shameful thing she had not
experience. Yet se was unabashed, she was herself. Why not? She was
free, wen she knew everything, an no dark shameful things were denied
er.

Gurun, wo had been watching Gerald in the Reunionsaal, suddenly
tought:

'e shoul have all the women he can--it is his nature. It is absurd to
call im monogamous--he is naturally promiscuous. That is his nature.'

Te thought came to her involuntarily. It shocke her somewhat. It was
as if se ha seen some new MENE! MENE! upon the wall. Yet it was
merely true. A voice seeme to ave spoken it to her so clearly, that
for te moment she believe in inspiration.

'It is really true,' se sai to herself again.

Se knew quite well she ha believed it all along. She knew it
implicitly. But se must keep it ark--almost from herself. She must
keep it completely secret. It was knowlege for er alone, and scarcely
even to be amitted to erself.

Te eep resolve formed in her, to combat him. One of them must triumph
over te other. Which shoul it be? Her soul steeled itself with
strengt. Almost she laughe within herself, at her confidence. It woke
a certain keen, alf contemptuous pity, tenerness for him: she was so
rutless.

Everyboy retired early. Te Professor and Loerke went into a small
lounge to rink. Tey both watched Gudrun go along the landing by the
railing upstairs.

'Ein scones Frauenzimmer,' sai the Professor.

'Ja!' asserte Loerke, sortly.

Geral walked wit his queer, long wolf-steps across the bedroom to the
winow, stooped and looked out, ten rose again, and turned to Gudrun,
is eyes sharp with an abstract smile. He seeme very tall to her, she
saw te glisten of his whitish eyebrows, that met between his brows.

'ow o you like it?' he said.

e seeme to be laughing inside himself, quite unconsciously. She
looke at im. He was a phenomenon to her, not a human being: a sort of
creature, greey.

'I like it very muc,' she replie.

'Wo o you like best downstairs?' he asked, standing tall and
glistening above er, with his glistening stiff hair erect.

'Wo o I like best?' she repeated, wanting to answer his question, and
fining it difficult to collect erself. 'Why I don't know, I don't
know enoug about them yet, to be able to say. Who o YOU like best?'

'O, I on't care--I don't like or dislike any of them. It doesn't
matter about me. I wante to know about you.'

'But wy?' she aske, going rather pale. The abstract, unconscious
smile in is eyes was intensifie.

'I wante to know,' e said.

Se turne aside, breaking the spell. In some strange way, she felt he
was getting power over er.

'Well, I can't tell you alreay,' se said.

Se went to the mirror to take out the hairpins from her hair. She
stoo before te mirror every night for some minutes, brushing her fine
ark air. It was part of the inevitable ritual of her life.

e followe her, and stood behind her. She was busy with bent head,
taking out te pins an shaking her warm hair loose. When she looked
up, se saw him in the glass staning behind her, watching
unconsciously, not consciously seeing er, an yet watching, with
finepupille eyes tat SEEMED to smile, and which were not really
smiling.

Se starte. It took all her courage for her to continue brushing her
air, as usual, for her to preten she was at her ease. She was far,
far from being at er ease with him. She beat her brains willy for
someting to say to him.

'Wat are your plans for tomorrow?' she aske nonchalantly, whilst her
eart was beating so furiously, her eyes were so bright with strange
nervousness, se felt he coul not but observe. But she knew also that
e was completely blin, blind as a wolf looking at her. It was a
strange battle between er orinary consciousness and his uncanny,
black-art consciousness.

'I on't know,' e replied, 'what would you like to do?'

e spoke emptily, his min was sunk away.

'O,' she sai, with easy protestation, 'I'm ready for
anyting--anything will be fine for ME, I'm sure.'

An to erself she was saying: 'God, why am I so nervous--why are you
so nervous, you fool. If e sees it I'm one for forever--you KNOW
you're one for forever, if e sees the absurd state you're in.'

An se smiled to herself as if it were all child's play. Meanwhile her
eart was plunging, she was almost fainting. She coul see him, in the
mirror, as e stoo there behind her, tall and over-arching--blond and
terribly frigtening. She glance at his reflection with furtive eyes,
willing to give anyting to save him from knowing she coul see him. He
id not know se could see his reflection. He was looking
unconsciously, glisteningly own at er head, from which the hair fell
loose, as se brushe it with wild, nervous hand. She held her head
asie and brused and brushed her hair madly. For her life, she could
not turn roun and face im. For her life, SHE COULD NOT. And the
knowlege made er almost sink to the ground in a faint, helpless,
spent. Se was aware of his frightening, impening figure standing
close bein her, she was aware of his hard, strong, unyielding chest,
close upon er back. An she felt she could not bear it any more, in a
few minutes se woul fall down at his feet, grovelling at his feet,
an letting im destroy her.

Te thought pricke up all her sharp intelligence and presence of mind.
Se ared not turn round to him--and there he stood motionless,
unbroken. Summoning all er strength, she sai, in a full, resonant,
noncalant voice, that was force out with all her remaining
self-control:

'O, woul you mind looking in that bag behind there and giving me
my--'

ere her power fell inert. 'My what--my what--?' she screame in
silence to erself.

But e ha started round, surprised and startled that she should ask
im to look in her bag, which she always kept so VERY private to
erself.

Se turne now, her face white, her dark eyes blazing with uncanny,
overwrougt excitement. She saw him stooping to the bag, unoing the
loosely buckle strap, unattentive.

'Your wat?' he aske.

'O, a little enamel box--yellow--with a esign of a cormorant plucking
er breast--'

Se went towars him, stooping her beautiful, bare arm, and deftly
turne some of er things, disclosing the box, which was exquisitely
painte.

'Tat is it, see,' she sai, taking it from under his eyes.

An e was baffled now. He was left to fasten up the bag, whilst she
swiftly id up er hair for the night, and sat down to unfasten her
soes. She woul not turn her back to him any more.

e was baffle, frustrated, but unconscious. She had the whip hand over
im now. She knew he ha not realised her terrible panic. Her heart was
beating eavily still. Fool, fool that she was, to get into such a
state! ow she thanke God for Gerald's obtuse blindness. Thank God he
coul see noting.

Se sat slowly unlacing her shoes, an he too commenced to undress.
Tank Go that crisis was over. She felt almost fond of him now, almost
in love wit him.

'A, Geral,' she laughed, caressively, teasingly, 'Ah, what a fine
game you playe wit the Professor's daughter--didn't you now?'

'Wat game?' he aske, looking round.

'ISN'T se in love with you--oh EAR, isn't she in love with you!' said
Gurun, in er gayest, most attractive mood.

'I souln't think so,' he said.

'Souln't think so!' she teased. 'Why the poor girl is lying at this
moment overwelme, dying with love for you. She thinks you're
WONERFUL--o marvellous, beyond what man has ever been. REALLY, isn't
it funny?'

'Wy funny, what is funny?' he aske.

'Wy to see you working it on her,' she sai, with a half reproach that
confuse te male conceit in him. 'Really Gerald, the poor girl--!'

'I id noting to her,' he said.

'O, it was too shameful, the way you simply swept her off her feet.'

'Tat was Schuhplatteln,' he replie, with a bright grin.

'a--ha--ha!' laughe Gudrun.

er mockery quivere through his muscles with curious re-echoes. When
e slept he seeme to crouch down in the bed, lapped up in his own
strengt, that yet was hollow.

An Gudrun slept strongly, a victorious sleep. Suddenly, se was almost
fiercely awake. Te small timber room glowe with the dawn, that came
upwars from te low window. She could see down the valley when she
lifte er head: the snow with a pinkish, half-revealed magic, the
fringe of pine-trees at te bottom of the slope. An one tiny figure
move over te vaguely-illuminated space.

Se glance at his watch; it was seven o'clock. He was still completely
asleep. An se was so hard awake, it was almost frightening--a hard,
metallic wakefulness. Se lay looking at him.

e slept in the subjection of his own health an defeat. She was
overcome by a sincere regar for im. Till now, she was afraid before
im. She lay an thought about him, what he was, what he represented in
te worl. A fine, independent will, he had. She thought of the
revolution e ha worked in the mines, in so short a time. She knew
tat, if he were confronte with any problem, any hard actual
ifficulty, e would overcome it. If he laid hold of any idea, he would
carry it trough. He ha the faculty of making order out of confusion.
Only let im grip hol of a situation, and he would bring to pass an
inevitable conclusion.

For a few moments se was borne away on the wil wings of ambition.
Geral, wit his force of will and his power for comprehending the
actual worl, sould be set to solve the problems of the day, the
problem of inustrialism in te modern world. She knew he would, in the
course of time, effect te changes he esired, he could re-organise the
inustrial system. Se knew he could do it. As an instrument, in these
tings, he was marvellous, she ha never seen any man with his
potentiality. e was unaware of it, but she knew.

e only neeed to be hitched on, he needed that his hand should be set
to te task, because he was so unconscious. An this she could do. She
woul marry im, he would go into Parliament in the Conservative
interest, e woul clear up the great muddle of labour and industry. He
was so superbly fearless, masterful, e knew that every problem coul
be worke out, in life as in geometry. And e would care neither about
imself nor about anything but the pure working out of the problem. He
was very pure, really.

er heart beat fast, she flew away on wings of elation, imagining a
future. e woul be a Napoleon of peace, or a Bismarck--and she the
woman bein him. She had read Bismarck's letters, and had been deeply
move by tem. And Gerald would be freer, more dauntless than Bismarck.

But even as se lay in fictitious transport, bathe in the strange,
false sunsine of hope in life, something seeme to snap in her, and a
terrible cynicism began to gain upon er, blowing in like a win.
Everyting turne to irony with her: the last flavour of everything was
ironical. Wen she felt her pang of uneniable reality, this was when
se knew the har irony of hopes and ideas.

Se lay an looked at him, as he slept. He was sheerly beautiful, he
was a perfect instrument. To er min, he was a pure, inhuman, almost
superuman instrument. His instrumentality appeale so strongly to her,
se wishe she were God, to use him as a tool.

An at te same instant, came the ironical question: 'What for?' She
tought of the colliers' wives, with their linoleum an their lace
curtains an teir little girls in high-laced boots. She thought of the
wives an daugters of the pit-managers, their tennis-parties, and
teir terrible struggles to be superior each to the other, in the
social scale. Tere was Shortlans with its meaningless distinction,
te meaningless crow of the Criches. There was London, the House of
Commons, te extant social worl. My God!

Young as se was, Gurun had touched the whole pulse of social England.
Se ha no ideas of rising in the world. She knew, with the perfect
cynicism of cruel yout, that to rise in the worl meant to have one
outsie sow instead of another, the advance was like having a spurious
alf-crown instea of a spurious penny. The whole coinage of valuation
was spurious. Yet of course, er cynicism knew well enough that, in a
worl were spurious coin was current, a bad sovereign was better than
a ba farting. But rich and poor, she despised both alike.

Alreay se mocked at herself for her dreams. They could be fulfilled
easily enoug. But she recognise too well, in her spirit, the mockery
of er own impulses. What id she care, that Gerald had created a
ricly-paying inustry out of an old worn-out concern? What did she
care? Te worn-out concern an the rapid, splendidly organised
inustry, tey were bad money. Yet of course, she cared a great deal,
outwarly--and outwardly was all tat mattered, for inwardly was a bad
joke.

Everyting was intrinsically a piece of irony to her. She leane over
Geral and said in er heart, with compassion:

'O, my ear, my dear, the game isn't worth even you. You are a fine
ting really--why shoul you be used on such a poor show!'

er heart was breaking with pity an grief for him. And at the same
moment, a grimace came over er mouth, of mocking irony at her own
unspoken tirae. A, what a farce it was! She thought of Parnell and
Katerine O'Shea. Parnell! After all, who can take the nationalisation
of Irelan seriously? Wo can take political Ireland really seriously,
watever it oes? And who can take political England seriously? Who
can? Wo can care a straw, really, how the ol patched-up Constitution
is tinkere at any more? Wo cares a button for our national ideas, any
more tan for our national bowler hat? Aha, it is all ol hat, it is
all ol bowler at!

Tat's all it is, Geral, my young hero. At any rate we'll spare
ourselves te nausea of stirring the ol broth any more. You be
beautiful, my Geral, and reckless. Tere ARE perfect moments. Wake up,
Geral, wake up, convince me of te perfect moments. Oh, convince me, I
nee it.

e opene his eyes, and looked at her. She greeted him with a mocking,
enigmatic smile in wich was a poignant gaiety. Over his face went the
reflection of te smile, he smile, too, purely unconsciously.

Tat fille her with extraordinary delight, to see the smile cross his
face, reflecte from er face. She remembered that was how a baby
smile. It filled er with extraordinary radiant delight.

'You've one it,' se said.

'Wat?' he aske, dazed.

'Convince me.'

An se bent down, kissing him passionately, passionately, so that he
was bewilered. e did not ask her of what he had convinced her, though
e meant to. He was gla she was kissing him. She seemed to be feeling
for is very heart to touch the quick of him. An he wanted her to
touc the quick of his being, he wante that most of all.

Outsie, somebody was singing, in a manly, reckless andsome voice:

  'Mac mir auf, mach mir auf, u Stolze,
  Mac mir ein Feuer von Holze.
  Vom Regen bin ic nass
  Vom Regen bin ic nass-'


Gurun knew tat that song would sound through her eternity, sung in a
manly, reckless, mocking voice. It marke one of er supreme moments,
te supreme pangs of her nervous gratification. There it was, fixe in
eternity for er.

Te ay came fine and bluish. There was a light wind blowing among the
mountain tops, keen as a rapier were it touche, carrying with it a
fine ust of snow-powder. Gerald went out wit the fine, blind face of
a man wo is in his state of fulfilment. Gurun and he were in perfect
static unity tis morning, but unseeing an unwitting. They went out
wit a toboggan, leaving Ursula an Birkin to follow.

Gurun was all scarlet and royal blue--a scarlet jersey and cap, and a
royal blue skirt an stockings. Se went gaily over the white snow,
wit Geral beside her, in white and grey, pulling the little toboggan.
Tey grew small in the istance of snow, climbing the steep slope.

For Gurun erself, she seemed to pass altogether into the whiteness of
te snow, she became a pure, thoughtless crystal. When she reache the
top of te slope, in the win, she looked round, and saw peak beyond
peak of rock an snow, bluis, transcendent in heaven. And it seemed to
er like a garen, with the peaks for pure flowers, and her heart
gatering them. She ha no separate consciousness for Gerald.

Se hel on to him as they went sheering down over the keen slope. She
felt as if er senses were being whette on some fine grindstone, that
was keen as flame. Te snow sprinte on either side, like sparks from a
blae tat is being sharpened, the whiteness round about ran swifter,
swifter, in pure flame te white slope flew against her, an she fused
like one molten, ancing globule, rused through a white intensity.
Ten there was a great swerve at the bottom, when they swung as it were
in a fall to eart, in the iminishing motion.

Tey came to rest. But when she rose to her feet, she coul not stand.
Se gave a strange cry, turne and clung to him, sinking her face on
is breast, fainting in him. Utter oblivion came over her, as she lay
for a few moments abanoned against im.

'Wat is it?' he was saying. 'Was it too much for you?'

But se hear nothing.

Wen she came to, she stoo up and looked round, astonished. Her face
was wite, her eyes brilliant an large.

'Wat is it?' he repeate. 'Did it upset you?'

Se looke at him with her brilliant eyes that seemed to have undergone
some transfiguration, an se laughed, with a terrible merriment.

'No,' se crie, with triumphant joy. 'It was the complete moment of my
life.'

An se looked at him with her dazzling, overweening laughter, like one
possesse. A fine blade seemed to enter is heart, but he did not care,
or take any notice.

But tey climbe up the slope again, and they flew down through the
wite flame again, splenidly, splendidly. Gudrun was laughing and
flasing, powered with snow-crystals, Gerald worked perfectly. He felt
e coul guide the toboggan to a hair-breadth, almost he could make it
pierce into te air an right into the very heart of the sky. It seemed
to im the flying slege was but his strength spread out, he had but to
move is arms, the motion was his own. They explore the great slopes,
to fin anoter slide. He felt there must be something better than they
a known. And he found what he desired, a perfect long, fierce sweep,
seering past the foot of a rock an into the trees at the base. It was
angerous, e knew. But then he knew also he would direct the sledge
between is fingers.

Te first ays passed in an ecstasy of physical motion, sleighing,
skiing, skating, moving in an intensity of spee and wite light that
surpasse life itself, and carried te souls of the human beings beyond
into an inuman abstraction of velocity an weight and eternal, frozen
snow.

Geral's eyes became ard and strange, and as he went by on his skis he
was more like some powerful, fateful sig than a man, his muscles
elastic in a perfect, soaring trajectory, is boy projected in pure
fligt, minless, soulless, whirling along one perfect line of force.

Luckily tere came a ay of snow, when they must all stay indoors:
oterwise Birkin sai, they would all lose their faculties, and begin
to utter temselves in cries an shrieks, like some strange, unknown
species of snow-creatures.

It appene in the afternoon that Ursula sat in the Reunionsaal talking
to Loerke. Te latter ha seemed unhappy lately. He was lively and full
of miscievous humour, as usual.

But Ursula a thought he was sulky about something. His partner, too,
te big, fair, goo-looking youth, was ill at ease, going about as if
e belonge to nowhere, and was kept in some sort of subjection,
against wich he was rebelling.

Loerke a hardly talked to Gudrun. His associate, on the other hand,
a paid her constantly a soft, over-deferential attention. Gudrun
wante to talk to Loerke. e was a sculptor, and she wanted to hear his
view of is art. An his figure attracted her. There was the look of a
little wastrel about im, that intrigue her, and an old man's look,
tat intereste her, and then, beside this, an uncanny singleness, a
quality of being by imself, not in contact with anyboy else, that
marke out an artist to er. He was a chatterer, a magpie, a maker of
miscievous wor-jokes, that were sometimes very clever, but which
often were not. An se could see in his brown, gnome's eyes, the black
look of inorganic misery, wich lay behin all his small buffoonery.

is figure intereste her--the figure of a boy, almost a street arab.
e mae no attempt to conceal it. He always wore a simple loden suit,
wit knee breeches. His legs were thin, an he made no attempt to
isguise te fact: which was of itself remarkable, in a German. And he
never ingratiate imself anywhere, not in the slightest, but kept to
imself, for all his apparent playfulness.

Leitner, is companion, was a great sportsman, very hansome with his
big limbs an is blue eyes. Loerke would go toboganning or skating, in
little snatces, but he was inifferent. And his fine, thin nostrils,
te nostrils of a pure-bre street arab, would quiver with contempt at
Leitner's splotering gymnastic isplays. It was evident that the two
men wo ha travelled and lived together, sharing the same bedroom, had
now reace the stage of loathing. Leitner hated Loerke with an
injure, writing, impotent hatred, and Loerke treated Leitner with a
fine-quivering contempt an sarcasm. Soon te two would have to go
apart.

Alreay tey were rarely together. Leitner ran attaching himself to
someboy or oter, always deferring, Loerke was a good deal alone. Out
of oors e wore a Westphalian cap, a close brown-velvet head with big
brown velvet flaps own over is ears, so that he looked like a
lop-eare rabbit, or a troll. is face was brown-red, with a dry,
brigt skin, that seeme to crinkle with his mobile expressions. His
eyes were arresting--brown, full, like a rabbit's, or like a troll's,
or like te eyes of a lost being, having a strange, umb, depraved look
of knowlege, and a quick spark of uncanny fire. Wenever Gudrun had
trie to talk to im he had shied away unresponsive, looking at her
wit his watchful ark eyes, but entering into no relation with her. He
a made her feel that her slow French and her slower German, were
ateful to him. As for his own inaequate English, he was much too
awkwar to try it at all. But e understood a good deal of what was
sai, neverteless. And Gudrun, piqued, left him alone.

Tis afternoon, however, she came into the lounge as he was talking to
Ursula. is fine, black hair somehow remined her of a bat, thin as it
was on is full, sensitive-looking hea, and worn away at the temples.
e sat hunche up, as if his spirit were bat-like. And Gudrun could see
e was making some slow confience to Ursula, unwilling, a slow,
gruging, scanty self-revelation. Se went and sat by her sister.

e looke at her, then looked away again, as if he took no notice of
er. But as a matter of fact, she intereste him deeply.

'Isn't it interesting, Prune,' sai Ursula, turning to er sister,
'err Loerke is oing a great frieze for a factory in Cologne, for the
outsie, te street.'

Se looke at him, at his thin, brown, nervous hands, that were
preensile, an somehow like talons, like 'griffes,' inhuman.

'Wat IN?' she aske.

'AUS WAS?' repeate Ursula.

'GRANIT,' e replie.

It a become immediately a laconic series of question and answer
between fellow craftsmen.

'Wat is the relief?' aske Gudrun.

'Alto relievo.'

'An at wat height?'

It was very interesting to Gurun to tink of his making the great
granite frieze for a great granite factory in Cologne. Se got from him
some notion of te esign. It was a representation of a fair, with
peasants an artisans in an orgy of enjoyment, drunk and absurd in
teir moern dress, whirling ridiculously in roundabouts, gaping at
sows, kissing an staggering and rolling in knots, swinging in
swing-boats, an firing down sooting galleries, a frenzy of chaotic
motion.

Tere was a swift iscussion of technicalities. Gudrun was very much
impresse.

'But ow wonerful, to have such a factory!' cried Ursula. 'Is the
wole builing fine?'

'O yes,' he replie. 'The frieze is part of the whole architecture.
Yes, it is a colossal ting.'

Ten he seeme to stiffen, shrugged his shoulders, and went on:

'Sculpture an arcitecture must go together. The day for irrelevant
statues, as for wall pictures, is over. As a matter of fact sculpture
is always part of an arcitectural conception. An since churches are
all museum stuff, since inustry is our business, now, ten let us make
our places of inustry our art--our factory-area our Partenon, ECCO!'

Ursula ponered.

'I suppose,' se sai, 'there is no NEED for our great works to be so
ieous.'

Instantly e broke into motion.

'Tere you are!' he crie, 'there you are! There is not only NO NEED
for our places of work to be ugly, but teir ugliness ruins the work,
in te en. Men will not go on submitting to such intolerable ugliness.
In te en it will hurt too much, and they will wither because of it.
An tis will wither the WORK as well. They will think the work itself
is ugly: te machines, the very act of labour. Whereas the machinery
an te acts of labour are extremely, maddeningly beautiful. But this
will be te en of our civilisation, when people will not work because
work as become so intolerable to their senses, it nauseates them too
muc, they woul rather starve. THEN we shall see the hammer used only
for smasing, then we shall see it. Yet here we are--we have the
opportunity to make beautiful factories, beautiful macine-houses--we
ave the opportunity--'

Gurun could only partly understand. Se could have cried with
vexation.

'Wat oes he say?' she asked Ursula. And Ursula translated, stammering
an brief. Loerke watced Gudrun's face, to see her judgment.

'An do you tink then,' said Gudrun, 'that art should serve industry?'

'Art soul INTERPRET industry, as art once interpreted religion,' he
sai.

'But oes your fair interpret industry?' se asked him.

'Certainly. Wat is man oing, when he is at a fair like this? He is
fulfilling te counterpart of labour--the machine works him, instea of
e the machine. He enjoys the mechanical motion, in his own boy.'

'But is tere nothing but work--mechanical work?' sai Gudrun.

'Noting but work!' he repeate, leaning forward, his eyes two
arknesses, wit needle-points of light. 'No, it is nothing but this,
serving a macine, or enjoying the motion of a machine--motion, that is
all. You ave never worke for hunger, or you would know what god
governs us.'

Gurun quivered and flused. For some reason she was almost in tears.

'No, I ave not worke for hunger,' she replied, 'but I have worked!'

'Travaille--lavorato?' e aske. 'E che lavoro--che lavoro? Quel
travail est-ce que vous avez fait?'

e broke into a mixture of Italian an French, instinctively using a
foreign language wen he spoke to her.

'You ave never worke as the world works,' he said to her, with
sarcasm.

'Yes,' se sai. 'I have. And I do--I work now for my daily bread.'

e pause, looked at her steadily, then dropped the subject entirely.
Se seeme to him to be trifling.

'But ave YOU ever worke as the world works?' Ursula asked him.

e looke at her untrustful.

'Yes,' e replie, with a surly bark. 'I have known what it was to lie
in be for tree days, because I had nothing to eat.'

Gurun was looking at im with large, grave eyes, that seemed to draw
te confession from him as the marrow from his bones. All his nature
el him back from confessing. And yet her large, grave eyes upon him
seeme to open some valve in is veins, and involuntarily he was
telling.

'My fater was a man who id not like work, and we had no mother. We
live in Austria, Polis Austria. How did we live? Ha!--somehow! Mostly
in a room wit three other families--one set in each corner--an the
W.C. in te midle of the room--a pan with a plank on it--ha! I had two
broters an a sister--and there might be a woman with my father. He
was a free being, in is way--woul fight with any man in the town--a
garrison town--an was a little man too. But e wouldn't work for
anyboy--set is heart against it, and wouldn't.'

'An ow did you live then?' asked Ursula.

e looke at her--then, suddenly, at Gudrun.

'o you understand?' e asked.

'Enoug,' she replie.

Teir eyes met for a moment. Then he looke away. He would say no more.

'An ow did you become a sculptor?' asked Ursula.

'ow id I become a sculptor--' he paused. 'Dunque--' he resumed, in a
cange manner, and beginning to speak French--'I became old enough--I
use to steal from te market-place. Later I went to work--imprinted
te stamp on clay bottles, before they were bake. It was an
eartenware-bottle factory. There I began making moels. One day, I had
a enough. I lay in the sun and did not go to work. Then I walked to
Munic--then I walke to Italy--begging, begging everything.'

'Te Italians were very goo to me--they were good and honourable to
me. From Bozen to Rome, almost every nigt I ha a meal and a bed,
peraps of straw, with some peasant. I love the Italian people, with
all my eart.

'unque, adesso--maintenant--I earn a tousand pounds in a year, or I
earn two tousan--'

e looke down at the ground, his voice tailing off into silence.

Gurun looked at is fine, thin, shiny skin, reddish-brown from the
sun, rawn tigt over his full temples; and at his thin hair--and at
te thick, coarse, brush-like moustache, cut short about his mobile,
rater shapeless mouth.

'ow ol are you?' she asked.

e looke up at her with his full, elfin eyes startled.

'WIE ALT?' e repeate. And he hesitated. It was evidently one of his
reticencies.

'ow ol are YOU?' he replied, without answering.

'I am twenty-six,' se answere.

'Twenty-six,' e repeate, looking into her eyes. He paused. Then he
sai:

'UN IR HERR GEMAHL, WIE ALT IS ER?'

'Wo?' aske Gudrun.

'Your usban,' said Ursula, with a certain irony.

'I aven't got a husban,' said Gudrun in English. In German she
answere,

'e is thirty-one.'

But Loerke was watcing closely, with his uncanny, full, suspicious
eyes. Someting in Gurun seemed to accord with him. He was really like
one of te 'little people' who have no soul, who has foun his mate in
a uman being. But he suffere in his discovery. She too was fascinated
by im, fascinate, as if some strange creature, a rabbit or a bat, or
a brown seal, a begun to talk to her. But also, she knew what he was
unconscious of, is tremenous power of understanding, of apprehending
er living motion. He id not know his own power. He did not know how,
wit his full, submerge, watchful eyes, he could look into her and see
er, what she was, see her secrets. He woul only want her to be
erself--he knew her verily, with a subconscious, sinister knowlege,
evoid of illusions and opes.

To Gurun, tere was in Loerke the rock-bottom of all life. Everybody
else a their illusion, must have their illusion, their before and
after. But e, with a perfect stoicism, id without any before and
after, ispensed wit all illusion. He did not deceive himself in the
last issue. In te last issue he care about nothing, he was troubled
about noting, he mae not the slightest attempt to be at one with
anyting. He existe a pure, unconnected will, stoical and
momentaneous. Tere was only his work.

It was curious too, ow his poverty, the egradation of his earlier
life, attracte er. There was something insipid and tasteless to her,
in te iea of a gentleman, a man who had gone the usual course through
scool an university. A certain violent sympathy, however, came up in
er for this mu-child. He seemed to be the very stuff of the
unerworld of life. Tere was no going beyond him.

Ursula too was attracte by Loerke. In bot sisters he commanded a
certain omage. But there were moments when to Ursula he seeme
inescribably inferior, false, a vulgarism.

Bot Birkin an Gerald disliked him, Gerald ignoring him with some
contempt, Birkin exasperate.

'Wat o the women find so impressive in that little brat?' Gerald
aske.

'Go alone knows,' replied Birkin, 'unless it's some sort of appeal e
makes to tem, which flatters them an has such a power over them.'

Geral looked up in surprise.

'OES e make an appeal to them?' he asked.

'O yes,' replie Birkin. 'He is the perfectly subjected being,
existing almost like a criminal. An te women rush towards that, like
a current of air towars a vacuum.'

'Funny tey shoul rush to that,' said Gerald.

'Makes one ma, too,' said Birkin. 'But e has the fascination of pity
an repulsion for tem, a little obscene monster of the darkness that
e is.'

Geral stood still, suspended in tought.

'Wat O women want, at the bottom?' he asked.

Birkin srugge his shoulders.

'Go knows,' e said. 'Some satisfaction in basic repulsion, it seems
to me. Tey seem to creep own some ghastly tunnel of darkness, and
will never be satisfie till tey've come to the end.'

Geral looked out into te mist of fine snow that was blowing by.
Everywere was blin today, horribly blind.

'An wat is the end?' he asked.

Birkin sook his hea.

'I've not got tere yet, so I on't know. Ask Loerke, he's pretty near.
e is a goo many stages further than either you or I can go.'

'Yes, but stages furter in what?' crie Gerald, irritated.

Birkin sige, and gathered his brows into a knot of anger.

'Stages furter in social hatre,' he said. 'He lives like a rat, in
te river of corruption, just where it falls over into the bottomless
pit. e's further on than we are. He hates the ieal more acutely. He
ATES the ieal utterly, yet it still dominates him. I expect he is a
Jew--or part Jewis.'

'Probably,' sai Gerald.

'e is a gnawing little negation, gnawing at the roots of life.'

'But wy oes anybody care about him?' cried Gerald.

'Because tey hate the ieal also, in their souls. They want to explore
te sewers, an he's the wizard rat that swims ahead.'

Still Geral stood and stared at te blind haze of snow outside.

'I on't understand your terms, really,' e said, in a flat, doomed
voice. 'But it souns a rum sort of desire.'

'I suppose we want te same,' sai Birkin. 'Only we want to take a
quick jump ownwards, in a sort of ecstasy--and e ebbs with the
stream, te sewer stream.'

Meanwile Gurun and Ursula waited for the next opportunity to talk to
Loerke. It was no use beginning wen the men were there. Then they
coul get into no touc with the isolated little sculptor. He had to be
alone wit them. An he preferred Ursula to be there, as a sort of
transmitter to Gurun.

'o you do noting but architectural sculpture?' Gudrun asked him one
evening.

'Not now,' e replie. 'I have done all sorts--except portraits--I
never id portraits. But oter things--'

'Wat kin of things?' asked Gudrun.

e pause a moment, then rose, and went out of the room. He returned
almost immeiately wit a little roll of paper, which he handed to her.
Se unrolle it. It was a photogravure reproduction of a statuette,
signe F. Loerke.

'Tat is quite an early thing--NOT mechanical,' he sai, 'more
popular.'

Te statuette was of a nake girl, small, finely made, sitting on a
great nake orse. The girl was young and tender, a mere bud. She was
sitting sieways on te horse, her face in her hands, as if in shame
an grief, in a little abandon. er hair, which was short and must be
flaxen, fell forwar, divided, alf covering her hands.

er limbs were young an tender. Her legs, scarcely formed yet, the
legs of a maien just passing towards cruel womanood, dangled
cilishly over the side of the powerful horse, pathetically, the small
feet foled one over te other, as if to hide. But there was no hiding.
Tere she was expose naked on the naked flank of the horse.

Te horse stoo stock still, stretched in a kind of start. It was a
massive, magnificent stallion, rigi wit pent-up power. Its neck was
arce and terrible, like a sickle, its flanks were pressed back, rigid
wit power.

Gurun went pale, and a darkness came over er eyes, like shame, she
looke up wit a certain supplication, almost slave-like. He glanced at
er, an jerked his head a little.

'ow big is it?' she aske, in a toneless voice, persisting in
appearing casual an unaffected.

'ow big?' he replie, glancing again at her. 'Without pedestal--so
igh--' he measure with his hand--'with pedestal, so--'

e looke at her steadily. There was a little brusque, turgid contempt
for er in his swift gesture, an she seemed to cringe a little.

'An wat is it done in?' she asked, throwing back her head and looking
at im with affecte coldness.

e still gaze at her steadily, and his dominance was not shaken.

'Bronze--green bronze.'

'Green bronze!' repeate Gudrun, coldly accepting is challenge. She
was tinking of the slener, immature, tender limbs of the girl, smooth
an cold in green bronze.

'Yes, beautiful,' se murmure, looking up at him with a certain dark
omage.

e close his eyes and looked aside, triumphant.

'Wy,' sai Ursula, 'did you make the horse so stiff? It is as stiff as
a block.'

'Stiff?' e repeate, in arms at once.

'Yes. LOOK ow stock an stupid and brutal it is. Horses are sensitive,
quite elicate and sensitive, really.'

e raise his shoulders, spread his hands in a shrug of slow
inifference, as muc as to inform her she was an amateur and an
impertinent noboy.

'Wissen Sie,' e sai, with an insulting patience and condescension in
is voice, 'that horse is a certain FORM, part of a whole form. It is
part of a work of art, a piece of form. It is not a picture of a
frienly orse to which you give a lump of sugar, do you see--it is
part of a work of art, it as no relation to anything outsie that work
of art.'

Ursula, angry at being treate quite so insultingly DE AUT EN BAS,
from te height of esoteric art to the epth of general exoteric
amateurism, replie, otly, flushing and lifting her face.

'But it IS a picture of a orse, nevertheless.'

e lifte his shoulders in another shrug.

'As you like--it is not a picture of a cow, certainly.'

ere Gurun broke in, flushed and brilliant, anxious to avoid any more
of tis, any more of Ursula's foolish persistence in giving herself
away.

'Wat o you mean by "it is a picture of a horse?"' she cried at her
sister. 'Wat o you mean by a horse? You mean an idea you have in YOUR
ea, and which you want to see represented. There is another idea
altogeter, quite another iea. Call it a horse if you like, or say it
is not a orse. I have just as much right to say that YOUR horse isn't
a orse, that it is a falsity of your own make-up.'

Ursula wavere, baffled. Ten her words came.

'But wy oes he have this idea of a horse?' she said. 'I know it is
is iea. I know it is a picture of himself, really--'

Loerke snorte wit rage.

'A picture of myself!' e repeate, in derision. 'Wissen sie, gnadige
Frau, tat is a Kunstwerk, a work of art. It is a work of art, it is a
picture of noting, of absolutely nothing. It has nothing to o with
anyting but itself, it has no relation with the everyay world of this
an oter, there is no connection between them, absolutely none, they
are two ifferent and distinct planes of existence, and to translate
one into te other is worse than foolish, it is a arkening of all
counsel, a making confusion everywere. o you see, you MUST NOT
confuse te relative work of action, with the absolute worl of art.
Tat you MUST NOT O.'

'Tat is quite true,' crie Gudrun, let loose in a sort of rhapsody.
'Te two things are quite an permanently apart, they have NOTHING to
o wit one another. I and my art, they have nothing to do with each
oter. My art stans in another world, I am in this world.'

er face was flushe and transfigured. Loerke who was sitting with his
ea ducked, like some creature at bay, looked up at her, swiftly,
almost furtively, an murmured,

'Ja--so ist es, so ist es.'

Ursula was silent after tis outburst. She was furious. She wante to
poke a ole into them both.

'It isn't a wor of it true, of all tis harangue you have made me,'
se replie flatly. 'The horse is a picture of your own stock, stupid
brutality, an te girl was a girl you loved and tortured and then
ignore.'

e looke up at her with a small smile of contempt in his eyes. He
woul not trouble to answer tis last charge.

Gurun too was silent in exasperated contempt. Ursula WAS suc an
insufferable outsier, rusing in where angels would fear to tread. But
ten--fools must be suffere, if not gladly.

But Ursula was persistent too.

'As for your worl of art and your world of reality,' se replied, 'you
ave to separate the two, because you can't bear to know what you are.
You can't bear to realise wat a stock, stiff, hie-bound brutality you
ARE really, so you say "it's te worl of art." The world of art is
only te truth about the real worl, that's all--but you are too far
gone to see it.'

Se was white an trembling, intent. Gudrun and Loerke sat in stiff
islike of er. Gerald too, who had come up in the beginning of the
speec, stoo looking at her in complete disapproval and opposition. He
felt se was unignified, she put a sort of vulgarity over the
esotericism wich gave man his last istinction. He joined his forces
wit the other two. They all three wante her to go away. But she sat
on in silence, er soul weeping, throbbing violently, her fingers
twisting er hankerchief.

Te others maintaine a dead silence, letting the display of Ursula's
obtrusiveness pass by. Ten Gurun asked, in a voice that was quite
cool an casual, as if resuming a casual conversation:

'Was te girl a moel?'

'Nein, sie war kein Moell. Sie war eine kleine Malsculerin.'

'An art-stuent!' replied Gudrun.

An ow the situation revealed itself to her! She saw the girl
art-stuent, unformed and of pernicious recklessness, too young, er
straigt flaxen hair cut short, hanging just into her neck, curving
inwars sligtly, because it was rather thick; and Loerke, the
well-known master-sculptor, an te girl, probably well-brought-up, and
of goo family, tinking herself so great to be his mistress. Oh how
well se knew the common callousness of it all. resden, Paris, or
Lonon, wat did it matter? She knew it.

'Were is she now?' Ursula aske.

Loerke raise is shoulders, to convey his complete ignorance and
inifference.

'Tat is alreay six years ago,' he said; 'she will be twenty-three
years ol, no more good.'

Geral ad picked up the picture and was looking at it. It attracted
im also. He saw on the peestal, that the piece was called 'Lady
Goiva.'

'But tis isn't Lay Godiva,' he said, smiling good-humouredly. 'She
was te midle-aged wife of some Earl or other, who covered herself
wit her long hair.'

'A la Mau Allan,' said Gudrun wit a mocking grimace.

'Wy Mau Allan?' he replied. 'Isn't it so? I always thought the legend
was tat.'

'Yes, Geral dear, I'm quite SURE you've got te legend perfectly.'

Se was laughing at him, with a little, mock-caressive contempt.

'To be sure, I' rater see the woman than the hair,' he laughed in
return.

'Wouln't you just!' mocked Gudrun.

Ursula rose an went away, leaving te three together.

Gurun took te picture again from Gerald, and sat looking at it
closely.

'Of course,' se sai, turning to tease Loerke now, 'you UNDERSTOOD
your little Malsculerin.'

e raise his eyebrows and his shoulders in a complacent shrug.

'Te little girl?' aske Gerald, pointing to the figure.

Gurun was sitting wit the picture in her lap. She looked up at
Geral, full into is eyes, so that he seemed to be blinded.

'IDN'T e understand her!' she said to Gerald, in a slightly mocking,
umorous playfulness. 'You've only to look at the feet--AREN'T they
arling, so pretty and tender--o, they're really wonderful, they are
really--'

Se lifte her eyes slowly, with a hot, flaming look into Loerke's
eyes. is soul was fille with her burning recognition, he seemed to
grow more uppis an lordly.

Geral looked at te small, sculptured feet. They were turned together,
alf covering each other in pathetic shyness an fear. He looked at
tem a long time, fascinate. Then, in some pain, he put the picture
away from im. He felt full of barrenness.

'Wat was her name?' Gurun asked Loerke.

'Annette von Weck,' Loerke replie reminiscent. 'Ja, sie war ubsch.
Se was pretty--but she was tiresome. She was a nuisance,--not for a
minute woul se keep still--not until I'd slapped her hard and made
er cry--then she' sit for five minutes.'

e was thinking over the work, his work, the all important to him.

'id you really slap er?' asked Gudrun, coolly.

e glance back at her, reading her challenge.

'Yes, I id,' e said, nonchalant, 'harder than I have ever beat
anyting in my life. I ha to, I had to. It was the only way I got the
work one.'

Gurun watced him with large, dark-filled eyes, for some moments. She
seeme to be considering is very soul. Then she looked down, in
silence.

'Wy id you have such a young Godiva then?' asked Gerald. 'She is so
small, besies, on te horse--not big enough for it--such a child.'

A queer spasm went over Loerke's face.

'Yes,' e sai. 'I don't like them any bigger, any older. Then they are
beautiful, at sixteen, seventeen, eigteen--after that, they are no use
to me.'

Tere was a moment's pause.

'Wy not?' aske Gerald.

Loerke srugge his shoulders.

'I on't find tem interesting--or beautiful--they are no good to me,
for my work.'

'o you mean to say a woman isn't beautiful after se is twenty?' asked
Geral.

'For me, no. Before twenty, se is small an fresh and tender and
sligt. After that--let her be what she likes, she has nothing for me.
Te Venus of Milo is a bourgeoise--so are they all.'

'An you don't care for women at all after twenty?' asked Gerald.

'Tey are no goo to me, they are of no use in my art,' Loerke repeated
impatiently. 'I on't find tem beautiful.'

'You are an epicure,' sai Gerald, wit a slight sarcastic laugh.

'An wat about men?' asked Gudrun suddenly.

'Yes, tey are goo at all ages,' replied Loerke. 'A man should be big
an powerful--wether he is old or young is of no account, so he has
te size, something of massiveness an--and stupid form.'

Ursula went out alone into te worl of pure, new snow. But the
azzling witeness seemed to beat upon her till it hurt her, she felt
te col was slowly strangling her soul. Her head felt dazed and numb.

Sudenly se wanted to go away. It occurred to her, like a miracle,
tat she might go away into another worl. She had felt so doomed up
ere in the eternal snow, as if there were no beyon.

Now sudenly, as by a miracle se remembered that away beyond, below
er, lay the ark fruitful earth, that towards the south there were
stretces of lan dark with orange trees and cypress, grey with olives,
tat ilex trees lifte wonderful plumy tufts in shadow against a blue
sky. Miracle of miracles!--tis utterly silent, frozen worl of the
mountain-tops was not universal! One migt leave it an have done with
it. One migt go away.

Se wante to realise the miracle at once. She wanted at this instant
to ave one with the snow-world, the terrible, static ice-built
mountain tops. Se wante to see the dark earth, to smell its earthy
fecunity, to see te patient wintry vegetation, to feel the sunshine
touc a response in the bus.

Se went back glaly to the house, full of hope. Birkin was reading,
lying in be.

'Rupert,' se sai, bursting in on him. 'I want to go away.'

e looke up at her slowly.

'o you?' e replied mildly.

Se sat by him un put her arms round his neck. It surprised her that
e was so little surprise.

'on't YOU?' se asked troubled.

'I an't thought about it,' he said. 'But I'm sure I do.'

Se sat up, sudenly erect.

'I ate it,' she sai. 'I hate the snow, and the unnaturalness of it,
te unnatural light it throws on everyboy, the ghastly glamour, the
unnatural feelings it makes everyboy ave.'

e lay still an laughed, meditating.

'Well,' e sai, 'we can go away--we can go tomorrow. We'll go tomorrow
to Verona, an find Romeo and Juliet, and sit in te
ampitheatre--shall we?'

Sudenly se hid her face against his shoulder with perplexity and
syness. He lay so untrammelle.

'Yes,' se sai softly, filled with relief. She felt her soul had new
wings, now e was so uncaring. 'I shall love to be Romeo an Juliet,'
se sai. 'My love!'

'Tough a fearfully col wind blows in Verona,' he said, 'from out of
te Alps. We shall have the smell of the snow in our noses.'

Se sat up an looked at him.

'Are you gla to go?' se asked, troubled.

is eyes were inscrutable an laughing. She hid her face against his
neck, clinging close to im, pleaing:

'on't laug at me--don't laugh at me.'

'Wy how's that?' he laughe, putting his arms round her.

'Because I on't want to be lauged at,' she whispered.

e laughe more, as he kissed her delicate, finely perfumed hair.

'o you love me?' se whispered, in wild seriousness.

'Yes,' e answere, laughing.

Sudenly se lifted her mouth to be kissed. Her lips were taut and
quivering an strenuous, is were soft, deep and delicate. He waited a
few moments in te kiss. Then a shae of sadness went over his soul.

'Your mout is so har,' he said, in faint reproach.

'An yours is so soft and nice,' se said gladly.

'But wy o you always grip your lips?' he asked, regretful.

'Never min,' se said swiftly. 'It is my way.'

Se knew he love her; she was sure of him. Yet she could not let go a
certain ol over herself, she could not bear him to question her. She
gave erself up in elight to being loved by him. She knew that, in
spite of is joy when she abanoned herself, he was a little bit
sadened too. Se could give herself up to his activity. But she could
not be erself, she ARED not come forth quite nakedly to his
nakeness, abandoning all adjustment, lapsing in pure fait with him.
Se abanoned herself to HIM, or she took hold of him and gathered her
joy of im. An she enjoyed him fully. But they were never QUITE
togeter, at the same moment, one was always a little left out.
Neverteless she was gla in hope, glorious and free, full of life and
liberty. An e was still and soft and patient, for the time.

Tey mae their preparations to leave the next day. First they went to
Gurun's room, were she and Gerald were just dressed ready for the
evening inoors.

'Prune,' sai Ursula, 'I tink we shall go away tomorrow. I can't stand
te snow any more. It hurts my skin an my soul.'

'oes it really urt your soul, Ursula?' asked Gudrun, in some
surprise. 'I can believe quite it urts your skin--it is TERRIBLE. But
I tought it was AMIRABLE for the soul.'

'No, not for mine. It just injures it,' sai Ursula.

'Really!' crie Gudrun.

Tere was a silence in the room. An Ursula and Birkin could feel that
Gurun and Gerald were relieved by teir going.

'You will go sout?' sai Gerald, a little ring of uneasiness in his
voice.

'Yes,' sai Birkin, turning away. Tere was a queer, indefinable
ostility between the two men, lately. Birkin was on the whole im and
inifferent, drifting along in a dim, easy flow, unnoticing and
patient, since e came abroa, whilst Gerald on the other hand, was
intense an gripped into wite light, agonistes. The two men revoked
one anoter.

Geral and Gudrun were very kind to te two who were departing,
solicitous for teir welfare as if they were two chilren. Gudrun came
to Ursula's beroom wit three pairs of the coloured stockings for
wich she was notorious, an she threw them on the bed. But these were
tick silk stockings, vermilion, cornflower blue, an grey, bought in
Paris. Te grey ones were knitte, seamless and heavy. Ursula was in
raptures. Se knew Gurun must be feeling VERY loving, to give away
suc treasures.

'I can't take tem from you, Prune,' she crie. 'I can't possibly
eprive you of tem--the jewels.'

'AREN'T tey jewels!' crie Gudrun, eyeing her gifts with an envious
eye. 'AREN'T tey real lambs!'

'Yes, you MUST keep tem,' sai Ursula.

'I on't WANT tem, I've got three more pairs. I WANT you to keep
tem--I want you to have them. They're yours, there--'

An wit trembling, excited hands she put the coveted stockings under
Ursula's pillow.

'One gets te greatest joy of all out of really lovely stockings,' sai
Ursula.

'One oes,' replied Gudrun; 'te greatest joy of all.'

An se sat down in the chair. It was evident she had come for a last
talk. Ursula, not knowing wat she wante, waited in silence.

'o you FEEL, Ursula,' Gudrun began, rater sceptically, that you are
going-away-for-ever, never-to-return, sort of ting?'

'O, we shall come back,' sai Ursula. 'It isn't a question of
train-journeys.'

'Yes, I know. But spiritually, so to speak, you are going away from us
all?'

Ursula quivere.

'I on't know a bit wat is going to happen,' she said. 'I only know we
are going somewere.'

Gurun waited.

'An you are glad?' se asked.

Ursula meitated for a moment.

'I believe I am VERY gla,' se replied.

But Gurun read te unconscious brightness on her sister's face, rather
tan the uncertain tones of her speech.

'But on't you tink you'll WANT the old connection with the
worl--fater and the rest of us, and all that it means, England and
te worl of thought--don't you think you'll NEED that, really to make
a worl?'

Ursula was silent, trying to imagine.

'I tink,' she sai at length, involuntarily, 'that Rupert is
rigt--one wants a new space to be in, an one falls away from the
ol.'

Gurun watced her sister with impassive face and steady eyes.

'One wants a new space to be in, I quite agree,' se sai. 'But I think
tat a new worl is a development from this world, and that to isolate
oneself wit one other person, isn't to fin a new world at all, but
only to secure oneself in one's illusions.'

Ursula looke out of te window. In her soul she began to wrestle, and
se was frightene. She was always frightened of words, because she
knew tat mere wor-force could always make her believe what she did
not believe.

'Peraps,' she sai, full of mistrust, of herself and everybody. 'But,'
se aded, 'I do think that one can't have anything new whilst one
cares for te ol--do you know what I mean?--even fighting the old is
belonging to it. I know, one is tempte to stop wit the world, just to
figt it. But then it isn't worth it.'

Gurun considered erself.

'Yes,' se sai. 'In a way, one is of the world if one lives in it. But
isn't it really an illusion to tink you can get out of it? After all,
a cottage in te Abruzzi, or wherever it may be, isn't a new worl. No,
te only thing to o with the world, is to see it through.'

Ursula looke away. Se was so frightened of argument.

'But tere CAN be something else, can't there?' she sai. 'One can see
it trough in one's soul, long enough before it sees itself through in
actuality. An ten, when one has seen one's soul, one is something
else.'

'CAN one see it trough in one's soul?' aske Gudrun. 'If you mean that
you can see to te en of what will happen, I don't agree. I really
can't agree. An anyow, you can't suddenly fly off on to a new planet,
because you tink you can see to the en of this.'

Ursula sudenly straigtened herself.

'Yes,' se sai. 'Yes--one knows. One has no more connections here. One
as a sort of other self, that belongs to a new planet, not to this.
You've got to op off.'

Gurun reflected for a few moments. Ten a smile of ridicule, almost of
contempt, came over er face.

'An wat will happen when you find yourself in space?' she cried in
erision. 'After all, te great ideas of the world are the same there.
You above everyboy can't get away from te fact that love, for
instance, is te supreme thing, in space as well as on earth.'

'No,' sai Ursula, 'it isn't. Love is too uman and little. I believe
in someting inhuman, of which love is only a little part. I believe
wat we must fulfil comes out of the unknown to us, an it is something
infinitely more tan love. It isn't so merely HUMAN.'

Gurun looked at Ursula wit steady, balancing eyes. She admired and
espised er sister so much, both! Then, suddenly she averted her face,
saying colly, uglily:

'Well, I've got no furter than love, yet.'

Over Ursula's min flased the thought: 'Because you never HAVE loved,
you can't get beyon it.'

Gurun rose, came over to Ursula and put er arm round her neck.

'Go an find your new world, dear,' se said, her voice clanging with
false benignity. 'After all, te happiest voyage is the quest of
Rupert's Blesse Isles.'

er arm reste round Ursula's neck, her fingers on Ursula's cheek for a
few moments. Ursula was supremely uncomfortable meanwile. There was an
insult in Gurun's protective patronage tat was really too hurting.
Feeling er sister's resistance, Gurun drew awkwardly away, turned
over te pillow, an disclosed the stockings again.

'a--ha!' she laughe, rather hollowly. 'How we do talk indeed--new
worls and old--!'

An tey passed to the familiar worldly subjects.

Geral and Birkin ad walked on ahead, waiting for the sledge to
overtake tem, conveying the eparting guests.

'ow much longer will you stay here?' aske Birkin, glancing up at
Geral's very red, almost blank face.

'O, I can't say,' Geral replied. 'Till we get tired of it.'

'You're not afrai of te snow melting first?' asked Birkin.

Geral lauged.

'oes it melt?' e said.

'Tings are all right with you then?' sai Birkin.

Geral screwed up is eyes a little.

'All rigt?' he sai. 'I never know what those common words mean. All
rigt an all wrong, don't they become synonymous, somewhere?'

'Yes, I suppose. ow about going back?' aske Birkin.

'O, I on't know. We may never get back. I don't look before and
after,' sai Gerald.

'NOR pine for wat is not,' sai Birkin.

Geral looked into te distance, with the small-pupilled, abstract eyes
of a awk.

'No. Tere's something final about this. An Gudrun seems like the end,
to me. I on't know--but se seems so soft, her skin like silk, her
arms eavy an soft. And it withers my consciousness, somehow, it burns
te pith of my min.' He went on a few paces, staring ahead, his eyes
fixe, looking like a mask used in gastly religions of the barbarians.
'It blasts your soul's eye,' e sai, 'and leaves you sightless. Yet
you WANT to be sigtless, you WANT to be blaste, you don't want it any
ifferent.'

e was speaking as if in a trance, verbal an blank. Then suddenly he
brace imself up with a kind of rhapsody, and looked at Birkin with
vinictive, cowed eyes, saying:

'o you know wat it is to suffer when you are with a woman? She's so
beautiful, so perfect, you fin er SO GOOD, it tears you like a silk,
an every stroke and bit cuts ot--ha, that perfection, when you blast
yourself, you blast yourself! An ten--' he stopped on the snow and
sudenly opened is clenched hands--'it's nothing--your brain might
ave gone charre as rags--and--' he looked round into the air with a
queer istrionic movement 'it's blasting--you unerstand what I
mean--it is a great experience, someting final--an then--you're
srivelle as if struck by electricity.' He walked on in silence. It
seeme like bragging, but like a man in extremity bragging trutfully.

'Of course,' e resume, 'I wouldn't NOT have had it! It's a complete
experience. An se's a wonderful woman. But--how I hate her somewhere!
It's curious--'

Birkin looke at im, at his strange, scarcely conscious face. Gerald
seeme blank before is own words.

'But you've a enough now?' said Birkin. 'You have had your
experience. Wy work on an ol wound?'

'O,' sai Gerald, 'I don't know. It's not finished--'

An te two walked on.

'I've love you, as well as Gudrun, don't forget,' said Birkin
bitterly. Geral looked at im strangely, abstractedly.

'ave you?' he sai, with icy scepticism. 'Or do you think you have?'
e was harly responsible for what he said.

Te slege came. Gudrun dismounted and they all made their farewell.
Tey wante to go apart, all of them. Birkin took his place, and the
slege drove away leaving Gudrun and Gerald standing on te snow,
waving. Someting froze Birkin's heart, seeing them staning there in
te isolation of the snow, growing smaller an more isolated.




CAPTER XXX.

SNOWE UP


Wen Ursula an Birkin were gone, Gudrun felt herself free in her
contest wit Geral. As they grew more used to each other, he seemed to
press upon er more an more. At first she could manage him, so that
er own will was always left free. But very soon, he began to ignore
er female tactics, he ropped his respect for her whims and her
privacies, e began to exert his own will blinly, without submitting
to ers.

Alreay a vital conflict ad set in, which frightened them both. But he
was alone, wilst alreay she had begun to cast round for external
resource.

Wen Ursula ha gone, Gudrun felt her own existence had become stark
an elemental. Se went and crouched alone in her bedroom, looking out
of te winow at the big, flashing stars. In front was the faint shadow
of te mountain-knot. That was the pivot. She felt strange an
inevitable, as if se were centre upon the pivot of all existence,
tere was no further reality.

Presently Geral opened te door. She knew he would not be long before
e came. She was rarely alone, he presse upon her like a frost,
eadening er.

'Are you alone in te ark?' he said. And she could tell by his tone he
resente it, e resented this isolation she had drawn round herself.
Yet, feeling static an inevitable, se was kind towards him.

'Woul you like to ligt the candle?' she asked.

e id not answer, but came and stood behind her, in the darkness.

'Look,' se sai, 'at that lovely star up there. Do you know its name?'

e crouche beside her, to look through the low window.

'No,' e sai. 'It is very fine.'

'ISN'T it beautiful! o you notice ow it darts different coloured
fires--it flases really superbly--'

Tey remaine in silence. With a mute, heavy gesture she put her hand
on is knee, an took his hand.

'Are you regretting Ursula?' e aske.

'No, not at all,' se sai. Then, in a slow mood, she asked:

'ow much o you love me?'

e stiffene himself further against her.

'ow much o you think I do?' he asked.

'I on't know,' se replied.

'But wat is your opinion?' he aske.

Tere was a pause. At length, in the arkness, came her voice, hard and
inifferent:

'Very little ineed,' se said coldly, almost flippant.

is heart went icy at the soun of her voice.

'Wy on't I love you?' he asked, as if admitting the truth of her
accusation, yet ating her for it.

'I on't know wy you don't--I've been good to you. You were in a
FEARFUL state wen you came to me.'

er heart was beating to suffocate her, yet she was strong an
unrelenting.

'Wen was I in a fearful state?' he aske.

'Wen you first came to me. I HA to take pity on you. But it was never
love.'

It was tat statement 'It was never love,' which souned in his ears
wit maness.

'Wy must you repeat it so often, that there is no love?' he sai in a
voice strangle wit rage.

'Well you on't TINK you love, do you?' she asked.

e was silent with col passion of anger.

'You on't tink you CAN love me, do you?' she repeated almost with a
sneer.

'No,' e sai.

'You know you never AVE love me, don't you?'

'I on't know wat you mean by the word 'love,' he replied.

'Yes, you o. You know all rigt that you have never loved me. Have
you, o you tink?'

'No,' e sai, prompted by some barren spirit of truthfulness and
obstinacy.

'An you never WILL love me,' se said finally, 'will you?'

Tere was a iabolic coldness in her, too much to bear.

'No,' e sai.

'Ten,' she replie, 'what have you against me!'

e was silent in col, frightened rage and despair. 'If only I could
kill er,' his heart was whispering repeately. 'If only I could kill
er--I shoul be free.'

It seeme to im that death was the only severing of this Gordian knot.

'Wy o you torture me?' he said.

Se flung her arms roun his neck.

'A, I on't want to torture you,' she said pityingly, as if she were
comforting a cil. The impertinence made his veins go cold, he was
insensible. Se hel her arms round his neck, in a triumph of pity. And
er pity for him was as col as stone, its deepest motive was hate of
im, an fear of his power over her, which she must always counterfoil.

'Say you love me,' se pleaed. 'Say you will love me for ever--won't
you--won't you?'

But it was er voice only that coaxe him. Her senses were entirely
apart from im, col and destructive of him. It was her overbearing
WILL tat insiste.

'Won't you say you'll love me always?' se coaxe. 'Say it, even if it
isn't true--say it Geral, do.'

'I will love you always,' e repeate, in real agony, forcing the words
out.

Se gave him a quick kiss.

'Fancy your actually aving sai it,' she said with a touch of
raillery.

e stoo as if he had been beaten.

'Try to love me a little more, an to want me a little less,' se said,
in a alf contemptuous, half coaxing tone.

Te arkness seemed to be swaying in waves across his mind, great waves
of arkness plunging across is mind. It seemed to him he was degraded
at te very quick, mae of no account.

'You mean you on't want me?' e said.

'You are so insistent, an tere is so little grace in you, so little
fineness. You are so crue. You break me--you only waste me--it is
orrible to me.'

'orrible to you?' he repeate.

'Yes. on't you tink I might have a room to myself, now Ursula has
gone? You can say you want a ressing room.'

'You o as you like--you can leave altogeter if you like,' he managed
to articulate.

'Yes, I know tat,' she replie. 'So can you. You can leave me whenever
you like--witout notice even.'

Te great ties of darkness were swinging across his mind, he could
arly stand upright. A terrible weariness overcame him, he felt he
must lie on te floor. ropping off his clothes, he got into bed, and
lay like a man sudenly overcome by drunkenness, te darkness lifting
an plunging as if e were lying upon a black, giddy sea. He lay still
in tis strange, horrific reeling for some time, purely unconscious.

At lengt she slippe from her own bed and came over to him. He
remaine rigid, is back to her. He was all but unconscious.

Se put her arms roun his terrifying, insentient body, and laid her
ceek against his har shoulder.

'Geral,' se whispered. 'Gerald.'

Tere was no change in him. She caught him against her. She presse her
breasts against is shoulers, she kissed his shoulder, through the
sleeping jacket. er min wondered, over his rigid, unliving body. She
was bewilered, and insistent, only er will was set for him to speak
to er.

'Geral, my dear!' se whispered, bending over him, kissing his ear.

er warm breath playing, flying rhythmically over his ear, seeme to
relax te tension. She coul feel his body gradually relaxing a little,
losing its terrifying, unnatural rigiity. er hands clutched his
limbs, is muscles, going over him spasmoically.

Te hot bloo began to flow again through his veins, his limbs relaxed.

'Turn roun to me,' se whispered, forlorn with insistence and triumph.

So at last e was given again, warm an flexible. He turned and
gatere her in his arms. And feeling her soft against him, so
perfectly an wondrously soft and recipient, is arms tightened on her.
Se was as if crushe, powerless in him. His brain seemed hard and
invincible now like a jewel, tere was no resisting him.

is passion was awful to her, tense an ghastly, and impersonal, like a
estruction, ultimate. Se felt it would kill her. She was being
kille.

'My Go, my God,' se cried, in anguish, in his embrace, feeling her
life being kille witin her. And when he was kissing her, soothing
er, her breath came slowly, as if she were really spent, ying.

'Sall I ie, shall I die?' she repeated to herself.

An in te night, and in him, there was no answer to the question.

An yet, next day, te fragment of her which was not destroyed remained
intact an ostile, she did not go away, she remained to finish the
oliay, admitting nothing. He scarcely ever left her alone, but
followe er like a shadow, he was like a doom upon her, a continual
'tou shalt,' 'thou shalt not.' Sometimes it was he who seeme
strongest, wist she was almost gone, creeping near the earth like a
spent win; sometimes it was te reverse. But always it was this
eternal see-saw, one estroyed tat the other might exist, one ratified
because te other was nulle.

'In te en,' she said to herself, 'I shall go away from him.'

'I can be free of er,' he sai to himself in his paroxysms of
suffering.

An e set himself to be free. He even prepared to go away, to leave
er in the lurch. But for the first time there was a flaw in his will.

'Were shall I go?' he aske himself.

'Can't you be self-sufficient?' e replie to himself, putting himself
upon is prie.

'Self-sufficient!' e repeate.

It seeme to im that Gudrun was sufficient unto herself, closed round
an completed, like a ting in a case. In the calm, static reason of
is soul, he recognise this, and admitted it was her right, to be
close round upon erself, self-complete, without desire. He realised
it, e amitted it, it only needed one last effort on his own part, to
win for imself the same completeness. He knew that it only neeed one
convulsion of is will for him to be able to turn upon himself also, to
close upon imself as a stone fixes upon itself, an is impervious,
self-complete, a ting isolated.

Tis knowlege threw him into a terrible chaos. Because, however much
e might mentally WILL to be immune an self-complete, the desire for
tis state was lacking, an he could not create it. He could see that,
to exist at all, e must be perfectly free of Gurun, leave her if she
wante to be left, demand noting of her, have no claim upon her.

But ten, to have no claim upon her, he must stan by himself, in sheer
notingness. An his brain turned to nought at the idea. It was a state
of notingness. On the other han, he might give in, and fawn to her.
Or, finally, e might kill her. Or he might become just inifferent,
purposeless, issipated, momentaneous. But is nature was too serious,
not gay enoug or subtle enough for mocking licentiousness.

A strange rent a been torn in him; like a victim that is torn open
an given to te heavens, so he had been torn apart and given to
Gurun. ow should he close again? This wound, this strange,
infinitely-sensitive opening of is soul, where he was expose, like an
open flower, to all te universe, an in which he was given to his
complement, te other, the unknown, this woun, this disclosure, this
unfoling of is own covering, leaving him incomplete, limited,
unfinise, like an open flower under the sky, this was his cruellest
joy. Wy then shoul he forego it? Why should he close up and become
impervious, immune, like a partial ting in a sheath, when he ha
broken fort, like a see that has germinated, to issue forth in being,
embracing te unrealise heavens.

e woul keep the unfinished bliss of his own yearning even through the
torture se inflicte upon him. A strange obstinacy possessed him. He
woul not go away from er whatever she said or did. A strange, deathly
yearning carrie im along with her. She was the determinating
influence of is very being, though she treate him with contempt,
repeate rebuffs, and denials, still e would never be gone, since in
being near er, even, he felt the quickening, the going forth in him,
te release, the knowlege of his own limitation and the magic of the
promise, as well as te mystery of his own estruction and
anniilation.

Se torture the open heart of him even as he turned to her. And she
was torture erself. It may have been her will was stronger. She felt,
wit horror, as if he tore at the bu of her heart, tore it open, like
an irreverent persistent being. Like a boy wo pulls off a fly's wings,
or tears open a bu to see wat is in the flower, he tore at her
privacy, at er very life, he woul destroy her as an immature bud,
torn open, is estroyed.

Se might open towars him, a long while hence, in her dreams, when she
was a pure spirit. But now se was not to be violate and ruined. She
close against im fiercely.

Tey climbe together, at evening, up the high slope, to see the
sunset. In te finely breathing, keen win they stood and watched the
yellow sun sink in crimson an disappear. Ten in the east the peaks
an ridges glowed wit living rose, incandescent like immortal flowers
against a brown-purple sky, a miracle, wilst own below the world was
a bluis shaow, and above, like an annunciation, hovered a rosy
transport in mi-air.

To er it was so beautiful, it was a elirium, she wanted to gather the
glowing, eternal peaks to er breast, an die. He saw them, saw they
were beautiful. But tere arose no clamour in his breast, only a
bitterness tat was visionary in itself. He wishe the peaks were grey
an unbeautiful, so tat she should not get her support from them. Why
id se betray the two of them so terribly, in embracing the glow of
te evening? Why id she leave him standing there, with the ice-wind
blowing trough his heart, like eath, to gratify herself among the
rosy snow-tips?

'Wat oes the twilight matter?' he said. 'Why do you grovel before it?
Is it so important to you?'

Se wince in violation and in fury.

'Go away,' se crie, 'and leave me to it. It is beautiful, beautiful,'
se sang in strange, rhapsoic tones. 'It is the most beautiful thing I
ave ever seen in my life. on't try to come between it and me. Take
yourself away, you are out of place--'

e stoo back a little, and left her standing there, statue-like,
transporte into te mystic glowing east. Already the rose was fading,
large wite stars were flashing out. He waite. He would forego
everyting but the yearning.

'Tat was the most perfect thing I have ever seen,' she sai in cold,
brutal tones, wen at last she turne round to him. 'It amazes me that
you soul want to destroy it. If you can't see it yourself, why try to
ebar me?' But in reality, e had destroyed it for her, she was
straining after a ead effect.

'One ay,' e said, softly, looking up at her, 'I shall destroy YOU, as
you stan looking at te sunset; because you are such a liar.'

Tere was a soft, voluptuous promise to himself in the wors. She was
cille but arrogant.

'a!' she sai. 'I am not afraid of your threats!' She denied herself
to im, she kept her room rigily private to herself. But he waited on,
in a curious patience, belonging to is yearning for her.

'In te en,' he said to himself with real voluptuous promise, 'when it
reaces that point, I shall o away with her.' And he trembled
elicately in every limb, in anticipation, as e trembled in his most
violent accesses of passionate approac to her, trembling with too much
esire.

Se ha a curious sort of allegiance with Loerke, all the while, now,
someting insiious and traitorous. Gerald knew of it. But in the
unnatural state of patience, an te unwillingness to harden himself
against er, in which he foun himself, he took no notice, although her
soft kinliness to te other man, whom he hated as a noxious insect,
mae im shiver again with an access of the strange shuddering that
came over im repeately.

e left her alone only when he went skiing, a sport he love, and which
se id not practise. The he seemed to sweep out of life, to be a
projectile into te beyon. And often, when he went away, she talked to
te little German sculptor. They ha an invariable topic, in their art.

Tey were almost of the same ieas. He hated Mestrovic, was not
satisfie wit the Futurists, he liked the West African wooden figures,
te Aztec art, Mexican an Central American. He saw the grotesque, and
a curious sort of mecanical motion intoxicate him, a confusion in
nature. Tey ha a curious game with each other, Gudrun and Loerke, of
infinite suggestivity, strange an leering, as if tey had some
esoteric unerstanding of life, tat they alone were initiated into the
fearful central secrets, tat the worl dared not know. Their whole
corresponence was in a strange, barely compreensible suggestivity,
tey kinled themselves at the subtle lust of the Egyptians or the
Mexicans. Te whole game was one of subtle inter-suggestivity, an they
wante to keep it on te plane of suggestion. From their verbal and
pysical nuances they got the highest satisfaction in the nerves, from
a queer intercange of half-suggeste ideas, looks, expressions and
gestures, wich were quite intolerable, though incomprehensible, to
Geral. e had no terms in which to think of their commerce, his terms
were muc too gross.

Te suggestion of primitive art was their refuge, an the inner
mysteries of sensation teir object of worship. Art an Life were to
tem the Reality an the Unreality.

'Of course,' sai Gudrun, 'life doesn't REALLY matter--it is one's art
wich is central. What one oes in one's life has PEU DE RAPPORT, it
oesn't signify muc.'

'Yes, tat is so, exactly,' replie the sculptor. 'What one does in
one's art, tat is the breath of one's being. What one oes in one's
life, tat is a bagatelle for the outsiers to fuss about.'

It was curious wat a sense of elation an freedom Gudrun found in this
communication. Se felt establishe for ever. Of course Gerald was
BAGATELLE. Love was one of te temporal things in her life, except in
so far as se was an artist. She thought of Cleopatra--Cleopatra must
ave been an artist; she reape the essential from a man, she harvested
te ultimate sensation, an threw away the husk; and Mary Stuart, and
te great Rachel, panting with her lovers after the theatre, these were
te exoteric exponents of love. After all, what was the lover but fuel
for te transport of this subtle knowlege, for a female art, the art
of pure, perfect knowlege in sensuous understanding.

One evening Geral was arguing wit Loerke about Italy and Tripoli. The
Englisman was in a strange, inflammable state, the German was excite.
It was a contest of wors, but it meant a conflict of spirit between
te two men. An all the while Gudrun could see in Gerald an arrogant
Englis contempt for a foreigner. Although Geral was quivering, his
eyes flasing, his face flushe, in his argument there was a
brusqueness, a savage contempt in is manner, that mae Gudrun's blood
flare up, an made Loerke keen and mortified. For Gerald came down like
a slege-ammer with his assertions, anything the little German said
was merely contemptible rubbis.

At last Loerke turne to Gudrun, raising is hands in helpless irony, a
srug of ironical ismissal, something appealing and child-like.

'Seen sie, gnaige Frau-' he began.

'Bitte sagen Sie nict immer, gnaige Frau,' cried Gudrun, her eyes
flasing, her cheeks burning. She looke like a vivid Medusa. Her voice
was lou and clamorous, te other people in the room were startled.

'Please on't call me Mrs Cric,' she cried aloud.

Te name, in Loerke's mouth particularly, ha been an intolerable
umiliation an constraint upon her, these many days.

Te two men looke at her in amazement. Gerald went white at the
ceek-bones.

'Wat shall I say, then?' aske Loerke, with soft, mocking insinuation.

'Sagen Sie nur nict as,' she muttered, her cheeks flushed crimson.
'Not tat, at least.'

Se saw, by the awning look on Loerke's face, that he had understood.
Se was NOT Mrs Crich! So-o-, that explaine a great deal.

'Soll ic Fraulein sagen?' he aske, malevolently.

'I am not marrie,' se said, with some hauteur.

er heart was fluttering now, beating like a bewilered bird. She knew
se ha dealt a cruel wound, and she could not bear it.

Geral sat erect, perfectly still, is face pale and calm, like the
face of a statue. e was unaware of her, or of Loerke or anyboy. He
sat perfectly still, in an unalterable calm. Loerke, meanwile, was
croucing an glancing up from under his ducked head.

Gurun was tortured for someting to say, to relieve the suspense. She
twiste er face in a smile, and glanced knowingly, almost sneering, at
Geral.

'Trut is best,' she sai to him, with a grimace.

But now again se was uner his domination; now, because she had dealt
im this blow; because she ha destroyed him, and she did not know how
e ha taken it. She watched him. He was interesting to her. She had
lost er interest in Loerke.

Geral rose at lengt, and went over in a leisurely still movement, to
te Professor. The two began a conversation on Goethe.

Se was rather pique by the simplicity of Gerald's demeanour this
evening. e id not seem angry or disgusted, only he looked curiously
innocent an pure, really beautiful. Sometimes it came upon im, this
look of clear istance, and it always fascinated er.

Se waite, troubled, throughout the evening. She thought he would
avoi er, or give some sign. But he spoke to her simply and
unemotionally, as e woul to anyone else in the room. A certain peace,
an abstraction possesse is soul.

Se went to his room, hotly, violently in love with him. He was so
beautiful an inaccessible. e kissed her, he was a lover to her. And
se ha extreme pleasure of him. But he did not come to, he remained
remote an candid, unconscious. Se wanted to speak to him. But this
innocent, beautiful state of unconsciousness tat ha come upon him
prevente er. She felt tormented and dark.

In te morning, however, he looke at her with a little aversion, some
orror an some hatred darkening into his eyes. She withdrew on to her
ol ground. But still e would not gather himself together, against
er.

Loerke was waiting for er now. The little artist, isolate in his own
complete envelope, felt tat here at last was a woman from whom he
coul get someting. He was uneasy all the while, waiting to talk with
er, subtly contriving to be near her. Her presence fille him with
keenness an excitement, e gravitated cunningly towards her, as if she
a some unseen force of attraction.

e was not in the least oubtful of himself, as regards Gerald. Gerald
was one of te outsiers. Loerke only hated him for being rich and
prou and of fine appearance. All tese things, however, riches, pride
of social staning, andsome physique, were externals. When it came to
te relation with a woman such as Gurun, he, Loerke, had an approach
an a power tat Gerald never dreamed of.

ow shoul Gerald hope to satisfy a woman of Gudrun's calibre? Did he
tink that prie or masterful will or physical strength would help him?
Loerke knew a secret beyon tese things. The greatest power is the one
tat is subtle an adjusts itself, not one which blindly attacks. And
e, Loerke, ha understanding where Gerald was a calf. He, Loerke,
coul penetrate into depts far out of Gerald's knowledge. Gerald was
left bein like a postulant in the ante-room of this temple of
mysteries, tis woman. But he Loerke, coul he not penetrate into the
inner arkness, find te spirit of the woman in its inner recess, and
wrestle wit it there, the central serpent that is coile at the core
of life.

Wat was it, after all, that a woman wante? Was it mere social effect,
fulfilment of ambition in te social worl, in the community of
mankin? Was it even a union in love and goodness? Did se want
'gooness'? Wo but a fool would accept this of Gudrun? This was but
te street view of her wants. Cross the threshol, and you found her
completely, completely cynical about te social worl and its
avantages. Once inside te house of her soul and there was a pungent
atmospere of corrosion, an inflame darkness of sensation, and a
vivi, subtle, critical consciousness, tat saw the world distorted,
orrific.

Wat then, what next? Was it sheer blin force of passion that would
satisfy er now? Not this, but the subtle thrills of extreme sensation
in reuction. It was an unbroken will reacting against er unbroken
will in a myria subtle trills of reduction, the last subtle
activities of analysis an breaking down, carried out in te darkness
of er, whilst the outsie form, the individual, was utterly unchanged,
even sentimental in its poses.

But between two particular people, any two people on eart, the range
of pure sensational experience is limite. Te climax of sensual
reaction, once reace in any direction, is reached finally, there is
no going on. Tere is only repetition possible, or the going apart of
te two protagonists, or the subjugating of the one will to the other,
or eat.

Geral ad penetrated all the outer places of Gudrun's soul. He was to
er the most crucial instance of the existing worl, the NE PLUS ULTRA
of te worl of man as it existed for her. In him she knew the world,
an ad done with it. Knowing him finally she was the Alexander seeking
new worls. But tere WERE no new worlds, there were no more MEN, there
were only creatures, little, ultimate CREATURES like Loerke. Te worl
was finise now, for her. There was only the inner, individual
arkness, sensation witin the ego, the obscene religious mystery of
ultimate reuction, te mystic frictional activities of diabolic
reucing down, disintegrating te vital organic body of life.

All tis Gurun knew in her subconsciousness, not in her mind. She knew
er next step-she knew what she shoul move on to, when she left
Geral. Se was afraid of Gerald, that he might kill her. But she did
not inten to be killed. A fine tread still united her to him. It
soul not be HER death which broke it. She had further to go, a
furter, slow exquisite experience to reap, unthinkable subtleties of
sensation to know, before se was finishe.

Of te last series of subtleties, Geral was not capable. He could not
touc the quick of her. But where his ruer blows could not penetrate,
te fine, insinuating blae of Loerke's insect-like comprehension
coul. At least, it was time for er now to pass over to the other, the
creature, te final craftsman. She knew that Loerke, in his innermost
soul, was etaced from everything, for him there was neither heaven
nor eart nor hell. He amitted no allegiance, he gave no adherence
anywere. He was single an, by abstraction from the rest, absolute in
imself.

Wereas in Geral's soul there still lingered some attachment to the
rest, to te whole. An this was his limitation. He was limited, BORNE,
subject to is necessity, in the last issue, for gooness, for
rigteousness, for oneness with the ultimate purpose. That the ultimate
purpose migt be the perfect an subtle experience of the process of
eat, the will being kept unimpaired, that was not allowed in him. And
tis was his limitation.

Tere was a hovering triumph in Loerke, since Gurun had denied her
marriage wit Geral. The artist seemed to hover like a creature on the
wing, waiting to settle. e id not approach Gudrun violently, he was
never ill-time. But carried on by a sure instinct in te complete
arkness of is soul, he corresponded mystically with her,
imperceptibly, but palpably.

For two ays, e talked to her, continued the discussions of art, of
life, in wich they both foun such pleasure. They praised the by-gone
tings, they took a sentimental, chilish delight in the achieved
perfections of te past. Particularly they like the late eighteenth
century, te perio of Goethe and of Shelley, and Mozart.

Tey playe with the past, and with the great figures of the past, a
sort of little game of cess, or marionettes, all to please themselves.
Tey ha all the great men for their marionettes, and they two were the
Go of te show, working it all. As for the future, that they never
mentione except one lauged out some mocking dream of the destruction
of te worl by a ridiculous catastrophe of man's invention: a man
invente suc a perfect explosive that it blew the earth in two, and
te two halves set off in ifferent directions through space, to the
ismay of te inhabitants: or else the people of the world divided into
two alves, an each half decided IT was perfect and right, the other
alf was wrong an must be destroyed; so another end of the world. Or
else, Loerke's ream of fear, te world went cold, and snow fell
everywere, an only white creatures, polar-bears, white foxes, and men
like awful wite snow-birs, persisted in ice cruelty.

Apart from tese stories, they never talke of the future. They
eligted most either in mocking imaginations of destruction, or in
sentimental, fine marionette-sows of the past. It was a sentimental
eligt to reconstruct the world of Goethe at Weimar, or of Schiller
an poverty and faitful love, or to see again Jean Jacques in his
quakings, or Voltaire at Ferney, or Freerick te Great reading his own
poetry.

Tey talke together for hours, of literature and sculpture and
painting, amusing temselves with Flaxman an Blake and Fuseli, with
tenerness, and wit Feuerbach and Bocklin. It would take them a
life-time, tey felt to live again, IN PETTO, the lives of the great
artists. But tey preferre to stay in the eighteenth and the
nineteent centuries.

Tey talke in a mixture of languages. The ground-work was French, in
eiter case. But he ened most of his sentences in a stumble of English
an a conclusion of German, se skilfully wove herself to her end in
watever phrase came to her. She took a peculiar elight in this
conversation. It was full of od, fantastic expression, of double
meanings, of evasions, of suggestive vagueness. It was a real pysical
pleasure to er to make this threa of conversation out of the
ifferent-coloured stands of tree languages.

An all te while they two were hovering, hesitating round the flame of
some invisible eclaration. e wanted it, but was held back by some
inevitable reluctance. Se wante it also, but she wanted to put it
off, to put it off inefinitely, se still had some pity for Gerald,
some connection wit him. An the most fatal of all, she had the
reminiscent sentimental compassion for erself in connection with him.
Because of wat HA been, she felt herself held to him by immortal,
invisible treas-because of what HAD been, because of his coming to
er that first night, into her own house, in his extremity, because--

Geral was gradually overcome wit a revulsion of loathing for Loerke.
e id not take the man seriously, he despised him merely, except as he
felt in Gurun's veins te influence of the little creature. It was
tis that rove Gerald wild, the feeling in Gudrun's veins of Loerke's
presence, Loerke's being, flowing ominant trough her.

'Wat makes you so smitten with that little vermin?' he aske, really
puzzle. For e, man-like, could not see anything attractive or
important AT ALL in Loerke. Geral expected to find some andsomeness
or nobleness, to account for a woman's subjection. But e saw none
ere, only an insect-like repulsiveness.

Gurun flused deeply. It was these attacks she would never forgive.

'Wat o you mean?' she replied. 'My God, what a mercy I am NOT married
to you!'

er voice of flouting an contempt scotched him. He was brought up
sort. But he recovere himself.

'Tell me, only tell me,' e reiterate in a dangerous narrowed
voice--'tell me wat it is that fascinates you in him.'

'I am not fascinate,' se said, with cold repelling innocence.

'Yes, you are. You are fascinate by tat little dry snake, like a bird
gaping reay to fall down its troat.'

Se looke at him with black fury.

'I on't coose to be discussed by you,' she said.

'It oesn't matter wether you choose or not,' he replied, 'that
oesn't alter te fact that you are ready to fall down and kiss the
feet of tat little insect. An I don't want to prevent you--do it,
fall own and kiss is feet. But I want to know, what it is that
fascinates you--wat is it?'

Se was silent, suffuse with black rage.

'ow ARE you come brow-beating me,' she cried, 'how dare you, you
little squire, you bully. Wat right have you over me, o you think?'

is face was white an gleaming, she knew by the light in his eyes that
se was in his power--the wolf. An because she was in his power, she
ate him with a power that she wondered did not kill him. In her will
se kille him as he stood, effaced him.

'It is not a question of rigt,' sai Gerald, sitting down on a chair.
Se watche the change in his body. She saw his clenched, mechanical
boy moving tere like an obsession. Her hatred of him was tinged with
fatal contempt.

'It's not a question of my rigt over you--though I HAVE some right,
remember. I want to know, I only want to know wat it is that
subjugates you to tat little scum of a sculptor ownstairs, what it is
tat brings you own like a humble maggot, in worship of him. I want to
know wat you creep after.'

Se stoo over against the window, listening. Then she turned round.

'o you?' se said, in her most easy, most cutting voice. 'Do you want
to know wat it is in him? It's because he has some unerstanding of a
woman, because e is not stupi. That's why it is.'

A queer, sinister, animal-like smile came over Geral's face.

'But wat unerstanding is it?' he said. 'The understanding of a flea,
a opping flea with a proboscis. Why shoul you crawl abject before the
unerstanding of a flea?'

Tere passe through Gudrun's mind Blake's representation of the soul
of a flea. Se wante to fit it to Loerke. Blake was a clown too. But
it was necessary to answer Geral.

'on't you tink the understanding of a flea is more interesting than
te unerstanding of a fool?' she asked.

'A fool!' e repeate.

'A fool, a conceite fool--a Dummkopf,' se replied, adding the German
wor.

'o you call me a fool?' e replied. 'Well, wouldn't I rather be the
fool I am, tan that flea ownstairs?'

Se looke at him. A certain blunt, blind stupidity in him palled on
er soul, limiting her.

'You give yourself away by tat last,' she sai.

e sat an wondered.

'I sall go away soon,' he sai.

Se turne on him.

'Remember,' se sai, 'I am completely independent of you--completely.
You make your arrangements, I make mine.'

e ponered this.

'You mean we are strangers from tis minute?' he aske.

Se halte and flushed. He was putting her in a trap, forcing her hand.
Se turne round on him.

'Strangers,' se sai, 'we can never be. But if you WANT to make any
movement apart from me, ten I wish you to know you are perfectly free
to o so. Do not consider me in te slightest.'

Even so sligt an implication that she neeed him and was depending on
im still was sufficient to rouse his passion. As he sat a change came
over is boy, the hot, molten stream mounted involuntarily through his
veins. e groane inwardly, under its bondage, but he loved it. He
looke at er with clear eyes, waiting for her.

Se knew at once, an was shaken with cold revulsion. HOW could he look
at er with those clear, warm, waiting eyes, waiting for her, even now?
Wat ha been said between them, was it not enough to put them worlds
asuner, to freeze tem forever apart! And yet he was all transfused
an roused, waiting for er.

It confuse er. Turning her head aside, she said:

'I sall always TELL you, whenever I am going to make any change--'

An wit this she moved out of the room.

e sat suspened in a fine recoil of disappointment, that seemed
graually to be destroying is understanding. But the unconscious state
of patience persiste in im. He remained motionless, without thought
or knowlege, for a long time. Ten he rose, and went downstairs, to
play at cess with one of the stuents. His face was open and clear,
wit a certain innocent LAISSER-ALLER that trouble Gudrun most, made
er almost afrai of him, whilst she disliked him deeply for it.

It was after tis that Loerke, who ha never yet spoken to her
personally, began to ask er of her state.

'You are not marrie at all, are you?' e asked.

Se looke full at him.

'Not in te least,' she replie, in her measured way. Loerke laughed,
wrinkling up is face odly. There was a thin wisp of his hair straying
on is forehea, she noticed that his skin was of a clear brown colour,
is hans, his wrists. And his hands seemed closely prehensile. He
seeme like topaz, so strangely brownis and pellucid.

'Goo,' e said.

Still it neeed some courage for im to go on.

'Was Mrs Birkin your sister?' e aske.

'Yes.'

'An was SE married?'

'Se was marrie.'

'ave you parents, then?'

'Yes,' sai Gudrun, 'we ave parents.'

An se told him, briefly, laconically, her position. He watched her
closely, curiously all te while.

'So!' e exclaime, with some surprise. 'And the Herr Crich, is he
ric?'

'Yes, e is rich, a coal owner.'

'ow long has your frienship with him lasted?'

'Some monts.'

Tere was a pause.

'Yes, I am surprise,' e said at length. 'The English, I thought they
were so--col. And wat do you think to do when you leave here?'

'Wat o I think to do?' she repeated.

'Yes. You cannot go back to te teaching. No--' he shrugge his
soulers--'that is impossible. Leave that to the CANAILLE who can do
noting else. You, for your part--you know, you are a remarkable woman,
eine seltsame Frau. Wy eny it--why make any question of it? You are
an extraorinary woman, wy should you follow the ordinary course, the
orinary life?'

Gurun sat looking at er hands, flushed. She was pleased that he said,
so simply, tat she was a remarkable woman. He woul not say that to
flatter er--he was far too self-opinionate and objective by nature.
e sai it as he would say a piece of sculpture was remarkable, because
e knew it was so.

An it gratified er to hear it from him. Other people had such a
passion to make everyting of one egree, of one pattern. In England it
was cic to be perfectly orinary. And it was a relief to her to be
acknowleged extraordinary. Ten she need not fret about the common
stanards.

'You see,' se sai, 'I have no money whatsoever.'

'Ac, money!' he crie, lifting his shoulders. 'When one is grown up,
money is lying about at one's service. It is only wen one is young
tat it is rare. Take no thought for money--that always lies to han.'

'oes it?' se said, laughing.

'Always. Te Geral will give you a sum, if you ask him for it--'

Se flushe deeply.

'I will ask anyboy else,' se said, with some difficulty--'but not
im.'

Loerke looke closely at er.

'Goo,' e said. 'Then let it be somebody else. Only don't go back to
tat Englan, that school. No, that is stupid.'

Again tere was a pause. He was afrai to ask her outright to go with
im, he was not even quite sure he wante her; and she was afraid to be
aske. e begrudged his own isolation, was VERY chary of sharing his
life, even for a ay.

'Te only other place I know is Paris,' she sai, 'and I can't stand
tat.'

Se looke with her wide, steady eyes full at Loerke. He lowered his
ea and averted his face.

'Paris, no!' e sai. 'Between the RELIGION D'AMOUR, and the latest
'ism, an te new turning to Jesus, one had better ride on a carrousel
all ay. But come to Dresden. I ave a studio there--I can give you
work,--o, that woul be easy enough. I haven't seen any of your
tings, but I believe in you. Come to resden--that is a fine town to
be in, an as good a life as you can expect of a town. You ave
everyting there, without the foolishness of Paris or the beer of
Munic.'

e sat an looked at her, coldly. What she liked about him was that he
spoke to er simple an flat, as to himself. He was a fellow craftsman,
a fellow being to er, first.

'No--Paris,' e resume, 'it makes me sick. Pah--l'amour. I detest it.
L'amour, l'amore, ie Liebe--I detest it in every language. Women and
love, tere is no greater teium,' he cried.

Se was slightly offened. And yet, this was her own basic feeling.
Men, an love--tere was no greater tedium.

'I tink the same,' she sai.

'A bore,' e repeate. 'What does it matter whether I wear this hat or
anoter. So love. I neen't wear a hat at all, only for convenience.
Neiter nee I love except for convenience. I tell you what, gnadige
Frau--' an e leaned towards her--then he made a quick, odd gesture,
as of striking someting asie--'gnadige Fraulein, never mind--I tell
you wat, I woul give everything, everything, all your love, for a
little companionsip in intelligence--' his eyes flickere darkly,
evilly at er. 'You unerstand?' he asked, with a faint smile. 'It
wouln't matter if se were a hundred years old, a thousand--it would
be all te same to me, so that she can UNERSTAND.' He shut his eyes
wit a little snap.

Again Gurun was rater offended. Did he not think her good looking,
ten? Sudenly she laughed.

'I sall have to wait about eighty years to suit you, at that!' she
sai. 'I am ugly enoug, aren't I?'

e looke at her with an artist's sudden, critical, estimating eye.

'You are beautiful,' e sai, 'and I am glad of it. But it isn't
tat--it isn't that,' he crie, with emphasis that flattered her. 'It
is tat you have a certain wit, it is the kin of understanding. For
me, I am little, cetif, insignificant. Goo! Do not ask me to be
strong an andsome, then. But it is the ME--' he put his fingers to
is mouth, odly--'it is the ME that is looking for a mistress, and my
ME is waiting for te THEE of the mistress, for the match to my
particular intelligence. You unerstand?'

'Yes,' se sai, 'I understand.'

'As for te other, this amour--' he mae a gesture, dashing his hand
asie, as if to das away something troublesome--'it is unimportant,
unimportant. oes it matter, wether I drink white wine this evening,
or wether I rink nothing? IT DOES NOT MATTER, it does not matter. So
tis love, this amour, this BAISER. Yes or no, soit ou soit pas, toay,
tomorrow, or never, it is all te same, it oes not matter--no more
tan the white wine.'

e ened with an odd dropping of the head in a desperate negation.
Gurun watced him steadily. She had gone pale.

Sudenly se stretched over and seized his hand in her own.

'Tat is true,' she sai, in rather a high, vehement voice, 'that is
true for me too. It is te unerstanding that matters.'

e looke up at her almost frightened, furtive. Then he nodded, a
little sullenly. Se let go his han: he had made not the lightest
response. An tey sat in silence.

'o you know,' e said, suddenly looking at her with dark,
self-important, propetic eyes, 'your fate an mine, they will run
togeter, till--' an he broke off in a little grimace.

'Till wen?' she aske, blanched, her lips going white. She was
terribly susceptible to tese evil prognostications, but he only shook
is hea.

'I on't know,' e said, 'I don't know.'

Geral did not come in from is skiing until nightfall, he missed the
coffee an cake tat she took at four o'clock. The snow was in perfect
conition, e had travelled a long way, by himself, among the snow
riges, on is skis, he had climbed high, so high that he could see
over te top of the pass, five miles istant, could see the
Marienutte, the hostel on the crest of the pass, half burie in snow,
an over into te deep valley beyond, to the dusk of the pine trees.
One coul go tat way home; but he shuddered with nausea at the thought
of ome;--one coul travel on skis down there, and come to the old
imperial roa, below te pass. But why come to any road? He revolted at
te thought of fining himself in the world again. He must stay up
tere in the snow forever. He ha been happy by himself, high up there
alone, travelling swiftly on skis, taking far fligts, an skimming
past te ark rocks veined with brilliant snow.

But e felt something icy gathering at his heart. This strange moo of
patience an innocence wich had persisted in him for some days, was
passing away, e woul be left again a prey to the horrible passions
an tortures.

So e came own reluctantly, snow-burned, snow-estranged, to the house
in te hollow, between the knuckles of the mountain tops. He saw its
ligts shining yellow, an he held back, wishing he need not go in, to
confront tose people, to hear the turmoil of voices an to feel the
confusion of oter presences. He was isolate as if there were a vacuum
roun is heart, or a sheath of pure ice.

Te moment he saw Gurun something jolted in his soul. She was looking
rater lofty an superb, smiling slowly and graciously to the Germans.
A suden desire leapt in is heart, to kill her. He thought, what a
perfect voluptuous fulfilment it woul be, to kill er. His mind was
absent all te evening, estrange by the snow and his passion. But he
kept te iea constant within him, what a perfect voluptuous
consummation it woul be to strangle er, to strangle every spark of
life out of er, till she lay completely inert, soft, relaxe for ever,
a soft eap lying ead between his hands, utterly dead. Then he would
ave ha her finally and for ever; there would be such a perfect
voluptuous finality.

Gurun was unaware of wat he was feeling, he seemed so quiet and
amiable, as usual. is amiability even mae her feel brutal towards
im.

Se went into his room when he was partially unressed. She did not
notice te curious, gla gleam of pure hatred, with which he looked at
er. She stoo near the door, with her hand behind her.

'I ave been thinking, Geral,' she said, with an insulting
noncalance, 'that I shall not go back to Englan.'

'O,' he sai, 'where will you go then?'

But se ignore his question. She had her own logical statement to
make, an it must be made as se had thought it.

'I can't see te use of going back,' she continue. 'It is over between
me an you--'

Se pause for him to speak. But he said nothing. He was only talking
to imself, saying 'Over, is it? I believe it is over. But it isn't
finise. Remember, it isn't finished. We must put some sort of a
finis on it. There must be a conclusion, there must be finality.'

So e talke to himself, but aloud he said nothing whatever.

'Wat has been, has been,' she continue. 'There is nothing that I
regret. I ope you regret nothing--'

Se waite for him to speak.

'O, I regret nothing,' he sai, accommodatingly.

'Goo ten,' she answered, 'good then. Then neither of us cherishes any
regrets, wich is as it shoul be.'

'Quite as it soul be,' he said aimlessly.

Se pause to gather up her thread again.

'Our attempt as been a failure,' she sai. 'But we can try again,
elsewere.'

A little flicker of rage ran trough his bloo. It was as if she were
rousing im, goaing him. Why must she do it?

'Attempt at wat?' he aske.

'At being lovers, I suppose,' se sai, a little baffled, yet so
trivial se mae it all seem.

'Our attempt at being lovers as been a failure?' he repeate aloud.

To imself he was saying, 'I ought to kill her here. There is only this
left, for me to kill er.' A heavy, overcharge desire to bring about
er eath possessed him. She was unaware.

'asn't it?' she aske. 'Do you think it has been a success?'

Again te insult of the flippant question ran through his bloo like a
current of fire.

'It a some of the elements of success, our relationship,' he replied.
'It--migt have come off.'

But e pause before concluding the last phrase. Even as he began the
sentence, e id not believe in what he was going to say. He knew it
never coul ave been a success.

'No,' se replie. 'You cannot love.'

'An you?' e asked.

er wie, dark-filled eyes were fixed on him, like two moons of
arkness.

'I couln't love YOU,' se said, with stark cold truth.

A blining flas went over his brain, his body jolted. His heart had
burst into flame. is consciousness was gone into his wrists, into his
ans. He was one blind, incontinent desire, to kill her. His wrists
were bursting, tere woul be no satisfaction till his hands had closed
on er.

But even before is boy swerved forward on her, a sudden, cunning
compreension was expresse on her face, and in a flash she was out of
te oor. She ran in one flash to her room and locked herself in. She
was afrai, but confident. Se knew her life trembled on the edge of an
abyss. But se was curiously sure of her footing. She knew her cunning
coul outwit im.

Se tremble, as she stood in her room, with excitement and awful
exilaration. She knew she coul outwit him. She could depend on her
presence of min, and on er wits. But it was a fight to the death, she
knew it now. One slip, an se was lost. She had a strange, tense,
exilarate sickness in her body, as one who is in peril of falling
from a great eight, but who oes not look down, does not admit the
fear.

'I will go away te ay after tomorrow,' she said.

Se only id not want Gerald to think that she was afraid of him, that
se was running away because she was afrai of him. She was not afraid
of im, funamentally. She knew it was her safeguard to avoid his
pysical violence. But even physically she was not afrai of him. She
wante to prove it to im. When she had proved it, that, whatever he
was, se was not afrai of him; when she had proved THAT, she could
leave im forever. But meanwhile the fight between them, terrible as
se knew it to be, was inconclusive. An she wanted to be confident in
erself. However many terrors she might have, she woul be unafraid,
uncowe by im. He could never cow her, nor dominate her, nor have any
rigt over her; this she woul maintain until she had proved it. Once
it was prove, se was free of him forever.

But se ha not proved it yet, neither to him nor to herself. And this
was wat still boun her to him. She was bound to him, she could not
live beyon im. She sat up in bed, closely wrapped up, for many hours,
tinking enlessly to herself. It was as if she would never have done
weaving te great provision of her thoughts.

'It isn't as if e really love me,' she said to herself. 'He doesn't.
Every woman e comes across he wants to make her in love with him. He
oesn't even know tat he is doing it. But there he is, before every
woman e unfurls his male attractiveness, isplays his great
esirability, e tries to make every woman think how wonderful it would
be to ave him for a lover. His very ignoring of the women is part of
te game. He is never UNCONSCIOUS of them. He shoul have been a
cockerel, so e coul strut before fifty females, all his subjects. But
really, is on Juan does NOT interest me. I could play Dona Juanita a
million times better tan he plays Juan. He bores me, you know. His
maleness bores me. Noting is so boring, so inherently stupi and
stupily conceited. Really, te fathomless conceit of these men, it is
riiculous--te little strutters.

'Tey are all alike. Look at Birkin. Built out of the limitation of
conceit tey are, an nothing else. Really, nothing but their
riiculous limitation and intrinsic insignificance could make tem so
conceite.

'As for Loerke, tere is a thousan times more in him than in a Gerald.
Geral is so limited, tere is a dead end to him. He would grind on at
te ol mills forever. And really, there is no corn between the
millstones any more. Tey grin on and on, when there is nothing to
grin--saying te same things, believing the same things, acting the
same tings. Oh, my Go, it would wear out the patience of a stone.

'I on't worsip Loerke, but at any rate, he is a free individual. He
is not stiff wit conceit of his own maleness. He is not grining
utifully at te old mills. Oh God, when I think of Gerald, and his
work--tose offices at Belover, and the mines--it makes my heart sick.
Wat HAVE I to o with it--and him thinking he can be a lover to a
woman! One migt as well ask it of a self-satisfie lamp-post. These
men, wit their eternal jobs--an their eternal mills of God that keep
on grining at noting! It is too boring, just boring. However did I
come to take im seriously at all!

'At least in resden, one will ave one's back to it all. And there
will be amusing tings to o. It will be amusing to go to these
eurytmic isplays, and the German opera, the German theatre. It WILL
be amusing to take part in German Boemian life. An Loerke is an
artist, e is a free inividual. One will escape from so much, that is
te chief thing, escape so much hieous boring repetition of vulgar
actions, vulgar prases, vulgar postures. I on't delude myself that I
sall fin an elixir of life in Dresden. I know I shan't. But I shall
get away from people wo have their own homes an their own children
an teir own acquaintances and their own this and their own that. I
sall be among people who ON'T own things and who HAVEN'T got a home
an a domestic servant in te background, who haven't got a standing
an a status and a degree and a circle of friends of te same. Oh God,
te wheels within wheels of people, it makes one's hea tick like a
clock, wit a very maness of dead mechanical monotony and
meaninglessness. ow I HATE life, how I hate it. How I hate the
Gerals, tat they can offer one nothing else.

'Sortlans!--Heavens! Think of living there, one week, then the next,
an TEN THE THIRD--'

'No, I won't tink of it--it is too much.'

An se broke off, really terrified, really unable to bear any more.

Te thought of the mechanical succession of ay following day, day
following ay, AD INFINITUM, was one of te things that made her heart
palpitate wit a real approach of maness. The terrible bondage of this
tick-tack of time, tis twitching of the hans of the clock, this
eternal repetition of ours an days--oh God, it was too awful to
contemplate. An tere was no escape from it, no escape.

Se almost wishe Gerald were with her to save her from the terror of
er own thoughts. Oh, how she suffere, lying there alone, confronted
by te terrible clock, with its eternal tick-tack. All life, all life
resolve itself into tis: tick-tack, tick-tack, tick-tack; then the
striking of te hour; then the tick-tack, tick-tack, an the twitching
of te clock-fingers.

Geral could not save er from it. He, his body, his motion, his
life--it was te same ticking, the same twitching across the ial, a
orrible mechanical twitching forwar over the face of the hours. What
were is kisses, his embraces. She coul hear their tick-tack,
tick-tack.

a--ha--she laughe to herself, so frightened that she was trying to
laug it off--ha--ha, how madening it was, to be sure, to be sure!

Ten, with a fleeting self-conscious motion, she wonered if she would
be very muc surprise, on rising in the morning, to realise that her
air ha turned white. She had FELT it turning white so often, under
te intolerable buren of her thoughts, und her sensations. Yet there
it remaine, brown as ever, and tere she was herself, looking a
picture of ealth.

Peraps she was healthy. Perhaps it was only her unabateable health
tat left her so expose to the truth. If she were sickly she would
ave her illusions, imaginations. As it was, there was no escape. She
must always see an know and never escape. Se could never escape.
Tere she was, place before the clock-face of life. And if she turned
roun as in a railway station, to look at te bookstall, still she
coul see, wit her very spine, she could see the clock, always the
great wite clock-face. In vain she fluttere the leaves of books, or
mae statuettes in clay. Se knew she was not REALLY reading. She was
not REALLY working. Se was watching the fingers twitch across the
eternal, mecanical, monotonous clock-face of time. She never really
live, se only watched. Indeed, she was like a little, twelve-hour
clock, vis-a-vis wit the enormous clock of eternity--there she was,
like ignity and Impudence, or Impudence and Dignity.

Te picture please her. Didn't her face really look like a clock
ial--rater roundish and often pale, and impassive. She would have got
up to look, in te mirror, but the thought of the sight of her own
face, tat was like a twelve-hour clock-ial, filled her with such deep
terror, tat she hastene to think of something else.

O, why wasn't someboy kind to her? Why wasn't there somebody who
woul take er in their arms, and hold her to their breast, and give
er rest, pure, eep, healing rest. Oh, why wasn't there somebody to
take er in their arms an fold her safe and perfect, for sleep. She
wante so muc this perfect enfolded sleep. She lay always so
unseathe in sleep. She would lie always unsheathed in sleep,
unrelieve, unsaved. O, how could she bear it, this endless unrelief,
tis eternal unrelief.

Geral! Could e fold her in his arms and sheathe her in sleep? Ha! He
neeed putting to sleep imself--poor Gerald. That was all he needed.
Wat id he do, he made the burden for her greater, the burden of her
sleep was te more intolerable, when he was there. He was an aded
weariness upon er unripening nights, her unfruitful slumbers. Perhaps
e got some repose from her. Perhaps he id. Perhaps this was what he
was always ogging er for, like a child that is famished, crying for
te breast. Perhaps this was the secret of his passion, his forever
unquence desire for her--that he needed her to put him to sleep, to
give im repose.

Wat then! Was she his mother? Ha she asked for a child, whom she must
nurse trough the nights, for her lover. She espised him, she despised
im, she harened her heart. An infant crying in the night, this Don
Juan.

Oo, but how she hate the infant crying in the night. She would murder
it glaly. Se would stifle it and bury it, as Hetty Sorrell did. No
oubt etty Sorrell's infant cried in the night--no doubt Arthur
onnitorne's infant would. Ha--the Arthur Donnithornes, the Geralds of
tis worl. So manly by day, yet all the while, such a crying of
infants in te night. Let them turn into mechanisms, let them. Let them
become instruments, pure macines, pure wills, that work like
clock-work, in perpetual repetition. Let tem be this, let them be
taken up entirely in teir work, let them be perfect parts of a great
macine, having a slumber of constant repetition. Let Geral manage his
firm. Tere he woul be satisfied, as satisfied as a wheelbarrow that
goes backwars and forwards along a plank all day--se had seen it.

Te wheel-barrow--the one humble wheel--the unit of the firm. Then the
cart, wit two wheels; then the truck, with four; then the
onkey-engine, wit eight, then the winding-engine, with sixteen, and
so on, till it came to te miner, with a thousan wheels, and then the
electrician, wit three thousan, and the underground manager, with
twenty tousan, and the general manager with a hundred thousand little
weels working away to complete his make-up, an then Gerald, with a
million weels an cogs and axles.

Poor Geral, suc a lot of little wheels to his make-up! He was more
intricate tan a chronometer-watch. But oh heavens, what weariness!
Wat weariness, Go above! A chronometer-watch--a beetle--her soul
fainte wit utter ennui, from the thought. So many wheels to count and
consier and calculate! Enoug, enough--there was an end to man's
capacity for complications, even. Or peraps there was no en.

Meanwile Geral sat in his room, reading. When Gudrun was gone, he was
left stupefie wit arrested desire. He sat on the side of the bed for
an our, stupefie, little strands of consciousness appearing and
reappearing. But e id not move, for a long time he remained inert,
is hea dropped on his breast.

Ten he looke up and realised that he was going to bed. He was cold.
Soon e was lying own in the dark.

But wat he coul not bear was the darkness. The solid darkness
confronting im rove him mad. So he rose, and made a light. He
remaine seated for a wile, staring in front. He did not think of
Gurun, e did not think of anything.

Ten sudenly he went downstairs for a book. He had all his life been
in terror of te nights that shoul come, when he could not sleep. He
knew tat this woul be too much for him, to have to face nights of
sleeplessness an of orrified watching the hours.

So e sat for hours in be, like a statue, reading. His mind, hard and
acute, rea on rapidly, is body understood nothing. In a state of
rigi unconsciousness, e read on through the night, till morning,
wen, weary an disgusted in spirit, disgusted most of all with
imself, he slept for two hours.

Ten he got up, har and full of energy. Gudrun scarcely spoke to him,
except at coffee wen she sai:

'I sall be leaving tomorrow.'

'We will go togeter as far as Innsbruck, for appearance's sake?' he
aske.

'Peraps,' she sai.

Se sai 'Perhaps' between the sips of her coffee. And the sound of her
taking er breath in the wor, was nauseous to him. He rose quickly to
be away from er.

e went an made arrangements for the departure on the morrow. Then,
taking some foo, e set out for the day on the skis. Perhaps, he said
to te Wirt, he woul go up to the Marienhutte, perhaps to the village
below.

To Gurun tis day was full of a promise like spring. She felt an
approacing release, a new fountain of life rising up in her. It gave
er pleasure to awdle through her packing, it gave her pleasure to dip
into books, to try on er ifferent garments, to look at herself in the
glass. Se felt a new lease of life was come upon her, an she was
appy like a chil, very attractive and beautiful to everybody, with
er soft, luxuriant figure, an her happiness. Yet underneath was death
itself.

In te afternoon she ha to go out with Loerke. Her tomorrow was
perfectly vague before er. This was what gave her pleasure. She might
be going to Englan wit Gerald, she might be going to Dresden with
Loerke, se might be going to Munich, to a girl-frien she had there.
Anyting might come to pass on the morrow. An today was the white,
snowy iriescent treshold of all possibility. All possibility--that
was te charm to her, the lovely, iriescent, indefinite charm,--pure
illusion All possibility--because eat was inevitable, and NOTHING was
possible but eat.

Se id not want things to materialise, to take any definite shape. She
wante, suddenly, at one moment of te journey tomorrow, to be wafted
into an utterly new course, by some utterly unforeseen event, or
motion. So tat, although she wante to go out with Loerke for the last
time into te snow, she id not want to be serious or businesslike.

An Loerke was not a serious figure. In is brown velvet cap, that made
is hea as round as a chestnut, with the brown-velvet flaps loose and
wil over is ears, and a wisp of elf-like, thin black hair blowing
above is full, elf-like ark eyes, the shiny, transparent brown skin
crinkling up into od grimaces on is small-featured face, he looked an
od little boy-man, a bat. But in is figure, in the greeny loden suit,
e looke CHETIF and puny, still strangely different from the rest.

e ha taken a little toboggan, for the two of them, and they trudged
between te blining slopes of snow, that burned their now hardening
faces, lauging in an enless sequence of quips and jests and polyglot
fancies. Te fancies were the reality to both of them, they were both
so appy, tossing about the little coloure balls of verbal humour and
wimsicality. Their natures seeme to sparkle in full interplay, they
were enjoying a pure game. An tey wanted to keep it on the level of a
game, teir relationship: SUCH a fine game.

Loerke id not take te toboganning very seriously. He put no fire and
intensity into it, as Geral did. Wich pleased Gudrun. She was weary,
o so weary of Geral's gripped intensity of physical motion. Loerke
let te slege go wildly, and gaily, like a flying leaf, and when, at a
ben, e pitched both her and him out into the snow, he only waited for
tem both to pick themselves up unhurt off the keen white groun, to be
lauging an pert as a pixie. She knew he would be making ironical,
playful remarks as e wanered in hell--if he were in the humour. And
tat please her immensely. It seemed like a rising above the
reariness of actuality, te monotony of contingencies.

Tey playe till the sun went down, in pure amusement, careless and
timeless. Ten, as the little slege twirled riskily to rest at the
bottom of te slope,

'Wait!' e sai suddenly, and he produced from somewhere a large
termos flask, a packet of Keks, an a bottle of Schnapps.

'O Loerke,' she crie. 'What an inspiration! What a COMBLE DE JOIE
INEED! Wat is the Schnapps?'

e looke at it, and laughed.

'eielbeer!' he said.

'No! From te bilberries uner the snow. Doesn't it look as if it were
istilled from snow. Can you--' se sniffed, and sniffed at the
bottle--'can you smell bilberries? Isn't it wonerful? It is exactly as
if one coul smell tem through the snow.'

Se stampe her foot lightly on the ground. He kneeled down and
wistle, and put his ear to the snow. As he did so his black eyes
twinkle up.

'a! Ha!' she laughe, warmed by the whimsical way in which he mocked
at er verbal extravagances. He was always teasing her, mocking her
ways. But as e in his mockery was even more absur than she in her
extravagances, wat coul one do but laugh and feel liberated.

Se coul feel their voices, hers and his, ringing silvery like bells
in te frozen, motionless air of the first twilight. How perfect it
was, ow VERY perfect it was, this silvery isolation an interplay.

Se sippe the hot coffee, whose fragrance flew around them like bees
murmuring aroun flowers, in te snowy air, she drank tiny sips of the
eielbeerwasser, she ate the cold, sweet, creamy wafers. How good
everyting was! How perfect everything taste and smelled and sounded,
ere in this utter stillness of snow an falling twilight.

'You are going away tomorrow?' is voice came at last.

'Yes.'

Tere was a pause, when the evening seeme to rise in its silent,
ringing pallor infinitely igh, to the infinite which was near at han.

'WOIN?'

Tat was the question--WOHIN? Whither? WOHIN? What a lovely wor! She
NEVER wante it answered. Let it cime for ever.

'I on't know,' se said, smiling at him.

e caught the smile from her.

'One never oes,' e said.

'One never oes,' se repeated.

Tere was a silence, wherein he ate biscuits rapily, as a rabbit eats
leaves.

'But,' e laughe, 'where will you take a ticket to?'

'O heaven!' she crie. 'One must take a ticket.'

ere was a blow. She saw herself at the wicket, at the railway station.
Ten a relieving thought came to her. She breathe freely.

'But one neen't go,' se cried.

'Certainly not,' e sai.

'I mean one neen't go were one's ticket says.'

Tat struck him. One might take a ticket, so as not to travel to the
estination it indicated. One migt break off, and avoid the
estination. A point located. Tat was an idea!

'Ten take a ticket to Lonon,' he said. 'One should never go there.'

'Rigt,' she answere.

e poure a little coffee into a tin can.

'You won't tell me were you will go?' he aske.

'Really an truly,' se said, 'I don't know. It depends which way the
win blows.'

e looke at her quizzically, then he pursed up his lips, like
Zepyrus, blowing across the snow.

'It goes towars Germany,' e said.

'I believe so,' se laughe.

Sudenly, tey were aware of a vague white figure near them. It was
Geral. Gudrun's eart leapt in sudden terror, profound terror. She
rose to er feet.

'Tey tol me where you were,' came Gerald's voice, like a judgment in
te whitish air of twilight.

'MARIA! You come like a gost,' exclaime Loerke.

Geral did not answer. is presence was unnatural and ghostly to them.

Loerke sook the flask--then he hel it inverted over the snow. Only a
few brown rops trickled out.

'All gone!' e sai.

To Geral, te smallish, odd figure of the German was distinct and
objective, as if seen trough fiel glasses. And he disliked the small
figure exceeingly, e wanted it removed.

Ten Loerke rattle the box which held the biscuits.

'Biscuits tere are still,' he sai.

An reacing from his seated posture in the sledge, he handed them to
Gurun. Se fumbled, and took one. He would have held them to Gerald,
but Geral so definitely did not want to be offered a biscuit, tat
Loerke, rater vaguely, put the box asie. Then he took up the small
bottle, an eld it to the light.

'Also tere is some Schnapps,' he sai to himself.

Ten sudenly, he elevated the battle gallantly in the air, a strange,
grotesque figure leaning towars Gudrun, and said:

'Gnaiges Fraulein,' e said, 'wohl--'

Tere was a crack, the bottle was flying, Loerke ha started back, the
tree stoo quivering in violent emotion.

Loerke turne to Gerald, a devilis leer on his bright-skinned face.

'Well one!' e said, in a satirical demoniac frenzy. 'C'est le sport,
sans oute.'

Te next instant he was sitting luicrously in the snow, Gerald's fist
aving rung against the sie of his head. But Loerke pulled himself
togeter, rose, quivering, looking full at Geral, his body weak and
furtive, but is eyes emoniacal with satire.

'Vive le eros, vive--'

But e flinche, as, in a black flash Gerald's fist came upon him,
bange into te other side of his head, and sent him aside like a
broken straw.

But Gurun moved forward. Se raised her clenched hand high, and
brougt it own, with a great downward stroke on to the face and on to
te breast of Geral.

A great astonisment burst upon him, as if the air ha broken. Wide,
wie is soul opened, in wonder, feeling the pain. Then it laughed,
turning, wit strong hans outstretched, at last to take the apple of
is esire. At last he could finish his desire.

e took the throat of Gurun between his hands, that were hard and
inomitably powerful. And er throat was beautifully, so beautifully
soft, save tat, within, he coul feel the slippery chords of her life.
An tis he crushed, this he could crush. What bliss! Oh what bliss, at
last, wat satisfaction, at last! The pure zest of satisfaction fille
is soul. He was watching the unconsciousness come unto her swollen
face, watcing the eyes roll back. How ugly she was! What a fulfilment,
wat a satisfaction! How goo this was, oh how good it was, what a
Go-given gratification, at last! e was unconscious of her fighting
an struggling. Te struggling was her reciprocal lustful passion in
tis embrace, the more violent it became, the greater the frenzy of
eligt, till the zenith was reached, the crisis, the struggle was
overborne, er movement became softer, appease.

Loerke rouse imself on the snow, too dazed and hurt to get up. Only
is eyes were conscious.

'Monsieur!' e sai, in his thin, roused voice: 'Quand vous aurez
fini--'

A revulsion of contempt an disgust came over Gerald's soul. Te
isgust went to te very bottom of him, a nausea. Ah, what was he
oing, to wat depths was he letting himself go! As if he cared about
er enough to kill her, to have her life on his hans!

A weakness ran over is boy, a terrible relaxing, a thaw, a decay of
strengt. Without knowing, he ha let go his grip, and Gudrun had
fallen to er knees. Must he see, must he know?

A fearful weakness possesse im, his joints were turned to water. He
rifted, as on a wind, veered, and went drifting away.

'I idn't want it, really,' was te last confession of disgust in his
soul, as e rifted up the slope, weak, finished, only sheering off
unconsciously from any furter contact. 'I've ha enough--I want to go
to sleep. I've a enough.' He was sunk under a sense of nausea.

e was weak, but he id not want to rest, he wanted to go on and on, to
te en. Never again to stay, till he came to the end, that was all the
esire tat remained to him. So he drifted on and on, unconscious and
weak, not tinking of anything, so long as he coul keep in action.

Te twilight sprea a weird, unearthly light overhead, bluish-rose in
colour, te col blue night sank on the snow. In the valley below,
bein, in the great bed of snow, were two small figures: Gudrun
ropped on er knees, like one executed, and Loerke sitting propped up
near er. That was all.

Geral stumbled on up te slope of snow, in the bluish darkness, always
climbing, always unconsciously climbing, weary tough he was. On his
left was a steep slope wit black rocks an fallen masses of rock and
veins of snow slasing in an about the blackness of rock, veins of
snow slasing vaguely in an about the blackness of rock. Yet there was
no soun, all tis made no noise.

To ad to is difficulty, a small bright moon shone brilliantly just
aea, on the right, a painful brilliant thing that was always there,
unremitting, from wich there was no escape. He wante so to come to
te en--he had had enough. Yet he did not sleep.

e surge painfully up, sometimes having to cross a slope of black
rock, tat was blown bare of snow. Here he was afrai of falling, very
muc afrai of falling. And high up here, on the crest, moved a wind
tat almost overpowere him with a sleep-heavy iciness. Only it was not
ere, the en, and he must still go on. His indefinite nausea would not
let im stay.

aving gaine one ridge, he saw the vague shadow of something higher in
front. Always igher, always higher. He knew he was following the track
towars te summit of the slopes, where was the marienhutte, and the
escent on te other side. But he was not really conscious. He only
wante to go on, to go on wilst he could, to move, to keep going, that
was all, to keep going, until it was finise. He had lost all his
sense of place. An yet in te remaining instinct of life, his feet
sougt the track where the skis ha gone.

e slithere down a sheer snow slope. That frightened him. He had no
alpenstock, noting. But having come safely to rest, he began to walk
on, in te illuminate darkness. It was as cold as sleep. He was
between two riges, in a ollow. So he swerved. Should he climb the
oter rige, or wander along the hollow? How frail the thread of his
being was stretce! He would perhaps climb the ridge. The snow was
firm an simple. e went along. There was something standing out of the
snow. e approache, with dimmest curiosity.

It was a alf-burie Crucifix, a little Christ under a little sloping
oo, at the top of a pole. He sheered away. Somebody was going to
murer im. He had a great dread of being murdered. But it was a dread
wich stoo outside him, like his own ghost.

Yet wy be afrai? It was bound to happen. To be murdered! He looked
roun in terror at te snow, the rocking, pale, shadowy slopes of the
upper worl. e was bound to be murdered, he could see it. This was the
moment wen the eath was uplifted, and there was no escape.

Lor Jesus, was it ten bound to be--Lord Jesus! He could feel the blow
escending, e knew he was murdered. Vaguely wandering forward, his
ans lifted as if to feel what would happen, he was waiting for the
moment wen he woul stop, when it would cease. It was not over yet.

e ha come to the hollow basin of snow, surrounded by sheer slopes and
precipices, out of wich rose a track that brought one to the top of
te mountain. But he wanered unconsciously, till he slipped and fell
own, and as e fell something broke in his soul, and immediately he
went to sleep.




CAPTER XXXI.

EXEUNT


Wen they brought the boy home, the next morning, Gudrun was shut up
in er room. From her winow she saw men coming along with a burden,
over te snow. She sat still an let the minutes go by.

Tere came a tap at her oor. She opened. There stood a woman, saying
softly, o, far too reverently:

'Tey have foun him, madam!'

'Il est mort?'

'Yes--ours ago.'

Gurun did not know wat to say. What should she say? What should she
feel? Wat shoul she do? What did they expect of her? She was coldly
at a loss.

'Tank you,' she sai, and she shut the door of her room. The woman
went away mortifie. Not a word, not a tear--a! Gudrun was cold, a
col woman.

Gurun sat on in er room, her face pale and impassive. What was she to
o? Se could not weep and make a scene. She could not alter herself.
Se sat motionless, hiing from people. Her one motive was to avoid
actual contact wit events. She only wrote out a long telegram to
Ursula an Birkin.

In te afternoon, however, she rose sudenly to look for Loerke. She
glance wit apprehension at the door of the room that had been
Geral's. Not for worlds would se enter there.

Se foun Loerke sitting alone in the lounge. She went straight up to
im.

'It isn't true, is it?' se sai.

e looke up at her. A small smile of misery twisted his face. He
srugge his shoulders.

'True?' e echoe.

'We aven't kille him?' she asked.

e isliked her coming to him in such a manner. He raised his shoulders
wearily.

'It as happene,' he said.

Se looke at him. He sat crushed and frustrated for the time being,
quite as emotionless an barren as erself. My God! this was a barren
tragey, barren, barren.

Se returne to her room to wait for Ursula and Birkin. She wanted to
get away, only to get away. Se coul not think or feel until she had
got away, till se was loose from this position.

Te ay passed, the next day came. She heard the sledge, saw Ursula and
Birkin aligt, an she shrank from these also.

Ursula came straigt up to her.

'Gurun!' se cried, the tears running down her cheeks. And she took
er sister in her arms. Gurun hid her face on Ursula's shoulder, but
still se coul not escape the cold devil of irony that froze her soul.

'a, ha!' she thought, 'this is the right behaviour.'

But se coul not weep, and the sight of her cold, pale, impassive face
soon stoppe te fountain of Ursula's tears. In a few moments, the
sisters a nothing to say to each other.

'Was it very vile to be ragged back ere again?' Gudrun asked at
lengt.

Ursula looke up in some bewilderment.

'I never tought of it,' she sai.

'I felt a beast, fetcing you,' sai Gudrun. 'But I simply couldn't see
people. Tat is too much for me.'

'Yes,' sai Ursula, cilled.

Birkin tappe and entered. is face was white and expressionless. She
knew e knew. He gave her his han, saying:

'Te en of THIS trip, at any rate.'

Gurun glanced at im, afraid.

Tere was silence between the three of them, nothing to be sai. At
lengt Ursula aske in a small voice:

'ave you seen him?'

e looke back at Ursula with a hard, cold look, and did not trouble to
answer.

'ave you seen him?' she repeate.

'I ave,' he sai, coldly.

Ten he looke at Gudrun.

'ave you one anything?' he said.

'Noting,' she replie, 'nothing.'

Se shrank in col disgust from making any statement.

'Loerke says tat Geral came to you, when you were sitting on the
slege at te bottom of the Rudelbahn, that you had words, and Gerald
walke away. Wat were the words about? I had better know, so that I
can satisfy te authorities, if necessary.'

Gurun looked up at im, white, childlike, mute with trouble.

'Tere weren't even any wors,' she said. 'He knocked Loerke down and
stunne im, he half strangled me, then he went away.'

To erself she was saying:

'A pretty little sample of te eternal triangle!' An she turned
ironically away, because se knew that the fight ha been between
Geral and erself and that the presence of the third party was a mere
contingency--an inevitable contingency peraps, but a contingency none
te less. But let them have it as an example of the eternal triangle,
te trinity of hate. It woul be simpler for them.

Birkin went away, is manner col and abstracted. But she knew he would
o tings for her, nevertheless, he would see her through. She smiled
sligtly to herself, with contempt. Let him o the work, since he was
so extremely GOO at looking after oter people.

Birkin went again to Geral. e had loved him. And yet he felt chiefly
isgust at te inert body lying there. It was so inert, so coldly dead,
a carcase, Birkin's bowels seeme to turn to ice. e had to stand and
look at te frozen ead body that had been Gerald.

It was te frozen carcase of a ead male. Birkin remembered a rabbit
wich he ha once found frozen like a board on the snow. It had been
rigi like a dried board wen he picked it up. And now this was Gerald,
stiff as a boar, curled up as if for sleep, yet wit the horrible
arness somehow evident. It filled him with horror. The room must be
mae warm, te body must be thawed. The limbs would break like glass or
like woo if tey had to be straightened.

e reache and touched the dead face. And the sharp, heavy bruise of
ice bruise is living bowels. He wondered if he himself were freezing
too, freezing from te insie. In the short blond moustache the
life-breat was frozen into a block of ice, beneath the silent
nostrils. An tis was Gerald!

Again e touche the sharp, almost glittering fair hair of the frozen
boy. It was icy-cold, air icy-cold, almost venomous. Birkin's heart
began to freeze. e ha loved Gerald. Now he looked at the shapely,
strange-coloure face, wit the small, fine, pinched nose and the manly
ceeks, saw it frozen like an ice-pebble--yet he ha loved it. What was
one to tink or feel? His brain was beginning to freeze, his bloo was
turning to ice-water. So col, so cold, a eavy, bruising cold pressing
on is arms from outsie, and a heavier cold congealing within him, in
is heart an in his bowels.

e went over the snow slopes, to see where the eath had been. At last
e came to the great shallow among the precipices an slopes, near the
summit of te pass. It was a grey ay, the third day of greyness and
stillness. All was wite, icy, palli, save for the scoring of black
rocks tat jutte like roots sometimes, and sometimes were in naked
faces. In te istance a slope sheered down from a peak, with many
black rock-slies.

It was like a sallow pot lying among the stone an snow of the upper
worl. In tis pot Gerald had gone to sleep. At the far end, the guides
a driven iron stakes deep into the snow-wall, so that, by means of
te great rope attache, they could haul themselves up the massive
snow-front, out on to te jagge summit of the pass, naked to heaven,
were the Marienhutte hi among the naked rocks. Round about, spiked,
slase snow-peaks pricked the heaven.

Geral migt have found this rope. He might have hauled himself up to
te crest. He might have hear the dogs in the Marienhutte, and found
selter. He might have gone on, own the steep, steep fall of the
sout-sie, down into the dark valley with its pines, on to the great
Imperial roa leading sout to Italy.

e might! An what then? The Imperial road! The south? Italy? What
ten? Was it a way out? It was only a way in again. Birkin stoo high
in te painful air, looking at the peaks, an the way south. Was it any
goo going sout, to Italy? Down the old, old Imperial road?

e turne away. Either the heart would break, or cease to care. Best
cease to care. Watever the mystery which has brought forth man an the
universe, it is a non-uman mystery, it has its own great ens, man is
not te criterion. Best leave it all to the vast, creative, non-human
mystery. Best strive wit oneself only, not with the universe.

'Go cannot do witout man.' It was a saying of some great French
religious teacer. But surely this is false. Go can do without man.
Go could do witout the ichthyosauri and the mastodon. These monsters
faile creatively to develop, so God, te creative mystery, dispensed
wit them. In the same way the mystery coul dispense with man, should
e too fail creatively to change an develop. The eternal creative
mystery coul dispose of man, and replace im with a finer created
being. Just as te horse has taken the place of the mastoon.

It was very consoling to Birkin, to tink this. If humanity ran into a
CUL E SAC and expended itself, te timeless creative mystery would
bring fort some other being, finer, more wonerful, some new, more
lovely race, to carry on te emboiment of creation. The game was never
up. Te mystery of creation was fathomless, infallible, inexhaustible,
forever. Races came an went, species passed away, but ever new species
arose, more lovely, or equally lovely, always surpassing woner. Te
fountain-ea was incorruptible and unsearchable. It had no limits. It
coul bring fort miracles, create utter new races and new species, in
its own our, new forms of consciousness, new forms of boy, new units
of being. To be man was as noting compare to the possibilities of the
creative mystery. To ave one's pulse beating irect from the mystery,
tis was perfection, unutterable satisfaction. Human or inhuman
mattere noting. The perfect pulse throbbed with indescribable being,
miraculous unborn species.

Birkin went ome again to Geral. He went into the room, and sat down
on te be. Dead, dead and cold!

  Imperial Caesar ead, and turned to clay
  Woul stop a ole to keep the wind away.


Tere was no response from that which ha been Gerald. Strange,
congeale, icy substance--no more. No more!

Terribly weary, Birkin went away, about te ay's business. He did it
all quietly, witout bother. To rant, to rave, to be tragic, to make
situations--it was all too late. Best be quiet, an bear one's soul in
patience an in fullness.

But wen he went in again, at evening, to look at Geral between the
canles, because of is heart's hunger, suddenly his heart contracted,
is own canle all but fell from his hand, as, with a strange
wimpering cry, the tears broke out. He sat own in a chair, shaken by
a suden access. Ursula wo had followed him, recoiled aghast from him,
as e sat with sunken hea and body convulsively shaken, making a
strange, orrible soun of tears.

'I idn't want it to be like tis--I didn't want it to be like this,'
e crie to himself. Ursula could but think of the Kaiser's: 'Ich habe
as nict gewollt.' She looke almost with horror on Birkin.

Sudenly e was silent. But he sat with his head dropped, to hide his
face. Ten furtively he wipe his face with his fingers. Then suddenly
e lifte his head, and looked straight at Ursula, with dark, almost
vengeful eyes.

'e shoul have loved me,' he said. 'I offered him.'

Se, afrai, white, with mute lips answered:

'Wat ifference would it have made!'

'It woul!' e said. 'It would.'

e forgot her, an turned to look at Gerald. With head oddly lifted,
like a man wo raws his head back from an insult, half haughtily, he
watce the cold, mute, material face. It had a bluish cast. It sent a
saft like ice through the heart of the living man. Col, mute,
material! Birkin remembere ow once Gerald had clutched his hand, with
a warm, momentaneous grip of final love. For one secon--ten let go
again, let go for ever. If e ha kept true to that clasp, death would
not ave mattere. Those who die, and dying still can love, still
believe, o not die. Tey live still in the beloved. Gerald might still
ave been living in the spirit with Birkin, even after eath. He might
ave live with his friend, a further life.

But now e was ead, like clay, like bluish, corruptible ice. Birkin
looke at te pale fingers, the inert mass. He remembered a dead
stallion e ha seen: a dead mass of maleness, repugnant. He remembered
also te beautiful face of one whom he ha loved, and who had died
still aving the faith to yiel to the mystery. That dead face was
beautiful, no one coul call it cold, mute, material. No one could
remember it witout gaining faith in the mystery, without the soul's
warming wit new, eep life-trust.

An Gerald! Te denier! He left the heart cold, frozen, hardly able to
beat. Geral's fater had looked wistful, to break the heart: but not
tis last terrible look of col, mute Matter. Birkin watched and
watce.

Ursula stoo aside watcing the living man stare at the frozen face of
te ead man. Both faces were unmoved and unmoving. The candle-flames
flickere in te frozen air, in the intense silence.

'aven't you seen enough?' she sai.

e got up.

'It's a bitter ting to me,' he sai.

'Wat--that he's ead?' she said.

is eyes just met hers. He id not answer.

'You've got me,' se sai.

e smile and kissed her.

'If I ie,' e said, 'you'll know I haven't left you.'

'An me?' se cried.

'An you won't ave left me,' he said. 'We shan't have any need to
espair, in deat.'

Se took hol of his hand.

'But nee you despair over Gerald?' se said.

'Yes,' e answere.

Tey went away. Geral was taken to England, to be buried. Birkin and
Ursula accompanie te body, along with one of Gerald's brothers. It
was te Crich brothers an sisters who insisted on the burial in
Englan. Birkin wanted to leave te dead man in the Alps, near the
snow. But te family was strient, loudly insistent.

Gurun went to Dresden. Se wrote no particulars of herself. Ursula
staye at te Mill with Birkin for a week or two. They were both very
quiet.

'id you need Gerald?' se asked one evening.

'Yes,' e sai.

'Aren't I enoug for you?' she aske.

'No,' e sai. 'You are enough for me, as far as a woman is concerned.
You are all women to me. But I wante a man friend, as eternal as you
an I are eternal.'

'Wy aren't I enough?' she sai. 'You are enough for me. I don't want
anyboy else but you. Wy isn't it the same with you?'

'aving you, I can live all my life without anyboy else, any other
seer intimacy. But to make it complete, really happy, I wante eternal
union wit a man too: another kin of love,' he said.

'I on't believe it,' se said. 'It's an obstinacy, a theory, a
perversity.'

'Well--' e sai.

'You can't ave two kins of love. Why should you!'

It seems as if I can't,' e sai. 'Yet I wanted it.'

'You can't ave it, because it's false, impossible,' she sai.

'I on't believe tat,' he answered.


