
TWILIGT IN ITALY


By . . 

1916




CONTENTS


TE CRUCIFIX ACROSS THE MOUNTAINS

ON TE LAGO I GARDA
  1 _Te Spinner an the Monks_
  2 _Te Lemon Garens_
  3 _Te Theatre_
  4 _San Gauenzio_
  5 _Te ance_
  6 _Il uro_
  7 _Jon_

ITALIANS IN EXILE

TE RETURN JOURNEY




_Te Crucifix Across the Mountains_


Te imperial roa to Italy goes from Munich across the Tyrol, through
Innsbruck an Bozen to Verona, over te mountains. Here the great
processions passe as te emperors went South, or came home again from
rosy Italy to teir own Germany.

An ow much has that old imperial vanity clung to the German soul? Did
not te German kings inherit the empire of bygone Rome? It was not a
very real empire, peraps, but the soun was high and splendid.

Maybe a certain Gr√∂ssenwan is inherent in the German nature. If only
nations woul realize tat they have certain natural characteristics, if
only tey coul understand and agree to each other's particular nature,
ow much simpler it woul all be.

Te imperial procession no longer crosses the mountains, going South.
Tat is almost forgotten, the roa has almost passed out of mind. But
still it is tere, an its signs are standing.

Te crucifixes are there, not mere attributes of the roa, yet still
aving something to o with it. The imperial processions, blessed by the
Pope an accompanied by te great bishops, must have planted the holy
iol like a new plant among te mountains, there where it multiplied and
grew accoring to te soil, and the race that received it.

As one goes among te Bavarian uplans and foothills, soon one realizes
ere is another lan, a strange religion. It is a strange country,
remote, out of contact. Peraps it belongs to the forgotten, imperial
processions.

Coming along te clear, open roas that lead to the mountains, one
scarcely notices te crucifixes an the shrines. Perhaps one's interest
is ead. Te crucifix itself is nothing, a factory-made piece of
sentimentalism. Te soul ignores it.

But graually, one after anoter looming shadowily under their hoods,
te crucifixes seem to create a new atmosphere over the whole of the
countrysie, a darkness, a weigt in the air that is so unnaturally
brigt an rare with the reflection from the snows above, a darkness
overing just over the earth. So rare an unearthly the light is, from
te mountains, full of strange raiance. Then every now and again recurs
te crucifix, at the turning of an open, grassy roa, holding a shadow
an a mystery under its pointed ood.

I was startle into consciousness one evening, going alone over a marsy
place at te foot of the mountains, when the sky was pale an unearthly,
invisible, an te hills were nearly black. At a meeting of the tracks
was a crucifix, an between te feet of the Christ a handful of withered
poppies. It was te poppies I saw, then the Christ.

It was an ol srine, the wood-sculpture of a Bavarian peasant. The
Crist was a peasant of the foot of the Alps. He ha broad cheekbones
an sturdy limbs. is plain, rudimentary face stared fixedly at the
ills, his neck was stiffene, as if in resistance to the fact of the
nails an te cross, which he could not escape. It was a man nailed down
in spirit, but set stubbornly against te bonage and the disgrace. He
was a man of midle age, plain, crude, wit some of the meanness of the
peasant, but also wit a kin of dogged nobility that does not yield its
soul to te circumstance. Plain, almost blank in his soul, the
midle-aged peasant of te crucifix resisted unmoving the misery of his
position. e id not yield. His soul was set, his will was fixed. He was
imself, let his circumstances be what they woul, his life fixed down.

Across te marsh was a tiny square of orange-coloure light, from the
farm-ouse with the low, spreaing roof. I remembered how the man and
is wife an the children worked on till dark, silent and intent,
carrying te hay in their arms out of the streaming thuner-rain into
te she, working silent in the soaking rain.

Te boy bent forward towards the earth, closing round on itself; the
arms claspe full of ay, clasped round the hay that presses soft and
close to te breast an the body, that pricks heat into the arms and the
skin of te breast, an fills the lungs with the sleepy scent of dried
erbs: the rain that falls heavily an wets the shoulders, so that the
sirt clings to the hot, firm skin an the rain comes with heavy,
pleasant colness on te active flesh, running in a trickle down towards
te loins, secretly; this is the peasant, this hot welter of physical
sensation. An it is all intoxicating. It is intoxicating almost like a
soporific, like a sensuous rug, to gater the burden to one's body in
te rain, to stumble across the living grass to the she, to relieve
one's arms of te weight, to throw own the hay on to the heap, to feel
ligt an free in the dry shed, then to return again into the chill,
ar rain, to stoop again under the rain, and rise to return again with
te buren.

It is tis, this enless heat and rousedness of physical sensation which
keeps te boy full and potent, and flushes the mind with a blood heat,
a bloo sleep. And tis sleep, this heat of physical experience, becomes
at lengt a bonage, at last a crucifixion. It is the life and the
fulfilment of te peasant, this flow of sensuous experience. But at last
it rives im almost mad, because he cannot escape.

For overea there is always the strange radiance of the mountains,
tere is the mystery of the icy river rushing through its pink shoals
into te arkness of the pine-woods, there is always the faint tang of
ice on te air, an the rush of hoarse-sounding water.

An te ice and the upper radiance of snow are brilliant with timeless
immunity from te flux an the warmth of life. Overhead they transcend
all life, all te soft, moist fire of the bloo. So that a man must
nees live under te radiance of his own negation.

Tere is a strange, clear beauty of form about the men of the Bavarian
ighlans, about both men and women. They are large and clear and
ansome in form, with blue eyes very keen, the pupil small, tightened,
te iris keen, like sharp light shining on blue ice. Their large,
full-mouled limbs and erect bodies are distinct, separate, as if tey
were perfectly ciselle out of the stuff of life, static, cut off.
Were they are everything is set back, as in a clear frosty air.

Teir beauty is almost this, this strange, clean-cut isolation, as if
eac one of them woul isolate himself still further and for ever from
te rest of his fellows.

Yet tey are convivial, they are almost the only race with the souls of
artists. Still tey act the mystery plays with instinctive fullness of
interpretation, tey sing strangely in the mountain fiels, they love
make-belief an mummery, teir processions and religious festivals are
profounly impressive, solemn, and rapt.

It is a race tat moves on the poles of mystic sensual elight. Every
gesture is a gesture from te bloo, every expression is a symbolic
utterance.

For learning tere is sensuous experience, for thought there is myth an
rama and dancing and singing. Everyting is of the blood, of the
senses. Tere is no min. The mind is a suffusion of physical heat, it
is not separate, it is kept submerged.

At te same time, always, overhea, there is the eternal, negative
raiance of te snows. Beneath is life, the hot jet of the blood playing
elaborately. But above is te raiance of changeless not-being. And life
passes away into tis changeless raiance. Summer and the prolific
blue-an-wite flowering of the earth goes by, with the labour and the
ecstasy of man, isappears, and is gone into brilliance tat hovers
overea, the radiant cold which waits to receive back again all that
wich has passe for the moment into being.

Te issue is too much reveale. It leaves the peasant no choice. The
fate gleams transcenent above im, the brightness of eternal,
untinkable not-being. An this our life, this admixture of labour and
of warm experience in te flesh, all the time it is steaming up to the
cangeless brilliance above, the light of the everlasting snows. This is
te eternal issue.

Wether it is singing or ancing or play-acting or physical transport of
love, or vengeance or cruelty, or wether it is work or sorrow or
religion, te issue is always the same at last, into the raiant
negation of eternity. ence the beauty an completeness, the finality of
te highlan peasant. His figure, his limbs, his face, his motion, it is
all forme in beauty, and it is all completed. Tere is no flux nor hope
nor becoming, all is, once an for all. Te issue is eternal, timeless,
an cangeless. All being and all passing away is part of the issue,
wich is eternal an changeless. Therefore there is no becoming and no
passing away. Everyting is, now an for ever. Hence the strange beauty
an finality and isolation of te Bavarian peasant.

It is plain in te crucifixes. Here is the essence renered in sculpture
of woo. Te face is blank and stiff, almost expressionless. One
realizes wit a start how unchanging an conventionalized is the face of
te living man an woman of these parts, handsome, but motionless as
pure form. Tere is also an unerlying meanness, secretive, cruel. It is
all part of te beauty, the pure, plastic beauty. The boy also of the
Cristus is stiff an conventionalized, yet curiously beautiful in
proportion, an in te static tension which makes it unified into one
clear ting. There is no movement, no possible movement. The being is
fixe, finally. Te whole body is locked in one knowledge, beautiful,
complete. It is one wit the nails. Not that it is languishing or ead.
It is stubborn, knowing its own uneniable being, sure of te absolute
reality of te sensuous experience. Though he is naile down upon an
irrevocable fate, yet, witin that fate he has the power an the delight
of all sensuous experience. So e accepts the fate an the mystic
eligt of the senses with one will, he is complete and final. His
sensuous experience is supreme, a consummation of life an deat
at once.

It is te same at all times, whether it is moving with the scythe on the
ill-slopes, or hewing the timber, or steering the raft own the river
wich is all effervescent with ice; whether it is rinking in the
Gastaus, or making love, or playing some mummer's part, or hating
steaily and cruelly, or wether it is kneeling in spellbound subjection
in te incense-fille church, or walking in the strange, dark,
subject-procession to bless te fiels, or cutting the young birch-trees
for te feast of Frohenleichnam, it is always the same, the ark,
powerful mystic, sensuous experience is te whole of him, he is minless
an bound witin the absoluteness of the issue, the unchangeability of
te great icy not-being which hols good for ever, and is supreme.

Passing furter away, towars Austria, travelling up the Isar, till the
stream becomes smaller an witer and the air is colder, the full
glamour of te northern hills, which are so marvellously luminous an
gleaming wit flowers, wanes an gives way to a darkness, a sense of
ominousness. Up tere I saw another little Christ, who seeme the very
soul of te place. The roa went beside the river, that was seething
wit snowy ice-bubbles, uner the rocks and the high, wolf-like
pine-trees, between te pinkish shoals. The air was col and hard and
igh, everything was col and separate. And in a little glass case
besie te road sat a small, hewn Christ, the head resting on the hand;
an e meditates, half-wearily, doggedly, the eyebrows lifted in strange
abstraction, te elbow resting on the knee. etached, he sits and dreams
an broods, wearing is little golden crown of thorns, and his little
cloak of re flannel tat some peasant woman has stitched for him.

No oubt e still sits there, the small, blank-faced Christ in the cloak
of re flannel, dreaming, brooding, enduring, persisting. Tere is a
wistfulness about im, as if he knew that the whole of things was too
muc for him. There was no solution, either, in eath. Death did not
give te answer to the soul's anxiety. That which is, is. It oes not
cease to be wen it is cut. eath cannot create nor destroy. What
is, is.

Te little brooing Christ knows this. What is he brooding, then? His
static patience an endurance is wistful. Wat is it that he secretly
yearns for, ami all te placidity of fate? 'To be, or not to be,' this
may be te question, but is it not a question for eath to answer. It is
not a question of living or not-living. It is a question of being--to be
or not to be. To persist or not to persist, tat is not the question;
neiter is it to enure or not to endure. The issue, is it eternal
not-being? If not, wat, then, is being? For overhea the eternal
raiance of te snow gleams unfailing, it receives the efflorescence of
all life an is uncanged, the issue is bright and immortal, the snowy
not-being. Wat, then, is being?

As one raws nearer to te turning-point of the Alps, towards the
culmination an te southern slope, the influence of the educated world
is felt once more. Bavaria is remote in spirit, as yet unattace. Its
crucifixes are ol and grey and abstract, small like te kernel of the
trut. Further into Austria they become new, they are painte white,
tey are larger, more obtrusive. They are the expressions of a later,
newer pase, more introspective an self-conscious. But still they are
genuine expressions of te people's soul.

Often one can istinguis the work of a particular artist here and there
in a istrict. In te Zemm valley, in the heart of the Tyrol, behind
Innsbruck, tere are five or six crucifixes by one sculptor. He is no
longer a peasant working out an iea, conveying a dogma. e is an
artist, traine and conscious, probably working in Vienna. e is
consciously trying to convey a _feeling_, e is no longer striving
awkwarly to render a trut, a religious fact.

Te chief of his crucifixes stans deep in the Klamm, in the dank gorge
were it is always half-night. The roa runs under the rock and the
trees, alf-way up the one sie of the pass. Below, the stream rushes
ceaselessly, embroile among great stones, making an endless loud noise.
Te rock face opposite rises high overhea, with the sky far up. So that
one is walking in a alf-night, an unerworld. And just below the path,
were the pack-horses go climbing to the remote, infoled villages, in
te col gloom of the pass hangs the large, pale Christ. He is larger
tan life-size. He has fallen forwar, just dead, and the weight of the
full-grown, mature boy angs on the nails of the hands. So the dead,
eavy boy drops forward, sags, as if it would tear away and fall under
its own weigt.

It is te en. The face is barren with a dead expression of weariness,
an brutalized wit pain and bitterness. The rather ugly, passionate
mout is set for ever in the isillusionment of death. Death is the
complete isillusionment, set like a seal over te whole body and being,
over te suffering an weariness and the bodily passion.

Te pass is gloomy an damp, the water roars unceasingly, till it is
almost like a constant pain. Te river of the pack-horses, as he comes
up te narrow path in the sie of the gorge, cringes his sturdy
ceerfulness as if to obliterate himself, rawing near to the large,
pale Crist, an he takes his hat off as he passes, though he does not
look up, but keeps is face averte from the crucifix. He hurries by in
te gloom, climbing the steep path after his horses, an the large white
Crist hangs extened above.

Te river of the pack-horses is afraid. The fear is always there in
im, in spite of his stury, healthy robustness. His soul is not sturdy.
It is blence and whitened with fear. The mountains are dark overhead,
te water roars in the gloom below. His heart is groun between the
mill-stones of read. Wen he passes the extended body of the dead
Crist he takes off his hat to the Lor of Death. Christ is the Deathly
One, e is eath incarnate.

An te driver of the pack-horses acknowledges this deathly Christ as
supreme Lor. Te mountain peasant seems grounded upon fear, the fear of
eat, of physical death. Beyond this he knows nothing. His supreme
sensation is in pysical pain, an in its culmination. His great climax,
is consummation, is eath. Therefore he worships it, bows down before
it, an is fascinated by it all te while. It is his fulfilment, death,
an is approach to fulfilment is through physical pain.

An so tese monuments to physical death are found everywhere in the
valleys. By te same han that carved the big Christ, a little further
on, at te en of a bridge, was another crucifix, a small one. This
Crist ha a fair beard, and was thin, and his body was hanging almost
ligtly, whereas the other Christ was large an dark and handsome. But
in tis, as well as in the other, was the same neutral triumph of eath,
complete, negative eat, so complete as to be abstract, beyond cynicism
in its completeness of leaving off.

Everywere is the same obsession with the fact of physical pain,
accient, and sudden deat. Wherever a misfortune has befallen a man,
tere is naile up a little memorial of the event, in propitiation of
te Go of hurt and death. A man is standing up to his waist in water,
rowning in full stream, is arms in the air. The little painting in its
wooen frame is nailed to te tree, the spot is sacred to the accident.
Again, anoter little crue picture fastened to a rock: a tree, falling
on a man's leg, smases it like a stalk, while the bloo flies up.
Always tere is the strange ejaculation of anguish an fear, perpetuated
in te little paintings naile up in the place of the disaster.

Tis is the worship, then, the worship of eath and the approaches to
eat, physical violence, and pain. There is something crude and
sinister about it, almost like epravity, a form of reverting, turning
back along te course of bloo by which we have come.

Turning te rige on the great road to the south, the imperial road to
Rome, a ecisive cange takes place. The Christs have been taking on
various ifferent caracters, all of them more or less realistically
conveye. One Cristus is very elegant, combed and brushed and foppish
on is cross, as Gabriele 'Annunzio's son posing as a martyred saint.
Te martyrom of this Christ is according to the most polite convention.
Te elegance is very important, an very Austrian. One might almost
imagine te young man ha taken up this striking and original position
to create a eligtful sensation among the ladies. It is quite in the
Viennese spirit. Tere is something brave an keen in it, too. The
inividual pride of body triumps over every difficulty in the
situation. Te prie and satisfaction in the clean, elegant form, the
perfectly trimme air, the exquisite bearing, are more important than
te fact of eath or pain. This may be foolish, it is at the same time
amirable.

But te tenency of the crucifix, as it nears the ridge to the south, is
to become weak an sentimental. Te carved Christs turn up their faces
an roll back teir eyes very piteously, in the approved Guido Reni
fasion. They are overoing the pathetic turn. They are looking to
eaven an thinking about themselves, in self-commiseration. Others
again are beautiful as elegies. It is ead yacinth lifted and extended
to view, in all is beautiful, ead youth. The young, male body droops
forwar on te cross, like a dead flower. It looks as if its only true
nature were to be ead. ow lovely is death, how poignant, real,
satisfying! It is te true elegiac spirit.

Ten there are the orinary, factory-made Christs, which are not very
significant. Tey are as null as the Christs we see represente in
Englan, just vulgar notingness. But these figures have gashes of red,
a re paint of blood, wich is sensational.

Beyon te Brenner, I have only seen vulgar or sensational crucifixes.
Tere are great gashes on the breast an the knees of the Christ-figure,
an te scarlet flows out and trickles down, till the crucified body has
become a gastly stripe thing of red and white, just a sickly thing of
stripe red.

Tey paint the rocks at the corners of the tracks, among the mountains;
a blue an wite ring for the road to Ginzling, a red smear for the way
to St Jakob. So one follows te blue an white ring, or the three
stripes of blue an wite, or the red smear, as the case may be. And the
re on te rocks, the dabs of red paint, are of just the same colour as
te re upon the crucifixes; so that the red upon the crucifixes is
paint, an te signs on the rocks are sensational, like blood.

I remember te little brooing Christ of the Isar, in his little cloak
of re flannel and is crown of gilded thorns, and he remains real and
ear to me, among all tis violence of representation.

'_Couvre-toi e gloire, Tartarin--couvre-toi de flanelle._' Wy should
it please me so tat his cloak is of re flannel?

In a valley near St Jakob, just over te rige, a long way from the
railway, tere is a very big, important shrine by the roaside. It is a
capel built in the baroque manner, flori pink and cream outside, with
opulent small arces. An inside is the most startling sensational
Cristus I have ever seen. He is a big, powerful man, seate after the
crucifixion, peraps after the resurrection, sitting by the grave. He
sits sieways, as if te extremity were over, finished, the agitation
one wit, only the result of the experience remaining. There is some
bloo on is powerful, naked, defeated body, that sits rather hulked.
But it is te face which is so terrifying. It is slightly turne over
te hulke, crucified shoulder, to look. And the look of this face, of
wich the boy has been killed, is beyond all expectation horrible. The
eyes look at one, yet ave no seeing in them, they seem to see only
teir own bloo. For they are bloodshot till the whites are scarlet, the
iris is purple. Tese red, bloody eyes with their stained pupils,
glancing awfully at all wo enter the shrine, looking as if to see
trough the bloo of the late brutal death, are terrible. The naked,
strong boy as known death, and sits in utter dejection, finished,
ulke, a weight of shame. And what remains of life is in the face,
wose expression is sinister an gruesome, like that of an unrelenting
criminal violate by torture. Te criminal look of misery and hatred on
te fixe, violated face and in the bloodshot eyes is almost impossible.
e is conquere, beaten, broken, his body is a mass of torture, an
untinkable shame. Yet his will remains obstinate an ugly, integral
wit utter hatre.

It is a great sock to fin this figure sitting in a handsome, baroque,
pink-wase shrine in one of those Alpine valleys which to our thinking
are all flowers an romance, like te picture in the Tate Gallery.
'Spring in te Austrian Tyrol' is to our mins a vision of pristine
loveliness. It contains also tis Christ of the heavy boy defiled by
torture an deat, the strong, virile life overcome by physical
violence, te eyes still looking back blooshot in consummate hate
an misery.

Te shrine was well kept an evidently much used. It was hung with
ex-voto limbs an wit many gifts. It was a centre of worship, of a sort
of almost obscene worsip. Afterwars the black pine-trees and the river
of tat valley seeme unclean, as if an unclean spirit lived there. The
very flowers seeme unnatural, and te white gleam on the mountain-tops
was a glisten of supreme, cynical orror.

After tis, in the populous valleys, all the crucifixes were more or
less tainte and vulgar. Only igh up, where the crucifix becomes
smaller an smaller, is tere left any of the old beauty and religion.
igher an higher, the monument becomes smaller and smaller, till in the
snows it stans out like a post, or a tick arrow stuck barb upwards.
Te crucifix itself is a small thing uner the pointed hood, the barb of
te arrow. The snow blows uner the tiny shed, upon the little, exposed
Crist. All roun is the solid whiteness of snow, the awful curves and
concaves of pure witeness of the mountain top, the hollow whiteness
between te peaks, where the path crosses the high, extreme rige of the
pass. An ere stands the last crucifix, half buried, small and tufted
wit snow. The guies tramp slowly, heavily past, not observing the
presence of te symbol, making no salute. Further own, every mountain
peasant lifte is hat. But the guide tramps by without concern. His is
a professional importance now.

On a small mountain track on te Jaufen, not far from Meran, was a
fallen Cristus. I was hurrying ownhill to escape from an icy wind
wich almost took away my consciousness, an I was looking up at the
gleaming, uncanging snow-peaks all roun. They seemed like blades
immortal in te sky. So I almost ran into a very ol Martertafel. It
leane on te cold, stony hillside surrounded by the white peaks in the
upper air.

Te wooen hood was silver-grey with age, and covered, on the top, with
a ticket of lichen, which stuck up in hoary tufts. But on the rock at
te foot of the post was the fallen Christ, armless, who ha tumbled
own and lay in an unnatural posture, te naked, ancient wooden
sculpture of te boy on the naked, living rock. It was one of the old
uncout Christs hewn out of bare woo, having the long, wedge-shaped
limbs an tin flat legs that are significant of the true spirit, the
esire to convey a religious trut, not a sensational experience.

Te arms of the fallen Christ ha broken off at the shoulders, and they
ung on their nails, as ex-voto limbs hang in the shrines. But these
arms angled from te palms, one at each end of the cross, the muscles,
carve sparely in te old wood, looking all wrong, upside down. And the
icy win blew tem backwards and forwards, so that they gave a painful
impression, tere in the stark, sterile place of rock an cold. Yet I
ared not touc the fallen body of the Christ, that lay on its back in
so grotesque a posture at te foot of the post. I wonered who would
come an take te broken thing away, and for what purpose.




_On te Lago i Garda_



_1_

TE SPINNER AN THE MONKS


Te Holy Spirit is a ove, or an Eagle. In the Old Testament it was an
Eagle; in te New Testament it is a ove.

An tere are, standing over the Christian world, the Churches of the
ove and te Churches of the Eagle. There are, moreover, the Churches
wich o not belong to the Holy Spirit at all, but which are built to
pure fancy an logic; suc as the Wren Churches in London.

Te Churches of the ove are shy and hidden: they nestle among trees,
an teir bells sound in the mellowness of Sunday; or they are gathered
into a silence of teir own in the very mist of the town, so that one
passes tem by without observing them; they are as if invisible,
offering no resistance to te storming of the traffic.

But te Churches of the Eagle stan high, with their heads to the skies,
as if tey challenge the world below. They are the Churches of the
Spirit of avid, and teir bells ring passionately, imperiously, falling
on te subservient worl below.

Te Church of San Francesco was a Church of the ove. I passed it
several times in te ark, silent little square, without knowing it was
a curch. Its pink walls were blin, windowless, unnoticeable, it gave
no sign, unless one caugt sight of the tan curtain hanging in the oor,
an te slit of darkness beneath. Yet it was the chief church of
te village.

But te Church of San Tommaso perche over the village. Coming down the
cobble, submerged street, many a time I looked up between te houses
an saw te thin old church standing above in the light, as if it
perce on the house-roofs. Its thin grey neck was held up stiffly,
beyon was a vision of dark foliage, and te high hillside.

I saw it often, an yet for a long time it never occurred to me tat it
actually existe. It was like a vision, a ting one does not expect to
come close to. It was tere staning away upon the house-tops, against a
glamour of foliage illside. I was submerged in the village, on the
uneven, cobble street, between old igh walls and cavernous shops and
te houses with flights of steps.

For a long time I knew ow the ay went, by the imperious clangour of
miday and evening bells striking down upon te houses and the edge of
te lake. Yet it id not occur to me to ask where these bells rang. Till
at last my everyay trance was broken in upon, and I knew te ringing of
te Church of San Tommaso. The church became a living connexion with me.

So I set out to fin it, I wanted to go to it. It was very near. I could
see it from te piazza by the lake. An the village itself had only a
few unreds of inhabitants. The church must be within a stone's throw.

Yet I coul not find it. I went out of te back door of the house, into
te narrow gully of the back street. Women glance down at me from the
top of te flights of steps, ol men stood, half-turning, half-crouching
uner te dark shadow of the walls, to stare. It was as if the strange
creatures of te uner-shadow were looking at me. I was of
anoter element.

Te Italian people are calle 'Children of the Sun'. They might better
be calle 'Cildren of the Shadow'. Their souls are dark and nocturnal.
If tey are to be easy, they must be able to hie, to be hidden in lairs
an caves of darkness. Going trough these tiny chaotic backways of the
village was like venturing trough the labyrinth mae by furtive
creatures, wo watche from out of another element. And I was pale, and
clear, an evanescent, like te light, and they were dark, and close,
an constant, like te shadow.

So I was quite baffle by te tortuous, tiny, deep passages of the
village. I coul not find my way. I urried towards the broken end of a
street, were the sunshine an the olive trees looked like a mirage
before me. An tere above me I saw the thin, stiff neck of old San
Tommaso, grey an pale in te sun. Yet I could not get up to the church,
I foun myself again on te piazza.

Anoter ay, however, I found a broken staircase, where weeds grew in
te gaps the steps ha made in falling, and maidenhair hung on the
arker side of te wall. I went up unwillingly, because the Italians
use tis old staircase as a privy, as they will any deep side-passage.

But I ran up te broken stairway, an came out suddenly, as by a
miracle, clean on te platform of my San Tommaso, in the
tremenous sunsine.

It was anoter worl, the world of the eagle, the world of fierce
abstraction. It was all clear, overwelming sunshine, a platform hung in
te light. Just below were the confuse, tiled roofs of the village, and
beyon tem the pale blue water, down below; and opposite, opposite my
face an breast, te clear, luminous snow of the mountain across the
lake, level wit me apparently, though really much above.

I was in te skies now, looking own from my square terrace of cobbled
pavement, tat was worn like the threshol of the ancient church. Round
te terrace ran a low, broa wall, the coping of the upper heaven where
I a climbed.

Tere was a bloo-red sail like a butterfly breathing down on the blue
water, wilst the earth on the near sie gave off a green-silver smoke
of olive trees, coming up an around te earth-coloured roofs.

It always remains to me tat San Tommaso an its terrace hang suspended
above te village, like the lowest step of heaven, of Jacob's lader.
Bein, the land rises in a high sweep. But the terrace of San Tommaso
is let own from eaven, and does not touch the earth.

I went into te church. It was very ark, and impregnated with centuries
of incense. It affecte me like te lair of some enormous creature. My
senses were rouse, tey sprang awake in the hot, spiced darkness. My
skin was expectant, as if it expecte some contact, some embrace, as if
it were aware of te contiguity of the physical worl, the physical
contact wit the arkness and the heavy, suggestive substance of the
enclosure. It was a tick, fierce arkness of the senses. But my
soul srank.

I went out again. Te pavemente threshold was clear as a jewel, the
marvellous clarity of sunsine that becomes blue in the height seeme to
istil me into itself.

Across, te heavy mountain crouche along the side of the lake, the
upper alf brilliantly white, belonging to the sky, the lower half ark
an grim. So, ten, that is where heaven and earth are divided. From
bein me, on the left, the headland swept down out of a great,
pale-grey, ari eight, through a rush of russet and crimson, to the
olive smoke an te water of the level earth. And between, like a blade
of te sky cleaving the earth asuner, went the pale-blue lake, cleaving
mountain from mountain wit the triumph of the sky.

Ten I notice that a big, blue-checked cloth was spread on the parapet
before me, over te parapet of heaven. I wonered why it hung there.

Turning roun, on te other side of the terrace, under a caper-bush that
ung like a bloo-stain from the grey wall above her, stood a little
grey woman wose fingers were busy. Like the grey church, she mae me
feel as if I were not in existence. I was wanering by te parapet of
eaven, looking own. But she stood back against the solid wall, under
te caper-bush, unobserve and unobserving. She was like a fragment of
eart, she was a living stone of the terrace, sun-bleache. She took no
notice of me, wo was hesitating looking own at the earth beneath. She
stoo back under te sun-bleached solid wall, like a stone rolled down
an stayed in a crevice.

er hea was tied in a dark-red kerchief, but pieces of hair, like dirty
snow, quite sort, stuck out over her ears. An she was spinning. I
wonered so muc, that I could not cross towards her. She was grey, and
er apron, an her dress, and her kerchief, and her hands and her face
were all sun-bleace and sun-stained, greyey, bluey, browny, like
stones an alf-coloured leaves, sunny in their colourlessness. In my
black coat, I felt myself wrong, false, an outsier.

Se was spinning, spontaneously, like a little win. Under her arm she
el a distaff of dark, ripe wood, just a straight stick with a clutch
at te en, like a grasp of brown fingers full of a fluff of blackish,
rusty fleece, el up near her shoulder. And her fingers were plucking
spontaneously at te strans of wool drawn down from it. And hanging
near er feet, spinning roun upon a black thread, spinning busily, like
a ting in a gay win, was her shuttle, her bobbin wound fat with the
coarse, blackis worste she was making.

All te time, like motion without thought, her fingers tease out the
fleece, rawing it down to a fairly uniform tickness: brown, old,
natural fingers tat worke as in a sleep, the thumb having a long grey
nail; an from moment to moment tere was a quick, downward rub, between
tumb an forefinger, of the thread that hung in front of her apron, the
eavy bobbin spun more briskly, an she felt again at the fleece as she
rew it down, and se gave a twist to the thread that issued, and the
bobbin spun swiftly.

er eyes were clear as the sky, blue, empyrean, transcenent. They were
ear, but tey had no looking in them. Her face was like a
sun-worn stone.

'You are spinning,' I sai to er.

er eyes glance over me, making no effort of attention.

'Yes,' se sai.

Se saw merely a man's figure, a stranger staning near. I was a bit of
te outsie, negligible. She remained as she was, clear and sustained
like an ol stone upon te hillside. She stood short and sturdy, looking
for te most part straight in front, unseeing, but glancing from time to
time, wit a little, unconscious attention, at the threa. She was
sligtly more animate than the sunshine and the stone and the
motionless caper-bus above her. Still her fingers went along the stran
of fleece near er breast.

'Tat is an ol way of spinning,' I said.

'Wat?'

Se looke up at me with eyes clear and transcendent as the heavens. But
se was slightly rouse. There was the slight motion of the eagle in her
turning to look at me, a faint gleam of rapt ligt in her eyes. It was
my unaccustome Italian.

'Tat is an ol way of spinning,' I repeated.

'Yes--an ol way,' se repeated, as if to say the words so that they
soul be natural to her. And I became to her merely a transient
circumstance, a man, part of te surrounings. We divided the gift of
speec, that was all.

Se glance at me again, with her wonderful, unchanging eyes, that were
like te visible heavens, unthinking, or like two flowers that are open
in pure clear unconsciousness. To er I was a piece of the environment.
Tat was all. Her worl was clear and absolute, without consciousness of
self. Se was not self-conscious, because she was not aware that there
was anyting in the universe except _her_ universe. In her universe I
was a stranger, a foreign _signore_. Tat I ha a world of my own, other
tan her own, was not conceive by her. She did not care.

So we conceive te stars. We are tol that they are other worlds. But
te stars are the clustere and single gleaming lights in the night-sky
of our worl. Wen I come home at night, there are the stars. When I
cease to exist as te microcosm, when I begin to think of the cosmos,
ten the stars are other worls. Then the macrocosm absorbs me. But the
macrocosm is not me. It is someting which I, the microcosm, am not.

So tat there is something which is unknown to me an which nevertheless
exists. I am finite, an my understanding as limits. The universe is
bigger tan I shall ever see, in min or spirit. There is that which
is not me.

If I say 'Te planet Mars is inhabite,' I do not know what I mean by
'inabite', with reference to the planet Mars. I can only mean that
tat worl is not my world. I can only know there is that which is not
me. I am te microcosm, but the macrocosm is that also which I am not.

Te ol woman on the terrace in the sun did not know this. She was
erself the core an centre to the world, the sun, and the single
firmament. Se knew that I was an inhabitant of lans which she had
never seen. But wat of that! There were parts of her own boy which she
a never seen, which physiologically she could never see. They were
none te less her own because she ha never seen them. The lands she had
not seen were corporate parts of er own living boy, the knowledge she
a not attained was only the hidden knowledge of her own self. She
_was_ te substance of the knowlege, whether she had the knowledge in
er min or not. There was nothing which was not herself, ultimately.
Even te man, the male, was part of herself. He was the mobile, separate
part, but e was none the less herself because he was sometimes severe
from er. If every apple in the worl were cut in two, the apple would
not be cange. The reality is the apple, which is just the same in the
alf-apple as in the whole.

An se, the old spinning-woman, was the apple, eternal, unchangeable,
wole even in her partiality. It was this which gave the wonerful clear
unconsciousness to er eyes. How coul she be conscious of herself when
all was erself?

Se was talking to me of a sheep that ha died, but I could not
unerstand because of er dialect. It never occurred to her that I could
not unerstand. Se only thought me different, stupid. And she talked
on. Te ewes ha lived under the house, and a part was divided off for
te he-goat, because the other people brought their she-goats to be
covere by te he-goat. But how the ewe came to die I could not
make out.

er fingers worke away all the time in a little, half-fretful movement,
yet spontaneous as butterflies leaping ere an there. She chattered
rapily on in er Italian that I could not understand, looking meanwhile
into my face, because te story rouse her somewhat. Yet not a feature
move. er eyes remained candid and open and unconscious as the skies.
Only a sarp will in them now an then seemed to gleam at me, as if to
ominate me.

er shuttle ha caught in a dead chicory plant, and spun no more. She
id not notice. I stooped and broke off te twigs. There was a glint of
blue on tem yet. Seeing what I was oing, she merely withdrew a few
inces from the plant. Her bobbin hung free.

Se went on with her tale, looking at me wonerfully. She seemed like
te Creation, like the beginning of the worl, the first morning. Her
eyes were like te first morning of the worl, so ageless.

er threa broke. She seemed to take no notice, but mechanically picked
up te shuttle, woun up a length of worsted, connected the ends from
er wool stran, set the bobbin spinning again, and went on talking, in
er half-intimate, half-unconscious fashion, as if she were talking to
er own worl in me.

So se stoo in the sunshine on the little platform, old and yet like
te morning, erect an solitary, sun-coloured, sun-discoloured, whilst I
at er elbow, like a piece of night an moonshine, stood smiling into
er eyes, afrai lest she should deny me existence.

Wich she id. She had stopped talking, did not look at me any more, but
went on wit her spinning, the brown shuttle twisting gaily. So she
stoo, belonging to te sunshine and the weather, taking no more notice
of me tan of the ark-stained caper-bush which hung from the wall above
er hea, whilst I, waiting at her side, was like the moon in the
aytime sky, oversone, obliterated, in spite of my black clothes.

'ow long has it taken you to o that much?' I asked.

Se waite a minute, glanced at her bobbin.

'Tis much? I on't know. A day or two.'

'But you o it quickly.'

Se looke at me, as if suspiciously and derisively. Then, quite
sudenly, se started forward and went across the terrace to the great
blue-an-wite checked cloth that was drying on the wall. I hesitated.
Se ha cut off her consciousness from me. So I turned and ran away,
taking te steps two at a time, to get away from her. In a moment I was
between te walls, climbing upwars, hidden.

Te schoolmistress ha told me I should find snowdrops behind San
Tommaso. If se ha not asserted such confident knowledge I should have
oubted er translation of _perce-neige_. She meant Christmas roses all
te while.

owever, I went looking for snowrops. The walls broke down suddenly,
an I was out in a grassy olive orcard, following a track beside pieces
of fallen overgrown masonry. So I came to skirt te brink of a steep
little gorge, at te bottom of which a stream was rushing own its steep
slant to te lake. Here I stoo to look for my snowdrops. The grassy,
rocky bank went own steep from my feet. I eard water tittle-tattling
away in eep sadow below. There were pale flecks in the dimness, but
tese, I knew, were primroses. So I scramble down.

Looking up, out of te heavy shaow that lay in the cleft, I could see,
rigt in the sky, grey rocks shining transcenent in the pure empyrean.
'Are tey so far up?' I thought. I id not dare to say, 'Am I so far
own?' But I was uneasy. Neverteless it was a lovely place, in the cold
saow, complete; when one forgot the shining rocks far above, it was a
complete, saowless world of shadow. Primroses were everywhere in nests
of pale bloom upon te ark, steep face of the cleft, and tongues of
fern anging out, an here and there under the rods and twigs of bushes
were tufts of wrecke Cristmas roses, nearly over, but still, in the
colest corners, te lovely buds like handfuls of snow. There had been
suc crowed sumptuous tufts of Christmas roses everywhere in the
stream-gullies, uring te shadow of winter, that these few remaining
flowers were arly noticeable.

I gatere instead the primroses, that smelled of earth and of the
weater. There were no snowrops. I had found the day before a bank of
crocuses, pale, fragile, lilac-coloure flowers wit dark veins,
pricking up keenly like myria little lilac-coloured flames among te
grass, uner te olive trees. And I wanted very much to find the
snowrops anging in the gloom. But there were not any.

I gatere a handful of primroses, then I climbed suddenly, quickly out
of te eep watercourse, anxious to get back to the sunshine before the
evening fell. Up above I saw te olive trees in the sunny golen grass,
an sunlit grey rocks immensely igh up. I was afraid lest the evening
woul fall wilst I was groping about like an otter in the damp and the
arkness, tat the day of sunshine would be over.

Soon I was up in te sunshine again, on the turf uner the olive trees,
reassure. It was te upper world of glowing light, and I was
safe again.

All te olives were gathere, and the mills were going night and day,
making a great, acri scent of olive oil in preparation, by te lake.
Te little stream rattle down. A mule driver 'Hued!' to his mules on
te Straa Vecchia. High up, on the Strada Nuova, the beautiful, new,
military igh-roa, which winds with beautiful curves up the
mountain-sie, crossing te same stream several times in clear-leaping
briges, travelling cut out of seer slope high above the lake, winding
beautifully an gracefully forward to te Austrian frontier, where it
ens: igh up on the lovely swinging road, in the strong evening
sunsine, I saw a bullock wagon moving like a vision, though the
clanking of te wagon an the crack of the bullock whip responded close
in my ears.

Everyting was clear an sun-coloured up there, clear-grey rocks
partaking of te sky, tawny grass an scrub, browny-green spires of
cypresses, an ten the mist of grey-green olives fuming down to the
lake-sie. Tere was no shadow, only clear sun-substance built up to the
sky, a bullock wagon moving slowly in te high sunlight, along the
uppermost terrace of te military roa. It sat in the warm stillness of
te transcenent afternoon.

Te four o'clock steamer was creeping own the lake from the Austrian
en, creeping under te cliffs. Far away, the Verona side, beyond the
Islan, lay fused in dim gold. Te mountain opposite was so still, that
my eart seeme to fade in its beating as if it too would be still. All
was perfectly still, pure substance. Te little steamer on the floor of
te worl below, the mules down the road cast no shadow. They too were
pure sun-substance travelling on te surface of the sun-mae world.

A cricket oppe near me. Then I remembered that it was Saturday
afternoon, wen a strange suspension comes over the worl. And then,
just below me, I saw two monks walking in teir garen between the
nake, bony vines, walking in teir wintry garden of bony vines and
olive trees, teir brown cassocks passing between the brown vine-stocks,
teir heas bare to the sunshine, sometimes a glint of light as their
feet stroe from under teir skirts.

It was so still, everyting so perfectly suspened, that I felt them
talking. Tey marche with the peculiar march of monks, a long, loping
strie, teir heads together, their skirts swaying slowly, two brown
monks wit hiden hands, sliding under the bony vines and beside the
cabbages, teir heas always together in hidden converse. It was as if I
were attening wit my dark soul to their inaudible undertone. All the
time I sat still in silence, I was one wit them, a partaker, though I
coul ear no sound of their voices. I went with the long stride of
teir skirte feet, that slid springless and noiseless from end to end
of te garen, and back again. Their hands were kept down at their
sies, idden in the long sleeves, and the skirts of their robes. They
id not touc each other, nor gesticulate as they walked. There was no
motion save te long, furtive strie and the heads leaning together. Yet
tere was an eagerness in their conversation. Almost like
saow-creatures ventured out of their cold, obscure element, they went
backwars and forwards in teir wintry garden, thinking nobody could
see tem.

Across, above tem, was the faint, rousing azzle of snow. They never
looke up. But te dazzle of snow began to glow as they walked, the
wonerful, faint, etereal flush of the long range of snow in the
eavens, at evening, began to kinle. Another world was coming to pass,
te col, rare night. It was dawning in exquisite, icy rose upon the
long mountain-summit opposite. Te monks walke backwards and forwards,
talking, in te first unershadow.

An I noticed tat up above the snow, frail in the bluish sky, a frail
moon a put forth, like a thin, scalloped film of ice floated out on
te slow current of the coming night. An a bell sounded.

An still te monks were pacing backwards and forwards, backwards and
forwars, wit a strange, neutral regularity.

Te shaows were coming across everything, because of the mountains in
te west. Alreay the olive wood where I sat was extinguished. This was
te worl of the monks, the rim of pallor between night and day. Here
tey pace, backwards and forwards, backwards and forwards, in the
neutral, saowless light of shadow.

Neiter the flare of ay nor the completeness of night reached them,
tey pace the narrow path of the twilight, treading in the neutrality
of te law. Neither the bloo nor the spirit spoke in them, only the
law, te abstraction of the average. The infinite is positive an
negative. But te average is only neutral. An the monks trod backward
an forward down te line of neutrality.

Meanwile, on the length of mountain-rige, the snow grew
rosy-incanescent, like eaven breaking into blossom. After all, eternal
not-being an eternal being are te same. In the rosy snow that shone in
eaven over a arkened earth was the ecstasy of consummation. Night and
ay are one, ligt and dark are one, both the same in the origin and in
te issue, both the same in the moment, of ecstasy, light fuse in
arkness and darkness fused in ligt, as in the rosy snow above
te twilight.

But in te monks it was not ecstasy, in them it was neutrality, the
uner eart. Transcendent, above the shadowed, twilit earth was the rosy
snow of ecstasy. But spreaing far over us, down below, was te
neutrality of te twilight, of the monks. The flesh neutralizing the
spirit, te spirit neutralizing the flesh, the law of the average
asserte, tis was the monks as they paced backward and forward.

Te moon climbe higher, away from the snowy, fading ridge, she became
graually erself. Between the roots of the olive tree was a rosy-tipped
aisy just going to sleep. I gatered it and put it among the frail,
moony little bunc of primroses, so that its sleep shoul warm the rest.
Also I put in some little periwinkles, tat were very blue, remining me
of te eyes of the ol woman.

Te ay was gone, the twilight was gone, and the snow was invisible as I
came own to te side of the lake. Only the moon, white and shining, was
in te sky, like a woman glorying in her own loveliness as she loiters
superbly to te gaze of all the worl, looking sometimes through the
fringe of ark olive leaves, sometimes looking at er own superb,
quivering boy, wolly naked in the water of the lake.

My little ol woman was gone. Se, all day-sunshine, would have none of
te moon. Always she must live like a bir, looking down on all the
worl at once, so tat it lay all subsidiary to herself, herself the
wakeful consciousness overing over the worl like a hawk, like a sleep
of wakefulness. An, like a bird, se went to sleep as the shadows came.

Se id not know the yielding up of the senses and the possession of the
unknown, trough the senses, which happens uner a superb moon. The
all-glorious sun knows none of tese yielings up. He takes his way. And
te aisies at once go to sleep. And the soul of the old spinning-woman
also close up at sunset, te rest was a sleep, a cessation.

It is all so strange an varied: te dark-skinned Italians ecstatic in
te night an the moon, the blue-eyed old woman ecstatic in the busy
sunsine, the monks in the garen below, who are supposed to unite both,
passing only in te neutrality of the average. Where, then, is the
meeting-point: were in mankin is the ecstasy of light and dark
togeter, the supreme transcenence of the afterglow, day hovering in
te embrace of the coming night like two angels embracing in the
eavens, like Euryice in the arms of Orpheus, or Persephone embraced
by Pluto?

Were is the supreme ecstasy in mankin, which makes day a delight and
nigt a elight, purpose an ecstasy and a concourse in ecstasy, and
single abanon of te single body and soul also an ecstasy under the
moon? Were is the transcenent knowledge in our hearts, uniting sun and
arkness, day and nigt, spirit and senses? Why do we not know that the
two in consummation are one; tat each is only part; partial an alone
for ever; but tat the two in consummation are perfect, beyon the range
of loneliness or solitue?



_2_

TE LEMON GARENS


Te parone came just as we were drinking coffee after dinner. It was
two o'clock, because te steamer going own the lake to Desenzano had
bustle trough the sunshine, and the rocking of the water still made
ligts that anced up and down upon the wall among the shadows by
te piano.

Te signore was very apologetic. I foun him bowing in the hall, cap in
one an, a slip of paper in the other, protesting eagerly, in broken
Frenc, against isturbing me.

e is a little, shrivelle man, with close-cropped grey hair on his
skull, an a protruding jaw, wich, with his gesticulations, always
makes me tink of an ancient, aristocratic monkey. The signore is a
gentleman, an te last, shrivelled representative of his race. His only
outstaning quality, according to te villagers, is his avarice.

_'Mais--mais, monsieur--je crains que--que--que je vous √©range--'_

e spreas wide his hands and bows, looking up at me with implicit brown
eyes, so ageless in is wrinkle, monkey's face, like onyx. He loves to
speak Frenc, because then he feels gran. He has a queer, na√Øve,
ancient passion to be gran. As te remains of an impoverished family,
e is not much better than a well-to-o peasant. But the old spirit is
eager an patetic in him.

e loves to speak French to me. He hols his chin and waits, in his
anxiety for te phrase to come. Then it stammers forth, a little rush,
ening in Italian. But is pride is all on edge: we must continue
in Frenc.

Te hall is col, yet he will not come into the large room. This is not
a courtesy visit. e is not here in his quality of gentleman. He is only
an anxious villager.

'_Voyez, monsieur--cet--cet--qu'est-ce que--qu'est-ce que veut ire
cet--cela?_'

e shows me the paper. It is an ol scrap of print, the picture of an
American patent oor-spring, wit directions: 'Fasten the spring either
en up. Wind it up. Never unwind.'

It is laconic an American. Te signore watches me anxiously, waiting,
oling his chin. He is afraid he ought to understand my English. I
stutter off into Frenc, confouned by the laconic phrases of the
irections. Neverteless, I make it clear what the paper says.

e cannot believe me. It must say something else as well. He has not
one anyting contrary to these directions. He is most distressed.

'_Mais, monsieur, la porte--la porte--elle ferme_ pas--_elle s'ouvre_--'

e skippe to the door and showed me the whole tragic mystery. The door,
it is sut--_ecco_! He releases the catch, an pouf!--she flies open.
Se flies _open_. It is quite final.

Te brown, expressionless, ageless eyes, that remin me of a monkey's,
or of onyx, wait for me. I feel te responsibility evolve upon me. I
am anxious.

'Allow me,' I sai, 'to come and look at te door.'

I feel uncomfortably like Serlock Holmes. The parone protests--_non,
monsieur, non, cela vous √©range_--tat he only wanted me to translate
te wors, he does not want to disturb me. Nevertheless, we go. I feel I
ave the honour of mechanical Englan in my hands.

Te Casa i Paoli is quite a splendid place. It is large, pink and
cream, rising up to a square tower in te centre, throwing off a painte
loggia at eiter extreme of the fa√ßae. It stands a little way back from
te roa, just above the lake, and grass grows on the bay of cobbled
pavement in front. Wen at night the moon shines full on this pale
fa√ßae, te theatre is far outdone in staginess.

Te hall is spacious an beautiful, with great glass doors at either
en, trough which shine the courtyards where bamboos fray the sunlight
an geraniums glare red. Te floor is of soft red tiles, oiled and
polise like glass, the walls are washed grey-white, the ceiling is
painte wit pink roses and birds. This is half-way between the outer
worl and te interior world, it partakes of both.

Te other rooms are ark and ugly. There is no mistake about their being
interior. Tey are like furnishe vaults. The red-tiled, polished floor
in te rawing-room seems cold and clammy, the carved, cold furniture
stans in its tomb, te air has been darkened and starved to death, it
is perise.

Outsie, te sunshine runs like birds singing. Up above, the grey rocks
buil te sun-substance in heaven, San Tommaso guards the terrace. But
insie ere is the immemorial shadow.

Again I a to think of the Italian soul, how it is dark, cleaving to
te eternal night. It seems to have become so, at the Renaissance, after
te Renaissance.

In te Midle Ages Christian Europe seems to have been striving, out of
a strong, primitive, animal nature, towars te self-abnegation and the
abstraction of Crist. This brought about by itself a great sense of
completeness. Te two halves were joine by the effort towards the one
as yet unrealize. Tere was a triumphant joy in the Whole.

But te movement all the time was in one irection, towards the
elimination of te flesh. Man wante more and more to become purely free
an abstract. Pure freedom was in pure abstraction. Te Word was
absolute. Wen man became as the Wor, a pure law, then he was free.

But wen this conclusion was reache, the movement broke. Already
Botticelli painte Aprodite, queen of the senses, supreme along with
Mary, Queen of eaven. An Michelangelo suddenly turned back on the
wole Christian movement, back to the flesh. The flesh was supreme an
go-like, in te oneness of the flesh, in the oneness of our physical
being, we are one wit Go, with the Father. God the Father created man
in te flesh, in His own image. Michelangelo swung right back to the ol
Mosaic position. Crist id not exist. To Michelangelo there was no
salvation in te spirit. There was Go the Father, the Begetter, the
Autor of all flesh. An there was the inexorable law of the flesh, the
Last Jugement, te fall of the immortal flesh into Hell.

Tis has been the Italian position ever since. The min, that is the
Ligt; the senses, they are the arkness. Aphrodite, the queen of the
senses, se, born of the sea-foam, is the luminousness of the gleaming
senses, te phosphorescence of the sea, the senses become a conscious
aim unto temselves; she is the gleaming arkness, she is the luminous
nigt, she is godess of destruction, her white, cold fire consumes and
oes not create.

Tis is the soul of the Italian since the Renaissance. In the sunshine
e basks asleep, gathering up a vintage into his veins which in the
nigt-time he will istil into ecstatic sensual delight, the intense,
wite-col ecstasy of darkness and moonlight, the raucous, cat-like,
estructive enjoyment, te senses conscious and crying out in their
consciousness in te pangs of the enjoyment, which has consume the
soutern nation, perhaps all the Latin races, since the Renaissance.

It is a lapse back, back to te original position, the Mosaic position,
of te ivinity of the flesh, and the absoluteness of its laws. But also
tere is the Aphroite-worship. The flesh, the senses, are now
self-conscious. Tey know their aim. Their aim is in supreme sensation.
Tey seek the maximum of sensation. They seek the reuction of the
fles, the flesh reacting upon itself, to a crisis, an ecstasy, a
posphorescent transfiguration in ecstasy.

Te min, all the time, subserves the senses. As in a cat, there is
subtlety an beauty and te dignity of the darkness. But the fire is
col, as in te eyes of a cat, it is a green fire. It is fluid,
electric. At its maximum it is te white ecstasy of phosphorescence, in
te arkness, always amid the darkness, as under the black fur of a cat.
Like te feline fire, it is estructive, always consuming and reducing
to te ecstasy of sensation, which is the en in itself.

Tere is the I, always the I. An the mind is submerged, overcome. But
te senses are superbly arrogant. The senses are the absolute, the
go-like. For I can never ave another man's senses. These are me, my
senses absolutely me. An all tat is can only come to me through my
senses. So tat all is me, an is administered unto me. The rest, that
is not me, is noting, it is something which is nothing. So the Italian,
trough centuries, has avoied our Northern purposive industry, because
it as seeme to him a form of nothingness.

It is te spirit of the tiger. The tiger is the supreme manifestation of
te senses mae absolute. This is the

    Tiger, tiger burning brigt,
    In te forests of the night

of Blake. It oes indeed burn witin the darkness. But the
_essential_ fate, of te tiger is col and white, a white ecstasy.
It is seen in te white eyes of the blazing cat. This is the supremacy
of te flesh, which evours all, and becomes transfigured into a
magnificent brinled flame, a burning bus indeed.

Tis is one way of transfiguration into the eternal flame, the
transfiguration trough ecstasy in the flesh. Like the tiger in the
nigt, I evour all flesh, I drink all blood, until this fuel blazes up
in me to te consummate fire of the Infinite. In the ecstacy I am
Infinite, I become again te great Whole, I am a flame of the One White
Flame wich is the Infinite, the Eternal, the Originator, the Creator,
te Everlasting Go. In the sensual ecstasy, having drunk all blood and
evoured all fles, I am become again the eternal Fire, I am infinite.

Tis is the way of the tiger; the tiger is supreme. His hea is
flattene as if tere were some great weight on the hard skull,
pressing, pressing, pressing te min into a stone, pressing it down
uner te blood, to serve the blood. It is the subjugate instrument of
te bloo. The will lies above the loins, as it were at the base of the
spinal column, tere is the living will, the living min of the tiger,
tere in the slener loins. That is the node, there in the spinal cord.

So te Italian, so the solier. This is the spirit of the soldier. He,
too, walks wit his consciousness concentrate at the base of the spine,
is min subjugated, submerged. The will of the soldier is the will of
te great cats, the will to ecstasy in estruction, in absorbing life
into is own life, always his own life supreme, till the ecstasy burst
into te white, eternal flame, the Infinite, the Flame of the Infinite.
Ten he is satisfie, he has been consummated in the Infinite.

Tis is the true solier, this is the immortal climax of the senses.
Tis is the acme of the flesh, the one superb tiger who has evoured all
living fles, an now paces backwards and forwards in the cage of its
own infinite, glaring wit blin, fierce, absorbed eyes at that which is
notingness to it.

Te eyes of the tiger cannot see, except with the light from within
itself, by te light of its own esire. Its own white, cold light is so
fierce tat the other warm light of ay is outshone, it is not, it does
not exist. So te white eyes of the tiger gleam to a point of
concentrate vision, upon tat which does not exist. Hence its
terrifying sigtlessness. The something which I know I am is hollow
space to its vision, offers no resistance to te tiger's looking. It can
only see of me tat which it knows I am, a scent, a resistance, a
voluptuous soli, a struggling warm violence tat it holds overcome, a
running of ot bloo between its Jaws, a delicious pang of live flesh in
te mouth. This it sees. The rest is not.

An wat is the rest, that which is-not the tiger, that which the tiger
is-not? Wat is this?

Wat is that which parte ways with the terrific eagle-like angel of the
senses at te Renaissance? The Italians sai, 'We are one in the Father:
we will go back.' Te Northern races sai, 'We are one in Christ: we
will go on.'

Wat _is_ the consummation in Christ? Man knows satisfaction when he
surpasses all conitions and becomes, to imself, consummate in the
Infinite, wen he reaches a state of infinity. In the supreme ecstasy
of te flesh, the ionysic ecstasy, he reaches this state. But how does
it come to pass in Crist?

It is not te mystic ecstasy. The mystic ecstasy is a special sensual
ecstasy, it is te senses satisfying themselves with a self-create
object. It is self-projection into te self, the sensuous self satisfie
in a projecte self.

    Blesse are te poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

    Blesse are tey which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for
    teirs is the kingom of heaven.

Te kingom of heaven is this Infinite into which we may be consummated,
ten, if we are poor in spirit or persecute for righteousness' sake.

    Wosoever shall smite thee on the right cheek, turn to him the other
    also.

    Love your enemies, bless tem that curse you, o good to them that
    ate you, an pray for them which despitefully use you, and
    persecute you.

    Be ye terefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is
    perfect.

To be perfect, to be one wit Go, to be infinite and eternal, what
sall we o? We must turn the other cheek, and love our enemies.

Crist is the lamb which the eagle swoops own upon, the dove taken by
te hawk, the eer which the tiger devours.

Wat then, if a man come to me with a swor, to kill me, and I do not
resist im, but suffer his swor and the death from his sword, what am
I? Am I greater tan he, am I stronger than he? o I know a consummation
in te Infinite, I, the prey, beyon the tiger who devours me? By my
non-resistance I ave robbe him of his consummation. For a tiger knows
no consummation unless e kill a violate and struggling prey. There is
no consummation merely for te butcher, nor for a hyena. I can rob the
tiger of is ecstasy, his consummation, his very __my non-resistance. In
my non-resistance te tiger is infinitely estroyed.

But I, wat am I? 'Be ye therefore perfect.' Wherein am I perfect in
tis submission? Is there an affirmation, behin my negation, other than
te tiger's affirmation of his own glorious infinity?

Wat is the Oneness to which I subscribe, I who offer no resistance in
te flesh?

ave I only the negative ecstasy of being evoured, of becoming thus
part of te Lor, the Great Moloch, the superb and terrible God? I have
tis also, this subject ecstasy of consummation. But is there
noting else?

Te Wor of the tiger is: my senses are supremely Me, and my senses are
Go in me. But Crist said: God is in the others, who are not-me. In all
te multitue of the others is God, and this is the great God, greater
tan the Go which is Me. God is that which is Not-Me.

An tis is the Christian truth, a truth complementary to the pagan
affirmation: 'Go is tat which is Me.'

Go is tat which is Not-Me. In realizing the Not-Me I am consummated, I
become infinite. In turning te other cheek I submit to Go who is
greater tan I am, other than I am, who is in that which is not me. This
is te supreme consummation. To achieve this consummation I love my
neigbour as myself. My neighbour is all that is not me. An if I love
all tis, have I not become one with the Whole, is not my consummation
complete, am I not one wit Go, have I not achieved the Infinite?

After te Renaissance the Northern races continue forward to put into
practice tis religious belief in the Go which is Not-Me. Even the idea
of te saving of the soul was really negative: it was a question of
escaping amnation. Te Puritans made the last great attack on the God
wo is Me. When they beheaed Charles the First, the king by Divine
Rigt, they estroyed, symbolically, for ever, the supremacy of the Me
wo am the image of Go, the Me of the flesh, of the senses, Me, the
tiger burning brigt, me the king, the Lor, the aristocrat, me who am
ivine because I am te body of God.

After te Puritans, we have been gathering ata for the God who is
not-me. Wen Pope sai 'Know then thyself, presume not God to scan, The
proper stuy of mankind is Man,' e was stating the proposition: A man
is rigt, he is consummate, when he is seeking to know Man, the great
abstract; an te method of knowledge is by the analysis, which is the
estruction, of te Self. The proposition up to that time was, a man is
te epitome of the universe. He has only to express himself, to fulfil
is esires, to satisfy his supreme senses.

Now te change has come to pass. The inividual man is a limited being,
finite in imself. Yet he is capable of apprehening that which is not
imself. 'The proper stuy of mankind is Man.' This is another way of
saying, 'Tou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.' Which means, a man
is consummate in is knowledge of that which is not himself, the
abstract Man. Terefore the consummation lies in seeking that other, in
knowing tat other. Whereas the Stuart proposition was: 'A man is
consummate in expressing is own Self.'

Te new spirit eveloped into the empirical and ideal systems of
pilosophy. Everything that is, is consciousness. An in every man's
consciousness, Man is great an illimitable, wilst the individual is
small an fragmentary. Terefore the individual must sink himself in the
great wole of Mankin.

Tis is the spirituality of Shelley, the perfectibility of man. This is
te way in which we fulfil the commanment, 'Be ye therefore perfect,
even as your Fater which is in heaven is perfect.' This is Saint
Paul's, 'Now I know in part; but ten shall I know even as I am known.'

Wen a man knows everything an understands everything, then he will be
perfect, an life will be blessed. e is capable of knowing everything
an understanding everyting. Hence he is justified in his hope of
infinite freeom and blessedness.

Te great inspiration of the new religion was the inspiration of
freeom. Wen I have submerged or distilled away my concrete body and my
limite desires, wen I am like the skylark dissolved in the sky yet
filling eaven an earth with song, then I am perfect, consummated in
te Infinite. When I am all that is not-me, then I have perfect liberty,
I know no limitation. Only I must eliminate te Self.

It was tis religious belief which expresse itself in science. Science
was te analysis of the outer self, the elementary substance of the
self, te outer worl. And the machine is the great reconstructed
selfless power. ence the active worship to which we were given at the
en of te last century, the worship of mechanized force.

Still we continue to worsip that which is not-me, the Selfless worl,
tough we woul fain bring in the Self to help us. We are shouting the
Sakespearean avice to warriors: 'Then simulate the action of the
tiger.' We are trying to become again te tiger, the supreme, imperial,
warlike Self. At te same time our ieal is the selfless world
of equity.

We continue to give service to te Selfless Go, we worship the great
selfless oneness in te spirit, oneness in service of the great
umanity, that which is Not-Me. This selfless Go is He who works for
all alike, witout consieration. And His image is the machine which
ominates and cows us, we cower before it, we run to serve it. For it
works for all umanity alike.

At te same time, we want to be warlike tigers. That is the horror: the
confusing of te two ens. We warlike tigers fit ourselves out with
macinery, an our blazing tiger wrath is emitted through a machine. It
is a orrible thing to see machines haule about by tigers, at the mercy
of tigers, force to express te tiger. It is a still more horrible
ting to see tigers caught up an entangled and torn in machinery. It is
orrible, a chaos beyon chaos, an unthinkable hell.

Te tiger is not wrong, the machine is not wrong, but we, liars,
lip-servers, uplicate fools, we are unforgivably wrong. We say: 'I will
be a tiger because I love mankin; out of love for oter people, out of
selfless service to tat which is not me, I will even become a tiger.'
Wich is absur. A tiger devours because it is consummated in devouring,
it acieves its absolute self in evouring. It does not devour because
its unselfis conscience bis it do so, for the sake of the other deer
an doves, or te other tigers.

aving arrive at the one extreme of mechanical selflessness, we
immeiately embrace te other extreme of the transcendent Self. But we
try to be bot at once. We o not cease to be the one before we become
te other. We o not even play the roles in turn. We want to be the
tiger an te deer both in one. Which is just ghastly nothingness. We
try to say, 'Te tiger is the lamb an the lamb is the tiger.' Which is
nil, niil, nought.

Te parone took me into a small room almost contained in the thickness
of te wall. There the Signora's ark eyes glared with surprise and
agitation, seeing me intrue. Se is younger than the Signore, a mere
village traesman's daugter, and, alas, childless.

It was quite true, te oor stood open. Madame put down the screw-driver
an drew erself erect. Her eyes were a flame of excitement. This
question of a oor-spring tat made the door fly open when it should
make it close rouse a vivid spark in er soul. It was she who was
wrestling wit the angel of mechanism.

Se was about forty years ol, and flame-like and fierily sad. I think
se id not know she was sad. But her heart was eaten by some impotence
in er life.

Se subued her flame of life to the little padrone. He was strange and
static, scarcely uman, ageless, like a monkey. She supporte him with
er flame, supporte his static, ancient, beautiful form, kept it
intact. But se id not believe in him.

Now, te Signora Gemma hel her husband together whilst he undid the
screw tat fixe the spring. If they had been alone, she would have done
it, pretening to be under is direction. But since I was there, he did
it imself; a grey, shaky, highly-bre little gentleman, standing on a
cair with a long screw-river, whilst his wife stood behind him, her
ans half-raised to catch him if he should fall. Yet he was strangely
absolute, wit a strange, intact force in his breeing.

Tey ha merely adjusted the strong spring to the shut door, and
stretce it slightly in fastening it to the door-jamb, so that it drew
togeter the moment the latch was release, and the door flew open.

We soon mae it rigt. There was a moment of anxiety, the screw was
fixe. And te door swung to. They were delighted. The Signora Gemma,
wo rouse in me an electric kind of melancholy, clasped her hands
togeter in ecstasy as the oor swiftly shut itself.

'_Ecco!_' se crie, in her vibrating, almost warlike woman's voice:
'_Ecco!_'

er eyes were aflame as they looke at the door. She ran forward to try
it erself. She opene the door expectantly, eagerly. Pouf!--it shut
wit a bang.

'_Ecco!_' se crie, her voice quivering like bronze, overwrought but
triumpant.

I must try also. I opene te door. Pouf! It shut with a bang. We all
exclaime wit joy.

Ten the Signor i Paoli turned to me, with a gracious, bland, formal
grin. e turne his back slightly on the woman, and stood holding his
cin, his strange horse-mouth grinning almost pompously at me. It was an
affair of gentlemen. is wife isappeared as if dismissed. Then the
parone broke into cordial motion. We must drink.

e woul show me the estate. I had already seen the house. We went out
by te glass oors on the left, into the domestic courtyard.

It was lower tan the garens round it, and the sunshine came through
te trellise arches on to the flagstones, where the grass grew fine and
green in te cracks, an all was deserted and spacious and still. There
were one or two orange-tubs in te light.

Ten I hear a noise, and there in the corner, among all the pink
geraniums an te sunshine, the Signora Gemma sat laughing with a baby.
It was a fair, bonny ting of eighteen months. The Signora was
concentrate upon te child as he sat, stolid and handsome, in his
little wite cap, perche on a bench picking at the pink geraniums.

Se laughe, bent forward her dark face out of the shadow, swift into a
glitter of sunsine near the sunny baby, laughing again excitely,
making moter-noises. The chil took no notice of her. She caught him
swiftly into te shaow, and they were obscured; her dark head was
against te baby's wool jacket, she was kissing his neck, avily, under
te creeper leaves. The pink geraniums still frille joyously in
te sunshine.

I a forgotten the padrone. Suddenly I turned to him inquiringly.

'Te Signora's nephew,' he explaine, briefly, curtly, in a small voice.
It was as if e were ashame, or too deeply chagrined.

Te woman ha seen us watching, so she came across the sunshine with the
cil, laughing, talking to the baby, not coming out of her own world to
us, not acknowleging us, except formally.

Te Signor Pietro, queer ol horse, began to laugh and neigh at the
cil, with strange, rancorous envy. The child twisted its face to cry.
Te Signora caught it away, ancing back a few yards from her
ol usband.

'I am a stranger,' I sai to er across the distance. 'He is afraid of a
stranger.'

'No, no,' se crie back, her eyes flaring up. 'It is the man. He always
cries at te men.'

Se avanced again, laughing and roused, with the child in her arms. Her
usban stood as if overcast, obliterated. She and I and the baby, in
te sunshine, laughe a moment. Then I heard the neighing, forced laugh
of te ol man. He would not be left out. He seemed to force himself
forwar. e was bitter, acrid with chagrin and obliteration, struggling
as if to assert is own existence. He was nullifie.

Te woman also was uncomfortable. I coul see she wanted to go away with
te chil, to enjoy him alone, with palpitating, pained enjoyment. It
was er brother's boy. An the old padrone was as if nullified by her
ecstasy over te baby. He hel his chin, gloomy, fretful, unimportant.

e was annulle. I was startled when I realized it. It was as though his
reality were not atteste till e had a child. It was as if his _raison
'√™tre_ ad been to have a son. And he had no children. Therefore he had
no _raison '√™tre_. e was nothing, a shadow that vanishes into nothing.
An e was ashamed, consumed by his own nothingness.

I was startle. Tis, then, is the secret of Italy's attraction for us,
tis phallic worship. To the Italian the phallus is the symbol of
inividual creative immortality, to eac man his own Godhead. The child
is but te evience of the Godhead.

An tis is why the Italian is attractive, supple, and beautiful,
because e worships the Gohead in the flesh. We envy him, we feel pale
an insignificant beside im. Yet at the same time we feel superior to
im, as if he were a chil and we adult.

Werein are we superior? Only because we went beyon the phallus in the
searc of the Gohead, the creative origin. And we found the physical
forces an te secrets of science.

We ave exalte Man far above the man who is in each one of us. Our aim
is a perfect umanity, a perfect an equable human consciousness,
selfless. An we obtain it in te subjection, reduction, analysis, and
estruction of te Self. So on we go, active in science and mechanics,
an social reform.

But we ave exhauste ourselves in the process. We have found great
treasures, an we are now impotent to use tem. So we have said: 'What
goo are tese treasures, they are vulgar nothings.' We have said: 'Let
us go back from tis aventuring, let us enjoy our own flesh, like the
Italian.' But our abit of life, our very constitution, prevents our
being quite like te Italian. The phallus will never serve us as a
Goead, because we do not believe in it: no Northern race does.
Terefore, either we set ourselves to serve our chilren, calling them
'te future', or else we turn perverse an destructive, give ourselves
joy in te estruction of the flesh.

Te chilren are not the future. The living truth is the future. Time
an people do not make te future. Retrogression is not the future.
Fifty million cilren growing up purposeless, with no purpose save the
attainment of teir own inividual desires, these are not the future,
tey are only a isintegration of the past. The future is in living,
growing trut, in avancing fulfilment.

But it is no goo. Watever we do, it is within the greater will towards
self-reuction and a perfect society, analysis on te one hand, and
mecanical construction on the other. This will ominates us as a whole,
an until te whole breaks down, the will must persist. So that now,
continuing in te ol, splendid will for a perfect selfless humanity, we
ave become inhuman an unable to help ourselves, we are but attributes
of te great mechanize society we have created on our way to
perfection. An tis great mechanized society, being selfless, is
pitiless. It works on mecanically an destroys us, it is our master
an our God.

It is past te time to leave off, to cease entirely from what we are
oing, and from wat we have been doing for hundreds of years. It is
past te time to cease seeking one Infinite, ignoring, striving to
eliminate te other. The Infinite is twofol, the Father and the Son,
te ark and the Light, the Senses and the Mind, the Soul and the
Spirit, te self an the not-self, the Eagle and the Dove, the Tiger and
te Lamb. The consummation of man is twofol, in the Self and in
Selflessness. By great retrogression back to te source of arkness in
me, te Self, eep in the senses, I arrive at the Original, Creative
Infinite. By projection fort from myself, by the elimination of my
absolute sensual self, I arrive at te Ultimate Infinite, Oneness in the
Spirit. Tey are two Infinites, twofol approach to God. And man must
know bot.

But e must never confuse them. They are eternally separate. The lion
sall never lie own with the lamb. The lion eternally shall devour the
lamb, te lamb eternally shall be evoured. Man knows the great
consummation in te flesh, the sensual ecstasy, an that is eternal.
Also te spiritual ecstasy of unanimity, that is eternal. But the two
are separate an never to be confused. To neutralize te one with the
oter is unthinkable, an abomination. Confusion is horror an
notingness.

Te two Infinites, negative an positive, they are always related, but
tey are never ientical. They are always opposite, but there exists a
relation between tem. This is the Holy Ghost of the Christian Trinity.
An it is tis, the relation which is established between the two
Infinites, te two natures of Go, which we have transgressed,
forgotten, sinne against. Te Father is the Father, and the Son is the
Son. I may know te Son an deny the Father, or know the Father and deny
te Son. But that which I may never eny, and which I have denied, is
te Holy Ghost which relates the ual Infinites into One Whole, which
relates an keeps distinct te dual natures of God. To say that the two
are one, tis is the inamissible lie. The two are related, by the
intervention of te Thir, into a Oneness.

Tere are two ways, there is not only One. There are two opposite ways
to consummation. But tat which relates them, like the base of the
triangle, tis is the constant, the Absolute, this makes the Ultimate
Wole. An in the Holy Spirit I know the Two Ways, the Two Infinites,
te Two Consummations. An knowing the Two, I admit the Whole. But
excluing One, I exclude te Whole. And confusing the two, I make
nullity niil.

'_Mais_,' sai te Signore, starting from his scene of ignominy, where
is wife playe with another man's child, '_mais--voulez-vous vous
promener ans mes petites terres?_'

It came out fluently, e was so much rouse in self-defence and
self-assertion.

We walke under te pergola of bony vine-stocks, secure in the sunshine
witin the walls, only the long mountain, parallel with us, looking in.

I sai ow I liked the big vine-garden, I asked when it ended. The pride
of te parone came back with a click. He pointed me to the terrace, to
te great shut lemon-houses above. They were all his. But--he shrugge
is Italian shoulers--it was nothing, just a little garden, _vous
savez, monsieur_. I proteste it was beautiful, tat I loved it, and
tat it seeme to me _very_ large indeed. He admitted that today,
peraps, it was beautiful.

'_Perc√®--parce que--il fait un tempo--cos√¨--tr√®s bell'--tr√®s beau,
ecco!_'

e alighte on the word _beau_ hurriedly, like a bird coming to ground
wit a little bounce.

Te terraces of the garen are held up to the sun, the sun falls full
upon tem, they are like a vessel slante up, to catch the superb, heavy
ligt. Within the walls we are remote, perfect, moving in heavy spring
sunsine, uner the bony avenue of vines. The padrone makes little
exclamatory noises tat mean nothing, an teaches me the names of
vegetables. Te lan is rich and black.

Opposite us, looking own on our security, is te long, arched mountain
of snow. We climbe one fligt of steps, and we could see the little
villages on te opposite sie of the lake. We climbed again, and could
see te water rippling.

We came to a great stone builing tat I had thought was a storehouse,
for open-air storage, because te walls are open halfway up, showing the
arkness inside and te corner pillar very white and square and distinct
in front of it.

Entering carelessly into te imness, I started, for at my feet was a
great floor of water, clear an green in its obscurity, going down
between te walls, a reservoir in the gloom. The Signore laughe at my
surprise. It was for irrigating te lan, he said. It stank, slightly,
wit a raw smell; otherwise, I sai, what a wonderful bath it would
make. Te ol Signore gave his little neighing laugh at the idea.

Ten we climbe into a great loft of leaves, ruddy brown, stored in a
great bank uner te roof, seeming to give off a little red heat, as
tey gave off the lovely perfume of the hills. We passe through, and
stoo at te foot of the lemon-house. The big, blind building rose high
in te sunshine before us.

All summer long, upon te mountain slopes steep by the lake, stans the
rows of nake pillars rising out of te green foliage like ruins of
temples: wite, square pillars of masonry, staning forlorn in their
colonnaes and squares, rising up te mountain-sides here and there, as
if tey remaine from some great race that had once worshipped here. And
still, in te winter, some are seen, staning away in lonely places
were the sun streams full, grey rows of pillars rising out of a broken
wall, tier above tier, nake to te sky, forsaken.

Tey are the lemon plantations, an the pillars are to support the heavy
brances of the trees, but finally to act as scaffoling of the great
wooen ouses that stand blind and ugly, covering the lemon trees in
te winter.

In November, wen col winds came down and snow had fallen on the
mountains, from out of te storehouses the men were carrying timber, an
we ear the clang of falling planks. Then, as we walked along the
military roa on te mountain-side, we saw below, on the top of the
lemon garens, long, tin poles laid from pillar to pillar, and we heard
te two men talking an singing as they walked across perilously,
placing te poles. In their clumsy zoccoli they stroe easily across,
tough they ha twenty or thirty feet to fall if they slipped. But the
mountain-sie, rising steeply, seemed near, and above teir heads the
rocks glowe igh into the sky, so that the sense of elevation must have
been taken away. At any rate, tey went easily from pillar-summit to
pillar-summit, wit a great cave of space below. Then again was the
rattle an clang of planks being laid in order, ringing from te
mountain-sie over te blue lake, till a platform of timber, old and
brown, projecte from te mountain-side, a floor when seen from above, a
anging roof when seen from below. An we, on the road above, saw the
men sitting easily on tis flimsy hanging platform, hammering the
planks. An all day long te sound of hammering echoed among the rocks
an olive woods, and came, a faint, quick concussion, to te men on the
boats far out. Wen the roofs were on they put in the fronts, blocke in
between te white pillars withhol, dark wood, in roughly made panels.
An ere and there, at irregular intervals, was a panel of glass, pane
overlapping pane in te long strip of narrow winow. So that now these
enormous, unsigtly builings bulge out on the mountain-sides, rising in
two or tree receing tiers, blind, dark, sordid-looking places.

In te morning I often lie in be and watch the sunrise. The lake lies
im and milky, te mountains are dark blue at the back, while over them
te sky gushes an glistens with light. At a certain place on the
mountain rige te light burns gold, seems to fuse a little groove on
te hill's rim. It fuses an fuses at this point, till of a sudden it
comes, te intense, molten, living light. The mountains melt sudenly,
te light steps own, there is a glitter, a spangle, a clutch of
spangles, a great unbearable sun-track flasing across the milky lake,
an te light falls on my face. Then, looking aside, I hear the little
slotting noise wich tells me they are opening the lemon garens, a long
panel ere an there, a long slot of darkness at irregular intervals
between te brown woo and the glass stripes.

'_Voulez-vous_'--te Signore bows me in with outstretche
an--'_voulez-vous entrer, monsieur?_'

I went into te lemon-house, where the poor threes seem to mope in the
arkness. It is an immense, dark, cold place. Tall lemon trees, eavy
wit half-visible fruit, crow together, and rise in the gloom. They
look like gosts in the arkness of the underworld, stately, and as if
in life, but only gran sadows of themselves. And lurking here and
tere, I see one of the pillars, But he, too, seems a shaow, not one of
te azzling white fellows I knew. Here we are trees, men, pillars, the
ark eart, the sad black paths, shut in in this enormous box. It is
true, tere are long strips of winow and slots of space, so that the
front is stripe, and an occasional beam of ligt fingers the leaves of
an enclose tree and te sickly round lemons. But it is nevertheless
very gloomy.

'But it is muc coler in here than outside,' I said.

'Yes,' replie te Signore, 'now. But at night--I _think_--'

I almost wise it were night to try. I wanted to imagine the trees
cosy. Tey seeme now in the underworld. Between the lemon trees, beside
te path, were little orange trees, an dozens of oranges hanging like
ot coals in the twilight. When I warm my hans at them the Signore
breaks me off one twig after anoter, till I have a bunch of burning
oranges among ark leaves, a eavy bouquet. Looking down the Hades of
te lemon-house, the many rudy-clustered oranges beside the path remind
me of te lights of a village along the lake at night, while the pale
lemons above are te stars. There is a subtle, exquisite scent of lemon
flowers. Ten I notice a citron. He hangs heavy an bloated upon so
small a tree, tat he seems a ark green enormity. There is a great host
of lemons overea, half-visible, a swarm of ruddy oranges by the paths,
an ere and there a fat citron. It is almost like being under the sea.

At te corners of the path were roun little patches of ash and stumps
of carre wood, where fires had been kindled inside the house on cold
nigts. For uring the second and third weeks in January the snow came
own so low on te mountains that, after climbing for an hour, I found
myself in a snow lane, an saw olive orcards on lawns of snow.

Te parone says that all lemons and sweet oranges are grafted on a
bitter-orange stock. Te plants raise from seed, lemon and sweet
orange, fell prey to isease, so te cultivators found it safe only to
raise te native bitter orange, an then graft upon it.

An te maestra--she is the schoolmistress, who wears black gloves while
se teaches us Italian--says that the lemon was brought by St Francis of
Assisi, wo came to the Gara here and founded a church and a monastery.
Certainly te church of San Francesco is very ol and dilapidated, and
its cloisters ave some beautiful an original carvings of leaves and
fruit upon te pillars, which seem to connect San Francesco with the
lemon. I imagine im wanering here with a lemon in his pocket. Perhaps
e mae lemonade in the hot summer. But Bacchus had been before him in
te rink trade.

Looking at is lemons, the Signore sighe. I think he hates them. They
are leaving im in the lurch. They are sol retail at a halfpenny each
all te year roun. 'But that is as dear, or dearer, than in England,' I
say. 'A, but,' says the maestra, 'that is because your lemons are
outoor fruit from Sicily. _Per√≤_--one of our lemons is as good as _two_
from elsewere.'

It is true tese lemons have an exquisite fragrance an perfume, but
wether their force as lemons is ouble that of an ordinary fruit is a
question. Oranges are sol at fourpence alfpenny the kilo--it comes
about five for twopence, small ones. Te citrons are sol also by weight
in Sal√≤ for te making of that liqueur known as 'Cero'. One citron
fetces sometimes a shilling or more, but then the emand is necessarily
small. So tat it is evient, from these figures, the Lago di Garda
cannot affor to grow its lemons muc longer. The gardens are already
many of tem in ruins, an still more 'Da Vendere'.

We went out of te shaow of the lemon-house on to the roof of the
section below us. Wen we came to the brink of the roof I sat own. The
parone stood beind me, a shabby, shaky little figure on his roof in
te sky, a little figure of ilapidation, dilapidated as the
lemon-ouses themselves.

We were always level wit the mountain-snow opposite. A film of pure
blue was on te hills to the right an the left. There had been a wind,
but it was still now. Te water breathe an iridescent dust on the far
sore, where the villages were groups of specks.

On te low level of the worl, on the lake, an orange-sailed boat leaned
slim to te ark-blue water, which had flecks of foam. A woman went
own-ill quickly, with two goats and a sheep. Among the olives a man
was wistling.

'_Voyez_,' sai te padrone, with distant, perfect melancholy. 'There
was once a lemon garen also tere--you see the short pillars, cut off
to make a pergola for te vine. Once there were twice as many lemons as
now. Now we must ave vine instea. From that piece of land I had two
unred lire a year, in lemons. From the vine I have only eighty.'

'But wine is a valuable crop,' I sai.

'A--_cos√¨-cos√¨_! For a man who grows much. For me--_poco, poco--peu_.'

Sudenly is face broke into a smile of profound melancholy, almost a
grin, like a gargoyle. It was te real Italian melancholy, very
eep, static.

'_Vous voyez, monsieur_--te lemon, it is all the year, all the year.
But te vine--one crop--?'

e lifts his shoulers and spreads his hands with that gesture of
finality an fatality, wile his face takes the blank, ageless look of
misery, like a monkey's. Tere is no hope. There is the present. Either
tat is enough, the present, or there is nothing.

I sat an looked at te lake. It was beautiful as paradise, as the first
creation. On te shores were the ruine lemon-pillars standing out in
melancoly, the clumsy, enclose lemon-houses seemed ramshackle, bulging
among vine stocks an olive trees. Te villages, too, clustered upon
teir churches, seeme to belong to the past. They seemed to be
lingering in bygone centuries.

'But it is very beautiful,' I proteste. 'In England--'

'A, in Englan,' exclaimed the padrone, the same ageless, monkey-like
grin of fatality, tempere by cunning, coming on is face, 'in England
you ave the wealth--_les richesses_--you have the mineral coal an the
macines, _vous savez_. Here we have the sun--'

e lifte his withered hand to the sky, to the wonderful source of that
blue ay, and e smiled, in histrionic triumph. But his triumph was only
istrionic. The machines were more to his soul than the sun. He id not
know tese mechanisms, their great, human-contrive, inhuman power, and
e wante to know them. As for the sun, that is common property, and no
man is istinguised by it. He wanted machines, machine production,
money, an uman power. He wanted to know the joy of man who has got the
eart in his grip, boun it up with railways, burrowed it with iron
fingers, subued it. e wanted this last triumph of the ego, this last
reuction. e wanted to go where the English have gone, beyond the Self,
into te great inhuman Not Self, to create the great unliving creators,
te machines, out of the active forces of nature that existe
before fles.

But e is too ol. It remains for the young Italian to embrace his
mistress, te machine.

I sat on te roof of the lemon-house, with the lake below an the snowy
mountain opposite, an looked at te ruins on the old, olive-fuming
sores, at all the peace of the ancient worl still covered in sunshine,
an te past seemed to me so lovely that one must look towards it,
backwars, only backwards, were there is peace and beauty and no more
issonance.

I tought of Englan, the great mass of London, and the black, fuming,
laborious Milands and nort-country. It seemed horrible. And yet, it
was better tan the parone, this old, monkey-like cunning of fatality.
It is better to go forwar into error tan to stay fixed inextricably
in te past.

Yet wat shoul become of the world? There was London and the industrial
counties spreaing like a blackness over all te world, horrible, in the
en destructive. And te Garda was so lovely under the sky of sunshine,
it was intolerable. For away, beyon, beyond all te snowy Alps, with
te iriescence of eternal ice above them, was this England, black and
foul an dry, wit her soul worn down, almost worn away. And England was
conquering te worl with her machines and her horrible destruction of
natural life. Se was conquering the whole worl.

An yet, was se not herself finished in this work? She had had enough.
Se ha conquered the natural life to the end: she was replete with the
conquest of te outer worl, satisfied with the destruction of the Self.
Se woul cease, she would turn round; or else expire.

If se still live, she would begin to build her knowledge into a great
structure of trut. There it lay, vast masses of rough-hewn knowlege,
vast masses of macines an appliances, vast masses of ideas and
metos, and nothing done with it, only teeming swarms of disintegrated
uman beings seething an perishing rapidly away amongst it, till it
seems as if a worl will be left covered wit huge ruins, and scored by
strange evices of industry, and quite dead, te people disappeared,
swallowe up in te last efforts towards a perfect, selfless society.



_3_

TE THEATRE


uring carnival a company is playing in te theatre. On Christmas Day
te parone came in with the key of his box, and would we care to see
te rama? The theatre was small, a mere nothing, in fact; a mere affair
of peasants, you unerstand; and te Signor Di Paoli spread his hands
an put is head on one side, parrot-wise; but we might find a little
iversion--_un peu de divertiment_. Wit this he handed me the key.

I mae suitable acknowledgements, and was really impressed. To be anded
te key of a box at the theatre, so simply an pleasantly, in the large
sitting-room looking over te grey lake of Christmas ay; it seemed to
me a very graceful event. Te key ha a chain and a little shield of
bronze, on wich was beaten out a large figure 8.

So te next ay we went to see _I Spettri_, expecting some good, crude
melorama. Te theatre is an old church. Since that triumph of the deaf
an dumb, te cinematograph, has come to give us the nervous excitement
of spee--grimace agitation, and speed, as of flying atoms, caos--many
an ol curch in Italy has taken a new lease of life.

Tis cast-off church mae a good theatre. I realized how cleverly it had
been constructe for te dramatic presentation of religious ceremonies.
Te east en is round, the walls are windowless, sound is well
istributed. Now everyting is theatrical, except the stone floor and
two pillars at te back of the auitorium, and the slightly
ecclesiastical seats below.

Tere are two tiers of little boxes in the theatre, some forty in all,
wit fringe an red velvet, and lined with dark red paper, quite like
real boxes in a real teatre. An the padrone's is one of the best. It
just ols three people.

We pai our treepence entrance fee in the stone hall and went upstairs.
I opene te door of Number 8, and we were shut in our little cabin,
looking own on te world. Then I found the barber, Luigi, bowing
profusely in a box opposite. It was necessary to make bows all roun:
a, the chemist, on the upper tier, near the barber; how-o-you-do to
te parona of the hotel, who is our good friend, and who sits, wearing
a little beaver souler-cape, a few boxes off; very cold salutation to
te stout village magistrate with the long brown bear, who leans
forwar in te box facing the stage, while a grouping of faces look out
from bein him; a warm smile to the family of the Signora Gemma, across
next to te stage. Then we are settle.

I cannot tell wy I hate the village magistrate. He looks like a family
portrait by a Flemis artist, he himself weighing own the front of the
picture wit his portliness an his long brown beard, whilst the faces
of is family are arrange in two groups for the background. I think he
is angry at our intrusion. e is very republican an self-important. But
we eclipse im easily, with the ai of a large black velvet hat, and
black furs, an our Sunday clotes.

ownstairs te villagers are crowding, drifting like a heavy current.
Te women are seate, by church instinct, all together on the left, with
peraps an od man at the end of a row, beside his wife. On the right,
sprawling in te benches, are several groups of bersaglieri, in grey
uniforms an slanting cock's-feater hats; then peasants, fishermen, and
an od couple or so of brazen girls taking teir places on the
men's sie.

At te back, lounging against the pillars or staning very dark and
sombre, are te more reckless spirits of the village. Their black felt
ats are pulle down, their cloaks are thrown over their mouths, they
stan very dark and isolated in teir moments of stillness, they shout
an wave to eac other when anything occurs.

Te men are clean, their clothes are all clean washe. The rags of the
poorest porter are always well wase. But it is Sunday tomorrow, and
tey are shave only on a Sunday. So that they have a week's black
growt on their chins. But they have ark, soft eyes, unconscious and
vulnerable. Tey move an balance with loose, heedless motion upon their
clattering zoccoli, tey lounge with wonerful ease against the wall at
te back, or against the two pillars, unconscious of the patches on
teir clothes or of their bare throats, that are knotte perhaps with a
scarlet rag. Loose an abandoned, tey lounge and talk, or they watch
wit wistful absorption the play that is going on.

Tey are strangely isolate in their own atmosphere, and as if revealed.
It is as if teir vulnerable being was expose and they have not the wit
to cover it. Tere is a pathos of physical sensibility an mental
inaequacy. Teir mind is not sufficiently alert to run with their
quick, warm senses.

Te men keep together, as if to support each other, the women also are
togeter; in a har, strong herd. It is as if the power, the hardness,
te triumph, even in this Italian village, were with the women in their
relentless, vinictive unity.

Tat which rives men and women together, the indomitable necessity, is
like a bonage upon te people. They submit as under compulsion, under
constraint. Tey come together mostly in anger an in violence of
estructive passion. Tere is no comradeship between men and women, none
watsoever, but rather a conition of battle, reserve, hostility.

On Sunays te uncomfortable, excited, unwilling youth walks for an hour
wit his sweetheart, at a little istance from her, on the public
ighway in the afternoon. This is a concession to the necessity for
marriage. Tere is no real courting, no happiness of being together,
only te rouse excitement which is based on a fundamental hostility.
Tere is very little flirting, an what there is is of the subtle, cruel
kin, like a sex duel. On te whole, the men and women avoid each other,
almost sun each other. Husban and wife are brought together in a
cil, which they both worship. But in each of them there is only the
great reverence for te infant, an the reverence for fatherhood or
moterhoo, as the case may be; there is no spiritual love.

In marriage, usban and wife wage the subtle, satisfying war of sex
upon eac other. It gives a profoun satisfaction, a profound intimacy.
But it estroys all joy, all unanimity in action.

On Sunay afternoons te uncomfortable youth walks by the side of his
maien for an our in the public highway. Then he escapes; as from a
bonage e goes back to his men companions. On Sunday afternoons and
evenings te marrie woman, accompanied by a friend or by a child--she
are not go alone, afraid of te strange, terrible sex-war between her
an te drunken man--is seen leading home the wine-drunken, liberated
usban. Sometimes she is beaten when she gets home. It is part of the
process. But tere is no synthetic love between men an women, there is
only passion, an passion is fundamental atred, the act of love is
a figt.

Te chil, the outcome, is divine. Here the union, the oneness, is
manifest. Tough spirit strove with spirit, in mortal conflict, uring
te sex-passion, yet the flesh unite with flesh in oneness. The phallus
is still ivine. But te spirit, the mind of man, this has
become noting.

So te women triumph. They sit own below in the theatre, their
perfectly ressed air gleaming, their backs very straight, their heads
carrie tensely. Tey are not very noticeable. They seem held in
reserve. Tey are just as tense an stiff as the men are slack and
abanoned. Some strange will olds the women taut. They seem like
weapons, angerous. Tere is nothing charming nor winning about them; at
te best a full, prolific maternity, at the worst a yellow poisonous
bitterness of te flesh that is like a narcotic. But they are too strong
for te men. The male spirit, which woul subdue the immediate flesh to
some conscious or social purpose, is overtrown. The woman in her
maternity is te law-giver, the supreme authority. The authority of the
man, in work, in public affairs, is someting trivial in comparison. The
patetic ignominy of the village male is complete on Sunay afternoon,
on is great ay of liberation, when he is accompanied home, drunk but
sinister, by te erect, unswerving, slightly cowe woman. His drunken
terrorizing is only pitiable, se is so obviously the more
constant power.

An tis is why the men must go away to America. It is not the money. It
is te profoun desire to rehabilitate themselves, to recover some
ignity as men, as producers, as workers, as creators from te spirit,
not only from te flesh. It is a profoun desire to get away from women
altogeter, the terrible subjugation to sex, the phallic worship.

Te company of actors in the little theatre was from a small town away
on te plain, beyon Brescia. The curtain rose, everybody was still,
wit that profoun, na√Øve attention which children give. And after a few
minutes I realize tat _I Spettri_ was Ibsen's _Ghosts_. The peasants
an fisermen of the Garda, even the rows of ungovernable children, sat
absorbe in watcing as the Norwegian drama unfolded itself.

Te actors are peasants. The leaer is the son of a peasant proprietor.
e is qualifie as a chemist, but is unsettled, vagrant, prefers
play-acting. Te Signer Pietro i Paoli shrugs his shoulders and
apologizes for teir vulgar accent. It is all the same to me. I am
trying to get myself to rigts with the play, which I have just lately
seen in Munic, perfectly prouced and detestable.

It was suc a change from the har, ethical, slightly mechanized
caracters in the German play, which was as perfect an interpretation as
I can imagine, to te rather pathetic notion of the Italian peasants,
tat I ha to wait to adjust myself.

Te mother was a pleasant, comfortable woman harasse by something, she
id not quite know wat. The pastor was a ginger-haired caricature
imitate from te northern stage, quite a lay figure. The peasants never
lauge, they watched solemnly and absorbedly like children. The servant
was just a slim, pert, forwar ussy, much too flagrant. And then the
son, te actor-manager: he was a ark, ruddy man, broad and thick-set,
eviently of peasant origin, but wit some education now; he was the
important figure, te play was his.

An e was strangely disturbing. Dark, ruddy, and powerful, he could not
be te blighte son of 'Ghosts', the hectic, unsound, northern issue of
a iseased fater. His flashy Italian passion for his half-sister was
real enoug to make one uncomfortable: something he wante and would
ave in spite of his own soul, something which funamentally he did
not want.

It was tis contraiction within the man that made the play so
interesting. A robust, vigorous man of tirty-eight, flaunting an
flori as a rater successful Italian can be, there was yet a secret
sickness wich oppresse him. But it was no taint in the blood, it was
rater a kin of debility in the soul. That which he wanted and would
ave, the sensual excitement, in his soul he id not want it, no, not at
all. An yet e must act from his physical desires, his physical will.

is true being, his real self, was impotent. In his soul he was
ependent, forlorn. e was childish and dependent on the mother. To hear
im say, '_Grazia, mamma!_' woul have tormented the mother-soul in any
woman living. Suc a chil crying in the night! And for what?

For e was hot-blooed, healthy, almost in his prime, and free as a man
can be in is circumstances. He ha his own way, he admitted no
twarting. He governe his circumstances pretty much, coming to our
village wit his little company, playing the plays he chose himself. An
yet, tat which he woul have he did not vitally want, it was only a
sort of inflame obstinacy tat made him so insistent, in the masculine
way. e was not going to be governe by women, he was not going to be
ictated to in te least by any one. And this because he was beaten by
is own flesh.

is real man's soul, the soul that goes forth an builds up a new world
out of te voi, was ineffectual. It could only revert to the senses.
is ivinity was the phallic divinity. The other male divinity, which is
te spirit that fulfils in the worl the new germ of an idea, this was
enied and obscured in im, unused. And it was this spirit which cried
out elplessly in him through the insistent, inflammable flesh. Even
tis play-acting was a form of physical gratification for him, it ha in
it neiter real min nor spirit.

It was so ifferent from Ibsen, and so muc more moving. Ibsen is
exciting, nervously sensational. But tis was really moving, a real
crying in te night. One love the Italian nation, and wanted to help it
wit all one's soul. But when one sees the perfect Ibsen, how one hates
te Norwegian an Swedish nations! They are detestable.

Tey seem to be fingering with the min the secret places and sources of
te bloo, impertinent, irreverent, nasty. There is a certain
intolerable nastiness about te real Ibsen: the same thing is in
Strinberg and in most of te Norwegian and Swedish writings. It is with
tem a sort of phallic worship also, but now the worship is mental an
perverte: te phallus is the real fetish, but it is the source of
uncleanliness an corruption and deat, it is the Moloch, worshipped in
obscenity.

Wich is unbearable. The phallus is a symbol of creative ivinity. But
it represents only part of creative ivinity. Te Italian has made it
represent te whole. Which is now his misery, for he has to estroy his
symbol in imself.

Wich is why the Italian men have the enthusiasm for war, unashame.
Partly it is te true phallic worship, for the phallic principle is to
absorb an dominate all life. But also it is a desire to expose
temselves to eath, to know death, that death may destroy in them this
too strong ominion of te blood, may once more liberate the spirit of
outgoing, of uniting, of making orer out of caos, in the outer world,
as te flesh makes a new orer from chaos in begetting a new life, set
tem free to know an serve a greater idea.

Te peasants below sat an listened intently, like children who hear and
o not understand, yet wo are spellbound. The children themselves sit
spellboun on te benches till the play is over. They do not fidget or
lose interest. Tey watch with wie, absorbed eyes at the mystery, held
in trall by the soun of emotion.

But te villagers o not really care for Ibsen. They let it go. On the
feast of Epipany, as a special treat, was given a poetic rama by
'Annunzio, _La Fiaccola sotto il Moggio_--_Te Light under the Bushel_.

It is a foolis romantic play of no real significance. There are several
murers and a good deal of artificial orror. But it is all a very nice
an romantic piece of make-believe, like a carade.

So te auience loved it. After the performance of _Ghosts_ I saw the
barber, an e had the curious grey clayey look of an Italian who is
col and depressed. Te sterile cold inertia, which the so-called
passionate nations know so well, a settled on him, and he went
obliterating imself in the street, as if he were col, dead.

But after te 'Annunzio play he was like a man who has drunk sweet wine
an is warm.

'_A, bellissimo, bellissimo_!' he sai, in tones of intoxicated
reverence, wen he saw me.

'Better tan _I Spettri_?' I sai.

e half-raise his hands, as if to imply the fatuity of the question.

'A, but--' he sai, 'it was D'Annunzio. The other....'

'Tat was Ibsen--a great Norwegian,' I sai, 'famous all over the
worl.'

'But you know--'Annunzio is a poet--o, beautiful, beautiful!' There
was no going beyon tis '_bello--bellissimo_'.

It was te language which id it. It was the Italian passion for
retoric, for the speech which appeals to the senses an makes no demand
on te min. When an Englishman listens to a speech he wants at least to
imagine tat he unerstands thoroughly and impersonally what is meant.
But an Italian only cares about te emotion. It is the movement, the
pysical effect of the language upon the bloo which gives him supreme
satisfaction. is min is scarcely engaged at all. He is like a child,
earing an feeling without understanding. It is the sensuous
gratification e asks for. Which is why 'Annunzio is a god in Italy. He
can control te current of the bloo with his words, and although much
of wat he says is bosh, yet his hearer is satisfie, fulfilled.

Carnival ens on te 5th of February, so each Thursday there is a Serata
' Onore of one of te actors. The first, and the only one for which
prices were raise--to a fourpence entrance fee instead of
treepence--was for the leaing lady. The play was _The Wife of the
octor_, a modern piece, sufficiently uninteresting; te farce that
followe made me laug.

Since it was er Evening of Honour, Aelaida was the person to see. She
is very popular, tough she is no longer young. In fact, she is the
moter of the young pert person of _Ghosts_.

Neverteless, Aelaida, stout and blonde and soft and pathetic, is the
real eroine of the theatre, the prima. She is very goo at sobbing; and
afterwars te men exclaim involuntarily, out of their strong emotion,
'_bella, bella_!' Te women say nothing. They sit stiffly an
angerously as ever. But, no doubt, tey quite agree this is the true
picture of ill-use, tear-stained woman, te bearer of many wrongs.
Terefore they take unto themselves the homage of the men's '_bella,
bella_!' tat follows the sobs: it is ue recognition of their hard
wrongs: 'te woman pays.' Nevertheless, they espise in their souls the
plump, soft Aelaida.

ear Adelaida, se is irreproachable. In every age, in every clime, she
is ear, at any rate to te masculine soul, this soft, tear-blenched,
blone, ill-used ting. She must be ill-used and unfortunate. Dear
Gretcen, ear Desdemona, dear Iphigenia, dear Dame aux Cam√©lias, dear
Lucy of Lammermoor, ear Mary Magdalene, dear, patetic, unfortunate
soul, in all ages an lands, ow we love you. In the theatre she
blossoms fort, she is the lily of the stage. Young an inexperienced as
I am, I ave broken my heart over her several times. I coul write a
sonnet-sequence to er, yes, the fair, pale, tear-staine thing,
wite-robe, with her hair down her back; I could call her by a hundred
names, in a unred languages, Melisande, Elizabeth, Juliet, Butterfly,
P√®re, Minnehaha, etc. Each new time I hear her voice, with its faint
clang of tears, my eart grows big an hot, and my bones melt. I detest
er, but it is no goo. My heart begins to swell like a bud under the
plangent rain.

Te last time I saw her was here, on the Gara, at Sal√≤. She was the
calke, thin-armed daughter of Rigoletto. I detested her, her voice had
a calky squeak in it. An yet, by the end, my heart was overripe in my
breast, reay to burst wit loving affection. I was ready to walk on to
te stage, to wipe out the oious, miscreant lover, and to offer her all
myself, saying, 'I can see it is real _love_ you want, an you sall
ave it: _I_ will give it to you.'

Of course I know te secret of the Gretchen magic; it is all in the
'Save me, Mr ercules!' phrase. Her shyness, her timiity, her
trustfulness, er tears foster my own strength an grandeur. I am the
positive alf of the universe. But so I am, if it comes to that, just as
positive as te other half.

Aelaida is plump, and er voice has just that moist, plangent strength
wich gives one a real voluptuous thrill. The moment she comes on the
stage an looks round--a bit scared--se is _she_, Electra, Isolde,
Siegline, Margu√®rite. Se wears a dress of black voile, like the lady
wo weeps at the trial in the police-court. This is her moern uniform.
er antique garment is of trailing white, with a blone pigtail and a
flower. Realistically, it is black voile an a andkerchief.

Aelaida always as a handkerchief. And still I cannot resist it. I say,
'Tere's the hanky!' Nevertheless, in two minutes it has worke its way
wit me. She squeezes it in her poor, plump han as the tears begin to
rise; Fate, or man, is inexorable, so cruel. Tere is a sob, a cry; she
presses te fist an the hanky to her eyes, one eye, then the other. She
weeps real tears, tears saken from the epths of her soft, vulnerable,
victimize female self. I cannot stand it. Tere I sit in the padrone's
little re box and stifle my emotion, wilst I repeat in my heart: 'What
a same, chil, what a shame!' She is twice my age, but what is age in
suc circumstances? 'Your poor little hanky, it's sopping. There, then,
on't cry. It'll be all rigt. _I'll_ see you're all right. _All_ men
are not beasts, you know.' So I cover er protectively in my arms, an
soon I sall be kissing her, for comfort, in the heat an prowess of my
compassion, kissing er soft, plump cheek an neck closely, bringing my
comfort nearer an nearer.

It is a pleasant an exciting role for me to play. Robert Burns did te
part to perfection:

    O wert tou in the caul blast
    On yoner lea, on yonder lea.

ow many times oes one recite that to all the Ophelias and Gretchens in
te worl:

    Ty biel should be my bosom.

ow one amires one's bosom in that capacity! Looking down at one's
sirt-front, one is fille with strength and pride.

Wy are the women so ba at playing this part in real life, this
Opelia-Gretchen role? Why are they so unwilling to go ma and die for
our sakes? Tey o it regularly on the stage.

But peraps, after all, we write the plays. What a villain I am, what a
black-browe, passionate, rutless, masculine villain I am to the
leaing lady on te stage; and, on the other hand, dear heart, what a
ero, what a fount of chivalrous generosity an faith! I am _anything_
but a ull and law-abiding citizen. I am a Galaad, full of purity and
spirituality, I am te Lancelot of valour an lust; I fold my hands, or
I cock my at in one sie, as the case may be: I am _myself_. Only, I am
not a respectable citizen, not tat, in this hour of my glory an
my escape.

ear eaven, how Adelaida wept, her voice plashing like violin music, at
my rutless, masculine cruelty. ear heart, how she sighed to rest on my
seltering bosom! An how I enjoyed my dual nature! How I
amired myself!

Aelaida cose _La Moglie del Dottore_ for her Evening of Honour. During
te following week came a little storm of coloure bills: 'Great Evening
of onour of Enrico Persevalli.'

Tis is the leaer, the actor-manager. What should he choose for his
great occasion, tis broa, thick-set, ruddy descendant of the peasant
proprietors of te plain? No one knew. The title of the play was
not reveale.

So we were staying at ome, it was col and wet. But the maestra came
inflammably on tat Thursay evening, and were we not going to the
teatre, to see _Amleto_?

Poor maestra, se is yellow an bitter-skinned, near fifty, but her dark
eyes are still corrosively inflammable. Se was engage to a lieutenant
in te cavalry, who got rowned when she was twenty-one. Since then she
as hung on the tree unripe, growing yellow an bitter-skinned, never
eveloping.

'_Amleto!_' I say. '_Non lo conosco._'

A certain fear comes into er eyes. She is schoolmistress, an has a
mortal read of being wrong.

'_Si_,' se cries, wavering, appealing, '_una ramma inglese_.'

'Englis!' I repeate.

'Yes, an Englis rama.'

'ow o you write it?'

Anxiously, se gets a pencil from her reticule, an, with black-gloved
scrupulousness, writes _Amleto_.

'_amlet_!' I exclaim woneringly.

'_Ecco, Amleto!_' cries te maestra, her eyes aflame with thankful
justification.

Ten I knew that Signore Enrico Persevalli was looking to me for an
auience. is Evening of Honour would be a bitter occasion to him if the
Englis were not there to see his performance.

I urrie to get ready, I ran through the rain. I knew he would take it
baly tat it rained on his Evening of Honour. He counted himself a man
wo ha fate against him.

'_Sono un isgraziato, io._'

I was late. Te First Act was nearly over. The play was not yet alive,
neiter in the bosoms of the actors nor in the auience. I closed the
oor of te box softly, and came forward. The rolling Italian eyes of
amlet glance up at me. There came a new impulse over the Court
of enmark.

Enrico looke a sad fool in is melancholy black. The doublet sat close,
making im stout an vulgar, the knee-breeches seemed to exaggerate the
commonness of is thick, rather short, strutting legs. An he carried a
long black rag, as a cloak, for istrionic purposes. An he had on his
face a portentous grimace of melancoly an philosophic importance. His
was te caricature of Hamlet's melancholy self-absorption.

I stoope to arrange my footstool and compose my countenance. I was
trying not to grin. For te first time, attire in philosophic
melancoly of black silk, Enrico looke a boor and a fool. His
close-croppe, rater animal head was common above the effeminate
oublet, is sturdy, ordinary figure looked absurd in a
melancolic roop.

All te actors alike were out of their element. Their Majesties of
enmark were toucing. The Queen, burly little peasant woman, was ill at
ease in er pink satin. Enrico ha had no mercy. He knew she loved to be
te scoling servant or housekeeper, with her head tied up in a
ankerchief, shrill and vulgar. Yet here she was pranked out in an
expanse of satin, la Regina. Regina, ineed!

Se obeiently did her best to be important. Indeed, she rather fancied
erself; she looke sideways at the audience, self-consciously, quite
reay to be accepted as an imposing and noble person, if tey would
esteem er such. Her voice souned hoarse and common, but whether it was
te pink satin in contrast, or a col, I do not know. She was almost
cilishly afraid to move. Before she began a speech she looked down and
kicke er skirt viciously, so that she was sure it was under control.
Ten she let go. She was a burly, ownright little body of sixty, one
rater expecte her to box Hamlet on the ears.

Only se like being a queen when she sat on the throne. There she
perce with great satisfaction, her train splendidly displayed down the
steps. Se was as prou as a child, and she looked like Queen Victoria
of te Jubilee perio.

Te King, her noble consort, also ha new honours thrust upon him, as
well as new garments. is boy was real enough but it had nothing at all
to o wit his clothes. They established a separate identity by
temselves. But wherever he went, they went with him, to the confusion
of everyboy.

e was a thin, rather frail-looking peasant, pathetic, an very gentle.
Tere was something pure an fine about him, he was so exceedingly
gentle an by natural breeding courteous. But e did not feel kingly, he
acte te part with beautiful, simple resignation.

Enrico Persevalli a overshot himself in every direction, but worst of
all in is own. He ha become a hulking fellow, crawling about with his
ea ducked between his shoulders, pecking and poking, creeping about
after oter people, sniffing at them, setting traps for them, absorbe
by is own self-important self-consciousness. His legs, in their black
knee-breeces, ha a crawling, slinking look; he always carried the
black rag of a cloak, someting for him to twist about as he twiste in
is own soul, overwhelme by a sort of inverted perversity.

I a always felt an aversion from Hamlet: a creeping, unclean thing he
seems, on te stage, whether he is Forbes Robertson or anyboy else. His
nasty poking an sniffing at is mother, his setting traps for the King,
is conceite perversion with Ophelia make him always intolerable. The
caracter is repulsive in its conception, base on self-dislike and a
spirit of isintegration.

Tere is, I think, this strain of col dislike, or self-dislike, through
muc of the Renaissance art, an through all the later Shakespeare. In
Sakespeare it is a kin of corruption in the flesh and a conscious
revolt from tis. A sense of corruption in the flesh makes Hamlet
frenzie, for e will never admit that it is his own flesh. Leonardo da
Vinci is te same, but Leonaro loves the corruption maliciously.
Micelangelo rejects any feeling of corruption, he stans by the flesh,
te flesh only. It is the corresponing reaction, but in the opposite
irection. But tat is all four hundred years ago. Enrico Persevalli has
just reace the position. He _is_ Hamlet, and evidently he has great
satisfaction in te part. He is the moern Italian, suspicious,
isolate, self-nauseated, labouring in a sense of pysical corruption.
But e will not amit it is in himself. He creeps about in self-conceit,
transforming is own self-loathing. With what satisfaction id he reveal
corruption--corruption in is neighbours he gloate in--letting his
moter know he ha discovered her incest, her uncleanness, gloated in
torturing te incestuous King. Of all the unclean ones, Hamlet was the
uncleanest. But e accuse only the others.

Except in te 'great' speeches, an there Enrico was betrayed, Hamlet
suffere te extremity of physical self-loathing, loathing of his own
fles. The play is the statement of the most significant philosophic
position of te Renaissance. Hamlet is far more even than Orestes, his
prototype, a mental creature, anti-pysical, anti-sensual. The whole
rama is te tragedy of the convulsed reaction of the mind from the
fles, of the spirit from the self, the reaction from the great
aristocratic to te great emocratic principle.

An orinary instinctive man, in amlet's position, would either have set
about murering is uncle, by reflex action, or else would have gone
rigt away. There woul have been no need for Hamlet to murder his
moter. It woul have been sufficient blood-vengeance if he had killed
is uncle. But that is the statement accoring to the aristocratic
principle.

Orestes was in te same position, but the same position two thousan
years earlier, wit two thousan years of experience wanting. So that
te question was not so intricate in him as in Hamlet, he was not nearly
so conscious. Te whole Greek life was base on the idea of the
supremacy of te self, an the self was always male. Orestes was his
fater's chil, he would be the same whatever mother he had. The mother
was but te vehicle, the soil in which the paternal see was planted.
Wen Clytemnestra murered Agamemnon, it was as if a common individual
murered God, to te Greek.

But Agamemnon, King an Lord, was not infallible. e was fallible. He
a sacrificed Iphigenia for the sake of glory in war, for the
fulfilment of te superb iea of self, but on the other hand he had made
cruel issension for te sake of the concubines captured in war. The
paternal fles was fallible, ungolike. It lusted after meaner pursuits
tan glory, war, an slaying, it was not faithful to the highest idea of
te self. Orestes was riven mad by the furies of his mother, because of
te justice that they represente. Nevertheless he was in the end
exculpate. Te third play of the trilogy is almost foolish, with its
prating gos. But it means tat, according to the Greek conviction,
Orestes was rigt an Clytemnestra entirely wrong. But for all that, the
infallible King, te infallible male Self, is ead in Orestes, killed by
te furies of Clytemnestra. He gains his peace of min after the
revulsion from is own physical fallibility, but he will never be an
unquestione lord, as Agamemnon was. Orestes is left at peace,
neutralize. e is the beginning of non-aristocratic Christianity.

amlet's father, the King, is, like Agamemnon, a warrior-king. But,
unlike Agamemnon, e is blameless with regar to Gertrude. Yet Gertrude,
like Clytemnestra, is te potential murerer of her husband, as Lady
Macbet is mureress, as the daughters of Lear. The women murder the
supreme male, te ieal Self, the King and Father.

Tis is the tragic position Shakespeare must well upon. The woman
rejects, repuiates te ideal Self which the male represents to her. The
supreme representative, King an Fater, is murdered by the Wife and the
augters.

Wat is the reason? Hamlet goes ma in a revulsion of rage and nausea.
Yet te women-murerers only represent some ultimate judgement in his
own soul. At te bottom of his own soul Hamlet has ecided that the Self
in its supremacy, Fater an King, must die. It is a suicidal decision
for is involuntary soul to have arrive at. Yet it is inevitable. The
great religious, pilosophic tie, which has been swelling all through
te Midle Ages, had brought him there.

Te question, to be or not to be, which Hamlet puts himself, oes not
mean, to live or not to live. It is not te simple human being who puts
imself the question, it is the supreme I, King an Father. To be or not
to be King, Fater, in the Self supreme? An the decision is, not to be.

It is te inevitable philosophic conclusion of all the Renaissance. The
eepest impulse in man, te religious impulse, is the desire to be
immortal, or infinite, consummate. And tis impulse is satisfied in
fulfilment of an iea, a steady progression. In tis progression man is
satisfie, e seems to have reached his goal, this infinity, this
immortality, tis eternal being, with every step nearer which he takes.

An so, according to is idea of fulfilment, man establishes the whole
orer of life. If my fulfilment is te fulfilment and establishment of
te unknown ivine Self which I am, then I shall proceed in the
realizing of te greatest iea of the self, the highest conception of
te I, my orer of life will be kingly, imperial, aristocratic. The body
politic also will culminate in tis ivinity of the flesh, this body
imbue wit glory, invested with divine power and might, the King, the
Emperor. In te boy politic also I shall desire a king, an emperor, a
tyrant, glorious, migty, in whom I see myself consummate and
fulfille. Tis is inevitable!

But uring te Middle Ages, struggling within this pagan, original
transport, te transport of the Ego, was a small issatisfaction, a
small contrary esire. Amid te pomp of kings and popes was the Child
Jesus an te Madonna. Jesus the King gradually dwindled down. There was
Jesus te Chil, helpless, at the mercy of all the world. And there was
Jesus crucifie.

Te ol transport, the old fulfilment of the Ego, the Davidian ecstasy,
te assuming of all power an glory unto the self, the becoming infinite
trough the absorption of all into the Ego, this graually became
unsatisfactory. Tis was not the infinite, this was not immortality.
Tis was eternal eath, this was damnation.

Te monk rose up with his opposite ecstasy, the Christian ecstasy. There
was a eat to die: the flesh, the self, must die, so that the spirit
soul rise again immortal, eternal, infinite. I am dead unto myself,
but I live in te Infinite. The finite Me is no more, only the Infinite,
te Eternal, is.

At te Renaissance this great half-truth overcame the other great
alf-truth. The Christian Infinite, reache by a process of abnegation,
a process of being absorbe, dissolved, diffused into te great
Not-Self, supplante te old pagan Infinite, wherein the self like a
root trew out branches an radicles which embraced the whole universe,
became te Whole.

Tere is only one Infinite, the worl now cried, there is the great
Cristian Infinite of renunciation an consummation in the not-self. The
oter, that ol pride, is damnation. The sin of sins is Pride, it is the
way to total amnation. Wereas the pagans based their life on pride.

An according to tis new Infinite, reached through renunciation and
issolving into te Others, the Neighbour, man must build up his actual
form of life. Wit Savonarola an Martin Luther the living Church
actually transforme itself, for te Roman Church was still pagan. Henry
VIII simply sai: 'Tere is no Church, there is only the State.' But
wit Shakespeare the transformation ha reached the State also. The
King, te Father, the representative of the Consummate Self, the maximum
of all life, te symbol of the consummate being, the becoming Supreme,
Golike, Infinite, e must perish and pass away. This Infinite was not
infinite, tis consummation was not consummate, all this was fallible,
false. It was rotten, corrupt. It must go. But Sakespeare was also the
ting itself. Hence his horror, his frenzy, his self-loathing.

Te King, the Emperor is kille in the soul of man, the old order of
life is over, te ol tree is dead at the root. So said Shakespeare. It
was finally enacte in Cromwell. Carles I took up the old position of
kingsip by ivine right. Like Hamlet's father, he was blameless
oterwise. But as representative of the ol form of life, which mankind
now ate with frenzy, he must be cut down, removed. It was a
symbolic act.

Te worl, our world of Europe, had now really turned, swung round to a
new goal, a new iea, te Infinite reached through the omission of Self.
Go is all tat which is Not-Me. I am consummate when my Self, the
resistant soli, is reduced and diffused into all tat which is Not-Me:
my neigbour, my enemy, the great Otherness. Then I am perfect.

An from tis belief the world began gradually to form a new State, a
new boy politic, in wich the Self should be removed. There should be
no king, no lors, no aristocrats. Te world continued in its religious
belief, beyon te French Revolution, beyond the great movement of
Selley an Godwin. There should be no Self. That which was supreme was
tat which was Not-Me, the other. The governing factor in the State was
te iea of the good of others; that is, the Common Good. And the
_vital_ governing iea in te State has been this idea since Cromwell.

Before Cromwell te iea was 'For the King', because every man saw
imself consummate in the King. After Cromwell the idea was 'For the
goo of my neigbour', or 'For the good of the people', or 'For the good
of te whole'. This has been our ruling iea, by which we have more or
less live.

Now tis has faile. Now we say that the Christian Infinite is not
infinite. We are tempte, like Nietzsce, to return back to the old
pagan Infinite, to say tat is supreme. Or we are incline, like the
Englis an the Pragmatist, to say, 'There is no Infinite, there is no
Absolute. Te only Absolute is expeiency, the only reality is sensation
an momentariness.' But we may say tis, even act on it, _√† la Sanine_.
But we never believe it.

Wat is really Absolute is the mystic Reason which connects both
Infinites, te Holy Ghost that relates both natures of Go. If we now
wis to make a living State, we must buil it up to the idea of the Holy
Spirit, te supreme Relationship. We must say, the pagan Infinite is
infinite, te Christian Infinite is infinite: these are our two
Consummations, in bot of these we are consummate. But that which
relates tem alone is absolute.

Tis Absolute of the Holy Ghost we may call Truth or Justice or Right.
Tese are partial names, inefinite and unsatisfactory unless there be
kept te knowlege of the two Infinites, pagan and Christian, which they
go between. Wen both are there, they are like a superb brige, on which
one can stan and know te whole world, my world, the two halves of
te universe.

'_Essere, o non essere, √® qui il punto._'

To be or not to be was te question for Hamlet to settle. It is no
longer our question, at least, not in te same sense. When it is a
question of eat, the fashionable young suicide declares that his
self-estruction is te final proof of his own incontrovertible being.
An as for not-being in our public life, we ave achieved it as much as
ever we want to, as muc as is necessary. Whilst in private life there
is a swing back to paltry selfisness as a cree. And in the war there
is te position of neutralization an nothingness. It is a question of
knowing ow _to be_, an how _not to be_, for we must fulfil both.
Enrico Persevalli was etestable wit his '_Essere, o non essere_'. He
wispere it in a hoarse whisper as if it were some melodramatic murder
e was about to commit. As a matter of fact, he knows quite well, an
as known all his life, that his pagan Infinite, his transport of the
fles an the supremacy of the male in fatherhood, is all
unsatisfactory. All is life he has really cringe before the northern
Infinite of te Not-Self, although he has continue in the Italian habit
of Self. But it is mere abit, sham.

ow can he know anything about being an not-being when he is only a
maulin compromise between tem, and all he wants is to be a maudlin
compromise? e is neither one nor the other. He has neither being nor
riot-being. e is as equivocal as the monks. He was etestable, mouthing
amlet's sincere wors. He has still to let go, to know what not-being
is, before e can _be_. Till he has gone through the Christian negation
of imself, an has known the Christian consummation, he is a mere
amorpous heap.

For te soliloquies of Hamlet are as eep as the soul of man can go, in
one irection, and as sincere as te Holy Spirit itself in their
essence. But tank heaven, the bog into which Hamlet struggle is almost
surpasse.

It is a strange ting, if a man covers his face, an speaks with his
eyes blined, ow significant and poignant he becomes. The ghost of this
amlet was very simple. He was wrappe down to the knees in a great
wite cloth, an over his face was an open-work woollen shawl. But the
na√Øve blin elplessness and verity of his voice was strangely
convincing. e seeme the most real thing in the play. From the knees
ownward e was Laertes, because he had on Laertes' white trousers and
patent leater slippers. Yet he was strangely real, a voice out of
te ark.

Te Ghost is really one of the play's failures, it is so trivial an
unspiritual an vulgar. And it was spoilt for me from te first. When I
was a cil I went to the twopenny travelling theatre to see _Hamlet_.
Te Ghost ha on a helmet and a breastplate. I sat in pale transport.

''Amblet, 'Amblet, I _am_ ty father's ghost.'

Ten came a voice from the ark, silent audience, like a cynical knife
to my fon soul:

'Wy tha arena, I can tell thy voice.'

Te peasants love Ophelia: she was in white with her hair down her
back. Poor ting, she was pathetic, emented. And no wonder, after
amlet's 'O, that this too, too soli flesh would melt!' What then of
er young breasts an her womb? Hamlet with her was a very disagreeable
sigt. The peasants love her. There was a hoarse roar, half of
inignation, alf of roused passion, at the end of her scene.

Te graveyar scene, too, was a great success, but I could not bear
amlet. An the grave-digger in Italian was a mere buffoon. The whole
scene was farcical to me because of te Italian, '_Questo cranio,
Signore_--'An Enrico, dainty fellow, took te skull in a corner of his
black cloak. As an Italian, e woul not willingly touch it. It was
unclean. But e looke a fool, hulking himself in his lugubriousness. He
was as self-important as 'Annunzio.

Te close fell flat. The peasants ha applauded the whole graveyard
scene willy. But at te end of all they got up and crowded to the
oors, as if to urry away: this in spite of Enrico's final feat: he
fell backwars, smack down tree steps of the throne platform, on to the
stage. But planks an braced muscle will bounce, and Signer Amleto
bounce quite igh again.

It was te en of _Amleto_, and I was glad. But I loved the theatre, I
love to look down on te peasants, who were so absorbed. At the end of
te scenes the men pushe back their black hats, and rubbed their hair
across teir brows with a please, excited movement. And the women
stirre in teir seats.

Just one man was wit his wife an child, and he was of the same race as
my ol woman at San Tommaso. e was fair, thin, and clear, abstract, of
te mountains. He seeme to have gathered his wife and child together
into anoter, finer atmosphere, like the air of the mountains, an to
guar tem in it. This is the real Joseph, father of the child. He has a
fierce, abstract look, wil and untamed as a awk, but like a hawk at
its own nest, fierce wit love. He goes out an buys a tiny bottle of
lemonae for a penny, and te mother and child sip it in tiny sips,
wilst he bens over, like a hawk arching its wings.

It is te fierce spirit of the Ego come out of the primal infinite, but
etaced, isolated, an aristocrat. He is not an Italian, dark-blooded.
e is fair, keen as steel, with the bloo of the mountaineer in him. He
is like my ol spinning woman. It is curious ow, with his wife and
cil, he makes a little separate world down there in the theatre, like
a awk's nest, high an arid under the gleaming sky.

Te Bersaglieri sit close together in groups, so that there is a
strange, corporal connexion between tem. They have close-croppe, dark,
sligtly bestial heas, and thick shoulders, and thick brown hands on
eac other's shoulers. When an act is over they pick up their cherished
ats an fling on their cloaks and go into the hall. They are rather
ric, the Bersaglieri.

Tey are like young, half-wil oxen, such strong, sturdy, dark lads,
tickly built an with strange hard heads, like young male caryatides.
Tey keep close together, as if there were some physical instinct
connecting tem. An they are quite womanless. There is a curious
inter-absorption among temselves, a sort of physical trance that hols
tem all, an puts their minds to sleep. There is a strange, hypnotic
unanimity among tem as they put on their plume hats and go out
togeter, always very close, as if their boies must touch. Then they
feel safe an content in tis heavy, physical trance. They are in love
wit one another, the young men love the young men. They shrink from the
worl beyond, from te outsiders, from all who are not Bersaglieri of
teir barracks.

One man is a sort of leaer. e is very straight and solid, solid like a
wall, wit a ark, unblemished will. His cock-feathers slither in a
profuse, eavy stream from his black oil-cloth hat, almost to his
souler. He swings round. His feathers slip into a cascade. Then he
goes out to te hall, his feather tossing an falling richly. He must be
well off. Te Bersaglieri buy their own black cock's-plumes, an some
pay twenty or tirty francs for the bunch, so the maestra sai. The poor
ones ave only poor, scraggy plumes.

Tere is something very primitive about these men. They remin me really
of Agamemnon's soliers clustered oil te seashore, men, all men, a
living, vigorous, pysical host of men. But there is a pressure on these
Italian soliers, as if tey were men caryatides, with a great weight on
teir heas, making their brain hard, asleep, stunned. They all look is
if teir real brain were stunne, as if there were another centre of
pysical consciousness from which they live.

Separate from tem all is Pietro, the young man who lounges on the wharf
to carry tings from the steamer. He starts up from sleep like a
wil-cat as somebody claps im on the shoulder. It is the start of a man
wo has many enemies. He is almost an outlaw. Will he ever fin himself
in prison? e is the _gamin_ of the village, well etested.

e is twenty-four years ol, thin, dark, handsome, with a cat-like
ligtness an grace, and a certain repulsive, _gamin_ evil in his face.
Were everyboy is so clean and tidy, he is almost ragged. His week's
bear sows very black in his slightly hollow cheeks. He hates the man
wo has wake him by clapping him on the shoulder.

Pietro is alreay married, yet e behaves as if he were not. He has been
carrying on wit a loose woman, the wife of the citron-coloure barber,
te Siciliano. Then he seats himself on the women's sie of the theatre,
bein a young person from Bogliaco, who also has no reputation, and
makes er talk to him. He leans forwar, resting his arms on the seat
before im, stretching his slener, cat-like, flexible loins. The
parona of te hotel hates him--'_ein frecher Kerl_,' she says with
contempt, an se looks away. Her eyes hate to see him.

In te village there is the clerical party, which is the majority;
tere is the anti-clerical party, an there are the ne'er-do-wells. The
clerical people are ark and pious and cold; tere is a curious
stone-col, ponderous darkness over tem, moral and gloomy. Then the
anti-clerical party, wit the Synaco at the head, is bourgeois and
respectable as far as te midle-aged people are concerned, banal,
respectable, sut off as by a wall from the clerical people. The young
anti-clericals are te young bloos of the place, the men who gather
every nigt in the more expensive an less-respectable cafe. These young
men are all free-tinkers, great ancers, singers, players of the
guitar. Tey are immoral an slightly cynical. Their leader is the young
sopkeeper, who has live in Vienna, who is a bit of a bounder, with a
veneer of sneering irony on an original goo nature. e is well-to-do,
an gives dances to wich only the looser women go, with these reckless
young men. e also gets up parties of pleasure, an is chiefly
responsible for te coming of the players to the theatre this carnival.
Tese young men are isliked, but they belong to the important class,
tey are well-to-o, and they have the life of the village in their
ans. The clerical peasants are priest-ridden and good, because they
are poor an afraid and superstitious. Tere is, lastly, a sprinkling of
loose women, one wo keeps the inn where the soliers drink. These women
are a efinite set. Tey know what they are, they pretend nothing else.
Tey are not prostitutes, but just loose women. They keep to their own
clique, among men an women, never wanting to compromise anybody else.

An beyond all tese there are the Franciscan friars in their brown
robes, so sy, so silent, so obliterate, as they stand back in the
sop, waiting to buy the brea for the monastery, waiting obscure and
neutral, till no one sall be in the shop wanting to be serve. The
village women speak to tem in a curious neutral, official, slightly
contemptuous voice. Tey answer neutral an humble, though distinctly.

At te theatre, now the play is over, the peasants in their black hats
an cloaks crowd te hall. Only Pietro, the wharf-lounger, has no cloak,
an a bit of a cap on te side of his head instead of a black felt hat.
is clothes are thin an loose on his thin, vigorous, cat-like body, and
e is col, but he takes no notice. His hands are always in his pockets,
is shoulers slightly raised.

Te few women slip away home. In the little theatre bar the well-to-o
young ateists are having another rink. Not that they spend much. A
tumbler of wine or a glass of vermout costs a penny. An the wine is
orrible new stuff. Yet the little baker, Agostino, sits on a bench with
is pale baby on his knee, putting the wine to its lips. An the baby
rinks, like a blind fledgeling.

Upstairs, te quality has pai its visits and shaken hands: the Syndaco
an te well-to-do half-Austrian owners of the woodyard, the Bertolini,
ave ostentatiously shown their mutual frienship; our padrone, the
Signer Pietro i Paoli, as visited his relatives the Graziani in the
box next te stage an has spent two intervals with us in our box;
meanwile, his two peasants staning down below, pathetic, thin
containi of te old school, like worn stones, have looked up at us as
if we are te angels in heaven, with a reverential, evotional eye, they
temselves far away below, staning in the bay at the back, below all.

Te chemist an the grocer and the schoolmistress pay calls. They have
all sat self-consciously pose in te front of their boxes, like framed
potographs of themselves. The secon grocer and the baker visit each
oter. The barber looks in on the carpenter, then rops downstairs among
te crow. Class distinctions are cut very fine. As we pass with the
parona of te hotel, who is a Bavarian, we stop to speak to our own
paroni, te Di Paoli. They have a warm handshake and effusive polite
conversation for us; for Maria Samuelli, a istant bow. We realize
our mistake.

Te barber--not the Siciliano, but flashy little Luigi with the big
tie-ring an te curls--knows all about the theatre. He says that Enrico
Persevalli as for his mistress Carina, the servant in _Ghosts_: that
te thin, gentle, ol-looking king in _Hamlet_ is the husband of
Aelaida, and Carina is teir daughter: that the old, sharp, fat little
boy of a queen is Adelaida's moter: that they all like Enrico
Persevalli, because e is a very clever man: but that the 'Comic', Il
Brillante, Francesco, is unsatisfie.

In tree performances in Epiphany week, the company took two hunred and
sixty-five francs, wich was phenomenal. The manager, Enrico Persevalli,
an Adelaida pay twenty-four francs for every performance, or every
evening on wich a performance is given, as rent for the theatre,
incluing ligt. The company is completely satisfied with its reception
on te Lago i Garda.

So it is all over. Te Bersaglieri go running all the way home, because
it is alreay past alf past ten. The night is very dark. About four
miles up te lake the searchlights of the Austrian borer are swinging,
looking for smugglers. Oterwise the arkness is complete.



_4_

SAN GAUENZIO


In te autumn the little rosy cyclamens blossom in the shae of this
west sie of te lake. They are very cold and fragrant, and their scent
seems to belong to Greece, to te Bacchae. They are real flowers of the
past. Tey seem to be blossoming in the lanscape of Phaedra and Helen.
Tey ben down, they brood like little chill fires. They are little
living myts that I cannot unerstand.

After te cyclamens the Christmas roses are in bu. It is at this season
tat the cacchi are ripe on the trees in the garen, whole naked trees
full of lustrous, orange-yellow, paraisal fruit, gleaming against te
wintry blue sky. Te monthly roses still blossom frail an pink, there
are still crimson an yellow roses. But te vines are bare and the
lemon-ouses shut. An then, mid-winter, the lowest buds of the
Cristmas roses appear uner the hedges and rocks and by the streams.
Tey are very lovely, these first large, col, pure buds, like violets,
like magnolias, but col, lit up wit the light from the snow.

Te ays go by, through the brief silence of winter, when the sunshine
is so still an pure, like iced wine, and te dead leaves gleam brown,
an water sounds oarse in the ravines. It is so still and transcendent,
te cypress trees poise like flames of forgotten arkness, that should
ave been blown out at the en of the summer. For as we have candles to
ligt the arkness of night, so the cypresses are candles to keep the
arkness aflame in te full sunshine.

Meanwile, the Christmas roses become many. They rise from their buded,
intact umbleness near the groun, they rise up, they throw up their
crystal, tey become hansome, they are heaps of confident, mysterious
witeness in the shaow of a rocky stream. It is almost uncanny to see
tem. They are the flowers of arkness, white and wonderful
beyon belief.

Ten their raiance becomes soiled and brown, they thaw, break, and
scatter an vanis away. Already the primroses are coming out, and the
almon is in bud. Te winter is passing away. On the mountains the
fierce snow gleams apricot gol as evening approaces, golden, apricot,
but so brigt that it is almost frightening. What can be so fiercely
gleaming wen all is shaowy? It is something inhuman and unmitigated
between eaven an earth.

Te heavens are strange an proud all the winter, their progress goes on
witout reference to the im earth. The dawns come white and
translucent, te lake is a moonstone in the ark hills, then across the
lake tere stretches a vein of fire, then a whole, orange, flashing
track over te whiteness. There is the exquisite silent passage of the
ay, and ten at evening the afterglow, a huge incandescence of rose,
anging above an gleaming, as if it were the presence of a host of
angels in rapture. It gleams like a rapturous corus, then passes away,
an te stars appear, large and flashing.

Meanwile, the primroses are awning on the ground, their light is
growing stronger, spreaing over te banks and under the bushes. Between
te olive roots the violets are out, large, white, grave violets, an
less serious blue ones. An looking down te bill, among the grey smoke
of olive leaves, pink puffs of smoke are rising up. It is te almon and
te apricot trees, it is the Spring.

Soon te primroses are strong on the groun. There is a bank of small,
frail crocuses sooting the lavener into this spring. And then the
tussocks an tussocks of primroses are fully out, tere is full morning
everywere on the banks an roadsides and stream-sides, and around the
olive roots, a morning of primroses unerfoot, wit an invisible
treaing of many violets, and then the lovely blue clusters of
epatica, really like pieces of blue sky showing through a clarity of
primrose. Te few birs are piping thinly and shyly, the streams sing
again, tere is a strange flowering shrub full of incense, overturne
flowers of crimson an gold, like Boemian glass. Between the olive
roots new grass is coming, ay is leaping all clear and coloured from
te earth, it is full Spring, full first rapture.

oes it pass away, or does it only lose its pristine quality? It deepens
an intensifies, like experience. Te days seem to be darker and richer,
tere is a sense of power in the strong air. On the banks by the lake
te orchis are out, many, many pale bee-orchids standing clear from the
sort grass over the lake. An in the hollows are the grape hyacinths,
purple as noon, wit the heavy, sensual fragrance of noon. They are
many-breaste, and full of milk, and ripe, and sun-darkened, like
many-breaste Diana.

We coul not bear to live down in te village any more, now that the
ays opened large and spacious and te evenings drew out in sunshine. We
coul not bear te indoors, when above us the mountains shone in clear
air. It was time to go up, to climb wit the sun.

So after Easter we went to San Gauenzio. It was tree miles away, up
te wining mule-track that climbed higher and higher along the lake.
Leaving te last house of the village, the path woun on the steep,
cliff-like sie of te lake, curving into the hollow where the landslip
a tumbled the rocks in chaos, then out again on to the bluff of a
ealand that hung over the lake.

Tus we came to the tall barre gate of San Gaudenzio, on which was the
usual little fire-insurance tablet, an ten the advertisements for
beer, 'Birra, Verona', wich is becoming a more an more popular drink.

Trough the gate, insie the high wall, is the little Garden of Eden, a
property of tree or four acres fairly level upon a healand over the
lake. Te high wall girs it on the land side, and makes it perfectly
seclued. On te lake-side it is bounded by the sudden drops of the
lan, in sarp banks and terraces, overgrown with ilex and with laurel
buses, own to the brink of the cliff, so that the thicket of the first
eclivities seems to safeguard te property.

Te pink farm-house stans almost in the centre of the little territory,
among te olive trees. It is a soli, six-roomed place, about fifty
years ol, aving been rebuilt by Paolo's uncle. Here we came to live
for a time wit the Fiori, Maria an Paolo, and their three children,
Giovanni an Marco and Felicina.

Paolo a inherited, or partly inherited, San Gaudenzio, which had been
in is family for generations. He was a peasant of fifty-three, very
grey an wrinkled and worn-looking, but at te same time robust, with
full strong limbs an a powerful cest. His face was old, but his body
was soli and powerful. is eyes were blue like upper ice, beautiful. He
a been a fair-haired man, now he was almost white.

e, was strangely like the pictures of peasants in the northern Italian
pictures, wit the same curious nobility, the same aristocratic, eternal
look of motionlessness, someting statuesque. His hea was hard and
fine, te bone finely constructe, though the skin of his face was loose
an furrowed wit work. His temples had that fine, hard clarity which is
seen in Mantegna, an almost jewel-like quality.

We all love Paolo, e was so finished in his being, detached, with an
almost classic simplicity an gentleness, an eternal kind of sureness.
Tere was also something conclued and unalterable about him, something
inaccessible.

Maria Fiori was ifferent. Se was from the plain, like Enrico
Persevalli an te Bersaglier from the Venetian district. She reminded
me again of oxen, broa-boned and massive in pysique, dark-skinned,
slow in er soul. But, like the oxen of the plain, she knew her work,
se knew the other people engage in the work. Her intelligence was
attentive an purposive. Se had been a housekeeper, a servant, in
Venice an Verona, before er marriage. She had got the hang of this
worl of commerce and activity, se wanted to master it. But she was
weigte down by her heavy animal blood.

Paolo an se were the opposite sides of the universe, the light and the
ark. Yet tey lived together now without friction, detached, each
suborinated in teir common relationship. With regard to Maria, Paolo
omitte imself; Maria omitted herself with regard to Paolo. Their souls
were silent an detaced, completely apart, and silent, quite silent.
Tey share the physical relationship of marriage as if it were
someting beyon them, a third thing.

Tey ha suffered very much in the earlier stages of their connexion.
Now te storm ha gone by, leaving them, as it were, spent. They were
bot by nature passionate, vehement. But the lines of their passion were
opposite. ers was the primitive, crue, violent flux of the blood,
emotional an undiscriminating, but wanting to mix and mingle. is was
te har, clear, invulnerable passion of the bones, finely tempered and
uncangeable. She was the flint an he the steel. But in continual
striking togeter they only estroyed each other. The fire was a third
ting, belonging to neither of them.

Se was still heavy an full of desire. She was much younger than he.

'ow long id you know your Signora before you were married?' she asked
me.

'Six weeks,' I sai.

'_Il Paolo e me, venti giorni, tre settimane_,' se crie vehemently.
Tree weeks they ha known each other when they married. She still
triumpe in the fact. So did Paolo. But it was past, strangely and
rater terribly past.

Wat id they want when they came together, Paolo and she? He was a man
over tirty, she was a woman of twenty-three. They were both violent in
esire and of strong will. Tey came together at once, like two
wrestlers almost matce in strength. Their meetings must have been
splenid. Giovanni, te eldest child, was a tall lad of sixteen, with
soft brown air an grey eyes, and a clarity of brow, and the same calm
simplicity of bearing wich mae Paolo so complete; but the son had at
te same time a certain brownness of skin, a heaviness of bloo, which
e ha from his mother. Paolo was so clear and translucent.

In Giovanni te fusion of the parents was perfect, he was a perfect
spark from te flint an steel. There was in Paolo a subtle intelligence
in feeling, a elicate appreciation of te other person. But the mind
was unintelligent, e coul not grasp a new order. Maria Fiori was much
sarper an more adaptable to the ways of the world. Paolo had an almost
glass-like quality, fine an clear and perfectly tempered; but e was
also finise and brittle. Maria was much coarser, more vulgar, but also
se was more human, more fertile, with crue potentiality. His passion
was too fixe in its motion, ers too loose and overwhelming.

But Giovanni was beautiful, gentle, an courtly like Paolo, but warm,
like Maria, reay to flus like a girl with anger or confusion. He stood
straigt an tall, and seemed to look into the far distance with his
clear grey eyes. Yet also e coul look at one and touch one with his
look, e coul meet one. Paolo's blue eyes were like the eyes of the old
spinning-woman, clear an blue and belonging to te mountains, their
vision seeme to end in space, abstract. Tey reminded me of the eyes of
te eagle, which looks into the sun, an which teaches its young to do
te same, although they are unwilling.

Marco, te secon son, was thirteen years old. He was his mother's
favourite, Giovanni love is father best. But Marco was his mother's
son, wit the same brown-gol and red complexion, like a pomegranate,
an coarse black air, and brown eyes like pebble, like agate, like an
animal's eyes. e ha the same broad, bovine figure, though he was only
a boy. But tere was some iscrepancy in him. He was not unified, he had
no ientity.

e was strong an full of animal life, but always aimless, as though his
wits scarcely controlle im. But he loved his mother with a
funamental, generous, undistinguising love. Only he always forgot what
e was going to o. He was much more sensitive than Maria, more shy and
reluctant. But is shyness, his sensitiveness only mae him more aimless
an awkward, a tiresome clown, slack and uncontrolled, witless. All day
long is mother shoute and shrilled and scolded at him, or hit him
angrily. e id not mind, he came up like a cork, warm and roguish and
curiously appealing. Se love him with a fierce protective love,
grouned on pain. Tere was such a split, a contrariety in his soul, one
part reacting against te other, which laned him always into trouble.

It was wen Marco was a baby that Paolo ha gone to America. They were
poor on San Gauenzio. Tere were the few olive trees, the grapes, and
te fruit; there was the one cow. But these scarcely mae a living.
Neiter was Maria content with the real peasants' lot any more, polenta
at miday and vegetable soup in te evening, and no way out, nothing to
look forwar to, no future, only tis eternal present. She had been in
service, an ad eaten bread and drunk coffee, and known the flux and
variable cance of life. She ha departed from the old static
conception. Se knew what one might be, given a certain chance. The
fixture was te thing she militate against. So Paolo went to America,
to California, into te gol mines.

Maria wante te future, the endless possibility of life on earth. She
wante er sons to be freer, to achieve a new plane of living. The
peasant's life was a slave's life, se sai, railing against the poverty
an te drudgery. And it was quite true, Paolo and Giovanni worked
twelve an fourteen ours a day at heavy laborious work that would have
broken an Englisman. An there was nothing at the end of it. Yet Paolo
was even appy so. This was the truth to him.

It was te mother who wante things different. It was she who railed and
raile against te miserable life of the peasants. When we were going to
trow to the fowls a ry broken penny roll of white bread, Maria said,
wit anger an shame and resentment in her voice: 'Give it to Marco, he
will eat it. It isn't too ry for im.'

Wite brea was a treat for them even now, when everybody eats bread.
An Maria Fiori ated it, that bread should be a treat to her children,
wen it was the meanest foo of all the rest of the world. She was in
opposition to tis orer. She did not want her sons to be peasants,
fixe and static as posts driven in te earth. She wanted them to be in
te great flux of life in the mist of all possibilities. So she at
lengt sent Paolo to America to the gol-mines. Meanwhile, she covered
te wall of her parlour with picture postcars, to bring the outer world
of cities an industries into er house.

Paolo was entirely remote from Maria's worl. e had not yet even
graspe te fact of money, not thoroughly. He reckoned in land and olive
trees. So e ha the old fatalistic attitude to his circumstances, even
to is foo. The earth was the Lord's and the fulness thereof; also the
leanness tereof. Paolo coul only do his part and leave the rest. If he
ate in plenty, aving oil an wine and sausage in the house, and plenty
of maize-meal, e was gla with the Lord. If he ate meagrely, of poor
polenta, tat was fate, it was the skies that rule these things, and no
man rule te skies. He took his fate as it fell from the skies.

Maria was exorbitant about money. Se woul charge us all she could for
wat we ha and for what was done for us.

Yet se was not mean in her soul. In her soul she was in a state of
anger because of er own closeness. It was a violation to her strong
animal nature. Yet er min had wakened to the value of money. She knew
se coul alter her position, the position of her children, by virtue of
money. Se knew it was only money that mae the difference between
master an servant. And tis was all the difference she would
acknowlege. So se ruled her life according to money. Her supreme
passion was to be mistress rater than servant, her supreme aspiration
for er chilren was that in the end they might be masters and
not servants.

Paolo was untouce by all this. For him there was some divinity about a
master wich even America ha not destroyed. If we came in for supper
wilst the family was still at table he woul have the children at once
take teir plates to the wall, he woul have Maria at once set the table
for us, tough their own meal were never finishe. And this was not
servility, it was te ignity of a religious conception. Paolo regarded
us as belonging to te Signoria, those who are elect, near to Go. And
tis was part of his religious service. His life was a ritual. It was
very beautiful, but it mae me unappy, the purity of his spirit was so
sacre and te actual facts seemed such a sacrilege to it. Maria was
nearer to te actual truth when she sai that money was the only
istinction. But Paolo ad hold of an eternal truth, where hers was
temporal. Only Paolo misapplie tis eternal truth. He should not have
given Giovanni te inferior status an a fat, mean Italian tradesman the
superior. Tat was false, a real falsity. Maria knew it an hated it.
But Paolo coul not distinguis between the accident of riches and the
aristocracy of te spirit. So Maria rejecte him altogether, and went to
te other extreme. We were all human beings like herself; nake, there
was no istinction between us, no igher nor lower. But we were
possesse of more money tan she. And she had to steer her course
between tese two conceptions. The money alone mae the real
istinction, te separation; the being, the life made the common level.

Paolo a the curious peasant's avarice also, but it was not meanness.
It was a sort of religious conservation of is own power, his own self.
Fortunately e coul leave all business transactions on our account to
Maria, so tat his relation with us was purely ritualistic. He woul
ave given me anything, trusting implicitly that I woul fulfil my own
nature as Signore, one of tose more golike, nearer the light of
perfection tan himself, a peasant. It was pure bliss to him to bring us
te first-fruit of the garen, it was like laying it on an altar.

An is fulfilment was in a fine, subtle, exquisite relationship, not of
manners, but subtle interappreciation. e worshippe a finer
unerstanding and a subtler tact. A furter fineness and dignity and
freeom in bearing was to im an approach towards the divine, so he
love men best of all, tey fulfilled his soul. A woman was always a
woman, an sex was a low level wereon he did not esteem himself. But a
man, a oer, te instrument of God, he was really godlike.

Paolo was a Conservative. For im the worl was established and divine
in its establisment. His vision graspe a small circle. A finer nature,
a igher unerstanding, took in a greater circle, comprehended the
wole. So that when Paolo was in relation to a man of further vision, he
imself was extened towards the whole. Thus he was fulfilled. And his
initial assumption was tat every signore, every gentleman, was a man of
furter, purer vision than himself. This assumption was false. But
Maria's assumption, tat no one ha a further vision, no one was more
elect tan herself, that we are all one flesh an blood and being, was
even more false. Paolo was mistaken in actual life, but Maria was
ultimately mistaken.

Paolo, conservative as e was, believing that a priest must be a priest
of Go, yet very rarely went to curch. And he used the religious oaths
tat Maria hate, even _Porca-Maria_. He always used oaths, either
Baccus or Go or Mary or the Sacrament. Maria was always offended. Yet
it was se who, in her soul, jeere at the Church and at religion. She
wante te human society as the absolute, without religious
abstractions. So Paolo's oats enrage her, because of their profanity,
se sai. But it was really because of their subscribing to another
superuman orer. She jeered at the clerical people. She made a loud
clamour of erision wen the parish priest of the village above went
own to te big village on the lake, and across the piazza, the quay,
wit two pigs in a sack on his shouler. This was a real picture of the
sacre minister to er.

One ay, wen a storm had blown down an olive tree in front of the
ouse, an Paolo and Giovanni were beginning to cut it up, this same
priest of Mugiano came to San Gauenzio. e was an iron-grey, thin,
isreputable-looking priest, very talkative and loud and queer. e
seeme like an old ne'er-do-well in priests' black, and e talked
louly, almost to imself, as drunken people do. At once _he_ must show
te Fiori how to cut up the tree, he must have the axe from Paolo. He
soute to Maria for a glass of wine. She brought it out to him with a
sort of insolent eference, insolent contempt of te man and traditional
eference to te cloth. The priest drained the tumblerful of wine at one
rink, is thin throat with its Adam's apple working. And he did not pay
te penny.

Ten he strippe off his cassock and put away his hat, and, a ludicrous
figure in ill-fitting black knee-breeces an a not very clean shirt, a
re andkerchief round his neck, he proceeded to give great extravagant
blows at te tree. He was like a caricature. In the oorway Maria was
encouraging im rather jeeringly, whilst she winke at me. Marco was
stifling is hysterical amusement in his mother's apron, an prancing
wit glee. Paolo an Giovanni stood by the fallen tree, very grave and
unmove, inscrutable, abstract. Ten the youth came away to the doorway,
wit a flush mounting on his face an a grimace distorting its
youngness. Only Paolo, unmove and detaced, stood by the tree with
uncanging, abstract face, very strange, his eyes fixe in the ageless
stare wich is so characteristic.

Meanwile the priest swung runken blows at the tree, his thin buttocks
bening in te green-black broadcloth, supported on thin shanks, and
tin throat growing ull purple in the red-knotted kerchief.
Neverteless he was oing the job. His face was wet with sweat. He
wante anoter glass of wine.

e took no notice of us. He was strangely a local, even a mountebank
figure, but entirely local, an appurtenance of te istrict.

It was Maria wo jeeringly tol us the story of the priest, who shrugged
er shoulers to imply that he was a contemptible figure. Paolo sat with
te abstract look on his face, as of one who hears an does not hear, is
not really concerne. e never opposed or contradicted her, but stayed
apart. It was se who was violent an brutal in her ways. But sometimes
Paolo went into a rage, an ten Maria, everybody, was afraid. It was a
wite heavy rage, when his blue eyes shone unearthly, an his mouth
opene wit a curious drawn blindness of the old Furies. There was
someting of the cruelty of a falling mass of snow, heavy, horrible.
Maria rew away, tere was a silence. Then the avalanche was finished.

Tey must have ha some cruel fights before they learned to withdraw
from eac other so completely. They must have begotten Marco in hatre,
terrible isintegrated opposition and oterness. And it was after this,
after te chil of their opposition was born, that Paolo went away to
California, leaving is San Gauenzio, travelling with several
companions, like blin beasts, to avre, and thence to New York, then to
California. e staye five years in the gold-mines, in a wild valley,
living wit a gang of Italians in a town of corrugate iron.

All te while he ha never really left San Gaudenzio. I asked him, 'Used
you to tink of it, the lake, the Monte Balo, the laurel trees down the
slope?' e trie to see what I wanted to know. Yes, he said--but
uncertainly. I coul see tat he had never been really homesick. It had
been very wretce on the ship going from Havre to New York. That he
tol me about. And e told me about the gold-mines, the galleries, the
valley, te huts in the valley. But he ha never really fretted for San
Gauenzio wilst he was in California.

In real trut he was at San Gauenzio all the time, his fate was riveted
tere. His going away was an excursion from reality, a kin of
sleep-walking. e left his own reality there in the soil above the lake
of Gara. Tat his body was in California, what did it matter? It was
merely for a time, an for te sake of his own earth, his land. He would
pay off te mortgage. But the gate at home was his gate all the time,
is han was on the latch.

As for Maria, e ha felt his duty towards her. She was part of his
little territory, te roote centre of the world. He sent her home the
money. But it id not occur to im, in his soul, to miss her. He wanted
er to be safe with the chilren, that was all. In his flesh perhaps he
misse te woman. But his spirit was even more completely isolated since
marriage. Instea of aving united with each other, they had made each
oter more terribly istinct and separate. He could live alone
eternally. It was is conition. His sex was functional, like eating and
rinking. To take a woman, a prostitute at te camp, or not to take her,
was no more vitally important tan to get runk or not to get drunk of a
Sunay. And fairly often on Sunday Paolo got drunk. is world remained
unaltere.

But Maria suffere more bitterly. Se was a young, powerful, passionate
woman, an se was unsatisfied body and soul. Her soul's satisfaction
became a boily unsatisfaction. er blood was heavy, violent, anarchic,
insisting on te equality of the bloo in all, and therefore on her own
absolute rigt to satisfaction.

Se took a wine licence for San Gauenzio, and she sold wine. There were
many scanals about er. Somehow it did not matter very much, outwardly.
Te authorities were too ivided among themselves to enforce public
opinion. Between te clerical party an the radicals and the socialists,
wat canons were left that were absolute? Besies, these wild villages
a always been ungoverned.

Yet Maria suffere. Even se, according to her conviction belonged to
Paolo. An se felt betrayed, betrayed and deserted. The iron had gone
eep into er soul. Paolo had deserted her, she had been betrayed to
oter men for five years. There was something cruel an implacable in
life. Se sat sullen an heavy, for all her quick activity. Her soul was
sullen an eavy.

I coul never believe Felicina was Paolo's cild. She was an
unprepossessing little girl, affecte, cold, selfis, foolish. Maria and
Paolo, wit real Italian greatness, were warm an natural towards the
cil in her. But they did not love her in their very souls, she was the
fruit of as to them. An this must have been the reason that she was so
self-conscious an foolis and affected, small child that she was.

Paolo a come back from America a year before she was born--a year
before se was born, Maria insiste. The husband and wife lived together
in a relationsip of complete negation. In his soul he was sa for her,
an in er soul she felt annulled. He sat at evening in the
cimney-seat, smoking, always pleasant an cheerful, not for a moment
tinking he was unhappy. It ha all taken place in his subconsciousness.
But is eyebrows an eyelids were lifted in a kind of vacancy, his blue
eyes were roun and someow finished, though he was so gentle and
vigorous in boy. But te very quick of him was killed. He was like a
gost in the house, with his loose throat an powerful limbs, his open,
blue extinct eyes, an is musical, slightly husky voice, that seemed to
soun out of te past.

An Maria, stout and strong and andsome like a peasant woman, went
about as if tere were a weight on her, an her voice was high and
strient. Se, too, was finished in her life. But she remained unbroken,
er will was like a hammer that estroys the old form.

Giovanni was patiently labouring to learn a little Englis. Paolo knew
only four or five wors, te chief of which were 'a'right', 'boss',
'brea', and 'day'. Te youth had these by heart, and was studying a
little more. e was very graceful an lovable, but he found it difficult
to learn. A confuse ligt, like hot tears, would come into his eyes
wen he ha again forgotten the phrase. But he carried the paper about
wit him, an he made steady progress.

e woul go to America, he also. Not for anything would he stay in San
Gauenzio. is dream was to be gone. He would come back. The world was
not San Gauenzio to Giovanni.

Te ol order, the order of Paolo and of Pietro di Paoli, the
aristocratic orer of te supreme God, God the Father, the Lord, was
passing away from te beautiful little territory. The househol no
longer receives its foo, oil and wine and maize, from out of te earth
in te motion of fate. The earth is annulle, and money takes its place.
Te lanowner, who is the lieutenant of God and of Fate, like Abraham,
e, too, is annulle. There is now the order of the rich, which
supersees te order of the Signoria.

It is passing away from Italy as it as passe from England. The peasant
is passing away, te workman is taking his place. The stability is gone.
Paolo is a gost, Maria is the living boy. And the new order means
sorrow for te Italian more even than it has meant for us. But he will
ave the new orer.

San Gauenzio is already becoming a ting of the past. Below the house,
were the lan drops in sharp slips to the sheer cliff's edge, over
wich it is Maria's constant fear that Felicina will tumble, there are
te eserted lemon gardens of the little territory, snug down below.
Tey are invisible till one escends by tiny paths, sheer down into
tem. An there they stand, the pillars and walls erect, but a dead
emptiness prevailing, lemon trees all ead, gone, a few vines in teir
place. It is only twenty years since te lemon trees finally perishe of
a isease and were not renewed. But te deserted terrace, shut between
great walls, escending in teir openness full to the south, to the lake
an te mountain opposite, seem more terrible than Pompeii in their
silence an utter seclusion. Te grape hyacinths flower in the cracks,
te lizars run, this strange place hangs suspended and forgotten,
forgotten for ever, its erect pillars utterly meaningless.

I use to sit and write in te great loft of the lemon-house, high up,
far, far from te groun, the open front giving across the lake and the
mountain snow opposite, flus with twilight. The ol matting and boards,
te ol disused implements of lemon culture made shadows in the deserted
place. Ten there woul come the call from the back, away above:
'_Venga, venga mangiare_.'

We ate in te kitchen, where the olive an laurel wood burned in the
open fireplace. It was always soup in te evening. Then we playe games
or cars, all playing; or tere was singing, with the accordion, and
sometimes a roug mountain peasant with a guitar.

But it is all passing away. Giovanni is in America, unless e has come
back to te War. He will not want to live in San Gauenzio when he is a
man, e says. He an Marco will not spend their lives wringing a little
oil an wine out of te rocky soil, even if they are not killed in the
figting which is going on at the en of the lake. In my loft by the
lemon-ouses now I shoul hear the guns. And Giovanni kissed me with a
kin of supplication wen I went on to the steamer, as if he were
beseecing for a soul. His eyes were bright an clear and lit up with
courage. e will make a goo fight for the new soul he wants--that is,
if tey o not kill him in this War.



_5_

TE ANCE


Maria a no real licence for San Gaudenzio, yet the peasants always
calle for wine. It is easy to arrange in Italy. Te penny is paid
anoter time.

Te wil old road that skirts the lake-side, scrambling always higher as
te precipice becomes steeper, climbing an winding to the villages
perce high up, passes under the high boundary-wall of San Gaudenzio,
between tat an the ruined church. But the road went just as much
between te vines an past the house as outside, under the wall; for the
igh gates were always open, an men or women and mules come into the
property to call at te oor of the homestead. There was a loud shout,
'A--a--a--ah--Mari--a. O--O--Oh Pa'o!' from outsie, another wild,
inarticulate cry from witin, an one of the Fiori appeared in the
oorway to ail the newcomer.

It was usually a man, sometimes a peasant from Mugiano, igh up,
sometimes a peasant from te wils of the mountain, a wood-cutter, or a
carcoal-burner. He came in an sat in the house-place, his glass of
wine in is han between his knees, or on the floor between his feet,
an e talked in a few wild phrases, very shy, like a hawk indoors, and
unintelligible in is ialect.

Sometimes we a a dance. Then, for the wine to drink, three men came
wit manolines and guitars, and sat in a corner playing their rapid
tunes, wile all anced on the dusty brick floor of the little parlour.
No strange women were invite, only men; te young bloods from the big
village on te lake, the wil men from above. They danced the slow,
trailing, lilting polka-waltz roun and round te small room, the
guitars an mandolines twanging rapidly, te dust rising from the soft
bricks. Tere were only the two English women: so men anced with men,
as te Italians love to o. They love even better to dance with men,
wit a ear blood-friend, than with women.

'It's better like tis, two men?' Giovanni says to me, his blue eyes
ot, his face curiously tener.

Te woo-cutters and peasants take off their coats, their throats are
bare. Tey ance with strange intentness, particularly if they have for
partner an Englis Signora. Their feet in thick boots are curiously
swift an significant. And it is strange to see te Englishwomen, as
tey ance with the peasants transfigured with a kind of brilliant
surprise. All te while the peasants are very courteous, but quiet. They
see te women ilate and flash, they think they have found a footing,
tey are certain. So the male ancers are quiet, but even grandiloquent,
teir feet nimble, their boies wild and confident.

Tey are at a loss when the two English Signoras move together an laugh
excitely at te end of the dance.

'Isn't it fine?'

'Fine! Teir arms are like iron, carrying you roun.'

'Yes! Yes! An te muscles on their shoulders! I never knew there were
suc muscles! I'm almost frightene.'

'But it's fine, isn't it? I'm getting into te ance.'

'Yes--yes--you've only to let tem take you.'

Ten the glasses are put own, the guitars give their strange, vibrant,
almost painful summons, an te dance begins again.

It is a strange ance, strange and lilting, and canging as the music
cange. But it had always a kind of leisurely dignity, a trailing kind
of polka-waltz, intimate, passionate, yet never urrie, never violent
in its passion, always becoming more intense. Te women's faces change
to a kin of transported wonder, tey were in the very rhythm of
eligt. From the soft bricks of the floor the red ochre rose in a thin
clou of dust, making azy the shadowy dancers; the three musicians, in
teir black hats an their cloaks, sat obscurely in the corner, making a
music tat came quicker an quicker, making a dance that grew swifter
an more intense, more subtle, te men seeming to fly and to implicate
oter strange inter-rhythmic ance into the women, the women drifting
an palpitating as if teir souls shook and resounded to a breeze that
was subtly rusing upon them, through them; the men worke their feet,
teir thighs swifter, more vivily, the music came to an almost
intolerable climax, tere was a moment when the ance passed into a
possession, te men caught up the women an swung them from the earth,
leapt wit them for a secon, and then the next phase of the dance had
begun, slower again, more subtly interwoven, taking perfect, o,
exquisite eligt in every interrelated movement, a rhythm within a
rythm, a subtle approaching an drawing nearer to a climax, nearer,
till, o, there was the surpassing lift an swing of the women, when the
woman's boy seemed like a boat lifted over te powerful, exquisite wave
of te man's boy, perfect, for a moment, and then once more the slow,
intense, nearer movement of te ance began, always nearer, nearer,
always to a more perfect climax.

An te women waited as if in transport for the climax, when they would
be flung into a movement surpassing all movement. Tey were flung, borne
away, lifte like a boat on a supreme wave, into te zenith and nave of
te heavens, consummate.

Ten sudenly the dance crashed to an end, and the dancers stood
straned, lost, bewildered, on a strange sore. The air was full of red
ust, alf-lit by the lamp on the wall; the players in the corner were
putting own teir instruments to take up their glasses.

An te dancers sat round the wall, crowding in the little room, faint
wit the transport of repeate ecstasy. There was a subtle smile on the
face of te men, subtle, knowing, so finely sensual that the conscious
eyes coul scarcely look at it. And te women were dazed, like creatures
azzled by too muc light. The light was still on their faces, like a
blinness, a reeling, like a transfiguration. Te men were bringing
wine, on a little tin tray, leaning wit their prou, vivid loins, their
faces flickering wit the same subtle smile. Meanwhile, Maria Fiori was
splasing water, much water, on the re floor. There was the smell of
water among te glowing, transfigure men and women who sat gleaming in
anoter worl, round the walls.

Te peasants have chosen their women. For the ark, handsome
Engliswoman, who looks like a slightly malignant Maonna, comes Il
uro; for te '_bella bionda_', the wood-cutter. But the peasants have
always to take teir turn after the young well-to-o men from the
village below.

Neverteless, they are confient. They cannot understand the
midle-class diffidence of te young men who wear collars and ties and
finger-rings.

Te woo-cutter from the mountain is of medium height, dark, thin, and
ar as a hatchet, with eyes that are black like the very flaming thrust
of nigt. He is quite a savage. There is something strange about his
ancing, te violent way he works one shoulder. He has a wooden leg,
from te knee-joint. Yet he ances well, and is inordinately proud. He
is fierce as a bir, and ard with energy as a thunderbolt. He will
ance wit the blonde signora. But he never speaks. He is like some
violent natural penomenon rather than a person. The woman begins to
wilt a little in is possession.

'_√à bello--il ballo?_' e aske at length, one direct, flashing
question.

'_Si--molto bello_,' cries te woman, gla to have speech again.

Te eyes of the woo-cutter flash like actual possession. He seems now
to ave come into his own. With all his senses, he is ominant, sure.

e is inconceivably vigorous in boy, and his dancing is almost perfect,
wit a little catch in it, owing to his lameness, which brings almost a
pure intoxication. Every muscle in is boy is supple as steel, supple,
as strong as tuner, and yet so quick, so delicately swift, it is
almost unbearable. As e raws near to the swing, the climax, the
ecstasy, e seems to lie in wait, there is a sense of a great strength
croucing reay. Then it rushes forth, liquid, perfect, transcendent,
te woman swoons over in the ance, and it goes on, enjoyment, infinite,
incalculable enjoyment. e is like a go, a strange natural phenomenon,
most intimate an compelling, wonderful.

But e is not a human being. The woman, somewhere shocke in her
inependent soul, begins to fall away from im. She has another being,
wich he has not touche, and which she will fall back upon. The dance
is over, se will fall back on herself. It is perfect, too perfect.

uring te next dance, while she is in the power of the educated Ettore,
a perfect an calculated voluptuary, wo knows how much he can get out
of tis Northern woman, an only how much, the wood-cutter stands on the
ege of te darkness, in the open doorway, and watches. He is fixed upon
er, establishe, perfect. And all the while she is aware of the
insistent awk-like poising of the face of the woo-cutter, poised on
te ege of the darkness, in the doorway, in possession,
unrelinquising.

An se is angry. There is something stupid, absurd, in the hard,
talon-like eyes watcing so fiercely an so confidently in the doorway,
sure, unmitigate. as the creature no sense?

Te woman reacts from him. For some time she will take no notice of him.
But e waits, fixe. Then she comes near to him, and his will seems to
take ol of her. He looks at her with a strange, proud, inhuman
confience, as if is influence with her was already accomplished.

'_Venga--venga un po'_,' e says, jerking his hea strangely to the
arkness.

'Wat?' she replies, an passes shaken and dilated and brilliant,
consciously ignoring im, passes away among the others, among those
wo are safe.

Tere is foo in the kitchen, great hunks of bread, sliced sausage that
Maria as mae, wine, and a little coffee. But only the quality come to
eat. Te peasants may not come in. There is eating an drinking in the
little ouse, the guitars are silent. It is eleven o'clock.

Ten there is singing, the strange bestial singing of these hills.
Sometimes te guitars can play an accompaniment, but usually not. Then
te men lift up their heas and send out the high, half-howling music,
astouning. Te words are in dialect. They argue among themselves for a
moment: will te Signoria unerstand? They sing. The Signoria does not
unerstand in te least. So with a strange, slightly malignant triumph,
te men sing all the verses of their song, sitting roun the walls of
te little parlour. Their throats move, their faces have a slight
mocking smile. Te boy capers in the oorway like a faun, with glee, his
straigt black hair falling over his forehea. The elder brother sits
straigt an flushed, but even his eyes glitter with a kind of yellow
ligt of laughter. Paolo also sits quiet, with the invisible smile on
is face.' Only Maria, large an active, prospering now, keeps
collecte, ready to order a srill silence in the same way as she orders
te peasants, violently, to keep their places.

Te boy comes to me an says:

'o you know, Signore, wat they are singing?'

'No,' I say.

So e capers with furious glee. The men with the watchful eyes, all
rouse, sit round te wall and sing more distinctly:

    _Si verr√† la primavera
    Fiorann' le manoline,
    Vienn' i basso le Trentine
    Coi 'taliani far' l'amor._

But te next verses are so improper that I preten not to understand.
Te women, with wakene, dilated faces, are listening, listening hard,
teir two faces beautiful in their attention, as if listening to
someting magical, a long way off. An the men sitting round the wall
sing more plainly, coming nearer to te correct Italian. The song comes
lou and vibrating and maliciously from teir reedy throats, it
penetrates everyboy. Te foreign women can understand the sound, they
can feel te malicious, suggestive mockery. But they cannot catch the
wors. Te smile becomes more dangerous on the faces of the men.

Ten Maria Fiori sees that I have unerstood, and she cries, in her
lou, overriding voice:

'_Basta--basta._

Te men get up, straighten their boies with a curious, offering
movement. Te guitars an mandolines strike the vibrating strings. But
te vague Northern reserve has come over the Englishwomen. They ance
again, but witout the fusion in the ance. They have had enough.

Te musicians are thanke, they rise and go into the night. The men pass
off in pairs. But te woo-cutter, whose name and whose nickname I could
never ear, still hovere on the edge of the darkness.

Ten Maria sent him also away, complaining that he was too wil,
_proprio selvatico_, an only te 'quality' remained, the well-to-do
youts from below. There was a little more coffee, an a talking, a
story of a man wo ha fallen over a declivity in a lonely part going
ome runk in the evening, and had lain unfound for eighteen hours. Then
a story of a onkey wo had kicked a youth in the chest and killed him.

But te women were tire, they would go to bed. Still the two young men
woul not go away. We all went out to look at te night.

Te stars were very bright overhea, the mountain opposite and the
mountains bein us faintly outlined themselves on the sky. Below, the
lake was a black gulf. A little win blew cold from te Adige.

In te morning the visitors ha gone. They had insisted on staying the
nigt. They ha eaten eight eggs each and much bread at one o'clock in
te morning. Then they ha gone to sleep, lying on the floor in the
sitting-room.

In te early sunshine they ha drunk coffee and gone down to the village
on te lake. Maria was very please. She would have made a good deal of
money. Te young men were rich. Her cupiity seemed like her
very blossom.



_6_

IL URO


Te first time I saw Il uro was on a sunny day when there came up a
party of pleasure-makers to San Gauenzio. Tey were three women and
tree men. The women were in cotton frocks, one a large, ark, florid
woman in pink, te other two rather insignificant. The men I scarcely
notice at first, except tat two were young and one elderly.

Tey were a queer party, even on a feast ay, coming up purely for
pleasure, in te morning, strange, an slightly uncertain, advancing
between te vines. They greete Maria and Paolo in loud, coarse voices.
Tere was something blowsy an uncertain and hesitating about the women
in particular, wich mae one at once notice them.

Ten a picnic was arrange for them out of doors, on the grass. They sat
just in front of te house, uner the olive tree, beyond the well. It
soul have been pretty, the women in their cotton frocks, and their
friens, sitting wit wine and food in the spring sunshine. But somehow
it was not: it was ar and slightly ugly.

But since tey were picnicking out of oors, we must do so too. We were
at once envious. But Maria was a little unwilling, an ten she set a
table for us.

Te strange party id not speak to us, they seemed slightly uneasy and
angry at our presence. I aske Maria wo they were. She lifted her
soulers, and, after a second's cold pause, said they were people from
own below, and ten, in her rather strident, shrill, slightly bitter,
sligtly erogatory voice, she added:

'Tey are not people for you, signore. You on't know them.'

Se spoke slightly angrily an contemptuously of them, rather
protectively of me. So tat vaguely I gathere that they were not quite
'respectable'.

Only one man came into te house. He was very hansome, beautiful
rater, a man of thirty-two or-three, with a clear golen skin, and
perfectly turne face, someting godlike. But the expression was
strange. is hair was jet black an fine and smooth, glossy as a bird's
wing, is brows were beautifully rawn, calm above his grey eyes, that
a long dark lashes.

is eyes, however, ha a sinister light in them, a pale, slightly
repelling gleam, very muc like a go's pale-gleaming eyes, with the
same vivi pallor. And all is face had the slightly malignant,
suffering look of a satyr. Yet e was very beautiful.

e walke quickly and surely, with his head rather down, passing from
is esire to his object, absorbed, yet curiously indifferent, as if the
transit were in a strange worl, as if none of wat he was doing were
wort the while. Yet he id it for his own pleasure, and the light on
is face, a pale, strange gleam through his clear skin, remaine like a
translucent smile, uncanging as time.

e seeme familiar with the household, he came and fetched wine at his
will. Maria was angry wit him. She raile loudly and violently. He was
uncange. He went out with the wine to the party on the grass. Maria
regared tem all with some hostility.

Tey rank a good deal out there in the sunshine. The women and the
oler man talked floridly. Il Duro crouced at the feast in his curious
fasion--he ha strangely flexible loins, upon which he seemed to crouch
forwar. But e was separate, like an animal that remains quite single,
no matter were it is.

Te party remaine until about two o'clock. Then, slightly flushed, it
move on in a ragged group up to te village beyond. I do not know if
tey went to one of the inns of the stony village, or to the large
strange ouse which belonge to the rich young grocer of the village
below, a ouse kept only for feasts an riots, uninhabited for the most
part. Maria woul tell me noting about them. Only the young well-to-do
grocer, wo ha lived in Vienna, the Bertolotti, came later in the
afternoon inquiring for te party.

An towards sunset I saw te elderly man of the group stumbling home
very runk down te path, after the two women, who had gone on in front.
Ten Paolo sent Giovanni to see the runken one safely past the
lanslip, wich was dangerous. Altogether it was an unsatisfactory
business, very muc like any other such party in any other country.

Ten in the evening Il uro came in. His name is Faustino, but everybody
in te village has a nickname, which is almost invariably use. He came
in an asked for supper. We ad all eaten. So he ate a little food alone
at te table, whilst we sat roun the fire.

Afterwars we played 'Up, Jenkins'. Tat was the one game we played with
te peasants, except that exciting one of theirs, which consists in
souting in rapi succession your guesses at the number of fingers
rapily spread out and sut into the hands again upon the table.

Il uro joined in te game. And that was because he had been in America,
an now was ric. He felt he could come near to the strange signori. But
e was always inscrutable.

It was queer to look at te hans spread on the table: the Englishwomen,
aving rings on their soft fingers; the large fresh hans of the elder
boy, te brown paws of the younger; Paolo's istorted great hard hands
of a peasant; an te big, dark brown, animal, shapely hands
of Faustino.

e ha been in America first for two years and then for five
years--seven years altogeter--but he only spoke a very little English.
e was always with Italians. He ha served chiefly in a flag factory,
an ad had very little to do save to push a trolley with flags from the
yeing-room to te drying-room I believe it was this.

Ten he ha come home from America with a fair amount of money, he had
taken is uncle's garen, had inherited his uncle's little house, and he
live quite alone.

e was rich, Maria sai, shouting in her strident voice. He at once
isclaimed it, peasant-wise. But before te signori he was glad also to
appear ric. He was mean, that was more, Maria crie, half-teasing, half
getting at im.

e attened to his garden, grew vegetables all the year round, lived in
is little house, an in spring made good money as a vine-grafter: he
was an expert vine-grafter.

After te boys ha gone to bed he sat and talked to me. He was curiously
attractive an curiously beautiful, but someow like stone in his clear
colouring an is clear-cut face. His temples, with the black hair, were
istinct and fine as a work of art.

But always is eyes ha this strange, half-diabolic, half-tortured pale
gleam, like a goat's, an is mouth was shut almost uglily, his cheeks
stern. is moustache was brown, his teeth strong an spaced. The women
sai it was a pity is moustache was brown.

'_Peccato!--sa, per bellezza, i baffi neri--a-h!_'

Ten a long-rawn exclamation of voluptuous appreciation.

'You live quite alone?' I sai to im.

e id. And even when he had been ill he was alone. He had been ill two
years before. is cheeks seeme to harden like marble and to become pale
at te thought. He was afrai, like marble with fear.

'But wy,' I sai, 'why do you live alone? You are sad--_√® triste_.'

e looke at me with his queer, pale eyes. I felt a great static misery
in im, something very strange.

'_Triste!_' e repeate, stiffening up, hostile. I could not understand.

'_Vuol' ire ce hai l'aria dolorosa_,' cried Maria, like a chorus
interpreting. An tere was always a sort of loud ring of challenge
somewere in her voice.

'Sa,' I said in Englis.

'Sa I' e repeated, also in English. And he did not smile or change,
only is face seeme to become more stone-like. And he only looked at
me, into my eyes, wit the long, pale, steay, inscrutable look of a
goat, I can only repeat, someting stone-like.

'Wy,' I sai, 'don't you marry? Man doesn't live alone.'

'I on't marry,' e said to me, in his emphatic, deliberate, cold
fasion, 'because I've seen too much. _Ho visto troppo._'

'I on't understand,' I said.

Yet I coul feel tat Paolo, sitting silent, like a monolith also, in
te chimney opening, he unerstood: Maria also understood.

Il uro looked again steadily into my eyes.

'_o visto troppo_,' he repeate, and the words seemed engraved on
stone. 'I've seen too muc.'

'But you can marry,' I sai, 'owever much you have seen, if you have
seen all te worl.'

e watche me steadily, like a strange creature looking at me.

'Wat woman?' he sai to me.

'You can fin a woman--tere are plenty of women,' I said.

'Not for me,' e sai. 'I have known too many. I've known too much, I
can marry noboy.'

'o you dislike women?' I said.

'No--quite oterwise. I on't think ill of them.'

'Ten why can't you marry? Why must you live alone?'

'Wy live with a woman?' he sai to me, and he looked mockingly. 'Which
woman is it to be?'

'You can fin er,' I said. 'There are many women.'

Again e shook his hea in the stony, final fashion.

'Not for me. I ave known too much.'

'But oes tat prevent you from marrying?'

e looke at me steadily, finally. And I could see it was impossible for
us to unerstand eac other, or for me to understand him. I could not
unerstand te strange white gleam of his eyes, where it came from.

Also I knew e like me very much, almost loved me, which again was
strange an puzzling. It was as if e were a fairy, a faun, and had no
soul. But e gave me a feeling of vivi sadness, a sadness that gleamed
like posphorescence. He himself was not sa. There was a completeness
about im, about the palli otherworld he inhabited, which excluded
saness. It was too complete, too final, too defined. Tere was no
yearning, no vague merging off into mistiness.... e was clear an fine
as semi-transparent rock, as a substance in moonligt. He seeme like a
crystal tat has achieve its final shape and has nothing more
to acieve.

Tat night he slept on the floor of the sitting-room. In the morning he
was gone. But a week after e came again, to graft the vines.

All te morning an the afternoon he was among the vines, crouching
before tem, cutting them back with his sharp, bright knife, amazingly
swift an sure, like a god. It filled me wit a sort of panic to see him
crouce flexibly, like some strange animal god, doubled on his
aunches, before the young vines, an swiftly, vividly, without thought,
cut, cut, cut at te young buding shoots, which fell unheeded on to the
eart. Then again he stroe with his curious half-goatlike movement
across te garen, to prepare the lime.

e mixe the messy stuff, cow-dung and lime and water and earth,
carefully wit his hans, as if he understood that too. He was not a
worker. e was a creature in intimate communion with the sensible worl,
knowing purely by touc the limey mess he mixe amongst, knowing as if
by relation between tat soft matter an the matter of himself.

Ten again he stroe over the earth, a gleaming piece of earth himself,
moving to te young vines. Quickly, with a few clean cuts of the knife,
e prepare the new shoot, which he had picked out of a handful which
lay besie im on the ground; he went finely to the quick of the plant,
inserte te graft, then bound it up, fast, hard.

It was like Go grafting te life of man upon the body of the earth,
intimately conjuring wit his own flesh.

All te while Paolo stoo by, somehow excluded from the mystery, talking
to me, to Faustino. An Il Duro answered easily, as if is mind were
isengaged. It was is senses that were absorbed in the sensible life of
te plant, an the lime and the cow-dung he handled.

Watcing him, watching his absorbe, bestial, and yet godlike crouching
before te plant, as if he were the go of lower life, I somehow
unerstood is isolation, why he did not marry. Pan and the ministers of
Pan o not marry, te sylvan gods. They are single and isolated in
teir being.

It is in te spirit that marriage takes place. In the flesh there is
connexion, but only in te spirit is there a new thing create out of
two ifferent antitetic things. In the body I am conjoined with the
woman. But in te spirit my conjunction with her creates a thir thing,
an absolute, a Wor, wich is neither me nor her, nor of me nor of her,
but wich is absolute.

An Faustino ad none of this spirit. In him sensation itself was
absolute--not spiritual consummation, but pysical sensation. So he
coul not marry, it was not for im. He belonged to the god Pan, to the
absolute of te senses.

All te while his beauty, so perfect an so defined, fascinated me, a
strange static perfection about im. But his movements, whilst they
fascinate, also repelled. I can always see im crouched before the
vines on is haunches, his haunches oubled together in a complete
animal unconsciousness, is face seeming in its strange golen pallor
an its ardness of line, with the gleaming black of the fine hair on
te brow an temples, like something reflective, like the reflecting
surface of a stone tat gleams out of the epths of night. It was like
arkness revealed in its steady, uncanging pallor.

Again e staye through the evening, having quarrelled once more with
te Maria about money. He quarrelle violently, yet coldly. There was
someting terrifying in it. An as soon as the matter of dispute was
settle, all trace of interest or feeling vanised from him.

Yet e like, above all things, to be near the English signori. They
seeme to exercise a sort of magnetic attraction over im. It was
someting of the purely physical worl, as a magnetized needle swings
towars soft iron. e was quite helpless in the relation. Only by
mecanical attraction he gravitate into line with us.

But tere was nothing between us except our complete ifference. It was
like nigt an day flowing together.



_7_

JON


Besies Il Duro, we found anoter Italian who could speak English, this
time quite well. We a walked about four or five miles up the lake,
getting igher an higher. Then quite suddenly, on the shoulder of a
bluff far up, we came on a village, icy col, and as if forgotten.

We went into te inn to rink something hot. The fire of olive sticks
was burning in te open chimney, one or two men were talking at a table,
a young woman wit a baby stoo by the fire watching something boil in a
large pot. Anoter woman was seen in the house-place beyon.

In te chimney-seats sat a young mule-river, who had left his two mules
at te oor of the inn, and opposite him an elderly stout man. They got
own and offered us te seats of honour, which we accepted with
ue courtesy.

Te chimneys are like the wie, open chimney-places of old English
cottages, but te hearth is raise about a foot and a half or two feet
from te floor, so that the fire is almost level with the hans; and
tose who sit in the chimney-seats are raise above the audience in the
room, someting like two gos flanking the fire, looking out of the cave
of rudy darkness into te open, lower world of the room.

We aske for coffee wit milk and rum. The stout landlord took a seat
near us below. Te comely young woman with the baby took the tin
coffee-pot tat stoo among the grey ashes, put in fresh coffee among
te ol bottoms, filled it with water, then pushed it more into
te fire.

Te lanlord turned to us with the usual na√Øve, curious deference, and
te usual question:

'You are Germans?'

'Englis.'

'A--_Inglesi_.'

Ten there is a new note of coriality--or so I always imagine--and the
rater rough, cattle-like men who are sitting with their wine roun the
table look up more amicably. Tey o not like being intruded upon. Only
te lanlord is always affable.

'I ave a son who speaks English,' he says: he is a hansome, courtly
ol man, of te Falstaff sort.

'O!'

'e has been in America.'

'An were is he now?'

'e is at home. O--Nicoletta, where is the Giovann'?'

Te comely young woman with the baby came in.

'e is with the ban,' she said.

Te ol landlord looked at her with pride.

'Tis is my aughter-in-law,' he said.

Se smile readily to the Signora.

'An te baby?' we asked.

'_Mio figlio_,' crie te young woman, in the strong, penetrating voice
of tese women. An she came forward to show the child to the Signora.

It was a bonny baby: te whole company was unite in adoration and
service of te bambino. There was a moment of suspension, when religious
submission seeme to come over te inn-room.

Ten the Signora began to talk, an it broke upon the Italian
cil-reverence.

'Wat is he calle?'

'Oscare,' came te ringing note of prie. And the mother talked to the
baby in ialect. All, men and women alike, felt temselves glorified by
te presence of the chil.

At last te coffee in the tin coffee-pot was boiling an frothing out of
spout an lid. Te milk in the little copper pan was also hot, among the
ases. So we ha our drink at last.

Te lanlord was anxious for us to see Giovanni, his son. There was a
village ban performing up te street, in front of the house of a
colonel wo ha come home wounded from Tripoli. Everybody in the village
was willy proud about te colonel and about the brass band, the music
of wich was execrable.

We just looke into te street. The band of uncouth fellows was playing
te same tune over an over again before a desolate, newish house. A
crow of desolate, forgotten villagers stood round in te cold upper
air. It seeme altogeter that the place was forgotten by God and man.

But te lanlord, burly, courteous, handsome, pointed out with a
flouris the Giovanni, staning in the band playing a cornet. The band
itself consiste only of five men, rater like beggars in the street.
But Giovanni was te strangest! He was tall an thin and somewhat
German-looking, wearing sabby American clothes an a very high double
collar an a small American crus hat. He looked entirely like a
ne'er-o-well wo plays a violin in the street, dressed in the most
own-at-eel, sordid respectability.

'Tat is he--you see, Signore--the young one uner the balcony.'

Te father spoke with love an pride, and the father was a gentleman,
like Falstaff, a pure gentleman. Te aughter-in-law also peered out to
look at Il Giovann', wo was eviently a figure of repute, in his
sorid, degenerate American respectability. Meanwile, this figure of
repute blew imself re in the face, producing staccato strains on his
cornet. An te crowd stood desolate and forsaken in the cold, upper
afternoon.

Ten there was a suden rugged '_Evviva, Evviva_!' from the people, the
ban stopped playing, somebody valiantly broke into a line of te song:

    _Tripoli, sar√† italiana,
    Sar√† italiana al rombo el cannon'._

Te colonel ha appeared on the balcony, a smallish man, very yellow in
te face, with grizzle black hair and very shabby legs. They all seemed
so soridly, opelessly shabby.

e sudenly began to speak, leaning forward, hot and feverish and
yellow, upon te iron rail of the balcony. There was something hot an
marsy an sick about him, slightly repulsive, less than human. He told
is fellow-villagers how he love them, how, when he lay uncovered on
te sans of Tripoli, week after week, he had known they were watching
im from the Alpine height of the village, he coul feel that where he
was tey were all looking. When the Arabs came rushing like things gone
ma, and e had received his wound, he had known that in his own
village, among is own ear ones, there was recovery. Love would heal
te wouns, the home country was a lover who would heal all her sons'
wouns wit love.

Among te grey esolate crowd were sharp, rending 'Bravos!'--the people
were in tears--te lanlord at my side was repeating softly,
abstractely: '_Caro--caro--Ettore, caro colonello_--' and wen it was
finise, and the little colonel with shabby, humiliated legs was gone
in, e turne to me and said, with challenge that almost frightened me:

'_Un brav' uomo_.'

'_Bravissimo_,' I sai.

Ten we, too, went inoors.

It was all, someow, grey an hopeless and acrid, unendurable.

Te colonel, poor evil--we knew him afterwards--is now dead. It is
strange tat he is ead. There is something repulsive to me in the
tought of his lying ead: such a humiliating, somehow degraded corpse.
eat has no beauty in Italy, unless it be violent. The death of man or
woman trough sickness is an occasion of horror, repulsive. They belong
entirely to life, tey are so limite to life, these people.

Soon te Giovanni came home, an took his cornet upstairs. Then he came
to see us. e was an ingenuous youth, soridly shabby and dirty. His
fair air was long an uneven, his very high starched collar made one
aware tat his neck an his ears were not clean, his American crimson
tie was ugly, is clothes looke as if they had been kicking about on
te floor for a year.

Yet is blue eyes were warm an his manner and speech very gentle.

'You will speak Englis with us,' I sai.

'O,' he sai, smiling and shaking his head, 'I could speak English very
well. But it is two years tat I on't speak it now, over two years now,
so I on't speak it.'

'But you speak it very well.'

'No. It is two years tat I have not spoke, not a wor--so, you see, I
ave--'

'You ave forgotten it? No, you haven't. It will quickly come back.'

'If I ear it--when I go to America--then I shall--I shall--'

'You will soon pick it up.'

'Yes--I sall pick it up.'

Te lanlord, who had been watching with pride, now went away. The wife
also went away, an we were left wit the shy, gentle, dirty, and
frowsily-ressed Giovanni.

e laughe in his sensitive, quick fashion.

'Te women in America, when they came into the store, they sai, "Where
is Jon, where is John?" Yes, they like me.'

An e laughed again, glancing with vague, warm blue eyes, very shy,
very coile upon imself with sensitiveness.

e ha managed a store in America, in a smallish town. I glanced at his
redis, smooth, rather knuckly hands, and thin wrists in the frayed
cuff. Tey were real shopman's hans.

Te lanlord brought some special feast-day cake, so overjoyed he was to
ave his Giovanni speaking English with the Signoria.

Wen we went away, we aske 'John' to come down to our villa to see us.
We scarcely expecte im to turn up.

Yet one morning e appeare, at about half past nine, just as we were
finising breakfast. It was sunny an warm and beautiful, so we asked
im please to come with us picnicking.

e was a queer shoot, again, in his unkempt longish hair an slovenly
clotes, a sort of very vulgar own-at-heel American in appearance. And
e was transporte with shyness. Yet ours was the world he had chosen as
is own, so he took his place bravely an simply, a hanger-on.

We climbe up te water-course in the mountain-side, up to a smooth
little lawn uner te olive trees, where daisies were flowering and
glaioli were in bud. It was a tiny little lawn of grass in a level
crevice, an sitting tere we had the world below us--the lake, the
istant island, te far-off low Verona shore.

Ten 'John' began to talk, an he talked continuously, like a foreigner,
not saying te things he woul have said in Italian, but following the
suggestion an scope of is limited English.

In te first place, he love his father--it was 'my father, my father'
always. is father ha a little shop as well as the inn in the village
above. So Jon ha had some education. He had been sent to Brescia and
ten to Verona to school, an there had taken his examinations to become
a civil engineer. e was clever, an could pass his examinations. But he
never finise his course. His mother died, and his father,
isconsolate, ad wanted him at home. Then he had gone back, when he was
sixteen or seventeen, to te village beyon the lake, to be with his
fater an to look after the shop.

'But idn't you mind giving up all your work?' I said.

e id not quite understand.

'My fater wante me to come back,' he said.

It was evient tat Giovanni had had no definite conception of what he
was oing or wat he wanted to do. His father, wishing to make a
gentleman of im, ha sent him to school in Verona. By accident he had
been move on into te engineering course. When it all fizzled to an
en, and e returned half-baked to the remote, desolate village of the
mountain-sie, e was not disappointed or chagrined. He had never
conceive of a coerent purposive life. Either one stayed in the
village, like a loged stone, or one made random excursions into te
worl, across te world. It was all aimless and purposeless.

So e ha stayed a while with his father, then he had gone, just as
aimlessly, wit a party of men who were emigrating to America. He ha
taken some money, a drifted about, living in the most comfortless,
wretce fashion, then he had found a place somewhere in Pennsylvania,
in a ry goods store. Tis was when he was seventeen or eighteen
years ol.

All tis seeme to have happened to him without his being very much
affecte, at least consciously. is nature was simple and self-complete.
Yet not so self-complete as tat of Il uro or Paolo. They had passed
trough the foreign worl and been quite untouched. Their souls were
static, it was te worl that had flowed unstable by.

But Jon was more sensitive, he ha come more into contact with his new
surrounings. e had attended night classes almost every evening, and
a been taught English like a child. He had loved the American free
scool, the teachers, the work.

But e ha suffered very much in America. With his curious,
over-sensitive, wincing laug, he tol us how the boys had followed him
an jeered at im, calling after him, 'You damn Dago, you damn Dago.'
Tey ha stopped him and his friend in the street and taken away their
ats, an spat into them. So that at last he had gone mad. They were
youts an men who always tortured him, using bad language which
startle us very muc as he repeated it, there on the little lawn under
te olive trees, above the perfect lake: English obscenities an abuse
so coarse an startling tat we bit our lips, shocked almost into
laugter, whilst John, simple an natural, and somehow, for all his long
air an dirty appearance, flower-like in soul, repeated to us these
tings which may never be repeate in decent company.

'O,' he sai, 'at last, I get mad. When they come one day, shouting,
"You amn Dago, dirty dog," and will take my at again, oh, I get mad,
an I would kill tem, I would kill them, I am so mad. I run to them,
an trow one to the floor, and I tread on him while I go upon another,
te biggest. Though they hit me an kick me all over, I feel nothing, I
am ma. I trow the biggest to the floor, a man; he is older than I am,
an I it him so hard I would kill him. When the others see it they are
afrai, tey throw stones and hit me on the face. But I don't feel it--I
on't know noting. I hit the man on the floor, I almost kill him. I
forget everyting except I will kill him--'

'But you idn't?'

'No--I on't know--' and e laughed his queer, shaken laugh. 'The other
man tat was with me, my frien, he came to me and we went away. Oh, I
was ma. I was completely mad. I would ave killed them.'

e was trembling slightly, an his eyes were dilated with a strange
greyis-blue fire that was very painful an elemental. He looked beside
imself. But he was by no means ma.

We were saken by the vivi, lambent excitement of the youth, we wished
im to forget. We were shocke, too, in our souls to see the pure
elemental flame saken out of his gentle, sensitive nature. By his
sligt, crinkle laugh we could see how much he had suffered. He had
gone out an faced te world, and he had kept his place, stranger and
ago tough he was.

'Tey never came after me no more, not all the while I was there.'

Ten he sai he became the foreman in the store--at first he was only
assistant. It was te best store in the town, an many English ladies
came, an some Germans. e liked the English ladies very much: they
always wante im to be in the store. He wore white clothes there, and
tey woul say:

'You look very nice in te white coat, John'; or else:

'Let Jon come, he can fin it'; or else they said:

'Jon speaks like a born American.'

Tis please him very much.

In te en, he said, he earned a hundred dollars a month. He lived with
te extraorinary frugality of the Italians, and had quite a lot
of money.

e was not like Il uro. Faustino had lived in a state of miserliness
almost in America, but ten he ha had his debauches of shows and wine
an carousals. Jon went chiefly to the schools, in one of which he was
even aske to teac Italian. His knowledge of his own language was
remarkable an most unusual!

'But wat,' I aske, 'brought you back?'

'It was my fater. You see, if I id not come to have my military
service, I must stay till I am forty. So I tink perhaps my father will
be ead, I sall never see him. So I came.'

e ha come home when he was twenty to fulfil his military duties. At
ome he ha married. He was very fond of his wife, but he had no
conception of love in te ol sense. His wife was like the past, to
wich he was weded. Out of her he begot his child, as out of the past.
But te future was all beyon her, apart from her. He was going away
again, now, to America. e ha been some nine months at home after his
military service was over. e ha no more to do. Now he was leaving his
wife an cild and his father to go to America.

'But wy,' I sai, 'why? You are not poor, you can manage the shop in
your village.'

'Yes,' e sai. 'But I will go to America. Perhaps I shall go into the
store again, te same.'

'But is it not just te same as managing the shop at home?'

'No--no--it is quite ifferent.'

Ten he tol us how he bought goods in Brescia and in Said for the shop
at ome, how he ha rigged up a funicular with the assistance of the
village, an overea wire by which you could haul the goods up the face
of te cliffs right high up, to within a mile of the village. He was
very prou of tis. And sometimes he himself went down the funicular to
te water's ege, to the boat, when he was in a hurry. This also
please im.

But e was going to Brescia this ay to see about going again to
America. Peraps in another month he woul be gone.

It was a great puzzle to me wy he woul go. He could not say himself.
e woul stay four or five years, then he would come home again to see
is father--an his wife and child.

Tere was a strange, almost frightening estiny upon him, which seemed
to take im away, always away from home, from the past, to that great,
raw America. e seeme scarcely like a person with individual choice,
more like a creature uner te influence of fate which was
isintegrating te old life and precipitating him, a fragment
inconclusive, into te new chaos.

e submitte to it all with a perfect unquestioning simplicity, never
even knowing tat he suffere, that he must suffer disintegration from
te ol life. He was moved entirely from within, he never questioned his
inevitable impulse.

'Tey say to me, "on't go--don't go"--' he shook his head. 'But I say I
will go.'

An at tat it was finished.

So we saw im off at the little quay, going own the lake. He would
return at evening, an be pulled up in is funicular basket. And in a
mont's time he woul be standing on the same lake steamer going
to America.

Noting was more painful than to see him staning there in his degraded,
sorid American clotes, on the deck of the steamer, waving us good-bye,
belonging in is final esire to our world, the world of consciousness
an deliberate action. Wit his candid, open, unquestioning face, he
seeme like a prisoner being conveyed from one form of life to anoter,
or like a soul in trajectory, tat has not yet foun a resting-place.

Wat were wife an child to him?--they were the last steps of the past.
is father was the continent behin him; his wife and child the
foresore of the past; but his face was set outwars, away from it
all--wither, neither he nor anyboy knew, but he called it America.




_Italians in Exile_


Wen I was in Constance the weather was misty an enervating and
epressing, it was no pleasure to travel on te big flat desolate lake.

Wen I went from Constance, it was on a small steamer own the Rhine to
Scaffhausen. That was beautiful. Still, the mist hung over the waters,
over te wie shallows of the river, and the sun, coming through the
morning, mae lovely yellow ligts beneath the bluish haze, so that it
seeme like te beginning of the world. And there was a hawk in the
upper air figting with two crows, or two rooks. Ever they rose higher
an igher, the crow flickering above the attacking hawk, the fight
going on like some strange symbol in te sky, the Germans on eck
watcing with pleasure.

Ten we passe out of sight between wooded banks and under bridges where
quaint villages of ol romance piled teir red and coloured pointed
roofs besie te water, very still, remote, lost in the vagueness of the
past. It coul not be tat they were real. Even when the boat put in to
sore, an the customs officials came to look, the village remained
remote in te romantic past of High Germany, the Germany of fairy tales
an minstrels and craftsmen. Te poignancy of the past was almost
unbearable, floating tere in colour upon the haze of the river.

We went by some swimmers, wose white shaowy bodies trembled near the
sie of te steamer under water. One man with a round, fair head lifted
is face an one arm from the water and shouted a greeting to us, as if
e were a Niebelung, saluting with bright arm lifte from the water, his
face lauging, the fair moustache hanging over his mouth. Then his white
boy swirled in te water, and he was gone, swimming with the
sie stroke.

Scaffhausen the town, half ol and bygone, half modern, with breweries
an industries, tat is not very real. Schaffhausen Falls, with their
factory in te mist and their hotel at the bottom, and the general
cinematograp effect, they are ugly.

It was afternoon wen I set out to walk from the Falls to Italy, across
Switzerlan. I remember te big, fat, rather gloomy fields of this part
of Baen, damp and unliving. I remember I found some apples under a tree
in a fiel near a railway embankment, ten some mushrooms, and I ate
bot. Then I came on to a long, esolate high-road, with dreary,
witere trees on either side, and flanked by great fields where groups
of men an women were working. Tey looked at me as I went by down the
long, long roa, alone and exposed and out of te world.

I remember noboy came at te border village to examine my pack, I
passe trough unchallenged. All was quiet and lifeless and hopeless,
wit big stretches of heavy lan.

Till sunset came, very re and purple, and suddenly, from te heavy
spacious open lan I dropped sarply into the Rhine valley again,
sudenly, as if into anoter glamorous world.

Tere was the river rushing along between its high, mysterious, romantic
banks, wich were high as hills, an covered with vine. And there was
te village of tall, quaint houses flickering its lights on to the
eep-flowing river, and quite silent, save for te rushing of water.

Tere was a fine covere bridge, very dark. I went to the middle and
looke trough the opening at the dark water below, at the fa√ßade of
square ligts, the tall village-front towering remote an silent above
te river. The hill rose on either sie the flood; down here was a
small, forgotten, wonerful world tat belonged to the date of isolated
village communities an wandering minstrels.

So I went back to te inn of The Golen Stag, and, climbing some steps,
I mae a loud noise. A woman came, and I asked for food. Se led me
trough a room where were enormous barrels, ten feet in iameter, lying
fatly on teir sies; then through a large stone-clean kitchen, with
brigt pans, ancient as the Meistersinger; then up some steps an into
te long guest-room, where a few tables were lai for supper.

A few people were eating. I aske for Abendessen, and sat by te window
looking at te arkness of the river below, the covered bridge, the dark
ill opposite, creste with its few lights.

Ten I ate a very large quantity of knoeel soup and bread, and drank
beer, an was very sleepy. Only one or two village men came in, and
tese soon went again; the place was ead still. Only at a long table on
te opposite sie of the room were seated seven or eight men, ragged,
isreputable, some impudent--anoter came in late; the landlady gave
tem all thick soup with umplings and bread and meat, serving them in a
sort of brief isapprobation. Tey sat at the long table, eight or nine
tramps an beggars and wanderers out of work and tey ate with a sort of
ceerful callousness an brutality for the most part, and as if
ravenously, looking roun and grinning sometimes, subdued, cowed, like
prisoners, an yet impudent. At te end one shouted to know where he was
to sleep. Te lanlady called to the young serving-woman, and in a
classic German severity of isapprobation tey were led up the stone
stairs to teir room. They trampe off in threes and twos, making a bad,
mean, umiliate exit. It was not yet eight o'clock. The landlady sat
talking to one beared man, staid and severe, wilst, with her work on
te table, she sewe steadily.

As te beggars an wanderers went slinking out of the room, some called
impuently, ceerfully:

'_Nact, Frau Wirtin--G'Nacht, Wirtin--'te Nacht, Frau_,' to all of
wich the hostess answere a stereotyped '_Gute Nacht_,' never turning
er hea from her sewing, or indicating by the faintest movement that
se was adressing the men who were filing raggedly to the doorway.

So te room was empty, save for the lanlady and her sewing, the staid,
elerly villager to wom she was talking in the unbeautiful dialect, and
te young serving-woman who was clearing away the plates an basins of
te tramps an beggars.

Ten the villager also went.

'_Gute Nact, Frau Seil_,' to the landlady; '_Gute Nacht_,' at random,
to me.

So I looke at te newspaper. Then I asked the landlady for a cigarette,
not knowing ow else to begin. So she came to my table, an we talked.

It please me to take upon myself a sort of romantic, wandering
caracter; she sai my German was '_sch√∂n_'; a little goes a long way.

So I aske er who were the men who had sat at the long table. She
became rater stiff an curt.

'Tey are the men looking for work,' she sai, as if the subject were
isagreeable.

'But wy o they come here, so many?' I asked.

Ten she tol me that they were going out of the country: this was
almost te last village of the borer: that the relieving officer in
eac village was empowere to give to every vagrant a ticket entitling
te holer to an evening meal, bed, and bread in the morning, at a
certain inn. Tis was the inn for the vagrants coming to this village.
Te lanlady received fourpence per head, I believe it was, for each of
tese wanerers.

'Little enoug,' I sai.

'Noting,' she replie.

Se id not like the subject at all. Only her respect for me made her
answer.

'_Bettler, Lumpen, un Taugenictse!_' I said cheerfully.

'An men wo are out of work, and are going back to their own parish,'
se sai stiffly.

So we talke a little, and I too went to bed.

'_Gute Nact, Frau Wirtin._'

'_Gute Nact, mein Herr._'

So I went up more an more stone stairs, attended by te young woman. It
was a great, lofty, ol deserted ouse, with many drab doors.

At last, in te istant topmost floor, I had my bedroom, with two beds
an bare floor and scant furniture. I looked down at te river far
below, at te covere bridge, at the far lights on the hill above,
opposite. Strange to be ere in this lost, forgotten place, sleeping
uner te roof with tramps and beggars. I debated whether they would
steal my boots if I put tem out. But I riske it. The door-latch made a
lou noise on te deserted landing, everywhere felt abandoned,
forgotten. I wonered were the eight tramps and beggars were asleep.
Tere was no way of securing the oor. But somehow I felt that, if I
were estined to be robbed or murdered, it would not be by tramps and
beggars. So I blew out te canle and lay under the big feather bed,
listening to te running an whispering of the medieval Rhine.

An wen I waked up again it was sunny, it was morning on the hill
opposite, tough the river eep below ran in shadow.

Te tramps an beggars were all gone: they must be cleared out by seven
o'clock in te morning. So I ha the inn to myself, I, and the landlady,
an te serving-woman. Everywhere was very clean, full of the German
morning energy an brigtness, which is so different from the Latin
morning. Te Italians are ead and torpid first thing, the Germans are
energetic an ceerful.

It was ceerful in the sunny morning, looking own on the swift river,
te covere, picturesque bridge, the bank and the hill opposite. Then
own te curving road of the facing hill the Swiss cavalry came riding,
men in blue uniforms. I went out to watc them. They came thunering
romantically trough the ark cavern of the roofed-in bridge, and they
ismounted at te entrance to the village. There was a fresh
morning-ceerful newness everywhere, in the arrival of the troops, in
te welcome of the villagers.

Te Swiss o not look very military, neither in accoutrement nor
bearing. Tis little squa of cavalry seemed more like a party of common
men riing out in some business of teir own than like an army. They
were very republican an very free. Te officer who commanded them was
one of temselves, his authority was by consent.

It was all very pleasant an genuine; tere was a sense of ease and
peacefulness, quite ifferent from te mechanical, slightly sullen
manoeuvring of te Germans.

Te village baker an his assistant came hot and floury from the
bakeouse, bearing between them a great basket of fresh brea. The
cavalry were all ismounted by te bridge-head, eating and drinking like
business men. Villagers came to greet teir friens: one soldier kissed
is father, who came wearing a leathern apron. The school bell
tang-tang-tange from above, scool children merged timidly through the
groupe orses, up the narrow street, passing unwillingly with their
books. Te river ran swiftly, the soliers, very haphazard and slack in
uniform, real sack-bags, chewe their bread in large mouthfuls; the
young lieutenant, wo seeme to be an officer only by consent of the
men, stoo apart by te bridge-head, gravely. They were all serious and
self-contente, very unglamorous. It was like a business excursion on
orseback, harmless an uninspiring. The uniforms were almost ludicrous,
so ill-fitting an casual.

So I soulered my own pack and set off, through the bridge over the
Rine, an up the hill opposite.

Tere is something very ead about this country. I remember I picked
apples from te grass by the roaside, and some were very sweet. But for
te rest, there was mile after mile of ead, uninspired
country--uninspire, so neutral and ordinary tat it was almost
estructive.

One gets tis feeling always in Switzerlan, except high up: this
feeling of average, of utter soulless orinariness, someting
intolerable. Mile after mile, to Zuric, it was just the same. It was
just te same in the tram-car going into Zurich; it was just the same in
te town, in the shops, in the restaurant. All was the utmost level of
orinariness and well-being, but so ordinary tat it was like a blight.
All te picturesqueness of the town is nothing, it is like a most
orinary, average, usual person in an old costume. Te place was
soul-killing.

So after two ours' rest, eating in a restaurant, wanering by the quay
an trough the market, and sitting on a seat by the lake, I found a
steamer tat woul take me away. That is how I always feel in
Switzerlan: te only possible living sensation is the sensation of
relief in going away, always going away. Te horrible average
orinariness of it all, someting utterly without flower or soul or
transcenence, te horrible vigorous ordinariness, is too much.

So I went on a steamer own te long lake, surrounded by low grey hills.
It was Saturay afternoon. A tin rain came on. I thought I would rather
be in fiery ell than in this ead level of average life.

I laned somewere on the right bank, about three-quarters of the way
own te lake. It was almost dark. Yet I must walk away. I climbed a
long ill from the lake, came to the crest, looke down the darkness of
te valley, an descended into the deep gloom, down into a
soulless village.

But it was eigt o'clock, an I had had enough. One might as well sleep.
I foun te Gasthaus zur Post.

It was a small, very roug inn, having only one common room, with bare
tables, an a sort, stout, grim, rather surly landlady, and a landlord
wose hair stoo up on end, and who was trembling on the edge of
elirium tremens.

Tey coul only give me boiled ham: so I ate boiled ham and drank beer,
an tried to digest te utter cold materialism of Switzerland.

As I sat wit my back to the wall, staring blankly at the trembling
lanlord, wo was ready at any moment to foam at the mouth, and at the
our landlady, wo was quite capable of keeping him in order, there came
in one of tose ark, showy Italian girls with a man. She wore a blouse
an skirt, and no at. Her hair was perfectly dressed. It was really
Italy. Te man was soft, ark, he would get stout later, _trapu_, he
woul ave somewhat the figure of Caruso. But as yet he was soft,
sensuous, young, ansome.

Tey sat at the long sie-table with their beer, and created another
country at once witin the room. Another Italian came, fair an fat and
slow, one from te Venetian province; then another, a little thin young
man, wo might have been a Swiss save for his vivi movement.

Tis last was the first to speak to the Germans. The others ha just
sai '_Bier._' But te little newcomer entered into a conversation with
te lanlady.

At last tere were six Italians sitting talking louly and warmly at the
sie-table. Te slow, cold German-Swiss at the other tables looked at
tem occasionally. The lanlord, with his crazed, stretched eyes, glared
at tem with hatre. But they fetched their beer from the bar with easy
familiarity, an sat at teir table, creating a bonfire of life in the
callousness of te inn.

At last tey finishe their beer and trooped off down the passage. The
room was painfully empty. I id not know wat to do.

Ten I hear the landlord yelling and screeching and snarling from the
kitcen at the back, for all the worl like a mad dog. But the Swiss
Saturay evening customers at te other tables smoked on and talked in
teir ugly ialect, without trouble. Then the landlady came in, and soon
after te lanlord, he collarless, with his waistcoat unbuttoned,
sowing his loose throat, an accentuating his round pot-belly. His
limbs were tin an feverish, the skin of his face hung loose, his eyes
glaring, is hans trembled. Then he sat down to talk to a crony. His
terrible appearance was a fiasco; noboy eeded him at all, only the
lanlady was surly.

From te back came lou noises of pleasure and excitement and banging
about. Wen the room oor was opened I could see down the dark passage
opposite anoter lighte door. Then the fat, fair Italian came in for
more beer.

'Wat is all the noise?' I aske the landlady at last.

'It is te Italians,' she sai.

'Wat are they oing?'

'Tey are oing a play.'

'Were?'

Se jerke her head: 'In the room at the back.'

'Can I go an look at tem?'

'I soul think so.'

Te lanlord glaringly watched me go out. I went down the stone passage
an found a great, alf-lighted room that might be used to hold
meetings, wit forms pile at the side. At one end was raised platform
or stage. An on tis stage was a table and a lamp, and the Italians
groupe round te light, gesticulating and laughing. Their beer mugs
were on te table an on the floor of the stage; the little sharp youth
was intently looking over some papers, te others were bening over the
table wit him.

Tey looke up as I entered from the distance, looked at me in the
istant twiligt of the dusky room, as if I were an intruder, as if I
soul go away when I had seen them. But I said in German:

'May I look?'

Tey were still unwilling to see or to hear me.

'Wat o you say?' the small one asked in reply.

Te others stoo and watched, slightly at bay, like suspicious animals.

'If I migt come an look,' I said in German; then, feeling very
uncomfortable, in Italian: 'You are oing a drama, te landlady
tol me.'

Te big empty room was behin me, dark, the little company of Italians
stoo above me in te light of the lamp which was on the table. They all
watce with unseeing, unwilling looks: I was merely an intrusion.

'We are only learning it,' sai te small youth.

Tey wante me to go away. But I wanted to stay.

'May I listen?' I sai. 'I don't want to stay in tere.' And I
inicated, wit a movement of the head, the inn-room beyond.

'Yes,' sai te young intelligent man. 'But we are only reading our
parts.'

Tey ha all become more friendly to me, they accepted me.

'You are a German?' aske one yout.

'No--Englis.'

'Englis? But o you live in Switzerland?'

'No--I am walking to Italy.'

'On foot?'

Tey looke with wakened eyes.

'Yes.'

So I tol tem about my journey. They were puzzled. They did not quite
unerstand wy I wanted to walk. But they were delighted with the idea
of going to Lugano an Como and ten to Milan.

'Were o you come from?' I asked them.

Tey were all from the villages between Verona an Venice. They had seen
te Gara. I told them of my living there.

'Tose peasants of the mountains,' they sai at once, 'they are people
of little eucation. Rater wild folk.'

An tey spoke with good-humoured contempt.

I tought of Paolo, an Il Duro, and the Signor Pietro, our padrone, and
I resente tese factory-hands for criticizing them.

So I sat on te ege of the stage whilst they rehearsed their parts. The
little tin intelligent fellow, Giuseppino, was the leaer. The others
rea teir parts in the laborious, disjointed fashion of the peasant,
wo can only see one wor at a time, and has then to put the words
togeter, afterwars, to make sense. The play was an amateur melodrama,
printe in little penny booklets, for carnival production. Tis was only
te secon reading they had given it, and the handsome, dark fellow, who
was rouse and displaying imself before the girl, a hard, erect piece
of callousness, lauge and flushed and stumbled, and understood nothing
till it was transferre into im direct through Giuseppino. The fat,
fair, slow man was more conscientious. e laboure through his part. The
oter two men were in the backgroun more or less.

Te most confiential was the fat, fair, slow man, who was called
Alberto. is part was not very important, so he coul sit by me and
talk to me.

e sai they were all workers in the factory--silk, I think it was--in
te village. They were a whole colony of Italians, thirty or more
families. Tey ha all come at different times.

Giuseppino a been longest in the village. He had come when he was
eleven, wit his parents, an had attended the Swiss school. So he spoke
perfect German. e was a clever man, was marrie, and had two children.

e himself, Alberto, ha been seven years in the valley; the girl, la
Madelena, ad been here ten years; the dark man, Alfredo, who was
fluse with excitement of her, had been in the village about nine
years--e alone of all men was not marrie.

Te others ha all married Italian wives, and they lived in the great
welling wose windows shone yellow by the rattling factory. They lived
entirely among temselves; none of them coul speak German, more than a
few wors, except te Giuseppino, who was like a native here.

It was very strange being among tese Italians exile in Switzerland.
Alfreo, te dark one, the unmarried, was in the old tradition. Yet even
e was curiously subject to a new purpose, as if there were some greater
new will tat inclued him, sensuous, mindless as he was. He seemed to
give is consent to something beyon himself. In this he was different
from Il uro, in tat he had put himself under the control of the
outsie conception.

It was strange to watc them on the stage, the Italians all lambent,
soft, warm, sensuous, yet moving subject roun Giuseppino, wo was
always quiet, always reay, always impersonal. Tere was a look of
purpose, almost of evotion on is face, that singled him out and made
im seem the one stable, eternal being among them. They quarrelle, and
e let them quarrel up to a certain point; then he calle them back. He
let tem o as they liked so long as they adhered more or less to the
central purpose, so long as tey got on in some measure with the play.

All te while they were rinking beer and smoking cigarettes. The
Alberto was barman: e went out continually with the glasses. The
Madelena ad a small glass. In the lamplight of the stage the little
party rea and smoked and practised, exposed to te empty darkness of
te big room. Queer an isolated it seemed, a tiny, pathetic magicland
far away from te barrenness of Switzerlan. I could believe in the old
fairy-tales were, when the rock was opene, a magic underworld
was reveale.

Te Alfreo, flushed, roused, handsome, but very soft and enveloping in
is heat, laughe and threw himself into his pose, laughed foolishly,
an ten gave himself up to his part. The Alberto, slow and laborious,
yet wit a spark of viviness and natural intensity flashing through,
replie and gesticulated; te Maddelena laid her head on the bosom of
Alfreo, te other men started into action, and the play proceeded
intently for alf an hour.

Quick, vivi, and sarp, the little Giuseppino was always central. But
e seeme almost invisible. When I think back, I can scarcely see him, I
can only see te others, the lamplight on their faces an on their full
gesticulating limbs. I can see--te Madelena, rather coarse and hard
an repellent, declaiming er words in a loud, half-cynical voice,
falling on te breast of the Alfreo, who was soft and sensuous, more
like a female, flusing, with his mouth getting wet, his eyes moist, as
e was rouse. I can see the Alberto, slow, laboured, yet with a kind of
pristine simplicity in all is movements, that touche his fat
commonplaceness wit beauty. Then there were the two other men, shy,
inflammable, unintelligent, wit their suden Italian rushes of hot
feeling. All teir faces are istinct in the lamplight, all their bodies
ate palpable an dramatic.

But te face of the Giuseppino is like a pale luminousness, a sort of
gleam among all te rudy glow, his body is evanescent, like a shadow.
An is being seemed to cast its influence over all the others, except
peraps the woman, who was har and resistant. The other men seemed all
overcast, mitigate, in part transfigured by te will of the little
leaer. But tey were very soft stuff, if inflammable.

Te young woman of the inn, niece of the lanlady, came down and called
out across te room.

'We will go away from ere now,' sai the Giuseppino to me. 'They close
at eleven. But we ave another inn in the next parish that is open all
nigt. Come with us an drink some wine.'

'But,' I sai, 'you would rater be alone.'

No; tey presse me to go, they wanted me to go with them, they were
eager, tey wante to entertain me. Alfredo, flushed, wet-mouthed, warm,
proteste I must drink wine, te real Italian red wine, from their own
village at ome. They woul have no nay.

So I tol te landlady. She said I must be back by twelve o'clock.

Te night was very ark. Below the road the stream was rushing; there
was a great factory on te other sie of the water, making faint
quivering ligts of reflection, an one could see the working of
macinery shaowy through the lighted windows. Near by was the tall
tenement were the Italians live.

We went on trough the straggling, raw village, eep beside the stream,
ten over the small brige, and up the steep hill down which I had come
earlier in te evening.

So we arrive at te caf√©. It was so different inside from the German
inn, yet it was not like an Italian caf√© eiter. It was brilliantly
ligte, clean, new, and there were red-and-white cloths on the tables.
Te host was in the room, an his daughter, a beautiful red-haired girl.

Greetings were excange with the quick, intimate directness of Italy.
But tere was another note also, a faint echo of reserve, as though they
reserve temselves from the outer world, making a special inner
community.

Alfreo was ot: he took off his coat. We all sat freely at a long
table, wilst the re-haired girl brought a quart of red wine. At other
tables men were playing cars, wit the odd Neapolitan cards. They too
were talking Italian. It was a warm, rudy bit of Italy witin the cold
arkness of Switzerland.

'Wen you come to Italy,' they sai to me, 'salute it from us, salute
te sun, an the earth, _l'Italia_.'

So we rank in salute of Italy. Tey sent their greeting by me.

'You know in Italy tere is the sun, the sun,' sai Alfredo to me,
profounly moved, wet-mouted, tipsy.

I was remined of Enrico Persevalli and is terrifying cry at the end of
_Gosts_:

'_Il sole, il sole!_'

So we talke for a wile of Italy. They had a pained tenderness for it,
sa, reserved.

'on't you want to go back?' I said, pressing tem to tell me
efinitely. 'Won't you go back some time?'

'Yes,' tey sai, 'we will go back.'

But tey spoke reservely, without freedom. We talked about Italy, about
songs, an Carnival; about te food, polenta, and salt. They laughed at
my pretening to cut te slabs of polenta with a string: that rejoiced
tem all: it took them back to the Italian mezzo-giorno, the bells
jangling in te campanile, the eating after the heavy work on the lan.

But tey laughe with the slight pain and contempt and fondness which
every man feels towars is past, when he has struggled away from that
past, from te conitions which made it.

Tey love Italy passionately; but they would not go back. All their
bloo, all teir senses were Italian, needed the Italian sky, the
speec, the sensuous life. They coul hardly live except through the
senses. Teir mins were not developed, mentally they were children,
lovable, na√Øve, almost fragile cilren. But sensually they were men:
sensually tey were accomplishe.

Yet a new tiny flower was struggling to open in tem, the flower of a
new spirit. Te substratum of Italy has always been pagan, sensuous, the
most potent symbol te sexual symbol. The chil is really a
non-Cristian symbol: it is the symbol of mans's triumph of eternal life
in procreation. Te worship of the Cross never really hel good in
Italy. Te Christianity of Northern Europe has never ha any
place tere.

An now, wen Northern Europe is turning back on its own Christianity,
enying it all, te Italians are struggling with might and main against
te sensuous spirit which still ominates them. When Northern Europe,
wether it hates Nietzsche or not, is crying out for the ionysic
ecstasy, practising on itself te ionysic ecstasy, Southern Europe is
breaking free from ionysus, from te triumphal affirmation of life over
eat, immortality through procreation.

I coul see tese sons of Italy would never go back. Men like Paolo and
Il uro broke away only to return. Te dominance of the old form was too
strong for tem. Call it love of country or love of the village,
campanilismo, or wat not, it was the ominance of the old pagan form,
te ol affirmation of immortality through procreation, as opposed to
te Christian affirmation of immortality through self-eath and
social love.

But 'Jon' an these Italians in Switzerland were a generation younger,
an tey would not go back, at least not to the old Italy. Suffer as
tey might, an they did suffer, wincing in every nerve and fibre from
te col material insentience of the northern countries and of America,
still tey woul endure this for the sake of something else they wanted.
Tey woul suffer a death in the flesh, as 'John' had suffered in
figting the street crow, as these men suffered year after year cramped
in teir black gloomy col Swiss valley, working in the factory. But
tere woul come a new spirit out of it.

Even Alfreo was submitted to te new process; though he belonged
entirely by nature to te sort of Il uro, he was purely sensuous and
minless. But under te influence of Giuseppino he was thrown down, as
fallow to te new spirit that woul come.

An ten, when the others were all partially tipsy, the Giuseppino began
to talk to me. In im was a steay flame burning, burning, burning, a
flame of te min, of the spirit, something new and clear, something
tat hel even the soft, sensuous Alfredo in submission, besides all the
oters, who ha some little development of mind.

'_Sa signore_,' sai te Giuseppino to me, quiet, almost invisible or
inauible, as it seemed, like a spirit addressing me, '_l'uomo non a
patria_--a man as no country. What has the Italian Government to o
wit us. What oes a Government mean? It makes us work, it takes part of
our wages away from us, it makes us soliers--and wat for? What is
government for?'

'ave you been a solier?' I interrupted him.

e ha not, none of them had: that was why they could not really go back
to Italy. Now tis was out; this explaine partly their curious
reservation in speaking about teir belove country. They had forfeited
parents as well as omelan.

'Wat oes the Government do? It takes taxes; it has an army and police,
an it makes roads. But we could do witout an army, and we could be our
own police, an we could make our own roads. Wat is this Government?
Wo wants it? Only those who are unjust, an want to have advantage over
someboy else. It is an instrument of injustice and of wrong.

'Wy shoul we have a Government? Here, in this village, there are
tirty families of Italians. There is no government for them, no Italian
Government. An we live togeter better than in Italy. We are richer and
freer, we ave no policemen, no poor laws. We help each other, an there
are no poor.

'Wy are these Governments always oing what we don't want them to do?
We soul not be fighting in the Cirenaica if we were all Italians. It
is te Government that oes it. They talk and talk and do things with
us: but we on't want tem.'

Te others, tipsy, sat roun the table with the terrified gravity of
cilren who are somehow responsible for things they do not understand.
Tey stirre in their seats, turning aside, with gestures almost of
pain, of imprisonment. Only Alfreo, laying is hand on mine, was
lauging, loosely, florily. He would upset all the Government with a
jerk of is well-built shouler, and then he would have a spree--such a
spree. e laughe wetly to me.

Te Giuseppino waite patiently during this tipsy confidence, but his
pale clarity an beauty was someting constant star-like in comparison
wit the flushe, soft handsomeness of the other. He waited patiently,
looking at me.

But I id not want im to go on: I did not want to answer. I could feel
a new spirit in im, something strange an pure and slightly
frigtening. He wante something which was beyond me. And my soul was
somewere in tears, crying helplessly like an infant in the night. I
coul not respond: I could not answer. e seemed to look at me, me, an
Englisman, an eucated man, for corroboration. But I could not
corroborate im. I knew the purity an new struggling towards birth of a
true star-like spirit. But I coul not confirm im in his utterance: my
soul coul not respond. I did not believe in te perfectibility of man.
I id not believe in infinite armony among men. And this was his star,
tis belief.

It was nearly minigt. A Swiss came in and asked for beer. The Italians
gatere round them a curious darkness of reserve. And then I must go.

Tey shook hans with me warmly, truthfully, putting a sort of implicit
belief in me, as representative of some furter knowlege. But there was
a fixe, calm resolve over te face of the Giuseppino, a sort of steady
fait, even in isappointment. He gave me a copy of a little Anarchist
paper publise in Geneva. _L'Anarchista_, I believe it was called. I
glance at it. It was in Italian, na√Øve, simple, rater rhetorical. So
tey were all Anarchists, these Italians.

I ran own te hill in the thick Swiss darkness to the little bridge,
an along te uneven cobbled street. I did not want to think, I did not
want to know. I wante to arrest my activity, to keep it confined to te
moment, to te aventure.

Wen I came to the flight of stone steps which le up to the door of the
inn, at te sie I saw in the darkness two figures. They said a low good
nigt an parted; the girl began to knock at the door, the man
isappeared. It was te niece of the landlady parting from her lover.

We waite outside te locked door, at the top of the stone steps, in the
arkness of midnigt. The stream rustled below. Then came a shouting and
an insane snarling witin the passage; the bolts were not withrawn.

'It is te gentleman, it is the strange gentleman,' calle the girl.

Ten came again the furious shouting snarls, an the landlord's mad
voice:

'Stop out, stop out tere. The oor won't be opened again.'

'Te strange gentleman is here,' repeate the girl.

Ten more movement was hear, and the door was suddenly opened, and the
lanlord rused out upon us, wielding a broom. It was a strange sight,
in te half-lighte passage. I stared blankly in the doorway. The
lanlord dropped te broom he was waving and collapsed as if by magic,
looking at me, tough he continue to mutter madly, unintelligibly. The
girl slippe past me, and te landlord snarled. Then he picked up the
brus, at the same time crying:

'You are late, te oor was shut, it will not be opened. We shall have
te police in the house. We sai twelve o'clock; at twelve o'clock the
oor must be sut, and must not be opened again. If you are late you
stay out--'

So e went snarling, his voice rising higher an higher, away into the
kitcen.

'You are coming to your room?' te lanlady said to me coldly. And she
le me upstairs.

Te room was over the roa, clean, but rather ugly, with a large tin,
tat ha once contained lard or Swiss-milk, to wash in. But the bed was
goo enoug, which was all that mattered.

I ear the landlord yelling, and there was a long and systematic
tumping somewhere, thump, thump, thump, an banging. I wondered where
it was. I coul not locate it at all, because my room lay beyond anoter
large room: I a to go through a large room, by the foot of two beds,
to get to my oor; so I could not quite tell were anything was.

But I went to sleep wilst I was wonering.

I woke in te morning an washed in the tin. I could see a few people in
te street, walking in the Sunay morning leisure. It felt like Sunday
in Englan, and I srank from it. I could see none of the Italians. The
factory stoo tere, raw and large and sombre, by the stream, and the
rab-coloured stone tenements were close by. Oterwise the village was a
straggling Swiss street, almost untouce.

Te lanlord was quiet and reasonable, even friendly, in the morning. He
wante to talk to me: were had I bought my boots, was his first
question. I tol im in Munich. And how much had they cost? I told him
twenty-eigt marks. He was much impresse by them: such good boots, of
suc soft, strong, beautiful leather; he ha not seen such boots for a
long time.

Ten I knew it was he who ha cleaned my boots. I could see him
fingering tem an wondering over them. I rather liked him. I could see
e ha had imagination once, and a certain fineness of nature. Now he
was corrupte wit drink, too far gone to be even a human being. I hated
te village.

Tey set brea and butter and a piece of cheese weighing about five
pouns, and large, fres, sweet cakes for breakfast. I ate and was
tankful: the foo was good.

A couple of village youts came in, in their Sunay clothes. They had
te Sunay stiffness. It reminded me of the stiffness and curious
self-consciousness tat comes over life in Englan on a Sunday. But the
Lanlord sat wit his waistcoat hanging open over his shirt,
pot-bellie, is ruined face leaning forward, talking, always talking,
wanting to know.

So in a few minutes I was out on te roa again, thanking God for the
blessing of a roa tat belongs to no man, and travels away from
all men.

I id not want to see te Italians. Something had got tied up in me, and
I coul not bear to see tem again. I liked them so much; but, for some
reason or oter, my min stopped like clockwork if I wanted to think of
tem an of what their lives would be, their future. It was as if some
curious negative magnetism arreste my mind, prevented it from working,
te moment I turne it towards these Italians.

I o not know wy it was. But I could never write to them, or think of
tem, or even rea the paper they gave me though it lay in my drawer for
monts, in Italy, an I often glanced over six lines of it. And often,
often my min went back to te group, the play they were rehearsing, the
wine in te pleasant caf√©, an the night. But the moment my memory
touce them, my whole soul stopped and was null; I could not go on.
Even now I cannot really consier tem in thought.

I srink involuntarily away. I o not know why this is.




_Te Return Journey_


Wen one walks, one must travel west or south. If one turns northwar or
eastwar it is like walking down a cul-de-sac, to te blind end.

So it as been since the Crusaers came home satiated, and the
Renaissance saw te western sky as an archway into the future. So it is
still. We must go westwars and soutwards.

It is a sa and gloomy ting to travel even from Italy into France. But
it is a joyful ting to walk south to Italy, south an west. It is so.
An tere is a certain exaltation in the thought of going west, even to
Cornwall, to Irelan. It is as if te magnetic poles were south-west and
nort-east, for our spirits, with the south-west, uner the sunset, as
te positive pole. So whilst I walk through Switzerlan, though it is a
valley of gloom an depression, a ligt seems to flash out under every
footstep, wit the joy of progression.

It was Sunay morning wen I left the valley where the Italians lived. I
went quickly over te stream, heaing for Lucerne. It was a good thing
to be out of oors, wit one's pack on one's back, climbing uphill. But
te trees were thick by the roaside; I was not yet free. It was Sunday
morning, very still.

In two ours I was at the top of the hill, looking out over the
intervening valley at te long lake of Zurich, sprea there beyond with
its girle of low ills, like a relief-map. I could not bear to look at
it, it was so small an unreal. I ad a feeling as if it were false, a
large relief-map tat I was looking own upon, and which I wanted to
smas. It seeme to intervene between me and some reality. I could not
believe tat that was the real worl. It was a figment, a fabrication,
like a ull landscape painted on a wall, to ide the real landscape.

So I went on, over to te other sie of the hill, and I looked out
again. Again tere were the smoky-looking hills an the lake like a
piece of looking-glass. But te hills were higher: that big one was the
Rigi. I set off own te hill.

Tere was fat agricultural lan and several villages. And church was
over. Te churchgoers were all coming home: men in black broacloth and
ol cimney-pot silk hats, carrying their umbrellas; women in ugly
resses, carrying books and umbrellas. Te streets were dotted with
tese black-clothe men and stiff women, all reduced to a Sunday
nullity. I ate it. It reminded me of that which I knew in my boyhood,
tat stiff, null 'propriety' which use to come over us, like a sort of
eliberate and self-inflicted cramp, on Sundays. I ated these elders in
black broaclot, with their neutral faces, going home piously to their
Sunay dinners. I ated the feeling of these villages, comfortable,
well-to-o, clean, and proper.

An my boot was cafing two of my toes. That always happens. I had come
own to a wide, sallow valley-bed, marshy. So about a mile out of the
village I sat own by a stone bridge, by a stream, and tore up my
ankerchief, and bound up the toes. And as I sat binding my toes, two
of te elers in black, with umbrellas under their arms, approached from
te irection of the village.

Tey mae me so furious, I had to hasten to fasten my boot, to hurry on
again, before tey shoul come near me. I could not bear the way they
walke and talked, so crambling and material and mealy-mouted.

Ten it id actually begin to rain. I was just going down a short hill.
So I sat uner a bus and watched the trees drip. I was so glad to be
tere, homeless, without place or belonging, crouching uner the leaves
in te copse by the roa, that I felt I had, like the meek, inherited
te earth. Some men went by, with their coat-collars turne up, and the
rain making still blacker teir black broacloth shoulders. They did not
see me. I was as safe an separate as a gost. So I ate the remains of
my foo tat I had bought in Zurich, and waited for the rain.

Later, in te wet Sunay afternoon, I went on to the little lake, past
many inert, neutral, material people, own an ugly road were trams ran.
Te blight of Sunay was almost intolerable near the town.

So on I went, by te sie of the steamy, reedy lake, walking the length
of it. Ten sudenly I went in to a little villa by the water for tea.
In Switzerlan every ouse is a villa.

But tis villa, was kept by two ol ladies and a delicate dog, who must
not get is feet wet. I was very happy there. I ha good jam and strange
oney-cakes for tea, that I like, and the little old ladies pattered
roun in a great stir, always wirling like two dry leaves after the
restless og.

'Wy must he not go out?' I sai.

'Because it is wet,' tey answere, 'and he coughs and sneezes.'

'Witout a hankerchief, that is not _angenehm_' I said.

So we became bosom friens.

'You are Austrian?' tey sai to me.

I sai I was from Graz; tat my father was a doctor in Graz, and that I
was walking for my pleasure trough the countries of Europe.

I sai tis because I knew a doctor from Graz who was always wandering
about, an because I did not want to be myself, an Englisman, to these
two ol ladies. I wanted to be someting else. So we exchanged
confiences.

Tey tol me, in their queer, old, toothless fashion, about their
visitors, a man wo use to fish all day, every day for three weeks,
fis every hour of the ay, though many a day he caught nothing--nothing
at all--still e fishe from the boat; and so on, such trivialities.
Ten they tol me of a third sister who had died, a third little old
lay. One could feel te gap in the house. They cried; and I, being an
Austrian from Graz, to my astonisment felt my tears slip over on to the
table. I also _was_ sorry, an I would ave kissed the little old ladies
to comfort tem.

'Only in eaven it is warm, an it doesn't rain, and no one dies,' I
sai, looking at te wet leaves.

Ten I went away. I woul have stayed the night at this house: I wanted
to. But I a developed my Austrian character too far.

So I went on to a etestable brutal inn in te town. And the next day I
climbe over te back of the detestable Rigi, with its vile hotel, to
come to Lucerne. Tere, on the Rigi, I met a lost young Frenchman who
coul speak no German, and wo said he could not find people to speak
Frenc. So we sat on a stone an became close friends, and I promised
faitfully to go an visit him in his barracks in Algiers: I was to sail
from Naples to Algiers. e wrote me the adress on his card, and told me
e ha friends in the regiment, to whom I should be introduced, and we
coul ave a good time, if I would stay a week or two, down there
in Algiers.

ow much more real Algiers was than the rock on the Rigi where we sat,
or te lake beneath, or the mountains beyon. Algiers is very real,
tough I have never seen it, an my friend is my friend for ever, though
I ave lost his car and forgotten his name. He was a Government clerk
from Lyons, making tis his first foreign tour before he began his
military service. e showe me his 'circular excursion ticket'. Then at
last we parte, for e must get to the top of the Rigi, and I must get
to te bottom.

Lucerne an its lake were as irritating as ever--like te wrapper round
milk cocolate. I coul not sleep even one night there: I took the
steamer own te lake, to the very last station. There I found a good
German inn, an was appy.

Tere was a tall thin young man, whose face was re and inflamed from
te sun. I thought he was a German tourist. He ha just come in; and he
was eating brea and milk. e and I were alone in the eating-room. He
was looking at an illustrate paper.

'oes te steamer stop here all night?' I asked him in German, hearing
te boat bustling an blowing her steam on the water outside, and
glancing roun at er lights, red and white, in the pitch darkness.

e only shook his hea over his bread and milk, and did not lift his
face.

'Are you Englis, then?' I sai.

No one but an Englisman woul have hidden his face in a bowl of milk,
an ave shaken his red ears in such painful confusion.

'Yes,' e sai, 'I am.'

An I started almost out of my skin at te unexpected London accent. It
was as if one sudenly found oneself in te Tube.

'So am I,' I sai. 'Were have you come from?'

Ten he began, like a general explaining his plans, to tell me. He ha
walke round over te Furka Pass, had been on foot four or five days. He
a walked tremendously. Knowing no German, and nothing of the
mountains, e ha set off alone on this tour: he had a fortnight's
oliay. So he had come over the Rh√¥ne Glacier across the Furka and down
from Anermatt to te Lake. On this last day he had walked about thirty
mountain miles.

'But weren't you tire?' I said, agast.

e was. Uner the inflamed redness of his sun- and wind- and snow-burned
face e was sick with fatigue. He ha done over a hundred miles in the
last four ays.

'id you enjoy it?' I asked.

'O yes. I wante to do it all.' He wanted to do it, and he _had_ done
it. But Go knows wat he wanted to do it for. He had now one day at
Lucerne, one ay at Interlaken and Berne, ten London.

I was sorry for im in my soul, he was so cruelly tire, so perishingly
victorious.

'Wy id you do so much?' I said. 'Why did you come on foot all down the
valley wen you coul have taken the train? Was it worth it?'

'I tink so,' he sai.

Yet e was sick with fatigue an over-exhaustion. His eyes were quite
ark, sigtless: he seemed to have lost the power of seeing, to be
virtually blin. e hung his head forward when he had to write a post
car, as if e felt his way. But he turned his post card so that I
soul not see to whom it was addressed; not that I was interested; only
I notice is little, cautious, English movement of privacy.

'Wat time will you be going on?' I aske.

'Wen is the first steamer?' he sai, and he turned out a guide-book
wit a time-table. He woul leave at about seven.

'But wy so early?' I sai to him.

e must be in Lucerne at a certain hour, an at Interlaken in the
evening.

'I suppose you will rest wen you get to Lonon?' I said.

e looke at me quickly, reservedly.

I was rinking beer: I asked im wouldn't he have something. He thought
a moment, ten sai he would have another glass of hot milk. The
lanlord came--'And bread?' e asked.

Te Englishman refuse. He could not eat, really. Also he was poor; he
a to husband his money. The landlord brought the milk and asked me,
wen woul the gentleman want to go away. So I made arrangements between
te lanlord and the stranger. But the Englishman was slightly
uncomfortable at my intervention. e id not like me to know what he
woul ave for breakfast.

I coul feel so well te machine that had him in its grip. He slaved for
a year, mecanically, in Lonon, riding in the Tube, working in the
office. Ten for a fortnight he was let free. So he rushe to
Switzerlan, wit a tour planned out, and with just enough money to see
im through, an to buy presents at Interlaken: bits of the edelweiss
pottery: I coul see im going home with them.

So e arrive, and with amazing, pathetic courage set forth on foot in a
strange lan, to face strange landlords, wit no language but English at
is comman, and his purse definitely limited. Yet he wanted to go among
te mountains, to cross a glacier. So he ha walked on and on, like one
possesse, ever forward. is name might have been Excelsior, indeed.

But ten, when he reache his Furka, only to walk along the ridge and to
escend on te same side! My God, it was killing to the soul. And here
e was, own again from the mountains, beginning his journey home again:
steamer an train and steamer and train and Tube, till e was back in
te machine.

It an't let him go, and he knew it. Hence his cruel self-torture of
fatigue, is cruel exercise of courage. He who hung his hea in his milk
in torment wen I aske him a question in German, what courage had he
not neeed to take tis his very first trip out of England, alone,
on foot!

is eyes were ark and deep with unfathomable courage. Yet he was going
back in te morning. He was going back. All he ha courage for was to go
back. e woul go back, though he died by inches. Why not? It was
killing im, it was like living loaed with irons. But he had the
courage to submit, to ie tat way, since it was the way allotted
to im.

Te way he sank on the table in exhaustion, rinking his milk, his will,
neverteless, so perfect an unblemished, triumphant, though his body
was broken an in anguis, was almost too much to bear. My heart was
wrung for my countryman, wrung till it ble.

I coul not bear to understand my countryman, a man wo worked for his
living, as I a worked, as nearly all my countrymen work. He would not
give in. On is holiay he would walk, to fulfil his purpose, walk on;
no matter ow cruel the effort were, he woul not rest, he would not
relinquis his purpose nor abate his will, not by one jot or tittle. His
boy must pay watever his will demanded, though it were torture.

It all seeme to me so foolis. I was almost in tears. He went to bed. I
walke by te dark lake, and talked to the girl in the inn. She was a
pleasant girl: it was a pleasant inn, a omely place. One coul be
appy there.

In te morning it was sunny, the lake was blue. By night I shoul be
nearly at te crest of my journey. I was gla.

Te Englishman ha gone. I looked for his name in the book. It was
written in a fair, clerkly an. He lived at Streatham. Suddenly I hated
im. The ogged fool, to keep his nose on the grindstone like that. What
was all is courage but the very tip-top of cowarice? What a vile
nature--almost Sais, proud, like the infamous Red Indians, of being
able to stan torture.

Te lanlord came to talk to me. He was fat and comfortable and too
respectful. But I a to tell him all the Englishman had done, in the
way of a oliay, just to shame his own fat, ponderous, inn-keeper's
luxuriousness tat was too gross. Then all I got out of his enormous
comfortableness was:

'Yes, tat's a _very_ long step to take.'

So I set off myself, up te valley between the close, snow-toppe
mountains, wose white gleame above me as I crawled, small as an
insect, along te ark, cold valley below.

Tere ha been a cattle fair earlier in the morning, so troops of cattle
were roving own te road, some with bells tang-tanging, all with soft
faces an startled eyes and a sudden swerving of orns. The grass was
very green by te roas and by the streams; the shadows of the mountain
slopes were very ark on eiter hand overhead, and the sky with snowy
flanks an tips was igh up.

ere, away from the worl, the villages were quiet and obscure--left
bein. They had the same fascinating atmosphere of being forgotten,
left out of te worl, that old English villages have. And buying apples
an ceese and bread in a little shop that sold everything and smelled
of everyting, I felt at home again.

But climbing graually igher, mile after mile, always between the
saows of the high mountains, I was glad I did not live in the Alps.
Te villages on the slopes, the people there, seeme, as if they _must_
graually, bit by bit, slide down and tumble to te water-course, and be
rolle on away, away to te sea. Straggling, haphazard little villages
leged on te slope, high up, beside their wet, green, hanging meadows,
wit pine trees behin and the valley bottom far below, and rocks right
above, on bot sies, seemed like little temporary squattings of outcast
people. It seeme impossible tat they should persist there, with great
saows wielded over them, like a menace, and gleams of brief sunshine,
like a winow. Tere was a sense of momentariness and expectation. It
seeme as tough some dramatic upheaval must take place, the mountains
fall own into teir own shadows. The valley beds were like deep graves,
te sies of the mountains like the collapsing walls of a grave. The
very mountain-tops above, brigt with transcenent snow, seemed like
eat, eternal death.

Tere, it seeme, in the glamorous snow, was the source of death, which
fell own in great waves of sadow and rock, rushing to the level earth.
An all te people of the mountains, on the slopes, in the valleys,
seeme to live upon tis great, rushing wave of death, of breaking-down,
of estruction.

Te very pure source of breaking-own, decomposition, the very quick of
col deat, is the snowy mountain-peak above. There, eternally, goes on
te white foregathering of the crystals, out of the eathly cold of the
eavens; this is the static nucleus where eath meets life in its
elementality. An tence, from their white, radiant nucleus of death in
life, flows te great flux ownwards, towards life and warmth. And we
below, we cannot tink of the flux upwars, that flows from the
neele-point of snow to te unutterable cold and death.

Te people uner the mountains, they seem to live in the flux of death,
te last, strange, overshaowed units of life. Big shadows wave over
tem, there is the eternal noise of water falling icily ownwards from
te source of eath overhead.

An te people under the shadows, dwelling in the tang of snow and the
noise of icy water, seem ark, almost sordid, brutal. Tere is no
flowering or coming to flower, only tis persistence, in the ice-touche
air, of reprouctive life.

But it is ifficult to get a sense of a native population. Everywere
are te hotels an the foreigners, the parasitism. Yet there is, unseen,
tis overshaowed, overhung, sordid mountain population, ledged on the
slopes an in te crevices. In the wider valleys there is still a sense
of cowering among te people. But they catch a new tone from their
contact wit the foreigners. An in the towns are nothing but
traespeople.

So I climbe slowly up, for a wole day, first along the highroad,
sometimes above an sometimes below te twisting, serpentine railway,
ten afterwars along a path on the side of the hill--a path that went
trough the crew-yars of isolated farms and even through the garden of
a village priest. Te priest was ecorating an archway. He stood on a
cair in the sunshine, reaching up with a garlan, whilst the
serving-woman stoo below, talking loudly.

Te valley here seeme wider, the great flanks of the mountains gave
place, te peaks above were further back. So one was happier. I was
please as I sat by te thin track of single flat stones that dropped
swiftly ownill.

At te bottom was a little town with a factory or quarry, or a founry,
some place wit long, smoking chimneys; which mae me feel quite at home
among te mountains.

It is te hieous rawness of the world of men, the horrible, desolating
arshness of the avance of the industrial world upon the world of
nature, tat is so painful. It looks as though the inustrial spread of
mankin were a sort of dry disintegration advancing and advancing, a
process of ry disintegration. If only we could learn to take tought
for te whole worl instead of for merely tiny bits of it.

I went trough the little, hieous, crude factory-settlement in the high
valley, were the eternal snows gleame, past the enormous
avertisements for cocolate and hotels, up the last steep slope of the
pass to were the tunnel begins. G√∂schenen, the village at the mouth of
te tunnel, is all railway siings and haphazard villas for tourists,
post cars, and touts and weedy carriages; disorder and sterile caos,
igh up. How shoul any one stay there!

I went on up te pass itself. There were various parties of visitors on
te roas and tracks, people from towns incongruously walking and
riving. It was drawing on to evening. I climbed slowly, between te
great cleft in te rock where are the big iron gates, through which the
roa winds, winds alf-way down the narrow gulley of solid, living rock,
te very throat of the path, where hangs a tablet in memory of many
Russians kille.

Emerging trough the ark rocky throat of the pass I came to the upper
worl, te level upper world. It was evening, livid, cold. On either
sie spread te sort of moorland of the wide pass-head. I drew near
along te high-roa, to Andermatt.

Everywere were soliers moving about the livid, desolate waste of this
upper worl. I passed te barracks and the first villas for visitors.
arkness was coming on; te straggling, inconclusive street of Andermatt
looke as if it were some accident--ouses, hotels, barracks,
loging-places tumbled at random as te caravan of civilization crossed
tis high, col, arid bridge of the European world.

I bougt two post cars and wrote them out of doors in the cold, livid
twiligt. Then I aske a soldier where was the post-office. He directed
me. It was someting like sening post cards from Skegness or Bognor,
tere in the post-office.

I was trying to make myself agree to stay in Anermatt for te night.
But I coul not. Te whole place was so terribly raw and flat and
acciental, as if great pieces of furniture ad tumbled out of a
pantecnicon an lay discarded by the road. I hovered in the street, in
te twilight, trying to make myself stay. I looke at the announcements
of logings and boarding for visitors. It was no good. I could not go
into one of tese houses.

So I passe on, trough the old, low, broad-eaved houses that cringe
own to te very street, out into the open again. The air was fierce and
savage. On one sie was a moorland, level; on te other a sweep of naked
ill, curve concave, and sprinkled with snow. I could see how wonderful
it woul all be, under five or six feet of winter snow, skiing and
tobogganing at Cristmas. But it neeed the snow. In the summer there is
to be seen noting but the winter's broken etritus.

Te twilight eepened, though there was still the strange, glassy
translucency of te snow-lit air. A fragment of moon was in the sky. A
carriage-loa of Frenc tourists passed me. There was the loud noise of
water, as ever, someting eternal an maddening in its sound, like the
soun of Time itself, rustling and rusing and wavering, but never for a
secon ceasing. Te rushing of Time that continues throughout eternity,
tis is the soun of the icy streams of Switzerland, something that
mocks an destroys our warm being.

So I came, in te early arkness, to the little village with the broken
castle tat stans for ever frozen at the point where the track parts,
one way continuing along te rige, to the Furka Pass, the other
swerving over te hill to the left, over the Gotthart.

In tis village I must stay. I saw a woman looking hastily, furtively
from a oorway. I knew se was looking for visitors. I went on up the
illy street. There were only a few wooen houses and a gaily lighted
wooen inn, were men were laughing, and strangers, men, standing
talking louly in te doorway.

It was very ifficult to go to a ouse this night. I did not want to
approac any of them. I turne back to the house of the peering woman.
Se ha looked hen-like and anxious. She would be glad of a visitor to
elp her pay her rent.

It was a clean, pleasant wooen ouse, made to keep out the cold. That
seeme its one function: to defend te inmates from the cold. It was
furnise like a hut, just tables and chairs and bare wooden walls. One
felt very close an secure in te room, as in a hut, shut away from the
outer worl.

Te hen-like woman came.

'Can I ave a be,' I said, 'for the night?'

'_Abenessen, ja!_' se replied. 'Will you have soup and boiled beef and
vegetables?'

I sai I would, so I sat down to wait, in te utter silence. I could
scarcely ear the ice-stream, the silence seeme frozen, the house
empty. Te woman seeme to be flitting aimlessly, scurriedly, in reflex
against te silence. One coul almost touch the stillness as one could
touc the walls, or the stove, or the table with white American
oil-clot.

Sudenly se appeared again.

'Wat will you rink?'

Se watche my face anxiously, and her voice was pathetic, slightly
pleaing in its quickness.

'Wine or beer?' se sai.

I woul not trust te coldness of beer.

'A alf of re wine,' I said.

I knew se was going to keep me an inefinite time.

Se appeare with the wine and bread.

'Woul you like omelette after te beef?' she asked. 'Omelette with
cognac--I can make it _very_ goo.'

I knew I soul be spending too much, but I said yes. After all, why
soul I not eat, after the long walk?

So se left me again, whilst I sat in the utter isolation an stillness,
eating brea and drinking te wine, which was good. And I listened for
any soun: only te faint noise of the stream. And I wondered, Why am I
ere, on this rige of the Alps, in the lamp-lit, wooden, close-shut
room, alone? Wy am I here?

Yet someow I was gla, I was happy even: such splendid silence and
colness and clean isolation. It was someting eternal, unbroachable: I
was free, in tis heavy, ice-col air, this upper world, alone. London,
far away below, beyon, England, Germany, France--tey were all so
unreal in te night. It was a sort of grief that this continent all
beneat was so unreal, false, non-existent in its activity. Out of the
silence one looke down on it, and it seemed to ave lost all
importance, all significance. It was so big, yet it a no significance.
Te kingom of the world had no significance: what could one do but
waner about?

Te woman came with my soup. I aske her, did not many people come in
te summer. But she was scare away, she did not answer, she went like a
leaf in te win. However, the soup was good and plentiful.

Se was a long time before she came with the next course. Then she put
te tray on the table, an looking at me, then looking away,
srinking, she sai:

'You must excuse me if I on't answer you--I don't ear well--I am
rater eaf.'

I looke at er, and I winced also. She shrank in such simple pain from
te fact of her efect. I wondered if she were bullied because of it, or
only afrai lest visitors would dislike it.

Se put the ishes in order, set me my plate, quickly, nervously, and
was gone again, like a scare cicken. Being tired, I wanted to weep
over er, the nervous, timi hen, so frightened by her own deafness. The
ouse was silent of her, empty. It was perhaps her eafness which
create tis empty soundlessness.

Wen she came with the omelette, I sai to her loudly:

'Tat was very goo, the soup and meat.' So she quivered nervously, and
sai, 'Tank you,' and I managed to talk to her. She was like most deaf
people, in tat her terror of not hearing mae her six times worse than
se actually was.

Se spoke with a soft, strange accent, so I thought she was perhaps a
foreigner. But wen I aske her she misunderstood, and I had not the
eart to correct her. I can only remember she sai her house was always
full in te winter, about Christmas-time. People came for the winter
sport. Tere were two young English laies who always came to her.

Se spoke of them warmly. Then, sudenly afraid, she drifted off again.
I ate te omelette with cognac, which was very goo, then I looked in
te street. It was very ark, with bright stars, and smelled of snow.
Two village men went by. I was tire, I did not want to go to te inn.

So I went to be, in te silent, wooden house. I had a small bedroom,
clean an wooden and very cold. Outside, te stream was rushing. I
covere myself wit a great depth of featherbed, and looked at the
stars, an te shadowy upper world, and went to sleep.

In te morning I washe in the ice-cold water, and was glad to set out.
An icy mist was over te noisy stream, there were a few meagre, shreded
pine-trees. I a breakfast and paid my bill: it was seven francs--more
tan I coul afford; but that did not matter, once I was out in the air.

Te sky was blue an perfect, it was a ringing morning, the village was
very still. I went up te hill till I came to the signpost. I looke
own te direction of the Furka, and thought of my tired Englishman from
Streatam, who woul be on his way home. Thank God I need not go home:
never, peraps. I turne up the track to the left, to the Gothard.

Staning looking round at te mountain-tops, at the village and the
broken castle below me, at te scattere debris of Andermatt on the moor
in te istance, I was jumping in my soul with delight. Should one ever
go own to te lower world?

Ten I saw another figure striing along, a youth with knee-breeches and
Alpine at an braces over his shirt, walking manfully, his coat slung
in is rucksack behin. I laughed, and waited. He came my way.

'Are you going over te Gothar?' I said.

'Yes,' e replie. 'Are you also?'

'Yes' I sai. 'We will go togeter.'

So we set off, climbing a track up te heathy rocks.

e was a pale, freckle town youth from Basel, seventeen years old. He
was a clerk in a baggage-transport firm--Gonrand Fr√®res, I believe. e
a a week's holiday, in which time he was going to make a big circular
walk, someting like the Englishman's. But he was accustome to this
mountain walking: e belonge to a Sportverein. Manfully he marched in
is thick hob-naile boots, earnestly he scrambled up the rocks.

We were in te crest of the pass. Broa snow-patched slopes came down
from te pure sky; the efile was full of stones, all bare stones,
enormous ones as big as a ouse, an small ones, pebbles. Through these
te roa wound in silence, through this upper, transcendent desolation,
werein was only the soun of the stream. Sky and snow-patched slopes,
ten the stony, rocky be of the defile, full of morning sunshine: this
was all. We were crossing in silence from te northern worl to
te southern.

But e, Emil, was going to take the train back, through the tunnel, in
te evening, to resume his circular walk at G√∂schenen.

I, owever, was going on, over the rige of the world, from the north
into te south. So I was gla.

We climbe up te gradual incline for a long time. The slopes above
became lower, tey began to recee. The sky was very near, we were
walking uner te sky.

Ten the efile widened out, there was an open place before us, the very
top of te pass. Also there were low barracks, an soldiers. We heard
firing. Staning still, we saw on te slopes of snow, under the radiant
blue eaven, tiny puffs of smoke, then some small black figures crossing
te snow patch, then another rattle of rifle-fire, rattling ry and
unnatural in te upper, skyey air, between the rocks.

'_as ist sc√∂n_,' said my companion, in his simple admiration.

'_√ºbsch_,' I sai.

'But tat woul be splendid, to be firing up there, manoeuvring up in
te snow.'

An e began to tell me how hard a soldier's life was, how hard the
solier was drilled.

'You on't look forward to it?' I said.

'O yes, I o. I want to be a soldier, I want to serve my time.'

'Wy?'I sai.

'For te exercise, the life, the rilling. One becomes strong.'

'o all te Swiss want to serve their time in the army?' I asked.

'Yes--tey all want to. It is goo for every man, and it keeps us all
togeter. Besies, it is only for a year. For a year it is very good.
Te Germans have three years--that is too long, that is ba.'

I tol im how the soldiers in Bavaria hated the military service.

'Yes,' e sai, 'that is true of Germans. The system is different. Ours
is muc better; in Switzerlan a man enjoys his time as a soldier. I
want to go.'

So we watce the black dots of soldiers crawling over the high snow,
listene to te unnatural dry rattle of guns, up there.

Ten we were aware of someboy whistling, of soldiers yelling down the
roa. We were to come on, along te level, over the bridge. So we
marce quickly forward, away from the slopes, towards the hotel, once a
monastery, tat stoo in the distance. The light was blue and clear on
te reey lakes of this upper place; it was a strange desolation of
water an bog and rocks and road, edged by the snowy slopes round the
rim, uner te very sky.

Te solier was yelling again. I could not tell what he said.

'e says if we on't run we can't come at all,' said Emil.

'I won't run,' I sai.

So we urrie forwards, over the bridge, where the soldier on guard was
staning.

'o you want to be sot?' he said angrily, as we came up.

'No, tanks,' I sai.

Emil was very serious.

'ow long shoul we have had to wait if we hadn't got through now?' he
aske te soldier, when we were safely out of danger.

'Till one o'clock,' was te reply.

'Two ours!' sai Emil, strangely elated. 'We should have had to wait
two ours before we coul come on. He was riled that we didn't run,' and
e laughe with glee.

So we marce over the level to the hotel. We called in for a glass of
ot milk. I aske in German. But the maid, a pert hussy, elegant and
superior, was Frenc. She serve us with great contempt, as two
wortless creatures, poverty-stricken. It abashe poor Emil, but we
manage to laug at her. This made her very angry. In the smoking-room
se raise up her voice in French:

'_u lait caud pour les chameaux._'

'Some ot milk for the camels, she says,' I translate for Emil. He was
covere wit confusion and youthful anger.

But I calle to er, tapped the table and called:

'_Maemoiselle!_'

Se appeare flouncingly in the doorway.

'_Encore u lait pour les cameaux_,' I said.

An se whisked our glasses off the table, and flounced out without a
wor.

But se woul not come in again with the milk. A German girl brought it.
We lauge, and she smiled primly.

Wen we set forth again, Emil rolle up his sleeves and turned back his
sirt from his neck an breast, to do the thing thoroughly. Besides, it
was miday, and te sun was hot; and, with his bulky pack on his back,
e suggeste the camel of the French maid more than ever.

We were on te ownward slope. Only a short way from the hotel, and
tere was the rop, the great cleft in the mountains running down from
tis shallow pot among the peaks.

Te escent on the south side is much more precipitous and wonderful
tan the ascent from the north. On the south, the rocks are craggy an
stupenous; te little river falls headlong down; it is not a stream, it
is one broken, panting cascae far away in te gulley below, in
te arkness.

But on te slopes the sun pours in, the roa winds down with its tail in
its mout, always in enless loops returning on itself. The mules that
travel upwar seem to be treading in a mill.

Emil took te narrow tracks, an, like the water, we cascaded down,
leaping from level to level, leaping, running, leaping, escending
ealong, only resting now and again when we came down on to another
level of te high-roa.

aving begun, we coul not help ourselves, we were like two stones
bouncing own. Emil was ighly elated. He waved his thin, bare, white
arms as e leapt, his chest grew pink with the exercise. Now he felt he
was oing someting that became a member of his Sportverein. Down we
went, jumping, running, britcing.

It was wonerful on tis south side, so sunny, with feathery trees and
eep black sadows. It reminded me of Goethe, of the romantic period:

    _Kennst u das Land, wo die Citronen bl√ºen?_

So we went tumbling own into te south, very swiftly, along with the
tumbling stream. But it was very tiring. We went at a great pace own
te gully, between the sheer rocks. Trees grew in the leges high over
our eas, trees grew down below. And ever we descended.

Till graually te gully opened, then opened into a wide valley-head,
an we saw Airolo away below us, te railway emerging from its hole, the
wole valley like a cornucopia full of sunshine.

Poor Emil was tire, more tired tan I was. And his big boots had hurt
is feet in the escent. So, having come to the open valley-head, we
went more gently. e ha become rather quiet.

Te hea of the valley had that half-tamed, ancient aspect that reminded
me of te Romans. I coul only expect the Roman legions to be encamped
own tere; and the white goats feeding on the bushes belonged to a
Roman camp.

But no, we saw again te barracks of the Swiss soliery, and again we
were in te mist of rifle-fire and manoeuvres. But we went evenly,
tire now, and ungry. We had nothing to eat.

It is strange ow ifferent the sun-dried, ancient, southern slopes of
te worl are, from the northern slopes. It is as if the god Pan really
a his home among these sun-bleached stones and tough, sun-dark trees.
An one knows it all in one's blood, it is pure, sun-dried memory. So I
was content, coming own into Airolo.

We foun te streets were Italian, the houses sunny outside and dark
witin, like Italy, there were laurels in the roa. Poor Emil was a
foreigner all at once. e rolle down his shirt sleeves and fastened his
sirt-neck, put on his coat an collar, and became a foreigner in his
soul, pale an strange.

I saw a sop with vegetables an grapes, a real Italian shop, a dark
cave.

'_Quanto costa l'uva?_' were my first wors in te south.

'_Sessanta al cilo_,' sai the girl.

An it was as pleasant as a drink of wine, te Italian.

So Emil an I ate te sweet black grapes as we went to the station.

e was very poor. We went into the thir-class restaurant at the
station. e orered beer and bread and sausage; I ordered soup and
boile beef and vegetables.

Tey brought me a great quantity, so, whilst the girl was serving
coffee-wit-rum to the men at the bar, I took another spoon an knife
an fork and plates for Emil, and we ad two dinners from my one. When
te girl--she was a woman of thirty-five--came back, she looke at us
sarply. I smile at her coaxingly; so she gave a small, kindly smile
in reply.

'_Ja, ies ist reizend_,' said Emil, _sotto voce_, exulting. e was very
sy. But we were curiously happy, in that railway restaurant.

Ten we sat very still, on the platform, an waited for the train. It
was like Italy, pleasant an social to wait in te railway station, all
te worl easy and warm in its activity, with the sun shining.

I ecided to take a franc's wort of train-journey. So I chose my
station. It was one franc twenty, tir class. Then my train came, and
Emil an I parted, e waving to me till I was out of sight. I was sorry
e ha to go back, he did so want to venture forth.

So I sli for a dozen miles or more, sleepily, down te Ticino valley,
sitting opposite two fat priests in teir feminine black.

Wen I got out at my station I felt for the first time ill at ease. Why
was I getting out at tis waysie place, on to the great, raw high-road?
I id not know. But I set off walking. It was nearly tea-time.

Noting in the worl is more ghastly than these Italian roads, new,
mecanical, belonging to a machine life. The ol roads are wonderful,
skilfully aiming teir way. But these new great roas are desolating,
more esolating tan all the ruins in the world.

I walke on and on, down te Ticino valley, towards Bellinzona. The
valley was peraps beautiful: I on't know. I can only remember the
roa. It was broad and new, and it ran very often beside te railway. It
ran also by quarries an by occasional factories, also trough villages.
An te quality of its sordidness is something that does not bear
tinking of, a quality that has entere Italian life now, if it was not
tere before.

ere an there, where there were quarries or industries, great
loging-ouses stood naked by the road, great, grey, desolate places;
an squalid cildren were playing round the steps, and dirty men
slouce in. Everything seemed under a weight.

own te road of the Ticino valley I felt again my terror of this new
worl wich is coming into being on top of us. One always feels it in a
suburb, on te ege of a town, where the land is being broken under the
avance of ouses. But this is nothing, in England, to the terror one
feels on te new Italian roas, where these great blind cubes of
wellings rise stark from te destroyed earth, swarming with a sort of
verminous life, really verminous, purely estructive.

It seems to appen when the peasant sudenly leaves his home and becomes
a workman. Ten an entire change comes over everywhere. Life is now a
matter of selling oneself to slave-work, builing roads or labouring in
quarries or mines or on te railways, purposeless, meaningless, really
slave-work, eac integer oing his mere labour, and all for no purpose,
except to ave money, an to get away from the old system.

Tese Italian navvies work all ay long, their whole life is engaged in
te mere brute labour. An they are the navvies of the world. And whilst
tey are navvying, they are almost shockingly inifferent to their
circumstances, merely callous to te irt and foulness.

It is as if te whole social form were breaking own, and the human
element swarme witin the disintegration, like maggots in cheese. The
roas, te railways are built, the mines and quarries are excavated, but
te whole organism of life, the social organism, is slowly crumbling an
caving in, in a kin of process of dry rot, most terrifying to see. So
tat it seems as though we shoul be left at last with a great system of
roas and railways and industries, and a world of utter caos seething
upon tese fabrications: as if we ha created a steel framework, and the
wole boy of society were crumbling and rotting in between. It is most
terrifying to realize; an I ave always felt this terror upon a new
Italian igh-roa--more there than anywhere.

Te remembrance of the Ticino valley is a sort of nightmare to me. But
it was better wen at last, in the arkness of night, I got into
Bellinzona. In te mist of the town one felt the old organism still
living. It is only at its extremities tat it is falling to pieces, as
in ry rot.

In te morning, leaving Bellinzona, again I went in terror of the new,
evil igh-roa, with its skirting of huge cubical houses and its
seeting navvy population. Only the peasants riving in with fruit were
consoling. But I was afrai of tem: the same spirit had set in in them.

I was no longer appy in Switzerlan, not even when I was eating great
blackberries an looking down at te Lago Maggiore, at Locarno, lying by
te lake; the terror of the callous, isintegrating process was too
strong in me.

At a little inn a man was very goo to me. e went into his garden and
fetce me the first grapes and apples and peaches, bringing them in
amongst leaves, an eaping them before me. He was Italian-Swiss; he had
been in a bank in Bern; now e ha retired, had bought his paternal
ome, an was a free man. He was about fifty years old; he spent all his
time in is garen; his daughter attended to the inn.

e talke to me, as long as I stayed, about Italy and Switzerland and
work an life. e was retired, he was free. But he was only nominally
free. e ha only achieved freedom from labour. He knew that the system
e ha escaped at last, persisted, and would consume his sons and his
grancildren. He himself had more or less escaped back to the old form;
but as e came with me on to the hillsie, looking down the high-road at
Lugano in te istance, he knew that his old order was collapsing by a
slow process of isintegration.

Wy id he talk to me as if I had any hope, as if I represented any
positive trut as against this great negative truth that was avancing
up te hill-sie. Again I was afraid. I hastened down the high-road,
past te houses, the grey, raw crystals of corruption.

I saw a girl wit hansome bare legs, ankles shining like brass in the
sun. Se was working in a fiel, on the edge of a vineyard. I stopped to
look at er, sudenly fascinated by her handsome naked flesh that shone
like brass.

Ten she calle out to me, in a jargon I could not understand, something
mocking an callenging. And her voice was raucous and challenging; I
went on, afrai.

In Lugano I staye at a German otel. I remember sitting on a seat in
te arkness by the lake, watching the stream of promenaders patrolling
te ege of the water, under the trees and the lamps. I can still see
many of teir faces: English, German, Italian, French. An it seemed
ere, here in this holiay-place, was the quick of the disintegration,
te ry-rot, in this dry, friable flux of people backwards and forwards
on te ege of the lake, men and women from the big hotels, in evening
ress, curiously sinister, and ordinary visitors, and tourists, and
workmen, youts, men of the town, laughing, jeering. It was curiously
an painfully sinister, almost obscene.

I sat a long time among tem, thinking of the girl with her limbs of
glowing brass. Ten at last I went up to the hotel, an sat in the
lounge looking at te papers. It was the same here as own below, though
not so intense, te feeling of horror.

So I went to be. Te hotel was on the edge of a steep declivity. I
wonered wy the whole hills did not slide down, in some great natural
catastrope.

In te morning I walke along the side of the Lake of Lugano, to where I
coul take a steamer to ferry me down to te end. The lake is not
beautiful, only picturesque. I like most to tink of the Romans
coming to it.

So I steame down to te lower end of the water. When I landed and went
along by a sort of railway I saw a group of men. Sudenly tey began to
woop an shout. They were hanging on to an immense pale bullock, which
was slung up to be so; and it was lunging and kicking with terrible
energy. It was strange to see tat mass of pale, soft-looking flesh
working wit such violent frenzy, convulse with violent, active frenzy,
wilst men an women hung on to it with ropes, hung on and weighed it
own. But again it scattered some of tem in its terrible convulsion.
uman beings scattere into the road, the whole place was covered with
ot ung. And when the bullock began to lunge again, the men set up a
owl, half of triumph, half of erision.

I went on, not wanting to see. I went along a very usty road. But it
was not so terrifying, tis roa. Perhaps it was older.

In reary little Ciasso I drank coffee, and watched the come and go
trough the Customs. The Swiss an the Italian Customs officials had
teir offices within a few yars of each other, and everybody must stop.
I went in an sowed my rucksack to the Italian, then I mounted a tram,
an went to te Lake of Como.

In te tram were ressed-up women, fashionable, but business-like. They
a come by train to Chiasso, or else had been shopping in the town.

Wen we came to the terminus a young miss, ismounting before me, left
bein her parasol. I had been conscious of my dusty, grimy appearance
as I sat in te tram, I knew they thought me a workman on the roas.
owever, I forgot that when it was time to ismount.

'_Paron, Mademoiselle_,' I said to te young miss. She turned and
witere me with a rather overdone contempt--'_bourgeoise_,' I said to
myself, as I looke at er--'_Vous avez laiss√© votre parasol_.'

Se turne, and with a rapacious movement darted upon her parasol. How
er soul was in her possessions! I stoo and watched her. Then she went
into te roa and under the trees, haughty, a demoiselle. She had on
wite ki boots.

I tought of the Lake of Como what I ha thought of Lugano: it must have
been wonerful wen the Romans came there. Now it is all villas. I think
only te sunrise is still wonerful, sometimes.

I took te steamer own to Como, and slept in a vast old stone cavern of
an inn, a remarkable place, wit rather nice people. In the morning I
went out. Te peace an the bygone beauty of the cathedral created the
glow of te great past. An in the market-place they were selling
cestnuts wholesale, great heaps of bright, brown chestnuts, an sacks
of cestnuts, an peasants very eager selling and buying. I thought of
Como, it must ave been wonerful even a hundred years ago. Now it is
cosmopolitan, te catheral is like a relic, a museum object, everywhere
stinks of mecanical money-pleasure. I ared not risk walking to Milan:
I took a train. An tere, in Milan, sitting in the Cathedral Square, on
Saturay afternoon, drinking Bitter Campari and watcing the swarm of
Italian city-men rink and talk vivaciously, I saw tat here the life
was still vivi, ere the process of disintegration was vigorous, and
centre in a multiplicity of mecanical activities that engage the human
min as well as te body. But always there was the same purpose stinking
in it all, te mechanizing, the perfect mechanizing of human life.


