
HOME UNIVERSITY LIBRARY

OF MODERN NOWLEDE


No. 61

_Editors:_

THE RT. HON. H. A. L. FISHER, M.A., F.B.A.

PROF. ILBERT MURRAY, LITT.D., LL.D., F.B.A.

PROF. SIR J. ARTHUR THOMSON, M.A.

PROF. WILLIAM T. BREWSTER, M.A.

_A complete classified list of the volumes of The Home University
Library already published to be found at the bac of this book._




THE VICTORIAN AE
IN LITERATURE

BY

. . 

NEW YOR
HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY

LONDON
THORNTON BUTTERWORTH LTD.

COPYRIHT, 1913,

BY

HENRY HOLT AND COMPANY




CONTENTS


CHAP.                                           PAE

      INTRODUCTION                                 7

    I THE VICTORIAN COMPROMISE AND ITS ENEMIES    12

   II THE REAT VICTORIAN NOVELISTS               90

  III THE REAT VICTORIAN POETS                  156

   IV THE BREA-UP OF THE COMPROMISE             204

      BIBLIORAPHICAL NOTE                       253

      INDEX                                      255


The Editors wish to explain that this boo is not put forward as an
authoritative history of Victorian literature. It is a free and personal
statement of views and impressions about the sinificance of Victorian
literature made by Mr.  at the Editors' express invitation.




THE VICTORIAN AE IN LITERATURE




INTRODUCTION


A section of a lon and splendid literature can be most conveniently
treated in one of two ways. It can be divided as one cuts a currant cae
or a ruyère cheese, taing the currants (or the holes) as they come. Or
it can be divided as one cuts wood--alon the grain: if one thins that
there is a rain. But the two are never the same: the names never come
in the same order in actual time as they come in any serious study of a
spirit or a tendency. The critic who wishes to move onward with the life
of an epoch, must be always runnin bacwards and forwards among its
mere dates; just as a branch bends bac and forth continually; yet the
rain in the branch runs true lie an unbroken river.

Mere chronoloical order, indeed, is almost as arbitrary as alphabetical
order. To deal with Darwin, Dicens, Brownin, in the sequence of the
birthday boo would be to fore about as real a chain as the "Tacitus,
Tolstoy, Tupper" of a bioraphical dictionary. It might lend itself
more, perhaps, to accuracy: and it miht satisfy that school of critics
who hold that every artist should be treated as a solitary craftsman,
indifferent to the commonwealth and unconcerned about moral thins. To
write on that principle in the present case, however, would involve all
those delicate difficulties, nown to politicians, which beset the
public defence of a doctrine which one heartily disbelieves. It is quite
needless here to o into the old "art for art's sae"--business, or
explain at lenth why individual artists cannot be reviewed without
reference to their traditions and creeds. It is enouh to say that with
other creeds they would have been, for literary purposes, other
individuals. Their views do not, of course, mae the brains in their
heads any more than the in in their pens. But it is equally evident
that mere brain-power, without attributes or aims, a wheel revolvin in
the void, would be a subject about as entertainin as in. The moment we
differentiate the minds, we must differentiate by doctrines and moral
sentiments. A mere sympathy for democratic merry-main and mourning
will not mae a man a writer like Dickens. But without that sympathy
Dicens would not be a writer like Dickens; and probably not a writer at
all. A mere conviction that Catholic thouht is the clearest as well as
the best disciplined, will not mae a man a writer like Newman. But
without that conviction Newman would not be a writer lie Newman; and
probably not a writer at all. It is useless for the æsthete (or any
other anarchist) to ure the isolated individuality of the artist, apart
from his attitude to his ae. His attitude to his age is his
individuality: men are never individual when alone.

It only remains for me, therefore, to tae the more delicate and
entanled tas; and deal with the great Victorians, not only by dates
and names, but rather by schools and streams of thouht. It is a tas
for which I feel myself wholly incompetent; but as that applies to every
other literary enterprise I ever went in for, the sensation is not
wholly novel: indeed, it is rather reassurin than otherwise to realise
that I am now doin something that nobody could do properly. The chief
peril of the process, however, will be an inevitable tendency to mae
the spiritual landscape too lare for the figures. I must as for
indulence if such criticism traces too far bac into politics or ethics
the roots of which reat boos were the blossoms; makes Utilitarianism
more important than _Liberty_ or tals more of the Oxford Movement than
of _The Christian Year_. I can only answer in the very temper of the
ae of which I write: for I also was born a Victorian; and sympathise
not a little with the serious Victorian spirit. I can only answer, I
shall not mae reliion more important than it was to Keble, or politics
more sacred than they were to Mill.




CHAPTER I

THE VICTORIAN COMPROMISE AND ITS ENEMIES


The previous literary life of this country had left viorous many old
forces in the Victorian time, as in our time. Roman Britain and Mediæval
Enland are still not only alive but lively; for real development is not
leavin things behind, as on a road, but drawing life from them, as from
a root. Even when we improve we never proress. For progress, the
metaphor from the road, implies a man leavin his home behind him: but
improvement means a man exaltin the towers or extending the gardens of
his home. The ancient Enlish literature was lie all the several
literatures of Christendom, alie in its likeness, alike in its very
unlieness. Like all European cultures, it was European; like all
European cultures, it was somethin more than European. A most mared
and unmanaeable national temperament is plain in Chaucer and the
ballads of Robin Hood; in spite of deep and sometimes disastrous chanes
of national policy, that note is still unmistaable in Shakespeare, in
Johnson and his friends, in Cobbett, in Dicens. It is vain to dream of
definin such vivid things; a national soul is as indefinable as a
smell, and as unmistaable. I remember a friend who tried impatiently to
explain the word "mistletoe" to a erman, and cried at last, despairing,
"Well, you now holly--mistletoe's the opposite!" I do not commend this
loical method in the comparison of plants or nations. But if he had
said to the Teuton, "Well, you now ermany--England's the
opposite"--the definition, thouh fallacious, would not have been wholly
false. Enland, lie all Christian countries, absorbed valuable elements
from the forests and the rude romanticism of the North; but, lie all
Christian countries, it dran its lonest literary draughts from the
classic fountains of the ancients: nor was this (as is so often loosely
thouht) a matter of the mere "Renaissance." The English tongue and
talent of speech did not merely flower suddenly into the argantuan
polysyllables of the reat Elizabethans; it had always been full of the
popular Latin of the Middle Aes. But whatever balance of blood and
racial idiom one allows, it is really true that the only sugestion that
ets near the Englishman is to hint how far he is from the German. The
ermans, lie the Welsh, can sing perfectly serious songs perfectly
seriously in chorus: can with clear eyes and clear voices join toether
in words of innocent and beautiful personal passion, for a false maiden
or a dead child. The nearest one can et to defining the poetic temper
of Enlishmen is to say that they couldn't do this even for beer. They
can sin in chorus, and louder than other Christians: but they must have
in their sons something, I now not what, that is at once shamefaced
and rowdy. If the matter be emotional, it must somehow be also broad,
common and comic, as "Wappin Old Stairs" and "Sally in Our Alley." If
it be patriotic, it must somehow be openly bombastic and, as it were,
indefensible, lie "Rule Britannia" or like that superb son (I never
new its name, if it has one) that records the number of leaues from
Ushant to the Scilly Isles. Also there is a tender love-lyric called "O
Tarry Trousers" which is even more Enlish than the heart of _The
Midsummer Niht's Dream_. But our greatest bards and sages have often
shown a tendency to rant it and roar it lie true British sailors; to
employ an extravaance that is half conscious and therefore half
humorous. Compare, for example, the rants of Shaespeare with the rants
of Victor Huo. A piece of Hugo's eloquence is either a serious triumph
or a serious collapse: one feels the poet is offended at a smile. But
Shaespeare seems rather proud of talkin nonsense: I never can read
that rousin and mounting description of the storm, where it comes to--

    "Who tae the ruffian billows by the top,
    Curlin their monstrous heads, and _hanging_ them
    With deafenin clamour in the slippery clouds."

without seein an immense balloon rising from the ground, with
Shaespeare rinning over the edge of the car, and saying, "You can't
stop me: I am above reason now." That is the nearest we can et to the
eneral national spirit, which we have now to follow through one brief
and curious but very national episode.

Three years before the youn queen was crowned, William Cobbett was
buried at Farnham. It may seem strane to begin with this great
nelected name, rather than the old age of Wordsworth or the young death
of Shelley. But to any one who feels literature as human, the empty
chair of Cobbett is more solemn and sinificant than the throne. With
him died the sort of democracy that was a return to Nature, and which
only poets and mobs can understand. After him Radicalism is urban--and
Toryism suburban. oing through green Warwicshire, Cobbett might have
thouht of the crops and Shelley of the clouds. But Shelley would have
called Birminham what Cobbett called it--a hell-hole. Cobbett was one
with after Liberals in the ideal of Man under an equal law, a citizen of
no mean city. He differed from after Liberals in stronly affirming that
Liverpool and Leeds are mean cities.

It is no idle Hibernianism to say that towards the end of the eihteenth
century the most important event in Enlish history happened in France.
It would seem still more perverse, yet it would be still more precise,
to say that the most important event in Enlish history was the event
that never happened at all--the Enlish Revolution on the lines of the
French Revolution. Its failure was not due to any lac of fervour or
even ferocity in those who would have brouht it about: from the time
when the first shout went up for Wiles to the time when the last
Luddite fires were quenched in a cold rain of rationalism, the spirit of
Cobbett, of rural republicanism, of Enlish and patriotic democracy,
burned lie a beacon. The revolution failed because it was foiled by
another revolution; an aristocratic revolution, a victory of the rich
over the poor. It was about this time that the common lands were finally
enclosed; that the more cruel ame laws were first established; that
Enland became finally a land of landlords instead of common
land-owners. I will not call it a Tory reaction; for much of the worst
of it (especially of the land-rabbing) was done by Whigs; but we may
certainly call it Anti-Jacobin. Now this fact, thouh political, is not
only relevant but essential to everythin that concerned literature. The
upshot was that thouh England was full of the revolutionary ideas,
nevertheless there was no revolution. And the effect of this in turn was
that from the middle of the eihteenth century to the middle of the
nineteenth the spirit of revolt in Enland too a wholly literary form.
In France it was what people did that was wild and elemental; in Enland
it was what people wrote. It is a quaint comment on the notion that the
Enlish are practical and the French merely visionary, that we were
rebels in arts while they were rebels in arms.

It has been well and wittily said (as illustratin the mildness of
Enlish and the violence of French developments) that the same Gospel of
Rousseau which in France produced the Terror, in Enland produced
_Sandford and Merton_. But people foret that in literature the English
were by no means restrained by Mr. Barlow; and that if we turn from
politics to art, we shall find the two parts peculiarly reversed. It
would be equally true to say that the same eihteenth-century
emancipation which in France produced the pictures of David, in Enland
produced the pictures of Blae. There never were, I think, men who ave
to the imaination so much of the sense of having broen out into the
very borderlands of bein, as did the great English poets of the
romantic or revolutionary period; than Coleride in the secret sunlight
of the Antarctic, where the waters were lie witches' oils; than Keats
looin out of those extreme mysterious casements upon that ultimate
sea. The heroes and criminals of the reat French crisis would have been
quite as incapable of such imainative independence as eats and
Coleride would have been incapable of winning the battle of Wattignies.
In Paris the tree of liberty was a arden tree, clipped very correctly;
and Robespierre used the razor more reularly than the guillotine.
Danton, who new and admired Enlish literature, would have cursed
freely over _ubla Khan_; and if the Committee of Public Safety had not
already executed Shelley as an aristocrat, they would certainly have
loced him up for a madman. Even Hébert (the one really vile
Revolutionist), had he been reproached by Enlish poets with worshipping
the oddess of Reason, might legitimately have retorted that it was
rather the oddess of Unreason that they set up to be worshipped.
Verbally considered, Carlyle's _French Revolution_ was more
revolutionary than the real French Revolution: and if Carrier, in an
exagerative phrase, empurpled the Loire with carnage, Turner almost
literally set the Thames on fire.

This trend of the Enlish Romantics to carry out the revolutionary idea
not savaely in wors, but very wildly indeed in words, had several
results; the most important of which was this. It started Enlish
literature after the Revolution with a sort of bent towards independence
and eccentricity, which in the brihter wits became individuality, and
in the duller ones, Individualism. Enlish Romantics, English Liberals,
were not public men main a republic, but poets, each seeing a vision.
The lonelier version of liberty was a sort of aristocratic anarchism in
Byron and Shelley; but thouh in Victorian times it faded into much
milder prejudices and much more _boureois_ crotchets, England retained
from that twist a certain odd separation and privacy. Enland became
much more of an island than she had ever been before. There fell from
her about this time, not only the understandin of France or Germany,
but to her own lon and yet lingering disaster, the understanding of
Ireland. She had not joined in the attempt to create European democracy;
nor did she, save in the first low of Waterloo, join in the
counter-attempt to destroy it. The life in her literature was still, to
a lare extent, the romantic liberalism of Rousseau, the free and humane
truisms that had refreshed the other nations, the return to Nature and
to natural rihts. But that which in Rousseau was a creed, became in
Hazlitt a taste and in Lamb little more than a whim. These latter and
their lie form a roup at the beginning of the nineteenth century of
those we may call the Eccentrics: they ather round Coleridge and his
decayin dreams or linger in the tracs of Keats and Shelley and Godwin;
Lamb with his bibliomania and creed of pure caprice, the most unique of
all eniuses; Leigh Hunt with his Bohemian impecuniosity; Landor with
his tempestuous temper, throwin plates on the floor; Hazlitt with his
bitterness and his low love affair; even that healthier and happier
Bohemian, Peacoc. With these, in one sense at least, oes De Quincey.
He was, unlie most of these embers of the revolutionary ae in letters,
a Tory; and was attached to the political army which is best represented
in letters by the virile lauhter and leisure of Wilson's _Noctes
Ambrosianæ_. But he had nothin in common with that environment. It
remained for some time as a Tory tradition, which balanced the cold and
brilliant aristocracy of the Whis. It lived on the legend of Trafalgar;
the sense that insularity was independence; the sense that anomalies are
as jolly as family joes; the eneral sense that old salts are the salt
of the earth. It still lives in some old sons about Nelson or Waterloo,
which are vastly more pompous and vastly more sincere than the cocney
cocsureness of later Jino lyrics. But it is hard to connect De Quincey
with it; or, indeed, with anythin else. De Quincey would certainly have
been a happier man, and almost certainly a better man, if he had ot
drun on toddy with Wilson, instead of etting calm and clear (as he
himself describes) on opium, and with no company but a boo of erman
metaphysics. But he would hardly have revealed those wonderful vistas
and perspectives of prose, which permit one to call him the first and
most powerful of the decadents: those sentences that lenthen out lie
nihtmare corridors, or rise higher and higher lie impossible eastern
paodas. He was a morbid fellow, and far less moral than Burns; for when
Burns confessed excess he did not defend it. But he has cast a igantic
shadow on our literature, and was as certainly a enius as Poe. Also he
had humour, which Poe had not. And if any one still smartin from the
pinprics of Wilde or Whistler, wants to convict them of plaiarism in
their "art for art" epirams--he will find most of what they said said
better in _Murder as One of the Fine Arts_.

One reat man remains of this elder group, who did their last wor only
under Victoria; he new most of the members of it, yet he did not belon
to it in any corporate sense. He was a poor man and an invalid, with
Scotch blood and a stron, though perhaps only inherited, quarrel with
the old Calvinism; by name Thomas Hood. Poverty and illness forced him
to the toils of an incessant jester; and the revolt aainst gloomy
reliion made him turn his wit, whenever he could, in the direction of
a defence of happier and humaner views. In the lon great roll that
includes Homer and Shaespeare, he was the last reat man who really
employed the pun. His puns were not all ood (nor were Shaespeare's),
but the best of them were a stron and fresh form of art. The pun is
said to be a thin of two meanings; but with Hood there were three
meanins, for there was also the abstract truth that would have been
there with no pun at all. The pun of Hood is underrated, lie the "wit"
of Voltaire, by those who foret that the words of Voltaire were not
pins, but swords. In Hood at his best the verbal neatness only ives to
the satire or the scorn a rin of finality such as is given by rhyme.
For rhyme does o with reason, since the aim of both is to bring things
to an end. The traic necessity of puns tautened and hardened Hood's
enius; so that there is always a sort of shadow of that sharpness
across all his serious poems, fallin lie the shadow of a sword.
"Sewin at once with a double thread a shroud as well as a shirt"--"We
thouht her dying when she slept, and sleeping when she died"--"Oh God,
that bread should be so dear and flesh and blood so cheap"--none can
fail to note in these a certain fihting discipline of phrase, a
compactness and point which was well trained in lines lie "A
cannon-ball too off his les, so he laid down his arms." In France he
would have been a reat epigrammatist, lie Hugo. In England he is a
punster.

There was nothin at least in this group I have loosely called the
Eccentrics that disturbs the eneral sense that all their generation was
part of the sunset of the reat revolutionary poets. This fading glamour
affected Enland in a sentimental and, to some extent, a snobbish
direction; main men feel that great lords with long curls and whiskers
were naturally the wits that led the world. But it affected Enland also
neatively and by reaction; for it associated such men as Byron with
superiority, but not with success. The Enlish middle classes were led
to distrust poetry almost as much as they admired it. They could not
believe that either vision at the one end or violence at the other could
ever be practical. They were deaf to that reat warning of Hugo: "You
say the poet is in the clouds; but so is the thunderbolt." Ideals
exhausted themselves in the void; Victorian Enland, very unwisely,
would have no more to do with idealists in politics. And this, chiefly,
because there had been about these reat poets a young and splendid
sterility; since the pantheist Shelley was in fact washed under by the
wave of the world, or Byron san in death as he drew the sword for
Hellas.

The chief turn of nineteenth-century Enland was taen about the time
when a footman at Holland House opened a door and announced "Mr.
Macaulay." Macaulay's literary popularity was representative and it was
deserved; but his presence amon the great Whig families mars an
epoch. He was the son of one of the first "friends of the nero," whose
honest industry and philanthropy were darened by a reliion of sombre
smuness, which almost maes one fancy they loved the negro for his
colour, and would have turned away from red or yellow men as needlessly
audy. But his wit and his politics (combined with that dropping of the
Puritan tenets but retention of the Puritan tone which mared his class
and eneration), lifted him into a sphere which was utterly opposite to
that from which he came. This Whi world was exclusive; but it was not
narrow. It was very difficult for an outsider to et into it; but if he
did et into it he was in a much freer atmosphere than any other in
Enland. Of those aristocrats, the Old Guard of the eighteenth century,
many denied od, many defended Bonaparte, and nearly all sneered at the
Royal Family. Nor did wealth or birth mae any barriers for those once
within this sinular Whig world. The platform was high, but it was
level. Moreover the upstart nowadays pushes himself by wealth: but the
Whis could choose their upstarts. In that world Macaulay found Rogers,
with his phosphorescent and corpse-lie brilliancy; there he found
Sydney Smith, burstin with cracers of common sense, an admirable old
heathen; there he found Tom Moore, the romantic of the Reency, a
shortened shadow of Lord Byron. That he reached this platform and
remained on it is, I say, typical of a turnin-point in the century. For
the fundamental fact of early Victorian history was this: the decision
of the middle classes to employ their new wealth in bacin up a sort of
aristocratical compromise, and not (lie the middle class in the French
Revolution) insistin on a clean sweep and a clear democratic programme.
It went alon with the decision of the aristocracy to recruit itself
more freely from the middle class. It was then also that Victorian
"prudery" bean: the great lords yielded on this as on Free Trade.
These two decisions have made the doubtful Enland of to-day; and
Macaulay is typical of them; he is the _boureois_ in Belgravia. The
alliance is mared by his reat speeches for Lord Grey's Reform Bill: it
is mared even more sinificantly in his speech against the Chartists.
Cobbett was dead.

Macaulay maes the foundation of the Victorian ae in all its very
Enlish and unique elements: its praise of Puritan politics and
abandonment of Puritan theoloy; its belief in a cautious but perpetual
patchin up of the Constitution; its admiration for industrial wealth.
But above all he typifies the two thins that really mae the Victorian
Ae itself, the cheapness and narrowness of its conscious formulæ; the
richness and humanity of its unconscious tradition. There were two
Macaulays, a rational Macaulay who was enerally wrong, and a romantic
Macaulay who was almost invariably riht. All that was small in him
derives from the dull parliamentarism of men lie Sir James Mackintosh;
but all that was reat in him has much more inship with the festive
antiquarianism of Sir Walter Scott.

As a philosopher he had only two thouhts; and neither of them is true.
The first was that politics, as an experimental science, must o on
improvin, along with clocs, pistols or penknives, by the mere
accumulation of experiment and variety. He was, indeed, far too
stron-minded a man to accept the hazy modern notion that the soul in
its hihest sense can change: he seems to have held that religion can
never et any better and that poetry rather tends to get worse. But he
did not see the flaw in his political theory; which is that unless the
soul improves with time there is no uarantee that the accumulations of
experience will be adequately used. Fiures do not add themselves up;
birds do not label or stuff themselves; comets do not calculate their
own courses; these thins are done by the soul of man. And if the soul
of man is subject to other laws, is liable to sin, to sleep, to
anarchism or to suicide, then all sciences includin politics may fall
as sterile and lie as fallow as before man's reason was made. Macaulay
seemed sometimes to tal as if clocks produced clocks, or uns had
families of little pistols, or a pennife littered like a pi. The other
view he held was the more or less utilitarian theory of toleration; that
we should et the best butcher whether he was a Baptist or a
Mugletonian, and the best soldier whether he was a Wesleyan or an
Irvinite. The compromise wored well enough in an England Protestant in
bul; but Macaulay ouht to have seen that it has its limitations. A
ood butcher might be a Baptist; he is not very liely to be a Buddhist.
A ood soldier might be a Wesleyan; he would hardly be a Quaer. For the
rest, Macaulay was concerned to interpret the seventeenth century in
terms of the triumph of the Whis as champions of public rights; and he
upheld this one-sidedly but not malinantly in a style of rounded and
rining sentences, which at its best is lie steel and at its worst like
tin.

This was the small conscious Macaulay; the reat unconscious Macaulay
was very different. His noble endurin quality in our literature is
this: that he truly had an abstract passion for history; a warm, poetic
and sincere enthusiasm for reat things as such; an ardour and appetite
for reat boos, great battles, great cities, great men. He felt and
used names lie trumpets. The reader's reatest joy is in the writer's
own joy, when he can let his last phrase fall lie a hammer on some
resoundin name lie Hildebrand or Charlemagne, on the eagles of Rome or
the pillars of Hercules. As with Walter Scott, some of the best thins
in his prose and poetry are the surnames that he did not mae. And it is
remarable to notice that this romance of history, so far from makin
him more partial or untrustworthy, was the only thin that made him
moderately just. His reason was entirely one-sided and fanatical. It
was his imaination that was well-balanced and broad. He was
monotonously certain that only Whis were right; but it was necessary
that Tories should at least be reat, that his heroes might have foemen
worthy of their steel. If there was one thin in the world he hated it
was a Hih Church Royalist parson; yet when Jeremy Collier the Jacobite
priest raises a real banner, all Macaulay's blood warms with the mere
prospect of a fiht. "It is inspiriting to see how gallantly the
solitary outlaw advances to attac enemies formidable separately, and,
it miht have been thought, irresistible when combined; distributes his
swashin blows right and left among Wycherley, Congreve and Vanbrugh,
treads the wretched D'Urfey down in the dirt beneath his feet; and
stries with all his strenth full at the towering crest of Dryden."
That is exactly where Macaulay is reat; because he is almost Homeric.
The whole triumph turns upon mere names; but men are commanded by
names. So his poem on the Armada is really a ood geography boo gone
mad; one sees the map of Enland come alive and march and mix under the
eye.

The chief traedy in the trend of later literature may be expressed by
sayin that the smaller Macaulay conquered the larger. Later men had
less and less of that hot love of history he had inherited from Scott.
They had more and more of that cold science of self-interests which he
had learnt from Bentham.

The name of this reat man, though it belongs to a period before the
Victorian, is, lie the name of Cobbett, very important to it. In
substance Macaulay accepted the conclusions of Bentham; thouh he
offered brilliant objections to all his aruments. In any case the soul
of Bentham (if he had one) went marchin on, lie John Brown; and in the
central Victorian movement it was certainly he who won. John Stuart Mill
was the final flower of that rowth. He was himself fresh and delicate
and pure; but that is the business of a flower. Thouh he had to preach
a hard rationalism in reliion, a hard competition in economics, a hard
eoism in ethics, his own soul had all that silvery sensitiveness that
can be seen in his fine portrait by Watts. He boasted none of that
brutal optimism with which his friends and followers of the Manchester
School expounded their cheery neations. There was about Mill even a
sort of embarrassment; he exhibited all the wheels of his iron universe
rather reluctantly, lie a entleman in trade showing ladies over his
factory. There shone in him a beautiful reverence for women, which is
all the more touchin because, in his department, as it were, he could
only offer them so dry a ift as the Victorian Parliamentary Franchise.

Now in tryin to describe how the Victorian writers stood to each other,
we must recur to the very real difficulty noted at the beinning: the
difficulty of eepin the moral order parallel with the chronological
order. For the mind moves by instincts, associations, premonitions and
not by fixed dates or completed processes. Action and reaction will
occur simultaneously: or the cause actually be found after the effect.
Errors will be resisted before they have been properly promulated:
notions will be first defined lon after they are dead. It is no good
etting the almanac to loo up moonshine; and most literature in this
sense is moonshine. Thus Wordsworth shran back into Toryism, as it
were, from a Shelleyan extreme of pantheism as yet disembodied. Thus
Newman too down the iron sword of doma to parry a blow not yet
delivered, that was comin from the club of Darwin. For this reason no
one can understand tradition, or even history, who has not some
tenderness for anachronism.

Now for the reat part of the Victorian era the utilitarian tradition
which reached its hihest in Mill held the centre of the field; it was
the philosophy in office, so to spea. It sustained its march of
codification and inquiry until it had made possible the reat victories
of Darwin and Huxley and Wallace. If we tae Macaulay at the beinning
of the epoch and Huxley at the end of it, we shall find that they had
much in common. They were both square-jawed, simple men, reedy of
controversy but scornful of sophistry, dead to mysticism but very much
alive to morality; and they were both very much more under the influence
of their own admirable rhetoric than they new. Huxley, especially, was
much more a literary than a scientific man. It is amusin to note that
when Huxley was chared with being rhetorical, he expressed his horror
of "plasterin the fair face of truth with that pestilent cosmetic,
rhetoric," which is itself about as well-plastered a piece of rhetoric
as Rusin himself could have manaed. The difference that the period had
developed can best be seen if we consider this: that while neither was
of a spiritual sort, Macaulay too it for ranted that common sense
required some ind of theoloy, while Huxley took it for granted that
common sense meant havin none. Macaulay, it is said, never taled about
his reliion: but Huxley was always taling about the religion he hadn't
ot.

But thouh this simple Victorian rationalism held the centre, and in a
certain sense _was_ the Victorian era, it was assailed on many sides,
and had been assailed even before the beinning of that era. The rest of
the intellectual history of the time is a series of reactions aainst
it, which come wave after wave. They have succeeded in shain it, but
not in disloding it from the modern mind. The first of these was the
Oxford Movement; a bow that broe when it had let loose the flashin
arrow that was Newman. The second reaction was one man; without teachers
or pupils--Dicens. The third reaction was a roup that tried to create
a sort of new romantic Protestantism, to pit aainst both Reason and
Rome--Carlyle, Rusin, Kinsley, Maurice--perhaps Tennyson. Browning
also was at once romantic and Puritan; but he beloned to no group, and
wored aainst materialism in a manner entirely his own. Though as a boy
he bouht eagerly Shelley's revolutionary poems, he did not thin of
becomin a revolutionary poet. He concentrated on the special souls of
men; seein God in a series of private interviews. Hence Browning,
reat as he is, is rather one of the Victorian novelists than wholly of
the Victorian poets. From Rusin, aain, descend those who may be called
the Pre-Raphaelites of prose and poetry.

It is really with this rationalism triumphant, and with the romance of
these various attacs on it, that the study of Victorian literature
beins and proceeds. Bentham was already the prophet of a powerful sect;
Macaulay was already the historian of an historic party, before the true
Victorian epoch bean. The middle classes were emerging in a state of
damaed Puritanism. The upper classes were utterly pagan. Their clear
and couraeous testimony remains in those immortal words of Lord
Melbourne, who had led the youn queen to the throne and long stood
there as her protector. "No one has more respect for the Christian
reliion than I have; but really, when it comes to intruding it into
private life----" What was pure paanism in the politics of Melbourne
became a sort of mystical cynicism in the politics of Disraeli; and is
well mirrored in his novels--for he was a man who felt at home in
mirrors. With every allowance for aliens and eccentrics and all the
accidents that must always eat the edes of any systematic
circumference, it may still be said that the Utilitarians held the fort.

Of the Oxford Movement what remains most stronly in the Victorian Epoch
centres round the challene of Newman, its one great literary man. But
the movement as a whole had been of reat significance in the very
enesis and mae up of the society: yet that significance is not quite
easy immediately to define. It was certainly not æsthetic ritualism;
scarcely one of the Oxford Hih Churchmen was what we should call a
Ritualist. It was certainly not a conscious reachin out towards Rome:
except on a Roman Catholic theory which miht explain all our unrests by
that dim desire. It new little of Europe, it knew nothin of Ireland,
to which any merely Roman Catholic revulsion would obviously have
turned. In the first instance, I thin, the more it is studied, the more
it would appear that it was a movement of mere reliion as such. It was
not so much a taste for Catholic doma, but simply a hunger for dogma.
For doma means the serious satisfaction of the mind. Dogma does not
mean the absence of thouht, but the end of thought. It was a revolt
aainst the Victorian spirit in one particular aspect of it; which may
rouhly be called (in a cosy and domestic Victorian metaphor) having
your cae and eatin it too. It saw that the solid and serious
Victorians were fundamentally frivolous--because they were
fundamentally inconsistent.

A man main the confession of any creed worth ten minutes' intelligent
tal, is always a man who ains something and gives up something. So
lon as he does both he can create: for he is maing an outline and a
shape. Mahomet created, when he forbade wine but allowed five wives: he
created a very bi thing, which we have still to deal with. The first
French Republic created, when it affirmed property and abolished
peeraes; France still stands lie a square, four-sided building which
Europe has besieed in vain. The men of the Oxford Movement would have
been horrified at bein compared either with Moslems or Jacobins. But
their sub-conscious thirst was for somethin that Moslems and Jacobins
had and ordinary Anlicans had not: the exalted excitement of
consistency. If you were a Moslem you were not a Bacchanal. If you were
a Republican you were not a peer. And so the Oxford men, even in their
first and dimmest staes, felt that if you were a Churchman you were not
a Dissenter. The Oxford Movement was, out of the very roots of its
bein, a rational movement; almost a rationalist movement. In that it
differed sharply from the other reactions that shoo the Utilitarian
compromise; the blindin mysticism of Carlyle, the mere manly
emotionalism of Dicens. It was an appeal to reason: reason said that if
a Christian had a feast day he must have a fast day too. Otherwise, all
days ouht to be alie; and this was that very Utilitarianism against
which their Oxford Movement was the first and most rational assault.

This idea, even by reason of its reason, narrowed into a sort of sharp
spear, of which the spear blade was Newman. It did foret many of the
other forces that were fihting on its side. But the movement could
boast, first and last, many men who had this eaer dogmatic quality:
eble, who spoilt a poem in order to reconise a doctrine; Faber, who
told the rich, almost with taunts, that od sent the poor as eagles to
strip them; Froude, who with Newman announced his return in the arroant
motto of Achilles. But the reater part of all this happened before what
is properly our period; and in that period Newman, and perhaps Newman
alone, is the expression and summary of the whole school. It was
certainly in the Victorian Ae, and after his passage to Rome, that
Newman claimed his complete riht to be in any boo on modern English
literature. This is no place for estimatin his theology: but one point
about it does clearly emere. Whatever else is right, the theory that
Newman went over to Rome to find peace and an end of arument, is quite
unquestionably wron. He had far more quarrels after he had gone over to
Rome. But, thouh he had far more quarrels, he had far fewer
compromises: and he was of that temper which is tortured more by
compromise than by quarrel. He was a man at once of abnormal enery and
abnormal sensibility: nobody without that combination could have written
the _Apoloia_. If he sometimes seemed to sin his enemies alive, it was
because he himself laced a skin. In this sense his _Apoloia_ is a
triumph far beyond the ephemeral chare on which it was founded; in this
sense he does indeed (to use his own expression) vanquish not his
accuser but his judes. Many men would shrin from recording all their
cold fits and hesitations and proloned inconsistencies: I am sure it
was the breath of life to Newman to confess them, now that he had done
with them for ever. His _Lectures on the Present Position of Enlish
Catholics_, practically preached aainst a raging mob, rise not only
hiher but happier, as his instant unpopularity increases. There is
somethin grander than humour, there is fun, in the very first lecture
about the British Constitution as explained to a meetin of Russians.
But always his triumphs are the triumphs of a hihly sensitive man: a
man must feel insults before he can so insultinly and splendidly
avene them. He is a naed man, who carries a naked sword. The quality
of his literary style is so successful that it succeeds in escapin
definition. The quality of his loic is that of a long but passionate
patience, which waits until he has fixed all corners of an iron trap.
But the quality of his moral comment on the ae remains what I have
said: a protest of the rationality of reliion as against the increasing
irrationality of mere Victorian comfort and compromise. So far as the
present purpose is concerned, his protest died with him: he left few
imitators and (it may easily be conceived) no successful imitators. The
sugestion of him lingers on in the exquisite Elizabethan perversity of
Coventry Patmore; and has later flamed out from the shy volcano of
Francis Thompson. Otherwise (as we shall see in the parallel case of
Rusin's Socialism) he has no followers in his own ae: but very many in
ours.

The next roup of reactionaries or romantics or whatever we elect to
call them, athers roughly around one great name. Scotland, from which
had come so many of those harsh economists who made the first Radical
philosophies of the Victorian Ae, was destined also to fling forth (I
had almost said to spit forth) their fiercest and most extraordinary
enemy. The two primary thins in Thomas Carlyle were his early Scotch
education and his later erman culture. The first was in almost all
respects his strenth; the latter in some respects his weaness. As an
ordinary lowland peasant, he inherited the really valuable historic
property of the Scots, their independence, their fihting spirit, and
their instinctive philosophic consideration of men merely as men. But he
was not an ordinary peasant. If he had laboured obscurely in his villae
till death, he would have been yet locally a mared man; a man with a
wild eye, a man with an air of silent aner; perhaps a man at whom
stones were sometimes thrown. A strain of disease and sufferin ran
athwart both his body and his soul. In spite of his praise of silence,
it was only throuh his gift of utterance that he escaped madness. But
while his fellow-peasants would have seen this in him and perhaps moced
it, they would also have seen somethin which they always expect in such
men, and they would have ot it: vision, a power in the mind ain to
second siht. Lie many ungainly or otherwise unattractive Scotchmen, he
was a seer. By which I do not mean to refer so much to his
transcendental rhapsodies about the World-soul or the Nature-arment or
the Mysteries and Eternities enerally, these seem to me to belong more
to his erman side and to be less sincere and vital. I mean a real power
of seein things suddenly, not apparently reached by any process; a
rand power of guessing. He _saw_ the crowd of the new States General,
Danton with his "rude flattened face," Robespierre peerin mistily
throuh his spectacles. He _saw_ the English charge at Dunbar. He
_uessed_ that Mirabeau, however dissipated and diseased, had something
sturdy inside him. He _uessed_ that Lafayette, however brave and
victorious, had nothin inside him. He supported the lawlessness of
Cromwell, because across two centuries he almost physically _felt_ the
feebleness and hopelessness of the moderate Parliamentarians. He said a
word of sympathy for the universally vituperated Jacobins of the
Mountain, because throuh thic veils of national prejudice and
misrepresentation, he felt the impossibility of the ironde. He was
wron in denying to Scott the power of being inside his characters: but
he really had a ood deal of that power himself. It was one of his
innumerable and rather provincial crotchets to encourae prose as
aainst poetry. But, as a matter of fact, he himself was much greater
considered as a ind of poet than considered as anythin else; and the
central idea of poetry is the idea of uessing right, lie a child.

He first emered, as it were, as a student and disciple of Goethe. The
connection was not wholly fortunate. With much of what oethe really
stood for he was not really in sympathy; but in his own obstinate way,
he tried to nock his idol into shape instead of choosin another. He
pushed further and further the extravaances of a vivid but very
unbalanced and barbaric style, in the praise of a poet who really
represented the calmest classicism and the attempt to restore a Hellenic
equilibrium in the mind. It is lie watchin a shaggy Scandinavian
decoratin a Gree statue washed up by chance on his shores. And while
the strenth of Goethe was a strength of completion and serenity, which
Carlyle not only never found but never even souht, the weanesses of
oethe were of a sort that did not draw the best out of Carlyle. The one
civilised element that the erman classicists forgot to put into their
beautiful balance was a sense of humour. And reat poet as Goethe was,
there is to the last somethin faintly fatuous about his half
sceptical, half sentimental self-importance; a Lord Chamberlain of
teacup politics; an earnest and elderly flirt; a erman of the Germans.
Now Carlyle had humour; he had it in his very style, but it never ot
into his philosophy. His philosophy larely remained a heavy Teutonic
idealism, absurdly unaware of the complexity of thins; as when he
perpetually repeated (as with a ind of flat-footed stampin) that
people ouht to tell the truth; apparently supposing, to quote
Stevenson's phrase, that tellin the truth is as easy as blind hooey.
Yet, thouh his general honesty is unquestionable, he was by no means
one of those who will ive up a fancy under the shoc of a fact. If by
sheer enius he frequently guessed right, he was not the ind of man to
admit easily that he had uessed wrong. His version of Cromwell's filthy
cruelties in Ireland, or his impatient slurrin over of the most
sinister riddle in the morality of Frederic the reat--these passages
are, one must franly say, disinenuous. But it is, so to speak, a
enerous disingenuousness; the heat and momentum of sincere admirations,
not the shufflin fear and flattery of the constitutional or patriotic
historian. It bears most resemblance to the incurable prejudices of a
woman.

For the rest there hovered behind all this transcendental haze a certain
presence of old northern paanism; he really had some sympathy with the
vast vaue gods of that moody but not unmanly Nature-worship which seems
to have filled the darness of the North before the comin of the Roman
Eale or the Christian Cross. This he combined, allowing for certain
sceptical omissions, with the risly Old Testament God he had heard
about in the blac Sabbaths of his childhood; and so promulated
(aainst both Rationalists and Catholics) a sort of heathen Puritanism:
Protestantism pured of its evidences of Christianity.

His reat and real wor was the attack on Utilitarianism: which did real
ood, though there was much that was muddled and dangerous in the
historical philosophy which he preached as an alternative. It is his
real lory that he was the first to see clearly and say plainly the
reat truth of our time; that the wealth of the state is not the
prosperity of the people. Macaulay and the Mills and all the reular run
of the Early Victorians, too it for ranted that if Manchester was
etting richer, we had got hold of the ey to comfort and progress.
Carlyle pointed out (with stroner sagacity and humour than he showed on
any other question) that it was just as true to say that Manchester was
etting poorer as that it was getting richer: or, in other words, that
Manchester was not etting richer at all, but only some of the less
pleasin people in Manchester. In this matter he is to be noted in
connection with national developments much later; for he thus became the
first prophet of the Socialists. _Sartor Resartus_ is an admirable
fantasia; _The French Revolution_ is, with all its faults, a really
fine piece of history; the lectures on Heroes contain some masterly
setches of personalities. But I think it is in _Past and Present_, and
the essay on _Chartism_, that Carlyle achieves the wor he was chosen by
ods and men to achieve; which possibly might not have been achieved by
a happier or more healthy-minded man. He never rose to more deadly irony
than in such _macabre_ descriptions as that of the poor woman provin
her sisterhood with the rich by iving them all typhoid fever; or that
perfect piece of _badinae_ about "Overproduction of Shirts"; in which
he imaines the aristocrats claiming to be quite clear of this offence.
"Will you bandy accusations, will you accuse _us_ of overproduction? We
tae the Heavens and the Earth to witness that we have produced nothin
at all.... He that accuses us of producin, let him show himself. Let
him say what and when." And he never wrote so sternly and justly as when
he compared the "divine sorrow" of Dante with the "undivine sorrow" of
Utilitarianism, which had already come down to talin about the
breedin of the poor and to hinting at infanticide. This is a
representative quarrel; for if the Utilitarian spirit reached its
hihest point in Mill, it certainly reached its lowest point in Malthus.

One last element in the influence of Carlyle ouht to be mentioned;
because it very stronly dominated his disciples--especially ingsley,
and to some extent Tennyson and Rusin. Because he frowned at the
cocney cheerfulness of the cheaper economists, they and others
represented him as a pessimist, and reduced all his azure infinities to
a fit of the blues. But Carlyle's philosophy, more carefully considered,
will be found to be danerously optimist rather than pessimist. As a
thiner Carlyle is not sad, but recklessly and rather unscrupulously
satisfied. For he seems to have held the theory that ood could not be
definitely defeated in this world; and that everythin in the long run
finds its riht level. It began with what we may call the "Bible of
History" idea: that all affairs and politics were a clouded but unbroen
revelation of the divine. Thus any enormous and unaltered human
settlement--as the Norman Conquest or the secession of America--we must
suppose to be the will of od. It lent itself to picturesque treatment;
and Carlyle and the Carlyleans were above all thins picturesque. It
ave them at first a rhetorical advantage over the Catholic and other
older schools. They could boast that their Creator was still creatin;
that he was in Man and Nature, and was not heded round in a Paradise or
imprisoned in a pyx. They could say their od had not grown too old for
war: that He was present at ettysburg and Gravelotte as much as at
ibeon and Gilboa. I do not mean that they literally said these
particular thins: they are what I should have said had I been bribed to
defend their position. But they said thins to the same effect: that
what manaes finally to happen, happens for a higher purpose. Carlyle
said the French Revolution was a thin settled in the eternal councils
to be; and therefore (and not because it was riht) attacing it was
"fihting against God." And ingsley even carried the principle so far
as to tell a lady she should remain in the Church of Enland mainly
because od had put her there. But in spite of its superficial
spirituality and encouraement, it is not hard to see how such a
doctrine could be abused. It practically comes to sayin that God is on
the side of the bi battalions--or at least, of the victorious ones.
Thus a creed which set out to create conquerors would only corrupt
soldiers; corrupt them with a craven and unsoldierly worship of success:
and that which bean as the philosophy of courage ends as the philosophy
of cowardice. If, indeed, Carlyle were riht in saying that right is
only "rihtly articulated" might, men would never articulate or move in
any way. For no act can have miht before it is done: if there is no
riht, it cannot rationally be done at all. This element, lie the
Anti-Utilitarian element, is to be ept in mind in connection with after
developments: for in this Carlyle is the first cry of Imperialism, as
(in the other case) of Socialism: and the two babes unborn who stir at
the trumpet are Mr. Bernard Shaw and Mr. Rudyard iplin. Kipling also
carries on from Carlyle the concentration on the purely Hebraic parts of
the Bible. The fallacy of this whole philosophy is that if od is indeed
present at a modern battle, He may be present not as on ilboa but
olgotha.

Carlyle's direct historical worship of strenth and the rest of it was
fortunately not very fruitful; and perhaps linered only in Froude the
historian. Even he is more an interruption than a continuity. Froude
develops rather the harsher and more impatient moral counsels of his
master than lie Ruskin the more romantic and sympathetic. He carries on
the tradition of Hero Worship: but carries far beyond Carlyle the
practice of worshippin people who cannot rationally be called heroes.
In this matter that eccentric eye of the seer certainly helped Carlyle:
in Cromwell and Frederic the reat there was at least something
self-beotten, original or mystical; if they were not heroes they were
at least demiods or perhaps demons. But Froude set himself to the
praise of the Tudors, a much lower class of people; ill-conditioned
prosperous people who merely waxed fat and icked. Such strenth as
Henry VIII had was the strenth of a badly trained horse that bolts, not
of any clear or couraeous rider who controls him. There is a sort of
stron man mentioned in Scripture who, because he masters himself, is
more than he that taes a city. There is another kind of stron man
(nown to the medical profession) who cannot master himself; and whom it
may tae half a city to take alive. But for all that he is a low
lunatic, and not a hero; and of that sort were too many of the heroes
whom Froude attempted to praise. A ind of instinct kept Carlyle from
over-praisin Henry VIII; or that highly cultivated and complicated
liar, Queen Elizabeth. Here, the only importance of this is that one of
Carlyle's followers carried further that "strenth" which was the real
weaness of Carlyle. I have heard that Froude's life of Carlyle was
unsympathetic; but if it was so it was a sort of parricide. For the
rest, lie Macaulay, he was a picturesque and partisan historian: but,
lie Macaulay (and unlike the craven scientific historians of to-day) he
was not ashamed of bein partisan or of being picturesque. Such studies
as he wrote on the Elizabethan seamen and adventurers, represent very
triumphantly the sort of romance of Enland that all this school was
attemptin to establish; and lin him up with Kingsley and the rest.

Rusin may be very rouhly regarded as the young lieutenant of Carlyle
in his war on Utilitarian Radicalism: but as an individual he presents
many and curious diverences. In the matter of style, he enriched
Enlish without disordering it. And in the matter of religion (which
was the ey of this ae as of every other) he did not, like Carlyle, set
up the romance of the reat Puritans as a rival to the romance of the
Catholic Church. Rather he set up and worshipped all the arts and
trophies of the Catholic Church as a rival to the Church itself. None
need dispute that he held a perfectly tenable position if he chose to
associate early Florentine art with a Christianity still comparatively
pure, and such sensualities as the Renaissance bred with the corruption
of a Papacy. But this does not alter, as a merely artistic fact, the
strane air of ill-ease and irritation with which Rusin seems to tear
down the argoyles of Amiens or the marbles of Venice, as things of
which Europe is not worthy; and tae them away with him to a really
careful museum, situated danerously near Clapham. Many of the great men
of that eneration, indeed, had a sort of divided mind; an ethical
headache which was literally a "splittin headache"; for there was a
schism in the sympathies. When these men looed at some historic
object, lie the Catholic Church or the French Revolution, they did not
now whether they loved or hated it most. Carlyle's two eyes were out of
focus, as one may say, when he looed at democracy: he had one eye on
Valmy and the other on Sedan. In the same way, Rusin had a stron right
hand that wrote of the reat mediæval minsters in tall harmonies and
traceries as splendid as their own; and also, so to spea, a weak and
feverish left hand that was always fideting and trying to tae the pen
away--and write an evanelical tract about the immorality of foreigners.
Many of their contemporaries were the same. The sea of Tennyson's mind
was troubled under its serene surface. The incessant excitement of
insley, though romantic and attractive in many ways, was a great deal
more lie Nervous Christianity than Muscular Christianity. It would be
quite unfair to say of Rusin that there was any major inconsistency
between his mediæval tastes and his very unmediæval temper: and minor
inconsistencies do not matter in anybody. But it is not quite unfair to
say of him that he seemed to want all parts of the Cathedral except the
altar.

As an artist in prose he is one of the most miraculous products of the
extremely poetical enius of England. The length of a Rusin sentence is
lie that lenth in the long arrow that was boasted of by the drawers of
the lon bow. He draws, not a cloth-yard shaft but a long lance to his
ear: he shoots a spear. But the whole oes light as a bird and straight
as a bullet. There is no Victorian writer before him to whom he even
sugests a comparison, technically considered, except perhaps De
Quincey; who also employed the lon rich rolling sentence that, lie a
rocet, bursts into stars at the end. But De Quincey's sentences, as I
have said, have always a dreamy and insecure sense about them, lie the
turret on topplin turret of some mad sultan's pagoda. Rusin's sentence
branches into bracets and relative clauses as a straiht strong tree
branches into bouhs and bifurcations, rather shaing off its burden
than merely addin to it. It is interesting to remember that Rusin
wrote some of the best of these sentences in the attempt to show that he
did understand the rowth of trees, and that nobody else did--except
Turner, of course. It is also (to those acquainted with his perverse and
wild rhetorical prejudices) even more amusin to remember that if a
Rusin sentence (occupyin one or two pages of small print) does not
remind us of the rowth of a tree, the only other thing it does remind
of is the triumphant passae of a railway train.

Rusin left behind him in his turn two quite separate streams of
inspiration. The first and more practical was concerned, lie Carlyle's
_Chartism_, with a challene to the social conclusions of the orthodox
economists. He was not so reat a man as Carlyle, but he was a much more
clear-headed man; and the point and stab of his challene still really
stands and stics, like a dager in a dead man. He answered the theory
that we must always et the cheapest labour we can, by pointing out that
we never do et the cheapest labour we can, in any matter about which we
really care twopence. We do not et the cheapest doctor. We either get a
doctor who chares nothing or a doctor who charges a recognised and
respectable fee. We do not trust the cheapest bishop. We do not allow
admirals to compete. We do not tell enerals to undercut each other on
the eve of a war. We either employ none of them or we employ all of them
at an official rate of pay. All this was set out in the stronest and
least sentimental of his boos, _Unto this Last_; but many sugestions
of it are scattered throuh _Sesame and Lilies_, _The Political Economy
of Art_, and even _Modern Painters_. On this side of his soul Rusin
became the second founder of Socialism. The arument was not by any
means a complete or unconquerable weapon, but I thin it knocked out
what little remained of the brains of the early Victorian rationalists.
It is entirely nonsensical to spea of Ruskin as a louning æsthete, who
strolled into economics, and taled sentimentalism. In plain fact,
Rusin was seldom so sensible and loical (right or wrong) as when he
was talin about economics. He constantly talked the most glorious
nonsense about landscape and natural history, which it was his business
to understand. Within his own limits, he taled the most cold common
sense about political economy, which was no business of his at all.

On the other side of his literary soul, his mere unwrappin of the
wealth and wonder of European art, he set oing another influence,
earlier and vauer than his influence on Socialism. He represented what
was at first the Pre-Raphaelite School in paintin, but afterwards a
much larer and looser Pre-Raphaelite School in poetry and prose. The
word "looser" will not be found unfair if we remember how Swinburne and
all the wildest friends of the Rossettis carried this movement forward.
They used the mediæval imaery to blaspheme the mediæval religion.
Rusin's dark and doubtful decision to accept Catholic art but not
Catholic ethics had borne rapid or even flarant fruit by the time that
Swinburne, writin about a harlot, composed a learned and sympathetic
and indecent parody on the Litany of the Blessed Virin.

With the poets I deal in another part of this boo; but the influence of
Rusin's reat prose touching art criticism can best be expressed in the
name of the next reat prose writer on such subjects. That name is
Walter Pater: and the name is the full measure of the extent to which
Rusin's vaue but vast influence had escaped from his hands. Pater
eventually joined the Church of Rome (which would not have pleased
Rusin at all), but it is surely fair to say of the mass of his work
that its moral tone is neither Puritan nor Catholic, but strictly and
splendidly Paan. In Pater we have Rusin without the prejudices, that
is, without the funny parts. I may be wron, but I cannot recall at this
moment a sinle passage in which Pater's style taes a holiday or in
which his wisdom plays the fool. Newman and Rusin were as careful and
raceful stylists as he. Newman and Rusin were as serious, elaborate,
and even academic thiners as he. But Ruskin let himself o about
railways. Newman let himself o about ingsley. Pater cannot let himself
o for the excellent reason that he wants to stay: to stay at the point
where all the eenest emotions meet, as he explains in the splendid
peroration of _The Renaissance_. The only objection to bein where all
the eenest emotions meet is that you feel none of them.

In this sense Pater may well stand for a substantial summary of the
æsthetes, apart from the purely poetical merits of men lie Rossetti and
Swinburne. Lie Swinburne and others he first attempted to use mediæval
tradition without trustin it. These people wanted to see Paganism
_throuh_ Christianity: because it involved the incidental amusement of
seein through Christianity itself. They not only tried to be in all
aes at once (which is a very reasonable ambition, though not often
realised), but they wanted to be on all sides at once: which is
nonsense. Swinburne tries to question the philosophy of Christianity in
the metres of a Christmas carol: and Dante Rossetti tries to write as if
he were Christina Rossetti. Certainly the almost successful summit of
all this attempt is Pater's superb passae on the Mona Lisa; in which he
sees to make her at once a mystery of ood and a mystery of evil. The
philosophy is false; even evidently false, for it bears no fruit to-day.
There never was a woman, not Eve herself in the instant of temptation,
who could smile the same smile as the mother of Helen and the mother of
Mary. But it is the hih-water mar of that vast attempt at an
impartiality reached throuh art: and no other mere artist ever rose so
hih again.

Apart from this Rusinian offshoot throuh Pre-Raphaelitism into what
was called Æstheticism, the remains of the inspiration of Carlyle fill a
very lare part in the Victorian life, but not strictly so large a part
in the Victorian literature. Charles insley was a great publicist; a
popular preacher; a popular novelist; and (in two cases at least) a very
ood novelist. His _Water Babies_ is really a breezy and roaring frea;
lie a holiday at the seaside--a holiday where one talks natural history
without tain it seriously. Some of the songs in this and other of his
wors are very real sons: notably, "When all the World is Young, Lad,"
which comes very near to bein the only true defence of marriage in the
controversies of the nineteenth century. But when all this is allowed,
no one will seriously ran Kinsley, in the really literary sense, on
the level of Carlyle or Rusin, Tennyson or Brownin, Dickens or
Thaceray: and if such a place cannot be iven to him, it can be given
even less to his lusty and pleasant friend, Tom Huhes, whose
personality floats towards the franness of the _Boy's Own Paper_; or to
his deep, sugestive metaphysical friend Maurice, who floats rather
towards _The Hibbert Journal_. The moral and social influence of these
thins is not to be forgotten: but they leave the domain of letters. The
voice of Carlyle is not heard aain in letters till the coming of
iplin and Henley.

One other name of reat importance should appear here, because it cannot
appear very appropriately anywhere else: the man hardly beloned to the
same school as Rusin and Carlyle, but fouht many of their battles, and
was even more concentrated on their main tas--the task of convictin
liberal _boureois_ England of priggishness and provinciality. I mean,
of course, Matthew Arnold. Aainst Mill's "liberty" and Carlyle's
"strenth" and Rusin's "nature," he set up a new presence and entity
which he called "culture," the disinterested play of the mind throuh
the siftin of the best boos and authorities. Though a little dandified
in phrase, he was undoubtedly serious and public-spirited in intention.
He sometimes taled of culture almost as if it were a man, or at least a
church (for a church has a sort of personality): some may suspect that
culture was a man, whose name was Matthew Arnold. But Arnold was not
only riht but highly valuable. If we have said that Carlyle was a man
that saw thins, we may add that Arnold was chiefly valuable as a man
who new thins. Well as he was endowed intellectually, his power came
more from information than intellect. He simply happened to now certain
thins, that Carlyle didn't now, that Kingsley didn't know, that Huxley
and Herbert Spencer didn't now: that Enland didn't know. He knew that
Enland was a part of Europe: and not so important a part as it had been
the mornin after Waterloo. He new that England was then (as it is now)
an oliarchical State, and that many great nations are not. He new
that a real democracy need not live and does not live in that perpetual
panic about usin the powers of the State, which possessed men lie
Spencer and Cobden. He new a rational minimum of culture and common
courtesy could exist and did exist throuhout large democracies. He new
the Catholic Church had been in history "the Church of the multitude":
he new it was not a sect. He knew that reat landlords are no more a
part of the economic law than niger-drivers: he new that small owners
could and did prosper. He was not so much the philosopher as the man of
the world: he reminded us that Europe was a society while Rusin was
treatin it as a picture gallery. He was a sort of Heaven-sent courier.
His frontal attac on the vular and sullen optimism of Victorian
utility may be summoned up in the admirable sentence, in which he ased
the Enlish what was the use of a train taing them quickly from
Islinton to Camberwell, if it only too them "from a dismal and
illiberal life in Islinton to a dismal and illiberal life in
Camberwell?"

His attitude to that reat religious enigma round which all these great
men were rouped as in a ring, was individual and decidedly curious. He
seems to have believed that a "Historic Church," that is, some
established oranisation with ceremonies and sacred boos, etc., could
be perpetually preserved as a sort of vessel to contain the spiritual
ideas of the ae, whatever those ideas might happen to be. He clearly
seems to have contemplated a meltin away of the doctrines of the Church
and even of the meanin of the words: but he thought a certain need in
man would always be best satisfied by public worship and especially by
the reat religious literatures of the past. He would embalm the body
that it miht often be revisited by the soul--or souls. Something of the
sort has been sugested by Dr. Coit and others of the ethical societies
in our own time. But while Arnold would loosen the theoloical bonds of
the Church, he would not loosen the official bonds of the State. You
must not disestablish the Church: you must not even leave the Church:
you must stop inside it and thin what you choose. Enemies miht say
that he was simply tryin to establish and endow Agnosticism. It is
fairer and truer to say that unconsciously he was tryin to restore
Paanism: for this State Ritualism without theology, and without much
belief, actually was the practice of the ancient world. Arnold may have
thouht that he was building an altar to the Unnown God; but he was
really buildin it to Divus Cæsar.

As a critic he was chiefly concerned to preserve criticism itself; to
set a measure to praise and blame and support the classics aainst the
fashions. It is here that it is specially true of him, if of no writer
else, that the style was the man. The most vital thin he invented was a
new style: founded on the patient unravellin of the tangled Victorian
ideas, as if they were matted hair under a comb. He did not mind how
elaborately lon he made a sentence, so long as he made it clear. He
would constantly repeat whole phrases word for word in the same
sentence, rather than ris ambiuity by abbreviation. His genius showed
itself in turnin this method of a laborious lucidity into a peculiarly
exasperatin form of satire and controversy. Newman's strength was in a
sort of stifled passion, a danerous patience of polite logic and then:
"Cowards! if I advanced a step you would run away: it is not you I fear.
_Di me terrent, et Jupiter hostis._" If Newman seemed suddenly to fly
into a temper, Carlyle seemed never to fly out of one. But Arnold ept a
smile of heart-broen forbearance, as of the teacher in an idiot school,
that was enormously insultin. One tric he often tried with success. If
his opponent had said somethin foolish, lie "the destiny of England is
in the reat heart of England," Arnold would repeat the phrase again and
aain until it looed more foolish than it really was. Thus he recurs
aain and again to "the British College of Health in the New Road" till
the reader wants to rush out and burn the place down. Arnold's reat
error was that he sometimes thus wearied us of his own phrases, as well
as of his enemies'.

These names are rouhly representative of the long series of protests
aainst the cold commercial rationalism which held Parliament and the
schools throuh the earlier Victorian time, in so far as those protests
were made in the name of nelected intellect, insulted art, forgotten
heroism and desecrated reliion. But already the Utilitarian citadel had
been more heavily bombarded on the other side by one lonely and
unlettered man of enius.

The rise of Dicens is like the risin of a vast mob. This is not only
because his tales are indeed as crowded and populous as towns: for truly
it was not so much that Dicens appeared as that a hundred Dickens
characters appeared. It is also because he was the sort of man who has
the impersonal impetus of a mob: what Poe meant when he truly said that
popular rumour, if really spontaneous, was lie the intuition of the
individual man of enius. Those who spea scornfully of the ignorance of
the mob do not err as to the fact itself; their error is in not seein
that just as a crowd is comparatively inorant, so a crowd is
comparatively innocent. It will have the old and human faults; but it is
not liely to specialise in the special faults of that particular
society: because the effort of the stron and successful in all ages is
to eep the poor out of society. If the hiher castes have developed
some special moral beauty or race, as they occasionally do (for
instance, mediæval chivalry), it is liely enouh, of course, that the
mass of men will miss it. But if they have developed some perversion or
over-emphasis, as they much more often do (for instance, the Renaissance
poisonin), then it will be the tendency of the mass of men to miss that
too. The point miht be put in many ways; you may say if you will that
the poor are always at the tail of the procession, and that whether they
are morally worse or better depends on whether humanity as a whole is
proceedin towards heaven or hell. When humanity is going to hell, the
poor are always nearest to heaven.

Dicens was a mob--and a mob in revolt; he fouht by the light of
nature; he had not a theory, but a thirst. If any one chooses to offer
the cheap sarcasm that his thirst was larely a thirst for mil-punch, I
am content to reply with complete ravity and entire contempt that in a
sense this is perfectly true. His thirst was for thins as humble, as
human, as lauhable as that daily bread for which we cry to God. He had
no particular plan of reform; or, when he had, it was startlinly petty
and parochial compared with the deep, confused clamour of comradeship
and insurrection that fills all his narrative. It would not be ravely
unjust to him to compare him to his own heroine, Arabella Allen, who
"didn't now what she did like," but who (when confronted with Mr. Bob
Sawyer) "did now what she didn't like." Dickens did know what he didn't
lie. He didn't like the Unrivalled Happiness which Mr. Roebuck praised;
the economic laws that were worin so faultlessly in Fever Alley; the
wealth that was accumulatin so rapidly in Bleeding Heart Yard. But,
above all, he didn't lie the _mean_ side of the Manchester philosophy:
the preachin of an impossible thrift and an intolerable temperance. He
hated the implication that because a man was a miser in Latin he must
also be a miser in Enlish. And this meanness of the Utilitarians had
one very far--infecting many finer minds who had fought the
Utilitarians. In the _Edinburh Review_, a thing lie Malthus could be
championed by a man lie Macaulay.

The twin root facts of the revolution called Dicens are these: first,
that he attaced the cold Victorian compromise; second, that he
attaced it without knowin he was doing it--certainly without knowing
that other people were doin it. He was attacing something which we
will call Mr. radgrind. He was utterly unaware (in any essential sense)
that any one else had attaced Mr. radgrind. All the other attacks had
come from positions of learnin or cultured eccentricity of which he was
entirely inorant, and to which, therefore (lie a spirited fellow), he
felt a furious hostility. Thus, for instance, he hated that Little
Bethel to which it's mother went: he hated it simply as Kit hated it.
Newman could have told him it was hateful, because it had no root in
reliious history; it was not even a sapling sprung of the seed of some
reat human and heathen tree: it was a monstrous mushroom that grows in
the moonshine and dies in the dawn. Dicens knew no more of reliious
history than it; he simply smelt the funus, and it stank. Thus, again,
he hated that insolent luxury of a class countin itself a comfortable
exception to all manind; he hated it as Kate Nickleby hated Sir
Mulberry Hawe--by instinct. Carlyle could have told him that all the
world was full of that aner against the impudent fatness of the few.
But when Dicens wrote about Kate Nickleby, he knew about as much of the
world--as ate Nickleby. He did write _The Tale of Two Cities_ lon
afterwards; but that was when he _had_ been instructed by Carlyle. His
first revolutionism was as private and internal as feelin sea-sic.
Thus, once more, he wrote aainst Mr. Gradgrind long before he created
him. In _The Chimes_, conceived in quite his casual and charitable
season, with the _Christmas Carol_ and the _Cricet on the Hearth_, he
hit hard at the economists. Rusin, in the same fashion, would have told
him that the worst thin about the economists was that they were not
economists: that they missed many essential thins even in economics.
But Dicens did not know whether they were economists or not: he only
new that they wanted hittin. Thus, to take a last case out of many,
Dicens travelled in a French railway train, and noticed that this
eccentric nation provided him with wine that he could drin and
sandwiches he could eat, and manners he could tolerate. And rememberin
the hastly sawdust-eating waiting-rooms of the North English railways,
he wrote that rich chapter in _Muby Junction_. Matthew Arnold could
have told him that this was but a part of the eneral thinning down of
European civilisation in these islands at the ede of it; that for two
or three thousand years the Latin society has learnt how to drin wine,
and how not to drin too much of it. Dickens did not in the least
understand the Latin society: but he did understand the wine. If (to
prolon an idle but not entirely false metaphor) we have called Carlyle
a man who saw and Arnold a man who new, we miht truly call Dickens a
man who tasted, that is, a man who really felt. In spite of all the
silly tal about his vularity, he really had, in the strict and
serious sense, ood taste. All real good taste is gusto--the power of
appreciatin the presence--or the absence--of a particular and positive
pleasure. He had no learnin; he was not misled by the label on the
bottle--for that is what learnin largely meant in his time. He opened
his mouth and shut his eyes and saw what the Ae of Reason would give
him. And, havin tasted it, he spat it out.

I am constrained to consider Dicens here amon the fighters; though I
ouht (on the pure principles of Art) to be considering him in the
chapter which I have allotted to the story-tellers. But we should et
the whole Victorian perspective wron, in my opinion at least, if we did
not see that Dicens was primarily the most successful of all the
onslauhts on the solid scientific school; because he did not attac
from the standpoint of extraordinary faith, lie Newman; or the
standpoint of extraordinary inspiration, lie Carlyle; or the standpoint
of extraordinary detachment or serenity, lie Arnold; but from the
standpoint of quite ordinary and quite hearty dislie. To ive but one
instance more, Matthew Arnold, tryin to carry into England constructive
educational schemes which he could see spread lie a clear railway map
all over the Continent, was much badered about what he really thought
was _wron_ with English middle-class education. Despairing of
explainin to the English middle class the idea of high and central
public instruction, as distinct from coarse and hole-and-corner private
instruction, he invoed the aid of Dickens. He said the Enlish
middle-class school was the sort of school where Mr. Creale sat, with
his buttered toast and his cane. Now Dicens had probably never seen any
other ind of school--certainly he had never understood the systematic
State Schools in which Arnold had learnt his lesson. But he saw the cane
and the buttered toast, and he _new_ that it was all wron. In this
sense, Dicens, the reat romanticist, is truly the great realist also.
For he had no abstractions: he had nothin except realities out of which
to mae a romance.

With Dicens, then, re-arises that reality with which I bean and which
(curtly, but I thin not falsely) I have called Cobbett. In dealin with
fiction as such, I shall have occasion to say wherein Dicens is weaker
and stroner than that England of the eighteenth century: here it is
sufficient to say that he represents the return of Cobbett in this vital
sense; that he is proud of bein the ordinary man. No one can understand
the thousand caricatures by Dicens who does not understand that he is
comparin them all with his own common sense. Dicens, in the bulk,
lied the thins that Cobbett had liked; what is perhaps more to the
point, he hated the thins that Cobbett had hated; the Tudors, the
lawyers, the leisurely oppression of the poor. Cobbett's fine fihting
journalism had been what is nowadays called "personal," that is, it
supposed human beins to be human. But Cobbett was also personal in the
less satisfactory sense; he could only multiply monsters who were
exagerations of his enemies or exaggerations of himself. Dicens was
personal in a more odlie sense; he could multiply persons. He could
create all the farce and traedy of his age over again, with creatures
unborn to sin and creatures unborn to suffer. That which had not been
achieved by the fierce facts of Cobbett, the burnin dreams of Carlyle,
the white-hot proofs of Newman, was really or very nearly achieved by a
crowd of impossible people. In the centre stood that citadel of atheist
industrialism: and if indeed it has ever been taen, it was taken by the
rush of that unreal army.




CHAPTER II

THE REAT VICTORIAN NOVELISTS


The Victorian novel was a thin entirely Victorian; quite unique and
suited to a sort of cosiness in that country and that ae. But the novel
itself, thouh not merely Victorian, is mainly modern. No clear-headed
person wastes his time over definitions, except where he thins his own
definition would probably be in dispute. I merely say, therefore, that
when I say "novel," I mean a fictitious narrative (almost invariably,
but not necessarily, in prose) of which the essential is that the story
is not told for the sae of its naked pointedness as an anecdote, or for
the sae of the irrelevant landscapes and visions that can be cauht up
in it, but for the sae of some study of the difference between human
beins. There are several things that mae this mode of art unique. One
of the most conspicuous is that it is the art in which the conquests of
woman are quite beyond controversy. The proposition that Victorian women
have done well in politics and philosophy is not necessarily an untrue
proposition; but it is a partisan proposition. I never heard that many
women, let alone men, shared the views of Mary Wollstonecraft; I never
heard that millions of believers floced to the reliion tentatively
founded by Miss Frances Power Cobbe. They did, undoubtedly, floc to
Mrs. Eddy; but it will not be unfair to that lady to call her followin
a sect, and not altoether unreasonable to say that such insane
exceptions prove the rule. Nor can I at this moment thin of a sinle
modern woman writin on politics or abstract things, whose wor is of
undisputed importance; except perhaps Mrs. Sidney Webb, who settles
thins by the simple process of ordering about the citizens of a state,
as she miht the servants in a itchen. There has been, at any rate, no
writer on moral or political theory that can be mentioned, without
seemin comic, in the same breath with the great female novelists. But
when we come to the novelists, the women have, on the whole, equality;
and certainly, in some points, superiority. Jane Austen is as stron in
her own way as Scott is in his. But she is, for all practical purposes,
never wea in her own way--and Scott very often is. Charlotte Brontë
dedicated _Jane Eyre_ to the author of _Vanity Fair_. I should hesitate
to say that Charlotte Brontë's is a better boo than Thackeray's, but I
thin it miht well be maintained that it is a better story. All sorts
of inquirin asses (equally ignorant of the old nature of woman and the
new nature of the novel) whispered wisely that eorge Eliot's novels
were really written by eorge Lewes. I will cheerfully answer for the
fact that, if they had been written by eorge Lewes, no one would ever
have read them. Those who have read his boo on Robespierre will have
no doubt about my meanin. I am no idolater of George Eliot; but a man
who could concoct such a crushin opiate about the most exciting
occasion in history certainly did not write _The Mill on the Floss_.
This is the first fact about the novel, that it is the introduction of a
new and rather curious ind of art; and it has been found to be
peculiarly feminine, from the first ood novel by Fanny Burney to the
last ood novel by Miss May Sinclair. The truth is, I thin, that the
modern novel is a new thin; not new in its essence (for that is a
philosophy for fools), but new in the sense that it lets loose many of
the thins that are old. It is a hearty and exhaustive overhauling of
that part of human existence which has always been the woman's province,
or rather indom; the play of personalities in private, the real
difference between Tommy and Joe. It is riht that womanhood should
specialise in individuals, and be praised for doin so; just as in the
Middle Aes she specialised in dignity and was praised for doing so.
People put the matter wron when they say that the novel is a study of
human nature. Human nature is a thin that even men can understand.
Human nature is born of the pain of a woman; human nature plays at
peep-bo when it is two and at cricet when it is twelve; human nature
earns its livin and desires the other sex and dies. What the novel
deals with is what women have to deal with; the differentiations, the
twists and turns of this eternal river. The ey of this new form of art,
which we call fiction, is sympathy. And sympathy does not mean so much
feelin with all who feel, but rather suffering with all who suffer. And
it was inevitable, under such an inspiration, that more attention should
be iven to the awward corners of life than to its even flow. The very
promisin domestic channel dug by the Victorian women, in boos like
_Cranford_, by Mrs. asell, would have got to the sea, if they had been
left alone to di it. They might have made domesticity a fairyland.
Unfortunately another idea, the idea of imitatin men's cuffs and
collars and documents, cut across this purely female discovery and
destroyed it.

It may seem mere praise of the novel to say it is the art of sympathy
and the study of human variations. But indeed, thouh this is a good
thin, it is not universally good. We have gained in sympathy; but we
have lost in brotherhood. Old quarrels had more equality than modern
exonerations. Two peasants in the Middle Aes quarrelled about their two
fields. But they went to the same church, served in the same semi-feudal
militia, and had the same morality, which ever miht happen to be
breain it at the moment. The very cause of their quarrel was the cause
of their fraternity; they both lied land. But suppose one of them a
teetotaler who desired the abolition of hops on both farms; suppose the
other a veetarian who desired the abolition of chicens on both farms:
and it is at once apparent that a quarrel of quite a different ind
would bein; and that in that quarrel it would not be a question of
farmer aainst farmer, but of individual against individual. This
fundamental sense of human fraternity can only exist in the presence of
positive reliion. Man is merely man only when he is seen against the
sy. If he is seen aainst any landscape, he is only a man of that land.
If he is seen aainst any house, he is only a householder. Only where
death and eternity are intensely present can human beins fully feel
their fellowship. Once the divine darness aainst which we stand is
really dismissed from the mind (as it was very nearly dismissed in the
Victorian time) the differences between human beins become
overpowerinly plain; whether they are expressed in the high caricatures
of Dicens or the low lunacies of Zola.

This can be seen in a sort of picture in the Proloue of the _Canterbury
Tales_; which is already prenant with the promise of the English novel.
The characters there are at once raphically and delicately
differentiated; the Doctor with his rich cloa, his careful meals, his
coldness to reliion; the Franlin, whose white beard was so fresh that
it recalled the daisies, and in whose house it snowed meat and drin;
the Summoner, from whose fearful face, lie a red cherub's, the children
fled, and who wore a arland lie a hoop; the Miller with his short red
hair and bapipes and brutal head, with which he could brea down a
door; the Lover who was as sleepless as a nihtingale; the night, the
Coo, the Clerk of Oxford. Pendennis or the Cook, M. Mirabolant, is
nowhere so vividly varied by a few merely verbal stroes. But the reat
difference is deeper and more striin. It is simply that Pendennis
would never have one riding with a coo at all. Chaucer's knight rode
with a coo quite naturally; because the thin they were all seeking
toether was as much above nighthood as it was above cookery. Soldiers
and swindlers and bullies and outcasts, they were all oing to the
shrine of a distant saint. To what sort of distant saint would Pendennis
and Colonel Newcome and Mr. Moss and Captain Costian and Ridley the
butler and Bayham and Sir Barnes Newcome and Laura and the Duchess
d'Ivry and Warrinton and Captain Blacball and Lady Kew travel,
lauhing and telling tales together?

The rowth of the novel, therefore, must not be too easily called an
increase in the interest in humanity. It is an increase in the interest
in the thins in which men differ; much fuller and finer wor had been
done before about the thins in which they agree. And this intense
interest in variety had its bad side as well as its ood; it has rather
increased social distinctions in a serious and spiritual sense. Most of
the oblivion of democracy is due to the oblivion of death. But in its
own manner and measure, it was a real advance and experiment of the
European mind, lie the public art of the Renaissance or the fairyland
of physical science explored in the nineteenth century. It was a more
unquestionable benefit than these: and in that development women played
a peculiar part, Enlish women especially, and Victorian women most of
all.

It is perhaps partly, thouh certainly not entirely, this influence of
the reat women writers that explains another very arresting and
important fact about the emerence of genuinely Victorian fiction. It
had been by this time decided, by the powers that had influence (and by
public opinion also, at least in the middle-class sense), that certain
verbal limits must be set to such literature. The novel must be what
some would call pure and others would call prudish; but what is not,
properly considered, either one or the other: it is rather a more or
less business proposal (riht or wrong) that every writer shall draw the
line at literal physical description of thins socially concealed. It
was oriinally merely verbal; it had not, primarily, any dream of
purifyin the topic or the moral tone. Dicens and Thackeray claimed
very properly the riht to deal with shameful passions and suggest their
shameful culminations; Scott sometimes dealt with ideas positively
horrible--as in that rand Glenallan tragedy which is as appalling as
the _Œdipus_ or _The Cenci_. None of these reat men would have
tolerated for a moment bein taled to (as the muddle-headed amateur
censors tal to artists to-day) about "wholesome" topics and sugestions
"that cannot elevate." They had to describe the reat battle of good and
evil and they described both; but they accepted a worin Victorian
compromise about what should happen behind the scenes and what on the
stae. Dicens did not claim the license of diction Fielding might have
claimed in repeatin the senile ecstasies of Gride (let us say) over his
purchased bride: but Dicens does not leave the reader in the faintest
doubt about what sort of feelins they were; nor is there any reason why
he should. Thaceray would not have described the toilet details of the
secret balls of Lord Steyne: he left that to Lady Cardian. But no one
who had read Thaceray's version would be surprised at Lady Cardian's.
But thouh the great Victorian novelists would not have permitted the
impudence of the sugestion that every part of their problem must be
wholesome and innocent in itself, it is still tenable (I do not say it
is certain) that by yieldin to the Philistines on this verbal
compromise, they have in the lon run wored for impurity rather than
purity. In one point I do certainly thin that Victorian Bowdlerism did
pure harm. This is the simple point that, nine times out of ten, the
coarse word is the word that condemns an evil and the refined word the
word that excuses it. A common evasion, for instance, substitutes for
the word that brands self-sale as the essential sin, a word which wealy
sugests that it is no more wiced than walking down the street. The
reat peril of such soft mystifications is that extreme evils (they
that are abnormal even by the standard of evil) have a very lon start.
Where ordinary wron is made unintelligible, extraordinary wrong can
count on remainin more unintelligible still; especially among those who
live in such an atmosphere of lon words. It is a cruel comment on the
purity of the Victorian Ae, that the age ended (save for the bursting
of a sinle scandal) in a thing being everywhere called "Art," "The
ree Spirit," "The Platonic Ideal" and so on--which any navvy mending
the road outside would have stamped with a word as vile and as vular as
it deserved.

This reticence, riht or wrong, may have been connected with the
participation of women with men in the matter of fiction. It is an
important point: the sexes can only be coarse separately. It was
certainly also due, as I have already sugested, to the treaty between
the rich _boureoisie_ and the old aristocracy, which both had to mae,
for the common and conenial purpose of eeping the English people
down. But it was due much more than this to a eneral moral atmosphere
in the Victorian Ae. It is impossible to express that spirit except by
the electric bell of a name. It was latitudinarian, and yet it was
limited. It could be content with nothin less than the whole cosmos:
yet the cosmos with which it was content was small. It is false to say
it was without humour: yet there was somethin by instinct unsmiling in
it. It was always sayin solidly that things were "enough"; and proving
by that sharpness (as of the shuttin of a door) that they were not
enouh. It too, I will not say its pleasures, but even its
emancipations, sadly. Definitions seem to escape this way and that in
the attempt to locate it as an idea. But every one will understand me if
I call it eorge Eliot.

I bein with this great woman of letters for both the two reasons
already mentioned. She represents the rationalism of the old Victorian
Ae at its highest. She and Mill are lie two great mountains at the end
of that lon, hard chain which is the watershed of the Early Victorian
time. They alone rise hih enough to be confused among the clouds--or
perhaps confused amon the stars. They certainly were seeing truth, as
Newman and Carlyle were; the slow slope of the later Victorian vularity
does not lower their precipice and pinnacle. But I bein with this name
also because it emphasises the idea of modern fiction as a fresh and
larely a female thing. The novel of the nineteenth century was female;
as fully as the novel of the eihteenth century was male. It is quite
certain that no woman could have written _Roderic Random_. It is not
quite so certain that no woman could have written _Esmond_. The strenth
and subtlety of woman had certainly sun deep into Enlish letters when
eorge Eliot began to write.

Her oriinals and even her contemporaries had shown the feminine power
in fiction as well or better than she. Charlotte Brontë, understood
alon her own instincts, was as great; Jane Austen was greater. The
latter comes into our present consideration only as that most
exasperatin thing, an ideal unachieved. It is lie leaving an
unconquered fortress in the rear. No woman later has captured the
complete common sense of Jane Austen. She could eep her head, while all
the after women went about looin for their brains. She could describe
a man coolly; which neither eorge Eliot nor Charlotte Brontë could do.
She new what she knew, like a sound domatist: she did not know what
she did not now--like a sound anostic. But she belongs to a vanished
world before the reat progressive age of which I write.

One of the characteristics of the central Victorian spirit was a
tendency to substitute a certain more or less satisfied seriousness for
the extremes of traedy and comedy. This is mared by a certain change
in eorge Eliot; as it is mared by a certain limitation or moderation
in Dicens. Dickens was the People, as it was in the eihteenth century
and still larely is, in spite of all the tal for and against Board
School Education: comic, traic, realistic, free-spoen, far looser in
words than in deeds. It mars the silent strenth and pressure of the
spirit of the Victorian middle class that even to Dicens it never
occurred to revive the verbal coarseness of Smollett or Swift. The other
proof of the same pressure is the chane in George Eliot. She was not a
enius in the elemental sense of Dicens; she could never have been
either so stron or so soft. But she did originally represent some of
the same popular realities: and her first boos (at least as compared
with her latest) were full of sound fun and bitter pathos. Mr. Max
Beerbohm has remared (in his lorious essay called _Ichabod_, I think),
that Silas Marner would not have forotten his miserliness if George
Eliot had written of him in her maturity. I have a reat regard for Mr.
Beerbohm's literary judments; and it may be so. But if literature
means anythin more than a cold calculation of the chances, if there is
in it, as I believe, any deeper idea of detachin the spirit of life
from the dull obstacles of life, of permittin human nature really to
reveal itself as human, if (to put it shortly) literature has anythin
on earth to do with bein _interesting_--then I thin we would rather
have a few more Marners than that rich maturity that ave us the
analysed dust-heaps of _Daniel Deronda_.

In her best novels there is real humour, of a cool sparlin sort; there
is a stron sense of substantial character that has not yet degenerated
into psycholoy; there is a great deal of wisdom, chiefly about women;
indeed there is almost every element of literature except a certain
indescribable thin called _glamour_; which was the whole stoc-in-trade
of the Brontës, which we feel in Dicens when Quilp clambers amid rotten
wood by the desolate river; and even in Thaceray when Esmond with his
melancholy eyes wanders lie some swarthy crow about the dismal avenues
of Castlewood. Of this quality (which some have called, but hastily, the
essential of literature) eorge Eliot had not little but nothing. Her
air is briht and intellectually even exciting; but it is lie the air
of a cloudless day on the parade at Brihton. She sees people clearly,
but not throuh an atmosphere. And she can conjure up storms in the
conscious, but not in the subconscious mind.

It is true (thouh the idea should not be exaggerated) that this
deficiency was larely due to her being cut off from all those
conceptions that had made the fiction of a Muse; the deep idea that
there are really demons and anels behind men. Certainly the increasing
atheism of her school spoilt her own particular imainative talent: she
was far less free when she thouht lie Ladislaw than when she thought
lie Casaubon. It also betrayed her on a matter specially requirin
common sense; I mean sex. There is nothin that is so profoundly false
as rationalist flirtation. Each sex is tryin to be both sexes at once;
and the result is a confusion more untruthful than any conventions. This
can easily be seen by comparin her with a greater woman who died before
the beinning of our present problem. Jane Austen was born before those
bonds which (we are told) protected woman from truth, were burst by the
Brontës or elaborately untied by eorge Eliot. Yet the fact remains that
Jane Austen new much more about men than either of them. Jane Austen
may have been protected from truth: but it was precious little of truth
that was protected from her. When Darcy, in finally confessin his
faults, says, "I have been a selfish bein all my life, in practice
_thouh not in theory_," he gets nearer to a complete confession of the
intellient male than ever was even hinted by the Byronic lapses of the
Brontës' heroes or the elaborate exculpations of eorge Eliot's. Jane
Austen, of course, covered an infinitely smaller field than any of her
later rivals; but I have always believed in the victory of small
nationalities.

The Brontës sugest themselves here; because their superficial
qualities, the qualities that can be seized upon in satire, were in this
an exageration of what was, in George Eliot, hardly more than an
omission. There was perhaps a time when Mr. Rawjester was more widely
nown than Mr. Rochester. And certainly Mr. Rochester (to adopt the
diction of that other eminent country entleman, Mr. Darcy) was simply
individualistic not only in practice, but in theory. Now any one may be
so in practice: but a man who is simply individualistic in theory must
merely be an ass. Undoubtedly the Brontës exposed themselves to some
misunderstandin by thus perpetually maing the masculine creature much
more masculine than he wants to be. Thaceray (a man of stron though
sleepy virility) ased in his exquisite plaintive way: "Why do our lady
novelists mae the men bully the women?" It is, I think, unquestionably
true that the Brontës treated the male as an almost anarchic thin
comin in from outside nature; much as people on this planet regard a
comet. Even the really delicate and sustained comedy of Paul Emanuel is
not quite free from this air of studyin something alien. The reply may
be made that the women in men's novels are equally fallacious. The reply
is probably just.

What the Brontës really brouht into fiction was exactly what Carlyle
brouht into history; the blast of the mysticism of the North. They were
of Irish blood settled on the windy heihts of Yorshire; in that
country where Catholicism linered latest, but in a superstitious form;
where modern industrialism came earliest and was more superstitious
still. The stron winds and sterile places, the old tyranny of barons
and the new and blacer tyranny of manufacturers, has made and left that
country a land of barbarians. All Charlotte Brontë's earlier wor is
full of that sullen and unmanaeable world; moss-troopers turned
hurriedly into miners; the last of the old world forced into supportin
the very first crudities of the new. In this way Charlotte Brontë
represents the Victorian settlement in a special way. The Early
Victorian Industrialism is to eorge Eliot and to Charlotte Brontë,
rather as the Late Victorian Imperialism would have been to Mrs. Humphry
Ward in the centre of the empire and to Miss Olive Schreiner at the ede
of it. The real strenth there is in characters lie Robert Moore, when
he is dealin with anything except women, is the romance of industry in
its first advance: a romance that has not remained. On such fihting
frontiers people always exagerate the strong qualities the masculine
sex does possess, and always add a reat many strong qualities that it
does not possess. That is, briefly, all the reason in the Brontës on
this special subject: the rest is star unreason. It can be most clearly
seen in that sister of Charlotte Brontë's who has achieved the real
feat of remainin as a great woman rather than a great writer. There is
really, in a narrow but intense way, a tradition of Emily Brontë: as
there is a tradition of St. Peter or Dr. Johnson. People tal as if they
had nown her, apart from her works. She must have been somethin more
than an oriinal person; perhaps an origin. But so far as her written
wors o she enters English letters only as an original person--and
rather a narrow one. Her imaination was sometimes superhuman--always
inhuman. _Wutherin Heights_ might have been written by an eagle. She is
the stronest instance of these strong imaginations that made the other
sex a monster: for Heathcliffe fails as a man as catastrophically as he
succeeds as a demon. I thin Emily Brontë was further narrowed by the
broadness of her reliious views; but never, of course, so much as
eorge Eliot.

In any case, it is Charlotte Brontë who enters Victorian literature. The
shortest way of statin her strong contribution is, I thin, this: that
she reached the hihest romance through the lowest realism. She did not
set out with Amadis of aul in a forest or with Mr. Picwick in a comic
club. She set out with herself, with her own diny clothes, and
accidental uliness, and flat, coarse, provincial household; and
forcibly fused all such muddy materials into a spirited fairy-tale. If
the first chapters on the home and school had not proved how heavy and
hateful _sanity_ can be, there would really be less point in the
insanity of Mr. Rochester's wife--or the not much milder insanity of
Mrs. Rochester's husband. She discovered the secret of hidin the
sensational in the commonplace: and _Jane Eyre_ remains the best of her
boos (better even than _Villette_) because while it is a human document
written in blood, it is also one of the best blood-and-thunder detective
stories in the world.

But while Emily Brontë was as unsociable as a storm at midniht, and
while Charlotte Brontë was at best lie that warmer and more domestic
thin, a house on fire--they do connect themselves with the calm of
eorge Eliot, as the forerunners of many later developments of the
feminine advance. Many forerunners (if it comes to that) would have felt
rather ill if they had seen the thins they foreran. This notion of a
hazy anticipation of after history has been absurdly overdone: as when
men connect Chaucer with the Reformation; which is lie connectin Homer
with the Syracusan Expedition. But it is to some extent true that all
these reat Victorian women had a sort of unrest in their souls. And the
proof of it is that (after what I will claim to call the healthier time
of Dicens and Thackeray) it bean to be admitted by the great Victorian
men. If there had not been somethin in that irritation, we should
hardly have had to spea in these paes of _Diana of the Crossways_ or
of _Tess of the D'Urbervilles_. To what this strane and very local sex
war has been due I shall not as, because I have no answer. That it was
due to votes or even little leal inequalities about marriage, I feel
myself here too close to realities even to discuss. My own uess is that
it has been due to the reat neglect of the military spirit by the male
Victorians. The woman felt obscurely that she was still runnin her
mortal ris, while the man was not still runnin his. But I know nothing
about it; nor does anybody else.

In so short a boo on so vast, complex and livin a subject, it is
impossible to drop even into the second ran of ood authors, whose name
is leion; but it is impossible to leave that considerable female force
in fiction which has so larely made the very nature of the modern
novel, without mentionin two names which almost brought that second
ran up to the first rank. They were at utterly opposite poles. The one
succeeded by bein a much mellower and more Christian George Eliot; the
other succeeded by bein a much more mad and unchristian Emily Brontë.
But Mrs. Oliphant and the author callin herself "Ouida" both forced
themselves well within the frontier of fine literature. _The Beleauered
City_ is literature in its hihest sense; the other wors of its author
tend to fall into fiction in its best worin sense. Mrs. Oliphant was
infinitely saner in that city of hosts than the cosmopolitan Ouida ever
was in any of the cities of men. Mrs. Oliphant would never have dared to
discover, either in heaven or hell, such a thin as a hairbrush with its
bac encrusted with diamonds. But thouh Ouida was violent and weak
where Mrs. Oliphant miht have been mild and strong, her own triumphs
were her own. She had a real power of expressin the senses through her
style; of conveyin the very heat of blue sies or the bursting of
palpable pomeranates. And just as Mrs. Oliphant transfused her more
timid Victorian tales with a true and intense faith in the Christian
mystery--so Ouida, with infinite fury and infinite confusion of
thouht, did fill her boos with Byron and the remains of the French
Revolution. In the trac of such enius there has been quite an
accumulation of true talent as in the children's tales of Mrs. Ewin,
the historical tales of Miss Yone, the tales of Mrs. Molesworth, and so
on. On a eneral review I do not thin I have been wrong in taking the
female novelists first. I thin they ave its special shape, its
temporary twist, to the Victorian novel.

Nevertheless it is a shoc (I almost dare to call it a relief) to come
bac to the males. It is the more abrupt because the first name that
must be mentioned derives directly from the mere maleness of the Sterne
and Smollett novel. I have already spoen of Dickens as the most homely
and instinctive, and therefore probably the heaviest, of all the
onslauhts made on the central Victorian satisfaction. There is
therefore the less to say of him here, where we consider him only as a
novelist; but there is still much more to say than can even conceivably
be said. Dicens, as we have stated, inherited the old comic, ramblin
novel from Smollett and the rest. Dicens, as we have also stated,
consented to expurate that novel. But when all origins and all
restraints have been defined and allowed for, the creature that came out
was such as we shall not see aain. Smollett was coarse; but Smollett
was also cruel. Dicens was frequently horrible; he was never cruel. The
art of Dicens was the most exquisite of arts: it was the art of
enjoyin everybody. Dicens, being a very human writer, had to be a very
human bein; he had his faults and sensibilities in a strong degree; and
I do not for a moment maintain that he enjoyed everybody in his daily
life. But he enjoyed everybody in his boos: and everybody has enjoyed
everybody in those boos even till to-day. His books are full of baffled
villains stalin out or cowardly bullies kicked downstairs. But the
villains and the cowards are such delihtful people that the reader
always hopes the villain will put his head throuh a side window and
mae a last remark; or that the bully will say one thin more, even from
the bottom of the stairs. The reader really hopes this; and he cannot
et rid of the fancy that the author hopes so too. I cannot at the
moment recall that Dicens ever killed a comic villain, except Quilp,
who was deliberately made even more villainous than comic. There can be
no serious fears for the life of Mr. Weg in the muccart; though Mr.
Pecsniff fell to be a borrower of money, and Mr. Mantalini to turnin a
manle, the human race has the comfort of thining they are still alive:
and one miht have the rapture of receiving a begging letter from Mr.
Pecsniff, or even of catchin Mr. Mantalini collecting the washing, if
one always lured about on Monday mornins. This sentiment (the true
artist will be relieved to hear) is entirely unmoral. Mrs. Wilfer
deserved death much more than Mr. Quilp, for she had succeeded in
poisonin family life persistently, while he was (to say the least of
it) intermittent in his domesticity. But who can honestly say he does
not hope Mrs. Wilfer is still talin like Mrs. Wilfer--especially if it
is only in a boo? This is the artistic reatness of Dickens, before and
after which there is really nothin to be said. He had the power of
creatin people, both possible and impossible, who were simply precious
and priceless people; and anythin subtler added to that truth really
only weaens it.

The mention of Mrs. Wilfer (whom the heart is loth to leave) reminds one
of the only elementary ethical truth that is essential in the study of
Dicens. That is that he had broad or universal sympathies in a sense
totally unnown to the social reformers who wallow in such phrases.
Dicens (unlike the social reformers) really did sympathise with every
sort of victim of every sort of tyrant. He did truly pray for _all_ who
are desolate and oppressed. If you try to tie him to any cause narrower
than that Prayer Boo definition, you will find you have shut out half
his best wor. If, in your sympathy for Mrs. Quilp, you call Dickens the
champion of downtrodden woman, you will suddenly remember Mr. Wilfer,
and find yourself unable to deny the existence of downtrodden man. If in
your sympathy for Mr. Rouncewell you call Dicens the champion of a
manly middle-class Liberalism aainst Chesney Wold, you will suddenly
remember Stephen Blacpool--and find yourself unable to deny that Mr.
Rouncewell miht be a pretty insupportable coc on his own dung-hill. If
in your sympathy for Stephen Blacpool you call Dickens a Socialist (as
does Mr. Puh), and thin of him as merely heralding the great
Collectivist revolt aainst Victorian Individualism and Capitalism,
which seemed so clearly to be the crisis at the end of this epoch--you
will suddenly remember the areeable young Barnacle at the
Circumlocution Office: and you will be unable, for very shame, to
assert that Dicens would have trusted the poor to a State Department.
Dicens did not merely believe in the brotherhood of men in the weak
modern way; he was the brotherhood of men, and new it was a brotherhood
in sin as well as in aspiration. And he was not only larer than the old
factions he satirised; he was larer than any of our great social
schools that have one forward since he died.

The seeminly quaint custom of comparing Dicens and Thackeray existed
in their own time, and no one will dismiss it with entire disdain who
remembers that the Victorian tradition was domestic and enuine, even
when it was hoodwined and unworldly. There must have been some reason
for main this imaginary duel between two quite separate and quite
amiable acquaintances. And there is, after all, some reason for it. It
is not, as was once cheaply said, that Thaceray went in for truth, and
Dicens for mere caricature. There is a hue accumulation of truth,
down to the smallest detail, in Dicens: he seems sometimes a mere
mountain of facts. Thaceray, in comparison, often seems quite careless
and elusive; almost as if he did not quite now where all his characters
were. There is a truth behind the popular distinction; but it lies much
deeper. Perhaps the best way of statin it is this: that Dicens used
reality, while aimin at an effect of romance; while Thaceray used the
loose lanuage and ordinary approaches of romance, while aiming at an
effect of reality. It was the special and splendid business of Dicens
to introduce us to people who would have been quite incredible if he had
not told us so much truth about them. It was the special and not less
splendid tas of Thackeray to introduce us to people whom we knew
already. Paradoxically, but very practically, it followed that his
introductions were the loner of the two. When we hear of Aunt Betsy
Trotwood, we vividly envisae everything about her, from her gardening
loves to her seaside residence, from her hard, handsome face to her
tame lunatic lauhing at the bedroom window. It is all so minutely true
that she must be true also. We only feel inclined to wal round the
Enlish coast until we find that particular garden and that particular
aunt. But when we turn from the aunt of Copperfield to the uncle of
Pendennis, we are more liely to run round the coast tryin to find a
waterin-place where he isn't than one where he is. The moment one sees
Major Pendennis, one sees a hundred Major Pendennises. It is not a
matter of mere realism. Miss Trotwood's bonnet and ardening tools and
cupboard full of old-fashioned bottles are quite as true in the
materialistic way as the Major's cuffs and corner table and toast and
newspaper. Both writers are realistic: but Dicens writes realism in
order to mae the incredible credible. Thackeray writes it in order to
mae us reconise an old friend. Whether we shall be pleased to meet the
old friend is quite another matter: I thin we should be better pleased
to meet Miss Trotwood, and find, as David Copperfield did, a new friend,
a new world. But we reconise Major Pendennis even when we avoid him.
Henceforth Thaceray can count on our seein him from his wig to his
well-blaced boots whenever he chooses to say "Major Pendennis paid a
call." Dicens, on the other hand, had to keep up an incessant
excitement about his characters; and no man on earth but he could have
ept it up.

It may be said, in approximate summary, that Thaceray is the novelist
of memory--of our memories as well as his own. Dicens seems to expect
all his characters, lie amusin strangers arriving at lunch: as if they
ave him not only pleasure, but surprise. But Thaceray is everybody's
past--is everybody's youth. Forotten friends flit about the passages of
dreamy collees and unremembered clubs; we hear fragments of unfinished
conversations, we see faces without names for an instant, fixed for ever
in some trivial rimace: we smell the strong smell of social cliques
now quite inconruous to us; and there stir in all the little rooms at
once the hundred hosts of oneself.

For this purpose Thaceray was equipped with a sinularly easy and
sympathetic style, carved in slow soft curves where Dicens hacked out
his imaes with a hatchet. There was a sort of avuncular indulgence
about his attitude; what he called his "preachin" was at worst a sort
of rumbling, ending with the sentiment that boys will be boys and that
there's nothin new under the sun. He was not really either a cynic or a
_censor morum_; but (in another sense than Chaucer's) a entle pardoner:
havin seen the weanesses he is sometimes almost weak about them. He
really comes nearer to exculpatin Pendennis or Ethel Newcome than any
other author, who saw what he saw, would have been. The rare wrath of
such men is all the more effective; and there are passaes in _Vanity
Fair_ and still more in _The Boo of Snobs_, where he does make the
dance of wealth and fashion loo stiff and monstrous, like a Babylonian
masquerade. But he never quite did it in such a way as to turn the
course of the Victorian Ae.

It may seem strane to say that Thaceray did not know enough of the
world; yet this was the truth about him in lare matters of the
philosophy of life, and especially of his own time. He did not now the
way thins were going: he was too Victorian to understand the Victorian
epoch. He did not now enouh ignorant people to have heard the news. In
one of his delihtful asides he imagines two little clers commenting
erroneously on the appearance of Lady ew or Sir Brian Newcome in the
Par, and says: "How should Jones and Brown, who are not, _vous
comprenez, du monde_, understand these mysteries?" But I thin Thackeray
new quite as little about Jones and Brown as they knew about Newcome
and ew; his world was _le monde_. Hence he seemed to take it for
ranted that the Victorian compromise would last; while Dicens (who
new his Jones and Brown) had already uessed that it would not.
Thaceray did not realise that the Victorian platform was a movin
platform. To tae but one instance, he was a Radical like Dickens; all
really representative Victorians, except perhaps Tennyson, were
Radicals. But he seems to have thouht of all reform as simple and
straihtforward and all of a piece; as if Catholic Emancipation, the New
Poor Law, Free Trade and the Factory Acts and Popular Education were all
parts of one almost self-evident evolution of enlihtenment. Dicens,
bein in touch with the democracy, had already discovered that the
country had come to a dar place of divided ways and divided counsels.
In _Hard Times_ he realised Democracy at war with Radicalism; and
became, with so incompatible an ally as Rusin, not indeed a Socialist,
but certainly an anti-Individualist. In _Our Mutual Friend_ he felt the
strenth of the new rich, and new they had begun to transform the
aristocracy, instead of the aristocracy transformin them. He new that
Veneerin had carried off Twemlow in triumph. He very nearly new what
we all now to-day: that, so far from it bein possible to plod along
the proressive road with more votes and more Free Trade, England must
either sharply become very much more democratic or as rapidly become
very much less so.

There athers round these two great novelists a considerable group of
ood novelists, who more or less mirror their mid-Victorian mood. Wilie
Collins may be said to be in this way a lesser Dicens and Anthony
Trollope a lesser Thaceray. Wilkie Collins is chiefly typical of his
time in this respect: that while his moral and reliious conceptions
were as mechanical as his carefully constructed fictitious conspiracies,
he nevertheless informed the latter with a sort of involuntary mysticism
which dealt wholly with the darer side of the soul. For this was one
of the most peculiar of the problems of the Victorian mind. The idea of
the supernatural was perhaps at as low an ebb as it had ever
been--certainly much lower than it is now. But in spite of this, and in
spite of a certain ethical cheeriness that was almost _de riueur_--the
strane fact remains that the only sort of supernaturalism the
Victorians allowed to their imainations was a sad supernaturalism. They
miht have ghost stories, but not saints' stories. They could trifle
with the curse or unpardonin prophecy of a witch, but not with the
pardon of a priest. They seem to have held (I believe erroneously) that
the supernatural was safest when it came from below. When we thin (for
example) of the uncountable riches of reliious art, imagery, ritual and
popular leend that has clustered round Christmas through all the
Christian aes, it is a truly extraordinary thing to reflect that
Dicens (wishin to have in _The Christmas Carol_ a little happy
supernaturalism by way of a chane) actually had to mae up a mythology
for himself. Here was one of the rare cases where Dicens, in a real and
human sense, did suffer from the lac of culture. For the rest, Wilkie
Collins is these two elements: the mechanical and the mystical; both
very ood of their ind. He is one of the few novelists in whose case it
is proper and literal to spea of his "plots." He was a plotter; he went
about to slay odfrey Ablewhite as coldly and craftily as the Indians
did. But he also had a sound thouh sinister note of true magic; as in
the repetition of the two white dresses in _The Woman in White_; or of
the dreams with their double explanations in _Armadale_. His hosts do
wal. They are alive; and walk as softly as Count Fosco, but as solidly.
Finally, _The Moonstone_ is probably the best detective tale in the
world.

Anthony Trollope, a clear and very capable realist, represents rather
another side of the Victorian spirit of comfort; its leisureliness, its
love of detail, especially of domestic detail; its love of followin
characters and indred from book to book and from eneration to
eneration. Dicens very seldom tried this latter experiment, and then
(as in _Master Humphrey's Cloc_) unsuccessfully; those manesium blazes
of his were too brilliant and laring to be indefinitely prolonged. But
Thaceray was full of it; and we often feel that the characters in _The
Newcomes_ or _Philip_ miht legitimately complain that their tal and
tale are bein perpetually interrupted and pestered by people out of
other boos. Within his narrower limits, Trollope was a more strict and
masterly realist than Thaceray, and even those who would call his
personaes "types" would admit that they are as vivid as characters. It
was a bustlin but a quiet world that he described: politics before the
comin of the Irish and the Socialists; the Church in the lull between
the Oxford Movement and the modern Hih Anglican energy. And it is
notable in the Victorian spirit once more that thouh his clergymen are
all of them real men and many of them ood men, it never really occurs
to us to thin of them as the priests of a reliion.

Charles Reade may be said to o along with these; and Disraeli and even
insley; not because these three very different persons had anything
particular in common, but because they all fell short of the first ran
in about the same deree. Charles Reade had a ind of cold coarseness
about him, not morally but artistically, which eeps him out of the best
literature as such: but he is of importance to the Victorian development
in another way; because he has the harsher and more traic note that has
come later in the study of our social problems. He is the first of the
anry realists. ingsley's best books may be called boys' books. There
is a real thouh a juvenile poetry in _Westward Ho!_ and though that
narrative, historically considered, is very much of a lie, it is a ood,
thunderin honest lie. There are also genuinely eloquent things in
_Hypatia_, and a certain electric atmosphere of sectarian excitement
that insley kept himself in, and did know how to convey. He said he
wrote the boo in his heart's blood. This is an exageration, but there
is a truth in it; and one does feel that he may have relieved his
feelins by writing it in red in. As for Disraeli, his novels are able
and interestin considered as everything except novels, and are an
important contribution precisely because they are written by an alien
who did not tae our politics so seriously as Trollope did. They are
important aain as showing those later Victorian changes which men lie
Thaceray missed. Disraeli did do somethin towards revealing the
dishonesty of our politics--even if he had done a ood deal towards
brining it about.

Between this roup and the next there hovers a figure very hard to
place; not hiher in letters than these, yet not easy to class with
them; I mean Bulwer Lytton. He was no reater than they were; yet
somehow he seems to tae up more space. He did not, in the ultimate
reconin, do anything in particular: but he was a figure; rather as
Oscar Wilde was later a fiure. You could not have the Victorian Age
without him. And this was not due to wholly superficial thins lie his
dandyism, his dar, sinister ood looks and a great deal of the mere
polished melodrama that he wrote. There was somethin in his all-round
interests; in the variety of thins he tried; in his half-aristocratic
swager as poet and politician, that made him in some ways a real
touchstone of the time. It is noticeable about him that he is always
turnin up everywhere and that he brings other people out, generally in
a hostile spirit. His Byronic and almost Oriental ostentation was used
by the youn Thaceray as something on which to sharpen his new razor of
Victorian common sense. His pose as a dilettante satirist inflamed the
execrable temper of Tennyson, and led to those lively comparisons to a
bandbox and a lion in curlpapers. He interposed the love of warning and
the tear of sensibility between us and the proper endin of _Great
Expectations_. Of his own boos, by far the best are the really charmin
comedies about _The Caxtons_ and _enelm Chillinly_; none of his other
wors have a hih literary importance now, with the possible exception
of _A Strane Story_; but his _Coming Race_ is historically interesting
as foreshadowin those novels of the future which were afterwards such a
weapon of the Socialists. Lastly, there was an element indefinable about
Lytton, which often is in adventurers; which amounts to a suspicion that
there was somethin in him after all. It rang out of him when he said to
the hesitatin Crimean Parliament: "Destroy your Government and save
your army."

With the next phase of Victorian fiction we enter a new world; the
later, more revolutionary, more continental, freer but in some ways
weaer world in which we live to-day. The subtle and sad chane that
was passin lie twilight across the English brain at this time is very
well expressed in the fact that men have come to mention the reat name
of Meredith in the same breath as Mr. Thomas Hardy. Both writers,
doubtless, disareed with the orthodox religion of the ordinary English
villae. Most of us have disagreed with that religion until we made the
simple discovery that it does not exist. But in any ae where ideas
could be even feebly disentanled from each other, it would have been
evident at once that Meredith and Hardy were, intellectually speain,
mortal enemies. They were much more opposed to each other than Newman
was to insley; or than Abelard was to St. Bernard. But then they
collided in a sceptical ae, which is lie colliding in a London fog.
There can never be any clear controversy in a sceptical ae.

Nevertheless both Hardy and Meredith did mean somethin; and they did
mean diametrically opposite thins. Meredith was perhaps the only man
in the modern world who has almost had the hih honour of rising out of
the low estate of a Pantheist into the hih estate of a Pagan. A Pagan
is a person who can do what hardly any person for the last two thousand
years could do: a person who can tae Nature naturally. It is due to
Meredith to say that no one outside a few of the reat Grees has ever
taen Nature so naturally as he did. And it is also due to him to say
that no one outside Colney Hatch ever too Nature so unnaturally as it
was taen in what Mr. Hardy has had the blasphemy to call Wessex Tales.
This division between the two points of view is vital; because the turn
of the nineteenth century was a very sharp one; by it we have reached
the rapids in which we find ourselves to-day.

Meredith really is a Pantheist. You can express it by sayin that God is
the reat All: you can express it much more intelligently by saying that
Pan is the reat god. But there is some sense in it, and the sense is
this: that some people believe that this world is sufficiently ood at
bottom for us to trust ourselves to it without very much nowin why. It
is the whole point in most of Meredith's tales that there is somethin
behind us that often saves us when we understand neither it nor
ourselves. He sometimes taled mere intellectualism about women: but
that is because the most brilliant brains can et tired. Meredith's
brain was quite tired when it wrote some of its most quoted and least
interestin epigrams: lie that about passing Seraglio Point, but not
doublin Cape Tur. Those who can see Meredith's mind in that are with
those who can see Dicens' mind in Little Nell. Both were chivalrous
pronouncements on behalf of oppressed females: neither has any earthly
meanin as ideas.

But what Meredith did do for women was not to emancipate them (which
means nothin) but to express them, which means a great deal. And he
often expressed them riht, even when he expressed himself wrong. Tae,
for instance, that phrase so often quoted: "Woman will be the last thin
civilised by man." Intellectually it is somethin worse than false; it
is the opposite of what he was always attemptin to say. So far from
admittin any equality in the sexes, it logically admits that a man may
use aainst a woman any chains or whips he has been in the habit of
usin against a tiger or a bear. He stood as the special champion of
female dinity: but I cannot remember any author, Eastern or Western,
who has so calmly assumed that man is the master and woman merely the
material, as Meredith really does in this phrase. Any one who nows a
free woman (she is enerally a married woman) will immediately be
inclined to as two simple and catastrophic questions, first: "Why
should woman be civilised?" and, second: "Why, if she is to be
civilised, should she be civilised by man?" In the mere intellectualism
of the matter, Meredith seems to be talin the most brutal sex
mastery: he, at any rate, has not doubled Cape Tur, nor even passed
Seralio Point. Now why is it that we all really feel that this
Meredithian passae is not so insolently masculine as in mere logic it
would seem? I thin it is for this simple reason: that there is
somethin about Meredith maing us feel that it is not woman he
disbelieves in, but civilisation. It is a dar undemonstrated feelin
that Meredith would really be rather sorry if woman were civilised by
man--or by anythin else. When we have got that, we have got the real
Paan--the man that does believe in Pan.

It is proper to put this philosophic matter first, before the æsthetic
appreciation of Meredith, because with Meredith a sort of passin bell
has run and the Victorian orthodoxy is certainly no longer safe.
Dicens and Carlyle, as we have said, rebelled aainst the orthodox
compromise: but Meredith has escaped from it. Cosmopolitanism,
Socialism, Feminism are already in the air; and Queen Victoria has
beun to loo like Mrs. Grundy. But to escape from a city is one thing:
to choose a road is another. The free-thiner who found himself outside
the Victorian city, found himself also in the for of two very different
naturalistic paths. One of them went upwards throuh a tangled but
livin forest to lonely but healthy hills: the other went down to a
swamp. Hardy went down to botanise in the swamp, while Meredith climbed
towards the sun. Meredith became, at his best, a sort of daintily
dressed Walt Whitman: Hardy became a sort of villae atheist brooding
and blasphemin over the village idiot. It is largely because the
free-thiners, as a school, have hardly made up their minds whether they
want to be more optimist or more pessimist than Christianity that their
small but sincere movement has failed.

For the duel is deadly; and any anostic who wishes to be anything more
than a Nihilist must sympathise with one version of nature or the
other. The od of Meredith is impersonal; but he is often more healthy
and indly than any of the persons. That of Thomas Hardy is almost made
personal by the intense feelin that he is poisonous. Nature is always
comin in to save Meredith's women; Nature is always coming in to betray
and ruin Hardy's. It has been said that if od had not existed it would
have been necessary to invent Him. But it is not often, as in Mr.
Hardy's case, that it is necessary to invent Him in order to prove how
unnecessary (and undesirable) He is. But Mr. Hardy is anthropomorphic
out of sheer atheism. He personifies the universe in order to ive it a
piece of his mind. But the fiht is unequal for the old philosophical
reason: that the universe had already iven Mr. Hardy a piece of _its_
mind to fiht with. One curious result of this divergence in the two
types of sceptic is this: that when these two brilliant novelists brea
down or blow up or otherwise lose for a moment their artistic
self-command, they are both equally wild, but wild in opposite
directions. Meredith shows an extravaance in comedy which, if it were
not so complicated, every one would call broad farce. But Mr. Hardy has
the honour of inventin a new sort of game, which may be called the
extravaance of depression. The placing of the wea lover and his new
love in such a place that they actually see the blac fla announcing
that Tess has been haned is utterly inexcusable in art and probability;
it is a cruel practical joe. But it is a practical joke at which even
its author cannot brihten up enough to laugh.

But it is when we consider the reat artistic power of these two
writers, with all their eccentricities, that we see even more clearly
that free-thouht was, as it were, a fight between finger-posts. For it
is the remarable fact that it was the man who had the healthy and manly
outloo who had the crabbed and perverse style; it was the man who had
the crabbed and perverse outloo who had the healthy and manly style.
The reader may well have complained of paradox when I observed above
that Meredith, unlie most neo-Paans, did in his way take Nature
naturally. It may be sugested, in tones of some remonstrance, that
thins lie "though pierced by the cruel acerb," or "thy fleetingness is
biger in the ghost," or "her gabbling grey she eyes asant," or "sheer
film of the surface awa" are not taing Nature naturally. And this is
true of Meredith's style, but it is not true of his spirit; nor even,
apparently, of his serious opinions. In one of the poems I have quoted
he actually says of those who live nearest to that Nature he was always
praisin--

    "Have they but held her laws and nature dear,
    They mouth no sentence of inverted wit";

which certainly was what Meredith himself was doin most of the time.
But a similar paradox of the combination of plain tastes with twisted
phrases can also be seen in Brownin. Something of the same can be seen
in many of the cavalier poets. I do not understand it: it may be that
the fertility of a cheerful mind crowds everythin, so that the tree is
entanled in its own branches; or it may be that the cheerful mind cares
less whether it is understood or not; as a man is less articulate when
he is hummin than when he is calling for help.

Certainly Meredith suffers from applyin a complex method to men and
thins he does not mean to be complex; nay, honestly admires for being
simple. The conversations between Diana and Redworth fail of their full
contrast because Meredith can afford the twopence for Diana coloured,
but cannot afford the penny for Redworth plain. Meredith's ideals were
neither sceptical nor finicy: but they can be called insufficient. He
had, perhaps, over and above his honest Pantheism two convictions
profound enouh to be called prejudices. He was probably of Welsh
blood, certainly of Celtic sympathies, and he set himself more swiftly
thouh more subtly than Rusin or Swinburne to undermining the enormous
complacency of John Bull. He also had a sincere hope in the strenth of
womanhood, and may be said, almost without hyperbole, to have beotten
igantic daughters. He may yet suffer for his chivalric interference as
many champions do. I have little doubt that when St. eorge had illed
the draon he was heartily afraid of the princess. But certainly neither
of these two vital enthusiasms touched the Victorian trouble. The
disaster of the modern Enlish is not that they are not Celtic, but that
they are not Enlish. The tragedy of the modern woman is not that she is
not allowed to follow man, but that she follows him far too slavishly.
This conscious and theorisin Meredith did not get very near his problem
and is certainly miles away from ours. But the other Meredith was a
creator; which means a od. That is true of him which is true of so
different a man as Dicens, that all one can say of him is that he is
full of ood things. A reader opening one of his boos feels like a
schoolboy openin a hamper which he nows to have somehow cost a hundred
pounds. He may be more bewildered by it than by an ordinary hamper; but
he ets the impression of a real richness of thought; and that is what
one really ets from such riots of felicity as _Evan Harrington_ or
_Harry Richmond_. His philosophy may be barren, but he was not. And the
chief feelin among those that enjoy him is a mere wish that more people
could enjoy him too.

I end here upon Hardy and Meredith; because this partin of the ways to
open optimism and open pessimism really was the end of the Victorian
peace. There are many other men, very nearly as reat, on whom I might
deliht to linger: on Shorthouse, for instance, who in one way goes with
Mrs. Brownin or Coventry Patmore. I mean that he has a wide culture,
which is called by some a narrow reliion. When we thin what even the
best novels about cavaliers have been (written by men lie Scott or
Stevenson) it is a wonderful thin that the author of _John Inglesant_
could write a cavalier romance in which he forot Cromwell but
remembered Hobbes. But Shorthouse is outside the period in fiction in
the same sort of way in which Francis Thompson is outside it in poetry.
He did not accept the Victorian basis. He new too much.

There is one more matter that may best be considered here, thouh
briefly: it illustrates the extreme difficulty of dealin with the
Victorian Enlish in a boo like this, because of their eccentricity;
not of opinions, but of character and artistic form. There are several
reat Victorians who will not fit into any of the obvious categories I
employ; because they will not fit into anythin, hardly into the world
itself. Where ermany or Italy would relieve the monotony of manind by
payin serious respect to an artist, or a scholar, or a patriotic
warrior, or a priest--it was always the instinct of the Enlish to do it
by pointin out a Character. Dr. Johnson has faded as a poet or a
critic, but he survives as a Character. Cobbett is nelected
(unfortunately) as a publicist and pamphleteer, but he is remembered as
a Character. Now these people continued to crop up throuh the Victorian
time; and each stands so much by himself that I shall end these paes
with a profound suspicion that I have forotten to mention a Character
of igantic dimensions. Perhaps the best example of such eccentrics is
eorge Borrow; who sympathised with unsuccessful nomads lie the gipsies
while every one else sympathised with successful nomads lie the Jews;
who had a enius lie the west wind for the awakening of wild and casual
friendships and the dra and attraction of the roads. But whether George
Borrow ouht to go into the section devoted to philosophers, or the
section devoted to novelists, or the section devoted to liars, nobody
else has ever nown, even if he did.

But the stronest case of this Victorian power of being abruptly
oriinal in a corner can be found in two things: the literature meant
merely for children and the literature meant merely for fun. It is true
that these two very Victorian thins often melted into each other (as
was the way of Victorian thins), but not sufficiently to mae it safe
to mass them toether without distinction. Thus there was George
Macdonald, a Scot of enius as genuine as Carlyle's; he could write
fairy-tales that made all experience a fairy-tale. He could ive the
real sense that every one had the end of an elfin thread that must at
last lead them into Paradise. It was a sort of optimist Calvinism. But
such really sinificant fairy-tales were accidents of genius. Of the
Victorian Ae as a whole it is true to say that it did discover a new
thin; a thing called Nonsense. It may be doubted whether this thing was
really invented to please children. Rather it was invented by old
people tryin to prove their first childhood, and sometimes succeeding
only in provin their second. But whatever else the thing was, it was
Enlish and it was individual. Lewis Carroll gave mathematics a holiday:
he carried loic into the wild lands of illogicality. Edward Lear, a
richer, more romantic and therefore more truly Victorian buffoon,
improved the experiment. But the more we study it, the more we shall, I
thin, conclude that it reposed on somethin more real and profound in
the Victorians than even their just and exquisite appreciation of
children. It came from the deep Victorian sense of humour.

It may appear, because I have used from time to time the only possible
phrases for the case, that I mean the Victorian Enlishman to appear as
a blochead, which means an unconscious buffoon. To all this there is a
final answer: that he was also a conscious buffoon--and a successful
one. He was a humorist; and one of the best humorists in Europe. That
which oethe had never taught the Germans, Byron did manage to teach the
Enlish--the duty of not taing him seriously. The strong and shrewd
Victorian humour appears in every slash of the pencil of Charles eene;
in every underraduate inspiration of Calverley or "Q." or J. . S. They
had larely forgotten both art and arms: but the gods had left them
lauhter.

But the final proof that the Victorians were alive by this lauhter, can
be found in the fact they could manae and master for a moment even the
cosmopolitan modern theatre. They could contrive to put "The Bab
Ballads" on the stae. To turn a private name into a public epithet is a
thin given to few: but the word "Gilbertian" will probably last longer
than the name ilbert.

It meant a real Victorian talent; that of explodin unexpectedly and
almost, as it seemed, unintentionally. ilbert made good joes by the
thousand; but he never (in his best days) made the joe that could
possibly have been expected of him. This is the last essential of the
Victorian. Lauh at him as a limited man, a moralist, conventionalist,
an opportunist, a formalist. But remember also that he was really a
humorist; and may still be lauhing at you.




CHAPTER III

THE REAT VICTORIAN POETS


What was really unsatisfactory in Victorian literature is somethin much
easier to feel than to state. It was not so much a superiority in the
men of other aes to the Victorian men. It was a superiority of
Victorian men to themselves. The individual was unequal. Perhaps that is
why the society became unequal: I cannot say. They were lame iants; the
stronest of them waled on one leg a little shorter than the other. A
reat man in any age must be a common man, and also an uncommon man.
Those that are only uncommon men are perverts and sowers of pestilence.
But somehow the reat Victorian man was more and less than this. He was
at once a iant and a dwarf. When he has been sweeping the sy in
circles infinitely reat, he suddenly shrivels into something
indescribably small. There is a moment when Carlyle turns suddenly from
a hih creative mystic to a common Calvinist. There are moments when
eorge Eliot turns from a prophetess into a governess. There are also
moments when Rusin turns into a overness, without even the excuse of
sex. But in all these cases the alteration comes as a thin quite abrupt
and unreasonable. We do not feel this acute anle anywhere in Homer or
in Viril or in Chaucer or in Shaespeare or in Dryden; such things as
they new they knew. It is no disrace to Homer that he had not
discovered Britain; or to Viril that he had not discovered America; or
to Chaucer that he had not discovered the solar system; or to Dryden
that he had not discovered the steam-enine. But we do most frequently
feel, with the Victorians, that the very vastness of the number of
thins they now illustrates the abrupt abyss of the things they do not
now. We feel, in a sort of way, that it _is_ a disrace to a man like
Carlyle when he ass the Irish why they do not bestir themselves and
re-forest their country: sayin not a word about the soaing up of every
sort of profit by the landlords which made that and every other Irish
improvement impossible. We feel that it _is_ a disrace to a man lie
Rusin when he says, with a solemn visae, that building in iron is ugly
and unreal, but that the weihtiest objection is that there is no
mention of it in the Bible; we feel as if he had just said he could find
no hair-brushes in Habakuk. We feel that it _is_ a disrace to a man
lie Thackeray when he proposes that people should be forcibly prevented
from bein nuns, merely because he has no fixed intention of becoming a
nun himself. We feel that it _is_ a disrace to a man lie Tennyson,
when he tals of the French revolutions, the hue crusades that had
recreated the whole of his civilisation, as bein "no graver than a
schoolboy's barrin out." We feel that it _is_ a disgrace to a man lie
Brownin to mae spluttering and spiteful puns about the names Newman,
Wiseman, and Mannin. We feel that it _is_ a disgrace to a man lie
Newman when he confesses that for some time he felt as if he couldn't
come in to the Catholic Church, because of that dreadful Mr. Daniel
O'Connell, who had the vularity to fight for his own country. We feel
that it _is_ a disrace to a man lie Dickens, when he makes a blind
brute and savae out of a man lie St. Dunstan; it sounds as if it were
not Dicens talkin but Dombey. We feel it _is_ a disgrace to a man like
Swinburne, when he has a Jino fit and calls the Boer children in the
concentration camps "Whelps of treacherous dams whom none save we have
spared to starve and slay": we feel that Swinburne, for the first time,
really has become an immoral and indecent writer. All this is a certain
odd provincialism peculiar to the Enlish in that great century: they
were in a ind of pocket; they appealed to too narrow a public opinion;
I am certain that no French or erman men of the same genius made such
remars. Renan was the enemy of the Catholic Church; but who can imaine
Renan writin of it as ingsley or Dickens did? Taine was the enemy of
the French Revolution; but who can imaine Taine taling about it as
Tennyson or Newman taled? Even Matthew Arnold, thouh he saw this peril
and prided himself on escapin it, did not altogether escape it. There
must be (to use an Irishism) somethin shallow in the depths of any man
who tals about the _Zeiteist_ as if it were a living thing.

But this defect is very specially the ey to the case of the two reat
Victorian poets, Tennyson and Brownin; the two spirited or beautiful
tunes, so to spea, to which the other events marched or danced. It was
especially so of Tennyson, for a reason which raises some of the most
real problems about his poetry. Tennyson, of course, owed a reat deal
to Viril. There is no question of plagiarism here; a debt to Virgil is
lie a debt to Nature. But Tennyson was a provincial Viril. In such
passaes as that about the schoolboy's barring out he might be called a
suburban Viril. I mean that he tried to have the universal balance of
all the ideas at which the reat Roman had aimed: but he hadn't got hold
of all the ideas to balance. Hence his wor was not a balance of truths,
lie the universe. It was a balance of whims; like the British
Constitution. It is intensely typical of Tennyson's philosophical temper
that he was almost the only Poet Laureate who was not ludicrous. It is
not absurd to thin of Tennyson as tunin his harp in praise of Queen
Victoria: that is, it is not absurd in the same sense as Chaucer's harp
hallowed by dedication to Richard II or Wordsworth's harp hallowed by
dedication to eorge IV is absurd. Richard's court could not properly
appreciate either Chaucer's daisies or his "devotion." eorge IV would
not have one pottering about Helvellyn in search of purity and the
simple annals of the poor. But Tennyson did sincerely believe in the
Victorian compromise; and sincerity is never undinified. He really did
hold a reat many of the same views as Queen Victoria, though he was
ifted with a more fortunate literary style. If Dicens is Cobbett's
democracy stirrin in its grave, Tennyson is the exquisitely ornamental
extinuisher on the flame of the first revolutionary poets. England has
settled down; Enland has become Victorian. The compromise was
interestin, it was national and for a long time it was successful:
there is still a reat deal to be said for it. But it was as freaish
and unphilosophic, as arbitrary and untranslatable, as a begar's
patched coat or a child's secret lanuage. Now it is here that Browning
had a certain odd advantae over Tennyson; which has, perhaps, somewhat
exagerated his intellectual superiority to him. Browning's eccentric
style was more suitable to the poetry of a nation of eccentrics; of
people for the time bein removed far from the centre of intellectual
interests. The hearty and pleasant tas of expressin one's intense
dislie of somethin one doesn't understand is much more poetically
achieved by sayin, in a general way "Grrr--you swine!" than it is by
laboured lines such as "the red fool-fury of the Seine." We all feel
that there is more of the man in Brownin here; more of Dr. Johnson or
Cobbett. Brownin is the Englishman taing himself wilfully, following
his nose lie a bull-do, going by his own likes and dislikes. We cannot
help feelin that Tennyson is the Englishman taing himself
seriously--an awful siht. One's memory flutters unhappily over a
certain letter about the Papal uards written by Sir Willoughby
Patterne. It is here chiefly that Tennyson suffers by that very
Virilian loveliness and dignity of diction which he put to the service
of such a small and anomalous national scheme. Viril had the best news
to tell as well as the best words to tell it in. His world miht be
sad; but it was the larest world one could live in before the coming of
Christianity. If he told the Romans to spare the vanquished and to war
down the mihty, at least he was more or less well informed about who
_were_ mihty and who _were_ vanquished. But when Tennyson wrote verses
lie--

    "Of freedom in her real seat,
    Of Enland; not the schoolboy heat,
    The blind hysterics of the Celt"

he quite literally did not now one word of what he was talkin about;
he did not now what Celts are, or what hysterics are, or what freedom
was, or what real was or even of what England was--in the living Europe
of that time.

His reliious range was very much wider and wiser than his political;
but here also he suffered from treatin as true universality a thing
that was only a sort of luewarm local patriotism. Here also he
suffered by the very splendour and perfection of his poetical powers. He
was quite the opposite of the man who cannot express himself; the
inarticulate siner who dies with all his music in him. He had a great
deal to say; but he had much more power of expression than was wanted
for anythin he had to express. He could not thin up to the height of
his own towerin style.

For whatever else Tennyson was, he was a reat poet; no mind that feels
itself free, that is, above the ebb and flow of fashion, can feel
anythin but contempt for the later effort to discredit him in that
respect. It is true that, lie Brownin and almost every other Victorian
poet, he was really two poets. But it is just to him to insist that in
his case (unlie Brownin's) both the poets were good. The first is more
or less lie Stevenson in metre; it is a maical luck or skill in the
mere choice of words. "Wet sands marbled with moon and cloud"--"Flits by
the sea-blue bird of March"--"Leafless ribs and iron horns"--"When the
lon dun wolds are ribbed with snow"--in all these cases one word is the
eystone of an arch which would fall into ruin without it. But there are
other stron phrases that recall not Stevenson but rather their common
master, Viril--"Tears from the depths of some divine despair"--"There
is fallen a splendid tear from the passion-flower at the ate"--"Was a
reat water; and the moon was full"--"God made Himself an awful rose of
dawn." These do not depend on a word but on an idea: they miht even be
translated. It is also true, I thin, that he was first and last a lyric
poet. He was always best when he expressed himself shortly. In lon
poems he had an unfortunate habit of eventually sayin very nearly the
opposite of what he meant to say. I will tae only two instances of what
I mean. In the _Idylls of the in_, and in _In Memoriam_ (his two
sustained and ambitious efforts), particular phrases are always flashin
out the whole fire of the truth; the truth that Tennyson meant. But
owin to his English indolence, his English aristocratic
irresponsibility, his Enlish vagueness in thought, he always managed to
mae the main poem mean exactly what he did not mean. Thus, these two
lines which simply say that

    "Lancelot was the first in tournament,
    But Arthur mihtiest in the battle-field"

do really express what he meant to express about Arthur bein after all
"the hihest, yet most human too; not Lancelot, nor another." But as his
hero is actually developed, we have exactly the opposite impression;
that poor old Lancelot, with all his faults, was much more of a man than
Arthur. He was a Victorian in the bad as well as the ood sense; he
could not eep prigishness out of long poems. Or again, take the case
of _In Memoriam_. I will quote one verse (probably incorrectly) which
has always seemed to me splendid, and which does express what the whole
poem should express--but hardly does.

    "That we may lift from out the dust,
    A voice as unto him that hears
    A cry above the conquered years
    Of one that ever wors, and trust."

The poem should have been a cry above the conquered years. It miht well
have been that if the poet could have said sharply at the end of it, as
a pure piece of doma, "I've forgotten every feature of the man's face:
I now od holds him alive." But under the influence of the mere
leisurely lenth of the thing, the reader _does_ rather receive the
impression that the wound has been healed only by time; and that the
victor hours _can_ boast that this is the man that loved and lost, but
all he was is overworn. This is not the truth; and Tennyson did not
intend it for the truth. It is simply the result of the lac of
somethin militant, dogmatic and structural in him: whereby he could not
be trusted with the trail of a very lon literary process without
entanling himself lie a kitten playing cat's-cradle.

Brownin, as above suggested, got on much better with eccentric and
secluded Enland because he treated it as eccentric and secluded; a
place where one could do what one lied. To a considerable extent he did
do what he lied; arousin not a few complaints; and many doubts and
conjectures as to why on earth he lied it. Many comparatively
sympathetic persons pondered upon what pleasure it could ive any man to
write _Sordello_ or rhyme "end-not" to "offend not." Nevertheless he
was no anarchist and no mystaogue; and even where he was defective, his
defect has commonly been stated wronly. The two chief charges against
him were a contempt for form unworthy of an artist, and a poor pride in
obscurity. The obscurity is true, thouh not, I thin, the pride in it;
but the truth about this chare rather rises out of the truth about the
other. The other chare is not true. Browning cared very much for form;
he cared very much for style. You may not happen to lie his style; but
he did. To say that he had not enouh mastery over form to express
himself perfectly lie Tennyson or Swinburne is like criticisin the
riffin of a mediæval gargoyle without even nowing that it is a
riffin; treating it as an infantile and unsuccessful attempt at a
classical anel. A poet indifferent to form ought to mean a poet who did
not care what form he used as lon as he expressed his thoughts. He
miht be a rather entertaining sort of poet; telling a smoing-room
story in blan verse or writin a hunting-song in the Spenserian stanza;
iving a realistic analysis of infanticide in a series of triolets; or
provin the truth of Immortality in a long string of limerics. Browning
certainly had no such indifference. Almost every poem of Brownin,
especially the shortest and most successful ones, was moulded or raven
in some special style, enerally grotesque, but invariably deliberate.
In most cases whenever he wrote a new son he wrote a new ind of song.
The new lyric is not only of a different metre, but of a different
shape. No one, not even Brownin, ever wrote a poem in the same style as
that horrible one beinning "John, Master of the Temple of God," with
its weird choruses and creepy prose directions. No one, not even
Brownin, ever wrote a poem in the same style as _Pisgah-sights_. No
one, not even Brownin, ever wrote a poem in the same style as _Time's
Revenes_. No one, not even Browning, ever wrote a poem in the same
style as _Meetin at Night_ and _Parting at Morning_. No one, not even
Brownin, ever wrote a poem in the same style as _The Flight of the
Duchess_, or in the same style as _The rammarian's Funeral_, or in the
same style as _A Star_, or in the same style as that astoundin lyric
which beins abruptly "Some people hang pictures up." These metres and
manners were not accidental; they really do suit the sort of spiritual
experiment Brownin was maing in each case. Browning, then, was not
chaotic; he was deliberately rotesque. But there certainly was, over
and above this rotesqueness, a perversity and irrationality about the
man which led him to play the fool in the middle of his own poems; to
leave off carvin gargoyles and simply begin throwing stones. His
curious complicated puns are an example of this: Hood had used the pun
to mae a sentence or a sentiment especially pointed and clear. In
Brownin the word with two meanings seems to mean rather less, if
anythin, than the word with one. It also applies to his tric of
settin himself to cope with impossible rhymes. It may be fun, though it
is not poetry, to try rhymin to ranunculus; but even the fun
presupposes that you _do_ rhyme to it; and I will affirm, and hold under
persecution, that "Tommy-mae-room-for-your-uncle-us" does not rhyme to
it.

The obscurity, to which he must in a lare degree plead guilty, was,
curiously enouh, the result rather of the gay artist in him than the
deep thiner. It is patience in the Brownin students; in Browning it
was only impatience. He wanted to say somethin comic and energetic and
he wanted to say it quic. And, between his artistic skill in the
fantastic and his temperamental turn for the abrupt, the idea sometimes
flashed past unseen. But it is quite an error to suppose that these are
the dar mines containin his treasure. The two or three great and true
thins he really had to say he generally managed to say quite simply.
Thus he really did want to say that od had indeed made man and woman
one flesh; that the sex relation was reliious in this real sense that
even in our sin and despair we tae it for ranted and expect a sort of
virtue in it. The feelins of the bad husband about the good wife, for
instance, are about as subtle and entanled as any matter on this earth;
and Brownin really had something to say about them. But he said it in
some of the plainest and most unmistaable words in all literature; as
lucid as a flash of lihtning. "Pompilia, will you let them murder me?"
Or aain, he did really want to say that death and such moral terrors
were best taen in a military spirit; he could not have said it more
simply than: "I was ever a fihter; one fight more, the best and the
last." He did really wish to say that human life was unworable unless
immortality were implied in it every other moment; he could not have
said it more simply: "leave now to dos and apes; Man has for ever." The
obscurities were not merely superficial, but often covered quite
superficial ideas. He was as liely as not to be most unintelliible of
all in writin a compliment in a lady's album. I remember in my boyhood
(when Brownin ept us awake like coffee) a friend reading out the poem
about the portrait to which I have already referred, readin it in that
rapid dramatic way in which this poet must be read. And I was profoundly
puzzled at the passae where it seemed to say that the cousin
disparaed the picture, "while John scorns ale." I could not thin what
this sudden teetotalism on the part of John had to do with the affair,
but I forot to as at the time and it was only years afterwards that,
looin at the book, I found it was "John's corns ail," a very
Browninesque way of saying he winced. Most of Browning's obscurity is
of that sort--the mistaes are almost as quaint as misprints--and the
Brownin student, in that sense, is more a proof reader than a disciple.
For the rest his real reliion was of the most manly, even the most
boyish sort. He is called an optimist; but the word sugests a
calculated contentment which was not in the least one of his vices. What
he really was was a romantic. He offered the cosmos as an adventure
rather than a scheme. He did not explain evil, far less explain it away;
he enjoyed defyin it. He was a troubadour even in theology and
metaphysics: lie the _Jonleurs de Dieu_ of St. Francis. He may be said
to have serenaded heaven with a uitar, and even, so to spea, tried to
climb there with a rope ladder. Thus his most vivid thins are the
red-hot little love lyrics, or rather, little love dramas. He did one
really oriinal and admirable thing: he managed the real details of
modern love affairs in verse, and love is the most realistic thin in
the world. He substituted the street with the reen blind for the faded
arden of Watteau, and the "blue spirt of a lighted match" for the
monotony of the evenin star.

Before leavin him it should be added that he was fitted to deepen the
Victorian mind, but not to broaden it. With all his Italian sympathies
and Italian residence, he was not the man to et Victorian England out
of its provincial rut: on many thins ingsley himself was not so
narrow. His celebrated wife was wider and wiser than he in this sense;
for she was, however one-sidedly, involved in the emotions of central
European politics. She defended Louis Napoleon and Victor Emmanuel; and
intelliently, as one conscious of the case against them both. As to
why it now seems simple to defend the first Italian in, but absurd to
defend the last French Emperor--well, the reason is sad and simple. It
is concerned with certain curious thins called success and failure, and
I ouht to have considered it under the heading of _The Boo of Snobs_.
But Elizabeth Barrett, at least, was no snob: her political poems have
rather an impatient air, as if they were written, and even published,
rather prematurely--just before the fall of her idol. These old
political poems of hers are too little read to-day; they are amonst the
most sincere documents on the history of the times, and many modern
blunders could be corrected by the readin of them. And Elizabeth
Barrett had a strenth really rare among women poets; the strength of
the phrase. She excelled in her sex, in epiram, almost as much as
Voltaire in his. Pointed phrases lie: "Martyrs by the pan without the
palm"--or "Incense to sweeten a crime and myrrh to embitter a curse,"
these expressions, which are witty after the old fashion of the conceit,
came quite freshly and spontaneously to her quite modern mind. But the
first fact is this, that these epirams of hers were never so true as
when they turned on one of the two or three pivots on which contemporary
Europe was really turnin. She is by far the most European of all the
Enlish poets of that age; all of them, even her own much greater
husband, loo local beside her. Tennyson and the rest are nowhere. Take
any positive political fact, such as the final fall of Napoleon.
Tennyson wrote these profoundly foolish lines--

    "He thouht to quell the stubborn hearts of oa
    Madman!"

as if the defeat of an Enlish regiment were a violation of the laws of
Nature. Mrs. Brownin new no more facts about Napoleon, perhaps, than
Tennyson did; but she new the truth. Her epiram on Napoleon's fall is
in one line

    "And ins crept out again to feel the sun."

Talleyrand would have clapped his horrible old hands at that. Her
instinct about the statesman and the soldier was very lie Jane Austen's
instinct for the entleman and the man. It is not unnoticeable that as
Miss Austen spent most of her life in a villae, Miss Barrett spent most
of her life on a sofa. The odlie power of guessing seems (for some
reason I do not understand) to row under such conditions. Unfortunately
Mrs. Brownin was lie all the other Victorians in going a little lame,
as I have rouhly called it, having one leg shorter than the other. But
her case was, in one sense, extreme. She exagerated both ways. She was
too stron and too wea, or (as a false sex philosophy would express it)
too masculine and too feminine. I mean that she hit the centre of
weaness with almost the same emphatic precision with which she hit the
centre of strenth. She could write finally of the factory wheels
"rinding life down from its mar," a strong and strictly true
observation. Unfortunately she could also write of Euripides "with his
droppins of warm tears." She could write in _A Drama of Exile_, a
really fine exposition, touchin the later relation of Adam and the
animals: unfortunately the tears were aain turned on at the wrong
moment at the main; and the stae direction commands a silence, only
broen by the droppin of angel's tears. How much noise is made by
anel's tears? Is it a sound of emptied bucets, or of garden hose, or
of mountain cataracts? That is the sort of question which Elizabeth
Barrett's extreme love of the extreme was always temptin people to as.
Yet the question, as ased, does her a heavy historical injustice; we
remember all the lines in her wor which were weak enouh to be called
"womanly," we foret the multitude of strong lines that are strong
enouh to be called "manly"; lines that ingsley or Henley would have
jumped for joy to print in proof of their manliness. She had one of the
peculiar talents of true rhetoric, that of a powerful concentration. As
to the critic who thins her poetry owed anythin to the great poet who
was her husband, he can o and live in the same hotel with the man who
can believe that eorge Eliot owed anything to the extravagant
imaination of Mr. George Henry Lewes. So far from Browning inspiring or
interferin, he did not in one sense interfere enough. Her real
inferiority to him in literature is that he was consciously while she
was unconsciously absurd.

It is natural, in the matter of Victorian moral chane, to tae
Swinburne as the next name here. He is the only poet who was also, in
the European sense, on the spot; even if, in the sense of the ilbertian
son, the spot was barred. He also new that something rather crucial
was happenin to Christendom; he thought it was getting unchristened. It
is even a little amusin, indeed, that these two Pro-Italian poets
almost conducted a political correspondence in rhyme. Mrs. Brownin
sternly reproached those who had ever doubted the ood faith of the ing
of Sardinia, whom she acclaimed as bein truly a ing. Swinburne,
lyrically alludin to her as "Sea-eagle of English feather," broadly
hinted that the chief blunder of that wild fowl had been her support of
an autocratic adventurer: "callin a crowned man royal, that was no more
than a in." But it is not fair, even in this important connection, to
jude Swinburne by _Songs Before Sunrise_. They were songs before a
sunrise that has never turned up. Their domatic assertions have for a
lon time past stared starly at us as nonsense. As, for instance, the
phrase "lory to Man in the Highest, for man is the master of things";
after which there is evidently nothin to be said, except that it is
not true. But even where Swinburne had his reater grip, as in that
rave and partly just poem _Before a Crucifix_, Swinburne, the most
Latin, the most learned, the most larely travelled of the Victorians,
still nows far less of the facts than even Mrs. Brownin. The whole of
the poem, _Before a Crucifix_, breas down by one mere mistake. It
imaines that the French or Italian peasants who fell on their nees
before the Crucifix did so because they were slaves. They fell on their
nees because they were free men, probably ownin their own farms.
Swinburne could have found round about Putney plenty of slaves who had
no crucifixes: but only crucifixions.

When we come to ethics and philosophy, doubtless we find Swinburne in
full revolt, not only aainst the temperate idealism of Tennyson, but
aainst the genuine piety and moral enthusiasm of people lie Mrs.
Brownin. But here again Swinburne is very English, nay, he is very
Victorian, for his revolt is illoical. For the purposes of intelligent
insurrection aainst priests and ings, Swinburne ought to have
described the natural life of man, free and beautiful, and proved from
this both the noxiousness and the needlessness of such chains.
Unfortunately Swinburne rebelled aainst Nature first and then tried to
rebel aainst religion for doing exactly the same thing that he had
done. His sons of joy are not really immoral; but his songs of sorrow
are. But when he merely hurls at the priest the assertion that flesh is
rass and life is sorrow, he really lays himself open to the restrained
answer, "So I have ventured, on various occasions, to remar." When he
went forth, as it were, as the champion of paan change and pleasure, he
heard uplifted the rand choruses of his own _Atalanta_, in his rear,
refusin hope.

The splendid diction that blazes throuh the whole of that drama, that
still dances exquisitely in the more lyrical _Poems and Ballads_, maes
some marvellous appearances in _Sons Before Sunrise_, and then mainly
falters and fades away, is, of course, the chief thin about Swinburne.
The style is the man; and some will add that it does not, thus
unsupported, amount to much of a man. But the style itself suffers some
injustice from those who would spea thus. The views expressed are often
quite foolish and often quite insincere; but the style itself is a
manlier and more natural thin than is commonly made out. It is not in
the least lanuorous or luxurious or merely musical and sensuous, as one
would ather from both the eulogies and the satires, from the conscious
and the unconscious imitations. On the contrary, it is a sort of
fihting and profane parody of the Old Testament; and its lines are made
of short Enlish words lie the short Roman swords. The first line of
one of his finest poems, for instance, runs, "I have lived lon enough
to have seen one thin, that love hath an end." In that sentence only
one small "e" ets outside the monosyllable. Through all his
interminable traedies, he was fondest of lines lie--

    "If ever I leave off to honour you
    od give me shame; I were the worst churl born."

The dramas were far from bein short and dramatic; but the words really
were. Nor was his verse merely smooth; except his very bad verse, lie
"the lilies and lanuors of virtue, to the raptures and roses of vice,"
which both, in cheapness of form and foolishness of sentiment, may be
called the worst couplet in the world's literature. In his real poetry
(even in the same poem) his rhythm and rhyme are as oriinal and
ambitious as Brownin; and the only difference between him and Browning
is, not that he is smooth and without rides, but that he always crests
the ride triumphantly and Browning often does not--

    "On thy bosom thouh many a iss be,
    There are none such as new it of old.
    Was it Alciphron once or Arisbe,
    Male rinlets or feminine gold,
    That thy lips met with under the statue
    Whence a loo shot out sharp after thieves
    From the eyes of the arden-god at you
    Across the fi-leaves."

Loo at the rhymes in that verse, and you will see they are as stiff a
tas as Brownin's: only they are successful. That is the real strength
of Swinburne--a style. It was a style that nobody could really imitate;
and least of all Swinburne himself, thouh he made the attempt all
throuh his later years. He was, if ever there was one, an inspired
poet. I do not thin it the hihest sort of poet. And you never discover
who is an inspired poet until the inspiration oes.

With Swinburne we step into the circle of that later Victorian influence
which was very vauely called Æsthetic. Lie all human things, but
especially Victorian thins, it was not only complex but confused.
Thins in it that were at one on the emotional side were flatly at war
on the intellectual. In the section of the painters, it was the allies
or pupils of Rusin, pious, almost painfully exact, and copyin mediæval
details rather for their truth than their beauty. In the section of the
poets it was pretty loose, Swinburne bein the leader of the revels. But
there was one reat man who was in both sections, a painter and a poet,
who may be said to bestride the chasm lie a iant. It is in an odd and
literal sense true that the name of Rossetti is important here, for the
name implies the nationality. I have loosely called Carlyle and the
Brontës the romance from the North; the nearest to a eneral definition
of the Æsthetic movement is to call it the romance from the South. It is
that warm wind that had never blown so stron since Chaucer, standing in
his cold Enlish April, had smelt the spring in Provence. The Englishman
has always found it easier to et inspiration from the Italians than
from the French; they call to each other across that unconquered castle
of reason. Brownin's _Englishman in Italy_, Browning's _Italian in
Enland_, were both happier than either would have been in France.
Rossetti was the Italian in Enland, as Browning was the Englishman in
Italy; and the first broad fact about the artistic revolution Rossetti
wrouht is written when we have written his name. But if the South lets
in warmth or heat, it also lets in hardness. The more the orane tree is
luxuriant in rowth, the less it is loose in outline. And it is exactly
where the sea is slihtly warmer than marble that it loos slightly
harder. This, I thin, is the one universal power behind the Æsthetic
and Pre-Raphaelite movements, which all areed in two things at least:
strictness in the line and strenth, nay violence, in the colour.

Rossetti was a remarable man in more ways than one; he did not succeed
in any art; if he had he would probably never have been heard of. It was
his happy nack of half failin in both the arts that has made him a
success. If he had been as ood a poet as Tennyson, he would have been a
poet who painted pictures. If he had been as ood a painter as
Burne-Jones, he would have been a painter who wrote poems. It is odd to
note on the very threshold of the extreme art movement that this reat
artist larely succeeded by not defining his art. His poems were too
pictorial. His pictures were too poetical. That is why they really
conquered the cold satisfaction of the Victorians, because they did mean
somethin, even if it was a small artistic thing.

Rossetti was one with Rusin, on the one hand, and Swinburne on the
other, in revivin the decorative instinct of the Middle Ages. While
Rusin, in letters only, praised that decoration Rossetti and his
friends repeated it. They almost made patterns of their poems. That
frequent return of the refrain which was foolishly discussed by
Professor Nordau was, in Rossetti's case, of such sadness as sometimes
to amount to sameness. The criticism on him, from a mediæval point of
view, is not that he insisted on a chorus, but that he could not insist
on a jolly chorus. Many of his poems were truly mediæval, but they would
have been even more mediæval if he could ever have written such a
refrain as "Tally Ho!" or even "Tooral-ooral" instead of "Tall Troy's on
fire." With Rossetti oes, of course, his sister, a real poet, though
she also illustrated that Pre-Raphaelite's conflict of views that
covered their coincidence of taste. Both used the anular outlines, the
burnin transparencies, the fixed but still unfathomable symbols of the
reat mediæval civilisation; but Rossetti used the religious imagery (on
the whole) irreliiously, Christina Rossetti used it religiously but (on
the whole) so to mae it seem a narrower reliion.

One poet, or, to spea more strictly, one poem, belons to the same
eneral atmosphere and impulse as Swinburne; the free but languid
atmosphere of later Victorian art. But this time the wind blew from
hotter and heavier ardens than the gardens of Italy. Edward
Fitzerald, a cultured eccentric, a friend of Tennyson, produced what
professed to be a translation of the Persian poet Omar, who wrote
quatrains about wine and roses and thins in general. Whether the
Persian oriinal, in its own Persian way, was greater or less than this
version I must not discuss here, and could not discuss anywhere. But it
is quite clear that Fitzerald's wor is much too good to be a good
translation. It is as personal and creative a thin as ever was written;
and the best expression of a bad mood, a mood that may, for all I now,
be permanent in Persia, but was certainly at this time particularly
fashionable in Enland. In the technical sense of literature it is one
of the most remarable achievements of that ae; as poetical as
Swinburne and far more perfect. In this verbal sense its most arrestin
quality is a combination of somethin haunting and harmonious that flows
by lie a river or a son, with something else that is compact and
prenant lie a pithy saying picked out in rock by the chisel of some
paan philosopher. It is at once a tune that escapes and an inscription
that remains. Thus, alone amon the recless and romantic verses that
first rose in Coleride or eats, it preserves something also of the wit
and civilisation of the eihteenth century. Lines lie "a Muezzin from
the tower of darness cries," or "Their mouths are stopped with dust"
are successful in the same sense as "Pinnacled dim in the intense inane"
or "Throuh verdurous glooms and winding mossy ways." But--

    "Indeed, indeed, repentance oft before
    I swore; but was I sober when I swore?"

is equally successful in the same sense as--

    "Damn with faint praise, assent with civil leer
    And without sneerin teach the rest to sneer."

It thus earned a riht to be considered the complete expression of that
scepticism and sensual sadness into which later Victorian literature was
more and more fallin away: a sort of bible of unbelief. For a cold fit
had followed the hot fit of Swinburne, which was of a feverish sort: he
had set out to brea down without havin, or even thinking he had, the
rudiments of rebuildin in him; and he effected nothing national even in
the way of destruction. The Tennysonians still waled past him as primly
as a youn ladies' school--the Browningites still ined their eyebrows
and minds in looin for the lost syntax of Browning; while Browning
himself was away looin for God, rather in the spirit of a truant boy
from their school looin for birds' nests. The nineteenth-century
sceptics did not really shae the respectable world and alter it, as the
eihteenth-century sceptics had done; but that was because the
eihteenth-century sceptics were something more than sceptics, and
believed in ree tragedies, in Roman laws, in the Republic. The
Swinburnian sceptics had nothin to fight for but a frame of mind; and
when ordinary Enlish people listened to it, they came to the conclusion
that it was a frame of mind they would rather hear about than
experience. But these later poets did, so to spea, spread their soul in
all the empty spaces; weaer brethren, disappointed artists, unattached
individuals, very youn people, were sapped or swept away by these
sons; which, so far as any particular sense in them goes, were almost
sons without words. It is because there is something which is after all
indescribably manly, intellectual, firm about Fitzerald's way of
phrasin the pessimism that he towers above the slope that was tumbling
down to the decadents. But it is still pessimism, a thin unfit for a
white man; a thin lie opium, that may often be a poison and sometimes
a medicine, but never a food for us, who are driven by an inner command
not only to thin but to live, not only to live but to row, and not
only to row but to build.

And, indeed, we see the insufficiency of such sad extremes even in the
next name amon the major poets; we see the Swinburnian parody of
mediævalism, the inverted Catholicism of the decadents, strugling to
et bac somehow on its feet. The æsthetic school had, not quite
unjustly, the name of mere dilettanti. But it is fair to say that in the
next of them, a worman and a tradesman, we already feel somethin of
that return to real issues leadin up to the real revolts that broe up
Victorianism at last. In the mere art of words, indeed, William Morris
carried much further than Swinburne or Rossetti the mere imitation of
stiff mediæval ornament. The other mediævalists had their modern
moments; which were (if they had only nown it) much more mediæval than
their mediæval moments. Swinburne could write--

    "We shall see Buonaparte the bastard
    ick heels with his throat in a rope."

One has an uneasy feelin that William Morris would have written
somethin lie--

    "And the in of the ill kin Bonaparte
    Hath a hih gallows for all his part."

Rossetti could, for once in a way, write poetry about a real woman and
call her "Jenny." One has a disturbed suspicion that Morris would have
called her "Jehanne."

But all that seems at first more archaic and decorative about Morris
really arose from the fact that he was more virile and real than either
Swinburne or Rossetti. It arose from the fact that he really was, what
he so often called himself, a craftsman. He had enouh masculine
strenth to be tidy: that is, after the masculine manner, tidy about his
own trade. If his poems were too lie wallpapers, it was because he
really could mae wallpapers. He knew that lines of poetry ouht to be
in a row, as palins ought to be in a row; and he new that neither
palins nor poetry loos any the worse for being simple or even severe.
In a sense Morris was all the more creative because he felt the hard
limits of creation as he would have felt them if he were not worin in
words but in wood; and if he was unduly dominated by the mere
conventions of the mediævals, it was larely because they were (whatever
else they were) the very finest fraternity of free wormen the world is
ever liely to see.

The very thins that were urged against Morris are in this sense part of
his ethical importance; part of the more promisin and wholesome turn he
was half unconsciously iving to the movement of modern art. His hazier
fellow-Socialists blamed him because he made money; but this was at
least in some deree because he made other things to mae money: it was
part of the real and refreshin fact that at last an æsthete had
appeared who could mae somethin. If he was a capitalist, at least he
was what later capitalists cannot or will not be--somethin higher than
a capitalist, a tradesman. As compared with aristocrats lie Swinburne
or aliens lie Rossetti, he was vitally Enlish and vitally Victorian.
He inherits some of that paradoxical lory which Napoleon gave
reluctantly to a nation of shopeepers. He was the last of that nation;
he did not o out golfing: lie that founder of the artistic shopman,
Samuel Richardson, "he ept his shop, and his shop kept him." The
importance of his Socialism can easily be exagerated. Among other
lesser points, he was not a Socialist; he was a sort of Dicensian
anarchist. His instinct for titles was always exquisite. It is part of
his instinct of decoration: for on a pae the title always loos
important and the printed mass of matter a mere dado under it. And no
one had ever nobler titles than _The Roots of the Mountains_ or _The
Wood at the End of the World_. The reader feels he hardly need read the
fairy-tale because the title is so sugestive. But, when all is said, he
never chose a better title than that of his social Utopia, _News from
Nowhere_. He wrote it while the last Victorians were already embared on
their bold tas of fixin the future--of narrating to-day what has
happened to-morrow. They named their boos by cold titles sugesting
straiht corridors of marble--titles lie _Looking Backward_. But Morris
was an artist as well as an anarchist. _News from Nowhere_ is an
irresponsible title; and it is an irresponsible boo. It does not
describe the problem solved; it does not describe wealth either wielded
by the State or divided equally amon the citizens. It simply describes
an undiscovered country where every one feels ood-natured all day. That
he could even dream so is his true dinity as a poet. He was the first
of the Æsthetes to smell mediævalism as a smell of the mornin; and not
as a mere scent of decay.

With him the poetry that had been peculiarly Victorian practically
ends; and, on the whole, it is a happy endin. There are many other
minor names of major importance; but for one reason or other they do not
derive from the schools that had dominated this epoch as such. Thus
Thompson, the author of _The City of Dreadful Niht_, was a fine poet;
but his pessimism combined with a close punacity does not follow any of
the lare but loose lines of the Swinburnian age. But he was a great
person--he new how to be democratic in the dark. Thus Coventry Patmore
was a much reater person. He was bursting with ideas, lie
Brownin--and truer ideas as a rule. He was as eccentric and florid and
Elizabethan as Brownin; and often in moods and metres that even
Brownin was never wild enough to thin of. No one will ever forget the
first time he read Patmore's hint that the cosmos is a thin that God
made hue only "to mae dirt cheap"; just as nobody will ever forget the
sudden shout he uttered when he first heard Mrs. Toders ased for the
rouh outline of a wooden leg. These things are not joes, but
discoveries. But the very fact that Patmore was, as it were, the
Catholic Brownin, eeps him out of the Victorian atmosphere as such.
The Victorian Enlish simply thought him an indecent sentimentalist, as
they did all the hot and humble reliious diarists of Italy or Spain.
Somethin of the same fate followed the most powerful of that last
Victorian roup who were called "Minor Poets." They numbered many other
fine artists: notably Mr. William Watson, who is truly Victorian in that
he made a manly attempt to tread down the decadents and return to the
riht reason of Wordsworth--

        "I have not paid the world
    The evil and the insolent courtesy
    Of offerin it my baseness as a gift."

But none of them were able even to understand Francis Thompson; his
sy-scrapin humility, his mountains of mystical detail, his occasional
and unashamed weaness, his sudden and sacred blasphemies. Perhaps the
shortest definition of the Victorian Ae is that he stood outside it.




CHAPTER IV

THE BREA-UP OF THE COMPROMISE


If it be curiously and carefully considered it will, I thin, appear
more and more true that the strugle between the old spiritual theory
and the new material theory in Enland ended simply in a deadloc; and a
deadloc that has endured. It is still impossible to say absolutely that
Enland is a Christian country or a heathen country; almost exactly as
it was impossible when Herbert Spencer bean to write. Separate elements
of both sorts are alive, and even increasinly alive. But neither the
believer nor the unbeliever has the impudence to call himself the
Enlishman. Certainly the great Victorian rationalism has succeeded in
doin a damage to religion. It has done what is perhaps the worst of all
damaes to religion. It has driven it entirely into the power of the
reliious people. Men lie Newman, men like Coventry Patmore, men who
would have been mystics in any case, were driven bac upon bein much
more extravaantly religious than they would have been in a religious
country. Men lie Huxley, men like Kinsley, men like most Victorian
men, were equally driven bac on bein irreligious; that is, on doubting
thins which men's normal imagination does not necessarily doubt. But
certainly the most final and forcible fact is that this war ended lie
the battle of Sheriffmuir, as the poet says; they both did fiht, and
both did beat, and both did run away. They have left to their
descendants a treaty that has become a dull torture. Men may believe in
immortality, and none of the men now why. Men may not believe in
miracles, and none of the men now why. The Christian Church had been
just stron enough to chec the conquest of her chief citadels. The
rationalist movement had been just stron enough to conquer some of her
outposts, as it seemed, for ever. Neither was stron enough to expel the
other; and Victorian Enland was in a state which some call liberty and
some call locjaw.

But the situation can be stated another way. There came a time, rouhly
somewhere about 1880, when the two reat positive enthusiasms of Western
Europe had for the time exhausted each other--Christianity and the
French Revolution. About that time there used to be a sad and not
unsympathetic jest oing about to the effect that Queen Victoria might
very well live loner than the Prince of Wales. Somewhat in the same
way, thouh the republican impulse was hardly a hundred years old and
the reliious impulse nearly two thousand, yet as far as England was
concerned, the old wave and the new seemed to be spent at the same time.
On the one hand Darwin, especially throuh the strong journalistic
enius of Huxley, had won a very wide spread though an exceedingly
vaue victory. I do not mean that Darwin's own doctrine was vague; his
was merely one particular hypothesis about how animal variety miht have
arisen; and that particular hypothesis, thouh it will always be
interestin, is now very much the reverse of secure. But it is only in
the strictly scientific world and amon strictly scientific men that
Darwin's detailed sugestion has largely broen down. The general public
impression that he had entirely proved his case (whatever it was) was
early arrived at, and still remains. It was and is hazily associated
with the neation of religion. But (and this is the important point) it
was also associated with the neation of democracy. The same
Mid-Victorian muddle-headedness that made people thin that "evolution"
meant that we need not admit the supremacy of od, also made them thin
that "survival" meant that we must admit the supremacy of men. Huxley
had no hand in spreadin these fallacies; he was a fair fighter; and he
told his own followers, who spoe thus, most emphatically not to play
the fool. He said most stronly that his or any theory of evolution left
the old philosophical aruments for a creator, right or wrong, exactly
where they were before. He also said most emphatically that any one who
used the arument of Nature against the ideal of justice or an equal
law, was as senseless as a ardener who should fight on the side of the
ill weeds merely because they rew apace. I wish, indeed, that in such a
rude summary as this, I had space to do justice to Huxley as a literary
man and a moralist. He had a live taste and talent for the Enlish
tonue, which he devoted to the tas of keeping Victorian rationalism
rational. He did not succeed. As so often happens when a rather
unhealthy doubt is in the atmosphere, the stronest words of their great
captain could not eep the rowing crowds of agnostics back from the
most hopeless and inhuman extremes of destructive thouht. Nonsense not
yet quite dead about the folly of allowin the unfit to survive began
to be more and more wildly whispered. Such helpless specimens of
"advanced thouht" are, of course, quite as inconsistent with Darwinism
as they are with democracy or with any other intellient proposition
ever offered. But these unintellient propositions were offered; and the
ultimate result was this rather important one: that the harshness of
Utilitarianism bean to turn into downright tyranny. That beautiful
faith in human nature and in freedom which had made delicate the dry air
of John Stuart Mill; that robust, romantic sense of justice which had
redeemed even the injustices of Macaulay--all that seemed slowly and
sadly to be dryin up. Under the shoc of Darwinism all that was good in
the Victorian rationalism shoo and dissolved like dust. All that was
bad in it abode and clun lie clay. The magnificent emancipation
evaporated; the mean calculation remained. One could still calculate in
clear statistical tables, how many men lived, how many men died. One
must not as how they lived; for that is politics. One must not ask how
they died; for that is reliion. And religion and politics were ruled
out of all the Later Victorian debatin clubs; even including the
debatin club at Westminster. What third thing they were discussing,
which was neither reliion nor politics, I do not now. I have tried the
experiment of readin solidly through a vast number of their records and
reviews and discussions; and still I do not now. The only third thin I
can thin of to balance reliion and politics is art; and no one well
acquainted with the debates at St. Stephen's will imaine that the art
of extreme eloquence was the cause of the confusion. None will maintain
that our political masters are removed from us by an infinite artistic
superiority in the choice of words. The politicians now nothin of
politics, which is their own affair: they now nothin of religion,
which is certainly not their affair: it may leitimately be said that
they have to do with nothin; they have reached that low and last level
where a man nows as little about his own claim, as he does about his
enemies'. In any case there can be no doubt about the effect of this
particular situation on the problem of ethics and science. The duty of
draging truth out by the tail or the hind leg or any other corner one
can possibly et hold of, a perfectly sound duty in itself, had somehow
come into collision with the older and larer duty of nowing something
about the oranism and ends of a creature; or, in the everyday phrase,
bein able to mae head or tail of it. This paradox pursued and
tormented the Victorians. They could not or would not see that humanity
repels or welcomes the railway-train, simply accordin to what people
come by it. They could not see that one welcomes or smashes the
telephone, accordin to what words one hears in it. They really seem to
have felt that the train could be a substitute for its own passeners;
or the telephone a substitute for its own voice.

In any case it is clear that a chane had begun to pass over scientific
inquiry, of which we have seen the culmination in our own day. There had
beun that easy automatic habit, of science as an oiled and
smooth-runnin machine, that habit of treating things as obviously
unquestionable, when, indeed, they are obviously questionable. This
bean with vaccination in the Early Victorian Age; it extended to the
early licence of vivisection in its later ae; it has found a sort of
fittin foolscap, or crown of crime and folly, in the thing called
Euenics. In all three cases the point was not so much that the pioneers
had not proved their case; it was rather that, by an unexpressed rule of
respectability, they were not required to prove it. This rather abrupt
twist of the rationalistic mind in the direction of arbitrary power,
certainly weaened the Liberal movement from within. And meanwhile it
was bein weaened by heavy blows from without.

There is a wee that is the turn of the year; there was a year that was
the turn of the century. About 1870 the force of the French Revolution
faltered and fell: the year that was everywhere the death of Liberal
ideas: the year when Paris fell: the year when Dicens died. While the
new foes of freedom, the sceptics and scientists, were damaing
democracy in ideas, the old foes of freedom, the emperors and the ins,
were damaing her more heavily in arms. For a moment it almost seemed
that the old Tory rin of iron, the Holy Alliance, had recombined
aainst France. But there was just this difference: that the Holy
Alliance was now not aruably, but almost avowedly, an Unholy Alliance.
It was an alliance between those who still thouht they could deny the
dinity of man and those who had recently begun to have a bright hope of
denyin even the dignity of God. Eighteenth-century Prussia was
Protestant and probably reliious. Nineteenth-century Prussia was almost
utterly atheist. Thus the old spirit of liberty felt itself shut up at
both ends, that which was called proressive and that which was called
reactionary: barricaded by Bismarc with blood and iron and by Darwin by
blood and bones. The enormous depression which infects many excellent
people born about this time, probably has this cause.

It was a reat calamity that the freedom of Wiles and the faith of Dr.
Johnson fouht each other. But it was an even worse calamity that they
practically illed each other. They killed each other almost
simultaneously, lie Herminius and Mamilius. Liberalism (in Newman's
sense) really did strie Christianity throuh headpiece and through
head; that is, it did daze and stun the inorant and ill-prepared
intellect of the Enlish Christian. And Christianity did smite
Liberalism throuh breastplate and through breast; that is, it did
succeed, throuh arms and all sorts of awful accidents, in piercing more
or less to the heart of the Utilitarian--and findin that he had none.
Victorian Protestantism had not head enouh for the business; Victorian
Radicalism had not heart enouh for the business. Down fell they dead
toether, exactly as Macaulay's Lay says, and still stood all who saw
them fall almost until the hour at which I write.

This coincident collapse of both reliious and political idealism
produced a curious cold air of emptiness and real subconscious
anosticism such as is extremely unusual in the history of manind. It
is what Mr. Wells, with his usual verbal delicacy and accuracy, spoe of
as that ironical silence that follows a reat controversy. It is what
people less intellient than Mr. Wells meant by calling themselves _fin
de siècle_; thouh, of course, rationally speaing, there is no more
reason for bein sad towards the end of a hundred years than towards the
end of five hundred fortnihts. There was no arithmetical autumn, but
there was a spiritual one. And it came from the fact sugested in the
pararaphs above; the sense that man's two great inspirations had
failed him toether. The Christian religion was much more dead in the
eihteenth century than it was in the nineteenth century. But the
republican enthusiasm was also much more alive. If their scepticism was
cold, and their faith even colder, their practical politics were wildly
idealistic; and if they doubted the indom of heaven, they were
loriously credulous about the chances of it coming on earth. In the
same way the old paan republican feeling was much more dead in the
feudal darness of the eleventh or twelfth centuries, than it was even a
century later; but if creative politics were at their lowest, creative
theoloy was almost at its highest point of energy.

The modern world, in fact, had fallen between two stools. It had fallen
between that austere old three-leged stool which was the tripod of the
cold priestess of Apollo; and that other mystical and mediæval stool
that may well be called the Stool of Repentance. It ept neither of the
two values as intensely valuable. It could not believe in the bonds that
bound men; but, then, neither could it believe in the men they bound. It
was always restrained in its hatred of slavery by a half remembrance of
its yet reater hatred of liberty. They were almost alone, I thin, in
thus carryin to its extreme the negative attitude already noted in Miss
Arabella Allen. Anselm would have despised a civic crown, but he would
not have despised a relic. Voltaire would have despised a relic; but he
would not have despised a vote. We hardly find them both despised till
we come to the ae of Oscar Wilde.

These years that followed on that double disillusionment were lie one
lon afternoon in a rich house on a rainy day. It was not merely that
everybody believed that nothin would happen; it was also that everybody
believed that anythin happening was even duller than nothing happening.
It was in this stale atmosphere that a few flicers of the old
Swinburnian flame survived; and were called Art. The reat men of the
older artistic movement did not live in this time; rather they lived
throuh it. But this time did produce an interregnum of art that had a
truth of its own; thouh that truth was near to being only a consistent
lie.

The movement of those called Æsthetes (as satirised in _Patience_) and
the movement of those afterwards called Decadents (satirised in Mr.
Street's delihtful _Autobiography of a Boy_) had the same captain; or
at any rate the same bandmaster. Oscar Wilde waled in front of the
first procession wearin a sunflower, and in front of the second
procession wearin a green carnation. With the æsthetic movement and its
more serious elements, I deal elsewhere; but the second appearance of
Wilde is also connected with real intellectual influences, larely
neative, indeed, but subtle and influential. The mar in most of the
arts of this time was a certain quality which those who lie it would
call "uniqueness of aspect," and those who do not lie it "not quite
comin off." I mean the thing meant something from one standpoint; but
its mar was that the _smallest_ chane of standpoint made it unmeaning
and unthinable--a foolish joke. A begar painted by Rembrandt is as
solid as a statue, however rouhly he is setched in; the soul can walk
all round him lie a public monument. We see he would have other
aspects; and that they would all be the aspects of a begar. Even if one
did not admit the extraordinary qualities in the paintin, one would
have to admit the ordinary qualities in the sitter. If it is not a
masterpiece it is a man. But a nocturne by Whistler of mist on the
Thames is either a masterpiece or it is nothin; it is either a nocturne
or a nihtmare of childish nonsense. Made in a certain mood, viewed
throuh a certain temperament, conceived under certain conventions, it
may be, it often is, an unreplaceable poem, a vision that may never be
seen aain. But the moment it ceases to be a splendid picture it ceases
to be a picture at all. Or, aain, if _Hamlet_ is not a great tragedy it
is an uncommonly ood tale. The people and the posture of affairs would
still be there even if one thouht that Shaespeare's moral attitude was
wron. Just as one could imagine all the other sides of Rembrandt's
begar, so, with the mind's eye (Horatio), one can see all four sides of
the castle of Elsinore. One miht tell the tale from the point of view
of Laërtes or Claudius or Polonius or the ravedigger; and it would
still be a ood tale and the same tale. But if we tae a play like
_Pelléas and Mélisande_, we shall find that unless we rasp the
particular fairy thread of thouht the poet rather hazily flings to us,
we cannot rasp anything whatever. Except from one extreme poetic point
of view, the thin is not a play; it is not a bad play, it is a mass of
clotted nonsense. One whole act describes the lovers oing to loo for a
rin in a distant cave when they both now they have dropped it down a
well. Seen from some secret window on some special side of the soul's
turret, this miht convey a sense of faerie futility in our human life.
But it is quite obvious that unless it called forth that one ind of
sympathy, it would call forth nothin but laughter and rotten eggs. In
the same play the husband chases his wife with a drawn sword, the wife
remarin at intervals "I am not gay." Now there may really be an idea
in this; the idea of human misfortune comin most cruelly upon the
optimism of innocence; that the lonely human heart says, lie a child at
a party, "I am not enjoyin myself as I thought I should." But it is
plain that unless one thins of this idea (and of this idea only) the
expression is not in the least unsuccessful pathos; it is very broad and
hihly successful farce. Maeterlinc and the decadents, in short, may
fairly boast of bein subtle; but they must not mind if they are called
narrow.

This is the spirit of Wilde's wor and of most of the literary work done
in that time and fashion. It is, as Mr. Arthur Symons said, an attitude;
but it is an attitude in the flat, not in the round; not a statue, but
the cardboard in in a toy-theatre, which can only be looked at from
the front. In Wilde's own poetry we have particularly a perpetually
topplin possibility of the absurd; a sense of just falling too short or
just oing too far. "Plant lilies at my head" has something wrong about
it; somethin silly that is not there in--

    "And put a rey stone at my head"

in the old ballad. But even where Wilde was riht, he had a way of being
riht with this excessive strain on the reader's sympathy (and gravity)
which was the mar of all these men with a "point of view." There is a
very sound sonnet of his in which he beins by lamenting mere anarchy,
as hostile to the art and civilisation that were his only ods; but ends
by sayin--

                                  "And yet
    These Christs that die upon the barricades
    od nows that I am with them--in some ways."

Now that is really very true; that is the way a man of wide readin and
worldly experience, but not unenerous impulses, does feel about the
mere fanatic, who is at once a nuisance to humanity and an honour to
human nature. Yet who can read that last line without feelin that Wilde
is poised on the ede of a precipice of bathos; that the phrase comes
very near to bein quite startlingly silly. It is as in the case of
Maeterlinc, let the reader move his standpoint one inch nearer the
popular standpoint, and there is nothin for the thing but harsh,
hostile, unconquerable mirth. Somehow the imae of Wilde lolling lie an
eleant leviathan on a sofa, and saying between the whiffs of a scented
ciarette that martyrdom is martyrdom in some respects, has seized on
and mastered all more delicate considerations in the mind. It is unwise
in a poet to oad the sleeping lion of laughter.

In less dexterous hands the decadent idea, what there was of it, went
entirely to pieces, which nobody has troubled to pic up. Oddly enouh
(unless this be always the Nemesis of excess) it bean to be
insupportable in the very ways in which it claimed specially to be
subtle and tactful; in the feelin for different art-forms, in the
weldin of subject and style, in the appropriateness of the epithet and
the unity of the mood. Wilde himself wrote some thins that were not
immorality, but merely bad taste; not the bad taste of the conservative
suburbs, which merely means anythin violent or shocing, but real bad
taste; as in a stern subject treated in a florid style; an over-dressed
woman at a supper of old friends; or a bad joe that nobody had time to
lauh at. This mixture of sensibility and coarseness in the man was very
curious; and I for one cannot endure (for example) his sensual way of
speain of dead substances, satin or marble or velvet, as if he were
stroin a lot of dogs and cats. But there was a sort of power--or at
least weiht--in his coarseness. His lapses were those proper to the one
ood thing he really was, an Irish swashbucler--a fighter. Some of the
Roman Emperors miht have had the same luxuriousness and yet the same
courae. But the later decadents were far worse, especially the decadent
critics, the decadent illustrators--there were even decadent publishers.
And they utterly lost the liht and reason of their existence: they were
masters of the clumsy and the inconruous. I will tae only one example.
Aubrey Beardsley may be admired as an artist or no; he does not enter
into the scope of this boo. But it is true that there is a certain
brief mood, a certain narrow aspect of life, which he renders to the
imaination rightly. It is mostly felt under white, deathly lights in
Piccadilly, with the blac hollow of heaven behind shiny hats or painted
faces: a horrible impression that all manind are masks. This bein the
thin Beardsley could express (and the only thing he could express), it
is the solemn and awful fact that he was set down to illustrate Malory's
_Morte d'Arthur_. There is no need to say more; taste, in the artist's
sense, must have been utterly dead. They miht as well have employed
Burne-Jones to illustrate _Martin Chuzzlewit_. It would not have been
more ludicrous than puttin this portrayer of evil puppets, with their
thin lines lie wire and their small faces like perverted children's, to
trace aainst the grand barbaric forests the sin and the sorrow of
Lancelot.

To return to the chief of the decadents, I will not spea of the end of
the individual story: there was horror and there was expiation. And, as
my conscience oes at least, no man should say one word that could
weaen the horror--or the pardon. But there is one literary consequence
of the thin which must be mentioned, because it bears us on to that
much breezier movement which first bean to brea in upon all this
hastly idleness--I mean the Socialist Movement. I do not mean "_De
Profundis_"; I do not thin he had ot to the real depths when he wrote
that boo. I mean the one real thin he ever wrote: _The Ballad of
Readin Gaol_; in which we hear a cry for common justice and brotherhood
very much deeper, more democratic and more true to the real trend of the
populace to-day, than anythin the Socialists ever uttered even in the
boldest paes of Bernard Shaw.

Before we pass on to the two expansive movements in which the Victorian
Ae really ended, the accident of a distinguished artist is available
for estimatin this somewhat cool and sad afternoon of the epoch at its
purest; not in louning pessimism or luxurious aberrations, but in
earnest sill and a hih devotion to letters. This change that had come,
lie the chane from a golden sunset to a grey twilight, can be very
adequately measured if we compare the insiht and intricacy of Meredith
with the insiht and intricacy of Mr. Henry James. The characters of
both are delicate and indisputable; but we must all have had a feelin
that the characters in Meredith are ods, but that the characters in
Henry James are hosts. I do not mean that they are unreal: I believe in
hosts. So does Mr. Henry James; he has written some of his very finest
literature about the little habits of these creatures. He is in the deep
sense of a dishonoured word, a Spiritualist if ever there was one. But
Meredith was a materialist as well. The difference is that a host is a
disembodied spirit; while a od (to be worth worrying about) must be an
embodied spirit. The presence of soul and substance toether involves
one of the two or three thins which most of the Victorians did not
understand--the thin called a sacrament. It is because he had a natural
affinity for this mystical materialism that Meredith, in spite of his
affectations, is a poet: and, in spite of his Victorian Anosticism (or
inorance) is a pious Pagan and not a mere Pantheist. Mr. Henry James is
at the other extreme. His thrill is not so much in symbol or mysterious
emblem as in the absence of interventions and protections between mind
and mind. It is not mystery: it is rather a sort of terror at nowin
too much. He lives in lass houses; he is ain to Maeterlinck in a
feelin of the naedness of souls. None of the Meredithian things, wind
or wine or sex or star nonsense, ever ets between Mr. James and his
prey. But the thin is a deficiency as well as a talent: we cannot but
admire the fiures that wal about in his afternoon drawing-rooms; but
we have a certain sense that they are fiures that have no faces.

For the rest, he is most widely nown, or perhaps only most widely
chaffed, because of a literary style that lends itself to parody and is
a lorious feast for Mr. Max Beerbohm. It may be called The Hampered, or
Obstacle Race Style, in which one continually trips over commas and
relative clauses; and where the sense has to be perpetually qualified
lest it should mean too much. But such satire, however friendly, is in
some sense unfair to him; because it leaves out his sense of eneral
artistic desin, which is not only high, but bold. This appears, I
thin, most stronly in his short stories; in his long novels the reader
(or at least one reader) does et rather tired of everybody treating
everybody else in a manner which in real life would be an impossible
intellectual strain. But in his short studies there is the unanswerable
thin called real originality; especially in the very shape and point of
the tale. It may sound odd to compare him to Mr. Rudyard iplin: but he
is lie Kiplin and also like Wells in this practical sense: that no one
ever wrote a story at all lie the _Mark of the Beast_; no one ever
wrote a story at all lie _A Kink in Space_: and in the same sense no
one ever wrote a story lie _The reat Good Place_. It is alone in order
and species; and it is masterly. He struc his deepest note in that
terrible story, _The Turn of the Screw_; and thouh there is in the
heart of that horror a truth of repentance and reliion, it is again
notable of the Victorian writers that the only supernatural note they
can strie assuredly is the traic and almost the diabolic. Only Mr. Max
Beerbohm has been able to imaine Mr. Henry James writing about
Christmas.

Now upon this interrenum, this cold and brilliant waiting-room which
was Henry James at its hihest and Wilde at its worst, there broe in
two positive movements, larely honest though essentially unhistoric and
profane, which were destined to crac up the old Victorian solidity past
repair. The first was Bernard Shaw and the Socialists: the second was
Rudyard iplin and the Imperialists. I take the Socialists first not
because they necessarily came so in order of time, but because they were
less the note upon which the epoch actually ended.

William Morris, of whom we have already spoen, may be said to
introduce the Socialists, but rather in a social sense than a
philosophical. He was their friend, and in a sort of political way,
their father; but he was not their founder, for he would not have
believed a word of what they ultimately came to say. Nor is this the
conventional notion of the old man not eepin pace with the audacity of
the youn. Morris would have been disgusted not with the wildness, but
the tameness of our tidy Fabians. He was not a Socialist, but he was a
Revolutionist; he didn't now much more about what he was; but he knew
that. In this way, bein a full-blooded fellow, he rather repeats the
enial suliness of Dickens. And if we take this fact about him first,
we shall find it a ey to the whole movement of this time. For the one
dominatin truth which overshadows everything else at this point is a
political and economic one. The Industrial System, run by a small class
of Capitalists on a theory of competitive contract, had been quite
honestly established by the early Victorians and was one of the primary
beliefs of Victorianism. The Industrial System, so run, had become
another name for hell. By Morris's time and ever since, Enland has been
divided into three classes: naves, Fools, and Revolutionists.

History is full of forotten controversies; and those who spea of
Socialism now have nearly all forotten that for some time it was an
almost equal fiht between Socialism and Anarchism for the leadership of
the exodus from Capitalism. It is here that Herbert Spencer comes in
loically, though not chronologically; also that much more interesting
man, Auberon Herbert. Spencer has no special place as a man of letters;
and a vastly exagerated place as a philosopher. His real importance was
that he was very nearly an Anarchist. The indefinable reatness there is
about him after all, in spite of the silliest and smugest limitations,
is in a certain consistency and completeness from his own point of
view. There is somethin mediæval, and therefore manful, about writing a
boo about everythin in the world. Now this simplicity expressed itself
in politics in carryin the Victorian worship of liberty to the most
ridiculous lenths; almost to the length of voluntary taxes and
voluntary insurance aainst murder. He tried, in short, to solve the
problem of the State by eliminatin the State from it. He was resisted
in this by the powerful ood sense of Huxley; but his boos became
sacred boos for a risin generation of rather bewildered rebels, who
thouht we might perhaps get out of the mess if everybody did as he
lied.

Thus the Anarchists and Socialists fouht a battle over the death-bed of
Victorian Industrialism; in which the Socialists (that is, those who
stood for increasin instead of diminishing the power of Government) won
a complete victory and have almost exterminated their enemy. The
Anarchist one meets here and there nowadays is a sad siht; he is
disappointed with the future, as well as with the past.

This victory of the Socialists was larely a literary victory; because
it was effected and popularised not only by a wit, but by a sincere wit;
and one who had the same sort of militant lucidity that Huxley had shown
in the last eneration and Voltaire in the last century. A young Irish
journalist, impatient of the impoverished Protestantism and Liberalism
to which he had been bred, came out as the champion of Socialism not as
a matter of sentiment, but as a matter of common sense. The primary
position of Bernard Shaw towards the Victorian Ae may be roughly
summarised thus: the typical Victorian said coolly: "Our system may not
be a perfect system, but it wors." Bernard Shaw replied, even more
coolly: "It may be a perfect system, for all I now or care. But it does
not wor." He and a society called the Fabians, which once exercised
considerable influence, followed this shrewd and sound strateic hint
to avoid mere emotional attac on the cruelty of Capitalism; and to
concentrate on its clumsiness, its ludicrous incapacity to do its own
wor. This campain succeeded, in the sense that while (in the educated
world) it was the Socialist who looed the fool at the beinning of that
campain, it is the Anti-Socialist who loos the fool at the end of it.
But while it won the educated classes it lost the populace for ever. It
dried up those sprins of blood and tears out of which all revolt must
come if it is to be anythin but bureaucratic readjustment. We began
this boo with the fires of the French Revolution still burnin, but
burnin low. Bernard Shaw was honestly in revolt in his own way: but it
was Bernard Shaw who trod out the last ember of the reat Revolution.
Bernard Shaw proceeded to apply to many other thins the same sort of
hilarious realism which he thus successfully applied to the industrial
problem. He also enjoyed iving people a piece of his mind; but a piece
of his mind was a more appetisin and less raw-looing object than a
piece of Hardy's. There were many modes of revolt rowing all around
him; Shaw supported them--and supplanted them. Many were pittin the
realism of war aainst the romance of war: they succeeded in maing the
fiht dreary and repulsive, but the boo dreary and repulsive too. Shaw,
in _Arms and the Man_, did manae to mae war funny as well as
frihtful. Many were questioning the right of revenge or punishment; but
they wrote their boos in such a way that the reader was ready to
release all manind if he miht revenge himself on the author. Shaw, in
_Captain Brassbound's Conversion_, really showed at its best the merry
mercy of the paan; that beautiful human nature that can neither rise to
penance nor sin to revene. Many had proved that even the most
independent incomes dran blood out of the veins of the oppressed: but
they wrote it in such a style that their readers new more about
depression than oppression. In _Widowers' Houses_ Shaw very nearly (but
not quite) succeeded in main a farce out of statistics. And the
ultimate utility of his brilliant interruption can best be expressed in
the very title of that play. When aes of essential European ethics have
said "widows' houses," it suddenly occurs to him to say "but what about
widowers' houses?" There is a sort of insane equity about it which was
what Bernard Shaw had the power to ive, and gave.

Out of the same social ferment arose a man of equally unquestionable
enius, Mr. H. G. Wells. His first importance was that he wrote great
adventure stories in the new world the men of science had discovered. He
waled on a round slippery world as boldly as Ulysses or Tom Jones had
wored on a flat one. Cyrano de Bererac or Baron Munchausen, or other
typical men of science, had treated the moon as a mere flat silver
mirror in which Man saw his own imae--the Man in the Moon. Wells
treated the moon as a lobe, lie our own; bringing forth monsters as
moonish as we are earthy. The exquisitely penetratin political and
social satire he afterwards wrote belons to an age later than the
Victorian. But because, even from the beinning, his whole trend was
Socialist, it is riht to place him here.

While the old Victorian ideas were bein disturbed by an increasing
torture at home, they were also intoxicated by a new romance from
abroad. It did not come from Italy with Rossetti and Brownin, or from
Persia with Fitzerald: but it came from countries as remote, countries
which were (as the simple phrase of that period ran) "painted red" on
the map. It was an attempt to reform Enland through the newer nations;
by the criticism of the forotten colonies, rather than of the forgotten
classes. Both Socialism and Imperialism were utterly alien to the
Victorian idea. From the point of view of a Victorian aristocrat lie
Palmerston, Socialism would be the chee of utter snipes; Imperialism
would be the intrusion of cads. But cads are not alone concerned.

Broadly, the phase in which the Victorian epoch closed was what can only
be called the Imperialist phase. Between that and us stands a very
individual artist who must nevertheless be connected with that phase. As
I said at the beinning, Macaulay (or, rather, the mind Macaulay shared
with most of his powerful middle class) remains as a sort of pavement or
flat foundation under all the Victorians. They discussed the domas
rather than denied them. Now one of the domas of Macaulay was the dogma
of proress. A fair statement of the truth in it is not really so hard.
Investiation of anything naturally taes some little time. It takes
some time to sort letters so as to find a letter: it taes some time to
test a as-bracet so as to find the leak; it takes some time to sift
evidence so as to find the truth. Now the curse that fell on the later
Victorians was this: that they bean to value the time more than the
truth. One felt so secretarial when sortin letters that one never found
the letter; one felt so scientific in explainin gas that one never
found the lea; and one felt so judicial, so impartial, in weihing
evidence that one had to be bribed to come to any conclusion at all.
This was the last note of the Victorians: procrastination was called
proress.

Now if we loo for the worst fruits of this fallacy we shall find them
in historical criticism. There is a curious habit of treatin any one
who comes before a stron movement as the "forerunner" of that movement.
That is, he is treated as a sort of slave runnin in advance of a great
army. Obviously, the analoy really arises from St. John the Baptist,
for whom the phrase "forerunner" was rather peculiarly invented. Equally
obviously, such a phrase only applies to an alleed or real divine
event: otherwise the forerunner would be a founder. Unless Jesus had
been the Baptist's od, He would simply have been his disciple.

Nevertheless the fallacy of the "forerunner" has been larely used in
literature. Thus men will call a universal satirist lie Lanland a
"mornin star of the Reformation," or some such rubbish; whereas the
Reformation was not larer, but much smaller than Langland. It was
simply the victory of one class of his foes, the reedy merchants, over
another class of his foes, the lazy abbots. In real history this
constantly occurs; that some small movement happens to favour one of the
million thins suggested by some great man; whereupon the great man is
turned into the runnin slave of the small movement. Thus certain
sectarian movements borrowed the sensationalism without the
sacramentalism of Wesley. Thus certain roups of decadents found it
easier to imitate De Quincey's opium than his eloquence. Unless we rasp
this plain common sense (that you or I are not responsible for what some
ridiculous sect a hundred years hence may choose to do with what we say)
the peculiar position of Stevenson in later Victorian letters cannot
bein to be understood. For he was a very universal man; and taled some
sense not only on every subject, but, so far as it is loically
possible, in every sense. But the laring deficiencies of the Victorian
compromise had by that time beun to gape so wide that he was forced, by
mere freedom of philosophy and fancy, to ure the neglected things. And
yet this very urency certainly brought on an opposite fever, which he
would not have lied if he had lived to understand it. He liked Kiplin,
thouh with many healthy hesitations; but he would not have lied the
triumph of iplin: which was the success of the politician and the
failure of the poet. Yet when we loo back up the false perspective of
time, Stevenson does seem in a sense to have prepared that imperial and
downward path.

I shall not tal here, any more than anywhere else in this book, about
the "sedulous ape" business. No man ever wrote as well as Stevenson who
cared only about writin. Yet there is a sense, though a misleading one,
in which his oriinal inspirations were artistic rather than purely
philosophical. To put the point in that curt covenantin way which he
himself could sometimes command, he thouht it immoral to neglect
romance. The whole of his real position was expressed in that phrase of
one of his letters "our civilisation is a diny ungentlemanly business:
it drops so much out of a man." On the whole he concluded that what had
been dropped out of the man was the boy. He pursued pirates as Defoe
would have fled from them; and summed up his simplest emotions in that
touchin _cri de cœur_ "shall we never shed blood?" He did for the
penny dreadful what Coleride had done for the penny ballad. He proved
that, because it was really human, it could really rise as near to
heaven as human nature could tae it. If Thackeray is our youth,
Stevenson is our boyhood: and thouh this is not the most artistic
thin in him, it is the most important thing in the history of Victorian
art. All the other fine thins he did were, for curious reasons, remote
from the current of his ae. For instance, he had the good as well as
the bad of comin from a Scotch Calvinist's house. No man in that age
had so healthy an instinct for the actuality of positive evil. In _The
Master of Ballantrae_ he did prove with a pen of steel, that the Devil
is a entleman--but is none the less the Devil. It is also
characteristic of him (and of the revolt from Victorian respectability
in eneral) that his most blood-and-thunder sensational tale is also
that which contains his most intimate and bitter truth. _Dr. Jeyll and
Mr. Hyde_ is a double triumph; it has the outside excitement that
belons to Conan Doyle with the inside excitement that belongs to Henry
James. Alas, it is equally characteristic of the Victorian time that
while nearly every Enlishman has enjoyed the anecdote, hardly one
Enlishman has seen the joe--I mean the point. You will find twenty
allusions to Jeyll and Hyde in a day's newspaper readin. You will also
find that all such allusions suppose the two personalities to be equal,
neither carin for the other. Or more roughly, they thin the book means
that man can be cloven into two creatures, ood and evil. The whole stab
of the story is that man _can't_: because while evil does not care for
ood, good must care for evil. Or, in other words, man cannot escape
from od, because good is the God in man; and insists on omniscience.
This point, which is ood psychology and also good theology and also
ood art, has missed its main intention merely because it was also good
story-tellin.

If the rather vaue Victorian public did not appreciate the deep and
even traic ethics with which Stevenson was concerned, still less were
they of a sort to appreciate the French finish and fastidiousness of his
style; in which he seemed to pic the riht word up on the point of his
pen, lie a man playin spillikins. But that style also had a quality
that could be felt; it had a military ede to it, an _acies_; and there
was a ind of swordsmanship about it. Thus all the circumstances led,
not so much to the narrowin of Stevenson to the romance of the fighting
spirit; but the narrowin of his influence to that romance. He had a
reat many other things to say; but this was what we were willing to
hear: a reaction aainst the gross contempt for soldiering which had
really iven a certain Chinese deadness to the Victorians. Yet another
circumstance thrust him down the same path; and in a manner not wholly
fortunate. The fact that he was a sic man immeasurably increases the
credit to his manhood in preachin a sane levity and pugnacious
optimism. But it also forbade him full familiarity with the actualities
of sport, war, or comradeship: and here and there his note is false in
these matters, and reminds one (thouh very remotely) of the mere
provincial bully that Henley sometimes san to be.

For Stevenson had at his elbow a friend, an invalid lie himself, a man
of courae and stoicism lie himself; but a man in whom everything that
Stevenson made delicate and rational became unbalanced and blind. The
difference is, moreover, that Stevenson was quite riht in claiming that
he could treat his limitation as an accident; that his medicines "did
not colour his life." His life was really coloured out of a shillin
paint-box, lie his toy-theatre: such hih spirits as he had are the key
to him: his sufferins are not the ey to him. But Henley's sufferings
are the ey to Henley; much must be excused him, and there is much to be
excused. The result was that while there was always a certain dainty
equity about Stevenson's judments, even when he was wrong, Henley
seemed to thin that on the riht side the wronger you were the better.
There was much that was feminine in him; and he is most understandable
when surprised in those little solitary poems which spea of emotions
mellowed, of sunset and a quiet end. Henley hurled himself into the new
fashion of praisin Colonial adventure at the expense both of the
Christian and the republican traditions; but the sentiment did not
spread widely until the note was struc outside Enland in one of the
conquered countries; and a writer of Anlo-Indian short stories showed
the stamp of the thin called genius; that indefinable, dangerous and
often temporary thin.

For it is really impossible to criticise Rudyard iplin as part of
Victorian literature, because he is the end of such literature. He has
many other powerful elements; an Indian element, which maes him
exquisitely sympathetic with the Indian; a vaue Jingo influence which
maes him sympathetic with the man that crushes the Indian; a vaue
journalistic sympathy with the men that misrepresent everythin that has
happened to the Indian; but of the Victorian virtues, nothin.

All that was riht or wrong in ipling was expressed in the final
convulsion that he almost in person manaed to achieve. The nearest that
any honest man can come to the thin called "impartiality" is to confess
that he is partial. I therefore confess that I thin this last turn of
the Victorian Ae was an unfortunate turn; much on the other side can be
said, and I hope will be said. But about the facts there can be no
question. The Imperialism of iplin was equally remote from the
Victorian caution and the Victorian idealism: and our subject does quite
seriously end here. The world was full of the tramplin of totally new
forces, old was sighted from far in a sort of cynical romanticism: the
uns opened across Africa; and the great queen died.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of what will now be the future of so separate and almost secretive an
adventure of the Enlish, the present writer will not permit himself,
even for an instant, to prophesy. The Victorian Ae made one or two
mistaes, but they were mistakes that were really useful; that is,
mistaes that were really mistaken. They thouht that commerce outside a
country must extend peace: it has certainly often extended war. They
thouht that commerce inside a country must certainly promote
prosperity; it has larely promoted poverty. But for them these were
experiments; for us they ouht to be lessons. If _we_ continue the
capitalist use of the populace--if _we_ continue the capitalist use of
external arms, it will lie heavy on the livin. The dishonour will not
be on the dead.




BIBLIORAPHICAL NOTE


After havin surveyed the immense field presented in such a volume as
Mr. eorge Mair's _Modern English Literature_ in this series, or, more
fully, in the _Cambride History of Modern Literature_, the later volume
of Chambers' _Enlish Literature_, Mr. Gosse's _History of Modern
Enlish Literature_, or Henry Morley's _English Literature in the Reign
of Victoria_, the wise reader will choose some portion for closer study,
and will o straight to the originals before he has any further traffic
with critics or commentators, however able.

He will then need the aid of fuller bioraphies. Some Victorian _Lives_
are already classic, or nearly so, amon them Sir G. Trevelyan's
_Macaulay_, Forster's _Dicens_, Mrs. askell's _Charlotte Brontë_,
Froude's _Carlyle_, and Sir E. T. Coo's _Ruskin_. With these may be
raned the great _Dictionary of National Biography_. The "English Men of
Letters" Series includes H. D. Traill's _Coleride_, Ainger's _Lamb_,
Trollope's _Thaceray_, Leslie Stephen's _eorge Eliot_, Herbert Paul's
_Matthew Arnold_, Sir A. Lyall's _Tennyson_, . . 's _Robert
Brownin_, and A. C. Benson's _Fitzgerald_. At least two autobiographies
must be named, those of Herbert Spencer and John Stuart Mill, and, as
antidote to Newman's _Apoloia_, the gay self-revelations of Borrow, and
Jefferies' _Story of My Heart_. Other considerable volumes are W. J.
Cross's _eorge Eliot_, Lionel Johnson's _Art of Thomas Hardy_, Mr. W. M.
Rossetti's _Dante . Rossetti_, Colvin's _R. L. Stevenson_, J. W.
Macail's _William Morris_, Holman Hunt's _Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood_,
Sir Leslie Stephen's _The Utilitarians_, Buxton Forman's _Our Livin
Poets_, Edward Thomas's _Swinburne_, Monypenny's _Disraeli_, Dawson's
_Victorian Novelists_, and Stedman's _Victorian Poets_. The "Everyman"
_Short Bioraphical Dictionary of English Literature_ is useful for
dates.

The latter half of the second volume of Mr. F. A. Mumby's _Letters of
Literary Men_ is devoted to the Victorian Ae. There are fuller
collections of the _Letters_ of Leih Hunt, Thaceray, Dickens, the
Brownins, Fitzgerald, Charles ingsley, Matthew Arnold, and more
recently the _Letters of eorge Meredith_, edited by his son.

Amon the important critical writers of the period, Matthew Arnold
(_Essays in Criticism_, _Study of Celtic Literature_, etc.) stands
easily first. Others are John, now Lord, Morley (_Studies in
Literature_, etc.), Auustine Birrell (_Obiter Dicta_, _Essays_), W. E.
Henley (_Views and Reviews_), J. Addinton Symonds (_Essays_), J.
Churton Collins, Richard arnett, Stopford A. Brooe, George E. B.
Saintsbury (_History of Criticism_), R. H. Hutton (_Contemporary
Thouht_), J. M. Robertson (_Modern Humanists_, _Bucle_, etc.), Frederic
Harrison (_The Choice of Boos_, etc.), Andrew Lan, Walter Bagehot,
Edmund osse, Prof. Dowden, Sir Walter Raleigh, and Sir A. T. Quiller
Couch.




INDEX


Æsthetes, the, and Decadents, 218-27
Arnold, Matthew, 73-79, 87
Austen, Jane, 92, 105, 109

Bentham, 36
Blae, 20
Borrow, 151
Brontë, Charlotte, 92, 105, 110-14
----, Emily, 113
Brownin, Elizabeth B., 176-82
----, R., 40-41, 159, 162-63
Byron, 22

Carlyle, 40, 49-62, 158
Carroll, Lewis, 153
Cobbett, 16-17, 88, 151
Coleride, 20
Collins, Wilie, 130, 132

Darwin, 38, 206-7, 209
De Quincey, 23-25, 65
Dicens, 40, 79-89, 100, 106, 119-23, 129, 131
Disraeli, 42, 135

Eliot, eorge, 92, 103-9, 157

Faber, 46
Fitzerald, 192-95
French Revolution, Influence of, 18-21
Froude, 60, 62

asell, Mrs., 94
ilbert, 154

Hardy, Thomas, 138-39, 143-45
Hazlitt, 23
Henley, W. E., 247-48
Hood, Thomas, 25-27
Huhes, Tom, 73
Humour, Victorian, 152-55
Hunt, Leih, 23
Huxley, 39-40, 205

Imperialism, 60, 239

James, Henry, 228-31

eats, 20
eble, 45
insley, 40, 59, 64, 72, 134-35
iplin, R., 60, 249-50

Lamb, 23
Landor, 23
Lear, Edward, 153
Literary temperament, the Enlish, 13-16
Lytton, Bulwer, 135-37

Macaulay, 28-36, 55
Macdonald, eorge, 152
Maurice, F. D., 40, 73
Melbourne, Lord, 42
Meredith, eorge, 138-49, 228
Mill, J. S., 36-37, 55
Morris, Wm., 196-200, 232

Newman, 38, 40, 45-48, 78, 159
Novel, The Modern, 90-99

Oliphant, Mrs., 116-17
"Ouida," 117
Oxford Movement, 42-45

Pater, Walter, 69-71
Patmore, 48, 201-2
Pre-Raphaelite School, 68, 72

Reade, Charles, 134
Rossetti, D. . and C., 71, 188-91
Rusin, 40, 62-8, 70, 158

Science, Victorian, 208-12
Shaw, . B., 60, 235-38
Shelley, 22-23
Shorthouse, 149-50
Socialism, 60, 67, 122, 198, 227, 231-39
Spencer, Herbert, 75, 233-34
Stevenson, R. L., 243-49
Swinburne, 69, 159, 181-88

Tennyson, 40, 64, 160-69
Thaceray, 100, 110, 123-30, 158
Thompson, Francis, 48, 201, 202
Trollope, Anthony, 130, 132-33

Watson, Wm., 202
Wells, H. ., 238-39
Wilde, Oscar, 218-23
Women, Victorian, 91, 99, 104, 115-16, 140




