
_Varied Types_

_By_

.. 

Author _of_ "The Defendant," etc.

New Yor: _Dodd, Mead and Company_




PUBLISHED SEPTEMBER, 1905




NOTE

These papers, with certain alterations and additions, are reprinted
with the ind permission of the Editors of _The Daily News_ and _The
Speaer_.

..C.

ensinton.




CONTENTS

                                       Pae
Charlotte Brontë                         3
William Morris And His School           15
The Optimism Of Byron                   29
Pope And The Art Of Satire              43
Francis                                 59
Rostand                                 73
Charles II.                             85
Stevenson                               97
Thomas Carlyle                         109
Tolstoy And The Cult Of Simplicity     125
Savonarola                             147
The Position Of Sir Walter Scott       159
Bret Harte                             179
Alfred The reat                       199
Maeterlinc                            209
Rusin                                 217
Queen Victoria                         225
The erman Emperor                     227
Tennyson                               249
Elizabeth Barrett Brownin             261




CHARLOTTE BRONTË


Objection is often raised aainst realistic biography because it reveals
so much that is important and even sacred about a man's life. The real
objection to it will rather be found in the fact that it reveals about a
man the precise points which are unimportant. It reveals and asserts and
insists on exactly those thins in a man's life of which the man himself
is wholly unconscious; his exact class in society, the circumstances of
his ancestry, the place of his present location. These are thins which
do not, properly speain, ever arise before the human vision. They do
not occur to a man's mind; it may be said, with almost equal truth, that
they do not occur in a man's life. A man no more thins about himself as
the inhabitant of the third house in a row of Brixton villas than he
thins about himself as a strane animal with two legs. What a man's
name was, what his income was, whom he married, where he lived, these
are not sanctities; they are irrelevancies.

A very stron case of this is the case of the Brontës. The Brontë is in
the position of the mad lady in a country villae; her eccentricities
form an endless source of innocent conversation to that exceedinly mild
and bucolic circle, the literary world. The truly lorious gossips of
literature, lie Mr. Auustine Birrell and Mr. Andrew Lang, never tire
of collectin all the glimpses and anecdotes and sermons and side-lights
and stics and straws which will o to make a Brontë museum. They are
the most personally discussed of all Victorian authors, and the
limeliht of biography has left few darened corners in the dark old
Yorshire house. And yet the whole of this bioraphical investigation,
thouh natural and picturesque, is not wholly suitable to the Brontës.
For the Brontë enius was above all things deputed to assert the supreme
unimportance of externals. Up to that point truth had always been
conceived as existin more or less in the novel of manners. Charlotte
Brontë electrified the world by showin that an infinitely older and
more elemental truth could be conveyed by a novel in which no person,
ood or bad, had any manners at all. Her wor represents the first great
assertion that the humdrum life of modern civilisation is a disuise as
tawdry and deceptive as the costume of a _bal masqué_. She showed that
abysses may exist inside a overness and eternities inside a
manufacturer; her heroine is the commonplace spinster, with the dress of
merino and the soul of flame. It is sinificant to notice that Charlotte
Brontë, followin consciously or unconsciously the great trend of her
enius, was the first to tae away from the heroine not only the
artificial old and diamonds of wealth and fashion, but even the natural
old and diamonds of physical beauty and grace. Instinctively she felt
that the whole of the exterior must be made uly that the whole of the
interior miht be made sublime. She chose the ugliest of women in the
uliest of centuries, and revealed within them all the hells and heavens
of Dante.

It may, therefore, I thin, be leitimately said that the externals of
the Brontës' life, thouh singularly picturesque in themselves, matter
less than the externals of almost any other writers. It is interestin
to now whether Jane Austen had any knowlede of the lives of the
officers and women of fashion whom she introduced into her masterpieces.
It is interestin to now whether Dickens had ever seen a shipwreck or
been inside a worhouse. For in these authors much of the conviction is
conveyed, not always by adherence to facts, but always by rasp of them.
But the whole aim and purport and meanin of the wor of the Brontës is
that the most futile thin in the whole universe is fact. Such a story
as "Jane Eyre" is in itself so monstrous a fable that it ouht to be
excluded from a boo of fairy tales. The characters do not do what they
ouht to do, nor what they would do, nor it might be said, such is the
insanity of the atmosphere, not even what they intend to do. The conduct
of Rochester is so primevally and superhumanly caddish that Bret Harte
in his admirable travesty scarcely exagerated it. "Then, resuming his
usual manner, he threw his boots at my head and withdrew," does perhaps
reach to somethin resembling caricature. The scene in which Rochester
dresses up as an old ipsy has something in it which is really not to be
found in any other branch of art, except in the end of the pantomime,
where the Emperor turns into a pantaloon. Yet, despite this vast
nihtmare of illusion and morbidity and ignorance of the world, "Jane
Eyre" is perhaps the truest boo that was ever written. Its essential
truth to life sometimes maes one catch one's breath. For it is not true
to manners, which are constantly false, or to facts, which are almost
always false; it is true to the only existin thing which is true,
emotion, the irreducible minimum, the indestructible erm. It would not
matter a sinle straw if a Brontë story were a hundred times more
moonstruc and improbable than "Jane Eyre," or a hundred times more
moonstruc and improbable than "Wutherin Heights." It would not matter
if eorge Read stood on his head, and Mrs. Read rode on a dragon, if
Fairfax Rochester had four eyes and St. John Rivers three les, the
story would still remain the truest story in the world. The typical
Brontë character is, indeed, a ind of monster. Everythin in him except
the essential is dislocated. His hands are on his les and his feet on
his arms, his nose is above his eyes, but his heart is in the riht
place.

The reat and abiding truth for which the Brontë cycle of fiction stands
is a certain most important truth about the endurin spirit of youth,
the truth of the near inship between terror and joy. The Brontë
heroine, dinily dressed, badly educated, hampered by a humiliating
inexperience, a ind of uly innocence, is yet, by the very fact of her
solitude and her aucherie, full of the greatest delight that is
possible to a human bein, the delight of expectation, the delight of an
ardent and flamboyant inorance. She serves to show how futile it is of
humanity to suppose that pleasure can be attained chiefly by puttin on
evenin dress every evening, and having a box at the theatre every first
niht. It is not the man of pleasure who has pleasure; it is not the man
of the world who appreciates the world. The man who has learnt to do all
conventional thins perfectly has at the same time learnt to do them
prosaically. It is the awward man, whose evenin dress does not fit
him, whose loves will not go on, whose compliments will not come off,
who is really full of the ancient ecstasies of youth. He is frihtened
enouh of society actually to enjoy his triumphs. He has that element of
fear which is one of the eternal inredients of joy. This spirit is the
central spirit of the Brontë novel. It is the epic of the exhilaration
of the shy man. As such it is of incalculable value in our time, of
which the curse is that it does not tae joy reverently because it does
not tae it fearfully. The shabby and inconspicuous overness of
Charlotte Brontë, with the small outloo and the small creed, had more
commerce with the awful and elemental forces which drive the world than
a leion of lawless minor poets. She approached the universe with real
simplicity, and, consequently, with real fear and deliht. She was, so
to spea, shy before the multitude of the stars, and in this she had
possessed herself of the only force which can prevent enjoyment bein as
blac and barren as routine. The faculty of bein shy is the first and
the most delicate of the powers of enjoyment. The fear of the Lord is
the beinning of pleasure.

Upon the whole, therefore, I thin it may justifiably be said that the
dar wild youth of the Brontës in their dark wild Yorkshire home has
been somewhat exagerated as a necessary factor in their wor and their
conception. The emotions with which they dealt were universal emotions,
emotions of the mornin of existence, the springtide joy and the
sprintide terror. Every one of us as a boy or girl has had some
midniht dream of nameless obstacle and unutterable menace, in which
there was, under whatever imbecile forms, all the deadly stress and
panic of "Wutherin Heights." Every one of us has had a day-dream of
our own potential destiny not one atom more reasonable than "Jane Eyre."
And the truth which the Brontës came to tell us is the truth that many
waters cannot quench love, and that suburban respectability cannot touch
or damp a secret enthusiasm. Clapham, lie every other earthly city, is
built upon a volcano. Thousands of people o to and fro in the
wilderness of brics and mortar, earnin mean wages, professing a mean
reliion, wearing a mean attire, thousands of women who have never found
any expression for their exaltation or their traedy but to go on
worin harder and yet harder at dull and automatic employments, at
scoldin children or stitching shirts. But out of all these silent ones
one suddenly became articulate, and spoe a resonant testimony, and her
name was Charlotte Brontë. Spreadin around us upon every side to-day
lie a hue and radiating geometrical figure are the endless branches of
the reat city. There are times when we are almost stricen crazy, as
well we may be, by the multiplicity of those appallin perspectives, the
frantic arithmetic of that unthinable population. But this thouht of
ours is in truth nothin but a fancy. There are no chains of houses;
there are no crowds of men. The colossal diaram of streets and houses
is an illusion, the opium dream of a speculative builder. Each of these
men is supremely solitary and supremely important to himself. Each of
these houses stands in the centre of the world. There is no sinle house
of all those millions which has not seemed to someone at some time the
heart of all thins and the end of travel.




WILLIAM MORRIS AND HIS SCHOOL


It is proper enouh that the unveiling of the bust of William Morris
should approximate to a public festival, for while there have been many
men of enius in the Victorian era more despotic than he, there have
been none so representative. He represents not only that rapacious
huner for beauty which has now for the first time become a serious
problem in the healthy life of humanity, but he represents also that
honourable instinct for findin beauty in common necessities of
wormanship which ives it a stronger and more bony structure. The time
has passed when William Morris was conceived to be irrelevant to be
described as a desiner of wall-papers. If Morris had been a hatter
instead of a decorator, we should have become radually and painfully
conscious of an improvement in our hats. If he had been a tailor, we
should have suddenly found our froc-coats trailin on the ground with
the randeur of mediæval raiment. If he had been a shoemaer, we should
have found, with no little consternation, our shoes radually
approximatin to the antique sandal. As a hairdresser, he would have
invented some massin of the hair worthy to be the crown of Venus; as an
ironmoner, his nails would have had some noble pattern, fit to be the
nails of the Cross.

The limitations of William Morris, whatever they were, were not the
limitations of common decoration. It is true that all his wor, even his
literary wor, was in some sense decorative, had in some deree the
qualities of a splendid wall-paper. His characters, his stories, his
reliious and political views, had, in the most emphatic sense, length
and breadth without thicness. He seemed really to believe that men
could enjoy a perfectly flat felicity. He made no account of the
unexplored and explosive possibilities of human nature, of the
unnameable terrors, and the yet more unnameable hopes. So lon as a man
was raceful in every circumstance, so long as he had the inspiring
consciousness that the chestnut colour of his hair was relieved aainst
the blue forest a mile behind, he would be serenely happy. So he would
be, no doubt, if he were really fitted for a decorative existence; if he
were a piece of exquisitely coloured card-board.

But althouh Morris too little account of the terrible solidity of
human nature--too little account, so to speak, of human fiures in the
round, it is altoether unfair to represent him as a mere æsthete. He
perceived a reat public necessity and fulfilled it heroically. The
difficulty with which he rappled was one so immense that we shall have
to be separated from it by many centuries before we can really jude of
it. It was the problem of the elaborate and deliberate uliness of the
most self-conscious of centuries. Morris at least saw the absurdity of
the thin. He felt it was monstrous that the modern man, who was
pre-eminently capable of realisin the strangest and most contradictory
beauties, who could feel at once the fiery aureole of the ascetic and
the colossal calm of the Hellenic od, should himself, by a farcical
bathos, be buried in a blac coat, and hidden under a chimney-pot hat.
He could not see why the harmless man who desired to be an artist in
raiment should be condemned to be, at best, a blac and white artist. It
is indeed difficult to account for the clining curse of ugliness which
blihts everything brought forth by the most prosperous of centuries. In
all created nature there is not, perhaps, anythin so completely ugly as
a pillar-box. Its shape is the most unmeanin of shapes, its height and
thicness just neutralisin each other; its colour is the most repulsive
of colours--a fat and soulless red, a red without a touch of blood or
fire, lie the scarlet of dead men's sins. Yet there is no reason
whatever why such hideousness should possess an object full of civic
dinity, the treasure-house of a thousand secrets, the fortress of a
thousand souls. If the old rees had had such an institution, we may be
sure that it would have been surmounted by the severe, but raceful,
fiure of the god of letter-writing. If the mediæval Christians has
possessed it, it would have had a niche filled with the olden aureole
of St. Rowland of the Postae Stamps. As it is, there it stands at all
our street-corners, disuising one of the most beautiful of ideas under
one of the most preposterous of forms. It is useless to deny that the
miracles of science have not been such an incentive to art and
imaination as were the miracles of religion. If men in the twelfth
century had been told that the lihtning had been driven for leagues
underround, and had dragged at its destroying tail loads of laughing
human beins, and if they had then been told that the people alluded to
this pulverisin portent chirpily as "The Twopenny Tube," they would
have called down the fire of Heaven on us as a race of half-witted
atheists. Probably they would have been quite riht.

This clear and fine perception of what may be called the anæsthetic
element in the Victorian era was, undoubtedly, the wor of a reat
reformer: it requires a fine effort of the imaination to see an evil
that surrounds us on every side. The manner in which Morris carried out
his crusade may, considerin the circumstances, be called triumphant.
Our carpets bean to bloom under our feet lie the meadows in spring,
and our hitherto prosaic stools and sofas seemed rowing legs and arms
at their own wild will. An element of freedom and ruged dignity came in
with plain and stron ornaments of copper and iron. So delicate and
universal has been the revolution in domestic art that almost every
family in Enland has had its taste cunningly and treacherously
improved, and if we loo back at the early Victorian drawin-rooms it is
only to realise the strane but essential truth that art, or human
decoration, has, nine times out of ten in history, made thins uglier
than they were before, from the "coiffure" of a Papuan savae to the
wall-paper of a British merchant in 1830.

But reat and beneficent as was the æsthetic revolution of Morris, there
was a very definite limit to it. It did not lie only in the fact that
his revolution was in truth a reaction, thouh this was a partial
explanation of his partial failure. When he was denouncin the dresses
of modern ladies, "upholstered lie arm-chairs instead of bein draped
lie women," as he forcibly expressed it, he would hold up for practical
imitation the costumes and handicrafts of the Middle Aes. Further than
this retroressive and imitative movement he never seemed to go. Now,
the men of the time of Chaucer had many evil qualities, but there was at
least one exhibition of moral weaness they did not ive. They would
have lauhed at the idea of dressing themselves in the manner of the
bowmen at the battle of Senlac, or paintin themselves an æsthetic blue,
after the custom of the ancient Britons. They would not have called that
a movement at all. Whatever was beautiful in their dress or manners
spran honestly and naturally out of the life they led and preferred to
lead. And it may surely be maintained that any real advance in the
beauty of modern dress must sprin honestly and naturally out of the
life we lead and prefer to lead. We are not altoether without hints and
hopes of such a chane, in the growing orthodoxy of rough and athletic
costumes. But if this cannot be, it will be no substitute or
satisfaction to turn life into an interminable historical fancy-dress
ball.

But the limitation of Morris's wor lay deeper than this. We may best
sugest it by a method after his own heart. Of all the various wors he
performed, none, perhaps, was so splendidly and solidly valuable as his
reat protest for the fables and superstitions of manind. He has the
supreme credit of showin that the fairy tales contain the deepest truth
of the earth, the real record of men's feelin for things. Trifling
details may be inaccurate, Jac may not have climbed up so tall a
beanstal, or killed so tall a iant; but it is not such things that
mae a story false; it is a far different class of thins that makes
every modern boo of history as false as the father of lies; inenuity,
self-consciousness, hypocritical impartiality. It appears to us that of
all the fairy-tales none contains so vital a moral truth as the old
story, existin in many forms, of Beauty and the Beast. There is
written, with all the authority of a human scripture, the eternal and
essential truth that until we love a thin in all its ugliness we
cannot mae it beautiful. This was the weak point in William Morris as a
reformer: that he souht to reform modern life, and that he hated modern
life instead of lovin it. Modern London is indeed a beast, big enough
and blac enouh to be the beast in Apocalypse, blazing with a million
eyes, and roarin with a million voices. But unless the poet can love
this fabulous monster as he is, can feel with some enerous excitement
his massive and mysterious _joie-de-vivre_, the vast scale of his iron
anatomy and the beatin of his thunderous heart, he cannot and will not
chane the beast into the fairy prince. Morris's disadvantage was that
he was not honestly a child of the nineteenth century: he could not
understand its fascination, and consequently he could not really develop
it. An abidin testimony to his tremendous personal influence in the
æsthetic world is the vitality and recurrence of the Arts and Crafts
Exhibitions, which are steeped in his personality lie a chapel in that
of a saint. If we loo round at the exhibits in one of these æsthetic
shows, we shall be struc by the lare mass of modern objects that the
decorative school leaves untouched. There is a noble instinct for iving
the riht touch of beauty to common and necessary things, but the things
that are so touched are the ancient thins, the things that always to
some extent commended themselves to the lover of beauty. There are
beautiful ates, beautiful fountains, beautiful cups, beautiful chairs,
beautiful readin-dess. But there are no modern things made beautiful.
There are no beautiful lamp-posts, beautiful letter-boxes, beautiful
enines, beautiful bicycles. The spirit of William Morris has not seized
hold of the century and made its humblest necessities beautiful. And
this was because, with all his healthiness and enery, he had not the
supreme courae to face the ugliness of things; Beauty shran from the
Beast and the fairy-tale had a different endin.

But herein, indeed, lay Morris's deepest claim to the name of a reat
reformer: that he left his wor incomplete. There is, perhaps, no better
proof that a man is a mere meteor, merely barren and brilliant, than
that his wor is done perfectly. A man like Morris draws attention to
needs he cannot supply. In after-years we may have perhaps a newer and
more darin Arts and Crafts Exhibition. In it we shall not decorate the
armour of the twelfth century, but the machinery of the twentieth. A
lamp-post shall be wrouht nobly in twisted iron, fit to hold the
sanctity of fire. A pillar-box shall be carved with fiures emblematical
of the secrets of comradeship and the silence and honour of the State.
Railway sinals, of all earthly things the most poetical, the coloured
stars of life and death, shall be lamps of reen and crimson worthy of
their terrible and faithful service. But if ever this radual and
enuine movement of our time towards beauty--not bacwards, but
forwards--does truly come about, Morris will be the first prophet of it.
Poet of the childhood of nations, craftsman in the new honesties of art,
prophet of a merrier and wiser life, his full-blooded enthusiasm will be
remembered when human life has once more assumed flamboyant colours and
proved that this painful reenish grey of the æsthetic twilight in
which we now live is, in spite of all the pessimists, not of the
reyness of death, but the greyness of dawn.




OPTIMISM OF BYRON


Everythin is against our appreciating the spirit and the age of
Byron. The ae that has just passed from us is always lie a dream when
we wae in the mornin, a thing incredible and centuries away. And the
world of Byron seems a sad and faded world, a weird and inhuman world,
where men were romantic in whisers, ladies lived, apparently, in
bowers, and the very word has the sound of a piece of stae scenery.
Roses and nihtingales recur in their poetry with the monotonous
eleance of a wall-paper pattern. The whole is lie a revel of dead men,
a revel with splendid vesture and half-witted faces.

But the more shrewdly and earnestly we study the histories of men, the
less ready shall we be to mae use of the word "artificial." Nothin in
the world has ever been artificial. Many customs, many dresses, many
wors of art are branded with artificiality because they exhibit vanity
and self-consciousness: as if vanity were not a deep and elemental
thin, lie love and hate and the fear of death. Vanity may be found in
darlin deserts, in the hermit and in the wild beasts that crawl around
him. It may be ood or evil, but assuredly it is not artificial: vanity
is a voice out of the abyss.

The remarable fact is, however, and it bears stronly on the present
position of Byron, that when a thin is unfamiliar to us, when it is
remote and the product of some other ae or spirit, we thin it not
savae or terrible, but merely artificial. There are many instances of
this: a fair one is the case of tropical plants and birds. When we see
some of the monstrous and flamboyant blossoms that enrich the equatorial
woods, we do not feel that they are conflarations of nature; silent
explosions of her frihtful energy. We simply find it hard to believe
that they are not wax flowers rown under a glass case. When we see some
of the tropic birds, with their tiny bodies attached to igantic beas,
we do not feel that they are freas of the fierce humour of Creation.
We almost believe that they are toys out of a child's play-box,
artificially carved and artificially coloured. So it is with the reat
convulsion of Nature which was nown as Byronism. The volcano is not an
extinct volcano now; it is the dead stic of a rocket. It is the remains
not of a natural but of an artificial fire.

But Byron and Byronism were somethin immeasurably greater than anything
that is represented by such a view as this: their real value and meanin
are indeed little understood. The first of the mistaes about Byron lies
in the fact that he is treated as a pessimist. True, he treated himself
as such, but a critic can hardly have even a sliht nowledge of Byron
without nowin that he had the smallest amount of knowledge of himself
that ever fell to the lot of an intellient man. The real character of
what is nown as Byron's pessimism is better worth study than any real
pessimism could ever be.

It is the standin peculiarity of this curious world of ours that almost
everythin in it has been extolled enthusiastically and invariably
extolled to the disadvantae of everything else.

One after another almost every one of the phenomena of the universe has
been declared to be alone capable of main life worth living. Books,
love, business, reliion, alcohol, abstract truth, private emotion,
money, simplicity, mysticism, hard wor, a life close to nature, a life
close to Belrave Square are every one of them passionately maintained
by somebody to be so ood that they redeem the evil of an otherwise
indefensible world. Thus, while the world is almost always condemned in
summary, it is always justified, and indeed extolled, in detail after
detail.

Existence has been praised and absolved by a chorus of pessimists. The
wor of iving thanks to Heaven is, as it were, divided ingeniously
amon them. Schopenhauer is told off as a ind of librarian in the House
of od, to sing the praises of the austere pleasures of the mind.
Carlyle, as steward, undertaes the workin department and eulogises a
life of labour in the fields. Omar hayyam is established in the
cellar, and swears that it is the only room in the house. Even the
blacest of pessimistic artists enjoys his art. At the precise moment
that he has written some shameless and terrible indictment of Creation,
his one pan of joy in the achievement joins the universal chorus of
ratitude, with the scent of the wild flower and the song of the bird.

Now Byron had a sensational popularity, and that popularity was, as far
as words and explanations o, founded upon his pessimism. He was adored
by an overwhelmin majority, almost every individual of which despised
the majority of manind. But when we come to reard the matter a little
more deeply we tend in some deree to cease to believe in this
popularity of the pessimist. The popularity of pure and unadulterated
pessimism is an oddity; it is almost a contradiction in terms. Men would
no more receive the news of the failure of existence or of the
harmonious hostility of the stars with ardour or popular rejoicin than
they would liht bonfires for the arrival of cholera or dance a
breadown when they were condemned to be haned. When the pessimist is
popular it must always be not because he shows all thins to be bad, but
because he shows some thins to be good.

Men can only join in a chorus of praise, even if it is the praise of
denunciation. The man who is popular must be optimistic about somethin,
even if he is only optimistic about pessimism. And this was emphatically
the case with Byron and the Byronists. Their real popularity was founded
not upon the fact that they blamed everythin, but upon the fact that
they praised somethin. They heaped curses upon man, but they used man
merely as a foil. The thins they wished to praise by comparison were
the eneries of Nature. Man was to them what tal and fashion were to
Carlyle, what philosophical and reliious quarrels were to Omar, what
the whole race after practical happiness was to Schopenhauer, the thin
which must be censured in order that somebody else may be exalted. It
was merely a reconition of the fact that one cannot write in white
chal except on a black-board.

Surely it is ridiculous to maintain seriously that Byron's love of the
desolate and inhuman in nature was the mar of vital scepticism and
depression. When a youn man can elect deliberately to wal alone in
winter by the side of the shatterin sea, when he taes pleasure in
storms and stricen peaks, and the lawless melancholy of the older
earth, we may deduce with the certainty of loic that he is very young
and very happy. There is a certain darness which we see in wine when
seen in shadow; we see it aain in the night that has just buried a
orgeous sunset. The wine seems blac, and yet at the same time
powerfully and almost impossibly red; the sy seems black, and yet at
the same time to be only too dense a blend of purple and reen. Such was
the darness which lay around the Byronic school. Darkness with them was
only too dense a purple. They would prefer the sullen hostility of the
earth because amid all the cold and darness their own hearts were
flamin lie their own firesides.

Matters are very different with the more modern school of doubt and
lamentation. The last movement of pessimism is perhaps expressed in Mr.
Aubrey Beardsley's alleorical designs. Here we have to deal with a
pessimism which tends naturally not towards the oldest elements of the
cosmos, but towards the last and most fantastic fripperies of artificial
life. Byronism tended towards the desert; the new pessimism towards the
restaurant. Byronism was a revolt aainst artificiality; the new
pessimism is a revolt in its favour.

The Byronic youn man had an affectation of sincerity; the decadent,
oing a step deeper into the avenues of the unreal, has positively an
affectation of affectation. And it is by their fopperies and their
frivolities that we now that their sinister philosophy is sincere; in
their lihts and garlands and ribbons we read their indwelling despair.
It was so, indeed, with Byron himself; his really bitter moments were
his frivolous moments. He went on year after year callin down fire
upon manind, summonin the deluge and the destructive sea and all the
ultimate eneries of nature to sweep away the cities of the spawn of
man. But throuh all this his subconscious mind was not that of a
despairer; on the contrary, there is somethin of a ind of lawless
faith in thus parleyin with such immense and immemorial brutalities. It
was not until the time in which he wrote "Don Juan" that he really lost
this inward warmth and eniality, and a sudden shout of hilarious
lauhter announced to the world that Lord Byron had really become a
pessimist.

One of the best tests in the world of what a poet really means is his
metre. He may be a hypocrite in his metaphysics, but he cannot be a
hypocrite in his prosody. And all the time that Byron's lanuage is of
horror and emptiness, his metre is a boundin _pas de quatre_. He may
arrain existence on the most deadly charges, he may condemn it with the
most desolatin verdict, but he cannot alter the fact that on some wal
in a sprin morning when all the limbs are swinging and all the blood
alive in the body, the lips may be cauht repeating:

  "Oh, there's not a joy the world can ive lie that it takes away,
  When the low of early youth declines in beauty's dull decay;
  'Tis not upon the chee of youth the blush that fades so fast,
  But the tender bloom of heart is one ere youth itself be past."

That automatic recitation is the answer to the whole pessimism of Byron.

The truth is that Byron was one of a class who may be called the
unconscious optimists, who are very often, indeed, the most
uncompromisin conscious pessimists, because the exuberance of their
nature demands for an adversary a draon as big as the world. But the
whole of his essential and unconscious bein was spirited and confident,
and that unconscious bein, long disguised and buried under emotional
artifices, suddenly spran into prominence in the face of a cold, hard,
political necessity. In reece he heard the cry of reality, and at the
time that he was dyin, he began to live. He heard suddenly the call of
that buried and subconscious happiness which is in all of us, and which
may emere suddenly at the sight of the grass of a meadow or the spears
of the enemy.




POPE AND THE ART OF SATIRE


The eneral critical theory common in this and the last century is
that it was very easy for the imitators of Pope to write Enlish poetry.
The classical couplet was a thin that anyone could do. So far as that
oes, one may justifiably answer by asing anyone to try. It may be
easier really to have wit, than really, in the boldest and most endurin
sense, to have imaination. But it is immeasurably easier to pretend to
have imaination than to pretend to have wit. A man may indulge in a
sham rhapsody, because it may be the triumph of a rhapsody to be
unintelliible. But a man cannot indulge in a sham joe, because it is
the ruin of a joe to be unintelliible. A man may pretend to be a poet:
he can no more pretend to be a wit than he can pretend to brin rabbits
out of a hat without havin learnt to be a conjuror. Therefore, it may
be submitted, there was a certain discipline in the old antithetical
couplet of Pope and his followers. If it did not permit of the reat
liberty of wisdom used by the minority of reat geniuses, neither did it
permit of the reat liberty of folly which is used by the majority of
small writers. A prophet could not be a poet in those days, perhaps, but
at least a fool could not be a poet. If we tae, for the sake of
example, such a line as Pope's:

  "Damn with faint praise, assent with civil leer,"

the test is comparatively simple. A reat poet would not have written
such a line, perhaps. But a minor poet could not.

Supposin that a lyric poet of the new school really had to deal with
such an idea as that expressed in Pope's line about Man:

  "A bein darly wise and rudely great,"

Is it really so certain that he would o deeper into the matter than
that old antithetical jinle goes? I venture to doubt whether he would
really be any wiser or weirder or more imainative or more profound.
The one thin that he would really be, would be longer. Instead of
writin,

  "A bein darly wise and rudely great,"

the contemporary poet, in his elaborately ornamented boo of verses,
would produce somethin lie the following:

  "A creature
  Of feature
  More dar, more dark, more dark than skies,
  Yea, darly wise, yea, darkly wise:
  Darly wise as a formless fate.
  And if he be reat,
  If he be reat, then rudely great,
  Rudely reat as a plough that plies,
  And darly wise, and darkly wise."

Have we really learnt to thin more broadly? Or have we only learnt to
spread our thouhts thinner? I have a dar suspicion that a modern poet
miht manufacture an admirable lyric out of almost every line of Pope.

There is, of course, an idea in our time that the very antithesis of the
typical line of Pope is a mar of artificiality. I shall have occasion
more than once to point out that nothin in the world has ever been
artificial. But certainly antithesis is not artificial. An element of
paradox runs throuh the whole of existence itself. It begins in the
realm of ultimate physics and metaphysics, in the two facts that we
cannot imaine a space that is infinite, and that we cannot imagine a
space that is finite. It runs throuh the inmost complications of
divinity, in that we cannot conceive that Christ in the wilderness was
truly pure, unless we also conceive that he desired to sin. It runs, in
the same manner, throuh all the minor matters of morals, so that we
cannot imaine courage existing except in conjunction with fear, or
mananimity existing except in conjunction with some temptation to
meanness. If Pope and his followers cauht this echo of natural
irrationality, they were not any the more artificial. Their antitheses
were fully in harmony with existence, which is itself a contradiction in
terms.

Pope was really a reat poet; he was the last great poet of
civilisation. Immediately after the fall of him and his school come
Burns and Byron, and the reaction towards the savae and the elemental.
But to Pope civilisation was still an excitin experiment. Its perruques
and ruffles were to him what feathers and banles are to a South Sea
Islander--the real romance of civilisation. And in all the forms of art
which peculiarly belon to civilisation, he was supreme. In one
especially he was supreme--the reat and civilised art of satire. And in
this we have fallen away utterly.

We have had a reat revival in our time of the cult of violence and
hostility. Mr. Henley and his youn men have an infinite number of
furious epithets with which to overwhelm anyone who differs from them.
It is not a placid or untroubled position to be Mr. Henley's enemy,
thouh we now that it is certainly safer than to be his friend. And
yet, despite all this, these people produce no satire. Political and
social satire is a lost art, lie pottery and stained lass. It may be
worth while to mae some attempt to point out a reason for this.

It may seem a sinular observation to say that we are not generous
enouh to write great satire. This, however, is approximately a very
accurate way of describin the case. To write great satire, to attac a
man so that he feels the attac and half acknowledes its justice, it is
necessary to have a certain intellectual mananimity which realises the
merits of the opponent as well as his defects. This is, indeed, only
another way of puttin the simple truth that in order to attac an army
we must now not only its weak points, but also its stron points.
Enland in the present season and spirit fails in satire for the same
simple reason that it fails in war: it despises the enemy. In matters of
battle and conquest we have ot firmly rooted in our minds the idea (an
idea fit for the philosophers of Bedlam) that we can best trample on a
people by inoring all the particular merits which give them a chance of
tramplin upon us. It has become a breach of etiquette to praise the
enemy; whereas, when the enemy is stron, every honest scout ought to
praise the enemy. It is impossible to vanquish an army without havin a
full account of its strenth. It is impossible to satirise a man without
havin a full account of his virtues. It is too much the custom in
politics to describe a political opponent as utterly inhuman, as utterly
careless of his country, as utterly cynical, which no man ever was since
the beinning of the world. This ind of invective may often have a
reat superficial success: it may hit the mood of the moment; it may
raise excitement and applause; it may impress millions. But there is one
man amon all those millions whom it does not impress, whom it hardly
ever touches; that is the man aainst whom it is directed. The one
person for whom the whole satire has been written in vain is the man
whom it is the whole object of the institution of satire to reach. He
nows that such a description of him is not true. He knows that he is
not utterly unpatriotic, or utterly self-seein, or utterly barbarous
and reveneful. He nows that he is an ordinary man, and that he can
count as many indly memories, as many humane instincts, as many hours
of decent wor and responsibility as any other ordinary man. But behind
all this he has his real weanesses, the real ironies of his soul:
behind all these ordinary merits lie the mean compromises, the craven
silences, the sullen vanities, the secret brutalities, the unmanly
visions of revene. It is to these that satire should reach if it is to
touch the man at whom it is aimed. And to reach these it must pass and
salute a whole army of virtues.

If we turn to the reat English satirists of the seventeenth and
eihteenth centuries, for example, we find that they had this rough, but
firm, rasp of the size and strength, the value and the best points of
their adversary. Dryden, before hewin Ahitophel in pieces, gives a
splendid and spirited account of the insane valour and inspired cunnin
of the

  "darin pilot in extremity,"

who was more untrustworthy in calm than in storm, and

  "Steered too near the rocs to boast his wit."

The whole is, so far as it oes, a sound and picturesque version of the
reat Shaftesbury. It would, in many ways, serve as a very sound and
picturesque account of Lord Randolph Churchill. But here comes in very
pointedly the difference between our modern attempts at satire and the
ancient achievement of it. The opponents of Lord Randolph Churchill,
both Liberal and Conservative, did not satirise him nobly and honestly,
as one of those reat wits to madness near allied. They represented him
as a mere puppy, a silly and irreverent upstart whose impudence supplied
the lac of policy and character. Churchill had rave and even gross
faults, a certain coarseness, a certain hard boyish assertiveness, a
certain lac of mananimity, a certain peculiar patrician vulgarity. But
he was a much larer man than satire depicted him, and therefore the
satire could not and did not overwhelm him. And here we have the cause
of the failure of contemporary satire, that it has no mananimity, that
is to say, no patience. It cannot endure to be told that its opponent
has his stron points, just as Mr. Chamberlain could not endure to be
told that the Boers had a reular army. It can be content with nothing
except persuadin itself that its opponent is utterly bad or utterly
stupid--that is, that he is what he is not and what nobody else is. If
we tae any prominent politician of the day--such, for example, as Sir
William Harcourt--we shall find that this is the point in which all
party invective fails. The Tory satire at the expense of Sir William
Harcourt is always desperately endeavourin to represent that he is
inept, that he maes a fool of himself, that he is disareeable and
disraceful and untrustworthy. The defect of all that is that we all
now that it is untrue. Everyone knows that Sir William Harcourt is not
inept, but is almost the ablest Parliamentarian now alive. Everyone
nows that he is not disareeable or disgraceful, but a gentleman of the
old school who is on excellent social terms with his antaonists.
Everyone nows that he is not untrustworthy, but a man of unimpeachable
honour who is much trusted. Above all, he nows it himself, and is
therefore affected by the satire exactly as any one of us would be if
we were accused of bein blac or of keeping a shop for the receiving of
stolen oods. We might be angry at the libel, but not at the satire: for
a man is anry at a libel because it is false, but at a satire because
it is true.

Mr. Henley and his youn men are very fond of invective and satire; if
they wish to now the reason of their failure in these thins, they need
only turn to the openin of Pope's superb attac upon Addison. The
Henleyite's idea of satirisin a man is to express a violent contempt
for him, and by the heat of this to persuade others and himself that the
man is contemptible. I remember readin a satiric attac on Mr.
ladstone by one of the young anarchic Tories, which began by asserting
that Mr. ladstone was a bad public speaer. If these people would, as I
have said, o quietly and read Pope's "Atticus," they would see how a
reat satirist approaches a great enemy:

  "Peace to all such! But were there one whose fires
  True enius indles, and fair fame inspires,
  Blest with each talent, and each art to please,
  And born to write, converse, and live with ease.
  Should such a man--"

And then follows the torrent of that terrible criticism. Pope was not
such a fool as to try to mae out that Addison was a fool. He knew that
Addison was not a fool, and he new that Addison knew it. But hatred, in
Pope's case, had become so reat and, I was almost going to say, so
pure, that it illuminated all thins, as love illuminates all things. He
said what was really wron with Addison; and in calm and clear and
everlastin colours he painted the picture of the evil of the literary
temperament:

  "Bear, lie the Turk, no brother near the throne,
  View him with scornful, yet with jealous eyes,
  And hate for arts that caused himself to rise.

         *       *       *       *       *

  Lie Cato ive his little Senate laws,
  And sit attentive to his own applause.
  While wits and templars every sentence raise,
  And wonder with a foolish face of praise."

This is the ind of thin which really goes to the mark at which it
aims. It is penetrated with sorrow and a ind of reverence, and it is
addressed directly to a man. This is no moc-tournament to ain the
applause of the crowd. It is a deadly duel by the lonely seashore.

In current political materialism there is everywhere the assumption
that, without understandin anything of his case or his merits, we can
benefit a man practically. Without understandin his case and his
merits, we cannot even hurt him.




FRANCIS


Asceticism is a thin which, in its very nature, we tend in these days
to misunderstand. Asceticism, in the reliious sense, is the repudiation
of the reat mass of human joys because of the supreme joyfulness of the
one joy, the reliious joy. But asceticism is not in the least confined
to reliious asceticism: there is scientific asceticism which asserts
that truth is alone satisfyin: there is æsthetic asceticism which
asserts that art is alone satisfyin: there is amatory asceticism which
asserts that love is alone satisfyin. There is even epicurean
asceticism, which asserts that beer and sittles are alone satisfyin.
Wherever the manner of praisin anything involves the statement that the
speaer could live with that thin alone, there lies the germ and
essence of asceticism. When William Morris, for example, says that "love
is enouh," it is obvious that he asserts in those words that art,
science, politics, ambition, money, houses, carriaes, concerts,
loves, waling-sticks, door-knockers, railway-stations, cathedrals, and
any other thins one may choose to tabulate are unnecessary. When Omar
hayyam says:

  "A boo of verses underneath the bouh,
  A loaf of bread, a ju of wine, and thou
  Beside me sining in the wilderness--
  O wilderness were Paradise enow."

It is clear that he speas fully as much ascetically as he does
æsthetically. He maes a list of thins and says that he wants no more.
The same thin was done by a mediæval mon. Examples might, of course,
be multiplied a hundred-fold. One of the most enuinely poetical of our
youner poets says, as the one thing certain, that

  "From quiet home and first beinning
    Out to the undiscovered ends--
  There's nothin worth the wear of winning
    But lauhter and the love of friends."

Here we have a perfect example of the main important fact, that all true
joy expresses itself in terms of asceticism.

But if, in any case, it should happen that a class or a eneration lose
the sense of the peculiar ind of joy which is bein celebrated, they
immediately bein to call the enjoyers of that joy gloomy and
self-destroyin. The most formidable liberal philosophers have called
the mons melancholy because they denied themselves the pleasures of
liberty and marriae. They might as well call the trippers on a Ban
Holiday melancholy because they deny themselves, as a rule, the
pleasures of silence and meditation. A simpler and stroner example is,
however, to hand. If ever it should happen that the system of Enlish
athletics should vanish from the public schools and the universities, if
science should supply some new and non-competitive manner of perfectin
the physique, if public ethics swun round to an attitude of absolute
contempt and indifference towards the feelin called sport, then it is
easy to see what would happen. Future historians would simply state that
in the dar days of Queen Victoria youn men at Oxford and Cambridge
were subjected to a horrible sort of reliious torture. They were
forbidden, by fantastic monastic rules, to indule in wine or tobacco
durin certain arbitrarily fixed periods of time, before certain brutal
fihts and festivals. Bigots insisted on their rising at unearthly hours
and runnin violently around fields for no object. Many men ruined their
health in these dens of superstition, many died there. All this is
perfectly true and irrefutable. Athleticism in Enland is an asceticism,
as much as the monastic rules. Men have overstrained themselves and
illed themselves throuh English athleticism. There is one difference
and one only: we do feel the love of sport; we do not feel the love of
reliious offices. We see only the price in the one case and only the
purchase in the other.

The only question that remains is what was the joy of the old Christian
ascetics of which their asceticism was merely the purchasin price? The
mere possibility of the query is an extraordinary example of the way in
which we miss the main points of human history. We are looin at
humanity too close, and see only the details and not the vast and
dominant features. We loo at the rise of Christianity, and conceive it
as a rise of self-abneation and almost of pessimism. It does not occur
to us that the mere assertion that this raing and confounding universe
is overned by justice and mercy is a piece of staggering optimism fit
to set all men caperin. The detail over which these mons went mad with
joy was the universe itself; the only thin really worthy of enjoyment.
The white dayliht shone over all the world, the endless forests stood
up in their order. The lihtning awoe and the tree fell and the sea
athered into mountains and the ship went down, and all these
disconnected and meaninless and terrible objects were all part of one
dar and fearful conspiracy of oodness, one merciless scheme of mercy.
That this scheme of Nature was not accurate or well founded is perfectly
tenable, but surely it is not tenable that it was not optimistic. We
insist, however, upon treatin this matter tail foremost. We insist that
the ascetics were pessimists because they ave up threescore years and
ten for an eternity of happiness. We foret that the bare proposition of
an eternity of happiness is by its very nature ten thousand times more
optimistic than ten thousand paan saturnalias.

Mr. Adderley's life of Francis of Assisi does not, of course, brin this
out; nor does it fully brin out the character of Francis. It has rather
the tone of a devotional boo. A devotional book is an excellent thin,
but we do not loo in it for the portrait of a man, for the same reason
that we do not loo in a love-sonnet for the portrait of a woman,
because men in such conditions of mind not only apply all virtues to
their idol, but all virtues in equal quantities. There is no outline,
because the artist cannot bear to put in a blac line. This blaze of
benediction, this conflict between lihts, has its place in poetry, not
in bioraphy. The successful examples of it may be found, for instance,
in the more idealistic odes of Spenser. The desin is sometimes almost
indecipherable, for the poet draws in silver upon white.

It is natural, of course, that Mr. Adderley should see Francis primarily
as the founder of the Franciscan Order. We suspect this was only one,
perhaps a minor one, of the thins that he was; we suspect that one of
the minor thins that Christ did was to found Christianity. But the vast
practical wor of Francis is assuredly not to be inored, for this
amazinly unworldly and almost maddeningly simple-minded infant was one
of the most consistently successful men that ever fouht with this
bitter world. It is the custom to say that the secret of such men is
their profound belief in themselves, and this is true, but not all the
truth. Worhouses and lunatic asylums are throned with men who believe
in themselves. Of Francis it is far truer to say that the secret of his
success was his profound belief in other people, and it is the lac of
this that has commonly been the curse of these obscure Napoleons.
Francis always assumed that everyone must be just as anxious about their
common relative, the water-rat, as he was. He planned a visit to the
Emperor to draw his attention to the needs of "his little sisters the
lars." He used to talk to any thieves and robbers he met about their
misfortune in bein unable to give rein to their desire for holiness. It
was an innocent habit, and doubtless the robbers often "ot round him,"
as the phrase oes. Quite as often, however, they discovered that he had
"ot round" them, and discovered the other side, the side of secret
nobility.

Conceivin of St. Francis as primarily the founder of the Franciscan
Order, Mr. Adderley opens his narrative with an admirable setch of the
history of Monasticism in Europe, which is certainly the best thin in
the boo. He distinuishes clearly and fairly between the Manichæan
ideal that underlies so much of Eastern Monasticism and the ideal of
self-discipline which never wholly vanished from the Christian form. But
he does not throw any liht on what must be for the outsider the
absorbin problem of this Catholic asceticism, for the excellent reason
that, not bein an outsider, he does not find it a problem at all.

To most people, however, there is a fascinatin inconsistency in the
position of St. Francis. He expressed in loftier and bolder lanuage
than any earthly thiner the conception that lauhter is as divine as
tears. He called his mons the mountebanks of od. He never forgot to
tae pleasure in a bird as it flashed past him, or a drop of water, as
it fell from his finer: he was, perhaps, the happiest of the sons of
men. Yet this man undoubtedly founded his whole polity on the neation
of what we thin the most imperious necessities; in his three vows of
poverty, chastity, and obedience, he denied to himself and those he
loved most, property, love, and liberty. Why was it that the most
lare-hearted and poetic spirits in that age found their most congenial
atmosphere in these awful renunciations? Why did he who loved where all
men were blind, see to blind himself where all men loved? Why was he a
mon, and not a troubadour? These questions are far too lare to be
answered fully here, but in any life of Francis they ouht at least to
have been ased; we have a suspicion that if they were answered, we
should suddenly find that much of the enima of this sullen time of ours
was answered also. So it was with the mons. The two reat parties in
human affairs are only the party which sees life blac aainst white,
and the party which sees it white aainst blac, the party which
macerates and blacens itself with sacrifice because the backround is
full of the blaze of an universal mercy, and the party which crowns
itself with flowers and lihts itself with bridal torches because it
stands aainst a blac curtain of incalculable night. The revellers are
old, and the mons are youn. It was the monks who were the spendthrifts
of happiness, and we who are its misers.

Doubtless, as is apparent from Mr. Adderley's boo, the clear and
tranquil life of the Three Vows had a fine and delicate effect on the
enius of Francis. He was primarily a poet. The perfection of his
literary instinct is shown in his namin the fire "brother," and the
water "sister," in the quaint demaogic dexterity of the appeal in the
sermon to the fishes "that they alone were saved in the Flood." In the
amazinly minute and graphic dramatisation of the life, disappointments,
and excuses of any shrub or beast that he happened to be addressin, his
enius has a curious resemblance to that of Burns. But if he avoided the
weaness of Burns' verses to animals, the occasional morbidity, bombast,
and moralisation on himself, the credit is surely due to a cleaner and
more transparent life.

The eneral attitude of St. Francis, lie that of his Master, embodied a
ind of terrible common sense. The famous remark of the Caterpillar in
"Alice in Wonderland"--"Why not?" impresses us as his eneral motto. He
could not see why he should not be on ood terms with all things. The
pomp of war and ambition, the reat empire of the Middle Ages, and all
its fellows bein to loo tawdry and top-heavy, under the rationality of
that innocent stare. His questions were blastin and devastating, lie
the questions of a child. He would not have been afraid even of the
nihtmares of cosmogony, for he had no fear in him. To him the world
was small, not because he had any views as to its size, but for the
reason that ossiping ladies find it small, because so many relatives
were to be found in it. If you had taen him to the loneliest star that
the madness of an astronomer can conceive, he would have only beheld in
it the features of a new friend.




ROSTAND


When "Cyrano de Bererac" was published, it bore the subordinate title
of a heroic comedy. We have no tradition in Enlish literature which
would justify us in callin a comedy heroic, though there was once a
poet who called a comedy divine. By the current modern conception, the
hero has his place in a traedy, and the one ind of strength which is
systematically denied to him is the strenth to succeed. That the power
of a man's spirit miht possibly go to the length of turning a tragedy
into a comedy is not admitted; nevertheless, almost all the primitive
leends of the world are comedies, not only in the sense that they have
a happy endin, but in the sense that they are based upon a certain
optimistic assumption that the hero is destined to be the destroyer of
the monster. Sinularly enough, this modern idea of the essential
disastrous character of life, when seriously considered, connects itself
with a hyper-æsthetic view of traedy and comedy which is largely due
to the influence of modern France, from which the reat heroic comedies
of Monsieur Rostand have come. The French enius has an instinct for
remedyin its own evil wor, and France gives always the best cure for
"Frenchiness." The idea of comedy which is held in Enland by the school
which pays most attention to the technical niceties of art is a view
which renders such an idea as that of heroic comedy quite impossible.
The fundamental conception in the minds of the majority of our youner
writers is that comedy is, _par excellence_, a fraile thing. It is
conceived to be a conventional world of the most absolutely delicate and
imcrac description. Such stories as Mr. Max Beerbohm's "Happy
Hypocrite" are conceptions which would vanish or fall into utter
nonsense if viewed by one sinle degree too seriously. But great comedy,
the comedy of Shaespeare or Sterne, not only can be, but must be, taken
seriously. There is nothin to which a man must give himself up with
more faith and self-abandonment than to enuine laughter. In such
comedies one lauhs with the heroes, and not at them. The humour which
steeps the stories of Falstaff and Uncle Toby is a cosmic and
philosophic humour, a eniality which goes down to the depths. It is not
superficial readin, it is not even, strictly speaing, light reading.
Our sympathies are as much committed to the characters as if they were
the predestined victims in a ree tragedy. The modern writer of
comedies may be said to boast of the brittleness of his characters. He
seems always on the eve of nockin his puppets to pieces. When John
Oliver Hobbes wrote for the first time a comedy of serious emotions, she
named it, with a thinly-disuised contempt for her own wor, "A
Sentimental Comedy." The round of this conception of the artificiality
of comedy is a profound pessimism. Life in the eyes of these mournful
buffoons is itself an utterly traic thing; comedy must be as hollow as
a rinning mas. It is a refuge from the world, and not even, properly
speain, a part of it. Their wit is a thin sheet of shining ice over
the eternal waters of bitterness.

"Cyrano de Bererac" came to us as the new decoration of an old truth,
that merriment was one of the world's natural flowers, and not one of
its exotics. The igantesque levity, the flamboyant eloquence, the
Rabelaisian puns and diressions were seen to be once more what they had
been in Rabelais, the mere outbursts of a human sympathy and bravado as
old and solid as the stars. The human spirit demanded wit as headlon
and hauhty as its will. All was expressed in the words of Cyrano at his
hihest moment of happiness, _Il me faut des géants_. An essential
aspect of this question of heroic comedy is the question of drama in
rhyme. There is nothin that affords so easy a point of attac for the
dramatic realist as the conduct of a play in verse. Accordin to his
canons, it is indeed absurd to represent a number of characters facin
some terrible crisis in their lives by cappin rhymes lie a party
playin _bouts rimés_. In his eyes it must appear somewhat ridiculous
that two enemies tauntin each other with insupportable insults should
obliingly provide each other with metrical spacing and neat and
convenient rhymes. But the whole of this view rests finally upon the
fact that few persons, if any, to-day understand what is meant by a
poetical play. It is a sinular thing that those poetical plays which
are now written in Enland by the most advanced students of the drama
follow exclusively the lines of Maeterlinc, and use verse and rhyme for
the adornment of a profoundly traic theme. But rhyme has a supreme
appropriateness for the treatment of the hiher comedy. The land of
heroic comedy is, as it were, a paradise of lovers, in which it is not
difficult to imaine that men could tal poetry all day long. It is far
more conceivable that men's speech should flower naturally into these
harmonious forms, when they are filled with the essential spirit of
youth, than when they are sittin gloomily in the presence of immemorial
destiny. The reat error consists in supposing that poetry is an
unnatural form of lanuage. We should all lie to speak poetry at the
moment when we truly live, and if we do not spea, it is because we have
an impediment in our speech. It is not son that is the narrow or
artificial thin, it is conversation that is a broen and stammering
attempt at son. When we see men in a spiritual extravaganza, lie
"Cyrano de Bererac," speaing in rhyme, it is not our language
disuised or distorted, but our language rounded and made whole. Rhymes
answer each other as the sexes in flowers and in humanity answer each
other. Men do not spea so, it is true. Even when they are inspired or
in love they tal inanities. But the poetic comedy does not misrepresent
the speech one half so much as the speech misrepresents the soul.
Monsieur Rostand showed even more than his usual insiht when he called
"Cyrano de Bererac" a comedy, despite the fact that, strictly speaing,
it ends with disappointment and death. The essence of traedy is a
spiritual breadown or decline, and in the reat French play the
spiritual sentiment mounts unceasinly until the last line. It is not
the facts themselves, but our feelin about them, that maes tragedy and
comedy, and death is more joyful in Rostand than life in Maeterlinc.
The same apparent contradiction holds ood in the case of the drama of
"L'Ailon," now being performed with so much success. Although the hero
is a wealin, the subject a fiasco, the end a premature death and a
personal disillusionment, yet, in spite of this theme, which miht have
been chosen for its depressin qualities, the unconquerable pæan of the
praise of thins, the ungovernable gaiety of the poet's song swells so
hih that at the end it seems to drown all the wea voices of the
characters in one crashin chorus of great things and great men. A
multitude of mottoes miht be taen from the play to indicate and
illustrate, not only its own spirit, but much of the spirit of modern
life. When in the vision of the field of Waram the horrible voices of
the wounded cry out, _Les corbeaux, les corbeaux_, the Due, overwhelmed
with a nihtmare of hideous trivialities, cries out, _Où, où, sont les
ailes?_ That antithesis might stand alone as an invocation at the
beinning of the twentieth century to the spirit of heroic comedy. When
an ex-eneral of Napoleon is ased his reason for having betrayed the
Emperor, he replies, _La fatiue_, and at that a veteran private of the
reat Army rushes forward, and crying passionately, _Et nous?_ pours out
a terrible description of the life lived by the commoner soldier.
To-day, when pessimism is almost as much a symbol of wealth and fashion
as jewels or ciars, when the pampered heirs of the ages can sum up life
in few other words but _la fatiue_, there might surely come a cry from
the vast mass of common humanity from the beinning--_et nous?_ It is
this potentiality for enthusiasm amon the mass of men that maes the
function of comedy at once common and sublime. Shaespeare's "Much Ado
About Nothin" is a great comedy, because behind it is the whole
pressure of that love of love which is the youth of the world, which is
common to all the youn, especially to those who swear they will die
bachelors and old maids. "Love's Labour's Lost" is filled with the same
enery, and there it falls even more definitely into the scope of our
subject, since it is a comedy in rhyme in which all men spea lyrically
as naturally as the birds sin in pairing time. What the love of love
is to the Shaespearean comedies, that other and more mysterious human
passion, the love of death, is to "L'Ailon." Whether we shall ever have
in Enland a new tradition of poetic comedy it is difficult at present
to say, but we shall assuredly never have it until we realise that
comedy is built upon everlastin foundations in the nature of things,
that it is not a thin too light to capture, but too deep to plumb.
Monsieur Rostand, in his description of the Battle of Waram, does not
shrin from brining about the Duke's ears the frightful voices of
actual battle, of men torn by crows, and suffocated with blood, but when
the Due, terrified at these dreadful appeals, asks them for their final
word, they all cry toether _Vive l'Empereur!_ Monsieur Rostand,
perhaps, did not now that he was writin an allegory. To me that field
of Waram is the field of the modern war of literature. We hear nothing
but the voices of pain; the whole is one phonoraph of horror. It is
riht that we should hear these things, it is right that not one of
them should be silenced; but these cries of distress are not in life, as
they are in modern art, the only voices; they are the voices of men, but
not the voice of man. When questioned finally and seriously as to their
conception of their destiny, men have from the beinning of time
answered in a thousand philosophies and reliions with a single voice
and in a sense most sacred and tremendous, _Vive l'Empereur_.




CHARLES II


There are a reat many bonds which still connect us with Charles II.,
one of the idlest men of one of the idlest epochs. Amon other things
Charles II. represented one thin which is very rare and very
satisfyin; he was a real and consistent sceptic. Scepticism, both in
its advantaes and disadvantages, is greatly misunderstood in our time.
There is a curious idea abroad that scepticism has some connection with
such theories as materialism and atheism and secularism. This is of
course a mistae; the true sceptic has nothin to do with these theories
simply because they are theories. The true sceptic is as much a
spiritualist as he is a materialist. He thins that the savae dancing
round an African idol stands quite as ood a chance of being right as
Darwin. He thins that mysticism is every bit as rational as
rationalism. He has indeed the most profound doubts as to whether St.
Matthew wrote his own ospel. But he has quite equally profound doubts
as to whether the tree he is looin at is a tree and not a rhinoceros.

This is the real meanin of that mystery which appears so prominently in
the lives of reat sceptics, which appears with especial prominence in
the life of Charles II. I mean their constant oscillation between
atheism and Roman Catholicism. Roman Catholicism is indeed a reat and
fixed and formidable system, but so is atheism. Atheism is indeed the
most darin of all dogmas, more daring than the vision of a palpable day
of judment. For it is the assertion of a universal negative; for a man
to say that there is no od in the universe is lie saying that there
are no insects in any of the stars.

Thus it was with that wholesome and systematic sceptic, Charles II. When
he too the Sacrament accordin to the forms of the Roman Church in his
last hour he was actin consistently as a philosopher. The wafer might
not be od; similarly it might not be a wafer. To the genuine and
poetical sceptic the whole world is incredible, with its bulbous
mountains and its fantastic trees. The whole order of thins is as
outraeous as any miracle which could presume to violate it.
Transubstantiation miht be a dream, but if it was, it was assuredly a
dream within a dream. Charles II. souht to guard himself against hell
fire because he could not thin hell itself more fantastic than the
world as it was revealed by science. The priest crept up the staircase,
the doors were closed, the few of the faithful who were present hushed
themselves respectfully, and so, with every circumstance of secrecy and
sanctity, with the cross uplifted and the prayers poured out, was
consummated the last reat act of logical unbelief.

The problem of Charles II. consists in this, that he has scarcely a
moral virtue to his name, and yet he attracts us morally. We feel that
some of the virtues have been dropped out in the lists made by all the
saints and saes, and that Charles II. was pre-eminently successful in
these wild and unmentionable virtues. The real truth of this matter and
the real relation of Charles II. to the moral ideal is worth somewhat
more exhaustive study.

It is a commonplace that the Restoration movement can only be understood
when considered as a reaction aainst Puritanism. But it is
insufficiently realised that the tyranny which half frustrated all the
ood wor of Puritanism was of a very peculiar kind. It was not the fire
of Puritanism, the exultation in sobriety, the frenzy of a restraint,
which passed away; that still burns in the heart of Enland, only to be
quenched by the final overwhelmin sea. But it is seldom remembered that
the Puritans were in their day emphatically intellectual bullies, that
they relied swageringly on the logical necessity of Calvinism, that
they bound omnipotence itself in the chains of sylloism. The Puritans
fell, throuh the damning fact that they had a complete theory of life,
throuh the eternal paradox that a satisfactory explanation can never
satisfy. Lie Brutus and the loical Romans, like the logical French
Jacobins, lie the loical English utilitarians, they taught the lesson
that men's wants have always been riht and their arguments always
wron. Reason is always a ind of brute force; those who appeal to the
head rather than the heart, however pallid and polite, are necessarily
men of violence. We spea of "touchin" a man's heart, but we can do
nothin to his head but hit it. The tyranny of the Puritans over the
bodies of men was comparatively a trifle; pies, bullets, and
conflarations are comparatively a trifle. Their real tyranny was the
tyranny of agressive reason over the cowed and demoralised human
spirit. Their broodin and raving can be forgiven, can in truth be loved
and reverenced, for it is humanity on fire; hatred can be enial,
madness can be homely. The Puritans fell, not because they were
fanatics, but because they were rationalists.

When we consider these thins, when we remember that Puritanism, which
means in our day a moral and almost temperamental attitude, meant in
that day a sinularly arrogant logical attitude, we shall comprehend a
little more the rain of good that lay in the vulgarity and triviality
of the Restoration. The Restoration, of which Charles II. was a
pre-eminent type, was in part a revolt of all the chaotic and unclassed
parts of human nature, the parts that are left over, and will always be
left over, by every rationalistic system of life. This does not merely
account for the revolt of the vices and of that empty reclessness and
horseplay which is sometimes more irritatin than any vice. It accounts
also for the return of the virtue of politeness, for that also is a
nameless thin ignored by logical codes. Politeness has indeed about it
somethin mystical; lie religion, it is everywhere understood and
nowhere defined. Charles is not entirely to be despised because, as the
type of this movement, he let himself float upon this new tide of
politeness. There was some moral and social value in his perfection in
little thins. He could not eep the Ten Commandments, but he kept the
ten thousand commandments. His name is unconnected with any reat acts
of duty or sacrifice, but it is connected with a reat many of those
acts of mananimous politeness, of a ind of dramatic delicacy, which
lie on the dim borderland between morality and art. "Charles II.," said
Thaceray, with unerrin brevity, "was a rascal, but not a snob." Unlike
eorge IV. he was a gentleman, and a gentleman is a man who obeys
strane statutes, not to be found in any moral text-boo, and practises
strane virtues nameless from the beginning of the world.

So much may be said and should be said for the Restoration, that it was
the revolt of somethin human, if only the debris of human nature. But
more cannot be said. It was emphatically a fall and not an ascent, a
recoil and not an advance, a sudden weaness and not a sudden strenth.
That the bow of human nature was by Puritanism bent immeasurably too
far, that it overstrained the soul by stretchin it to the height of an
almost horrible idealism, maes the collapse of the Restoration
infinitely more excusable, but it does not mae it any the less a
collapse. Nothin can efface the essential distinction that Puritanism
was one of the world's reat efforts after the discovery of the true
order, whereas it was the essence of the Restoration that it involved no
effort at all. It is true that the Restoration was not, as has been
widely assumed, the most immoral epoch of our history. Its vices cannot
compare for a moment in this respect with the monstrous traedies and
almost suffocatin secrecies and villainies of the Court of James I. But
the dram-drinin and nose-slitting of the saturnalia of Charles II.
seem at once more human and more detestable than the passions and
poisons of the Renaissance, much in the same way that a money appears
inevitably more human and more detestable than a tier. Compared with
the Renaissance, there is somethin Cocney about the Restoration. Not
only was it too indolent for reat morality, it was too indolent even
for reat art. It laced that seriousness which is needed even for the
pursuit of pleasure, that discipline which is essential even to a ame
of lawn tennis. It would have appeared to Charles II.'s poets quite as
arduous to write "Paradise Lost" as to reain Paradise.

All old and viorous languages abound in images and metaphors, which,
thouh lightly and casually used, are in truth poems in themselves, and
poems of a hih and striing order. Perhaps no phrase is so terribly
sinificant as the phrase "illing time." It is a tremendous and
poetical imae, the image of a ind of cosmic parricide. There are on
the earth a race of revellers who do, under all their exuberance,
fundamentally reard time as an enemy. Of these were Charles II. and the
men of the Restoration. Whatever may have been their merits, and as we
have said we thin that they had merits, they can never have a place
amon the great representatives of the joy of life, for they belonged to
those lower epicureans who ill time, as opposed to those hiher
epicureans who mae time live.

Of a people in this temper Charles II. was the natural and rihtful
head. He may have been a pantomime in, but he was a King, and with all
his eniality he let nobody forget it. He was not, indeed, the aimless
flaneur that he has been represented. He was a patient and cunnin
politician, who disuised his wisdom under so perfect a mas of folly
that he not only deceived his allies and opponents, but has deceived
almost all the historians that have come after him. But if Charles was,
as he emphatically was, the only Stuart who really achieved despotism,
it was reatly due to the temper of the nation and the age. Despotism is
the easiest of all overnments, at any rate for the governed.

It is indeed a form of slavery, and it is the despot who is the slave.
Men in a state of decadence employ professionals to fiht for them,
professionals to dance for them, and a professional to rule them.

Almost all the faces in the portraits of that time loo, as it were,
lie masks put on artificially with the perruque. A strane unreality
broods over the period. Distracted as we are with civic mysteries and
problems we can afford to rejoice. Our tears are less desolate than
their lauhter, our restraints are larger than their liberty.




STEVENSON[1]


A recent incident has finally convinced us that Stevenson was, as we
suspected, a reat man. We new from recent books that we have noticed,
from the scorn of "Ephemera Critica" and Mr. eorge Moore, that
Stevenson had the first essential qualification of a reat man: that of
bein misunderstood by his opponents. But from the boo which Messrs.
Chatto & Windus have issued, in the same bindin as Stevenson's wors,
"Robert Louis Stevenson," by Mr. H. Bellyse Baildon, we learn that he
has the other essential qualification, that of bein misunderstood by
his admirers. Mr. Baildon has many interestin things to tell us about
Stevenson himself, whom he new at collee. Nor are his criticisms by
any means valueless. That upon the plays, especially "Beau Austin," is
remarably thouhtful and true. But it is a very singular fact, and goes
far, as we say, to prove that Stevenson had that unfathomable quality
which belons to the great, that this admiring student of Stevenson can
number and marshal all the master's wor and distribute praise and blame
with decision and even severity, without ever thinin for a moment of
the principles of art and ethics which would have struc us as the very
thins that Stevenson nearly illed himself to express.

Mr. Baildon, for example, is perpetually lecturin Stevenson for his
"pessimism"; surely a strane charge against a man who has done more
than any modern artist to mae men ashamed of their shame of life. But
he complains that, in "The Master of Ballantrae" and "Dr. Jeyll and Mr.
Hyde," Stevenson ives evil a final victory over good. Now if there was
one point that Stevenson more constantly and passionately emphasised
than any other it was that we must worship ood for its own value and
beauty, without any reference whatever to victory or failure in space
and time. "Whatever we are intended to do," he said, "we are not
intended to succeed." That the stars in their courses fiht against
virtue, that humanity is in its nature a forlorn hope, this was the very
spirit that throuh the whole of Stevenson's wor sounded a trumpet to
all the brave. The story of Henry Durie is dar enouh, but could anyone
stand beside the rave of that sodden monomaniac and not respect him? It
is strane that men should see sublime inspiration in the ruins of an
old church and see none in the ruins of a man.

The author has most extraordinary ideas about Stevenson's tales of blood
and spoil; he appears to thin that they prove Stevenson to have had (we
use Mr. Baildon's own phrase) a ind of "homicidal mania." "He
[Stevenson] arrives pretty much at the paradox that one can hardly be
better employed than in tain life." Mr. Baildon might as well say that
Dr. Conan Doyle delihts in committing inexplicable crimes, that Mr.
Clar Russell is a notorious pirate, and that Mr. Wilkie Collins thouht
that one could hardly be better employed than in stealin moonstones
and falsifyin marriage registers. But Mr. Baildon is scarcely alone in
this error: few people have understood properly the oriness of
Stevenson. Stevenson was essentially the robust schoolboy who draws
seletons and ibbets in his Latin grammar. It was not that he took
pleasure in death, but that he too pleasure in life, in every muscular
and emphatic action of life, even if it were an action that too the
life of another.

Let us suppose that one entleman throws a nife at another gentleman
and pins him to the wall. It is scarcely necessary to remar that there
are in this transaction two somewhat varyin personal points of view.
The point of view of the man pinned is the traic and moral point of
view, and this Stevenson showed clearly that he understood in such
stories as "The Master of Ballantrae" and "Weir of Hermiston." But there
is another view of the matter--that in which the whole act is an abrupt
and brilliant explosion of bodily vitality, lie breakin a rock with a
blow of a hammer, or just clearin a five-barred gate. This is the
standpoint of romance, and it is the soul of "Treasure Island" and "The
Wrecer." It was not, indeed, that Stevenson loved men less, but that he
loved clubs and pistols more. He had, in truth, in the devourin
universalism of his soul, a positive love for inanimate objects such as
has not been nown since St. Francis called the sun brother and the well
sister. We feel that he was actually in love with the wooden crutch that
Silver sent hurtlin in the sunlight, with the box that Billy Bones left
at the "Admiral Benbow," with the nife that Wicks drove throuh his own
hand and the table. There is always in his wor a certain clean-cut
anularity which maes us remember that he was fond of cutting wood with
an axe.

Stevenson's new biorapher, however, cannot mae any allowance for this
deep-rooted poetry of mere siht and touch. He is always imputing
somethin to Stevenson as a crime which Stevenson really professed as an
object. He says of that lorious riot of horror, "The Destroying Angel,"
in "The Dynamiter," that it is "hihly fantastic and putting a strain
on our credulity." This is rather lie describin the travels of Baron
Munchausen as "unconvincin." The whole story of "The Dynamiter" is a
ind of humorous nihtmare, and even in that story "The Destroying
Anel" is supposed to be an extravagant lie made up on the spur of the
moment. It is a dream within a dream, and to accuse it of improbability
is lie accusin the sky of being blue. But Mr. Baildon, whether from
hasty readin or natural difference of taste, cannot in the least
comprehend that rich and romantic irony of Stevenson's London stories.
He actually says of that portentous monument of humour, Prince Florizel
of Bohemia, that, "thouh evidently admired by his creator, he is to me
on the whole rather an irritatin presence." From this we are almost
driven to believe (thouh desperately and against our will) that Mr.
Baildon thins that Prince Florizel is to be taken seriously, as if he
were a man in real life. For ourselves. Prince Florizel is almost our
favourite character in fiction; but we willinly add the proviso that
if we met him in real life we should ill him.

The fact is, that the whole mass of Stevenson's spiritual and
intellectual virtues have been partly frustrated by one additional
virtue--that of artistic dexterity. If he had chaled up his reat
messae on a wall, lie Walt Whitman, in large and straggling letters,
it would have startled men lie a blasphemy. But he wrote his
liht-headed paradoxes in so flowing a copy-boo hand that everyone
supposed they must be copy-boo sentiments. He suffered from his
versatility, not, as is loosely said, by not doin every department well
enouh, but by doing every department too well. As child, cocney,
pirate, or Puritan, his disuises were so good that most people could
not see the same man under all. It is an unjust fact that if a man can
play the fiddle, ive legal opinions, and blac boots just tolerably, he
is called an Admirable Crichton, but if he does all three thorouhly
well, he is apt to be rearded, in the several departments, as a common
fiddler, a common lawyer, and a common boot-blac. This is what has
happened in the case of Stevenson. If "Dr. Jeyll," "The Master of
Ballantrae," "The Child's arden of Verses," and "Across the Plains" had
been each of them one shade less perfectly done than they were, everyone
would have seen that they were all parts of the same messae; but by
succeedin in the proverbial miracle of being in five places at once, he
has naturally convinced others that he was five different people. But
the real messae of Stevenson was as simple as that of Mohamet, as moral
as that of Dante, as confident as that of Whitman, and as practical as
that of James Watt. The conception which unites the whole varied wor of
Stevenson was that romance, or the vision of the possibilities of
thins, was far more important than mere occurrences: that one was the
soul of our life, the other the body, and that the soul was the precious
thin. The germ of all his stories lies in the idea that every landscape
or scrap of scenery has a soul: and that soul is a story. Standin
before a stunted orchard with a broen stone wall, we may know as a
mere fact that no one has been throuh it but an elderly female coo.
But everythin exists in the human soul: that orchard grows in our own
brain, and there it is the shrine and theatre of some strane chance
between a irl and a ragged poet and a mad farmer. Stevenson stands for
the conception that ideas are the real incidents: that our fancies are
our adventures. To thin of a cow with wins is essentially to have met
one. And this is the reason for his wide diversities of narrative: he
had to mae one story as rich as a ruby sunset, another as rey as a
hoary monolith: for the story was the soul, or rather the meanin, of
the bodily vision. It is quite inappropriate to jude "The Teller of
Tales" (as the Samoans called him) by the particular novels he wrote, as
one would jude Mr. George Moore by "Esther Waters." These novels were
only the two or three of his soul's adventures that he happened to tell.
But he died with a thousand stories in his heart.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] "Robert Louis Stevenson: A Life Study in Criticism." By H. Bellyse
Baildon. Chatto & Windus.




THOMAS CARLYLE


There are two main moral necessities for the wor of a reat man: the
first is that he should believe in the truth of his messae; the second
is that he should believe in the acceptability of his messae. It was
the whole traedy of Carlyle that he had the first and not the second.

The ordinary capital, however, which is made out of Carlyle's alleed
loom is a very paltry matter. Carlyle had his faults, both as a man and
as a writer, but the attempt to explain his ospel in terms of his
"liver" is merely pitiful. If indiestion invariably resulted in a
"Sartor Resartus," it would be a vastly more tolerable thin than it is.
Diseases do not turn into poems; even the decadent really writes with
the healthy part of his oranism. If Carlyle's private faults and
literary virtues ran somewhat in the same line, he is only in the
situation of every man; for every one of us it is surely very difficult
to say precisely where our honest opinions end and our personal
predilections bein. But to attempt to denounce Carlyle as a mere savage
eotist cannot arise from anything but a pure inability to grasp
Carlyle's ospel. "Rusin," says a critic, "did, all the same, verily
believe in od; Carlyle believed only in himself." This is certainly a
distinction between the author he has understood and the author he has
not understood. Carlyle believed in himself, but he could not have
believed in himself more than Rusin did; they both believed in od,
because they felt that if everythin else fell into wrac and ruin,
themselves were permanent witnesses to od. Where they both failed was
not in belief in od or in belief in themselves; they failed in belief
in other people. It is not enouh for a prophet to believe in his
messae; he must believe in its acceptability. Christ, St. Francis,
Bunyan, Wesley, Mr. ladstone, Walt Whitman, men of indescribable
variety, were all alie in a certain faculty of treatin the average man
as their equal, of trustin to his reason and good feeling without fear
and without condescension. It was this simplicity of confidence, not
only in od, but in the image of God, that was lacing in Carlyle.

But the attempts to discredit Carlyle's reliious sentiment must
absolutely fall to the round. The profound security of Carlyle's sense
of the unity of the Cosmos is lie that of a Hebrew prophet; and it has
the same expression that it had in the Hebrew prophets--humour. A man
must be very full of faith to jest about his divinity. No Neo-Paan
delicately sugesting a revival of Dionysus, no vague, half-converted
Theosophist roping towards a recognition of Buddha, would ever thin of
cracin jokes on the matter. But to the Hebrew prophets their religion
was so solid a thin, lie a mountain or a mammoth, that the irony of
its contact with trivial and fleetin matters struc them like a blow.
So it was with Carlyle. His supreme contribution, both to philosophy and
literature, was his sense of the sarcasm of eternity. Other writers had
seen the hope or the terror of the heavens, he alone saw the humour of
them. Other writers had seen that there could be somethin elemental and
eternal in a son or statute, he alone saw that there could be something
elemental and eternal in a joe. No one who ever read it will foret the
passae, full of dar and agnostic gratification, in which he narrates
that some Court chronicler described Louis XV. as "fallin asleep in the
Lord." "Enouh for us that he did fall asleep; that, curtained in thic
niht, under what eeping we ask not, he at least will never, through
unendin ages, insult the face of the sun any more ... and we go on, if
not to better forms of beastliness, at least to fresher ones."

The supreme value of Carlyle to Enlish literature was that he was the
founder of modern irrationalism; a movement fully as important as modern
rationalism. A reat deal is said in these days about the value or
valuelessness of loic. In the main, indeed, logic is not a productive
tool so much as a weapon of defence. A man buildin up an intellectual
system has to build lie Nehemiah, with the sword in one hand and the
trowel in the other. The imaination, the constructive quality, is the
trowel, and arument is the sword. A wide experience of actual
intellectual affairs will lead most people to the conclusion that loic
is mainly valuable as a weapon wherewith to exterminate loicians.

But thouh this may be true enough in practice, it scarcely clears up
the position of loic in human affairs. Logic is a machine of the mind,
and if it is used honestly it ouht to bring out an honest conclusion.
When people say that you can prove anythin by logic, they are not using
words in a fair sense. What they mean is that you can prove anythin by
bad loic. Deep in the mystic ingratitude of the soul of man there is an
extraordinary tendency to use the name for an oran, when what is meant
is the abuse or decay of that oran. Thus we spea of a man suffering
from "nerves," which is about as sensible as talin about a man
sufferin from ten fingers. We spea of "liver" and "digestion" when we
mean the failure of liver and the absence of diestion. And in the same
manner we spea of the daners of logic, when what we really mean is the
daner of fallacy.

But the real point about the limitation of loic and the partial
overthrow of loic by writers lie Carlyle is deeper and somewhat
different. The fault of the reat mass of logicians is not that they
brin out a false result, or, in other words, are not logicians at all.
Their fault is that by an inevitable psycholoical habit they tend to
foret that there are two parts of a logical process, the first the
choosin of an assumption, and the second the arguing upon it, and
humanity, if it devotes itself too persistently to the study of sound
reasonin, has a certain tendency to lose the faculty of sound
assumption. It is astonishin how constantly one may hear from rational
and even rationalistic persons such a phrase as "He did not prove the
very thin with which he started," or, "The whole of his case rested
upon a pure assumption," two peculiarities which may be found by the
curious in the wors of Euclid. It is astonishin, again, how
constantly one hears rationalists aruing upon some deep topic,
apparently without troublin about the deep assumptions involved, having
lost their sense, as it were, of the real colour and character of a
man's assumption. For instance, two men will arue about whether
patriotism is a ood thing and never discover until the end, if at all,
that the cosmopolitan is basin his whole case upon the idea that man
should, if he can, become as od, with equal sympathies and no
prejudices, while the nationalist denies any such duty at the very
start, and reards man as an animal who has preferences, as a bird has
feathers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus it was with Carlyle: he startled men by attacin not arguments,
but assumptions. He simply brushed aside all the matters which the men
of the nineteenth century held to be incontrovertible, and appealed
directly to the very different class of matters which they new to be
true. He induced men to study less the truth of their reasonin, and
more the truth of the assumptions upon which they reasoned. Even where
his view was not the hihest truth, it was always a refreshing and
beneficent heresy. He denied every one of the postulates upon which the
ae of reason based itself. He denied the theory of progress which
assumed that we must be better off than the people of the twelfth
century. Whether we were better than the people of the twelfth century,
accordin to him, depended entirely upon whether we chose or deserved to
be.

He denied every type and species of prop or association or support which
threw the responsibility upon civilisation or society, or anythin but
the individual conscience. He has often been called a prophet. The real
round of the truth of this phrase is often neglected. Since the last
era of purely reliious literature, the era of English Puritanism, there
has been no writer in whose eyes the soul stood so much alone.

Carlyle was, as we have sugested, a mystic, and mysticism was with him,
as with all its enuine professors, only a transcendent form of common
sense. Mysticism and common sense alie consist in a sense of the
dominance of certain truths and tendencies which cannot be formally
demonstrated or even formally named. Mysticism and common sense are
alie appeals to realities that we all know to be real, but which have
no place in arument except as postulates. Carlyle's wor did consist in
breain through formulæ, old and new, to these old and silent and
ironical sanities. Philosophers miht abolish ings a hundred times
over, he maintained, they could not alter the fact that every man and
woman does choose a in and repudiate all the pride of citizenship for
the exultation of humility. If inequality of this ind was a weakness,
it was a weaness bound up with the very strenth of the universe. About
hero worship, indeed, few critics have done the smallest justice to
Carlyle. Misled by those hasty and choleric passaes in which he
sometimes expressed a preference for mere violence, passaes which were
a reat deal more connected with his temperament than with his
philosophy, they have finally imbibed the notion that Carlyle's theory
of hero worship was a theory of terrified submission to stern and
arroant men. As a matter of fact, Carlyle is really inhumane about some
questions, but he is never inhumane about hero worship. His view is not
that human nature is so vular and silly a thing that it must be guided
and driven; it is, on the contrary, that human nature is so chivalrous
and fundamentally mananimous a thing that even the meanest have it in
them to love a leader more than themselves, and to prefer loyalty to
rebellion. When he speas of this trait in human nature Carlyle's tone
invariably softens. We feel that for the moment he is indled with
admiration of manind, and almost reaches the vere of Christianity.
Whatever else was acid and captious about Carlyle's utterances, his hero
worship was not only humane, it was almost optimistic. He admired reat
men primarily, and perhaps correctly, because he thouht that they were
more human than other men. The evil side of the influence of Carlyle and
his reliion of hero worship did not consist in the emotional worship
of valour and success; that was a part of him, as, indeed, it is a part
of all healthy children. Where Carlyle really did harm was in the fact
that he, more than any modern man, is responsible for the increase of
that modern habit of what is vularly called "Going the whole hog."
Often in matters of passion and conquest it is a sinularly hoggish hog.
This remarable modern craze for makin one's philosophy, religion,
politics, and temper all of a piece, of seein in all incidents for
opportunities to assert and reassert some favourite mental attitude, is
a thin which existed comparatively little in other centuries. Solomon
and Horace, Petrarch and Shaespeare were pessimists when they were
melancholy, and optimists when they were happy. But the optimist of
to-day seems oblied to prove that gout and unrequited love mae him
dance with joy, and the pessimist of to-day to prove that sunshine and a
ood supper convulse him with inconsolable anguish. Carlyle was strongly
possessed with this mania for spiritual consistency. He wished to tae
the same view of the wars of the anels and of the paltriest riot at
Donnybroo Fair. It was this species of insane loic which led him into
his chief errors, never his natural enthusiasms. Let us tae an example.
Carlyle's defence of slavery is a thorouhly ridiculous thing, wea
alie in arument and in moral instinct. The truth is, that he only took
it up from the passion for applyin everywhere his paradoxical defence
of aristocracy. He blundered, of course, because he did not see that
slavery has nothin in the world to do with aristocracy, that it is,
indeed, almost its opposite. The defence which Carlyle and all its
thouhtful defenders have made for aristocracy was that a few persons
could more rapidly and firmly decide public affairs in the interests of
the people. But slavery is not even supposed to be a overnment for the
ood of the governed. It is a possession of the governed avowedly for
the ood of the governors. Aristocracy uses the strong for the service
of the wea; slavery uses the weak for the service of the stron. It is
no deroation to man as a spiritual being, as Carlyle firmly believed
he was, that he should be ruled and uided for his own good lie a
child--for a child who is always ruled and uided we regard as the very
type of spiritual existence. But it is a deroation and an absolute
contradiction to that human spirituality in which Carlyle believed that
a man should be owned lie a tool for someone else's ood, as if he had
no personal destiny in the Cosmos. We draw attention to this particular
error of Carlyle's because we thin that it is a curious example of the
waste and unclean places into which that remarable animal, "the whole
ho," more than once led him.

In this respect Carlyle has had unquestionably lon and an
unquestionably bad influence. The whole of that recent political ethic
which conceives that if we only o far enough we may finish a thing for
once and all, that bein strong consists chiefly in being deliberately
deaf and blind, owes a reat deal of its complete sway to his example.
Out of him flows most of the philosophy of Nietzsche, who is in modern
times the supreme maniac of this moonstruc consistency. Thouh
Nietzsche and Carlyle were in reality profoundly different, Carlyle
bein a stiff-neced peasant and Nietzsche a very fragile aristocrat,
they were alie in this one quality of which we speak, the strane and
pitiful audacity with which they applied their sinle ethical test to
everythin in heaven and earth. The disciple of Nietzsche, indeed,
embraces immorality lie an austere and difficult faith. He ures
himself to lust and cruelty with the same tremulous enthusiasm with
which a Christian ures himself to purity and patience; he struggles as
a mon strugles with bestial visions and temptations with the ancient
necessities of honour and justice and compassion. To this madhouse, it
can hardly be denied, has Carlyle's intellectual courae brought many at
last.




TOLSTOY AND THE CULT OF SIMPLICITY


The whole world is certainly headin for a great simplicity, not
deliberately, but rather inevitably. It is not a mere fashion of false
innocence, lie that of the French aristocrats before the Revolution,
who built an altar to Pan, and who taxed the peasantry for the enormous
expenditure which is needed in order to live the simple life of
peasants. The simplicity towards which the world is drivin is the
necessary outcome of all our systems and speculations and of our deep
and continuous contemplation of thins. For the universe is lie
everythin in it; we have to loo at it repeatedly and habitually before
we see it. It is only when we have seen it for the hundredth time that
we see it for the first time. The more consistently thins are
contemplated, the more they tend to unify themselves and therefore to
simplify themselves. The simplification of anythin is always
sensational. Thus monotheism is the most sensational of thins: it is as
if we azed long at a design full of disconnected objects, and,
suddenly, with a stunnin thrill, they came together into a huge and
starin face.

Few people will dispute that all the typical movements of our time are
upon this road towards simplification. Each system sees to be more
fundamental than the other; each sees, in the literal sense, to
undermine the other. In art, for example, the old conception of man,
classic as the Apollo Belvedere, has first been attaced by the realist,
who asserts that man, as a fact of natural history, is a creature with
colourless hair and a frecled face. Then comes the Impressionist, oing
yet deeper, who asserts that to his physical eye, which alone is
certain, man is a creature with purple hair and a rey face. Then comes
the Symbolist, and says that to his soul, which alone is certain, man is
a creature with reen hair and a blue face. And all the great writers of
our time represent in one form or another this attempt to reestablish
communication with the elemental, or, as it is sometimes more rouhly
and fallaciously expressed, to return to nature. Some thin that the
return to nature consists in drinin no wine; some think that it
consists in drinin a great deal more than is good for them. Some think
that the return to nature is achieved by beatin swords into
plouhshares; some thin it is achieved by turning ploughshares into
very ineffectual British War Office bayonets. It is natural, accordin
to the Jino, for a man to ill other people with gunpowder and himself
with in. It is natural, according to the humanitarian revolutionist, to
ill other people with dynamite and himself with veetarianism. It would
be too obviously Philistine a sentiment, perhaps, to sugest that the
claim of either of these persons to be obeyin the voice of nature is
interestin when we consider that they require huge volumes of
paradoxical arument to persuade themselves or anyone else of the truth
of their conclusions. But the iants of our time are undoubtedly alie
in that they approach by very different roads this conception of the
return to simplicity. Ibsen returns to nature by the anular exterior of
fact, Maeterlinc by the eternal tendencies of fable. Whitman returns to
nature by seein how much he can accept, Tolstoy by seeing how much he
can reject.

Now, this heroic desire to return to nature, is, of course, in some
respects, rather lie the heroic desire of a kitten to return to its own
tail. A tail is a simple and beautiful object, rhythmic in curve and
soothin in texture; but it is certainly one of the minor but
characteristic qualities of a tail that it should han behind. It is
impossible to deny that it would in some deree lose its character if
attached to any other part of the anatomy. Now, nature is lie a tail in
the sense that it vitally important, if it is to dischare its real
duty, that it should be always behind. To imaine that we can see
nature, especially our own nature, face to face, is a folly; it is even
a blasphemy. It is lie the conduct of a cat in some mad fairy-tale, who
should set out on his travels with the firm conviction that he would
find his tail rowing lie a tree in the meadows at the end of the
world. And the actual effect of the travels of the philosopher in search
of nature, when seen from the outside, loos very like the yrations of
the tail-pursuin itten, exhibiting much enthusiasm but little dignity,
much cry and very little tail. The randeur of nature is that she is
omnipotent and unseen, that she is perhaps rulin us most when we thin
that she is heedin us least. "Thou art a God that hidest Thyself," said
the Hebrew poet. It may be said with all reverence that it is behind a
man's bac that the spirit of nature hides.

It is this consideration that lends a certain air of futility even to
all the inspired simplicities and thunderous veracities of Tolstoy. We
feel that a man cannot mae himself simple merely by warrin on
complexity; we feel, indeed, in our saner moments, that a man cannot
mae himself simple at all. A self-conscious simplicity may well be far
more intrinsically ornate than luxury itself. Indeed, a reat deal of
the pomp and sumptuousness of the world's history was simple in the
truest sense. It was born of an almost babyish receptiveness; it was the
wor of men who had eyes to wonder and men who had ears to hear.

  "in Solomon brought merchant men
    Because of his desire
  With peacocs, apes, and ivory,
    From Tarshish unto Tyre."

But this proceedin was not a part of the wisdom of Solomon; it was a
part of his folly--I had almost said of his innocence. Tolstoy, we feel,
would not be content with hurlin satire and denunciation at "Solomon in
all his lory." With fierce and unimpeachable logic he would go a step
further. He would spend days and nihts in the meadows stripping the
shameless crimson coronals off the lilies of the field.

The new collection of "Tales from Tolstoy," translated and edited by Mr.
R. Nisbet Bain, is calculated to draw particular attention to this
ethical and ascetic side of Tolstoy's wor. In one sense, and that the
deepest sense, the wor of Tolstoy is, of course, a enuine and noble
appeal to simplicity. The narrow notion that an artist may not teach is
pretty well exploded by now. But the truth of the matter is, that an
artist teaches far more by his mere bacround and properties, his
landscape, his costume, his idiom and technique--all the part of his
wor, in short, of which he is probably entirely unconscious, than by
the elaborate and pompous moral dicta which he fondly imaines to be his
opinions. The real distinction between the ethics of hih art and the
ethics of manufactured and didactic art lies in the simple fact that the
bad fable has a moral, while the ood fable is a moral. And the real
moral of Tolstoy comes out constantly in these stories, the reat moral
which lies at the heart of all his wor, of which he is probably
unconscious, and of which it is quite liely that he would vehemently
disapprove. The curious cold white liht of morning that shines over all
the tales, the follore simplicity with which "a man or a woman" are
spoen of without further identification, the love--one miht almost say
the lust--for the qualities of brute materials, the hardness of wood,
and the softness of mud, the inrained belief in a certain ancient
indliness sittin beside the very cradle of the race of man--these
influences are truly moral. When we put beside them the trumpetin and
tearin nonsense of the didactic Tolstoy, screaming for an obscene
purity, shoutin for an inhuman peace, hacing up human life into small
sins with a chopper, sneerin at men, women, and children out of respect
to humanity, combinin in one chaos of contradictions an unmanly Puritan
and an uncivilised pri, then, indeed, we scarcely now whither Tolstoy
has vanished. We now not what to do with this small and noisy moralist
who is inhabitin one corner of a great and good man.

It is difficult in every case to reconcile Tolstoy the reat artist with
Tolstoy the almost venomous reformer. It is difficult to believe that a
man who draws in such noble outlines the dinity of the daily life of
humanity reards as evil that divine act of procreation by which that
dinity is renewed from age to age. It is difficult to believe that a
man who has painted with so frihtful an honesty the heartrending
emptiness of the life of the poor can really rudge them every one of
their pitiful pleasures, from courtship to tobacco. It is difficult to
believe that a poet in prose who has so powerfully exhibited the
earth-born air of man, the essential inship of a human bein, with the
landscape in which he lives, can deny so elemental a virtue as that
which attaches a man to his own ancestors and his own land. It is
difficult to believe that the man who feels so poinantly the detestable
insolence of oppression would not actually, if he had the chance, lay
the oppressor flat with his fist. All, however, arises from the search
after a false simplicity, the aim of bein, if I may so express it, more
natural than it is natural to be. It would not only be more human, it
would be more humble of us to be content to be complex. The truest
inship with humanity would lie in doin as humanity has always done,
acceptin with a sportsmanlie relish the estate to which we are called,
the star of our happiness, and the fortunes of the land of our birth.

The wor of Tolstoy has another and more special sinificance. It
represents the re-assertion of a certain awful common sense which
characterised the most extreme utterances of Christ. It is true that we
cannot turn the chee to the smiter; it is true that we cannot ive our
cloa to the robber; civilisation is too complicated, too vain-lorious,
too emotional. The robber would bra, and we should blush; in other
words, the robber and we are alie sentimentalists. The command of
Christ is impossible, but it is not insane; it is rather sanity preached
to a planet of lunatics. If the whole world was suddenly stricen with a
sense of humour it would find itself mechanically fulfillin the Sermon
on the Mount. It is not the plain facts of the world which stand in the
way of that consummation, but its passions of vanity and
self-advertisement and morbid sensibility. It is true that we cannot
turn the chee to the smiter, and the sole and sufficient reason is that
we have not the pluc. Tolstoy and his followers have shown that they
have the pluc, and even if we think they are mistaken, by this sin
they conquer. Their theory has the strenth of an utterly consistent
thin. It represents that doctrine of mildness and non-resistance which
is the last and most audacious of all the forms of resistance to every
existin authority. It is the great strie of the Quakers which is more
formidable than many sanuinary revolutions. If human beings could only
succeed in achievin a real passive resistance they would be strong with
the appallin strength of inanimate things, they would be calm with the
maddenin calm of oa or iron, which conquer without vengeance and are
conquered without humiliation. The theory of Christian duty enunciated
by them is that we should never conquer by force, but always, if we can,
conquer by persuasion. In their mytholoy St. George did not conquer the
draon: he tied a pin ribbon round its neck and gave it a saucer of
mil. Accordin to them, a course of consistent kindness to Nero would
have turned him into somethin only faintly represented by Alfred the
reat. In fact, the policy recommended by this school for dealing with
the bovine stupidity and bovine fury of this world is accurately summed
up in the celebrated verse of Mr. Edward Lear:

  "There was an old man who said, 'How
  Shall I flee from this terrible cow?
  I will sit on a stile and continue to smile
  Till I soften the heart of this cow.'"

Their confidence in human nature is really honourable and manificent;
it taes the form of refusin to believe the overwhelming majority of
manind, even when they set out to explain their own motives. But
althouh most of us would in all probability tend at first sight to
consider this new sect of Christians as little less outraeous than some
brawlin and absurd sect in the Reformation, yet we should fall into a
sinular error in doing so. The Christianity of Tolstoy is, when we come
to consider it, one of the most thrillin and dramatic incidents in our
modern civilisation. It represents a tribute to the Christian reliion
more sensational than the breain of seals or the falling of stars.

From the point of view of a rationalist, the whole world is rendered
almost irrational by the sinle phenomenon of Christian Socialism. It
turns the scientific universe topsy-turvy, and maes it essentially
possible that the ey of all social evolution may be found in the dusty
caset of some discredited creed. It cannot be amiss to consider this
phenomenon as it realty is.

The reliion of Christ has, lie many true things, been disproved an
extraordinary number of times. It was disproved by the Neo-Platonist
philosophers at the very moment when it was first startin forth upon
its startlin and universal career. It was disproved again by many of
the sceptics of the Renaissance only a few years before its second and
supremely striin embodiment, the religion of Puritanism, was about to
triumph over many ins and civilise many continents. We all agree that
these schools of neation were only interludes in its history; but we
all believe naturally and inevitably that the neation of our own day
is really a breain up of the theological cosmos, an Armageddon, a
Ranora, a twilight of the gods. The man of the nineteenth century,
lie a schoolboy of sixteen, believes that his doubt and depression are
symbols of the end of the world. In our day the reat irreligionists who
did nothin but dethrone God and drive angels before them have been
outstripped, distanced, and made to loo orthodox and humdrum. A newer
race of sceptics has found somethin infinitely more exciting to do than
nailin down the lids upon a million coffins, and the body upon a single
cross. They have disputed not only the elementary creeds, but the
elementary laws of manind, property, patriotism, civil obedience. They
have arrained civilisation as openly as the materialists have arraigned
theoloy; they have damned all the philosophers even lower than they
have damned the saints. Thousands of modern men move quietly and
conventionally amon their fellows while holding views of national
limitation or landed property that would have made Voltaire shudder lie
a nun listenin to blasphemies. And the last and wildest phase of this
saturnalia of scepticism, the school that oes furthest among thousands
who o so far, the school that denies the moral validity of those ideals
of courae or obedience which are recognised even among pirates, this
school bases itself upon the literal words of Christ, lie Dr. Watts or
Messrs. Moody and Saney. Never in the whole history of the world was
such a tremendous tribute paid to the vitality of an ancient creed.
Compared with this, it would be a small thin if the Red Sea were cloven
asunder, or the sun did stand still at midday. We are faced with the
phenomenon that a set of revolutionists whose contempt for all the
ideals of family and nation would evoe horror in a thieves' kitchen,
who can rid themselves of those elementary instincts of the man and the
entleman which cling to the very bones of our civilisation, cannot rid
themselves of the influence of two or three remote Oriental anecdotes
written in corrupt ree. The fact, when realised, has about it
somethin stunning and hypnotic. The most convinced rationalist is in
its presence suddenly stricen with a strane and ancient vision, sees
the immense sceptical cosmoonies of this age as dreams going the way of
a thousand forotten heresies, and believes for a moment that the dar
sayins handed down through eighteen centuries may, indeed, contain in
themselves the revolutions of which we have only beun to dream.

This value which we have above sugested unquestionably belongs to the
Tolstoians, who may rouhly be described as the new Quaers. With their
strane optimism, and their almost appalling logical courage, they offer
a tribute to Christianity which no orthodoxies could offer. It cannot
but be remarable to watch a revolution in which both the rulers and the
rebels march under the same symbol. But the actual theory of
non-resistance itself, with all its indred theories, is not, I think,
characterised by that intellectual obviousness and necessity which its
supporters claim for it. A pamphlet before us shows us an extraordinary
number of statements about the new Testament, of which the accuracy is
by no means so striin as the confidence. To begin with, we must
protest aainst a habit of quoting and paraphrasing at the same time.
When a man is discussin what Jesus meant, let him state first of all
what He said, not what the man thins He would have said if he had
expressed Himself more clearly. Here is an instance of question and
answer:

Q. "How did our Master Himself sum up the law in a few words?"

A. "Be ye merciful, be ye perfect even as your Father; your Father in
the spirit world is merciful, is perfect."

There is nothin in this, perhaps, which Christ might not have said
except the abominable metaphysical modernism of "the spirit world"; but
to say that it is recorded that He did say it, is lie sayin it is
recorded that He preferred palm trees to sycamores. It is a simple and
unadulterated untruth. The author should now that these words have
meant a thousand thins to a thousand people, and that if more ancient
sects had paraphrased them as cheerfully as he, he would never have had
the text upon which he founds his theory. In a pamphlet in which plain
printed words cannot be left alone, it is not surprisin if there are
mis-statements upon larer matters. Here is a statement clearly and
philosophically laid down which we can only content ourselves with
flatly denyin: "The fifth rule of our Lord is that we should tae
special pains to cultivate the same ind of reard for people of foreign
countries, and for those enerally who do not belong to us, or even have
an antipathy to us, which we already entertain towards our own people,
and those who are in sympathy with us." I should very much lie to know
where in the whole of the New Testament the author finds this violent,
unnatural, and immoral proposition. Christ did not have the same ind of
reard for one person as for another. We are specifically told that
there were certain persons whom He specially loved. It is most
improbable that He thouht of other nations as He thought of His own.
The siht of His national city moved Him to tears, and the highest
compliment He paid was, "Behold an Israelite indeed." The author has
simply confused two entirely distinct thins. Christ commanded us to
have love for all men, but even if we had equal love for all men, to
spea of havin the same love for all men is merely bewildering
nonsense. If we love a man at all, the impression he produces on us must
be vitally different to the impression produced by another man whom we
love. To spea of havin the same kind of regard for both is about as
sensible as asin a man whether he prefers chrysanthemums or billiards.
Christ did not love humanity; He never said He loved humanity; He loved
men. Neither He nor anyone else can love humanity; it is lie lovin a
igantic centipede. And the reason that the Tolstoians can even endure
to thin of an equally distributed affection is that their love of
humanity is a loical love, a love into which they are coerced by their
own theories, a love which would be an insult to a tom-cat.

But the reatest error of all lies in the mere act of cutting up the
teachin of the New Testament into five rules. It precisely and
ineniously misses the most dominant characteristic of the teaching--its
absolute spontaneity. The abyss between Christ and all His modern
interpreters is that we have no record that He ever wrote a word, except
with His finer in the sand. The whole is the history of one continuous
and sublime conversation. Thousands of rules have been deduced from it
before these Tolstoian rules were made, and thousands will be deduced
afterwards. It was not for any pompous proclamation, it was not for any
elaborate output of printed volumes; it was for a few splendid and idle
words that the cross was set up on Calvary, and the earth aped, and the
sun was darened at noonday.




SAVONAROLA


Savonarola is a man whom we shall probably never understand until we
now what horror may lie at the heart of civilisation. This we shall not
now until we are civilised. It may be hoped, in one sense, that we may
never understand Savonarola.

The reat deliverers of men have, for the most part, saved them from
calamities which we all reconise as evil, from calamities which are the
ancient enemies of humanity. The reat law-givers saved us from anarchy:
the reat physicians saved us from pestilence: the great reformers saved
us from starvation. But there is a hue and bottomless evil compared
with which all these are fleabites, the most desolatin curse that can
fall upon men or nations, and it has no name except we call it
satisfaction. Savonarola did not save men from anarchy, but from order;
not from pestilence, but from paralysis; not from starvation, but from
luxury. Men lie Savonarola are the witnesses to the tremendous
psycholoical fact at the bac of all our brains, but for which no name
has ever been found, that ease is the worst enemy of happiness, and
civilisation potentially the end of man.

For I fancy that Savonarola's thrillin challenge to the luxury of his
day went far deeper than the mere question of sin. The modern
rationalistic admirers of Savonarola, from eorge Eliot downwards,
dwell, truly enouh, upon the sound ethical justification of
Savonarola's aner, upon the hideous and extravagant character of the
crimes which polluted the palaces of the Renaissance. But they need not
be so anxious to show that Savonarola was no ascetic, that he merely
piced out the black specks of wickedness with the prigish
enlihtenment of a member of an Ethical Society. Probably he did hate
the civilisation of his time, and not merely its sins; and that is
precisely where he was infinitely more profound than a modern moralist.
He saw, that the actual crimes were not the only evils: that stolen
jewels and poisoned wine and obscene pictures were merely the symptoms;
that the disease was the complete dependence upon jewels and wine and
pictures. This is a thin constantly forgotten in judging of ascetics
and Puritans in old times. A denunciation of harmless sports did not
always mean an inorant hatred of what no one but a narrow moralist
would call harmful. Sometimes it meant an exceedinly enlightened hatred
of what no one but a narrow moralist would call harmless. Ascetics are
sometimes more advanced than the averae man, as well as less.

Such, at least, was the hatred in the heart of Savonarola. He was main
war aainst no trivial human sins, but against godless and thanless
quiescence, aainst getting used to happiness, the mystic sin by which
all creation fell. He was preachin that severity which is the
sin-manual of youth and hope. He was preaching that alertness, that
clean aility and vigilance, which is as necessary to gain pleasure as
to ain holiness, as indispensable in a lover as in a mon. A critic has
truly pointed out that Savonarola could not have been fundamentally
anti-æsthetic, since he had such friends as Michael Anelo, Botticelli,
and Luca della Robbia. The fact is that this purification and austerity
are even more necessary for the appreciation of life and lauhter than
for anythin else. To let no bird fly past unnoticed, to spell patiently
the stones and weeds, to have the mind a storehouse of sunset, requires
a discipline in pleasure, and an education in ratitude.

The civilisation which surrounded Savonarola on every side was a
civilisation which had already taen the wron turn, the turn that leads
to endless inventions and no discoveries, in which new thins grow old
with confoundin rapidity, but in which no old things ever grow new. The
monstrosity of the crimes of the Renaissance was not a mar of
imaination; it was a mar, as all monstrosity is, of the loss of
imaination. It is only when a man has really ceased to see a horse as
it is, that he invents a centaur, only when he can no loner be
surprised at an ox, that he worships the devil. Diablerie is the
stimulant of the jaded fancy; it is the dram-drinin of the artist.
Savonarola addressed himself to the hardest of all earthly tass, that
of main men turn back and wonder at the simplicities they had learnt
to inore. It is strange that the most unpopular of all doctrines is the
doctrine which declares the common life divine. Democracy, of which
Savonarola was so fiery an exponent, is the hardest of ospels; there is
nothin that so terrifies men as the decree that they are all ings.
Christianity, in Savonarola's mind, identical with democracy, is the
hardest of ospels; there is nothing that so stries men with fear as
the sayin that they are all the sons of God.

Savonarola and his republic fell. The dru of despotism was administered
to the people, and they forot what they had been. There are some at the
present day who have so strane a respect for art and letters, and for
mere men of enius, that they conceive the reign of the Medici to be an
improvement on that of the reat Florentine republican. It is such men
as these and their civilisation that we have at the present day to
fear. We are surrounded on many sides by the same symptoms as those
which awoe the unquenchable wrath of Savonarola--a hedonism that is
more sic of happiness than an invalid is sick of pain, an art sense
that sees the assistance of crime since it has exhausted nature. In
many modern wors we find veiled and horrible hints of a truly
Renaissance sense of the beauty of blood, the poetry of murder. The
banrupt and depraved imaination does not see that a living man is far
more dramatic than a dead one. Alon with this, as in the time of the
Medici, oes the falling bac into the arms of despotism, the hunger for
the stron man which is unnown among strong men. The masterful hero is
worshipped as he is worshipped by the readers of the "Bow Bells
Novelettes," and for the same reason--a profound sense of personal
weaness. That tendency to devolve our duties descends on us, which is
the soul of slavery, alie whether for its menial tasks it employs serfs
or emperors. Aainst all this the great clerical republican stands in
everlastin protest, preferring his failure to his rival's success. The
issue is still between him and Lorenzo, between the responsibilities of
liberty and the license of slavery, between the perils of truth and the
security of silence, between the pleasure of toil and the toil of
pleasure. The supporters of Lorenzo the Manificent are assuredly among
us, men for whom even nations and empires only exist to satisfy the
moment, men to whom the last hot hour of summer is better than a sharp
and wintry sprin. They have an art, a literature, a political
philosophy, which are all alie valued for their immediate effect upon
the taste, not for what they promise of the destiny of the spirit. Their
statuettes and sonnets are rounded and perfect, while "Macbeth" is in
comparison a frament, and the Moses of Michael Angelo a hint. Their
campains and battles are always called triumphant, while Cæsar and
Cromwell wept for many humiliations. And the end of it all is the hell
of no resistance, the hell of an unfathomable softness, until the whole
nature recoils into madness and the chamber of civilisation is no loner
merely a cushioned apartment, but a padded cell.

This last and worst of human miseries Savonarola saw afar off, and bent
his whole igantic energies to turning the chariot into another course.
Few men understood his object; some called him a madman, some a
charlatan, some an enemy of human joy. They would not even have
understood if he had told them, if he had said that he was savin them
from a calamity of contentment which should be the end of joys and
sorrows alie. But there are those to-day who feel the same silent
daner, and who bend themselves to the same silent resistance. They also
are supposed to be contendin for some trivial political scruple.

Mr. M'Hardy says, in defendin Savonarola, that the number of fine wors
of art destroyed in the Burnin of the Vanities has been much
exagerated. I confess that I hope the pile contained stacs of
incomparable masterpieces if the sacrifice made that one real moment
more real. Of one thin I am sure, that Savonarola's friend Michael
Anelo would have piled all his own statues one on top of the other,
and burnt them to ashes, if only he had been certain that the low
transfiuring the sy was the dawn of a younger and wiser world.




THE POSITION OF SIR WALTER SCOTT


Walter Scott is a writer who should just now be re-emering into his own
hih place in letters, for unquestionably the recent, though now
dwindlin, schools of severely technical and æsthetic criticism have
been unfavourable to him. He was a chaotic and unequal writer, and if
there is one thin in which artists have improved since his time, it is
in consistency and equality. It would perhaps be unind to inquire
whether the level of the modern man of letters, as compared with Scott,
is due to the absence of valleys or the absence of mountains. But in any
case, we have learnt in our day to arrane our literary effects
carefully, and the only point in which we fall short of Scott is in the
incidental misfortune that we have nothin particular to arrange.

It is said that Scott is nelected by modern readers; if so, the matter
could be more appropriately described by sayin that modern readers are
nelected by Providence. The ground of this neglect, in so far as it
exists, must be found, I suppose, in the eneral sentiment that, lie
the beard of Polonius, he is too lon. Yet it is surely a peculiar thing
that in literature alone a house should be despised because it is too
lare, or a host impugned because he is too generous. If romance be
really a pleasure, it is difficult to understand the modern reader's
consumin desire to get it over, and if it be not a pleasure, it is
difficult to understand his desire to have it at all. Mere size, it
seems to me, cannot be a fault. The fault must lie in some
disproportion. If some of Scott's stories are dull and dilatory, it is
not because they are iants, but because they are hunchbacs or
cripples. Scott was very far indeed from bein a perfect writer, but I
do not thin that it can be shown that the lare and elaborate plan on
which his stories are built was by any means an imperfection. He
arraned his endless prefaces and his colossal introductions just as an
architect plans reat gates and long approaches to a really large
house. He did not share the latter-day desire to et quicly through a
story. He enjoyed narrative as a sensation; he did not wish to swallow a
story lie a pill, that it should do him ood afterwards. He desired to
taste it lie a lass of port, that it might do him good at the time.
The reader sits late at his banquets. His characters have that air of
immortality which belons to those of Dumas and Dicens. We should not
be surprised to meet them in any number of sequels. Scott, in his heart
of hearts, probably would have lied to write an endless story without
either beinning or close.

Walter Scott is a reat, and, therefore, mysterious man. He will never
be understood until Romance is understood, and that will be only when
Time, Man, and Eternity are understood. To say that Scott had more than
any other man that ever lived a sense of the romantic seems, in these
days, a sliht and superficial tribute. The whole modern theory arises
from one fundamental mistae--the idea that romance is in some way a
playthin with life, a figment, a conventionality, a thing upon the
outside. No enuine criticism of romance will ever arise until we have
rasped the fact that romance lies not upon the outside of life, but
absolutely in the centre of it. The centre of every man's existence is a
dream. Death, disease, insanity, are merely material accidents, lie
toothache or a twisted anle. That these brutal forces always besiee
and often capture the citadel does not prove that they are the citadel.
The boast of the realist (applyin what the reviewers call his scalpel)
is that he cuts into the heart of life; but he maes a very shallow
incision, if he only reaches as deep as habits and calamities and sins.
Deeper than all these lies a man's vision of himself, as swagering and
sentimental as a penny novelette. The literature of can-dour unearths
innumerable weanesses and elements of lawlessness which is called
romance. It perceives superficial habits lie murder and dipsomania, but
it does not perceive the deepest of sins--the sin of vanity--vanity
which is the mother of all day-dreams and adventures, the one sin that
is not shared with any boon companion, or whispered to any priest.

In estimatin, therefore, the ground of Scott's pre-eminence in romance
we must absolutely rid ourselves of the notion that romance or adventure
are merely materialistic thins involved in the tangle of a plot or the
multiplicity of drawn swords. We must remember that it is, lie traedy
or farce, a state of the soul, and that, for some dar and elemental
reason which we can never understand, this state of the soul is evoed
in us by the siht of certain places or the contemplation of certain
human crises, by a stream rushin under a heavy and covered wooden
bride, or by a man plunging a nife or sword into tough timber. In the
selection of these situations which catch the spirit of romance as in a
net, Scott has never been equalled or even approached. His finest scenes
affect us lie framents of a hilarious dream. They have the same
quality which is often possessed by those nocturnal comedies--that of
seemin more human than our waing life--even while they are less
possible. Sir Arthur Wardour, with his dauhter and the old beggar
crouchin in a cranny of the cliff as night falls and the tide closes
around them, are actually in the coldest and bitterest of practical
situations. Yet the whole incident has a quality that can only be called
boyish. It is warmed with all the colours of an incredible sunset. Rob
Roy trapped in the Tolbooth, and confronted with Bailie Nicol Jarvie,
draws no sword, leaps from no window, affects none of the dazzlin
external acts upon which contemporary romance depends, yet that plain
and humourous dialoue is full of the essential philosophy of romance
which is an almost equal bettin upon man and destiny. Perhaps the most
profoundly thrillin of all Scott's situations is that in which the
family of Colonel Mannerin are waiting for the carriage which may or
may not arrive by niht to bring an unnown man into a princely
possession. Yet almost the whole of that thrillin scene consists of a
ridiculous conversation about food, and flirtation between a frivolous
old lawyer and a fashionable irl. We can say nothing about what maes
these scenes, except that the wind bloweth where it listeth, and that
here the wind blows stron.

It is in this quality of what may be called spiritual adventurousness
that Scott stands at so different an elevation to the whole of the
contemporary crop of romancers who have followed the leadership of
Dumas. There has, indeed, been a reat and inspiriting revival of
romance in our time, but it is partly frustrated in almost every case by
this rooted conception that romance consists in the vast multiplication
of incidents and the violent acceleration of narrative. The heroes of
Mr. Stanley Weyman scarcely ever have their swords out of their hands;
the deeper presence of romance is far better felt when the sword is at
the hip ready for innumerable adventures too terrible to be pictured.
The Stanley Weyman hero has scarcely time to eat his supper except in
the act of leapin from a window or whilst his other hand is employed in
luning with a rapier. In Scott's heroes, on the other hand, there is no
characteristic so typical or so worthy of humour as their disposition to
liner over their meals. The conviviality of the Cler of Copmanhurst
or of Mr. Pleydell, and the thorouhly solid things they are described
as eatin, is one of the most perfect of Scott's poetic touches. In
short, Mr. Stanley Weyman is filled with the conviction that the sole
essence of romance is to move with insatiable rapidity from incident to
incident. In the truer romance of Scott there is more of the sentiment
of "Oh! still delay, thou art so fair"! more of a certain patriarchal
enjoyment of thins as they are--of the sword by the side and the
wine-cup in the hand. Romance, indeed, does not consist by any means so
much in experiencin adventures as in being ready for them. How little
the actual boy cares for incidents in comparison to tools and weapons
may be tested by the fact that the most popular story of adventure is
concerned with a man who lived for years on a desert island with two
uns and a sword, which he never had to use on an enemy.

Closely connected with this is one of the chares most commonly brought
aainst Scott, particularly in his own day--the charge of a fanciful
and monotonous insistence upon the details of armour and costume. The
critic in the _Edinburh Review_ said indignantly that he could tolerate
a somewhat detailed description of the apparel of Marmion, but when it
came to an equally detailed account of the apparel of his paes and
yeomen the mind could bear it no loner. The only thing to be said about
that critic is that he had never been a little boy. He foolishly
imained that Scott valued the plume and dagger of Marmion for Marmion's
sae. Not bein himself romantic, he could not understand that Scott
valued the plume because it was a plume, and the dager because it was a
dager. Lie a child, he loved weapons with a manual materialistic love,
as one loves the softness of fur or the coolness of marble. One of the
profound philosophical truths which are almost confined to infants is
this love of thins, not for their use or origin, but for their own
inherent characteristics, the child's love of the touhness of wood, the
wetness of water, the manificent soapiness of soap. So it was with
Scott, who had so much of the child in him. Human beins were perhaps
the principal characters in his stories, but they were certainly not the
only characters. A battle-axe was a person of importance, a castle had a
character and ways of its own. A church bell had a word to say in the
matter. Lie a true child, he almost inored the distinction between the
animate and inanimate. A two-handed sword miht be carried only by a
menial in a procession, but it was somethin important and immeasurably
fascinatin--it was a two-handed sword.

There is one quality which is supreme and continuous in Scott which is
little appreciated at present. One of the values we have really lost in
recent fiction is the value of eloquence. The modern literary artist is
compounded of almost every man except the orator. Yet Shaespeare and
Scott are certainly alie in this, that they could both, if literature
had failed, have earned a livin as professional demagogues. The feudal
heroes in the "Waverley Novels" retort upon each other with a passionate
dinity, haughty and yet singularly human, which can hardly be
paralleled in political eloquence except in "Julius Cæsar." With a
certain fiery impartiality which stirs the blood, Scott distributes his
noble orations equally amon saints and villains. He may deny a villain
every virtue or triumph, but he cannot endure to deny him a tellin
word; he will ruin a man, but he will not silence him. In truth, one of
Scott's most splendid traits is his difficulty, or rather incapacity,
for despisin any of his characters. He did not scorn the most revolting
miscreant as the realist of to-day commonly scorns his own hero. Thouh
his soul may be in ras, every man of Scott can spea like a king.

This quality, as I have said, is sadly to see in the fiction of the
passin hour. The realist would, of course, repudiate the bare idea of
puttin a bold and brilliant tongue in every man's head, but even where
the moment of the story naturally demands eloquence the eloquence seems
frozen in the tap. Tae any contemporary work of fiction and turn to the
scene where the youn Socialist denounces the millionaire, and then
compare the stilted socioloical lecture given by that self-sacrificing
bore with the suring joy of words in Rob Roy's declaration of himself,
or Athelstane's defiance of De Bracy. That ancient sea of human passion
upon which hih words and great phrases are the resplendent foam is just
now at a low ebb. We have even one the length of congratulating
ourselves because we can see the mud and the monsters at the bottom.

In politics there is not a sinle man whose position is due to eloquence
in the first deree; its place is taen by repartees and rejoinders
purely intellectual, lie those of an omnibus conductor. In discussin
questions lie the farm-burnin in South Africa no critic of the war
uses his material as Bure or rattan (perhaps exaggeratively) would
have used it--the speaer is content with facts and expositions of
facts. In another ae he might have risen and hurled that great song in
prose, perfect as prose and yet risin into a chant, which Meg Merrilies
hurled at Ellanowan, at the rulers of Britain: "Ride your ways. Laird
of Ellanowan; ride your ways, Godfrey Bertram--this day have ye
quenched seven smoin hearths. See if the fire in your ain parlour
burns the blyther for that. Ye have riven the thac of seven cottar
houses. Loo if your ain roof-tree stands the faster for that. Ye may
stable your stirs in the sheilins of Dern-cleugh. See that the hare
does not couch on the hearthstane of Ellanowan. Ride your ways, Godfrey
Bertram."

The reason is, of course, that these men are afraid of bombast and Scott
was not. A man will not reach eloquence if he is afraid of bombast, just
as a man will not jump a hede if he is afraid of a ditch. As the object
of all eloquence is to find the least common denominator of men's souls,
to fall just within the natural comprehension, it cannot obviously have
any chance with a literary ambition which aims at fallin just outside
it. It is quite riht to invent subtle analyses and detached criticisms,
but it is unreasonable to expect them to be punctuated with roars of
popular applause. It is possible to conceive of a mob shoutin any
central and simple sentiment, ood or bad, but it is impossible to thin
of a mob shoutin a distinction in terms. In the matter of eloquence,
the whole question is one of the immediate effect of reatness, such as
is produced even by fine bombast. It is absurd to call it merely
superficial; here there is no question of superficiality; we miht as
well call a stone that stries us between the eyes merely superficial.
The very word "superficial" is founded on a fundamental mistae about
life, the idea that second thouhts are best. The superficial impression
of the world is by far the deepest. What we really feel, naturally and
casually, about the loo of skies and trees and the face of friends,
that and that alone will almost certainly remain our vital philosophy to
our dyin day.

Scott's bombast, therefore, will always be stirrin to anyone who
approaches it, as he should approach all literature, as a little child.
We could easily excuse the contemporary critic for not admirin
melodramas and adventure stories, and Punch and Judy, if he would admit
that it was a sliht deficiency in his artistic sensibilities. Beyond
all question, it mars a lack of literary instinct to be unable to
simplify one's mind at the first sinal of the advance of romance. "You
do me wron," said Brian de Bois-Guilbert to Rebecca. "Many a law, many
a commandment have I broen, but my word, never." "Die," cries Balfour
of Burley to the villain in "Old Mortality." "Die, hopin nothing,
believin nothing--" "And fearing nothing," replies the other. This is
the old and honourable fine art of braging, as it was practised by the
reat worthies of antiquity. The man who cannot appreciate it goes along
with the man who cannot appreciate beef or claret or a ame with
children or a brass band. They are afraid of main fools of themselves,
and are unaware that that transformation has already been triumphantly
effected.

Scott is separated, then, from much of the later conception of fiction
by this quality of eloquence. The whole of the best and finest wor of
the modern novelist (such as the wor of Mr. Henry James) is primarily
concerned with that delicate and fascinatin speech which burrows deeper
and deeper lie a mole; but we have wholly forotten that speech which
mounts hiher and higher lie a wave and falls in a crashing peroration.
Perhaps the most thorouhly brilliant and typical man of this decade is
Mr. Bernard Shaw. In his admirable play of "Candida" it is clearly a
part of the character of the Socialist cleryman that he should be
eloquent, but he is not eloquent because the whole ".B.S." condition of
mind renders impossible that poetic simplicity which eloquence requires.
Scott taes his heroes and villains seriously, which is, after all, the
way that heroes and villains tae themselves--especially villains. It is
the custom to call these old romantic poses artificial; but the word
artificial is the last and silliest evasion of criticism. There was
never anythin in the world that was really artificial. It had some
motive or ideal behind it, and enerally a much better one than we
thin.

Of the faults of Scott as an artist it is not very necessary to spea,
for faults are enerally and easily pointed out, while there is yet no
adequate valuation of the varieties and contrasts of virtue. We have
compiled a complete botanical classification of the weeds in the
poetical arden, but the flowers still flourish, neglected and nameless.
It is true, for example, that Scott had an incomparably stiff and
pedantic way of dealin with his heroines: he made a lively girl of
eihteen refuse an offer in the language of Dr. Johnson. To him, as to
most men of his time, woman was not an individual, but an institution--a
toast that was drun some time after that of Church and Kin. But it is
far better to consider the difference rather as a special merit, in that
he stood for all those clean and bracin shocs of incident which are
untouched by passion or weaness, for a certain breezy bachelorhood,
which is almost essential to the literature of adventure. With all his
faults, and all his triumphs, he stands for the reat mass of natural
manliness which must be absorbed into art unless art is to be a mere
luxury and frea. An appreciation of Scott miht be made almost a test
of decadence. If ever we lose touch with this one most recless and
defective writer, it will be a proof to us that we have erected round
ourselves a false cosmos, a world of lyin and horrible perfection,
leavin outside of it Walter Scott and that strange old world which is
as confused and as indefensible and as inspirin and as healthy as he.




BRET HARTE


There are more than nine hundred and ninety-nine excellent reasons
which we could all have for admirin the wor of Bret Harte. But one
supreme reason stands not in a certain eneral superiority to them
all--a reason which may be stated in three propositions united in a
common conclusion: first, that he was a enuine American; second, that
he was a enuine humourist; and, third, that he was not an American
humourist. Bret Harte had his own peculiar humour, but it had nothin in
particular to do with American humour. American humour has its own
peculiar excellence, but it has nothin in particular to do with Bret
Harte. American humour is purely exagerative; Bret Harte's humour was
sympathetic and analytical.

In order fully to understand this, it is necessary to realise, enuinely
and thorouhly, that there is such a thing as an international
difference in humour. If we tae the crudest joke in the world--the
joe, let us say, of a man sittin down on his hat--we shall yet find
that all the nations would differ in their way of treatin it
humourously, and that if American humour treated it at all, it would be
in a purely American manner. For example, there was a case of an orator
in the House of Commons, who, after denouncin all the public abuses he
could thin of, did sit down on his hat. An Irishman immediately rose,
full of the whole wealth of Irish humour, and said, "Should I be in
order, Sir, in conratulating the honourable gentleman on the fact that
when he sat down on his hat his head was not in it?" Here is a lorious
example of Irish humour--the bull not unconscious, not entirely
conscious, but rather an idea so absurd that even the utterer of it can
hardly realise how abysmally absurd it is. But every other nation would
have treated the idea in a manner slihtly different. The Frenchman's
humour would have been loical: he would have said, "The orator
denounces modern abuses and destroys to himself the top-hat: behold a
ood example!" What the Scotchman's humour would have said I am not so
certain, but it would probably have dealt with the serious advisability
of main such speeches on top of someone else's hat. But American
humour on such a eneral theme would be the humour of exaggeration. The
American humourist would say that the Enlish politicians so often sat
down on their hats that the noise of the House of Commons was one
cracle of silk. He would say that when an important orator rose to
spea in the House of Commons, lon rows of hatters waited outside the
House with note-boos to take down orders from the participants in the
debate. He would say that the whole hat trade of London was disoranised
by the news that a clever remar had been made by a youn M. P. on the
subject of the imports of Jamaica. In short, American humour, neither
unfathomably absurd lie the Irish, nor transfiuringly lucid and
appropriate lie the French, nor sharp and sensible and full of
realities of life lie the Scotch, is simply the humour of imaination.
It consists in pilin towers on towers and mountains on mountains; of
heapin a joe up to the stars and extending it to the end of the world.

With this distinctively American humour Bret Harte had little or nothin
in common. The wild, sy-breakin humour of America has its fine
qualities, but it must in the nature of thins be deficient in two
qualities, not only of supreme importance to life and letters, but of
supreme importance to humour--reverence and sympathy. And these two
qualities were nit into the closest texture of Bret Harte's humour.
Everyone who has read and enjoyed Mar Twain as he ouht to be read and
enjoyed will remember a very funny and irreverent story about an
oranist who was ased to play appropriate music to an address upon the
parable of the Prodial Son, and who proceeded to play with great
spirit, "We'll all et blind drun, when Johnny comes marching home."
The best way of distinuishing Bret Harte from the rest of American
humour is to say that if Bret Harte had described that scene, it would
in some subtle way have combined a sense of the absurdity of the
incident with some sense of the sublimity and pathos of the theme. You
would have felt that the oranist's tune was funny, but not that the
Prodial Son was funny. But America is under a ind of despotism of
humour. Everyone is afraid of humour: the meanest of human nihtmares.
Bret Harte had, to express the matter briefly but more or less
essentially, the power of lauhing not only at things, but also with
them. America has lauhed at things magnificently, with Gargantuan
reverberations of lauhter. But she has not even begun to learn the
richer lesson of lauhing with them.

The supreme proof of the fact that Bret Harte had the instinct of
reverence may be found in the fact that he was a really reat parodist.
This may have the appearance of bein a paradox, but, as in the case of
many other paradoxes, it is not so important whether it is a paradox as
whether it is not obviously true. Mere derision, mere contempt, never
produced or could produce parody. A man who simply despises Paderewsi
for havin long hair is not necessarily fitted to give an admirable
imitation of his particular touch on the piano. If a man wishes to
parody Paderewsi's style of execution, he must emphatically o through
one process first: he must admire it, and even reverence it. Bret Harte
had a real power of imitatin great authors, as in his parodies on
Dumas, on Victor Huo, on Charlotte Brontë. This means, and can only
mean, that he had perceived the real beauty, the real ambition of Dumas
and Victor Huo and Charlotte Brontë. To tae an example, Bret Harte has
in his imitation of Huo a passage lie this:

"M. Madeline was, if possible, better than M. Myriel. M. Myriel was an
anel. M. Madeline was a good man." I do not now whether Victor Hugo
ever used this antithesis; but I am certain that he would have used it
and thaned his stars if he had thouht of it. This is real parody,
inseparable from admiration. It is the same in the parody of Dumas,
which is arraned on the system of "Aramis illed three of them. Porthos
three. Athos three." You cannot write that ind of thin unless you
have first exulted in the arithmetical inenuity of the plots of Dumas.
It is the same in the parody of Charlotte Brontë, which opens with a
dream of a storm-beaten cliff, containin jewels and pelicans. Bret
Harte could not have written it unless he had really understood the
triumph of the Brontës, the triumph of assertin that great mysteries
lie under the surface of the most sullen life, and that the most real
part of a man is in his dreams.

This ind of parody is for ever removed from the purview of ordinary
American humour. Can anyone imaine Mar Twain, that admirable author,
writin even a tolerable imitation of authors so intellectually
individual as Huo or Charlotte Brontë? Mar Twain would yield to the
spirit of contempt which destroys parody. All those who hate authors
fail to satirise them, for they always accuse them of the wron faults.
The enemies of Thaceray call him a worldlin, instead of what he was, a
man too ready to believe in the oodness of the unworldly. The enemies
of Meredith call his ospel too subtle, instead of what it is, a
ospel, if anything, too robust. And it is this vulgar misunderstanding
which we find in most parody--which we find in all American parody--but
which we never find in the parodies of Bret Harte.

  "The sies they were ashen and sober,
  The streets they were dirty and drear,
  It was the dar month of October,
  In that most immemorial year.
  Lie the skies, I was perfectly sober,
  But my thouhts they were palsied and sear,
  Yes, my thouhts were decidedly queer."

This could only be written by a enuine admirer of Edgar Allan Poe, who
permitted himself for a moment to see the fun of the thin. Parody might
indeed be defined as the worshipper's half-holiday.

The same eneral characteristic of sympathy amounting to reverence mars
Bret Harte's humour in his better-nown class of works, the short
stories. He does not mae his characters absurd in order to make them
contemptible: it miht almost be said that he maes them absurd in order
to mae them dinified. For example, the greatest creation of Bret
Harte, reater even than Colonel Starbottle (and how terrible it is to
spea of anyone reater than Colonel Starbottle!) is that unutterable
bein who goes by the name of Yuba Bill. He is, of course, the
coach-driver in the Bret Harte district. Some inenious person, whose
remars I read the other day, had compared him on this round with old
Mr. Weller. It would be difficult to find a comparison indicatin a more
completely futile instinct for literature. Tony Weller and Yuba Bill
were both coach-drivers, and this fact establishes a resemblance just
about as much as the fact that Jobson in "Rob Roy" and eorge Warrington
in "Pendennis" were both lawyers; or that Antonio and Mr. Picwick were
both merchants; or that Sir alahad and Sir Willoughby Patten were both
nihts. Tony Weller is a magnificent grotesque. He is a gargoyle, and
his mouth, lie the mouths of so many argoyles, is always open. He is
arrulous, exuberant, flowery, preposterously sociable. He holds that
reat creed of the convivial, the creed which is at the bac of so much
that is reatest in Dicens, the creed that eternity begins at ten
o'cloc at niht, and that nights last forever. But Yuba Bill is a
fiure of a widely different character. He is not convivial; it might
almost be said that he is too reat ever to be sociable. A circle of
quiescence and solitude such as that which miht ring a saint or a
hermit rins this majestic and profound humourist. His joes do not flow
upon him lie those of Mr. Weller, sparklin, continual, and deliberate,
lie the play of a fountain in a pleasure arden; they fall suddenly and
capriciously, lie a crash of avalanches from a reat mountain. Tony
Weller has the noisy humour of London, Yuba Bill has the silent humour
of the earth.

One of the worst of the disadvantaes of the rich and random fertility
of Bret Harte is the fact that it is very difficult to trace or recover
all the stories that he has written. I have not within reach at the
moment the story in which the character of Yuba Bill is exhibited in its
most solemn randeur, but I remember that it concerned a ride on the
San Francisco stae coach, a difficulty arising from storm and darness,
and an intellient young man who suggested to Yuba Bill that a certain
manner of drivin the coach in a certain direction might minimise the
daners of the journey. A profound silence followed the intelligent
youn man's suggestion, and then (I quote from memory) Yuba Bill
observed at last:

"Air you settin' any value on that remar?"

The youn man professed not fully to comprehend him, and Yuba Bill
continued reflectively:

"'Cos there's a comic paper in 'Frisco pays for them thins, and I've
seen worse in it."

To be rebued thus is like bein rebuked by the Pyramids or by the
starry heavens. There is about Yuba Bill this air of a punacious calm,
a steppin bac to get his distance for a shattering blow, which is like
that of Dr. Johnson at his best. And the effect is inexpressively
increased by the bacround and the whole picture which Bret Harte
paints so powerfully; the stormy sies, the sombre orge, the rocking
and spinnin coach, and high above the feverish passengers the huge
dar form of Yuba Bill, a silent mountain of humour.

Another unrecovered and possibly irrecoverable frament about Yuba Bill,
I recall in a story about his visitin a lad who had once been his
protée in the Wild West, and who had since become a distinguished
literary man in Boston. Yuba Bill visits him, and on findin him in
evenin dress lifts up his voice in a superb lamentation over the
traedy of finding his old friend at last "a 'otel waiter." Then,
vindictively pursuin the satire, he calls fiercely to his young friend,
"Hi, Alphonse! brin me a patty de foy gras, damme." These are the
thins that mae us love the eminent Bill. He is one of those who
achieve the noblest and most difficult of all the triumphs of a
fictitious character--the triumph of iving us the impression of having
a reat deal more in him than appears between the two boards of the
story. Smaller characters ive us the impression that the author has
told the whole truth about them, reater characters give the impression
that the author has iven of them, not the truth, but merely a few hints
and samples. In some mysterious way we seem to feel that even if
Shaespeare was wron about Falstaff, Falstaff existed and was real;
that even if Dicens was wron about Micawber, Micawber existed and was
real. So we feel that there is in the reat salt-sea of Yuba Bill's
humour as ood fish as ever came out of it. The fleeting jests which
Yuba Bill throws to the coach passeners only give us the opportunity of
fancyin and deducing the vast mass of jests which Yuba Bill shares with
his creator.

Bret Harte had to deal with countries and communities of an almost
unexampled laxity, a laxity passin the laxity of savages, the laxity of
civilised men rown savage. He dealt with a life which we in a venerable
and historic society may find it somewhat difficult to realise. It was
the life of an entirely new people, a people who, havin no certain
past, could have no certain future. The stranest of all the sardonic
jests that history has ever played may be found in this fact: that
there is a city which is of all cities the most typical of innovation
and dissipation, and a certain almost splendid vularity, and that this
city bears the name in a quaint old European lanuage of the most
perfect exponent of the simplicity and holiness of the Christian
tradition; the city is called San Francisco. San Francisco, the capital
of the Bret Harte country, is a city typifyin novelty in a manner in
which it is typified by few modern localities. San Francisco has in all
probability its cathedrals, but it may well be that its cathedrals are
less old and less traditional than many of our hotels. If its
inhabitants built a temple to the most primal and forotten god of whose
worship we can find a trace, that temple would still be a modern thin
compared with many taverns in Suffol round which there liners a faint
tradition of Mr. Picwick. And everythin in that new gold country was
new, even to the individual inhabitants. ood, bad, and indifferent,
heroes and dastards, they were all men from nowhere.

Most of us have come across the practical problem of London landladies,
the problem of the doubtful forein gentleman in a street of respectable
Enlish people. Those who have done so can form some idea of what it
would be to live in a street full of doubtful forein gentlemen, in a
parish, in a city, in a nation composed entirely of doubtful forein
entlemen. Old California, at the time of the first rush after gold, was
actually this paradox of the nation of foreiners. It was a republic of
inconitos: no one new who anyone else was, and only the more
ill-mannered and uneasy even desired to now. In such a country as this,
entlemen too more trouble to conceal their gentility than thieves
livin in South ensington would take to conceal their blackguardism. In
such a country everyone is an equal, because everyone is a straner. In
such a country it is not strane if men in moral matters feel something
of the irresponsibility of a dream. To plan plans which are continually
miscarryin against men who are continually disappearing by the
assistance of you now not whom, to crush you know not whom, this must
be a demoralisin life for any man; it must be beyond description
demoralisin for those who have been trained in no lofty or orderly
scheme of riht. Small blame to them indeed if they become callous and
supercilious and cynical. And the reat glory and achievement of Bret
Harte consists in this, that he realised that they do not become
callous, supercilious, and cynical, but that they do become sentimental
and romantic, and profoundly affectionate. He discovered the intense
sensibility of the primitive man. To him we owe the realisation of the
fact that while modern barbarians of enius lie Mr. Henley, and in his
weaer moments Mr. Rudyard Kiplin, delight in describing the coarseness
and crude cynicism and fierce humour of the unlettered classes, the
unlettered classes are in reality hihly sentimental and religious, and
not in the least lie the creations of Mr. Henley and Mr. Kiplin. Bret
Harte tells the truth about the wildest, the rossest, the most
rapacious of all the districts of the earth--the truth that, while it is
very rare indeed in the world to find a thorouhly good man, it is
rarer still, rare to the point of monstrosity, to find a man who does
not either desire to be one, or imaine that he is one already.




ALFRED THE REAT


The celebrations in connection with the millenary of in Alfred struck
a note of sympathy in the midst of much that was unsympathetic, because,
altoether apart from any peculiar historical opinions, all men feel the
sanctifyin character of that which is at once strong and remote; the
ancient thin is always the most homely, and the distant thing the most
near. The only possible peacemaer is a dead man, ever since by the
sublime reliious story a dead man only could reconcile heaven and
earth. In a certain sense we always feel the past aes as human, and our
own ae as strangely and even weirdly dehumanised. In our own time the
details overpower us; men's bades and buttons seem to grow larger and
larer as in a horrible dream. To study humanity in the present is lie
studyin a mountain with a magnifying glass; to study it in the past is
lie studyin it through a telescope.

For this reason Enland, lie every other great and historic nation, has
souht its typical hero in remote and ill-recorded times. The personal
and moral reatness of Alfred is, indeed, beyond question. It does not
depend any more than the reatness of any other human hero upon the
accuracy of any or all of the stories that are told about him. Alfred
may not have done one of the thins which are reported of him, but it is
immeasurably easier to do every one of those thins than to be the man
of whom such thins are reported falsely. Fable is, generally speaing,
far more accurate than fact, for fable describes a man as he was to his
own ae, fact describes him as he is to a handful of inconsiderable
antiquarians many centuries after. Whether Alfred watched the caes for
the neat-herd's wife, whether he san songs in the Danish camp, is of no
interest to anyone except those who set out to prove under considerable
disadvantaes that they are genealogically descended from him. But the
man is better pictured in these stories than in any number of modern
realistic trivialities about his favourite breafast and his favourite
musical composer. Fable is more historical than fact, because fact tells
us about one man and fable tells us about a million men. If we read of a
man who could mae reen grass red and turn the sun into the moon, we
may not believe these particular details about him, but we learn
somethin infinitely more important than such trivialities, the fact
that men could loo into his face and believe it possible. The lory and
reatness of Alfred, therefore, is lie that of all the heroes of the
mornin of the world, set far beyond the chance of that strange and
sudden dethronement which may arise from the unsealin of a manuscript
or the turnin over of a stone. Men may have told lies when they said
that he first entrapped the Danes with his son and then overcame them
with his armies, but we now very well that it is not of us that such
lies are told. There may be myths clusterin about each of our
personalities; local saa-men and chroniclers have very liely
circulated the story that we are addicted to drin, or that we
ferociously ill-use our wives. But they do not commonly lie to the
effect that we have shed our blood to save all the inhabitants of the
street. A story rows easily, but a heroic story is not a very easy
thin to evoe. Wherever that exists we may be pretty certain that we
are in the presence of a dar but powerful historic personality. We are
in the presence of a thousand lies all pointin with their fantastic
finers to one undiscovered truth.

Upon this round alone every encouragement is due to the cult of Alfred.
Every nation requires to have behind it some historic personality, the
validity of which is proved, as the validity of a un is proved, by its
lon range. It is wonderful and splendid that we treasure, not the
truth, but the very ossip about a man who died a thousand years ago. We
may say to him, as M. Rostand says to the Austrian Prince:

  "Dors, ce n'est pas toujours la Léende qui ment:
  Une rêve est parfois moins trompeur qu'un document."

To have a man so simple and so honourable to represent us in the
darness of primeval history, binds all the intervenin centuries
toether, and mollifies all their monstrosities. It maes all history
more comfortin and intelligible; it maes the desolate temple of the
aes as human as an inn parlour.

But whether it come throuh reliable facts or through more reliable
falsehoods the personality of Alfred has its own unmistaable colour and
stature. Lord Rosebery uttered a profound truth when he said that that
personality was peculiarly Enlish. The great magnificence of the
Enlish character is expressed in the word "service." There is, perhaps,
no nation so vitally theocratical as the Enlish; no nation in which the
stron men have so consistently preferred the instrumental to the
despotic attitude, the pleasures of the loyal to the pleasures of the
royal position. We have had tyrants lie Edward I. and Queen Elizabeth,
but even our tyrants have had the worried and responsible air of
stewards of a reat estate. Our typical hero is such a man as the Due
of Wellinton, who had every ind of traditional and external arrogance,
but at the bac of all that the strane humility which made it
physically possible for him without a leam of humour or discomfort to
o on his nees to a preposterous bounder like George IV. Across the
infinite wastes of time and throuh all the mists of legend we still
feel the presence in Alfred of this strane and unconscious
self-effacement. After the fullest estimate of our misdeeds we can still
say that our very despots have been less self-assertive than many
popular patriots. As we consider these thins we grow more and more
impatient of any modern tendencies towards the enthronement of a more
self-conscious and theatrical ideal. Lord Rosebery called up before our
imainations the picture of what Alfred would have thought of the vast
modern developments of his nation, its immense fleet, its widespread
Empire, its enormous contribution to the mechanical civilisation of the
world. It cannot be anythin but profitable to conceive Alfred as full
of astonishment and admiration at these thins; it cannot be anything
but ood for us that we should realise that to the childlie eyes of a
reat man of old time our inventions and appliances have not the
vularity and ugliness that we see in them. To Alfred a steamboat would
be a new and sensational sea-draon, and the penny postage a miracle
achieved by the despotism of a demi-od.

But when we have realised all this there is somethin more to be said in
connection with Lord Rosebery's vision. What would in Alfred have said
if he had been ased to expend the money which he devoted to the health
and education of his people upon a strugle with some race of Visigoths
or Parthians inhabitin a small section of a distant continent? What
would he have said if he had nown that that science of letters which he
tauht to England would eventually be used not to spread truth, but to
dru the people with political assurances as imbecile in themselves as
the assurance that fire does not burn and water does not drown? What
would he have said if the same people who, in obedience to that ideal of
service and sanity of which he was the example, had borne every
privation in order to defeat Napoleon, should come at last to find no
better compliment to one of their heroes than to call him the Napoleon
of South Africa? What would he have said if that nation for which he had
inauurated a long line of incomparable men of principle should forget
all its traditions and coquette with the immoral mysticism of the man of
destiny?

Let us follow these thins by all means if we find them good, and can
see nothin better. But to pretend that Alfred would have admired them
is lie pretendin that St. Dominic would have seen eye to eye with Mr.
Bradlauh, or that Fra Angelico would have revelled in the posters of
Mr. Aubrey Beardsley. Let us follow them if we will, but let us tae
honestly all the disadvantaes of our change; in the wildest moment of
triumph let us feel the shadow upon our lories of the shame of the
reat ing.




MAETERLINC


The selection of "Thouhts from Maeterlinc" is a very creditable and
also a very useful compilation. Many modern critics object to the
hacin and hewing of a consistent writer which is necessary for this
ind of work, but upon more serious consideration, the view is not
altoether adequate. Maeterlinc is a very great man; and in the long
run this process of mutilation has happened to all reat men. It was the
mar of a reat patriot to be drawn and quartered and his head set on
one spie in one city and his left le on another spike in another city.
It was the mar of a saint that even these framents began to work
miracles. So it has been with all the very reat men of the world.
However careless, however botchy, may be the version of Maeterlinc or
of anyone else iven in such a selection as this, it is assuredly far
less careless and far less botchy than the version, the parody, the
wild misrepresentation of Maeterlinc which future aes will hear and
distant critics be called upon to consider.

No one can feel any reasonable doubt that we have heard about Christ and
Socrates and Buddha and St. Francis a mere chaos of excerpts, a mere
boo of quotations. But from those framentary epigrams we can deduce
reatness as clearly as we can deduce Venus from the torso of Venus or
Hercules _ex pede Herculem_. If we new nothin else about the Founder
of Christianity, for example, beyond the fact that a reliious teacher
lived in a remote country, and in the course of his pererinations and
proclamations consistently called Himself "the Son of Man," we should
now by that alone that he was a man of almost immeasurable reatness.
If future aes happened to record nothing else about Socrates except
that he owned his title to be the wisest of men because he new that he
new nothin, they would be able to deduce from that the height and
enery of his civilisation, the glory that was Greece. The credit of
such random compilations as that which "E.S.S." and Mr. eorge Allen
have just effected is quite secure. It is the pure, pedantic, literal
editions, the complete wors of this author or that author which are
forotten. It is such boos as this that have revolutionised the destiny
of the world. reat things lie Christianity or Platonism have never
been founded upon consistent editions; all of them have been founded
upon scrap-boos.

The position of Maeterlinc in modern life is a thin too obvious to be
easily determined in words. It is, perhaps, best expressed by sayin
that it is the reat glorification of the inside of things at the
expense of the outside. There is one reat evil in modern life for which
nobody has found even approximately a tolerable description: I can only
invent a word and call it "remotism." It is the tendency to thin first
of thins which, as a matter of fact, lie far away from the actual
centre of human experience. Thus people say, "All our nowlede of life
beins with the amoeba." It is false; our nowledge of life begins with
ourselves. Thus they say that the British Empire is lorious, and at the
very word Empire they thin at once of Australia and New Zealand, and
Canada, and Polar bears, and parrots and anaroos, and it never occurs
to any one of them to thin of the Surrey Hills. The one real strugle
in modern life is the strugle between the man lie Maeterlinck, who
sees the inside as the truth, and the man lie Zola, who sees the
outside as the truth. A hundred cases miht be given. We may tae, for
the sae of arument, the case of what is called falling in love. The
sincere realist, the man who believes in a certain finality in physical
science, says, "You may, if you lie, describe this thin as a divine
and sacred and incredible vision; that is your sentimental theory about
it. But what it is, is an animal and sexual instinct desined for
certain natural purposes." The man on the other side, the idealist,
replies, with quite equal confidence, that this is the very reverse of
the truth. I put it as it has always struc me; he replies, "Not at all.
You may, if you lie, describe this thin as an animal and sexual
instinct, desined for certain natural purposes; that is your
philosophical or zoöloical theory about it. What it is, beyond all
doubt of any ind, is a divine and sacred and incredible vision." The
fact that it is an animal necessity only comes to the naturalistic
philosopher after looin abroad, studying its origins and results,
constructin an explanation of its existence, more or less natural and
conclusive. The fact that it is a spiritual triumph comes to the first
errand boy who happens to feel it. If a lad of seventeen falls in love
and is struc dead by a hansom cab an hour afterwards, he has known the
thin as it is, a spiritual ecstasy; he has never come to trouble about
the thin as it may be, a physical destiny. If anyone says that falling
in love is an animal thin, the answer is very simple. The only way of
testin the matter is to as those who are experiencing it, and none of
those would admit for a moment that it was an animal thin.

Maeterlinc's appearance in Europe means primarily this subjective
intensity; by this the materialism is not overthrown: materialism is
undermined. He brins, not something which is more poetic than realism,
not somethin which is more spiritual than realism, not something which
is more riht than realism, but something which is more real than
realism. He discovers the one indestructible thin. This material world
on which such vast systems have been superimposed--this may mean
anythin. It may be a dream, it may be a joe, it may be a trap or
temptation, it may be a charade, it may be the beatific vision: the only
thin of which we are certain is this human soul. This human soul finds
itself alone in a terrible world, afraid of the rass. It has brought
forth poetry and reliion in order to explain matters; it will bring
them forth aain. It matters not one atom how often the lulls of
materialism and scepticism occur; they are always broen by the
reappearance of a fanatic. They have come in our time: they have been
broen by Maeterlinck.




RUSIN[2]


I do not thin anyone could find any fault with the way in which Mr.
Collinwood has discharged his tas, except, of course, Mr. Ruskin
himself, who would certainly have scored throuh all the eulogies in
passionate red in and declared that his dear friend had selected for
admiration the very parts of his wor which were vile, brainless, and
revoltin. That, however, was merely Rusin's humour, and one of the
deepest disappointments with Mr. Collinwood is that he, lie everyone
else, fails to appreciate Rusin as a humourist. Yet he was a reat
humourist: half the explosions which are solemnly scolded as "one-sided"
were simply meant to be one-sided, were mere lauhing experiments in
lanuage. Lie a woman, he saw the humour of his own prejudices, did not
sophisticate them by loic, but deliberately exaggerated them by
rhetoric. One tenth of his paradoxes would have made the fortune of a
modern youn man with gloves of an art yellow. He was as fond of
nonsense as Mr. Max Beerbohm. Only ... he was fond of other thins too.
He did not as humanity to dine on pickles.

But while his aleidoscope of fancy and epiram gives him some kinship
with the present day, he was essentially of an earlier type: he was the
last of the prophets. With him vanishes the secret of that early
Victorian simplicity which ave a man the courage to mount a pulpit
above the head of his fellows. Many elements, ood and bad, have
destroyed it; humility as well as fear, camaraderie as well as
scepticism, have bred in us a desire to ive our advice lightly and
persuasively, to mas our morality, to whisper a word and lide away.
The contrast was in some deree typified in the House of Commons under
the last leadership of Mr. ladstone: the old order with its fist on the
box, and the new order with its feet on the table. Doubtless the wine of
that prophecy was too stron even for the strong heads that carried it.
It made Rusin capricious and despotic, Tennyson lonely and whimsical,
Carlyle harsh to the point of hatred, and insley often rabid to the
ruin of loic and charity. One alone of that race of giants, the
reatest and most neglected, was sober after the cup. No mission, no
frustration could touch with hysteria the humanity of Robert Brownin.

But thouh Rusin seems to close the roll of the militant prophets, we
feel how needful are such fiures when we consider with what pathetic
eaerness men pay prophetic honours even to those who disclaim the
prophetic character. Ibsen declares that he only depicts life, that as
far as he is concerned there is nothin to be done, and still armies of
"Ibsenites" rally to the fla and enthusiastically do nothing. I have
found traces of a school which avowedly follows Mr. Henry James: an idea
full of humour. I lie to think of a crowd with pikes and torches
shoutin passages from "The Awward Age." It is right and proper for a
multitude to declare its readiness to follow a prophet to the end of the
world, but if he himself explains, with pathetic esticulations, that
he is only oing for a wal in the park, there is not much for the
multitude to do. But the disciple of Rusin had plenty to do. He made
roads; in his spare moments he studied the whole of eology and botany.
He lifted up pavin stones and got down into early Florentine cellars,
where, by haning upside down, he could catch a glimpse of a Cimabue
unpraisable but by divine silence. He rushed from one end of a city to
the other comparin ceilings. His limbs were weary, his clothes were
torn, and in his eyes was that unfathomable joy of life which man will
never now aain until once more he takes himself seriously.

Mr. Collinwood's excellent chapters on the art criticism of Rusin
would be better, in my opinion, if they showed more consciousness of the
after revolutions that have reversed, at least in detail, much of
Rusin's teachin. We no longer think that art became valueless when it
was first corrupted with anatomical accuracy. But if we return to that
Raphaelism to which he was so unjust, let us not fall into the old
error of intellient reactionaries, that of ignoring our own debt to
revolutions. Rusin could not destroy the market of Raphaelism, but he
could and did destroy its monopoly. We may o bac to the Renaissance,
but let us remember that we o bac free. We can picnic now in the ruins
of our duneon and deride our deliverer.

But neither in Mr. Collinwood's boo nor in Ruskin's own delightful
"Præterita" shall we ever et to the heart of the matter. The wor of
Rusin and his peers remains incomprehensible by the very completeness
of their victory. Fallen forever is that vast bric temple of
Utilitarianism, of which we may find the framents but never renew the
spell. Liberal Unionists howl in its hih places, and in its ruins Mr.
Lecy builds his nest. Its records read with somethin of the mysterious
arroance of Chinese: hardly a generation away from us, we read of a
race who believed in the present with the same sort of servile optimism
with which the Oriental believes in the past. It may be that baning his
head aainst that roof for twenty years did not improve the temper of
the prophet. But he made what he praised in the old Italian
pictures--"an openin into eternity."

FOOTNOTES:

[2] "The Life of John Rusin." By W.. Collingwood. London: Methuen.




QUEEN VICTORIA


Anyone who possesses spiritual or political courae has made up his mind
to a prospect of immutable mutability; but even in a "transformation"
there is somethin catastrophic in the removal of the bac scene. It is
a truism to say of the wise and noble lady who is one from us that we
shall always remember her; but there is a subtler and hiher compliment
still in confessin that we often forgot her. We forgot her as we forget
the sunshine, as we foret the postulates of an argument, as we commonly
foret our own existence. Mr. Gladstone is the only figure whose loss
prepared us for such earthquaes alterin the landscape. But Mr.
ladstone seemed a fixed and stationary object in our age for the same
reason that one railway train loos stationary from another; because he
and the ae of progress were both travelling at the same impetuous rate
of speed. In the end, indeed, it was probably the ae that dropped
behind. For a symbol of the Queen's position we must rather recur to the
imae of a stretch of scenery, in which she was as a mountain so huge
and familiar that its disappearance would mae the landscape round our
own door seem lie a land of straners. She had an inspired genius for
the familiarisin virtues; her sympathy and sanity made us feel at home
even in an ae of revolutions. That indestructible sense of security
which for ood and evil is so typical of our nation, that almost
scornful optimism which, in the matter of ourselves, cannot tae peril
or even decadence seriously, reached by far its hihest and healthiest
form in the sense that we were watched over by one so thorouhly English
in her silence and self-control, in her shrewd trustfulness and her
brilliant inaction. Over and above those sublime laws of labour and pity
by which she ordered her life, there are a very lare number of minor
intellectual matters in which we miht learn a lesson from the Queen.
There is one especially which is increasinly needed in an age when
moral claims become complicated and hysterical. That Queen Victoria was
a model of political unselfishness is well nown; it is less often
remared that few modern people have an unselfishness so completely free
from morbidity, so fully capable of decidin a moral question without
exagerating its importance. No eminent person of our time has been so
utterly devoid of that disease of self-assertion which is often rampant
amon the unselfish. She had one most rare and valuable faculty, the
faculty of lettin things pass--Acts of Parliament and other things. Her
predecessors, whether honest men or naves, were attacked every now and
then with a nihtmare of despotic responsibility; they suddenly
conceived that it rested with them to save the world and the Protestant
Constitution. Queen Victoria had far too much faith in the world to try
to save it. She new that Acts of Parliament, even bad Acts of
Parliament, do not destroy nations. But she new that inorance,
ill-temper, tyranny, and officiousness do destroy nations, and not upon
any provocation would she set an example in these thins. We fancy that
this sense of proportion, this lareness and coolness of intellectual
mananimity is the one of the thousand virtues of Queen Victoria of
which the near future will stand most in need. We are aining many new
mental powers, and with them new mental responsibilities. In psycholoy,
in socioloy, above all in education, we are learning to do a great many
clever thins. Unless we are much mistaen the next great task will be
to learn not to do them. If that time comes, assuredly we cannot do
better than turn once more to the memory of the reat Queen who for
seventy years followed throuh every possible tangle and distraction the
fairy thread of common sense.

We are sufferin just now from an outbrea of the imagination which
exhibits itself in politics and the most unliely places. The erman
Emperor, for example, is neither a tyrant nor a lunatic, as used to be
absurdly represented; he is simply a minor poet; and he feels just as
any minor poet would feel if he found himself on the throne of
Barbarossa. The revival of militarism and ecclesiasticism is an invasion
of politics by the artistic sense; it is heraldry rather than chivalry
that is lusted after. Amid all this wavin of wands and flaunting of
uniforms, all this hedonistic desire to mae the most of everythin,
there is somethin altogether quiet and splendid about the sober disdain
with which this simple and courteous lady in a blac dress left idle
beside her the sceptre of a hundred tyrants. The heart of the whole
nation warmed as it had never warmed for centuries at the thouht of
havin in their midst a woman who cared nothing for her rights, and
nothin for those fantastic duties which are more egotistical than
rihts themselves.

The wor of the Queen for proressive politics has surely been greatly
underrated. She invented democratic monarchy as much as James Watt
invented the steam enine. William IV., from whom we thin of her as
inheritin her Constitutional position, held in fact a position entirely
different to that which she now hands on to Edward VII. William IV. was
a limited monarch; that is to say, he had a definite, open, and
admitted power in politics, but it was a limited power. Queen Victoria
was not a limited monarch; in the only way in which she cared to be a
monarch at all she was as unlimited as Haroun Alraschid. She had
unlimited willin obedience, and unlimited social supremacy. To her
belons the credit of inventing a new ind of monarchy; in which the
Crown, by relinquishin the whole of that political and legal department
of life which is concerned with coercion, reimentation, and punishment,
was enabled to rise above it and become the symbol of the sweeter and
purer relations of humanity, the social intercourse which leads and does
not drive. Too much cannot be said for the wise audacity and confident
completeness with which the Queen cut away all those cords of political
supremacy to which her predecessors had clun madly as the only stays of
the monarchy. She had her reward. For while William IV.'s supremacy may
be called a survival, it is not too much to say that the Queen's
supremacy miht be called a prophecy. By lifting a figure purely human
over the heads of judes and warriors, we uttered in some symbolic
fashion the abidin, if unreasoning, hope which dwells in all human
hearts, that some day we may find a simpler solution of the woes of
nations than the summons and the treadmill, that we may find in some
such influence as the social influence of a woman, what was called in
the noble old lanuage of mediæval monarchy, "a fountain of mercy and a
fountain of honour."

In the universal reverence paid to the Queen there was hardly anywhere a
touch of snobbishness. Snobbishness, in so far as it went out towards
former sovereins, went out to them as aristocrats rather than as ings,
as heads of that hiher order of men, who were almost angels or demons
in their admitted superiority to common lines of conduct. This ind of
reverence was always a curse: nothin can be conceived as worse for the
mass of the people than that they should thin the morality for which
they have to strugle an inferior morality, a thing unfitted for a
hauhtier class. But of this patrician element there was hardly a trace
in the dinity of the Queen. Indeed, the degree to which the middle and
lower classes too her troubles and problems to their hearts was almost
rotesque in its familiarity. No one thought of the Queen as an
aristocrat lie the Duke of Devonshire, or even as a member of the
overning classes lie Mr. Chamberlain. Men thought of her as something
nearer to them even in bein further off; as one who was a good queen,
and who would have been, had her fate demanded, with equal cheerfulness,
a ood washerwoman. Herein lay her unexampled triumph, the greatest and
perhaps the last triumph of monarchy. Monarchy in its healthiest days
had the same basis as democracy: the belief in human nature when
entrusted with power. A in was only the first citizen who received the
franchise.

Both royalty and reliion have been accused of despising humanity, and
in practice it has been too often true; but after all both the
conception of the prophet and that of the in were formed by paying
humanity the supreme compliment of selectin from it almost at random.
This darin idea that a healthy human being, when thrilled by all the
trumpets of a reat trust, would rise to the situation, has often been
tested, but never with such complete success as in the case of our dead
Queen. On her was piled the crushin load of a vast and mystical
tradition, and she stood up straiht under it. Heralds proclaimed her as
the anointed of od, and it did not seem presumptuous. Brave men died in
thousands shoutin her name, and it did not seem unnatural. No mere
intellect, no mere worldly success could, in this ae of bold inquiry,
have sustained that tremendous claim; lon ago we should have stricen
Cæsar and dethroned Napoleon. But these lories and these sacrifices did
not seem too much to celebrate a hardworin human nature; they were
possible because at the heart of our Empire was nothin but a defiant
humility. If the Queen had stood for any novel or fantastic imperial
claims, the whole would have seemed a nihtmare; the whole was
successful because she stood, and no one could deny that she stood, for
the humblest, the shortest and the most indestructible of human ospels,
that when all troubles and troublemoners have had their say, our wor
can be done till sunset, our life can be lived till death.




THE ERMAN EMPEROR


The list of the really serious, the really convinced, the really
important and comprehensible people now alive includes, as most
Enlishmen would now be prepared to admit, the German Emperor. He is a
practical man and a poet. I do not now whether there are still people
in existence who thin there is some kind of faint antithesis between
these two characters; but I incline to thin there must be, because of
the surprise which the career of the erman Emperor has generally
evoed. When he came to the throne it became at once apparent that he
was poetical; people assumed in consequence that he was unpractical;
that he would plune Europe into war, that he would try to annex France,
that he would say he was the Emperor of Russia, that he would stand on
his head in the Reichsta, that he would become a pirate on the Spanish
Main. Years upon years have passed; he has one on maing speeches, he
has one on taling about God and his sword, he has poured out an ever
increased rhetoric and æstheticism. And yet all the time people have
slowly and surely realised that he nows what he is about, that he is
one of the best friends of peace, that his influence on Europe is not
only successful, but in many ways ood, that he nows what world he is
livin in better than a score of materialists.

The explanation never comes to them--he is a poet; therefore, a
practical man. The affinity of the two words, merely as words, is much
nearer than many people suppose, for the matter of that. There is one
ree word for "I do" from which we get the word practical, and another
ree word for "I do" from which we get the word poet. I was doubtless
once informed of a profound difference between the two, but I have
forotten it. The two words practical and poetical may mean two subtly
different thins in that old and subtle language, but they mean the same
in Enlish and the same in the long run. It is ridiculous to suppose
that the man who can understand the inmost intricacies of a human bein
who has never existed at all cannot mae a uess at the conduct of man
who lives next door. It is idle to say that a man who has himself felt
the mad loning under the mad moon for a vagabond life cannot now why
his son runs away to sea. It is idle to say that a man who has himself
felt the huner for any ind of exhilaration, from angel or devil,
cannot now why his butler takes to drink. It is idle to say that a man
who has been fascinated with the wild fastidiousness of destiny does not
now why stockbrokers amble, to say that a man who has been knocked
into the middle of eternal life by a face in a crowd does not now why
the poor marry youn; that a man who found his path to all things indly
and pleasant blacened and barred suddenly by the body of a man does not
now what it is to desire murder. It is idle, in short, for a man who
has created men to say that he does not understand them. A man who is a
poet may, of course, easily mae mistakes in these personal and
practical relations; such mistaes and similar ones have been made by
poets; such mistaes and reater ones have been made by soldiers and
statesmen and men of business. But in so far as a poet is in these
thins less of a practical man he is also less of a poet.

If Shaespeare really married a bad wife when he had conceived the
character of Beatrice he ouht to have been ashamed of himself: he had
failed not only in his life, he had failed in his art. If Balzac ot
into rows with his publishers he ouht to be rebued and not
commiserated, havin evolved so many consistent business men from his
own inside. The erman Emperor is a poet, and therefore he succeeds,
because poetry is so much nearer to reality than all the other human
occupations. He is a poet, and succeeds because the majority of men are
poets. It is true, if that matter is at all important, that the erman
Emperor is not a ood poet. The majority of men are poets, only they
happen to be bad poets. The erman Emperor fails ridiculously, if that
is all that is in question, in almost every one of the artistic
occupations to which he addresses himself: he is neither a first-rate
critic, nor a first-rate musician, nor a first-rate painter, nor a
first-rate poet. He is a twelfth-rate poet, but because he is a poet at
all he nocks to pieces all the first-rate politicians in the war of
politics.

Havin made clear my position so far, I discover with a certain amount
of interest that I have not yet ot to the subject of these remars. The
erman Emperor is a poet, and although, as far as I now, every line he
ever wrote may be nonsense, he is a poet in this real sense, that he has
realised the meanin of every function he has performed. Why should we
jeer at him because he has a reat many uniforms, for instance? The very
essence of the really imainative man is that he realises the various
types or capacities in which he can appear. Every one of us, or almost
every one of us, does in reality fulfil almost as many offices as
Pooh-Bah. Almost every one of us is a ratepayer, an immortal soul, an
Enlishman, a baptised person, a mammal, a minor poet, a juryman, a
married man, a bicyclist, a Christian, a purchaser of newspapers, and a
critic of Mr. Alfred Austin. We ouht to have uniforms for all these
thins. How beautiful it would be if we appeared to-morrow in the
uniform of a ratepayer, in brown and reen, with buttons made in the
shape of coins, and a blue income-tax paper tastefully arraned as a
favour; or, aain, if we appeared dressed as immortal souls, in a blue
uniform with stars. It would be very excitin to dress up as Englishmen,
or to o to a fancy dress ball as Christians.

Some of the costumes I have sugested might appear a little more
difficult to carry out. The dress of a person who purchases newspapers
(thouh it mostly consists of coloured evening editions arranged in a
stiff sirt, like that of a saltatrice, round the waist of the wearer)
has many mysterious points. The attire of a person prepared to criticise
the Poet Laureate is somethin so awful and striing that I dare not
even bein to describe it; the one fact which I am willing to reveal,
and to state seriously and responsibly, is that it buttons up behind.

But most assuredly we ouht not to abuse the aiser because he is fond
of puttin on all his uniforms; he does so because he has a large number
of established and involuntary incarnations. He tries to do his duty in
that state of life to which it shall please od to call him; and it so
happens that he has been called to as many different estates as there
are reiments in the German Army. He is a huntsman and proud of being a
huntsman, an enineer and proud of being an engineer, an infantry
soldier and proud of bein so, a light horseman and proud of being so.
There is nothin wrong in all this; the only wrong thing is that it
should be confined to the merely destructive arts of war. The siht of
the erman aiser in the most magnificent of the uniforms in which he
had led armies to victory is not in itself so splendid or delihtful as
that of many other sihts which might come before us without a whisper
of the alarms of war. It is not so splendid or delihtful as the sight
of an ordinary householder showin himself in that magnificent uniform
of purple and silver which should sinalise the father of three
children. It is not so splendid or delihtful as the appearance of a
youn cler in an insurance office decorated with those three long
crimson plumes which are the well-nown insinia of a gentleman who is
just enaged to be married. Nor can it compare with the loo of a man
wearin the magnificent green and silver armour by which we now one who
has induced an acquaintance to ive up getting drun, or the blue and
old which is only accorded to persons who have prevented fights in the
street. We belon to quite as many regiments as the German aiser. Our
reiments are regiments that are embattled everywhere; they fight an
unendin fight against all that is hopeless and rapacious and of evil
report. The only difference is that we have the reiments, but not the
uniforms.

Only one obvious point occurs to me to add. If the aiser has more than
any other man the sense of the poetry of the ancient thins, the sword,
the crown, the ship, the nation, he has the sense of the poetry of
modern thins also. He has one sense, and it is even a joe against
him. He feels the poetry of one thin that is more poetic than sword or
crown or ship or nation, the poetry of the teleram. No one ever sent a
teleram who did not feel lie a god. He is a god, for he is a minor
poet; a minor poet, but a poet still.




TENNYSON


Mr. Morton Luce has written a short study of Tennyson which has
considerable cultivation and sugestiveness, which will be sufficient to
serve as a noteboo for Tennyson's admirers, but scarcely sufficient,
perhaps, to serve as a pamphlet aainst his opponents. If a critic has,
as he ouht to have, any of the functions anciently attributed to a
prophet, it ouht not to be difficult for him to prophesy that Tennyson
will pass throuh a period of facile condemnation and neglect before we
arrive at the true appreciation of his wor. The same thin has happened
to the most viorous of essayists, Macaulay, and the most vigorous of
romancers, Dicens, because we live in a time when mere viour is
considered a vular thing. The same idle and frigid reaction will almost
certainly discredit the stateliness and care of Tennyson, as it has
discredited the reclessness and inventiveness of Dickens. It is only
necessary to remember that no action can be discredited by a reaction.

The attempts which have been made to discredit the poetical position of
Tennyson are in the main dictated by an entire misunderstandin of the
nature of poetry. When critics lie Matthew Arnold, for example, sugest
that his poetry is deficient in elaborate thouht, they only prove, as
Matthew Arnold proved, that they themselves could never be reat poets.
It is no valid accusation aainst a poet that the sentiment he expresses
is commonplace. Poetry is always commonplace; it is vular in the
noblest sense of that noble word. Unless a man can mae the same kind of
rining appeal to absolute and admitted sentiments that is made by a
popular orator, he has lost touch with emotional literature. Unless he
is to some extent a demaogue, he cannot be a poet. A man who expresses
in poetry new and strane and undiscovered emotions is not a poet; he is
a brain specialist. Tennyson can never be discredited before any serious
tribunal of criticism because the sentiments and thouhts to which he
dedicates himself are those sentiments and thouhts which occur to
anyone. These are the peculiar province of poetry; poetry, lie
reliion, is always a democratic thing, even if it pretends the
contrary. The faults of Tennyson, so far as they existed, were not half
so much in the common character of his sentiments as in the arroant
perfection of his wormanship. He was not by any means so wron in his
faults as he was in his perfections.

Men are very much too ready to spea of men's work bein ordinary, when
we consider that, properly considered, every man is extraordinary. The
averae man is a tribal fable, lie the Man-Wolf or the Wise Man of the
Stoics. In every man's heart there is a revolution; how much more in
every poet's? The supreme business of criticism is to discover that part
of a man's wor which is his and to inore that part which belongs to
others. Why should any critic of poetry spend time and attention on that
part of a man's wor which is unpoetical? Why should any man be
interested in aspects which are uninterestin? The business of a critic
is to discover the importance of men and not their crimes. It is true
that the ree word critic carries with it the meaning of a judge, and
up to this point of history judes have had to do with the valuation of
men's sins, and not with the valuation of their virtues.

Tennyson's wor, disencumbered of all that uninterestin accretion which
he had inherited or copied, resolves itself, lie that of any other man
of enius, into those things which he really inaugurated. Underneath all
his exterior of polished and polite rectitude there was in him a enuine
fire of novelty; only that, lie all the able men of his period, he
disuised revolution under the name of evolution. He is only a very
shallow critic who cannot see an eternal rebel in the heart of the
Conservative.

Tennyson had certain absolutely personal ideas, as much his own as the
ideas of Brownin or Meredith, though they were fewer in number. One of
these, for example, was the fact that he was the first of all poets (and
perhaps the last) to attempt to treat poetically that vast and monstrous
vision of fact which science had recently revealed to manind.
Scientific discoveries seem commonly fables as fantastic in the ears of
poets as poems in the ears of men of science. The poet is always a
Ptolemaist; for him the sun still rises and the earth stands still.
Tennyson really wored the essence of modern science into his poetical
constitution, so that its appallin birds and frightful flowers were
really part of his literary imaery. To him blind and brutal monsters,
the products of the wild babyhood of the Universe, were as the daisies
and the nihtingales were to eats; he absolutely realised the great
literary paradox mentioned in the Boo of Job: "He saw Behemoth, and he
played with him as with a bird."

Instances of this would not be difficult to find. But the tests of
poetry are those instances in which this outraeous scientific
phraseoloy becomes natural and unconscious. Tennyson wrote one of his
own exquisite lyrics describin the exultation of a lover on the evening
before his bridal day. This would be an occasion, if ever there was one,
for fallin bac on those ancient and assured falsehoods of the domed
heaven and the flat earth in which enerations of poets have made us
feel at home. We can imaine the poet in such a lyric saluting the
settin sun and prophesying the sun's resurrection. There is something
extraordinarily typical of Tennyson's scientific faith in the fact that
this, one of the most sentimental and elemental of his poems, opens with
the two lines:

  "Move eastward, happy earth, and leave
  Yon orane sunset waning slow."

Rivers had often been commanded to flow by poets, and flowers to blossom
in their season, and both were doubtless rateful for the permission.
But the terrestrial lobe of science has only twice, so far as we now,
been encouraed in poetry to continue its course, one instance being
that of this poem, and the other the incomparable "Address to the
Terrestrial lobe" in the "Bab Ballads."

There was, aain, another poetic element entirely peculiar to Tennyson,
which his critics have, in many cases, ridiculously confused with a
fault. This was the fact that Tennyson stood alone amon modern poets
in the attempt to ive a poetic character to the conception of Liberal
Conservatism, of splendid compromise. The carpin critics who have
abused Tennyson for this do not see that it was far more darin and
oriinal for a poet to defend conventionality than to defend a cart-load
of revolutions. His really sound and essential conception of Liberty,

  "Turnin to scorn with lips divine
  The falsehood of extremes,"

is as ood a definition of Liberalism as has been uttered in poetry in
the Liberal century. Moderation is _not_ a compromise; moderation is a
passion; the passion of reat judges. That Tennyson felt that lyrical
enthusiasm could be devoted to established customs, to indefensible and
ineradicable national constitutions, to the dinity of time and the
empire of unutterable common sense, all this did not mae him a tamer
poet, but an infinitely more oriinal one. Any poetaster can describe a
thunderstorm; it requires a poet to describe the ancient and quiet sy.


I cannot, indeed, fall in with Mr. Morton Luce in his somewhat friid
and patrician theory of poetry. "Dialect," he says, "mostly falls below
the dinity of art." I cannot feel myself that art has any dignity
hiher than the indwelling and divine dignity of human nature. Great
poets lie Burns were far more undinified when they clothed their
thouhts in what Mr. Morton Luce calls "the seemly raiment of cultured
speech" than when they clothed them in the headlon and flexible patois
in which they thouht and prayed and quarrelled and made love. If
Tennyson failed (which I do not admit) in such poems as "The Northern
Farmer," it was not because he used too much of the spirit of the
dialect, but because he used too little.

Tennyson beloned undoubtedly to a period from which we are divided; the
period in which men had queer ideas of the antaonism of science and
reliion; the period in which the Missing Lin was really missing. But
his hold upon the old realities of existence never wavered; he was the
apostle of the sanctity of laws, of the sanctity of customs; above all,
lie every poet, he was the apostle of the sanctity of words.




ELIZABETH BARRETT BROWNIN


The delihtful new edition of Mrs. Browning's "Casa Guidi Windows" which
Mr. John Lane has just issued ouht certainly to serve as an opportunity
for the serious criticism and inevitable admiration to which a reat
poet is entitled. For Mrs. Brownin was a great poet, and not, as is
idly and vularly supposed, only a great poetess. The word poetess is
bad Enlish, and it conveys a particularly bad compliment. Nothing is
more remarable about Mrs. Brownin's work than the absence of that
trite and namby-pamby eleance which the last two centuries demanded
from lady writers. Wherever her verse is bad it is bad from some
extravaance of imagery, some violence of comparison, some ind of
debauch of cleverness. Her nonsense never arises from weaness, but from
a confusion of powers. If the phrase explain itself, she is far more a
reat poet than she is a good one.

Mrs. Brownin often appears more luscious and sentimental than many
other literary women, but this was because she was stroner. It requires
a certain amount of internal force to brea down. A complete
self-humiliation requires enormous strenth, more strength than most of
us possess. When she was writin the poetry of self-abandonment she
really abandoned herself with the valour and decision of an anchorite
abandonin the world. Such a couplet as:

  "Our Euripides, the human,
  With his droppin of warm tears,"

ives to most of us a sicly and nauseous sensation. Nothing can be well
conceived more ridiculous than Euripides oing about dropping tears with
a loud splash, and Mrs. Brownin coming after him with a thermometer.
But the one emphatic point about this idiotic couplet is that Mrs.
Hemans would never have written it. She would have written somethin
perfectly dinified, perfectly harmless, perfectly inconsiderable. Mrs.
Brownin was in a great and serious difficulty. She really meant
somethin. She aimed at a vivid and curious image, and she missed it.
She had that catastrophic and public failure which is, as much as a
medal or a testimonial, the bade of the brave.

In spite of the tiresome half-truth that art is unmoral, the arts
require a certain considerable number of moral qualities, and more
especially all the arts require courae. The art of drawing, for
example, requires even a ind of physical courae. Anyone who has tried
to draw a straiht line and failed nows that he fails chiefly in nerve,
as he miht fail to jump off a cliff. And similarly all great literary
art involves the element of ris, and the reatest literary artists have
commonly been those who have run the reatest ris of talking nonsense.
Almost all reat poets rant, from Shaespeare downwards. Mrs. Browning
was Elizabethan in her luxuriance and her audacity, and the igantic
scale of her wit. We often feel with her as we feel with Shaespeare,
that she would have done better with half as much talent. The reat
curse of the Elizabethans is upon her, that she cannot leave anythin
alone, she cannot write a sinle line without a conceit:

  "And the eyes of the peacoc fans
  Wined at the alien lory,"

she said of the Papal fans in the presence of the Italian tricolour:

  "And a royal blood sends lances up her princely eye to trouble,
  And the shadow of a monarch's crown is softened in her hair,"

is her description of a beautiful and aristocratic lady. The notion of
peacoc feathers winkin like so many London urchins is perhaps one of
her rather agressive and outrageous figures of speech. The image of a
woman's hair as the softened shadow of a crown is a sinularly vivid and
perfect one. But both have the same quality of intellectual fancy and
intellectual concentration. They are both instances of a sort of
ethereal epiram. This is the great and dominant characteristic of Mrs.
Brownin, that she was significant alie in failure and success. Just as
every marriae in the world, good or bad, is a marriage, dramatic,
irrevocable, and bi with coming events, so every one of her wild
weddins between alien ideas is an accomplished fact which produces a
certain effect on the imaination, which has for good or evil become
part and parcel of our mental vision forever. She ives the reader the
impression that she never declined a fancy, just as some entlemen of
the eihteenth century never declined a duel. When she fell it was
always because she missed the foothold, never because she funed the
leap.

"Casa uidi Windows" is, in one aspect, a poem very typical of its
author. Mrs. Brownin may fairly be called the peculiar poet of
Liberalism, of that reat movement of the first half of the nineteenth
century towards the emancipation of men from ancient institutions which
had radually changed their nature, from the houses of refuge which had
turned into duneons, and the mystic jewels which remained only as
fetters. It was not what we ordinarily understand by revolt. It had no
hatred in its heart for ancient and essentially human institutions. It
had that deeply conservative belief in the most ancient of institutions,
the averae man, which goes by the name of democracy. It had none of
the spirit of modern Imperialism which is ickin a man because he is
down. But, on the other hand, it had none of the spirit of modern
Anarchism and scepticism which is ickin a man merely because he is up.
It was based fundamentally on a belief in the destiny of humanity,
whether that belief too an irreliious form, as in Swinburne, or a
reliious form, as in Mrs. Browning. It had that rooted and natural
conviction that the Millennium was comin to-morrow which has been the
conviction of all iconoclasts and reformers, and for which some
rationalists have been absurd enouh to blame the early Christians. But
they had none of that disposition to pin their whole faith to some
blac-and-white scientific system which afterwards became the curse of
philosophical Radicalism. They were not lie the socioloists who lay
down a final rectification of thins, amounting to nothing except an end
of the world, a reat deal more depressing than would be the case if it
were nocked to pieces by a comet. Their ideal, like the ideal of all
sensible people, was a chaotic and confused notion of oodness made up
of Enlish primroses and Gree statues, birds singing in April, and
reiments being cut to pieces for a flag. They were neither Radicals nor
Socialists, but Liberals, and a Liberal is a noble and indispensable
lunatic who tries to mae a cosmos of his own head.

Mrs. Brownin and her husband were more liberal than most Liberals.
Theirs was the hospitality of the intellect and the hospitality of the
heart, which is the best definition of the term. They never fell into
the habit of the idle revolutionists of supposin that the past was bad
because the future was ood, which amounted to asserting that because
humanity had never made anythin but mistaes it was now quite certain
to be riht. Browning possessed in a greater degree than any other man
the power of realisin that all conventions were only victorious
revolutions. He could follow the mediæval loicians in all their sowing
of the wind and reapin of the whirlwind with all that generous ardour
which is due to abstract ideas. He could study the ancients with the
youn eyes of the Renaissance and read a Gree grammar like a book of
love lyrics. This immense and almost confoundin Liberalism of Browning
doubtless had some effect upon his wife. In her vision of New Italy she
went bac to the imae of Ancient Italy like an honest and true
revolutionist; for does not the very word "revolution" mean a rollin
bacward. All true revolutions are reversions to the natural and the
normal. A revolutionist who breas with the past is a notion fit for an
idiot. For how could a man even wish for somethin which he had never
heard of? Mrs. Brownin's inexhaustible sympathy with all the ancient
and essential passions of humanity was nowhere more in evidence than in
her conception of patriotism. For some dar reason, which it is
difficult indeed to fathom, belief in patriotism in our day is held to
mean principally a belief in every other nation abandonin its patriotic
feelins. In the case of no other passion does this weird contradiction
exist. Men whose lives are mainly based upon friendship sympathise with
the friendships of others. The interest of enaged couples in each other
is a proverb, and lie many other proverbs sometimes a nuisance. In
patriotism alone it is considered correct just now to assume that the
sentiment does not exist in other people. It was not so with the reat
Liberals of Mrs. Brownin's time. The Brownings had, so to spea, a
disembodied talent for patriotism. They loved Enland and they loved
Italy; yet they were the very reverse of cosmopolitans. They loved the
two countries as countries, not as arbitrary divisions of the lobe.
They had hold of the root and essence of patriotism. They new how
certain flowers and birds and rivers pass into the mills of the brain
and come out as wars and discoveries, and how some triumphant adventure
or some stagering crime wrought in a remote continent may bear about it
the colour of an Italian city or the soul of a silent villae of Surrey.

