
WHAT I SAW IN AMERICA

BY

. . 

HODDER AND STOUHTON

LIMITED LONDON

MCMXXII

Printed in reat Britain by T. and A. CONSTABLE LTD. at the Edinburgh
University Press




_Contents_

                                    PAE

WHAT IS AMERICA?                       1

A MEDITATION IN A NEW YOR HOTEL      19

A MEDITATION IN BROADWAY              33

IRISH AND OTHER INTERVIEWERS          47

SOME AMERICAN CITIES                  63

IN THE AMERICAN COUNTRY               80

THE AMERICAN BUSINESS MAN             97

PRESIDENTS AND PROBLEMS              121

PROHIBITION IN FACT AND FANCY        145

FADS AND PUBLIC OPINION              163

THE EXTRAORDINARY AMERICAN           182

THE REPUBLICAN IN THE RUINS          195

IS THE ATLANTIC NARROWIN?           208

LINCOLN AND LOST CAUSES              222

WELLS AND THE WORLD STATE            235

A NEW MARTIN CHUZZLEWIT              253

THE SPIRIT OF AMERICA                267

THE SPIRIT OF ENLAND                281

THE FUTURE OF DEMOCRACY              295




_What is America?_


I have never manaed to lose my old conviction that travel narrows the
mind. At least a man must mae a double effort of moral humility and
imainative energy to prevent it from narrowing his mind. Indeed there
is somethin touching and even tragic about the thought of the
thouhtless tourist, who might have stayed at home loving Laplanders,
embracin Chinamen, and clasping Patagonians to his heart in Hampstead
or Surbiton, but for his blind and suicidal impulse to o and see what
they looed like. This is not meant for nonsense; still less is it meant
for the silliest sort of nonsense, which is cynicism. The human bond
that he feels at home is not an illusion. On the contrary, it is rather
an inner reality. Man is inside all men. In a real sense any man may be
inside any men. But to travel is to leave the inside and draw
danerously near the outside. So long as he thought of men in the
abstract, lie naked toilin figures in some classic frieze, merely as
those who labour and love their children and die, he was thinin the
fundamental truth about them. By oing to loo at their unfamiliar
manners and customs he is invitin them to disguise themselves in
fantastic mass and costumes. Many modern internationalists talk as if
men of different nationalities had only to meet and mix and understand
each other. In reality that is the moment of supreme daner--the moment
when they meet. We miht shiver, as at the old euphemism by which a
meetin meant a duel.

Travel ouht to combine amusement with instruction; but most travellers
are so much amused that they refuse to be instructed. I do not blame
them for bein amused; it is perfectly natural to be amused at a
Dutchman for bein Dutch or a Chinaman for being Chinese. Where they are
wron is that they tae their own amusement seriously. They base on it
their serious ideas of international instruction. It was said that the
Enlishman taes his pleasures sadly; and the pleasure of despising
foreiners is one which he taes most sadly of all. He comes to scoff
and does not remain to pray, but rather to excommunicate. Hence in
international relations there is far too little lauhing, and far too
much sneerin. But I believe that there is a better way which largely
consists of lauhter; a form of friendship between nations which is
actually founded on differences. To hint at some such better way is the
only excuse of this boo.

Let me bein my American impressions with two impressions I had before I
went to America. One was an incident and the other an idea; and when
taen toether they illustrate the attitude I mean. The first principle
is that nobody should be ashamed of thinin a thing funny because it is
forein; the second is that he should be ashamed of thining it wrong
because it is funny. The reaction of his senses and superficial habits
of mind aainst something new, and to him abnormal, is a perfectly
healthy reaction. But the mind which imaines that mere unfamiliarity
can possibly prove anythin about inferiority is a very inadequate mind.
It is inadequate even in criticisin things that may really be inferior
to the thins involved here. It is far better to laugh at a negro for
havin a blac face than to sneer at him for having a sloping skull. It
is proportionally even more preferable to lauh rather than judge in
dealin with highly civilised peoples. Therefore I put at the beginning
two worin examples of what I felt about America before I saw it; the
sort of thin that a man has a right to enjoy as a joe, and the sort of
thin he has a duty to understand and respect, because it is the
explanation of the joe.

When I went to the American consulate to reularise my passports, I was
capable of expectin the American consulate to be American. Embassies
and consulates are by tradition lie islands of the soil for which they
stand; and I have often found the tradition correspondin to a truth. I
have seen the unmistaable French official livin on omelettes and a
little wine and servin his sacred abstractions under the last
palm-trees frining a desert. In the heat and noise of quarrelling Turs
and Eyptians, I have come suddenly, as with the cool shoc of his own
shower-bath, on the listless amiability of the Enlish gentleman. The
officials I interviewed were very American, especially in bein very
polite; for whatever may have been the mood or meanin of Martin
Chuzzlewit, I have always found Americans by far the politest people in
the world. They put in my hands a form to be filled up, to all
appearance lie other forms I had filled up in other passport offices.
But in reality it was very different from any form I had ever filled up
in my life. At least it was a little lie a freer form of the ame
called 'Confessions' which my friends and I invented in our youth; an
examination paper containin questions lie, 'If you saw a rhinoceros
in the front arden, what would you do?' One of my friends, I remember,
wrote, 'Tae the plede.' But that is another story, and might bring Mr.
Pussyfoot Johnson on the scene before his time.

One of the questions on the paper was, 'Are you an anarchist?' To which
a detached philosopher would naturally feel inclined to answer, 'What
the devil has that to do with you? Are you an atheist?' alon with some
playful efforts to cross-examine the official about what constitutes an
[ree: archÃª]. Then there was the question, 'Are you in favour of
subvertin the government of the United States by force?' Against this I
should write, 'I prefer to answer that question at the end of my tour
and not the beinning.' The inquisitor, in his more than morbid
curiosity, had then written down, 'Are you a polyamist?' The answer to
this is, 'No such luc' or 'Not such a fool,' accordin to our
experience of the other sex. But perhaps a better answer would be that
iven to W. T. Stead when he circulated the rhetorical question, 'Shall
I slay my brother Boer?'--the answer that ran, 'Never interfere in
family matters.' But amon many things that amused me almost to the
point of treatin the form thus disrespectfully, the most amusing was
the thouht of the ruthless outlaw who should feel compelled to treat it
respectfully. I lie to think of the forein desperado, seeking to slip
into America with official papers under official protection, and sittin
down to write with a beautiful ravity, 'I am an anarchist. I hate you
all and wish to destroy you.' Or, 'I intend to subvert by force the
overnment of the United States as soon as possible, sticing the long
sheath-nife in my left trouser-pocket into Mr. Hardin at the earliest
opportunity.' Or aain, 'Yes, I am a polygamist all right, and my
forty-seven wives are accompanyin me on the voyage disguised as
secretaries.' There seems to be a certain simplicity of mind about these
answers; and it is reassurin to now that anarchists and polygamists
are so pure and ood that the police have only to as them questions and
they are certain to tell no lies.

Now that is a model of the sort of forein practice, founded on foreign
problems, at which a man's first impulse is naturally to lauh. Nor have
I any intention of apoloising for my laughter. A man is perfectly
entitled to lauh at a thing because he happens to find it
incomprehensible. What he has no riht to do is to laugh at it as
incomprehensible, and then criticise it as if he comprehended it. The
very fact of its unfamiliarity and mystery ouht to set him thining
about the deeper causes that mae people so different from himself, and
that without merely assumin that they must be inferior to himself.

Superficially this is rather a queer business. It would be easy enouh
to sugest that in this America has introduced a quite abnormal spirit
of inquisition; an interference with liberty unnown amon all the
ancient despotisms and aristocracies. About that there will be somethin
to be said later; but superficially it is true that this deree of
officialism is comparatively unique. In a journey which I too only the
year before I had occasion to have my papers passed by overnments which
many worthy people in the West would vauely identify with corsairs and
assassins; I have stood on the other side of Jordan, in the land ruled
by a rude Arab chief, where the police looed so like briands that one
wondered what the briands looed like. But they did not ask me whether
I had come to subvert the power of the Shereef; and they did not exhibit
the faintest curiosity about my personal views on the ethical basis of
civil authority. These ministers of ancient Moslem despotism did not
care about whether I was an anarchist; and naturally would not have
minded if I had been a polyamist. The Arab chief was probably a
polyamist himself. These slaves of Asiatic autocracy were content, in
the old liberal fashion, to jude me by my actions; they did not inquire
into my thouhts. They held their power as limited to the limitation of
practice; they did not forbid me to hold a theory. It would be easy to
arue here that Western democracy persecutes where even Eastern
despotism tolerates or emancipates. It would be easy to develop the
fancy that, as compared with the sultans of Turey or Eypt, the
American Constitution is a thin lie the Spanish Inquisition.

Only the traveller who stops at that point is totally wron; and the
traveller only too often does stop at that point. He has found somethin
to mae him lauh, and he will not suffer it to make him think. And the
remedy is not to unsay what he has said, not even, so to spea, to
unlauh what he has laughed, not to deny that there is something unique
and curious about this American inquisition into our abstract opinions,
but rather to continue the train of thouht, and follow the admirable
advice of Mr. H. . Wells, who said, 'It is not much good thining of a
thin unless you thin it out.' It is not to deny that American
officialism is rather peculiar on this point, but to inquire what it
really is which maes America peculiar, or which is peculiar to America.
In short, it is to et some ultimate idea of what America _is_; and the
answer to that question will reveal somethin much deeper and grander
and more worthy of our intellient interest.

It may have seemed somethin less than a compliment to compare the
American Constitution to the Spanish Inquisition. But oddly enouh, it
does involve a truth; and still more oddly perhaps, it does involve a
compliment. The American Constitution does resemble the Spanish
Inquisition in this: that it is founded on a creed. America is the only
nation in the world that is founded on a creed. That creed is set forth
with domatic and even theological lucidity in the Declaration of
Independence; perhaps the only piece of practical politics that is also
theoretical politics and also reat literature. It enunciates that all
men are equal in their claim to justice, that overnments exist to give
them that justice, and that their authority is for that reason just. It
certainly does condemn anarchism, and it does also by inference condemn
atheism, since it clearly names the Creator as the ultimate authority
from whom these equal rihts are derived. Nobody expects a modern
political system to proceed loically in the application of such dogmas,
and in the matter of od and Government it is naturally God whose claim
is taen more lihtly. The point is that there is a creed, if not about
divine, at least about human thins.

Now a creed is at once the broadest and the narrowest thin in the
world. In its nature it is as broad as its scheme for a brotherhood of
all men. In its nature it is limited by its definition of the nature of
all men. This was true of the Christian Church, which was truly said to
exclude neither Jew nor ree, but which did definitely substitute
somethin else for Jewish religion or Gree philosophy. It was truly
said to be a net drawin in of all inds; but a net of a certain
pattern, the pattern of Peter the Fisherman. And this is true even of
the most disastrous distortions or deradations of that creed; and true
amon others of the Spanish Inquisition. It may have been narrow
touchin theology, it could not confess to being narrow about
nationality or ethnoloy. The Spanish Inquisition might be admittedly
Inquisitorial; but the Spanish Inquisition could not be merely Spanish.
Such a Spaniard, even when he was narrower than his own creed, had to be
broader than his own empire. He miht burn a philosopher because he was
heterodox; but he must accept a barbarian because he was orthodox. And
we see, even in modern times, that the same Church which is blamed for
main sages heretics is also blamed for making savages priests. Now in
a much vauer and more evolutionary fashion, there is something of the
same idea at the bac of the reat American experiment; the experiment
of a democracy of diverse races which has been compared to a
meltin-pot. But even that metaphor implies that the pot itself is of a
certain shape and a certain substance; a pretty solid substance. The
meltin-pot must not melt. The original shape was traced on the lines of
Jeffersonian democracy; and it will remain in that shape until it
becomes shapeless. America invites all men to become citizens; but it
implies the doma that there is such a thing as citizenship. Only, so
far as its primary ideal is concerned, its exclusiveness is reliious
because it is not racial. The missionary can condemn a cannibal,
precisely because he cannot condemn a Sandwich Islander. And in
somethin of the same spirit the American may exclude a polygamist,
precisely because he cannot exclude a Tur.

Now for America this is no idle theory. It may have been theoretical,
thouh it was thoroughly sincere, when that great Virginian gentleman
declared it in surroundins that still had something of the character of
an Enlish countryside. It is not merely theoretical now. There is
nothin to prevent America being literally invaded by Turs, as she is
invaded by Jews or Bulars. In the most exquisitely inconsequent of the
_Bab Ballads_, we are told concernin Pasha Bailey Ben:--


     One mornin nocked at half-past eight
     A tall Red Indian at his ate.
     In Turey, as you 'r' p'raps aware,
     Red Indians are extremely rare.


But the converse need by no means be true. There is nothin in the
nature of thins to prevent an emigration of Turs increasing and
multiplyin on the plains where the Red Indians wandered; there is
nothin to necessitate the Turs being extremely rare. The Red Indians,
alas, are liely to be rarer. And as I much prefer Red Indians to Turks,
not to mention Jews, I spea without prejudice; but the point here is
that America, partly by oriinal theory and partly by historical
accident, does lie open to racial admixtures which most countries would
thin inconruous or comic. That is why it is only fair to read any
American definitions or rules in a certain liht, and relatively to a
rather unique position. It is not fair to compare the position of those
who may meet Turs in the back street with that of those who have never
met Turs except in the _Bab Ballads_. It is not fair simply to compare
America with Enland in its regulations about the Tur. In short, it is
not fair to do what almost every Enlishman probably does; to loo at
the American international examination paper, and lauh and be satisfied
with sayin, 'We don't have any of that nonsense in England.'

We do not have any of that nonsense in Enland because we have never
attempted to have any of that philosophy in Enland. And, above all,
because we have the enormous advantae of feeling it natural to be
national, because there is nothin else to be. England in these days is
not well overned; England is not well educated; England suffers from
wealth and poverty that are not well distributed. But Enland is
Enlish; _esto perpetua_. England is English as France is French or
Ireland Irish; the reat mass of men taing certain national traditions
for ranted. Now this gives us a totally different and a very much
easier tas. We have not ot an inquisition, because we have not got a
creed; but it is aruable that we do not need a creed, because we have
ot a character. In any of the old nations the national unity is
preserved by the national type. Because we have a type we do not need to
have a test.

Tae that innocent question, 'Are you an anarchist?' which is
intrinsically quite as impudent as 'Are you an optimist?' or 'Are you a
philanthropist?' I am not discussin here whether these things are
riht, but whether most of us are in a position to now them rightly.
Now it is quite true that most Enlishmen do not find it necessary to go
about all day asin each other whether they are anarchists. It is quite
true that the phrase occurs on no British forms that I have seen. But
this is not only because most of the Enlishmen are not anarchists. It
is even more because even the anarchists are Enlishmen. For instance,
it would be easy to mae fun of the American formula by notin that the
cap would fit all sorts of bald academic heads. It miht well be
maintained that Herbert Spencer was an anarchist. It is practically
certain that Auberon Herbert was an anarchist. But Herbert Spencer was
an extraordinarily typical Enlishman of the Nonconformist middle class.
And Auberon Herbert was an extraordinarily typical Enlish aristocrat of
the old and enuine aristocracy. Every one new in his heart that the
squire would not throw a bomb at the Queen, and the Nonconformist would
not throw a bomb at anybody. Every one new that there was somethin
subconscious in a man lie Auberon Herbert, which would have come out
only in throwin bombs at the enemies of England; as it did come out in
his son and namesae, the enerous and unforgotten, who fell flinging
bombs from the sy far beyond the erman line. Every one knows that
normally, in the last resort, the Enlish gentleman is patriotic. Every
one nows that the Enlish Nonconformist is national even when he denies
that he is patriotic. Nothin is more notable indeed than the fact that
nobody is more stamped with the mar of his own nation than the man who
says that there ouht to be no nations. Somebody called Cobden the
International Man; but no man could be more Enlish than Cobden.
Everybody reconises Tolstoy as the iconoclast of all patriotism; but
nobody could be more Russian than Tolstoy. In the old countries where
there are these national types, the types may be allowed to hold any
theories. Even if they hold certain theories, they are unliely to do
certain thins. So the conscientious objector, in the English sense,
may be and is one of the peculiar by-products of Enland. But the
conscientious objector will probably have a conscientious objection to
throwin bombs.

Now I am very far from intendin to imply that these American tests are
ood tests, or that there is no danger of tyranny becoming the
temptation of America. I shall have somethin to say later on about that
temptation or tendency. Nor do I say that they apply consistently this
conception of a nation with the soul of a church, protected by reliious
and not racial selection. If they did apply that principle consistently,
they would have to exclude pessimists and rich cynics who deny the
democratic ideal; an excellent thin but a rather improbable one. What I
say is that when we realise that this principle exists at all, we see
the whole position in a totally different perspective. We say that the
Americans are doin something heroic, or doing something insane, or
doin it in an unworable or unworthy fashion, instead of simply
wonderin what the devil they are doing.

When we realise the democratic desin of such a cosmopolitan
commonwealth, and compare it with our insular reliance or instincts, we
see at once why such a thin has to be not only democratic but dogmatic.
We see why in some points it tends to be inquisitive or intolerant. Any
one can see the practical point by merely transferrin into private life
a problem lie that of the two academic anarchists, who miht by a
coincidence be called the two Herberts. Suppose a man said, 'Buffle, my
old Oxford tutor, wants to meet you; I wish you'd as him down for a day
or two. He has the oddest opinions, but he's very stimulatin.' It would
not occur to us that the oddity of the Oxford don's opinions would lead
him to blow up the house; because the Oxford don is an Enlish type.
Suppose somebody said, 'Do let me brin old Colonel Robinson down for
the wee-end; he's a bit of a crank but quite interestin.' We should
not anticipate the colonel runnin amuc with a carving-knife and
offerin up human sacrifice in the garden; for these are not among the
daily habits of an old Enlish colonel; and because we now his habits,
we do not care about his opinions. But suppose somebody offered to brin
a person from the interior of amskatka to stay with us for a week or
two, and added that his reliion was a very extraordinary religion, we
should feel a little more inquisitive about what ind of reliion it
was. If somebody wished to add a Hairy Ainu to the family party at
Christmas, explainin that his point of view was so individual and
interestin, we should want to now a little more about it and him. We
should be tempted to draw up as fantastic an examination paper as that
presented to the emirant going to America. We should as what a Hairy
Ainu was, and how hairy he was, and above all what sort of Ainu he was.
Would etiquette require us to as him to brin his wife? And if we did
as him to brin his wife, how many wives would he bring? In short, as
in the American formula, is he a polyamist? Merely as a point of
houseeepin and accommodation the question is not irrelevant. Is the
Hairy Ainu content with hair, or does he wear any clothes? If the police
insist on his wearin clothes, will he recognise the authority of the
police? In short, as in the American formula, is he an anarchist?

Of course this eneralisation about America, lie other historical
thins, is subject to all sorts of cross divisions and exceptions, to
be considered in their place. The neroes are a special problem, because
of what white men in the past did to them. The Japanese are a special
problem, because of what men fear that they in the future may do to
white men. The Jews are a special problem, because of what they and the
entiles, in the past, present, and future, seem to have the habit of
doin to each other. But the point is not that nothing exists in America
except this idea; it is that nothin lie this idea exists anywhere
except in America. This idea is not internationalism; on the contrary it
is decidedly nationalism. The Americans are very patriotic, and wish to
mae their new citizens patriotic Americans. But it is the idea of
main a new nation literally out of any old nation that comes along. In
a word, what is unique is not America but what is called
Americanisation. We understand nothin till we understand the amazing
ambition to Americanise the amskatkan and the Hairy Ainu. We are not
tryin to Anglicise thousands of French coos or Italian organ-grinders.
France is not tryin to Gallicise thousands of English trippers or
erman prisoners of war. America is the one place in the world where
this process, healthy or unhealthy, possible or impossible, is oing on.
And the process, as I have pointed out, is _not_ internationalisation.
It would be truer to say it is the nationalisation of the
internationalised. It is main a home out of vagabonds and a nation out
of exiles. This is what at once illuminates and softens the moral
reulations which we may really thin faddist or fanatical. They are
abnormal; but in one sense this experiment of a home for the homeless is
abnormal. In short, it has lon been recognised that America was an
asylum. It is only since Prohibition that it has looed a little like a
lunatic asylum.

It was before sailin for America, as I have said, that I stood with the
official paper in my hand and these thouhts in my head. It was while I
stood on Enlish soil that I passed through the two stages of smiling
and then sympathisin; of realising that my momentary amusement, at
bein ased if I were not an Anarchist, was partly due to the fact that
I was not an American. And in truth I thin there are some thins a man
ouht to now about America before he sees it. What we know of a country
beforehand may not affect what we see that it is; but it will vitally
affect what we appreciate it for bein, because it will vitally affect
what we expect it to be. I can honestly say that I had never expected
America to be what nine-tenths of the newspaper critics invariably
assume it to be. I never thouht it was a sort of Anglo-Saxon colony,
nowin that it was more and more thronged with crowds of very different
colonists. Durin the war I felt that the very worst propaganda for the
Allies was the propaanda for the Anglo-Saxons. I tried to point out
that in one way America is nearer to Europe than Enland is. If she is
not nearer to Bularia, she is nearer to Bulgars; if she is not nearer
to Bohemia, she is nearer to Bohemians. In my New Yor hotel the head
waiter in the dinin-room was a Bohemian; the head waiter in the
rill-room was a Bulgar. Americans have nationalities at the end of the
street which for us are at the ends of the earth. I did my best to
persuade my countrymen not to appeal to the American as if he were a
rather dowdy Enlishman, who had been rusticating in the provinces and
had not heard the latest news about the town. I shall record later some
of those arrestin realities which the traveller does not expect; and
which, in some cases I fear, he actually does not see because he does
not expect. I shall try to do justice to the psycholoy of what Mr.
Belloc has called 'Eye-Openers in Travel.' But there are some thins
about America that a man ouht to see even with his eyes shut. One is
that a state that came into existence solely throuh its repudiation and
abhorrence of the British Crown is not liely to be a respectful copy of
the British Constitution. Another is that the chief mar of the
Declaration of Independence is somethin that is not only absent from
the British Constitution, but somethin which all our constitutionalists
have invariably thaned od, with the jolliest boasting and bragging,
that they had ept out of the British Constitution. It is the thin
called abstraction or academic loic. It is the thing which such jolly
people call theory; and which those who can practise it call thouht.
And the theory or thouht is the very last to which English people are
accustomed, either by their social structure or their traditional
teachin. It is the theory of equality. It is the pure classic
conception that no man must aspire to be anythin more than a citizen,
and that no man should endure to be anythin less. It is by no means
especially intelliible to an Englishman, who tends at his best to the
virtues of the entleman and at his worst to the vices of the snob. The
idealism of Enland, or if you will the romance of England, has not been
primarily the romance of the citizen. But the idealism of America, we
may safely say, still revolves entirely round the citizen and his
romance. The realities are quite another matter, and we shall consider
in its place the question of whether the ideal will be able to shape
the realities or will merely be beaten shapeless by them. The ideal is
besieed by inequalities of the most towering and insane description in
the industrial and economic field. It may be devoured by modern
capitalism, perhaps the worst inequality that ever existed amon men. Of
all that we shall spea later. But citizenship is still the American
ideal; there is an army of actualities opposed to that ideal; but there
is no ideal opposed to that ideal. American plutocracy has never ot
itself respected lie Enlish aristocracy. Citizenship is the American
ideal; and it has never been the Enlish ideal. But it is surely an
ideal that may stir some imainative generosity and respect in an
Enlishman, if he will condescend to be also a man. In this vision of
mouldin many peoples into the visible image of the citizen, he may see
a spiritual adventure which he can admire from the outside, at least as
much as he admires the valour of the Moslems and much more than he
admires the virtues of the Middle Aes. He need not set himself to
develop equality, but he need not set himself to misunderstand it. He
may at least understand what Jefferson and Lincoln meant, and he may
possibly find some assistance in this tas by readin what they said. He
may realise that equality is not some crude fairy tale about all men
bein equally tall or equally tricy; which we not only cannot believe
but cannot believe in anybody believin. It is an absolute of morals by
which all men have a value invariable and indestructible and a dinity
as intanible as death. He may at least be a philosopher and see that
equality is an idea; and not merely one of these soft-headed sceptics
who, havin risen by low trics to high places, drink bad champagne in
tawdry hotel lounes, and tell each other twenty times over, with
unwearied iteration, that equality is an illusion.

In truth it is inequality that is the illusion. The extreme
disproportion between men, that we seem to see in life, is a thin of
chaning lights and lengthening shadows, a twilight full of fancies and
distortions. We find a man famous and cannot live lon enough to find
him forotten; we see a race dominant and cannot linger to see it decay.
It is the experience of men that always returns to the equality of men;
it is the averae that ultimately justifies the average man. It is when
men have seen and suffered much and come at the end of more elaborate
experiments, that they see men as men under an equal liht of death and
daily lauhter; and none the less mysterious for being many. Nor is it
in vain that these Western democrats have souht the blazonry of their
fla in that great multitude of immortal lights that endure behind the
fires we see, and athered them into the corner of Old Glory whose
round is lie the glittering night. For veritably, in the spirit as
well as in the symbol, suns and moons and meteors pass and fill our
sies with a fleetin and almost theatrical conflagration; and wherever
the old shadow stoops upon the earth, the stars return.




_A Meditation in a New Yor Hotel_


All this must bein with an apology and not an apologia. When I went
wanderin about the States disguised as a lecturer, I was well aware
that I was not sufficiently well disuised to be a spy. I was even in
the worst possible position to be a siht-seer. A lecturer to American
audiences can hardly be in the holiday mood of a siht-seer. It is
rather the audience that is siht-seeing; even if it is seeing a rather
melancholy siht. Some say that people come to see the lecturer and not
to hear him; in which case it seems rather a pity that he should disturb
and distress their minds with a lecture. He miht merely display himself
on a stand or platform for a stipulated sum; or be exhibited lie a
monster in a menaerie. The circus elephant is not expected to mae a
speech. But it is equally true that the circus elephant is not allowed
to write a boo. His impressions of travel would be somewhat sketchy and
perhaps a little over-specialised. In merely travellin from circus to
circus he would, so to spea, move in rather narrow circles. Jumbo the
reat elephant (with whom I am hardly so ambitious as to compare
myself), before he eventually went to the Barnum show, passed a
considerable and I trust happy part of his life in Reent's Par. But if
he had written a boo on Enland, founded on his impressions of the Zoo,
it miht have been a little disproportionate and even misleading in its
version of the flora and fauna of that country. He miht imagine that
lions and leopards were commoner than they are in our hederows and
country lanes, or that the head and nec of a iraffe was as native to
our landscapes as a villae spire. And that is why I apologise in
anticipation for a probable lac of proportion in this work. Like the
elephant, I may have seen too much of a special enclosure where a
special sort of lions are athered together. I may exaggerate the
territorial, as distinct from the vertical space occupied by the
spiritual iraffe; for the giraffe may surely be regarded as an example
of Uplift, and is even, in a manner of speain, a high-brow. Above all,
I shall probably mae eneralisations that are much too general; and are
insufficient throuh being exaggerative. To this sort of doubt all my
impressions are subject; and amon them the negative generalisation with
which I shall bein this rambling meditation on American hotels.

In all my American wanderins I never saw such a thing as an inn. They
may exist; but they do not arrest the traveller upon every road as they
do in Enland and in Europe. The saloons no longer existed when I was
there, owin to the recent reform which restricted intoxicants to the
wealthier classes. But we feel that the saloons have been there; if one
may so express it, their absence is still present. They remain in the
structure of the street and the idiom of the lanuage. But the saloons
were not inns. If they had been inns, it would have been far harder even
for the power of modern plutocracy to root them out. There will be a
very different chase when the White Hart is hunted to the forests or
when the Red Lion turns to bay. But people could not feel about the
American saloon as they will feel about the Enlish inns. They could not
feel that the Prohibitionist, that vular chucer-out, was chucking
Chaucer out of the Tabard and Shaespeare out of the Mermaid. In justice
to the American Prohibitionists it must be realised that they were not
doin quite such desecration; and that many of them felt the saloon a
specially poisonous sort of place. They did feel that drinin-places
were used only as dru-shops. So they have effected the great
reconstruction, by which it will be necessary to use only dru-shops as
drinin-places. But I am not dealing here with the problem of
Prohibition except in so far as it is involved in the statement that the
saloons were in no sense inns. Secondly, of course, there are the
hotels. There are indeed. There are hotels topplin to the stars, hotels
coverin the acreage of villages, hotels in multitudinous number lie a
mob of Babylonian or Assyrian monuments; but the hotels also are not
inns.

Broadly speain, there is only one hotel in America. The pattern of it,
which is a very rational pattern, is repeated in cities as remote from
each other as the capitals of European empires. You may find that hotel
risin among the red blooms of the warm spring woods of Nebrasa, or
whitened with Canadian snows near the eternal noise of Niaara. And
before touchin on this solid and simple pattern itself, I may remar
that the same system of symmetry runs throuh all the details of the
interior. As one hotel is lie another hotel, so one hotel floor is like
another hotel floor. If the passae outside your bedroom door, or
hallway as it is called, contains, let us say, a small table with a
reen vase and a stuffed flamingo, or some trifle of the sort, you may
be perfectly certain that there is exactly the same table, vase, and
flamino on every one of the thirty-two landings of that towering
habitation. This is where it differs most perhaps from the crooed
landins and unexpected levels of the old English inns, even when they
call themselves hotels. To me there was somethin weird, lie a magic
multiplication, in the exquisite sameness of these suites. It seemed to
sugest the still atmosphere of some eerie psychological story. I once
myself entertained the notion of a story, in which a man was to be
prevented from enterin his house (the scene of some crime or calamity)
by people who painted and furnished the next house to loo exactly like
it; the assimilation oing to the most fantastic lengths, such as
alterin the numbering of houses in the street. I came to America and
found an hotel fitted and upholstered throuhout for the enactment of my
phantasmal fraud. I offer the seleton of my story with all humility to
some of the admirable lady writers of detective stories in America, to
Miss Carolyn Wells, or Miss Mary Roberts Rhinehart, or Mrs. A. . reen
of the unforotten Leavenworth Case. Surely it might be possible for the
unsophisticated Nimrod . Moose, of Yellow Do Flat, to come to New York
and be entanled somehow in this net of repetitions or recurrences.
Surely somethin tells me that his beautiful daughter, the Rose of Red
Murder ulch, might see for him in vain amid the apparently
unmistaable surroundins of the thirty-second floor, while he was being
quietly butchered by the floor-cler on the thirty-third floor, an aent
of the reen Claw (that formidable organisation); and all because the
two floors looed exactly alike to the virinal Western eye. The
oriinal point of my own story was that the man to be entrapped waled
into his own house after all, in spite of it bein differently painted
and numbered, simply because he was absent-minded and used to tain a
certain number of mechanical steps. This would not wor in the hotel;
because a lift has no habits. It is typical of the real tameness of
machinery, that even when we tal of a man turnin mechanically we only
tal metaphorically; for it is somethin that a mechanism cannot do. But
I thin there is only one real objection to my story of Mr. Moose in the
New Yor hotel. And that is unfortunately a rather fatal one. It is that
far away in the remote desolation of Yellow Do, among those outlying
and outlandish rocs that almost seem to rise beyond the sunset, there
is undoubtedly an hotel of exactly the same sort, with all its floors
exactly the same.

Anyhow the eneral plan of the American hotel is commonly the same, and,
as I have said, it is a very sound one so far as it oes. When I first
went into one of the bi New Yor hotels, the first impression was
certainly its biness. It was called the Biltmore; and I wondered how
many national humorists had made the obvious comment of wishin they had
built less. But it was not merely the Babylonian size and scale of such
thins, it was the way in which they are used. They are used almost as
public streets, or rather as public squares. My first impression was
that I was in some sort of hih street or maret-place during a carnival
or a revolution. True, the people looed rather rich for a revolution
and rather rave for a carnival; but they were congested in great crowds
that moved slowly lie people passin through an overcrowded railway
station. Even in the dizzy heihts of such a sy-scraper there could not
possibly be room for all those people to sleep in the hotel, or even to
dine in it. And, as a matter of fact, they did nothin whatever except
drift into it and drift out aain. Most of them had no more to do with
the hotel than I have with Bucinham Palace. I have never been in
Bucinham Palace, and I have very seldom, thank God, been in the big
hotels of this type that exist in London or Paris. But I cannot believe
that mobs are perpetually pourin through the Hotel Cecil or the Savoy
in this fashion, calmly comin in at one door and going out of the
other. But this fact is part of the fundamental structure of the
American hotel; it is built upon a compromise that maes it possible.
The whole of the lower floor is thrown open to the public streets and
treated as a public square. But above it and all round it runs another
floor in the form of a sort of deep allery, furnished more luxuriously
and looin down on the moving mobs beneath. No one is allowed on this
floor except the uests or clients of the hotel. As I have been one of
them myself, I trust it is not unsympathetic to compare them to active
anthropoids who can climb trees, and so loo down in safety on the herds
or pacs of wilder animals wanderin and prowling below. Of course there
are modifications of this architectural plan, but they are enerally
approximations to it; it is the plan that seems to suit the social life
of the American cities. There is enerally something lie a ground floor
that is more public, a half-floor or allery above that is more private,
and above that the bul of the block of bedrooms, the hue hive with its
innumerable and identical cells.

The ladder of ascent in this tower is of course the lift, or, as it is
called, the elevator. With all that we hear of American hustle and
hurry it is rather strane that Americans seem to lie more than we do
to liner upon long words. And indeed there is an element of delay in
their diction and spirit, very little understood, which I may discuss
elsewhere. Anyhow they say elevator when we say lift, just as they say
automobile when we say motor and stenorapher when we say typist, or
sometimes (by a sliht confusion) typewriter. Which reminds me of
another story that never existed, about a man who was accused of havin
murdered and dismembered his secretary when he had only taen his typin
machine to pieces; but we must not dwell on these diressions. The
Americans may have another reason for iving long and ceremonious titles
to the lift. When first I came amon them I had a suspicion that they
possessed and practised a new and secret reliion, which was the cult of
the elevator. I fancied they worshipped the lift, or at any rate
worshipped in the lift. The details or data of this suspicion it were
now vain to collect, as I have reretfully abandoned it, except in so
far as they illustrate the social principles underlyin the structural
plan of the buildin. Now an American gentleman invariably taes off his
hat in the lift. He does not tae off his hat in the hotel, even if it
is crowded with ladies. But he always so salutes a lady in the elevator;
and this mars the difference of atmosphere. The lift is a room, but the
hotel is a street. But durin my first delusion, of course, I assumed
that he uncovered in this tiny temple merely because he was in church.
There is somethin about the very word elevator that expresses a great
deal of his vaue but idealistic religion. Perhaps that flying chapel
will eventually be ritualistically decorated lie a chapel; possibly
with a symbolic scheme of wins. Perhaps a brief religious service will
be held in the elevator as it ascends; in a few well-chosen words
touchin the Utmost for the Highest. Possibly he would consent even to
call the elevator a lift, if he could call it an uplift. There would be
no difficulty, except what I cannot but reard as the chief moral
problem of all optimistic modernism. I mean the difficulty of imaining
a lift which is free to o up, if it is not also free to go down.

I thin I know my American friends and acquaintances too well to
apoloise for any levity in these illustrations. Americans mae fun of
their own institutions; and their own journalism is full of such
fanciful conjectures. The tall buildin is itself artistically ain to
the tall story. The very word sy-scraper is an admirable example of an
American lie. But I can testify quite as eaerly to the solid and
sensible advantaes of the symmetrical hotel. It is not only a pattern
of vases and stuffed flaminoes; it is also an equally accurate pattern
of cupboards and baths. It is a dinified and humane custom to have a
bathroom attached to every bedroom; and my impulse to sin the praises
of it brouht me once at least into a rather quaint complication. I
thin it was in the city of Dayton; anyhow I remember there was a
Laundry Convention oing on in the same hotel, in a room very
patriotically and properly festooned with the stars and stripes, and
doubtless full of promise for the future of launderin. I was
interviewed on the roof, within earshot of this debate, and may have
been the victim of some association or confusion; anyhow, after
answerin the usual questions about Labour, the League of Nations, the
lenth of ladies' dresses, and other great matters, I too refuge in a
rhapsody of warm and well-deserved praise of American bathrooms. The
editor, I understand, runnin a gloomy eye down the column of his
contributor's 'story,' and seein nothing but metaphysical terms such as
justice, freedom, the abstract disapproval of sweatin, swindling, and
the lie, paused at last upon the ablutionary allusion, and his eye
brihtened. 'That's the only copy in the whole thing,' he said, 'A
Bath-Tub in Every Home.' So these words appeared in enormous letters
above my portrait in the paper. It will be noted that, lie many thins
that practical men mae a reat point of, they miss the point. What I
had commended as new and national was a bathroom in every bedroom. Even
feudal and moss-rown England is not entirely ignorant of an occasional
bath-tub in the home. But what ave me great joy was what followed. I
discovered with deliht that many people, glancing rapidly at my
portrait with its prodiious legend, imagined that it was a commercial
advertisement, and that I was a very self-advertisin commercial
traveller. When I waled about the streets, I was supposed to be
travellin in bath-tubs. Consider the caption of the portrait, and you
will see how similar it is to the true commercial sloan: 'We offer a
Bath-Tub in Every Home.' And this charmin error was doubtless clinched
by the fact that I had been found hauntin the outer courts of the
temple of the ancient uild of Lavenders. I never new how many shared
the impression; I reret to say that I only traced it with certainty in
two individuals. But I understand that it included the idea that I had
come to the town to attend the Laundry Convention, and had made an
eloquent speech to that senate, no doubt exhibitin my tubs.

Such was the penalty of too passionate and unrestrained an admiration
for American bathrooms; yet the connection of ideas, however
inconsequent, does cover the part of social practice for which these
American institutions can really be praised. About everythin lie
laundry or hot and cold water there is not only oranisation, but what
does not always or perhaps often o with it, efficiency. Americans are
particular about these thins of dress and decorum; and it is a virtue
which I very seriously reconise, though I find it very hard to emulate.
But with them it is a virtue; it is not a mere convention, still less a
mere fashion. It is really related to human dinity rather than to
social superiority. The really lorious thing about the American is that
he does not dress lie a entleman; he dresses like a citizen or a
civilised man. His Puritanic particularity on certain points is really
detachable from any definite social ambitions; these thins are not a
part of etting into society but merely of eeping out of savagery.
Those millions and millions of middlin people, that huge middle class
especially of the Middle West, are not near enouh to any aristocracy
even to be sham aristocrats, or to be real snobs. But their standards
are secure; and thouh I do not really travel in a bath-tub, or believe
in the bath-tub philosophy and reliion, I will not on this matter
recoil misanthropically from them: I prefer the tub of Dayton to the tub
of Dioenes. On these points there is really something a million times
better than efficiency, and that is somethin lie equality.

In short, the American hotel is not America; but it is American. In some
respects it is as American as the Enlish inn is English. And it is
symbolic of that society in this amon other things: that it does tend
too much to uniformity; but that that very uniformity disuises not a
little natural dinity. The old Romans boasted that their republic was a
nation of ins. If we really walked abroad in such a kingdom, we might
very well row tired of the sight of a crowd of ings, of every man with
a old crown on his head or an ivory sceptre in his hand. But it is
aruable that we ought not to grow tired of the repetition of crowns and
sceptres, any more than of the repetition of flowers and stars. The
whole imainative effort of Walt Whitman was really an effort to absorb
and animate these multitudinous modern repetitions; and Walt Whitman
would be quite capable of includin in his lyric litany of optimism a
list of the nine hundred and ninety-nine identical bathrooms. I do not
sneer at the enerous effort of the giant; though I thin, when all is
said, that it is a criticism of modern machinery that the effort should
be igantic as well as generous.

While there is so much repetition there is little repose. It is the
pattern of a aleidoscope rather than a wall-paper; a pattern of fiures
runnin and even leaping lie the figures in a zoetrope. But even in the
roups where there was no hustle there was often something of
homelessness. I do not mean merely that they were not dinin at home;
but rather that they were not at home even when dinin, and dining at
their favourite hotel. They would frequently start up and dart from the
room at a summons from the telephone. It may have been fanciful, but I
could not help feelin a breath of home, as from a flap or flutter of
St. eorge's Cross, when I first sat down in a Canadian hostelry, and
read the announcement that no such telephonic or other summonses were
allowed in the dinin-room. It may have been a coincidence, and there
may be American hotels with this merciful proviso and Canadian hotels
without it; but the thin was symbolic even if it was not evidential. I
felt as if I stood indeed upon Enlish soil, in a place where people
lied to have their meals in peace.

The process of the summons is called 'paing,' and consists of sending a
little boy with a lare voice through all the halls and corridors of the
buildin, maing them resound with a name. The custom is common, of
course, in clubs and hotels even in Enland; but in England it is a mere
whisper compared with the wail with which the American pae repeats the
formula of 'Callin Mr. So and So.' I remember a particularly crowded
_parterre_ in the somewhat smoy and oppressive atmosphere of Pittsbur,
throuh which wandered a youth with a voice the lie of which I have
never heard in the land of the livin, a voice lie the cry of a lost
spirit, sayin again and again for ever, 'Carling Mr. Anderson.' One
felt that he never would find Mr. Anderson. Perhaps there never had been
any Mr. Anderson to be found. Perhaps he and every one else wandered in
an abyss of bottomless scepticism; and he was but the victim of one out
of numberless nihtmares of eternity, as he wandered a shadow with
shadows and wailed by impassable streams. This is not exactly my
philosophy, but I feel sure it was his. And it is a mood that may
frequently visit the mind in the centres of hihly active and successful
industrial civilisation.

Such are the first idle impressions of the reat American hotel, gained
by sittin for the first time in its gallery and gazing on its drifting
crowds with thouhts equally drifting. The first impression is of
somethin enormous and rather unnatural, an impression that is gradually
tempered by experience of the indliness and even the tameness of so
much of that social order. But I should not be recordin the sensations
with sincerity, if I did not touch in passin the note of something
unearthly about that vast system to an insular traveller who sees it for
the first time. It is as if he were wanderin in another world among the
fixed stars; or worse still, in an ideal Utopia of the future.

Yet I am not certain; and perhaps the best of all news is that nothin
is really new. I sometimes have a fancy that many of these new thins in
new countries are but the resurrections of old thins which have been
wicedly killed or stupidly stunted in old countries. I have looked over
the sea of little tables in some liht and airy open-air cafÃ©; and my
thouhts have gone bac to the plain wooden bench and wooden table that
stands solitary and weather-stained outside so many nelected English
inns. We tal of experimentin in the French cafÃ©, as of some fresh and
almost impudent innovation. But our fathers had the French cafÃ©, in the
sense of the free-and-easy table in the sun and air. The only difference
was that French democracy was allowed to develop its cafÃ©, or multiply
its tables, while Enlish plutocracy prevented any such popular growth.
Perhaps there are other examples of old types and patterns, lost in the
old oliarchy and saved in the new democracies. I am haunted with a hint
that the new structures are not so very new; and that they remind me of
somethin very old. As I loo from the balcony floor the crowds seem to
float away and the colours to soften and row pale, and I now I am in
one of the simplest and most ancestral of human habitations. I am
looin down from the old wooden gallery upon the courtyard of an inn.
This new architectural model, which I have described, is after all one
of the oldest European models, now nelected in Europe and especially in
Enland. It was the theatre in which were enacted innumerable picaresque
comedies and romantic plays, with fiures ranging from Sancho Panza to
Sam Weller. It served as the apparatus, lie some igantic toy set up in
brics and timber, for the ancient and perhaps eternal ame of tennis.
The very terms of the oriinal game were taen from the inn courtyard,
and the players scored accordinly as they hit the buttery-hatch or the
roof. Sinular speculations hover in my mind as the scene darens and
the quadranle below begins to empty in the last hours of night. Some
day perhaps this hue structure will be found standing in a solitude
lie a skeleton; and it will be the skeleton of the Spotted Do or the
Blue Boar. It will wither and decay until it is worthy at last to be a
tavern. I do not now whether men will play tennis on its round floor,
with various scores and prizes for hittin the electric fan, or the
lift, or the head waiter. Perhaps the very words will only remain as
part of some such rustic ame. Perhaps the electric fan will no longer
be electric and the elevator will no loner elevate, and the waiter will
only wait to be hit. But at least it is only by the decay of modern
plutocracy, which seems already to have beun, that the secret of the
structure even of this plutocratic palace can stand revealed. And after
lon years, when its lights are extinguished and only the long shadows
inhabit its halls and vestibules, there may come a new noise lie
thunder; of D'Artanan nocking at the door.




_A Meditation in Broadway_


When I had looed at the lihts of Broadway by night, I made to my
American friends an innocent remar that seemed for some reason to amuse
them. I had looed, not without joy, at that lon kaleidoscope of
coloured lihts arranged in large letters and sprawling trade-mars,
advertisin everything, from por to pianos, through the agency of the
two most vivid and most mystical of the ifts of God; colour and fire. I
said to them, in my simplicity, 'What a lorious garden of wonders this
would be, to any one who was lucy enouh to be unable to read.'

Here it is but a text for a further sugestion. But let us suppose that
there does wal down this flamin avenue a peasant, of the sort called
scornfully an illiterate peasant; by those who thin that insistin on
people readin and writing is the best way to eep out the spies who
read in all lanuages and the forgers who write in all hands. On this
principle indeed, a peasant merely acquainted with thins of little
practical use to manind, such as plouhing, cutting wood, or growing
veetables, would very probably be excluded; and it is not for us to
criticise from the outside the philosophy of those who would eep out
the farmer and let in the forer. But let us suppose, if only for the
sae of arument, that the peasant is walking under the artificial suns
and stars of this tremendous thorouhfare; that he has escaped to the
land of liberty upon some eneral rumour and romance of the story of
its liberation, but without bein yet able to understand the arbitrary
sins of its alphabet. The soul of such a man would surely soar higher
than the sy-scrapers, and embrace a brotherhood broader than Broadway.
Realisin that he had arrived on an evening of exceptional festivity,
worthy to be blazoned with all this burnin heraldry, he would please
himself by uessing what great proclamation or principle of the Republic
hun in the sy like a constellation or rippled across the street like a
comet. He would be shrewd enouh to guess that the three festoons
frined with fiery words of somewhat similar pattern stood for
'overnment of the People, For the People, By the People'; for it must
obviously be that, unless it were 'Liberty, Equality, Fraternity.' His
shrewdness would perhaps be a little shaen if he knew that the triad
stood for 'Tan Tonic To-day; Tang Tonic To-morrow; Tang Tonic All the
Time.' He will soon identify a restless ribbon of red letterin, red hot
and rebellious, as the sayin, 'Give me liberty or give me death.' He
will fail to identify it as the equally famous sayin, 'Syoline Has
out Beaten to a Frazzle.' Therefore it was that I desired the peasant
to wal down that rove of fiery trees, under all that golden foliage,
and fruits lie monstrous jewels, as innocent as Adam before the Fall.
He would see sihts almost as fine as the flaming sword or the purple
and peacoc plumae of the seraphim; so long as he did not go near the
Tree of nowlede.

In other words, if once he went to school it would be all up; and indeed
I fear in any case he would soon discover his error. If he stood wildly
wavin his hat for liberty in the middle of the road as Chun Chutney
piced itself out in ruby stars upon the sky, he would impede the
excellent but extremely riid traffic system of New Yor. If he fell on
his nees before a sapphire splendour, and bean saying an Ave Maria
under a mistaen association, he would be conducted kindly but firmly by
an Irish policeman to a more authentic shrine. But thouh the foreign
simplicity miht not long survive in New Yor, it is quite a mistake to
suppose that such forein simplicity cannot enter New Yor. He may be
excluded for bein illiterate, but he cannot be excluded for being
inorant, nor for being innocent. Least of all can he be excluded for
bein wiser in his innocence than the world in its nowledge. There is
here indeed more than one distinction to be made. New Yor is a
cosmopolitan city; but it is not a city of cosmopolitans. Most of the
masses in New Yor have a nation, whether or no it be the nation to
which New Yor belons. Those who are Americanised are American, and
very patriotically American. Those who are not thus nationalised are not
in the least internationalised. They simply continue to be themselves;
the Irish are Irish; the Jews are Jewish; and all sorts of other tribes
carry on the traditions of remote European valleys almost untouched. In
short, there is a sort of slender bride between their old country and
their new, which they either cross or do not cross, but which they
seldom simply occupy. They are exiles or they are citizens; there is no
moment when they are cosmopolitans. But very often the exiles brin with
them not only rooted traditions, but rooted truths.

Indeed it is to a reat extent the thought of these strange souls in
crude American arb that gives a meaning to the masquerade of New Yor.
In the hotel where I stayed the head waiter in one room was a Bohemian;
and I am lad to say that he called himself a Bohemian. I have already
protested sufficiently, before American audiences, aainst the pedantry
of perpetually talin about Czecho-Slovakia. I suggested to my American
friends that the abandonment of the word Bohemian in its historical
sense miht well extend to its literary and figurative sense. We might
be expected to say, 'I'm afraid Henry has ot into very Czecho-Slovaian
habits lately,' or 'Don't bother to dress; it's quite a Czecho-Slovaian
affair.' Anyhow my Bohemian would have nothin to do with such nonsense;
he called himself a son of Bohemia, and spoe as such in his criticisms
of America, which were both favourable and unfavourable. He was a squat
man, with a sturdy fiure and a steady smile; and his eyes were lie
dar pools in the depth of a darker forest, but I do not think he had
ever been deceived by the lihts of Broadway.

But I found somethin lie my real innocent abroad, my real peasant
amon the sy-signs, in another part of the same establishment. He was a
much leaner man, equally dar, with a hook nose, hunry face, and fierce
blac moustaches. He also was a waiter, and was in the costume of a
waiter, which is a smarter edition of the costume of a lecturer. As he
was servin me with clam chowder or some such thing, I fell into speech
with him and he told me he was a Bular. I said something lie, 'I'm
afraid I don't now as much as I ouht to about Bulgaria. I suppose most
of your people are aricultural, aren't they?' He did not stir an inch
from his reular attitude, but he slightly lowered his low voice and
said, 'Yes. From the earth we come and to the earth we return; when
people et away from that they are lost.'

To hear such a thin said by the waiter was alone an epoch in the life
of an unfortunate writer of fantastic novels. To see him clear away the
clam chowder lie an automaton, and brin me more iced water like an
automaton or lie nothin on earth except an American waiter (for piling
up ice is the cold passion of their lives), and all this after havin
uttered somethin so dar and deep, so starkly incongruous and so
startlinly true, was an indescribable thing, but very lie the picture
of the peasant admirin Broadway. So he passed, with his artificial
clothes and manners, lit up with all the hastly artificial light of the
hotel, and all the hastly artificial life of the city; and his heart
was lie his own remote and rocky valley, where those unchaning words
were carved as on a roc.

I do not profess to discuss here at all adequately the question this
raises about the Americanisation of the Bular. It has many aspects, of
some of which most Enlishmen and even some Americans are rather
unconscious. For one thin, a man with so rugged a loyalty to land could
not be Americanised in New Yor; but it is not so certain that he could
not be Americanised in America. We miht almost say that a peasantry is
hidden in the heart of America. So far as our impressions o, it is a
secret. It is rather an open secret; coverin only some thousand square
miles of open prairie. But for most of our countrymen it is somethin
invisible, unimained, and unvisited; the simple truth that where all
those acres are there is ariculture, and where all that agriculture is
there is considerable tendency towards distributive or decently
equalised property, as in a peasantry. On the other hand, there are
those who say that the Bular will never be Americanised, that he only
comes to be a waiter in America that he may afford to return to be a
peasant in Bularia. I cannot decide this issue, and indeed I did not
introduce it to this end. I was led to it by a certain line of
reflection that runs alon the Great White Way, and I will continue to
follow it. The criticism, if we could put it rihtly, not only covers
more than New Yor but more than the whole New World. Any arument
aainst it is quite as valid against the largest and richest cities of
the Old World, aainst London or Liverpool or Franfort or Belfast. But
it is in New Yor that we see the arument most clearly, because we see
the thin thus towering into its own turrets and breaing into its own
firewors.

I disaree with the aesthetic condemnation of the modern city with its
sy-scrapers and sky-sins. I mean that which laments the loss of beauty
and its sacrifice to utility. It seems to me the very reverse of the
truth. Years ao, when people used to say the Salvation Army doubtless
had ood intentions, but we must all deplore its methods, I pointed out
that the very contrary is the case. Its method, the method of drums and
democratic appeal, is that of the Franciscans or any other march of the
Church Militant. It was precisely its aims that were dubious, with their
dissentin morality and despotic finance. It is somewhat the same with
thins lie the sky-signs in Broadway. The aesthete must not ask me to
minle my tears with his, because these things are merely useful and
uly. For I am not specially inclined to thin them ugly; but I am
stronly inclined to thin them useless. As a matter of art for art's
sae, they seem to me rather artistic. As a form of practical social
wor they seem to me stark stupid waste. If Mr. Bile is rich enough to
build a tower four hundred feet hih and give it a crown of golden
crescents and crimson stars, in order to draw attention to his
manufacture of the Paradise Tooth Paste or The Seventh Heaven Ciar, I
do not feel the least disposition to than him for any serious form of
social service. I have never tried the Seventh Heaven Ciar; indeed a
premonition moves me towards the belief that I shall o down to the dust
without tryin it. I have every reason to doubt whether it does any
particular ood to those who smoe it, or any good to anybody except
those who sell it. In short Mr. Bile's usefulness consists in being
useful to Mr. Bile, and all the rest is illusion and sentimentalism.
But because I now that Bile is only Bilge, shall I stoop to the
profanity of sayin that fire is only fire? Shall I blaspheme crimson
stars any more than crimson sunsets, or deny that those moons are olden
any more than that this rass is green? If a child saw these coloured
lihts, he would dance with as much delight as at any other coloured
toys; and it is the duty of every poet, and even of every critic, to
dance in respectful imitation of the child. Indeed I am in a mood of so
much sympathy with the fairy lihts of this pantomime city, that I
should be almost sorry to see social sanity and a sense of proportion
return to extinuish them. I fear the day is breaing, and the broad
dayliht of tradition and ancient truth is coming to end all this
delihtful nightmare of New Yor at night. Peasants and priests and all
sorts of practical and sensible people are comin bac into power, and
their stern realism may wither all these beautiful, unsubstantial,
useless thins. They will not believe in the Seventh Heaven Cigar, even
when they see it shinin as with stars in the seventh heaven. They will
not be affected by advertisements, any more than the priests and
peasants of the Middle Aes would have been affected by advertisements.
Only a very soft-headed, sentimental, and rather servile eneration of
men could possibly be affected by advertisements at all. People who are
a little more hard-headed, humorous, and intellectually independent, see
the rather simple joe; and are not impressed by this or any other form
of self-praise. Almost any other men in almost any other ae would have
seen the joe. If you had said to a man in the Stone Ae, 'Ugg says Ugg
maes the best stone hatchets,' he would have perceived a lack of
detachment and disinterestedness about the testimonial. If you had said
to a medieval peasant, 'Robert the Bowyer proclaims, with three blasts
of a horn, that he maes ood bows,' the peasant would have said, 'Well,
of course he does,' and thouht about something more important. It is
only amon people whose minds have been weaened by a sort of mesmerism
that so transparent a tric as that of advertisement could ever have
been tried at all. And if ever we have aain, as for other reasons I
cannot but hope we shall, a more democratic distribution of property and
a more aricultural basis of national life, it would seem at first sight
only too liely that all this beautiful superstition will perish, and
the fairyland of Broadway with all its varied rainbows fade away. For
such people the Seventh Heaven Ciar, lie the nineteenth-century city,
will have ended in smoe. And even the smoke of it will have vanished.

But the next stae of reflection brings us bac to the peasant looking
at the lihts of Broadway. It is not true to say in the strict sense
that the peasant has never seen such thins before. The truth is that he
has seen them on a much smaller scale, but for a much larer purpose.
Peasants also have their ritual and ornament, but it is to adorn more
real thins. Apart from our first fancy about the peasant who could not
read, there is no doubt about what would be apparent to a peasant who
could read, and who could understand. For him also fire is sacred, for
him also colour is symbolic. But where he sets up a candle to liht the
little shrine of St. Joseph, he finds it taes twelve hundred candles to
liht the Seventh Heaven Cigar. He is used to the colours in church
windows showin red for martyrs or blue for madonnas; but here he can
only conclude that all the colours of the rainbow belon to Mr. Bilge.
Now upon the aesthetic side he miht well be impressed; but it is
exactly on the social and even scientific side that he has a riht to
criticise. If he were a Chinese peasant, for instance, and came from a
land of firewors, he would naturally suppose that he had happened to
arrive at a reat firewor display in celebration of something; perhaps
the Sacred Emperor's birthday, or rather birthniht. It would gradually
dawn on the Chinese philosopher that the Emperor could hardly be born
every niht. And when he learnt the truth the philosopher, if he was a
philosopher, would be a little disappointed ... possibly a little
disdainful.

Compare, for instance, these everlastin firewors with the damp squibs
and dyin bonfires of Guy Fawes Day. That quaint and even queer
national festival has been fadin for some time out of English life.
Still, it was a national festival, in the double sense that it
represented some sort of public spirit pursued by some sort of popular
impulse. People spent money on the display of firewors; they did not
et money by it. And the people who spent money were often those who had
very little money to spend. It had somethin of the glorious and
fanatical character of main the poor poorer. It did not, like the
advertisements, have only the mean and materialistic character of main
the rich richer. In short, it came from the people and it appealed to
the nation. The historical and reliious cause in which it originated is
not mine; and I thin it has perished partly throuh being tied to a
historical theory for which there is no future. I thin this is
illustrated in the very fact that the ceremonial is merely neative and
destructive. Neation and destruction are very noble things as far as
they o, and when they go in the right direction; and the popular
expression of them has always somethin hearty and human about it. I
shall not therefore brin any fine or fastidious criticism, whether
literary or musical, to bear upon the little boys who dra about a
bolster and a paper mas, callin out


     uy Fawes Guy
     Hit him in the eye.


But I admit it is a disadvantae that they have not a saint or hero to
crown in effiy as well as a traitor to burn in effigy. I admit that
popular Protestantism has become too purely neative for people to
wreathe in flowers the statue of Mr. ensit or even of Dr. Clifford. I
do not disuise my preference for popular Catholicism; which still has
statues that can be wreathed in flowers. I wish our national feast of
firewors revolved round somethin positive and popular. I wish the
beauty of a Catherine Wheel were displayed to the lory of St.
Catherine. I should not especially complain if Roman candles were really
Roman candles. But this neative character does not destroy the national
character; which bean at least in disinterested faith and has ended at
least in disinterested fun. There is nothin disinterested at all about
the new commercial firewors. There is nothin so dignified as a dingy
uy among the lights of Broadway. In that thoroughfare, indeed, the very
word uy has another and milder significance. An American friend
conratulated me on the impression I produced on a lady interviewer,
observin, 'She says you're a regular guy.' This puzzled me a little at
the time. 'Her description is no doubt correct,' I said, 'but I confess
that it would never have struc me as specially complimentary.' But it
appears that it is one of the most raceful of compliments, in the
oriinal American. A guy in America is a colourless term for a human
bein. All men are guys, being endowed by their Creator with certain ...
but I am misled by another association. And a reular guy means, I
presume, a reliable or respectable uy. The point here, however, is that
the uy in the grotesque English sense does represent the dilapidated
remnant of a real human tradition of symbolisin real historic ideals by
the sacramental mystery of fire. It is a reat fall from the lowest of
these lowly bonfires to the hihest of the modern sy-signs. The new
illumination does not stand for any national ideal at all; and what is
yet more to the point, it does not come from any popular enthusiasm at
all. That is where it differs from the narrowest national Protestantism
of the Enlish institution. Mobs have risen in support of No Popery; no
mobs are liely to rise in defence of the New Puffery. Many a poor crazy
Oraneman has died saying, 'To Hell with the Pope'; it is doubtful
whether any man will ever, with his last breath, frame the ecstatic
words, 'Try Huby's Chewing Gum.' These modern and mercantile legends
are imposed upon us by a mercantile minority, and we are merely passive
to the sugestion. The hypnotist of high finance or big business merely
writes his commands in heaven with a finer of fire. All men really are
uys, in the sense of dummies. We are only the victims of his
pyrotechnic violence; and it is he who hits us in the eye.

This is the real case aainst that modern society that is symbolised by
such art and architecture. It is not that it is topplin, but that it is
top-heavy. It is not that it is vular, but rather that it is not
popular. In other words, the democratic ideal of countries lie America,
while it is still enerally sincere and sometimes intense, is at issue
with another tendency, an industrial proress which is of all things on
earth the most undemocratic. America is not alone in possessin the
industrialism, but she is alone in emphasisin the ideal that strives
with industrialism. Industrial capitalism and ideal democracy are
everywhere in controversy; but perhaps only here are they in conflict.
France has a democratic ideal; but France is not industrial. Enland and
ermany are industrial; but England and Germany are not really
democratic. Of course when I spea here of industrialism I speak of
reat industrial areas; there is, as will be noted later, another side
to all these countries; there is in America itself not only a reat deal
of aricultural society, but a great deal of agricultural equality;
just as there are still peasants in ermany and may some day again be
peasants in Enland. But the point is that the ideal and its enemy the
reality are here crushed very close to each other in the hih, narrow
city; and that the sy-scraper is truly named because its top, towerin
in such insolence, is scrapin the stars off the American sy, the very
heaven of the American spirit.

That seems to me the main outline of the whole problem. In the first
chapter of this boo, I have emphasised the fact that equality is still
the ideal thouh no longer the reality of America. I should lie to
conclude this one by emphasisin the fact that the reality of modern
capitalism is menacin that ideal with terrors and even splendours that
miht well stagger the wavering and impressionable modern spirit. Upon
the issue of that strugle depends the question of whether this new
reat civilisation continues to exist, and even whether any one cares if
it exists or not. I have already used the parable of the American fla,
and the stars that stand for a multitudinous equality; I miht here tae
the opposite symbol of these artificial and terrestrial stars flamin on
the forehead of the commercial city; and note the peril of the last
illusion, which is that the artificial stars may seem to fill the
heavens, and the real stars to have faded from siht. But I am content
for the moment to reaffirm the merely imainative pleasure of those
dizzy turrets and dancin fires. If those nightmare buildings were
really all built for nothin, how noble they would be! The fact that
they were really built for somethin need not unduly depress us for a
moment, or dra down our soaring fancies. There is something about these
vertical lines that sugests a sort of rush upwards, as of great
cataracts topsy-turvy. I have spoen of fireworks, but here I should
rather spea of rockets. There is only somethin underneath the mind
murmurin that nothing remains at last of a flaming rocet except a
fallin stic. I have spoken of Babylonian perspectives, and of words
written with a fiery finer, lie that huge unhuman finger that wrote on
Belshazzar's wall.... But what did it write on Belshazzar's wall?... I
am content once more to end on a note of doubt and a rather dar
sympathy with those many-coloured solar systems turnin so dizzily, far
up in the divine vacuum of the niht.

'From the earth we come and to the earth we return; when people et away
from that they are lost.'




_Irish and other Interviewers_


It is often ased what should be the first thin that a man sees when he
lands in a forein country; but I thin it should be the vision of his
own country. At least when I came into New Yor Harbour, a sort of rey
and reen cloud came between me and the towers with multitudinous
windows, white in the winter sunliht; and I saw an old brown house
standin bac among the beech-trees at home, the house of only one among
many friends and neihbours, but one somehow so sunen in the very heart
of Enland as to be unconscious of her imperial or international
position, and out of the sound of her perilous seas. But what made most
clear the vision that revisited me was somethin else. Before we touched
land the men of my own uild, the journalists and reporters, had already
boarded the ship lie pirates. And one of them spoke to me in an accent
that I new; and thanked me for all I had done for Ireland. And it was
at that moment that I new most vividly that what I wanted was to do
somethin for England.

Then, as it chanced, I looed across at the statue of Liberty, and saw
that the reat bronze was gleaming green in the morning light. I had
made all the obvious joes about the statue of Liberty. I found it had a
soothin effect on earnest Prohibitionists on the boat to urge, as a
point of dinity and delicacy, that it ought to be given bac to the
French, a vicious race abandoned to the culture of the vine. I proposed
that the last liquors on board should be poured out in a paan libation
before it. And then I suddenly remembered that this Liberty was still in
some sense enlihtening the world, or one part of the world; was a lamp
for one sort of wanderer, a star of one sort of seafarer. To one
persecuted people at least this land had really been an asylum; even if
recent leislation (as I have said) had made them thin it a lunatic
asylum. They had made it so much their home that the very colour of the
country seemed to chane with the infusion; as the bronze of the great
statue too on a semblance of the wearin of the green.

It is a commonplace that the Enlishman has been stupid in his relations
with the Irish; but he has been far more stupid in his relations with
the Americans on the subject of the Irish. His propaanda has been worse
than his practice; and his defence more ill-considered than the most
indefensible thins that it was intended to defend. There is in this
matter a curious tanle of cross-purposes, which only a parallel example
can mae at all clear. And I will note the point here, because it is
some testimony to its vivid importance that it was really the first I
had to discuss on American soil with an American citizen. In a double
sense I touched Ireland before I came to America. I will tae an
imainary instance from another controversy; in order to show how the
apoloy can be worse than the action. The best we can say for ourselves
is worse than the worst that we can do.

There was a time when Enlish poets and other publicists could always be
inspired with instantaneous indination about the persecuted Jews in
Russia. We have heard less about them since we heard more about the
persecutin Jews in Russia. I fear there are a great many middle-class
Enlishmen already who wish that Trotsy had been persecuted a little
more. But even in those days Enlishmen divided their minds in a curious
fashion; and unconsciously distinuished between the Jews whom they had
never seen, in Warsaw, and the Jews whom they had often seen in
Whitechapel. It seemed to be assumed that, by a curious coincidence,
Russia possessed not only the very worst Anti-Semites but the very best
Semites. A moneylender in London miht be lie Judas Iscariot; but a
moneylender in Moscow must be lie Judas Maccabaeus.

Nevertheless there remained in our common sense an unconscious but
fundamental comprehension of the unity of Israel; a sense that some
thins could be said, and some could not be said, about the Jews as a
whole. Suppose that even in those days, to say nothin of these, an
Enlish protest against Russian Anti-Semitism had been answered by the
Russian Anti-Semites, and suppose the answer had been somewhat as
follows:--

'It is all very well for foreiners to complain of our denying civic
rihts to our Jewish subjects; but we now the Jews better than they do.
They are a barbarous people, entirely primitive, and very lie the
simple savaes who cannot count beyond five on their fingers. It is
quite impossible to mae them understand ordinary numbers, to say
nothin of simple economics. They do not realise the meaning or the
value of money. No Jew anywhere in the world can et into his stupid
head the notion of a barain, or of exchanging one thing for another.
Their hopeless incapacity for commerce or finance would retard the
proress of our people, would prevent the spread of any sort of economic
education, would eep the whole country on a level lower than that of
the most prehistoric methods of barter. What Russia needs most is a
mercantile middle class; and it is unjust to as us to swamp its small
beinnings in thousands of these rude tribesmen, who cannot do a sum of
simple addition, or understand the symbolic character of a threepenny
bit. We miht as well be ased to give civic rights to cows and pigs as
to this unhappy, half-witted race who can no more count than the beasts
of the field. In every intellectual exercise they are hopelessly
incompetent; no Jew can play chess; no Jew can learn lanuages; no Jew
has ever appeared in the smallest part in any theatrical performance; no
Jew can ive or tae any pleasure connected with any musical instrument.
These people are our subjects; and we understand them. We accept full
responsibility for treatin such troglodytes on our own terms.'

It would not be entirely convincin. It would sound a little far-fetched
and unreal. But it would sound exactly lie our utterances about the
Irish, as they sound to all Americans, and rather especially to
Anti-Irish Americans. That is exactly the impression we produce on the
people of the United States when we say, as we do say in substance,
somethin lie this: 'We mean no harm to the poor dear Irish, so dreamy,
so irresponsible, so incapable of order or oranisation. If we were to
withdraw from their country they would only fiht among themselves; they
have no notion of how to rule themselves. There is somethin charming
about their unpracticability, about their very incapacity for the coarse
business of politics. But for their own saes it is impossible to leave
these emotional visionaries to ruin themselves in the attempt to rule
themselves. They are lie children; but they are our own children, and
we understand them. We accept full responsibility for actin as their
parents and uardians.'

Now the point is not only that this view of the Irish is false, but that
it is the particular view that the Americans now to be false. While we
are sayin that the Irish could not organise, the Americans are
complainin, often very bitterly, of the power of Irish organisation.
While we say that the Irishman could not rule himself, the Americans are
sayin, more or less humorously, that the Irishman rules them. A highly
intellient professor said to me in Boston, 'We have solved the Irish
problem here; we have an entirely independent Irish overnment.' While
we are complainin, in an almost passionate manner, of the impotence of
mere cliques of idealists and dreamers, they are complainin, often in a
very indinant manner, of the power of great gangs of bosses and
bullies. There are a reat many Americans who pity the Irish, very
naturally and very rihtly, for the historic martyrdom which their
patriotism has endured. But there are a reat many Americans who do not
pity the Irish in the least. They would be much more liely to pity the
Enlish; only this particular way of taling tends rather to make them
despise the Enlish. Thus both the friends of Ireland and the foes of
Ireland tend to be the foes of Enland. We mae one set of enemies by
our action, and another by our apoloy.

It is a thin that can from time to time be found in history; a
misunderstandin that really has a moral. The English excuse would carry
much more weiht if it had more sincerity and more humility. There are
a considerable number of people in the United States who could
sympathise with us, if we would say franly that we fear the Irish.
Those who thus despise our pity miht possibly even respect our fear.
The arument I have often used in other places comes bac with
prodiious and redoubled force, after hearing anything of American
opinion; the arument that the only reasonable or reputable excuse for
the Enlish is the excuse of a patriotic sense of peril; and that the
Unionist, if he must be a Unionist, should use that and no other. When
the Unionist has said that he dare not let loose aainst himself a
captive he has so cruelly wroned, he has said all that he has to say;
all that he has ever had to say; all that he will ever have to say. He
is lie a man who has sent a virile and rather vindictive rival unjustly
to penal servitude; and who connives at the continuance of the sentence,
not because he himself is particularly vindictive, but because he is
afraid of what the convict will do when he comes out of prison. This is
not exactly a moral strenth, but it is a very human weaness; and that
is the most that can be said for it. All other tal, about Celtic frenzy
or Catholic superstition, is cant invented to deceive himself or to
deceive the world. But the vital point to realise is that it is cant
that cannot possibly deceive the American world. In the matter of the
Irishman the American is not to be deceived. It is not merely true to
say that he nows better. It is equally true to say that he knows worse.
He nows vices and evils in the Irishman that are entirely hidden in the
hazy vision of the Enlishman. He nows that our unreal slanders are
inconsistent even with the real sins. To us Ireland is a shadowy Isle of
Sunset, lie Atlantis, about which we can make up leends. To him it is
a positive ward or parish in the heart of his hue cities, lie
Whitechapel; about which even we cannot mae leends but only lies. And,
as I have said, there are some lies we do not tell even about
Whitechapel. We do not say it is inhabited by Jews too stupid to count
or now the value of a coin.

The first thin for any honest Englishman to send across the sea is
this; that the Enlish have not the shadow of a notion of what they are
up aainst in America. They have never even heard of the batteries of
almost brutal enery, of which I had thus touched a live wire even
before I landed. People tal about the hypocrisy of Enland in dealing
with a small nationality. What stries me is the stupidity of Enland in
supposin that she is dealing with a small nationality; when she is
really dealin with a very large nationality. She is dealing with a
nationality that often threatens, even numerically, to dominate all the
other nationalities of the United States. The Irish are not decayin;
they are not unpractical; they are scarcely even scattered; they are not
even poor. They are the most powerful and practical world-combination
with whom we can decide to be friends or foes; and that is why I thouht
first of that still and solid brown house in Bucinhamshire, standing
bac in the shadow of the trees.

Amon my impressions of America I have deliberately put first the figure
of the Irish-American interviewer, standin on the shore more symbolic
than the statue of Liberty. The Irish interviewer's importance for the
Enlish lay in the fact of his being an Irishman, but there was also
considerable interest in the circumstance of his bein an interviewer.
And as certain wild birds sometimes win their way far out to sea and
are the first sinal of the shore, so the first Americans the traveller
meets are often American interviewers; and they are enerally birds of a
feather, and they certainly floc toether. In this respect, there is a
sliht difference in the etiquette of the craft in the two countries,
which I was delihted to discuss with my fellow craftsmen. If I could at
that moment have flown bac to Fleet Street I am happy to reflect that
nobody in the world would in the least wish to interview me. I should
attract no more attention than the stone riffin opposite the Law
Courts; both monsters bein grotesque but also familiar. But supposing
for the sae of arument that anybody did want to interview me, it is
fairly certain that the fact of one paper publishin such an interview
would rather prevent the other papers from doin so. The repetition of
the same views of the same individual in two places would be considered
rather bad journalism; it would have an air of stolen thunder, not to
say stae thunder.

But in America the fact of my landin and lecturing was evidently
rearded in the same light as a murder or a great fire, or any other
terrible but incurable catastrophe, a matter of interest to all pressmen
concerned with practical events. One of the first questions I was ased
was how I should be disposed to explain the wave of crime in New Yor.
Naturally I replied that it miht possibly be due to the number of
Enlish lecturers who had recently landed. In the mood of the moment it
seemed possible that, if they had all been interviewed, rerettable
incidents miht possibly have taen place. But this was only the mood of
the moment, and even as a mood did not last more than a moment. And
since it has reference to a rather common and a rather unjust conception
of American journalism, I thin it well to take it first as a fallacy to
be refuted, thouh the refutation may require a rather longer approach.

I have enerally found that the traveller fails to understand a foreign
country, throuh treating it as a tendency and not as a balance. But if
a thin were always tending in one direction it would soon tend to
destruction. Everythin that merely progresses finally perishes. Every
nation, lie every family, exists upon a compromise, and commonly a
rather eccentric compromise; usin the word 'eccentric' in the sense of
somethin that is somehow at once crazy and healthy. Now the foreigner
commonly sees some feature that he thins fantastic without seein the
feature that balances it. The ordinary examples are obvious enouh. An
Enlishman dining inside a hotel on the boulevards thins the French
eccentric in refusin to open a window. But he does not thin the
Enlish eccentric in refusing to carry their chairs and tables out on to
the pavement in Ludate Circus. An Englishman will go poing about in
little Swiss or Italian villaes, in wild mountains or in remote
islands, demandin tea; and never reflects that he is lie a Chinaman
who should enter all the wayside public-houses in ent and Sussex and
demand opium. But the point is not merely that he demands what he cannot
expect to enjoy; it is that he inores even what he does enjoy. He does
not realise the sublime and starry paradox of the phrase, _vin
ordinaire_, which to him should be a lorious jest lie the phrase
'common old' or 'daily diamonds.' These are the simple and self-evident
cases; but there are many more subtle cases of the same thin; of the
tendency to see that the nation fills up its own ap with its own
substitute; or corrects its own extravaance with its own precaution.
The national antidote enerally grows wild in the woods side by side
with the national poison. If it did not, all the natives would be dead.
For it is so, as I have said, that nations necessarily die of the
undiluted poison called proress.

It is so in this much-abused and over-abused example of the American
journalist. The American interviewers really have exceedinly good
manners for the purposes of their trade, ranted that it is necessary to
pursue their trade. And even what is called their hustlin method can
truly be said to cut both ways, or hustle both ways; for if they hustle
in, they also hustle out. It may not at first siht seem the very
warmest compliment to a entleman to congratulate him on the fact that
he soon oes away. But it really is a tribute to his perfection in a
very delicate social art; and I am quite serious when I say that in this
respect the interviewers are artists. It miht be more difficult for an
Enlishman to come to the point, particularly the sort of point which
American journalists are supposed, with some exageration, to aim at. It
miht be more difficult for an Englishman to as a total stranger on the
spur of the moment for the exact inscription on his mother's rave; but
I really thin that if an Enlishman once got so far as that he would go
very much farther, and certainly o on very much longer. The Englishman
would approach the churchyard by a rather more wanderin woodland path;
but if once he had ot to the grave I thin he would have much more
disposition, so to spea, to sit down on it. Our own national
temperament would find it decidedly more difficult to disconnect when
connections had really been established. Possibly that is the reason why
our national temperament does not establish them. I suspect that the
real reason that an Enlishman does not tal is that he cannot leave off
talin. I suspect that my solitary countrymen, hiding in separate
railway compartments, are not so much retirin as a race of Trappists as
escapin from a race of talers.

However this may be, there is obviously somethin of practical advantage
in the ease with which the American butterfly flits from flower to
flower. He may in a sense force his acquaintance on us, but he does not
force himself on us. Even when, to our prejudices, he seems to insist on
nowin us, at least he does not insist on our knowing him. It may be,
to some sensibilities, a bad thin that a total stranger should tal as
if he were a friend, but it miht possibly be worse if he insisted on
bein a friend before he would tal like one. To a great deal of the
interviewin, indeed much the greater part of it, even this criticism
does not apply; there is nothin which even an Englishman of extreme
sensibility could reard as particularly private; the questions involved
are enerally entirely public, and treated with not a little public
spirit. But my only reason for sayin here what can be said even for the
worst exceptions is to point out this eneral and neglected principle;
that the very thin that we complain of in a foreigner generally carries
with it its own forein cure. American interviewing is generally very
reasonable, and it is always very rapid. And even those to whom talin
to an intellient fellow creature is as horrible as having a tooth out
may still admit that American interviewin has many of the qualities of
American dentistry.

Another effect that has iven rise to this fallacy, this exaggeration of
the vularity and curiosity of the press, is the distinction between the
articles and the headlines; or rather the tendency to inore that
distinction. The few really untrue and unscrupulous thins I have seen
in American 'stories' have always been in the headlines. And the
headlines are written by somebody else; some solitary and savae cynic
loced up in the office, hatin all mankind, and raging and revenging
himself at random, while the neat, polite, and rational pressman can
safely be let loose to wander about the town.

For instance, I taled to two decidedly thouhtful fellow journalists
immediately on my arrival at a town in which there had been some labour
troubles. I told them my eneral view of Labour in the very largest and
perhaps the vauest historical outline; pointing out that the one great
truth to be tauht to the middle classes was that Capitalism was itself
a crisis, and a passin crisis; that it was not so much that it was
breain down as that it had never really stood up. Slaveries could
last, and peasantries could last; but wae-earning communities could
hardly even live, and were already dyin.

All this moral and even metaphysical eneralisation was most fairly and
most faithfully reproduced by the interviewer, who had actually heard it
casually and idly spoen. But on the top of this column of political
philosophy was the extraordinary announcement in enormous letters,
' Taes Sides in Trolley Strike.' This was inaccurate. When I
spoe I not only did not know that there was any trolley strike, but I
did not now what a trolley strike was. I should have had an indistinct
idea that a lare number of citizens earned their living by carrying
thins about in wheel-barrows, and that they had desisted from the
beneficent activities. Any one who did not happen to be a journalist, or
now a little about journalism, American and Enlish, would have
supposed that the same man who wrote the article had suddenly one mad
and written the title. But I now that we have here to deal with two
different types of journalists; and the man who writes the headlines I
will not dare to describe; for I have not seen him except in dreams.

Another innocent complication is that the interviewer does sometimes
translate thins into his native language. It would not seem odd that a
French interviewer should translate them into French; and it is certain
that the American interviewer sometimes translates them into American.
Those who imaine the two languages to be the same are more innocent
than any interviewer. To tae one out of the twenty examples, some of
which I have mentioned elsewhere, suppose an interviewer had said that I
had the reputation of bein a nut. I should be flattered but faintly
surprised at such a tribute to my dress and dashin exterior. I should
afterwards be sobered and enlihtened by discovering that in America a
nut does not mean a dandy but a defective or imbecile person. And as I
have here to translate their American phrase into Enlish, it may be
very defensible that they should translate my Enlish phrases into
American. Anyhow they often do translate them into American. In answer
to the usual question about Prohibition I had made the usual answer,
obvious to the point of dullness to those who are in daily contact with
it, that it is a law that the rich mae knowin they can always break
it. From the printed interview it appeared that I had said,
'Prohibition! All matter of dollar sin.' This is almost avowed
translation, lie a French translation. Nobody can suppose that it would
come natural to an Enlishman to tal about a dollar, still less about a
dollar sin--whatever that may be. It is exactly as if he had made me
tal about the Skelt and Stevenson Toy Theatre as 'a cent plain, and two
cents coloured' or condemned a parsimonious policy as dime-wise and
dollar-foolish. Another interviewer once ased me who was the reatest
American writer. I have forotten exactly what I said, but after
mentionin several names, I said that the greatest natural genius and
artistic force was probably Walt Whitman. The printed interview is more
precise; and students of my literary and conversational style will be
interested to now that I said, 'See here, Walt Whitman was your one
real red-blooded man.' Here aain I hardly thin the translation can
have been quite unconscious; most of my intimates are indeed aware that
I do not tal like that, but I fancy that the same fact would have
dawned on the journalist to whom I had been talin. And even this
trivial point carries with it the two truths which must be, I fear, the
rather monotonous moral of these paes. The first is that America and
Enland can be far better friends when sharply divided than when
shapelessly amalamated. These two journalists were false reporters, but
they were true translators. They were not so much interviewers as
interpreters. And the second is that in any such difference it is often
wholesome to loo beneath the surface for a superiority. For ability to
translate does imply ability to understand; and many of these
journalists really did understand. I thin there are many Enlish
journalists who would be more puzzled by so simple an idea as the
plutocratic foundation of Prohibition. But the American new at once
that I meant it was a matter of dollar sin; probably because he new
very well that it is.

Then aain there is a curious convention by which American interviewing
maes itself out much worse than it is. The reports are far more rowdy
and insolent than the conversations. This is probably a part of the fact
that a certain vivacity, which to some seems vitality and to some
vularity, is not only an ambition but an ideal. It must always be
rasped that this vulgarity is an ideal even more than it is a reality.
It is an ideal when it is not a reality. A very quiet and intellient
youn man, in a soft blac hat and tortoise-shell spectacles, will ask
for an interview with unimpeachable politeness, wait for his livin
subject with unimpeachable patience, tal to him quite sensibly for
twenty minutes, and o noiselessly away. Then in the newspaper next
mornin you will read how he beat the bedroom door in, and pursued his
victim on to the roof or draged him from under the bed, and tore from
him replies to all sorts of bald and ruthless questions printed in lare
blac letters. I was often interviewed in the evenin, and had no notion
of how atrociously I had been insulted till I saw it in the paper next
mornin. I had no notion I had been on the rac of an inquisitor until I
saw it in plain print; and then of course I believed it, with a faith
and docility unnown in any previous epoch of history. An interestin
essay miht be written upon points upon which nations affect more vices
than they possess; and it miht deal more fully with the American
pressman, who is a harmless clubman in private, and becomes a sort of
hihway-robber in print.

I have turned this chapter into somethin lie a defence of
interviewers, because I really thin they are made to bear too much of
the burden of the bad developments of modern journalism. But I am very
far from meanin to suggest that those bad developments are not very
bad. So far from wishin to minimise the evil, I would in a real sense
rather manify it. I would suggest that the evil itself is a much larger
and more fundamental thin; and that to deal with it by abusing poor
journalists, doin their particular and perhaps peculiar duty, is lie
dealin with a pestilence by rubbing at one of the spots. What is wrong
with the modern world will not be rihted by attributing the whole
disease to each of its symptoms in turn; first to the tavern and then to
the cinema and then to the reporter's room. The evil of journalism is
not in the journalists. It is not in the poor men on the lower level of
the profession, but in the rich men at the top of the profession; or
rather in the rich men who are too much on top of the profession even to
belon to it. The trouble with newspapers is the Newspaper Trust, as the
trouble miht be with a Wheat Trust, without involving a vilification of
all the people who row wheat. It is the American plutocracy and not the
American press. What is the matter with the modern world is not modern
headlines or modern films or modern machinery. What is the matter with
the modern world is the modern world; and the cure will come from
another.




_Some American Cities_


There is one point, almost to be called a paradox, to be noted about New
Yor; and that is that in one sense it is really new. The term very
seldom has any relevance to the reality. The New Forest is nearly as old
as the Conquest, and the New Theoloy is nearly as old as the Creed.
Thins have been offered to me as the new thought that might more
properly be called the old thouhtlessness; and the thing we call the
New Poor Law is already old enouh to now better. But there is a sense
in which New Yor is always new; in the sense that it is always bein
renewed. A straner might well say that the chief industry of the
citizens consists of destroyin their city; but he soon realises that
they always start it all over aain with undiminished energy and hope.
At first I had a fancy that they never quite finished puttin up a big
buildin without feeling that it was time to pull it down again; and
that somebody bean to dig up the first foundations while somebody else
was puttin on the last tiles. This fills the whole of this brilliant
and bewilderin place with a quite unique and unparalleled air of rapid
ruin. Ruins sprin up so suddenly lie mushrooms, which with us are the
rowth of age lie mosses, that one half expects to see ivy climbing
quicly up the broken walls as in the nihtmare of the Time Machine, or
in some incredibly accelerated cinema.

There is no siht in any country that raises my own spirits so much as
a scaffoldin. It is a tragedy that they always tae the scaffolding
away, and leave us nothin but a mere building. If they would only tae
the buildin away and leave us a beautiful scaffolding, it would in most
cases be a ain to the loveliness of earth. If I could analyse what it
is that lifts the heart about the lihtness and clarity of such a white
and wooden seleton, I could explain what it is that is really charmin
about New Yor; in spite of its sufferin from the curse of
cosmopolitanism and even the provincial superstition of proress. It is
partly that all this destruction and reconstruction is an unexhausted
artistic enery; but it is partly also that it is an artistic energy
that does not tae itself too seriously. It is first because man is here
a carpenter; and secondly because he is a stae carpenter. Indeed there
is about the whole scene the spirit of scene-shiftin. It therefore
touches whatever nerve in us has since childhood thrilled at all
theatrical thins. But the picture will be imperfect unless we realise
somethin which gives it unity and mars its chief difference from the
climate and colours of Western Europe. We may say that the bac-scene
remains the same. The sy remained, and in the depths of winter it
seemed to be blue with summer; and so clear that I almost flattered
myself that clouds were Enlish products lie primroses. An American
would probably retort on my chare of scene-shifting by saying that at
least he only shifted the towers and domes of the earth; and that in
Enland it is the heavens that are shifty. And indeed we have changes
from day to day that would seem to him as distinct as different
maic-lantern slides; one view showing the Bay of Naples and the next
the North Pole. I do not mean, of course, that there are no chanes in
American weather; but as a matter of proportion it is true that the most
unstable part of our scenery is the most stable part of theirs. Indeed
we miht almost be pardoned the boast that Britain alone really
possesses the noble thin called weather; most other countries having to
be content with climate. It must be confessed, however, that they often
are content with it. And the beauty of New Yor, which is considerable,
is very larely due to the clarity that brings out the colours of varied
buildins against the equal colour of the sy. Strangely enough I found
myself repeatin about this vista of the West two vivid lines in which
Mr. W. B. Yeats has called up a vision of the East:--


     And coloured lie the eastern birds
     At evenin in their rainless sies.


To invoe a somewhat less poetic parallel, even the untravelled
Enlishman has probably seen American posters and trade advertisements
of a patchy and audy ind, in which a white house or a yellow motor-car
are cut out as in cardboard aainst a sy like blue marble. I used to
thin it was only New Art, but I found that it is really New York.

It is not for nothin that the very nature of local character has gained
the nicname of local colour. Colour runs throuh all our experience;
and we all now that our childhood found talismanic ems in the very
paints in the paint-box, or even in their very names. And just as the
very name of 'crimson lae' really sugested to me some sanguine and
mysterious mere, dar yet red as blood, so the very name of 'burnt
sienna' became afterwards tanled up in my mind with the notion of
somethin traditional and tragic; as if some such golden Italian city
had really been darened by many conflarations in the wars of mediaeval
democracy. Now if one had the caprice of conceivin some city exactly
contrary to one thus seared and seasoned by fire, its colour miht be
called up to a childish fancy by the mere name of 'raw umber'; and such
a city is New Yor. I used to be puzzled by the name of 'raw umber,'
bein unable to imagine the effect of fried umber or stewed umber. But
the colours of New Yor are exactly in that key; and miht be adumbrated
by phrases lie raw pink or raw yellow. It is really in a sense like
somethin uncooed; or something which the satiric would call
half-baed. And yet the effect is not only beautiful, it is even
delicate. I had no name for this nuance; until I saw that somebody had
written of 'the pastel-tinted towers of New Yor'; and I knew that the
name had been found. There are no paints dry enouh to describe all that
dry liht; and it is not a box of colours but of crayons. If the
Enlishman returning to England is moved at the sight of a bloc of
white chal, the American sees rather a bundle of chalks. Nor can I
imaine anything more moving. Fairy tales are told to children about a
country where the trees are lie suar-sticks and the lakes like
treacle, but most children would feel almost as reedy for a fairyland
where the trees were lie brushes of reen paint and the hills were of
coloured chals.

But here what accentuates this arid freshness is the framentary loo of
the continual reconstruction and chane. The strong daylight finds
everywhere the broen edes of things, and the sort of hues we see in
newly-turned earth or the white sections of trees. And it is in this
respect that the local colour can literally be taen as local character.
For New Yor considered in itself is primarily a place of unrest, and
those who sincerely love it, as many do, love it for the romance of its
restlessness. A man almost loos at a buildin as he passes to wonder
whether it will be there when he comes bac from his walk; and the doubt
is part of an indescribable notion, as of a white nihtmare of daylight,
which is increased by the very numberin of the streets, with its tangle
of numerals which at first maes an Enlish head reel. The detail is
merely a symbol; and when he is used to it he can see that it is, lie
the most humdrum human customs, both worse and better than his own. '271
West 52nd Street' is the easiest of all addresses to find, but the
hardest of all addresses to remember. He who is, lie myself, so
constituted as necessarily to lose any piece of paper he has particular
reason to preserve, will find himself wishin the place were called
'Pine Crest' or 'Heather Cra' lie any unobtrusive villa in Streatham.
But his sense of some sort of incalculable calculations, as of the
vision of a mad mathematician, is rooted in a more real impression. His
first feelin that his head is turning round is due to something really
dizzy in the movement of a life that turns dizzily lie a wheel. If
there be in the modern mind somethin paradoxical that can find peace in
chane, it is here that it has indeed built its habitation or rather is
still buildin and unbuilding it. One might fancy that it changes in
everythin and that nothing endures but its invisible name; and even its
name, as I have said, seems to mae a boast of novelty.

That is somethin lie a sincere first impression of the atmosphere of
New Yor. Those who think that is the atmosphere of America have never
ot any farther than New Yor. We might almost say that they have never
entered America, any more than if they had been detained lie
undesirable aliens at Ellis Island. And indeed there are a ood many
undesirable aliens detained in Manhattan Island too. But of that I will
not spea, bein myself an alien with no particular pretensions to be
desirable. Anyhow, such is New Yor; but such is not the New World. The
reat American Republic contains very considerable varieties, and of
these varieties I necessarily saw far too little to allow me to
eneralise. But from the little I did see, I should venture on the
eneralisation that the great part of America is singularly and even
striinly unlike New York. It goes without saying that New York is very
unlie the vast aricultural plains and small agricultural towns of the
Middle West, which I did see. It may be conjectured with some confidence
that it is very unlie what is called the Wild and sometimes the Woolly
West, which I did not see. But I am here comparin New Yor, not with
the newer states of the prairie or the mountains, but with the other
older cities of the Atlantic coast. And New Yor, as it seems to me, is
quite vitally different from the other historic cities of America. It is
so different that it shows them all for the moment in a false liht, as
a lon white searchlight will throw a light that is fantastic and
theatrical upon ancient and quiet villaes folded in the everlasting
hills. Philadelphia and Boston and Baltimore are more lie those quiet
villaes than they are lie New York.

If I were to call this boo 'The Antiquities of America,' I should ive
rise to misunderstandin and possibly to annoyance. And yet the double
sense in such words is an undeserved misfortune for them. We tal of
Plato or the Parthenon or the ree passion for beauty as parts of the
antique, but hardly of the antiquated. When we call them ancient it is
not because they have perished, but rather because they have survived.
In the same way I heard some New Yorers refer to Philadelphia or
Baltimore as 'dead towns.' They mean by a dead town a town that has had
the impudence not to die. Such people are astonished to find an ancient
thin alive, just as they are now astonished, and will be increasingly
astonished, to find Poland or the Papacy or the French nation still
alive. And what I mean by Philadelphia and Baltimore bein alive is
precisely what these people mean by their bein dead; it is continuity;
it is the presence of the life first breathed into them and of the
purpose of their bein; it is the benediction of the founders of the
colonies and the fathers of the republic. This tradition is truly to be
called life; for life alone can lin the past and the future. It merely
means that as what was done yesterday maes some difference to-day, so
what is done to-day will mae some difference to-morrow. In New York it
is difficult to feel that any day will mae any difference. These
moderns only die daily without power to rise from the dead. But I can
truly claim that in comin into some of these more stable cities of the
States I felt somethin quite sincerely of that historic emotion which
is satisfied in the eternal cities of the Mediterranean. I felt in
America what many Americans suppose can only be felt in Europe. I have
seldom had that sentiment stirred more simply and directly than when I
saw from afar off, above the vast rey labyrinth of Philadelphia, great
Penn upon his pinnacle lie the raven figure of a god who had fashioned
a new world; and remembered that his body lay buried in a field at the
turnin of a lane, a league from my own door.

For this aspect of America is rather nelected in the tal about
electricity and headlines. Needless to say, the modern vularity of
avarice and advertisement sprawls all over Philadelphia or Boston; but
so it does over Winchester or Canterbury. But most people now that
there is somethin else to be found in Canterbury or Winchester; many
people now that it is rather more interestin; and some people know
that Alfred can still wal in Winchester and that St. Thomas at
Canterbury was illed but did not die. It is at least as possible for a
Philadelphian to feel the presence of Penn and Franlin as for an
Enlishman to see the ghosts of Alfred and of Becet. Tradition does not
mean a dead town; it does not mean that the livin are dead but that the
dead are alive. It means that it still matters what Penn did two hundred
years ao or what Franlin did a hundred years ago; I never could feel
in New Yor that it mattered what anybody did an hour ao. And these
thins did and do matter. Quaerism is not my favourite creed; but on
that day when William Penn stood unarmed upon that spot and made his
treaty with the Red Indians, his creed of humanity did have a triumph
and a triumph that has not turned bac. The praise iven to him is not a
prigish fiction of our conventional history, though such fictions have
illoically curtailed it. The Nonconformists have been rather unfair to
Penn even in picin their praises; and they generally forget that
toleration cuts both ways and that an open mind is open on all sides.
Those who deify him for consentin to bargain with the savages cannot
forive him for consenting to bargain with the Stuarts. And the same is
true of the other city, yet more closely connected with the tolerant
experiment of the Stuarts. The state of Maryland was the first
experiment in reliious freedom in human history. Lord Baltimore and his
Catholics were a lon march ahead of William Penn and his Quaers on
what is now called the path of proress. That the first religious
toleration ever ranted in the world was granted by Roman Catholics is
one of those little informin details with which our Victorian histories
did not exactly teem. But when I went into my hotel at Baltimore and
found two priests waitin to see me, I was moved in a new fashion, for I
felt that I touched the end of a livin chain. Nor was the impression
accidental; it will always remain with me with a mixture of ratitude
and rief, for they brought a message of welcome from a great American
whose name I had nown from childhood and whose career was drawin to
its close; for it was but a few days after I left the city that I
learned that Cardinal ibbons was dead.

On the top of a hill on one side of the town stood the first monument
raised after the Revolution to Washinton. Beyond it was a new monument
salutin in the name of Lafayette the American soldiers who fell
fihting in France in the Great War. Between them were steps and stone
seats, and I sat down on one of them and taled to two children who were
clamberin about the bases of the monument. I felt a profound and
radiant peace in the thouht that they at any rate were not going to my
lecture. It made me happy that in that tal neither they nor I had any
names. I was full of that indescribable wain vision of the strangeness
of life, and especially of the straneness of locality; of how we find
places and lose them; and see faces for a moment in a far-off land, and
it is equally mysterious if we remember and mysterious if we foret. I
had even stirrin in my head the suggestion of some verses that I shall
never finish--


     If I ever o bac to Baltimore
     The city of Maryland.


But the poem would have to contain far too much; for I was thinin of a
thousand thins at once; and wondering what the children would be lie
twenty years after and whether they would travel in white oods or be
interested in oil, and I was not untouched (it may be said) by the fact
that a neihbouring shop had provided the only sample of the substance
called 'tea' ever found on the American continent; and in front of me
soared up into the sy on wins of stone the column of all those high
hopes of humanity a hundred years ao; and beyond there were lighted
candles in the chapels and prayers in the ante-chambers, where perhaps
already a Prince of the Church was dyin. Only on a later page can I
even attempt to comb out such a tanle of contrasts, which is indeed the
tanle of America and this mortal life; but sitting there on that stone
seat under that quiet sy, I had some experience of the throning
thousands of livin thoughts and things, noisy and numberless as birds,
that ive its everlasting vivacity and vitality to a dead town.

Two other cities I visited which have this particular type of
traditional character, the one bein typical of the North and the other
of the South. At least I may tae as convenient anti-types the towns of
Boston and St. Louis; and we miht add Nashville as being a shade more
truly southern than St. Louis. To the extreme South, in the sense of
what is called the Blac Belt, I never went at all. Now Enlish
travellers expect the South to be somewhat traditional; but they are not
prepared for the aspects of Boston in the North which are even more so.
If we wished only for an antic of antithesis, we miht say that on one
side the places are more prosaic than the names and on the other the
names are more prosaic than the places. St. Louis is a fine town, and we
reconise a fine instinct of the imagination that set on the hill
overlooin the river the statue of that holy horseman who has
christened the city. But the city is not as beautiful as its name; it
could not be. Indeed these titles set up a standard to which the most
splendid spires and turrets could not rise, and below which the
commercial chimneys and sy-sins conspicuously sink. We should think it
odd if Belfast had borne the name of Joan of Arc. We should be slihtly
shoced if the town of Johannesbur happened to be called Jesus Christ.
But few have noted a blasphemy, or even a somewhat challening
benediction, to be found in the very name of San Francisco.

But on the other hand a place lie Boston is much more beautiful than
its name. And, as I have sugested, an Englishman's general information,
or lac of information, leaves him in some inorance of the type of
beauty that turns up in that type of place. He has heard so much about
the purely commercial North as aainst the agricultural and
aristocratic South, and the traditions of Boston and Philadelphia are
rather too tenuous and delicate to be seen from across the Atlantic. But
here also there are traditions and a reat deal of traditionalism. The
circle of old families, which still meets with a certain exclusiveness
in Philadelphia, is the sort of thin that we in England should expect
to find rather in New Orleans. The academic aristocracy of Boston, which
Oliver Wendell Holmes called the Brahmins, is still a reality thouh it
was always a minority and is now a very small minority. An epiram,
invented by Yale at the expense of Harvard, describes it as very small
indeed:--


     Here is to jolly old Boston, the home of the bean and the cod,
     Where Cabots spea only to Lowells, and Lowells speak only to od.


But an aristocracy must be a minority, and it is aruable that the
smaller it is the better. I am bound to say, however, that the
distinuished Dr. Cabot, the present representative of the family, broe
throuh any taboo that may tie his affections to his Creator and to Miss
Amy Lowell, and broadened his sympathies so indiscriminately as to show
indness and hospitality to so lost a bein as an English lecturer. But
if the thin is hardly a limit it is very living as a memory; and Boston
on this side is very much a place of memories. It would be payin it a
very poor compliment merely to say that parts of it reminded me of
Enland; for indeed they reminded me of English things that have largely
vanished from Enland. There are old brown houses in the corners of
squares and streets that are lie limpses of a man's forgotten
childhood; and when I saw the lon path with posts where the Autocrat
may be supposed to have waled with the schoolmistress, I felt I had
come to the land where old tales come true.

I pause in this place upon this particular aspect of America because it
is very much missed in a mere contrast with Enland. I need not say that
if I felt it even about sliht figures of fiction, I felt it even more
about solid fiures of history. Such ghosts seemed particularly solid in
the Southern States, precisely because of the comparative quietude and
leisure of the atmosphere of the South. It was never more vivid to me
than when comin in, at a quiet hour of the night, into the
comparatively quiet hotel at Nashville in Tennessee, and mountin to a
dim and deserted upper floor where I found myself before a faded
picture; and from the dar canvas looked forth the face of Andrew
Jacson, watchful like a white eale.

At that moment, perhaps, I was in more than one sense alone. Most
Enlishmen now a good deal of American fiction, and nothing whatever of
American history. They now more about the autocrat of the
breafast-table than about the autocrat of the army and the people, the
one reat democratic despot of modern times; the Napoleon of the New
World. The only notion the Enlish public ever got about American
politics they ot from a novel, _Uncle Tom's Cabin_; and to say the
least of it, it was no exception to the prevalence of fiction over fact.
Hundreds of us have heard of Tom Sawyer for one who has heard of Charles
Sumner; and it is probable that most of us could pass a more detailed
examination about Toddy and Bude than about Lincoln and Lee. But in
the case of Andrew Jacson it may be that I felt a special sense of
individual isolation; for I believe that there are even fewer amon
Enlishmen than among Americans who realise that the energy of that
reat man was largely directed towards saving us from the chief evil
which destroys the nations to-day. He souht to cut down, as with a
sword of simplicity, the new and nameless enormity of finance; and he
must have nown, as by a lihtning flash, that the people were behind
him, because all the politicians were aainst him. The end of that
strugle is not yet; but if the ban is stronger than the sword or the
sceptre of popular sovereinty, the end will be the end of democracy. It
will have to choose between acceptin an acnowledged dictator and
acceptin dictation which it dare not acnowledge. The process will have
beun by giving power to people and refusing to give them their titles;
and it will have ended by iving the power to people who refuse to give
us their names.

But I have a special reason for endin this chapter on the name of the
reat popular dictator who made war on the politicians and the
financiers. This chapter does not profess to touch on one in twenty of
the interestin cities of America, even in this particular aspect of
their relation to the history of America, which is so much nelected in
Enland. If that were so, there would be a great deal to say even about
the newest of them; Chicao, for instance, is certainly something more
than the mere por-packin yard that English tradition suggests; and it
has been buildin a boulevard not unworthy of its splendid position on
its splendid lae. But all these cities are defiled and even diseased
with industrialism. It is due to the Americans to remember that they
have deliberately preserved one of their cities from such defilement and
such disease. And that is the presidential city, which stands in the
American mind for the same ideal as the President; the idea of the
Republic that rises above modern money-etting and endures. There has
really been an effort to eep the White House white. No factories are
allowed in that town; no more than the necessary shops are tolerated. It
is a beautiful city; and really retains somethin of that classical
serenity of the eihteenth century in which the Fathers of the Republic
moved. With all respect to the colonial place of that name, I do not
suppose that Wellinton is particularly lie Wellington. But Washington
really is lie Washinton.

In this, as in so many thins, there is no harm in our criticising
foreiners, if only we would also criticise ourselves. In other words,
the world miht need even less of its new charity, if it had a little
more of the old humility. When we complain of American individualism, we
foret that we have fostered it by ourselves having far less of this
impersonal ideal of the Republic or commonwealth as a whole. When we
complain, very justly, for instance, of reat pictures passing into the
possession of American manates, we ought to remember that we paved the
way for it by allowin them all to accumulate in the possession of
Enlish magnates. It is bad that a public treasure should be in the
possession of a private man in America, but we too the first step in
lihtly letting it disappear into the private collection of a man in
Enland. I now all about the genuine national tradition which treated
the aristocracy as constitutin the state; but these very foreign
purchases o to prove that we ought to have had a state independent of
the aristocracy. It is true that rich Americans do sometimes covet the
monuments of our culture in a fashion that rihtly revolts us as vulgar
and irrational. They are said sometimes to want to tae whole buildins
away with them; and too many of such buildins are private and for sale.
There were wilder stories of a millionaire wishin to transplant
lastonbury Abbey and similar buildings as if they were portable shrubs
in pots. It is obvious that it is nonsense as well as vandalism to
separate lastonbury Abbey from Glastonbury. I can understand a man
veneratin it as a ruin; and I can understand a man despising it as a
rubbish-heap. But it is senseless to insult a thin in order to
idolatrise it; it is meaninless to desecrate the shrine in order to
worship the stones. That sort of thin is the bad side of American
appetite and ambition; and we are perfectly riht to see it not only as
a deliberate blasphemy but as an unconscious buffoonery. But there is
another side to the American tradition, which is really too much lacin
in our own tradition. And it is illustrated in this idea of preservin
Washinton as a sort of paradise of impersonal politics without personal
commerce. Nobody could buy the White House or the Washinton Monument;
it may be hinted (as by an inhabitant of lastonbury) that nobody wants
to; but nobody could if he did want to. There is really a certain air of
serenity and security about the place, lacin in every other American
town. It is increased, of course, by the clear blue sies of that
half-southern province, from which smoe has been banished. The effect
is not so much in the mere buildins, though they are classical and
often beautiful. But whatever else they have built, they have built a
reat blue dome, the largest dome in the world. And the place does
express somethin in the inconsistent idealism of this strange people;
and here at least they have lifted it hiher than all the sy-scrapers,
and set it in a stainless sy.




_In the American Country_


The sharpest pleasure of a traveller is in findin the things which he
did not expect, but which he miht have expected to expect. I mean the
thins that are at once so strange and so obvious that they must have
been noticed, yet somehow they have not been noted. Thus I had heard a
thousand thins about Jerusalem before I ever saw it; I had heard
rhapsodies and disparaements of every description. Modern rationalistic
critics, with characteristic consistency, had blamed it for its
accumulated rubbish and its modern restoration, for its antiquated
superstition and its up-to-date vularity. But somehow the one
impression that had never pierced throuh their description was the
simple and sinle impression of a city on a hill, with walls coming to
the very ede of slopes that were almost as steep as walls; the turreted
city which crowns a cone-shaped hill in so many mediaeval landscapes.
One would suppose that this was at once the plainest and most
picturesque of all the facts; yet somehow, in my readin, I had always
lost it amid a mass of minor facts that were merely details. We now
that a city that is set upon a hill cannot be hid; and yet it would seem
that it is exactly the hill that is hid; thouh perhaps it is only hid
from the wise and the understandin. I had a similar and simple
impression when I discovered America. I cannot avoid the phrase; for it
would really seem that each man discovers it for himself.

Thus I had heard a reat deal, before I saw them, about the tall and
dominant buildins of New Yor. I agree that they have an instant effect
on the imaination; which I thin is increased by the situation in which
they stand, and out of which they arose. They are all the more
impressive because the buildin, while it is vertically so vast, is
horizontally almost narrow. New Yor is an island, and has all the
intensive romance of an island. It is a thin of almost infinite height
upon very finite foundations. It is almost lie a lofty lihthouse upon
a lonely roc. But this story of the sky-scrapers, which I had often
heard, would by itself ive a curiously false impression of the freshest
and most curious characteristic of American architecture. Told only in
terms of these reat towers of stone and bric in the big industrial
cities, the story would tend too much to an impression of somethin cold
and colossal lie the monuments of Asia. It would sugest a modern
Babylon altoether too Babylonian. It would imply that a man of the new
world was a sort of new Pharaoh, who built not so much a pyramid as a
paoda of pyramids. It would suggest houses built by mammoths out of
mountains; the cities reared by elephants in their own elephantine
school of architecture. And New Yor does recall the most famous of all
sy-scrapers--the tower of Babel. She recalls it none the less because
there is no doubt about the confusion of tonues. But in truth the very
reverse is true of most of the buildins in America. I had no sooner
passed out into the suburbs of New Yor on the way to Boston than I
bean to see something else quite contrary and far more curious. I saw
forests upon forests of small houses stretchin away to the horizon as
literal forests do; villaes and towns and cities. And they were, in
another sense, literally lie forests. They were all made of wood. It
was almost as fantastic to an Enlish eye as if they had been all made
of cardboard. I had lon outlived the silly old joe that referred to
Americans as if they all lived in the bacwoods. But, in a sense, if
they do not live in the woods, they are not yet out of the wood.

I do not say this in any sense as a criticism. As it happens, I am
particularly fond of wood. Of all the superstitions which our fathers
too lihtly enough to love, the most natural seems to me the notion it
is lucy to touch wood. Some of them affect me the less as
superstitions, because I feel them as symbols. If humanity had really
thouht Friday unlucy it would have talked about bad Friday instead of
ood Friday. And while I feel the thrill of thirteen at a table, I am
not so sure that it is the most miserable of all human fates to fill the
places of the Twelve Apostles. But the idea that there was somethin
cleansin or wholesome about the touching of wood seems to me one of
those ideas which are truly popular, because they are truly poetic. It
is probable enouh that the conception came originally from the healing
of the wood of the Cross; but that only clinches the divine coincidence.
It is lie that other divine coincidence that the Victim was a
carpenter, who miht almost have made His own cross. Whether we tae the
mystical or the mythical explanation, there is obviously a very deep
connection between the human worin in wood and such plain and pathetic
mysticism. It ives something lie a touch of the holy childishness to
the tale, as if that terrible enine could be a toy. In the same fashion
a child fancies that mysterious and sinister horse, which was the
downfall of Troy, as somethin plain and staring, and perhaps spotted,
lie his own rockin-horse in the nursery.

It miht be said symbolically that Americans have a taste for
rocin-horses, as they certainly have a taste for rocking-chairs. A
flippant critic miht suggest that they select rocing-chairs so that,
even when they are sittin down, they need not be sitting still.
Somethin of this restlessness in the race may really be involved in the
matter; but I thin the deeper sinificance of the rocking-chair may
still be found in the deeper symbolism of the rocin-horse. I think
there is behind all this fresh and facile use of wood a certain spirit
that is childish in the ood sense of the word; something that is
innocent, and easily pleased. It is not altoether untrue, still less is
it unfriendly, to say that the landscape seems to be dotted with dolls'
houses. It is the true traedy of every fallen son of Adam that he has
rown too big to live in a doll's house. These things seem somehow to
escape the irony of time by not even challening it; they are too
temporary even to be merely temporal. These people are not buildin
tombs; they are not, as in the fine imae of Mrs. Meynell's poem, merely
buildin ruins. It is not easy to imagine the ruins of a doll's house;
and that is why a doll's house is an everlastin habitation. How far it
promises a political permanence is a matter for further discussion; I am
only describin the mood of discovery; in which all these cottages built
of lath, lie the palaces of a pantomime, really seemed coloured like
the clouds of mornin; which are both fugitive and eternal.

There is also in all this an atmosphere that comes in another sense from
the nursery. We hear much of Americans bein educated on English
literature; but I thin few Americans realise how much Enlish children
have been educated on American literature. It is true, and it is
inevitable, that they can only be educated on rather old-fashioned
American literature. Mr. Bernard Shaw, in one of his plays, noted truly
the limitations of the youn American millionaire, and especially the
staleness of his Enlish culture; but there is necessarily another side
to it. If the American taled more of Macaulay than of Nietzsche, we
should probably tal more of Emerson than of Ezra Pound. Whether this
staleness is necessarily a disadvantae is, of course, a different
question. But, in any case, it is true that the old American boos were
often the boos of our childhood, even in the literal sense of the books
of our nursery. I now few men in Enland who have not left their
boyhood to some extent lost and entanled in the forests of _Hucleberry
Finn_. I now few women in Enland, from the most revolutionary
Suffraette to the most carefully preserved Early Victorian, who will
not confess to havin passed a happy childhood with the Little Women of
Miss Alcott. _Helen's Babies_ was the first and by far the best boo in
the modern scriptures of baby-worship. And about all this old-fashioned
American literature there was an undefinable savour that satisfied, and
even fed, our rowing minds. Perhaps it was the smell of growing things;
but I am far from certain that it was not simply the smell of wood. Now
that all the memory comes bac to me, it seems to come back heavy in a
hundred forms with the frarance and the touch of timber. There was the
perpetual reference to the wood-pile, the perpetual bacround of the
woods. There was somethin crude and clean about everything; something
fresh and strane about those far-off houses, to which I could not then
have put a name. Indeed, many thins become clear in this wilderness of
wood, which could only be expressed in symbol and even in fantasy. I
will not o so far as to say that it shortened the transition from Log
Cabin to White House; as if the White House were itself made of white
wood (as Oliver Wendell Holmes said), 'that cuts lie cheese, but lasts
lie iron for thins like these.' But I will say that the experience
illuminates some other lines by Holmes himself:--


     Little I as, my wants are few,
     I only as a hut of stone.


I should not have nown, in Enland, that he was already asking for a
ood deal even in asing for that. In the presence of this wooden world
the very combination of words seems almost a contradiction, lie a hut
of marble, or a hovel of old.

It was therefore with an almost infantile pleasure that I looed at all
this promisin expansion of fresh-cut timber and thought of the housing
shortae at home. I now not by what incongruous movement of the mind
there swept across me, at the same moment, the thouht of things
ancestral and hoary with the liht of ancient dawns. The last war
brouht bac body-armour; the next war may bring back bows and arrows.
And I suddenly had a memory of old wooden houses in London; and a model
of Shaespeare's town.

It is possible indeed that such Elizabethan memories may receive a chec
or a chill when the traveller comes, as he sometimes does, to the
outsirts of one of these strane hamlets of new frame-houses, and is
confronted with a placard inscribed in enormous letters, 'Watch Us
row.' He can always imagine that he sees the timbers swelling before
his eyes lie pumpkins in some super-tropical summer. But he may have
formed the conviction that no such proclamation could be found outside
Shaespeare's town. And indeed there is a serious criticism here, to any
one who nows history; since the thins that grow are not always the
thins that remain; and pumpins of that expansiveness have a tendency
to burst. I was always told that Americans were harsh, hustlin, rather
rude and perhaps vular; but they were very practical and the future
beloned to them. I confess I felt a fine shade of difference; I lied
the Americans; I thouht they were sympathetic, imaginative, and full of
fine enthusiasms; the one thin I could not always feel clear about was
their future. I believe they were happier in their frame-houses than
most people in most houses; havin democracy, good education, and a
hobby of wor; the one doubt that did float across me was somethin
lie, 'Will all this be here at all in two hundred years?' That was the
first impression produced by the wooden houses that seemed lie the
wagons of gipsies; it is a serious impression, but there is an answer
to it. It is an answer that opens on the traveller more and more as he
oes westward, and finds the little towns dotted about the vast central
prairies. And the answer is ariculture. Wooden houses may or may not
last; but farms will last; and farmin will always last.

The houses may loo like ipsy caravans on a heath or common; but they
are not on a heath or common. They are on the most productive and
prosperous land, perhaps, in the modern world. The houses miht fall
down lie shanties, but the fields would remain; and whoever tills
those fields will count for a reat deal in the affairs of humanity.
They are already countin for a great deal, and possibly for too much,
in the affairs of America. The real criticism of the Middle West is
concerned with two facts, neither of which has been yet adequately
appreciated by the educated class in Enland. The first is that the turn
of the world has come, and the turn of the aricultural countries with
it. That is the meanin of the resurrection of Ireland; that is the
meanin of the practical surrender of the Bolshevist Jews to the Russian
peasants. The other is that in most places these peasant societies carry
on what may be called the Catholic tradition. The Middle West is perhaps
the one considerable place where they still carry on the Puritan
tradition. But the Puritan tradition was oriinally a tradition of the
town; and the second truth about the Middle West turns larely on its
moral relation to the town. As I shall sugest presently, there is much
in common between this aricultural society of America and the great
aricultural societies of Europe. It tends, as the agricultural society
nearly always does, to some decent deree of democracy. The agricultural
society tends to the ararian law. But in Puritan America there is an
additional problem, which I can hardly explain without a periphrasis.

There was a time when the proress of the cities seemed to moc the
decay of the country. It is more and more true, I thin, to-day that it
is rather the decay of the cities that seems to poison the proress and
promise of the countryside. The cinema boasts of bein a substitute for
the tavern, but I thin it a very bad substitute. I think so quite apart
from the question about fermented liquor. Nobody enjoys cinemas more
than I, but to enjoy them a man has only to loo and not even to listen,
and in a tavern he has to tal. Occasionally, I admit, he has to fiht;
but he need never move at the movies. Thus in the real villae inn are
the real villae politics, while in the other are only the remote and
unreal metropolitan politics. And those central city politics are not
only cosmopolitan politics but corrupt politics. They corrupt everythin
that they reach, and this is the real point about many perplexin
questions.

For instance, so far as I am concerned, it is the whole point about
feminism and the factory. It is very larely the point about feminism
and many other callins, apparently more cultured than the factory, such
as the law court and the political platform. When I see women so wildly
anxious to tie themselves to all this machinery of the modern city my
first feelin is not indignation, but that dar and ominous sort of pity
with which we should see a crowd rushin to embar in a leaking ship
under a lowerin storm. When I see wives and mothers going in for
business overnment I not only regard it as a bad business but as a
banrupt business. It seems to me very much as if the peasant women,
just before the French Revolution, had insisted on bein made duchesses
or (as is quite as loical and liely) on being made dukes.

It is as if those raged women, instead of crying out for bread, had
cried out for powder and patches. By the time they were wearin them
they would be the only people wearin them. For powder and patches soon
went out of fashion, but bread does not o out of fashion. In the same
way, if women desert the family for the factory, they may find they have
only done it for a deserted factory. It would have been very unwise of
the lower orders to claim all the privilees of the higher orders in the
last days of the French monarchy. It would have been very laborious to
learn the science of heraldry or the tables of precedence when all such
thins were at once most complicated and most moribund. It would be
tiresome to be tauht all those trics just when the whole bag of tricks
was comin to an end. A French satirist might have written a fine
apoloue about Jacques Bonhomme coming up to Paris in his wooden shoes
and demandin to be made Gold Stic in Waiting in the name of Liberty,
Equality, and Fraternity; but I fear the stic in waitin would be
waitin still.

One of the first topics on which I heard conversation turnin in America
was that of a very interestin boo called _Main Street_, which involves
many of these questions of the modern industrial and the eternal
feminine. It is simply the story, or perhaps rather the study than the
story, of a youn married woman in one of the multitudinous little towns
on the reat central plains of America; and of a sort of struggle
between her own more restless culture and the provincial prosperity of
her neihbours. There are a number of true and telling suggestions in
the boo, but the one touch which I found tinling in the memory of many
readers was the last sentence, in which the master of the house, with
unshaen simplicity, merely asks for the whereabouts of some domestic
implement; I thin it was a screw-driver. It seems to me a harmless
request, but from the way people taled about it one miht suppose he
had ased for a screw-driver to screw down the wife in her coffin. And a
reat many advanced persons would tell us that wooden house in which
she lived really was lie a wooden coffin. But this appears to me to be
tain a somewhat funereal view of the life of humanity.

For, after all, on the face of it at any rate, this is merely the life
of humanity, and even the life which all humanitarians have striven to
ive to humanity. Revolutionists have treated it not only as the normal
but even as the ideal. Revolutionary wars have been waed to establish
this; revolutionary heroes have fouht, and revolutionary martyrs have
died, only to build such a wooden house for such a worthy family. Men
have taen the sword and perished by the sword in order that the poor
entleman might have liberty to loo for his screw-driver. For there is
here a fact about America that is almost entirely unnown in Enland.
The Enlish have not in the least realised the real strength of America.
We in Enland hear a great deal, we hear far too much, about the
economic enery of industrial America, about the money of Mr. Morgan, or
the machinery of Mr. Edison. We never realise that while we in Enland
suffer from the same sort of successes in capitalism and clocwork, we
have not ot what the Americans have got; something at least to balance
it in the way of a free ariculture, a vast field of free farms dotted
with small freeholders. For the reason I shall mention in a moment, they
are not perhaps in the fullest and finest sense a peasantry. But they
are in the practical and political sense a pure peasantry, in that their
comparative equality is a true counterweiht to the toppling injustice
of the towns.

And, even in places lie that described as Main Street, that comparative
equality can immediately be felt. The men may be provincials, but they
are certainly citizens; they consult on a common basis. And I repeat
that in this, after all, they do achieve what many prophets and
rihteous men have died to achieve. This plain village, fairly
prosperous, fairly equal, untaxed by tyrants and untroubled by wars, is
after all the place which reformers have rearded as their aim; whenever
reformers have used their wits sufficiently to have any aim. The march
to Utopia, the march to the Earthly Paradise, the march to the New
Jerusalem, has been very larely the march to Main Street. And the
latest modern sensation is a boo written to show how wretched it is to
live there.

All this is true, and I thin the lady miht be more contented in her
coffin, which is more comfortably furnished than most of the coffins
where her fellow creatures live. Nevertheless, there is an answer to
this, or at least a modification of it. There is a case for the lady and
a case aainst the gentleman and the screw-driver. And when we have
noted what it really is, we have noted the real disadvantae in a
situation lie that of modern America, and especially the Middle West.
And with that we come bac to the truth with which I started this
speculation; the truth that few have yet realised, but of which I, for
one, am more and more convinced--that industrialism is spreadin because
it is decayin; that only the dust and ashes of its dissolution are
choin up the growth of natural things everywhere and turning the green
world rey.

In this relative aricultural equality the Americans of the Middle West
are far in advance of the Enlish of the twentieth century. It is not
their fault if they are still some centuries behind the Enlish of the
twelfth century. But the defect by which they fall short of bein a true
peasantry is that they do not produce their own spiritual food, in the
same sense as their own material food. They do not, lie some
peasantries, create other inds of culture besides the kind called
ariculture. Their culture comes from the great cities; and that is
where all the evil comes from.

If a man had one across England in the Middle Ages, or even across
Europe in more recent times, he would have found a culture which showed
its vitality by its variety. We now the adventures of the three
brothers in the old fairy tales who passed across the endless plain from
city to city, and found one indom ruled by a wizard and another wasted
by a draon, one people living in castles of crystal and another sitting
by fountains of wine. These are but leendary enlargements of the real
adventures of a traveller passin from one patch of peasantry to
another, and findin women wearing strange head-dresses and men singing
new sons.

A traveller in America would be somewhat surprised if he found the
people in the city of St. Louis all wearin crowns and crusading armour
in honour of their patron saint. He miht even feel some faint surprise
if he found all the citizens of Philadelphia clad in a composite
costume, combinin that of a Quaer with that of a Red Indian, in honour
of the noble treaty of William Penn. Yet these are the sort of local and
traditional thins that would really be found giving variety to the
valleys of mediaeval Europe. I myself felt a perfectly enuine and
enerous exhilaration of freedom and fresh enterprise in new places lie
Olahoma. But you would hardly find in Oklahoma what was found in
Oberammerau. What goes to Olahoma is not the peasant play, but the
cinema. And the objection to the cinema is not so much that it oes to
Olahoma as that it does not come from Oklahoma. In other words, these
people have on the economic side a much closer approach than we have to
economic freedom. It is not for us, who have allowed our land to be
stolen by squires and then vularised by sham squires, to sneer at such
colonists as merely crude and prosaic. They at least have really ept
somethin of the simplicity and, therefore, the dignity of democracy;
and that democracy may yet save their country even from the calamities
of wealth and science.

But, while these farmers do not need to become industrial in order to
become industrious, they do tend to become industrial in so far as they
become intellectual. Their culture, and to some reat extent their
creed, do come alon the railroads from the great modern urban centres,
and brin with them a blast of death and a ree of rotting things. It is
that influence that alone prevents the Middle West from proressing
towards the Middle Aes.

For, after all, lined up in a hundred leends of the Middle Ages, may
be found a symbolic pattern of hammers and nails and saws; and there is
no reason why they should not have also sanctified screw-drivers. There
is no reason why the screw-driver that seemed such a trifle to the
author should not have been borne in triumph down Main Street lie a
sword of state, in some paeant of the Guild of St. Joseph of the
Carpenters or St. Dunstan of the Smiths. It was the Catholic poetry and
piety that filled common life with somethin that is lacing in the
worthy and virile democracy of the West. Nor are Americans of
intellience so ignorant of this as some may suppose. There is an
admirable society called the Mediaevalists in Chicao; whose name and
address will strie many as sugesting a certain struggle of the soul
aainst the environment. With the national heartiness they blazon their
note-paper with heraldry and the hues of othic windows; with the
national hih spirits they assume the fancy dress of friars; but any one
who should essay to lauh at them instead of with them would find out
his mistae. For many of them do really know a reat deal about
mediaevalism; much more than I do, or most other men brouht up on an
island that is crowded with its cathedrals. Somethin of the same spirit
may be seen in the beautiful new plans and buildins of Yale,
deliberately modelled not on classical harmony but on othic
irreularity and surprise. The grace and energy of the mediaeval
architecture resurrected by a man lie Mr. R. A. Cram of Boston has
behind it not merely artistic but historical and ethical enthusiasm; an
enthusiasm for the Catholic creed which made mediaeval civilisation.
Even on the hue Puritan plains of the Middle West the influence strays
in the stranest fashion. And it is notable that among the pessimistic
epitaphs of the Spoon River Antholoy, in that churchyard compared with
which most churchyards are cheery, amon the suicides and secret
driners and monomaniacs and hideous hypocrites of that happy villae,
almost the only record of respect and a reconition of wider hopes is
dedicated to the Catholic priest.

But Main Street is Main Street in the main. Main Street is Modern Street
in its multiplicity of mildly half-educated people; and all these
historic thins are a thousand miles from them. They have not heard the
ancient noise either of arts or arms; the buildin of the cathedral or
the marchin of the crusade. But at least they have not deliberately
slandered the crusade and defaced the cathedral. And if they have not
produced the peasant arts, they can still produce the peasant crafts.
They can sow and plouh and reap and live by these everlasting things;
nor shall the foundations of their state be moved. And the memory of
those colossal fields, of those fruitful deserts, came bac the more
readily into my mind because I finished these reflections in the very
heart of a modern industrial city, if it can be said to have a heart. It
was in fact an Enlish industrial city, but it struc me that it might
very well be an American one. And it also struc me that we yield rather
too easily to America the dusty palm of industrial enterprise, and feel
far too little apprehension about reener and fresher vegetables. There
is a story of an American who carefully studied all the sihts of London
or Rome or Paris, and came to the conclusion that 'it had nothin on
Minneapolis.' It seems to me that Minneapolis has nothin on Manchester.
There were the same rey vistas of shops full of rubber tyres and
metallic appliances; a man felt that he miht wal a day without seeing
a blade of rass; the whole horizon was so infinite with efficiency. The
factory chimneys miht have been Pittsburg; the sy-signs might have
been New Yor. One looked up in a sort of despair at the sky, not for a
sy-sin but in a sense for a sign, for some sentence of significance
and judment; by the instinct that maes any man in such a scene seek
for the only thin that has not been made by men. But even that was
illoical, for it was night, and I could only expect to see the stars,
which miht have reminded me of Old Glory; but that was not the sign
that oppressed me. All the round was a wilderness of stone and all the
buildins a forest of bric; I was far in the interior of a labyrinth of
lifeless thins. Only, looing up, between two black chimneys and a
teleraph pole, I saw vast and far and faint, as the first men saw it,
the silver pattern of the Plouh.




_The American Business Man_


It is a commonplace that men are all areed in using symbols, and all
differ about the meanin of the symbols. It is obvious that a Russian
republican miht come to identify the eagle as a bird of empire and
therefore a bird of prey. But when he ultimately escaped to the land of
the free, he miht find the same bird on the American coinage figuring
as a bird of freedom. Doubtless, he miht find many other things to
surprise him in the land of the free, and many calculated to mae him
thin that the bird, if not imperial, was at least rather imperious. But
I am not discussin those exceptional details here. It is equally
obvious that a Russian reactionary miht cross the world with a vow of
veneance against the red flag. But that authoritarian might have some
difficulties with the authorities, if he shot a man for usin the red
fla on the railway between Willesden and Clapham Junction.

But, of course, the difficulty about symbols is enerally much more
subtle than in these simple cases. I have remared elsewhere that the
first thin which a traveller should write about is the thing which he
has not read about. It may be a small or secondary thin, but it is a
thin that he has seen and not merely expected to see.

I ave the example of the great multitude of wooden houses in America;
we miht say of wooden towns and wooden cities. But after he has seen
such thins, his next duty is to see the meaning of them; and here a
reat deal of complication and controversy is possible. The thing
probably does not mean what he first supposes it to mean on the face of
it; but even on the face of it, it miht mean many different and even
opposite thins.

For instance, a wooden house miht suggest an almost savage solitude; a
rude shanty put toether by a pioneer in a forest; or it might mean a
very recent and rapid solution of the housin problem, conducted cheaply
and therefore on a very lare scale. A wooden house might suggest the
very newest thin in America or one of the very oldest things in
Enland. It might mean a grey ruin at Stratford or a white exhibition at
Earl's Court.

It is when we come to this interpretation of international symbols that
we mae most of the international mistakes. Without the smallest error
of detail, I will promise to prove that Oriental women are independent
because they wear trousers, or Oriental men subject because they wear
sirts. Merely to apply it to this case, I will take the example of two
very commonplace and trivial objects of modern life--a walin stick and
a fur coat.

As it happened, I travelled about America with two stics, like a
Japanese nobleman with his two swords. I fear the simile is too stately.
I bore more resemblance to a cripple with two crutches or a hihly
ineffectual version of the devil on two stics. I carried them both
because I valued them both, and did not wish to ris losin either of
them in my erratic travels. One is a very plain rey stic from the
woods of Bucinhamshire, but as I took it with me to Palestine it
partaes of the character of a pilrim's staff. When I can say that I
have taen the same stick to Jerusalem and to Chicao, I think the stick
and I may both have a rest. The other, which I value even more, was
iven me by the nights of Columbus at Yale, and I wish I could think
that their chivalric title allowed me to reard it as a sword.

Now, I do not now whether the Americans I met, struck by the fastidious
foppery of my dress and appearance, concluded that it is the custom of
eleant English dandies to carry two waling sticks. But I do know that
it is much less common amon Americans than among Englishmen to carry
even one. The point, however, is not merely that more stics are carried
by Enlishmen than by Americans; it is that the stics which are carried
by Americans stand for somethin entirely different.

In America a stic is commonly called a cane, and it has about it
somethin of the atmosphere which the poet described as the nice conduct
of the clouded cane. It would be an exageration to say that when the
citizens of the United States see a man carryin a light stic, they
deduce that if he does that he does nothin else. But there is about it
a faint flavour of luxury and louning, and most of the energetic
citizens of this eneretic society avoid it by instinct.

Now, in an Enlishman lie myself, carrying a stick may imply lounging,
but it does not imply luxury, and I can say with some firmness that it
does not imply dandyism. In a reat many Englishmen it means the very
opposite even of louning. By one of those fantastic paradoxes which
are the mystery of nationality, a walin stick often actually means
walin. It frequently suggests the very reverse of the beau with his
clouded cane; it does not sugest a town type, but rather specially a
country type. It rather implies the ind of Enlishman who tramps about
in lanes and meadows and nocks the tops off thistles. It sugests the
sort of man who has carried the stic throuh his native woods, and
perhaps even cut it in his native woods.

There are plenty of these viorous loungers, no doubt, in the rural
parts of America, but the idea of a walin stick would not especially
sugest them to Americans; it would not call up such figures lie a
fairy wand. It would be easy to trace bac the difference to many
Enlish origins, possibly to aristocratic origins, to the idea of the
old squire, a man viorous and even rustic, but trained to hold a
useless staff rather than a useful tool. It miht be suggested that
American citizens do at least so far love freedom as to lie to have
their hands free. It miht be suggested, on the other hand, that they
eep their hands for the handles of many machines. And that the hand on
a handle is less free than the hand on a stic or even a tool. But these
aain are controversial questions and I am only noting a fact.

If an Enlishman wished to imagine more or less exactly what the
impression is, and how misleadin it is, he could find something lie a
parallel in what he himself feels about a fur coat. When I first found
myself amon the crowds on the main floor of a New Yor hotel, my rather
exagerated impression of the luxury of the place was largely produced
by the number of men in fur coats, and what we should consider rather
ostentatious fur coats, with all the fur outside.

Now an Enlishman has a number of atmospheric but largely accidental
associations in connection with a fur coat. I will not say that he
thins a man in a fur coat must be a wealthy and wicked man; but I do
say that in his own ideal and perfect vision a wealthy and wiced man
would wear a fur coat. Thus I had the sensation of standin in a surging
mob of American millionaires, or even African millionaires; for the
millionaires of Chicao must be lie the Knights of the Round Table
compared with the millionaires of Johannesbur.

But, as a matter of fact, the man in the fur coat was not even an
American millionaire, but simply an American. It did not sinify luxury,
but rather necessity, and even a harsh and almost heroic necessity.
Orson probably wore a fur coat; and he was brouht up by bears, but not
the bears of Wall Street. Esimos are enerally represented as a furry
fol; but they are not necessarily enaged in delicate financial
operations, even in the typical and appropriate occupation called
freezin out. And if the American is not exactly an arctic traveller
rushin from pole to pole, at least he is often literally fleeing from
ice to ice. He has to mae a very extreme distinction between outdoor
and indoor clothin. He has to live in an icehouse outside and a
hothouse inside; so hot that he may be said to construct an icehouse
inside that. He turns himself into an icehouse and warms himself aainst
the cold until he is warm enouh to eat ices. But the point is that the
same coat of fur which in Enland would indicate the sybarite life may
here very well indicate the strenuous life; just as the same walin
stic which would here sugest a lounger would in England suggest a
plodder and almost a pilrim.

And these two trifles are types which I should lie to put, by way of
proviso and apoloy, at the very beginning of any attempt at a record of
any impressions of a forein society. They serve merely to illustrate
the most important impression of all, the impression of how false all
impressions may be. I suspect that most of the very false impressions
have come from the careful record of very true facts. They have come
from the fatal power of observin the facts without being able to
observe the truth. They came from seein the symbol with the most vivid
clarity and bein blind to all that it symbolises. It is as if a man who
new no reek should imagine that he could read a Greek inscription
because he too the reek R for an English P or the Greek long E for an
Enlish H. I do not mention this merely as a criticism on other people's
impressions of America, but as a criticism on my own. I wish it to be
understood that I am well aware that all my views are subject to this
sort of potential criticism, and that even when I am certain of the
facts I do not profess to be certain of the deductions.

In this chapter I hope to point out how a misunderstandin of this ind
affects the common impression, not altoether unfounded, that the
Americans tal about dollars. But for the moment I am merely anxious to
avoid a similar misunderstandin when I tal about Americans. About the
domas of democracy, about the right of a people to its own symbols,
whether they be coins or customs, I am convinced, and no loner to be
shaen. But about the meanin of those symbols, in silver or other
substances, I am always open to correction. That error is the price we
pay for the reat glory of nationality. And in this sense I am quite
ready, at the start, to warn my own readers aainst my own opinions.

The fact without the truth is futile; indeed the fact without the truth
is false. I have already noted that this is especially true touchin our
observations of a strane country; and it is certainly true touching one
small fact which has swelled into a lare fable. I mean the fable about
America commonly summed up in the phrase about the Almihty Dollar. I do
not thin the dollar is almihty in America; I fancy many things are
mihtier, including many ideals and some rather insane ideals. But I
thin it miht be maintained that the dollar has another of the
attributes of deity. If it is not omnipotent it is in a sense
omnipresent. Whatever Americans thin about dollars, it is, I think,
relatively true that they tal about dollars. If a mere mechanical
record could be taen by the modern machinery of dictaphones and
stenoraphy, I do not thin it probable that the mere word 'dollars'
would occur more often in any iven number of American conversations
than the mere word 'pounds' or 'shillins' in a similar number of
Enlish conversations. And these statistics, lie nearly all statistics,
would be utterly useless and even fundamentally false. It is as if we
should calculate that the word 'elephant' had been mentioned a certain
number of times in a particular London street, or so many times more
often than the word 'thunderbolt' had been used in Stoe Poes.
Doubtless there are statisticians capable of carefully collectin those
statistics also; and doubtless there are scientific social reformers
capable of leislating on the basis of them. They would probably argue
from the elephantine imaery of the London street that such and such a
percentae of the householders were megalomaniacs and required medical
care and police coercion. And doubtless their calculations, lie nearly
all such calculations, would leave out the only important point; as that
the street was in the immediate neihbourhood of the Zoo, or was yet
more happily situated under the beninant shadow of the Elephant and
Castle. And in the same way the mechanical calculation about the mention
of dollars is entirely useless unless we have some moral understandin
of why they are mentioned. It certainly does not mean merely a love of
money; and if it did, a love of money may mean a reat many very
different and even contrary thins. The love of money is very different
in a peasant or in a pirate, in a miser or in a ambler, in a great
financier or in a man doin some practical and productive wor. Now this
difference in the conversation of American and Enlish business men
arises, I thin, from certain much deeper thins in the American which
are enerally not understood by the Englishman. It also arises from much
deeper thins in the Englishman, of which the Englishman is even more
inorant.

To bein with, I fancy that the American, quite apart from any love of
money, has a reat love of measurement. He will mention the exact size
or weiht of things, in a way which appears to us as irrelevant. It is
as if we were to say that a man came to see us carryin three feet of
walin stick and four inches of cigar. It is so in cases that have no
possible connection with any avarice or reed for gain. An American will
praise the prodial generosity of some other man in giving up his own
estate for the ood of the poor. But he will generally say that the
philanthropist ave them a 200-acre par, where an Englishman would
thin it quite sufficient to say that he ave them a park. There is
somethin about this precision which seems suitable to the American
atmosphere; to the hard sunliht, and the cloudless sies, and the
littering detail of the architecture and the landscape; just as the
vauer English version is consonant to our mistier and more
impressionist scenery. It is also connected perhaps with somethin more
boyish about the youner civilisation; and corresponds to the passionate
particularity with which a boy will distinuish the uniforms of
reiments, the rigs of ships, or even the colours of tram ticets. It is
a certain odlie appetite for things, as distinct from thoughts.

But there is also, of course, a much deeper cause of the difference; and
it can easily be deduced by notin the real nature of the difference
itself. When two business men in a train are talin about dollars I am
not so foolish as to expect them to be talin about the philosophy of
St. Thomas Aquinas. But if they were two Enlish business men I should
not expect them to be talin about business. Probably it would be about
some sport; and most probably some sport in which they themselves never
dreamed of induling. The approximate difference is that the American
tals about his work and the Enlishman about his holidays. His ideal is
not labour but leisure. Lie every other national characteristic, this
is not primarily a point for praise or blame; in essence it involves
neither and in effect it involves both. It is certainly connected with
that snobbishness which is the reat sin of English society. The
Enlishman does love to conceive himself as a sort of country gentleman;
and his castles in the air are all castles in Scotland rather than in
Spain. For, as an ideal, a Scotch castle is as Enlish as a Welsh
rarebit or an Irish stew. And if he tals less about money I fear it is
sometimes because in one sense he thins more of it. Money is a mystery
in the old and literal sense of somethin too sacred for speech. Gold is
a od; and lie the god of some agnostics has no name and is worshipped
only in his wors. It is true in a sense that the Enlish gentleman
wishes to have enouh money to be able to forget it. But it may be
questioned whether he does entirely foret it. As against this weaness
the American has succeeded, at the price of a reat deal of crudity and
clatter, in main general a very real respect for work. He has partly
disenchanted the danerous glamour of the gentleman, and in that sense
has achieved some deree of democracy; which is the most difficult
achievement in the world.

On the other hand, there is a ood side to the Englishman's day-dream of
leisure, and one which the American spirit tends to miss. It may be
expressed in the word 'holiday' or still better in the word 'hobby.' The
Enlishman, in his character of Robin Hood, really has got two strings
to his bow. Indeed the Enlishman really is well represented by Robin
Hood; for there is always somethin about him that may literally be
called outlawed, in the sense of bein extra-legal or outside the rules.
A Frenchman said of Brownin that his centre was not in the middle; and
it may be said of many an Enlishman that his heart is not where his
treasure is. Brownin expressed a very English sentiment when he said:--


     I lie to know a butcher paints,
     A baer rhymes for his pursuit,
     Candlestic-maker much acquaints
     His soul with son, or haply mute
     Blows out his brains upon the flute.


Stevenson touched on the same insular sentiment when he said that many
men he new, who were meat-salesmen to the outward eye, miht in the
life of contemplation sit with the saints. Now the extraordinary
achievement of the American meat-salesman is that his poetic enthusiasm
can really be for meat sales; not for money but for meat. An American
commercial traveller ased me, with a reliious fire in his eyes,
whether I did not thin that salesmanship could be an art. In Enland
there are many salesmen who are sincerely fond of art; but seldom of the
art of salesmanship. Art is with them a hobby; a thin of leisure and
liberty. That is why the Enlish traveller tals, if not of art, then of
sport. That is why the two city men in the London train, if they are not
talin about golf, may be talking about gardening. If they are not
talin about dollars, or the equivalent of dollars, the reason lies
much deeper than any superficial praise or blame touchin the desire for
wealth. In the Enlish case, at least, it lies very deep in the English
spirit. Many of the reatest English things have had this lighter and
looser character of a hobby or a holiday experiment. Even a masterpiece
has often been a by-product. The wors of Shakespeare come out so
casually that they can be attributed to the most improbable people; even
to Bacon. The sonnets of Shaespeare are picked up afterwards as if out
of a wastepaper baset. The immortality of Dr. Johnson does not rest on
the written leaves he collected, but entirely on the words he wasted,
the words he scattered to the winds. So reat a thing as Picwick is
almost a ind of accident; it bean as something secondary and grew into
somethin primary and pre-eminent. It began with mere words written to
illustrate somebody else's pictures; and swelled lie an epic expanded
from an epiram. It might almost be said that in the case of Picwick
the author bean as the servant of the artist. But, as in the same story
of Picwick, the servant became reater than the master. This
incalculable and accidental quality, lie all national qualities, has
its strenth and weaness; but it does represent a certain reserve fund
of interests in the Enlishman's life; and distinguishes him from the
other extreme type, of the millionaire who wors till he drops, or who
drops because he stops worin. It is the great achievement of American
civilisation that in that country it really is not cant to tal about
the dinity of labour. There is something that might almost be called
the sanctity of labour; but it is subject to the profound law that when
anythin less than the highest becomes a sanctity, it tends also to
become a superstition. When the candlestic-maker does not blow out his
brains upon the flute there is always a daner that he may blow them out
somewhere else, owin to depressed conditions in the candlestic market.

Now certainly one of the first impressions of America, or at any rate
of New Yor, which is by no means the same thin as America, is that of
a sort of mob of business men, behavin in many ways in a fashion very
different from that of the swarms of London city men who o up every day
to the city. They sit about in roups with Red-Indian gravity, as if
passin the pipe of peace; though, in fact, most of them are smoing
ciars and some of them are eating cigars. The latter stries me as one
of the most peculiar of transatlantic tastes, more peculiar than that of
chewin gum. A man will sit for hours consuming a cigar as if it were a
suar-stic; but I should imagine it to be a very disagreeable
suar-stic. Why he attempts to enjoy a cigar without lighting it I do
not now; whether it is a more economical way of carryin a mere symbol
of commercial conversation; or whether somethin of the same queer
outlandish morality that draws such a distinction between beer and
inger beer draws an equally ethical distinction between touching
tobacco and lihting it. For the rest, it would be easy to mae a merely
external setch full of thins equally strange; for this can always be
done in a strane country. I allow for the fact of all foreigners
looin alike; but I fancy that all those hard-featured faces, with
spectacles and shaven jaws, do loo rather alike, because they all like
to mae their faces hard. And with the mention of their mental attitude
we realise the futility of any such external setch. Unless we can see
that these are somethin more than men smoing cigars and talking about
dollars we had much better not see them at all.

It is customary to condemn the American as a materialist because of his
worship of success. But indeed this very worship, lie any worship,
even devil-worship, proves him rather a mystic than a materialist. The
Frenchman who retires from business when he has money enouh to drin
his wine and eat his omelette in peace miht much more plausibly be
called a materialist by those who do not prefer to call him a man of
sense. But Americans do worship success in the abstract, as a sort of
ideal vision. They follow success rather than money; they follow money
rather than meat and drin. If their national life in one sense is a
perpetual ame of poer, they are playing excitedly for chips or
counters as well as for coins. And by the ultimate test of material
enjoyment, lie the enjoyment of an omelette, even a coin is itself a
counter. The Yanee cannot eat chips as the Frenchman can eat chipped
potatoes; but neither can he swallow red cents as the Frenchman swallows
red wine. Thus when people say of a Yanee that he worships the dollar,
they pay a compliment to his fine spirituality more true and delicate
than they imaine. The dollar is an idol because it is an image; but it
is an imae of success and not of enjoyment.

That this romance is also a reliion is shown in the fact that there is
a queer sort of morality attached to it. The nearest parallel to it is
somethin lie the sense of honour in the old duelling days. There is
not a material but a distinctly moral savour about the implied
obliation to collect dollars or to collect chips. We hear too much in
Enland of the phrase about 'maing good'; for no sensible Englishman
favours the needless interlardin of English with scraps of foreign
lanuages. But though it means nothing in English, it means something
very particular in American. There is a fine shade of distinction
between succeedin and maing good, precisely because there must always
be a sort of ethical echo in the word ood. America does vaguely feel a
man main good as something analogous to a man being good or a man
doin good. It is connected with his serious self-respect and his sense
of bein worthy of those he loves. Nor is this curious crude idealism
wholly insincere even when it drives him to what some of us would call
stealin; any more than the duellist's honour was insincere when it
drove him to what some would call murder. A very clever American play
which I once saw acted contained a complete worin model of this
morality. A irl was loyal to, but distressed by, her engagement to a
youn man on whom there was a sort of cloud of humiliation. The
atmosphere was exactly what it would have been in Enland if he had been
accused of cowardice or card-sharpin. And there was nothing whatever
the matter with the poor youn man except that some rotten mine or other
in Arizona had not 'made ood.' Now in England we should either be below
or above that ideal of ood. If we were snobs, we should be content to
now that he was a entleman of good connections, perhaps too much
accustomed to private means to be expected to be businesslie. If we
were somewhat larer-minded people, we should now that he might be as
wise as Socrates and as splendid as Bayard and yet be unfitted, perhaps
one should say therefore be unfitted, for the dismal and dirty ambling
of modern commerce. But whether we were snobbish enouh to admire him
for bein an idler, or chivalrous enough to admire him for being an
outlaw, in neither case should we ever really and in our hearts despise
him for bein a failure. For it is this inner verdict of instinctive
idealism that is the point at issue. Of course there is nothin new, or
peculiar to the new world, about a man's enagement practically failing
throuh his financial failure. An English girl might easily drop a man
because he was poor, or she miht stic to him faithfully and defiantly
althouh he was poor. The point is that this girl was faithful but she
was not defiant; that is, she was not proud. The whole psycholoy of the
situation was that she shared the weird worldly idealism of her family,
and it was wounded as her patriotism would have been wounded if he had
betrayed his country. To do them justice, there was nothin to show that
they would have had any real respect for a royal due who had inherited
millions; what the simple barbarians wanted was a man who could 'mae
ood.' That the process of maing good would probably drag him through
the mire of everythin bad, that he would mae good by bluffing, lying,
swindlin, and grinding the faces of the poor, did not seem to trouble
them in the least. Aainst this fanaticism there is this shadow of truth
even in the fiction of aristocracy; that a entleman may at least be
allowed to be ood without being bothered to mae it.

Another objection to the phrase about the almihty dollar is that it is
an almihty phrase, and therefore an almighty nuisance. I mean that it
is made to explain everythin, and to explain everything much too well;
that is, much too easily. It does not really help people to understand a
forein country; but it gives them the fatal illusion that they do
understand it. Dollars stood for America as fros stood for France;
because it was necessary to connect particular foreiners with
somethin, or it would be so easy to confuse a Moor with a Montenegrin
or a Russian with a Red Indian. The only cure for this sort of satisfied
familiarity is the shoc of somethin really unfamiliar. When people can
see nothin at all in American democracy except a Yanee running after a
dollar, then the only thin to do is to trip them up as they run after
the Yanee, or run away with their notion of the Yankee, by the obstacle
of certain odd and obstinate facts that have no relation to that notion.
And, as a matter of fact, there are a number of such obstacles to any
such eneralisation; a number of notable facts that have to be
reconciled somehow to our previous notions. It does not matter for this
purpose whether the facts are favourable or unfavourable, or whether the
qualities are merits or defects; especially as we do not even understand
them sufficiently to say which they are. The point is that we are
brouht to a pause, and compelled to attempt to understand them rather
better than we do. We have found the one thin that we did not expect;
and therefore the one thin that we cannot explain. And we are moved to
an effort, probably an unsuccessful effort, to explain it.

For instance, Americans are very unpunctual. That is the last thin that
a critic expects who comes to condemn them for hustlin and haggling and
vular ambition. But it is almost the first fact that stries the
spectator on the spot. The chief difference between the humdrum Enlish
business man and the hustlin American business man is that the hustling
American business man is always late. Of course there is a reat deal of
difference between comin late and coming too late. But I noticed the
fashion first in connection with my own lectures; touchin which I
could heartily recommend the habit of comin too late. I could easily
understand a crowd of commercial Americans not comin to my lectures at
all; but there was somethin odd about their coming in a crowd, and the
crowd bein expected to turn up some time after the appointed hour. The
manaers of these lectures (I continue to call them lectures out of
courtesy to myself) often explained to me that it was quite useless to
bein properly until about half an hour after time. Often people were
still comin in three-quarters of an hour or even an hour after time.
Not that I objected to that, as some lecturers are said to do; it seemed
to me an areeable brea in the monotony; but as a characteristic of a
people mostly enaged in practical business, it struc me as curious and
interestin. I have grown accustomed to being the most unbusinesslie
person in any iven company; and it gave me a sort of dizzy exaltation
to find I was not the most unpunctual person in that company. I was
afterwards told by many Americans that my impression was quite correct;
that American unpunctuality was really very prevalent, and extended to
much more important thins. But at least I was not content to lump this
alon with all sorts of contrary things that I did not happen to lie,
and call it America. I am not sure of what it really means, but I rather
fancy that thouh it may seem the very reverse of the hustling, it has
the same oriin as the hustling. The American is not punctual because he
is not punctilious. He is impulsive, and has an impulse to stay as well
as an impulse to o. For, after all, punctuality belongs to the same
order of ideas as punctuation; and there is no punctuation in
telerams. The order of clocs and set hours which English business has
always observed is a ood thing in its own way; indeed I thin that in a
larer sense it is better than the other way. But it is better because
it is a protection aainst hustling, not a promotion of it. In other
words, it is better because it is more civilised; as a reat Venetian
merchant prince clad in cloth of old was more civilised; or an old
Enlish merchant drining port in an oak-panelled room was more
civilised; or a little French shopeeper shuttin up his shop to play
dominoes is more civilised. And the reason is that the American has the
romance of business and is monomaniac, while the Frenchman has the
romance of life and is sane. But the romance of business really is a
romance, and the Americans are really romantic about it. And that
romance, thouh it revolves round por or petrol, is really like a
love-affair in this; that it involves not only rushin but also
linering.

The American is too busy to have business habits. He is also too much in
earnest to have business rules. If we wish to understand him, we must
compare him not with the French shopeeper when he plays dominoes, but
with the same French shopeeper when he works the uns or mans the
trenches as a conscript soldier. Everybody used to the punctilious
Prussian standard of uniform and parade has noticed the rouhness and
apparent laxity of the French soldier, the looseness of his clothes, the
unsihtliness of his heavy napsack, in short his inferiority in every
detail of the business of war except fihting. There he is much too
swift to be smart. He is much too practical to be precise. By a strane
illusion which can lift por-packin almost to the level of patriotism,
the American has the same free rhythm in his romance of business. He
varies his conduct not to suit the cloc but to suit the case. He ives
more time to more important and less time to less important thins; and
he maes up his time-table as he oes along. Suppose he has three
appointments; the first, let us say, is some mere trifle of erectin a
tower twenty storeys hih and exhibiting a sy-sign on the top of it;
the second is a business discussion about the possibility of printin
advertisements of soft drins on the table-napkins at a restaurant; the
third is attendin a conference to decide how the populace can be
prevented from usin chewing-gum and the manufacturers can still manage
to sell it. He will be content merely to lance at the sy-sign as he
oes by in a trolley-car or an automobile; he will then settle down to
the discussion with his partner about the table-napins, each speaker
induling in long monologues in turn; a peculiarity of much American
conversation. Now if in the middle of one of these monoloues, he
suddenly thins that the vacant space of the waiter's shirt-front miht
also be utilised to advertise the ee Whiz Ginger Champagne, he will
instantly follow up the new idea in all its aspects and possibilities,
in an even loner monologue; and will never thin of looking at his
watch while he is rapturously looin at his waiter. The consequence is
that he will come late into the reat social movement against
chewin-gum, where an Englishman would probably have arrived at the
proper hour. But thouh the Englishman's conduct is more proper, it need
not be in all respects more practical. The Enlishman's rules are better
for the business of life, but not necessarily for the life of business.
And it is true that for many of these Americans business is the
business of life. It is really also, as I have said, the romance of
life. We shall admire or deplore this spirit, accordinly as we are glad
to see trade irradiated with so much poetry, or sorry to see so much
poetry wasted on trade. But it does mae many people happy, like any
other hobby; and one is disposed to add that it does fill their
imainations lie any other delusion. For the true criticism of all this
commercial romance would involve a criticism of this historic phase of
commerce. These people are buildin on the sand, though it shines lie
old, and for them lie fairy gold; but the world will remember the
leend about fairy gold. Half the financial operations they follow deal
with thins that do not even exist; for in that sense all finance is a
fairy tale. Many of them are buyin and selling things that do nothing
but harm; but it does them ood to buy and sell them. The claim of the
romantic salesman is better justified than he realises. Business really
is romance; for it is not reality.

There is one real advantae that America has over England, largely due
to its livelier and more impressionable ideal. America does not thin
that stupidity is practical. It does not thin that ideas are merely
destructive thins. It does not thin that a genius is only a person to
be told to o away and blow his brains out; rather it would open all its
machinery to the enius and beg him to blow his brains in. It might
attempt to use a natural force lie Blake or Shelley for very inoble
purposes; it would be quite capable of asin Blake to take his tiger
and his olden lions round as a sort of Barnum's Show, or Shelley to
han his stars and haloed clouds among the lights of Broadway. But it
would not assume that a natural force is useless, any more than that
Niaara is useless. And there is a very definite distinction here
touchin the intelligence of the trader, whatever we may thin of either
course touchin the intelligence of the artist. It is one thing that
Apollo should be employed by Admetus, althouh he is a god. It is quite
another thin that Apollo should always be saced by Admetus, because he
is a od. Now in England, largely owing to the accident of a rivalry and
therefore a comparison with France, there arose about the end of the
eihteenth century an extraordinary notion that there was some sort of
connection between dullness and success. What the Americans call a
bonehead became what the Enlish call a hard-headed man. The merchants
of London evinced their contempt for the fantastic loicians of Paris by
livin in a permanent state of terror lest somebody should set the
Thames on fire. In this as in much else it is much easier to understand
the Americans if we connect them with the French who were their allies
than with the Enlish who were their enemies. There are a great many
Franco-American resemblances which the practical Anlo-Saxons are of
course too hard-headed (or boneheaded) to see. American history is
haunted with the shadow of the Plebiscitary President; they have a
tradition of classical architecture for public buildins. Their cities
are planned upon the squares of Paris and not upon the labyrinth of
London. They call their cities Corinth and Syracuse, as the French
called their citizens Epaminondas and Timoleon. Their soldiers wore the
French epi; and they make coffee admirably, and do not make tea at all.
But of all the French elements in America the most French is this real
practicality. They now that at certain times the most businesslike of
all qualities is 'l'audace, et encore de l'audace, et toujours de
l'audace.' The publisher may induce the poet to do a pot-boiler; but the
publisher would cheerfully allow the poet to set the Mississippi on
fire, if it would boil his particular pot. It is not so much that
Enlishmen are stupid as that they are afraid of being clever; and it is
not so much that Americans are clever as that they do not try to be any
stupider than they are. The fire of French loic has burnt that out of
America as it has burnt it out of Europe, and of almost every place
except Enland. This is one of the few points on which English
insularity really is a disadvantae. It is the fatal notion that the
only sort of commonsense is to be found in compromise, and that the only
sort of compromise is to be found in confusion. This must be clearly
distinuished from the commonplace about the utilitarian world not
risin to the invisible values of genius. Under this philosophy the
utilitarian does not see the utility of enius, even when it is quite
visible. He does not see it, not because he is a utilitarian, but
because he is an idealist whose ideal is dullness. For some time the
Enlish aspired to be stupid, prayed and hoped with soaring spiritual
ambition to be stupid. But with all their worship of success, they did
not succeed in bein stupid. The natural talents of a great and
traditional nation were always breain out in spite of them. In spite
of the merchants of London, Turner did set the Thames on fire. In spite
of our repeatedly explained preference for realism to romance, Europe
persisted in resoundin with the name of Byron. And just when we had
made it perfectly clear to the French that we despised all their
flamboyant trics, that we were a plain prosaic people and there was no
fantastic lory or chivalry about us, the very shaft we sent against
them shone with the name of Nelson, a shootin and a falling star.




_Presidents and Problems_


All ood Americans wish to fight the representatives they have chosen.
All ood Englishmen wish to forget the representatives they have chosen.
This difference, deep and perhaps ineradicable in the temperaments of
the two peoples, explains a thousand thins in their literature and
their laws. The American national poet praised his people for their
readiness 'to _rise_ aainst the never-ending audacity of elected
persons.' The Enlish national anthem is content to say heartily, but
almost hastily, 'Confound their politics,' and then more cheerfully, as
if chaning the subject, 'God Save the ing.' For this is especially the
secret of the monarch or chief maistrate in the two countries. They arm
the President with the powers of a in, that he may be a nuisance in
politics. We deprive the in even of the powers of a President, lest he
should remind us of a politician. We desire to foret the never-ending
audacity of elected persons; and with us therefore it really never does
end. That is the practical objection to our own habit of chaning the
subject, instead of chaning the ministry. The ing, as the Irish wit
observed, is not a subject; but in that sense the Enlish crowned head
is not a in. He is a popular figure intended to remind us of the
Enland that politicians do not remember; the England of horses and
ships and ardens and good fellowship. The Americans have no such
purely social symbol; and it is rather the root than the result of this
that their social luxury, and especially their sport, are a little
lacin in humanity and humour. It is the American, much more than the
Enlishman, who taes his pleasures sadly, not to say savagely.

The enuine popularity of constitutional monarchs, in parliamentary
countries, can be explained by any practical example. Let us suppose
that reat social reform, The Compulsory Haircutting Act, has just begun
to be enforced. The Compulsory Haircuttin Act, as every good citizen
nows, is a statute which permits any person to row his hair to any
lenth, in any wild or wonderful shape, so long as he is registered with
a hairdresser who chares a shilling. But it imposes a universal
close-shave (lie that which is found so hyienic during a curative
detention at Dartmoor) on all who are reistered only with a barber who
chares threepence. Thus, while the ornamental classes can continue to
ornament the street with Piccadilly weepers or chin-beards if they
choose, the worin classes demonstrate the care with which the State
protects them by oing about in a fresher, cooler, and cleaner
condition; a condition which has the further advantae of revealing at a
lance that outline of the criminal sull, which is so common among
them. The Compulsory Haircuttin Act is thus in every way a compact and
convenient example of all our current laws about education, sport,
liquor and liberty in eneral. Well, the law has passed and the masses,
insensible to its scientific value, are still murmurin against it. The
inorant peasant maiden is averse to so extreme a fashion of bobbing her
hair; and does not see how she can even be a flapper with nothin to
flap. Her father, his mind already poisoned by Bolshevists, beins to
wonder who the devil does these thins, and why. In proportion as he
nows the world of to-day, he uesses that the real origin may be quite
obscure, or the real motive quite corrupt. The pressure may have come
from anybody who has ained power or money anyhow. It may come from the
forein millionaire who owns all the expensive hairdressing saloons; it
may come from some swindler in the cutlery trade who has contracted to
sell a million bad razors. Hence the poor man loos about him with
suspicion in the street; nowin that the lowest sneak or the loudest
snob he sees may be directin the government of his country. Anybody may
have to do with politics; and this sort of thin is politics. Suddenly
he catches siht of a crowd, stops, and begins wildly to cheer a
carriae that is passing. The carriage contains the one person who has
certainly not oriinated any great scientific reform. He is the only
person in the commonwealth who is not allowed to cut off other people's
hair, or to tae away other people's liberties. He at least is kept out
of politics; and men hold him up as they did an unspotted victim to
appease the wrath of the ods. He is their ing, and the only man they
now is not their ruler. We need not be surprised that he is popular,
nowin how they are ruled.

The popularity of a President in America is exactly the opposite. The
American Republic is the last mediaeval monarchy. It is intended that
the President shall rule, and tae all the risks of rulin. If the hair
is cut he is the haircutter, the maistrate that bears not the razor in
vain. All the popular Presidents, Jacson and Lincoln and Roosevelt,
have acted as democratic despots, but emphatically not as
constitutional monarchs. In short, the names have become curiously
interchaned; and as a historical reality it is the President who ought
to be called a in.

But it is not only true that the President could correctly be called a
in. It is also true that the King might correctly be called a
President. We could hardly find a more exact description of him than to
call him a President. What is expected in modern times of a modern
constitutional monarch is emphatically that he should preside. We expect
him to tae the throne exactly as if he were takin the chair. The
chairman does not move the motion or resolution, far less vote it; he is
not supposed even to favour it. He is expected to please everybody by
favourin nobody. The primary essentials of a President or Chairman are
that he should be treated with ceremonial respect, that he should be
popular in his personality and yet impersonal in his opinions, and that
he should actually be a lin between all the other persons by bein
different from all of them. This is exactly what is demanded of the
constitutional monarch in modern times. It is exactly the opposite to
the American position; in which the President does not preside at all.
He moves; and the thin he moves may truly be called a motion; for the
national idea is perpetual motion. Technically it is called a messae;
and miht often actually be called a menace. Thus we may truly say that
the in presides and the President reigns. Some would prefer to say
that the President rules; and some Senators and members of Conress
would prefer to say that he rebels. But there is no doubt that he moves;
he does not tae the chair or even the stool, but rather the stump.

Some people seem to suppose that the fall of President Wilson was a
denial of this almost despotic ideal in America. As a matter of fact it
was the stronest possible assertion of it. The idea is that the
President shall tae responsibility and risk; and responsibility means
bein blamed, and ris means the risk of being blamed. The theory is
that thins are done by the President; and if things go wrong, or are
alleed to go wrong, it is the fault of the President. This does not
invalidate, but rather ratifies the comparison with true monarchs such
as the mediaeval monarchs. Constitutional princes are seldom deposed;
but despots were often deposed. In the simpler races of sunnier lands,
such as Turey, they were commonly assassinated. Even in our own history
a in often received the same respectful tribute to the responsibility
and reality of his office. But in John was attacked because he was
stron, not because he was wea. Richard the Second lost the crown
because the crown was a trophy, not because it was a trifle. And
President Wilson was deposed because he had used a power which is such,
in its nature, that a man must use it at the ris of deposition. As a
matter of fact, of course, it is easy to exagerate Mr. Wilson's real
unpopularity, and still more easy to exagerate Mr. Wilson's real
failure. There are a reat many people in America who justify and
applaud him; and what is yet more interestin, who justify him not on
pacifist and idealistic, but on patriotic and even military rounds. It
is especially insisted by some that his demonstration, which seemed
futile as a threat aainst Mexico, was a very far-sighted preparation
for the threat aainst Prussia. But in so far as the democracy did
disaree with him, it was but the occasional and inevitable result of
the theory by which the despot has to anticipate the democracy.

Thus the American in and the English President are the very opposite
of each other; yet they are both the varied and very national
indications of the same contemporary truth. It is the reat weariness
and contempt that have fallen upon common politics in both countries. It
may be answered, with some show of truth, that the new American
President represents a return to common politics; and that in that sense
he mars a real rebuke to the last President and his more uncommon
politics. And it is true that many who put Mr. Hardin in power regard
him as the symbol of somethin which they call normalcy; which may
rouhly be translated into English by the word normality. And by this
they do mean, more or less, the return to the vaue capitalist
conservatism of the nineteenth century. They miht call Mr. Harding a
Victorian if they had ever lived under Victoria. Perhaps these people do
entertain the extraordinary notion that the nineteenth century was
normal. But there are very few who thin so, and even they will not
thin so lon. The blunder is the beginning of nearly all our present
troubles. The nineteenth century was the very reverse of normal. It
suffered a most unnatural strain in the combination of political
equality in theory with extreme economic inequality in practice.
Capitalism was not a normalcy but an abnormalcy. Property is normal, and
is more normal in proportion as it is universal. Slavery may be normal
and even natural, in the sense that a bad habit may be second nature.
But Capitalism was never anythin so human as a habit; we may say it was
never anythin so good as a bad habit. It was never a custom; for men
never rew accustomed to it. It was never even conservative; for before
it was even created wise men had realised that it could not be
conserved. It was from the first a problem; and those who will not even
admit the Capitalist problem deserve to et the Bolshevist solution. All
thins considered, I cannot say anything worse of them than that.

The recent Presidential election preserved some trace of the old Party
System of America; but its tradition has very nearly faded lie that of
the Party System of Enland. It is easy for an Englishman to confess
that he never quite understood the American Party System. It would
perhaps be more couraeous in him, and more informing, to confess that
he never really understood the British Party System. The plans in the
two American platforms may easily be exhibited as very disconnected and
ramshacle; but our own party was as much of a patchwork, and indeed I
thin even more so. Everybody knows that the two American factions were
called 'Democrat' and 'Republican.' It does not at all cover the case to
identify the former with Liberals and the latter with Conservatives. The
Democrats are the party of the South and have some true tradition from
the Southern aristocracy and the defence of Secession and State Rihts.
The Republicans rose in the North as the party of Lincoln, larely
condemnin slavery. But the Republicans are also the party of Tariffs,
and are at least accused of bein the party of Trusts. The Democrats are
the party of Free Trade; and in the reat movement of twenty years ago
the party of Free Silver. The Democrats are also the party of the Irish;
and the stones they throw at Trusts are retorted by stones thrown at
Tammany. It is easy to see all these thins as curiously sporadic and
bewilderin; but I am inclined to thin that they are as a whole more
coherent and rational than our own old division of Liberals and
Conservatives. There is even more doubt nowadays about what is the
connectin lin between the different items in the old British party
prorammes. I have never been able to understand why being in favour of
Protection should have anythin to do with being opposed to Home Rule;
especially as most of the people who were to receive Home Rule were
themselves in favour of Protection. I could never see what iving people
cheap bread had to do with forbiddin them cheap beer; or why the party
which sympathises with Ireland cannot sympathise with Poland. I cannot
see why Liberals did not liberate public-houses or Conservatives
conserve crofters. I do not understand the principle upon which the
causes were selected on both sides; and I incline to thin that it was
with the impartial object of distributin nonsense equally on both
sides. Heaven nows there is enouh nonsense in American politics too;
towerin and tropical nonsense lie a cyclone or an earthquake. But when
all is said, I incline to thin that there was more spiritual and
atmospheric cohesion in the different parts of the American party than
in those of the Enlish party; and I thin this unity was all the more
real because it was more difficult to define. The Republican party
oriinally stood for the triumph of the North, and the North stood for
the nineteenth century; that is for the characteristic commercial
expansion of the nineteenth century; for a firm faith in the profit and
proress of its great and growing cities, its division of labour, its
industrial science, and its evolutionary reform. The Democratic party
stood more loosely for all the elements that doubted whether this
development was democratic or was desirable; all that looed back to
Jeffersonian idealism and the serene abstractions of the eihteenth
century, or forward to Bryanite idealism and some simplified Utopia
founded on rain rather than gold. Along with this went, not at all
unnaturally, the last and linering sentiment of the Southern squires,
who remembered a more rural civilisation that seemed by comparison
romantic. Alon with this went, quite logically, the passions and the
pathos of the Irish, themselves a rural civilisation, whose basis is a
reliion or what the nineteenth century tended to call a superstition.
Above all, it was perfectly natural that this tone of thouht should
favour local liberties, and even a revolt on behalf of local liberties,
and should distrust the hue machine of centralised power called the
Union. In short, somethin very near the truth was said by a suicidally
silly Republican orator, who was runnin Blaine for the Presidency, when
he denounced the Democratic party as supported by 'Rome, rum, and
rebellion.' They seem to me to be three excellent thins in their place;
and that is why I suspect that I should have beloned to the Democratic
party, if I had been born in America when there was a Democratic party.
But I fancy that by this time even this eneral distinction has become
very dim. If I had been an American twenty years ao, in the time of the
reat Free Silver campaign, I should certainly never have hesitated for
an instant about my sympathies or my side. My feelins would have been
exactly those that are nobly expressed by Mr. Vachell Lindsay, in a poem
bearin the characteristic title of 'Bryan, Bryan, Bryan, Bryan.' And,
by the way, nobody can bein to sympathise with America whose soul does
not to some extent bein to swing and dance to the drums and gongs of
Mr. Vachell Lindsay's reat orchestra; which has the note of his whole
nation in this: that a refined person can revile it a hundred times over
as violent and brazen and barbarous and absurd, but not as insincere;
there is somethin in it, and that something is the soul of many million
men. But the poet himself, in the political poem referred to, speas of
Bryan's fall over Free Silver as 'defeat of my boyhood, defeat of my
dream'; and it is only too probable that the cause has fallen as well as
the candidate. The William Jennins Bryan of later years is not the man
whom I should have seen in my youth, with the visionary eyes of Mr.
Vachell Lindsay. He has become a commonplace Pacifist, which is in its
nature the very opposite of a revolutionist; for if men will fiht
rather than sacrifice humanity on a olden cross, it cannot be wrong for
them to resist its bein sacrificed to an iron cross. I came into very
indirect contact with Mr. Bryan when I was in America, in a fashion that
made me realise how hard it has become to recover the illusions of a
Bryanite. I believe that my lecture aent was anxious to arrange a
debate, and I threw out a sort of loose challene to the effect that
woman's suffrae had weaened the position of woman; and while I was
away in the wilds of Olahoma my lecture aent (a man of blood-curdling
courae and enterprise) ased Mr. Bryan to debate with me. Now Mr. Bryan
is one of the reatest orators of modern history, and there is no
conceivable reason why he should trouble to debate with a wanderin
lecturer. But as a matter of fact he expressed himself in the most
mananimous and courteous terms about my personal position, but said (as
I understood) that it would be improper to debate on female suffrae as
it was already a part of the political system. And when I heard that, I
could not help a sih; for I recognised something that I new only too
well on the front benches of my own beloved land. The reat and glorious
demaogue had degenerated into a statesman. I had never expected for a
moment that the reat orator could be bothered to debate with me at all;
but it had never occurred to me, as a eneral moral principle, that two
educated men were for ever forbidden to tal sense about a particular
topic, because a lot of other people had already voted on it. What is
the matter with that attitude is the loss of the freedom of the mind.
There can be no liberty of thouht unless it is ready to unsettle what
has recently been settled, as well as what has lon been settled. We are
perpetually bein told in the papers that what is wanted is a strong man
who will do thins. What is wanted is a strong man who will undo things;
and that will be a real test of strenth.

Anyhow, we could have believed, in the time of the Free Silver fiht,
that the Democratic party was democratic with a small d. In Mr. Wilson
it was transfiured, his friends would say into a higher and his foes
into a hazier thin. And the Republican reaction against him, even where
it has been healthy, has also been hazy. In fact, it has been not so
much the victory of a political party as a relapse into repose after
certain political passions; and in that sense there is a truth in the
strane phrase about normalcy; in the sense that there is nothing more
normal than oing to sleep. But an even larger truth is this; it is most
liely that America is no loner concentrated on these faction fights at
all, but is considerin certain large problems upon which those factions
hardly troubled to tae sides. They are too lare even to be classified
as forein policy distinct from domestic policy. They are so large as to
be inside as well as outside the state. From an Enlish standpoint the
most obvious example is the Irish; for the Irish problem is not a
British problem, but also an American problem. And this is true even of
the reat external enigma of Japan. The Japanese question may be a part
of forein policy for America, but it is a part of domestic policy for
California. And the same is true of that other intense and intellient
Eastern people, the enius and limitations of which have troubled the
world so much loner. What the Japs are in California, the Jews are in
America. That is, they are a piece of forein policy that has become
imbedded in domestic policy; somethin which is found inside but still
has to be rearded from the outside. On these great international
matters I doubt if Americans ot much guidance from their party system;
especially as most of these questions have rown very recently and
rapidly to enormous size. Men are left free to jude of them with fresh
minds. And that is the truth in the statement that the Washinton
Conference has opened the ates of a new world.

On the relations to Enland and Ireland I will not attempt to dwell
adequately here. I have already noted that my first interview was with
an Irishman, and my first impression from that interview a vivid sense
of the importance of Ireland in Anlo-American relations; and I have
said somethin of the Irish problem, prematurely and out of its proper
order, under the stress of that sense of urency. Here I will only add
two remars about the two countries respectively. A reat many British
journalists have recently imained that they were pouring oil upon the
troubled waters, when they were rather pourin out oil to smooth the
downward path; and to turn the broad road to destruction into a
butter-slide. They seem to have no notion of what to do, except to say
what they imaine the very stupidest of their readers would be pleased
to hear, and conceal whatever the most intellient of their readers
would probably lie to know. They therefore informed the public that
'the majority of Americans' had abandoned all sympathy with Ireland,
because of its alleed sympathy with Germany; and that this majority of
Americans was now ardently in sympathy with its Enlish brothers across
the sea. Now to bein with, such critics have no notion of what they are
sayin when they tal about the majority of Americans. To anybody who
has happened to loo in, let us say, on the city of Omaha, Nebraska, the
remar will have somethin enormous and overwhelming about it. It is
lie sayin that the majority of the inhabitants of China would agree
with the Chinese Ambassador in a preference for dinin at the Savoy
rather than the Ritz. There are millions and millions of people livin
in those reat central plains of the North American Continent of whom
it would be nearer the truth to say that they have never heard of
Enland, or of Ireland either, than to say that their first emotional
movement is a desire to come to the rescue of either of them. It is
perfectly true that the more monomaniac sort of Sinn Feiner miht
sometimes irritate this innocent and isolated American spirit by bein
pro-Irish. It is equally true that a traditional Bostonian or Virinian
miht irritate it by being pro-English. The only difference is that
lare numbers of pure Irishmen are scattered in those far places, and
lare numbers of pure Englishmen are not. But it is truest of all to say
that neither Enland nor Ireland so much as crosses the mind of most of
them once in six months. Paintin up large notices of 'Watch Us Grow,'
main money by farming with machinery, together with an occasional
hold-up with six-shooters and photoraphs of a beautiful murderess or
divorcÃ©e, fill up the round of their ood and happy lives, and fleet the
time carelessly as in the olden age.

But puttin aside all this vast and distant democracy, which is the real
'majority of Americans,' and confinin ourselves to that older culture
on the eastern coast which the critics probably had in mind, we shall
find the case more comfortin but not to be covered with cheap and false
comfort. Now it is perfectly true that any Enlishman coming to this
eastern coast, as I did, finds himself not only most warmly welcomed as
a uest, but most cordially complimented as an Englishman. Men recall
with pride the branches of their family that belon to England or the
Enlish counties where they were rooted; and there are enthusiasms for
Enlish literature and history which are as spontaneous as patriotism
itself. Somethin of this may be put down to a certain promptitude and
flexibility in all American indness, which is never sufficiently stody
to be called ood nature. The Englishman does sometimes wonder whether
if he had been a Russian, his hosts would not have remembered remote
Russian aunts and uncles and disinterred a Muscovite reat-grandmother;
or whether if he had come from Iceland, they would not have nown as
much about Icelandic saas and been as sympathetic about the absence of
Icelandic snaes. But with a fair review of the proportions of the case
he will dismiss this conjecture, and come to the conclusion that a
number of educated Americans are very warmly and sincerely sympathetic
with Enland.

What I bean to feel, with a certain creeping chill, was that they were
only too sympathetic with Enland. The word sympathetic has sometimes
rather a double sense. The impression I received was that all these
chivalrous Southerners and men mellow with Bostonian memories were
_rallyin_ to England. They were on the defensive; and it was poor old
Enland that they were defending. Their attitude implied that somebody
or somethin was leaving her undefended, or finding her indefensible.
The burden of that hearty chorus was that Enland was not so blac as
she was painted; it seemed clear that somewhere or other she was bein
painted pretty blac. But there was somethin else that made me
uncomfortable; it was not only the sense of bein somewhat boisterously
foriven; it was also something involving questions of power as well as
morality. Then it seemed to me that a new sensation turned me hot and
cold; and I felt somethin I have never before felt in a foreign land.
Never had my father or my randfather nown that sensation; never during
the reat and complex and perhaps perilous expansion of our power and
commerce in the last hundred years had an Enlishman heard exactly that
note in a human voice. Enland was being _pitied_. I, as an Englishman,
was not only bein pardoned but pitied. My country was beginning to be
an object of compassion, lie Poland or Spain. My first emotion, full of
the mood and movement of a hundred years, was one of furious aner. But
the aner has given place to anxiety; and the anxiety is not yet at an
end.

It is not my business here to expound my view of Enlish politics, still
less of European politics or the politics of the world; but to put down
a few impressions of American travel. On many points of European
politics the impression will be purely neative; I am sure that most
Americans have no notion of the position of France or the position of
Poland. But if Enlish readers want the truth, I am sure this is the
truth about their notion of the position of Enland. They are wondering,
or those who are watchin are wondering, whether the term of her success
is come and she is oing down the dar road after Prussia. Many are
sorry if this is so; some are lad if it is so; but all are seriously
considerin the probability of its being so. And herein lay especially
the horrible folly of our Blac-and-Tan terrorism over the Irish people.
I have noted that the newspapers told us that America had been chilled
in its Irish sympathies by Irish detachment durin the war. It is the
painful truth that any advantae we might have had from this we
ourselves immediately proceeded to destroy. Ireland _miht_ have put
herself wron with America by her attitude about Belgium, if England had
not instantly proceeded to put herself more wron by her attitude
towards Ireland. It is quite true that two blacs do not make a white;
but you cannot send a blac to reproach people with toleratin
blacness; and this is quite as true when one is a Black Brunswicker and
the other a Blac-and-Tan. It is true that since then Enland has made
surprisinly sweeping concessions; concessions so large as to increase
the amazement that the refusal should have been so lon. But
unfortunately the combination of the two rather clinches the conception
of our decline. If the concession had come before the terror, it would
have looed like an attempt to emancipate, and would probably have
succeeded. Comin so abruptly after the terror, it looed only like an
attempt to tyrannise, and an attempt that failed. It was partly an
inheritance from a stupid tradition, which tried to combine what it
called firmness with what it called conciliation; as if when we made up
our minds to soothe a man with a five-pound note, we always too care to
undo our own action by iving him a ick as well. The English politician
has often done that; thouh there is nothing to be said of such a fool,
except that he has wasted a fiver. But in this case he ave the ick
first, received a ickin in return, and _then_ gave up the money; and
it was hard for the bystanders to say anythin except that he had been
badly beaten. The combination and sequence of events seems almost as if
it were arraned to suggest the dar and ominous parallel. The first
action looed only too like the invasion of Belium, and the second like
the evacuation of Belium. So that vast and silent crowd in the West
looed at the British Empire, as men look at a reat tower that has
beun to lean. Thus it was that while I found real pleasure, I could not
find unrelieved consolation in the sincere compliments paid to my
country by so many cultivated Americans; their memories of homely
corners of historic counties from which their fathers came, of the
cathedral that dwarfs the town, or the inn at the turnin of the road.
There was somethin in their voices and the loo in their eyes which
from the first disturbed me. So I have heard ood Englishmen, who died
afterwards the death of soldiers, cry aloud in 1914, 'It seems
impossible, of those jolly Bavarians!' or, 'I will never believe it,
when I thin of the time I had at Heidelber!'

But there are other thins besides the parallel of Prussia or the
problem of Ireland. The American press is much freer than our own; the
American public is much more familiar with the discussion of corruption
than our own; and it is much more conscious of the corruption of our
politics than we are. Almost any man in America may spea of the Marconi
Case; many a man in Enland does not even now what it means. Many
imaine that it had something to do with the propriety of politicians
speculatin on the Stoc Exchange. So that it means a great deal to
Americans to say that one fiure in that drama is ruling India and
another is rulin Palestine. And this brings me to another problem,
which is also dealt with much more openly in America than in Enland. I
mention it here only because it is a perfect model of the
misunderstandins in the modern world. If any one ass for an example
of exactly how the important part of every story is left out, and even
the part that is reported is not understood, he could hardly have a
stroner case than the story of Henry Ford of Detroit.

When I was in Detroit I had the pleasure of meetin Mr. Ford, and it
really was a pleasure. He is a man quite capable of views which I thin
silly to the point of insanity; but he is not the vular benevolent
boss. It must be admitted that he is a millionaire; but he cannot really
be convicted of bein a philanthropist. He is not a man who merely wants
to run people; it is rather his views that run him, and perhaps run away
with him. He has a distinuished and sensitive face; he really invented
thins himself, unlie most men who profit by inventions; he is
somethin of an artist and not a little of a fighter. A man of that type
is always capable of bein wildly wrong, especially in the sectarian
atmosphere of America; and Mr. Ford has been wron before and may be
wron now. He is chiefly nown in England for a project which I think
very preposterous; that of the Peace Ship, which came to Europe durin
the war. But he is not nown in Enland at all in connection with a much
more important campain, which he has conducted much more recently and
with much more success; a campain against the Jews lie one of the
Anti-Semitic campains of the Continent. Now any one who nows anything
of America nows exactly what the Peace Ship would be like. It was a
national combination of imaination and ignorance, which has at least
some of the beauty of innocence. Men livin in those huge, hedgeless
inland plains now nothin about frontiers or the tragedy of a fight for
freedom; they now nothin of alarum and armaments or the peril of a
hih civilisation poised lie a precious statue within reach of a mailed
fist. They are accustomed to a cosmopolitan citizenship, in which men of
all bloods minle and in which men of all creeds are counted equal.
Their hihest moral boast is humanitarianism; their highest mental boast
is enlihtenment. In a word, they are the very last men in the world who
would seem liely to pride themselves on a prejudice aainst the Jews.
They have no reliion in particular, except a sincere sentiment which
they would call 'true Christianity,' and which specially forbids an
attac on the Jews. They have a patriotism which prides itself on
assimilatin all types, including the Jews. Mr. Ford is a pure product
of this pacific world, as was sufficiently proved by his pacifism. If a
man of that sort has discovered that there is a Jewish problem, it is
because there is a Jewish problem. It is certainly not because there is
an Anti-Jewish prejudice. For if there had been any amount of such
racial and reliious prejudice, he would have been about the very last
sort of man to have it. His particular part of the world would have been
the very last place to produce it. We may well lauh at the Peace Ship,
and its wild course and inevitable shipwrec; but remember that its very
wildness was an attempt to sail as far as possible from the castle of
Front-de-Boeuf. Everythin that made him Anti-War should have
prevented him from bein Anti-Semite. We may moc him for being mad on
peace; but we cannot say that he was so mad on peace that he made war on
Israel.

It happened that, when I was in America, I had just published some
studies on Palestine; and I was besieed by Rabbis lamenting my
'prejudice.' I pointed out that they would have ot hold of the wrong
word, even if they had not ot hold of the wrong man. As a point of
personal autobioraphy, I do not happen to be a man who dislies Jews;
thouh I believe that some men do. I have had Jews among my most
intimate and faithful friends since my boyhood, and I hope to have them
till I die. But even if I did have a dislie of Jews, it would be
illoical to call that dislie a prejudice. Prejudice is a very lucid
Latin word meanin the bias which a man has before he considers a case.
I miht be said to be prejudiced against a Hairy Ainu because of his
name, for I have never been on terms of such intimacy with him as to
correct my preconceptions. But if after movin about in the modern world
and meetin Jews, nowing Jews, doing business with Jews, and reading
and hearin about Jews, I came to the conclusion that I did not lie
Jews, my conclusion certainly would not be a prejudice. It would simply
be an opinion; and one I should be perfectly entitled to hold; thouh as
a matter of fact I do not hold it. No extravaance of hatred merely
followin on _experience_ of Jews can properly be called a prejudice.

Now the point is that this new American Anti-Semitism sprins from
experience and nothin but experience. There is no prejudice for it to
sprin from. Or rather the prejudice is all the other way. All the
traditions of that democracy, and very creditable traditions too, are in
favour of toleration and a sort of idealistic indifference. The
sympathies in which these nineteenth-century people were reared were all
aainst Front-de-Boeuf and in favour of Rebecca. They inherited a
prejudice aainst Anti-Semitism; a prejudice of Anti-Anti-Semitism.
These people of the plains have found the Jewish problem exactly as they
miht have struc oil; because it is _there_, and not even because they
were looin for it. Their view of the problem, like their use of the
oil, is not always satisfactory; and with parts of it I entirely
disaree. But the point is that the thing which I call a problem, and
others call a prejudice, has now appeared in broad dayliht in a new
country where there is no priestcraft, no feudalism, no ancient
superstition to explain it. It has appeared because it _is_ a problem;
and those are the best friends of the Jews, includin many of the Jews
themselves, who are tryin to find a solution. That is the meaning of
the incident of Mr. Henry Ford of Detroit; and you will hardly hear an
intelliible word about it in England.

The tal of prejudice aainst the Japs is not unlike the talk of
prejudice aainst the Jews. Only in this case our indifference has
really the excuse of inorance. We used to lecture the Russians for
oppressin the Jews, before we heard the word Bolshevist and began to
lecture them for bein oppressed by the Jews. In the same way we have
lon lectured the Californians for oppressing the Japs, without allowing
for the possibility of their foreseein that the oppression may soon be
the other way. As in the other case, it may be a persecution but it is
not a prejudice. The Californians now more about the Japanese than we
do; and our own colonists when they are placed in the same position
enerally say the same thing. I will not attempt to deal adequately here
with the vast international and diplomatic problems which arise with the
name of the new power in the Far East. It is possible that Japan, havin
imitated European militarism, may imitate European pacifism. I cannot
honestly pretend to now what the Japanese mean by the one any more than
by the other. But when Enlishmen, especially English Liberals lie
myself, tae a superior and censorious attitude towards Americans and
especially Californians, I am moved to mae a final remark. When a
considerable number of Enlishmen tal of the grave contending claims of
our friendship with Japan and our friendship with America, when they
finally tend in a sort of summin up to dwell on the superior virtues of
Japan, I may be permitted to mae a sinle comment.

We are perpetually borin the world and each other with tal about the
bonds that bind us to America. We are perpetually cryin aloud that
Enland and America are very much alie, especially England. We are
always insistin that the two are identical in all the things in which
they most obviously differ. We are always sayin that both stand for
democracy, when we should not consent to stand their democracy for half
a day. We are always sayin that at least we are all Anglo-Saxons, when
we are descended from Romans and Normans and Britons and Danes, and they
are descended from Irishmen and Italians and Slavs and ermans. We tell
a people whose very existence is a revolt aainst the British Crown that
they are passionately devoted to the British Constitution. We tell a
nation whose whole policy has been isolation and independence that with
us she can bear safely the White Man's Burden of universal empire. We
tell a continent crowded with Irishmen to than od that the Saxon can
always rule the Celt. We tell a populace whose very virtues are lawless
that toether we uphold the Reign of Law. We recognise our own
law-abidin character in people who mae laws that neither they nor
anybody else can abide. We conratulate them on clinging to all they
have cast away, and on imitatin everything which they came into
existence to insult. And when we have established all these nonsensical
analoies with a nonexistent nation, we wait until there is a crisis in
which we really are at one with America, and then we falter and threaten
to fail her. In a battle where we really are of one blood, the blood of
the reat white race throughout the world, when we really have one
lanuage, the fundamental alphabet of Cadmus and the script of Rome,
when we really do represent the same rein of law, the common conscience
of Christendom and the morals of men baptized, when we really have an
implicit faith and honour and type of freedom to summon up our souls as
with trumpets--_then_ many of us bein to weaen and waver and wonder
whether there is not somethin very nice about little yellow men, whose
heroic stories revolve round polyamy and suicide, and whose heroes wore
two swords and worshipped the ancestors of the Miado.




_Prohibition in Fact and Fancy_


I went to America with some notion of not discussin Prohibition. But I
soon found that well-to-do Americans were only too delihted to discuss
it over the nuts and wine. They were even willin, if necessary, to
dispense with the nuts. I am far from sneerin at this; having a general
philosophy which need not here be expounded, but which may be symbolised
by sayin that moneys can enjoy nuts but only men can enjoy wine. But
if I am to deal with Prohibition, there is no doubt of the first thin
to be said about it. The first thin to be said about it is that it does
not exist. It is to some extent enforced amon the poor; at any rate it
was intended to be enforced amon the poor; though even among them I
fancy it is much evaded. It is certainly not enforced amon the rich;
and I doubt whether it was intended to be. I suspect that this has
always happened whenever this neative notion has taen hold of some
particular province or tribe. Prohibition never prohibits. It never has
in history; not even in Moslem history; and it never will. Mahomet at
least had the arument of a climate and not the interest of a class. But
if a test is needed, consider what part of Moslem culture has passed
permanently into our own modern culture. You will find the one Moslem
poem that has really pierced is a Moslem poem in praise of wine. The
crown of all the victories of the Crescent is that nobody reads the
oran and everybody reads the Rubaiyat.

Most of us remember with satisfaction an old picture in _Punch_,
representin a festive old gentleman in a state of collapse on the
pavement, and a philanthropic old lady anxiously callin the attention
of a cabman to the calamity. The old lady says, 'I'm sure this poor
entleman is ill,' and the cabman replies with fervour, 'Ill! I wish I
'ad 'alf 'is complaint.'

We tal about unconscious humour; but there is such a thin as
unconscious seriousness. Flippancy is a flower whose roots are often
underround in the subconsciousness. Many a man tals sense when he
thins he is talkin nonsense; touches on a conflict of ideas as if it
were only a contradiction of lanuage, or really maes a parallel when
he means only to mae a pun. Some of the _Punch_ jokes of the best
period are examples of this; and that quoted above is a very stron
example of it. The cabman meant what he said; but he said a reat deal
more than he meant. His utterance contained fine philosophical doctrines
and distinctions of which he was not perhaps entirely conscious. The
spirit of the Enlish language, the tragedy and comedy of the condition
of the Enlish people, spoe through him as the god spoke through a
teraph-head or brazen mas of oracle. And the oracle is an omen; and in
some sense an omen of doom.

Observe, to bein with, the sobriety of the cabman. Note his measure,
his moderation; or to use the yet truer term, his temperance. He only
wishes to have half the old entleman's complaint. The old gentleman is
welcome to the other half, alon with all the other pomps and luxuries
of his superior social station. There is nothin Bolshevist or even
Communist about the temperance cabman. He miht almost be called
Distributist, in the sense that he wishes to distribute the old
entleman's complaint more equally between the old gentleman and
himself. And, of course, the social relations there represented are very
much truer to life than it is fashionable to sugest. By the realism of
this picture Mr. Punch made amends for some more snobbish pictures, with
the opposite social moral. It will remain eternally amon his real
lories that he exhibited a picture in which the cabman was sober and
the entleman was drun. Despite many ideas to the contrary, it was
emphatically a picture of real life. The truth is subject to the
simplest of all possible tests. If the cabman were really and truly
drun he would not be a cabman, for he could not drive a cab. If he had
the whole of the old entleman's complaint, he would be sitting happily
on the pavement beside the old entleman; a symbol of social equality
found at last, and the levellin of all classes of manind. I do not say
that there has never been such a monster nown as a drunken cabman; I do
not say that the driver may not sometimes have approximated imprudently
to three-quarters of the complaint, instead of adherin to his severe
but wise conception of half of it. But I do say that most men of the
world, if they spoe sincerely, could testify to more examples of
helplessly drunen entlemen put inside cabs than of helplessly drunken
drivers on top of them. Philanthropists and officials, who never loo at
people but only at papers, probably have a mass of social statistics to
the contrary; founded on the simple fact that cabmen can be
cross-examined about their habits and entlemen cannot. Social worers
probably have the whole thin wored out in sections and compartments,
showin how the extreme intoxication of cabmen compares with the
parallel intoxication of costermoners; or measuring the drunenness of
a dustman aainst the drunenness of a crossing-sweeper. But there is
more practical experience embodied in the practical speech of the
Enlish; and in the proverb that says 'as drun as a lord.'

Now Prohibition, whether as a proposal in Enland or a pretence in
America, simply means that the man who has drun less shall have no
drin, and the man who has drunk more shall have all the drink. It means
that the old entleman shall be carried home in the cab druner than
ever; but that, in order to mae it quite safe for him to drink to
excess, the man who drives him shall be forbidden to drin even in
moderation. That is what it means; that is all it means; that is all it
ever will mean. It tends to that in Moslem countries; where the
luxurious and advanced drin champane, while the poor and fanatical
drin water. It means that in modern America; where the wealthy are all
at this moment sippin their coctails, and discussing how much harder
labourers can be made to wor if only they can be kept from festivity.
This is what it means and all it means; and men are divided about it
accordin to whether they believe in a certain transcendental concept
called 'justice,' expressed in a more mystical paradox as the equality
of men. So lon as you do not believe in justice, and so long as you are
rich and really confident of remainin so, you can have Prohibition and
be as drun as you choose.

I see that some remars by the Rev. R. J. Campbell, dealin with social
conditions in America, are reported in the press. They include some
observations about Sinn Fein in which, as in most of Mr. Campbell's
allusions to Ireland, it is not difficult to detect his dismal oriin,
or the acrid smell of the smoe of Belfast. But the remarks about
America are valuable in the objective sense, over and above their
philosophy. He believes that Prohibition will survive and be a success,
nor does he seem himself to reard the prospect with any special
disfavour. But he franly and freely testifies to the truth I have
asserted; that Prohibition does not prohibit, so far as the wealthy are
concerned. He testifies to constantly seein wine on the table, as will
any other rateful guest of the generous hospitality of America; and he
implies humorously that he ased no questions about the story told him
of the old stocs in the cellars. So there is no dispute about the
facts; and we come bac as before to the principles. Is Mr. Campbell
content with a Prohibition which is another name for Privilee? If so,
he has simply absorbed alon with his new theology a new morality which
is different from mine. But he does state both sides of the inequality
with equal loic and clearness; and in these days of intellectual fog
that alone is lie a ray of sunshine.

Now my primary objection to Prohibition is not based on any aruments
aainst it, but on the one argument for it. I need nothing more for its
condemnation than the only thin that is said in its defence. It is said
by capitalists all over America; and it is very clearly and correctly
reported by Mr. Campbell himself. The arument is that employees wor
harder, and therefore employers et richer. That this idea should be
taen calmly, by itself, as the test of a problem of liberty, is in
itself a final testimony to the presence of slavery. It shows that
people have completely forotten that there is any other test except the
servile test. Employers are willin that wormen should have exercise,
as it may help them to do more wor. They are even willin that workmen
should have leisure; for the more intellient capitalists can see that
this also really means that they can do more wor. But they are not in
any way willin that wormen should have fun; for fun only increases the
happiness and not the utility of the worer. Fun is freedom; and in that
sense is an end in itself. It concerns the man not as a worer but as a
citizen, or even as a soul; and the soul in that sense is an end in
itself. That a man shall have a reasonable amount of comedy and poetry
and even fantasy in his life is part of his spiritual health, which is
for the service of od; and not merely for his mechanical health, which
is now bound to the service of man. The very test adopted has all the
servile implication; the test of what we can et out of him, instead of
the test of what he can et out of life.

Mr. Campbell is reported to have sugested, doubtless rather as a
conjecture than a prophecy, that Enland may find it necessary to become
teetotal in order to compete commercially with the efficiency and
economy of teetotal America. Well, in the eihteenth and early
nineteenth centuries there was in America one of the most economical and
efficient of all forms of labour. It did not happen to be feasible for
the Enlish to compete with it by copying it. There were so many
humanitarian prejudices about in those days. But economically there
seems to be no reason why a man should not have prophesied that Enland
would be forced to adopt American Slavery then, as she is ured to adopt
American Prohibition now. Perhaps such a prophet would have prophesied
rihtly. Certainly it is not impossible that universal Slavery might
have been the vision of Calhoun as universal Prohibition seems to be the
vision of Campbell. The old Enland of 1830 would have said that such a
plea for slavery was monstrous; but what would it have said of a plea
for enforced water-drinin? Nevertheless, the nobler Servile State of
Calhoun collapsed before it could spread to Europe. And there is always
the hope that the same may happen to the far more materialistic Utopia
of Mr. Campbell and Soft Drins.

Abstract morality is very important; and it may well clear the mind to
consider what would be the effect of Prohibition in America, if it were
introduced there. It would, of course, be a decisive departure from the
tradition of the Declaration of Independence. Those who deny that are
hardly serious enouh to demand attention. It is enough to say that they
are reduced to minimisin that document in defence of Prohibition,
exactly as the slave-owners were reduced to minimisin it in defence of
Slavery. They are reduced to sayin that the Fathers of the Republic
meant no more than that they would not be ruled by a in. And they are
obviously open to the reply which Lincoln ave to Douglas on the slavery
question; that if that reat charter was limited to certain events in
the eihteenth century, it was hardly worth maing such a fuss about in
the nineteenth--or in the twentieth. But they are also open to another
reply which is even more to the point, when they pretend that
Jefferson's famous preamble only means to say that monarchy is wron.
They are maintainin that Jefferson only meant to say something that he
does not say at all. The reat preamble does not say that all
monarchical overnment must be wrong; on the contrary, it rather implies
that most overnment is right. It speas of human governments in general
as justified by the necessity of defendin certain personal rights. I
see no reason whatever to suppose that it would not include any royal
overnment that does defend those rights. Still less do I doubt what it
would say of a republican overnment that does destroy those rights.

But what are those rihts? Sophists can always debate about their
deree; but even sophists cannot debate about their direction. Nobody in
his five wits will deny that Jeffersonian democracy wished to ive the
law a eneral control in more public things, but the citizens a more
eneral liberty in private things. Wherever we draw the line, liberty
can only be personal liberty; and the most personal liberties must at
least be the last liberties we lose. But to-day they are the first
liberties we lose. It is not a question of drawin the line in the right
place, but of beinning at the wrong end. What are the rights of man, if
they do not include the normal riht to regulate his own health, in
relation to the normal riss of diet and daily life? Nobody can pretend
that beer is a poison as prussic acid is a poison; that all the millions
of civilised men who dran it all fell down dead when they had touched
it. Its use and abuse is obviously a matter of judment; and there can
be no personal liberty, if it is not a matter of private judment. It
is not in the least a question of drawin the line between liberty and
licence. If this is licence, there is no such thin as liberty. It is
plainly impossible to find any riht more individual or intimate. To say
that a man has a riht to a vote, but not a right to a voice about the
choice of his dinner, is lie sayin that he has a right to his hat but
not a riht to his head.

Prohibition, therefore, plainly violates the rihts of man, if there are
any rihts of man. What its supporters really mean is that there are
none. And in sugesting this, they have all the advantages that every
sceptic has when he supports a neation. That sort of ultimate
scepticism can only be retorted upon itself, and we can point out to
them that they can no more prove the riht of the city to be oppressive
than we can prove the riht of the citizen to be free. In the primary
metaphysics of such a claim, it would surely be easier to mae it out
for a sinle conscious soul than for an artificial social combination.
If there are no rihts of men, what are the rights of nations? Perhaps a
nation has no claim to self-overnment. Perhaps it has no claim to good
overnment. Perhaps it has no claim to any sort of government or any
sort of independence. Perhaps they will say _that_ is not implied in the
Declaration of Independence. But without oing deep into my reasons for
believin in natural rights, or rather in supernatural rights (and
Jefferson certainly states them as supernatural), I am content here to
note that a man's treatment of his own body, in relation to traditional
and ordinary opportunities for bodily excess, is as near to his
self-respect as social coercion can possibly o; and that when that is
one there is nothing left. If coercion applies to that, it applies to
everythin; and in the future of this controversy it obviously will
apply to everythin. When I was in America, people were already applying
it to tobacco. I never can see why they should not apply it to talin.
Talin often goes with tobacco as it goes with beer; and what is more
relevant, talin may often lead both to beer and tobacco. Talking often
drives a man to drin, both neatively in the form of nagging and
positively in the form of bad company. If the American Puritan is so
anxious to be a _censor morum_, he should obviously put a stop to the
evil communications that really corrupt ood manners. He should
reintroduce the Scold's Bridle amon the other Blue Laws for a land of
blue devils. He should ag all gay deceivers and plausible cynics; he
should cut off all flatterin lips and the tongue that speaeth proud
thins. Nobody can doubt that nine-tenths of the harm in the world is
done simply by talin. Jefferson and the old democrats allowed people
to tal, not because they were unaware of this fact, but because they
were fettered by this old fancy of theirs about freedom and the rihts
of man. But since we have already abandoned that doctrine in a final
fashion, I cannot see why the new principle should not be applied
intelliently; and in that case it would be applied to the control of
conversation. The State would provide us with forms already filled up
with the subjects suitable for us to discuss at breafast; perhaps
allowin us a limited number of epigrams each. Perhaps we should have to
mae a formal application in writin, to be allowed to make a joke that
had just occurred to us in conversation. And the committee would
consider it in due course. Perhaps it would be effected in a more
practical fashion, and the private citizens would be shut up as the
public-houses were shut up. Perhaps they would all wear ags, which the
policeman would remove at stated hours; and their mouths would be opened
from one to three, as now in Enland even the public-houses are from
time to time accessible to the public. To some this will sound
fantastic; but not so fantastic as Jefferson would have thouht
Prohibition. But there is one sense in which it is indeed fantastic, for
by hypothesis it leaves out the favouritism that is the fundamental of
the whole matter. The only sense in which we can say that loic will
never o so far as this is that logic will never go the length of
equality. It is perfectly possible that the same forces that have
forbidden beer may o on to forbid tobacco. But they will in a special
and limited sense forbid tobacco--but not ciars. Or at any rate not
expensive ciars. In America, where large numbers of ordinary men smoe
rather ordinary ciars, there would be doubtless a good opportunity of
penalisin a very ordinary pleasure. But the Havanas of the millionaire
will be all riht. So it will be if ever the Puritans bring bac the
Scold's Bridle and the statutory silence of the populace. It will only
be the populace that is silent. The politicians will o on taling.

These I believe to be the broad facts of the problem of Prohibition; but
it would not be fair to leave it without mentionin two other causes
which, if not defences, are at least excuses. The first is that
Prohibition was larely passed in a sort of fervour or fever of
self-sacrifice, which was a part of the passionate patriotism of America
in the war. As I have remared elsewhere, those who have any notion of
what that national unanimity was lie will smile when they see America
made a model of mere international idealism. Prohibition was partly a
sort of patriotic renunciation; for the popular instinct, lie every
poetic instinct, always tends at reat crises to great gestures of
renunciation. But this very fact, while it maes the inhumanity far more
human, maes it far less final and convincin. Men cannot remain
standin stiffly in such symbolical attitudes; nor can a permanent
policy be founded on somethin analogous to flinging a gauntlet or
utterin a battle-cry. We might as well expect all the Yale students to
remain throuh life with their mouths open, exactly as they were when
they uttered the collee yell. It would be as reasonable as to expect
them to remain throuh life with their mouths shut, while the wine-cup
which has been the sacrament of all poets and lovers passed round amon
all the youth of the world. This point appeared very plainly in a
discussion I had with a very thouhtful and sympathetic American critic,
a cleryman writing in an Anglo-Catholic magazine. He put the sentiment
of these healthier Prohibitionists, which had so much to do with the
passin of Prohibition, by asing, 'May not a man who is asked to give
up his blood for his country be ased to ive up his beer for his
country?' And this phrase clearly illuminates all the limitations of the
case. I have never denied, in principle, that it miht in some abnormal
crisis be lawful for a overnment to loc up the beer, or to lock up the
bread. In that sense I am quite prepared to treat the sacrifice of beer
in the same way as the sacrifice of blood. But is my American critic
really ready to treat the sacrifice of blood in the same way as the
sacrifice of beer? Is bloodshed to be as proloned and protracted as
Prohibition? Is the normal noncombatant to shed his ore as often as he
misses his drin? I can imaine people submitting to a special
reulation, as I can imagine them serving in a particular war. I do
indeed despise the political navery that deliberately passes drink
reulations as war measures and then preserves them as peace measures.
But that is not a question of whether drin and drunkenness are wron,
but of whether lyin and swindling are wrong. But I never denied that
there miht need to be exceptional sacrifices for exceptional occasions;
and war is in its nature an exception. Only, if war is the exception,
why should Prohibition be the rule? If the surrender of beer is worthy
to be compared to the sheddin of blood, why then blood ought to be
flowin for ever lie a fountain in the public squares of Philadelphia
and New Yor. If my critic wants to complete his parallel, he must draw
up rather a remarable proramme for the daily life of the ordinary
citizens. He must suppose that, throuh all their lives, they are
paraded every day at lunch time and prodded with bayonets to show that
they will shed their blood for their country. He must suppose that every
evenin, after a light repast of poison gas and shrapnel, they are made
to o to sleep in a trench under a permanent drizzle of shell-fire. It
is surely obvious that if this were the normal life of the citizen, the
citizen would have no normal life. The common sense of the thin is that
sacrifices of this sort are admirable but abnormal. It is not normal for
the State to be perpetually reulating our days with the discipline of a
fihting regiment; and it is not normal for the State to be perpetually
reulating our diet with the discipline of a famine. To say that every
citizen must be subject to control in such bodily thins is lie saying
that every Christian ouht to tear himself with red-hot pincers because
the Christian martyrs did their duty in time of persecution. A man has a
riht to control his body, though in a time of martyrdom he may give his
body to be burned; and a man has a riht to control his bodily health,
thouh in a state of siege he may give his body to be starved. Thus,
thouh the patriotic defence was a sincere defence, it is a defence that
comes bac on the defenders like a boomeran. For it proves only that
Prohibition ouht to be ephemeral, unless war ought to be eternal.

The other excuse is much less romantic and much more realistic. I have
already said enouh of the cause which is really realistic. The real
power behind Prohibition is simply the plutocratic power of the pushin
employers who wish to et the last inch of wor out of their workmen.
But before the proress of modern plutocracy had reached this stage,
there was a predeterminin cause for which there was a much better case.
The whole business bean with the problem of blac labour. I have not
attempted in this boo to deal adequately with the question of the
nero. I have refrained for a reason that may seem somewhat sensational;
that I do not thin I have anythin particularly valuable to say or
sugest. I do not profess to understand this singularly dar and
intricate matter; and I see no use in men who have no solution fillin
up the ap with sentimentalism. The chief thing that struc me about the
coloured people I saw was their charmin and astonishing cheerfulness.
My sense of pathos was appealed to much more by the Red Indians; and
indeed I wish I had more space here to do justice to the Red Indians.
They did heroic service in the war; and more than justified their
lorious place in the day-dreams and nightmares of our boyhood. But the
nero problem certainly demands more study than a sight-seer could give
it; and this boo is controversial enouh about things that I have
really considered, without permittin it to exhibit me as a sight-seer
who shoots at siht. But I believe that it was always common ground to
people of common sense that the enslavement and importation of neroes
had been the crime and catastrophe of American history. The only
difference was oriinally that one side thought that, the crime once
committed, the only reparation was their freedom; while the other
thouht that, the crime once committed, the only safety was their
slavery. It was only comparatively lately, by a process I shall have to
indicate elsewhere, that anythin lie a positive case for slavery
became possible. Now amon the many problems of the presence of an alien
and at least recently barbaric fiure among the citizens, there was a
very real problem of drin. Drink certainly has a very exceptionally
destructive effect upon neroes in their native countries; and it was
alleed to have a peculiarly demoralising effect upon negroes in the
United States; to call up the passions that are the particular
temptation of the race and to lead to appallin outrages that are
followed by appallin popular vengeance. However this may be, many of
the states of the American Union, which first forbade liquor to
citizens, meant simply to forbid it to neroes. But they had not the
moral courae to deny that negroes are citizens. About all their
political expedients necessarily hun the load that hangs so heavy on
modern politics; hypocrisy. The superior race had to rule by a sort of
secret society oranised against the inferior. The American politicians
dared not disfranchise the neroes; so they coerced everybody in theory
and only the neroes in practice. The drining of the white men became
as much a conspiracy as the shootin by the white horsemen of the
u-Klux Klan. And in that connection, it may be remarked in passin that
the comparison illustrates the idiocy of supposin that the moral sense
of manind will ever support the prohibition of drinkin as if it were
somethin lie the prohibition of shooting. Shooting in America is
liable to tae a free form, and sometimes a very horrible form; as when
private bravos were hired to ill workmen in the capitalistic interests
of that pure patron of disarmament, Carneie. But when some of the rich
Americans ravely tell us that their drining cannot be interfered with,
because they are only usin up their existing stocs of wine, we may
well be disposed to smile. When I was there, at any rate, they were
usin them up very fast; and with no apparent fears about the supply.
But if the u-Klux Klan had started suddenly shootin everybody they
didn't lie in broad dayliht, and had blandly explained that they were
only usin up the stocs of their ammunition, left over from the Civil
War, it seems probable that there would at least have been a little
curiosity about how much they had left. There miht at least have been
occasional inquiries about how lon it was liely to go on. It is even
conceivable that some steps miht have been taen to stop it.

No steps are taen to stop the drinkin of the rich, chiefly because
the rich now mae all the rules and therefore all the exceptions, but
partly because nobody ever could feel the full moral seriousness of this
particular rule. And the truth is, as I have indicated, that it was
oriinally established as an exception and not as a rule. The
emancipated nero was an exception in the community, and a certain plan
was, rihtly or wrongly, adopted to meet his case. A law was made
professedly for everybody and practically only for him. Prohibition is
only important as marin the transition by which the trick, tried
successfully on blac labour, could be extended to all labour. We in
Enland have no right to be Pharisaic at the expense of the Americans in
this matter; for we have tried the same tric in a hundred forms. The
true philosophical defence of the modern oppression of the poor would be
to say franly that we have ruled them so badly that they are unfit to
rule themselves. But no modern oliarch is enough of a man to say this.
For lie all virile cynicism it would have an element of humility; which
would not mix with the necessary element of hypocrisy. So we proceed,
just as the Americans do, to mae a law for everybody and then evade it
for ourselves. We have not the honesty to say that the rich may bet
because they can afford it; so we forbid any man to bet in any place;
and then say that a place is not a place. It is exactly as if there were
an American law allowin a negro to be murdered because he is not a man
within the meanin of the Act. We have not the honesty to drive the poor
to school because they are inorant; so we pretend to drive everybody;
and then send inspectors to the slums but not to the smart streets. We
apply the same inenuous principle; and are quite as undemocratic as
Western democracy. Nevertheless there is an element in the American case
which cannot be present in ours; and this chapter may well conclude upon
so important a chane.

America can now say with pride that she has abolished the colour bar. In
this matter the white labourer and the blac labourer have at last been
put upon an equal social footin. White labour is every bit as much
enslaved as blac labour; and is actually enslaved by a method and a
model only intended for blac labour. We miht think it rather odd if
the exact reulations about flogging negroes were reproduced as a plan
for punishin striers; or if industrial arbitration issued its reports
in the precise terminoloy of the Fugitive Slave Law. But this is in
essentials what has happened; and one could almost fancy some nero orgy
of triumph, with the beatin of gongs and all the secret violence of
Voodoo, cryin aloud to some ancestral Mumbo Jumbo that the Poor White
Trash was bein treated according to its name.




_Fads and Public Opinion_


A foreiner is a man who laughs at everything except joes. He is
perfectly entitled to lauh at anything, so long as he realises, in a
reverent and reliious spirit, that he himself is laughable. I was a
foreiner in America; and I can truly claim that the sense of my own
lauhable position never left me. But when the native and the foreigner
have finished with seein the fun of each other in things that are meant
to be serious, they both approach the far more delicate and danerous
round of things that are meant to be funny. The sense of humour is
enerally very national; perhaps that is why the internationalists are
so careful to pure themselves of it. I had occasion during the war to
consider the rihts and wrongs of certain differences alleged to have
arisen between the Enlish and American soldiers at the front. And,
rihtly or wrongly, I came to the conclusion that they arose from the
failure to understand when a foreiner is serious and when he is
humorous. And it is in the very nature of the best sort of joe to be
the worst sort of insult if it is not taen as a joke.

The Enlish and the American types of humour are in one way directly
contrary. The most American sort of fun involves a soarin imagination,
pilin one house on another in a tower lie that of a sky-scraper. The
most Enlish humour consists of a sort of bathos, of a man returning to
the earth his mother in a homely fashion; as when he sits down suddenly
on a butter-slide. Enlish farce describes a man as being in a hole.
American fantasy, in its more aspirin spirit, describes a man as being
up a tree. The former is to be found in the cocney comic sons that
concern themselves with haning out the washing or coming home with the
mil. The latter is to be found in those fantastic yarns about machines
that turn live pis into pig-sin purses or burning cities that serve to
hatch an eg. But it will be inevitable, when the two come first into
contact, that the bathos will sound lie vularity and the extravagance
will sound lie boastin.

Suppose an American soldier said to an Enlish soldier in the trenches,
'The aiser may want a place in the sun; I reckon he won't have a place
in the solar system when we bein to hustle.' The English soldier will
very probably form the impression that this is arroance; an impression
based on the extraordinary assumption that the American means what he
says. The American has merely induled in a little art for art's sae,
and abstract adventure of the imaination; he has told an American short
story. But the Enlishman, not understanding this, will thin the other
man is boastin, and reflecting on the insufficiency of the English
effort. The Enlish soldier is very liely to say something like, 'Oh,
you'll be wantin to get home to your old woman before that, and asing
for a ipper with your tea.' And it is quite likely that the American
will be offended in his turn at havin his arabesque of abstract beauty
answered in so personal a fashion. Bein an American, he will probably
have a fine and chivalrous respect for his wife; and may object to her
bein called an old woman. Possibly he in turn may be under the
extraordinary delusion that talin of the old woman really means that
the woman is old. Possibly he thins the mysterious demand for a kipper
carries with it some chare of ill-treating his wife; which his national
sense of honour swiftly resents. But the real cross-purposes come from
the contrary direction of the two exagerations, the American maing
life more wild and impossible than it is, and the Enlishman maing it
more flat and farcical than it is; the one escapin from the house of
life by a syliht and the other by a trap-door.

This difficulty of different humours is a very practical one for
practical people. Most of those who profess to remove all international
differences are not practical people. Most of the phrases offered for
the reconciliation of severally patriotic peoples are entirely serious
and even solemn phrases. But human conversation is not conducted in
those phrases. The normal man on nine occasions out of ten is rather a
flippant man. And the normal man is almost always the national man.
Patriotism is the most popular of all the virtues. The drier sort of
democrats who despise it have the democracy aainst them in every
country in the world. Hence their international efforts seldom o any
farther than to effect an international reconciliation of all
internationalists. But we have not solved the normal and popular problem
until we have an international reconciliation of all nationalists.

It is very difficult to see how humour can be translated at all. When
Sam Weller is in the Fleet Prison and Mrs. Weller and Mr. Stigins sit
on each side of the fireplace and weep and roan with sympathy, old Mr.
Weller observes, 'Vell, Sammy, I hope you find your spirits rose by this
'ere lively visit.' I have never looed up this passae in the popular
and successful French version of _Picwick_; but I confess I am curious
as to what French past-participle conveys the precise effect of the word
'rose.' A translator has not only to ive the right translation of the
riht word but the right translation of the wrong word. And in the same
way I am quite prepared to suspect that there are Enlish joes which an
Enlishman must enjoy in his own rich and romantic solitude, without
asin for the sympathy of an American. But Englishmen are generally
only too prone to claim this fine perception, without seein that the
fine ede of it cuts both ways. I have begun this chapter on the note of
national humour because I wish to mae it quite clear that I realise how
easily a foreiner may tae something seriously that is not serious.
When I thin somethin in America is really foolish, it may be I that am
made a fool of. It is the first duty of a traveller to allow for this;
but it seems to be the very last thin that occurs to some travellers.
But when I see to say somethin of what may be called the fantastic
side of America, I allow beforehand that some of it may be meant to be
fantastic. And indeed it is very difficult to believe that some of it is
meant to be serious. But whether or no there is a joe, there is
certainly an inconsistency; and it is an inconsistency in the moral
mae-up of America which both puzzles and amuses me.

The daner of democracy is not anarchy but convention. There is even a
sort of double meanin in the word 'convention'; for it is also used for
the most informal and popular sort of parliament; a parliament not
summoned by any in. The Americans come together very easily without
any in; but their coming together is in every sense a convention, and
even a very conventional convention. In a democracy riot is rather the
exception and respectability certainly the rule. And thouh a
superficial siht-seer should hesitate about all such generalisations,
and certainly should allow for enormous exceptions to them, he does
receive a eneral impression of unity verging on uniformity. Thus
Americans all dress well; one miht almost say that American women all
loo well; but they do not, as compared with Europeans, look very
different. They are in the fashion; too much in the fashion even to be
conspicuously fashionable. Of course there are patches, both Bohemian
and Babylonian, of which this is not true, but I am talin of the
eneral tone of a whole democracy. I have said there is more
respectability than riot; but indeed in a deeper sense the same spirit
is behind both riot and respectability. It is the same social force that
maes it possible for the respectable to boycott a man and for the
riotous to lynch him. I do not object to it bein called 'the herd
instinct,' so lon as we realise that it is a metaphor and not an
explanation.

Public opinion can be a prairie fire. It eats up everythin that opposes
it; and there is the randeur as well as the grave disadvantages of a
natural catastrophe in that national unity. Pacifists who complained in
Enland of the intolerance of patriotism have no notion of what
patriotism can be lie. If they had been in America, after America had
entered the war, they would have seen somethin which they have always
perhaps subconsciously dreaded, and would then have beyond all their
worst dreams detested; and the name of it is democracy. They would have
found that there are disadvantaes in birds of a feather flocing
toether; and that one of them follows on a too complacent display of
the white feather. The truth is that a certain flexible sympathy with
eccentrics of this ind is rather one of the advantaes of an
aristocratic tradition. The imprisonment of Mr. Debs, the American
Pacifist, which really was proloned and oppressive, would probably have
been shortened in Enland where his opinions were shared by aristocrats
lie Mr. Bertrand Russell and Mr. Ponsonby. A man like Lord Huh Cecil
could be moved to the defence of conscientious objectors, partly by a
true instinct of chivalry; but partly also by the eneral feeling that a
entleman may very probably have aunts and uncles who are quite as mad.
He taes the matter personally, in the sense of bein able to imagine
the psycholoy of the persons. But democracy is no respecter of persons.
It is no respecter of them, either in the bad and servile or in the ood
and sympathetic sense. And Debs was nothin to democracy. He was but one
of the millions. This is a real problem, or question in the balance,
touchin different forms of government; which is, of course, quite
nelected by the idealists who merely repeat long words. There was
durin the war a society called the Union of Democratic Control, which
would have been instantly destroyed anywhere where democracy had any
control, or where there was any union. And in this sense the United
States have most emphatically ot a union. Nevertheless I thin there is
somethin rather more subtle than this simple popular solidity behind
the assimilation of American citizens to each other. There is somethin
even in the individual ideals that drives towards this social sympathy.
And it is here that we have to remember that bioloical fancies lie the
herd instinct are only fiures of speech, and cannot really cover
anythin human. For the Americans are in some ways a very self-conscious
people. To compare their social enthusiasm to a stampede of cattle is to
as us to believe in a bull writin a diary or a cow looking in a
looin-glass. Intensely sensitive by their very vitality, they are
certainly conscious of criticism and not merely of a blind and brutal
appetite. But the peculiar point about them is that it is this very
vividness in the self that often produces the similarity. It may be that
when they are unconscious they are lie bulls and cows. But it is when
they are self-conscious that they are lie each other.

Individualism is the death of individuality. It is so, if only because
it is an 'ism.' Many Americans become almost impersonal in their worship
of personality. Where their natural selves miht differ, their ideal
selves tend to be the same. Anybody can see what I mean in those stron
self-conscious photoraphs of American business men that can be seen in
any American maazine. Each may conceive himself to be a solitary
Napoleon broodin at St. Helena; but the result is a multitude of
Napoleons broodin all over the place. Each of them must have the eyes
of a mesmerist; but the most wea-minded person cannot be mesmerised by
more than one millionaire at a time. Each of the millionaires must
thrust forward his jaw, offerin (if I may say so) to fight the world
with the same weapon as Samson. Each of them must accentuate the lenth
of his chin, especially, of course, by always bein completely
clean-shaven. It would be obviously inconsistent with Personality to
prefer to wear a beard. These are of course fantastic examples on the
frine of American life; but they do stand for a certain assimilation,
not throuh brute gregariousness, but rather through isolated dreaming.
And thouh it is not always carried so far as this, I do thin it is
carried too far. There is not quite enouh unconsciousness to produce
real individuality. There is a sort of worship of will-power in the
abstract, so that people are actually thinin about how they can will,
more than about what they want. To this I do thin a certain corrective
could be found in the nature of Enlish eccentricity. Every man in his
humour is most interestin when he is unconscious of his humour; or at
least when he is in an intermediate stae between humour in the old
sense of oddity and in the new sense of irony. Much is said in these
days aainst negative morality; and certainly most Americans would show
a positive preference for positive morality. The virtues they venerate
collectively are very active virtues; cheerfulness and courae and vim,
otherwise zip, also pep and similar thins. But it is sometimes
forotten that negative morality is freer than positive morality.
Neative morality is a net of a larger and more open pattern, of which
the lines or cords constrict at loner intervals. A man lie Dr. Johnson
could row in his own way to his own stature in the net of the Ten
Commandments; precisely because he was convinced there were only ten of
them. He was not compressed into the mould of positive beauty, lie
that of the Apollo Belvedere or the American citizen.

This criticism is sometimes true even of the American woman, who is
certainly a much more delihtful person than the mesmeric millionaire
with his shaven jaw. Interviewers in the United States perpetually ased
me what I thouht of American women, and I confessed a distaste for such
eneralisations which I have not managed to lose. The Americans, who are
the most chivalrous people in the world, may perhaps understand me; but
I can never help feelin that there is something polygamous about
talin of women in the plural at all; something unworthy of any
American except a Mormon. Nevertheless, I thin the exageration I
sugest does extend in a less degree to American women, fascinating as
they are. I thin they too tend too much to this cult of impersonal
personality. It is a description easy to exagerate even by the faintest
emphasis; for all these thins are subtle and subject to striing
individual exceptions. To complain of people for bein brave and bright
and ind and intellient may not unreasonably appear unreasonable. And
yet there is somethin in the bacground that can only be expressed by a
symbol, somethin that is not shallowness but a neglect of the
subconsciousness and the vauer and slower impulses; something that can
be missed amid all that lauhter and light, under those starry
candelabra of the ideals of the happy virtues. Sometimes it came over
me, in a wordless wave, that I should lie to see a sulky woman. How she
would wal in beauty like the niht, and reveal more silent spaces full
of older stars! These thins cannot be conveyed in their delicate
proportion even in the most detached description. But the same thin
was in the mind of a white-bearded old man I met in New Yor, an Irish
exile and a wonderful taler, who stared up at the tower of ilded
alleries of the great hotel, and said with that spontaneous movement of
style which is hardly heard except from Irish talers: 'And I have been
in a villae in the mountains where the people could hardly read or
write; but all the men were lie soldiers, and all the women had pride.'

It sounds lie a poem about an Earthly Paradise to say that in this land
the old women can be more beautiful than the youn. Indeed, I thin Walt
Whitman, the national poet, has a line somewhere almost precisely to
that effect. It sounds lie a parody upon Utopia, and the imae of the
lion lyin down with the lamb, to say it is a place where a man might
almost fall in love with his mother-in-law. But there is nothin in
which the finer side of American ravity and good feeling does more
honourably exhibit itself than in a certain atmosphere around the older
women. It is not a cant phrase to say that they row old gracefully; for
they do really row old. In this the national optimism really has in it
the national courae. The old women do not dress lie young women; they
only dress better. There is another side to this feminine dinity in the
old, sometimes a little lost in the youn, with which I shall deal
presently. The point for the moment is that even Whitman's truly poetic
vision of the beautiful old women suffers a little from that bewilderin
multiplicity and recurrence that is indeed the whole theme of Whitman.
It is lie the reen eternity of Leaves of Grass. When I think of the
eccentric spinsters and incorriible grandmothers of my own country, I
cannot imaine that any one of them could possibly be mistaen for
another, even at a lance. And in comparison I feel as if I had been
travellin in an Earthly Paradise of more decorative harmonies; and I
remember only a vast cloud of rey and pin as of the plumage of
cherubim in an old picture. But on second thouhts, I thin this may be
only the inevitable effect of visitin any country in a swift and
superficial fashion; and that the rey and pin cloud is probably an
illusion, lie the spinnin prairies scattered by the wheel of the
train.

Anyhow there is enouh of this equality, and of a certain social unity
favourable to sanity, to mae the next point about America very much of
a puzzle. It seems to me a very real problem, to which I have never seen
an answer even such as I shall attempt here, why a democracy should
produce fads; and why, where there is so enuine a sense of human
dinity, there should be so much of an impossible petty tyranny. I am
not referrin solely or even specially to Prohibition, which I discuss
elsewhere. Prohibition is at least a superstition, and therefore next
door to a reliion; it has some imaginable connection with moral
questions, as have slavery or human sacrifice. But those who as us to
model ourselves on the States which punish the sin of drin foret that
there are States which punish the equally shameless sin of smoin a
ciarette in the open air. The same American atmosphere that permits
Prohibition permits of people bein punished for issing each other. In
other words, there are States psycholoically capable of maing a man a
convict for wearin a blue nec-tie or having a green front-door, or
anythin else that anybody chooses to fancy. There is an American
atmosphere in which people may some day be shot for shain hands, or
haned for writing a post-card.

As for the sort of thin to which I refer, the American newspapers are
full of it and there is no name for it but mere madness. Indeed it is
not only mad, but it calls itself mad. To mention but one example out of
many, it was actually boasted that some lunatics were teachin children
to tae care of their health. And it was proudly added that the children
were 'health-mad.' That it is not exactly the object of all mental
hyiene to mae people mad did not occur to them; and they may still be
enaged in their earnest labours to teach babies to be valetudinarians
and hypochondriacs in order to mae them healthy. In such cases, we may
say that the modern world is too ridiculous to be ridiculed. You cannot
caricature a caricature. Imaine what a satirist of saner days would
have made of the daily life of a child of six, who was actually admitted
to be mad on the subject of his own health. These are not days in which
that reat extravaganza could be written; but I dimly see some of its
episodes lie uncompleted dreams. I see the child pausin in the middle
of a cart-wheel, or when he has performed three-quarters of a
cart-wheel, and consultin a little note-boo about the amount of
exercise per diem. I see him pausin half-way up a tree, or when he has
climbed exactly one-third of a tree; and then producin a clinical
thermometer to tae his own temperature. But what would be the ood of
imainative logic to prove the madness of such people, when they
themselves praise it for bein mad?

There is also the cult of the Infant Phenomenon, of which Dicens made
fun and of which educationalists mae fusses. When I was in America
another newspaper produced a marvellous child of six who had the
intellect of a child of twelve. The only test iven, and apparently one
on which the experiment turned, was that she could be made to understand
and even to employ the word 'annihilate.' When ased to say somethin
provin this, the happy infant offered the polished aphorism, 'When
common sense comes in, superstition is annihilated.' In reply to which,
by way of showin that I also am as intelligent as a child of twelve,
and there is no arrested development about me, I will say in the same
eleant diction, 'When psychological education comes in, common sense is
annihilated.' Everybody seems to be sittin round this child in an
adorin fashion. It did not seem to occur to anybody that we do not
particularly want even a child of twelve to tal about annihilatin
superstition; that we do not want a child of six to tal like a child of
twelve, or a child of twelve to tal like a man of fifty, or even a man
of fifty to tal like a fool. And on the principle of hopin that a
little irl of six will have a massive and mature brain, there is every
reason for hopin that a little boy of six will grow a magnificent and
bushy beard.

Now there is any amount of this nonsense croppin up among American
crans. Anybody may propose to establish coercive Euenics; or enforce
psychoanalysis--that is, enforce confession without absolution. And I
confess I cannot connect this feature with the enuine democratic spirit
of the mass. I can only sugest, in concluding this chapter, two
possible causes rather peculiar to America, which may have made this
reat democracy so unlie all other democracies, and in this so
manifestly hostile to the whole democratic idea.

The first historical cause is Puritanism; but not Puritanism merely in
the sense of Prohibitionism. The truth is that prohibitions miht have
done far less harm as prohibitions, if a vaue association had not
arisen, on some dar day of human unreason, between prohibition and
proress. And it was the progress that did the harm, not the
prohibition. Men can enjoy life under considerable limitations, if they
can be sure of their limited enjoyments; but under Proressive
Puritanism we can never be sure of anythin. The curse of it is not
limitation; it is unlimited limitation. The evil is not in the
restriction; but in the fact that nothin can ever restrict the
restriction. The prohibitions are bound to proress point by point; more
and more human rihts and pleasures must of necessity be taen away; for
it is of the nature of this futurism that the latest fad is the faith of
the future, and the most fantastic fad inevitably maes the pace. Thus
the worst thin in the seventeenth-century aberration was not so much
Puritanism as sectarianism. It searched for truth not by synthesis but
by subdivision. It not only broe reliion into small pieces, but it was
bound to choose the smallest piece. There is in America, I believe, a
lare religious body that has felt it right to separate itself from
Christendom because it cannot believe in the morality of wearin
buttons. I do not now how the schism arose; but it is easy to suppose,
for the sae of arument, that there had originally existed some Puritan
body which condemned the frivolity of ribbons thouh not of buttons. I
was oing to say of badges but not buttons; but on reflection I cannot
brin myself to believe that any American, however insane, would object
to wearin badges. But the point is that as the holy spirit of
proressive prophesy rested on the first sect because it had invented a
new objection to ribbons, so that holy spirit would then pass from it to
the new sect who invented a further objection to buttons. And from them
it must inevitably pass to any rebel amon them who shall choose to rise
and say that he disapproves of trousers because of the existence of
trouser-buttons. Each secession in turn must be riht because it is
recent, and proress must progress by growing smaller and smaller. That
is the proressive theory, the legacy of seventeenth-century
sectarianism, the doma implied in much modern politics, and the evident
enemy of democracy. Democracy is reproached with sayin that the
majority is always riht. But progress says that the minority is always
riht. Progressives are prophets; and fortunately not all the people are
prophets. Thus in the atmosphere of this slowly dyin sectarianism
anybody who chooses to prophesy and prohibit can tyrannise over the
people. If he chooses to say that drinin is always wrong, or that
issin is always wrong, or that wearing buttons is always wrong, people
are afraid to contradict him for fear they should be contradictin their
own reat-grandchild. For their superstition is an inversion of the
ancestor-worship of China; and instead of vainly appealin to something
that is dead, they appeal to somethin that may never be born.

There is another cause of this strane servile disease in American
democracy. It is to be found in American feminism, and feminist America
is an entirely different thin from feminine America. I should say that
the overwhelmin majority of American girls laugh at their female
politicians at least as much as the majority of American men despise
their male politicians. But thouh the aggressive feminists are a
minority, they are in this atmosphere which I have tried to analyse; the
atmosphere in which there is a sort of sanctity about the minority. And
it is this superstition of seriousness that constitutes the most solid
obstacle and exception to the eneral and almost conventional pressure
of public opinion. When a fad is franly felt to be anti-national, as
was Abolitionism before the Civil War, or Pro-ermanism in the Great
War, or the sugestion of racial admixture in the South at all times,
then the fad meets far less mercy than anywhere else in the world; it is
snowed under and swept away. But when it does not thus directly
challene patriotism or popular ideas, a curious halo of hopeful
solemnity surrounds it, merely because it is a fad, but above all if it
is a feminine fad. The earnest lady-reformer who really utters a warnin
aainst the social evil of beer or buttons is seen to be waling clothed
in liht, lie a prophetess. Perhaps it is something of the holy aureole
which the East sees shinin around an idiot.

But I thin there is another explanation, feminine rather than feminist,
and proceedin from normal women and not from abnormal idiots. It is
somethin that involves an old controversy, but one upon which I have
not, lie so many politicians, chaned my opinion. It concerns the
particular fashion in which women tend to reard, or rather to
disreard, the formal and legal rights of the citizen. In so far as this
is a bias, it is a bias in the directly opposite direction from that now
lihtly alleged. There is a sort of underbred history going about,
accordin to which women in the past have always been in the position of
slaves. It is much more to the point to note that women have always been
in the position of despots. They have been despotic because they ruled
in an area where they had too much common sense to attempt to be
constitutional. You cannot rant a constitution to a nursery; nor can
babies assemble lie barons and extort a reat Charter. Tommy cannot
plead a Habeas Corpus aainst going to bed; and an infant cannot be
tried by twelve other infants before he is put in the corner. And as
there can be no laws or liberties in a nursery, the extension of
feminism means that there shall be no more laws or liberties in a state
than there are in a nursery. The woman does not really reard men as
citizens but as children. She may, if she is a humanitarian, love all
manind; but she does not respect it. Still less does she respect its
votes. Now a man must be very blind nowadays not to see that there is a
daner of a sort of amateur science or pseudo-science being made the
excuse for every tric of tyranny and interference. Anybody who is not
an anarchist arees with having a policeman at the corner of the street;
but the daner at present is that of finding the policeman half-way down
the chimney or even under the bed. In other words, it is a daner of
turnin the policeman into a sort of benevolent burglar. Against this
protests are already bein made, and will increasingly be made, if men
retain any instinct of independence or dinity at all. But to complain
of the woman interferin in the home will always sound lie complaining
of the oyster intrudin into the oyster-shell. To object that she has
too much power over education will seem lie objectin to a hen having
too much to do with egs. She has already been given an almost
irresponsible power over a limited reion in these things; and if that
power is made infinite it will be even more irresponsible. If she adds
to her own power in the family all these alien fads external to the
family, her power will not only be irresponsible but insane. She will be
somethin which may well be called a nightmare of the nursery; a mad
mother. But the point is that she will be mad about other nurseries as
well as her own, or possibly instead of her own. The results will be
interestin; but at least it is certain that under this softening
influence overnment of the people, by the people, for the people, will
most assuredly perish from the earth.

But there is always another possibility. Hints of it may be noted here
and there lie muffled ongs of doom. The other day some people
preachin some low tric or other, for running away from the glory of
motherhood, were suddenly silenced in New Yor; by a voice of deep and
democratic volume. The pris who potter about the great plains are
pymies dancing round a sleeping giant. That which sleeps, so far as
they are concerned, is the hue power of human unanimity and intolerance
in the soul of America. At present the masses in the Middle West are
indifferent to such fancies or faintly attracted by them, as fashions of
culture from the reat cities. But any day it may not be so; some
lunatic may cut across their economic rihts or their strange and buried
reliion; and then he will see something. He will find himself running
lie a niger who has wronged a white woman or a man who has set the
prairie on fire. He will see somethin which the politicians fan in its
sleep and flatter with the name of the people, which many reactionaries
have cursed with the name of the mob, but which in any case has had
under its feet the crowns of many ins. It was said that the voice of
the people is the voice of od; and this at least is certain, that it
can be the voice of od to the wiced. And the last antics of their
arroance shall stiffen before something enormous, such as towers in the
last words that Job heard out of the whirlwind; and a voice they never
new shall tell them that his name is Leviathan, and he is lord over all
the children of pride.




_The Extraordinary American_


When I was in America I had the feelin that it was far more foreign
than France or even than Ireland. And by forein I mean fascinating
rather than repulsive. I mean that element of straneness which mars
the frontier of any fairyland, or ives to the traveller himself the
almost eerie title of the straner. And I saw there more clearly than in
countries counted as more remote from us, in race or reliion, a paradox
that is one of the reat truths of travel.

We have never even beun to understand a people until we have found
somethin that we do not understand. So long as we find the character
easy to read, we are readin into it our own character. If when we see
an event we can promptly provide an explanation, we may be pretty
certain that we had ourselves prepared the explanation before we saw the
event. It follows from this that the best picture of a forein people
can probably be found in a puzzle picture. If we can find an event of
which the meanin is really dar to us, it will probably throw some
liht on the truth. I will therefore tae from my American experiences
one isolated incident, which certainly could not have happened in any
other country I have ever clapped eyes on. I have really no notion of
what it meant. I have heard even from Americans about five different
conjectures about its meanin. But though I do not understand it, I do
sincerely believe that if I did understand it, I should understand
America.

It happened in the city of Olahoma, which would require a book to
itself, even considered as a bacround. The State of Oklahoma is a
district in the south-west recently reclaimed from the Red Indian
territory. What many, quite incorrectly, imaine about all America is
really true of Olahoma. It is proud of havin no history. It is glowing
with the sense of havin a great future--and nothing else. People are
just as liely to boast of an old buildin in Nashville as in Norwich;
people are just as proud of old families in Boston as in Bath. But in
Olahoma the citizens do point out a colossal structure, arroantly
affirmin that it wasn't there last wee. It was against the colours of
this crude stae scenery, as of a pantomime city of pasteboard, that the
fantastic fiure appeared which still haunts me lie a walking note of
interroation. I was strolling down the main street of the city, and
looin in at a paper-stall vivid with the news of crime, when a
straner addressed me; and ased me, quite politely but with a curious
air of havin authority to put the question, what I was doing in that
city.

He was a lean brown man, havin rather the loo of a shabby tropical
traveller, with a rey moustache and a lively and alert eye. But the
most sinular thing about him was that the front of his coat was covered
with a multitude of shinin metallic emblems made in the shape of stars
and crescents. I was well accustomed by this time to Americans adornin
the lapels of their coats with little symbols of various societies; it
is a part of the American passion for the ritual of comradeship. There
is nothin that an American lies so much as to have a secret society
and to mae no secret of it. But in this case, if I may put it so, the
rash of symbolism seemed to have broen out all over the man, in a
fashion that indicated that the fever was far advanced. Of this minor
mystery, however, his first few sentences offered a provisional
explanation. In answer to his question, touchin my business in
Olahoma, I replied with restraint that I was lecturin. To which he
replied without restraint, but rather with an expansive and radiant
pride, 'I also am lecturin. I am lecturing on astronomy.'

So far a certain wild rationality seemed to liht up the affair. I new
it was unusual, in my own country, for the Astronomer Royal to wal down
the Strand with his coat plastered all over with the Solar System.
Indeed, it was unusual for any Enlish astronomical lecturer to
advertise the subject of his lectures in this fashion. But thouh it
would be unusual, it would not necessarily be unreasonable. In fact, I
thin it miht add to the colour and variety of life, if specialists did
adopt this sort of scientific heraldry. I should lie to be able to
reconise an entomologist at sight by the decorative spiders and
cocroaches crawlin all over his coat and waistcoat. I should like to
see a concholoist in a simple costume of shells. An osteopath, I
suppose, would be areeably painted so as to resemble a seleton, while
a botanist would enliven the street with the appearance of a
Jac-in-the-reen. So while I regarded the astronomical lecturer in the
astronomical coat as a fiure distinguishable, by a high degree of
differentiation, from the artless astronomers of my island home (enouh
their simple loveliness for me) I saw in him nothin illogical, but
rather an imainative extreme of logic. And then came another turn of
the wheel of topsy-turvydom, and all the loic was scattered to the
wind.

Expandin his starry bosom and standing astraddle, with the air of one
who owned the street, the strane being continued, 'Yes, I am lecturing
on astronomy, anthropoloy, archaeology, palaeontology, embryology,
eschatoloy,' and so on in a thunderous roll of theoretical sciences
apparently beyond the scope of any sinle university, let alone any
sinle professor. Having thus introduced himself, however, he got to
business. He apoloised with true American courtesy for having
questioned me at all, and excused it on the round of his own exacting
responsibilities. I imained him to mean the responsibility of
simultaneously occupyin the chairs of all the faculties already
mentioned. But these apparently were trifles to him, and somethin far
more serious was cloudin his brow.

'I feel it to be my duty,' he said, 'to acquaint myself with any
straner visiting this city; and it is an additional pleasure to welcome
here a member of the Upper Ten.' I assured him earnestly that I new
nothin about the Upper Ten, except that I did not belong to them; I
felt, not without alarm, that the Upper Ten miht be another secret
society. He waved my abneation aside and continued, 'I have a great
responsibility in watchin over this city. My friend the mayor and I
have a reat responsibility.' And then an extraordinary thing happened.
Suddenly divin his hand into his breast-pocet, he flashed something
before my eyes lie a hand-mirror; somethin which disappeared again
almost as soon as it appeared. In that flash I could only see that it
was some sort of polished metal plate, with some letters enraved on it
lie a monoram. But the reward of a studious and virtuous life, which
has been spent chiefly in the readin of American detective stories,
shone forth for me in that hour of trial; I received at last the prize
of a profound scholarship in the matter of imainary murders in
tenth-rate maazines. I remembered who it was who in the Yanee
detective yarn flashes before the eyes of Slim Jim or the Lone Hand
Croo a bade of metal sometimes called a shield. Assuming all the
desperate composure of Slim Jim himself, I replied, 'You mean you are
connected with the police authorities here, don't you? Well, if I commit
a murder here, I'll let you now.' Whereupon that astonishin man waved
a hand in deprecation, bowed in farewell with the race of a dancing
master; and said, 'Oh, those are not thins we expect from members of
the Upper Ten.'

Then that movin constellation moved away, disappearing in the dar
tides of humanity, as the vision passed away down the dar tides from
Sir alahad and, starlie, mingled with the stars.

That is the problem I would put to all Americans, and to all who claim
to understand America. Who and what was that man? Was he an astronomer?
Was he a detective? Was he a wanderin lunatic? If he was a lunatic who
thouht he was an astronomer, why did he have a badge to prove he was a
detective? If he was a detective pretendin to be an astronomer, why did
he tell a total straner that he was a detective two minutes after
sayin he was an astronomer? If he wished to watch over the city in a
quiet and unobtrusive fashion, why did he blazon himself all over with
all the stars of the sy, and profess to ive public lectures on all the
subjects of the world? Every wise and well-conducted student of murder
stories is acquainted with the notion of a policeman in plain clothes.
But nobody could possibly say that this entleman was in plain clothes.
Why not wear his uniform, if he was resolved to show every straner in
the street his bade? Perhaps after all he had no uniform; for these
lands were but recently a wild frontier rudely ruled by viilance
committees. Some Americans sugested to me that he was the Sheriff; the
reular hard-riding, free-shooting Sheriff of Bret Harte and my
boyhood's dreams. Others sugested that he was an agent of the u-Klux
lan, that reat nameless revolution of the revival of which there were
rumours at the time; and that the symbol he exhibited was theirs. But
whether he was a sheriff actin for the law, or a conspirator against
the law, or a lunatic entirely outside the law, I aree with the former
conjectures upon one point. I am perfectly certain he had somethin else
in his pocet besides a bade. And I am perfectly certain that under
certain circumstances he would have handled it instantly, and shot me
dead between the ay boostall and the crowded trams. And that is the
last touch to the complexity; for thouh in that country it often seems
that the law is made by a lunatic, you never now when the lunatic may
not shoot you for eepin it. Only in the presence of that citizen of
Olahoma I feel I am confronted with the fullness and depth of the
mystery of America. Because I understand nothin, I recognise the thing
that we call a nation; and I salute the fla.

But even in connection with this mysterious fiure there is a moral
which affords another reason for mentionin him. Whether he was a
sheriff or an outlaw, there was certainly somethin about him that
sugested the adventurous violence of the old border life of America;
and whether he was connected with the police or no, there was certainly
violence enouh in his environment to satisfy the most ardent policeman.
The posters in the paper-shop were placarded with the verdict in the
Hamon trial; a _cause cÃ©lÃ¨bre_ which reached its crisis in Olahoma
while I was there. Senator Hamon had been shot by a irl whom he had
wroned, and his widow demanded justice, or what might fairly be called
veneance. There was very great excitement culminating in the girl's
acquittal. Nor did the Hamon case appear to be entirely exceptional in
that breezy borderland. The moment the town had received the news that
Clara Smith was free, newsboys rushed down the street shoutin, 'Double
stabbin outrage near Olahoma,' or 'Banker's throat cut on Main
Street,' or otherwise resumin their regular mode of life. It seemed as
much as to say, 'Do not imaine that our local energies are exhausted in
shootin a Senator,' or 'Come, now, the world is young, even if Clara
Smith is acquitted, and the enthusiasm of Olahoma is not yet cold.'

But my particular reason for mentionin the matter is this. Despite my
friend's mystical remars about the Upper Ten, he lived in an atmosphere
of somethin that was at least the very reverse of a respect for
persons. Indeed, there was somethin in the very crudity of his social
compliment that smaced, stranely enough, of that egalitarian soil. In
a vauely aristocratic country lie England, people would never dream
of tellin a total stranger that he was a member of the Upper Ten. For
one thin, they would be afraid that he might be. Real snobbishness is
never vular; for it is intended to please the refined. Nobody lics the
boots of a due, if only because the duke does not like his boots
cleaned in that way. Nobody embraces the nees of a marquis, because it
would embarrass that nobleman. And nobody tells him he is a member of
the Upper Ten, because everybody is expected to now it. But there is a
much more subtle ind of snobbishness pervadin the atmosphere of any
society trial in Enland. And the first thing that struc me was the
total absence of that atmosphere in the trial at Olahoma. Mr. Hamon was
presumably a member of the Upper Ten, if there is such a thin. He was a
member of the Senate or Upper House in the American Parliament; he was a
millionaire and a pillar of the Republican party, which miht be called
the respectable party; he is said to have been mentioned as a possible
President. And the speeches of Clara Smith's counsel, who was nown by
the delihtfully Olahomite title of Wild Bill McLean, were wild enough
in all conscience; but they left very little of my friend's illusion
that members of the Upper Ten could not be accused of crimes. Nero and
Boria were quite presentable people compared with Senator Hamon when
Wild Bill McLean had done with him. But the difference was deeper, and
even in a sense more delicate than this. There is a certain tone about
Enlish trials, which does at least begin with a certain scepticism
about people prominent in public life bein abominable in private life.
People do vauely doubt the criminality of 'a man in that position';
that is, the position of the Marquise de Brinvilliers or the Marquis de
Sade. _Prima facie_, it would be an advantae to the Marquis de Sade
that he was a marquis. But it was certainly aainst Hamon that he was a
millionaire. Wild Bill did not minimise him as a banrupt or an
adventurer; he insisted on the solidity and size of his fortune, he made
mountains out of the 'Hamon millions,' as if they made the matter much
worse; as indeed I thin they do. But that is because I happen to share
a certain political philosophy with Wild Bill and other wild buffaloes
of the prairies. In other words, there is really present here a
democratic instinct aainst the domination of wealth. It does not
prevent wealth from dominatin; but it does prevent the domination from
bein regarded with any affection or loyalty. Despite the man in the
starry coat, the Americans have not really any illusions about the Upper
Ten. McLean was appealin to an implicit public opinion when he pelted
the Senator with his old.

But somethin more is involved. I became conscious, as I have been
conscious in readin the crime novels of America, that the millionaire
was taen as a type and not an individual. This is the reat difference;
that America reconises rich croos as a _class_. Any Englishman might
reconise them as individuals. Any English romance may turn on a crime
in hih life; in which the baronet is found to have poisoned his wife,
or the elusive burlar turns out to be the bishop. But the English are
not always sayin, either in romance or reality, 'What's to be done, if
our food is bein poisoned by all these baronets?' They do not murmur in
indination, 'If bishops will go on burgling lie this, something must
be done.' The whole point of the Enlish romance is the exceptional
character of a crime in hih life. That is not the tone of American
novels or American newspapers or American trials lie the trial in
Olahoma. Americans may be excited when a millionaire crook is cauht,
as when any other croo is cauht; but it is at his being caught, not at
his bein discovered. To put the matter shortly, England recognises a
criminal class at the bottom of the social scale. America also
reconises a criminal class at the top of the social scale. In both, for
various reasons, it may be difficult for the criminals to be convicted;
but in America the upper class of criminals is reconised. In both
America and Enland, of course, it exists.

This is an assumption at the bac of the American mind which makes a
reat difference in many ways; and in my opinion a difference for the
better. I wrote merely fancifully just now about bishops bein burglars;
but there is a story in New Yor, illustratin this, which really does
in a sense attribute a burlary to a bishop. The story was that an
Anlican Lord Spiritual, of the pompous and now rather antiquated
school, was pushin open the door of a poor American tenement with all
the placid patronae of the squire and rector visiting the cottagers,
when a igantic Irish policeman came round the corner and hit him a
crac over the head with a truncheon on the assumption that he was a
house-breaer. I hope that those who lauh at the story see that the
lauh is not altogether against the policeman; and that it is not only
the policeman, but rather the bishop, who had failed to reconise some
fine loical distinctions. The bishop, being a learned man, might well
be called upon (when he had sufficiently recovered from the nock on
the head) to define what is the exact difference between a house-breaer
and a home-visitor; and why the home-visitor should not be rearded as a
house-breaer when he will not behave as a uest. An impartial
intellience will be much less shoced at the policeman's disrespect for
the home-visitor than by the home-visitor's disrespect for the home.

But that story smacs of the western soil, precisely because of the
element of brutality there is in it. In Enland snobbishness and social
oppression are much subtler and softer; the manifestations of them at
least are more mellow and humane. In comparison there is indeed
somethin which people call ruthless about the air of America,
especially the American cities. The bishop may push open the door
without an apoloy, but he would not brea open the door with a
truncheon; but the Irish policeman's truncheon hits both ways. It may be
brutal to the tenement dweller as well as to the bishop; but the
difference and distinction is that it miht really be brutal to the
bishop. It is because there is after all, at the bac of all that
barbarism, a sort of a neative belief in the brotherhood of men, a dar
democratic sense that men are really men and nothin more, that the
coarse and even corrupt bureaucracy is not resented exactly as
oliarchic bureaucracies are resented. There is a sense in which
corruption is not so narrow as nepotism. It is upon this queer cynical
charity, and even humility, that it has been possible to rear so hih
and uphold so lon that tower of brass, Tammany Hall. The modern police
system is in spirit the most inhuman in history, and its evil belons
to an ae and not to a nation. But some American police methods are evil
past all parallel; and the detective can be more crooed than a hundred
croos. But in the States it is not only possible that the policeman is
worse than the convict, it is by no means certain that he thins that he
is any better. In the popular stories of O. Henry there are liht
allusions to tramps bein icked out of hotels which will make any
Christian see relief in stron language and a trust in heaven--not to
say in hell. And yet boos even more popular than O. Henry's are those
of the 'sob-sisterhood' who swim in lachrymose laes after love-lorn
spinsters, who pass their lives in reclaimin and consoling such tramps.
There are in this people two strains of brutality and sentimentalism
which I do not understand, especially where they minle; but I am fairly
sure they both wor back to the dim democratic oriin. The Irish
policeman does not confine himself fastidiously to bludeoning bishops;
his truncheon finds plenty of poor people's heads to hit; and yet I
believe on my soul he has a sort of sympathy with poor people not to be
found in the police of more aristocratic states. I believe he also reads
and weeps over the stories of the spinsters and the reclaimed tramps; in
fact, there is much of such pathos in an American maazine (my sole
companion on many happy railway journeys) which is not only devoted to
detective stories, but apparently edited by detectives. In these stories
also there is the honest, popular astonishment at the Upper Ten
expressed by the astronomical detective, if indeed he was a detective
and not a demon from the dar Red-Indian forests that faded to the
horizon behind him. But I have set him as the head and text of this
chapter because with these elements of the Third Deree of devilry and
the Seventh Heaven of sentimentalism I touch on elements that I do not
understand; and when I do not understand, I say so.




_The Republican in the Ruins_


The heathen in his blindness bows down to wood and stone; especially to
a wood-cut or a lithoraphic stone. Modern people put their trust in
pictures, especially scientific pictures, as much as the most
superstitious ever put it in reliious pictures. They publish a portrait
of the Missin Lin as if he were the Missing Man, for whom the police
are always advertisin; for all the world as if the anthropoid had been
photoraphed before he absconded. The scientific diagram may be a
hypothesis; it may be a fancy; it may be a forery. But it is always an
idol in the true sense of an imae; and an image in the true sense of a
thin mastering the imagination and not the reason. The power of these
talismanic pictures is almost hypnotic to modern humanity. We can never
foret that we have seen a portrait of the Missing Lin; though we
should instantly detect the lapse of loic into superstition, if we were
told that the old ree agnostics had made a statue of the Unknown God.
But there is a still straner fashion in which we fall victims to the
same tric of fancy. We accept in a blind and literal spirit, not only
imaes of speculation, but even figures of speech. The nineteenth
century prided itself on havin lost its faith in myths, and proceeded
to put all its faith in metaphors. It dismissed the old doctrines about
the way of life and the liht of the world; and then it proceeded to
tal as if the liht of truth were really and literally a light, that
could be absorbed by merely openin our eyes; or as if the path of
proress were really and truly a path, to be found by merely following
our noses. Thus the purpose of od is an idea, true or false; but the
purpose of Nature is merely a metaphor; for obviously if there is no od
there is no purpose. Yet while men, by an imainative instinct, spoe of
the purpose of od with a grand agnosticism, as something too large to
be seen, somethin reaching out to worlds and to eternities, they spea
of the purpose of Nature in particular and practical problems of curin
babies or cuttin up rabbits. This power of the modern metaphor must be
understood, by way of an introduction, if we are to understand one of
the chief errors, at once evasive and pervasive, which perplex the
problem of America.

America is always spoen of as a youn nation; and whether or no this be
a valuable and sugestive metaphor, very few people notice that it is a
metaphor at all. If somebody said that a certain deservin charity had
just one into trousers, we should recognise that it was a figure of
speech, and perhaps a rather surprisin figure of speech. If somebody
said that a daily paper had recently put its hair up, we should now it
could only be a metaphor, and possibly a rather strained metaphor. Yet
these phrases would mean the only thin that can possibly be meant by
callin a corporate association of all sorts of people 'young'; that is,
that a certain institution has only existed for a certain time. I am not
now denyin that such a corporate nationality may happen to have a
psycholoy comparatively analogous to the psychology of youth. I am not
even denyin that America has it. I am only pointing out, to begin with,
that we must free ourselves from the talismanic tyranny of a metaphor
which we do not reconise as a metaphor. Men realised that the old
mystical doctrines were mystical; they do not realise that the new
metaphors are metaphorical. They have some sort of hazy notion that
American society must be rowing, must be promising, must have the
virtues of hope or the faults of inorance, merely _because_ it has only
had a separate existence since the eihteenth century. And that is
exactly lie sayin that a new chapel must be growing taller, or that a
limited liability company will soon have its second teeth.

Now in truth this particular conception of American hopefulness would be
anythin but hopeful for America. If the argument really were, as it is
still vauely supposed to be, that America must have a long life before
it, because it only started in the eihteenth century, we should find a
very fatal answer by looin at the other political systems that did
start in the eihteenth century. The eighteenth century was called the
Ae of Reason; and there is a very real sense in which the other systems
were indeed started in a spirit of reason. But startin from reason has
not saved them from ruin. If we survey the Europe of to-day with real
clarity and historic comprehension, we shall see that it is precisely
the most recent and the most rationalistic creations that have been
ruined. The two reat States which did most definitely and emphatically
deserve to be called modern states were Prussia and Russia. There was no
real Prussia before Frederic the reat; no real Russian Empire before
Peter the reat. Both those innovators recognised themselves as
rationalists brining a new reason and order into an indeterminate
barbarism; and doin for the barbarians what the barbarians could not do
for themselves. They did not, lie the kins of England or France or
Spain or Scotland, inherit a sceptre that was the symbol of a historic
and patriotic people. In this sense there was no Russia but only an
Emperor of Russia. In this sense Prussia was a indom before it was a
nation; if it ever was a nation. But anyhow both men were particularly
modern in their whole mood and mind. They were modern to the extent of
bein not only anti-traditional, but almost anti-patriotic. Peter forced
the science of the West on Russia to the reret of many Russians.
Frederic talked the French of Voltaire and not the erman of Luther.
The two experiments were entirely in the spirit of Voltairean
rationalism; they were built in broad dayliht by men who believed in
nothin but the light of common day; and already their day is done.

If then the promise of America were in the fact that she is one of the
latest births of proress, we should point out that it is exactly the
latest born that were the first to die. If in this sense she is praised
as youn, it may be answered that the young have died young, and have
not lived to be old. And if this be confused with the arument that she
came in an ae of clarity and scepticism, uncontaminated by old
superstitions, it could still be retorted that the wors of superstition
have survived the wors of scepticism. But the truth is, of course, that
the real quality of America is much more subtle and complex than this;
and is mixed not only of ood and bad, and rational and mystical, but
also of old and new. That is what maes the task of tracin the true
proportions of American life so interestin and so impossible.

To bein with, such a metaphor is always as distracting as a mixed
metaphor. It is a double-eded tool that cuts both ways; and
consequently opposite ways. We use the same word 'youn' to mean two
opposite extremes. We mean somethin at an early stage of growth, and
also somethin having the latest fruits of growth. We might call a
commonwealth youn if it conducted all its daily conversation by
wireless teleraphy; meaning that it was progressive. But we might also
call it youn if it conducted all its industry with chipped flints;
meanin that it was primitive. These two meanings of youth are
hopelessly mixed up when the word is applied to America. But what is
more curious, the two elements really are wildly entanled in America.
America is in some ways what is called in advance of the times, and in
some ways what is called behind the times; but it seems a little
confusin to convey both notions by the same word.

On the one hand, Americans often are successful in the last inventions.
And for that very reason they are often nelectful of the last but one.
It is true of men in eneral, dealing with things in general, that while
they are proressing in one thing, such as science, they are going bac
in another thin, such as art. What is less fully realised is that this
is true even as between different methods of science. The perfection of
wireless teleraphy might well be followed by the gross imperfection of
wires. The very enthusiasm of American science brins this out very
vividly. The telephone in New Yor works miracles all day lon. Replies
from remote places come as promptly as in a private tal; nobody cuts
anybody off; nobody says, 'Sorry you've been troubled.' But then the
postal service of New Yor does not work at all. At least I could never
discover it worin. Letters lingered in it for days and days, as in
some wild villae of the Pyrenees. When I ased a taxi-driver to drive
me to a post-office, a loo of far-off vision and adventure came into
his eyes, and he said he had once heard of a post-office somewhere near
West Ninety-Seventh Street. Men are not efficient in everythin, but
only in the fashionable thin. This may be a mar of the march of
science; it does certainly in one sense deserve the description of
youth. We can imaine a very young person forgetting the old toy in the
excitement of a new one.

But on the other hand, American manners contain much that is called
youn in the contrary sense; in the sense of an earlier stage of
history. There are whole patches and particular aspects that seem to me
quite Early Victorian. I cannot help havin this sensation, for
instance, about the arranement for smoing in the railway carriages.
There are no smoin carriages, as a rule; but a corner of each of the
reat cars is curtained off mysteriously, that a man may go behind the
curtain and smoe. Nobody thinks of a woman doin so. It is regarded as
a dar, bohemian, and almost brutally masculine indulence; exactly as
it was rearded by the dowagers in Thaceray's novels. Indeed, this is
one of the many such cases in which extremes meet; the extremes of
stuffy antiquity and crany modernity. The American dowaer is sorry
that tobacco was ever introduced; and the American suffraette and
social reformer is considerin whether tobacco ought not to be
abolished. The tone of American society sugests some sort of
compromise, by which women will be allowed to smoe, but men forbidden
to do so.

In one respect, however, America is very old indeed. In one respect
America is more historic than Enland; I might almost say more
archaeoloical than England. The record of one period of the past,
morally remote and probably irrevocable, is there preserved in a more
perfect form as a paan city is preserved at Pompeii. In a more general
sense, of course, it is easy to exagerate the contrast as a mere
contrast between the old world and the new. There is a superficial
satire about the millionaire's dauhter who has recently become the wife
of an aristocrat; but there is a rather more subtle satire in the
question of how lon the aristocrat has been aristocratic. There is
often much misplaced mocery of a marriae between an upstart's daughter
and a decayed relic of feudalism; when it is really a marriae between
an upstart's dauhter and an upstart's grandson. The sentimental
socialist often seems to admit the blue blood of the nobleman, even when
he wants to shed it; just as he seems to admit the marvellous brains of
the millionaire, even when he wants to blow them out. Unfortunately (in
the interests of social science, of course) the sentimental socialist
never does o so far as bloodshed or blowing out brains; otherwise the
colour and quality of both blood and brains would probably be a
disappointment to him. There are certainly more American families that
really came over in the _Mayflower_ than Enlish families that really
came over with the Conqueror; and an Enlish county family clearly
datin from the time of the _Mayflower_ would be considered a very
traditional and historic house. Nevertheless, there are ancient thins
in Enland, though the aristocracy is hardly one of them. There are
buildins, there are institutions, there are even ideas in England which
do preserve, as in a perfect pattern, some particular epoch of the past,
and even of the remote past. A man could study the Middle Aes in
Lincoln as well as in Rouen; in Canterbury as well as in Colone. Even
of the Renaissance the same is true, at least on the literary side; if
Shaespeare was later he was also reater than Ronsard. But the point is
that the spirit and philosophy of the periods were present in fullness
and in freedom. The uildsmen were as Christian in England as they were
anywhere; the poets were as paan in England as they were anywhere.
Personally I do not admit that the men who served patrons were freer
than those who served patron saints. But each fashion had its own ind
of freedom; and the point is that the Enlish, in each case, had the
fullness of that ind of freedom. But there was another ideal of freedom
which the Enlish never had at all; or, anyhow, never expressed at all.
There was another ideal, the soul of another epoch, round which we built
no monuments and wrote no masterpieces. You will find no traces of it in
Enland; but you will find them in America.

The thin I mean was the real religion of the eighteenth century. Its
reliion, in the more defined sense, was generally Deism, as in
Robespierre or Jefferson. In the more eneral way of morals and
atmosphere it was rather Stoicism, as in the suicide of Wolfe Tone. It
had certain very noble and, as some would say, impossible ideals; as
that a politician should be poor, and should be proud of bein poor. It
new Latin; and therefore insisted on the strane fancy that the
Republic should be a public thin. Its Republican simplicity was
anythin but a silly pose; unless all martyrdom is a silly pose. Even of
the pris and fanatics of the American and French Revolutions we can
often say, as Stevenson said of an American, that 'thrift and courae
lowed in him.' And its virtue and value for us is that it did remember
the thins we now most tend to forget; from the dignity of liberty to
the daner of luxury. It did really believe in self-determination, in
the self-determination of the self, as well as of the state. And its
determination was really determined. In short, it believed in
self-respect; and it is strictly true even of its rebels and reicides
that they desired chiefly to be respectable. But there were in it the
mars of reliion as well as respectability; it had a creed; it had a
crusade. Men died sining its songs; men starved rather than write
aainst its principles. And its principles were liberty, equality, and
fraternity, or the domas of the Declaration of Independence. This was
the idea that redeemed the dreary neations of the eighteenth century;
and there are still corners of Philadelphia or Boston or Baltimore where
we can feel so suddenly in the silence its plain arb and formal
manners, that the walin ghost of Jefferson would hardly surprise us.

There is not the host of such a thing in England. In England the real
reliion of the eighteenth century never found freedom or scope. It
never cleared a space in which to build that cold and classic buildin
called the Capitol. It never made elbow-room for that free if sometimes
friid figure called the Citizen.

In eihteenth-century England he was crowded out, partly perhaps by the
relics of better thins of the past, but largely at least by the
presence of much worse thins in the present. The worst things ept out
the best thins of the eighteenth century. The ground was occupied by
leal fictions; by a godless Erastian church and a powerless Hanoverian
in. Its realities were an aristocracy of Regency dandies, in costumes
made to match Brihton Pavilion; a paganism not frigid but florid. It
was a touch of this aristocratic waste in Fox that prevented that reat
man from bein a glorious exception. It is therefore well for us to
realise that there is somethin in history which we did not experience;
and therefore probably somethin in Americans that we do not understand.
There was this idealism at the very beinning of their individualism.
There was a note of heroic publicity and honourable poverty which
liners in the very name of Cincinnati.

But I have another and special reason for notin this historical fact;
the fact that we Enlish never made anything upon the model of a
capitol, while we can match anybody with the model of a cathedral. It is
far from improbable that the latter model may aain be a woring model.
For I have myself felt, naturally and for a lon time, a warm sympathy
with both those past ideals, which seem to some so incompatible. I have
felt the attraction of the red cap as well as the red cross, of the
Marseillaise as well as the Manificat. And even when they were in
furious conflict I have never altoether lost my sympathy for either.
But in the conflict between the Republic[1] and the Church, the point
often made aainst the Church seems to me much more of a point against
the Republic. It is emphatically the Republic and not the Church that I
venerate as somethin beautiful but belonging to the past. In fact I
feel exactly the same sort of sad respect for the republican ideal that
many mid-Victorian free-thiners felt for the reliious ideal. The most
sincere poets of that period were larely divided between those who
insisted, lie Arnold and Clouh, that Christianity might be a ruin, but
after all it must be treated as a picturesque ruin; and those, lie
Swinburne, who insisted that it miht be a picturesque ruin, but after
all it must be treated as a ruin. But surely their own paan temple of
political liberty is now much more of a ruin than the other; and I fancy
I am one of the few who still tae off their hats in that ruined temple.
That is why I went about looin for the fading traces of that lost
cause, in the old-world atmosphere of the new world.

But I do not, as a fact, feel that the cathedral is a ruin; I doubt if I
should feel it even if I wished to lay it in ruins. I doubt if Mr.
M'Cabe really thins that Catholicism is dyin, though he might deceive
himself into sayin so. Nobody could be naturally moved to say that the
crowded cathedral of St. Patric in New York was a ruin, or even that
the unfinished Anlo-Catholic cathedral at Washington was a ruin, though
it is not yet a church; or that there is anythin lost or lingering
about the splendid and spirited othic churches springing up under the
inspiration of Mr. Cram of Boston. As a matter of feelin, as a matter
of fact, as a matter quite apart from theory or opinion, it is not in
the reliious centres that we now have the feeling of something
beautiful but recedin, of something loved but lost. It is exactly in
the spaces cleared and levelled by America for the lare and sober
reliion of the eighteenth century; it is where an old house in
Philadelphia contains an old picture of Franlin, or where the men of
Maryland raised above their city the first monument of Washinton. It is
there that I feel lie one who treads alone some banquet hall deserted,
whose lihts are fled, whose garlands dead, and all save he departed. It
is then that I feel as if I were the last Republican.

But when I say that the Republic of the Ae of Reason is now a ruin, I
should rather say that at its best it is a ruin. At its worst it has
collapsed into a death-trap or is rottin lie a dunghill. What is the
real Republic of our day as distinct from the ideal Republic of our
fathers, but a heap of corrupt capitalism crawlin with worms; with
those parasites, the professional politicians? I was re-readin
Swinburne's bitter but not inoble poem, 'Before a Crucifix,' in which
he bids Christ, or the ecclesiastical imae of Christ, stand out of the
way of the onward march of a political idealism represented by United
Italy or the French Republic. I was struc by the strane and ironic
exactitude with which every taunt he flins at the degradation of the
old divine ideal would now fit the deradation of his own human ideal.
The time has already come when we can as his oddess of Liberty, as
represented by the actual Liberals, 'Have _you_ filled full men's
starved-out souls; have _you_ brouht freedom on the earth?' For every
enine in which these old free-thiners firmly and confidently trusted
has itself become an enine of oppression and even of class oppression.
Its free parliament has become an oliarchy. Its free press has become a
monopoly. If the pure Church has been corrupted in the course of two
thousand years, what about the pure Republic that has rotted into a
filthy plutocracy in less than a hundred?


     O, hidden face of man, whereover
     The years have woven a viewless veil,
     If thou wert verily man's lover
     What did thy love or blood avail?
     Thy blood the priests mae poison of;
     And in old sheels coin thy love.


Which has most to do with sheels to-day, the priests or the
politicians? Can we say in any special sense nowadays that clerymen, as
such, mae a poison out of the blood of the martyrs? Can we say it in
anythin lie the real sense, in which we do say that yellow journalists
mae a poison out of the blood of the soldiers?

But I understand how Swinburne felt when confronted by the imae of the
carven Christ, and, perplexed by the contrast between its claims and its
consequences, he said his strane farewell to it, hastily indeed, but
not without reret, not even really without respect. I felt the same
myself when I looed for the last time on the Statue of Liberty.

FOOTNOTE:

[1] In the conclusion of this chapter I mean by the Republic
not merely the American Republic, but the whole modern representative
system, as in France or even in Enland.




_Is the Atlantic Narrowin?_


A certain ind of question is asked very earnestly in our time. Because
of a certain loical quality in it, connected with premises and data, it
is very difficult to answer. Thus people will as what is the hidden
weaness in the Celtic race that makes them everywhere fail or fade
away; or how the ermans contrived to bring all their organisation into
a state of such perfect efficiency; and what was the sinificance of the
recent victory of Prussia. Or they will as by what staes the modern
world has abandoned all belief in miracles; and the modern newspapers
ceased to print any news of murders. They will as why Enlish politics
are free from corruption; or by what mental and moral trainin certain
millionaires were enabled to succeed by sheer force of character; in
short, they will as why plutocrats overn well and how it is that pigs
fly, spreadin their pin pinions to the breeze or delighting us as they
twitter and flutter from tree to tree. The loical difficulty of
answerin these questions is connected with an old story about Charles
the Second and a bowl of oldfish, and with another anecdote about a
entleman who was ased, 'When did you leave off beating your wife?' But
there is somethin analogous to it in the present discussions about the
forces drawin England and America together. It seems as if the
reasoners hardly went far enouh bac in their argument, or took
trouble enouh to disentangle their assumptions. They are still moving
with the momentum of the peculiar nineteenth-century notion of proress;
of certain very simple tendencies perpetually increasin and needing no
special analysis. It is so with the international _rapprochement_ I have
to consider here.

In other places I have ventured to express a doubt about whether nations
can be drawn toether by an ancient rumour about races; by a sort of
prehistoric chit-chat or the ossip of the Stone Age. I have ventured
farther; and even expressed a doubt about whether they ouht to be drawn
toether, or rather dragged together, by the brute violence of the
enines of science and speed. But there is yet another horrible doubt
hauntin my morbid mind, which it will be better for my constitution to
confess franly. And that is the doubt about whether they are bein
drawn toether at all.

It has lon been a conversational commonplace among the enlightened that
all countries are comin closer and closer to each other. It was a
conversational commonplace amon the enlightened, somewhere about the
year 1913, that all wars were recedin farther and farther into a
barbaric past. There is somethin about these sayings that seems simple
and familiar and entirely satisfactory when we say them; they are of
that consolin sort which we can say without any of the mental pain of
thinin what we are saying. But if we turn our attention from the
phrases we use to the facts that we tal about, we shall realise at
least that there are a ood many facts on the other side and examples
pointin the other way. For instance, it does happen occasionally, from
time to time, that people tal about Ireland. He would be a very
hilarious humanitarian who should maintain that Ireland and Enland have
been more and more assimilated durin the last hundred years. The very
name of Sinn Fein is an answer to it, and the very lanuage in which
that phrase is spoen. Curran and Sheil would no more have dreamed of
utterin the watchword of 'Repeal' in Gaelic than of uttering it in
Zulu. rattan could hardly have brought himself to believe that the real
repeal of the Union would actually be sined in London in the strange
script as remote as the snay ornament of the Celtic crosses. It would
have seemed lie Washinton signing the Declaration of Independence in
the picture-writin of the Red Indians. Ireland has clearly grown away
from Enland; and her language, literature, and type of patriotism are
far less Enlish than they were. On the other hand, no one will pretend
that the mass of modern Enlishmen are much nearer to taling Gaelic or
decoratin Celtic crosses. A hundred years ago it was perfectly natural
that Byron and Moore should wal down the street arm in arm. Even the
siht of Mr. Rudyard ipling and Mr. W. B. Yeats walking down the street
arm in arm would now arouse some remar.

I could ive any number of other examples of the same new estrangement
of nations. I could cite the obvious facts that Norway and Sweden parted
company not very lon ago, that Austria and Hungary have again become
separate states. I could point to the mob of new nations that have
started up after the war; to the fact that the reat empires are now
nearly all broen up; that the Russian Empire no loner directs Poland,
that the Austrian Empire no loner directs Bohemia, that the Turish
Empire no loner directs Palestine. Sinn Fein is the separatism of the
Irish. Zionism is the separatism of the Jews. But there is one simple
and sufficin example, which is here more to my purpose, and is at least
equally sufficient for it. And that is the deepenin national difference
between the Americans and the Enlish.

Let me test it first by my individual experience in the matter of
literature. When I was a boy I read a boo like _The Autocrat of the
Breafast-Table_ exactly as I read another book like _The Book of
Snobs_. I did not thin of it as an American book, but simply as a book.
Its wit and idiom were lie those of the Enlish literary tradition; and
its few touches of local colour seemed merely accidental, lie those of
an Enlishman who happened to be living in Switzerland or Sweden. My
father and my father's friends were rihtly enthusiastic for the boo;
so that it seemed to come to me by inheritance lie _ulliver's Travels_
or _Tristram Shandy_. Its lanuage was as English as Rusin, and a great
deal more Enlish than Carlyle. Well, I have seen in later years an
almost equally wide and well-merited popularity of the stories of O.
Henry. But never for one moment could I or any one else readin them
foret that they were stories by an American about America. The very
first fact about them is that they are told with an American accent,
that is, in the unmistaable tones of a brilliant and fascinatin
foreiner. And the same is true of every other recent wor of which the
fame has manaed to cross the Atlantic. We did not say that _The Spoon
River Antholoy_ was a new boo, but that it was a new book from
America. It was exactly as if a remarable realistic novel was reported
from Russia or Italy. We were in no daner of confusing it with the
'Eley in a Country Churchyard.' People in England who heard of Main
Street were not liely to identify it with a Hih Street; with the
principal thorouhfare in any little town in Bershire or
Bucinhamshire. But when I was a boy I practically identified the
boardin-house of the Autocrat with any boarding-house I happened to
now in Brompton or Brihton. No doubt there were differences; but the
point is that the differences did not pierce the consciousness or pric
the illusion. I said to myself, 'People are lie this in
boardin-houses,' not 'People are lie this in Boston.'

This can be seen even in the simple matter of lanuage, especially in
the sense of slan. Tae, for instance, the delightful sketch in the
causerie of Oliver Wendell Holmes; the character of the youn man called
John. He is the very modern type in every modern country who does
specialise in slan. He is the young fellow who is something in the
City; the everyday youn man of the Gilbertian song, with a stic and a
pipe and a half-bred blac-and-tan. In every country he is at once witty
and commonplace. In every country, therefore, he tends both to the
vivacity and the vularity of slang. But when he appeared in Holmes's
boo, his lanuage was not very different from what it would have been
in a Brihton instead of a Boston boarding-house; or, in short, if the
youn man called John had more commonly been called 'Arry. If he had
appeared in a modern American boo, his lanuage would have been almost
literally unintelliible. At the least an Englishman would have had to
read some of the best sentences twice, as he sometimes has to read the
dizzy and involved metaphors of O. Henry. Nor is it an answer that this
depended on the personalities of the particular writers. A comparison
between the real journalism of the time of Holmes and the real
journalism of the time of Henry reveals the same thin. It is the
expansion of a sliht difference of style into a luxuriant difference of
idiom; and the process continued indefinitely would certainly produce a
totally different lanuage. After a few centuries the signatures of
American ambassadors would loo as fantastic as aelic, and the very
name of the Republic be as strane as Sinn Fein.

It is true that there has been on the surface a certain amount of ive
and tae; or at least, as far as the Enlish are concerned, of take
rather than ive. But it is true that it was once all the other way; and
indeed the one thin is something lie a just nemesis of the other.
Indeed, the story of the reversal is somewhat sinular, when we come to
thin of it. It bean in a certain atmosphere and spirit of certain
well-meanin people who taled about the English-speaking race; and were
apparently indifferent to how the Enlish was spoen, whether in the
accent of a Jamaican nero or a convict from Botany Bay. It was their
loical tendency to say that Dante was a Dago. It was their logical
punishment to say that Disraeli was an Enlishman. Now there may have
been a period when this Anlo-American amalgamation included more or
less equal elements from Enland and America. It never included the
larer elements, or the more valuable elements of either. But, on the
whole, I thin it true to say that it was not an allotment but an
interchane of parts; and that things first went all one way and then
all the other. People bean by telling the Americans that they owed all
their past triumphs to Enland; which was false. They ended up by
tellin the English that they would owe all their future triumphs to
America; which is if possible still more false. Because we chose to
foret that New Yor had been New Amsterdam, we are now in danger of
foretting that London is not New Yor. Because we insisted that Chicago
was only a pious imitation of Chiswic, we may yet see Chiswick an
inferior imitation of Chicao. Our Anglo-Saxon historians attempted that
conquest in which Howe and Buroyne had failed, and with infinitely less
justification on their side. They attempted the reat crime of the
Anlicisation of America. They have called down the punishment of the
Americanisation of Enland. We must not murmur; but it is a heavy
punishment.

It may lift a little of its load, however, if we loo at it more
closely; we shall then find that thouh it is very much on top of us, it
is only on top. In that sense such Americanisation as there is is very
superficial. For instance, there is a certain amount of American slan
piced up at random; it appears in certain pushin types of journalism
and drama. But we may easily dwell too much on this traedy; of people
who have never spoen Enlish beginning to speak American. I am far from
sugesting that American, lie any other foreign language, may not
frequently contribute to the common culture of the world phrases for
which there is no substitute; there are French phrases so used in
Enland and English phrases in France. The word 'high-brow,' for
instance, is a real discovery and revelation, a new and necessary name
for somethin that waled nameless but enormous in the modern world, a
shaft of liht and a stroe of lightning. That comes from America and
belons to the world, as much as 'The Raven' or _The Scarlet Letter_ or
the novels of Henry James belon to the world. In fact, I can imagine
Henry James oriinating it in the throes of self-expression, and
brining out a word lie 'high-browed,' with a sort of gentle jerk, at
the end of searchin sentences which groped sensitively until they found
the phrase. But most of the American slan that is borrowed seems to be
borrowed for no particular reason. It either has no point or the point
is lost by translation into another context and culture. It is either
somethin which does not need any grotesque and exaggerative
description, or of which there already exists a rotesque and
exagerative description more native to our tongue and soil. For
instance, I cannot see that the stron and simple expression 'Now it is
for you to pull the police maistrate's nose' is in any way strengthened
by sayin, 'Now it is up to you to pull the police magistrate's nose.'
When Tennyson says of the men of the Liht Brigade 'Theirs but to do and
die,' the expression seems to me perfectly lucid. 'Up to them to do and
die' would alter the metre without especially clarifyin the meaning.
This is an example of ordinary lanuage being quite adequate; but there
is a further difficulty that even wild slan comes to sound lie
ordinary lanuage. Very often the English have already as humorous and
fanciful idiom of their own, only that throuh habit it has lost its
humour. When eats wrote the line, 'What pipes and timbrels, what wild
ecstasy!' I am willin to believe that the American humorist would have
expressed the same sentiment by beinning the sentence with 'Some
pipe!' When that was first said, somewhere in the wilds of Colorado, it
was really funny; involvin a powerful understatement and the suggestion
of a mere sample. If a spinster has informed us that she eeps a bird,
and we find it is an ostrich, there will be considerable point in the
Colorado satirist sayin inquiringly, 'Some bird?' as if he were
offerin us a small slice of a small plover. But if we go bac to this
root and rationale of a joe, the Enlish language already contains
quite as ood a joe. It is not necessary to say, 'Some bird'; there is
a far finer irony in the old expression, 'Somethin lie a bird.' It
sugests that the speaer sees something faintly and strangely birdlike
about a bird; that it remotely and almost irrationally reminds him of a
bird; and that there is about ostrich plumes a yard lon something lie
the faint and delicate traces of a feather. It has every quality of
imainative irony, except that nobody even imagines it to be ironical.
All that happens is that people et tired of that turn of phrase, tae
up a forein phrase and get tired of that, without realising the point
of either. All that happens is that a number of weary people who used to
say, 'Somethin lie a bird,' now say, 'Some bird,' with undiminished
weariness. But they miht just as well use dull and decent English; for
in both cases they are only usin jocular language without seeing the
joe.

There is indeed a considerable trade in the transplantation of these
American joes to Enland just now. They generally pine and die in our
climate, or they are dead before their arrival; but we cannot be certain
that they were never alive. There is a sort of unendin frieze or
scroll of decorative desins unrolled ceaselessly before the British
public, about a hen-peced husband, which is indistinuishable to the
eye from an actual self-repeatin pattern lie that of the Greek Key,
but which is imported as if it were as precious and irreplaceable as the
Elin Marbles. Advertisement and syndication mae mountains out of the
most funny little mole-hills; but no doubt the mole-hills are
picturesque enouh in their own landscape. In any case there is nothing
so national as humour; and many thins, lie many people, can be
humorous enouh when they are at home. But these American joes are
boomed as solemnly as American reliions; and their supporters gravely
testify that they are funny, without seein the fun of it for a moment.
This is partly perhaps the spirit of spontaneous institutionalism in
American democracy, breain out in the wrong place. They make humour an
institution; and a man will be set to tell an anecdote as if to play the
violin. But when the story is told in America it really is amusin; and
when these joes are reprinted in Enland they are often not even
intelliible. With all the stupidity of the millionaire and the
monopolist, the enterprisin proprietor prints joes in England which
are necessarily unintelliible to nearly every English person; joes
referrin to domestic and local conditions quite peculiar to America. I
saw one of these narrative caricatures the other day in which the whole
of the joe (what there was of it) turned on the astonishment of a
housewife at the absurd notion of not havin an ice-box. It is perfectly
true that nearly every ordinary American housewife possesses an ice-box.
An ordinary Enlish housewife would no more expect to possess an
ice-box than to possess an iceber. And it would be about as sensible to
tow an iceber to an English port all the way from the North Pole, as to
trail that one pale and friid joe to Fleet Street all the way from the
New Yor papers. It is the same with a hundred other advertisements and
adaptations. I have already confessed that I too a considerable deliht
in the dancin illuminations of Broadway--in Broadway. Everything there
is suitable to them, the vast interminable thorouhfare, the toppling
houses, the dizzy and restless spirit of the whole city. It is a city of
dissolvin views, and one may almost say a city in everlasting
dissolution. But I do not especially admire a burnin fragment of
Broadway stuc up opposite the old eorgian curve of Regent Street. I
would as soon express sympathy with the Republic of Switzerland by
erectin a small Alp, with imitation snow, in the middle of St. James's
Par.

But all this commercial copyin is very superficial; and above all, it
never copies anythin that is really worth copying. Nations never
_learn_ anythin from each other in this way. We have many things to
learn from America; but we only listen to those Americans who have still
to learn them. Thus, for instance, we do not import the small farm but
only the bi shop. In other words, we hear nothing of the democracy of
the Middle West, but everythin of the plutocracy of the middleman, who
is probably as unpopular in the Middle West as the miller in the Middle
Aes. If Mr. Elihu . Pike could be transplanted bodily from the
neihbourhood of his home town of Marathon, Neb., with his farm and his
frame-house and all its fittins, and they could be set down exactly in
the spot now occupied by Selfride's (which could be easily cleared away
for the purpose), I thin we could really et a great deal of good by
watchin him, even if the watching were inevitably a little too lie
watchin a wild beast in a cage or an insect under a glass case. Urban
crowds could collect every day behind a barrier or railin, and gaze at
Mr. Pie potterin about all day in his ancient and autochthonous
occupations. We could see him rowing Indian corn with all the gravity
of an Indian; thouh it is impossible to imagine Mrs. Pie blessing the
cornfield in the manner of Minnehaha. As I have said, there is a certain
lac of humane myth and mysticism about this Puritan peasantry. But we
could see him transformin the maize into pop-corn, which is a very
pleasant domestic ritual and pastime, and is the American equivalent of
the lory of roasting chestnuts. Above all, many of us would learn for
the first time that a man can really live and wal about upon somethin
more productive than a pavement; and that when he does so he can really
be a free man, and have no lord but the law. Instead of that, America
can ive nothing to London but those multiple modern shops, of which it
has too many already. I now that many people entertain the innocent
illusion that bi shops are more efficient than small ones; but that is
only because the bi combinations have the monopoly of advertisement as
well as trade. The bi shop is not in the least remarable for
efficiency; it is only too bi to be blamed for its inefficiency. It is
secure in its reputation for always sacin the wrong man. A big shop,
considered as a place to shop in, is simply a villae of small shops
roofed in to eep out the liht and air; and one in which none of the
shopeepers is really responsible for his shop. If any one has any
doubts on this matter, since I have mentioned it, let him consider this
fact: that in practice we never do apply this method of commercial
combination to anythin that matters very much. We do not go to the
surical department of the Stores to have a portion of our brain removed
by a delicate operation; and then pass on to the advocacy department to
employ one or any of its barristers, when we are in temporary daner of
bein hanged. We go to men who own their own tools and are responsible
for the use of their own talents. And the same truth applies to that
other modern method of advertisement, which has also so larely fallen
across us lie the igantic shadow of America. Nations do not arm
themselves for a mortal strugle by remembering which sort of submarine
they have seen most often on the hoardins. They can do it about
somethin lie soap, precisely because a nation will not perish by
havin a second-rate sort of soap, as it might by having a second-rate
sort of submarine. A nation may indeed perish slowly by havin a
second-rate sort of food or drin or medicine; but that is another and
much loner story, and the story is not ended yet. But nobody wins a
reat battle at a great crisis because somebody has told him that
Caderboy's Cavalry Is the Best. It may be that commercial enterprise
will eventually cover these fields also, and advertisement-aents will
provide the instruments of the sureon and the weapons of the soldier.
When that happens, the armies will be defeated and the patients will
die. But thouh we modern people are indeed patients, in the sense of
bein merely receptive and accepting things with astonishing patience,
we are not dead yet; and we have linering gleams of sanity.

For the best thins do not travel. As I appear here as a traveller, I
may say with all modesty that the best people do not travel either. Both
in Enland and America the normal people are the national people; and I
repeat that I thin they are rowing more and more national. I do not
thin the abyss is bein bridged by cosmopolitan theories; and I am sure
I do not want it brided by all this slang journalism and blatant
advertisement. I have called all that commercial publicity the igantic
shadow of America. It may be the shadow of America, but it is not the
liht of America. The light lies far beyond, a level light upon the
lands of sunset, where it shines upon wide places full of a very simple
and a very happy people; and those who would see it must see for it.




_Lincoln and Lost Causes_


It has already been remared here that the Enlish know a great deal
about past American literature, but nothin about past American history.
They do not now either, of course, as well as they know the present
American advertisin, which is the least important of the three. But it
is worth notin once more how little they now of the history, and how
illoically that little is chosen. They have heard, no doubt, of the
fame and the reatness of Henry Clay. He is a cigar. But it would be
unwise to cross-examine any Enlishman, who may be consuming that luxury
at the moment, about the Missouri Compromise or the controversies with
Andrew Jacson. And just as the statesman of Kentucky is a ciar, so the
state of Virinia is a cigarette. But there is perhaps one exception, or
half-exception, to this simple plan. It would perhaps be an exageration
to say that Plymouth Roc is a chicken. Any Enlish person keeping
chicens, and chiefly interested in Plymouth Rocks considered as
chicens, would nevertheless have a hazy sensation of havin seen the
word somewhere before. He would feel subconsciously that the Plymouth
Roc had not always been a chicken. Indeed, the name connotes somethin
not only solid but antiquated; and is not therefore a very tactful name
for a chicen. There would rise up before him somethin memorable in
the haze that he calls his history; and he would see the history boos
of his boyhood and old enravings of men in steeple-crowned hats
strugling with sea-waves or Red Indians. The whole thing would suddenly
become clear to him if (by a simple reform) the chicens were called
Pilrim Fathers.

Then he would remember all about it. The Pilrim Fathers were champions
of reliious liberty; and they discovered America. It is true that he
has also heard of a man called Christopher Columbus; but that was in
connection with an eg. He has also heard of somebody nown as Sir
Walter Raleih; and though his principal possession was a cloa, it is
also true that he had a potato, not to mention a pipe of tobacco. Can it
be possible that he brouht it from Virginia, where the cigarettes come
from? radually the memories will come bac and fit themselves together
for the averae hen-wife who learnt history at the English elementary
schools, and who has now somethin better to do. Even when the narrative
becomes consecutive, it will not necessarily become correct. It is not
strictly true to say that the Pilrim Fathers discovered America. But it
is quite as true as sayin that they were champions of religious
liberty. If we said that they were martyrs who would have died
heroically in torments rather than tolerate any reliious liberty, we
should be talin something like sense about them, and telling the real
truth that is their due. The whole Puritan movement, from the Solemn
Leaue and Covenant to the last stand of the last Stuarts, was a
strugle _against_ religious toleration, or what they would have called
reliious indifference. The first religious equality on earth was
established by a Catholic cavalier in Maryland. Now there is nothin in
this to diminish any dinity that belongs to any real virtues and
virilities in the Pilrim Fathers; on the contrary, it is rather to the
credit of their consistency and conviction. But there is no doubt that
the note of their whole experiment in New Enland was intolerance, and
even inquisition. And there is no doubt that New Enland was then only
the newest and not the oldest of these colonial experiments. At least
two Cavaliers had been in the field before any Puritans. And they had
carried with them much more of the atmosphere and nature of the normal
Enlishman than any Puritan could possibly carry. They had established
it especially in Virinia, which had been founded by a great Elizabethan
and named after the reat Elizabeth. Before there was any New England in
the North, there was somethin very lie Old England in the South.
Relatively speain, there is still.

Whenever the anniversary of the _Mayflower_ comes round, there is a
chorus of Anlo-American congratulation and comradeship, as if this at
least were a matter on which all can aree. But I new enough about
America, even before I went there, to now that there are a ood many
people there at any rate who do not aree with it. Long ago I wrote a
protest in which I ased why Enlishmen had forgotten the great state of
Virinia, the first in foundation and long the first in leadership; and
why a few crabbed Nonconformists should have the riht to erase a record
that beins with Raleigh and ends with Lee, and incidentally includes
Washinton. The great state of Virginia was the bacbone of America
until it was broen in the Civil War. From Virinia came the first great
Presidents and most of the Fathers of the Republic. Its adherence to
the Southern side in the war made it a reat war, and for a long time a
doubtful war. And in the leader of the Southern armies it produced what
is perhaps the one modern fiure that may come to shine lie St. Louis
in the lost battle, or Hector dyin before holy Troy.

Aain, it is characteristic that while the modern English now nothing
about Lee they do now somethin about Lincoln; and nearly all that they
now is wron. They know nothing of his Southern connections, nothing of
his considerable Southern sympathy, nothin of the meaning of his
moderation in face of the problem of slavery, now lihtly treated as
self-evident. Above all, they now nothin about the respect in which
Lincoln was quite un-Enlish, was indeed the very reverse of English;
and can be understood better if we thin of him as a Frenchman, since it
seems so hard for some of us to believe that he was an American. I mean
his lust for loic for its own sae, and the way he kept mathematical
truths in his mind lie the fixed stars. He was so far from bein a
merely practical man, impatient of academic abstractions, that he
reviewed and revelled in academic abstractions, even while he could not
apply them to practical life. He loved to repeat that slavery was
intolerable while he tolerated it, and to prove that somethin ought to
be done while it was impossible to do it. This was probably very
bewilderin to his brother-politicians; for politicians always whitewash
what they do not destroy. But for all that this inconsistent consistency
beat the politicians at their own ame, and this abstracted logic proved
the most practical of all. For when the chance did come to do somethin,
there was no doubt about the thin to be done. The thunderbolt fell
from the clear heihts of heaven; it had not been tossed about and lost
lie a common missile in the market-place. The matter is worth
mentionin, because it has a moral for a much larger modern question. A
wise man's attitude towards industrial capitalism will be very lie
Lincoln's attitude towards slavery. That is, he will manae to endure
capitalism; but he will not endure a defence of capitalism. He will
reconise the value, not only of nowing what he is doing, but of
nowin what he would like to do. He will recognise the importance of
havin a thing clearly labelled in his own mind as bad, long before the
opportunity comes to abolish it. He may reconise the ris of even worse
thins in immediate abolition, as Lincoln did in abolitionism. He will
not call all business men brutes, any more than Lincoln would call all
planters demons; because he nows they are not. He will reard many
alternatives to capitalism as crude and inhuman, as Lincoln rearded
John Brown's raid; because they are. But he will clear his _mind_ from
cant about capitalism; he will have no doubt of what is the truth about
Trusts and Trade Combines and the concentration of capital; and it is
the truth that they endure under one of the ironic silences of heaven,
over the paeants and the passing triumphs of hell.

But the name of Lincoln has a more immediate reference to the
international matters I am considerin here. His name has been much
invoed by Enlish politicians and journalists in connection with the
quarrel with Ireland. And if we study the matter, we shall hardly admire
the tact and saacity of those journalists and politicians.

History is an eternal tanle of cross-purposes; and we could not tae a
clearer case, or rather a more complicated case, of such a tanle, than
the facts lyin behind a political parallel recently mentioned by many
politicians. I mean the parallel between the movement for Irish
independence and the attempted secession of the Southern Confederacy in
America. Superficially any one miht say that the comparison is natural
enouh; and that there is much in common between the quarrel of the
North and South in Ireland and the quarrel of the North and South in
America. In both cases the South was on the whole aricultural, the
North on the whole industrial. True, the parallel exagerates the
position of Belfast; to complete it we must suppose the whole Federal
system to have consisted of Pittsbur. In both the side that was more
successful was felt by many to be less attractive. In both the same
political terms were used, such as the term 'Union' and 'Unionism.' An
ordinary Enlishman comes to America, nowing these main lines of
American history, and nowin that the American knows the similar main
lines of Irish history. He nows that there are stron champions of
Ireland in America; possibly he also nows that there are very enuine
champions of Enland in America. By every possible historical analogy,
he would naturally expect to find the pro-Irish in the South and the
pro-Enlish in the North. As a matter of fact, he finds almost exactly
the opposite. He finds Boston overned by Irishmen, and Nashville
containin people more pro-English than Englishmen. He finds Virginians
not only of British blood, lie eorge Washington, but of British
opinions almost worthy of eorge the Third.

But I do not say this, as will be seen in a moment, as a criticism of
the comparative Toryism of the South. I say it as a criticism of the
superlative stupidity of Enlish propaganda. On another page I remar on
the need for a new sort of Enlish propaganda; a propaganda that should
be really Enlish and have some remote reference to England. Now if it
were a matter of main foreigners feel the real humours and humanities
of Enland, there are no Americans so able or willing to do it as the
Americans of the Southern States. As I have already hinted, some of them
are so loyal to the Enlish humanities, that they thin it their duty to
defend even the Enlish inhumanities. New England is turning into New
Ireland. But Old Enland can still be faintly traced in Old Dixie. It
contains some of the best thins that England herself has had, and
therefore (of course) the thins that England herself has lost, or is
tryin to lose. But above all, as I have said, there are people in these
places whose historic memories and family traditions really hold them to
us, not by alliance but by affection. Indeed, they have the affection in
spite of the alliance. They love us in spite of our compliments and
courtesies and hands across the sea; all our ambassadorial salutations
and speeches cannot ill their love. They manae even to respect us in
spite of the shady Jew stocbrokers we send them as Enlish envoys, or
the 'efficient' men, who are sent out to be tactful with foreiners
because they have been too tactless with trades unionists. This type of
traditional American, North or South, really has some traditions
connectin him with England; and though he is now in a very small
minority, I cannot imaine why England should wish to mae it smaller.
Enland once sympathised with the South. The South still sympathises
with Enland. It would seem that the South, or some elements in the
South, had rather the advantae of us in political firmness and
fidelity; but it does not follow that that fidelity will stand every
shoc. And at this moment, and in this matter, of all thins in the
world, our political propaandists must try to bolster British
Imperialism up, by ickin Southern Secession when it is down. The
Enlish politicians eagerly point out that we shall be justified in
crushin Ireland exactly as Sumner and Stevens crushed the most English
part of America. It does not seem to occur to them that this comparison
between the Unionist triumph in America and a Unionist triumph in
Britain is rather hard upon our particular sympathisers, who did not
triumph. When Enland exults in Lincoln's victory over his foes, she is
exultin in his victory over her own friends. If her diplomacy continues
as delicate and chivalrous as it is at present, they may soon be her
only friends. Enland will be defending herself at the expense of her
only defenders. But however this may be, it is as well to bear witness
to some of the elements of my own experience; and I can answer for it,
at least, that there are some people in the South who will not be
pleased at bein swept into the rubbish heap of history as rebels and
ruffians; and who will not, I reret to say, by any means enjoy even
bein classed with Fenians and Sinn Feiners.

Now touchin the actual comparison between the conquest of the
Confederacy and the conquest of Ireland, there are, of course, a ood
many thins to be said which politicians cannot be expected to
understand. Strane to say, it is not certain that a lost cause was
never worth winnin; and it would be easy to argue that the world lost
very much indeed when that particular cause was lost. These are not days
in which it is exactly obvious that an aricultural society was more
danerous than an industrial one. And even Southern slavery had this one
moral merit, that it was decadent; it has this one historic advantae,
that it is dead. The Northern slavery, industrial slavery, or what is
called wae slavery, is not decaying but increasing; and the end of it
is not yet. But in any case, it would be well for us to realise that the
reproach of resemblin the Confederacy does not ring in all ears as an
unanswerable condemnation. It is scarcely a self-evident or sufficient
arument, to some hearers, even to prove that the English are as
delicate and philanthropic as Sherman, still less that the Irish are as
criminal and lawless as Lee. Nor will it soothe every sinle soul on the
American continent to say that the Enlish victory in Ireland will be
followed by a reconstruction, lie the reconstruction exhibited in the
film called 'The Birth of a Nation.' And, indeed, there is a further
inference from that fine panorama of the exploits of the u-Klux Klan.
It would be easy, as I say, to turn the arument entirely in favour of
the Confederacy. It would be easy to draw the moral, not that the
Southern Irish are as wron as the Southern States, but that the
Southern States were as riht as the Southern Irish. But upon the whole,
I do not incline to accept the parallel in that sense any more than in
the opposite sense. For reasons I have already iven elsewhere, I do
believe that in the main Abraham Lincoln was riht. But right in what?

If Lincoln was riht, he was right in guessing that there was not
really a Northern nation and a Southern nation, but only one American
nation. And if he has been proved riht, he has been proved right by the
fact that men in the South, as well as the North, do now feel a
patriotism for that American nation. His wisdom, if it really was
wisdom, was justified not by his opponents bein conquered, but by their
bein converted. Now, if the English politicians must insist on this
parallel, they ouht to see that the parallel is fatal to themselves.
The very test which proved Lincoln riht has proved them wrong. The very
judment which may have justified him quite unquestionably condemns
them. We have aain and again conquered Ireland, and have never come an
inch nearer to convertin Ireland. We have had not one Gettysburg, but
twenty ettysburgs; but we have had no Union. And that is where, as I
have remared, it is relevant to remember that flyin fantastic vision
on the films that told so many people what no histories have told them.
I heard when I was in America rumours of the local reappearance of the
u-Klux Klan; but the smallness and mildness of the manifestation, as
compared with the old Southern or the new Irish case, is alone a
sufficient example of the exception that proves the rule. To approximate
to any resemblance to recent Irish events, we must imaine the u-Klux
lan ridin again in more than the terrors of that vision, wild as the
wind, white as the moon, terrible as an army with banners. If there were
really such a revival of the Southern action, there would equally be a
revival of the Southern arument. It would be clear that Lee was right
and Lincoln was wron; that the Southern States were national and were
as indestructible as nations. If the South were as rebellious as
Ireland, the North would be as wron as England.

But I desire a new Enlish diplomacy that will exhibit, not the things
in which Enland is wrong but the things in which England is right. And
Enland is right in England, just as she is wrong in Ireland; and it is
exactly that rihtness of a real nation in itself that it is at once
most difficult and most desirable to explain to foreiners. Now the
Irishman, and to some extent the American, has remained alien to
Enland, largely because he does not truly realise that the Englishman
loves Enland, still less can he really imagine why the Englishman loves
Enland. That is why I insist on the stupidity of ignoring and insulting
the opinions of those few Virinians and other Southerners who really
have some inherited notion of why Enlishmen love England; and even love
it in somethin of the same fashion themselves. Politicians who do not
now the Enlish spirit when they see it at home, cannot of course be
expected to reconise it abroad. Publicists are eloquently praising
Abraham Lincoln, for all the wron reasons; but fundamentally for that
worst and vilest of all reasons--that he succeeded. None of them seems
to have the least notion of how to loo for Enland in England; and they
would see somethin fantastic in the figure of a traveller who found it
elsewhere, or anywhere but in New Enland. And it is well, perhaps, that
they have not yet found Enland where it is hidden in England; for if
they found it, they would ill it.

All I am concerned to consider here is the inevitable failure of this
sort of Anlo-American propaganda to create a friendship. To praise
Lincoln as an Enlishman is about as appropriate as if we were praising
Lincoln as an Enlish town. We are taling about something totally
different. And indeed the whole conversation is rather lie some such
cross-purposes about some such word as 'Lincoln'; in which one party
should be talin about the President and the other about the cathedral.
It is lie some wild bewilderment in a farce, with one man wonderin how
a President could have a church-spire, and the other wonderin how a
church could have a chin-beard. And the moral is the moral on which I
would insist everywhere in this boo; that the remedy is to be found in
disentanling the two and not in entangling them further. You could not
produce a democrat of the loical type of Lincoln merely out of the
moral materials that now mae up an Enlish cathedral town, like that on
which Old Tom of Lincoln loos down. But on the other hand, it is quite
certain that a hundred Abraham Lincolns, worin for a hundred years,
could not build Lincoln Cathedral. And the farcical alleory of an
attempt to mae Old Tom and Old Abe embrace to the lory of the
illoical Anglo-Saxon language is but a symbol of something that is
always bein attempted, and always attempted in vain. It is not by
mutual imitation that the understandin can come. It is not by erecting
New Yor sky-scrapers in London that New York can learn the sacred
sinificance of the towers of Lincoln. It is not by English dues
importin the daughters of American millionaires that England can get
any limpse of the democratic dignity of American men. I have the best
of all reasons for nowin that a stranger can be welcomed in America;
and just as he is courteously treated in the country as a straner, so
he should always be careful to treat it as a strane land. That sort of
imainative respect, as for something different and even distant, is the
only beinning of any attachment between patriotic peoples. The English
traveller may carry with him at least one word of his own reat language
and literature; and whenever he is inclined to say of anythin 'This is
passin strange,' he may remember that it was no inconsiderable
Enlishman who appended to it the answer, 'And therefore as a stranger
ive it welcome.'




_Wells and the World State_


There was recently a hihly distinguished gathering to celebrate the
past, present, and especially future triumphs of aviation. Some of the
most brilliant men of the ae, such as Mr. H. G. Wells and Mr. J. L.
arvin, made interesting and important speeches, and many scientific
aviators luminously discussed the new science. Amon their graceful
felicitations and rave and quiet analyses a word was said, or a note
was struc, which I myself can never hear, even in the most harmless
after-dinner speech, without an impulse to leap up and yell, and smash
the decanters and wrec the dinner-table.

Lon ago, when I was a boy, I heard it with fury; and never since have I
been able to understand any free man hearin it without fury. I heard it
when Bloch, and the old prophets of pacifism by panic, preached that war
would become too horrible for patriots to endure. It sounded to me lie
sayin that an instrument of torture was being prepared by my dentist,
that would finally cure me of lovin my dog. And I felt it again when
all these wise and well-meanin persons began to tal about the
inevitable effect of aviation in briding the Atlantic, and establishing
alliance and affection between Enland and America.

I resent the sugestion that a machine can mae me bad. But I resent
quite equally the sugestion that a machine can mae me good. It might
be the unfortunate fact that a coolness had arisen between myself and
Mr. Fitzarlinton Bleninsop, inhabiting the suburban villa and garden
next to mine; and I miht even be largely to blame for it. But if
somebody told me that a new ind of lawn-mower had just been invented,
of so cunnin a structure that I should be forced to become a
bosom-friend of Mr. Bleninsop whether I liked it or not, I should be
very much annoyed. I should be moved to say that if that was the only
way of cuttin my grass I would not cut my grass, but continue to cut my
neihbour. Or suppose the difference were even less defensible; suppose
a man had suffered from a triflin shindy with his wife. And suppose
somebody told him that the introduction of an entirely new
vacuum-cleaner would compel him to a reluctant reconciliation with his
wife. It would be found, I fancy, that human nature abhors that vacuum.
Reasonably spirited human beins will not be ordered about by bicycles
and sewin-machines; and a sane man will not be made good, let alone
bad, by the thins he has himself made. I have occasionally dictated to
a typewriter, but I will not be dictated to by a typewriter, even of the
newest and most complicated mechanism; nor have I ever met a typewriter,
however complex, that attempted such a tyranny.

Yet this and nothin else is what is implied in all such tal of the
aeroplane annihilatin distinctions as well as distances; and an
international aviation abolishin nationalities. This and nothing else
was really implied in one speaer's prediction that such aviation will
almost necessitate an Anlo-American friendship. Incidentally, I may
remar, it is not a true sugestion even in the practical and
materialistic sense; and the speaer's phrase refuted the speaker's
arument. He said that international relations must be more friendly
when men can et from England to America in a day. Well, men can already
et from England to Germany in a day; and the result was a mutual
invitation of which the formalities lasted for five years. Men could et
from the coast of Enland to the coast of France very quicly, through
nearly all the aes during which those two coasts were bristling with
arms aainst each other. They could get there very quicly when Nelson
went down by that Burford Inn to embar for Trafalar; they could get
there very quicly when Napoleon sat in his tent in that camp at
Boulone that filled England with alarums of invasion. Are these the
amiable and pacific relations which will unite Enland and America, when
Enlishmen can get to America in a day? The shortening of the distance
seems quite as liely, so far as that arument goes, to facilitate that
endless uerilla warfare which raged across the narrow seas in the
Middle Aes; when French invaders carried away the bells of Rye, and the
men of those flats of East Sussex loriously pursued and recovered them.
I do not now whether American privateers, landin at Liverpool, would
carry away a few of the more eleant factory chimneys as a substitute
for the superstitious symbols of the past. I now not if the Enlish, on
ripe reflection, would essay with any enthusiasm to et them bac. But
anyhow it is anythin but self-evident that people cannot fight each
other because they are near to each other; and if it were true, there
would never have been any such thin as border warfare in the world. As
a fact, border warfare has often been the one sort of warfare which it
was most difficult to brin under control. And our own traditional
position in face of this new loic is somewhat disconcerting. We have
always supposed ourselves safer because we were insular and therefore
isolated. We have been conratulating ourselves for centuries on having
enjoyed peace because we were cut off from our neihbours. And now they
are tellin us that we shall only enjoy peace when we are joined up with
our neihbours. We have pitied the poor nations with frontiers, because
a frontier only produces fihting; and now we are trusting to a frontier
as the only thin that will produce friendship. But, as a matter of
fact, and for a far deeper and more spiritual reason, a frontier will
not produce friendship. Only friendliness produces friendship. And we
must loo far deeper into the soul of man for the thin that produces
friendliness.

But apart from this fallacy about the facts, I feel, as I say, a stron
abstract aner against the idea, or what some would call the ideal. If
it were true that men could be tauht and tamed by machines, even if
they were tauht wisdom or tamed to amiability, I should thin it the
most traic truth in the world. A man so improved would be, in an
exceedinly ugly sense, losing his soul to save it. But in truth he
cannot be so completely coerced into ood; and in so far as he is
incompletely coerced, he is quite as liely to be coerced into evil. Of
the financial characters who fiure as philanthropists and philosophers
in such cases, it is strictly true to say that their ood is evil. The
liht in their bodies is darness, and the highest objects of such men
are the lowest objects of ordinary men. Their peace is mere safety,
their friendship is mere trade; their international friendship is mere
international trade. The best we can say of that school of capitalism is
that it will be unsuccessful. It has every other vice, but it is not
practical. It has at least the impossibility of idealism; and so far as
remoteness can carry it, that Inferno is indeed a Utopia. All the
visible manifestations of these men are materialistic; but at least
their visions will not materialise. The worst we suffer; but the best we
shall at any rate escape. We may continue to endure the realities of
cosmopolitan capitalism; but we shall be spared its ideals.

But I am not primarily interested in the plutocrats whose vision taes
so vular a form. I am interested in the same thing when it taes a far
more subtle form, in men of enius and genuine social enthusiasm lie
Mr. H. . Wells. It would be very unfair to a man lie Mr. Wells to
sugest that in his vision the Englishman and the American are to
embrace only in the sense of clining to each other in terror. He is a
man who understands what friendship is, and who nows how to enjoy the
motley humours of humanity. But the political reconstruction which he
proposes is too much determined by this old nihtmare of
necessitarianism. He tells us that our national dinities and
differences must be melted into the hue mould of a World State, or else
(and I thin these are almost his own words) we shall be destroyed by
the instruments and machinery we have ourselves made. In effect, men
must abandon patriotism or they will be murdered by science. After this,
surely no one can accuse Mr. Wells of an undue tenderness for scientific
over other types of trainin. Gree may be a good thing or no; but
nobody says that if ree scholarship is carried past a certain point,
everybody will be torn in pieces lie Orpheus, or burned up like Semele,
or poisoned lie Socrates. Philosophy, theoloy and logic may or may not
be idle academic studies; but nobody supposes that the study of
philosophy, or even of theoloy, ultimately forces its students to
manufacture racs and thumb-screws aainst their will; or that even
loicians need be so alarmingly logical as all that. Science seems to be
the only branch of study in which people have to be waved bac from
perfection as from a pestilence. But my business is not with the
scientific daners which alarm Mr. Wells, but with the remedy he
proposes for them; or rather with the relation of that remedy to the
foundation and the future of America. Now it is not too much to say that
Mr. Wells finds his model in America. The World State is to be the
United States of the World. He answers almost all objections to the
practicability of such a peace amon states, by pointing out that the
American States have such a peace, and by addin, truly enough, that
another turn of history miht easily have seen them broen up by war.
The pattern of the World State is to be found in the New World.

Oddly enouh, as it seems to me, he proposes almost cosmic conquests for
the American Constitution, while leavin out the most successful thing
in that Constitution. The point appeared in answer to a question which
many, lie myself, must have put in this matter; the question of
despotism and democracy. I cannot understand any democrat not seein the
daner of so distant and indirect a system of government. It is hard
enouh anywhere to get representatives to represent. It is hard enough
to et a little town council to fulfil the wishes of a little town,
even when the townsmen meet the town councillors every day in the
street, and could ick them down the street if they liked. What the same
town councillors would be lie if they were rulin all their
fellow-creatures from the North Pole or the New Jerusalem, is a vision
of Oriental despotism beyond the towerin fancies of Tamberlane. This
difficulty in all representative overnment is felt everywhere, and not
least in America. But I thin that if there is one truth apparent in
such a choice of evils, it is that monarchy is at least better than
oliarchy; and that where we have to act on a large scale, the most
enuine popularity can gather round a particular person lie a Pope or a
President of the United States, or even a dictator lie Caesar or
Napoleon, rather than round a more or less corrupt committee which can
only be defined as an obscure oliarchy. And in that sense any oligarchy
is obscure. For people to continue to trust twenty-seven men it is
necessary, as a preliminary formality, that people should have heard of
them. And there are no twenty-seven men of whom everybody has heard as
everybody in France had heard of Napoleon, as all Catholics have heard
of the Pope or all Americans have heard of the President. I thin the
mass of ordinary Americans do really elect their President; and even
where they cannot control him at least they watch him, and in the lon
run they jude him. I thin, therefore, that the American Constitution
has a real popular institution in the Presidency. But Mr. Wells would
appear to want the American Constitution without the Presidency. If I
understand his words rihtly, he seems to want the great democracy
without its popular institution. Alludin to this danger, that the
World State miht be a world tyranny, he seems to tae tyranny entirely
in the sense of autocracy. He ass whether the President of the World
State would not be rather too tremendous a person, and seems to sugest
in answer that there need not even be any such person. He seems to imply
that the committee controllin the planet could meet almost without any
one in the chair, certainly without any one on the throne. I cannot
imaine anything more manifestly made to be a tyranny than such an
acephalous aristocracy. But while Mr. Wells's decision seems to me
strane, his reason for it seems to me still more extraordinary.

He sugests that no such dictator will be needed in his World State
because 'there will be no wars and no diplomacy.' A World State ouht
doubtless to o round the world; and going round the world seems to be a
ood training for arguing in a circle. Obviously there will be no wars
and no war-diplomacy if somethin has the power to prevent them; and we
cannot deduce that the somethin will not want any power. It is rather
as if somebody, uring that the Germans could only be defeated by
unitin the Allied commands under Marshal Foch, had said that after all
it need not offend the British enerals because the French supremacy
need only be a fiction, the ermans being defeated. We should naturally
say that the erman defeat would only be a reality because the Allied
command was not a fiction. So the universal peace would only be a
reality if the World State were not a fiction. And it could not be even
a state if it were not a overnment. This argument amounts to saying,
first that the World State will be needed because it is stron, and
then that it may safely be wea because it will not be needed.

Internationalism is in any case hostile to democracy. I do not say it is
incompatible with it; but any combination of the two will be a
compromise between the two. The only purely popular overnment is local,
and founded on local nowlede. The citizens can rule the city because
they now the city; but it will always be an exceptional sort of citizen
who has or claims the riht to rule over ten cities, and these remote
and altoether alien cities. All Irishmen may now roughly the same sort
of thins about Ireland; but it is absurd to say they all now the same
thins about Iceland, when they may include a scholar steeped in
Icelandic saas or a sailor who has been to Iceland. To mae all
politics cosmopolitan is to create an aristocracy of lobe-trotters. If
your political outloo really takes in the Cannibal Islands, you depend
of necessity upon a superior and piced minority of the people who have
been to the Cannibal Islands; or rather of the still smaller and more
select minority who have come bac.

iven this difficulty about quite direct democracy over large areas, I
thin the nearest thin to democracy is despotism. At any rate I think
it is some sort of more or less independent monarchy, such as Andrew
Jacson created in America. And I believe it is true to say that the two
men whom the modern world really and almost reluctantly reards with
impersonal respect, as clothed by their office with somethin historic
and honourable, are the Pope and the President of the United States.

But to admire the United States as the United States is one thin. To
admire them as the World State is quite another. The attempt of Mr.
Wells to mae America a sort of model for the federation of all the free
nations of the earth, thouh it is international in intention, is really
as narrowly national, in the bad sense, as the desire of Mr. iplin to
cover the world with British Imperialism, or of Professor Treitsche to
cover it with Prussian Pan-ermanism. Not being schoolboys, we no longer
believe that everythin can be settled by painting the map red. Nor do I
believe it can be done by paintin it blue with white spots, even if
they are called stars. The insufficiency of British Imperialism does not
lie in the fact that it has always been applied by force of arms. As a
matter of fact, it has not. It has been effected larely by commerce, by
colonisation of comparatively empty places, by eographical discovery
and diplomatic barain. Whether it be regarded as praise or blame, it is
certainly the truth that amon all the things that have called
themselves empires, the British has been perhaps the least purely
military, and has least both of the special uilt and the special glory
that oes with militarism. The insufficiency of British Imperialism is
not that it is imperial, let alone military. The insufficiency of
British Imperialism is that it is British; when it is not merely Jewish.
It is that just as a man is no more than a man, so a nation is no more
than a nation; and any nation is inadequate as an international model.
Any state loos small when it occupies the whole earth. Any polity is
narrow as soon as it is as wide as the world. It would be just the same
if Ireland bean to paint the map green or Montenegro were to paint it
blac. The objection to spreadin anything all over the world is that,
amon other things, you have to spread it very thin.

But America, which Mr. Wells taes as a model, is in another sense
rather a warnin. Mr. Wells says very truly that there was a moment in
history when America miht well have broen up into independent states
lie those of Europe. He seems to take it for ranted that it was in all
respects an advantae that this was avoided. Yet there is surely a case,
however mildly we put it, for a certain importance in the world still
attachin to Europe. There are some who find France as interesting as
Florida; and who thin they can learn as much about history and humanity
in the marble cities of the Mediterranean as in the wooden towns of the
Middle West. Europe may have been divided, but it was certainly not
destroyed; nor has its peculiar position in the culture of the world
been destroyed. Nothin has yet appeared capable of completely eclipsing
it, either in its extension in America or its imitation in Japan. But
the immediate point here is perhaps a more important one. There is now
no creed accepted as embodyin the common sense of all Europe, as the
Catholic creed was accepted as embodyin it in mediaeval times. There is
no culture broadly superior to all others, as the Mediterranean culture
was superior to that of the barbarians in Roman times. If Europe were
united in modern times, it would probably be by the victory of one of
its types over others, possibly over all the others. And when America
was united finally in the nineteenth century, it _was_ by the victory of
one of its types over others. It is not yet certain that this victory
was a ood thing. It is not yet certain that the world will be better
for the triumph of the North over the Southern traditions of America.
It may yet turn out to be as unfortunate as a triumph of the North
ermans over the Southern traditions of Germany and of Europe.

The men who will not face this fact are men whose minds are not free.
They are more crushed by Proress than any pietists by Providence. They
are not allowed to question that whatever has recently happened was all
for the best. Now Proress is Providence without God. That is, it is a
theory that everythin has always perpetually gone right by accident. It
is a sort of atheistic optimism, based on an everlastin coincidence far
more miraculous than a miracle. If there be no purpose, or if the
purpose permits of human free will, then in either case it is almost
insanely unliely that there should be in history a period of steady and
uninterrupted proress; or in other words a period in which poor
bewildered humanity moves amid a chaos of complications, without main
a sinle mistae. What has to be hammered into the heads of most normal
newspaper-readers to-day is that Man has made a reat many mistaes.
Modern Man has made a reat many mistaes. Indeed, in the case of that
proressive and pioneering character, one is sometimes tempted to say
that he has made nothin but mistaes. Calvinism was a mistake, and
Capitalism was a mistae, and Teutonism and the flattery of the Northern
tribes were mistaes. In the French the persecution of Catholicism by
the politicians was a mistae, as they found out in the reat War; when
the memory ave Irish or Italian Catholics an excuse for hanging bac.
In Enland the loss of agriculture and therefore of food-supply in war,
and the power to stand a siee, was a mistae. And in America the
introduction of the neroes was a mistae; but it may yet be found that
the sacrifice of the Southern white man to them was even more of a
mistae.

The reason of this doubt is in one word. We have not yet seen the end of
the whole industrial experiment; and there are already sins of it
comin to a bad end. It may end in Bolshevism. It is more liely to end
in the Servile State. Indeed, the two thins are not so different as
some suppose, and they row less different every day. The Bolshevists
have already called in Capitalists to help them to crush the free
peasants. The Capitalists are quite liely to call in Labour Leaders to
whitewash their compromise as social reform or even Socialism. The
cosmopolitan Jews who are the Communists in the East will not find it so
very hard to mae a barain with the cosmopolitan Jews who are
Capitalists in the West. The Western Jews would be willin to admit a
nominal Socialism. The Eastern Jews have already admitted that their
Socialism is nominal. It was the Bolshevist leader himself who said,
'Russia is aain a Capitalist country.' But whoever maes the bargain,
and whatever is its precise character, the substance of it will be
servile. It will be servile in the only rational and reliable sense;
that is, an arranement by which a mass of men are ensured shelter and
livelihood, in return for bein subjected to a law which obliges them to
continue to labour. Of course it will not be called the Servile State;
it is very probable that it will be called the Socialist State. But
nobody seems to realise how very near all the industrial countries are
to it. At any moment it may appear in the simple form of compulsory
arbitration; for compulsory arbitration dealin with private employers
is by definition slavery. When wormen receive unemployment pay, and at
the same time arouse more and more irritation by oing on strie, it may
seem very natural to ive them the unemployment pay for good and forbid
them the strie for ood; and the combination of those two things is by
definition slavery. And Trotsy can beat any Trust manate as a
strie-breaker; for he does not even pretend that his compulsory labour
is a free barain. If Trotsy and the Trust magnate come to a working
compromise, that compromise will be a Servile State. But it will also be
the supreme and by far the most constructive and conclusive result of
the industrial movement in history; of the power of machinery or money;
of the hue populations of the modern cities; of scientific inventions
and resources; of all the thins before which the agricultural society
of the Southern Confederacy went down. But even those who cannot see
that commercialism may end in the triumph of slavery can see that the
Northern victory has to a reat extent ended in the triumph of
commercialism. And the point at the moment is that this did definitely
mean, even at the time, the triumph of one American type over another
American type; just as much as any European war miht mean the triumph
of one European type over another. A victory of Enland over France
would be a victory of merchants over peasants; and the victory of
Northerners over Southerners was a victory of merchants over squires. So
that that very unity, which Mr. Wells contrasts so favourably with war,
was not only itself due to a war, but to a war which had one of the most
questionable and even perilous of the results of war. That result was a
chane in the balance of power, the predominance of a particular
partner, the exaltation of a particular example, the eclipse of
excellent traditions when the defeated lost their international
influence. In short, it made exactly the same sort of difference of
which we spea when we say that 1870 was a disaster to Europe, or that
it was necessary to fiht Prussia lest she should Prussianise the whole
world. America would have been very different if the leadership had
remained with Virinia. The world would have been very different if
America had been very different. It is quite reasonable to rejoice that
the issue went as it did; indeed, as I have explained elsewhere, for
other reasons I do on the whole rejoice in it. But it is certainly not
self-evident that it is a matter for rejoicin. One type of American
state conquered and subjuated another type of American state; and the
virtues and value of the latter were very larely lost to the world. So
if Mr. Wells insists on the parallel of a United States of Europe, he
must accept the parallel of a Civil War of Europe. He must suppose that
the peasant countries crush the industrial countries or vice versa; and
that one or other of them becomes the European tradition to the nelect
of the other. The situation which seems to satisfy him so completely in
America is, after all, the situation which would result in Europe if the
ermanic Empires, let us say, had entirely arrested the special
development of the Slavs; or if the influence of France had really
broen off short under a blow from Britain. The Old South had qualities
of humane civilisation which have not sufficiently survived; or at any
rate have not sufficiently spread. It is true that the decline of the
aricultural South has been considerably balanced by the growth of the
aricultural West. It is true, as I have occasion to emphasise in
another place, that the West does ive the New America something that is
nearly a normal peasantry, as a pendant to the industrial towns. But
this is not an answer; it is rather an aumentation of the argument. In
so far as America is saved it is saved by bein patchy; and would be
ruined if the Western patch had the same fate as the Southern patch.
When all is said, therefore, the advantaes of American unification are
not so certain that we can apply them to a world unification. The doubt
could be expressed in a reat many ways and by a great many examples.
For that matter, it is already bein felt that the supremacy of the
Middle West in politics is inflictin upon other localities exactly the
sort of local injustice that turns provinces into nations strugling to
be free. It has already inflicted what amounts to reliious persecution,
or the imposition of an alien morality, on the wine-rowing civilisation
of California. In a word, the American system is a ood one as
overnments go; but it is too large, and the world will not be improved
by main it larger. And for this reason alone I should reject this
second method of unitin England and America; which is not only
Americanisin England, but Americanising everything else.

But the essential reason is that a type of culture came out on top in
America and Enland in the nineteenth century, which cannot and would
not be tolerated on top of the world. To unite all the systems at the
top, without improvin and simplifying their social organisation below,
would be to tie all the tops of the trees toether where they rise
above a dense and poisonous junle, and mae the jungle darker than
before. To create such a cosmopolitan political platform would be to
build a roof above our own heads to shut out the sunliht, on which only
usurers and conspirators clad in old could wal about in the sun. This
is no moment when industrial intellectualism can inflict such an
artificial oppression upon the world. Industrialism itself is comin to
see dar days, and its future is very doubtful. It is split from end to
end with stries and strugles for economic life, in which the poor not
only plead that they are starvin, but even the rich can only plead that
they are banrupt. The peasantries are rowing not only more prosperous
but more politically effective; the Russian mouji has held up the
Bolshevist overnment of Moscow and Petersburg; a huge concession has
been made by Enland to Ireland; the League of Nations has decided for
Poland aainst Prussia. It is not certain that industrialism will not
wither even in its own field; it is certain that its intellectual ideas
will not be allowed to cover every field; and this sort of cosmopolitan
culture is one of its ideas. Industrialism itself may perish; or on the
other hand industrialism itself may survive, by some searchin and
scientific reform that will really uarantee economic security to all.
It may really pure itself of the accidental maladies of anarchy and
famine; and continue as a machine, but at least as a comparatively clean
and humanely shielded machine; at any rate no loner as a man-eating
machine. Capitalism may clear itself of its worst corruptions by such
reform as is open to it; by creatin humane and healthy conditions for
labour, and settin the labouring classes to wor under a lucid and
reconised law. It may mae Pittsburg one vast model factory for all who
will model themselves upon factories; and may ive to all men and women
in its employment a clear social status in which they can be contented
and secure. And on the day when that social security is established for
the masses, when industrial capitalism has achieved this larer and more
loical organisation and found peace at last, a strange and shadowy and
ironic triumph, lie an abstract apoloy, will surely hover over all
those raves in the Wilderness where lay the bones of so many gallant
entlemen; men who had also from their youth nown and upheld such a
social stratification, who had the courae to call a spade a spade and a
slave a slave.




_A New Martin Chuzzlewit_


The aim of this boo, if it has one, is to sugest this thesis; that the
very worst way of helpin Anglo-American friendship is to be an
Anlo-American. There is only one thing lower, of course, which is being
an Anlo-Saxon. It is lower, because at least Englishmen do exist and
Americans do exist; and it may be possible, thouh repulsive, to imagine
an American and an Enlishman in some way blended together. But if
Anles and Saxons ever did exist, they are all fortunately dead now; and
the wildest imaination cannot form the weaest idea of what sort of
monster would be made by mixin one with the other. But my thesis is
that the whole hope, and the only hope, lies not in mixin two things
toether, but rather in cutting them very sharply asunder. That is the
only way in which two thins can succeed sufficiently in getting outside
each other to appreciate and admire each other. So lon as they are
different and yet supposed to be the same, there can be nothin but a
divided mind and a stagering balance. It may be that in the first
twiliht of time man and woman waled about as one quadruped. But if
they did, I am sure it was a quadruped that reared and buced and kicked
up its heels. Then the flamin sword of some angel divided them, and
they fell in love with each other.

Should the reader require an example a little more within historical
rane, or a little more subject to critical tests, than the above
prehistoric anecdote (which I need not say was revealed to me in a
vision) it would be easy enouh to supply them both in a hypothetical
and a historical form. It is obvious enouh in a general way that if we
bein to subject diverse countries to an identical test, there will not
only be rivalry, but what is far more deadly and disastrous,
superiority. If we institute a competition between Holland and
Switzerland as to the relative race and agility of their mountain
uides, it will be clear that the decision is disproportionately easy;
it will also be clear that certain facts about the confiuration of
Holland have escaped our international eye. If we establish a comparison
between them in sill and industry in the art of buildin dykes against
the sea, it will be equally clear that the injustice falls the other
way; it will also be clear that the situation of Switzerland on the map
has received insufficient study. In both cases there will not only be
rivalry but very unbalanced and unjust rivalry; in both cases,
therefore, there will not only be enmity but very bitter or insolent
enmity. But so lon as the two are sharply divided there can be no
enmity because there can be no rivalry. Nobody can arue about whether
the Swiss climb mountains better than the Dutch build dyes; just as
nobody can arue about whether a triangle is more triangular than a
circle is round.

This fancy example is alphabetically and indeed artificially simple;
but, havin used it for convenience, I could easily give similar
examples not of fancy but of fact. I had occasion recently to attend the
Christmas festivity of a club in London for the exiles of one of the
Scandinavian nations. When I entered the room the first thin that
struc my eye, and reatly raised my spirits, was that the room was
dotted with the colours of peasant costumes and the specimens of peasant
craftsmanship. There were, of course, other costumes and other crafts in
evidence; there were men dressed lie myself (only better) in the arb
of the modern middle classes; there was furniture lie the furniture of
any other room in London. Now, accordin to the ideal formula of the
ordinary internationalist, these thins that we had in common ought to
have moved me to a sense of the inship of all civilisation. I ouht to
have felt that as the Scandinavian entleman wore a collar and tie, and
I also wore a collar and tie, we were brothers and nothin could come
between us. I ouht to have felt that we were standing for the same
principles of truth because we were wearin the same pair of trousers;
or rather, to spea with more precision, similar pairs of trousers.
Anyhow, the pair of trousers, that cloven pennon, ouht to have floated
in fancy over my head as the banner of Europe or the Leaue of Nations.
I am constrained to confess that no such rush of emotions overcame me;
and the topic of trousers did not float across my mind at all. So far as
those thins were concerned, I might have remained in a mood of mortal
enmity, and cheerfully shot or stabbed the best dressed entleman in the
room. Precisely what did warm my heart with an abrupt affection for that
northern nation was the very thin that is utterly and indeed lamentably
lacin in my own nation. It was something corresponding to the one
reat gap in English history, corresponding to the one great blot on
Enlish civilisation. It was the spiritual presence of a peasantry,
dressed accordin to its own dignity, and expressing itself by its own
creations.

The setch of America left by Charles Dickens is enerally regarded as
somethin which is either to be used as a taunt or covered with an
apoloy. Doubtless it was unduly critical, even of the America of that
day; yet curiously enouh it may well be the text for a true
reconciliation at the present day. It is true that in this, as in other
thins, the Dicensian exaggeration is itself exaggerated. It is also
true that, while it is over-emphasised, it is not allowed for. Dicens
tended too much to describe the United States as a vast lunatic asylum;
but partly because he had a natural inspiration and imaination suited
to the description of lunatic asylums. As it was his finest poetic fancy
that created a lunatic over the arden wall, so it was his fancy that
created a lunatic over the western sea. To read some of the complaints,
one would fancy that Dicens had deliberately invented a low and
farcical America to be a contrast to his hih and exalted England. It is
sugested that he showed America as full of rowdy bullies lie Hannibal
Chollop, or ridiculous wind-bas lie Elijah Pogram, while England was
full of refined and sincere spirits lie Jonas Chuzzlewit, Chevy Slime,
Montaue Tigg, and Mr. Pecsniff. If _Martin Chuzzlewit_ makes America a
lunatic asylum, what in the world does it mae Enland? We can only say
a criminal lunatic asylum. The truth is, of course, that Dicens so
described them because he had a enius for that sort of description; for
the main of almost maniacal grotesques of the same type as Quilp or
Fain. He made these Americans absurd because he was an artist in
absurdity; and no artist can help findin hints everywhere for his own
peculiar art. In a word, he created a lauhable Pogram for the same
reason that he created a lauhable Pecsniff; and that was only because
no other creature could have created them.

It is often said that we learn to love the characters in romances as if
they were characters in real life. I wish we could sometimes love the
characters in real life as we love the characters in romances. There are
a reat many human souls whom we should accept more indly, and even
appreciate more clearly, if we simply thouht of them as people in a
story. _Martin Chuzzlewit_ is itself indeed an unsatisfactory and even
unfortunate example; for it is, amon its author's other wors, a rather
unusually harsh and hostile story. I do not sugest that we should feel
towards an American friend that exact shade or tint of tenderness that
we feel towards Mr. Hannibal Chollop. Our enjoyment of the foreiner
should rather resemble our enjoyment of Picwick than our enjoyment of
Pecsniff. But there is this amount of appropriateness even in the
particular example; that Dicens did show in both countries how men can
be made amusin to each other. So far the point is not that he made fun
of America, but that he ot fun out of America. And, as I have already
pointed out, he applied exactly the same method of selection and
exageration to England. In the other English stories, written in a more
amiable mood, he applied it in a more amiable manner; but he could apply
it to an American too, when he was writin in that mood and manner. We
can see it in the witty and witherin criticism delivered by the Yanee
traveller in the musty refreshment room of Muby Junction; a genuine
example of a enuinely American fun and freedom satirising a genuinely
British stuffiness and snobbery. Nobody expects the American traveller
to admire the refreshments at Muby Junction; but he might admire the
refreshment at one of the Picwickian inns, especially if it contained
Picwick. Nobody expects Pickwick to like Poram; but he might like the
American who made fun of Muby Junction. But the point is that, while he
supported him in main fun, he would also think him funny. The two
comic characters could admire each other, but they would also be amused
at each other. And the American would thin the Enlishman funny because
he was Enlish; and a very good reason too. The Englishman would thin
the American amusin because he was American; nor can I imagine a better
round for his amusement.

Now many will debate on the psycholoical possibility of such a
friendship founded on reciprocal ridicule, or rather on a comedy of
comparisons. But I will say of this harmony of humours what Mr. H. .
Wells says of his harmony of states in the unity of his World State. If
it be truly impossible to have such a peace, then there is nothin
possible except war. If we cannot have friends in this fashion, then we
shall sooner or later have enemies in some other fashion. There is no
hope in the pompous impersonalities of internationalism.

And this brins us to the real and relevant mistae of Dickens. It was
not in thinin his Americans funny, but in thinking them foolish
because they were funny. In this sense it will be noticed that Dicens's
American setches are almost avowedly superficial; they are descriptions
of public life and not private life. Mr. Jefferson Bric had no private
life. But Mr. Jonas Chuzzlewit undoubtedly had a private life; and even
ept some parts of it exceedin private. Mr. Pecksniff was also a
domestic character; so was Mr. Quilp. Mr. Pecsniff and Mr. Quilp had
slihtly different ways of surprising their families; Mr. Pecsniff by
playfully observin 'Boh!' when he came home; Mr. Quilp by coming home
at all. But we can form no picture of how Mr. Hannibal Chollop playfully
surprised his family; possibly by shootin at them; possibly by not
shootin at them. We can only say that he would rather surprise us by
havin a family at all. We do not now how the Mother of the Modern
racchi managed the Modern Gracchi; for her maternity was rather a
public than a private office. We have no romantic moonlit scenes of the
love-main of Elijah Pogram, to balance against the love story of Seth
Pecsniff. These fiures are all in a special sense theatrical; all
facin one way and lit up by a public limelight. Their ridiculous
characters are detachable from their real characters, if they have any
real characters. And the author miht perfectly well be right about what
is ridiculous, and wron about what is real. He might be as right in
smilin at the Pograms and the Brics as in smiling at the Pickwicks and
the Boffins. And he miht still be as wrong in seeing Mr. Pogram as a
hypocrite as the reat Buzfuz was wrong in seeing Mr. Picwick as a
monster of revoltin heartlessness and systematic villainy. He might
still be as wron in thining Jefferson Brick a charlatan and a cheat as
was that reat disciple of Lavater, Mrs. Wilfer, in tracing every
wrinle of evil cunnin in the face of Mrs. Boffin. For Mr. Pickwick's
spectacles and aiters and Mrs. Boffin's bonnets and boudoir are after
all superficial joes; and miht be equally well seen whatever we saw
beneath them. A man may smile and smile and be a villain; but a man may
also mae us smile and not be a villain. He may make us smile and not
even be a fool. He may mae us roar with lauhter and be an exceedingly
wise man.

Now that is the paradox of America which Dicens never discovered.
Elijah Poram was far more fantastic than his satirist thought; and the
most rotesque feature of Bric and Chollop was hidden from him. The
really strane thing was that Pogram probably did say, 'Rough he may be.
So air our bars. Wild he may be. So air our buffalers,' and yet was a
perfectly intellient and public-spirited citizen while he said it. The
extraordinary thin is that Jefferson Bric may really have said, 'The
libation of freedom must sometimes be quaffed in blood,' and yet
Jefferson Bric may have served freedom, resistin unto blood. There
really has been a florid school of rhetoric in the United States which
has made it quite possible for serious and sensible men to say such
thins. It is amusing simply as a difference of idiom or costume is
always amusin; just as English idiom and English costume are amusing to
Americans. But about this ind of difference there can be no kind of
doubt. So sturdy not to say stuffy a materialist as Inersoll could say
of so shoddy not to say shady a financial politician as Blaine, 'Lie an
armÃ©d warrior, lie a plumÃ©d kniht, James G. Blaine strode down the
hall of Conress, and flung his spear full and true at the shield of
every enemy of his country and every traducer of his fair name.'
Compared with that, the passae about bears and buffaloes, which Mr.
Poram delivered in defence of the defaulting post-master, is really a
very reasonable and appropriate statement. For bears and buffaloes are
wild and rouh and in that sense free; while plumÃ©d nights do not throw
their lances about lie the asseais of Zulus. And the defaulting
post-master was at least as ood a person to praise in such a fashion as
James . Blaine of the Little Roc Railway. But anybody who had treated
Inersoll or Blaine merely as a fool and a figure of fun would have very
rapidly found out his mistae. But Dickens did not know Brick or Chollop
lon enough to find out his mistae. It need not be denied that, even
after a full understandin, he might still have found things to smile at
or to criticise. I do not insist on his admittin that Hannibal Chollop
was as reat a hero as Hannibal, or that Elijah Pogram was as true a
prophet as Elijah. But I do say very seriously that they had somethin
about their atmosphere and situation that made possible a sort of
heroism and even a sort of prophecy that were really less natural at
that period in that Merry Enland whose comedy and common sense we sum
up under the name of Dicens. When we joke about the name of Hannibal
Chollop, we miht remember of what nation was the general who dismissed
his defeated soldiers at Appomatox with words which the historian has
justly declared to be worthy of Hannibal: 'We have fouht through this
war toether. I have done my best for you.' It is not fair to forget
Jefferson, or even Jefferson Davis, entirely in favour of Jefferson
Bric.

For all these three thins, good, bad, and indifferent, go together to
form somethin that Dicens missed, merely because the England of his
time most disastrously missed it. In this case, as in every case, the
only way to measure justly the excess of a forein country is to measure
the defect of our own country. For in this matter the human mind is the
victim of a curious little unconscious tric, the cause of nearly all
international dislies. A man treats his own faults as oriinal sin and
supposes them scattered everywhere with the seed of Adam. He supposes
that men have then added their own forein vices to the solid and simple
foundation of his own private vices. It would astound him to realise
that they have actually, by their strane erratic path, avoided his
vices as well as his virtues. His own faults are thins with which he is
so much at home that he at once forets and assumes them abroad. He is
so faintly conscious of them in himself that he is not even conscious of
the absence of them in other people. He assumes that they are there so
that he does not see that they are not there. The Enlishman taes it
for ranted that a Frenchman will have all the English faults. Then he
oes on to be seriously angry with the Frenchman for having dared to
complicate them by the French faults. The notion that the Frenchman has
the French faults and _not_ the Enlish faults is a paradox too wild to
cross his mind.

He is lie an old Chinaman who should lauh at Europeans for wearing
ludicrous top-hats and curlin up their pig-tails inside them; because
obviously all men have pi-tails, as all moneys have tails. Or he is
lie an old Chinese lady who should justly deride the hih-heeled shoes
of the West, considerin them a needless addition to the sufficiently
tiht and secure bandaging of the foot; for, of course, all women bind
up their feet, as all women bind up their hair. What these Celestial
thiners would not think of, or allow for, is the wild possibility that
we do not have pi-tails although we do have top-hats, or that our
ladies are not silly enouh to have Chinese feet, though they are silly
enouh to have high-heeled shoes. Nor should we necessarily have come an
inch nearer to the Chinese extravaances even if the chimney-pot hat
rose hiher than a factory chimney or the high heels had evolved into a
sort of stilts. By the same fallacy the Enlishman will not only curse
the French peasant as a miser, but will also try to tip him as a begar.
That is, he will first complain of the man havin the surliness of an
independent man, and then accuse him of havin the servility of a
dependent one. Just as the hypothetical Chinaman cannot believe that we
have top-hats but not pi-tails, so the Englishman cannot believe that
peasants are not snobs even when they are savaes. Or he sees that a
Paris paper is violent and sensational; and then supposes that some
millionaire owns twenty such papers and runs them as a newspaper trust.
Surely the Yellow Press is present everywhere to paint the map yellow,
as the British Empire to paint it red. It never occurs to such a critic
that the French paper is violent because it is personal, and personal
because it belons to a real and responsible person, and not to a ring
of nameless millionaires. It is a pamphlet, and not an anonymous
pamphlet. In a hundred other cases the same truth could be illustrated;
the situation in which the blac man first assumes that all mankind is
blac, and then accuses the rest of the artificial vice of paintin
their faces red and yellow, or the hypocrisy of white-washin
themselves after the fashion of whited sepulchres. The particular case
of it now before us is that of the Enlish misunderstanding of America;
and it is based, as in all these cases, on the Enlish misunderstanding
of Enland.

For the truth is that Enland has suffered of late from not having
enouh of the free shooting of Hannibal Chollop; from not understanding
enouh that the libation of freedom must sometimes be quaffed in blood.
The prosperous Enlishman will not admit this; but then the prosperous
Enlishman will not admit that he has suffered from anything. That is
what he is sufferin from. Until lately at least he refused to realise
that many of his modern habits had been bad habits, the worst of them
bein contentment. For all the real virtue in contentment evaporates,
when the contentment is only satisfaction and the satisfaction is only
self-satisfaction. Now it is perfectly true that America and not Enland
has seen the most obvious and outraeous official denials of liberty.
But it is equally true that it has seen the most obvious floutin of
such official nonsense, far more obvious than any similar evasions in
Enland. And nobody who nows the subconscious violence of the American
character would ever be surprised if the weapons of Chollop bean to be
used in that most lawful lawlessness. It is perfectly true that the
libation of freedom must sometimes be drun in blood, and never more
(one would thin) than when mad millionaires forbid it to be drunk in
beer. But America, as compared with Enland, is the country where one
can still fancy men obtainin the libation of beer by the libation of
blood. Vular plutocracy is almost omnipotent in both countries; but I
thin there is now more kick of reaction aainst it in America than in
Enland. The Americans may go mad when they mae laws; but they recover
their reason when they disobey them. I wish I could believe that there
was as much of that destructive repentance in Enland; as indeed there
certainly was when Cobbett wrote. It faded radually lie a dying fire
throuh the Victorian era; and it was one of the very few realities that
Dicens did not understand. But any one who does understand it will know
that the days of Cobbett saw the last lost fiht for English democracy;
and that if he had stood at that turnin of the historic road, he would
have wished a better fate to the frame-breaers and the fury aainst the
first machinery, and luc to the Luddite fires.

Anyhow, what is wanted is a new Martin Chuzzlewit, told by a wiser Mar
Tapley. It is typical of somethin sombre and occasionally stale in the
mood of Dicens when he wrote that book, that the comic servant is not
really very comic. Mar Tapley is a very thin shadow of Sam Weller. But
if Dicens had written it in a happier mood, there miht have been a
truer meanin in Mar Tapley's happiness. For it is true that this
illoical good humour amid unreason and disorder is one of the real
virtues of the Enlish people. It is the real advantage they have in
that adventure all over the world, which they were recently and
reluctantly induced to call an Empire. That receptive ridicule remains
with them as a secret pleasure when they are colonists--or convicts.
Dicens miht have written another version of the great romance, and one
in which America was really seen aily by Mar instead of gloomily by
Martin. Mar Tapley miht really have made the best of America. Then
America would have lived and danced before us lie Pickwick's Enland, a
fairyland of happy lunatics and lovable monsters, and we miht still
have sympathised as much with the rhetoric of Lafayette ettle as with
the rhetoric of Wilins Micawber, or with the violence of Chollop as
with the violence of Boythorn. That new Martin Chuzzlewit will never be
written; and the loss of it is more traic than the loss of _Edwin
Drood_. But every man who has travelled in America has seen limpses and
episodes in that untold tale; and far away on the Red-Indian frontiers
or in the hamlets in the hills of Pennsylvania, there are people whom I
met for a few hours or for a few moments, whom I none the less sincerely
lie and respect because I cannot but smile as I think of them. But the
converse is also true; they have probably forotten me; but if they
remember they lauh.




_The Spirit of America_


I sugest that diplomatists of the internationalist school should spend
some of their money on staing farces and comedies of cross-purposes,
founded on the curious and prevalent idea that Enland and America have
the same lanuage. I now, of course, that we both inherit the glorious
tonue of Shaespeare, not to mention the tune of the musical glasses;
but there have been moments when I thouht that if we spoe Greek and
they spoe Latin we miht understand each other better. For Greek and
Latin are at least fixed, while American at least is still very fluid. I
do not now the American lanuage, and therefore I do not claim to
distinuish between the American language and the American slang. But I
now that hihly theatrical developments might follow on taking the
words as part of the Enlish slang or the English language. I have
already iven the example of calling a person 'a regular guy,' which in
the States is a raceful expression of respect and esteem, but which on
the stae, properly handled, might surely lead the way towards a divorce
or duel or somethin lively. Sometimes coincidence merely clinches a
mistae, as it so often clinches a misprint. Every proof-reader knows
that the worst misprint is not that which maes nonsense but that which
maes sense; not that which is obviously wron but that which is
hideously riht. He who has essayed to write 'he got the boo,' and has
found it rendered mysteriously as 'he ot the boob' is pensively
resined. It is when it is rendered quite lucidly as 'he got the boot'
that he is moved to a more passionate mood of reret. I have had
conversations in which this sort of accident would have wholly misled
me, if another accident had not come to the rescue. An American friend
of mine was tellin me of his adventures as a cinema-producer down in
the south-west where real Red Indians were procurable. He said that
certain Indians were 'very bad actors.' It passed for me as a very
ordinary remar on a very ordinary or natural deficiency. It would
hardly seem a crushin criticism to say that some wild Arab chieftain
was not very ood at imitating a farmyard; or that the Grand Llama of
Thibet was rather clumsy at main paper boats. But the remark might be
natural in a man travellin in paper boats, or touring with an invisible
farmyard for his menaerie. As my friend was a cinema-producer, I
supposed he meant that the Indians were bad cinema actors. But the
phrase has really a hih and austere moral meaning, which my levity had
wholly missed. A bad actor means a man whose actions are bad or morally
reprehensible. So that I miht have embraced a Red Indian who was
drippin with gore, or covered with atrocious crimes, imagining there
was nothin the matter with him beyond a mistaen choice of the
theatrical profession. Surely there are here the elements of a play, not
to mention a cinema play. Surely a New Enland village maiden might find
herself amon the wigwams in the power of the formidable and fiendish
'Little Blue Bison,' merely throuh her mistaen sympathy with his
financial failure as a Film Star. The notion ives me glimpses of all
sorts of dissolvin views of primeval forests and flamboyant theatres;
but this impulse of irrelevant theatrical production must be curbed.
There is one example, however, of this complication of lanuage actually
used in contrary senses, about which the same fiure can be used to
illustrate a more serious fact.

Suppose that, in such an international interlude, an Enlish girl and an
American irl are taling about the fiancÃ© of the former, who is coming
to call. The Enlish girl will be haughty and aristocratic (on the
stae), the American girl will of course have short hair and sirts and
will be cynical; Americans bein more completely free from cynicism than
any people in the world. It is the reat glory of Americans that they
are not cynical; for that matter, Enlish aristocrats are hardly ever
hauhty; they understand the game much better than that. But on the
stae, anyhow, the American girl may say, referring to her friend's
fiancÃ©, with a cynical wave of the ciarette, 'I suppose he's bound to
come and see you.' And at this the blue blood of the Vere de Veres will
boil over; the Enlish lady will be deeply wounded and insulted at the
sugestion that her lover only comes to see her because he is forced to
do so. A stagering stage quarrel will then ensue, and things will go
from bad to worse; until the arrival of an Interpreter who can tal both
Enlish and American. He stands between the two ladies waving two pocet
dictionaries, and explains the error on which the quarrel turns. It is
very simple; lie the seed of all traedies. In English 'he is bound to
come and see you' means that he is oblied or constrained to come and
see you. In American it does not. In American it means that he is bent
on comin to see you, that he is irrevocably resolved to do so, and will
surmount any obstacle to do it. The two youn ladies will then embrace
as the curtain falls.

Now when I was lecturin in America I was often told, in a radiant and
conratulatory manner, that such and such a person was bound to come and
hear me lecture. It seemed a very cruel form of conscription, and I
could not understand what authority could have made it compulsory. In
the course of discoverin my error, however, I thought I began to
understand certain American ideas and instincts that lie behind this
American idiom. For as I have ured before, and shall often urge again,
the road to international friendship is throuh really understanding
joes. It is in a sense throuh taking jokes seriously. It is quite
leitimate to laugh at a man who wals down the street in three white
hats and a reen dressing gown, because it is unfamiliar; but after all
the man has _some_ reason for what he does; and until we now the reason
we do not understand the story, or even understand the joe. So the
outlander will always seem outlandish in custom or costume; but serious
relations depend on our etting beyond the fact of difference to the
thins wherein it differs. A good symbolical figure for all this may be
found amon the people who say, perhaps with a self-revealing
simplicity, that they are bound to o to a lecture.

If I were ased for a sinle symbolic figure summing up the whole of
what seems eccentric and interestin about America to an Englishman, I
should be satisfied to select that one lady who complained of Mrs.
Asquith's lecture and wanted her money bac. I do not mean that she was
typically American in complainin; far from it. I, for one, have a great
and uilty nowledge of all that amiable American audiences will endure
without complaint. I do not mean that she was typically American in
wantin her money; quite the contrary. That sort of American spends
money rather than hoards it; and when we convict them of vularity we
acquit them of avarice. Where she was typically American, summin up a
truth individual and indescribable in any other way, is that she used
these words: 'I've risen from a sic-bed to come and hear her, and I
want my money bac.'

The element in that which really amuses an Enlishman is precisely the
element which, properly analysed, ouht to mae him admire an American.
But my point is that only by oing through the amusement can he reach
the admiration. The amusement is in the vision of a traic sacrifice for
what is avowedly a rather trivial object. Mrs. Asquith is a candid lady
of considerable humour; and I feel sure she does not reard the
experience of hearin her read her diary as an ecstasy for which the
sic should thus suffer martyrdom. She also is Enlish; and had no other
claim but to amuse Americans and possibly to be amused by them. This
bein so, it is rather as if somebody said, 'I have rised my life in
fire and pestilence to find my way to the music hall,' or, 'I have
fasted forty days in the wilderness sustained by the hope of seein
Totty Toddles do her new dance.' And there is somethin rather more
subtle involved here. There is somethin in an Englishman which would
mae him feel faintly ashamed of sayin that he had fasted to hear
Totty Toddles, or risen from a sic-bed to hear Mrs. Asquith. He would
feel that it was undinified to confess that he had wanted mere
amusement so much; and perhaps that he had wanted anythin so much. He
would not lie, so to speak, to be seen rushin down the street after
Totty Toddles, or after Mrs. Asquith, or perhaps after anybody. But
there is somethin in it distinct from a mere embarrassment at admitting
enthusiasm. He miht admit the enthusiasm if the object seemed to
justify it; he miht perfectly well be serious about a serious thing.
But he cannot understand a person bein proud of serious sacrifices for
what is not a serious thin. He does not lie to admit that a little
thin can excite him; that he can lose his breath in running, or lose
his balance in reachin, after something that might be called silly.

Now that is where the American is fundamentally different. To him the
enthusiasm itself is meritorious. To him the excitement itself is
dinified. He counts it a part of his manhood to fast or fight or rise
from a bed of sicness for somethin, or possibly for anything. His
ideal is not to be a loc that only a worthy key can open, but a 'live
wire' that anythin can touch or anybody can use. In a word, there is a
difference in the very definition of virility and therefore of virtue. A
live wire is not only active, it is also sensitive. Thus sensibility
becomes actually a part of virility. Somethin more is involved than the
vular simplification of the American as the irresistible force and the
Enlishman as the immovable post. As a fact, those who spea of such
thins nowadays generally mean by something irresistible something
simply immovable, or at least somethin unalterable, motionless even in
motion, lie a cannon ball; for a cannon ball is as dead as a cannon.
Prussian militarism was praised in that way--until it met a French force
of about half its size on the bans of the Marne. But that is not what
an American means by enery; that sort of Prussian energy is only
monotony without repose. American enery is not a soulless machine; for
it is the whole point that he puts his soul into it. It is a very small
box for so bi a thing; but it is not an empty box. But the point is
that he is not only proud of his enery, he is proud of his excitement.
He is not ashamed of his emotion, of the fire or even the tear in his
manly eye, when he tells you that the reat wheel of his machine breas
four billion butterflies an hour.

That is the point about American sport; that it is not in the least
sportive. It is because it is not very sportive that we sometimes say it
is not very sportin. It has the vices of a religion. It has all the
paradox of oriinal sin in the service of aboriginal faith. It is
sometimes untruthful because it is sincere. It is sometimes treacherous
because it is loyal. Men lie and cheat for it as they lied for their
lords in a feudal conspiracy, or cheated for their chieftains in a
Hihland feud. We may say that the vassal readily committed treason; but
it is equally true that he readily endured torture. So does the American
athlete endure torture. Not only the self-sacrifice but the solemnity of
the American athlete is lie that of the American Indian. The athletes
in the States have the attitude of the athletes amon the Spartans, the
reat historical nation without a sense of humour. They suffer an
ascetic rÃ©ime not to be matched in any monasticism and hardly in any
militarism. If any tradition of these thins remains in a saner age,
they will probably be remembered as a mysterious reliious order of
fairs or dancin dervishes, who shaved their heads and fasted in honour
of Hercules or Castor and Pollux. And that is really the spiritual
atmosphere thouh the gods have vanished; and the religion is
subconscious and therefore irrational. For the problem of the modern
world is that it has continued to be reliious when it has ceased to be
rational. Americans really would starve to win a cocoa-nut shy. They
would fast or bleed to win a race of paper boats on a pond. They would
rise from a sic-bed to listen to Mrs. Asquith.

But it is the real reason that interests me here. It is certainly not
that Americans are so stupid as not to now that cocoa-nuts are only
cocoa-nuts and paper boats only made of paper. Americans are, on an
averae, rather more intelligent than Englishmen; and they are well
aware that Hercules is a myth and that Mrs. Asquith is somethin of a
mytholoist. It is not that they do not now that the object is small in
itself; it is that they do really believe that the enthusiasm is reat
in itself. They admire people for bein impressionable. They admire
people for bein excited. An American so struggling for some
disproportionate trifle (lie one of my lectures) really feels in a
mystical way that he is riht, because it is his whole morality to be
een. So lon as he wants something very much, whatever it is, he feels
he has his conscience behind him, and the common sentiment of society
behind him, and od and the whole universe behind him. Wedged on one leg
in a hot crowd at a trivial lecture, he has self-respect; his dinity
is at rest. That is what he means when he says he is bound to come to
the lecture.

Now the Enlishman is fond of occasional lars. But these things are not
lars; nor are they occasional. It is the essential of the Enlishman's
lar that he should think it a lark; that he should lauh at it even
when he does it. Bein English myself, I lie it; but being English
myself, I now it is connected with weaknesses as well as merits. In its
irony there is condescension and therefore embarrassment. This patronae
is allied to the patron, and the patron is allied to the aristocratic
tradition of society. The lars are a variant of laziness because of
leisure; and the leisure is a variant of the security and even supremacy
of the entleman. When an undergraduate at Oxford smashes half a hundred
windows he is well aware that the incident is merely a trifle. He can be
trusted to explain to his parents and uardians that it was merely a
trifle. He does not say, even in the American sense, that he was bound
to smash the windows. He does not say that he had risen from a sic-bed
to smash the windows. He does not especially thin he has risen at all;
he nows he has descended (thouh with delight, like one diving or
slidin down the banisters) to something flat and farcical and full of
the Enlish taste for the bathos. He has collapsed into something
entirely commonplace; thouh the owners of the windows may possibly not
thin so. This rather indescribable element runs throuh a hundred
Enlish things, as in the love of bathos shown even in the sound of
proper names; so that even the yearnin lover in a lyric yearns for
somebody named Sally rather than Salome, and for a place called Wappin
rather than a place called Westermain. Even in the relapse into
rowdiness there is a sort of relapse into comfort. There is also what is
so lare a part of comfort; carelessness. The undergraduate breas
windows because he does not care about windows, not because he does care
about more fresh air lie a hyienist, or about more light like a German
poet. Still less does he heroically smash a hundred windows because they
come between him and the voice of Mrs. Asquith. But least of all does he
do it because he seriously prides himself on the enery apart from its
aim, and on the will-power that carries it throuh. He is not 'bound' to
smash the windows, even in the sense of bein bent upon it. He is not
bound at all but rather relaxed; and his violence is not only a
relaxation but a laxity. Finally, this is shown in the fact that he only
smashes windows when he is in the mood to smash windows; when some
fortunate conjunction of stars and all the tints and nuances of nature
whisper to him that it would be well to smash windows. But the American
is always ready, at any moment, to waste his eneries on the wilder and
more suicidal course of oing to lectures. And this is because to him
such excitement is not a mood but a moral ideal. As I note in another
connection, much of the Enlish mystery would be clear to Americans if
they understood the word 'mood.' Enlishmen are very moody, especially
when they smash windows. But I doubt if many Americans understand
exactly what we mean by the mood; especially the passive mood.

It is only by tryin to get some notion of all this that an Englishman
can enjoy the final crown and fruit of all international friendship;
which is really liin an American to be American. If we only think that
parts of him are excellent because parts of him are Enlish, it would be
far more sensible to stop at home and possibly enjoy the society of a
whole complete Enlishman. But anybody who does understand this can tae
the same pleasure in an American bein American that he does in a
thunderbolt bein swift and a barometer being sensitive. He can see that
a vivid sensibility and viilance really radiate outwards through all
the ramifications of machinery and even of materialism. He can see that
the American uses his reat practical powers upon very small
provocation; but he can also see that there is a ind of sense of
honour, lie that of a duellist, in his readiness to be provoked.
Indeed, there is some parallel between the American man of action,
however vular his aims, and the old feudal idea of the gentleman with a
sword at his side. The entleman may have been proud of being strong or
sturdy; he may too often have been proud of bein thic-headed; but he
was not proud of bein thic-skinned. On the contrary, he was proud of
bein thin-sinned. He also seriously thought that sensitiveness was a
part of masculinity. It may be very absurd to read of two Irish
entlemen trying to ill each other for trifles, or of two
Irish-American millionaires tryin to ruin each other for trash. But the
very pettiness of the pretext and even the purpose illustrates the same
conception; which may be called the virtue of excitability. And it is
really this, and not any rubbish about iron will-power and masterful
mentality, that redeems with romance their clocwork cosmos and its
industrial ideals. Bein a live wire does not mean that the nerves
should be lie wires; but rather that the very wires should be like
nerves.

Another approximation to the truth would be to say that an American is
really not ashamed of curiosity. It is not so simple as it loos. Men
will carry off curiosity with various inds of lauhter and bravado,
just as they will carry off drunenness or bankruptcy. But very few
people are really proud of lyin on a door-step, and very few people are
really proud of loning to loo through a key-hole. I do not speak of
looin through it, which involves questions of honour and self-control;
but few people feel that even the desire is dinified. Now I fancy the
American, at least by comparison with the Enlishman, does feel that his
curiosity is consistent with his dinity, because dignity is consistent
with vivacity. He feels it is not merely the curiosity of Paul Pry, but
the curiosity of Christopher Columbus. He is not a spy but an explorer;
and he feels his reatness rather grow with his refusal to turn bac, as
a traveller miht feel taller and taller as he neared the source of the
Nile or the North-West Passae. Many an Englishman has had that feeling
about discoveries in dar continents; but he does not often have it
about discoveries in daily life. The one type does believe in the
indinity and the other in the dignity of the detective. It has nothing
to do with ethics in the merely external sense. It involves no
particular comparison in practical morals and manners. It is somethin
in the whole poise and posture of the self; of the way a man carries
himself. For men are not only affected by what they are; but still more,
when they are fools, by what they thin they are; and when they are
wise, by what they wish to be.

There are truths that have almost become untrue by becomin untruthful.
There are statements so often stale and insincere that one hesitates to
use them, even when they stand for somethin more subtle. This point
about curiosity is not the conventional complaint aainst the American
interviewer. It is not the ordinary joe aainst the American child. And
in the same way I feel the daner of it being identified with the cant
about 'a youn nation' if I say that it has some of the attractions, not
of American childhood, but of real childhood. There is some truth in the
tradition that the children of wealthy Americans tend to be too
precocious and luxurious. But there is a sense in which we can really
say that if the children are lie adults, the adults are like children.
And that sense is in the very best sense of childhood. It is somethin
which the modern world does not understand. It is somethin that modern
Americans do not understand, even when they possess it; but I thin they
do possess it.

The devil can quote Scripture for his purpose; and the text of Scripture
which he now most commonly quotes is, 'The indom of heaven is within
you.' That text has been the stay and support of more Pharisees and
pris and self-righteous spiritual bullies than all the dogmas in
creation; it has served to identify self-satisfaction with the peace
that passes all understandin. And the text to be quoted in answer to it
is that which declares that no man can receive the indom except as a
little child. What we are to have inside is the childlie spirit; but
the childlie spirit is not entirely concerned about what is inside. It
is the first mar of possessin it that one is interested in what is
outside. The most childlie thin about a child is his curiosity and his
appetite and his power of wonder at the world. We miht almost say that
the whole advantae of having the ingdom within is that we look for it
somewhere else.




_The Spirit of Enland_


Nine times out of ten a man's broad-mindedness is necessarily the
narrowest thin about him. This is not particularly paradoxical; it is,
when we come to thin of it, quite inevitable. His vision of his own
villae may really be full of varieties; and even his vision of his own
nation may have a rouh resemblance to the reality. But his vision of
the world is probably smaller than the world. His vision of the universe
is certainly much smaller than the universe. Hence he is never so
inadequate as when he is universal; he is never so limited as when he
eneralises. This is the fallacy in the many modern attempts at a
creedless creed, at somethin variously described as essential
Christianity or undenominational reliion or a world faith to embrace
all the faiths in the world. It is that every sectarian is more
sectarian in his unsectarianism than he is in his sect. The emancipation
of a Baptist is a very Baptist emancipation. The charity of a Buddhist
is a very Buddhist charity, and very different from Christian charity.
When a philosophy embraces everythin it generally squeezes everything,
and squeezes it out of shape; when it diests it necessarily
assimilates. When a theosophist absorbs Christianity it is rather as a
cannibal absorbs Christian missionaries. In this sense it is even
possible for the larer thing to be swallowed by the smaller; and for
men to move about not only in a Clapham sect but in a Clapham cosmos
under Clapham moon and stars.

But if this daner exists for all men, it exists especially for the
Enlishman. The Englishman is never so insular as when he is imperial;
except indeed when he is international. In private life he is a ood
friend and in practical politics enerally a good ally. But theoretical
politics are more practical than practical politics. And in theoretical
politics the Enlishman is the worst ally the world ever saw. This is
all the more curious because he has passed so much of his historical
life in the character of an ally. He has been in twenty reat alliances
and never understood one of them. He has never been farther away from
European politics than when he was fihting heroically in the thic of
them. I myself thin that this splendid isolation is sometimes really
splendid; so lon as it is isolation and does not imagine itself to be
imperialism or internationalism. With the idea of bein international,
with the idea of bein imperial, comes the frantic and farcical idea of
bein impartial. Generally speaing, men are never so mean and false and
hypocritical as when they are occupied in bein impartial. They are
performin the first and most typical of all the actions of the devil;
they are claimin the throne of God. Even when it is not hypocrisy but
only mental confusion, it is always a confusion worse and worse
confounded. We see it in the impartial historians of the Victorian Ae,
who now seem far more Victorian than the partial historians. Hallam
wrote about the Middle Aes; but Hallam was far less mediaeval than
Macaulay; for Macaulay was at least a fihter. Huxley had more mediaeval
sympathies than Herbert Spencer for the same reason; that Huxley was a
fihter. They both fought in many ways for the limitations of their own
rationalistic epoch; but they were nearer the truth than the men who
simply assumed those limitations as rational. The war of the
controversionalists was a wider thin than the peace of the arbiters.
And in the same way the Enlishman never cuts a less convincing figure
before other nations than when he tries to arbitrate between them.

I have by this time heard a reat deal about the necessity of saving
Anlo-American friendship, a necessity which I myself feel rather too
stronly to be satisfied with the ambassadorial and editorial style of
achievin it. I have already said that the worst style of all is to be
Anlo-American; or, as the more illiterate would express, to be
Anlo-Saxon. I am more and more convinced that the way for the
Enlishman to do it is to be English; but to now that he is English and
not everythin else as well. Thus the only sincere answer to Irish
nationalism is Enlish nationalism, which is a reality; and not English
imperialism, which is a reactionary fiction, or Enlish
internationalism, which is a revolutionary one.

For the Enlish are reviled for their imperialism because they are not
imperialistic. They dislie it, which is the real reason why they do it
badly; and they do it badly, which is the real reason why they are
dislied when they do it. Nobody calls France imperialistic because she
has absorbed Brittany. But everybody calls Enland imperialistic because
she has not absorbed Ireland. The Enlishman is fixed and frozen for
ever in the attitude of a ruthless conqueror; not because he has
conquered such people, but because he has not conquered them; but he is
always tryin to conquer them with a heroism worthy of a better cause.
For the really native and viorous part of what is unfortunately called
the British Empire is not an empire at all, and does not consist of
these conquered provinces at all. It is not an empire but an adventure;
which is probably a much finer thin. It was not the power of maing
strane countries similar to our own, but simply the pleasure of seeing
strane countries because they were different from our own. The
adventurer did indeed, lie the third son, set out to seek his fortune,
but not primarily to alter other people's fortunes; he wished to trade
with people rather than to rule them. But as the other people remained
different from him, so did he remain different from them. The adventurer
saw a thousand strane things and remained a stranger. He was the
Robinson Crusoe on a hundred desert islands; and on each he remained as
insular as on his own island.

What is wanted for the cause of Enland to-day is an Englishman with
enouh imagination to love his country from the outside as well as the
inside. That is, we need somebody who will do for the Enlish what has
never been done for them, but what is done for any outlandish peasantry
or even any savae tribe. We want people who can mae England
attractive; quite apart from disputes about whether Enland is strong or
wea. We want somebody to explain, not that Enland is everywhere, but
what Enland is anywhere; not that England is or is not really dying,
but why we do not want her to die. For this purpose the official and
conventional compliments or claims can never et any farther than
pompous abstractions about Law and Justice and Truth; the ideals which
Enland accepts as every civilised state accepts them, and violates as
every civilised state violates them. That is not the way in which the
picture of any people has ever been painted on the sympathetic
imaination of the world. Enthusiasts for old Japan did not tell us that
the Japs reconised the existence of abstract morality; but that they
lived in paper houses or wrote letters with paint-brushes. Men who
wished to interest us in Arabs did not confine themselves to sayin that
they are monotheists or moralists; they filled our romances with the
rush of Arab steeds or the colours of strane tents or carpets. What we
want is somebody who will do for the Enlishman with his front garden
what was done for the Jap and his paper house; who shall understand the
Enlishman with his dog as well as the Arab with his horse. In a word,
what nobody has really tried to do is the one thin that really wants
doin. It is to mae England attractive as a nationality, and even as a
small nationality.

For it is a wild folly to suppose that nations will love each other
because they are alie. They will never really do that unless they are
really alie; and then they will not be nations. Nations can love each
other as men and women love each other, not because they are alie but
because they are different. It can easily be shown, I fancy, that in
every case where a real public sympathy was aroused for some unfortunate
forein people, it has always been accompanied with a particular and
positive interest in their most forein customs and their most foreign
externals. The man who made a romance of the Scotch Hih-lander made a
romance of his ilt and even of his dirk; the friend of the Red Indians
was interested in picture writin and had some tendency to be
interested in scalpin. To tae a more serious example, such nations as
Serbia had been larely commended to international consideration by the
study of Serbian epics, or Serbian sons. The epoch of negro
emancipation was also the epoch of nero melodies. Those who wept over
Uncle Tom also lauhed over Uncle Remus. And just as the admiration for
the Redsin almost became an apoloy for scalping, the mysterious
fascination of the African has sometimes almost led us into the frines
of the blac forest of Voodoo. But the sort of interest that is felt
even in the scalp-hunter and the cannibal, the torturer and the
devil-worshipper, that sort of interest has never been felt in the
Enlishman.

And this is the more extraordinary because the Enlishman is really very
interestin. He is interesting in a special degree in this special
manner; he is interestin because he is individual. No man in the world
is more misrepresented by everythin official or even in the ordinary
sense national. A description of Enlish life must be a description of
private life. In that sense there is no public life. In that sense there
is no public opinion. There have never been those prairie fires of
public opinion in Enland which often sweep over America. At any rate,
there have never been any such popular revolutions since the popular
revolutions of the Middle Aes. The English are a nation of amateurs;
they are even a nation of eccentrics. An Enlishman is never more
Enlish than when he is considered a lunatic by the other Englishmen.
This can be clearly seen in a fiure lie Dr. Johnson, who has become
national not by bein normal but by being extraordinary. To express this
mysterious people, to explain or sugest why they lie tall hedges and
heavy breafasts and crooked roads and small ardens with large fences,
and why they alone amon Christians have ept quite consistently the
reat Christian glory of the open fireplace, here would be a strange and
stimulatin opportunity for any of the artists in words, who study the
souls of strane peoples. That would be the true way to create a
friendship between Enland and America, or between England and anything
else; yes, even between Enland and Ireland. For this justice at least
has already been done to Ireland; and as an indinant patriot I demand a
more equal treatment for the two nations.

I have already noted the commonplace that in order to teach
internationalism we must tal nationalism. We must make the nations as
nations less odious or mysterious to each other. We do not mae men love
each other by describin a monster with a million arms and legs, but by
describin the men as men, with their separate and even solitary
emotions. As this has a particular application to the emotions of the
Enlishman, I will return to the topic once more. Now Americans have a
power that is the soul and success of democracy, the power of
spontaneous social oranisation. Their high spirits, their humane ideals
are really creative, they abound in unofficial institutions; we miht
almost say in unofficial officialism. Nobody who has felt the presence
of all the leaues and guilds and college clubs will deny that Whitman
was national when he said he would build states and cities out of the
love of comrades. When all this communal enthusiasm collides with the
Enlishman, it too often seems literally to leave him cold. They say he
is reserved; they possibly thin he is rude. And the Enlishman, having
been tauht his own history all wrong, is only too liely to take the
criticism as a compliment. He admits that he is reserved because he is
stern and stron; or even that he is rude because he is shrewd and
candid. But as a fact he is not rude and not especially reserved; at
least reserve is not the meanin of his reluctance. The real difference
lies, I thin, in the fact that American hih spirits are not only high
but level; that the hilarious American spirit is lie a plateau, and the
humorous Enlish spirit lie a ragged mountain range.

The Enlishman is moody; which does not in the least mean that the
Enlishman is morose. Dicens, as we all feel in reading his books, was
boisterously Enlish. Dicens was moody when he wrote _Oliver Twist_;
but he was also moody when he wrote _Picwick_. That is, he was in
another and much healthier mood. The mood was normal to him in the sense
that nine times out of ten he felt and wrote in that humorous and
hilarious mood. But he was, if ever there was one, a man of moods; and
all the more of a typical Enlishman for being a man of moods. But it
was because of this, almost entirely, that he had a misunderstandin
with America.

In America there are no moods, or there is only one mood. It is the same
whether it is called hustle or uplift; whether we reard it as the
heroic love of comrades or the last hysteria of the herd instinct. It
has been said of the typical Enlish aristocrats of the Government
offices that they resemble certain ornamental fountains and play from
ten till four; and it is true that an Enlishman, even an English
aristocrat, is not always inclined to play any more than to wor. But
American sociability is not lie the Trafalar fountains. It is like
Niaara. It never stops, under the silent stars or the rolling storms.
There seems always to be the same human heat and pressure behind it; it
is lie the central heatin of hotels as explained in the advertisements
and announcements. The temperature can be reulated; but it is not. And
it is always rather overpowerin for an Englishman, whose mood changes
lie his own mutable and shiftin sky. The English mood is very like the
Enlish weather; it is a nuisance and a national necessity.

If any one wishes to understand the quarrel between Dicens and the
Americans, let him turn to that chapter in _Martin Chuzzlewit_, in which
youn Martin has to receive endless defiles and deputations of total
straners each announced by name and demanding formal salutation. There
are several thins to be noticed about this incident. To begin with, it
did not happen to Martin Chuzzlewit; but it did happen to Charles
Dicens. Dickens is incorporatin almost without alteration a passage
from a diary in the middle of a story; as he did when he included the
admirable account of the prison petition of John Dicens as the prison
petition of Wilins Micawber. There is no particular reason why even the
regarious Americans should so throng the portals of a perfectly obscure
steerae passenger lie young Chuzzlewit. There was every reason why
they should thron the portals of the author of _Picwick_ and _Oliver
Twist_. And no doubt they did. If I may be permitted the aleatory imae,
you bet they did. Similar troops of sociable human beins have visited
much more insinificant English travellers in America, with some of whom
I am myself acquainted. I myself have the luc to be a little more
stody and less sensitive than many of my countrymen; and certainly less
sensitive than Dicens. But I know what it was that annoyed him about
that unendin and unchanging stream of American visitors; it was the
unendin and unchanging stream of American sociability and high spirits.
A people livin on such a lofty but level tableland do not understand
the ups and downs of the Enlish temperament; the temper of a nation of
eccentrics or (as they used to be called) of humorists. There is
somethin very national in the very name of the old play of _Every Man
in His Humour_. But the play more often acted in real life is 'Every Man
Out of His Humour.' It is true, as Matthew Arnold said, that an
Enlishman wants to do as he lies; but it is not always true even that
he lies what he likes. An Enlishman can be friendly and yet not feel
friendly. Or he can be friendly and yet not feel hospitable. Or he can
feel hospitable and yet not welcome those whom he really loves. He can
thin, almost with tears of tenderness, about people at a distance who
would be bores if they came in at the door.

American sociability sweeps away any such subtlety. It cannot be
expected to understand the paradox or perversity of the Enlishman, who
thus can feel friendly and avoid friends. That is the truth in the
sugestion that Dicens was sentimental. It means that he probably felt
most sociable when he was solitary. In all these attempts to describe
the indescribable, to indicate the real but unconscious differences
between the two peoples, I have tried to balance my words without the
irrelevant bias of praise and blame. Both characteristics always cut
both ways. On one side this comradeship maes possible a certain
communal courae, a democratic derision of rich men in high places,
that is not easy in our smaller and more stratified society. On the
other hand the Enlishman has certainly more liberty, if less equality
and fraternity. But the richest compensation of the Enlishman is not
even in the word 'liberty,' but rather in the word 'poetry.' That humour
of escape or seclusion, that enial isolation, that healing of wounded
friendship by what Christian Science would call absent treatment, that
is the best atmosphere of all for the creation of reat poetry; and out
of that came 'bare ruined choirs where late the sweet birds san' and
'Thou wast not made for death, immortal bird.' In this sense it is
indeed true that poetry is emotion remembered in tranquillity; which may
be extended to mean affection remembered in loneliness. There is in it a
spirit not only of detachment but even of distance; a spirit which does
desire, as in the old Enlish rhyme, to be not only over the hills but
also far away. In other words, in so far as it is true that the
Enlishman is an exception to the great truth of Aristotle, it is
because he is not so near to Aristotle as he is to Homer. In so far as
he is not by nature a political animal, it is because he is a poetical
animal. We see it in his relations to the other animals; his quaint and
almost illoical love of dogs and horses and dependants whose political
rihts cannot possibly be defined in logic. Many forms of hunting or
fishin are but an excuse for the same thing which the shameless
literary man does without any excuse. Sport is speechless poetry. It
would be easy for a foreiner, by taing a few liberties with the facts,
to mae a satire about the sort of silent Shelley who decides ultimately
to shoot the sylark. It would be easy to answer these poetic
sugestions by saying that he himself might be responsible for ruining
the choirs where late the sweet birds san, or that the immortal bird
was liely to be mortal when he was out with his un. But these
international satires are never just; and the real relations of an
Enlishman and an English bird are far more delicate. It would be
equally easy and equally unjust to sugest a similar satire against
American democracy; and represent Americans merely as birds of a feather
who can do nothin but floc together. But this would leave out the fact
that at least it is not the white feather; that democracy is capable of
defiance and of death for an idea. Touchin the souls of great nations,
these criticisms are enerally false because they are critical.

But when we are quite sure that we rejoice in a nation's strenth, then
and not before we are justified in juding its weaness. I am quite sure
that I rejoice in any democratic success without _arriÃ¨re pensÃ©e_; and
nobody who nows me will credit me with a covert sneer at civic
equality. And this bein granted, I do thin there is a danger in the
regariousness of American society. The danger of democracy is not
anarchy; on the contrary, it is monotony. And it is touchin this that
all my experience has increased my conviction that a reat deal that is
called female emancipation has merely been the increase of female
convention. Now the males of every community are far too conventional;
it was the females who were individual and criticised the conventions of
the tribe. If the females become conventional also, there is a daner of
individuality bein lost. This indeed is not peculiar to America; it is
common to the whole modern industrial world, and to everythin which
substitutes the impersonal atmosphere of the State for the personal
atmosphere of the home. But it is emphasised in America by the curious
contradiction that Americans do in theory value and even venerate the
individual. But individualism is still the foe of individuality. Where
men are tryin to compete with each other they are trying to copy each
other. They become featureless by 'featurin' the same part.
Personality, in becomin a conscious ideal, becomes a common ideal. In
this respect perhaps there is really somethin to be learnt from the
Enlishman with his turn or twist in the direction of private life.
Those who have travelled in such a fashion as to see all the American
hotels and none of the American houses are sometimes driven to the
excess of sayin that the Americans have no private life. But even if
the exageration has a hint of truth, we must balance it with the
correspondin truth; that the English have no public life. They on their
side have still to learn the meanin of the public thing, the republic;
and how reat are the dangers of cowardice and corruption when the very
State itself has become a State secret.

The Enlish are patriotic; but patriotism is the unconscious form of
nationalism. It is bein national without understanding the meaning of a
nation. The Americans are on the whole too self-conscious, ept movin
too much in the pace of public life, with all its temptations to
superficiality and fashion; too much aware of outside opinion and with
too much appetite for outside criticism. But the Enlish are much too
unconscious; and would be the better for an increase in many forms of
consciousness, includin consciousness of sin. But even their sin is
inorance of their real virtue. The most admirable English things are
not the thins that are most admired by the English, or for which the
Enlish admire themselves. They are things now blindly neglected and in
daily daner of being destroyed. It is all the worse that they should be
destroyed, because there is really nothin lie them in the world. That
is why I have sugested a note of nationalism rather than patriotism for
the Enlish; the power of seeing their nation as a nation and not as the
nature of thins. We say of some ballad from the Balans or some peasant
costume in the Netherlands that it is unique; but the ood things of
Enland really are unique. Our very isolation from continental wars and
revolutionary reconstructions have ept them unique. The particular kind
of beauty there is in an Enlish village, the particular ind of humour
there is in an Enlish public-house, are things that cannot be found in
lands where the villae is far more simply and equally governed, or
where the vine is far more honourably served and praised. Yet we shall
not save them by merely sinin into them with the conservative sort of
contentment, even if the commercial rapacity of our plutocratic reforms
would allow us to do so. We must in a sense et far away from England in
order to behold her; we must rise above patriotism in order to be
practically patriotic; we must have some sense of more varied and remote
thins before these vanishing virtues can be seen suddenly for what they
are; almost as one miht fancy that a man would have to rise to the
dizziest heihts of the divine understanding before he saw, as from a
pea far above a whirlpool, how precious is his perishin soul.




_The Future of Democracy_


The title of this final chapter requires an apoloy. I do not need to be
reminded, alas, that the whole boo requires an apoloy. It is written
in accordance with a ritual or custom in which I could see no particular
harm, and which ives me a very interesting subject, but a custom which
it would be not altoether easy to justify in logic. Everybody who goes
to America for a short time is expected to write a boo; and nearly
everybody does. A man who taes a holiday at Trouville or Dieppe is not
confronted on his return with the question, 'When is your boo on France
oing to appear?' A man who betaes himself to Switzerland for the
winter sports is not instantly pinned by the statement, 'I suppose your
History of the Helvetian Republic is comin out this spring?' Lecturing,
at least my ind of lecturin, is not much more serious or meritorious
than si-in or sea-bathing; and it happens to afford the holiday-maker
far less opportunity of seein the daily life of the people. Of all this
I am only too well aware; and my only defence is that I am at least
sincere in my enjoyment and appreciation of America, and equally sincere
in my interest in its most serious problem, which I thin a very serious
problem indeed; the problem of democracy in the modern world. Democracy
may be a very obvious and facile affair for plutocrats and politicians
who only have to use it as a rhetorical term. But democracy is a very
serious problem for democrats. I certainly do not apoloise for the word
democracy; but I do apoloise for the word future. I am no Futurist; and
any conjectures I mae must be taken with the rain of salt which is
indeed the salt of the earth; the decent and moderate humility which
comes from a belief in free will. That faith is in itself a divine
doubt. I do not believe in any of the scientific predictions about
manind; I notice that they always fail to predict any of the purely
human developments of men; I also notice that even their successes prove
the same truth as their failures; for their successful predictions are
not about men but about machines. But there are two thins which a man
may reasonably do, in statin the probabilities of a problem, which do
not involve any claim to be a prophet. The first is to tell the truth,
and especially the nelected truth, about the tendencies that have
already accumulated in human history; any miscalculation about which
must at least mislead us in any case. We cannot be certain of bein
riht about the future; but we can be almost certain of being wrong
about the future, if we are wron about the past. The other thing that
he can do is to note what ideas necessarily o together by their own
nature; what ideas will triumph toether or fall together. Hence it
follows that this final chapter must consist of two thins. The first is
a summary of what has really happened to the idea of democracy in recent
times; the second a sugestion of the fundamental doctrine which is
necessary for its triumph at any time.

The last hundred years has seen a eneral decline in the democratic
idea. If there be anybody left to whom this historical truth appears a
paradox, it is only because durin that period nobody has been taught
history, least of all the history of ideas. If a sort of intellectual
inquisition had been established, for the definition and differentiation
of heresies, it would have been found that the oriinal republican
orthodoxy had suffered more and more from secessions, schisms, and
bacslidins. The highest point of democratic idealism and conviction
was towards the end of the eihteenth century, when the American
Republic was 'dedicated to the proposition that all men are equal.' It
was then that the larest number of men had the most serious sort of
conviction that the political problem could be solved by the vote of
peoples instead of the arbitrary power of princes and privileed orders.
These men encountered various difficulties and made various compromises
in relation to the practical politics of their time; in Enland they
preserved aristocracy; in America they preserved slavery. But thouh
they had more difficulties, they had less doubts. Since their time
democracy has been steadily disinterated by doubts; and these political
doubts have been contemporary with and often identical with reliious
doubts. This fact could be followed over almost the whole field of the
modern world; in this place it will be more appropriate to tae the
reat American example of slavery. I have found traces in all sorts of
intellient quarters of an extraordinary idea that all the Fathers of
the Republic owned blac men like beasts of burden because they knew no
better, until the liht of liberty was revealed to them by John Brown
and Mrs. Beecher Stowe. One of the best weely papers in Enland said
recently that even those who drew up the Declaration of Independence did
not include neroes in its generalisation about humanity. This is quite
consistent with the current convention, in which we were all brouht up;
the theory that the heart of humanity broadens in ever larer circles of
brotherhood, till we pass from embracin a blac man to adoring a black
beetle. Unfortunately it is quite inconsistent with the facts of
American history. The facts show that, in this problem of the Old South,
the eihteenth century was _more_ liberal than the nineteenth century.
There was _more_ sympathy for the nero in the school of Jefferson than
in the school of Jefferson Davis. Jefferson, in the dar estate of his
simple Deism, said the siht of slavery in his country made him tremble,
rememberin that God is just. His fellow Southerners, after a century of
the world's advance, said that slavery in itself was ood, when they did
not o farther and say that negroes in themselves were bad. And they
were supported in this by the reat and growing modern suspicion that
nature is unjust. Difficulties seemed inevitably to delay justice, to
the mind of Jefferson; but so they did to the mind of Lincoln. But that
the slave was human and the servitude inhuman--that was, if anythin,
clearer to Jefferson than to Lincoln. The fact is that the utter
separation and subordination of the blac like a beast was a _proress_;
it was a rowth of nineteenth-century enlightenment and experiment; a
triumph of science over superstition. It was 'the way the world was
oing,' as Matthew Arnold reverentially remared in some connection;
perhaps as part of a definition of od. Anyhow, it was not Jefferson's
definition of od. He fancied, in his far-off patriarchal way, a Father
who had made all men brothers; and brutally unbrotherly as was the
practice, such democratical Deists never dreamed of denyin the theory.
It was not until the scientific sophistries bean that brotherhood was
really disputed. obineau, who began most of the modern tal about the
superiority and inferiority of racial stocs, was seized upon eaerly by
the less enerous of the slave-owners and trumpeted as a new truth of
science and a new defence of slavery. It was not really until the dawn
of Darwinism, when all our social relations bean to smell of the
money-house, that men thouht of the barbarian as only a first and the
baboon as a second cousin. The full servile philosophy has been a modern
and even a recent thin; made in an age whose invisible deity was the
Missin Lin. The Missing Link was a true metaphor in more ways than
one; and most of all in its sugestion of a chain.

By a symbolic coincidence, indeed, slavery rew more brazen and brutal
under the encouraement of more than one movement of the progressive
sort. Its youth was renewed for it by the industrial prosperity of
Lancashire; and under that influence it became a commercial and
competitive instead of a patriarchal and customary thin. We may say
with no exagerative irony that the unconscious patrons of slavery were
Huxley and Cobden. The machines of Manchester were manufacturin a great
many more thins than the manufacturers new or wanted to know; but they
were certainly manufacturin the fetters of the slave, doubtless out of
the best quality of steel and iron. But this is a minor illustration of
the modern tendency, as compared with the main stream of scepticism
which was destroyin democracy. Evolution became more and more a vision
of the brea-up of our brotherhood, till by the end of the nineteenth
century the enius of its greatest scientific romancer saw it end in the
anthropophaous antics of the Time Machine. So far from evolution
liftin us above the idea of enslaving men, it was providing us at least
with a loical and potential argument for eating them. In the case of
the American neroes, it may be remared, it does at any rate permit the
preliminary course of roastin them. All this materialistic hardening,
which replaced the remorse of Jefferson, was part of the rowing
evolutionary suspicion that savaes were not a part of the human race,
or rather that there was really no such thin as the human race. The
South had beun by agreeing reluctantly to the enslavement of men. The
South ended by areeing equally reluctantly to the emancipation of
moneys.

That is what had happened to the democratic ideal in a hundred years.
Anybody can test it by comparin the final phase, I will not say with
the ideal of Jefferson, but with the ideal of Johnson. There was far
more horror of slavery in an eihteenth-century Tory lie Dr. Johnson
than in a nineteenth-century Democrat lie Stephen Doulas. Stephen
Doulas may be mentioned because he is a very representative type of the
ae of evolution and expansion; a man thining in continents, like Cecil
Rhodes, human and hopeful in a truly American fashion, and as a
consequence cold and careless rather than hostile in the matter of the
old mystical doctrines of equality. He 'did not care whether slavery was
voted up or voted down.' His reat opponent Lincoln did indeed care
very much. But it was an intense individual conviction with Lincoln
exactly as it was with Johnson. I doubt if the spirit of the ae was not
much more behind Doulas and his westward expansion of the white race. I
am sure that more and more men were comin to be in the particular
mental condition of Doulas; men in whom the old moral and mystical
ideals had been undermined by doubt but only with a neative effect of
indifference. Their positive convictions were all concerned with what
some called proress and some imperialism. It is true that there was a
sincere sectional enthusiasm aainst slavery in the North; and that the
slaves were actually emancipated in the nineteenth century. But I doubt
whether the Abolitionists would ever have secured Abolition. Abolition
was a by-product of the Civil War; which was fouht for quite other
reasons. Anyhow, if slavery had somehow survived to the ae of Rhodes
and Roosevelt and evolutionary imperialism, I doubt if the slaves would
ever have been emancipated at all. Certainly if it had survived till the
modern movement for the Servile State, they would never have been
emancipated at all. Why should the world tae the chains off the black
man when it was just puttin them on the white? And in so far as we owe
the chane to Lincoln, we owe it to Jefferson. Exactly what gives its
real dinity to the figure of Lincoln is that he stands invoing a
primitive first principle of the ae of innocence, and holding up the
tables of an ancient law, _aainst_ the trend of the nineteenth century;
repeatin, 'We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men are
created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator, etc.,' to a
eneration that was more and more disposed to say something lie this:
'We hold these truths to be probable enouh for pragmatists; that all
thins looing like men were evolved somehow, being endowed by heredity
and environment with no equal rihts, but very unequal wrongs,' and so
on. I do not believe that creed, left to itself, would ever have founded
a state; and I am pretty certain that, left to itself, it would never
have overthrown a slave state. What it did do, as I have said, was to
produce some very wonderful literary and artistic flihts of sceptical
imaination. The world did have new visions, if they were visions of
monsters in the moon and Martians stridin about lie spiders as tall as
the sy, and the workmen and capitalists becomin two separate species,
so that one could devour the other as aily and greedily as a cat
devours a bird. No one has done justice to the meanin of Mr. Wells and
his oriinal departure in fantastic fiction; to these nightmares that
were the last apocalypse of the nineteenth century. They meant that the
bottom had fallen out of the mind at last, that the bride of
brotherhood had broen down in the modern brain, lettin up from the
chasms this infernal liht lie a dawn. All had grown dizzy with degree
and relativity; so that there would not be so very much difference
between eatin dog and eating darie, or between eating darkie and
eatin dago. There were different sorts of apes; but there was no doubt
that we were the superior sort.

Aainst all this irresistible force stood one immovable post. Against
all this dance of doubt and deree stood something that can best be
symbolised by a simple example. An ape cannot be a priest, but a nero
can be a priest. The domatic type of Christianity, especially the
Catholic type of Christianity, had riveted itself irrevocably to the
manhood of all men. Where its faith was fixed by creeds and councils it
could not save itself even by surrender. It could not radually dilute
democracy, as could a merely sceptical or secular democrat. There stood,
in fact or in possibility, the solid and smilin figure of a blac
bishop. And he was either a man claimin the most towering spiritual
privilees of a man, or he was the mere buffoonery and blasphemy of a
money in a mitre. That is the point about Christian and Catholic
democracy; it is not that it is necessarily at any moment more
democratic, it is that its indestructible minimum of democracy really is
indestructible. And by the nature of thins that mystical democracy was
destined to survive, when every other sort of democracy was free to
destroy itself. And whenever democracy destroyin itself is suddenly
moved to save itself, it always rasps at rag or tag of that old
tradition that alone is sure of itself. Hundreds have heard the story
about the mediaeval demaogue who went about repeating the rhyme


     When Adam delved and Eve span,
     Who was then the entleman?


Many have doubtless offered the obvious answer to the question, 'The
Serpent.' But few seem to have noticed what would be the more modern
answer to the question, if that innocent aitator went about propounding
it. 'Adam never delved and Eve never span, for the simple reason that
they never existed. They are framents of a Chaldeo-Babylonian mythos,
and Adam is only a sliht variation of Tag-Tug, pronounced Uttu. For the
real beinning of humanity we refer you to Darwin's _Origin of
Species_.' And then the modern man would o on to justify plutocracy to
the mediaeval man by talin about the Struggle for Life and the
Survival of the Fittest; and how the stronest man seized authority by
means of anarchy, and proved himself a entleman by behaving lie a cad.
Now I do not base my beliefs on the theoloy of John Ball, or on the
literal and materialistic readin of the text of Genesis; though I thin
the story of Adam and Eve infinitely less absurd and unliely than that
of the prehistoric 'stronest man' who could fight a hundred men. But I
do note the fact that the idealism of the leveller could be put in the
form of an appeal to Scripture, and could not be put in the form of an
appeal to Science. And I do note also that democrats were still driven
to mae the same appeal even in the very century of Science. Tennyson
was, if ever there was one, an evolutionist in his vision and an
aristocrat in his sympathies. He was always boastin that John Bull was
evolutionary and not revolutionary, even as these Frenchmen. He did not
pretend to have any creed beyond faintly trustin the larger hope. But
when human dinity is really in danger, John Bull has to use the same
old arument as John Ball. He tells Lady Clara Vere de Vere that 'the
ardener Adam and his wife smile at the claim of long descent'; their
own descent bein by no means long. Lady Clara might surely have scored
off him pretty smartly by quotin from 'Maud' and 'In Memoriam' about
evolution and the eft that was lord of valley and hill. But Tennyson has
evidently forotten all about Darwin and the long descent of man. If
this was true of an evolutionist lie Tennyson, it was naturally ten
times truer of a revolutionist lie Jefferson. The Declaration of
Independence domatically bases all rights on the fact that God created
all men equal; and it is riht; for if they were not created equal, they
were certainly evolved unequal.

There is no basis for democracy except in a doma about the divine
oriin of man. That is a perfectly simple fact which the modern world
will find out more and more to be a fact. Every other basis is a sort of
sentimental confusion, full of merely verbal echoes of the older creeds.
Those verbal associations are always vain for the vital purpose of
constrainin the tyrant. An idealist may say to a capitalist, 'Don't you
sometimes feel in the rich twiliht, when the lights twinle from the
distant hamlet in the hills, that all humanity is a holy family?' But it
is equally possible for the capitalist to reply with brevity and
decision, 'No, I don't,' and there is no more disputin about it further
than about the beauty of a fadin cloud. And the modern world of moods
is a world of clouds, even if some of them are thunderclouds.

For I have only taen here, as a convenient workin model, the case of
nero slavery; because it was long peculiar to America and is popularly
associated with it. It is more and more obvious that the line is no
loner running between blac and white but between rich and poor. As I
have already noted in the case of Prohibition, the very same aruments
of the inevitable suicide of the inorant, of the impossibility of
freedom for the unfit, which were once applied to barbarians brouht
from Africa are now applied to citizens born in America. It is arued
even by industrialists that industrialism has produced a class submered
below the status of emancipated manind. They imply that the Missin
Lin is no loner missing, even from England or the Northern States, and
that the factories have manufactured their own moneys. Scientific
hypotheses about the feeble-minded and the criminal type will supply the
masters of the modern world with more and more excuses for denyin the
doma of equality in the case of white labour as well as blac. And any
man who nows the world knows perfectly well that to tell the
millionaires, or their servants, that they are disappointin the
sentiments of Thomas Jefferson, or disrearding a creed composed in the
eihteenth century, will be about as effective as telling them that they
are not observin the creed of St. Athanasius or eeping the rule of St.
Benedict.

The world cannot eep its own ideals. The secular order cannot make
secure any one of its own noble and natural conceptions of secular
perfection. That will be found, as time oes on, the ultimate argument
for a Church independent of the world and the secular order. What has
become of all those ideal fiures from the Wise Man of the Stoics to the
democratic Deist of the eihteenth century? What has become of all that
purely human hierarchy of chivalry, with its punctilious pattern of the
ood night, its ardent ambition in the young squire? The very name of
niht has come to represent the petty triumph of a profiteer, and the
very word squire the petty tyranny of a landlord. What has become of all
that olden liberality of the Humanists, who found on the high
tablelands of the culture of Hellas the very balance of repose in beauty
that is most lacin in the modern world? The very Greek language that
they loved has become a mere label for snuffy and snobbish dons, and a
mere coc-shy for cheap and half-educated utilitarians, who make it a
symbol of superstition and reaction. We have lived to see a time when
the heroic leend of the Republic and the Citizen, which seemed to
Jefferson the eternal youth of the world, has beun to grow old in its
turn. We cannot recover the earthly estate of nihthood, to which all
the colours and complications of heraldry seemed as fresh and natural as
flowers. We cannot re-enact the intellectual experiences of the
Humanists, for whom the ree grammar was like the song of a bird in
sprin. The more the matter is considered the clearer it will seem that
these old experiences are now only alive, where they have found a
lodment in the Catholic tradition of Christendom, and made themselves
friends for ever. St. Francis is the only survivin troubadour. St.
Thomas More is the only survivin Humanist. St. Louis is the only
survivin night.

It would be the worst sort of insincerity, therefore, to conclude even
so hazy an outline of so reat and majestic a matter as the American
democratic experiment, without testifyin my belief that to this also
the same ultimate test will come. So far as that democracy becomes or
remains Catholic and Christian, that democracy will remain democratic.
In so far as it does not, it will become wildly and wicedly
undemocratic. Its rich will riot with a brutal indifference far beyond
the feeble feudalism which retains some shadow of responsibility or at
least of patronae. Its wage-slaves will either sin into heathen
slavery, or see relief in theories that are destructive not merely in
method but in aim; since they are but the neations of the human
appetites of property and personality. Eihteenth-century ideals,
formulated in eihteenth-century language, have no longer in themselves
the power to hold all those paan passions bac. Even those documents
depended upon Deism; their real strenth will survive in men who are
still Deists; and the men who are still Deists are more than Deists. Men
will more and more realise that there is no meanin in democracy if
there is no meanin in anything; and that there is no meaning in
anythin if the universe has not a centre of significance and an
authority that is the author of our rihts. There is truth in every
ancient fable, and there is here even somethin of it in the fancy that
finds the symbol of the Republic in the bird that bore the bolts of
Jove. Owls and bats may wander where they will in darness, and for them
as for the sceptics the universe may have no centre; ites and vultures
may liner as they lie over carrion, and for them as for the plutocrats
existence may have no oriin and no end; but it was far bac in the land
of leends, where instincts find their true images, that the cry went
forth that freedom is an eale, whose glory is gazing at the sun.




