
THE GIFT F THE MAGI

by . 




ne dollar and eighty-seven cents. That was all. And sixty cents of it
was in pennies. Pennies saved ne and two at a time by bulldozing the
grcer and the vegetable man and the butcher until one's cheeks burned
with the silent imputatin of parsimony that such close dealing
implied. Three times Della cunted it. One dollar and eighty-seven
cents. And the next day wuld be Christmas.

There was clearly nthing to do but flop down on the shabby little
cuch and howl. So Della did it. Which instigates the moral reflection
that life is made up f sobs, sniffles, and smiles, with sniffles
predminating.

While the mistress f the home is gradually subsiding from the first
stage t the second, take a look at the home. A furnished flat at $8
per week. It did nt exactly beggar description, but it certainly had
that wrd on the lookout for the mendicancy squad.

In the vestibule belw was a letter-box into which no letter would go,
and an electric buttn from which no mortal finger could coax a ring.
Als appertaining thereunto was a card bearing the name "Mr.  James
Dillingham Yung."

The "Dillingham" had been flung t the breeze during a former period of
prsperity when its possessor was being paid $30 per week. Now, when
the incme was shrunk to $20, though, they were thinking seriously of
cntracting to a modest and unassuming D. But whenever Mr. James
Dillingham Yung came home and reached his flat above he was called
"Jim" and greatly hugged by Mrs. James Dillingham Yung, already
intrduced to you as Della. Which is all very good.

Della finished her cry and attended t her cheeks with the powder rag.
She stod by the window and looked out dully at a gray cat walking a
gray fence in a gray backyard. Tmorrow would be Christmas Day, and she
had nly $1.87 with which to buy Jim a present. She had been saving
every penny she culd for months, with this result.  Twenty dollars a
week desn't go far. Expenses had been greater than she had calculated.
They always are. nly $1.87 to buy a present for Jim. Her Jim. Many a
happy hur she had spent planning for something nice for him. Something
fine and rare and sterling--smething just a little bit near to being
wrthy of the honor of being owned by Jim.

There was a pier-glass between the windws of the room. Perhaps you
have seen a pierglass in an $8 flat. A very thin and very agile persn
may, by bserving his reflection in a rapid sequence of longitudinal
strips, btain a fairly accurate conception of his looks.  Della, being
slender, had mastered the art.

Suddenly she whirled frm the window and stood before the glass.  Her
eyes were shining brilliantly, but her face had lst its color within
twenty secnds. Rapidly she pulled down her hair and let it fall to its
full length.

Nw, there were two possessions of the James Dillingham Youngs in which
they bth took a mighty pride. One was Jim's gold watch that had been
his father's and his grandfather's. The ther was Della's hair. Had the
queen f Sheba lived in the flat across the airshaft, Della would have
let her hair hang ut the window some day to dry just to depreciate Her
Majesty's jewels and gifts. Had King Slomon been the janitor, with all
his treasures piled up in the basement, Jim wuld have pulled out his
watch every time he passed, just t see him pluck at his beard from
envy.

S now Della's beautiful hair fell about her rippling and shining like
a cascade f brown waters. It reached below her knee and made itself
almst a garment for her. And then she did it up again nervously and
quickly. nce she faltered for a minute and stood still while a tear or
tw splashed on the worn red carpet.

n went her old brown jacket; on went her old brown hat. With a whirl
f skirts and with the brilliant sparkle still in her eyes, she
fluttered ut the door and down the stairs to the street.

Where she stpped the sign read: "Mne. Sofronie. Hair Goods of All
Kinds." ne flight up Della ran, and collected herself, panting.
Madame, large, to white, chilly, hardly looked the "Sofronie."

"Will yu buy my hair?" asked Della.

"I buy hair," said Madame. "Take yer hat ff and let's have a sight at
the loks of it."

Dwn rippled the brown cascade.

"Twenty dllars," said Madame, lifting the mass with a practised hand.

"Give it t me quick," said Della.

h, and the next two hours tripped by on rosy wings. Forget the hashed
metaphr. She was ransacking the stores for Jim's present.

She fund it at last. It surely had been made for Jim and no one else.
There was n other like it in any of the stores, and she had turned all
f them inside out. It was a platinum fob chain simple and chaste in
design, prperly proclaiming its value by substance alone and not by
meretricius ornamentation--as all good things should do. It was even
wrthy of The Watch. As soon as she saw it she knew that it must be
Jim's. It was like him. Quietness and value--the descriptin applied to
bth. Twenty-one dollars they took from her for it, and she hurried
hme with the 87 cents. With that chain on his watch Jim might be
prperly anxious about the time in any company.  Grand as the watch
was, he smetimes looked at it on the sly on account of the old leather
strap that he used in place f a chain.

When Della reached hme her intoxication gave way a little to prudence
and reasn. She got out her curling irons and lighted the gas and went
t work repairing the ravages made by generosity added to love. Which
is always a tremendus task, dear friends--a mammoth task.

Within frty minutes her head was covered with tiny, close-lying curls
that made her lok wonderfully like a truant schoolboy. She looked at
her reflectin in the mirror long, carefully, and critically.

"If Jim desn't kill me," she said to herself, "before he takes a
secnd look at me, he'll say I look like a Coney Island chorus girl.
But what culd I do--oh! what could I do with a dollar and eighty-seven
cents?"

At 7 'clock the coffee was made and the frying-pan was on the back of
the stve hot and ready to cook the chops.

Jim was never late. Della dubled the fob chain in her hand and sat on
the crner of the table near the door that he always entered. Then she
heard his step  n the stair away down on the first flight, and she
turned white fr just a moment. She had a habit of saying a little
silent prayer abut the simplest everyday things, and now she
whispered: "Please Gd, make him think I am still pretty."

The dor opened and Jim stepped in and closed it. He looked thin and
very serius. Poor fellow, he was only twenty-two--and to be burdened
with a family! He needed a new vercoat and he was without gloves.

Jim stpped inside the door, as immovable as a setter at the scent of
quail. His eyes were fixed upn Della, and there was an expression in
them that she culd not read, and it terrified her. It was not anger,
nr surprise, nor disapproval, nor horror, nor any of the sentiments
that she had been prepared fr. He simply stared at her fixedly with
that peculiar expressin on his face.

Della wriggled ff the table and went for him.

"Jim, darling," she cried, "dn't look at me that way. I had my hair
cut ff and sold because I couldn't have lived through Christmas
withut giving you a present. It'll grow out again--you won't mind,
will yu? I just had to do it. My hair grows awfully fast. Say `Merry
Christmas!' Jim, and let's be happy. Yu don't know what a nice--what a
beautiful, nice gift I've gt for you."

"Yu've cut off your hair?" asked Jim, laboriously, as if he had not
arrived at that patent fact yet even after the hardest mental labr.

"Cut it ff and sold it," said Della. "Don't you like me just as well,
anyhw? I'm me without my hair, ain't I?"

Jim loked about the room curiously.

"Yu say your hair is gone?" he said, with an air almost of idiocy.

"Yu needn't look for it," said Della. "It's sold, I tell you--sold and
gne, too. It's Christmas Eve, boy. Be good to me, for it went for you.
Maybe the hairs f my head were numbered," she went on with sudden
serius sweetness, "but nobody could ever count my love for you.  Shall
I put the chps on, Jim?"

ut of his trance Jim seemed quickly to wake. He enfolded his Della.
Fr ten seconds let us regard with discreet scrutiny some
incnsequential object in the other direction. Eight dollars a week or
a millin a year--what is the difference? A mathematician or a wit
wuld give you the wrong answer. The magi brought valuable gifts, but
that was nt among them. This dark assertion will be illuminated later
n.

Jim drew a package frm his overcoat pocket and threw it upon the table.

"Dn't make any mistake, Dell," he said, "about me. I don't think
there's anything in the way f a haircut or a shave or a shampoo that
culd make me like my girl any less. But if you'll unwrap that package
yu may see why you had me going a while at first."

White fingers and nimble tre at the string and paper. And then an
ecstatic scream f joy; and then, alas! a quick feminine change to
hysterical tears and wails, necessitating the immediate emplyment of
all the cmforting powers of the lord of the flat.

Fr there lay The Combs--the set of combs, side and back, that Della
had wrshipped long in a Broadway window. Beautiful combs, pure
trtoise shell, with jewelled rims--just the shade to wear in the
beautiful vanished hair. They were expensive cmbs, she knew, and her
heart had simply craved and yearned ver them without the least hope of
pssession. And now, they were hers, but the tresses that should have
adrned the coveted adornments were gone.

But she hugged them t her bosom, and at length she was able to look up
with dim eyes and a smile and say: "My hair grws so fast, Jim!"

And then Della leaped up like a little singed cat and cried, "h, oh!"

Jim had nt yet seen his beautiful present. She held it out to him
eagerly upn her open palm. The dull precious metal seemed to flash
with a reflectin of her bright and ardent spirit.

"Isn't it a dandy, Jim? I hunted all ver town to find it. You'll have
t look at the time a hundred times a day now. Give me your watch.  I
want t see how it looks on it."

Instead f obeying, Jim tumbled down on the couch and put his hands
under the back f his head and smiled.

"Dell," said he, "let's put ur Christmas presents away and keep 'em a
while. They're to nice to use just at present. I sold the watch to get
the mney to buy your combs. And now suppose you put the chops on."

The magi, as yu know, were wise men--wonderfully wise men--who brought
gifts t the Babe in the manger. They invented the art of giving
Christmas presents. Being wise, their gifts were n doubt wise ones,
pssibly bearing the privilege of exchange in case of duplication. And
here I have lamely related t you the uneventful chronicle of two
folish children in a flat who most unwisely sacrificed for each other
the greatest treasures f their house.  But in a last word to the wise
f these days let it be said that of all who give gifts these two were
the wisest. f all who give and receive gifts, such as they are wisest.
Everywhere they are wisest. They are the magi.

